'cn-^ypiA Jrr\M

A MODERN ULYSSES.

Jl^,^ f^^/^ 3 ,

irfT^e— ^-■'••^^'"•^'

^ J».

!)

4T

BEING

THE LIFE, LOVES, ADVENTURES, AND

STRANGE EXPERIENCES OF

HORACE Durant.

BY

JOSEPH HATTON,

AUTHOR OF " THREE RECRUITS," " TO DAY IN AMERICA," " CLYTIE,
THE QUEEN OF BOHEMIA," ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

LONDON:

CHAPMAN & HALL, Limited, 11, HENRIETTA St

COVENT GARDEN.

1883.

[All Rights jReterved.}

NICHOLS AND SONS, PRINTERS,

26, PARLIAMENT STREET.

DEDICATORY PREFACE.

TO

HIS MAJESTY THE KING OF KUTUTU,

^, SUZERAIN OF THE BULONAGAN ISLANDS, &C.

Xcvi

^ Sire,

I have the honour to address you
from England, the centre of civilisation and
t- power.

^ The chief purpose of my letter is to
^ introduce to your Majesty's notice the three
^ accompanying volumes, which, among other
things, give a faithful account of my experiences
in the Bulonagan islands and the
^ Eastern Seas.

The alleged Irishism of writing a letter
and being the bearer of it oneself, in this
instance, loses its point. There is as yet no

postal service between Europe and Kututu.
You wield the sceptre of a paternal majesty
outside those specific ^^ resources of civilisation,"
allusion to which has so often supplied
a ^^ glittering generality" to the splendid
eloquence of an illustrious English Premier,
whose sympathies I hope to enlist in behalf
of your ^^ islands of the sun." It is, therefore,
not at all strange that I should write to
you a letter in the hope that I may myself
deliver it, with the three volumes to which I
venture to append it as a dedication, in
grateful recognition of the services I have
received at your hands and as a tribute of
admiration and respect.

The ministers of our great and glorious
Queen, Victoria, have under consideration the
equipment of an expedition, with a view to
such a survey of Kututu and the Bulonagan
islands as may lead to the establishment of
commercial, and possibly even closer, relationship
between your Government and that
of ** the old country," as you affectionately
designated —

This royal throne of kings, this scepter'd isle,

This earth of Majesty, this seat of Mars,

This other Eden, demi-paradise ;

This fortress, built by Nature for herself.

Against infection and the hand of war ;

This happy brede of men, this little world ;

This precious stone set in the silver sea.

Which serves it in the office of a wall

Or as a moat defensive to a house,

Against the envy of less happy lands,

This blessed plot, this earth, this realm, this England."

When next we meet I shall have the
honour to explain to you how a number of
persons, whose souls are in their ledgers, propose
to tunnel a pathway under '^ this scepter
ed isle," which shall render abortive its
defensive moat, and thus reduce ^^ this seat
of Mars" to the level of those unhappy
countries of the Continent, which, not being
blessed by Nature with a '^ silver sea " that
serves as a protective wall, are continually in
fear of, or suffering from, the piratical inroads
of neighbouring kingdoms, against whom
their artificial frontiers need the everlasting
guardianship of mighty armies, the maintenance
of which saps the industrial strength

and retards the progress and prosperity of
both States and Empires.

I am disposed to believe that the government
of ^^this fortress built by Nature for
herself " will favourably entertain the proposal
of which you did me the honour to
make me the bearer, for the reason that at
the present time there is some jealousy of
the French, who are showing what is called
a Calvinistic spirit of enterprise, which
conflicts with the policy of England, inasmuch
as it is contended that we are the only
people who have any right to extend their
Imperial and Colonial possessions.

Whether this forecast of English action
should in the end be justified or not, I am on
the eve of setting out under very happy circumstances,
in response to your Majesty's
invitation, and with a view to a complete
study of your administrative system, an
exploration of your country, and the establishment
of regular communication, by way
of Manilla, between Hong Kong and Kututu.
In this enterprise I am supported and encouraged

by an excellent friend of mine, a
British merchant long since settled at
Manilla, and well known in the Eastern
Seas. If your Majesty's labours had not
been confined to a part of the world that
is, in spite of our boasted British enterprise,
literally unknown (and how can one wonder
at this when Newfoundland, the oldest English
colony, and the nearest to the home
country, still remains unexplored), you
would have been familiar with his name. He
is a traveller, trader, and scholar, and I shall
hope to be present when he has the felicity
to entertain your Majesty at his own house.
While referring to the drawbacks which
Kututu suffers in being outside the pale of
European or British civilisation, I am desirous
to remind your Catholic Majesty that this
isolated position also has its advantages. If
Kututu has no gas, it has an unclouded sky,
and a moon that meets with no eclipse from
cloud or fog. Though its commerce be limited,
it has no duns, no necessity for co-operative
stores, no joint stock companies, no bills of

exchange ; while its money is Nature's own
produce, and its Royal Exchange a proper
mart of barter. It is so long since you were
in England that it is possible you may hardly
appreciate, at their true value, the blessings of
an island in which there are no paupers, no
politics, no financial panics, no printing-presses,
no judges fired with the Coleridge
ambition of addressing law-courts for fourteen
days at a stretch, no sculptor's quarrels, no
Parisian modistes (and I might say ^* immodest
") , and no land-laws, Irish or English ;
although, in respect of this last-mentioned
instance of blissful ignorance, I fear Kututu
may find in Bulonagan her own Irish difficulty.
It has been wisely said, that government
by a single individual would be the best
form of rule, given talent and integrity, and
the perpetuation thereof in the succession.
Illustration of this is found and quoted in
the only instance of absolutely perfect rule,
that of the Deity, '^ which is sole and unrestricted."
I know that your Majesty believes
in this principle of a pure despotism, the

weakness of which lies in the impossibility
of its perpetuation ; for there must be good
kings and bad kings, and those monarchs
who claim to be most specially selected by
the Lord himself are generally least worthy
of the confidence of their subjects. Kututu
is safe in your hands, but you lament the
absence of any possible successor who will
carry on your benign and benevolent government.
Hence your desire to invite such European
intervention as shall keep the country
from relapsing into the barbarism that still
afflicts the neighbouring islands of the
Bulonagans. Forgive me if I question
whether a taste for blood is much worse than
an inordinate thirst for rum ; you have considered
the situation from all sides, and believe
in the rule that leans its back against
the Bank of England. So be it ! I shall do
my best to give effect to your opinions and
desires.

I remember that in one of our conversations
you deplored that custom, and the low
state of Kututuan morals, should compel you

to own slaves. It was not then within my
knowledge that George Washington himself,
who founded the American Republic and
could not tell a lie, lived and died a slave-owner.
Let this fact reconcile you to your
position. I do not remember that the
Oriental fashion of the harem, which appears
to obtain at Kututu, was a subject that
you mentioned with regret. Possibly Biblical
warrant for the practice had already
commended it to your views of paternal
government. At the same time I venture
to remind your Majesty of a fundamental
law of progress, which permits no systems
civil or ecclesiastical to exist, without
they move along '^ with the tide of
general improvement'' The authority to
whom I am indebted for the phrasing of this
sentiment (a very simple philosopher, one
William Benton Clulow) also lays stress
upon ^' the firmest supports of princes and
statesmen being the general distribution of
moderate wealth, and the multiplication of
domestic comforts among the members of

the community," and he contends '^ that it is
chiefly this circumstance which has hitherto
kept together the heterogeneous materials
composing the American population ; as to
the same cause may be attributed in no
small degree the tranquillity that has so long
prevailed in China, containing, according to
the most authentic accounts, about three
hundred and sixty millions of inhabitants."
It is plain, therefore, that the same measure
of material happiness may exist under even
a Despotic Monarchy as under a Republic,
provided something like a comparative
equalisation of property, and other none
the less important external advantages, are
kept in view.

If your Majesty were posted up to date
in the current literature of the time, I suspect
I should have had to quote the modern
philosophers Spencer, Arnold, Mallock, and
others. I am thankful it is as it is ; otherwise
I should have had to read their books,
instead of having merely skimmed them, with
the result that I am more than ever content

with the smattering of their predecessors
which I picked up at Breedon, a district of
England that is duly mentioned in the following
chapters. I fear I prefer Tacitus to
Arnold, Voltaire to Spencer, Tom Payne to
Mallock, Adam Smith to Mongredien, and
the early works of George Eliot to the later
essays of Thomas Carlyle ; but I must confess
to you that I am not an educated man in the
academic sense of being educated. I may
therefore be glorifying myself in an ignorance
of which, under more favourable conditions,
I should be ashamed.

I envy your Majesty the delight of making
a first acquaintance with some of these
authors ; and I am vain enough to believe
that you may experience some pleasure in
the present work, which will be elevated in
the general estimation of the public by the
adornment it receives in being dedicated
to royalty, and more especially by one who
knows what it is to call a king his intimate
friend. A learned American traveller long
since discovered that emperors and kings.

when one is fortunate enough to see them at
home, are very much like ordinary people.
He foimd them so pleasant and natural that
he never afterwards had any confidence in
the tinsel kings of the theatres." When they
*^ swaggered round the stage" in jewelled
crowns and splendid robes, he felt bound to
observe that none of the monarchs with whom
he was personally acquainted put on airs or
'^ marched about in crowns and sceptres." I
call to mind the natural majesty of your
own demeanour when first I saw you. I remember
your Majesty's pleasant familiarity
at the Cannibal Court of the Kututus ; and
I see you now, through the mists of morning,
dealing out certain exhausted resources of
civilisation upon the revolted islanders of
your gentle suzerainty. On each occasion
you proved to me that a king may have as
generous a heart as an uncrowned hero, and
that a liberal-minded man sustains no necessary
disability, in his capacity for individual
friendships, by becoming an emperor.
I wish the work I now invite your Majesty

to read were entirely worthy of your attention.
It is full of anachronisms and it has
many other short-comings. What they are
exactly I do not at present know. All England
will become acquainted with them, however,
when certain critical searchers after error
have reported thereon. Similarly, by virtue
of sympathies which make the whole world
kin, good things, which their author never
dreamed of, will also be discovered ; and
if this little fleet of three have not to bear
more weight of condemnation than such
light craft are constructed to carry in the
tempestuous seas of Public Opinion, then
they shall haply sail into many peaceful
ports, proclaiming to the world the hitherto unknown
kingdom of Kututu, and adding a new
name to the history of monarchs who are celebrated
for their courage and magnanimity.

May it please your Majesty to permit me
to subscribe myself,

Your Majesty's faithful and
humble servant,

Horace Durant.

London, 1883.

BOOK I,

CHAP. PAGE

I. " And Memory with hek Dreams shall come." 3

II. One of my earliest Adventures . . 19

III. Over the Hills and Far Away . 39

IV. Funeral Chimes and Marriage Bells . 59
V My Uncle says I am a lucky Dog . . 76

VI What might have been 103

VII. Love and Marriage . . . . .116

VIII. Colonel Ernstone's Secret . . . 138

IX. The Mystery of Therese Ernstone . . 147

BOOK II.

I. Calypso's Island 159

II. Outside the Grotto 178

III. Inside the Grotto . . . . .194

IV. The Shadows of coming Revelations . 208
V. Sketch of Judith Travers . . . 226

VI. Colonel Ernstone to the Rescue . 232

VII. A Daniel come to Judgment . . . 240

BOOK I.

There is no pleasure that I have experienced like a
child's Midsummer holiday — the time, I mean, ivhen two or
three of ns used to go away up the brook and take our
dinners with uSy and come home at night tired, happy,
scratched beyond recognition, with a great nosegay, three
little trout, and one shoe, the other having been used for a
boat till it had gone down ivith all hands out of soundings.
How poor our Derby days, our Greenwich dinners, our
evening parties, where there are plenty of nice girls, after
that! Depend upon it, a man never experiences such
pleasure or grief after fourteen years as he does before
unless in some cases, in his first love-making, when the
sensation is new to him. — Kingsley.

VOL. I. /« B

^

sand MEMORY TOO WITH HER DREAMS SHALL
COME."

^' Is it a true story?" asked the little
fellow, looking up at the Frenchman, who
had laid aside his violoncello and was fighting
imaginary foes with his bow.

^^True!" said tip Frenchman, ^^ every
word of it."

^' Carky Jones says ' Jack the Giant
Killer ' and ' Cinderella ' are made up out of
somebody's head''

^' She is of the earth earthy," said the
Frenchman, '^ and has not imaginations."

^^Itow'd him they was made up, because
he was for starting off hissed and
b2

going on his ventures ; he's so fanciful," said
Carky Jones, a stolid Midland Counties
domestic.

I was only wondering what there is at
the other end of the long road over the hills
yonder," said the boy.

'' There is always one long road over the
hills of life," said the Frenchman, 'which
we wonder about, but it is best to wait till
we get there."

'' Oh," said the boy, with a puzzled expression
of face, " are those the hills of life,
yonder over the river and far away ?"

''No, they are not so steep; we will
cross over those littler Alps one day and seethe
grand Palace," said the Frenchman.

Is the new story about the Palace ?"

What, the adventures of Ulysses ? No,
when you are old enough to read F^n^lon
you will find that when Ulysses lived there
were no statues, no pictures, no painted
ceilings, only Nature with her flowers and
shells and vines and lovely caves, the one of
Calypso for example."

^^ Like Robinson Crusoe's island ?'' asked
the boy.

'^ Something of that kind," answered the
Frenchman.

^^ Robinson Crusoe is true?" asked the
boy, with a certain suggestion of hope and
fear in the expression of his voice.

^^ Just as true as Ulysses."

A sigh of relief announced the satisfaction
which the boy found in this statement.

'' And now. Monsieur of Many Questions,
shall I go on?"

'^ If you please, father," said the boy, who
was lying upon a rug by the old-fashioned fireplace,
his chin resting between his two hands,
his black eyes fixed upon the story-teller.

It was a pretty domestic picture, this
scene in the early days of Horace Durant,
which was the name of the boy who believed
in Robinson Crusoe and wondered what there
might be beyond the white road, over the hills
that shut out from the world the little town
where lie was born. Let me try and enable
the reader to realise it.

An old-fashioned room, wainscoted in
oak ; a bay window, looking out upon
garden, lawn, river, and hills ; opposite the
bay window an open fireplace, with a low
settle or seat, shadowed by an abutting mantelshelf.
Doors on both sides of the room.
Near the window, a round table. Carky
Jones, a ruddy stoutly-built servant, is laying
a service of blue and white china upon
the round table. Close by, sitting ujDon a
high-backed chair, and with her feet upon
a velvet hassock, is a pretty young woman of
about three-and-twenty. She is netting with
coloured wools. A fair young creature, with
brown hair and blue eyes, she is somewhat
gaily attired, and wears more jewelry than
is in keeping with her quiet artistic surroundings.


By the fireplace sits a middle-aged
gentleman, French in appearance and manner.
A spare and somewhat ascetic figure,
his features are sharp and pronounced ;
dark sunken eyes under strongly marked
brows, a prominent nose with delicately

moulded nostrils, a mouth betokening more
refinement than strength of character, a
shaven face, iron-grey haii^ closely cropped.
His coat of brown cloth, with bronzed
buttons, is high in the collar, cut dress-fashion,
and with tight sleeves. He wears a
cream-coloured cravat pinned with an antique
cameo brooch, and now and then he takes
the smallest imaginable pinch of snuff from
the smallest imaginable gold snuff-box. By
his side is a music-stand, and near it lies
a violoncello. In one hand he holds a closed
book in a French vellum binding ; and he
is conducting, as it were, his conversation
with his cello bow. On the floor, upon a thick
but well-worn Indian rug, reclines a dark-haired
boy of seven, in a marine velvet frock,
with an antique lace frill falling around the
throat, and giving additional prominence to
the tangled dull black hair that partly fringes
the boy's swarthy face and falls upon his
shoulders ; his legs are bare to the knee, except
as regards the covering of a pair of
short socks and buckled shoes.

In a recess behind the cello-player is a
square piano, upon which are scattered a few
sheets of music, several pencil designs for
lace, some water-colour sketches, a newspaper,
sundry books, and a handful of neglected
laburnums, whitsun bosses*' and
lilacs, that betoken a want of love for flowers
on the part of the pretty lady sitting by the
window.

*sat the stern of his solitary ship sat
Ulysses," went on the cello-player, reading
from his book, and only betraying his nationality
by a slight accent, and the occasional addition
of the plural number to nouns singular,
^^ and he steered right artfully. He saw the
stars which are called the Pleiades and the
Bear, by some called the Wain, that moves
about Orion ; he saw the slow-setting sign,
the Bootes, which some call the Waggoner ;
and for seventeen days he held his course.
The next day the coast of Phoenicia was insight
looking like a shield. Neptune saw him,
and to revenge him, because Ulysses had
blinded his brutal sire, Polyphemus, he

raised a mighty storm and wrecked his
ship, drowning all but Ulysses, who was
saved by swimming with a girdle round
him that Ino, a sea-goddess, had sent
for his protection. After many perils from
blinding surf and rocks that resisted his landing,
he was washed ashore at last on the
banks of the river that flowed into the sea
from the land of King Alcinous, whose
daughter found him in his distress, and
invited him to her father's palace."

The one at the end of the white road,
over the hills yonder?" asked the boy, in a
low voice, as if unwilling to interrupt the
story, but too anxious about what was on the
other side of the hills to resist asking the
question.

No, another one more strange, but not
so beautiful," was the answer.

^' Thank you, father," said the boy, '' goon,
please."

sand no one knew him; but the king
showed him great attention, not only because
he was godlike in build and graciousness,

but also because in those days strangers were
honoured, as if they might be angels in disguise,
and beggars even were fed and clothed.
That was in the time before this town of Scarsdale
was, or anything civilised in Britain,
where even now they have not yet learnt
how to honour the strangers within their
gates. But the courtiers falling to converse
about Ulysses, and his brave companions
who had fallen by the way, he was overcome
at the memory of their sufferings. His
tears betrayed him, and at last, out of gratitude
for the kindness of the king, and his
daughter the princess, he said, * King Alcinous,
I will no longer keep you in ignorance
of my name and quality : I am Ulysses, that
unhappy man whom the heavens and angry
gods have conspired to keep an exile on the
seas, wandering in search of my home which
still flies from me.' All the Court was seized
with admiration to behold in their presence
one of those heroes who fought at Troy,
whose sublime story had been made known
to them by songs and tales, which they

thought, as Carky Jones thinks about Jack
and Cinderella, were made up out of somebody's
head, as she says ; but seeing the real
Ulysses, who gave them proof of his power by
flinging the quoit, and other feats of strength,
they now knew that the story of Troy and
the mighty horse of Helen and Achilles and
the rest was true ; so they were all very happy
listening to the history of his adventures, and,
in the end, they helped him home in their
glorious ships, for these Physicians were the
English of the classic world, as far as commanding
the ocean is concerned, and the
Greeks were the French, my ancestors and
yours."

^'And my mother's?" asked the boy,
glancing his black eyes towards the pretty
woman who had let her netting fall upon
her knee, and was apparently gazing at that
road over the hills which the boy had so
often referred to.

^' Your mother is the sweet and gracious
link that binds our ancestry of France to her
people of England, and gives to you the

British heart that is good and true, and with
the head that is cool associates a chivalric
mind, a taste for art, a noble nature, and the
instinct to be a gentleman, such as all the
heroes were of whom the great Homer has
written."

'^ Oh !" said the boy, puzzled more than
he liked to say, lest his father should wander
still further from the narrative in hand.

'' And Ulysses was always encouraged in
his efforts to overcome all tidings that kept
him away from his home with the knowledge
that his loving wife and his dear son,
his Penelope and Telemachus, his Emily
and his Horace, were waiting for him whom
they loved so truly, as he them. He did
not know how sore beset they were, these
two who were all the world to him and he
to them, enemies all around them, enemies in
his very palace, conspiring against mother
and son to afflict her with what is worse than
death, and to kill his Horace, who stood
fast in defence of the honour of his father.
If I your father being away in foreign lands

had my good name assailed while my
enemies assembled here to be cruel to your
mother, you would fight for us, would you
not ? "

^' Till I died! " exclaimed the boy, starting
to his feet, flinging himself into his father's
arms, and bursting into tears.

^' Ah! my son: Courage! ^(^to, this is
not well. Do not cry. Tout beau. Emily,
see, I have made him weep. What shall I
do ? Ah, come Horace, you are too tenderhearted.
Come, come ! Parbleu! If you cry
at this you will never be a man to fight the
world. Courage, mon crier! Courage ! ''

The old man pressed the boy to his heart
and looked at his wife with a smile half sad,
half joyous; for it touched him nearly to
have such interesting evidence of his son's
sensibility to both love and courage as he
saw in the result of his dramatic appeal to
the little fellow's feelings.

Just as Mrs. Durand was getting uj), for
Monsieur beckoned to her with his head,
intimating his desire that she should sooth
the Joy who was still fobbing in his arms, a

constant visitor at Oakfield House was announced,
and entered on the words '' Mr.
Selby."

'^ Ah ! " he exclaimed, in his hearty
genial way, ^' What is the matter? What!
Horace crying ! "

'^No, Sir," said the boy, struggling from
his father's arms and brushing his tears away,
'^ I am not crying''

'' That's right," said Mr. Welby, patting
the boy on the head with one hand, shaking
hands with Mrs. Durand with the other, and
smiling affably on her husband.

'' Horace is a dear boy," said his father,
' but sensitive. Never mind, Horace, a man
is the braver in a good cause when his heart
as also his hand is engaged."

^^A capital sentiment. Max," said Mr.
Welby.

Will you take tea with us, Mr. Welby ? "
asked Mrs. Durand, speaking for the first
time for an hour at least.

^' Thank you, yes, I came for the purpose,"
said Welby, rubbing his hands blithely
and showing his white teeth.

^^ Well done, that is good of you. Welby,
tres bieUj you make yourself at home. That is
right. I have been telling Horace the story
of Ulysses, and for a moment putting myself
in the place of the illustrious Greek ; and
making as if he was Telemachus and his
mother Penelope, I say to him would you
not fight for the honour of your father and
to protect your mother, and he cry out ^ till I
die,' and then burst into tears ! What do you
think of that ? "

For a moment Welby did not speak.

'ridiculous," said Mrs. Durand, 'you
fill the boy's head with nonsense, Maximilian ;
he will be a man before he is a boy."

"It is very good nonsense, my dear
Emily, and will not hurt him either as manor
boy," said Monsieur.

'*No, that's true," said Mr. Welby,
quite true. I read the Iliad and the Odyssey,
through and through, when I was a lad,
and they never hurt me, not even the song
the old fellow sang before Ulysses at — let
me see — where was it ? At King Alcinous'

place of course. Oh no, my dear Mrs.
Durand, it is best to let boys know every -
tliinir.

5>

'' But Horace is only an infant yet, one
of Dame Skinner's youngest pupils," said
Mrs. Durand.

^^I don't like Dame Skinner," said the
boy, ^'she whips children."

^' Only naughty ones'' said the mother,
taking the boy on her knee and smoothing
his collar and pulling up his socks.

^^ She shall navarre whip you, Horace,
only once, however," said Monsieur, ^'I would
whip her pretty much and very quick."

'' Whip a woman. Max ! No, you would
not do that," said Welby, taking a seat at
the round table in the window.

'^ Then let her not whip Horace, that is
all," said Maximilian Durand, my father as
you must have guessed already; for that
black-haired child in the velvet frock is
your humble servant the author of this
history, upon the threshold of which you and
he are contemplating this little group toying

with Fate on the border-land of a troubled
future.

The twilight gathers in restful hues of
grey, as the people who open this story of
real life sit around the table in the pleasant
bay window of Oakfield House, so far away
and yet so near in time and in reality that I
live again in that youth of the velvet frock.

Mr. Jonas Welby was the junior partner
of the firm that owned the then famous
Scarsdale lace factory. My father was the
designer of their patterns, and the inventor
of several of their processes of manufacture.
How he came to be in England and the
husband of the belle of Scarsdale, and how I
came at length to hate Jonas Welby, will be
made amply manifest as the scenes shift and
the play goes on.

Meanwhile let us keep in our mind this
first picture of love and friendship, this happy
home with its artistic surroundings ; and
while fate changes the scene and puts on the
next you shall beguile the time with the music
of that violoncello which my father takes up
VOL. I. c

by the desire of his friend, my mother
following the tender melody of a Brittany
ballad with an accompaniment upon the
little square piano where the lilac and
laburnums faint and die for lack of water.
I see myself sitting in the window listening
to the sweet familiar strain and watching the
twilight melt away beneath the rising moon.

CHAPTER II.

ONE OF MY EARLIEST ADVENTURES.

We all of us remember, with the liveliest
particularity, incidents that belong to the
earliest days of our lives.

Our first morning at school, our first
jacket, the first fish that rewarded our angle,
our earliest joys and sorrows ; they will compete
with recollections that belong to far
more serious days, and hold their own against
memories of battle, murder, and sudden
death. That strangely opportune incident
of pledging myself to defend my father's
good name, just as the shadow of Jonas
Welby must have been falling on our doorway,
how vividly it comes back to me now !
c2

But we will dismiss that memory at
present to recall my first adventure, since it
is not uninteresting in itself and has been
regarded as indicative of qualities that have
pushed me into strange and sometimes untoward
situations.

You will have gathered that my infantine
instinct prompted in me a dislike to Dame
Skinner, .at whose educational establishment,
not more than a stone's-throw from Oakfield
House, I had just graduated in words of
four syllables when the following trouble
occurred. Under the shadow of tragic
events I still recall the excitement of the end
of my first month under the Skinner regime
as if it were yesterday.

^^He called me a guy, did he?" exclaimed
Mrs. Skinner, removing her spectacles
and taking up a cane, which she flung
from her desk to the end of the school-room.

^^ Yes, mari!" shouted six small boys
all at once ; ^^ an old guy, mari ! "

^^ Fetch it, Horace Durand, fetch it!"
commanded the injured lady.

It was the custom of Mrs. Skinner in
extreme cases of insubordination to assert
her authority and enforce discipline to compel
rebellious pupils to carry the cane with which
she punished them.

A black-headed, sturdy little fellow, in a
velvet frock and lace collar, I can see my
defiant little self pick up that terrible instrument
of torture, which was Mrs. Skinner's
symbol of power, the sceptre of her despotic
authority, and carry it to madame. I can
hear the buzz of fear and expectation which
notified the extreme interest of the school in
the fate that awaited me. I can see the
laburnum blossoms, like a golden framework
fringing the open window, and the distant
hills looking like clouds far away. I can seethe
butterfly that poised above one of the
yellow blossoms, and I am conscious, even
now, of the perfume that came in through
the open window, from an unseen bank of
cauliflowers in the little garden that bordered
the pathway to the portals of the
school.

'swell, Sir!" said Mrs. Skinner, taking
her sceptre, and switching it above her head
and making the pliant thing fairly whistle,
^^ what have you to say for yourself ?"

^^ If you please, mari, Tommy Barnes
said didn't I think you an old guy, and I
said yes, mari."

*^ I don't believe it," she answered
promptly, " Tommy Barnes is an honest
English boy, and will tell me the truth;
did you say what he says. Tommy Barnes?"
^^ No, mari," answered the young ruffian
in question.

^^ 1 believe you," said Mrs. Skinner, ^^ but
let this be a warning to you."

Then, turning again to me, she said, sand
do you think me an old guy, Master Durand,
do you''

^^ I am very sorry I said so," I answered,
*^ but I don't like your cap, and Carky
Jones does not."

'^ Oh, indeed," said the old lady, who
must have been sorely hurt at this artless
confession, for, above all things, she was

particularly proud of her caps. They were
wonders of net, and starch, and ribbons.

'^ Carky Jones thinks it is too gay for an
old dame ! "

^' Does she ? Very well then we will see
if this cane is too "gay for a half-bred little
savage, who is neither French nor English.
Come here, you impudent young reprobate
! "

With that she caught me by the shoulders
and beat me. At first I was resolved not to
cry, but the dear vain old woman made me
howl before she had avenged her lace and
ribbons.

Then she compelled me to stand behind
her chair. What hurt me more than her cane
was her scoffing reference to my origin and
parentage. The boys of Scarsdale all called
rae '' Frenchy " except those who called me
^' gipsy." I was neither the one nor the
other ; but my father was of French descent,
and spoke with a slight accent, and my
mother dressed me somewhat fantastically,
compared with the generally cheap and

slovenly fashion of the uncultivated little
Midland town in which I was born.

During the French war my father's grandfather
was a prisoner on his parole at Scarsdale,
and, on his release, had married an
English wife, and gone home to Normandy.
My father, when a child, had heard his
grandfather talk of England, and particularly
of Scarsdale. Coming here to see the
Midlands during a holiday tour in England,
he visited the lace factory, then just commencing
work. Speaking the English language,
which his grandfather had carried
home with him, he disclosed, in his conversation
with one of the chiefs of the firma
certain special knowledge of lace-making
which would be invaluable at Scarsdale.
They made my father a very handsome
offer of employment. He resisted it at first.
He was a man of some means, and a bachelor ;
money was therefore no particular attraction
to him. It was summer time, and Scarsdale
looked its best. The senior partner of the
Scarsdale lace factory invited my father to

an evening party. He met my mother there,
and lie never returned any more to Normandy.


I have heard my mother tell the story ;
how the young men sneered at the marriage,
because my father was nearly old
enough to be her father ; and how the girls
considered they were revenged upon her, for
that previously she had been the acknowledged
belle of Scarsdale. People used to
remark that I was not like my mother. ^* A
chip of the old block," Welby would say,
patting my head, and I now remember that
he would slightly emphasise the adjective
whenever he said this in my mother's presence
and my father was not there.

It is a singular fact that the stolid youth of
Scarsdale seemed to disapprove of this likeness
to my father. They referred to it in uncomplimentary
term. "Frenchy '' and 'frog-eater "
were ever on their lips. Some of them called
me Monster. When I was old enough to
defend myself, some of them had reason to
regret their taunts, Tommy Barnes to wit :

indeed, as this chapter will show, he came
in for a very early taste of my budding
resentments.

To-day sitting down to write the story
of my life, I can hardly realise the fact that
the sobbing urchin standing behind Mrs.
Skinner's high-backed chair is myself. And
yet I recall, with as lively a recollection as if
it were but yesterday, the sudden shout of
the same six traitors who had unjustly condemned
me to the torture of the Skinner
rod, ^^ He's shaking his fist at you, mari ! ''
I suppose this was true, though I do not remember
having done it. Possibly I did, for
as the smart of the stick began to decline
the smart of my indignation began to increase.


^' He's making faces too, maris'' cried
Tommy Barnes.

^^ You good-for-nothing!" exclaimed
Mrs. Skinner, '' you are a disgrace to
the school ! You shall undergo the block
punishment and we will see what that will
do for you. If that does not succeed in

casting forth the French spirit of evil that
possesses you, the rats and mice shall have
a chance of bringing you to your senses''

The block punishment was not peculiar
to Mrs. Skinner's establishment ; it was common
in most of the dames' schools of my
youth. ' In later years when I was interested
in the management of a certain public
journal I commissioned a clever writer to go
about the country and find out if "dames'
schools " existed in these days of my manhood,
and if so to expose the cruelties practised
by the Skinners thereof, the caning,
the ear-pulling, the hammering of heads
with thimbles, the pinching, the dark hole
punishments, and other atrocities inflicted on
the rising generation when I was a boy in
Midlandshire. The block torture was a very
mild business compared with the horrors
that lay beyond the committal to confinement
in Mrs. Skinner's cellar, where it was
believed by Mrs. Skinner's pupils, and
vouched for by her eldest and weakest-kneed
scholar, that once upon a time a very

wicked boy was eaten alive by the rats and
mice which were always gathered together
in the dark waiting for another similar meal.
Circe's description of the insatiate Scylla
was not more terrible, in the imagination of
Ulysses, than the horrors of the darkest corner
of Mrs. Skinner's cellar were to me. The block
punishment, however, was nothing if you
practised for it, as some of the Skinner
pupils did. The result of my first experience
of it led to a greater isolation of
the criminal than had hitherto been deemed
necessary. You had to stand upon a form
in the middle of the school, and hold up, in
each hand, a block of wood, your arms being
extended to their fullest stretch above your
head. I was placed between Tommy Barnes
and Sarah Smith, who were sitting learning
their lessons. I cried a little when my arms
began to ache, and, glancing down in search
of a sympathetic face. Tommy Barnes looked
up and grinned at me. His cruel mouth had
not completed its scoffing distortion before
the block of wood fell from my right hand

crash upon his face. The yell which he
made was almost eclipsed by the shout of
laughter which announced my fiendish or
childish delight at his just suffering. But
when I saw the blood streaming from his
long thin nose I was afraid. The schoolroom
door was a little way open, to let in
the quiet summer breeze that was stirring
the flowers and wafting their perfumes into
the adjacent street. I leaped from the form,
dropping the other block upon Sarah Smith's
toes, and made for the open air. On the very
threshold of freedom Mrs. Skinner's servant
caught me in her bony grip, and pushed
me back upon the scene of my murderous
outrage.

Dispatching my captor for a bowl of hot
water in which to bathe Tommy Barnes's
mutilated face, Mrs. Skinner took me by
the shoulders and led me forth to the
dungeon.

'' Wicked murderous boys who will otherwise
come to the gallows had better be eaten
up in dark cellars'' she said.

The school was hushed as I passed out
through the private door leading into Mrs.
Skinner's house. Even Tommy Barnes
ceased his howling as I went forth to execution.


Since those days I have seen perils by
land and water, abroad and at home, but
fear and courage have never fought in my
mind a harder contest than that which agitated
me at this moment. If Providence had
not so ordained it that childhood should have
the special faculty of quickly forgetting its
troubles, in the joy of its simple pleasures,
boys and girls would become candidates for
lunatic asylums, or die of broken hearts.

A philosophic writer discoursing of childhood
has touched this by no means original
idea with an apt illustration. ^^A child,"
he says, ^^ is purely happy because he knows
no evil, nor hath made means by sin to be
acquainted with misery. He arrives not at
the mischief of being wise, nor endures evils
to come by foreseeing them. He kisses and
loves all, and, when the smart of the rod is

past, smiles on his beater'' Does he? Sometimes,
perhaps. It depends, of course, who
the beater is, and whether the punishment
is just, for childhood has a keen sense of
wrong. I never smiled on Mrs. Skinner
again, nor would I have done so, on any consideration,
unless I had had the gift of
smiling and killing while I smiled. As she
pushed me before her to the dungeon I
noticed that there was a long red bruise upon
my arm, one of several which the strokes of
the cane had made upon my tender flesh.

I remember the agonising fear that fell
upon me as I was hustled along a passage,
pushed into a dark place, and a door was
shut and locked upon me. I shouted and
screamed and kicked, imagining all kinds of
horrors, and no doubt hardening Mrs. Skinner's
heart by my cries. Presently, as no
one came to my rescue and no rats attacked
my naked legs, I summoned up sufficient
courage to look around. I discovered that I
was in a pantry that gave upon the cellar
stairs. The pantry was quite a large one.

dimly lighted by a grating. This was a
comforting discovery. As my eyes grew
more and more accustomed to the darkness,
and the importance of the light that struggled
in through the grating seemed to increase, I
observed that almost within reach, on one
of the shelves, there were some cheese-cakes
and part of an open tart. It occurred tome
to wonder why the rats and mice had
not carried these dainties off to their holes
and dens in the cellar below. I dried my
eyes and peered into other corners of my
prison. There was meat on another of the
pantry shelves, and on the floor a large
earthenware pan, full of cups and saucers
and plates, which the cruel bony servant who
had intercepted my retreat, and thus caused
my incarceration, no doubt ought to have
washed and put away after breakfast, instead
of huddling them into the pantry out of Mrs.
Skinner's sight. Carky Jones was right,
the Skinner servant was as idle as she was
ugly : that was one of the discoveries I had
completed in my dungeon.

It seemed as if an hour had elapsed during
my exploration of the pantry. The
rats not putting in an appearance I feared
them no longer ; but presently I heard the
children leave school for dinner, and the
thought of it made me hungry. I kicked at
the door. Nobody responded to my noisy
demand to be let out. It dawned upon me
that I was probably locked up for the day,
perhaps for the night also. Under these
circumstances I thought it justifiable to eat
a cheese-cake. Even light food of that kind
would, at all events, check sheer starvation.
Cai'ky Jones had told me a story of an old
woman who, being locked up for a witch, was
starved to death. I was determined that I
would not share a similar fate so long as
dame Skinner's cheese-cakes lasted. I felt
sure that neither my father nor mother would
approve of my fainting and dying in the
midst of plenty. Dame Skinner's cheesecakes
were very good, however bad she might
be in my infantile imagination. I ate another
and another. Then I took a respite. It

VOL. I. D

occurred to me that it would not be advisable
to consume all the provisions at once. It
would be time enough to devour the last of
the tarts and begin upon the more solid food
so soon as I experienced the first pangs of
starvation.

After a little while longer I began to
think of home, and my mother, and Carky
Jones, my attendant from the first days I can
remember and my mother's most devoted
servant. They would be alarmed if I did
not soon return. My father would be very
anxious about me, I felt sure, the dear kind
gentleman that he was. I therefore thought
how I might escape. There was a cellar
window below, but the idea of penetrating
that awful abyss on the way to the window
appalled me. Ulysses and the Cyclops occurred
to me. After all Mrs. Skinner's cellar
was paradise compared with the cave of the
one-eyed giant. Ulysses escaped by strategy,
so also would I. Happy thought! Supposing
I dragged that pan of unwashed
crockery to the top of the cellar stairs, and

then pushed it clown ? That would alarm
Mrs. Skinner and her servant. They would
fly to the cellar-head to learn the meaning
of the terrible noise. In the confusion I
could dash out, make for the street, and run
home.

My heart beat wildly with the excitement
of this idea. I suddenly found my imprisonment
intolerable. The sound of the factory
bell came faint and slow in at the cellar
grating. I could hear above it the sound of the
river falling over the weir. It maddened me
this music of freedom. Taking a deep breath
I seized the pan of crockery and dragged it
toward the cellar steps. At length it faltered
on the brink.

Before committing myself to the completion
of my fell design I kicked at the door
and howled out a wild appeal for forgiveness
and release. No reply. The factory bell
and the weir went on humming pleasantly in
the distance, and I smelt pork chops. Mrs.
Skinner was engaged at her mid-day meal.
Pure chops was her favourite dish. I could
d2

see her in my heated imagination, her gay
cap nodding over the succulent meat, while
her domestic-inches poured out the nutbrown
ale.

Human nature could endure no more.
Bang, crash, rattle, smash, bump, thump,
swish, strange, whack ! This is something
like the impression the noise of the
descending pan and its contents has left in
my memory as they reached the bottom of
the cellar stairs. The door opened almost
on the instant as I expected. I darted forth
between Mrs. Skinner and her lieutenant-petticoat
s, through the kitchen, out at the
back door, down the passage that led to the
street, where I met Tommy Barnes returning
to school surfeited with pudding and sticky
with sweets. He tried to seize me. I pushed
him into the gutter and fled.

It was my father who received me into
his arms a few minutes afterwards, and when
Mrs. Skinner called to demand the instant
restoration of her pupil or his prompt punishment
at home, my father in his best declamatory

manner said, "Madame, I will not
consent to what you propose. My son is nota
dog to be whipped, nor a barbarian to be
imprisoned ; neither, Madame, does your mistaken
conclusions in regard to the discipline
of the little ones meet with my approval.
You should better be employed to govern
savages. Adieu, Madame Skinnaire ! "

With that my father withdrew into the
parlour, where he bade me tell all the story
over again, and vowed I should be a great
man some day, worthy of the esprit of France
and the honesty of my mother's countrymen.

Whatever my lot was destined to be, the
dear old gentleman who first inspired me
with a love of travel did not live to guide or
review it. How I suddenly fell within the
governmental dominion of Mr. Jonas Welby,
and how unexpected succour came to me in
the darkest hour of my boyhood, will form
the subject of a few following chapters. It is
not my intention to dwell upon these childish
experiences. They may be considered pretty
well at an end with the incidents of this

chapter. The advent of Connie Gardner,
the pretty waif and stray of Scarsdale, grandchild
of ^' Laudnum Nanny," is the ^^ coming
event" for which I claim the reader's continued
attention. Connie flitted across my
path in the Scarsdale meadows, a thing of
beauty and of joy, to leave behind her a
shadowy memory, which Fate revived in
after-years with a cruel inspiration of love
and sorrow.

Chapter III.

*^ OVER THE HILLS AND FAR AWAY."

In my mother's estimation I rapidly
justified her opinion that my father filled my
head with nonsense.

At the factory, where my father spent so
much time, there was among the ^^ hands,"
as they were called, an old gruesome-looking
woman who was known as ^'Laudnum
Nanny." The nick-name was a tribute to
Mrs. Lingard's capacity for imbibing opium
in its more common English form of laudanum.
When I was a boy this drug was largely
consumed at Scarsdale, more particularly by
old men and women. It often served them
instead of food. They preferred it to rumor

brandy. Nanny Lingard must have spent
more money upon it than would have supplied
her with regular and wholesome meals of
food. She was a withered-looking hag. Her
face was as wrinkled as a nutmeg and of a
similar colour. Her eyes were very bright.
She was sometimes very agreeable and sometimes
very savage. Her hair was as white as
the cotton that clung about her stiff bombazine
gown. She carried a crutch-stick,
though she was as nimble a-foot as the
youngest girl in the factory; and the youngest
was a child, her granddaughter.

Connie Gardner was this child. She was
too young to do anything like labour in the
factory ; but her grandmother took her thereon
two or three days a week to help her, and
on the other two or three days she went to
school. Connie was my senior by seven years
She told me so one day in a long conversation
we had about our schools and school-mistresses.
There was a little stream of
smoking water that ran into the river by the
factory. I was fishing there one day for

minnows and other small fish that congregated
about the luke-warm water which
marked its radius with a white fleecy mist,
when Connie stopped to watch me. Young
or old, how one always pauses to consider
and ruminate over an angler ! In the background
of one of my friend George Boughton's
illustrations of Holland, I remember
that quite a community have stopped to
ponder over the sport of a little Dutch fellow
who is dangling his legs over a lock, and contemplating
a very ponderous ^ Afloat." A
man in a cart has pulled up to look at the
boy ; a couple of sailors have turned their
quids and their attention at the same time
to the young fisherman ; a nurse has sat
down on the canal bank with her charge ;
and the crowd has gradually grown into an
interested if not an anxious audience.

The people who passed over the bridge
that led to the Scarsdale factory were too
busy as a rule to hang about watching my
gentle attacks on the minnows and gudgeon
of the North Midland River. Even the boys

had only time to pick up a stone and try to
disturb my prospects. But one summer day
Connie Gardner without a word came and sat
down by my side. I had often watched her
with wonder, if not with admiration. There
was something of pity in my wonder, for it
was currently reported that Laudnum Nanny
was in the habit of beating her granddaughter.
It was also said that Nanny was gifted with
powers of witchcraft which she did not exercise
only out of her fear of the constable and
the justices. The very house in which the
old woman and her grandchild lived was
strange enough to encourage the belief in
the uncanny relations that Laudnum Nanny
held with the outside world of Scarsdale.
It was a tenement that looked as if it had
been packed into the corner of an old street
at its juncture with another old street, like
a wedge to hold the adjoining houses together.
It had only one window and one
door, and the latter was approached by a
long row of stone stairs. Nothing looked
more grim in Scarsdale than to see the old

woman sitting at the top of these steps
taking the air on summer nights after the
day's work was done, a candle burning
within the neatly-kept room, and Connie a
shadowy figure poring over a book by its
dim and somewhat mysterious light.

She was singularly beautiful this waif and
stray of the town where I was born. Great
liquid eyes of a blueish-grey ; long light hair
tied up in a couple of plaits that hung upon
her shoulders ; a dreamy expression in her
eyes always ; and a certain sort of sadness
aljout her firm mouth that both attracted
and repelled. You felt sorry for her without
caring to say so ; you felt that if she
was only a child of the gutter the fact was
an accident. I think I had a secret sympathy
for her because we were both martyrs
to circumstances. I was persecuted by the
youths of Scarsdale because my father was
of French extraction and showed it. She
was illumed because she was an orphan and
had to be brought up by a laudanum drinking
grandmother.

I can see the little pair of sufferers now
sitting by the Scarsdale river, the mist of
the factory steam lingering about the bosom
of the river in strange shapes.

^^Are you watching the fish or the
steam ? " she asks, in a voice more of command
than inquiry.

'' The fish," I reply.

'^ Oh," she says.

^^ I don't see anything in the steam," I
remark, my eyes still fixed upon the float.

^^It is like fairies dancing," she says,
equally intent upon the mist rising from the
hot water as it pours from the engine-house
into the river.

^' Is it ? '' I answer, looking up, '' did you
ever see fairies dancing ? "

^^ No, but grandmother has and devils too''

'' Devils ! '' I exclaim.

'' Demons'' she answers, ^^ it is the same

'* At night when we are all abed."
^'Are you not afraid of your grandmother
? "

^' Sometimes."
'when?"

^^ When she is angry."
^^Oh!"

This last ejaculation proclaimed a bite of
more than ordinary severity, and I landed
what we called a bullhead or devil' s-tlmmb.
^^ The horrible thing ! " I exclaimed, ^^ it's
one of those fish with the name of the demons.
What shall I do ? "

'' Take it off the hook and kill it," she
replied.

^' I would not touch it for the world," I
said.

^' I will," she answers, and takes it off
the hook.

^' Kill it!" I exclaimed.
*' No, fling it back into the river ; it can't
help being a bull-head, or whatever it is,
any more than you can help being little
Frenchy, or I Laudnum Nanny's brat."

She flun<^ it back into the stream. It

made a little whirlpool as it fell out of sight.

'' Look at the steam, how it dances round

like water fairies in a ring," she exclaimed.

' I'll fairies in a ring you ! " said a harsh
grating voice that reminded me of the saw-grinders
who worked now and then outside
the carpenter's shop at Scarsdale, '' wasting
your time ! I'll teach you to keep me waiting
when I've sent you on a particular
errand''

A stroke across Connie's shoulders, with a
stick announced to her and to me that sentence
and punishment were almost simultaneous
in their action.

You horrid old woman ! " I shouted,
^* how dare you ! ''

'dare! you little savage, I'll give it to
you if you call me names."

I picked up the can prepared for carrying
home my fish, and threatened her in dumb
show.

The stick fell smartly on my shoulders
as it had on Connie's, and the next moment

twig can, water and all, struck the cruel ling
full in the face, and I fled for dear life.

When Dame Skinner heard of this brutal
assault by Durand's wicked urchin, she
called a solemn '^ silence" in her school, and
told her trembling classes of the awful crime
I had committed. My mother, too, I am
bound to say, was greatly shocked. She
saw in my desperate conduct an unnatural
wilfulness. '' You will come to a bad end,"
she said, '' if you do not control your passionate
nature."

It was no defence in my poor mother's
eyes that I had been a witness of Laudnum
Nanny's cruelty to her granddaughter, nor
was it justifiable that I should be very nearly
committing a murder simply because an old
woman had struck me with her cane. It
appeared that I had inflicted a slight wound
on the old woman's cheek, which Mr Welby
said was hardly in keeping with the character
for chivalry of the country to which
I belonged. Mr. Welby had no right to
refer to France as my country, but he did so

continually in my father's absence. In this
way 1 knew in later years that he helped to
cut me off from the affection of my mother.
She, poor soul, in her vanity and pride, no
doubt suffered as I did from local prejudice.
Her family and friends always blamed her
for marrying my father, because he was not
only much older than herself, but for the
reason that he was the son of a Frenchman.
Scarsdale gradually made this a sort of social
grievance against both my father and my
mother, and Mr. Welby encouraged it for
his own ends. My father's very accomplishments
were made a cause of derision. It was
unmanly to play the violoncello ; it was
firkin to wear a high collar and dress coat
and have frills to your shirt-front; it was
idle to sit for hours scraping at a fiddle.

Ah, me ! how well I remember with what
silent rapture I would sit and listen to my
father as he poured his very soul into his
instrument. He evidently set his thoughts
to music I was not sufficiently expert in
those days to know what works he most often

played. I think he sat or dreamed of his
boyhood and made accompaniments to his
recollections of France. Sometimes his
music would set me thinking of Ulysses and
his many adventures, and of his son left
at home to the mercy of his enemies. Now
and then I seemed to see the face of
Connie Gardner looking at me through a
musical fancy, and just as suddenly her cruel
grandmother would dispel the vision with a
stick.

All this is so much like a dream to-day
that I find myself unable to set it down,
except in this disjointed and unsystematic
fashion. Connie's personality somehow is
mixed up in my memory with everything
that comes back to me, belonging to those
strange days of my childhood. She appears
to me with the imaginary sounds of the music
of my early home, and I see her face, not
only in the placid river that still runs through
the Scarsdale country, but it takes shape in
my memory of the flashing wheels and shafts
of the factory. And yet in later years we

VOL. I. E

met, and I no longer knew her. The tender,
though defiant eyes, that had a fascination forme
when I was a boy in checked hose and
buckled shoes, held me once more when I was
a man, only the Scarsdale waif and stray
remained locked away in the storehouse of
my memory. It has a companion reminiscence
in these later days that is also drifting
away into the half-forgotten region of
life's regrets and dreams.

The last time that I saw Constance Gardner
(until she was a woman, in whom I failed
to identify the girl of my boyish dreams) was
under painful, yet romantic, circumstances.
I recall the incident now with all its surroundings
and attendant details, though it
presents itself to my mind more like an
episode of another person's life than as
having anything in common with my own.

It is summer, bright genial summer. I
do not think there have ever been such summers
in England as there were in the Valley
of Scarsdale when I was a boy. But let me
not pause to cast reflections upon the climate

and other disagreeable characteristics of
these modern days. It is summer, I say,
in that sylvan country of my youth. A
lonely child by force of circumstances, not
because my disposition is morose, I have
been wandering towards the summit of those
hills that always seemed further and further
away the longer I walked towards them,
although there were times when they almost
mirrored their loftiest peaks in the river that
flowed under my bedroom window.

I am retiring homewards late in tha
afternoon, walking along a dusty highway,
my hands full of wild roses. Around a bend
of the road comes a yellow house on wheels
drawn by two horses. I notice that the
doors of the travelling cottage are partially
open, and that a buxom woman is leaning
over a sort of splash-board and lazily submitting
herself to the drowsy influence of
the heat of the day and the perfumes of the
meadows. A second house on wheels follows
; then a waggon heaped high with tent-poles
and baggage ; next a cart similarly
e2

LIBRARY
UNIVERSITY OF ll

weighted ; and finally a decorated car containing
half - a - dozen men and women.
^' Richards's Theatre Royal " is emblazoned
in gold and blue on this last carriage. It is
a procession of the best known strolling
players of the time, and it moves along like
a pageant in a panorama. I pause to watch
the cavalcade as it passes by me. One of
the drivers stops to pluck from the hedgerow
some bunches of hay, which have been
left on tree and bramble by the waggons
that have been carrying the grass-harvest
to an adjacent farm. He gives the dainty
morsels to his horses, and they go munching
and plodding on until they disappear round
the next bend of the road, and I wonder
whether they will go right over the top of
the distant hills and down into the country
beyond, where the palace is that is more
wonderful than anything Ulysses saw in all
his travels.

While I am tracing in my infantile mind
the course of the show-people's route, I am
conscious of some one passing me as if desirous

of doings so unobserved. It is a
shadow that first attracts my attention, a
shadow of short petticoats and long legs ; a
shadow with a bundle in one hand and a hat
in the other; a shadow with a head that
bends as if to seek the shelter of the hedge
on the opposite side of the road ; a shadow
that was destined once again to fall across
my thoughts and disturb my dreams.

^' It is Connie ! " I exclaim, as the figure
goes by following the shadow.

Neither one nor the other halt as I speak.
They hurry on towards the cloud of dust
that follows the show-people's caravan.

'' Connie I Connie ! " I call.

There is no reply. I am very tired, but I
forget it and follow her quickly.

^^What is the matter, Connie?" I ask,
when I overtake her.

nothings'' she answers, turning-towards
me a face that is white in spite of the heat.

'nothing?" I repeat, interrogating.

"Nothing," she says; '^ why do you
ask?"

''1 don't know."

*' Very well, then, don't interrupt me."

^' Do I interrupt you ?"

"Yes, you do."

Oh," I say, for the want of any other
reply.

What are you following me for ?"

I only thought I would like to speak to
you."

"Then you had better not; because I
am a bad, wicked girl."

"No you are not, Connie," I answer,
promptly.

"I am, and you must not tell any one
you have seen me."

I will not if you don't wish me to," I
answer.

You had better not go home along this
road ; go over the fields."

"Why?"

You will perhaps meet my grandmother,
and she will kill you."

Oh no she won't, I'm not afraid of
her," I reply.

'^ I am," says Connie, adding almost in a
whisper, '* I hate her !"

^' Has she been beating you?"

The girl lays down her bundle by the
road-side, and, withdrawing one of her arms
from the little sleeve of her frock, shows me
her shoulder, all bruised.

'^ Poor Connie !" I say, as she slips her
arm once more into her sleeve, ^' I wish I
were a man, I would beat her."

She will never beat me again," says
the girl, ^^ so it does not matter this
once."

^' What are you going to do ?"

^^ I am not going to do anything — I am
doing it."

^^What?"

^^ You like me ?" she says.

^' Very much, Connie."

'^ And I like you. Will you promise not
to say you have seen me to-day, and I will
tell you what I am doing ?"

^^Yes"

^' I am running away ! "

^^ Are you?"

^^ Over the hills?"

^^ Over the hills and far away'' she
answers with a smile that nearly makes me
cry, there is so little of mirth in it.

'' Let me go with you."

'' No, no, you have a happy home."

'have I?"

'^ Yes, you know you have, and you are
not old enough to leave it."

'^ How old are you ?"

'' Sixteen."

'^ I am nine," I say, 'but I am nearly
as tall as you."

But not so lonely and wretched," she
says, and with that she bursts into tears and
flings herself on the strip of grass that margins
the road-side, where a toppled pony is cropping
the herbage, pausing now and then as
if to look at us.

I kneel down by Connie's side, but I say
nothing. One of her arms is stretched out
along the grass. I stroke it tenderly. Presently

her hand seeks mine, and her fingers
close over it convulsively.

To-day I look back and see that pathetic
road-side picture of childish despair, and I
hear the evening song of the thrush that
sang as joyously all the time as if the world
teemed with happiness and love.

Good-bye, Horace Durand," says the
girl, rising to her feet and wiping her
eyes.

^^No, no I"' I say, 'come home with
me and I will ask my father to let you live
with us."

'' Good-bye!" is all she says, but she puts
her arms round me and kisses me.

Then my own eyes are filled with tears
and I cling to her.

"Don't leave me, Connie!" I say, "I
am lonely too."

'' Good-bye," she says, '' you have given
me your promise not to tell. Good-bye, my
dear, dear friend ! "

The next thing that I remember, until I
reached home, was that I was alone on the

dusty highway with a handful of crushed
roses, which to-day typify to me the sorrows
and troubles of that sunny summer when
Constance Gardner ran away.

CHAPTER IV.

FUNERAL CHIMES AND MARRIAGE BELLS.

Night had fallen upon hill and dale, upon
dusty road and running brook, before I
reached home. Lights were twinkling here
and there in cottage windows, and it appeared
as if Oakfield House had specially
illuminated itself. It was lighted up, spare
bedrooms and all.

Mr. Jonas Welby met me at the door.
He was standing on the threshold with his
hands in his pockets, more than ever it
seemed to me master of the situation.

^^ The return of Ulysses," he said, as I
walked in front of him ; ^^ and have you
beheld the Pleads, the Bear, and the Waggoner
?

I did not rejDly, but attempted to push
past my obstructor.

^^ Not so fast, my friend," said Mr.
Welby, 'Sve have been hunting for you
everywhere, and your absence demands an
explanation."

^^I will tell my father where I have
been," I said.

'^ I fear not; an hour ago you might have
done so ; at the present moment the doctors
say he is not to be disturbed on any account."


'' The doctors ! " I exclaimed, in alarm,
dropping my poor faded and crushed flowers
at the feet of my tormentor.

'' The doctors ! " he said, ^' your father is
dangerously ill. I am here to tell you so,
and to prevent you from exciting him by your
presence. He has asked for you many
times, but not lately ; he is insensible."

''Oh! Mr. Welby, let me see him ! " I
said, as I leaned against the door-post, half
fainting with terror and weariness.

''No, Sir! Already you have frightened

your mother almost out of her wits with
visions of your being brought home on a
shutter, or notified as drowned. If you were
my son, Horace Durand, I would teach you
something different."

I am not your son," I said, pulling myself
together for a moment, but only to burst
into tears the next.

'^ That's true ; it is a good thing for both
of us," he said.

^^ Oh, Mr. Welby, why do you hate me
so ? " I exclaimed ; ^^ I have done nothing to
make you ! But let me go into the house,
pray do ! Let me see my father ! "

^' The doctors forbid it ; they say it might
be his death," he answered, thrusting himself
in my way.

*' My mother, then," I said.

^^ She is at your father's bed-side."

*' And he has asked for me ?"

Over and over again," said my tormentor,
calmly.

Then I will see him," I exclaimed, suddenly
dashing past him, he after me, and

presently arresting my progress with his
strong hand twisted into my collar.

^^You young scoundrel!" he said, in a
hoarse whisper, ^^I will shake the life out
of you if you attempt to go anywhere but
yonder into the kitchen'*

He thrust me forward into the room where
Carky Jones was sitting crying by the fire.

'' You beast ! " I exclaimed, quivering
with rage and indignation, as I confronted
the closed door.

'' Come here, Horace," said Jones, '^ don't
be a bad, wicked boy."

'' I am not."

'^ Yes, you are ; come here."

'' What is the matter ? " I asked.

'^ Your father has had an accident with
one o'them new con strap shuns of his at the
factory ; doctors say its eternal, and has hurt
his heart," said the girl, '' and the greyhounds
at the Angel Inn have bin violin
and going on all the afternoon, just as they
did when Lawyer Ribbons died."

At ten minutes to five the next morning
my father died. He was conscious and he
looked happy. I kissed him at his request,
and he passed away with his hand in mine.
My mother sat weeping by the bedside.
The doctors were in the dining-room downstairs.
I did not know that the dear kind
old gentleman was dead until they came
up and said so. One of them led me into
an adjoining room, patting my head ina
kindly way. The morning sun was
streaming in at the window, the birds were
singing, and I could hear the music of the
river just as if nothing had happened. But it
was quite true that my father was dead ; and
so strongly had the stories he loved to tell
me taken possession of my mind, that, in a
vague sort of way, I felt as if he were Ulysses
and I indeed his son Telemachus. I look
back now and feel that this was only the
tribute of a naturally affectionate nature to a
doting father, who loved me so much that he
was anxious to introduce me into that dream-world
he knew so well. He might have pres

erred to lead my mother into those romantic
and poetic paths which he traversed in imagination
accompanied by the music of his
cello, but she was no apt pupil in that
direction. I was, and he loved me with all
his tender and gentle yet passionate nature.
He died a martyr to science. Many a
family has lived and prospered and many a
township has grown rich through the mechanical
revelations which he left behind
him. I love France for his sake, and the
paths he trod as a boy are dear to me for all

time.

* * *

The ^'art of skipping" is, I am told, cultivated
more persistently by the novel-reader
than by the critic. I propose to move along
at this period of my story in sympathy with
both. I am going to ^' skip," as nimbly as
consistency of narrative will permit, the
years that at this point separate the boy
from the man.

The disappearance of Constance Gardner
may be regarded as the denouement of the

first decade of my life. Not that the incident
assumed this importance at the time.
It was overshadowed by the death of my
father and the marriage (within a year of his
decease) of his widow to Mr. Welby. When
I first read '' Hamlet " the idea of the funeral
baked meats coldly furnishing forth the marriage
feast revived in my mind sad and painful
memories. Not that there was anything
indecorous in the re-entry of my mother into
the married state, either as to the time or
the manner of it. The dear old Frenchman
who believed in the English heart was buried
with great state. He was mourned not
exactly in sack-cloth and ashes, but in the
most ample form of crape and merino. The
bells of the old church of Scarsdale marked
the slow gait of the funeral procession with
muffled peals. Along the route the shops
were closed, and the blinds were drawn down
^t all the private houses ; for it was remembered
that the Anglo-French designer and
inventor had materially improved the trade
of the town.

VOL. I. F

Strange to say, in many after years,
when I projected my memory back into the
past, I saw, in the pictures it conjured up, the
face of Connie Gardner. I regard this as
strange, because she had no associations with
the inner life of Oakfield House. Her life
was a thing apart from mine. I only saw
her outside my home. She was not exactly
an acquaintance who was forbidden me. It
had, I suspect, never occurred to my father
or mother that I should be likely to know
Connie Gardner, except as a young person
not to know. Yet she had mixed
herself up in my tenderest recollections. I
saw her tearful face, and heard her voice in
all my pictures of home, and in the music
of the later years when Scarsdale was only a
memory. The day came when I learnt that
the chord which her sorrowful words had
touched in my heart was love, though the
revelation was untowardly brought about.

At the funeral of my father I made the acquaintance
of my great-uncle, the brother of
my mother's father, a straight-backed, formal,

upright, honourable, but somewhat eccentric,
English gentleman. He was known in the
Worcestershire Valley, where he lived, as
honest Dick Grantley. He was a Justice of
the Peace, and had a pretty little estate.
As proud as the most aristocratic man
in the county, he was still called Dick
Grantley. He walked by my side in the
funeral procession, took my hand in church,
patted it furtively when I cried, and when
all was over took me for a long walk in the
fields beyond Oakfield House, and said little
or nothing all the way there and back. He
was a tall athletic, white-headed gentleman,
with a florid complexion and a large bony
hand. When we came home in the afternoon
he patted my mother's hand, just as he
had patted mine, and kissed me on the forehead.
My mother looked very sweet and
young, and pretty, in her black gown. Uncle
Grantley said so. I heard him. He said
something about girls marrying old men, and
I think it was in disparagement of such
unions. My mother said my father had
f2

always been kind and considerate, and that he
had denied her nothing. Mr. Welby came in,
while we were all sitting together round the
first fire of the autumn season, and asked my
uncle to make an appointment on the next
day to go into ^^ the deceased's affairs." I
remember his very words. I forget very
little connected with Mr. Welby, and I remember
nothing that does not even now jar
on my sensibilities.

I think my uncle saw that I had a childish
antipathy for my mother's trustee (my
father had left him with my mother full power
over his property whatever and wherever it
might be), for on the next day he said —

'' You don't like your mother's trustee,
Mr. Welby?"

^^ No, Sir."

'' Why do you not like him ? "

'' He has a loud voice, and says I am a
chip of the old block."

^^Oh, indeed!" said my uncle, '^ is that
all?"

'^ I think so."

^^ Do you like me?"

"Yes, Sir."

"Very much?"

"Not as much as father!" I answered,
the tears in my eyes, almost for the first time
since the dear gentleman's death, for I had
only just realised the solemn fact that Oak-field
House knew him no more.

No, no, of course not, but for an uncle
I am not so bad ; for an uncle, eh ? Not the
sort of uncle that took the children into the
wood and left them there, eh ? "

"No, Sir."

Look at me, Horace !" he went on, taking
me between his knees, "I am an old fellow,
and I have no children. If ever you should
be unhappy here, and your mother is willing
for you to come and live with me, and let me
be your father, I will give you a home, and
make a gentleman of you. Do you hear what
I say ? "

Yes, Sir ; I thank you."

Will you remember it ?"

"Yes, Sir."

Is that all you have to say?"

I laid my hand in his and looked up into
his genial ruddy face.

'' What are you thinking about, little
one?"

^^Is your home over the hills yonder?"
I asked.

'^ Yes, miles away."

'near the Palace?"

'' What Palace ?" he asked.

'' The one that is grander than anything
Ulysses saw?"

'' Well, no," he answered ; '^ but we have
several palaces in Worcestershire that will
answer as well, I dare say."

'^ But I must stay at home and take care
of my mother as the son of Ulysses did''
I said, my little mind wandering back to the
incident in which my father had challenged
my affection and courage in the presence of
Mr. Welby.

^^ You know all about Ulysses, then ?"

^^Yes, Sir; my father used to read the
great book to me, and tell me of his adventures."


^^ Ahj well, there is not the same reason
for you to remain at home as there was in the
ease of that other young man in the classics ;
but stay and take care of your mother,
Horace, as long as you like, and when
she can spare you come to the Cedars at
Breedon."

'' Yes, Sir;'

^' I have arranged with your mother that
you shall write to me a letter every week ;
you can write, of course?"

Not a letter."

My uncle rang the bell in the hotel
parlour where this interview took place.

^' Pens, ink, and paper," he said.

These materials being brought, he said,
'' Now, little one, write down my name and
address."

I took up a pen, blushed, dipped it in the
ink, blacked my fingers by seizing the penholder
too low down, and proceeded to write
in a big round-hand, ''^ Uncle Grantley."

'^ Very good," he said, looking over my
shoulder. ^^ Now write Richard Grantley,

Esquire, J. P. The Cedars, Breedon, Worcestershire."


With a little assistance I accomplished
the feat.

^^ Very well. Here is a guinea to pay
for postage stamps, and now we may say
good-bye ; here comes the coach."

He rang the bell again.
'^ Send the young person here, Mrs.
Durand's servant?"

Carky Jones responded to the. summons.

^^ Take my nephew home and be good to
him," said the Worcestershire J.P.

^^ Yes, Sir," she said, curtseying with
remarkable humility for Jones.

^^ Very good," he said, slipping a guinea
into her hand.

She looked at the money, curtseyed even
more deferentially than before, and in a few
minutes afterwards I stood, my hand in hers,
watching the coach depart in the direction
of the hills that shut Scarsdale from the
world. The '^ Royal Mail '' coach was the
last on the road. It ran between the little

Derbyshire borough and the nearest railway
station a dozen miles away. Many years
previously it had been a famous coach on
the highway that linked Scarsdale with
the Great City.

My uncle had no doubt sufficient prescience
to forecast the future of my mother
and Oakfield House, and he saw evidently
the possibility uf the time arriving when my
mother's love might be weaned from her firstborn.
Within twelve months the muffled
chime that made doleful music at my father's
funeral was succeeded by a wedding peal,
rung out joyously on the same bells. The
parson who had met that funeral procession
in which I walked hand-in-hand with uncle
Grantley joined the hands of the widow and
Mr. Welby. A bevy of bridesmaids flung
flowers at the feet of the bride. The factory
hands had a holiday, and a great dinner was
spread for them under a tent at the King's
Head. Mr. and Mrs. Welby went away ina
carriage and four horses, and Carky Jones
insisted on my going to bed unusually early

that night. I remember that T sat on the
edge of my little bedstead (while the sun
was setting behind the hills) looking out
along the roadway that went up to the very .
top of the highest of them, and that there
was a vague but bitter sense of wrong in
my heart. Before my mother left she had
taken me up into her arms and wept over me,
and my step-father had somewhat roughly
dragged me away from her.

'' Horace," he said, '' you must not make
your mother cry."

'' I don't wish to do so," I answered.

^' There, don't argue, my lad! " he replied,
'^ good bye!"

He took my hand, but without pressure
on either side.

'^ I said good bye," he remarked.

*^ Say good bye, dear," said my mother,
with a look of frightened appeal in her
beautiful eyes.

'good bye, Sir!" I said.

As he hurried my mother away, he
turned to say to me in a whisper that came

through his white teeth with a hissing sound,
'^ We will alter this stubborn nature of yours
one of these days, Master Horace Durand

Ulysses!"

CHAPTER IV.

IN WHICH MY UNCLE SAYS I AM A LUCKY DOG.

^ The time soon came when Mr. Welby
put his hatred of me into practice. His
persecution was all the more galling that
he succeeded in making my mother believe
that I really was the young termagant he
continually declared me to be. Mr. Welby
was one of those humbugs who proclaim
their honesty and sense of justice, one of
those irrepressible individuals who pose
before the world as frank, outspoken, and
honourable on the strength of a loud voice
and a generally brusque and noisy manner
; one of those ill-mannered men who
mistake rudeness for wit, and practise it at

the expense of other people. Mr. Wei by
fired all his spare witticisms at me. He
was fond of telling people of my childish
escapades, to which he invariably added
imaginary incidents with a view of making
me appear ridiculous. He still lives, a
vulgar, ostentatious parvenu. Member of
Parliament for the Northern Division of
the county in which I was born, a self-made
man, a Radical among the Radicals,
hitherto an unsuccessful candidate for office,
but a thorn in the side of Liberal Premiers,
not by reason of his personal or political
power, but by dint of his strength of jaw
and his capacity for asking questions and
inventing hostile motions. It is known that
he has his price, which is office, but as yet
every Minister has had sufficient respect for
himself and his party to refuse the comfort
of Mr. Welby's silence on the conditions
named.

It is not necessary that I should dwell
upon the troubles of my life, in these early
days of the second decade of my existence.

The reader will hardly need to be told that
I soon obtained leave to accept my uncle's
invitation to go and stay at Breedon. I never
returned to Scarsdale.

My uncle was a bachelor. He devoted
his spare hours to my education. In this he
was assisted by the local parson, a pleasant
wine-drinking learned divine. I had, to
begin with, a fair knowledge of French, and
I picked up Latin with a rapidity that
astonished my tutors. It was often debated
whether I should be sent to college. The
question was generally left to me. I always
decided it in the negative. I preferred to stay
with my dear old uncle. He was delighted
at the response. So was I that my views
were accepted. I learnt to ride, and shoot,
and swim. Nobody ever called me Frenchy.
I grew up a sprightly and happy youth. My
mother wrote to me occasionally from Hampton
Hall. Oakfield House was given over to
Mr. Welby's manager. The partner in the
firm of Scarsdale milliners eventually
became sole proprietor. He was glad to

wipe his hands of me. My mother had become
quite illustrious for her charities ; he
eminent as a politician. I have a theory
that as a rule women who give up their lives
to doctoring the aged, visiting the sick, and
interesting themselves in nothing but poverty,
are seeking a diversion from the pangs of a
rooted sorrow. There are notable and beautiful
exceptions ; but truly this is the general
rule. My mother could not have been
hapjDy with Welby after her experience of
the gentle artistic life of Oakfield House.
She had wealth and deposition," such as it
was, at Hampton Hall ; but she had denied
herself the love and companionship of her
son, and she was more or less snubbed by
the great county ladies, who regarded Mr.
Welby as a parvenu, trying to buy his way
into high society. My mother found relief
in notable and enduring works of charity.

During the ten years I lived at Breedon
Col. Tom Ernstone, an old friend of my
uncle, took me to France and Germany,
and once to Algiers. My attachment to the

classic lore which my father had opened upto
me, my early travels and my love of
adventure, gained for me the sobriquet of
young Ulysses. Since those days I have
been referred to in newspaper reports and
at public dinners as ^^a modern Ulysses' a
title which I venture to use for these random
reminiscences, not that I desire to challenge
comparison either with the original hero or
with the travels of General Grant, the famous
American President. I have seen the world,
and when I am an old man I may justify the
compliments of my friends ; for I shall be a
traveller all my life, I think, unless an event
which my uncle set his mind upon, long
before I was twenty, should form the postscript
to this present narrative.

At a little over twenty years of age I
was what some people call a '' young county
swell " who patronised local literature with
a dilettante pen. One day, to my great
surprise, I was applied to in a charming

feminine hand for a contribution to a new
magazine, to be called The May fair Magazine,
An editorial suggestion that a page of real
county life or country sport, from a gentleman's
point of view, would be most acceptable.
If you should happen to be in a library
where there is a file of the publication in
question, turn to the first number, and you
will find an article entitled '^ The Feast of
St. Partridge : How it was celebrated by Mr.
Horatio Fitzhoward." That is a true sketch,
only the names of some of the persons being
fictitious. In recalling it, I remember how I
read the manuscript to Helen Dunstan, my
genial host's daughter, and how she wished
I had not thought it necessary to speak of
her father as a lord. ^^ For," said she, in her
democratic way, ^^ I am sure his wines would
have tasted as well to the reader, and his
meadows would have smelt as sweet, had
you let him be the plain English commoner
he is." It was no use explaining to her that
the fashionable constituency to be attracted by
The Mayfair Magazine would expect its

VOL. I. G

writers to be continually hob-robbing with
lords, and that, after all, my paper was
history; she stood up for the dignity
of commoners, though she was only a
gijcl

My companions in arms, as I think I
stated in my first literary effort outside the
Breedon County Times, were Stephen Miller,
then a Queen's Counsel, now a Judge; young
Paul Ferris, a rich county fellow about my
own age, whose father had left him a large
property; Sir Christopher Hallam, a young
Yorkshire baronet; George Harmer, a decorative
artist engaged upon some work at the
manor-house, and who had made himself so
agreeable to Mr. Dunstan that our host had
invited him to share in the general hospitalities
of the place; the Rev. Martin Masters,
the vicar of Breedon, sometime my Latin
tutor; and Col. Tom Ernstone, an Indian
officer, who, though somewhat cynical, was
the life and soul of the party. He was full
of interesting anecdote, though except on
rare occasions he related to us no incidents of

his fighting days in India. He gave us illustrations
of the courage of other men, never any
examples of his own. He had his tiger story
of course, but he was not the hero of it ; he
had assisted at the relief of Lucknow, but
his reminiscences were chiefly of Havelock
and Campbell. The Colonel and the Queen's
Counsel, Miller, evidently did not love each
other. They were too well bred to show this
except during quiet passages of repartee, in
which the Q. C. scored in point of wit. Mr.
Miller had a habit of making you feel that
he considered himself everybody's superior,
except in the case of ^^ starchy Dick Grantley."
He was always amiable towards his
'' old friend," as he invariably called my
uncle when speaking of him. Miller was a
remarkable man in appearance and manner.
His face was like the close-shaven, clean-cut,
aristocratic faces you see in the old pictures
of a by-gone aristocracy, with lips perhaps
a trifle too thin for a generous character and
a jaw of more than usual force of line. He
had a somewhat arrogant manner, as will be
g2

best illustrated by a remark which Colonel
Ernstone made to him in response to the
emphatic expression of an opinion with
which he disagreed.

^^ Thank Heaven we are not the defendants
in a great suit which you are trying from
the Bench," said Ernstone.

'' The verdict would certainly go against
you if the jury acted on my summing-ups'
responded Miller.

*sand if it were a hanging matter?"
continued Ernstone, until he was interrupted.


^^You would by this time have been
sentenced," said the Q. C. with a laugh that
was hard and uncongenial.

Poor Harmer! We little thought that,
in the days to come, he was destined to establish
Miller's sense of justice in that higher
sphere which the Q. C. was yet to occupy.
The decorative artist had very pleasant
traits. He was singularly modest, almost
humble. His one ambition was to save
enough money to complete a course of

study at Amsterdam. His head ideal of
art was that of Holland. He had begun his
career in a small way at the Hague and
appeared to love the Dutch country more
than his own.

"" No," he said, in response to some encouraging
observations of mine about his
future, '^ I never hope to be more than a
decorative painter ; I would like to do more,
and yet after all there is plenty of room
for ambition in what is called decorative
art."

I' took a fancy to this young fellow
Harrier. It was decreed that I should meet
him again under very singular circumstances ;
and he was doomed to trials and disasters far
more serious than those which had been written
down for my probationary exercise this
side ^4he world to come;" though Ulysses
himself hardly had a narrower escape from a
hideous death than was prepared for me by
savages hardly less revolting than the man-eaters
of the classic romance.

I have recently re-read my little sketch,

entitled '' The Feast of St. Partridge." It
is to me another slide in the dream-like
kaleidoscope of the past which you and I,
dear friendly reader, have been turning
round together. The feeling which it excites
in my mind is similar to that which is aroused
by the perusal of some notes written for Mrs.
Patty and Aunt Judy years ago, portions of
which I have reproduced in illustration of the
system of '' Dames' Schools '' in the years that
are gone. I feel as if I were reading about
some one else, not myself; and it is this
sense of self-effacement which I hope will
enable me to set down in these pages events
and opinions that, related by me under other
circumstances, might appear arrogant and
self-sufficient.

Since that merry shooting party chronicled
in The May fair Magazine as previously
mentioned, Stephen Miller has not
only become a judge, but he has tried
George Harmer for felony, without the
prisoner remembering the judge, or the
judge the prisoner. Harmer at this moment,

I believe is . But let us, for the

time being, keep our attention upon that
'^ Feast of St. Partridge," which I suspect
may be taken as the clasp that binds
up the second decade of my life.

Warrington Manor is a pleasant old house
in a Worcestershire valley, with the Breedon
Hills as a foreground, a rich grassy plain as
middle distance, and the Malverns as a
delicate outline against the horizon. In
some conditions of the weather the Malvernss
look mountainous; at other times
they are graceful unpretentious hills. My
Worcestershire friends are very proud of
them, and T used to think the whole world
had no hills so lovely in their undulating
outline as the Malverns. They were gentle
and soft in form and colour compared with
the mountains of Scarsdale. Since I was a
lad at Breedon I have seen many countries
and sojourned in many lands. Not long since
at fixe o'clock in the morning on the
Canadian frontier, at a railway station, I
was awakened from a troubled sleep in a

Pullman car to ^^ hurry up and have breakfast,"
and there I saw tier upon tier of
Malvern Hills, with grey mist floating about
their summits, their base reflected in the
waters of a calm lake. In this latter respect
they eclipsed my Malverns, but of course
that only sent my memory back to excuse
them for the delightful associations they mirrored
in my memory. The rival scene was I
think at a place called Island Pond, and I
remember that there were among other
things fresh lake trout caught close by the
railway track for breakfast. Since those
days of the gun and the rod in Worcestershire,
I have dreamed dreams under
Italian skies ; I have shot grebe (when
no Turk was looking at me) on the
Bosphorus ; I have slept on the Danube ; I
have looked out from an Erie railway car
upon the Delaware near Callicoon ; I have
rested in quiet nooks on the Susquehanna, and
hunted with the Indians far away beyond
Quebec. I have seen a tropical landscape
lifted out of a grey mist by the rising sun.

have rested by the side of oases in Asian
deserts, have sojourned in the famous
grazing countries of the Southern States of
America, and trodden unexplored islands in
the Eastern seas.

Yet have I never seen fields so green,
never heard song-birds carrol so sweetly
as I have seen, and heard, on the estate
of my late friend Peter Dunstan, Esq.
J. P. at Warrington Manor, in the county
of Worcester, England. On that festival
of St. Partridge, to which I have referred,
we met at breakfast at the early
hour of half-past seven. The ladies had not
come down. We talked of guns, and birds,
and dogs, over savoury omelettes, game-pies,
stewed grouse, dry toast, claret cup, and coffee.
Dunstan was at the head of his table, his
wheel-chair having landed him safely in the
dining-room before any of his guests had
appeared. Squire Dunstan, as the local
people called him, had lost the practical use
of his legs in an attack of rheumatic gout.
He was of a lazy habit of body, though clear

and active in mind, and he did not appear to
regret what was called his infirmity. He
had a chair in which he wheeled himself
about with great ease and freedom, and this
absence of the usual physical action of body
made him '' a mere calculating machine''
Miller said. But he was more than that ; he
was a genial, hospitable, well-informed gentleman,
though his hobby was money-making.
He had begun life as a London merchant.
At three-and-twenty he inherited his father's
business and fifteen thousand a year from
London rents. Two years later he sold both
the one and the other, bought large mineral
properties in Wales, extensive manufacturing
works in Staffordshire, started a bank in
London, and lived to be the richest high
sheriff who had ever driven in state to meet
the judges at Worcester. The pageantry of
that occasion, and the snub put upon him by
a local lord who abhorred trade and talked
grandly about parvenus are traditions of
the county. Miss Dunstan has nobly revenged
her father on Lord Trellisford since

then; and the javelins of the shrievalty
ornament the hall of Warrington Manor to
this day.

I remember that at breakfast young
Ferris discovered with lively horror that the
vicar shot with a muzzle-loader.

^' When I was a young fellow," replied
the vicar, a ruddy grey-haired cleric of
sixty, '' the pleasure of hunting as well as
shooting was combined in the celebration of
what you are pleased to call the feast of
St. Partridge. We did not shoot for the
glorification of merely killing ; we found
pleasure in the exercise of tramping through
the stubble in the brisk autumn weather ;
and we thought nothing of walking
twenty miles for ten or a dozen brace of
birds."

*did you not, indeed?" exclaimed Paul
Ferris ; " had you no drivers ?"

Paul was a fair-haired delicate-looking
young fellow, about my own age, and often
blushed like a girl.

'' We drove our own game, Sir," said the
vicar.

^^Yes," said Paul, ''1 don't think I
should like that. I have stood at a corner
with the Duke and shot a hundred and fifty
brace of pheasants right off the reel."

The Duke was an illustrious member of
the house of Orleans, whose English home
was in the valley.

'' That was simply murder," said the
vicar ; ^' to shoot in that fashion, Sir,
with all submission to yourself and the
Duke, is to degrade sport into mere butchery."


Paul Ferris blushed and said he was
sorry the vicar thought so; and the Q.C.
proceeded to deliver an oration upon the
combination of causes which formed what is
called the charm of the First of September,
such as the vanity of skill as a ^^ shot," the
excitement of letting off your piece, the
exercise of man's brutal desire to slay, and to
temper this depravity the innate love of
nature, of trees and fields, and hills and

dales and out-door exercise, that is an
English characteristic.

Nobody could say whether Mr. Miller
meant what he said, or whether he was
amusing himself at our expense. He was
probably doing the latter while exhibiting
himself to us, controversionally ; for he propounded
wise propositions on both sides of
the question under consideration.

At the close of his remarks he said some
men like a spice of danger in their sport. The
other day a friend of mine, shooting small
game on a German estate, quoted this
view of that class of Englishmen who seek
the dangers of sport on the American prairies.
^ Ah ! ' responded one of the company,
^ you like danger mit your sport. Then
you go out shooting mit me. The last
time I shoot mine brother-in-law in ze
schtomack!'"

Thereupon the vicar told a story. The
anecdotical vein struck by Miller was quite
to his reverence's taste. Hallam had
remarked that he feared the wind was getting

up a little, and that on the hill-side we
should have it right in our teeth.

^^ Never fire," said the vicar, ^^ when the
birds are coming at you with the wind.
The plan is to turn round upon them, and
get a steady long shot. Do you know Instead,
the chairman of the Petty Sessions?"

'^ Quite well," said Hallam.

^^Know his man?"

^^ I cannot say that I do."

*^ Ah, a queer character, old Instead ;
he has a crotchet for making his man agree
with him, whatever he says or professes to
think, no matter how extravagant the idea
may be. Half valet, half butler, his man is
continually with him. He rarely keeps a
servant more than six months. They get
exasperated with his crotchets, and leave.
He has an Irishman now, however, who
seems likely to stay. The old fellow put
Pat to a severe test the other day, and ould
Ireland came out of it with flying colours.
It was a particularly boisterous day. '^ There

is not much wind to-day,' said old Instead
to his man. Pat hesitated, but he was
not lost, as they say the fair ones are who
come within the fascination of our friend
Miller. ^ I said there is not much wind
to-day,' said Pat's master, with special
emphasis. ' No, your honour,' said Pat,
not much ; what there is is uncommon high
to be sure ! ' "

The story amused Sir Christopher immensely.


Mr. Miller said he knew Instead quite
well, and he related how he and my uncle
Grantley had bagged there, in one day, a
hundred and ninety-five head of miscellaneous
game, including sixty brace of birds.

The vicar insisted that such sport as
that bordered on the murderous phase of
modern shooting, and the controversy was
becoming rather warm, when Colonel Vanstone
hit the vicar slyly upon the clerical
character of a sporting parson.

^' Ah ! " said the vicar, ^Hhat reminds me

of a little incident which occurred in the
early life of my worthy diocesan. He was what
you call a shooting parson. When he was
visiting Lady Hadley — she is very evangelical
you know — he proposed to accompany
her son on a little shooting expedition. The
old lady remonstrated mildly, but at length
sought consolation in the belief that out of
evil would come good. Thomson, her gamekeeper,
was not at all up to her religious
standard, so she urged the bishop to say a
few words of exhortation to the man when
they should be in the fields together. His
lordship took an opportunity, on the return
homewards, to advise Thomson to go to
church regularly, and read his Bible. ' Why,
I do read my Bible,' said the keeper, ^ but
I don't find in it any mention of the apostles
going a shooting.' ' No, my good man,'
said the bishop, ' you are right ; there was
no good shooting in Palestine ; so they went
fishing.' "

'^A good story, vicar," said Sir Christopher,

^^ it is something like one Mr. Miller once told
at the club, only it was about an affair at a
theatre ; I never laughed so much. Will you
repeat it, Mr. Miller ? "

^^ Do you know the cue ?" Miller replied,
*^ or I ought to say, Do you remember the
case?"

^^No, I really do not," said Paul, blushing.


^^ I am sorry," said the Q.C., ^'but it is
just as well that you have neither the cue
nor the case, for the story might be a long
one, and here comes Hallam."

All this time Sir Christopher Hallam
(or Chris, as the Colonel called him) was
out looking after the guns and discussing
coveys with the keepers. Our chat ended
with the re-appearance of our two friends
and their report that the head-keeper with
the dogs was coming round from his cottage.

How the day comes back to me ! Light
mists on the hills ; rosy apples hanging in
clusters from bending trees in red and brown
hedgerows ; dewy gems on the green leaves

VOL. I. H

of mangel-wurzel and turnip ; the stubble
crackling under our feet ; the rising of the
first covey of birds ; the answering echoes of
the guns ; the cool shadows of the great
elms ; the crows cawing warning signals to
each other and sailing away to distant feeding
grounds ; our rest for luncheon, with the
sweet pipe that followed it. And, when the
day was done, the bath and the dressing for
dinner, and entering the drawing-room deliciously
tired to be received by Helen
Dunstan, the Squire, and my dear old uncle,
who had driven over from '^ The Cedars "
where we lived, half-a-dozen miles from
Warrington Manor.

The Q.C. I remember took Helen Dunstan
in to dinner. I was appointed to the honour
of escorting the Vicar's wife. The meal was
dispatched in a quiet business-like way.
There were coffee and music afterwards in
the drawing-room. But it was late when
we joined the ladies. The fault was not mine,
nor Ernstone's, nor Hallam's. The Squire
had some fine old Madeira, and both the

Vicar and Miller liked Madeira. Moreover
Mr. Dunstan gave them his views in regard
to certain stocks which were fluctuating considerably
in the money-market. Miller had
made many a cool hundred on the hints he
had picked up at Warrington Manor. The
Vicar speculated a little, and my uncle, who
hated city life, and city men, and banking
and railways, sand the whole thing. Sir," had
nevertheless occasionally bought shares in
Companies he knew nothing about and sold
them again to persons of whom he was equally
ignorant, through a broker whom he had
never seen.

My uncle was comparatively poor; poor in
pocket but rich in pride ; a straight-backed,
high-collared, warm-hearted man. When
first the Dunstanss came into the county, some
few years prior to this not-to-be-forgotten
first of September, he resented the intrusion.
Dunstan made too much of a splash with
his new horses and carriages for the poorer
county families.

'^ Damme ! " I remember my uncle saying,

*' if he thinks he is going to drive straight
into county society he is mistaken ; not
with a team fit for a circus and a carriage
like a showman's caravan, at all events."

But the time soon came when the smaller
luminaries of county society, and my uncle
among them, found that Peter Dunstan, Esq.
was not a bad sort of fellow, and that his
Port and Madeira had not their equal in the
entire county.

And on this famous first of September
my uncle and her father, I learnt afterwards,
had a serious talk about "my future and her
future. I sometimes think she must have
known about it, for she let her hand rest in
mine for a little while when she said '^ goodnight,"
and there was an unusual softness
in her voice. I thought she was sorry
about something, or had a headache. Neither
my vanity, nor my discernment, had suggested
to me that Helen Dunstan, a lovely
girl, and heiress to enormous wealth, was in
love with me, starchy Dick Grantley's almost
penniless nephew. Do you remember only

two seasons ago the portrait-picture of the
year at the Royal Academy ? A lady in a
riding-habit, leaning against a sleek chestnut.
A face of remarkable beauty, indicative, however,
of mental strength and great self-control,
a liquid gray eye, rich brown hair
dressed close to the head, an elegant figure,
though somewhat slight ; and in her eyes a
tender thoughtful expression. '^ Portrait of
Miss Dunstan'' you will see in the catalogue
; though on that first of September
of this present history my uncle slapped
me on the back, and said, '' Horace, my boy,
you are a lucky dog!"

I see him now on the box-seat of his
phaeton, with the vicar and Mrs. Martin sitting
inside, two bright lamps flashing upon
the roadway, Sandy Mckenzie at the horses'
heads ; I see old Dunstan in his wheel-chair
at the porch, and Miss Dunstan, with an Indian
shawl flung over her head, come out to say
*^ good night " to their neighbours. I
see the lights dancing along the road in
the distance ; and as the Squire wheels himself

back into the library I see myself
standing there with Helen's soft hand in
mine; and I find it all a dream, with
strange unlooked-for incidents in it; and
another woman (who has no need to beckon
me, for I am at her feet only too soon for
my own peace) filling the early days of my
life with a bitter sorrow, leading to a serious
difference between myself and my uncle,
and giving, if I may so describe it, the cue
to Fate for the commencement of a series
of trials, misfortunes, and adventures, which
in some respects justify the publication of
these volumes.

CHAPTER V.

WHAT MIGHT HAVE BEEN.

You will have gathered from the closing
picture of my last chapter that I was a guest
at Warrington Manor.

Considering the natural vanity of youth
and the distinction which a young fellow
obtains among his comrades from any
special attention shown to him by a pretty
and desirable girl, it was no very terrible
crime that I committed in responding warmly
to Helen Dunstan's little kindnesses to me,
without any other motive than that of feeding
my personal vanity.

Confession of a fault is said to constitute
at least half atonement. I was interested in

my host's daughter, I liked to hear her talk,
to draw her out, to excite her interest in my
opinions, to hear her own, and to monopolise
her attention. Sir Christopher Hallam did
not care about my selfishness, because he
was engaged to Colonel Ernstone's daughter.
Paul Ferris, I flattered myself, was slightly
jealous of me. George Harmer was in the
position, more or less, of a guest ^'on sufferance,"
and his nature was both gentle and
retiring. He would not even have dreamed
of competition with any of Dunstan's visitors
in anything, unless perhaps one of them had
stood upon his scaffolding in the music-room
and challenged him to a match at painting
Apollos playing on pipes, and great-god
Pans '' down by the reeds in the river."
Stephen Miller was well known as '' not a
marrying man ; " and he had not altogether
an enviable reputation among women. It
was therefore a poor sort of triumph which
I sought in engrossing as much as possible
the attention of Helen Dunstan. It
might have been better for me, for her too.

had she succeeded at that time in awakening
in me those sentiments of love and admiration
which were only dormant within my
heart. Unfortunately for both of us she did
not hold the key that was to unlock them.

On the second day of the partridge-shooting
she drove with her father to the luncheon
rendezvous and assisted at that delightful
ceremony. Dressed in blue serge, a long
plait of golden-brown hair hanging down her
back, a spray of partridge feathers in her
small hat, she was a very Diana in appearance,
yet somehow I christened her Donna Quixote,
and for the reason that her companion, a
friend and governess and waiting-maid and
companion in one, reminded me of a female
Sancho Panza. Susan Dobbs was ten years
older than her mistress, and looked it.
A crabbed, clever, unsophisticated, not ill-natured
woman, she had an affectionate
admiration for Helen, and seconded her in
all her views, opinions, and doings. They
talked together of everything and everybody.


After luncheon, while Squire Dunstan
sat in his carriage smoking, and reading a
morning paper that had come down from
town by express (carriage and horses were
under a shady tree on the road by the gate
where we had refreshed ourselves and counted
our bag), Helen and Susan seemed inclined
to delay their departure. I was tired and
gave up my gun to a business visitor whom
the Squire had driven over from the Manor,
and so we sat, or lolled, upon the rugs and
cushions, which the servants had carried to
the rendezvous, and discoursed of many
things.

'* Do you know These Ernstone ? ''
Helen asked me.

"• No, but she is to come on a short visit
to ^ The Cedars ' with her father."

^^ A beautiful girl," said Helen.

**If she were not too dark," remarked
Sancho — Susan I mean, I beg her pardon.

^^Dark, is she?" I asked.

'^ Very," said Susan.

^* Don't you like dark people ?"

*not girls," snapped Susan, balancing
herself uneasily on a camp-stool.

'' Glad I am not a girl," I said.

*' You may well be glad," she answered.

*why?"

^^ Otherwise you would not be so popular
at the Manor."

'' Miss Dobbs is in a controversial
humour," rejoined Helen, smiling, ^^I am
sure Th^r^se is popular here, I only wish
she came oftener."

*sir Christopher, I suppose, must be
considered a happy fellow'' I said.

"If to be loved by a girl, who is both
pretty and clever, should make him happy,"
replied my hostess.

"And to know that he will have no
mother-in-law when he marries," croaked
Miss Dobbs.

Susan, you are really bright to-day if
you are a little sour," said my hostess.

I hate fools ! " she answered quickly.

"Now that is rude. Miss Dobbs," said
Helen, " I propose that you and I, Mr.

Durand go and sit in the carriage and talk to
father ; he will be civil to us at any rate."

Miss Dunstan smiled pleasantly as she
said so. Susan rose and curtseyed and then
resumed her uncomfortable seat.

We walked towards the carriage, Helen
and I, and past it, the Squire being still too
busy with his paper to be troubled with conversation.
I assisted her over an adjacent
stile, and the gentle influences of the time,
the pastoral beauties of the scene, her gracious
manner, and a certain music in her
voice that touched me, would quite possibly
have thawed my senseless heart completely,
but for the war between France and
Germany.

^'An odd character, Miss Dobbs," I
said.

^' She is very ; but I like her for it."

And she knows you do''

'' You do not think she says these brusque
things to please me ? Oh no, it is her nature.
Her mother married twice, and her stepfather
was a brute."

*'I have had a similar experience," I
answered, ^' but I do not say rude things to
people on that account."

'' Oh, but you are different ! Susan says
she would have married, only for the horrible
example of mankind which her stepfather
gave her. You are right in saying she is an
odd character, and he must also have been
odd — the man whom she threw over."

^^ She threw him over— did she ? "

'^ Yes, and the other day he died, making
a will in her favour. He left her three
thousand pounds, out of gratitude to her for
letting him off a bad bargain. Those were
his very words."

sand has that soured her disposition
still more ? "

^^Not at all. She cannot help laughing
at the poor dear man, she says, whenever she
thinks of the nagging life she would have
led him."

'^ She is funny."

'• And as good and true a creature as
ever lived."

^' I will try and like her then, if only to
please you," I said.

'^ Do you think she does not like you ? "
Miss Dunstan asked, pausing in the shadow
of an elm and confronting me.

'' It has not occurred to me to think
whether she does or not ; but, judging from
appearances, I should say she does not."

'' Oh, but she does, very much," said the
Squire's daughter, *' she thinks you handsome,
good, manly, and I cannot tell you
what ! "

'' 1 thank her, and all the more that I
hear her good opinion of me from your
lips."

^^ Oh," said my pretty companion, and it
flattered me to notice that she blushed.

After a somewhat awkward pause we
walked on towards the next stile.

It must be a terrible thing to have a
step-father," said the squire's daughter, ^' but
far worse to have a step-mother. A great
lady — at least so the people called her —
tried to marry my widowed father a year or

two ago. But bless his dear heart he loved
me, and the memory of my mother, too much
to be caught. Ah, if my mother had lived,
I should have been the happiest girl in the
world. Not that 1 remember her; I was
too young when she died. Mr. Grantley was
telling us the other day that your mother is
very beautiful."

'' Yes," I said.

It seemed to me that Miss Dunstan was
talking without thinking, and I found myself
somewhat bewildered as to my share in a
conversation, which was growing forced.

^^ It is a serious responsibility to be
beautiful," I said.

'^ Indeed, '^ she answered.

Do you not feel that it is ? "

'' I feel the compliment of your question,"
she answered smiling, ^' and accept it for what
it is worth."

^' You think I am not sincere?" I
asked.

In what respect ? " was her answer.

I began to be conscious that I was treading

upon dangerous ground, but it seemed
to be a very pleasant path, nevertheless.

'' In my admiration of you''

We had reached the last stile. She
placed her soft hand in mine. I pressed it
as she mounted it. She was about to speak
when a messenger, bursting with his great
news, demanded our attention.

where be the Squire?"

<^ What Squire?"

'' Squire Dunstan."

*' Yonder, in the lane."

** Please tell him I come from Wood-norton,
and the Emperor has surrendered
to the King o' Prussia and M^Mahon's army
be cut all to pieces."

* * *

Well might Susan Panza say she hated
fools. I lived to learn that her shot was
levelled at me. The highest point of human
happiness for any man, in Susan's estimation,
was achieved in being loved by
Helen Dunstan. She knew that I was that
man. For me not to know it argued that I

was not only a fool, but unworthy of
the honour conferred upon me. Had it
not been for the Emperor of the French
surrendering at Sedan I believe I should
not only have discovered that Helen loved
me but that I loved Helen. In that case
this story might have come to an end with
this chapter, or might never have been
written.

It was a mutual impulse on the part of
both of us to rush back to the carriage
with the news, for the Duke d'Aumale was
a neighbour of ours. Indeed some of his
people, not he, nor any of the princes of
his house, but some of his friends, were
shooting in the stubble, not half-a-mile
away from the spot where the Squire was
reading The Times,

'^ Great heaven!" said the Squire, ^^what
a collapse ! ''

^^ One can hardly realise it'' said Helen,
^^ when one looks around at this peaceful
scene about us."

^^ And yonder among the trees lies the

VOL. I. I

shooting-box of the exiled princes!" said the
Squire.

*^ Will they be happier for the fall of their
foe, I wonder ! " pondered Colonel Ernstone,
coming upon the scene, accompanied by
Hall am and the Q.C.

^* We heard of it from the Woodnorton
fellows," said the Q.C. 'hallam shot a hare
on their side the hedge, and apologised ; then
they asked us if we had heard the news; they
were handing their guns over to the men,
and going back to the house."

And has the looked-for change in their
fortunes really come! " exclaimed the vicar.
Is not Napoleon, after all, happier than
they? Xerxes wept in the zenith of his
glory. Philosophy says he was no longer
melancholy after the defeat of his forces."

^^You think it must be a relief for the
Emperor to have come to the end — to lay
down his sword, and with it all the misery
of watching and waiting?" asked the Q.C.

^^ There is always a certain kind of peace
at the end of anything," replied the vicar,

seven the great Cardinals apostrophe to
closing greatness has a smack of comfort in it.
The banker who has struggled against a
run upon his coffers till the bitter end must
find a sensation of relief in the closing doors.
I am sure Mr. Miller will tell us that the
culprit standing through a long trial sits down
at last with a calm sense of relief even at
the adverse verdict."

Ah ! the poor Emperor ; if a little party
of English sportsmen could not go out into
the September meadows to shoot partridges
without visions of war and carnage, what
dreams must have haunted the soul of him
who sought in vain for death amidst the
blood-stained ruins of Sedan !

We shot no more that day, and I remained
the fool Susan Panza thought me;
and all because of that wicked war between
France and Germany.

i2

CHAPTER VI.

DISCOURSES OF CRITICISM, LOVE, AND MARRIAGE.

I have heard novelists speak of the
difficulty of beginning a story. My chief
trouble, having begun, is to get my narrative
to advance. The natural tendency to
relate all the incidents of one's life in detail
delays progress, more particularly when it is
thought desirable to say something about
one's boyhood. Moreover a writer setting
down his own experiences is apt to exaggerate
the importance of incidents that remain
vividly in his memory. If there is any
constructive art in my method of procedure,
it will be found in the fact that I deal, in
the earliest chapters, with two decades of

my life, the first two ten years. These two
periods are covered at the outset, and then
dealt with retrospectively and prospectively.
The two decades will be completed in this
and the eighth chapter of my reminiscences,
and the ninth launches me into the third,
with, I hope, sufficient impetus to carry me
into the calmer waters of the fourth, to sail
eventually into port, weather-beaten but
sound and seaworthy. I have striven, in the
interest of the reader, to devote my attention
to landmarks in my career, to affairs that are
entertaining in themselves, outside the questions
of developing character or plot. To
tell the truth, this history of life and adventure
has no plot. Whether it has even
a hero remains to be seen.

If it has a hero I am he. In a romance
of real life it is an advantage to the reader,
when the author, intending to be his own
hero, boldly avows the fact at the beginning.
In that case he usually adopts the simplest
form of narrative, which is the autobiographic.
robinson Crusoe'' ^^ David Copperfield,"

and '' Gil Bias' were written on
these lines. I venture with all humility to
adopt something of the mechanism of the
works in question. Their illustrious authors
wrote in the first person singular and assumed
to be their own heroes. I, who am
not illustrious, emulate the method of these
great men, adapting it however to the
current taste of the moment, which is inclined
to be impatient of any elaboration of
details. Telegrams have killed the popularity
of narratives which relate minute
points. Journalistic sketches and personal
gossip have called into existence a new form
of novel. The newspaper is the chief
literary influence of the day. It encourages
broad effects in art. The stage responds in
spectacle and tableaux. It sets the fashion
of a lighter style of writing than that which
guided the hands of Smollett and Scott. The
world has less time to think than ever it had.
Readers are more anxious to arrive at results
than they were even as recently as the days
of Thackeray and Dickens. Students of
Muche's and Smith's are known to go so far

in this direction of impatient curiosity as to
read the third volume of a novel first, and
even then begining with the last chapter.
Richardson would have driven these accomplished
people crazy.

The story-teller who loves his art must
still, however, fall back more or less upon
the classic models ; and possibly '^ The De-cameron
" is in many respects the best of
them. This mention of the immortal writers
of fiction may be regarded by some as an
invitation to comparisons which may lead to
unpleasant criticism. I cannot help that.
Life would not be worth having at the price
of always being concerned about what
critics may say of your work. Moreover
for one unkind judge there are twenty ready
to over-estimate the worth of a fairly entertaining
book, and the world is big enough
for both authors and critics. In my own
case, The Superfine Review of late years has
discoursed so frequently on my deficiencies
that it has ceased to be instructive. I think
it was at Burlington House where Lord
Beaconsfield, speaking of the duties and

desires of Government in regard to the
advancement of Art, intimated that it was
no forecast of adverse criticism that stayed
his action in a certain direction, because
he knew well enough, whether he advanced
or remained quiescent, his conduct
would be objected to all the same. I have
a similar sense of comfort in regard to The
Superfine. Time was when I endeavoured
to find wisdom in its reviews. That was
in my salad days. Latterly I have become
acquainted with more than one of the
young sparks, and talked philosophy with
more than one of the old fogies, who write
in that department of the paper which is
condescendingly devoted to literature. Moreover
I have written criticisms'' myself, some
of them to order, and know what it is for an
author or publisher to be under the ban of a
journal that criticises to live rather than lives
to criticise. Thackeray knew this, and it is
a fine thing to be in good company. The
illustrious author of Vanity Fair and Esmond
had his critical pest in the shape of The

Superfine Bevieto, and showed that a great
writer is after all only mortal in resenting
the attentions of so small an insect. Uncle
Toby found the world large enough for the
blue-bottle and himself, and The Superfine
Review has as much right to live as Thackeray
had, and as much right to exercise its
functions. There are land-rats and water-rats.
There are ^'skunks" according to
Evade, and ^' summers '' according to Jonathan.
There is the vermin of the forest and
the vermin of the city, and both have their
mysterious uses. That they may not multiply
and become intolerable, Nature invents
checks for them, checks of wolf and ant-eater
; man supplements Nature with checks
of trap and gun ; and so the world wags and
the balances are maintained. Thackeray
should have remembered the counterpoises
there are in London journalism against
Superfine Reviews and then he would not
have been tempted to make some people
think he had been stung by a hornet when
he had only been tickled by a fly.

These remarks are what would be celled
by a dramatist an '' aside," or in more explicit
instructions he would mark them down
as '^ spoken apart." Matter of this kind
nevertheless helps to convey useful information
to an audience ; and in the present
instance the reader, which is my audience,
will have gathered from this ^^ aside" that
during my career I have done something
more than wield a dilettante pen for a fashionable
magazine. How I first came to be associated
with journalism was in this wise.
Among the frequent visitors at '' The Cedars"
was Mr, Peregrine Fox, who controlled the
destinies of the Breedon County Times,
which in its turn governed the political
fortunes of the western division of the
county, and more particularly of the little
town from which it took its title. Mr.
Fox was an enthusiastic Tory. In that
respect his conversation commended itself
to my uncle and to the Vicar, his old friend
a-nd companion. Inspired probably by the
literary and artistic atmosphere in which I

was born, I had not removed to '^ The
Cedars'' very long before I flashed my
maiden quill in The Breedon Times the
occasion being a question of field-paths and
rights of way which had agitated ^^ The
Cedars " for an entire hunting season,
beginning at breakfast before the meet, to betaken
ujd again with the discussion of the
day's run at the inevitable dinner-party
afterwards. I maintained the sanctity of
field-paths and the freedom of established
rights of way, with sympathetic references
to the Garden of Eden, and eloquent protests
against the levelling tendencies of upstarts
and parvenus. Recollections of the
footway across the fields over which Connie
Gardner directed me to walk home, on that
day when we parted on the white Derbyshire
highway, gave a poetic turn to my
defence of field-paths. Hatred of my canting,
time-serving, office-seeking, brow-beating
step-father put a sting into my denunciations
of those levellers who sought to
raise themselves into a spurious notoriety

by selfish and wanton attacks on the institutions
of the country. My letter was signed
'' Maximilian Ulysses," in memory of my
father, and also as a hint to Mr. Welby,
M.P., of the authorship. I sometimes wonder
whether I am a Conservative in politics
because he is on the other side ; that, is supposing
I am in any sense a politician. I
think that whatever cause Mr. Welby advocated
I should oppose it. Therefore I can
hardly be regarded as conscientiously belonging
to the Tories, the Radicals, the
Whigs, or the Liberals. Mr. Peregrine Fox
wrote an editorial article on my letter, and
proclaimed to the county the possession of a
new writer who would one day make his
name known throughout the world. He
congratulated the Western Division that the
new light was on the side of those constitutional
principles which had made England
great and free, and that it would illuminate
the fallacies and dogmas of the Opposition
in such a way as would make them palpable
to the most superficial judgment. What

illuminating power the local scribbler's pen
possessed had however a tendency to seek
satisfaction outside the arena of party politics.
Such books as I had read, when a child at
my father's knee, and such works as I found
in honest Dick Grantley's library, stimulated
in my mind a taste for romance, for travel,
and for history ; and it seemed as if the
very nickname Welby had given me was
destined to assist my aspirations ; for just
as the mountains of Scarsdale filled my fancy
with imaginary journeys to the other side,
so in after-years did some barrier continually
present itself to my imagination
as a border-land between me and my hopes,
a border-land to be crossed, a border-land
to be left behind in my travels and adventures.
master Ulysses" in the mouth of
my father-in-law, a blight upon me for the
time as the scarlet letter was upon Hester
Prynne, became in future years a talisman
to noble effort, just as the scarlet letter intime
became a symbol of virtue and religion.
We work out our destinies through devious

paths, and the opposing darts, with which
Destiny appears to wound us, are merely
the smarts that spur us on to the realisation
of the better Fate, which Fortune
hides behind the obstacles that are factors
in our success.

And how utterly blind we are to what is
to come ! But for my uncle Grrantley I
might have been, heaven knows what ! Under
the severe discipline and brutality of Mr.
Jonas Welby, a prig, perhaps a coward, a
complacent follower of his self-assertive creed.
Time under controlling circumstances might
have beaten all the spirit of adventure out of
me, and twisted my pen into an academic
instrument for prodding authors in the Superfine
Hevieiv, The robust old English fashions
of ^^The Cedars" developed the best qualities
of my nature, and the romantic virtues and
artistic instincts of my Anglo-French father,
with his views of noblesse oblige, no doubt
tempered in me the unconscious arrogance
of '^ county family " traditions. How utterly
blind, I repeat, we are to the future ! I have

every reason to believe that but for an accidental
circumstance I should have married
Helen Dunstan a year after the second
decade of my life, a rough sketch of which I
am endeavouring to present to the reader.

Helen Dunstan was considered to be the
one great prize worth a young man's
running for in the matrimonial market of
the Western Division of Worcestershire.
She was handsome, clever, rich, and, as Sir
Christopher Hallam put it to me, there was
^^no nonsense about her." Above all, as
Susan Panza had remarked, the man who
won her would not be hampered with a
mother-in-law. Her father was an old man
and a widower. He rolled in wealth, or,
to put it still more literally, wheeled in
it. His love for Helen was only second
to his love of money-making, and then his
delight in la gourmandise may be said to
have ranked third in his passions. Neither
controlling her choice of a husband, nor
limiting his endowment of her until his
death, Peter Dunstan was a most desirable

father-in-law and friend. After that night
when she let her hand lie gently in mine,
my uncle told me that ^Hhe course was
clear " for me.

^^ If," he said, ^' you can gain the girl's
consent, you need not fear that he will refuse
to ratify the bond."

We were sitting in the old-fashioned
porch of ^' The Cedars," on a hot evening
after dinner, having (an unusual occurrence)
dined alone. Sandy had decanted,
under my uncle's supervision, a dusty
bottle of port wine. It was still day-light,
though the old church clock across the river
had struck seven ; and it was still hot, though
neither summer nor winter made any difference
to my uncle's habit of taking a few
glasses of Port or Madeira after dinner. He
held up his glass, before the opening of the
porch where the twilight had just began to
suggest its poetic presence, to watch the
delicate indications of Time's tardy flight in
the shape of those tiny leaf-like relics called
beeswing. The scrutiny being satisfactory.

he sipped the golden liquor and turned
it over on his tongue, which, thus pleasantly
loosened, began to wag at me.

Marriage becomes a duty when the
woman is above reproach, and her wealth is
as abundant as her charms'' he said, in reference
to a remark of mine which questioned
the desirability of a young fellow entering
into the responsibility which my uncle had
discarded.

^^ Love is a factor in the business, is it
not?" I asked.

^' No, Sir, love is for boarding-school
wenches and penniless adventurers''

'^ That is a new reading ; it is not in
Burton."

'perhaps not; but, if I remember rightly,
he dwelt on the necessity of money. Sandy ! ''

'' Yes, your honour," said Sandy, who
was sweeping up the first leaves of the
autumn, where they had dotted the greensward
with brown and gold and red.

^^ On the second shelf of the book-case,
nearest the fireplace, in the dining-room,

VOL. I. K

you will see a book bound in parchment, and
labelled ' The Anatomy of Melancholy ; ' bring
it here, Sandy."

*' I will, your honour," said Sandy, disappearing.


'' Respect and mutual forbearance one for
the other," said my uncle, '^ is the secret of
a happy married life."

^' Uncle Grantley!" I said, with that
affectionate submissiveness which always
characterised my intercourse with him,
'^ may I ask how you know, since you do
not speak by experience ?"

^' Damme, Horace!" he said, ^^do you
think I was reared like the nigger in that
American woman's horribly interesting book
you brought here last week? Experience!
Do you wish to imply that I had no father
or mother ? "

'' No, Sir, heaven forbid ! But, in such
serious business of life as marriage, the best
opinion is surely that of personal experience,"
1 replied.

^^ I am glad to hear you call it business,

and not love," he said, ^^ whereby you show
an inclination to a proper estimate of the
position in which you stand. My father
and mother were the happiest couple in these
parts. They did not marry for love. The
estates of their people were adjacent. My
mother had a heavy jointure. My father lost
a good deal of it at a gambling club in
London. But they never forgot the respect
they mutually owed to each other. My father
treated her all his life with the politeness
due to her rank. He found continual pleasure
in her society. He never neglected a wish ora
desire which she expressed, or even hinted
at. She adorned his life with her many virtues.
She smoothed their mutual paths with
a fair estate ; she was a beautiful woman, and
a good mother. He committed a great act
of folly in staking half her estate on a bet
in a London hell ; but he laid the lesson of it
to heart all his life, and managed their
joint properties in after-life so well that they
recovered from the strain that he had foolishly
put upon them. Gambling was the vice of

the rich in those days, and it was not confined
to the men. Lady Barley, over the river
yonder, pawned her family jewels, and lost
the Nettle property at cards."

'^ Would it be impertinent to ask why you
never married, uncle ? "

'^ No, Sir ; the necessity never arose, and
the opportunity never presented itself. I was
an only son, very fond of my home, warmly
attached to my mother, and a rake ; a curious
mixture, eh ? I never met the woman whom
I could have consented to live with, and most
women, I believe, regarded me as not the
sort of fellow they could trust. Ah! here
comes your mentor, Mr. Burton, a melancholy
rhapsodist, who has made more women
false, and more men desire that they should
be so, than any writer outside Ovid.

'^ Do you think so, really?"

^' I do. But there is one point in which
he may be commended. Here you are. He
mentions John de Medicis as so sensible of
the power of riches, that when on his dying
bed, calling before him his sons to give them

his blessing, he exclaimed, ' My mind is
at rest at this awful moment, when I reflect
that I shall leave you, my children, in
the possession of good health and abundant
riches.' "

'^ Yes," I said, *^ that is all very well, but
there is nothing in that speech which commends
a man's marrying for money."

^'No, nor is there in mine, Mr. Critic,
I simply say that it is a young fellow's duty
to marry, and that what you call love is nota
necessary clause in the contract."

^^ Burton does not support your views."

'^I have already said that Burton is a
fool on the question of love."

'^ But you have quoted him on the question
of money. I do not underestimate the
value of riches, and I hope to earn money
enough without sacrificing my liberty."

^' Pooh ! Your liberty ! Why, damme,
the best fellows in the county are mad to get
into your shoes."

'^ Why, uncle?"

'^ They see what everybody can see, that

Dunstan's daughter is ready to say yes to
you the moment you ask her."

^' Do you believe that, uncle ?"

^'Ido, Horace, and I congratulate you,
my boy. With such an alliance there is
nothing you may not hope for. Damme,
you might go down to Derbyshire and contest
the county seat with Welby. I suppose
the newspaper men would speak of such a
contest as a public scandal. But "

'^ I wouldn't care for that," I exclaimed,
interrupting the dear old squire.

'^ Here's your health, then," said my
uncle, '' Horace Durand, Esquire, Member
of Parliament, ^ic^ Jonas Welby, defeated!"

Fate, if it could be idealised into an on-looking
personification, might have laughed
at my fond uncle's predictions.

We continued to talk, off and on, till
bedtime about the Dunstanss, more particularly
of Helen, and my future prospects.
I confessed that I found the young lady's
society agreeable to me, and that I would
do nothing to obstruct my uncle's hopes

in that direction. I did not hesitate to
say that if his theory were correct as to
the conditions of a happy marriage I was
hopeful that the end might be as he
wished. My respect for Miss Dunstan
was unbounded. I admitted that. I also
agreed with my uncle in regarding myself as
highly complimented by the notice she had
taken of me. I did not tell him that I
feared what he had said would exercise a
certain amount of constraint upon my future
intercourse with her. Hitherto I had been
perfectly free and unconstrained in my attentions
to her, and we had talked with perfect
self-control about all manner of things,
and I had always been impressed with her
common-sense views of life and her intellectual
superiority to the other young ladies
whom I was in the habit of meeting in
society.

*' Very well," said my uncle, over the long
clay pipe which he invariably smoked in company
with a glass of punch before going to
bed, ^'with the understanding that you will

try and not baulk me in my hopes for your
welfare, I have now to propose to you a little
relaxation of a kind that you will fully appreciate."


'' Yes, uncle."

'* The grand tour, at least that is what
they called an excursion to Italy, France,
Germany, et cetera, when I was a boy.
Tom Ernstone will be here tomorrow with
his daughter Th^rese. You must not fall
in love with her. She is promised to Sir
Christopher Hallam. They are on their
way to Tom's place from London, she to
remain there for the winter, he to travel on
the continent, partly for pleasure, partly for
business. I have asked him to take you along
with him. Does that meet your wishes ?"

'' You are too good to me, my dear
Uncle and my dear friend," I answered.

'^ Not a bit of it," he said ; ^' go into
Breton tomorrow and get whatever Vanstone
says you may require, and pack your
trunks to be ready at the end of the week —
Good night ! It is no good signing yourself

Ulysses unless you travel ; and, by the way,
it is out of character unless you marry, d'ye
see?"

Yes, Sir."

^^ Good night, Horace Durand, Esquire,
Member of Parliament, vice Welby sent to
the devil ! "

'' Good night. Uncle."

CHAPTER VII.

COLONEL Vanstone's SECRET.

Colonel Tom Ernstone is well known in
London Society. He is a retired Indian
officer. He had a command during the
mutiny, was wounded and decorated on the
field. A cynical travelled man, I had already
an experience of him which had not
set me against so-called misanthropes. When
I was fifteen he had been good enough to
allow me to accompany him to Algiers,
whither he went on a mission of some political
importance. My uncle encouraged
rather than suppressed my desire to see the
world. A storm in the Bay of Biscay had,
however, somewhat damped my ardour for a
time, and my continual subjection to seasickness

might in a less ardent enthusiast
have proved a perpetual bar to the exploration
of foreign countries. I often
wondered if Ulysses himself was sick.
Nelson they say never overcame the nausea
produced by ocean travel. Nor shall I,
which convinces me, and I say it without
vanity, that I am endowed with a fair
amount of personal courage. To deliberately
undertake an ocean voyage, knowing
that you will suffer the tortures of death,
without the relief of dying, is in my opinion
an effort of the highest courage.

At seventeen 1 was not much of a companion
for Colonel Ernstone though he had a
habit of treating me as if I were a man.
At twenty he talked to me and consulted
me as freely as if I had been a veteran
like himself. I saw his daughter for the
first time on the occasion of her visit to
^' The Cedars." She was ^^ sweet and
twenty." A brunette with blue eyes,
English in manner, but somewhat foreign
in appearance. She might have sat for a

Norman maiden of the days of William, but
for her eyes that were Saxon in their placid
depths of blue. My uncle told me that the
Colonel's aunt presided over his house.

'' Tom has for years' said my uncle,
^' posed as a cynic. He is a kind fellow beneath
that affectation. Th^rese knows it.
So does his housekeeper. There is a romantic
secret in Tom's early history. Nobody except
one or two men who have known him intimately
suspects it. At his London club he is
looked upon as a man of the world, who accepts
life as it is and makes the best of it ; one who
never lets anything interfere with his pleasures.
Some of the fellows, I am told, think
it great fun after dinner on winter evenings
to sit over the fire and hear the gray-headed
yet only middle-aged officer sneer at men
and things and discount heroism. Only one
of them, I know, has ever seen the inside of
Tom's house, though they have all been his
guests at club dinners, card parties, and
billiards. You never know a man, Horace,
until you have lived with him."

^^ Or been at sea with him. Uncle."
^' True, that tries a man's temper. And
Tom has a temper, mind you."

^^ I have never seen the rough side of it."
^' Sir John Wormwood, a man who was down
here hunting with the Duke, did once. He
ventured upon a questionable compliment,
touching Tom's daughter, which nearly ended
in Sir John's sudden and violent death on
the hearth-rug of the Parthenon Club, and was
the occasion of a hurried committee-meeting,
at which Sir John saw fit to apologise for
being nearly half strangled. Th^rese is never
mentioned, I am told, at the Parthenon, or at
White's, except by young Hallam, the Yorkshire
baronet — your first of September friend.
He is as madly in love, I hear, with Th^rese,
as I wish you were with Helen Dunstan,
though I confess that love is not necessarily
a factor in marriage."

^'Was Mrs. Ernstone English?" I asked,

for I had never heard her spoken of, and

Th^r^se looked more foreign" than myself.

'' His wife was a youthful flame, quenched

by the birth of Th^rese. It was a love-match
abroad ; the girl was humble but respectable ;
that much I know of the story from Tom's
own lips ; she is buried in a Normandy
churchyard ; but she is not a subject to be
talked of, for Tom's own private reasons. He
tells me that Th^rfese has a great wish to
visit her mother's grave, and that he is continually
trying to bring himself into a frame
of mind to comply with her desire ; but that
whenever he does walk along the old churchyard
to stand by the side of her tomb, with
his daughter by his side, he shall realise
something of what the martyrs felt who had
to travel over red-hot plough-shares. It has
gone hard with him, you see, this love as you
call it. Let us have none of it, Horace !
Helen Dunstan and an unruffled calm life of
friendly intercourse, and a big balance at
your banker's, eh?"

'eyes, uncle, certainly, in preference to
love and red-hot plough-shares anyhow."

A few days before we went on our travels,
Colonel Ernstone and I, we dined at Warrington

Manor. The party consisted of
Helen, Th^rese, my uncle, the vicar, the
Liberal Member of Parliament for Breton
(with all Peregrine Fox's clever articles he
had not been able to return a Tory for
that ancient borough), a curate and his
mother, and one or two other local people.
Susan Dobbs, in the stiff est of black silk
dresses, sat near the curate and talked the
stiff est of theology to him. I took Helen into
dinner, and we were rather dull, both of
us, I don't know why. She looked remarkably
handsome, and I wondered if on
my return from '^ the grand tour," as my
uncle called it, I should ask her to be my wife.
During the evening she sang (she had a
rich contralto voice) Molly's pathetic ballad
The Clang of the Wooden Shoon." As
the story of the girl whose lover never came
back from sea was told, I could not help
noticing that Tom Ernstone pressed his
daughter's hand almost convulsively. I was
sitting near her and had been in communication
with her and the Colonel up to the

very moment that Helen began to sing. I
learnt afterwards that my uncle, as well as
she and I, noticed the sad and pained expression
on his face as the touching words
fell in vocal tenderness from the lips of the
singer.

But they are gone, a weary while, ah me !
And he my own came home no more from sea.
The sea looks black, the waves have all a moan,
And I am left to sit and dream alone."

He looked up from the fire for a moment
as this vocal wail of sadness, with its touching
figure of the broken-hearted woman waiting
for him who should never come back, filled
the quiet atmosphere of the friendly room.
I saw a tear trickle slowly down his cheek.
He got up presently, thanked Miss Dunstan
with an impressiveness that surprised her, and
then turning to my uncle said he hoped he
was ready to return to the Cedars.

^' So soon ? " asked Helen.

^^ These looks tired," said Ernstone,
'^ and she has had a long day."

When, after a smart drive under the
September stars, we reached home, there was

a cheerful light in the library. Tom Ernstone
took his daughter in his arms, kissed her,
and bade her good night. When the spirit
bottles and pipes and cigars were laid on the
table he said, '^ Horace, I want to have a
private chat with your uncle before I go to
bed, do you mind ? "

^^Notl, Colonel," I said.

He may tell you all about it if he likes
one day ; it involves a lesson that may be
useful to you," said the soldier.

^' Oh thank you. Colonel, I should be
sorry to trespass upon your confidence."

^^ There is no fellow whom I would
rather have there than you, Horace, my
boy," he said, taking my hand.

My uncle filled his pipe and looked at us
with a grave face. Sandy came in and made
the grog. I sipped a little to the health of
our guest and went to bed.

It was a strange and sad story which Tom
Ernstone told his old friend that night. My
uncle did not make me acquainted with it
for some time afterwards, but for the sake of

VOL. I. L

uniformity of narrative I propose to set forth
the episode in this place, relegating the confession
to the succeeding chapter.

CHAPTER IX.

THE MYSTERY OF Theresa Vanstone.

'^ Laying his hand affectionately on my
shoulder," said my uncle, when afterwards
narrating the incident to me in very eloquent
detail,

'^ ^ Old fellow,' " he said, '' ' 1 have deceived
you. I want to put myself right
with you. I have not discouraged Sir christopher
Hallam's attentions to Therese, because
I could see that the moment they met
it was a mutual case of love at first sight. I
wish her to marry the man she likes, whoever
he is ; and Hallam is a good match.
But as an honourable man I must tell him
some facts about Therese, which I have not
even told you. Whatever comes of it he shall
know. I will begin my penance with you,
Dick."

l2

*^ He took up the poker and stirred the
fire, not that it required stirring, but as if he
were arranging his thoughts ; and he looked
round at me as he laid his unlighted cigar
upon the table.

'^ I have known army men who have seen
him, at the head of his cavalry, ride straight

up to an enemy's guns and . But that

is not the question. To the world he is a
hard-hearted cynic ; but bitter epigram and
an occasional sneer at sentiment represent
the cloak which hides a tender heart and
a lifelong regret.

' That song ! I saw you noticed my
emotion,' he said, as he sat down again,
looking into the fire. ' I have often felt
that music has the power to lead one back
to the past, and revive events that one
tries to forget. Fate or Providence must
have moved Miss Dunstan to sing that song
to-night : —

Oh ! the clang of the wooden shoon ;
Oh ! the dance and the merry tune !
Happy sound of a bygone day,
It rings in my heart for aye I '

My God ! I could see the dear suffering girl
in her Normandy cap and sabots, sitting
alone on that old wooden pier, waiting,
waiting, with the sound of the merry tune
turned to a dirge in her heart ! '

^' He swept his bony hand over his eyes
and spoke as if he had forgotten me.

'' 'My dear friend,' he went on, after a
pause, ^ I want to confess. Let me show
you the picture that song showed me, the
picture which it still shows me in the fire.
An old Normandy pier. A soft summer
night. An English yacht moored at the
jetty. A company of villagers regaled by
Lord Tempter, the owner ; myself his companion.
A fiddler pressed into the service.
My partner as lovely a girl as the eyes of a
villain ever rested on ; an olive complexion,
and the head of a Normandy aristocrat on
the shoulders of a peasant ; the strength of a
fisherman, with the grace of an Egyptian
water-carrier. She was the most perfect
type of Norman beauty that mind of man
can imagine or brain of poet invent. I was

a young reckless fellow on a yachting cruise,
putting in at that little fishing station for
letters. My despatches came within twenty-four
hours. I was ordered to join my troop
in India at once. Lord Tempter sailed the
next day, leaving me to go on to Paris and
London for outfit and other necessaries. I did
not go on to Paris that day nor the next ; I
stayed to make love to Julie. I called it
making love. She thought it was love, poor
little Normandy maiden ! The next night
there was a wedding in the village ; a friend
of Julie's was married to an Retreat fisherman.
I went to the evening party. We
danced until morning. The clang of the
wooden shoon and the merry laughter of
young and old came back to me last night
like a blight as that song with its sad
merriment took hold of my heart and
memory. I stayed in the village for two
weeks. It was a happy dream, but the dream
of a fiend who had stolen into paradise. I
promised to return. I never meant to do so.
Her hot tears fell on]] my hand at parting.

I went to India. Don't you remember you
used to ask what ailed me, why I had
the blues, why I was often half mad,
why I was reckless — why I was odd, and
strange, and eccentric ? Well it was Julie.
I discovered that I loved her. She was
in my mind always. I hated other women.
I shunned intrigues that some of the
fellows of Ours would have given anything
to be in. I was in love. I wrote to
her. No reply ever came. Perhaps she
could not write. Perhaps her letters miscarried
; for we were worried about from
post to post, as you know. Her face, her
black eyes, her pouting lips, her wooden
shoes — by the Lord, from head to foot the
pretty little woman sank deep into my heart!
She was the one creature in all the world of
whom I was continually thinking; always
with a vow to go back to her, and to do her
the justice that my selfish love had only
prompted when I was far away from her.'

'' He paused, rose from his chair, and
walked about the room. I encouraged him
with some friendly words.

*^ ' Five years had gone when I stood
once more on the Normandy jetty. The
sleepy old fishing-smacks were there, the
peasant women in their wooden shoes, the
sailors and fishermen, the flapping sails, the
sea creeping lazily along the coast. Where
was Julie ? Our hot work and my bruised
heart had changed me out of knowledge. I
looked for Julie. I inquired for Julie.
People shook their heads. At last an old
woman, as she sat knitting in the sun, told
me how five years ago a yacht had anchored
there ; how the noble English had generously
treated the village ; how the brutal English
had ruined Julie Perceive, the prettiest girl
on all the coast; how she had trusted the
English honour, how she had waited for
Milord's return, how she had sat on the
jetty's edge looking out to sea, how at every
village dance and festival she had sat a
silent spectator, how she had faded out —
how she had died ! ' "

'^ My old friend's voice trembled with
emotion, but he poked the fire again ; and

looking into the smouldering embers he went
on with the story that had burnt its memory
into his heart.

^^ ^ No Indian bullet could have hit me so
hard and so cruelly as that story of Julie's
sorrow and death. I did not speak for sometime.
Then I put money into the old woman's
hand. ^ Take me to the place in which they
have buried her,' I said. I looked down
upon the poor little green mound and the
wooden cross. It seemed as if my heart
split in two.' "

'^ * God help you, my poor dear friend !'
I said, and took his hand in mine.

^^ ^ You may well say so,' he answered,
^ you may well. But there is a streak of
light in the tragedy. I went back to the
old dame's cottage. I sat down to talk to
her of Julie. I wanted to learn everything
about her. It was now a welcome penance
to hear of her devotion, her sorrow, her
martyrdom. A clatter of wooden shoes
rattled across the floor of the adjoining room.
Then a childish voice called out Grand' mere J

The next moment a fairy in wooden shoes
came bounding in, an infant rising five. The
old woman took her up and kissed her.
This is her child, ' she said, turning to me.
^ Whose *^' I asked with a joyous fearlessness.
Julie's,' she said. ' We call her Th^rese,
the little English lady.' ^ My child ! ' I said,
trembling like a woman, ^ my child ! ' and
even that hard Normandy grandmother pitied
me when she guessed how much I had suffered."


^' He sighed, and then facing me said—

^^ ' That is the bar sinister on the escutcheon
of Th^rese Ernstone. I am going
to confess the blot to Christopher Hallam.
What will he say ? What will he do ?'

' Admire and love you, as I do, for
your big heart, your manliness, and your
honour,' I said.

'' ^ Ah, I don't know about the honour,
my friend, but repentance and the desire and
intention to atone for a wrong are good.
Hallam must make me a solemn promise
that whatever happens he will never let

Th^rese know what I shall tell him. He
has no father nor mother to consult. He is
master of himself. What will he do ?'"

The question must be left for Sir Christopher
Hallam's reply, which will present
itself, in due course, for future consideration.

END OF BOOK I.

Farewell ! if ever fondest prayer

For others weal availed on high,
Mine will not all be lost in air.

But waft thy name beyond the sky.
twere vain to speak, to iveep, to sigh :

Oh ! more than tears of blood can tell,
When wrung from gulfs expiring eye,

Are in the word — Farewell ! Farewell !

These lips are mute, these eyes are dry ;

But in my heart and in my brain
Awake the pangs that pass not by,

The thought that ne'er shall sleep again.
My soul nor deigns nor dares complain,

Though grief and passion there rebel :
I only know we loved in vain —

/ only feel — Farewell ! Farewell ! —

Lord Byron.

CHAPTER I.

By the light of the revelation of Colonel
Ernstone's secret, I afterwards read his treatment
of me on the occasion of a confession
which I made to him. The reader of these
reminiscences will have an advantage over
me, in this respect, at the moment of the
occurrences I am about to relate.

We had lounged through Italy, and had
rested at the village of Baveno, where Vanstone
had left me to visit Sir Christopher
Hallam at Milan on a matter of business,
with an arrangement between us that he
would return within a fortnight. He had
hardly left me when I made a delightful discovery
near the dream-like shores of Ago
Maggiore.

To see her was to love her. I fell before
her first glance.

'* Who is she ? " I asked an Italian
peasant.

'^ Ah ! the beautiful stranger ! " he said,
looking towards the villa that lay at a distance
from the road amidst the clustering
woods.

Nobody knew her. She had bought the
villa, and had lived there for several months
without a visitor. Had she servants ? Oh,
yes, and an old lady sometimes assisted
Father Gabriello to distribute alms for her
among the poor. What country was she ?
French, perhaps. They could not say.
German, possibly, or English? She spoke
Italian with a foreign accent. Her complexion
was fair and her hair a golden-brown.
There were pictures of the Madonna not
unlike her in Italian churches. Perhaps she
was a Venetian. They could not tell. It
was not probable she was English, and she
was too beautifully fair to be French.

I had twice met her in byways leading

from the lake. She was sitting by the side
of an old woman. They were in a carriage
drawn by a pair of horses and driven by a
French coachman. I stood to gaze after her,
not out of impertinent curiosity, but transfixed
with an admiration that overpowered
me. I realised something of the sensations
of Ulysses bound to the mast in presence of
the Syrens. My soul was on fire. I think
at that moment I would have sold it to the
fiend, as Faust did at the sight of Marguerite.
One day she turned her head to look at
me. I could not be mistaken. Not only to
look at me, but to smile upon me. I followed
her carriage on foot, keeping it in
view for some time. I think she ordered the
coachman to drive slowly. Presently, however,
she disappeared. The surrounding
forest closed in upon her. She was gone.
In the distance the villa, where I understood
she lived, caught the last rays of the sun on
traceried tower and window. A brook
came bounding out of the grounds. It sang
praises of her beauty in response to my own

VOL. I. M

ecstacy. Then it wound round in a gentle
curve and turned again as if to encompass
the park-like forest that shut her from me.
I lay upon its banks, I walked among the
boulders in its bed, I followed its course like
a man enchanted.

The next day I returned to the point
where I left it, and continued winding along
the track of it, and hoping that I might
meet the syren of the grove which it watered.
The little estate in which the villa stood
was an island ; and when, immediately on
this discovery, my mind went rambling back
to Ulysses, I rebuked the thought that
entitled it Calypso's Island.

This goddess of the villa was a Diana
rather than a Calypso; but, whatever she
might be, I was her slave. Ah, if the lady
of Warrington Manor had only inspired me
with such mad passion as this ! Then, instead
of emulating the heroic lovers in old Burton's
chronicles, might I not have fulfilled the ambition
of the master of the Cedars, and lived
in uninterrupted felicity and increasing happiness,

like ^' Seneca with his Pauline,
Orpheus with Eurydice, Aria with Psetus,
Artemis with Mausoleum, and Rubens
Celia with his lovely Ennea."

My passion for this beautiful stranger, to
whom I had not even spoken, burned with all
the sudden fury and persistent flame that, according
to Burton, belongs to ^'love melancholy''
And yet, under the test of the noblest
aspirations of true love, it did not, as Burton
depicts the passion, sacrifice on ^Hhe altar of
the implacable deity " either the fear of Grot
or man, nor outrage sall laws human and
divine ;" but, ^' like the forked lightning of the
angry gods," it laid waste for years a career
and a disposition, where the beneficent hand
of time is only now beginning to cultivate the
buds and blossoms of a new ambition.

I did meet her, and by that very stream,
and I spoke to her, and she to me, her voice
softening as she did so, as voices soften in
conversation with those they love. She had
seen me somewhere before, she said. No,
she was not mistaken. I knew that I had
M 2

only seen her now for the first time. Why-was
I so positive ? Because I had only lived
since I had seen her. Her eyes fell, shadowing
her cheek with long drooping lashes. She
was not displeased. I could see the corners of
her mouth dimple with satisfaction. Nothing
would have restrained me, not even her scorn.
I seized her hand. She did not withdraw it.
I covered it with kisses. I was mad. I told
her that I loved her. If she were to call her
people and have me put upon the rack, I told
her I should say the same. She pressed my
hand, and looked into my eyes. One only
feels the hot mad delight of passion once.
But it is something gained in life to recall it,
whatever its associations may be.

She was a dream of loveliness. Her hand
was made to give her soul away, so soft and
tender was it, so lingering in its touch.
Her eyes were steadfast too. They were a
blue-grey, of liquid depth, and when they
rested on mine I had no thoughts that were
not wholly hers. Tall and graceful, she had
the bust of a Clothe and the head of a Ceres,

'rich-haired." A thin grey merino with a
broad pink sash about her waist, she carried
a great sunshade lined with a sea-shell pink
silk and covered with old point lace. When
she smiled her face was illuminated with a
genial warmth. She was one of those
lovely creations that pervade their surrounding
atmospheres, like the orchids in the
tree-tops of a lowland forest near the equator,
the rhododendrons of American woods, or
the lilies of an English valley. You felt her
presence even if you saw her not. Her
loveliness made a halo for itself. She appeared
to me to be the centre of every spot
upon which her beauty shone, completing a
picture Nature might have left unfinished
that she should adorn it. The personification
of grace and symmetry, she was to me the
type of all that is pure, virtuous, and magnanimous.
In my fancy she was worthy of the
praises which Ossian lavished upon Darthula.
Her beauty was, indeed, entrancing beyond
that of Erin's maid, reflecting as it did the
sunny warmth of a loving nature. Clothed

with the purity of the last of Colla's race, she
was to me not less fascinating than the more
classic goddess of a better-known mythology,
the celestial nymph 'with every beauty
crowned."

Need I say more to make the reader
understand that I was madly in love, and
that the woman of my adoration was '' beautiful
beyond compare ? '' I was utterly unsophisticated
in the seductiveness of the mad
passion. No reason had hitherto presented
itself in my life to exercise the caution that
Southey urges upon youth, how they advance
into the dangerous world. Only our duty can,
he says, conduct us safely. '' Our passions
are seducers ; but of all the strongest Love."
There was no ordinary passion either in
the poetic or m the physical sense in my
love ; it was an uncontrolled and uncontrollable
desire to sit at the feet of this
goddess of the Italian woods, to be near her,
to hear her speak, to have no other ambition
than her sweet companionship.

Looking back upon this youthful dream,

this, on my part, emulative bliss fulness of the
early days of Celadon and his Amelia, I
recall the pathetic glances that now and then
fell from the great eloquent eyes of my first
love ; I recall the furtive sigh, the tender
regretful eloquence of wayward words,
which in those past days had no meaning
for me except as belonging to a generous
loving kindness conferred upon me. It never
entered my arrogant thoughts that any
other mortal had been blessed with her eloquent
speech, her sympathetic glances. Forme
the world had just begun, and the vanity
of this first fair encounter swept my thoughts
clear of yesterdays.

On that next day, to which I just now
referred, she motioned me to a seat beside
her, a rustic couch covered with dainty draperies,
on the margin of the villa's garden,
and close by the rivulet which encircled the
foliated domain.

'' Sit," she said, '' and let us talk."
Her hand rested accidentally near
mine. Overcome with my boyish emotions.

and nerved by a strange courage, I seized it,
and confessed the love with which she had
inspired me.

'^ But you have only seen me for the first
time within the week," she answered.

'' I loved you at first sight," I said.

Truly," she answered, '' and have you
not made the same confession to half a hundred
women before?"

The coolness of the retort chilled me fora
moment; but before I could reply she
amended her answer.

'^ Your words are sincere, I do quite believe,"
she said. '^ You have not seen the
world."

^^ Indeed I have," I answered, sand I
know there is no woman in it so lonely, so
kind as you."

She allowed her hand to remain in mine.
It was a soft, plump, white hand.

*^ You are an Englishman?" she asked,
turning her face towards me.

It was a circular seat upon which we sat,
so that, although we were side by side, we

almost faced each other, and I could note the
expression of her eyes, and the gentle parting
of her lips.

^' Yes," I said, ^' that is, I am English
born, but my father, heaven rest him, was
of French descent."

'^ And I am your first love? Was there
no girl-love in your very youthful days?"

'' None," I said, pressing her hand.

No tiny thing in short frocks that you
remember to-day with pleasure or regret?"

*^ My boyish days belong to the world of
regrets," I answered.

'' You have had sorrows, then?"

^^Yes."

So long as her soft hand lay in mine I
was content to sit and answer her questions
in a vague impassive way ; though my vanity
was flattered by the interest she evinced in me.

'^ Great sorrows ? You had a father and
mother who loved you ? "

'' A father and mother? Yes. My mother
would have loved me, had she dared. My
father loved me, and died."

'^ As dies all human love," she said.

'ewe will make an exception to that
sorrowful rule' I said, '4f you shall deign
to give your love to me."

The ardency of this first inspiration of
passion made me bold, and my courage was
stimulated by the continued possession of
her hand.

^' The world is full of deceit and sadness,"
she said.

^' We will make a world of our own,
dedicated to love," I said.

^^You talk as if the repartee of professed
courtship were easy to you," she said;
and before I could respond to this reflection
on my sincerity (for I never dreamed of
taking it as a confession of experience) she
took up the thread of her previous reference
to my early life.

*sin what part of the great world did
you spend your youth ? "

^^ At Scarsdale, in Derbyshire."

^^ Derbyshire ! Ah, yes. A very picturesque
county, is it not ? "

a Very."

^^AndScarsdale?"

^' I do not like it."

why?"

^' Chiefly because it is associated in my
memory with sad events, a somewhat melancholy
childhood, and a funeral that well-nigh
broke my heart."

^' Your father's?"

^^Yes."

^' But sour mother lives ? "

eyes; though I have never seen her
since I left Scarsdale for ever."

She waited for me to continue.

'^I like to hear you talk of your boyhood''
she said. ^^ Why did you leave Scarsdale
? And why for ever ? "

'^ I was unhappy. My mother married
again. Her husband hated me and I him.
He poisoned my mother's mind against
me."

'^ But before that time," she said, ^^ when
your father lived, were you not happy
then?"

'' Oh yes, I think so."

'' You had companions ? "

'^No."

'^ Not some village girl, some little neighbour,
the memory of whose voice goes with
you through life, a something that might be
part of a dream, not all sadness ?"

I hesitated. Connie Gardner occurred tome;
but the conceit of my love for this
splendid woman checked me. Love may be
that overwhelming passion the poets claim,
but it is diplomatic in spite of all. The desire
to impress the object of your affections
is so prominent a factor in your intercourse
with her, that you are always sufficiently
self-conscious to make the best of yourself.
Your position, your antecedents, your prospects,
your family and connections. Instinct,
under the guidance of this human vanity,
checked my mention of a mere waif and stray
of Scarsdale, whose touching '^ Good-bye ! "
came back to me with pathetic force under
the pressure of Calypso-Darthula's inquiries.

'^ I had no girl companions," I said, fencing

with the question, *^ nor any boy friends
for that matter. My childhood was lonely.
My father being French in speech and manner
was made a reproach to me by the
ignorant youth of Scarsdale. I remember
even now, with bitterness, the persecutions
which I endured at the hands of one boy-monster
named Barnes, who harassed me
continually. The very elegancies of the
home-life of my father's house offended both
young and old. He was a musician and an
artist ; I suspect the only bit of pure art
atmosphere to be found in Scarsdale was
at Oakfield House, where I lived."

An oasis in a desert of ignorance," she
said, " and you have cherished these memories?"


« Yes."

'' Are you an artist, then ? "

Not by profession."

An amateur ? "

I have some knowledge of music."

You sing ? "

'' A little."

You are an instrumentality ? "

'' I know enough to regret that I know so
little."

You left Scarsdale to go to College, no
doubt?"

No, to live with my uncle."

'' And you are travelling for your
pleasure ? "

For pleasure and experience ; my last
excursion prior to settling down in London to
study for the Bar — at least so it is arranged."

*' You know London, then ? "

'' No."

You have been there often ? "

'^ Only a few times, but always en route
to the continent."

You have not lived in town — not even
spent a season there ? "

"No ; my uncle has strange views about
London ; a city for men, not for boys, he
always says. He did not exactly forbid me
staying in London, but he talked against

it ; and, as he gave me opportunities to visit
all the world besides, I should have been
ungrateful to disobey him."

'^ Then you know Paris, Milan, Vienna,
Berlin, perhaps?"

'eyes; and nearly all the other great
European capitals, and some of the Asiatic
cities also."

A great traveller, and so young ? " she
said.

Not so very young," I said, that diplomatic
instinct before mentioned coming to
my aid ; for the possibility of an inequality
in our ages occurred to me as a
possible impediment in regard to her answer,
when I should ask her to be my partner in
those sweet bonds of matrimony that should
make her mine and me hers for ever.

It did not occur to me that for less selfish
purposes in the days of my boyhood I
had challenged Connie Gardner's age and she
mine ; for, as I said before, I strove rather
to shut out these memories than to encourage
them in presence of this splendid creature,

who had already condescended so much in
her notice of me that I dared not challenge
the sincerity of her interest in me by the exhibition
of any latent feeling for so insignificant
a person as the runaway grandchild of
Laudanum Nanny.

^' And since those days of Scarsdale you
have found the world a merry place ?" she
said.

'^I never dreamed there could be so
much happiness in it until now."

'^ Paris is as good a tutor, I fancy, in
the small change of so-called love-making
as London," she said, withdrawing her
hand from mine and rising to her feet.

'^ You do not doubt the sincerity of my
love ! " I exclaimed, and my heart seemed to
stop with a sudden anxiety.

^' I have lived in London'' she said,
^' and in Paris also, and I know the ring of
the coin which passes current for the true
lover's gold."

As she spoke she beckoned to the old
woman in the distance. The wrinkled but

stately dame came towards us. I felt for a
moment as if a great disaster had befallen
me.

^^ Madame Fridoline," she said.

'^ Madame," responded the ancient dame.

** Mr. Horace Durand will call at the
villa tomorrow, and it is my pleasure that
you announce him to me the moment he
arrives."

The dame curtseyed, Madame held out
her hand, I kissed it respectfully ; and the
next moment I was alone with my reflections
and the music of the bubbling brook, now
somewhat out of tune, yet quite in harmony
with the agitation of my mind.

VOL. T. N

CHAPTER II.

OUTSIDE THE GROTTO, AND ADVISED NOT
TO ENTER THERE.

'* How did she know my name ? " I asked
myself twenty times as I retraced my steps
to the little inn, where I remained to await
Colonel Ernstone's return. I do not remember
to have mentioned it ; she might have
learnt it at the inn ; but of course she would
not have taken the trouble to inquire, and
yet she spoke it as familiarly as if she had
known it always! sand why did her
pleasant manner change so abruptly ? "

'' Who is the lady that lives at the villa?"
I asked of the landlord at the inn, who sat

smoking beneath his vine and fig-tree in the
sun.

He did not know.
'^ She is English, eh ? "
^'The English are a great nation," he said.
swill you find out for me, perhaps at
the post-office, her name and quality."

^'Eh, Dio!" he said, ^^ the Signora of
the villa would have me shot for such
inquisition ness . ' '

^^ Has she given orders," I asked, ^^ for
the maintenance of an incognito, then ?''

Madame had given no orders, he answered,
but she was kindness itself. Her money
alleviated the need of all the district. She
was a saint in disguise. When first she
came there she was sick. Father Gabriello
(at whose name he bowed and crossed himself)
had given her religious consolation.
Since then his Church of the Visitation had
been adorned in many ways by the gifts of
the good Signora. He pointed to a tiny
church, nestling on the hill-side, as he spoke.
N 2

It was not necessary that he should confirm
my opinion of her goodness. But why-was
she surrounded with mystery ?

While I was talking with the cautious
master of the inn, the priest, Father Gabriello
himself, came up to eat his daily fare of soup,
birds, and maccaroni, to drink his bottle of
wine, and smoke his cigarette.

I responded to his genial salutation and
begged to be allowed to sit at table with
him in the common room of the inn.

Though I despised myself for trying to
penetrate what she evidently desired to
keep a secret, I could not help talking of
the beautiful lady of the villa. When Father
Gabriello' s courtly manners towards me had
mellowed still more under the effect of the
rich white wine, which had been forthcoming
under special pressure (a concession to
influence and money combined) I opened the
ball.

^* You know Madame, the lady of the
villa yonder?" I said, indicating with a nod
the direction of the house in the woods.

'^ She has honoured me much," he
answered.

^' An English lady ? " I remarked.

^^ The Church is universal; it has no
nationality. Are you one of her sons ? "

'^ I am a Protestant," I said.

^^It is a great world," responded the
priest.

'^ Permit me to say that I have a sincere
respect for the more ancient Church, and
that I admire the devotion of its priesthood."


Father Gabriello bowed.

'' You are English ? " he said. ^^ I entertain
the highest sentiments of admiration for
your nation. I have lived in England."

'^ Indeed ! I might have guessed it by
the way in which you speak the language."

*^ You are complimentary. I held a cur
in an English city for many years."

^* May I ask what city ? "

^^ Worcester, the last to stand out against
the arch-fiend Cromwell."

'^ You surprise me ! "

u^liy?"

'' Because my home is in that county,
not more than a score of miles from the
faithful city, as they love to call it."

'^ Ah, Dio mio ! " he exclaimed, 'rit is
not a great world, it is a small one."

'' How long is it since you left Worcester?"


Five years."

'' Then perhaps you may have met my
uncle, Mr. Richard Grantley ? "

''Of The Cedars, near Breedon?" he
asked, " Dick Grantley ? "

The same," I said.

*' Oh yes ; I met him at Lord Danger's
at dinner, twice ; Lord Danmere, you know,
is a great Tory and a strict Catholic. Your
uncle, if I remember rightly, is the one
and not the other."

"True true," I said; "but a noble,
upright, true, honourable gentleman ! "

"No doubt, no doubt; I have heard
Lord Danmere say so."

Father Gabriello, it gives me more

pleasure than I can put into words to meet
you !" I said.

^^ Since yoii have learnt that I know your
uncle?" he replied, with a merry twinkle
in his dark brown eyes.

^^ Oh, yes, and for your own sake too''
I said, quickly. '^ I drink to your health,"
I said ; *sto our better acquaintance, and I
hope to our ultimate friendship ! "

^^ It is well said, sir; I gladly respond,
and beg that we may pledge the name of
Squire Grantley in a mutual toast."

We clanked our glasses together and
drank to the dear old gentleman, whose
generosity enabled me to do this honour, ina
foreign country, to his name and reputation.


'' And now since we know each other so
well," I said, '^ will you pardon me for saying
that if I were of the same faith as Lord
Danmere I should just now be not only
anxious to confess to you, but to seek your
advice."

'^ You may do so without being received

into the Church, and probably in your
present case you may perhaps obtain worldly
advice suitable to your condition."

^^ I do not understand," I said.

'^ I saw you to-day sitting by the side of
our beautiful guest of Baveno, the Lady of
the villa."

** Then you have divined half of what I
would confess."

'^ You do not ask how I saw you and
why I did not present myself to the Signora,
though the Villa Verona is open house tome.
I am Madame's almoner and I am also
her confessor."

*' I love her ! " I exclaimed, rising from
the table and pacing the room.

*' She is a lovable woman."

'^ I would marry her."

^* I hope you will not."

^^Why?"

'^ She has resolved to live in Italy; you
would take her to England."

*' I would live wherever she desired."

^'She is devoted to the Church; jon

would control her disposition. She is rich ;
the Church is poor ; you would not endow
our charities with her money. You see I
am frank."

^^I would not touch her money; she
should do whatever she pleased with it."

^' How then would you live; you have
no money ?"

^* I have a little, I should earn more."

^'How?"

^' By my profession."

^' What profession ?"

'' The law."

^^ Have you studied the law?"

'^ Not yet. I could obtain an opening in
journalism and authorship."

'^ You talk wildly and without thought.
What would your uncle say to your marrying
out of your faith ?"

^^ He would not object."

'^ I think he would, and you owe it to
him to ask his permission."

^^ I would ask it."

^af he refused?"

'' It would kill me."

'^ What if she refused?"

^^ Judge for yourself; all my hopes in
life would be gone. I am talking wildly, I
admit, madly if you like ; but I am sincere
in all I say, and I have courage enough to
face every possible difficulty that an unkind
fate could lay in my path, fortified with her
encouragement and companionship."

*' A young man should marry in his own
circle ; he should take a wife from among
his own people, one whom he knows, whose
home life he has seen, whose family is
familiar with his own. You seek my advice.
Leave Baveno at once. Travel far and
quickly, and believe that I advise you for
your good."

He laid his hand upon my shoulder in a
fatherly way as he spoke.

'^ A stranger whom you have only known
for a few days, a lady who is at least ten
years your senior, you cannot afford to give

up the ambition of a life just commencing
for the satisfaction of such a sudden fancy —
perhaps worse, mere transient passion."

^^ She has invited me to call tomorrow,"
I said, mentally staggering under the priest's
advice.

'^ It is to tell you, though in more gentle
language, what I tell you now, I feel assured ;
save her the pain of it, and show, that in
asking for good advice you know how to
appreciate it."

^^ Show a starving man an orchard of ripe
autumn fruit, and tell him it is best he should
not touch it," I said, impatiently.

^^ He refuses," responded the priest, ^^ and
lives to discover the dead-sea apple that turns
to ashes on the lips."

'' Pardon me," I said, making a great
effort to control myself, '' we will talk no
more of this ; I thank you very much for
advice that is no doubt well meant."

^^It is hard to bear; whether you act
upon it or not, pray count me among your
friends, and remember that he is not always

the best doctor who leaves the wound un-probed,
and whose remedies are pleasantness
to the taste."

How long the night was, how slow the
weary hours, that lay between the time when
I might once more see the woman who had
entranced me ! The sun had set, and the
moon had risen before Father Gabriello
and I parted. The last glories of the sun
were reflected in the adjacent lake, visible
from the window of my little sitting-room.
A cool breeze, laden with delicious aromatic
scents, stirred the palms that half filled the
shaded balcony. Distant bells chimed the
'' Ave Maria." The musical plash of oars
gave life to the stillness below me. And T
thought of Calypso's island, turning hot and
cold as I did so ; for it seemed as if the scene
before me half realised the celestial land of
the Odyssey.

Without the grot a various sylvan scene
Appear'd around, and groves of living green ;
Poplars and elders ever quivering play'd,
And nodding cypress form'd a fragrant shade.

Four limpid fountains from the clefts distil ;
And every fountain pours a several rill,
In mazy windings wandering down the hill ;
"Where bloomy meads with vivid greens are crown'd,
And glowing violets throw their odour round.

I encouraged my heated imagination into
a half crazy hope that I was indeed about to
repeat one of the Ulysses adventures, and I
flattered myself, that, should the lady in this
case desire to keep me captive, there was no
Jove who could command my release. It
might have been different had not the muddy
Mercury, who brought to the Breedon valley
the news of the fall of Sedan, not so rudely
interrupted a conversation that was gradually
leading up to a serious proposal and a pledge !
But for the battle of Sedan, I should have
left Breedon engaged to Helen Dunstan, and
then it would have been my duty to have resisted
the goddess of the Villa Verona ; and,
had she proved as self-sacrificing as Calypso
herself, I trust I should have remained more
faithful to my vows than Ulysses was, as
touching his adored Penelope.

Heaven forgive me for writing in this

strain of the woman whom I loved so well ! It
arises out of no callousness, believe me, but
is the natural outcome of the inevitable
comparison between myself and the great
Ulysses, forced upon me by circumstances
over which I have no control. Dubbed
Ulysses derisively, and also in token of affection,
it has become a habit with me to see
comparisons and contrasts that have relationship
between my real prosaic career and the
imaginary narrative that sets forth the adventures
of the poetic hero. I protest to the
reader that no special vanity of mine underlies
these references to my own adventures
nor in my association of them with those of
the great pagan ideal. ^' A modern Ulysses"
is a nickname as well as a term of endearment;
it represents the scoff of Welby,
as well as the affection that belongs to a
pet name ; and it keeps green the memory
of the dear old gentleman who was
reading the story of Ulysses to the boy in
the velvet frock in the first chapter of this
veritable but ill-constructed history, this

salmagundi of autobiographic notes, which
relies for its taste and flavour upon facts that
are flung together without the sophistication
of literary artifice or design.

I sat at my bedroom window far into the
night, in a half-dazed meditative condition
of mind, not thinking of anything in particular
and yet about everything ; I sat as a
culprit might, awaiting his sentence, with
the feeling that tomorrow is weighted with
his destiny, that when the sun shines once
again he will learn whether his sentence is
to be death or liberty.

As the moon mounted higher in the
heavens, and tree and hill below threw about
them deeper shadows, I surveyed my life ina
dreamy inconsequent fashion, and found
in all my hopes but one goal, the love of
this unknown woman. I had not yet crossed
those hills of my infancy and exploited the
mystery of their wonderful palace ; but herein
the land of song and romance I found myself
face to face with the mystery that is next to
the mystery of death — love. For my uncle's

sake I could not help a passing regret that
the divine passion had not been kindled by
the woman he would have chosen for me.
What bliss had this lady of the Italian villa
been old Dunstan's daughter !

I suppose I entertained myself with these
thoughts and fancies chiefly that I might get
through the night without actually going
mad ; for Father Gabriello had poisoned my
imagination with strange doubts and fears ;
he had given increased significance of ill omen
to my lady's last words. I recalled her
sudden change of manner and the cynicism
of her reference to the current coin of flattery
or so-called courtship ; and it required
my acutest remembrances of her tender
looks and the pressure of her soft hand to
dissipate the augury of misery I found in
that transition from sunshine to shadow, the
latter deepened and made terrible by the
advice sought and obtained from my reverend
friend of the inn.

I fell asleep at last and dreamed that the
Villa Verona was Calypso's grotto, the scent

of the surrounding woods the cedar and
frankincense of the cavern's odorous breath,
which already greeted me as I thrust aside
the deepening vines that screened the magic
portals.

VOL. I.

CHAPTER III.

INSIDE THE GROTTO.

I have seen the day break in many
lands, in the tropics and amidst fields of ice
off Labrador, in the New World, and in the
Old ; at sea and on the mountain tops ; in
peace and in war ; on Mont Blanc and on
Primrose Hill ; in the Malay Archipelago
and camping out luxuriously on the Upper
Thames. But one sunset and one sunrise
live in my recollection for ever. The golden
west and the crimson east ; the pale moon
in a yellow aerial sea; the first red beams of
the risen god ; shall I ever forget those
mysterious lights and shadows and adornments
of natural objects that belong to my

night and day in the Calypso's island of my
earliest travels ?

When I started for the Villa Verona
the world was in fall possession of the sun.
Still it was very early. The people of the
inn were only just awake. White pigeons
were calling to each other. The dew
glistened on tree and flower, and dripped
from the eaves of house and barn. The
bells at Father Gabriello's church were
sounding for some holy office, an early mass
perhaps. I tried to think wisely of my
situation, imported into my intellectual reconnaissance
thoughts of my uncle and of
Helen Dunstan, and made an effort to imagine
myself a real Ulysses under an enchantment
which it was my duty to shake
off. It was of no avail. I had never seen
the world look so lovely, so fresh, never
known it smell so sweet as on this morning.
After a hurried bath and a scanty meal I
set off for the grotto, the strange villa, the
enchanted house, the cave of Darthula-
Calypso. The rivulet met me with a joyous
o2

song, the birds flew before me, peasants
saluted me, the world was alive and full of
hope and promise.

Presently the world became silent and I
was alone. I had entered the magic portals
of my goddess's domain, the garden-like
woods in which the woman who had enthralled
me had control and command.

It was an old Italian villa, seared with
age, beautiful in decay. I stood in front of
it. No sign of life. The terrace walls were
adorned with quaint broken sculpture. Trailing
creepers and flowers made picturesque
efforts to hide the ravages of time.

The spirit of the great ages past seemed
to brood over the spot. A trickling fountain
murmured among a bed of clustering roses.
It was silence emphasised by sound. I flung
myself down under the shade of a spreading
palm.

Under the impressive influence of the
scene contrasts between it and the environs
of Calypso's cavern stirred my inner consciousness,
presenting themselves to my

imagination without effort. I thought of
nothing. My mind was passive. I was ina
new world. I let my thoughts drift as
they listed. No sensual, nor even sensuous,
suggestion shadowed this spot, sacred by
the lapse of time, dedicated to the sublimity
of a pure and noble art. The
ever-new delights of Calypso's island were
not here, nor did the violets recall the
simile of blue veins enamelling the smooth
breasts of fragrant meads. Such inspiration
as might be found, in the grove that clipped
the grotto of my love round about, was
chaste and dealt with the higher life, its
silent voices freighted with memories of a
past, the relics of which have a tender pathos
and the reflected light of which is the halo
of modern art.

As the shadow on the dial that spread
itself to the sun on a mouldering shaft
(whence the fountain trickled among the
waking roses still wet with dew) travelled
slowly along its ancient course I roused
myself to chide the unworthy thoughts that

had more than once afflicted my fancy, in
regard to the living soul that was the centre
of this classic spot. Just as my heart had
offered up a stinging protest to my brain,
vowing the lady to be all that is fair and
good and true and pure, the villa gave such
living tokens of life as Wert must once have
seen before he painted that dream of female
beauty which is entitled Le Bouton Hose.

A lattice was flung open. A woman
looked out upon the garden, a fair hand
drawing a white robe about her bosom.
You know the picture in the Brussels
Gallery, the figure at the open lattice which
redeems the surrounding horrors? Then
picture the sight that riveted my rapturous
gaze !

And our eyes met almost at the same
moment. The surprise and delight were
surely mutual. Her glance was a message
of love; and only a message, a lightning
flash ; for she withdrew on the instant ; but
she left her picture on the retina of my soul.
Had I the painter s art I could limn it now,

though the memory of it is somewhat dimmed
by a more saint-like presentment of the same
lovely face. Other pictures in Life's kaleidoscope
have also claimed places in my
memory, other voices have also touched my
heart.

I look back to the earlier time however.
Presently the carved doors of the villa are
opened. I am beckoned by a servant, the
major-domo of my princess's retainers, the
chief of the Darthula-Colypso bodyguard.
I enter the marble halls. Fruit and wine,
milk and honey, are placed before me. The
room is open to a terrace that gives upon a
garden of sweet flowers shut in by overhanging
trees, that shade it from the burning
sun. Here there is again the quiet music
of trickling fountains. Examined in detail
the room is no doubt rich in art treasures ;
but the general effect is repose, rest, quiet.
The atmosphere of it lulls the senses. Time
passes here, as it were, without leaving a
wrinkle, without disturbing a tone of colour,
moving onwards as it does over the dial-plate

; and yet you feel and know that Time
has lingered day after day in that outer garden
for centuries, and that the silent god has
heard in this room from their own lips the
songs of poets whose memories are enshrined
in their works, but whose bodies have returned
to the dust from whence they sprang.

After a little while I hear the trailing
garments of my love sweep the mosaic floors.
She stands by my side, a vision of mature
beauty, a model of artistic pose and grace.

'your constancy touches me," she says,
with a smile, '' for I was cruel to you in those
last words"'

'' You could not be cruel to any one,
much less to a worshipper'' I answer.

'' Have you spent the night in my garden
surely not ?"

*^No, I cannot claim to have been so
happy ; I came here soon after sunrise."

*' And you think the gardens pretty ? "

'' I have never seen anything more
beautiful."

Not the gardens and meadows of your

native place — the Arcadia you told me
of?"

^^No, nothing''

^^ Ah ! I fear it is I who have enthralled
your critical faculties, and blunted your sense
of comparison. Love conquers reason. I
believe I was once in love."

She paused and looked at me. I did not
reply.

^^ You do not like to hear that confession.
Men are selfish. They are vain, too, since
every individual one of them thinks he possesses
the one particular attraction that is to
rivet the attention of one particular woman."

^' Men are what women make them," I said.

^^ No, no ! you reverse the proverb''

She was sitting on a low seat in the
shadow of a purblind by the open terrace-window;
her dress, a pale soft blue Indian
silk. At the end of her short speeches she
fanned herself very quietly with a fan of a
similar material to her dress, but painted indelicate
water-colours, with designs of birds,
and leaves, and flowers.

*^ I wish I might be so blessed of fortune
as to reverse it then in your case," I said,
with a boldness that came of a great effort to
resist a tendency to stammer like a boy,
instead of laying siege to the goddess of my
idolatry like a, man.

And all at once I thought of Verona and
Juliet, of the old romance, and encouraged
myself to speak what my heart dictated.

^' There was a time when you might have
done so," she said.

'' Let the time that is lost go," I answered,
^'it is without recall; those lovers in the
story, which might have been inaugurated in
this very palace, looked forward into the
future ; and they were model lovers for all
ages."

'' Do you think so ? " she answered, and I
remember now the touch of critical doubtfulness
there was in the tone of her voice, though
then I only heard its music. "You have
been to Verona ? "

^^ And walked in the footsteps of the
Capulet and the Montagues," I answered.

^' but never felt the depth of the poet's
tale until I knew the Villa Verona, two hours

ago

'J

Let us walk upon the terrace," she said.

As we moved out into the air a flock of
white doves sailed down almost at her feet,
alighting on the balustrades. She returned
to the table, where dainty fare had been
placed for me, and fed them with crumbs.
The music of a harp rippled out upon
the sunny air from a distant wing of the
villa.

^'You like music?" she asked, as she
led the way to a shaded corner of the garden,
a bower set into a crumbling wall,
half hidden with trailing vines and floral
creepers.

'^ I am human," I said.

^^ These chords might be the creation of
angelic fingers," she said, pointing to a chair,
and at the same time taking an adjacent
seat.

I paused, for it was evident she shed
to say something of the harpist.

^^ Old Fridoline is a perfect mistress of
that most delightful of instruments. She is
not too pleasant to look upon, but she is
devotion itself."

^^ The old lady who accompanies you
when you drive ? "

^' The same," she said, ^^ you do not like
her."

'' I like anything you like, and am prepared
to do homage even to Madame Crinoline,"
I replied.

^* She is wrinkled and old, but age has
softened not hardened her heart. She has
been a mother to me, though in some things
she has not always been true to my interests.
She has an infirmity, a desire to amass
money. Why she is miserly is her own
secret. She has had a strange career. Once
she held a high position in French society,
though when a girl she wandered from town
to town with her father, street musicians.
A composer, and an executant of the highest
merit, she is clever and learned, and accomplished
in many ways. Poor old Crinoline

! I do not know what I should do without
her.

Do you play upon any instrument ?

^* Very imperfectly upon the violoncello
in memory, I think, of my father."

^' He played?"

^' Yes, en amateur P

^' When you were a boy at Scarsdale
? "

'' Yes."

'^ Let us talk of those happy days."

'^ Since it pleases you, yes," I said, '-' but
they were not happy days always ; may we
not talk of yours ? "

^^ Oh yes," she answered, ^'we have
time enough, and to spare ; when do you
leave Baveno ? ''

^' When you order me to go."

^' Do you always obey orders ? "

^^When they are orders that should be
obeyed."

^' You did when a boy ? "

^* Sometimes. But let us talk of you
when you were a girl."

Be content," she said, and she looked at
me, with an earnestness that I had noticed,
once before, when she was listening to my
first passionate avowals.

^^I am if only I could know that you
loved me."

She moved as if to interrupt me.

^^Let me speak, for my words are the
inspiration of that look you gave me; nay
let me speak," I said.

I took her hand and gazed into her face,
and her lips trembled.

'' Do not tell me I have only this moment
seen you. Do not tell me I know nothing
of you. We are in the land of Romeo and
Juliet. He had loved before, and at the
height of his passion for Rosalind he saw and
loved Juliet. He had only that moment
seen her ; she was the daughter of his
bitterest foe ; and she gave him love for
love, though she knew him to be the enemy
of her house. No such barriers separate
us ; if there be any others that I know
not of bid me leap them, and I amon

the other side before you can command
me''

I covered her hand with kisses. The
next moment she was in my arms.

•^ I do love you, Horace Durand," she
whispered, '' and have ever! "

CHAPTER IV. .

THE SHADOWS OF COMING REVELATIONS.

And, as she thus ministered to my bliss
in this tender confession, the tears rained
down her cheeks. She sobbed convulsively,
as if some terrible weight of grief afflicted
her, rather than the joy my vain imagination
associated with the triumph of my hot,
persistent, and passionate wooing.

Fridoline's harp, which had made intermittent
music in the outer sunshine, now
stopped altogether, and I was glad to
see the dame approach us, so hysterically
was she weeping, this heroine of my Italian
romance.

become, come, love, this will never do,"
said the Dame, '^ what is the matter ? "

She did not answer.

'^ Judith, my dear, Judith'' said the
Dame, patting her hands, *^ Listen! I have
news for you, news ! "

There was something very earnest in the
Dame's manner, and in her emphasising of the
words *^ news for you."

She opened her eyes and looked up.

*' A messenger from London."

She rose to her feet, leaning upon my
shoulder.

'^ Only Simmons ! '' said the Dame.

My love trembled from head to foot.

'^ Where is he— the messenger?" she
asked.

In my room by this time ; I will detain
him till you ring''

^^ It is well," said my love, ^' it is well ;
I am not sorry."

The Dame looked anxiously at her lovely
mistress, and then, kissing her on the forehead,
left her.

VOL. I. P

^* We will walk a little way through the
grounds, Horace," said the dear lady of the
villa, *sand then we will say au revoir, and
you will come agMq^ to-night."

She took my arm and we wandered into
a grove of olives that were banked, as it
were, by a forest of pines, through the red
trunks of which came the warm sun.

^^I think I have been wrong, Horace, to
encourage you to declare your love so fervently,
and to offer me marriage."

No, no," I protested.

'^ It is infinitely sweet to me," she went
on, 'but there was a time when it would
have been sweeter and very welcome ! "

And is it not welcome now ? " I asked.
Do not mock me."

'' It is welcome as the sun to the flower ;
welcome as the rain to the parched earth ;
but sometimes sun and rain come too
late."

She spoke with a sad look in her eyes,
and there was a deep pathetic music in her
voice.

'^ You make my heart ache, when it
should be leaping with joy," I said.

^' It would be better for you to conquer
this love, Horace ; better for both of us. I
ought to have resisted it, but, oh, it was so
sweet; so true, so unselfish ; and there are
memories connected with it that make it all
the more welcome."

'' Memories ! " I said, ^' What memories?"

some day you shall know; it is the
only bitter in the sweet of this love of ours
that you cannot guess them," she said, turning
her tearful eyes upon me.

'^ I only know that I love you and shall
ever," I said, '^ and I have no memories
worth recalling beyond the moment when
you first let me tell you so''

'' Horace," she said, suddenly, ^^ Fate
may part us. Should it do so, will you try
and think of me as you think now ? Will
you let the recollection of our love be as
sweet as it is to-day, surrounded with the
blessed halo of a pure devotion ? "

'' My darling ! " was all I could say
p 2

Her head lay for a moment upon my
shoulder. She turned her face towards me.
I kissed her.

^^ Good bye ! " she murmured, " my dear
Horace ! "

*^ Good bye ! " I exclaimed.

^^For the present," she said; ^^I must
leave you now to receive this importunate
visitor from London."

^^ But I am to see you again this
evening ? "

'^ I hope so," she said, adding, ^' why
should a momentary parting like this distress
one so much, when there is an inevitable
day that comes and parts us for ever ?
We are not the first who have breathed to
each other their mutual loves and hopes and
fears in this old palace ; and Romeo and
Juliet is an old, old story."

While these never-to-be-forgotten moments
flew by, Madame Fridoline had laid
her harp aside to take part in the following

episode, the details of which I learned the
same day at the inn.

An English gentleman has made his way
into the entrance hall of the villa. He is a
clean-shaven, well-built, but somewhat ascetic
looking man of about fifty ; dark hair closely
cropped, a strong though slightly pointed
chin, thin lips, a bright bead-like eye, the
tout ensemble being what would be called
distinguished and manly, yet with a certain
judicial coldness that is noticeable in not a
few successful members of the Bar.

'' Madame Fridoline will see you' says
the major-domo of the house, ^^ this way,
thank you."

It is an ante-room adjoining the principal
saloon into which the visitor is shown, and
when the harpist and faithful servant of the
lady of the villa joins him there occurs the
following dialogue.

^' It is a great surprise, how did you
come here, my lord ? "

^^ Don't call me my lord," answered the

visitor, '^ my name is Mr. Simmons to you
and to your mistress."

^^ But since you have been raised to the
Bench?"

^^Ah, you think that gives you a hold
upon me ; but it does not, my discreet janitor
of the temple of Venus."

^^ It will serve you now better than the
name of Simmons, to be what you are, my
lord."

contumacious, eh? Well, no matter
since I have unearthed you. Where is
Judith?"

'^ Madame is out."

madame is at home," answers the
visitor, with an air of authority.

^' Madame is at home to no one," is the
equally firm answer.

*^ Then consider me No One, good Crinoline,
and announce me forthwith."

'^ That would be to forget your lordship's
dignity and to discount my own veracity."

'^ If you were beautiful as you are clever,
Fridoline, and young as you are old "

'' I should not condescend to bandy
words with you," says the dame.

^^ Sharp as ever," says the visitor, ^' well
well, we were talking of dignity and
veracity ; my dignity is of no moment, your
veracity is ; so tell the fair Judith that
Somebody has called, and put your smiles
into the message. Here is a souvenir from
London to help you''

He gives her a Bank of England note.
She looks at it.

^' It cannot be said against you, Simmons,
or judge, counsel or my lord, that you were
ever ungenerous," she says.

'^ Simmons, Fridoline, Simmons, if you
love me."

'^ You give me fifty pounds to announce
you ; I must do so whether you give me the
money or not," she says pocketing the
note.

'^ You thaw?"

'^ I do, I am a woman.'

'^ And know she value of money ? "

^' And peace ; I hate to be worried."

^^ Sit down then and let us chat a
moment. You are in hiding here ? "

^^ In retreat."

'' Grown tired of the gay world ? "

^' Madame has become religious."

sanded!"

'' She has retired from the stage forever."


^^ Nonsense."

^' It is true."

*^ And I have just bought the lease of the
Regent Theatre."

'why?"

'' To give it to Judith."

''No, truly?"

Indeed I have."

She will not take it."

She shall."

"Madame has resolved, only this very
day, never to return to London."

We will see," says the visitor; "but tell
me what brought you here ? "

Chance. We had travelled far and
wide. This villa attracted Madame. A

priest who lives hereabouts, and knew her in
England, recommended it to her, as quiet,
out of the world, the very spot for her
mood."

'' And how do we spend our time outside
this charmed circle of life ? "

*' We are good, very good."

^^ What a reformation ! "

'^ We no longer believe in gaiety, we no
longer intrigue; and we hate all plays, excepta
few passages of the classic and poetic
drama."

delightful! How then do we get
through the long weary days of virtue?"

^' We say our prayers."

The visitor laughs.

u ^Yg gQ ^Q mass, and take walks of contemplation."


The visitor laughs aloud. The Dame is
encouraged to still further burlesque her
kind and trustful mistress.

'^ We do a little tapestry ; we read good
books, and "

The Dame drops her voice, and looks

around as if in fear that she may be overheard.


'^ Yes," says the visitor, leaning towards
her.

^^ And we are in love ! "

The visitor shows his disappointment.

'^ Is that so new an incident that you make
a mystery of it ? " he asks.

^' It is quite new. There is love andover
I believe ; this new love is true love."

'' No, you astonish me."

*' Do I ? then I ought to feel proud."

^^ Do not pause to air your wit, dear
Fridoline, tell me of this love "

^^ Poor dear kind soul, I pity her. She
has fought against it as a prisoner might
against his bars the first time the dungeon
door closes upon him."

'' You have never experienced the sensation,
Dame Fridoline ? "

^' 1 have been what you fine gentlemen
call a vagabond, in my time."

^^ A play-actor, Fridoline ? they are
vagabonds still according to law."

^^ And deserve to be, so long as they
allow such as you to make the theatre an annexe
to your vices."

Fridoline rises as she speaks, and confronts
the visitor with an unaccustomed flash
in her usually dull eye.

^' A stirring sentiment, and well expressed,
Fridoline ; but they do allow it,
they do allow it, old friend; and as life
would be tolerable, somebody says, but
for its pleasures, it would assuredly be unbearable
but for its vices. But let us talk
of this love you mentioned.'^

"• I will not."

'eyes you will."

"No, I wont."

Where do you invest your savings,
Fridoline ? "

'where?"

Yes, where? There is no stock so safe
now or that pays so reliable a dividend as
United States Bonds."

The Dame is silent, but she taps the
floor with her foot.

^^ You once told me you had an ambition
to save five thousand pounds ?"

^* I have a reason for it ; I am no miser."
I am rich ; I will help you. Let us go
back to Madame's new whim."

*^ It is not a whim ; it is her first love."
'^ I thought you said it was new."
'' Old and new, the revival of an old
flame, and it burns with the brightness of
truth and youth. If there be truth in the
re-birth which the Church preaches, Judith
Travers would be worthy of the love she
has won ; though I do not hold her unworthy
of any man that breathes."

'^ Nor would she. Dame Fridoline, in a
less conventional world than that we have
had the misfortune to be born into."

Heaven help poor women ! It is a
world in which their chances of happiness
are few and their certainties of misery
many."

'^ Justice herself has begun to acknowledge
that, and the law is making provisions
to increase the chances you speak of. And

who is the happy being who has touched the
heart of Judith Travers in earnest, as you
think ?"

'^ Ah, you can ask her that yourself. I
have told you no more, I do believe, than
she will tell you, nor half as much. But "

^^Yes?"

^' You said you would help me with that
ambition of mine you were pleased to
mention, Mr. Simmons."

'' Ah, yes; here it is."

It is a small note this time that is
placed in Dame Fridoline's wrinkled hand.
She looks at it without seeming to notice
that it is the smallest they issue from an
English Bank. The tinkle of a distant bell
is heard. She takes her revenge.

"• There ! I have held you in conversation
sufficiently long for the visit of the happy
being, whom you mentioned, to come to a
close ; madame is now at liberty and will
see you ; the happy being has retired by the
private path to the lake."

The visitor bites his lip and follows the

servant, who enters the room with orders to
conduct his lordship to the presence of the

lady of the villa.

# * *

Such was the account which Mr. Miller
the Q.C., of my " Feast of St. Partridge "
reminiscences gave me of his interview with
Dame Fridoline. He was the ^^ Simmons"
and the '^ Judge " of the dialogue. I found
him at the inn almost as soon as I returned ;
for I had walked leisurely from the villa
wrapped up in my happiness.

'' So' he said, ^^ it is you, my dear
young friend, I am glad to see you ! Let us
talk frankly with each other. I love your
uncle ; I respect you. If I had known as
much of you as of Dick Grantley I should
love you. But we will improve our friendship.
You are in trouble. I must help you.
Your disease is a violent one ; it requires a
violent remedy. I have just come from the
Villa Verona''

With this brief introduction, Mr. Justice
Miller (for he had recently been exalted to

the bench) exacting from me a promise that I
would hear all he had to say, gave me the
above graphic but heartless sketch of the
first part of his visit to the villa. During
the narrative I had to pace the apartment
to keep down the expressions of my indignation
; but considering my state of mind I
bore with commendable patience his ruthless
laceration of my feelings.

'' And now," he said, '' if you like I will
give you an account of my interview with
the lady herself."

*^ I do not wish to hear any more," I
said.

Better hear all ; you have probably
heard the worst."

^^ I am very wretched," I answered.

*' Of course you are; but you will recover
; you are taking your punishment with
a calmness that promises a speedy cure.
Shall I go on?"

^^ You are a cruel physician," I answered.

'^ My office just now is that of surgeon,"
he said.

^' Your knife can never cut her image
from my heart."

^* Of course not; nor would I wish to
indulge in such mutilation. But as your
uncle's old friend"

^^ It is your duty to torture the nephew,"
I said.

'^ If it is for the nephew's good, certainly,"
responded the judge.

*^ Continue! I am on the rack whether
you tell me more or not. But beware how
you overstep the borderland between friendship
and enmity, between respect and contempt,
between love and hatred ; you think
I am calm, patient, philosophical ; don't
count too much on my patience.

*' I will only count upon your good sense
and upon the love and duty and respect you
owe to honest Dick Grantley, and to the unblemished
name you inherited from Maximilian
Durand," said the judge.

You must leave me to my own interpretation
of duty, and I do not need the
stimulus of an exordium upon my father's

honour, nor is it necessary to remind me of
the respect I owe to his memory."

^^ Well said ; we are getting on," answered
the judge, lighting a cigar and
calling for a bottle of wine, adding as the
waiter left the room, '' I have only two
hours at my disposal, we will therefore
waste no more time."

^* You leave Baveno to-day?"

'^ Two hours hence. It is almost accidental
that I am here."

^^ I am sorry the accidental circumstance
did not take you elsewhere."

^^You are inhospitable; but as the old
friend of your uncle "

^^I know, I know," I said interrupting
him.

'^ Of course you do'' he responded with
a smile, '' take a cigar."

I took a cigar. By the time his narrative
was at an end I had almost eaten it.

VOL. 1. Q

CHAPTER V.

THE JUDGE COMPLETES HIS SKETCH OF JUDITH
TRAVERS.

*' Why did I come here, you ask ?
During my studies at the Bar I often engaged
in amateur detective operations. I
liked the work. Scotland Yard liked me.
The disappearance of Judith Travers, the
famous obedience of the no less famous
Regent Theatre, piqued my feelings as well
as my skill at explorations. Nobody could
find her. I suspect they had not tried.
They were under orders. It was my business
to discover her.

"You did not know that she is an actress ?
Of course not. You thought her a princess

in her own right. Well she is better than
some princesses. She is one of the most
generous women that lives. I have known
her nearly seven years.

'^ Did I know her when first I met you at
Warrington Manor ? Yes, she was the rage of
London at that time. Is it possible that you
have not heard of Judith Travers ? Not seen
her portrait in the shop windows ? Oh, you
have ! But you did not know that this was
the lovely Judith ? Ah, well, it is a polite
education to know her, and there is no harm
in your going a little mad about her. But
marriage is out of the question. There,
there, don't interrupt the court. If London
could have heard Judith's confession to me
this morning, you would be the envy of
every man in the metropolis ; yes, and the
envy of some of the women too; for Miss
Travers is the most popular artist that ever
trod the stage, in my time at all events.

*' I always vowed that whenever I should
be honoured by advancement to the distinction
of becoming one of Her Majesty's
q2

judges I would make Judith Travers a
present of the lease of the Regent Theatre,
marry, settle down, and be, in every way,
worthy of the Bench. It may be my lot one
day, like the judge in Whittier's poem, to
look back from the matrimonial height, where
I shall perch my hopes, to the ground, upon
which some other poet says Happiness
oftener builds her nest. But the performance
of duty is the first essential of earthly bliss.
You think I am talking with my tongue in
my cheek ? Not at all.

^' It is not to be wondered at that you
are over head and ears in love with Judith
Travers. Why she should be over head and
ears in love with you is surprising. I found
her in what I will venture to call a statuesque
frame of mind, cold as an icicle, except when
she spoke of you. ' For the first time in my
wretched life ' she said, ^ for the first time I
love and am beloved. The dream may not
last, will not, cannot, for he is sure to discover
who I am, what I am.' The last three
words were said with a pathetic force, which

she never reached in her highest flights of
domestic comedy, not even in tragedy itself,
though her Constance in King John was a
fine example of acted feeling. ^ I could have
wished,' she said, ' that this one romance of
my life might have lasted a little longer, it
has been so sweet, and it seemed as if Heaven
had sent it to give me a pure and true ideal
of manhood, as a wholesome memory, in my
retirement from the world.'

^^ I ventured to suggest that this was not
very complimentary to an old friend like
myself. She said it was not intended byway
of compliment or reproof. ^ Perhaps,'
she continued, ^ you are the least selfish of the
men I know ; the only real truth and honour
and devotion and self-sacrificing affection I
have known have been among my own sex.
We are poor creatures, we women, but we
have higher capacities of friendship and love
than it is possible for man to imagine, much
less to realise.'

'^ Was there no exception to this sweeping
condemnation, I asked. *None,' she

said, ^ Not even Mr. Durand ? ' ^ Not even
Horace,' she replied. She spoke of you as
if she had known you for years instead of
only days, but what women and boys call
love has a levelling tendency both as regards
time and persons. You certainly might be
proud of your conquest if the triumph were
not so hampered with sentiment. She declined
my offer of the lease of the Regent
Theatre, but condescended to say she appreciated
my well-intended kindness. A gift
of twenty thousand pounds might have called
for a warmer acknowledgment, for ten years
of the Regent is worth that sum, though she
made it worth it. I certainly looked for a
more liberal return — for her return to town,
at least, as the result of my magnanimity.
But women are indeed incomprehensible.
It is as well, perhaps ; it will be for me less
of a wrench of bachelor habits, easier to withdraw
from artistic society, easier to fulfil
that old vow of mine ; and ten thousand a
year as the endowment of Hymen is not
unworthy the consideration of a judge who

has not saved half as much as he might have
done during a long and lucrative practice.
But I am becoming garrulous. My desire
has been to spare you unnecessary pain at the
discovery that you cannot fulfil the natural
desire of that ardent and honourable passion
which is the privilege and the trouble of
youthful minds ; that you cannot make
Judith Travers Mrs. Horace Durand."

CHAPTER VI.

COLONEL Vanstone TO THE RESCUE.

I told my tormentor, his learned Lordship,
my uncle's old friend, that at present I
had only his evidence to guide my judgment.


reconsider its disinterestedness, its motive,
my dear young friend," he answered.

^^ I do; but I shall still require another
witness."

'' And where shall you look for that other
witness ? "

'' At the Villa Verona''

*you will call the lady herself?" he
asked.

^' She is my other witness," I said.

^^ I do not object," he answered, '^ and I
hope some day you will forgive me for my
intervention. At present you cannot. Nor
will you be able to do so tomorrow, perhaps,
nor next week, nor in a year's time ; but you
will."

^^ We shall see," I said, and on this we
parted, the notoriously accomplished lawyer
(who to the surprise of those who knew him
best had received the vacant judgeship, but
who, in the estimation of the general public,
had been kept too long outside judicial
honours) for a pleasant vacation trip ; I, to
count the beads of an early sorrow.

It was some kind of relief at the moment
to hear of the return of Colonel Tom
Ernstone. He had met the judge on the
road, the one going, the other coming.
Somehow he did not care for Miller. He
said this as he settled down into his former
corner of our common room, and gave
orders to his man for dinner. No, he did not
like Miller. The famous lawyer always appeared
to be so confoundedly contented

with himself. Was never ruffled. Took life
as calmly as if the world had been made on
purpose for him. Always lucky, and led a
notoriously fast life. Did not matter a bit.
Went into the best society. Made as much
money as he liked. Spent it on himself ; had
no relatives, no antecedents, did not care a
curse for anything or anybody, except, perhaps,
Dick Grantley, though he never visited
him. He called shooting at Warrington
Manor visiting Dick, because the Squire
always made a point of dining with the
Dunstanss the first week in September. Didn't
care whether they made him a judge or not ;
made more money than judges made ; but a
fine thing to be an English judge, and he is as
learned and scholarly as any of them they say.
He will sentence a poor wretch to be hanged
with as much unconcern as he will sum up a
case of breach of promise. That is the kind
of fellow to go through the campaign of life.
No sensibilities, he cannot be wounded ; no
heart, he cannot be killed, except in the ordinary
way ; and he'll choke off fever, smallpox,

liver, and all the physical ills of the
flesh, with his regular living, his dumb-bells,
his horse exercise, his yachting, and his
temperance. He was Tom Miller a few years
ago — barrister and dramatist. Then he was
more barrister than anything. One of the
daily papers betook him up," as the saying
is. He won the big Anglo-Indian Bamboo
case '^ off his own bat," they said ; and soon
after that he hanged Billikins the poisoner,
in spite of the most brilliant address for defence
ever heard at the criminal Bar, and the
evident leaning of the judge towards the
prisoner. Then he got silk, and became
Mr. Thomas Miller, Q.C., and a dilettante
patron of the arts, more particularly of the
theatre. Now, by Jupiter, he is my Lord
Judge; and he is not surprised; wouldn't
he if they made him Lord Chief Justice;
dare say they will some day. If he had sentenced
his first prisoner ^^ to be taken to the
place from whence you came, and there be
hanged by your neck till you are dead," he
could not have looked better satisfied than

A MODERN ULYSSES.

when I met him an hour ago, and said ^^ How
do you do ? " and '' Good bye ! ''—'' And I
prefer saying good bye to such cold-blooded
inventions of old Harry as Tom Miller any
day."

T suppose Colonel Ernstone was encouraged
to spin out this long review of
the judge's career, because I did not interrupt
him. Indeed, I rather encouraged him
by monosyllabic ^' oh's," and '' ah's," and
'^ yeses," and ^' I should think so's." The
Colonel was emptying his pockets, opening
letters, and generally clearing up his quarters,
lighting his pipe, and shaking himself clear
of the cobwebs of travel, getting ready to
enjoy a rest, and to forget that he had been
away since the day we first encamped at the
snuggest and most pleasant inn we had met
with during our wanderings. When he found
it difficult to say any more about Judge
Miller, he turned to me in a protesting
kind of fashion.

'^ Have you nothing to say ? "

*' Speed the parting guest, welcome the

new comer ! " I said, '' I think I hate Miller
too."

'^ Oh, I don't hate him," said the Colonel,
^^ but he nettles me ; he is one of the men
whose very presence rubs my moral consciousness
the wrong way."

'^1 do hate him," I said.

*you! And why ? He is one of your
uncle's very oldest friends ; but Dick does
not like him for all that ; they were in some
scrape together in town, years ago, a fight
in a gambling hell. Your uncle behaved
very generously to Tom ; it is an old scandal,
there is nothing in it to be ashamed of, and
it is not worth telling ; but Dick Grantley
twisted a knife out of the hand of an Italian
Count, and probably saved Topi Miller's life.
I must do Tom the justice to say that he
has always shown his gratitude to Dick, and
I know that he volunteered to use his influence
in your interest when you go to London
to read for the Bar."

*^I shall not go to London to read for
the Bar ; and I shall refuse any assistance
he may offer me."

^^ Nonsense ! I am sorry I spoke about
him ; he can make your fortune at the law,
and he is not a slave to the conventionalities
of the profession ; he is a man of the world,
and it is as much his knowledge of life as
his legal acumen that has scored for him in
consultations, opinions, and also as an advocate."


^' He has given me my first lesson, and
it is evidently worthy of him. Whether he
is moved by honest motives or whether he is
playing an audacious game of bluff I am in
doubt ; and my doubt is mixed up with so
much heart-break and depression of spirit
that I am just now as miserable a personas
your experience or imagination can conceive."


It needed but very small encouragement
to induce me to tell the Colonel the entire
story of my trouble from first to last. It
was then that he sought to console me with
that account of his own experiences, with
which the reader is already acquainted.
When he had finished, the dear, good-hearted

fellow, beseemed to think that, having capped
my wretched situation, I ought to bear my
trouble with a heaven-born resignation. It
appeared to me that he found some kind of
satisfaction in my misery.

'^ It brings us closer together, don't you
know, and, though I am old enough to be
your father, my heart is young enough to
beat in sympathy with you. The fellows in
London would tell you that I am a cold,
cynical brute, not much better than Miller ;
but they don't know me; you do; let us
shake hands over our misfortunes."

We shook hands.

'' But will you not advise me ? '' I asked.

^a will," he said.

^^Whatoughtltodo?"

*< I will tell you."

CHAPTER VII.

A DANIEL COME TO JUDGMENT.

^^ In the first place I do not believe the
insinuations of Mr. Justice Miller."

'' Thank you," I said eagerly.

'^ He is selfish and diplomatic."

^^Heis."

^^I have heard of Judith Travers, and
seen her act."

^^ She is an actress, then ? "

'eyes; but that is no reason why she
should not be a perfectly honest woman."

'' Acting is one of the arts," I said.

Truly, and there have been great and
good women in the profession."

And you think Miss Travers entitled to
be ranked among them ? "

^^ Yes, I do."

^^ I would stake my life on her truth and
honour, and on the purity of her life," I
said. '' Miller has some selfish purpose to
serve in what he has done and said. He
may be my rival for her hand."

Encouraged by Ernstone, there was no
imaginable interpretation I was not ready
to put upon the new judge's conduct, that
could tell in my favour and hers.

^^ Hardly that," said Ernstone, ^^but
there is no woman who lives her life in the
public eye that is not scandalised. An
actress is always a mark for envy and
slander."

'' She did not tell me she acted," I said
reflectively, ^^ but if she had that would not
have made her less beautiful in my eyes.
Colonel Ernstone, if I do not marry that
woman I shall never marry ! "

'* Don't make rash vows," responded the
colonel, "we are the sport of circumstances.
Here comes the dinner."

I cannot eat''
VOL. I. K ♦

^^ You must."

'^ You are hungry, I will walk while you
dine."

^* You will dine, otherwise I will offer
you no more advice. Confound it, man, look
at me ! Strong in wind and limb, older
than I look, in perfect health ! I have
cruised about the world with a greater sorrow
than that which can possibly affect you.
But I always made a point of dining for
the sake of These, and dining as well as
the country in which I happened to dine
would let me. Come, come, you need all
your wits in your present situation, and wits
will not work without wattles, as those 
fellows would say, though I
have known troops do wonderful things
on rice and coffee. During our advance on
Cawnpore I think our fellows hardly stopped
to eat at all, that is, with anything like a
show of a comfortable halt, until we were
close upon the brutes' entrenchments. I
shall never forget General Havelock ordering
a halt for two or three hours in the shelter

of a mango grove, where rations were served
and properly cooked, a treat we had not
known for a long time. Sufficient liquor
was given the men to warm their rations,
and pipes and cigars were smoked in something
like comfort. After all it is a wise
thing to feed well before entering upon an
important undertaking."

I could not help seeing that the colonel
was talking to beguile the time, or to divert
my thoughts into a new channel. I listened
to him with respectful attention, not unwilling
to give my mind a rest that I might
re-address myself to the chief object of them,
perhaps from a new basis.

'general Havelock was a humane and
a discreet commander. Nana Sahib had
taken up a position at a village where the
Grand Trunk Road may be said to unite
with the principal road to the military cantonment
of Cawnpore. He had blocked
both roads by formidable entrenchments
and his guns were well mounted all along his
positions, which were a number of villages

skilfully fortified. The Oriental has a habit
of expecting you to attack him where it is
best for him that you should do so. He
throws up his works and plants his guns and
calculates that you will come at him there,
where he is strongest. And so we should
of course if no other course were open.
Havelock was unequalled among Indian generals
in the matter of selecting where and
when to attack, so that his men should sustain
a minimum of harm while doing a maximum
of damage to the enemy. And, as I said
before, he gave us leave to eat and rest
and then moving us off, so that we could
defile round the Nana's left, our guns were
so placed that at the proper moment they
were ready for either attack or defence.
The movement did not escape the enemy's
observation, and he tried to frustrate it ; but
we had dined, we had taken a nip of brandy
in our coffee, we had smoked and pulled
ourselves together, and within less than an
hour we had taken Nana's works, captured
his guns, and routed his devilish horde.

But here comes the dinner, and the moral of
all this is, that, while great things have been
done on empty mummies, much greater have
been done after proper rest and refreshment.
So fall to, Horace, my boy, and when we
have discussed this menu from soup to
thrushes, and from birds to coffee, we will
fall in and take Miller's entrenchments,
capture his guns, and rout him entirely''

^^ You think we can?" I asked, rising to
the music of this cheery promise.

"• Think ! Why certainly ! as that clever
Yankee fellow says in the play," answered
the colonel.

We dined; that is, I ate my dinner.
Ernstone enjoyed his. He talked of all
kinds of things, with snatches of military adventure
in his reminiscences, and incidents of
London life ; and at last he told me the story
of his daughter's engagement with Sir
Christopher Hallam ; told me all the details
of it and his own story, just, so far as the
facts were concerned, as he had told my
uncle and as my uncle had already told me.

This enabled me to think. It was not necessary
that I should listen to him. I reviewed
my own history, tried to examine the immediate
situation judicially as if I were discussing
some other person's doubts and fears
and passion ; but it all ended in a dull vague
stupid kind of way only, leaving me exactly
where I was before I began to think about
it. All the time I could hear Ernstone
droning out his long yarn ; all the time I
could see him blowing clouds of smoke out
into the open air ; all the time T could hear
the distant music of the rivulet that wound
round Villa Verona, just as I heard when I
was a boy the humming of the mill-weir at
Scarsdale.

^' You have told Sir Christopher Hallam
all about Th^rese ?" I said presently, when it
seemed necessary that I should say something.


''No, I have not had the courage; I
believe I was one of the first among Nana
Sahib's beastly blacks, but I am an awful
coward sometimes. I have been all the way

to Milan chiefly for the purpose of telling
Chris everything. I am back again without
having said a word to him ; and yet you
have the folly to ask my advice in your own
affairs. I dare say I am not bad at advising
; I know exactly what I ought to do
and I would make another fellow do it ; but
I am not really plucky myself and that is
the truth."

^' You have no doubt as to the result
when you do tell him ?' ' I said, for the first
time getting away from my own affairs.

' Not in the least, ' ' said Ernstone, ' ' though
I hate to tell him ; he is such a happy fellow j
never known trouble of any kind. But we
will talk no more of Hallam, nor of Therese,
heaven bless her, nor of me ; but of you and
of Miss Judith Travers. Your uncle is benton
your marrying Helen Dunstan — an excellent
match in every way. Kind as he is, to
thwart him in this might make you enemies
instead of friends."

^^ Impossible ! " I said, ^^ he is too good
and too devoted to me and to my happiness."


That very devotion makes obedience
all the more a virtue on your part, not to
say a duty. In case he has talked the match
over with Dunstan, and I believe he has, your
contumacy would be construed into something
more than mere disobedience ; it would
be regarded as an insult to the girl herself."


'' Oh, no, you are putting a very extreme
case," I said.

'^ I am not, my friend ; view the position
from this stand-point, for the sake of argument.
Would you brave it for this woman,
upon whose reputation there may be a
cloud?"

'whatever and whoever she is, my
feelings would not alter towards the ideal
creature I believe her to be. I am so hard
hit that I would take her now and ask no
questions, take her on the blind faith expressed
in the words of another song, sung
by Miss Dunstan on the night when that
other ballad touched your heart so keenly."

I know not, and I ask not.

If guilt be in thine heart ;
I only know I love thee,

And love thee as thou art.

It was a woman who spoke the sentiment I
know ; I feel it as a man."

^'But if all that Miller insinuates is
true ? "

^' I might hate her then as I hate him ;
hate her for showing me Paradise and condemning
me to Hades."

'^ By which you mean you would not
marry her ? " said Ernstone, following my
every word with critical sympathy.

'' I don't know what I mean," I answered.

^' Then listen to me ! Keep your appointment.
Be frank with her. Tell her all.
Show her the position you are in. Ask her
advice. If she should then encourage you to
cast in your lot with hers, she being resolved
to leave the stage ; and if you feel what I felt
when a true and honest love took hold of
me ; then, by Jupiter, give reins to the
impulse of your nature and marry her ! A
woman who can interpret nobility of soul in
VOL. I. s

a mimic scene as she can is not the creature
Miller would have us believe. If I am any
judge of character, Judith Travers will not
belie her truthful eyes. She will prove
worthy of your love and friendship."

My dear friend ! " I exclaimed, seizing
the Colonel's hand, '' you only do her common
justice. Your generous advice finds an echo
in my heart, which tells me it is good. I
will go to the Villa now. Wish me good
fortune ! "

*' I do so with all my heart ! " said the

Colonel.

# *■ * * •-* •

The sun had dropped behind the pines
and left the olives dark and sombre, when I
reached the gardens of the Villa Verona. The
fountain was making plaintive music among
the roses by the dial. I listened for Crinoline's
harp. A great stillness prevailed. The
silence struck me with an indefinable fear.
I rang the bell at the portal of the Villa. I
don't know why it sounded to me like a
knell. No footstep responded to it. I rang

again and again. No reply. As I stood in
doubt Father Gabriello appeared in the
garden, coming upon the scene from the
point where I had entered.

^' Madame has gone away," he said.

begone away!" I said, re-echoing his
words.

'' She will not return any more to the
Villa Verona," continued the priest,

^' Not any more," I said, still echoing him,
^' what do you mean?"

'' Only what I say ; only what she requested
me to say ; possibly she has given
you more explicit information in this letter."

I opened the note which he handed to me.
The light had almost faded out of the sky. I
read, with some difficulty, as follows : —

^^ My departure will make you sad, as it
makes me. But it is best. I was wrong
"• to receive you at the Villa. Wrong for
^' many reasons. Some day you may know
^* what they are. Then you will pity me.
Why did I encourage you to stake your
'•' happiness on an impossible dream ? I can
'' hear you ask the question. I can feel its

^^ rebuke. There is no justification in my
^' answer. It was so sweet to realise the
'' holiness of a pure love. I had not strength
'' to resist the temptation of living, if only
^^ for a time, in such an atmosphere. O
^^ forgive me, forgive me. The only bitterness
^ ' in the dream was the knowledge that you
'' had forgotten me. To-day, on my journey
'' to more restful scenes, what was a bitterness
is so no longer; for it teaches me that Time
^^ carries healing in his wings for bruised
hearts. I beseech the blessed Virgin, that
she will teach you to forget me now as you
forget her who always remembered you ;
*^ and in whose voice and touch she recalled
the day when a boy and girl kissed and
parted years ago by the Scarsdale meadows.
Forgive me for this new pang I cause you.
^^ Think of me with the perfume of new-mown
^^ hay, and let your memory of me be asso-
^' cited with convent bells and sunny skies
^^ away from cruel cities. Goodbye — forgive
** me — forget me !

'* Constance Gardner."

END OF VOL. I.

^/

/

OF THE

UN Diversity

Of ILLINOIS

H28vn

BEING

THE LIFE, LOVES, ADVENTURES, AND

STRANGE EXPERIENCES OF

HORACE Durant.

BY

JOSEPH HATTON,

AUTHOR OP " THREE RECRUITS," " TO DAY IN AMERICA," " CLYTIE,
THE QUEEN OP BOHEMIA," ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. II.

LONDON:

CHAPMAN & HALL, Limited, 11, HENRIETTA ST,

COVENT GARDEN.

1883.

> [All Rights Reserved.]

NICHOLS AND SONS, PRINTERS,

25, PARLIAMENT STREET.

CONTENTS,

BOOK I.

CHAP.

I. The Chimes of Antwerp

II. Circe

III. I AM WRECKED AT SEA

IV. The Carpenter's Report .
V. A Captive to Managers

vi. i make the acquaintance of the irish

King of Kututu
VII. Strange Islands of the Sea
VIII. A Lesson in Diplomacy and Strategy and

ITS MARVELLOUS RESULTS

IX. From Dreamland to Reality .
X. Some pleasant Experiences Afloat and

Ashore

XI. Idyllic but true
XII. In which "the Mermaid" is the chief

FACTOR OF CURIOUS PLOTS AND COUNTER-PLOTS

PAGE





















BOOK II.

I. The Merchant wishes me a Merry Christmas
and a Happy New Year . . . 225
II. Colonel Ernstone arrives . . . 243

VOL. II.

BOOK I.

Having made known the strength of the shield that kept
his heart protected against the loving eyes of Woman,
Kina Bala went forth by land and water. As the seasons
sped, he came unto the gardens of Indra Kill, where dwelt
the Princess Moorabatangan. When she looked upon him
from out her piercing eyes, down fell his shield, and all his
heart was conquered. Love is a tyranny and youth's slave ;
but the wise man hath an antidote for the sumpitam of the
Passionate God, and he is not bound with a scarf, nor with
a braid of hair ; yet is Love a blissful dream ; and } so it
had no awakening, a gift more to be desired than precious
stones and the gold of Ophir. — Malayan MS.

VOL. II.

THE CHIMES OF ANTWERP.

It is five years since Constance Gardner,
otherwise Judith Travers, disappeared from
the Italian villa, discounting my fondest
hopes ; and, I must say so even at the risk of
appearing flippant, spoiling my simile of
Calypso's island. Five eventful years have
gone into the limbo of the past up to the
date of the period of this present chapter;
and the lady of the Villa Verona was not
wrong in counting, for my sake, upon the
healing for bruised hearts which she declared
Time carried under his wing.

Do not imagine for a moment that the
Italian dream is altogether finished. Do not
fancy me outside its glamour, uninfluenced by
b 2

its romance, forgetful of the music of that one
sweet voice, the fascination of my first love,
and the terrible blow which Father Gabriello's
announcement of the lady's flight
struck me. I do not forget ; I do not desire
to do so ; and I never shall ; but my pains
are no longer acute. Moreover such regrets
as are still left afflict me intermittently.
They come and go. Sometimes the
intervals between them are wide apart,
occupied by other affairs, filled with sunshine
and with shadow, the latter prevailing most.
To-day putting my heart into this chapter,
and trying to live the events to be related
therein over again, I feel as if Fate had revenged
itself upon me for taking liberties with
the name of Ulysses. Little did that Anglo-french
romanist, playing the 'cello and telling
me stories, as shown in the first chapter of
this history, imagine that I should live to have
some adventures almost as strange and as
trying as those of the great Ulysses, whom
he almost worshipped. If the career of
Laudnum Nanny's granddaughter had been

forecast from the Scarsdale incident of her
disappearance, with my meeting her again
under the sunny skies of Italy, it would
have seemed just as wild a prediction as the
idea that one day my good kind Uncle
Grantley would turn me out of his heart and
home.

Have you ever sat in the sun and listened
to the bells in the tower of Notre Dame
trying to make merry with the music of
Dinah ?

The chimes are out of tune ; yet without
the harshness of discord. It always seems
to me as if there were tintinnabulary tears in
their tremulous voices. Let no one ever
dream of tuning these sorrowful bells. They
have reminiscences of a day and night of
riot and rape and massacre. The echoes of
these sad memories slumber in the belfry-tower.
The chimes awaken them to mingle
their solemn whispers with the music.

It is the shadow-dance in Dinah which
the melody recalls. For me it conjures up
many phantoms, far more real than those

of the mimic stage at Her Majesty's or Drury
Lane, at Paris, or behind the footlights at
La Seal a.

I have listened to them, through the
music of a harp, with which a grey-headed
sister of the House of Mary accompanies the
vesper hymns of the little sisters, singing
in their humble chapel, outside the hum
and stir of the Belgian city. It needed a
special dispensation of the Pope to endow
the monastery and endorse the sacred vows
of Soeur Constance ; but upon the report of
Father Gabriello, her money and her piety
combined, secured recognition of Holy
Church for Constance Gardner, and wiped
out for ever the sins of Judith Travers. It
was many a weary month after our last
parting before I breathed again the air that
she breathed ; and with what strange and
sad events between you shall learn in due
course.

Should you not yet have counted the
Belgian city among your experiences of
travel you will nevertheless find, in these

incidents that have to be related, a value of
their own apart from Antwerp's tender
chimes and Motley's historic romance. But
if you have sat in the sun, and given your
imagination over to the fascination of the
pathetic jangle of those famous bells, you
will the better sympathise with the influence
they exercise upon me. At this moment I
feel as if they had carolled and chimed
throughout my whole life. When I was a
boy, with no personal knowledge of the
home of Rubens, the author of " The Rise
and Fall of the Dutch Republic '' had held
me in the spell of his dramatic story, his
narrative of the flaming desolation in Grande
Place, " while over the heads of the struggling
throng suspended in mid-air above the din
and smoke of the conflict there sounded
every half-quarter of every hour, as if in
gentle mockery, from the belfry of the cathedral
the tender and melodious chimes."

It is possible that certain reminiscences of
my own may lend to my impressions of the
red days of the Netherlands an added pathos.

There is no egotism in this thought. Places,
and things, and the history thereof, get mixed
up with events that are only personally
interesting to ourselves. Love and folly and
adventures of mind and body will, without"
vanity, unconsciously annex, in theirsensa-
tions of joy and sorrow, the material and
natural surroundings that are associated with
them, making backgrounds for other dramatic
stories.

Antwerp is one of my landmarks in a
life's career ; and just now it is, not only in
connection with my own affairs, but with
those of certain other people who have a share
in this narrative, that the muse of history
inspires the present mention of the city of
Rubens and the famous carillon.

I am transcribing these very lines at
Antwerp, from the rough notes of an ill-kept
diary (posted up from memory during a
recent voyage). The consciousness that in
doing so I am considering the arrangement
of my sentences is indicative of the state cf
my feelings in regard to the dream of my

youth. But there is a long panorama of
dramatic scenery to look back upon between
that past time and this ; and trying to contemplate
it, as if I were an ordinary spectator,
and not master of the ceremonies, I find it a
strange thing to see myself bending over a
white hand at a convent grating, a brother who
salutes a sister, a human remnant, as it were,
of that passionate boy who thought his heart
was stricken in twain when the priest at
the Villa Verona told him the object of his
devotion had fled ; that Calypso had left
Ulysses, not Ulysses Calypso ; and when I,
that impulsive f youth, carried to the little
Italian hostel an epistolary link between
Constance and Judith, between Scarsdale and
Baveno. But it has taken a long time to
enable me* to reflect upon these events with
sufficient calmness to write of them as it is
my duty to do, having undertaken to be the
ch . nicer of my own life, and the historian
of the adventures of certain other persons
connected therewith.

It is, I repeat, five years since the romance

of Calypso's island; five eventful
years, during which time my mothers foreboding
that I might " come to a bad end''
has had more or less encouragement. I am
disowned," " cut off with a shilling," by
the generous uncle who did not know " the
viper he was warming in his bosom'' to
quote Mr. Jonas Welby, M.P who has
talked me over, I am told, at Warrington
Manor. He and my mother have been on a
friendly visit to the dear Worcestershire
valley from which I am banished. My uncle
refuses to tell anyone why he discarded me.
"I am a confounded ungrateful dog, damme ! "
That is all he says about me. Squire Dunstan,
I believe, knew why I degenerated into
a mere waif of the great world. His daughter
does not. She had heard my name mixed
up with some alleged scandal connected with
an affair with an actress at Baveno." Susan
Dobbs has " not patience enough to speak of
me." I am to her the same " fool " that I
was long ago. All this comes to me from
Colonel Ernstone. Between him and me

there is a bond of friendship that is personal
and sentimental, cemented too by what I
may call our mutual love stories. Let me
clear this up, while you rest for a moment
on the fact of my downfall, my loneliness,
and my disgrace.

The time came when Colonel Ernstone
did tell Sir Christopher Hallam all that he
told my uncle, and all that he told me by
the lake of Maggiore. Sir Christopher did
just what I said he would, just what any
other manly T fellow would have done ; but
the marriage bells which awoke joyous
echoes in the happy hearts of the two young
people had for Tom and the present writer
some gloomy reminiscences, not the least
significant of them, for my old friend, the
ballad which Helen Dunstan had sung in the
days before Baveno. " It rings in my heart
for aye ! " The bells seemed to whisper
between the shooting and the pealing, " Oh,
the dance and the merry tune ! happy sound
of a bygone day ! " But Th^rese knew
nothing of the song's peculiar influence.

The happy bridegroom knew the story,
but the familiar ballad had for him no
key unlocking its pathetic depths. He
only heard the merry bells. She only saw
his glad eyes. The great company of friends,
who thought they knew so much, but knew
so little, saw in the grave father giving away
his pretty child Colonel Tom Ernstone, the
hard, cynical Indian warrior. " The meaning
of song goes deep," says Carlyle. I
never hear " The Clang of the Wooden
Shoon " that I do not see the pictures Tom
Ernstone saw in the fire. How it touched his
heart let this brief story witness. He and I
have sat by the old wooden pier, since he
heard those marriage bells. In the churchyard
of the Normandy village there is a
marble tomb. " Julie Ernstone " is engraved
upon the slab. " For she was in truth and
honour my wife," said Tom ; " mine before
God and man, and shall be in the world to
come ! " " Amen, old friend, to that ! '' I
said. The villagers stood and wondered at
us as we rambled about the ancient place.

And just as that glint of light shot into the
gloom of the story in the old days, so now
does a happy Yorkshire home rise up among
Tom Ernstone's reflections to lift the ballad-music
out of its minor key, and give to the
pain of it the gentle sadness of a buried
sorrow.

I might have been at the wedding, but
my dear old uncle made it a condition that
if I was invited he would refuse to be present.
Since then, however, I have shot grouse on the
Hallam moors, and dandled Lady Hallam's
children on my knee. All my friends did
not discard me because uncle Grantley shut
me out of his heart and home. The reader
will, I feel sure, have guessed at the trouble
which separated Starchy Dick and his reckless
nephew. It was Helen Dunstan. He had
spoken to Squire Dunstan about the match.
They had indeed settled it between them.
While I was abroad with Tom Ernstone they
had talked of nothing else. Helen had not
exactly been taken into their confidence, nor
had she been exactly left out of it. She had

been addressed upon the subject by inuendo.
No direct attack had been made upon her, but
Dick Grantley had hinted to his guests that
The Cedars and The Manor would put their
horses' heads together one of these days. The
rich old schemer, Squire Dunstan, had not said
"Yes," nor had he said "No'' when very
intimate friends had asked if the report in
one of the London Society papers of " the
engagement of a certain Worcestershire
heiress with a gentleman who is no less
clever with his pen than as a sportsman, and
whose knowledge of the world at home and
abroad has earned for him the soubriquet of
the young Ulysses," referred to any of the
well-known families about Breedon. Imagine,
therefore, the indignation of honest Dick
Grantley, when returning from " the grand
tour " (which had cost my worthy uncle not
less than five hundred pounds), his nephew
tells him that he is not free to propose to
Miss Dunstan.

Not free to propose to Miss Dunstan !"
he exclaimed.

I can see the poor dear old gentleman
now, and am sorry for him, sorry for us
both.

No, sir !" I answered.

Horace, my boy, you have not been
drinking, eh ?" he asked.

I am perfectly sober, uncle, and it
grieves me very much to oppose your
wishes," I answered.

II Oppose my wishes!" he exclaimed;
why you don't mean to tell me that you
mean to break this poor girl's heart, ruin your
own prospects, and make a confounded fool
of me ? Damme, the idea is too hideous !

I was not aware that Miss Dunstan had
honoured me so far as to give me the influence
upon her affections which you imply,"
I said.

Influence on her affections!" he exclaimed,
"what confounded stuff are you
talking, sir ? "

Don't lose your temper, uncle; be
patient with me."

"Lose my temper! Damme, I am not

losing my temper ; don't try and cloak your
ingratitude under the idea that I am losing
my temper ! "

I am not ungrateful," I said.

You are, sir! You are cursedly ungrateful,
and what is worse, sir, you are a
fool. But you shall not make a fool of me,
sir!"

That would be impossible," I said; and
I really did not intend the dear old man to
construe this remark into a sneer.

0, I am a fool already, am I ? Thank
you, sir. I begin to think I am."

I did not say so, nor do I think so ;
heaven forbid ! " I answered.

You did not say so, and you did not
think so, and heaven forbid," rejoined my
uncle, mocking me; u what the deuce has
come over you ? Are you bewitched, or
what is the matter with you ?"

Colonel Ernstone will explain," I said,
hoping to create a diversion through the name
of our mutual friend.

I want no explanation from Colonel

Ernstone," he said, " my business is with
you. Let me tell you, sir, before I ask you
a plain honest question, that much as I love
you, — and begad I do love you, you confounded
idiot you ! — let me tell you, sir, that
if you do not at once see Miss Dunstan and
renew, with a view to marriage, that intercourse
which was begun so flourishingly
before you left England ''

What intercourse ?" I asked, interrupting
him; " before you say anything you
may regret, let us fully understand each
other."

What intercourse ! " he shouted; "the
fool will drive me mad n

u Calm yourself, my dear uncle," I said,
which only increased his excitement.

I feel exasperated enough to calm you
with a cudgel," he answered, trembling with
passion, " has it not been the talk of the neighbourhood,
your philandering with my friend
and neighbour's daughter ? Did you not lay
aside your gun on the i first ' to walk in the

VOL. II. c

fields with her ? Did not Miss Dobbs purposely
leave you alone that you might say
what everybody had been expecting you to
say for weeks ? Had not Miss Dunstan herself
condescended to encourage you ? The
finest girl in the county, a sight too good for
you, and the heiress to a million sterling !
And now you come to me and say you are not
free to accept the blessings which Fortune
and a too loving uncle offer you? Curse
me, sir, but let me tell you if you disappoint
her hopes, and mine, and baulk Squire
Dunstan's splendid intentions for you, then
you are no longer my nephew, nor my
friend ; I disown you ! "

I was too fresh from Baveno to receive
this declaration in a conciliatory spirit ; my
wounds were too green, my sensibilities too
tender, my judgment too raw. I seemed
to welcome the opportunity of martyrdom ;
fortune to my inexperienced mind had
slipped from under my feet when Father
Gabrielle announced to me the flight of Judith
Travers ; and I cared no more about kicking

what remained out of my path than if I were
spurning a cur that had bitten me.

You want my answer?" I said,
straightening my back and hardening my
heart.

"Yes, sir."

Then all I have to say is that much as
I am beholden to you, deeply sensible as I
am of all your kindness, I can only repeat
that I am not free to offer my hand to Miss
Dunstan."

I do not know why I used that phrase,
I am not free" ; but it appeared to me at
the time to especially suit the occasion. Today
I should have been more conciliatory,
perhaps more diplomatic ; but at that time,
though I did not wish to offend my uncle
and could see that the phrase irritated him
very much, I used it again and again, and I
cannot now resist a grim sort of smile when
I remember the bitter repartee which capped
it.

"Not free to offer your hand to Miss
Dunstan, you jackanapes ! Then hark you,
c2

Mr. Horace Durand, you are free to quit
my house, and you are not free ever to return
to it again ! "

For more than five years 1 had not seen
the dear old gentleman since he uttered
these words, which I now recall as the cue to
the chief events of the period during which
I was absent from England. My uncle's
faithful Scotch servant almost wept over
me when he found that I was just as resolute
to be gone as my uncle was to have
me go. I went without a shilling. Sandy
Macfarlane slipped into my coat pocket a
purse, which I knew that my uncle had given
him to put there. I pretended to take it,
but I left it on the table in the library ; and
I took nothing but what I stood upright in,
not even a change of linen. It was bleak
autumn weather and twilight. The reeds
and grasses on Avon's bank were shivering
just as they seem to be shivering in the
great English painter's " Chill October." I
set my teeth and walked on and on all night.

In the morning I was weary and hungry,
and I think I discussed with myself Mr.
Mallock's question, " Is life worth living? ''

Towards noon, while standing on the
quay of the Severn river at Gloucester,
a seafaring man spoke to me and offered
me a job, " if you aunt too much of a
gent," he said, on his steam-barge bound
for Bristol. I jumped at his proposal,
which I afterwards found was made more
out of compassion at my forlorn looks than
from a serious need of labour. At Bristol I
discovered that seafaring work suited my
new mood, and through the kindness of my
Gloucester friend I shipped as a common
sailor upon the barque Phoebe, a vessel
belonging to a line of sailing-ships and
steamers. Before leaving Bristol I wrote
to Constance, care of Father Gabriello,
and I dispatched a short epistle to Colonel
Ernstone. How I upbraided myself for not
remembering in Judith Travers the girl who
had first accosted me when fishing near the
mill at Scarsdale I need hardly say. The

reader can imagine all this for himself. I
told Ernstone the whole story of my trouble
with Uncle Grantley. He knew the other
part of it. I begged him so far as my
future was concerned to let Time and 1 have
it out together. As to my policy of action,
my motives, my intentions, I had none ; I
was drifting. It was quite accidental that I
drifted into a ship ; but it was my misfortune
that I drifted into a ship that was destined
to come to a grievous end.

CHAPTER II.

CIRCE.

When looking back on perils past, it
sometimes happens that our most serious
hardships appear the lightest. Writing
these present chapters within sound of the
music of Antwerp, it seems to me that
those of my experiences that were hardest
to bear, and which still make claims upon my
patience, belong chiefly to my boyish days at
Scarsdale, and my last hours in the Breedon
country. Mr. Jonas Welby's treatment of
me at the death of my father; the closed
Villa Verona, with my second farewell of
Constance Gardner ; my uncle's disinheritance
of me; the misfortunes of George

Harmer, and the sorrows of a certain merchant
of Manilla (yet to be narrated), these
incidents stand out in my memory, clothed
in crape and wetted with tears. They areas
sharp and clear as the leading motives of
a picture upon which other scenes are toned
down that the leading ideas may first strike
attention ; yet when we look into the surroundings
and the accessories we find suggestions
of incident or colour, lacking which
the central objects would be without force
or significance.

My departure from the pleasant pastures
of Worcestershire, on that sad autumn night,
was the commencement of adventures that
strangely justified the unintentional forecasts
of both friends and enemies when they dubbed
me " Ulysses." You have already seen me
beginning them in a sufficiently prosaic way,
first on a Gloucester barge, secondly taking
service as an ordinary seaman in a mercantile
vessel — the barque Phoebe, of Bristol.
When the world, so far as our knowledge of
it goes, was very young, the Cabots sailed

thence into unknown waters, and landed
upon virgin shores. Though they viewed
new worlds with sensations very different
possibly to those which moved me, they do
not appear to have experienced more exciting
adventures than those which I went through
in connection with the last voyage the
Phoebe ever made. The troubles of the
early English navigators were chiefly those
of wreck, climate, and food — the disasters
afflicting small vessels in great seas. It was
the settlers who had to face the savage, and
cement their holdings with blood.

We had taken a cargo from Bristol to London,
and another from London to Rotterdam,
where we were delayed for repairs prior to
making a trip to Java. I had made rapid
progress in my work as a sailor-man. The
rough experience of the fo'csle did not spoil
my temper, and my educational accomplishments
proved useful to the skipper, who, inconsideration
thereof, and out of friendship
for the Gloucester barge-owner, allowed me
many privileges. He advanced me money

on account of wages, with which I bought
me a ship's chest and outfit, packing away
the clothes in which I had left home. I shall
have to refer by-and-by to my nautical experiences,
and more particularly to the treatment
I received at the hands of my shipmates
; but in the meantime I would like to
mention here the day when first I heard the
chimes of Antwerp.

As I said before, the Phoebe was delayed
at Rotterdam for repairs, and the captain
gave me a week's leave, partly for my own
pleasure, partly that I might make some
special purchases, for him and his wife, at
Brussels. They had only been married a
few months, and she had voyaged with him
from London to Rotterdam, and was also to
go out with us to Java, where we had to take
up a miscellaneous cargo for Sydney. It
was a little question of jewellery that was
to take me to Brussels. I laid aside my
sailor's rig, put on the clothes in which
I left my uncle's house, and made the
journey to Brussels vit Antwerp. I was

already acquainted with Brussels. Antwerp
was new to me. I spent two days in making
its acquaintance, verifying the red footsteps
of " the Spanish terror," and at night I wrote
a long letter to Colonel Ernstone, to be posted
when the Phoebe sailed, and another to Constance
Gardner, which I directed to the care
of Father Gabriello.

The next morning was a lovely example
of spring weather. It was the merry month
of May. I had entered upon my first experience
of the liquid fascination of maitland.
I was sipping a second glass of the delicious
decoction, and smoking a cigarette, at a
favourite hotel window in the Place Verte,
when I became conscious that some person
was watching me. I turned my head to meet
the inquiring eyes of a young man about my
own age.

I thought I could not be mistaken," he
said, leaving the side of a lady, who appeared
to be engaged in the study of a continental
time-table.

I bowed and waited to learn why he
thought he could not be mistaken.

You don't remember me," he said.
We met a few years ago at Warrington
Manor ; I painted the drawing-room ceiling
there."

Yes, of course," I said, my mind going
back to one of the happiest periods of my
life.

I was permitted to join the shooting
party on the first of September, You wrote
a sketch of it in the new magazine."

Yes, yes," I said, " you are Mr. Harmer
— how do you do ? I am very glad to
meet you again."

Thank you, I am very well," he said,
extending his hand, which I shook cordially.

You have shaved since we last met," I
said, as a palliation for any injury he might
have felt at my non-recognition of him.

Ah, yes," he said, "no wonder you did
not know me. I have also married since
then. Will you permit me to present you to
my wife ? "

A showy and attractive woman was contemplating
our mutual greetings. She was
a person once seen you would not be likely
to forget. The sequel to this chapter will, I
trust, reward you for keeping her in mind.
Looking about thirty years of age, she appeared
to be several years older than her
husband. Her face was pathetically colourless
; her eyes, a bluish grey, were very
penetrating ; her features generally might be
called classic. She had the low forehead and
straight nose of Greek sculpture, but added
thereto was a strongly-marked chin. There
was a want of steadfastness in the eyes
they wandered, and seemed to search
and watch, as if they guarded or sought a
secret.

Carefully considered by accepted canons,
Mrs. George Harmer would be pronounced
beautiful, and so I suppose she was ; but she
affected me somewhat as la Grande Place does,
with its awful but fascinating history, which
a local artist has so nearly succeeded in portraying
or at least suggesting, on the canvas

that, first among all the pictures, meets your
eye on entering the museum of paintings in
the Rue Jerusalem. I did not like her, yet
she filled my mind at the moment with a
certain curiosity.

Analysing the impression Mrs. Harmer
made upon me, it was that of a person to be
feared, yet admired, to be charmed with, not
to trust, a woman with a strange past and a
stormy future.

She laid a cold hand in mine. I pressed
it. She smiled. It was the smile of the
courtesan rather than that of the wife. I
cannot exactly explain what I mean ; men
will understand me. Good women may
guess at it ; bad ones will not, otherwise they
would command the expression of " the telltale
mouth " better than they do.

In less than five minutes I could see that
Harmer's love for this woman was an all-absorbing
passion. He was hers body and
soul. Watching him I seemed to see myself
at the Villa Verona, only that my love was
a Diana, a Penelope, a Darthula, a Clothe

compared with his, who I at first compared
to Circe and later to Clytemnestra.

We are on our wedding tour," said
the young fellow, as I placed a chair for
madame.

I congratulate you," I said, turning to
him, " and you, madame," I said, addressing
her.

Thank you," she replied, with the same
smile as before.

Julia thinks Antwerp dull," said Harmer,
" so we are going on to Brussels and
Paris, and then ho for London ! and work
once more, to replenish the family purse."

Where have you been, besides to Antwerp
? " I asked.

To the Hague, to Amsterdam, and to
Horn," he answered.

Ah, well, Mr. Harmer," I said, " they
are very quiet places, I believe ; your wife
should find even Antwerp lively after Horn."

"Yes, I do," she said; "but I like
Brighton better, or even Margate."

"Yes, for gaiety, perhaps," I said, feeling

that it was necessary to say something,
and that the something should be agreeable
to her.

I studied here and at the Hague," said
Harmer. " I expect it was rather selfish on
my part to bring Julia here. I am only a
decorative painter, as you know ; and I have
a commission in hand which almost necessitated
a visit to the Hague. But we are off
to Brussels this afternoon."

Then we shall meet again," I said.
I go to Brussels to-night or in the morning''

Mrs. Harmer smiled and looked at me ina
manner evidently intended to be sympathetic
and pleasant.

Where do you stay ?" she asked.

"At the Belle Vue, near the park," I
said, recalling the time I had stayed therewith
Ernstone, and feeling a passing misery
at the change which had since taken place in
my fortune.

Is it a nice park ?" she asked.

Yes, very."

Does the band play there ?"

I believe there are concerts in the park
fresco"

Shall you attend them ? "

U I shall look in and smoke a cigar," I
said, " and take what I may call a general
parting glance at well-dressed and musical
Europe."

Are you going on a long journey, then?"

I am going to the East'' I said.

"Oh, indeed! what part?"

Singapore, China, Java," I said.

How delightful!" she answered. " Then
you must really let us see you again. You
are sure to find us in the park at the concerts,
is he not, George ? ,J

Oh yes, I hope so indeed," said Harmer
; " if he does not, I will take the opportunity
of looking him up, if I may, at the
hotel."

"By all means," I said.

"Is that maitland which you are drinking
? " asked madame.

"Yes," I said; "may I call the waiter
and order some for you, Mrs. Harmer ?"

VOL. II. D

Thank you, 5 ' she said, "I am thirsty,
and I think maitrcmlc is the only really nice
drink these foreigners can give one ; it is
nearly as good as champagne-cup.

Harmer was evidently delighted that she
condescended to like anything; and the
frank, unconstrained manner which she now
assumed began to break down the unhappy
impression she made upon me. We sat together,
all three of us, and talked pleasantly
for more than two hours. I related to her,
as well as I could remember it, the story
of the Spanish Fury, and how the innocent
chimes accompanied the sanguinary business
of sword and flame. She was entertained,
and I had not felt so contented or happy
since my night's journey on foot from
Breedon to Gloucester. Harmer had only
talked pictures to her, and her fancy was
stirred by incident. In her conversation she
gave evidence of a far higher intellectuality
and education than I had credited her with.
She was, however, most moved at my secondhand
descriptions from Motley of the riches

of Antwerp) before the sack — the jewels and
dresses of the women, the precious stuffs and
gold plate, the diamonds and pearls, and the
money.

When we parted a little later in the day-mrs.
Harmer waved a white hand with flashing
gems upon its fingers, and as I closed
the carriage door upon the happy pair on
their way to the railway station, en route
for Brussels, I thought I ought to revise my
first impressions of her.

"It is a mischievous proverb," I said to
myself, " that supports the correctness of
first impressions. Now that I come to think
of it I believe Latter himself cautions his
students not to form hasty conclusions in
judging of character."

I upbraided myself for doing the woman
a wrong in my hasty estimate of her.
Analysing those first impressions I found
that there was no redeeming light in my bad
opinion of George Harmer's wife. The most
abandoned and cruel of her sex could have
fared no worse in the picture I drew of
d 2

her within the first ten minutes of our
acquaintance.

In an after-dinner siesta that evening I
made my quick impressions do penance to my
cooler judgment, and came to the conclusion
that Mrs. Harmer was a very agreeable
woman, with an irreproachable figure and a
pair of bewitching eyes. Indeed before the
Place Verte had cleared away its flower-baskets
(it was market-day) I had begun to wish for
the time to come when I should see Mr. and
Mrs. Harmer again ; and the next morning
before I started for Brussels I bought a new
pair of lavender kid gloves and a handsome
light neck-tie to match. My hands had
broadened since I left Worcestershire.
They were rough and coarse too, and I saw
Mrs. Harmer look at them.

If Judge Miller could have seen me and
heard these confessions he would have smiled
and said he knew it : meaning that I was
already forgetting the lady and the villa.
He would have been wrong. The truth is
that for more than eight months I had talked

to no more refined persons than the captain
and crew of The Phoebe and the captain's
wife (a buxom girl who had been a barmaid
at a tavern which the captain patronised at
Bristol), and the Farmers were a refreshing
change. Moreover the husband carried me
back to that happy " Feast of St. Partridge"
when all my hopes were as rosy as a summer
morning.

On the next night in a corner of the
park at Brussels, lighted with lamps in faint
imitation of a cafe chant ant of the Paris
Bois, and recalling on a small scale what one
conceives Vauxhall to have been, there was
a promenade concert. A military band was
playing operatic and waltz music in a
prettily-decorated orchestra. People were
walking about, or were seated at small
tables taking refreshment. The trees were
green with spring leaves. Overhead there
was a glorious moon.

I made a tour of the picturesque and
lively scene. Disappointed at not finding
the Farmers, I was taking a seat, somewhat

disconsolately, when I saw, quite near
to me, Mrs. Harmer the centre of a little group
of men in animated conversation . They were
a party of four, and to my great surprise
Mrs. Harmer was speaking in French. My
seat was in the shadow of a lamp, the light
of which was obstructed by the trunk of a
beech-tree. I could every now and then
hear what was said, as the programme of the
orchestra was broken by an interval for the
refreshment of the performers. I seemed to
have done Mrs. Harmer a double wrong, I
had questioned her morals and her education.
She was speaking French with an almost
Parisian grace. On the other hand it was
plain to me that Harmer did not understand
French, and that the more daring of her
three French admirers had not been slow to
note the fact. He openly paid the lady a
compliment, which, understood by the husband,
would have assuredly brought George
Harmer's clenched fist upon his face. It
even startled the other two, and Harmer perceiving
that something rather out of the way

had been said, looked up at his wife for an
explanation. She turned the offensive compliment
into a harmless but piquant jeu
esprit, at which they all laughed ; but
there was a sneer on the sensual and
vicious face of the Frenchman, who had
evidently not once hesitated in his estimate
of the lady, nor in his view of the want of
respect in which she held her husband. At
a sign which he gave to his companions,
they rose, took off their hats, and walked
away, the vicious one handing his cigar-case
to George, which George declined, saying,
at the same time, " Come, Julia, let us go."

Is he truly your husband ?" asked the
Frenchman, in French.

Yes, indeed he is; nothing is more
certain," she said.

Then you are a treasure he does not
comprehend."

"You are too good," she replied, with
something like a sarcastic smile.

Will you meet me without him ?"

Write to me at the Poste Restante,

Amelia B,' and if I consider you worthy of
so much consideration, not to say risk, I
will."

My worthiness, I fear, consists chiefly
in my capacity to make it shine with the
purest diamonds that ever competed with
the light of a lovely woman's eyes," he said,
rising and bowing to Mr. Harmer.

Then write at once," she answered,
smiling in a way that had so disagreeably
impressed me at Antwerp.

What does the grinning idiot say?"
asked George.

That there is to be a royal fete in
Brussels next week, and he would like to
place his carriage at our disposal."

He be hanged ! What else ?"

That, as an artist, he presumes you are
well acquainted with the Wert Museum, and
if not, that you ought to see it though it is
hardly a place for ladies."

Oh, indeed ! Julia, he is a beast."

Why did you introduce me to him over
that wretched table d'hote then ?"

Because he asked me."

You should not do everything men ask
you. Your reason is no better than my
answer to your patron, Lord Hatfield,
when he asked me why I married you."

Ah, now you are unkind."

No, I am not; it was only my fun. I
like to say a smart thing — you know I do."

"Was it only a smart thing when you
said, ' Yes, George, I will marry you ? ' "

There, now, don't be a silly boy ;
come, let us go and have some supper. This
is a stupid place after all."

"So it is, my dear," Harmer replied.
Come, we are always happiest when weare
alone. Ah, Julia, you will never know
how much I love you ! "

I know it now, dear," she said ; and
then pausing to survey the gardens, she
added, "By the way, I don't see your Antwerp
friend, who insisted upon treating us to
maitrankj and spoiled his generosity with
his fusty bits of history."

Why, I thought }^ou liked to hear all
about Antwerp?"

The wedding incident was well enough,

but ah ! well, I think he was not a bad

sort of fellow, and I wish he had kept his promise
; I would like to have seen him again."

So you will, often I hope," said George.

Never, if I can help it I" I said to myself,
as I watched them leave the gardens,
and saw three French hats ostentatiously
raised to Mrs. Harmer as she swept the
ground with a train of crimson silk and
Brussels lace.

I believe I do the goddess, whom Ulysses
conquered, an injustice in using her name
to even suggest the wickedness of this woman,
who had beguiled an honest man of an
honourable love. The reader will have an
opportunity of holding the balances evenly
between the two, before this narrative is
ended. In that case he will of course dismiss
from his fancy the poetic glamour
which the immortal singer has thrown about
the goddess (whose name has passed into

current use to denote a vile woman), and
take into account only the fact of realistic
evidence as to character which would be
likely to appeal to the judicial mind of such
a person as Mr. Justice Miller.

What a small world it is ! Who would
have dreamed that I should have encountered
George Harmer on his wedding tour ! And
what a romantic world it is ! Little did he
think that I, whom he regarded as an aristocrat
travelling for pleasure, was simply a
common sailor on leave ; and that my business
at Brussels was to execute a trifling
commission for my captain, the master of a
Bristol barque.

I was destined at a later period to meet
Father Gabriello at Antwerp though not as
accidentally as I had met George Harmer and
his wife ; but between that time and the present
there rolled raging seas ; between then
and now there occurred unlooked-for incidents
of perils by land and water.

CHAPTER III.

I AM WRECKED AT SEA.

I think I was glad to get back to Rotterdam,
and to my humble corner in the forecastle
of the Phoebe. The captain received
me cordially, and my shipmates were evidently
glad to see me again. The captain's
wife approved of my selection of the trinkets
which I had made, in her interest, at the
command of her husband. She was a cheery
buxom woman of thirty, and it was a pleasant
sight to see her about the vessel in all
weathers.

There is something very humanising ina
petticoat aboard ship. The entire forecastle
agreed to that. Men saw the glimmer

of it during their labours, and thought of
their wives and sweethearts, or of their
mothers and sisters. One falls into a reflective
habit at sea. A woman links the past
and the present. She keeps the land green
in your memory. Even old Dick Smith, a
thorough sailor, said that after all it was a
pleasant thing to sign articles for a vessel
that had the captain's wife aboard, when the
captain's wife was hearty and cheerful, and
didn't have no airs."

The other day I picked up a book by a very
clever writer on nautical subjects, in which
there was a brief but graphic description of
a forecastle. It was called My Watch Below.
It is not given to every author to have served
before the mast ; nor, having the experience,
to depict the wild life that belongs to it. How
vividly my memory recalled The Phoebe, as
I read the author's tribute to " Jack," showing
him in the midst of his prosaic and trying
surroundings. I project my memory into the
forecastle of the Bristol barque, and in spite
of the general darkness, the miscellaneous

contents are in view — sea-chests spread about
the floor, most of them lashed ; oilskin coats
swinging from nails in the stanchions ; sea-boots
and sou-western lying here and there ;
hammocks slung fore and aft; at night a
sort of re shuffling of these things, and
men asleep; in the day-time the same rugged
fellows regaling themselves on fat pork and
dry biscuits with a relish that came rather
from hunger than from the inviting character
of the food; then changes of scene in the
same confined space from sleeping or eating ;
hurried cries of " All hands ! " at night,
before you have had time to get into your
first sleep ; and also days and nights of calm
when you could either sleep or talk ; but at
all times, in foul or pleasant weather, the
forecastle comes out in the memory a mysterious
place, the contents of which you can
never define.

It was a satisfaction to me to read " A
Seawater's " tribute to Jack. My experiences
fully endorse all he says in the sailor-men's
favour. Had it not been for the gentle

consideration shown to me by the men
who were first my fellow toilers, then my
companions, and finally my shipmates on The
Phoebe, I should, perhaps, have been lost
during my first voyage, for I was more than
once relieved of arduous duties, in bad
weather, which I strove to perform, and in
which I should have persevered at the risk of
my life. The men forgave my inexperience,
and shielded it out of respect for my earnestness
and good intentions. Then in the hours
of leisure, that come with specially fairweather,
I made myself as agreeable as I could
to the entire crew, and after a time was voted,
next to Dick Smith, the best hand at a yarn on
the ship ; and in due time I dare say I should
have become quite the cock of the fo'csle; buta
serious incident occurred to cut short the
joys and sorrows of both fo'csle and barque.

In return for yarns of the sea I told my
mates yarns of the land, picked up on my
travels here and there, anecdotes of Colonel
Ernstone, stories of sport in Worcestershire,
school experiences. They were simple-minded

unsophisticated men. My adventure at Dame
Skinner's seminary became quite a favourite
yarn. One night, beguiled by an extra glass
of grog, in honour of the skipper's birth-day,
served out at the request of his wife, T
found myself telling the story of Laudnum
Nannie and the pretty granddaughter who
ran away ; but, when I came to change the
scene from Scarsdale to the Villa Verona, I
altered the narrative entirely, and felt
ashamed, as if I had been on the verge of
exposing my tenderest feelings to a vulgar
crowd. That I could talk of her at all,
showed me that my wound was healing.

When my landsman yarns were exhausted
I related to them the story of Ulysses, partly
in the language of Pope, partly in the simple
words of Charles Lamb, but mostly in the
diction of the dear kind old Frenchman who
first stirred my youthful pulse with incidents
of the great classic romance. The adventures
of Ulysses proved to be a never-ending
theme. The illustrious Grecian's experiences
were not considered " out of the way," for

the olden days," some of the crew of The
Phoebe having seen mermaids within hailing
distance, two veterans having been
twice wrecked on Cannibal Islands, several
of them having seen wondrous things, all
of them being willing to believe anything
possible at sea, once you got out of your
course and were at the mercy of wind and
weather.

It was wonderful what strange romances
and exhibitions of natural phenomena the
experiences of these simple sailors covered,
what thrilling sights they had seen, what
curious things encountered, what mighty
evidences of oceanic powers they had witnessed.
They had hailed and boarded derelict
ships, which looked as if they had been
heading about since the days of Cabot, with
queer mariners aboard who could speak
no known language ; they had picked up
shipwrecked men, who had gone mad with
exposure during days and nights of cold and
stormy weather; they had seen dead men who,
saved by life-buoys, had perished of cold and

VOL. II. E

hunger, and whose corpses went on navigating
the broad ocean ; they had encountered
pirates in the Sulu seas, and being wrecked
had had narrow escapes from savages ; one
of them had an old friend who fought with
Nelson at Trafalgar ; another served onboard
a yacht, the owner of which had stood
out to sea in the very same vessel and witnessed
the battle of the Nile; another had
been in a fishing smack off Newfoundland
which was cut in two by an ocean steamer ;
old Dick Smith swore he had seen a mermaid
and a merman having a family quarrel, one
moonlight night, off Barbadoes ; several of
them had seen ghosts ; and underlying even
their most impossible yarns, there was always
an undoubted substratum of truth. A man
may keep to strict and sober facts, when he
is relating adventures of the sea, and still
have the most startling and impressive of
narratives to relate.

Take for example " A Story from the
Sea," which attracts my attention, as an
ordinary paragraph in a local newspaper,

while I am writing this very chapter. In the
North Pacific Ocean a Liverpool ship, " The
Respigadera," spoke a strange craft which
appeared to be cruising about quite aimlessly.
Presently a small boat was lowered from the
strange craft. The crew pulled for the
Liverpool ship. Encouraged to go on board,
they did so. Spoken to, they replied in a
language nobody could understand. The
English captain thought they might want
provisions. He gave them food. They
appeared to be grateful and left. It was
noticed that the junk was covered with barnacles
as if she had been many months at
sea. There was a woman on board. So far
as could be seen, she and the three men who
had boarded the Respigadera were the sole
occupants of the curious vessel. The incident
recalls to a writer in The Daily Telegraph
(that same nautical writer I will be bound
whom I have already quoted) the old story,
preserved in " Types'' concerning a whaler
which had been so long absent that she was
given up for lost. When last spoken shee
2

LfBRARY

university of illinois

was cruising somewhere at the ends of the
earth, her sails patched and quilted with
ropeyarn, her spars fished with pipestaves,
her rigging a mass of knots and splices,
whilst the ends of her running gear, with the
exception of the signal halliards and 
wnhaul, were led through snatch-blocks to
the capstan, so that nothing was done without
machinery. Her crew consisted of some
twenty ancient men in the last stage of decay ;
her hull was encrusted with barnacles ; and
three pet sharks (regaled every day from
the contents of the cook's bucket) followed in
her wake. It should be added to this reminiscence
of a delightful book that the
name of the vessel was " The Perseverance,"
and that at the period when the history in
question was being written the author supposed
that she was still, tacking twice in
the twenty-four hours, somewhere between
two well-known points fully noted in each
new edition of the South Sea charts.

After all, invented narrative is rarely
more remarkable than the reality; while

the latter has the advantage, for there is a
simplicity about truth, which, while it is impressive,
leaves something for the imagination
to work upon. Before I was in a position
myself to verify the possibilities of unknown
countries, I spent an evening once at Havre
with the captain of a vessel who had commanded
a trading steamer on the Amazon,
and I came to the conclusion that my friend
had "an eye for colour" that led him into
extravagance of description. Since then

I have seen But let us return to the

track of our narrative proper.

When we lifted our anchor for the last
voyage The Phoebe ever made I had intended
to supplement " Ulysses" with the story of
The Ancient Mariner." But the pleasure
of introducing the foc'sle to a new field of
romance had to give place to the enactment
of a series of real and terrible trials and
troubles. It was the 11th of April that we
sailed as before stated from Java for Sydney.
On May 6 we experienced heavy gales
from the N.N.W. which continuing with

i

great severity until the 10th of that month
the ship had to be hove to. Hardly had the
captain's instructions been carried out than
the doomed vessel sprang a leak and started
her stern-post. On the 12th the water was
pouring into her at such a rate that we had
to abandon her. There were only two
boats. The captain and his wife, the boatswain,
the steward, and six able-bodied seamen,
got into the long boat. The carpenter,
myself, three able-bodied, and two ordinary
seamen, took to the pinnace. We had with
us two bags of bread, some tins of meat, a
small barrel of pork, a bag of biscuits, and
a keg of water. The carpenter has stated
that when we pushed off from the foundering
ship we were so many degrees south and
west ; but as there is every reason to belie vt,
he was entirely wrong in his reckoning it is
useless to repeat his figures. It was about
five o'clock in the afternoon when we were
compelled to shove off lest our boat should
be stove in. When we abandoned the barque
there must have been ten feet of water in

her, but her masts and spars were standing,
and she was hove to. We pulled clear of
her, and for a time kept by her. She was
gradually sinking. For the time being I
think we thought more of her than of ourselves.
We were sorry for her. It was as if
we were assisting at the death-bed of a dear
friend. Somehow I found myself thinking
of my father. It seemed as if I heard the
funeral bell tolling at Scarsdale. Then I
was in the shadow of Breedon Hills with
my uncle, and I suppose I must have gone
to sleep, worn out with fatigue, for in a
little while it was dark and I thought I was
at the Villa Verona.

It turned out that a sea-fog had suddenly
come on and hidden the ship, as if Neptune,
willing to spare us the last sad scene
of all, had drawn a curtain between us and
the barque, leaving the distressed ship to
founder alone. In the darkness we also
parted company with the long boat, and to
this day nothing more has been heard of it
or those who were forced to trust themselves

in her to the tender mercies of the sea. I
am a religious man, and never go to bed
without praying to God and thanking Him
for the mercies he has vouchsafed to me ;
but I sometimes find myself questioning the
efficacy of prayer when such a fine boat's
crew goes down while less worthy are saved.
This of course is wrong, and only shows
that a man is indeed born in sin and shapen
in iniquity.

It is the old story from the Pagan
times to these. The sea will have tribute
from poor humanity. The companions of
Ulysses had to succumb to storm and tempest,
and to the barbarism of savage countries.
To-day we navigate the ocean on the same
conditions, so far as Nature is concerned, but
with such new and surprising aids that one
wonders how the ancient mariners, even outside
the mythical days of Ulysses, succeeded
in sailing their cockle-shells of ships to and
fro over the great waters. I shall never
forget how cheerily my companions in the
ship's pinnace braved the dangers and hardships

of several days and nights at sea, cold
and wet, sharing among them bread literally
soaked with sea-water, taking the labour in
turns with honest manly fairness, each
keeping from the other his fears that we
were destined to be starved or drowned.

It was on the fifth day of our lonely and
miserable voyage that we noticed a great
change in the temperature, and at night we
thought we sighted land. A dead calm fell
upon the sea, and with it a soft humid heat.
We thought we saw lights ahead. But we
had so often thought so that we came to the
conclusion, if we did see lights now it was
only the result of some phosphorescent condition
of the sea. Hope had begun to fade
out with us. We were growing weak and
despondent. Our water had given out on
the fourth day. But on this eventful fifth,
before the night was over, it rained. We
stripped ourselves and welcomed it. It was
a comfort to be warm, for we had at first
suffered from cold winds ; now we rejoiced
in a tropical heat. One of the able-bodied

seamen, who claimed to have been wrecked
in years gone by on a cannibal island, said he
should not wonder if we were somewhere off
New Guinea or Torres Straits. The carpenter
thought he had once seen a sight like
this off Fiji. Another seaman guessed we
were off Sulu or the Philippines. It had been
discovered, when too late, that we had only
an ordinary pocket compass on board, and
there was much doubt as to the correctness
of its register. With ever so good a one,
we had no means of taking observations, and
we had to be content with our lives and our
hopes. The old salt who had that experience
of disaster already mentioned said he
hoped the lights we thought we had seen
were not the native fires of the Bulonagan
islands.

We asked him why. The carpenter recalling
Ulysses said he did not care if we were
on the coast of Lestrygon itself so that we
were near land. The old salt said he had no
doubt we were near land. He could smell it ;
and he could hear the breakers. We tried to

realise these hopes for ourselves. I could
smell nothing but the salt sea, hear nothing
but the occasional sob of it against the bow of
the boat, as the pinnace rose and fell gently
with the swell of the calm ocean. Once I
thought I heard Fridoline's harp ; once I
felt sure T heard the soft singing notes of a
violoncello ; and I asked the carpenter if he
heard anything like music. He said no, he
was not even blessed with a singing in his
ears. The old salt said I was a trifle lightheaded,
and he gave me, I believe, the last
drain of rum which he had brought from the
ship in an old Birmingham flask.

If those lights meant the Bulonagans,
said the veteran, we were what they called
in Shoreditch out of the frying-pan into the
fire. What fire-arms had we ? It was dark
as pitch all the time we were talking. Well,
the carpenter said he had a brace of pistols ;
but he questioned if his ammunition was not
wet. One of the A.B.'s said there was a
loaded musket in the boat, several flasks of
powder, some bullets, buck-shot, and caps.

There were also two cutlasses, and every
man had a good knife.

As soon as it should be day, the veteran
advised us to look to our arms. Something
told him we were becalmed off the Bulona-
guns, and that not many hours would pass
before the natives boarded us.

Well, and what then, mate ? " asked the
carpenter.

Bloodshed ! " he said.

Cannot we conciliate the natives ? " I
asked.

What is that ? " was the reply.

"Make friends with them."

Perhaps ; if we can make them believe
we are strong enough to force our friendship."


Have they firearms?" I asked.

No," said the veteran, "they fight with
poisoned darts and spears."

"We must elect a leader," I said, "incase
we have to fight."

"And we shall," said the veteran, "if
we are in the latitude I suspect ; our only

chance of escape will be in some man of war
cruising about ; but it's just a mighty off
chance that is."

We elected the veteran to be captain.
He was to have the carpenter's pistols ; the
carpenter was to have charge of the musket ;
one of the cutlasses was confided to me ;
another to an A.B., and the others were
to use their knives. Every possible effort
was to be made towards a pacific understanding
with the natives. No single hostile
movement was to be made unless we were
attacked. If we should be unfortunate
enough to fail in our policy of conciliation,
then we were to sell our lives dearly under
the leadership of the senior A.B.

With the dawn we saw the land. I think
we all saw it at at once.

The Bulonagans ! " exclaimed the
veteran.

You may be wrong," said the carpenter.


I wish I might be," answered the
vet.

"You thought you heard breakers last
night; there is no surf yonder; the water
lies on the sand there as it does at Franklin
on a July morning."

Mates, you say I am to be your captain
? " said the senior A.B.

Aye, aye ! " we all answered.

Dawn almost means daylight in the
tropics. As the sun shot up into the sky
with a god-like radiance, our dispositions
for peace or war were made as already indicated.


We could see the yellow sands on the
beach not more than a couple of miles away,
and the radiant greens of tropical verdure.
The sea looked like a liquid carpet sparkling
with gems. During our perilous voyage I
had more than once said to myself, "it will
be no matter if I die." Now my desire
was strongly to live. A reminiscence of
Italy shot through my mind.

Presently we could see a movement on
the beach. We were evidently at the mouth
of a river that ran inland, and we were

drifting into the current of it, going in
slowly with the tide. Before we had fairly
arrived at this conclusion we saw that canoes
were putting off towards us.

In less than ten minutes three canoes
were well within sight. Very soon we could
see that there were five men and two women
in each. The natives were copper-coloured
and of a very dark hue. The canoes were
curiously built. They were literally three
pieces of wood, a bottom and two sides,
fastened together. This was evidently not
the first experience which the savages had
of a fugitive crew. Shipwreck was a
calamity of which they knew more than
we imagined. Several of them clambered
aboard the pinnace and commenced jabbering
and making what we interpreted into
signs of friendship. I gave one of them a
tobacco-box. The carpenter gave another a
scarf-handkerchief. The veteran eyed them
askance, and kept his pistols ready. Both
men and women were dressed very much
alike ; that is, they wore a sort of strong

about their loins. The women were tattooed,
and had necklaces of stones, and wore
what appeared to be pearls. The men were
tattooed only on the breast. The leader of
the expedition was not so dark as the rest,
and had a villainous and ferocious countenance.


When we had given such presents as we
had to give they leaped into the water and
sprang aboard their canoes beckoning us to
follow. We took up our oars to do so, one
of the A.B. seamen remarking that u they
is friendly surely, for they saint armed, nere
a one of them." This had already struck us
all I presumed as a favourable sign. The
veteran shook his head and eyed them
watchfully. All of a sudden, instead of the
canoes putting off, I saw the women handing
spears and clubs (which had evidently been
lying handy in the bottoms of the canoes) to
the men. My mates, with the exception of
our newly-elected captain, were off guard.
My warning and his came almost simultaneously
with the attack. The natives

leaped upon us. The ferocious leader fell
dead pierced by a well-aimed shot from one
of the veteran's pistols ; but the poor old
salt was literally spitted with a spear the
next moment. Two of the other able-bodied
seamen were killed with clubs before they
had time to use their cutlasses. I struck a
native through the neck and fell into the
water as I did so ; whereupon I was instantly
rescued and dragged into a canoe by one of
the attendant women. The two ordinary
seamen fought valorously, but were speedily
overpowered and their brains beaten out.
Though the carpenter cut one of his assailants
down with a cutlass-stroke that
almost severed the head from the body, the
natives only seized and bound him. Then
they flung overboard their own dead and
ours (having stripped the bodies), handed
the cutlasses, the still loaded musket, and
other things, to the women, who packed
them into the canoes, and proceeded to
paddle the pinnace towards the shore, where

VOL. II. F

by this time a great crowd of natives were
assembled.

I never saw the carpenter again, nor
heard of him until quite recently. I found
under curious circumstances an account of
his escape which had been dictated to a
reporter of The Telegraph or Daily News.
The story I need hardly say interested me
deeply, the more so that it inferred I had
been eaten by cannibals. I wish I possessed
the faculty to put my own narrative into
as few paragraphs as those which sufficed for
the carpenter and his collaborator. The entire
story did not occupy much more than two
columns of the newspaper, though it covered a
portion of the log of the lost vessel, the
details of her last moments, the sufferings of
five days and five nights in an open boat at
sea, the attack of the natives, the carpenter's
detention among them for several days, and
his final, almost miraculous, escape. As he
and I are to-day the only survivors (that is, if
he be still living, and one may fairly say if
in the case of a ship's carpenter), it will fit the

course of my own narrative best that I
should give his version of certain incidents
of our disaster that are out of my own knowledge,
and the particulars of which came tome
with singular opportuneness, and with
something of the grim flavour of a message
from the dead.

f2

CHAPTER IV.

THE CARPENTER'S REPORT.

Dick Smith," says the carpenter in the
newspaper report, " the able-bodied seaman
whom we elected captain for the time being,
was right in predicting that we was drifting'
on to the Bulonagan islands, which I reckon
is somewhere off New Guinea, between the
Finis and the Philippines. If you looks at
the chart you'll see as there is several islands
in that latitude, some o' them not marked
proper, and some there is as is most like not
on the chart at all. Dick Smith, the veteran
as we called him, told us this ; and, says he,
when we was a nearing them ' I can smell
'em,' which was the tropical vegetation ashe

smelt, no doubt. Well, it was after the
fighting as I told you of that they cleared
the boat, and kep' me tied, and begun to
paddle for the beach. I could see my mate,
the orniry seaman as I spoke on, in one of
the canoes. His name were Horris, a youngish
chap, — well, say about thirty, as come
aboard original at Bristol, a swell in his way,
as had had a row with his governor, or somebody
; and our captain, he took a fancy to
him like, through a known' a Gloucester
barges, as owned his own vessel, and made
much of this Horris; and it was wonderful
how soon he picks up his soothes, though it
was not surprising' as we all got to like the
chap. He was the life and soul of the fo'csle,
what with his yarns and his songs, and one
thing and another, and, when I thinks of his
fate among them brute-minded savages, I a'
most wish I could a' bin with him to ha'
made a last stand as it were, and died game,
coming' on them sudden like when they left
us at liberty, as they did me. Two chaps
when they are together in adversity they

can work together in thought and deed, but
one by himself among savages is a poor lookout,
I can tell you.

But, as I was a say in', they paddles to
the shore, the canoe leading'. Dick Smith
was wrong about hearing' breakers. We just
slid up the beach as quiet and easy as if we
was at Margate, except for the row as the
savages made a yelling and dancing like mad.
The orniry seaman, Horris, stepped ashore
with his captors, and was led away into the
interior. I could see him going up a sheepish
path on the high ground as bordered the
beach, and he disappeared with about twenty
natives a following. Poor chap, I can see
him now in my mind's eye, as the savin' is,
turn at the top of the bank just afore going'
on the other side, and wave his hand, as
much as to say ' Good by, Carpenter, old
fellow.' And then he was gone — food,
says I to myself, for the Bulonagans, as I
shall be when they're ready for their dinners.
Ah! you may smile at that, and I essay the
thought do seem odd, but you do have queer

ideas when you find yourself stuck 'a-tween
wind and water, as I may be said to ha'
bin at that moment, a- wishing as we'd all
stopped aboard and gone down with The
Phoebe.

u When we got ashore they undid such
of the thongs as prevented me from walking,
and then they hauled up the ship's pinnace
high and dry, and motioned to me as I were
to go with the party in a direction quite different
to that where the orniry seaman Horris
had gone. I made signs for that direction,
but they pushed me the 'tother way and
threatened me with spears. We walked on
for a mile or so to a creek, and then we
turned into the interior, and after going
about a mile through jungle we come to a
clearing and a few huts made of leaves and
fenced round with bamboo canes. Then I
was as it seemed to me handed over to the
chief, an old but strong looking savage, who
felt me over as if I'd bin a ox. At this I
gathered they begun to tell their adventures
and all about the fight, shouting and screaming

as they did so, and brandishing their
spears and clubs. It seemed to me as they
was a keeping something back, for the old
savage was asking them something which
they kep' on not telling him ; till at last one
of 'em as had a wound in the leg came forward,
and pointing to it, imitated Dick
Smith a shooting with his pistol, and then
flung up his arms and pretended to fall dead,
At this the chief's face was terrible to see.
His eyes stared out of his head, and the
veins in his temples was like knots. He
sized a wretch who was nigh est him and
flung him to the ground, and then, taking
from a girdle a great knife, rushed upon me ;
but, just as I thought he was a going to do
for me, he gave a great cry as if he was in
pain, and went into his 'ouse or hut or wigwam,
whatever he might have called it.

Then if you believe me it was like
Pandemonium broke loose, what with dancing
and yelling and the banging of a sort of
drum ; and a lot of girls and women comes
out all of a sudden with drink and food, and

they give to me as if I was a friend. The
drink was a sort of spirit, and bimeby it
made 'em all wild drunk, and so they continued
all night. I forgot to say as they
undid me and give me free use of my limbs,
but three fierce savages with spears was told
off as my guard. I could see that, and they
kep' a pretty close watch on me, showing
me every now and then as they meant to
kill me if I tried to escape.

Next day they gave me more freedom
and this increased, and I began to have hopes
as I was not been' kep' to be eaten, seeing as
they fed me badly and let me get thinner
and thinner, and I was pretty considerable
weakened by the time the next comer turned
up. This was as far as I can reckon twenty -
five days after the murder of my comrades
in the boat. They had took me along to
the beach, and there I see a ship's boat in
tow of several canoes, and it turned out as
there was a Portuguese sailor aboard. This
man told nie later on as the Bulonagans had
captured him something the same way as

they had took me. They had enticed a
ship-wrecked crew on shore and then
murdered them, all but him ; and the next
day they brought ashore an Indian sailor, a
Lascar, I suppose he was, and he spoke a
little English ; and just what I had been
told by the Portuguese seemed to be his fate,
so there had been some pretty bad weather
in them seas. He was one of a crew as had
escaped from a wreck, all but him to be
stayed as my poor mates was, only neither
of the other crews had had a fight for it as
we had.

I wondered why we was saved, and
the Lascar I gathered thought it might be
to get rewards for us from some passing
ship, for he said we was not far out of the
track of Pacific steamers. The natives
allowed us to talk together, but continued
yelling and threatening us ; now appearing
friendly and the next minute blood-trusty.
At night we encamped on the beach, the
canoes being turned up as a sort of shelter,
the ship pinnace on her side, and fires lighted,

though it was a hot summer, as it seemed tome.
The next day we was separated, me
and the Portuguese and the Indian, and
three days after I was took to another part
of the island, still near the coast, where I
could see other islands a few miles away.
This part was a spot as I should say they
went to occasionally, as there seemed no
village near ; however they run up huts by
a stream as came down a hill-side and made
out to the sea-shore. While we was here
there was no women with us, but the three
guards as was over me kep' by me all the
time. We hadn't been here two nights afore
a number of other savages arrived. They
was lighter coloured than the others and
had more on. Their weapons was also more
ornamented, such as the handles of their spears,
and they carried short swords made of a hardwood
and bound with a metal like silver.
There was a great palaver, and they smoked
pipes. I signified as I would like to smoke,
and the new savages I could see wished me
to smoke though they had not appeared to

notice me much. My three guards seemed
to object, but the head of the strange tribe
stood up and gave me a pipe ; it was made
of wood, with a straw stem, and the tobacco
was curious to the taste but comforting. I
motioned how grateful I was, and as well as
I could signified as I wished they would not
leave me with the Bulonagans. They looked
as if they understood and seemed as if they
pitied me. When you don't understand a
language it is surprising how you get into
the way of reading faces.

It was the next day when the new
party of savages as I most fancied had a sort
of farewell palaver with my party, and there
was more smoking, some of the canoes being
already launched. If I died for it I determined
to go with them. I could see as they
was powerful and feared, and I thought I
might have a better chance of escape from
them than the Bulonagans. When the chief
as allowed me to smoke appeared to be
going, I flung myself in a sort of appealing
way before him and he patted me on the

shoulder ; but one of the three seized me and
raised his spear as if to strike. The chief of
the departing tribe looked at me as much as
to say l it won't do for me to interfere, but if
you can get into my canoe anyhow when its
shoved off we are not the chaps to stop and
give you up.' His canoe was quite as big as
the ship's pinnace and was manned by a
dozen rowers or paddlers ; I daresay it would
be called by the Salus or more civilised
people a prahu. Just as it shoved off I
leaped into it and crawled towards the stern,
and the next minute I hears a great yell, and
we was a going through the water like a
steam-launch. I looked up bimeby and see
as the Bulonagans had launched their canoes
and came after us, but the Naudiks (for these
were my new masters) were too far ahead.
They paddled away as if nothing had happened,
taking no notice of either the pursuers
or me. We continued in this way for hours,
nobody speaking except once in a way the
chief as if giving an order.

It was nigh upon morning before the

Naudiks could have rested much, though
they lay upon their oars or paddles once ina
way ; and before the sun was up I see the
smoke of a steamer ; and they see it too just
as quick as me. All the whole flotilla was
ordered to heave to, and the chief in the big
canoe stands up and palavers. Then the
paddles was shipped and rations was served,
which was rice and fruit and a sort of drink
that tasted something like raw spirits and flat
beer ; and then there was smoking all round,
and after that some of them jumps into the
sea and swims and dives and larks about.
The chief, I could gather from his manner
and what followed, ordered them to give
me food and to let me smoke and make
much of me, and in due course he points
to the steamer and nods at me and touches
his breast, and then points again as much
as to say ' we go put you on steamer,' and
I nods and makes signs to thank him. All
this time the steamer was making towards
us, though of course she did not know it,
and if it had not been for a thinking of

that poor young chap Horris I should have
felt happy, though, mind you, I also felt
sorry enough for them other shipmates as
had been killed. But it appeared to my
thinking as that educated mate of mine,
though no more nor a orniry seaman, his
fate was perhaps the worst. As you say, he
might have escaped, there is no known',
but they took him I'm afeared into the
interior of the island, and poor old Dick
Smith he swore that they was just as much
man-eaters as them savages wot Ulissis come
across. You arse wot I knows of Ulissis,
why that ere Horris as I keep a telling you
of he was telling us about that captain's
travels continual. He was a Greek, so
Horris said, as was well known at one time
and navigated all the known seas of his day
afore Captain Cook voyaged round the
world.

Bimeby the steamer went on another
tack, and the smoke got less, and then the
order was given to make for her; and the
canoes went away as if the object was to

intercept her; and to make a long story-short
we come up with her afore night, and
she proved to be a sort of coasting steamer
as run between Singapore and Sulu and
about them seas ; but this time she had
made a trip to New Guinea, and had bin
induced to go out to some islands to the
eastward on a little private trading expedition,
which was the reason of our sighting
her.

The captain was a Scotchman, and
when he see me he takes me aboard and I
tells him what has happened, and he has the
Naudiks aboard and gives them a knife or
two, a baccy box, some old sardine tins, a
lot of beads, and a roll of cloth, and thanks
them in their own language, and the chief
gives him a spear and invites him to come
and see the Naudiks and trade with them.
The vessel was called The Pioneer, and the
captain he told me as I had had a tights
narrow escape, and he says the Bulonagans
is weary little known and never visited by
ships of any kind, not even cruisers, and that

the island is not named on the charts, but
comes in among the unexplored spots you
sees a indicated on the maps, and he was
quite prepared to believe as they would eat
human flesh though he had never heard of
Ulissis.

I was took to Singapore eventual and
well treated, and the Consul he put me in
the way of getting to London and I was
advised by a passenger, as was in the newspaper
line, to go along of him to the newspaper
office and spin my yarn to the editor ;
and that's the whole truth ; and now I'm a
going' to Bristol to report to the owners of The
Phoebe, which I think I ought to have done
afore coming here, but you have promised
to make it all right with them, and it is as
you say for the public good as my statement
should appear in print; and perhaps the
friends of Mr. Horris, as no doubt is a swell,
you thinks will send out a expedition to
investigate about him."

And this was the carpenter's story, beguiled
from him as intimated in the last

VOL. II. G

few lines of his narrative, in the public
interest ; and I have since been told that it
made a great sensation, the greater that
several distinguished aristocratic families
fancied they saw in Mr. Horris a missing
heir. But nobody appears to have imagined
for a moment that Horris the orniry sailor
was Horace Durand, though the Ulysses clue
might have been expected to arrest the attention
of my uncle if he had seen it. Neither
he nor Colonel Ernstone ever saw the report,
though it was headed " Wreck of the Phoebe
Terrible adventures with Savages — The
Carpenter's Narrative." It is also quite possible
that none of my present readers may
remember coming across this incident of the
awful gales that disturbed the Pacific and
Indian Ocean during the fatal spring when
The Phoebe and many other sailing-ships
came to grief. It is none the less strange that
among a bundle of old French newspapers
on board a P. and 0. steamer, many eventful
months after the carpenter was interviewed
by The Daily Telegraph or the Daily News,

I found his statement, which had been translated
into French, and published in the
Debate.

If the carpenter be still alive the following
pages referring to my detention among
the Bulonagans will interest him not less than
his narrative has interested me.

G 2

CHAPTER V.

A CAPTIVE TO Man-eaters.

As I said before, I was no sooner landed
than I was hurried away into the interior of
the island.

It turned out that I was considered the
booty of the women. The ladies of Bulona-
gan were not a particularly privileged set.
No Married Woman's Property Act had been
passed in their interest by a conscientious
male legislature. They had no Dramatic
School of Art specially founded to save sensitive
aspirants for histrionic honours from the
drudgery of a provincial probation. No
Female Protection Societies existed in Bulo-
pagan to look after their physical and moral

welfare ; no Social Science Congress lectured
them on the hygiene of dress. Nevertheless,
without these legal, social, and scientific
aids, they one and all discarded tightly-laced
corsets and high-heeled boots. They held
themselves as erect as if they had been
practising the Boucicaultian regime of head-weights
all their lives. Their figures were
lithe and graceful ; and if their faces had
been beautiful then indeed they would have
been perfect creatures.

Unhappily the Bulonagan women were
decidedly ugly, and as if to establish their
sex beyond dispute, having indulged in
no unnatural reduction of the waist and
feet, they dragged down the ears with ornaments,
and tattooed their cheeks and foreheads.
Married women had three jagged
lines just above the eyebrows, maidens were
embellished with circular designs upon the
cheeks. Apart from these blemishes they
had broad mouths, vicious-looking eyes, and
a general aspect of countenance that was
abominable.

And I was their especial property! This
was the result of some mysterious bargain of
the men with the women. I represented a sort
of annual gift in acknowledgment of their assistance
on sea-raids ; a tribute ordained by the
god of the Bulonagans, when it was believed
he had drunk too much " arachne." If once
in so many moons the women chose to rescue
a fugitive from death he was theirs. They
made him their slave, or they ate him, whichever
pleased them best. This gift was not
only regarded as the result of the intoxication
of the god of the island, but was considered
to be indicative of the contempt the Bulona-
guns entertained for the white man. They
had had no real intercourse whatever with
Europeans, and were regarded even by other
dusky inhabitants of these eastern seas with
fear, and dread, and loathing. They had,
nevertheless, powerful neighbours, such as
the Kututus and the Naudiks, who were
superior to this sense of fear. The Bulona-
guns were, in short, outcasts among outcasts,
barbarians despised of barbarians, and, I

think, had I known this before instead of
after my captivity, I should have been inclined
to drown myself rather than have
risked the perils of detention among such a
people.

Nautical saw that Ulysses was properly
clothed for presentation at the court of
Alcinous. Lofulu, the ex-chief's daughter,
whose spoil I was, acted in quite a contrary
fashion, distributing my garments among her
maids, for so I venture to call a dozen young
women who appeared to be in attendance
upon her. She was a tall shapely savage,
with her ears, however, dragged down upon
her shoulders. The weather was frightfully
hot, and I was glad to be relieved of some of
my garments, and, though I did anything
but laugh at the time, I have often done so
since, at the remembrance of the ridiculous
figures Lofulu and her women cut in my
apparel.

After a long weary march over paths
that looked like tracks made by animals,
we came to a small village, where we were

»

received by some thirty or forty natives of
both sexes. I was conducted to a hut or
house of larger dimensions than the others
a long low building surrounded by a
stockade. Here I was presented to an old
chief who had been the head man of the
tribe, but was now deposed and condemned
to a life of royal ease. So soon as a Bulo-
pagan chief shows signs of physical decay,
he is put aside for a more stalwart warrior.
They believe in youth, on this desolate and
uncivilised island, just as much as Disraeli
did when he held up for the world's admiration
Nelson, Clive, John de Medici, Gustavus
Adolphus, Gaston de Fix, and Innocent
III. the greatest of the popes. At the
same time the Bulonagans require in their
chiefs a powerful physique. They would
be too clever to appoint for any great service
of arms a decrepid and worn-out chief ;
but not clever enough to estimate the possibilities
of youthful enthusiasm in a weakly
frame. I remember Colonel Ernstone telling
me a story of the boyish days of Malcolm,

the famous general. The East India Board
of Directors, struck with his fragile and
almost childish appearance, hesitated about
sending him out with an important command.
My little man," said one of the directors,
what would you do if you met Hyde Ali?"
Do?" replied the young soldier, " I would
out with my sword and cut off his head, sir."
"And I believe you would," was the director's
reply.

The old ex-chief was Lofulu's father.
She and her attendant women were the
aristocratic maidens of the Bulonagans,
intended for the wives of chiefs. They
were the leaders of Bulonagan society, the
great ladies of the Bulonagan Mayfair. At
least I came to this conclusion for various
reasons, but I did not stay long enough
in the island to arrive at a complete and
definite opinion as to their real and proper
status.

They treated me with more consideration
in the first days of my captivity than I expected
to receive, giving me a bed-room (if

an apartment constructed of bamboo, through
the crevices of which they watched me continually,
can be called a room), and allotting
to me a male guard of the most revolting
type. It seems that in Bulonagan, while
they despise physical weakness and have no
faith in the wisdom of old age, they are in
awe of anything like a great physical deformity.
The guard whom they placed over
me was among them a person of great distinction.
They called him Datutong. He
was a hideous dwarf of great strength, a
blear-eyed, bow-legged, broad-shouldered
(one shoulder much higher than the other),
splay-footed (his feet were those of a giant)
Caliban, an able-bodied imp of darkness.
Although I do not know that I had ever
remembered reading Hans of Iceland after I
was a boy at Scarsdale (and 1 have never
seen that wonderful book since), memories of
Hans leaped into my mind almost the
moment I saw him, and all of a sudden I
felt that my head was in danger of being
converted into a drinking cup, replenished

with something more awful than the coal-black
wine that was such a favourite liquor
with the Macleod of Dare.

This Datutong wore a heavy short wooden
sword, mounted with a silver band, and he
carried a long spear. He was very dusky,
his hair grey, and his nose Bardolphian in
hue and character.

I recall that the first night ashore among
these wretches I slept as soundly as if I had
been at " The Cedars " and on good terms
with my uncle; and the next morning I
wondered how I could have slept through
the bad odours and the numerous insects
that infested my couch. Soon after sunrise
I was aroused to bathe in a lake whither all
the village repaired. But for the presence
of my companions I could have imagined
myself in Paradise, so perfectly lovely were
the surroundings. With the Bulonagans
around me it seemed as if Satan might have
stormed the citadel of heaven and just
taken possession of the land for which negro
minstrelsy is continually preparing its golden

slippers. I once heard a negro preacher in
an American church describe the plains of
Paradise. It was a tropical picture which the
black orator drew, and it was crowded with
coloured people. I can now easily imagine
what sort of a scene the negro idea was.

After the bath we all more or less
wandered aimlessly for a time in the shade,
but presently came to a sort of barbaric
temple, made of bamboos and dried palm-leaves.
Thence came a savage who was, I
suppose, its high priest. We made a circle
round about him and he handed to Datutong
a bowl of oil, with which certain of the men
and women anointed their bodies. Then the
entire tribe gave three distinct yells or
whoops, and the priest fetched from the
temple a ponderous jar from which he regaled
them with a liquor that was quick in its
intoxicating powers. It was only drunk by
the men, who under its influence danced and
shrieked, fought imaginary battles with
imaginary foes, and at last fell insensible
upon the ground. This I afterwards learnt

was their reward for the capture of The
Phoebe's pinnace.

On the next day there was celebrated, at
the same place, the recognition by the god
Banganigan of the sovereign and other rights
of Lofulu and her friends over the captive
white man rescued in or after battle. Led
by my swarthy Caliban, and accompanied
by the women, I was requested by signs to
stand at the entrance to the grove which
surrounded the barbaric temple. Presently
the priest, followed by the women walking
in solemn procession, came to me and
led me into the interior of the place. It
was a long low apartment. On the floor
there were several mats made out of European
cloth (the plunder of wreckage, the
loot of murderous raids on fugitive boats) and
others woven of some strange fibre. On the
walls were hung a miscellaneous collection
of skulls (trophies of knife and club) and
European weapons. The cutlasses and the
musket of The Phoebe were already among
the decorations. How soon my head should

be added to the museum of curiosities appeared
to me to be a topic of conversation
among the ladies of the court. In the
centre of the apartment was a carved log,
which might have served both for an altar
or a butcher's block.

I suspect I must have had quite the
appearance of a victim either for torture or
death. My dress was a sort of strong, something
like a Highlander's frock. Lofulu
wore my sailor's jacket (in spite of the
heat) ; another young lady wore my handkerchief
as a scarf; a third had converted
my waistcoat into a head-dress ; a fourth wore
my flannel shirt as a petticoat ; and my guard
had hung my boots round his neck by the
laces. This Datutong was, I afterwards
learned, a person of great distinction. The
utmost solemnity of demeanour was observed
by the entire party. I felt more annoyed than
frightened, more humiliated than alarmed.
Once I was almost tempted to rush upon the
savage, who had converted my boots into
lockets, and die fighting. The moment it

dawned upon me that I was being nothing
more nor less than dedicated to the sacrifice,
this impulse was very strong. Strange to say
it was checked by a sudden recollection of my
father's reading of the adventures of Ulysses
in the cave of Polyphemus, and the moral
which he drew for me never to do anything
rashly. I remembered also that he said
cunning sometimes overcame strength, that
it was always darkest before the dawn, and
that Nil despercmdum was a motto to lay to
heart.

It is very odd what strange things will
occur to you in the height of danger, and on
the eve of what appears to be certain death.
A man tries to murder you, and you have
afterwards a vivid recollection of the colour of
his neck-tie. Your house is blown up by an
explosion, and the first thing you remember
is that three years before a patch of plaster
had given way in your dining-room, which
you now recall as a warning of the coming
fall of the entire terrace. Standing by the
side of that chopping-block of the cannibal

Bulonagans (for they were indeed man-eaters
as poor Dick Smith had declared them to
be) I thought first of my father and the
Cyclops, and then of my uncle Grantley and
what he would think if he could see me in
my Bulonagan attire and in the company
that then surrounded me. He would probably
have remarked, with an air of satirical
disappointment, that my poor mother was
right in predicting I should come to no good,
and that after all Welby understood character
better than he did.

Standing by the altar or the decorated
block, I was surrounded by my captors, who
joined hands and encompassed me. Then the
priest signified that I should advance towards
him and receive a sort of necklet of
stones, shells, and what appeared to be
pearls, with a pendant of wood, two or three
inches long, shaped like a fork or trident.

All at once I thought I had misconceived
the character and intentions of the savages.
They were about to make me a valuable
present, preliminary to setting me at liberty.

The Lascar was right," I thought. " They
will make much of me and then go forth to
put me on board some foreign ship and obtain
their reward."

I stepped forward with alacrity towards
the chief priest or butcher or whatever he
might be properly called, and the moment I
did so the entire crowd broke up the circle,
danced, yelled, shrieked, and laughed,
several of them indulging in acts of contortion
which would have excited the envy
of the Votes family had they witnessed the
extraordinary performance. This rather
heightened than depressed my hopes of
ultimate freedom. The chief placed the
ornamental collar round my neck, and as he
did so the women joined hands and danced
round me again, with expressions that I
could see were intended to be joyous.

The truth was, instead of all this meaning
that I was to be released, it demonstrated
that I had been " condemned to the oven,"
in token of the good pleasure of the Bulona-
gan god.

VOL. II. H

I learnt at a subsequent period that the
yell of delight set up when I advanced towards
the priest or butcher, was for the
reason that I had put out my right leg first,
which was the accepted sign of my destiny
as food for Lofulu and her favoured women.

Ever since this grim discovery I have
never heard speculative passengers betting as
to which foot the American pilot would place
first on the ocean steamer's deck, when
leaving his own boat to take charge of the
passenger ship, without feeling a peculiar
thrill, almost of horror.

CHAPTER VI.

I MAKE THE ACQUAINTANCE OF THE IRISH
KING OF KUTUTU.

It is hard to realise the fact that there
are still existing in this nineteenth century
man-eating savages. Such stories you think
may be all very well in " The Odyssey,"
and even there the idea may be another
allegory of Time.

You would not probably have believed,
unless recently assured by a newspaper correspondent,
that there exists to this day the
hideous punishment of " overhauling " in
Egypt. You do not dream of the other tortures
which are part of the legal regime of the
successors to Pharaoh. There is nothing worse
H 2

in the rites of Bulonagan, so far as physical
pain is concerned, than the march of Russian
prisoners to Siberia; and Parisian epicures
to-day eat horse, which to my thinking is
only the next step to eating man. Even in
some parts of England it is not an uncommon
thing for a person to have his ear or his
nose bitten off by a contestant in a drunken
brawl.

Although the Bulonagans are as wicked a
type of savage as the old Fijians, I saw
nothing in their island more barbarous than
the old English ducking-stool, the crank, or
the thumb-screw ; while the records of the
Italian inquisition are far ahead of anything
in the way of torture that the history of the
Persians, the North American Indians, or the
Bulonagans can identify. In judging the
natives among whom I was a captive, therefore,
I am bound to say that the worst thing
I know of them is that they eat human
flesh.

It is well established that in remote parts
of the Fiji islands the savages still eat their

human victims. A recent traveller in the
Dutch territories of Borneo interviewed an
old Tring Dyak, who acknowledged to
eating seventy persons. Reports of missionary
labours in Fiji within the last ten or
fifteen years bristle with incidents of cannibalism.
As late as 1851 fifty bodies of a
tribe, slain in battle by another tribe, were
cooked and eaten at Namena in Fiji. The
oven was a leading institution there, far more
so than it is in Bulonagan, where human flesh
is looked upon as a luxury for great occasions.


There are few men I suspect who have
been dedicated to the oven that can say they
have ever escaped. Mr. Herman Melville, who
was a captive for four months among the
natives of a valley of the Marquesas islands,
may be quoted against me by some of my
readers; but in the first place it is pretty
clear that he was never formally given over
for sacrifice; and in the next place it has
been doubted by very able critics whether
Mr. Melville's alleged history is not entirely

apocryphal. We live in an age of unbelief,
and I should not wonder that critics will be
found to question some of the details of my
experiences, even though the shipwreck of The
Phoebe, and the carpenter's report, have appeared
in the London daily papers, and been
translated into both French and German for
publication in the Debate and the National
Zeitung ; and in spite of the fact that a year
or two ago I myself published a curious incident
of my stay among Sulu pearl-divers,
signed with my name, in a singularly veracious
paper called Society. It is true nobody
questioned the honesty of that narration.
Doubters were probably deterred by a footnote
of justification from the travels of a
reputable writer who knows the countries of
the Eastern and the Pacific seas, even more
intimately than I do. Footnotes in a work
exercise, I believe, a deterrent influence upon
critics who are in a hurry. I had serious
thoughts in this department of my autobiography
of quoting Strabo, Brooke, Mundi,
Tulliver, Boyle, Bock, Spenser, Stanley,

Thomas Moore, Colonel Knox, Barnet Phillips,
Alden, and other distinguished travellers,
in a series of elaborate footnotes ; but I am
advised that it is better to rely on my own
name, as a guarantee of truthfulness, rather
than attempt to back up the veracity of my
adventures with evidence of other remarkable
events from historic sources. I shall be
tempted, I fear, in one or two instances, to
use the footnote notwithstanding.

On the day following the gift of the
extraordinary necklet, with which my person
was now adorned, I was aroused from a
fitful slumber, early in the morning, by the
sounds of what appeared to me to be a drum
and fife. I began to fear that I was delirious,
from hunger and anxiety, for I had eaten
but very little of the food which formed the
menu of the Bulonagan banquets. I listened
as Jessie Brown might have done for the
pibroch of the Highlanders going to the
relief of Lucknow. The sound came nearer
and nearer, and all the village was astir.
My guard intimated that I was to "get up

quick," as he wanted to join his friends who
were going forth to meet the coming guests
or foes. I " hurried up' as my American
friends say, with all dispatch, and soon found
myself in the thick of a throng that continually
uttered a word which seemed to me
like "Kututu!"

What astonished me most was the
positive fact that some person was playing
a penny whistle, that the tune emitted therefrom
was " Garry Owen," and that a drum
was being beaten to the familiar melody byway
of keeping time.

Presently at a bend of the narrow path,
which was shaded by tall palms and a wild
fringe of impenetrable jungle, there appeared
a party of savages dressed in gay colours,
and of a far superior intellectuality to the
Bulonagans. In their midst was a tall
warrior, far lighter in colour than the others,
who was playing upon a tin-whistle, similar
to those which are common among the
youth of English cities, and by his side
was a grinning barbarian beating something

not unlike an Indian tum-tum. The
whistler wore a unique head-dress of feathers
(rather suggestive of North America than
the countries of the Eastern seas), a pair of
decided linen trousers, shoes or boots, and a
loose robe of a material that I could not
identify. The drummer wore a sash round
his waist and loins, and a turban on his head
decorated with a pearl roughly set in a metal
that looked like dull silver. He was tattooed
on the breast with the design of a bird, and
he wore an armlet made of stringed stones
and shells.

The Bulonagans set up a great shout.
The king of the Kututus (for the whistler
was no less a personage) waved his hand.
His followers halted. He went forward and
greeted a person whom I had not yet seen,
and whom I afterwards learned was the
chief of the island, to whom Lofulu was
betrothed. He was a young full-blooded
savage, quite naked, with the exception of a
gorgeous sash wound about his loins and a
band of curious texture about his head.

He advanced towards the gaily attired
King of Kututu, raising his spear as if
to strike him, and just as quickly breaking
it across his knee and laying it down for the
Kututu king and his followers to walk over ;
this being the outward form and sign of the
Bulonagan submission to Kututu, an adjacent
island kingdom to which the Bulonagans
paid tribute.

It is part of my privilege as king of
Kututu," said the monarch of the whistle
with a strong Irish accent, "to converse
with any Bulonagan captives that may be
cognisant of the English language ; but it is
against the treaties which bind these blackguards
to me to connive at their escape''

I have heard persons in Scarsdale, when
I was a boy, say in regard to the influence of
some special surprise that you might have
knocked them down with a feather. I
realised what they meant the moment the
Kututu king began to speak. A sudden
faintness seized me ; I staggered and should
have fallen but for the rough assistance of

my guard ; whereupon the king addressed
himself, in the native language, to his vassal
of Bulonagan, after which he turned to me
and said :

The blackguard declare it's your own
fault; you won't eat, they say, and it is
against the laws of your position, at this
moment, that they can give you anything to
drink but water."

Before I could answer him he was once
more addressing the Bulonagan chief.

He says he knows nothing of you ; that
you are the women's prize. And, bi jabers,
you ought to be proud of that, the state
creatures that they are ! "

He chucked Lofulu under the chin as
familiarly as if she had been a Kilkenny bog-trotter.


Ah, my lad'' he said, turning to me,
if I were to do that, once she is his wife,
one of us would be a corpse before the
day's over. It's a different thing in ould
Ireland, God rest it ! Out here you mayn't
as much as take a squint at a man's wife

but you may take a maiden on your
knee even if she's betrothed and a chief's
daughter."

He spoke to me as if we were old friends
and as though there was nothing at all
singular in our meeting.

Ah, mi boy, it's a pity you didn't come
ashore with a penny whistle and a six-shooter,
an' then you might have annexed the blackguards,
and we could have been royal neighbours,
and had our political troubles, and
an occasional war mayhap. Ah, the pity
of it ! I heard of your landing, and so
stepped round to palaver. They've had
you up at the chapel and shown you the
craniums and things ; I see they have by that
same token round your neck. Don't spake,
and don't hope ; you are a doomed man !
You should have stepped out with the left
foot, and then they would have kept the
condemned necklace for the next gossoon ;
they mean to roast you; tomorrow they
will show you the oven ; to-night I'll act as
your father confessor, and maybe put you upto

a wrinkle. It's a privilege I enforced in
my treaty to help the captive of the club
and the knife, if he be a white, to find his
way, after death, to the white man's heaven''
Anyhow," I said, " it will be a comfort
to shake a fellow-countryman's hand at the
last and say good-bye in English."

"Ah, by St. Patrick, and there's the
trouble ; you're no fellow countryman
o' mine ; dive a bit would I be here at all
if it had not been for the persecution of the
Saxon, bad luck to the lot o' ye ! It's
music to hear the old language for all that,
and as a king it's the haste I can do to say
a kind word to a fellow-creature who spaces
it before he starts on his long journey."

Three for you, Pat, mi boy ! " I
answered, with an effort at bravado which I
did not feel.

Ah, git out, don't think to come that
over me, ye Saxon dog in a Norman skin !
Just see the black dives skip to my whistle,
notice the revolver that's sticking in my
girdle, and then feel surprised if ye dare at

the shipwrecked mate of the Lily of Killarney
being king of Kututu, outside the confines
of civilisation, with a harem as numerous
as the Grand Turk and an army of
cut-throats akewal to the troops of a
Sultan of Egypt."

I'm not surprised at anything a bold
Irish boy accomplishes," I said; " but I am
mightily ashamed to meet a real Irish king
without being free to do him honour."

Ah, git out with your blarney, and I
shouldn't wonder if your mother was an
Irishman," said his majesty.

No, but my father was a Frenchwoman,"
I said, in a mock tone of banter and defiance.

And ye look it !" he replied.

Let the fact make us friends, and give
me the means to get out of the infernal
scrape you find me in'' I said.

I am now just about to send you back
haughtily as if rejecting your apple, and I
shall point to the sky where the whites
believe they go to when they are dead, and
I shall then take up that little weapon which

hangs to the beads round your neck and
turn it the other way, which means that I
cannot interfere with the decrees of the god
of the Bulonagans ; but we will meet again
at night, when these blackguards dare not
leave their fires for fear of the Evil One, and
it's myself will help you if possible ; if you
had the pluck of Ould Ireland in your veins
mayhap I could ; but oblige me by only
expecting the worst."

Which is the way to achieve the best,"
I said ; " though I'm not particularly wedded
to life, I don't want to die here, and I would
like to be buried decently."

You'll not be buried at all if ye die
here," he answered; " only think of the
bliss of being eaten by Lofulu ! But now to
cast you off! Just watch how pleased the
blackguards will be !"

He thereupon uttered a series of threats
waving me aside and telling me not to mind
what he said. Then he took up the miniature
fork, the pendant to the barbaric necklace,
and reversed it. The Bulonagans

shouted a wild approval of what he had
done. I fell back as if overcome, at which
the king, winking his approval, took out his
revolver and fired three shots into the air;
then putting his whistle to his lips he blew
out right lustily the melody of " Garry
Owen'* and the Bulonagans and Kututus
moved forward together.

CHAPTER VII.

STRANGE ISLANDS OF THE SEA.

Following with my guard (who now that
my condemnation had, as it were, been
officially endorsed by the Suzerain of the
island, exercised an increased vigilance over
me) I could only marvel at the picture of
this Irish gentleman with his whistle, his
revolver, his harem, his army, and his
sovereignty. I congratulated myself very
much on the encounter, though the king was
sincere in impressing upon me the extreme
peril of my position.

I ought not to have been particularly
surprised at finding a fellow-countryman in

VOL. II. I

a position of authority in this out-of-the-way
and unknown land; for it is well known
that white men are consorting with savages
in many countries, adopting their habits,
and living their lives.

Dr. Carver, "the great American shooter,"
was " an Indian brave." He told me the
story of his life. When he was a child he
was captured by the Indians, his parents
murdered, and he preserved, to finally
eclipse them as hunter, trapper, and rifle-shot.


Captain John Smith, the well-known
Melbourne merchant, gave me an account
of his life on one of the Fiji islands, where
(the survivor of four English sailors who
were wrecked there and not eaten) he
spent ten years, during which time nota
single opportunity offered of his getting
away. " We never once saw a ship within
hail," he said ; " and at last I became soused
to the life that I ceased to care about
rescue." He showed me the island on the
map. It is one of those nearest Brisbane,

and I think he called it Turban. " We were
part of the crew of The Bulldog from Liverpool,"
he said, " and we expected to be
murdered right off ; but we had a couple of
pistols and a little dry ammunition between
us, and we let the firearms off and then gave
one of them to the chief of the party to whom
we surrendered, and somehow we got along
all right. Two of my mates died on the island,
a third disappeared, and, when at last an
English man-of-war sent her long-boat off
for water, I was half reluctant to embrace
the opportunity of escape. They were bound
for Melbourne, the port my ship sailed for
ten years previously, and I concluded to take
the opportunity of finishing my voyage.
I have done well since, chiefly through
trading with Fiji."

An even better known merchant than
Captain John Smith, a London and Australian
trader, named Levett, once gave
me a description of rescuing an entire
English family, who had been cast ashore
on an uninhabited island, after living there
i2

seven years without once seeing a sail.
There are many similar cases," he said;
and as for Englishmen living among
savages, they are not less numerous." I
suggested to him that it would be a humane
thing for the Government to send out a fleet
of exploring ships to release the Juan Hernandez
and Robinson Crusoe of the distant
seas, and bring them home to their
families. Levett is a very prosaic and busi-
ness-like man. He said their return, in some
cases, might be very inconvenient.

It is well known by travellers and students
of history, that at the beginning of the
present century many convicts escaped from
New South Wales, and settled in the islands
of Fiji. In Mr. James Calvert's records of
missionary labours among cannibals, and
Mr. Thomas Williams's account of Fiji and
the Fijians, edited by George Stringer Howe,
it is stated that most of these escaped desperadoes
lived either at Urban or Rewa, " the
chiefs of which allowed them whatever they
chose to demand, receiving in return their

aid in carrying on war." The new comers
had firearms, the use of which obtained
for them that god-like distinction which led
to their obtaining authority and power.
Some of them were men of most desperate
wickedness, being regarded as monsters even
by the ferocious cannibals with whom they
associated. These lawless men were twenty-seven
in number on their arrival in 1804 ; butin
a few years the greater part had ended
their career, having fallen in the native wars,
or in deadly quarrels among themselves. A
Swede, named Savage, who had some redeeming
traits in his character, and was acknowledged
as head man by the whites, was
drowned and eaten by the natives at Leila
in 1813. In 1824 only two, and, in 1840
but one, of his companions survived. This
last was an Irishman named Condor, who
stood in the same relation to the King of
Rewa as Savage had done to His Majesty of
Urban. His influence among the natives was
so great that all his desires, some of which
were of the most inhuman kind, were gratified.

The King of Rewa would always
avenge, and often in the most cruel manner,
the real or fancied wrongs of this man.
If he desired the death of any native, the
chief would send for the doomed man, and
direct him to make and heat an oven, into
which, when red-hot, the victim was cast,
having been murdered by another man set
for the purpose. Soon after the death of his
patron, Paddy Condor left Rewa ; but he was
even in his latest years so badly tainted with
Fijianism that he was shunned by all classes,
and he spent his last days, it is said, in
rearing pigs and fowls, and increasing the
number of his children from forty-eight to
fifty." The editor of these records (published
by the eminently respectable firm of Messrs.
Fodder and Houghton) intimates that he has
been compelled to omit some passages of the
Fijian history, which are, I presume, either
too horrible or too immoral for publication ;
and I can quite sympathise with the conscientious
editor in question ; for, in some respects,
the Bulonagans are quite as unsophisticated

(to use a mild term) in their manners and
customs as certain of the Fijian peoples ; but,
fortunately, the Irishman, who by his wit
and courage had conquered the island of
Kututu and made it his own, developed in
his dealings with me all the best traits of the
Irish character ; and I am bound to say for
him, that in the administration of his government
of Kututu he put into practice many of
those highly liberal and fraternal sentiments
of equality that characterise the interesting,
but somewhat impracticable, platform of Mr.
George, the socialistic philosopher, and the
Parnell and Dillon school of so-called politicians.


The government of Kututu was, nevertheless,
eminently paternal, and strikingly
despotic; but that was a necessity of the
country. You might be ever so wise at
Kututu, but if you could not fight, if you
did not always slay your enemy, if the
gods were not always on your side, if you
did not enforce even your most generous
measures with physical austerity, then your

wisdom was not worth a yard of cloth. So
my friend the king informed me. I say
my friend advisedly, and with gratitude ; for
he saved my life at the peril of his own,
and at the risk of the revolt of his vassal of
Bulonagan, over whom he had established
the suzerainty of Kututu after a long, bitter,
and devastating warfare.

I have no map by me, which I can consult,
on the large scale recommended by Lord
Salisbury to certain politicians in regard to
Central Asia. At the moment, I can only
indeed refer to the small outline chart, printed
by Mr. Stanford for the British North Borneo
Company, to illustrate a work entitled "The
New Ceylon," and to a not much larger map
of the Compagnie des Messageries Maritimes,
showing their route from Marseilles to
Singapore and Java. Antwerp has plenty
of maps, I dare say, but these are all I find
at the hotel (I am still writing within the
shadow of the lace tower), and if you
look at them or at any other charts you
will note in the Pacific Ocean, close upon

the equator, a cluster of nameless islands
off New Guinea and the Torres Straits.
Three of these are the Bulonagan group;
and one of the larger, further to the north,
is Kututu.

When you glance at the routes of the
great ocean steamers you will easily understand
the possibilities of the situation
which I have described. If you want
further evidence take into account the current
experience of travellers even within
the circle of European authorities, English,
Dutch, and Spanish. Glance, for example, on
the larger chart, at the islands north of
Borneo. Several of these have never been
explored, near as they appear to be to
British territory. For that matter Borneo
itself is in some parts a terra incognita. It is
only within the past few months that a young
friend of mine has conducted an expedition
through territory of the nineteenth-century
East India Company, where a white man had
never been seen until the natives looked
on this new comer, with his scientific instruments

and his Winchester rifle, which you
may be sure astonished them very much.
The truth is, in the Malay archipelago, the
China and Indian Oceans, the Java Sea,
and the Great Pacific Ocean, the rarity is
not so much the islands that are unknown
as those that are known, not the existence
of utterly barbaric and savage countries, but
the existence of civilisation. Taking Borneo
still as an example in point, though it is
divided between the governments of Holland,
Rajah Brooke, and a great English
Company, no more remarkable example of
the unexplored character of the country can
well be mentioned than the fact that one of
its finest harbours has only quite recently
been discovered. Commodore Johnston, of
H.M.S. Egeria, sent home the earliest notification
of the existence of Kudat in August,
1881, and it now appears for the first time
on the Admiralty chart. The governor of the
new territory visited it on the 25th of Augustin
the Company's launch Enterprise, and it
has been decided to establish a residency in

Marudu Bay, overlooking the newly-discovered
harbour.

In regard to the extent of the islands,
many of which may be said to be lying about
neglected, the haunts of a devastating barbarism,
take only the Malay archipelago,
spoken of by a great geological authority
as "the fragments of two continents."
These scattered islands represent " an absolute
extent of land " little less than that of
Western Europe from Hungary to Spain.
The archipelago itself is over 4,000 miles
in length from east to west, and is about
1,300 in breadth from north to south. "It
includes three islands larger than Great
Britain; and in one of them, Borneo, the
whole of the British Isles might be set down,
and would be surrounded by a sea of forests.
New Guinea, though less compact in shape,
is probably larger than Borneo. Sumatra is
about equal in extent to Great Britain.
Java, Luzon, and Celebes are each about
the size of Ireland. Eighteen more islands
are on the average as large as Jamaica;

more than a hundred are as large as the
Isle of Wight ; while the isles and islets of
smaller size are innumerable.' ' It is in these
regions that eventually the Chinese must find
an outlet for their labour. The progress of
civilisation cannot continue to pass by these
islands of the sun" in the coming years;
and, when the historian, a century hence,
takes up his pen to tell the history of
the exploration and cultivation of the archipelago,
the society of English travellers and
merchants who supplemented native labour
with a systematic endowment of Chinese industry
and ingenuity, will, it is believed,
furnish a chapter of important and valuable
results. There is more than one Eastern
Question, and that which is developing
rapidly to-day, with the raising of the floodgates
of Chinese emigration, is not the least
important of the problems, Asiatic and Oriental,
which will have to be solved by future
statesmen.

In that slowly advancing future it is to
be hoped that the services which the Irish

king of Kututu has rendered to civilisation
may have borne good fruit; for, failing to
raise up a successor who might carry on
the government on his own enlightened
and liberal lines, he has commissioned me
to make overtures for its annexation to
the British Government. With all their
faults, he concludes that the English rulers
are a better set than the Spanish or the
Dutch, and the choice of masters over these
far-away countries lies between these three.
He thinks the protection of the British
flag would lead to a development of the
country, the capacity of which for the exportation
of tropical produce is very great ;
and, though he has only been in power for
ten years, he claims to have laid the foundation
for an order of civilisation not inferior
to some of Great Britain's existing possessions.
As for the Bulonagans, he despairs
of effecting much change in their condition
in the absence of European residents. " I
am the only white face in this world of
Kututu and Bulonagan," he said, pathetically,

"and, with a wife and six children
somewhere in the old country, I would be
willing to transfer my government to a
civilised power, for I have possessions of
pearls and other trinkets that would cape me
for the rest of my days, and, bi jabers, there's
gutta-percha enough in Kututu to rebuild
the pyramids of Aygept twice over in ingia-
rubber. ; '

This is an example of the conversation I
held with the king on the night of his forme
(and I hope for him) most fortunate visit
to the principal island of the Bulonagans.

Both the Kututuans and the Bulonagans
are afraid in the dark. They never stir
outside the light of their fires or primitive
lamps. The jungle at night is sacred to
spirits, good or evil. They will not interfere
with anything that moves about in the dark.
The king of the Kututus therefore selected
the night time for his interview with me.
The god of the whites, he told the Bulona-
guns, haunted the night partly to disguise the
fact that his complexion was of the hue of

green leaves, and also because he was not
willing that any one should look upon
him. In the day-time he lived up in
the clouds. At night he came down with
the darkness. He was very small but
very swift and peculiarly quick of hearing.
When any of his people wished to enter
his country as this white captive of theirs
did now, he could hear him in the dark if
he was ever so far away. The chief ventured
to doubt how the white man, whom Lofulu
and her friends were going to eat, could,
after that, enter the white man's heaven.
He smiled incredulously when the king told
him the white man's god could make him
over again, and that the white man did not
care to take his body to heaven but only his
spirit, which neither their knives nor their
ovens could hurt. The chief said it might
be so. Anyhow, neither Lofulu nor her
women, nor their god, would raise any
objection to the desire of the great and
mighty king of Kututu, possessor of the
fiery thunder that kills (alluding to his revolver),

that he should accompany the white
slave to commune with his little god in the
jungle.

In this way I had a long aud interesting
conversation with my Irish friend, who explained
to me an ingenious plan whereby I
might escape the death to which the Bulona-
guns had doomed me.

CHAPTER VIII.

A LESSON IN DIPLOMACY AND STRATEGY, AND
ITS MARVELLOUS RESULTS.

D'ye mind the noise ?" lie said, " it's
not spirits ; if you know the tropics at all it
will not startle ye."

"I do not know the tropics," I said.
11 Ah, you'll soon get over that; when the sundown
all the queer dives of animals, bow-legged
bears, elephants, snakes, and a whole
crowd of them go to business ; they work at
night ; I suppose they know the natives are
afraid to come out and spear them in the
dark."

Are there snakes?" I asked.

VOL. II. K

Are there snakes!" he exclaimed, " as
long as Sackville Street in Dublin, and
as thick round as that imp of the world
Datutong."

While he spoke he produced a small lantern,
and lighted it with a match.

Let us see where we are, and then we'll
make a fire."

A lantern!" I exclaimed.

And why not? We had three weeks to
collect the remains of the poor old Lily of
Killarney after the wreck, and my advantage
is that I know how to use some of them''

"But matches!" I said.

Bi jabers and the matches are homemade!
It's the greatest triumph of my
reign. I make them myself. A lot came
ashore, and the stores of the laboratory, as
the tother called his shop, and he was a
chemist learned in the art of the dive knows
what in the way of gunpowder and salt-pater,
and brimstone and the like. Ah !
don't bother me about such trifles, come
to Kututu and just see for yourself."

I only wish I could. Don't mock me,
my friend ! "

"Mock ye! dive a bit! Lend a hand
here."

I assisted him to throw together some
wood and leaves, and presently we were sitting
in the light of a fire, at a spot which
was partially cleared.

You are the third victim that has sat
here with me; may be I'll save ye from the
oven. I never saved them poor creatures.
Third time pays for all. You are the lucky
number. These people are under the influence
of all manner of signs and omens.
They have had captives who have not been
condemned to the oven and some that have
escaped, and they owe their salvation, poor
dives, to doing things they never thought of,
just as the others owe their roasting to doing
things equally unbeknown to themselves. I
completed my education in these matters
only quite recent. Dey e mind they watched
ye all night ? Well, it was to note which
side ye turned yer head whenever ye walked,
k2

and on that depended your life. Now listen
to me ! "

I am listening with all my ears," I
said.

The day after tomorrow you are to
be converted into roast-man — don't shudder
like that - if I don't succeed in getting ye
off, and I mane trying. But it must be done
by stratagem. The Bulonagan god is lefthanded.
Dey e know why?"

"No!"

"Becase he is one-handed; he lost his
right in a battle with all the other gods, upon
which occasion Tonggollander, the deity of
Fojei, chopped the Bulonagan god's right
arm off. It was a great fight. Tonggollander
ate the other's arm, but the other ate Tong-hollander,
and so got even. Are ye minding
me?"

Indeed I am."

Then d'ye note that the Bulonagans
take all left-handed signs as paying tribute
to their god, Bangonigan. Every inclination
or movement to the left made unconsciously

by man, or beast, or bird, is taken
for a sign of Bangonigan's favour. If
you had stepped out with your right foot
at their sacred acting-house your death would
have been postponed, and supposing that sign
had been repeated on three occasions you
would have saved yourself. And if, when
they watched you beforehand, you had turned
your head to the left, lain on your left side,
got up on the left, and inclined to the left on
laving the house, then bi jabers you might
never have been taken up to the palace of
skulls at all, d'ye see ! Do I make myself
clear?"

Yes, most clear."

Very well then, lay all I've said to
heart. Be left-handid from this minnie, left-legged,
left-headed. If ye're as clever as I
take ye for ye may end in being looked
upon as Bangonigan's particular friend,
and in that case there's no knowing what
honour may not be in store for ye."

But supposing this left-handed policy
is of no avail ? "

"Ah, bad luck to such suppositions!
When ye're seen as much of savage life as I
have ye'll know that an omen is stronger
than an army. Anyhow rely on me to stay
by ye until I see the stratagem through.
Aren't you satisfied ? "

A good six-shooter would make me content,
" I said.

"Ah, nonsense, it would only get you
into worse trouble. Be left-handid my boy
from now till the day after tomorrow, and
I'll lay odds you may make arrangements to
go with me to Kututu. Once there you are
safe anyway so long as I am king of that
once cannibal island. Okey pokey winked
fum, how d'ye like your parties done, dipped
in fat and rolled in rum, the King of the
Cannibal Islands ! Ah, bi jabers, when first
I assumed the royal purple, that favourite
song of an old shipmate of mine, how it
rang in my ears ! It's a quare world entirely,
and that's a fact, so it is. And just in
miry of happier days we'll say a quiet
prayer and sneak back to the village."

My strange companion bent his head,
crossed himself, and was silent for some
minutes. I followed his example and
humbly commended myself to heaven. All
the forest was busy with life. Wild animals
were making their way along an adjacent
track to the river. A thick dew filled the
atmosphere. We were in a bath of vapour.

Dive a one of the dusky blackguards
would dare to be out here in the dark'' said
the king, as he turned the light upon me.
Come, we'll get back, that is if the bastes
and saints don't make males of us ! "

I moved forward to comply with his
bidding, whereupon he shrieked, " Ah! the
dive fly away wit ye, what are ye doing ? "

u Nothing'' I answered in alarm.

By St. Patrick and all the having
heathen gods combined I've a mind to give
ye up and let ye roast ! "

What have I done ? " I asked.
"Is it what have ye done? What have
ye not done ? Where's your leg ? Look at
it as ye stand this minnie."

He flung the light full upon me.

There ye are like a candidate for all the
ovens in Bulonagan with your right leg first
and your right arm at attention. Upon my
soul we'd vex St. Patrick himself! "

If the people whom Mr. Charles Evade
addressed in England and America, upon the
importance of training the left hand as well
as the right, had only had such strong inducement
for following his advice as I had
to act upon that given to me by the Irish
king, the supremacy of the Anglo-American
right hand would indeed have been in
danger of dethronement. My Irish friend
had no cause to give me a second hint. With
the double prospect of death and release I
found myself anxious to live, and with a
desire to live came a wish to see Kututu
and the white king at home.

There was something like consternation

among the Bulonagans the next day when I

developed a tendency to do everything in a

left-handed, left-legged, left-headed way.

Among less superstitious people the

king of Kututu might have been suspected
of aiding and abetting a prisoner to escape
the fate of the oven. But in all things
these savages preferred to be guided rather
by signs and omens than by common sense.
Moreover they had no reason to think that
the white monarch knew anything relating to
the mysteries of their sacrifices ; and the
left-handed omen was a secret of their religion.
They never betrayed it in their own
persons. They used both hands with facility;
they did not exalt the left over the right ;
they reserved manifestations of 
to the captives who were dedicated to
the oven ; and they trusted results to the god,
knowing that he was interested in the feast ;
for they always left dainty bits ; in a wooden
bowl, on the left of the god's rude effigy,
which the chief priest dealt with according
to a certain savage ritual that not even the
king of Kututu could have explained.

The Bulonagans, as they are the most
savage and barbarous of the savages known
to the Eastern seas, are also the most superstitious.

They anoint the headman or chief's
house once a year with the blood of five
victims. They believe the phosphorescent
lights in the mangrove swamps are spirits
seeking their way to the sacred lake, which
is indeed the Bulonagan heaven. If a bird
flies to the right of an expedition of war,
plunder, or trade, they give up the business.
On the other hand, if the birds which they
meet go to the left, they prosecute their
enterprise with a certainty of success.
They believe a madman is possessed of an
imp, and they promptly hunt lunatically
disposed persons to death, as savagely as the
Malays destroy a man under the influence
of " amos."

The reader will easily therefore understand
how my Caliban-like guard stared
when the next morning (having been conducted
to my quarters by the good king of
the Kututus at midnight) he found me fast
asleep ostentatiously on the left of my
rough couch, with my left hand supporting
my head, which was also inclined towards

the left. Presently, when half opening my
eyes > I had duly noted his astonishment,
I stepped upon the bamboo floor with my
left foot. If the situation had not been
serious, I should have laughed, and if I had
laughed I should have done so as much as
possible on the left side of my face. When
I was a boy at Scarsdale I once heard
Laudnum Nanny say she would make her
grand-daughter laugh on the other side of
her face. What odd things occur to one in
difficulties ! Perhaps old Mother Lingard had,
in her dealings with the watchword, heard
of some superstition akin to that of Bulona-
gan, I thought. I took my food with my
left hand, and when the bathing hour came
I plunged into the lake on my left side, at
which Lofulu and her women maintained
a dead silence. Returning to the village I
found an assemblage of the chief, the ex-chief,
and many others awaiting me. King
Kututu and his staff were with them. The
chief signalled me to approach. I did so
boldly and with an air of defiance, stepping

out with my left foot and dragging my right
as if it were partially paralysed. Arrived
at the spot where they were seated upon a
large mat, I bowed to the company and
then suddenly, as if impelled by a power
over which I had no control, I turned in the
direction where I believed the sanguinary
temple of Bangonigan to lie, and, raising my
left hand, I bowed to the earth.

At this all the Bulonagans suddenly rose,
and raising their left arms uttered an unearthly
yell, after which they squatted upon
their mats and began to talk to each other,
every one speaking at once. Presently,
turning to my Irish friend, the chief
addressed to him a series of questions
about me.

You are to sit down on the edge of the
chiefs mat," said the king, " and don't
overdo it, mi boy ! "

I sat, making a point of doing it with a
view to emphasise the superior influence of
my left side over my right.

The chief turned and spoke to the king.

You're devilish clever, 'port my soul,
and I'd give away the finest lady in the
Kututu harem to laugh. The chief wants to
know why ye turned to the left, looked towards
the forest, and then raised your left
hand."

Tell him," I said, "if you approve of
the answer, that I saw the vision of a great
chief who had only one arm, that I humbly
offered him mine, and that he shook his head
and said in my own language, ' Go to your
own country and tell them you have seen
the great Bangonigan.' "

The king spoke to the chief in what
appeared to me to be a style of mock-solemnity.
His words were received with a dead
silence. Then the chief beckoned me to
rise, and made room for me to sit by his
side. In doing so I acknowledged his condescension
by placing my left hand upon my
heart, and bowing my head.

Then the chief spoke again to the king,
who pretended to be in great awe of me.

They want to know what the great

chief is like. Now they'll have ye, mi
friend, if you don't mind your eye ! "

Tell them," I said, rising and looking
in the direction of the temple once more,
u that in face and features he is like the
chief whom I see before me, only taller and
stronger ; that he is beautiful as Lofulu in
the eyes, but broader in build than any
man I have ever seen, and that I once lived
among the giants of Timbuctoo ! "

While making this reply I imitated the
action of a pantomimist I had seen at La
Scala, stroking my face and limbs, and
generally illustrating my words with approved
stage gesture ; but always with my
left hand.

As soon as the king had translated my
words, the company rose once more, raised
their left arms and yelled ; after which the
chief spoke to my fierce guard, who rushed
away to re-appear with a very primitive
half-baked earthen bowl of liquor and a
number of pipes made of bamboo. He presented
the bowl to the chief, who drank and

handed it to me, as ceremoniously as a Lord
Mayor might to his chief guest at the Mansion
House. I put out my left hand and
then my right, and taking the bowl drank
a burning decoction not unlike methylated
spirits flavoured with rum. I handed the
bowl back. The chief drained its contents
and then broke it, whereupon the company
got upon their legs and danced a wild
measure around me. This demonstration
concluded, the chief spoke again to the king,
who, turning to me, said,

a We've bate 'em just as lane as paling
parties ! I am to inform you that you are
now one of them — the blackguards ! — that
you are a brother, with the right to come
and go as you phase, but they advise you to
go to your own country as the great chief
told you, and when you have said to your
own people what he said ye can come back
again, but not in a ship ; what they mane by
that same I don't know, but you're a lucky
gossoon, and that's all I can say about it."

My dear friend," I said, " I thank you

for my life, and if ever I can give you
practical proof of my gratitude it will be a
real happiness to do it."

Ah, bi jabers, don't mention it ! Come
on a visit to me and then we'll arrange that
little matter of annexation I told ye of, and
I'll give ye a hat-full of pearls and precious
stones to pay your expenses. I'll just tell
them you'll be off at once, but that you will
come back if they wish it with presents for
the chief and Lofulu, and a message from
your own country to their great and powerful
god-chief Bangonigan."

From that moment all was bustle and
excitement in the Bulonagan village. " At
once " was literally interpreted. My Irish
friend had solicited permission to escort meas
far as Kututu, and fit me out therewith
a boat that should intercept some
great ship at sea. The chief had acquiesced.
King Kututu gave orders for his officers and
companions, his armed men and sailors, to
prepare for instant departure.

By sundown we were encamped on the

shore, ready to start with daylight the next
morning. I recall the leap of delight my
heart gave when I found myself once more
by the sea, with its thousand unseen paths
that might lead me back to civilisation.

In the still watches of the night I listened
to the music of the waters, I looked up at the
stars, and I thanked God for my release from
a death worse than that which my unhappy
comrades had met on the very beach where
I was resting. I wondered whether Judith
Travers might be thinking of me ; and in
the same vague way thought of Helen Dunstan
and the Worcestershire valley.

I must have gone to sleep with the dear
old squire on wheels, his amiable daughter,
and my Uncle Grantley in my mind; for
when I awoke I was dreaming that I was
walking through a sweet-smelling Breedon
hay-field, with Helen Dunstan, to join her
father and my uncle. They were waiting for
us at the field-gate, which gave upon a
lane down which they had driven to take
us up to the manor-house. It was odd

VOL. II. L

that I should have mixed up, even in a
dream, the perfume of new-mown hay with
Helen Dunstan ; for in my waking moments
the newly-cut grass of summer days was
associated with my romance of Calypso's
island — I mean the never-to-be-forgotten
Villa Verona.

But why should fate or fortune beguile
me with dreams belonging to a land I
might never see again ? — and with a sweet
English valley from the scents and perfumes
and restful joys of which I had long since
been excommunicated?

CHAPTER IX.

FROM DREAMLAND TO REALITY.

I was awakened by a strange unearthly-noise.
The first suggestion of daylight was
in the sky. It was nearly morning.

Shouting, yelling, screaming, and the clash
of arms. There was a battle going on all
round about me ; I was sure of it.

Suddenly I was seized and dragged towards
the water. I struggled and fought,
but was overcome. My assailants were ,
and I recognised the chief as he
quickly bound me with rattan. I was flung
into a boat, into which several persons leaped,
and in a few moments we were making our
way out to sea.

l2

The fighting ashore went on. I might
have doubted the serious character of the
commotion if I had not heard the explosion
of pistols. The Irish king was assuredly at
work. Crack, crack, crack, went his revolvers
! I counted eight shots. They were
deliberately fired. I can well believe that
for each explosion there fell an enemy dead.

The boat sped on at a rapid rate. I lay
bound in the stern. I raised myself sufficiently
to look over the side. The daylight
was growing. I could see shadowy forms
moving about on shore. I was certain that
I recognised my kind-hearted Irish friend.
He was striding up and down near the edge of
the water. Several boats were being launched.
I could see figures lying prone on the sand.
They were the dead and wounded. It was
plain to see that there had been a fight,
and that the Kututus had been victorious.
They had evidently been treacherously
surprised and attacked, and I was no doubt
the cause. Possibly they were jealous of
my departure with the king. They may

have thought that he would barter me, for
knives and looking-glasses and tobacco, with
some passing ship, and thus rob them of
their booty. Or the one-armed god may
have inspired them to resent the intrusion of
the king upon his command that I should
go to my own country. Lofulu may have
had a vision, or the priest may have sent
them a message of war. Any guess in this
direction might be as correct as another.
The only safe conclusion I could come to
was that the Kututu party had been suddenly
attacked ; that in the disturbance I had been
carried off (for what object I could not at
first imagine) ; that after a severe struggle
the king had succeeded in bringing his two
revolvers into action ; and that finally His
Majesty's forces had triumphed.

In a little while I noticed that three boats
were setting out in pursuit of us. The great
canoe or prahu fairly leaped, to the new
motion of the paddles, as the Bulonagans
made this discovery. The chief said something
to the men. They gave a grunt of

recognition, and for nearly an hour they
never relaxed in their work. We sped along,
at racing pace, as the morning broke in gorgeous
colours upon the sea. On we went,
dancing over the clear waters. I looked
down. I could see the golden sands below.
It would have seemed as if we were passing
through the air but for the occasional splash
of the oars or paddles.

The three pursuing boats came on, at first
with speed, but they never gained upon us.
After an hour the chief gave the word to
rest.

Bulonagan is rich in fruits and vegetables.
My captors had stored their boat with supplies.
Nations of oranges, custard-apples,
and rice were served out. I was unbound
and invited to eat. The chief desired me
by signs to have no fear. He raised his left
arm and then touched me with his left hand
in the region of my heart. Then taking, from
the folds of his strong, a large knife he shook
it threateningly in the direction of the pursuing
boats.

CHAPTER X.

IX WHICH I HAVE SOME PLEASANT EXPERIENCES
AFLOAT AND ASHORE.

Presently a stiff breeze sprang up. The
prahu was speedily under sail. She tore
along before the wind. The three boats
astern of us were now the merest dots upon
the sea. The chief shaded his eyes and
watched them. They grew smaller and
smaller. Towards sunset they disappeared
altogether.

The sun dropped away, like a red globe,
into the sea, and with it the breeze. Sails
were hauled down, and the boat was left to
drift. A pale moon appeared among a few
scattered stars. I thought of Italy and

Judith. A luminous glow spread over the
waters. Myriads of medusa discharged their
phosphorescent light upon the swelling tide.

My captors gave me rice, mixed with
a curious confection, cocoa-nut milk, and
fruit. One-half the crew lay down and slept.
The others sat and watched. The chief
smoked a rough kind of tobacco, folded up ina
leaf. He came and sat near me in the
stern of the boat, and offered me a whiff of
his primitive cigar. I declined it, at which
he seemed sad. He expressed, by signs,
great friendship for me, and more than once
touched me gently on my left shoulder.

After a time I slept with the resting crew,
and when I awoke it was morning again. We
were now fairly at sea in our frail boat;
and, from the careful u look-out" that was
maintained by the chief himself, I concluded
that the object was to sight some vessel and
give me up. I little thought that my poor
friend the carpenter of The Phoebe had been
thus restored to his own country.

It is not necessary that I should dwell

upon this incident of my escape from "the
man-eaters of Bulonagan." We were tossed
about nearly all day, the natives working
their sails to catch whatever wind there was,
and sending their tiny craft along with a
fearlessness and skill that I could not but
admire. They had neither rudder nor compass.
The native nearest the stern steered
the boat with his powerful paddle. The chief
commanded it. At night he took careful
note of the stars. In the daytime he made
careful observations of the sun.

In the afternoon of the second day we
sighted a vessel. It turned out to be a steam
yacht belonging to His Exquisite Majesty
Kimona, Sultan of Sooloo. At first my
dusky companions were chagrined at this,
and would have put about and left her, only
that the yacht fired a gun across our bows
as a signal that we were to be overhauled.
The yacht, it turned out, had been on
active service, against pirates who infest
these seas. The captain was a Spaniard in
high favour with the Sultan. He received me

with great politeness. The Bulonagans did
not wish to go on board. The captain intimated
that the chief must do so. Instead of
giving him any presents, he took him aft and
showed him four recently captured pirates
in chains. The Bulonagan gazed at them
without the slightest change of countenance.
Nor did he betray any feeling of alarm when,
through an interpreter (whom the captain addressed
in French), he was informed that the
Spanish chief had a great mind to send him,
in their company, to be hanged. I pleaded for
him and his crew, though I confess they did
not deserve it. I only owed my escape to their
superstitious fears and avarice, and I might
have denounced them as the murderers of the
crew of The Phoebe. I did not do so. On the
contrary, I begged that they might be well
treated, and even rewarded. The captain
was good enough to comply with my wishes.
The Bulonagans were invited on board.
After a little hesitation they made their
boats fast and climbed up the chains. They
produced several pearls and stones (not

unlike diamonds in the rough), which the
captain and several officers, military and
naval, examined, and finally pocketed. In
return they gave the natives knives, empty
meat-tins, a few yards of cloth, some Birmingham
beads, a looking-glass, a quantity
of brass wire, and, what the chief evidently
prized the most, a great roll of tobacco and a
pipe. The intercourse only lasted about half an
hour. The Bulonagans then slipped down the
sides of the yacht into their boat, the yacht
put on steam, and so the two vessels parted.
It is like a dream of sunshine, with
demons in it, this experience of the eastern
seas ; for, in spite of the horrors which
encompassed me there, afloat and ashore,
the luxurious beauty of the tropical world,
pulsating in the sun, comes up in my
memory, as if to neutralise the sanguinary
reminiscences that are unfortunately part of
it. How strange it seems that Providence
should have peopled these " paradises on
earth," that stud the broad ocean near the
equator, with men and women no better than

the beasts, either in their desires or passions.
There are of course many exceptions to this
condition of things, and I do not for one
moment desire to imply utter barbarism
as characteristic of the enlightened people
of Sooloo, Brunei, nor even in regard to
the modern Fijians, Malays, or Dyaks,
though certain of the latter tribes are
addicted to head-hunting. The Kututuans
are a higher type of savage than the Bulo-
pagans, and should their Irish king live long
enough he may even bring them into a state
of civilisation worthy at least of the coast-people
of Brunei and Sooloo. He found them
cannibals, though not lovers of human flesh
as the Bulonagans are. Kututu only ate its
conquered enemies, not so much in the way
of epicurean relish as by way of dishonouring
the slaughtered foe. The Bulonagans eat
human flesh to this day because they like it.
1 was astonished that the captain of the
Sultan's yacht had not heard either of
Kututu or Bulonagan, but he explained tome
that there are scores of islands in these

seas which have never been visited by Europeans
; that many of them are unnamed ;
and that occasionally a stray weather-beaten
ship discovers, to its cost, that there are
important islands not even indicated upon
the charts. One of his officers who had
recently visited Fiji, by way of illustrating
the captain's remark, reminded me that this
group numbers 255 islands, of which at
present, even with the encouragement of the
English flag flying at Vitileva, the leading
settlement, only 80 are inhabited, leaving
165 islands of that group alone unaccounted
for. It was not, as I imagined then, at all
surprising that the captain should not have
heard of Kututu or Bulonagan; but he
was quite prepared to hear that the natives
from whom I had escaped were man-eaters,
seeing that even in Dutch Borneo
there are a low-class Dyak tribe known
as the Things, who eat people. This is
borne out by the narrative of Mr. Carl
Bock, an explorer of the Dutch territory in
Borneo, who has recently written a book

upon the subject. He drew the likeness of a
villainous-looking chief of the Tring Dyaks,
Siban Mobang, who at the very time he sat
for his portrait "had fresh upon his head
the blood of no less than seventy victims,
men, women, and children, whom he and his
followers had just slaughtered, and whose
hands and brains he had eaten'' I am
bound to confess that, although the Bulona-
guns were epicures in the way of human
flesh, they made no boast of it ; and, from
what His Majesty of Kututu told me, they
conducted the business with a certain savage
pomp that I should imagine was quite outside
the vulgar brutality of the Tring
Dyaks of Mr. Bock's narrative. I am half
inclined to think that this Siban Mobang, finding
Mr. Bock's curiosity about cannibalism
very great, and his pleasure at meeting a
regular out-and-out man-eater no less intense,
boasted a little. Having sojourned for over
three years in the tropical seas near the
equator, I can say that the natives of all
classes, from the most refined to the most

barbarous, are " liars of the deepest dye."
They would make splendid diplomatists,
for they are adepts at " the lie of circumstance,"
and the falsehood of suggestion
is practised by all of them with the
greatest success. A young friend of mine,
when first he went into the business of exploring
North Borneo for minerals, was occasionally
led off the scent by the most
astounding and circumstantial details in
respect of vast deposits of antimony and
gold. I remember his telling me, as we
discussed a delicious curry in his comfortable
quarters at Labuan, that near a place called
Kuias he was induced to go out of his way a
considerable distance by the Dusun (a mild
and inoffensive tribe) native guides, who
affirmed that there was gold in the bed of a
stream running from a hill, which they could
see some miles away. " When I got there,"
he said, " I was shown some scales and plates
of mica, which were pointed out to me as
gold. The bed of the stream is composed of
thick black earthy matter, on the top of

which the mica was floating." This, however,
he told me was one of the few instances
where the natives who promised to
lead him to the treasures of Borneo were
even justified by anything like the merest
basis for their reports of hills of antimony
and mountains of gold. " It saved a good
deal of time now and then," he said, "when
the country into which they would have
led me gave every geological indication
that was opposed to their reports." I asked
his opinion of the Carl Bock hero. "I
can believe almost anything," he said, " of
this wonderful and unexplored land. I have
seen head-hunting going on even among
what are called the harmless people of the
north; and have slept at night under rows
of their sanguinary trophies." We concluded
that one day we would form an exploring
expedition with a view to discover Kututu,
not only to identify these islands with a
view to carrying out the Irish king's wishes,
but to " make a deal " for pearls and
diamonds, my description of the rough stones

worn by the natives leading to the belief
that they might be diamonds. " There is
no reason why they should not be diamonds''
he said; " seeing that Borneo has such a
reputation for her diamonds it is quite on
the cards that they may come from some
other island, just as many of the Sooloo pearls
are imported from Ceylon."

I shall ever remember the feeling of
thankfulness, the new sense of security, that
came over me when a steward of the
Sultan's yacht showed me to a berth which
the Spanish captain had allotted to me,
together with linen and other decent clothing
which he had placed at my service. Among
the linen were some elegant gossamer-like
pyjamas. Having washed myself and
dropped overboard the scanty garments with
which Lofulu and her women had endowed
me (for even when I was made " a brother
of the chief " they did not return my
clothing), I got into the pyjamas and
climbed into my berth. A gentle breeze,
caused chiefly by the motion of the vessel,

VOL. II. M

came in at the open port-hole, and I fell
into a sleep that was profound. It was the
first time I think I had laid down my head,
without serious anxiety, for more than six
months. I slept now for twenty-four hours
without a dream. The captain had sent
twice to inquire after me. When I awoke I
pinched myself and felt at the pretty little
state-room to assure myself that my escape
from Bulonagan, and this part of it especially,
was not a dream.

If all the Spaniards in the eastern seas
were only like the captain of the Sultan's
yacht, they would assuredly be more successful
with the natives of Sooloo. As it is they
hardly dare leave their forts, except in numbers
and well armed. This captain was a
gentleman in manners and habits, amiable
and pleasant, and he confided to me that his
compatriots, as a rule, deal far too harshly
with the natives ever to make the Spanish
government of them popular.

There is nothing more remarkable in
recent days than the influence which a

mere handful of Englishmen have obtained
over the natives of the adjacent district
of North Borneo, wherever their government
has reached them. I only speak now
of the tribes within reasonable distance
of the coast, not of the interior, where
the fiercest still live in unexplored and
unknown jungle. In several of the Susan
villages, for example, the natives are beginning
to substitute pigs' heads and monkeys'
crania for the old-fashioned human trophies
of their forefathers. Mr. Pryer, a resident at
Andaman, in a private diary which I have
before me, mentions several instances of advancement
under the new Government.*

Two days were spent here in visiting the chief, and
taking in wood to replace the exhausted coal. On the
27th they steamed away again, passing many abandoned
clearings, about which, Banjer, an old river man, spun
many yarns. Here was one chief's place, there another's;
at this point Dato So-and-so fought Pangeran Someone
else; in a house over there had been big " richard " between
two chiefs; here the Sultan had a " Binding
marrow" station (a custom-house); down this long
reach, for miles together, the Tunbumohas had houses
and gardens on either bank, and so forth and so on.
Banjer was a Sultan's man, and had once been put on a
M 2

I was most favourably impressed with the
civilisation of the chief city of Sooloo, especially
after the accounts the Spanish captain

Binding marrow " station. The man in charge of it
thought the time had come to take a little duty in
blood, just to let people see that the Sultan didn't keep
11 Binding marrow " stations for nothing. So they caught
a trader, accused him of evading the payment of duties,
and, tying a rope round his wrists, fastened him to a post
with his feet off the ground, and left him hanging there.
He cried continually all day long: " I have committed no
fault, I have committed no fault." They returned in the
evening with their arises and hewed him to bits. Banjer
went on to tell Mr. Pryer that he was present when the
Tunbumohas " semungupped " a man who was a bought
slave. The Tunbumohas tied him up with his arms outstretched
(crucified in fact), and they danced round him.
At last the headman approached, and wishing him a
pleasant journey to Kina Balu, stuck his spear an inch
deep, and no more, in the man's body; and another then
said, " Bear my kind remembrances to my brother at Kina
Balu," and did the same; and in this way, with messages
to deceased relatives at Kina Balu, all those present
slightly wounded the man. When the dance was over
they unbound him, but he was dead. The custom is known
as " semungup," and is practised by the far inland tribes to
this day. The Tunbumohas, however, having an intuitive
idea that the white men might not view such a custom
with approval, have abandoned it so far that they substitute
a pig for a man. — A Tri}j on the Kinabatangan in
1881.

had given me of the terrible outbreaks of the
natives, which distracted both the Sultan and
his Spanish representatives. The captain
spoke of the Sultan as " the vassal of Spain,"
but nothing like vassalship was observable
in the Sooloo court. The Spanish chiefs
certainly treated the Sultan with all the deference
that is demanded by royalty, particularly
in eastern lands.

It was on the third day of my blissful
journey on board the Sooloo yacht that we
arrived off Meimbong. The country had a
fertile and eminently civilised appearance.
There were groves of fruit-trees on the hillsides,
and the flat-lands were not unlike Bulo-
pagan so far as the foliage was concerned ;
but oh, the delicious change I found in well-built
and pleasant houses, in security for life
and limb, and in hearing my own language
spoken ! There was an English merchant in
port, and I found him as liberal as he was
learned and agreeable. I told him such parts
of my story as I deemed necessary, and it
was his own proposal that he should lend

me some money. "Draw upon Colonel
Ernstone," he said, " or upon the owners of
The Phoebe, for a hundred pounds, and I
will give you the money in Singapore
dollars, which you will find as useful here
as sovereigns are in London. I will send the
bill to my bankers at Singapore for collection,
and I am sure it will be all right'' He
turned out to be an English trader, a merchant
who visited these seas in his own vessel
a singularly trim and well-found steamer
known as The Pioneer. It made a wide circuit
of voyaging, running chiefly between
Manilla, Meimbong, Sooloo, Labuan, Sarawak,
Java, and Singapore. Jeffrey Waller
was the merchant's name. He not only lent
me money but gave me advice, which was
worth more than gold. " The Sultan," he
said, "hates the Spaniards in his heart, and
likes the English ; he speaks a little French
and an equally little English; but he has an
excellent interpreter, who is a friend of mine,
and I will introduce you to him. You must
not appear poor; take the Sultan a present ; I

will arrange that, and it may be worth your
while to stay in these latitudes for a year or
two ; there is no reason why you should not
get up an expedition to Bulonagan or Kututu,
or whatever you call your new discovery."

In due course I was presented at court.
The Sultan was a superb-looking man, dressed
in the oriental fashion, with a touch, I
thought, of the Greek in his vest and jacket.
He wore a turban and a sword with a beautifully
jewelled handle. His officers were
showily dressed. We sat on velvet chairs,
ate Huntley and Palmer's biscuits, drank
chocolate with brandy (Martel's three stars),
and smoked manilla cigars. Do you wonder
that I felt at home ? I am not the first
traveller who has experienced a thrill of
delight at the sight of a Reading biscuit-tin,
or a London pickle-jar, tokens of
civilisation which are met with, now and
then, in company with old copies of The
Illustrated London News and Punch faraway
in the heart of savage lands, records
of white visitors, sometimes relics of shipwreck,

now and then trophies of massacres,
such as that of my unfortunate shipmates of
The Phoebe. Through the intervention of
the interpreter, and partly, I hope, by my
educated manners and bearing, I was more
than royally received at the Sultan's court.
His Majesty treated me with great generosity,
and invited me to remain on a long visit.
The Spanish captain fully maintained the
character for courtliness and amiability which
I had at first formed of him. The king
assigned to me a special bungalow, and the
captain gave me the run of his own establishment.


On the first night of my visit to the
Sultan I had a similar experience to that
of Mr. Bridge a year or two later.*

We retired to our room for the night; and then the
Sultan's son, Datu Mahomet, and " Bottelah," the
Sultan's secretary, together with two or three others,
including " Gelah," came in for a chat, so that we did
not get a chance of sleeping a wink until after two
o'clock. Even when we were alone in our sleeping apartment,
and had reclined just as we were in our clothes on
the cushions and finely-worked mats spread out for us,
I somehow felt conscious that we were watched; and once

This traveller is a well-known botanist.
He made a nine months' tour in Borneo
and Sooloo, and published quite recently
an excellent book relating his experiences.
I wish he could have seen Bulo-

I caught a glimpse of a dark figure gliding past a square
opening in the wall above. Our room communicated with
the audience chamber, which we had just left, by a window-like
opening about two feet square. The lights in the
large chamber had been extinguished, while we, as is custom
mary in the East, had a glimmering oil-lamp in our
room, so that any one in the audience chamber could see
us plainly, without being themselves seen. We had no
fear of treachery, and yet could not help feeling a creeping
sensation of uneasiness as shadow after shadow passed
the opening to the right of which we lay. At length a
shadow lingering longer than usual, I sprang to my feet
and put my head through the opening. A little suppressed
scream, and the patter of bare feet on the platform
on the other side, followed by muffled titters and whispering,
told the tale. The ladies of the court, debarred by etiquette
from seeing us publicly, had taken advantage of the darkness
to obtain a peep at us. Barefooted, they had moved more
silently than mice on the platform in the next room, and
had satisfied their curiosity by stealing to the opening one
after another, and looking down on us to their hearts' content.
After this we got an hour or two of rest, and
awoke at daybreak, when everybody was astir. We found
our breakfast ready, and our ponies were saddled and at
the door. — Gardens of the Sun.

pagan. The vegetation there was more
extraordinary than I have seen it anywhere
else in the world. There were orchids, in
the forest, of gigantic proportions, some of
them almost dwarfing the tree-trunks upon
which they grew. The women made baths
for their children out of the spathe of the
local palm-tree, and the men mixed their
"arras'' or whatever they called their intoxicating
drink, with wine from the sago-palm,
which they tapped, as I have seen the
maple tapped in America. The weeping-tree
Ccesalpinia pluviosa) was common there, and
there were pitcher-plants of every variety.
Nowhere have I seen gutta in greater abundance
; and the beauty of the tree-ferns, elk-horns,
and giant mosses was beyond description.
Among the flowers, besides the orchids
with their wealth of colour, the creepers
were singularly luxuriant, and notably the
nepenthes or monkey-cups, which I often
saw in clusters of a hundred together upon
the ground with enormous pitchers, while
others had climbed the trees as if to exhibit

their beauties to the sun. They were of many
colours, purple, golden, red, some speckled,
others showing radiant bars. Sardinia were
common ; and the flower-tree (Poinsiana
regia) was in perfection ; while in the rivers
water-lilies of all kinds competed with the
many lovely shore-loving plants. Bulona-
gan was indeed an earthly heaven peopled
with fiends.

I remained at Meimbong (making frequent
trips to adjacent islands) more than
three years, during which time I received
several letters from Colonel Ernstone. He
had paid Mr. Jeffrey Waller's bill, and
was anxious for an account of myself.
He knew nothing of my nautical experiences,
the Mr. Horris of the carpenter's
narrative having quite shielded my identity.
He told me that my uncle refused to have
my name mentioned in his presence, at
all events by Colonel Ernstone ; that Mr.
Justice Miller had married a rich widow ;
that Squire Dunstan was dead, leaving his

daughter all his property, and making her
one of the richest women in England, and
that she had " gone in strong" for philanthropy
; that Lady Hallam and family were
all well; and that he had met Father
Gabriello, " strange to say, at Havre, on
my way to a certain Normandy village, and
we dined together and talked of Baveno and
you and the Villa Verona."

Using the Colonel's own phrase, strange
to say, the mention of the villa did not
quicken my pulse. Analysing my feelings
at this moment, I believe the death of the
dear old Squire Dunstan, and the thought of
his rich lovely daughter given over to
philanthropy, stirred my feelings far more
deeply than the recalling of my madly
happy days in Italy. At the same time I
am bound to admit that the quiet undemonstrative
lazy life of Sooloo had toned down
my sensations, my feelings, and my ambition.
I loved to loll in the shade; the
Sooloo girls were beautiful and merry; while

the cuisine of the Spanish bungalow and
the calm gaieties and festivals of the Court
were a perpetual delight.

I can imagine the reader asking how I
got along as to money. I wanted none.
The hundred pounds advanced to me by my
Singapore friend was not half spent at the
end of the first year, and during the second
I had made money in various ways, but
chiefly by small trading concessions granted
to me by the Sultan. I had disbursed
nothing except for presents, and these
chiefly for sweets and confections for the
ladies of the Court. Once or twice I had
rendered the Manilla merchant important
service by a legitimate traffic in pearls, an
article of ornament, in judging the value of
which I became quite an expert.

It fell to my lot, for a time, to be a
partner in the possession of the most famous
pearl which the eastern seas ever gave upto
an adventurous diver. The romance of
its capture is full of poetic and dramatic
incident ; and, as it is one of the most delightful

and profitable of my experiences of
the eastern seas, I propose to give you,
in one brief chapter, the whole of its
singular and touching history.

CHAPTER XI.

IDYLLIC BUT TRUE.

In the land of perpetual summer the
golden light of evening is trembling on the
high hills. A group of sun-kissed girls are
finishing their daily bath. They might bea
school of mermaids, so full of graceful ease
and fearlessness is their every motion in the
amber-flecked sea.

As the rest of the tawny beauties go
laughing towards the village, the fairest of
them, the pearl of Sooloobongen, disappears,
by the way, in a grove of bending palms.

With a subdued rapture she sinks into
the arms of a youth, who tremblingly awaits

her. It were death to both if Mudaa Burns
had knowledge of their loves. The
girl is Sorra, his youngest daughter; the
boy is Moarra, his favourite slave.

Now, let me die," says Moarra, "if so
we could be sure to meet again in that other
land beyond."

Live for Sorra'' replies the girl, " for
without thee she dies always."

It were best thou hadst not looked
upon me," is the answer made in slow
measured words, soft as Italian, and with a
strange music in the native rhythm of them.

Thou art beautiful," she says.

I am a slave," he replies.

By the fortune of war," she answers;
but the true greatness of thine own nature
shall redeem thee."

u There is such hope in thy sweet voice
that I lay my soul upon its music, and am
wafted into a strange blissfulness," he
rejoins ; and it would have surprised you,
could you have heard in his tender words
how melodious, how soft, and capable of

poetry is the Malayan language, which he
spoke.*

Listen ! It is Muruda's watchful signal.
Farewell, Moarra, my heart is thine ; and
when the hour arrives, if come it should, we
can die, dear love, together."

There is a gentle rustle among the great
shadowy leaves. She is gone. The moon
has taken up the faded glories of the sun.
A gentle breeze comes from the phosphorescent
sea. The afternoon hush of the
woods is changed to an unwonted bustle.
All the world that was so still is alive. The
drowsy perfume of ten thousand blossoms
is in the air. A million stars are in the
sky.

Mr. Bridge, in The Gardens of the Sun, says:
' The Borne Malays possess a vast amount of traditional
lore, and many of their songs refer to the history of their

country and the beauty of their women Many of

the fables of the Malays are in blank verse, and are rich
in imagery." In narrating this episode of my experiences
of Sooloo and Brunei, I have endeavoured, in the dialogue
of the actors, to annex something of the spirit of such of
the poetic examples of the literature of the Malays as I
have come across in the libraries of Singapore, Hong
Kong, Labuan, and London.

VOL. II. N

great Master of all that lives in earth,
in sea, and skies ! " exclaims the slave, " what
a world of bliss is here close about me, and
yet it might as well be far away as yonder
moon ! "

Sar ff yH W

A great chief of Brunei had a favourite
slave, a youth possessing a splendid endowment
of masculine strength and beauty. He
was the offspring of an enforced union between
a Sooloo warrior and a Spanish woman
captured in a piratical attack upon a foreign
ship near the coast.

Mudaa Burundeen was the chief ; Moarra
the boy. The chief had a lovely daughter,
Sorra, a girl with a peculiarly pensive expression,
gentle beyond all her sisters,
beautiful beyond description.

Moarra loved the chiefs daughter. She
returned his passion. A slave to look with
eyes of love upon his master's daughter was
bold to recklessness. The young girl risked,
if not life itself, much that life is worth living
for in Soolooland, where this Brunei chief

had made his home. Mudaa Burundeen was
a man ahead of his fellows, and was high in
favour at the court. He had travelled and
learnt some of the arts of civilisation, more
particularly those of gambling and trade.
He had made many long and venturesome
expeditions round about the coast. At the
period of this present history he had during
several years sailed his prahu between Sooloo
and Manilla on regular trading voyages.

Mr. Spencer St. John, in his interesting
work " Life in the Forests of the Far East,"
relates how during the course of his voyages
this famous chief made the acquaintance of an
English merchant, who had on various occasions
trusted him with goods, and in other
respects treated him very liberally. It is no
uncommon thing for English merchants to
give their confidence to native traders in this
way, and as a rule they find no reason to
regret their generosity. Now Mudaa Burns
in an evil moment fell under the
fascinating influence of gambling. All the
money he made by commerce he lost at then
2

gaming tables of the capital of Sooloo. In
this way he squandered all his property.
He was obliged to sell his houses and his
slaves, and " at last," said Mr. St. John,
lost so large a sum that he was obliged to
place his wife and children in pawn as
security. The only property he had preserved
was his favourite slave-boy."

Moarra was an expert diver, and on
several occasions had enhanced the fortunes
of the chief by his dexterity and courage at
the pearl banks. On these excursions the
chief had often talked to the boy about a
wonderful pearl that had been fished up near
one of the deepest banks and accidentally
dropped overboard. This was one of the
traditions of the coast. The natives were in
the habit of peering over the sides of their
canoes and boats down into the transparent
water, in the hope of detecting the lost pearl ;
for occasionally the great oyster-shells might

be seen wide open at the bottom of the sea.

# # * *

Forlorn and sad, ruined, and with little

prospect of retrieving his fortunes, the chief
went with his boy to the oyster-banks
of Sooloo, principally for the purpose of
collecting seed-pearls. They fished during
many weeks, and with fair success, filling
their bamboo receptacles by day, while at
night the chief would recount his adventures
to Moarra. He related startling incidents
of gambling, trading, and fighting, and often
referred to the wonderful pearl which the
ancient fisher having brought up from the
deep had accidentally dropped back again
without recovery.

"It is hereabout," the chief would say,
and there is only one diver in Sooloo that
dare go down so deep as the spot where it is
lying."

Who is he, master ? " the boy would ask.

Thou art he ! " Mudaa Burundeen would
say, and the boy would smile with a tender
thought concerning the possible result of
such good fortune as the capture of the great
pearl.

On the occasion of this latter expedition,

Moarra ventured to question the chief as to
the material value and power of this traditional
gem.

It would make Mudaa Burundeen happy
once more ; it would make his name smell
sweet to the great English merchant ; it
would give him back his slaves ; it would
restore to him his family, his wife

And the beautiful Sorra ?" said the boy
softly, and as if he chaunted the question,
his great black eyes seeming to look faraway
into the distance as he spoke.

And Sorra also," said the chief.

"Is the brave chief's daughter a slave?"
asked the boy, wistfully.

Dog 1" exclaimed the chief, "is Mudaa
Burundeen a slave ?"

Only to Allah, who has sultans and
princes for his slaves," answered Moarra,
looking his master fearlessly in the face.

"I have cherished thee beyond the
knowledge of thyself," said the chief. " One
day I may take thy head instead of thy
answer."

Moarra is not afraid to die. Many a
time he thinks it would be better."

Why does the slave think so ?"

Because he is a slave."

Ingratitude is a sin against Allah. Art
thou not well fed ? Hast thou not fine raiment
and rings for the festivals ? Art thou
not the favourite of thy chief and his trusted
servant?"

"All that is good," answered the boy;
but he who breathes the free air, and
roams the forest, his own master, the lowliest
of the Sultan's subjects, is he not happier
than Moarra ? He loves, he marries, he
builds his house, he sows his rice, he hunts,
he is free."

Who taught thee this strange wisdom
of speech ? Does it come of our expeditions
to the merchant at Manilla?"

"It is thy own noble nature, great chief,
that permits thee to hear thy slave talk as if he
were thine equal ; and who, shouldst thou sell
him his freedom to-day, would give thee his
life tomorrow, if thou shouldst ask it of him."

Thou art a brave boy ; it is the blood
of the white chiefs that speaks within thee ;
for thou art not as the others''

Why did not the great chief sell
Moarra, when he parted with the rest of his
slaves ?"

Mudaa Burundeen does not hand over
his favourite to the stranger. What else
does thy lack of freedom prompt thee to ask
of thy master ? If slavery hath so little
check on thy speech, what might thy liberty
be expected to add to thy desires, the right
to make thy master a slave ? Say on,
boy."

The right," said Moarra, standing erect
before his master, "to be thy friend."

Thou art brave, thou art well-made,
and of a constant nature, not a slave born of
slaves, and, if Mudaa Burundeen were powerful
and rich as once he was, he might promote
thee as thy daring ambition would
have it. But to be Burundeen's friend or
slave is to be bound to fallen fortunes, if not
to dishonour."

May thy trusted slave still say on?"

It kills the night to hear thee talk."

"Men call thee the wise chief, the traveller,
the learned."

Men did call me so," said the chief.

And do so still, and shall again twentyfold
; and honest likewise."

That English merchant, he who trusted
me that I might squander his goods at games
of chance : shall he join this chorus of admiration
?"

Thou hast said it. Listen, master !
One day upon the water where the ancient
fisherman dropped the pearl-laden shell, the
sea was still as if it listened for the distant
breeze, and so clear that the shimmer of the
shells flashed on the sands beneath. As I
looked and thought of all that my soul
cherishes which that pearl of old could buy,
behold there was an open shell, and I saw
the great gem lying there in the very heart
of it!"

The chief leaped to his feet.

I saw the pearl," went on Moarra.

Where is it, boy?" exclaimed the chief;
speak low, speak low !"

Yonder, fifteen fathoms deep," he said.
Whatwouldst thou have given me, master,
had I brought it thee : my freedom ?"

Dog ! Thou tortures me !" said the
chief.

"lam no dog, though I am thy slave,"
went on the boy. u I thought of thee and
thy wants, and dived within what seemed
reaching distance, and then felt death stealing
upon me, and came to the surface again
for breath. Clinging to the boat, I watched —
my heart, as it were, standing still — and as
I watched the great shell closed. I marked
it in my memory, and dived again to see it,
and to note its significant lines and shape.
To-morrow I will lay that pearl in thine
hand, or let death give my soul the freedom
thou denies me."

Thou hast had a dream, and the fiends
have cheated thee ! "

I have had no dream. When has
Moarra spoken that which is false ?"

Never ; thou shalt be free ! "

I kiss thy hand."

Ask what thou wilt; with that pearl,
and thine own past service and devotion to
back thee, it is thine."

Two gifts I shall ask of thee."

Name them."

The first is freedom."

Already thou art answered."

The second I will demand of thee tomorrow."


"If it be within the bounds of honour it

is thine."

*****

The kingfisher darted through the giant
grasses by the river as the canoe glided with
the stream towards the sea at the first light
of morning. Flying day-bats rushed by them ;
foxes with wings emulated the movements of
owl and hornbill. A mighty forest fringed
the river, and the canonists hugged the shore.
Butterflies of gold, and black, and blue, and
green, in waving clusters of dazzling light,
mocked the radiance of the pearl the fishers

went to seek. Flowers that nursed the sunshine
in their yellow bosoms perfumed the
air. " Wild men of the woods" looked down
upon the boat as it swam beneath overhanging
trees.

Neither the chief nor the boy spoke.
Great hopes and doubts possessed them
both. By-and-by they shot out to sea.
When they rested for awhile Moarra was the
first to break the silence.

All the omens I have counted by the
way are good," he said.

"No bad birds croaked or sang," answered
the chief.

When a man is free' said the youth,
the world is his dwelling-place where to
choose. Is it not so, master ? "

The world is great, far beyond Manilla,"
was the cautious reply.

Is there a taint in slavery ? Does it
cling to a man unseen, and unfit him for
high places ? "

A slave is a slave," said the chief.

"But if he date back his blood to the

free and the noble ; if the great Father hath
set his mark on him for equality with the
free ? "

I know none such," said the chief.

Slaves can feel ; they have arms, hands,
eyes ; and they are often brave unto death.
I have seen such men among thine own.
By what right are they bond men and women,
with their hearts and souls things of traffic,
of sale and barter, as their bodies are ? ''

They are as they are," answered the
chief.

Thou saids't, ' I give thee thy liberty ; '
am I free now in thy estimation ? "

Thou art."

Not in mine own ; I am not free until
I pay thee for it with that same pearl, or
until I rob thee of myself beneath the waters.
But I would have thee say now, and have
thee vow by Bu'at Timantangis thou boldest
so dear when sailing from sweet Sooloo, that
Moarra is free."

u By mine honour, boy, and by our Hill

of Tears, I swear thou art no longer slave to
Mudaa Burundeen ! "

The chief raised his right arm as he spoke,
and the boy bent his head for a moment, to
look up with bright but fearful eyes at
his master.

"Thou art good as thou art great," he
said, "and, now that I am free, I fear to
use my right to speak with the licence of
liberty."

Have no fear ; thou art as poor as thy
master, for thou wast his last possession."

Nay, great chief, dost thou forget the
flower of Sooloo, the gentle Sorra''

I forget nothing," said the chief, "but
the slave may remember what the freeman
must forget. My favourite servant yesterday,
thou art merely a subject of the Sultan
to-day. We permit liberties in our slaves
which we wipe out in blood, the offender
being equal in the sight of the Sultan's laws
and a chieftain's honour. Have a care,
Moarra, how thou uses thy liberty."

Great chief, instruct me. My heart is
full of strange longings. My soul seems to
be soaring yonder like a bird about the
heights of Timantangis. The voices of my
great kinsmen whose blood mingles with my
own whisper in my ear, "Thy love hath
ennobled thee ; fear not ! "

The chief wondered at the youth, and
half feared him, as a sudden ecstacy seemed
to lighten up his face.

What wouldst thou ? "

As the chief spoke the boy seized his
arm, and by the inclination of his own head
motioned him to look over the side of the
boat. They had drifted as they had talked,
and were beyond the extreme borders of the
pearl-bank. The chief bent his face down
to the water. There, lying almost under the
boat, but at a depth far beyond the distance
of a Sooloo diver, he saw an opened shell,
and, distinctly visible within it, an enormous
pearl. He looked up at the boy, who stood
ready to dive.

Say, am I a free man ? " asked the
youth, in a low voice.

Thou art."

That pearl "

Is beyond thy reach," said the chief.

It would restore "

My freedom," said the chief, again
interrupting him, " for he who cannot pay
is bondman to his debtor''

I will bring thee that pearl for another
which is already thine, and which given tome
I will treasure and cherish beyond the
riches of all the seas."

What pearl ? " the chief asked.

"Thy daughter, Sorra! " said the youth,
"Pearl for pearl!"

"Ingrate! dearest thou insult thy benefactor?"


If to love his daughter beyond his life,
if to lay that life at the father's feet at his
command, for that he is her father; if thisbe
insult, then, great chief, I dare insult
thee ! "

The boy stood upright in the frail boat,
a picture of lissome beauty, his face quivering
with emotion, his hands half poised fora
header.

"I forgive thee!" exclaimed the chief,
looking with admiration at the lithe figure and
the radiant face. " Sorra shall be thy wife."

As the last word fell from the chief's lips
Moarra dived from the boat, shooting downward
with the force of a bolt from a gun.
The boat swayed from side to side, but in a
moment was steadied by the chief, who
flung himself into an attitude of observation,
his face upon the water, his hand upon the
paddle. Down, down, into the blue sea
went the dark figure ; down, down, as if it
would never stop. A great fish sailed out of
the unseen circle round about, and passed over
the point of vision. Mudaa Burundeen sought
his knife, and for a moment was on the point
of diving to the boy's rescue ; but the monster
was not a shark, and the interrupted
line of light again showed the diver coming
upwards, up, up, but with an unsteady mo-vol.

II. o

tion, wavering and uncertain. The chief
had to move the boat to keep it even with
the boy, and then, suddenly slipping off
part of his scanty dress, he dropped silently
into the water, to re-appear almost the next
moment, supporting the diver, whom he
lifted into the canoe.

It was an hour or more before Moarra
came to his senses. He had brought up the
shell, which had closed upon his hand. When
the boy had sufficiently recovered, they forced
open the great shell, and found therein a
pearl of extraordinary size and shape, a
treasure not surpassed in all the history and
tradition of the Sooloo seas. They pulled
back to the river, and as they entered it the
golden sunlight lay serene upon the distant
hills. Moarra was silent. He could hear the
voices of the women, for it was the time when
they took their evening bath ; and the words
of Sorra seemed to come back to him as in a
strain of music, " We can die, dear love,
together."

There is a city in the Sooloo sea ;
its streets are waterways, as are those of
Venice. One happy day, a few months after
Moarra and the chief had gone homewards in
silent delight over their prize, a wedding procession
of gaily-decked boats halts at the
Sultan's palace ; for his highness has deigned
to give his personal countenance to the union
of Sorra and Moarra.

The English merchant, Jeffrey Waller,
has paid Mudaa Burundeen, for the pearl,
enough dollars to cover his debt, redeem the
chief's slaves, release his family, and re-establish
his position ; and he has come from
Manilla at the express invitation of the Sultan,
who has given him a considerable profit on
his original purchase for the priceless gem.*

Mr. Spencer St. John (whose charming work, first,
I believe, recorded the simple and unadorned incident of the
capture of the pearl and its sale to an English merchant
by his native creditor) says the purchaser sent the pearl
to China. " What became of it afterwards I could never
distinctly trace, but I learned that a pearl in Bengal, which
was there called the * Mermaid,' originally came from
China, and, as the one found in Sooloo was said to be
shaped like a woman's bust, it is perhaps the same." As

o2

The English merchant had known Moarra,
and, interested in his fate, had induced the
Sultan to grant to the youth full recognition
of his noble Spanish blood. The chief
had always been a favourite at court ; and
so the Sultan, delighted with his pearl,
anxious to please the merchant, willing to

Mr. St. John knew nothing of the slave-boy's love-story,
his conversations with the chief, his bargain " pearl for
pearl," and the happy denouement thereof, it is not surprising
that he is unacquainted with the subsequent
history of this treasure of the Sooloo seas. It is not
likely that he should know it. The secret is mine.
There is no longer any reason why the mystery should
not now be cleared up. Sometime since I narrated the
story thus far in a London journal, simply as an episode
of my life in the East, with a promise that I would
at a future day give the sequel to the readers of that
journal. It was not my intention at that time to have
given the whole of my personal history to the public. I
have, therefore, preferred, while fitting this romantic incident
into the period of my life to which it belongs, to
reserve for my autobiography the record of the sequel
thereof. I may, however, for the information of Mr. St.
John's readers and my own, state that it is the interval
prior to the pearl's appearance in China that belongs
to my own personal adventures. It will in nowise
detract from my narrative to admit that the pearl which
ransomed Sorra from slavery to love and liberty is now in
the Imperial regalia of China.

bestow distinction upon Burundeen, has all
his guns fired on this happy day, and gives
a feast in honour of the bride and bridegroom.


In the centre of the procession of boats,
and under a canopy of radiant cloth of gold,
are seated Sorra and Moarra ; he attired in
the gay fashion of Sooloo, his jacket and
breeches covered with rich embroidery, a
bright kerchief round his head ; she in loose
trousers of yellow silk, with coquettish strong
worn as a sash, embroidered with butterflies.
The upper garment that hangs from her
shoulders, not unlike the hussar jacket of our
light cavalry, is not permitted to hide her
lovely bust. Her graceful figure is not, however,
seen under the fashion of the court as
on that other day when, for a few short
moments, she halted on her way from the
bath beneath the bending palms. It may be
that her charms are enhanced by the aid of
braided strong and ornaments of gold. You
might think so if you could see the delighted
glances which Moarra casts upon her, and

hear the chorus of praise that welcomes her
to the Imperial feast. As the Sultan himself
receives her in the doorway, the water below
them repeats her form and figure in the
flood, and surrounds it with great splashes
of colour.

And now the brass guns of the sultanas
are fired all at once, shaking the wooden city
of the sea, to signify that the wedding feast
has begun ; and everybody is happy, more
particularly the Sultan, possessed of the finest
pearl known to the kingdoms of the East ;
and Moarra endowed with the pearl of Sooloo
beauty, whose loving smile is more to him
than all the treasures of China and Peru.

CHAPTER XII.

IN WHICH " THE MERMAID " IS THE CHIEF
FACTOR OF CERTAIN CURIOUS PLOTS AND
COUNTER-PLOTS.

Although the traditions of the East show
that from the earliest times precious gems
have been regarded as conferring power and
influence upon their possessors, history-proves
that they have always been associated
with ill-luck and misfortune.

Emperors, kings, and princes have waded
in blood for their possession ; and suffered
dethronement, persecution, torture, and
martyrdom to keep them.

The only exceptions to this rule of ill-luck
which I have come upon, in a long course

of reading and experience, are in a few instances
where the original finders, being
slaves and bondsmen, have obtained their
freedom in return for their discoveries.
The one exception of an Eastern potentate
being induced to part with a great
decorative treasure because it brought him ill-fortune
is I suspect that which I am about
to relate.

The Mermaid's" (for such is the name
now given to the Sooloo pearl) first influence
was, as we have seen, a good one ; but it no
sooner became enshrined in the palace of the
Sultan Kimona than misfortune fell upon
the Court even to the endangering of His
Majesty's own life.

Within a month of the marriage of Sorra
and Moarra the king's favourite wife died.
Two months later the Spaniards wrested from
him a part of his territory. Before the
Oriental nature had adapted itself to this
change of fortune the king's mother fell dead
while the pearl was being exhibited in state
to an illustrious guest ; and it was during

the latter part of my stay at Meimbong that
the Sultan had a very direct and startling
revelation and warning of the baleful influence
of " the Mermaid."

It was a ghost. The Sultan saw it in the
night, and heard its voice. If the Committee
of Physical Research had been represented
at Meimbong they might have encountered
one of those substantial ghosts which have
appeared not only in England but in all
parts of the known world. At the same
time they might have obtained curious
evidence of supernatural manifestations from
Mr. Jeffrey Waller, the Manilla merchant,
who was a singular compound of the sharp
business man, the man of taste, and the man
of learning. I did not at first even suspect
his many remarkable qualities ; but I lived
to know him as one of the most interesting
persons I have met during a career of travel
and adventure in many lands.

The Sultan's apartment, though it communicated
with several others, was a somewhat
solitary room overlooking his private

garden. Within his chamber was a staircase
that led to his treasure-store, through
which there was also a secret way to the
throne-room, where His Majesty received
illustrious visitors on great occasions. The
pearl and other precious things were kept
under lock and key, cabinets within cabinets,
the Sultan holding the master key. Neither
Chubb nor Griffiths nor any other safe-maker
had penetrated the courts of the eastern
seas ; but the Sultan Kimona had some
curious protective artifices, which might
have offered mechanical suggestions even
to the lock-makers of Yale and Birmingham.
Now the person third in succession to the
sultanas was the king's nephew, Prince
Tawe, who was about as complete a
scoundrel as could well be imagined. He
had been allowed to travel abroad for
several years in China and India. The
vices of barbarism and civilisation were
combined in his character, and he had
supplemented the cunning of the former
with the audacity of the latter. Having

(as was afterwards suspected) failed in an
attempt to poison his way to the throne, by-sweeping
from his path the three living
obstacles to his succession, he resolved to
plunder the royal treasury and spend the
remainder of his days in riot and luxury
beyond the reach of law or vengeance.

The Sultan had a weakness for gems.
His treasury contained several diamonds of
great value, two of them roughly set as
centre-pieces of ornamental jewels. Neither
Made nor Tavernier, nor Emmanuel, nor
Street, nor the other authorities on precious
stones had ever penetrated the secrecy
of the Sooloo collection. Few travellers had
ever seen it, and the Sultan confided to me
that he went in constant fear of thieves, and
also in dread of Spanish annexation. He
regretted that he had added " the Mermaid "
to his collection. He confessed to me his
belief that the spirits were angry at its
removal from the deep sea. " Seven times
of late," he said, "have I seen a shadowy

form pass to and fro, a messenger surely
of reproach and death."

Pressing His Majesty on the subject, I
found him an implicit believer in ghosts,
and I also learnt that this one, which he
began to imagine haunted the pearl, was
attended by a strange luminosity. He
described it as giving forth in the darkness
a weird, uncertain light, not the flashing
radiance of the flies in the mangrove
swamps, but a softened glimmer that might
belong to the spirit-world.

Has it ever addressed your Majesty?"
I asked.

"Nay, not so," he answered, "but once
as it passed the portal I heard a voice say,
Give my ocean-treasure of the ancient fisherman
unto thy servant Tawe, that he may
restore it to the mermaids who mourn for
it, and that peace and health may once
more smile upon thy house, and save thy
soul also from the death.' "

"Is it not strange that Tawe, rather
than Moarra, who brought it to the light,

should be selected for the duty of restoring
the pearl ? " I asked.

He is favoured of the spirits ; they
appeared at his birth ; and he is learned in
strange tongues," said the King.

It serves no purpose, but to create undue
excitement in the mind of the reader, that I
should dwell upon the details of my discovery
that Prince Tawe was the ghost, and that he
had sought the aid of spiritualism, as practised
in all ages and in all climes, to promote
his designs upon the Sooloo treasury. Phosphorescent
aids in this respect were even
known and practised, according to ancient
chronicles, by certain Saxon monks of Crow-land
to terrify the Norman invader. The
modern idea of luminous paint is indeed
founded in necromantic practices that areas
old as superstition. I learnt Malay, which
is the language of the Sooloo court, in six
months, and this and the special privileges
granted to me by the Sultan enabled me
to ferret out the plot of that learned and
accomplished prig the Prince Tawe.

Now the Manilla merchant was a wise
and discreet man. It happened that he was
in pert at this period of my fortunes ; and
he counselled me how to turn this design of
Tawe to account. Jeffrey Waller hated Tawe
for reasons which he never explained.

Tawe," he said, " will obtain the pearl.
There are ghosts and ghosts, spirits and
spirits. Heaven knows that I should bethe
last one to question the truth of the
manifestations it permits on the part of loved
ones who have left this world to the loved
ones that remain ! You have distinguished
between the real and the spurious; but
the Sultan will not ; neither would any circumstance,
short of absolute proof, induce
him to suspect the loyalty and truth of
Prince Tawe. The ghostly visitants, which
are probably no other than Tawe in disguise,
cover, as you suspect, a design to rob
the treasury, not only of the pearl but possibly
of other valuables. I know what is
in your mind. The plan is a worthy one,
no doubt. You contemplate a counter-plot

to thwart Tawe and expose him before the
Sultan and his court ; in short, to bring a
scoundrel to justice, and thus show your
gratitude to the Sultan for his hospitality."

You have indeed," I answered, " covered
the chief points of my present design and
intentions. My scheme is to outwit the ghost
while in the act of robbery and strip him of his
disguise. Should he fail to open the treasure-chests
by pick-locks and rely on strategy
for getting possession of the pearl that he
may pretend to restore it to the sea, I am
not quite sure how I may act."

Will you be advised by me ? "

You have a right to command me,
since I almost owe the preservation of my
life to you, and am certainly indebted to
you for the comfort of my present quarters."

Do not overrate the services I have
rendered you ; but trust to my knowledge
of these regions, and to my long experience
of barbarous courts, to advise you in the
present emergency, so that a mutual profit
may accrue to both of us, and you may

extend your travels to other countries with a
purse re-equipped and increased wisdom."

I noticed that the merchant spoke English
with a rhythmical flow of sentences and a
musical cadence that is peculiar, it seems tome,
to my countrymen who have grown
accustomed to the various languages of
Oriental and savage tribes. This view of
Mr. Waller's euphonious style has occurred
to me since I have met and conversed with
Mr. H. M. Stanley, the discoverer of the
discoverer himself, the young explorer who
found the old man of many adventures in the
heart of Africa. I have heard Mr. Stanley
tell the story of his march to Ujiji, and in
imagination stood by his side when the
marvellous romance of the moment was discounted
by the interrogation of commonplace
life, " Dr. Livingstone, I presume ?"
And I have found myself wondering at the
poetry of a story so informally and prosaically
commenced. Sitting, as it were, at Stanley's
feet and listening to his narrative has realised
to me more completely than all my reading

how Homer might have related to his wondering
hearers the great story of Ulysses. It
is well for me that my name and credit were
pledged to this present narrative before I
heard Stanley recount his experiences, otherwise
I might not have ventured upon this
present undertaking. When I say it is well
for me, I mean to this extent, that I should
not, I am sure, go to my grave happily
without writing down these confessions of
my life. One of the chief delights of composition,
more particularly in the narration of
adventures, lies in relieving the mind and
the memory of their accumulated load of
reminiscences. It has been said, in verification
of this, that even where there is no intention
or expectation of benefiting others,
the delight may be none the less, though the
prospect or hope of such a result will intensify
it. Says the philosopher, " Much that is
commonly referred to pedantry may be
explained in a similar manner as originating
rather in the indescribable charm which
the understanding experiences in recalling
VOL. II. P

and applying its acquisitions than in any
motive of literary parade." I shelter myself
behind this theorising, and hope for the
best.

"lam in your hands," I said to the good
merchant.

"And you give me your pledge of
obedience, nay as implicitly as if I were
your father, and you my son ? "

It is a pleasant appeal, and I am sure
you will counsel well."

Believe me, I will show you the wisdom
of discretion, and the virtue of saving
your own head. Let me recall to you the
fable of the lion and the fox. The lion
asked the sheep if he had breath of an unpleasant
odour. 'Yea, verily,' said the
sheep, and he snapped off his head for a
fool. Then he called the wolf. ' Smelled
my breath offensively ? ' he asked. ' On the
contrary ' replied the wolf, ' it is sweet
beyond compare.' The lion tore the wolf
to pieces for a flatterer, and called upon the
fox. ' I have caught a cold ' said the fox,

{ and at present have lost my sense of smell.'
And so, Mr. Durand, let us adjourn to my
cabin, where I will show you that I have
not been unmindful of the vicissitudes that
mark the history of the precious gems of
Eastern treasuries. "

The cabin of The Pioneer was a picture
of luxury. Lined with decorated sandalwood,
its floor was of polished teak, partially
covered with Persian rugs. On the port
side were two chests of drawers with antique
brass handles ; on the other a broad soft
couch covered with white linen. The portholes
were broad and wide. A gentle
breeze came in without ruffling in its course
the placidity of a perfectly blue and clear sea.

A native attendant served us with fruit,
light wines, and Manilla cigars.

Presently, when we were quite alone, the
merchant turned up the sleeve of his light
jacket and disclosed, just above his elbow, a
gold armlet.

u I have your pledge of obedience ; I
give you proof of my trust in you, and illus


trade to you the necessity of discretion in
these Gardens of the Sun, these paradises
where the asp lurks beneath the flower and
the boa lies coiled amidst the foliage of the
nipa and the gutta."

He pressed the fore-finger of his right
hand upon the armlet, whereupon a portion
of it gave way sufficiently to discover a
miniature key. This removed, the armlet
closed as before.

The two first drawers of the cabinet contained
six revolvers and ample ammunition.
Two curious recesses had to be opened, by
means of secret springs, before these weapons
were seen.

And this cabinet is so thick, and so
persistently lined and protected with wrought
iron, that you would waste time trying to
open it with an axe, and it is impervious
alike to fire and water," said the merchant.

The drawers being re-locked, he opened
others, remarking as he did so " There are
land-rats and water-rats, as our Shakespeare
says, and my captain and crew are fighting-men

when necessary, and The Pioneer has a
wealth of resources in the way of guns you
would not dream of. The Sooloo pirates and
their Chinese and Borneo rivals know the
weight of her metal and the force of her
armoured prow''

The greatest surprise however which I
experienced, in regard to the contents of the
merchant's cabin, was contained in a small
case which my friend produced from the
inner recesses of a triple series of secret
drawers.

The pearl itself ! " I exclaimed, "the
Mermaid ! "

No," he said, placing it in my hand,
I sold the Mermaid to the Sultan for
dollars and diamonds which in English money
would count up to five-and-thirty thousand
pounds. At Singapore there is a certain
Chinese of a strange skilfulness in imitative
artificers. He is in my service, and these
are examples of his work."

As he spoke he opened another drawer,
the contents of which sparkled with a refulgence

that might realise to the imagination
something of the glories of the famous
Peacock throne.

Are they not superb ? "

Magnificent ! " I exclaimed.

u False as they are beautiful," he responded,
closing the case.

Cs But you don't mean to say that
you

"Are a dealer in spurious diamonds,
emeralds, cats-eyes, sapphires ? No, sir,
but my Chinese artist is a useful man. He
made the pearl, which you are holding in your
hand as if it were a scorpion and might
hurt you.

You astound me ! " I said, replacing
the gem in a small case which he held
towards me for this purpose.

An agent of mine at Pekin informed
me, five months ago, that the Prince Tawe
had offered to sell him the Mermaid. The
Sultan loves Tawe as the apple of his eye,
his affection for him is greater than that
which he permits himself to entertain for

his own son ; though Tawe is a traitor and
a wretch. It often happens that everybody
knows the traitor except the master who
cherishes him. The Pioneer took my Chinaman
a careful sketch of the pearl, and a
wooden model which I had cut from it when
first it came into my possession. My object
was to deceive Tawe. That he would steal
the gem, or obtain it by some act of
strategy — that he would obtain it nefariously,
I felt certain. You know the rest, for
it is from your own lips that the sequel to my
surmises have fallen."

He replaced the pearl and its case in
the cabinet; he put the master-key back
into the golden cavity of the armlet; he
motioned me to a seat, handed me a cigar,
pushed the wine towards me, and sat opposite
to me. He touched an ivory knob on
the table, and the punkah above our heads
swayed gently to and fro.

If you were to detect this Tawe in his
crime and save the pearl," he said, " the
Sultan would be grateful to you for an hour.

Then he would regard you as the agent of
the spirit of evil presiding over the Mermaid.
The friends of Tawe would intrigue
against you. Supposing he were beheaded
for his treachery, which is not probable, your
life would not be worth a row of beads. In
the Sultan's superstitious mood he would be
inclined to regard Tawe's crime as the
result of fiendish action; and in this direction,
my son, he might come to the conclusion
that Tawe, the good and the true, was to be
pitied for having been worked upon by the
unseen agency of the spells with which
the spirits of the deep had encompassed the
pearl. It is not only Oriental monarchs who
hate the bearers of ill news. Do you remember
how Macbeth received the boy who
told him Birnam Wood had begun to move ?
And can you forget the treatment which Gil
Bias met with at the hands of the archbishop
? You are surprised to hear a common
trader quote the classics. I have
translated ( Macbeth ' and two chapters of
Gil Bias into Malay."

This is indeed a day of surprises," I
said, " what do you wish me to do ? "

I bring a present for the Sultan.
To-morrow or the next day he shall show
us his treasures. Tawe will accompany us.
I recognise you as a factor in this transaction.
I could dispense with your aid,
but the Sultan has unconsciously made you
my partner. You have supplied me with the
key to the problem offered for solution by
my agent at Pekin. I count you as my
ally, and thus the business presents itself.
When the King allows me to take up the
case in which the pearl reposes I shall
remove the treasure, at the same time
handing the empty case to you, turning
aside as I do so that you may not be
embarrassed. You will place this exquisite
counterfeit in the resting-place of the true
one."

I rose from my seat to protest that my
gratitude did not go so far as he demanded.


Sit, my friend," he continued, u I know
what you would say, but you are wrong.
Listen, my son. It is ordained that Tawe
shall achieve the annexation of the pearl.
The words which the King heard — probably
from a confederate, one of his women — are
prophetic. Either Tawe will steal it, or the
Sultan, to appease the spirits who have
already wrought so much disaster at court,
will commission the Prince to restore it to
the sea at the spot where the ancient pearl-fisher
saw it. Tawe is clever in many ways.
Whatever he may drop into the sea, it will
not be the Mermaid, which he will take to
Pekin, where seventy-five thousand dollars
will be his reward. He is a riotous liver, a
sensualist, and he will make merry with
his ill-gotten gains. Meanwhile, the Sultan
will be troubled by no more ghosts or
sudden deaths. Supposing the wicked
Prince should take the counterfeit to Pekin,
his chief resources in the way of debauchery
will be cut off, his ungrateful conduct will

be properly punished. He cannot go back
to Sooloo and complain. The secret will
be his, and we shall enjoy his discomfiture
the more, that the pearl will be ours and
the profit thereof.

Once more I rose to speak.

"I know what you would say. You
think Prince Tawe will conclude that I had
palmed off upon the Sultan a spurious pearl
at the beginning, and that he will lay snares
for my life. This is my last trip to Meim-
bong. I am growing old. My soul longs
for the rest that age seeks in the home of its
youth. For five-and-twenty years I have
traded in these seas, fought their pirates,
withstood their fevers, risked my head, sacrificed
my days. There is a religious hermit
who predicts that first an outbreak of cholera,
and then a typhoon, will devastate Manilla.
My soul longs for rest, and I seek the security
of my own land, the once familiar
haunts of Bond Street and Marylebone. Nay,
listen ! The Pioneer contains all I possess.
My wealth is chiefly in these cabinets. The

principal of two hundred thousand pounds lies
banked at Singapore and London ; duplicate
bills thereof are here and there. I am on
my way to England, to London. The Mermaid
is my last transaction en route.

Is it not a pity to sully a long career
of honest trading' I said, disregarding the
waving of his hand to enforce my continued
silence, " by a fraud ? "

I will undertake," he answered, " to
demonstrate to you by all the laws of ethics,
by the Old Testament, nay by the very
gospels themselves, that my proposals to you
are founded in honesty and virtue. They
involve the punishment of crime ; the rescue
from oblivion of one of the rarest gems of
the sea; and the return of a shipwrecked
mariner and penniless outcast to his own
country, a rich man free to indulge his legitimate
fancies, perhaps to wed the woman of
his choice. What a story of adventure you
will have to tell round the Christmas fire !
How that kind uncle who sent you forth will
welcome you back to his forgiving arms !

And what new music you will find in the
touching melodies of those Antwerp chimes ! "

I hardly know why, but I felt the tears
welling up into my eyes as he invoked my
utter desolation in aid of his plans for our
mutual advantage. Scarsdale, my dead
father, Breedon valley, and The Cedars,
the calm genial eyes of Helen Dunstan, the
last words of Judith Travers, my friendly
intercourse with Ernstone, — all the old life
and its possibilities seemed to pass in review
before me, followed by the wreck of The
Phoebe, the terrible days and nights at sea,
the massacre of my shipmates, my own narrow
escape, the kind-hearted king of Kututu.
I hardly know at this moment why my
feelings should have given way under these
varied recollections ; but suddenly a sense
of loneliness took possession of me, and a
desire to see once more the green fields of
old England, and to talk with white people
in European cities.

I will give you my answer tomorrow,"
I said, rising to leave the cabin.

"It is well," said the merchant, " at
Christmas we will hear the chimes of London."


Perhaps," I answered.

And Kina Bala travelled over sea and land unto the
fertile countries that lie beyond the Mountains of the Moon,
where the people made him a Prince to rule over them ; but
when he grew old he sought the home of his native land,
where, being bent with weight of years, lo they knew him
not any more : even the spirits of those who had loved him
in his youth had ceased to haunt the once familiar house of
his fathers ." — Malayan Romance.

CHAPTER I.

THE MERCHANT WISHES ME A MERRY CHRISTMAS
AND A HAPPY NEW YEAR.

Just as the merchant had predicted so
indeed it came to pass. We heard the Christmas
bells ringing out their " glad tidings of
great joy " over the wonderful town.

Listen!" said the merchant as we
pulled up at Long's Hotel in Bond Street,
he and I, with two attendant cabs of luggage,
there they go, the Christmas bells! "

We had arrived at the London Docks ina
P. and 0. steamer. It was a moonlight
night. The Thames was a revelation to me.
A strange weird black-looking stream, with
miles of hard business-like buildings on
either side of it. It might have been the

VOL. II. Q

Styx after Paradise, so uninviting was the
contrast between it and the rivers I had left
behind me.

And the grimy looking porters and
river-side men, the unpicturesque cabbies,
the dingy vehicles ; even the moonlight
could not redeem their ugliness !

We rumbled along through back slums,
over rattling roads, by blind-looking buildings
with darkened windows ; then we passed
the flashing lights of gin-palaces, and there
were crowds in all the streets. How strange
it all seemed ! The barbarism I had left
was decked with flowers, radiant with sunshine,
blessed with clear streams and lovely
valleys. Civilisation ! How dark and dirty
and miserable it looked ; and with all its
bustle how inexpressibly lonely it seemed !

The merchant did not speak a word
through all that long dreary ride westward.
Arrived at the hotel however he
seemed to experience a special pleasure in
calling my attention to the music of the
bells.

I have not heard them for five-and-twenty
years," he said, "the Christmas
bells ! "

It was Christmas eve, and close upon
midnight. The cold was piercing. We
had provided against it by laying in a stock
of furs en route. The P. and O. captain
had given us good advice. He had
telegraphed to Long's for our rooms. They
were ready when we arrived. Great fires
were blazing in the grates. This was the
first home-like influence I experienced, the
firelight falling upon an English hearth-rug,
casting a ruddy glimmer upon the
counterpane of an old-fashioned bed, making
dark corners and suggesting fearless slumbers.


We had a sitting-room in common, the
merchant and I. Supper was laid for us.
A sirloin of beef white on the top with
scraped horse-radish; a pair of chickens
decorated with parsley; a Yorkshire ham
partly cut, a dish of mince-pies, a Stilton
cheese, celery in a tall glass, and a set of
Q 2

pickle-cruets. The repast was laid out upon
a side-board. A waiter was assigned to the
duty of handing it to us. It seemed a strange
meal.

"A bottle of champagne, waiter," said
the merchant.

Yessir," said the waiter.
Christmas beef," said the merchant,
u and mince-pies for happy months."

I am not sure that I would not have
preferred some fruit and a curry, ,, I said.

Let us say grace ! " said the merchant,
"I always did so when a boy. For what
we are going to receive may the Lord make
us truly thankful ! "

Amen ! V I said.

The champagne, waiter " said the merchant.


Yessir, here it is, sir."

Long ale-glasses, waiter."

Yessir, I will get two, sir."

u My father always drank champagne
out of long ale-glasses ; we only had it once
a year, on Christmas eve," said the merchant.

u Indeed," I said, " you are reviving the
days of your youth."

"I hope to do so somewhat," he said,
u I will tomorrow show you the house where
I lived as a boy ; I drink your health, Mr.
Horace Durand; and I wish you a Merry
Christmas and a Happy New Year ! "

And I wish you the same, with all my
heart ! " I said.

The undercut, waiter, and I think you
shall place it on the table ; I will carve it."

Yessir, if you please, sir."

My father was quite an adept at
carving ; I will tomorrow show you where
he is buried. Do you like it underdone ? "

Well done, thank you," I replied.

11 Any pickled cabbage, waiter?"

Yes, sir."

Thank you. My mother used to make
the best pickled cabbage I ever tasted. She
bought the cabbages at Covent Garden. I
remember the very shop. It was half way
down that avenue, or arcade, where in spite
of your eastern travels you may still, I daresay,

see the loveliest flowers and the choicest
fruits the world produces. Poor, dear soul,
she died six months after my father ! But
for that, I should have returned to London
within two years after I left it. I never
quite felt that either of them were dead
until two hours ago, when I saw the London
Docks once again. Yet, now that I hear
the Christmas bells, I feel as if I had only
been away a month or two, and that I shall
find them at home in the parlour, at the
back of the dear old shop in Oxford Street.
My thoughts are in a jumble, like bells that
jangle out of tune. I have seen trials and
troubles innumerable, passed through dangers
of shipwreck and bondage in savage lands as
you have ; it is five-and-twenty years since
I have seen my native land until to-day ; and
yet I cannot say that I feel an old man."

You are not so old as my uncle," I
said, " and you look twenty years younger."

I am sixty," he said.

You look forty."

And I feel five-and-thirty," he said,

and that was about my age when I left
London for a holiday and business excursion
to Ceylon, Java, Borneo, Manilla, India,
and the East generally. I always liked
the sea, but was rarely absent from the
parental roof for more than two months at
a time, until I was thirty-five, as I tell you.
My father and I had been companions more
than anything else, ever since I was eighteen.
Let us divide a happy month. My father
and I were wont to do so on Christmas
Eve, making my mother have a whole one,
because we were so fond of her."

The merchant cut a mince-pie in two
parts, and called for "two nips of brandy
just to settle them," he said, " before the
cheese."

An hour later we sat over the fire,
smoking long pipes and drinking rum punch.

When a man is nearing the end of his
journey," said the merchant, " he wants to
go home to the haunts of his youth. I am
not old and I am strong, yet during the
past five years I have been longing for this

day, longing to come home. My father
died two years after I left London, and he
appeared to me as his soul left his body."

Appeared to you ? "

At Manilla. I had been there three
months, a guest at the house which I afterwards
purchased, and which I only parted
with nine months back. It was sunset; I
was alone, smoking in the verandah, and
thinking of home. I had that very day
written a long letter to my mother, saying
that I should return within a year. Suddenly
I was conscious of a figure moving
towards me. It halted close by me ; it was
a white-haired old man. l Father ! ' I exclaimed.
There was a smile on its pale
familiar features. I stepped towards it, and
the next moment it was gone, fading out
gradually as a mirage at sea."

Your thoughts are surely very gloomy,"
I said, " seeing that this is Christmas Eve f
and you are once more safe and well in
your native London."

"No, no, not gloomy, death is not a

gloomy business, my friend. It is only sad,
it seems to me, when you cannot die where
you were born, when you cannot live your
last days among the scenes of your boyhood.
I came to this very hotel often with my
father, to see customers from the country.
My father was considered to be the best
chronometer-maker in London, and the wisest
judge of gold and stones. Dealers from all
parts of the world came to consult him and
trade with him. Do you object to this talk
about myself and my people ? It is arrogant,
but I would like you to know something of
the man who has done business with you, and
who is your partner in at least one profitable
transaction."

Mr. Waller, I feel deeply interested in
all you say."

You wonder, no doubt, why I did not
return home after my father's death. It
was more than nine months before I really
learnt that he was dead ; for his appearance
on the Manilla verandah did not at that
time convince me of his departure, though

it filled me with alarm. So much so, that I
resolved to hasten my journey home ; but
my mother died exactly six months after
my father, and while I was preparing to
leave Manilla. I had nearly forgotten the
apparition of the dear old gentleman, when
almost at the same time in the afternoon, as
the sun was going down, the shadow of
my mother filled the same spot where my
father had smiled upon me. It was the
same sweet rosy face, with greyish curls
about the temples, that I had last looked
upon in London. As soon as it had noted
my recognition of it, the shadowy form
moved towards the western end of the
balcony. A shadowy hand appeared. She
laid her own upon it ; and then I saw my
father. Companions on earth since the age
of seventeen, they are companion ghosts in
the spirit world. That night I knew my
father and mother were dead; for I dreamed
it also ; and a week later, when I was ready
to leave Manilla, I saw them standing hand-in-hand
in my garden, two old London

people looking at my flower-beds, as if they
had come to stay with me. An inward
voice at the same moment seemed to say,
1 They are happy here ; stay you yet a little
while.' "

I began to think that my friend was a
monomaniac. He spoke on this at once as
if he read my thoughts, as he had often
done before.

These things are marvellous to you, but
they are true. To me it is only strange that
it is given unto so few in this world to seethe
spirits of the other. But we will change
the subject."

No, no, pray continue."

For the present, yes ; I see that I disturb
you. Let us to our affairs. I hope
you do not regret our partnership in the
Mermaid. Your original scruples did you
honour. But you are inexperienced in the
trade of precious stones and gems. c Diamond
cut diamond ' was my father's motto in
regard to that branch of our business. I

owe you ten thousand pounds. My agent at
Pekin sent me to Singapore drafts for that
amount on Rothschild. The Emperor of
China overwhelmed him with thanks. He
reckons the Mermaid the finest pearl the
world has ever seen."

You did not tell me what became of
Prince Tawe."

You never asked me ; I thought you
preferred to forget the subject. After the
ceremony of restoring the pearl to the deep,
where the ancient fisherman had first seen
it, Prince Tawe obtained permission to make
a visit to China, as you know. We saw the
Sultan's yacht sail to put him aboard a
Pacific steamer. He offered his spurious
gem to my Pekin agent, who buys for the
Emperor, and who happened to be at Hong
Kong when Prince Tawe arrived."

With what result ? "

My agent is the shrewdest man I have
ever met. He matriculated in Persia, extended
his studies in India, bought experience

in Paris and Amsterdam, studied
diamond-mining in the Brazils, had pearl-fisheries
of his own at Ceylon, graduated asa
trader at St. Petersburg, practised in Paris,
Berlin, Vienna, London ; and settled finally
at Pekin. Some men would have denounced
Tawe as a fraud, or laughed at him as a fool.
But what did our Pekin friend do ? Saved
us all. Manilla, Sooloo, Meimbong, the
Eastern Seas are not closed to us by the
enmity of Prince Tawe if we chose to go
back. Tawe had other pearls to sell, other
gems to barter. Our agent, for in this he
was yours too, ridiculed Tawe's estimate of
1 the Mermaid ' but thought it best to buy
it, and lumped it with the rest, reckoning it
at two thousand pounds, 'for,' said he, 'I
think that was the wisest course.' I think
so too, and you ? "

I prefer not to think about it now; I
left myself in your hands ; I am not a
merchant nor a trader, I have no knowledge
of business ; you are wise and experienced ;
you have been kind to me, and I am content,"

I said, still with a feeling that the
transaction was not altogether honourable.

"That is true, you are not a business
man. Well, well, skill in trade does not
come by nature, and dealing in precious
stones is both a science and an art. Let us
thank Heaven for all its mercies, my friend ;
good night ! "

The next morning I wished to telegraph
to Sir Christopher Hallam. He would communicate
with Ernstone and thus spread the
news of my safe return. It was Christmas-day
; I must therefore wait. There were no
telegraph operators in attendance, at the
little town near Sir Christopher's place, on
Sundays.

Come with me," said the merchant
after breakfast, " I will show you the house
where I lived as a boy."

It was a cold frosty day. There were
many people in the streets, some going to
church, others wandering aimlessly about.
Bond Street looked as strange to me as the
people. Muffled in our furs we evidently

looked oddly to the people. The merchant
told the driver (we were in an open carriage)
to go slowly.

Turn to the right," he said, " get into
Regent Street, and then drive at a fast
pace down Oxford Street."

You have a good memory," I said.

I shall need it. Bond Street is much
altered. It seems to me that there is nothing
left of it but Long's Hotel. My friend, I
feel very sad."

The merchant sighed and stared about
him, as one who had never seen a city
before.

All changed, all changed ! " he said,
u except myself, except myself! "

Arrived in Oxford Street, a gleam of
satisfaction passed over his face ; but only a
gleam, a passing light.

You have come too far," he said
presently, " go back beyond Marylebone
Lane. Pull up at the end there, and we
will alight,"

The carriage stopped by-and-by. We

stepped out. The merchant stood upon the
pavement and looked up and down the
street. Several boys touched their hats and
held the carriage-door. A policeman paused
and looked on. The merchant backed into
the road, looking up at the handsome
buildings.

"Anything wrong, sir?" asked the
policeman.

Yes, I fear so," said the merchant
coming to my side and leaning upon my
arm.

Lost anything, sir ? "

Yes, I am afraid so."

"What is it, sir?"

An old house."

The policeman looked at me.

We are looking for a particular shop
or house hereabouts."

In the antiquarian line, or old friends?"
asked the policeman, with an amiable smile.

Old friends," said the merchant
sadly.

Did you ever hear the name of Waller ?''

Can't say as I have ? "

11 Not John Jeffrey Waller and Son,
late Warbeck and Co. ?"

"Well, no, sir."

Famous chronometer makers and diamond
merchants ? "

No, sir."

What shop is this ? "

Drapers and furriers and the like."

Gone," said the merchant re-entering
the carriage, " gone ! "

Where next ? " asked the driver.

To Marylebone church."

Presently we stood by a flat tombstone,
a dingy, neglected, record with two names
upon it, " John Jeffrey Waller and Mary
his wife."

After gazing upon the memorial for a
few minutes, he said, " A cold, hard, cruel,
resting-place ! "

The organ pealed out the opening strains
of a Christmas anthem. The choir followed
with a burst of heavenly music.

Ah, one needs something to sweeten

VOL. II. R

the atmosphere," he said, looking up, " come
away, my son, come away, it is horrible ! "

Where next ? " asked the driver.

To Manilla" answered the merchant.

CHAPTER II.

COLONEL Vanstone ARRIVES IN LONDON, AND
THE MERCHANT LEAVES IT.

I had read the carpenter's story on my
way home from Singapore. The day after
Christmas-day, I called upon the Editor of
The Daily Telegraph and gave him the
sequel to it.

The great London office was a very
different place to that of The Breedon Times,
where I had " fleshed my maiden pen," as
young writers describe their first effort in
journalism.

My surprise equalled my satisfaction
when I found that the gentleman who did
me the honour to receive me was acquainted
R 2

with my name. He remembered my St.
Partridge sketch in The May fair Magazine.
It turned out that he was not the Editor of
The Telegraph, but one of that gentleman's
responsible subordinates. " But," he said,
I happen to be the Editor of The May fair
Magazine, and we have often wondered why
you never followed up that very successful
essay which you contributed to our first
number."

Here was a revelation, after all these
years ! Here was a chance that had been
waiting for me on that very day when I
stood on the quay at Gloucester ! Fate was
there with two roads open to me. I wonder
if I took the right one! I think I did.
What would have been my lot if I had gone
straight to London, and sought journalistic
and literary employment then, instead of
going to sea. Heaven only knows ! I might
have struggled on in obscurity and wretchedness,
dropping manuscripts into editors'
boxes, with the same kind of results as
dropping them into the sea with stones tied

round them, like weights about the necks of
blind puppies ; who knows ?

The May fair Magazine" said my
newly-made friend, " is prosperous, it is
backed by a large capital, and after your
short account of The Phoebe has appeared
in The Telegraph I shall be glad to give
you quite your own terms for a special
paper in The Mayfair on the Bulonagan
Islands, and your proposals for an expedition
to Kututu. I think it will make a great
sensation ! And I will have it duly announced
and advertised that you have
promised further exclusive details and other
startling revelations to The Mayfair ', to which
you made your first literary contribution."

I was overwhelmed with my sudden prospects
of wealth and fame. I had an immediate
inspiration to refuse my share of the
Sooloo pearl transaction. Later in the day,
when I had the opportunity of consulting
Colonel Ernstone upon the subject, he said
I was a fool to think of such a sacrifice of
money. " Not fairly won ! " he exclaimed,

nonsense, my dear fellow, nonsense; if all
the merchandise, in the way of precious
stones and pearls, that come to London
was as fairly won as that, there would not
be much to complain of in regard to commercial
morality." I did not agree with the
colonel. But to return to my sub-editorial
friend in Fleet Street ; he showed me into
a small scantily furnished, but warm and
substantial looking room, supplied me with
pens, ink, and paper.

"Not too much," he said, "just the
entire story closely told ; don't dwell on
the wreck of The Phoebe, but emphasise
it, because we were charged with what is
called writing up the carpenter's story."

I found myself somewhat bewildered
with the multitude of my facts, for it will
be easily understood that I was not at that
time an expert in journalistic composition.
But I put the matter into a column and a
half, writing it simply, more like a letter to
a friend than anything else. It briefly
referred to the carpenter's story, endorsing

his account of the wreck, and giving a few
details of my detention by the Bulonagans,
and my ultimate escape.

I referred, in passing, to Kututu and its
Irish king, intimating that at a future day I
would return to the subject with especial
reference to certain proposals for an expedition
to Kututu and Bulonagan, with a view
to an investigation of the condition of these
unknown islands of the sea.

At night in response to my telegrams (in
which I stated that I could not leave London
at present) Colonel Ernstone arrived at Long's
Hotel. It did me good to look upon his
kind and honest face once more. I thought
he would never leave off shaking hands with
me and slapping me on the back. Not that
he was one of those effusive persons who continually
indulge in that kind of salutation.
But he was almost beside himself with
delight. It was quite unlike him to be so
demonstrative.

How he talked ! How we both talked !
I learnt that my uncle was well ; that he

spoke of me occasionally, but without any
indication of forgiveness ; that my mother
and Miss Dunstan were intimate friends ; that
my step-father was a minister without a seat
in the Cabinet, and as canting a humbug
as ever he was; that Miss Dunstan had
a town-house at Kensington and a countryseat
near Scarsdale in Derbyshire ; that
she had lost a considerable sum of money
in a colliery investment which the Right
Hon. Mr. Welby, M.P. had introduced
to her notice ; that her name and my
mother's were familiar in connection with
most of • the great philanthropic works of the
time; that the Hallamss were a very happy
family ; and that with my return Ernstone
might now say he had nothing in life to
desire.

We will have a jolly week together in
London," he said ; " I know the place better
than you do ; I will show you the sights."

You got my letters ?'' I asked.

The last time I heard from you was
nearly two years ago, dated City of Brune'

Is it so long since ? " I said, " it seems
but yesterday. You have told me nothing
of Judith Travers''

I met Father Gabriello in an odd way
at Havre not very long since ; I was coming
from Normandy, he was going to Paris, and
thence to Antwerp. He told me that the
lady of the villa was a Sister of the House
of Mary near that city."

Anything else ? Was she well ? "

Not very."

"111?"

"Yes."

I thought so "

"Why?"

"I cannot tell."

"You have not forgotten her ? "

I never shall."

But your feelings have changed somewhat,
eh ? "

If you mean do I want to marry her,
they have."

You found a pretty Malay or a Sooloo
beauty ? "

There were beautiful girls out there," I
said, " and there were also the Bulonagans."

"Ah, I knew you would get over it,"
said the Colonel.

If you mean that I shall ever get rid of
a touch of the heart-ache when I think of
Constance Gardner you do not know me.
If you think that were she free to-day, from
that bondage of the Church which she has
embraced, I would not marry her whatever
happened, you are equally wrong."

Well, my dear Horace, all I can say is
that your feelings do you honour. You
have not inquired after Mr. Justice Miller."

Hang Mr. Justice Miller! "

"Let us pray he may never have the
chance of hanging us. I see by the papers
he has annoyed some of the Bar by insisting
upon sitting through the usual Christmas
vacation. He is on the bench at the Old
Bailey."

He may be under it for all I care' I
said.

"Don't be too hard on him; he always

inquires after you, and is under the impression
that he did you a good turn."

Indeed!"

And really, Horace, I think he did."

You did not think so at the time."

I tried not to think so."

You succeeded. I remember your
denunciation of him."

My heart more than my head was
engaged in it," said the Colonel ; " some day
you may thank him."

Never."

I think you will ; but don't let us have
a row about it."

My dear Ernstone, whatever you may
say to me, that can never happen. Come, it
is time for dinner, and I want to introduce
you to the merchant."

Arrived at Long's Hotel, I found
dinner laid for me, and on the table a letter
carefully sealed.

From your friend," said the waiter;
he left for Paris an hour ago."

Left ! " I exclaimed.

Yessir."

For Paris?"

And Marseilles, sir. You was to have
this the moment you came in. ,,

I opened the letter and read —
"My dear Friend,

I inclose you draft on Rothschild's
1 to your order for the sum I owe you,
£10,000. I hope to catch the French mail
i steamer at Marseilles for Singapore. In
my dreams, sometimes in my waking
1 moments, under the palms at Manilla, I
1 have seen those two dear people whose
names you read on that bitter, hard, slab.
1 The old house too, I have seen it many a
time as I sat in my verandah at sundown.
1 I go back to dream those dreams again.
It may be that their spirits followed me
1 to my eastern home. I will try and think
so. The haunts of my boyhood are blotted
i out, London knows me no more. Those
good, kind, people, my father and mother,
1 have no association with the charnel-house
I leave behind me. They are spirits, their
bodies are dust. To them distance, space,
i has no meaning. A thought will carry
them over the seas, in reality, as it carries

us in imagination. I cannot see them
here. The old house exists no longer to
attract them hither, and, without a living
tie of blood and kindred, what shall keep
released spirits hovering over London,
except to guard those they love, to bathe
with tears the footsteps of the lonely, the
wretched, and the starving, and to mourn
over the cruelties that are committed in
the name of civilisation. Ah, my friend,
I fear our modern poet wrote in ignorance
when he said, Better fifty years of Europe
than a cycle of Cathay. God help us, weare
poor creatures. I could not stay to
wish you good-bye, lest my purpose should
change. When the driver asked me where
he should drive us next, you thought my
reply l To Manilla ' was a cry of bitterness
from a bruised heart, a cynicism in
which my disappointment found expression.
Know then, my friend, that it was an involuntary
utterance. And do you remember
when you laid your hand in mine
in kindly sympathy, I said, ' Yes, to
Manilla ? ' It seemed to me that my
mother might have said, ' To Manilla ! '
and that I answered, ' Yes. 1 Good-bye, my

friend, my son let me say, for I am
much attached to you. Letters addressed,
Care of Johnston and Co., Singapore, will
find me. I have given instructions to my
lawyers here to acquaint you with my
further intentions, and I beg you to feel
assured of my esteem for your character,
u and my interest in your welfare.
"Yours, to command,

Jeffrey Waller."

end OF VOL. II.

OF THE
UNIVERSITY
Of ILLINOIS

Hsawv

BEING

THE LIFE, LOVES, ADVENTURES, AND

STRANGE EXPERIENCES OF

HORACE Durant.

BY

JOSEPH HATTON,

AUTHOR OF "THREE RECRUITS," "TO DAY IN AMERICA," "CLTTIE,'
THE QUEEN OP BOHEMIA," ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. m.

LONDON:

CHAPMAN & HALL, Limited, 11, HENRIETTA ST.

CO VENT GARDEN.

1883.

[All Right Reserved.]

NICHOLS AND SONS, PRINTERS,

25, PARLIAMENT STREET.

CONTENTS.

BOOK I.

I. The dramatic Sequel to my meeting with

George Harmer and his Wife at Antwerp 3

II. I become famous . 23

III. With Father Gabriello . 50

IV. Sister Constance . 65
V. In which I meet my Mother and Helen Dunstan

at Antwerp 80

VI. Still lingers under the Chimes at Antwerp 104

VII Reflections and Reminiscences . . .121

VIII. The Confession of Judith Travers . . 131

BOOK IL
I. The house where I was born
11. Exploration leads to Discovery

III. I ENGAGE IN A VULGAR BrAWL

IV. A Bundle of Letters
V. The Palace

VI. Some of the Mb'D shall stick
VII. On the way to the Cedars
VIII. The ship sails home at last.










END.

VOL. III.

BOOK I.

He wept : '' The earth hath kindness

The sea, the starry poles ;
Earth, sea, and skt/, and God above —

But, ah, not human souls ! "

In summer in the woodlands,

The Baltic sea along,
Sits Neckar, with his harp of gold,

And sings this plaintive song.

Matthew Arnold.

VOL. m. B

THE DRAMATIC SEQUEL TO MY MEETING WITH
GEORGE HARMER AND HIS WIFE AT ANTWERP.

^' Come out," said Colonel Ernstone, the
next morning, ^^or you will be a candidate
for a lunatic asylum. Distraction is what
you want — change of scene ; come out, we
will go for a stroll, nobody knows you as
yet ; stop thinking for an hour or two ; that is
the only remedy ; come out, Horace."

I had not slept. The merchant's sudden
departure, and his touching letter, had quite
upset me. During breakfast six strangers
had called to see me, and ten had left their
cards. Ernstone had received the six for me.
The Telegraph story, it seemed, had created a
great sensation.

B 2

'^If you don't come out you will be
worried to death," said Colonel Ernstone.

He little thought of the new surprise to
which he was about to introduce me.

^^ Nothing like walking when you are
bothered," said Ernstone.

We walked to Oxford Circus.

^^Not down the street," I said, for I was
not willing to pass the end of Marylebone
Lane at present.

^^ No, we will go up the street," he said.

^^ The extraordinary shipwreck and
adventures with savages ! " cried a newspaper
vendor, thrusting a Telegraph at us.

'^ That's you ! " said Ernstone, nudging
me ; ^^ you will understand what Fame is by
this time tomorrow ! "

Oxford Street appeared to me very bright
and dazzling, compared with its aspect on
Christmas-day. The weather was cold, but
the sun was shining. There were holly and
mistletoe in shop-windows here and there.
The traffic bewildered me ; but the scene
generally struck me as singularly cheerful.

Thinking of the somewhat gloomy appearance
of the streets on Christmas-day, no
doubt made me see more colour in them now
than I otherwise should have done but for
this contrast.

^^ I don't know anything after all that
carries a fellow more out of himself than a
court of law; that is, when he has no personal
interest in the business ; no fear as to the
verdict of the jury, and all that sort of thing.
Hi, hansom ! "

^^'Ere yeare. Sir!" responded a nimble
driver.

'^ Old Bailey," said Ernstone.

^^Yessir," said cabby, and away we
went.

Having vainly endeavoured to run down
two omnibuses, and made a vigorous attempt
to annihilate a crossing-sweeper, '^ 'Ere'
are-sir," landed us safely, though not without
some violence, at the Old Bailey.

As we entered the Criminal Court the
business was proceeding in a leisurely, dull
kind of way.

^^ Sit down here," said Ernstone, '^ we
shall not be noticed. If the case is not
amusing we will leave. But I am sure
Miller will interest you. Besides, he will
carry your mind back to Breedon, and, hush !
come closer, by Jove he is reading in The
Telegraph all about your return."

I had only a side-glimpse of the judge's
face. Wearing his heavy official robes,
he was reading a newspaper, and at the
same time listening to the address of one of
the counsel. Very few people were in court.
The winter sun was falling upon the table,
round which several barristers were sorting
papers. I took a seat with my friend
almost opposite what turned out to be the
dock. The learned counsel for the prisoner
was just closing what seemed to be a laboured
appeal to the jury, more with the object of
exciting their sympathies than to secure
justice for his client. He referred particularly
to a previous conviction, the importance
of which he did not attempt to
disguise ; but at the same time he dwelt upon

the fact that the prisoner, during his penal
servitude, had behaved well enough to obtain
a ticket-of-leave, and that, in addition to this,
his conduct, on being released, had been
*' spoken to " by most reliable and responsible
witnesses. He begged the jury, in considering
their verdict, to remember these facts, and to
try and realise the possibility of the forged
money which had been found in the prisoner's
possession being none of his, and having been
unwittingly received by him. It seemed tome,
as I listened to the advocate, that the
case against the prisoner was a foregone
conclusion. This was evidently the belief
of the Court, for no one paid any particular
attention to the learned counsel's address,
and when he sat down the judge proceeded
to sum up with a calm, judicial intimation to
the jury that they had but one duty to perform,
and that was to pronounce the prisoner
guilty. It appeared that he had been previously
convicted as a coiner, and that within
two months of his release he had been taken
with a packet of forged money in his possession.

The prisoner, on being arrested, stated
that the money was placed in his hand by a
woman, that he did not know the contents,
nor had the slightest idea of them until the
packet was opened before his eyes at the
police station. There was no evidence to
support this apparently lame statement ; the
case against the prisoner was only too conclusive
; and the appeal of the learned advocate
for the accused was rather one to betaken
into consideration by the judge, in
pronouncing sentence, than by the jury in
considering their verdict.

Finding the business of the Court so uninteresting
I was just about to give Ernstone
a suggestive nudge for withdrawing, when a
very earnest voice said, '^ My Lord, before the
jury gives their verdict may I say a word?"

There was something so pathetic in the
tone of the prisoner's voice, though the
appeal in itself was ordinary enough, that
the whole Court turned its eyes in the direction
of the dock. I had previously only
glanced at the prisoner, and had done sounder

the generally lazy influence of the Court,
without paying any particular attention to
the appearance of the accused. Looking
now into his pale, haggard face I seemed to
recall features I had seen before under peculiar
circumstances. It was a careworn,
thoughtful face, a mouth more generous than
sensual, and eyes that certainly did not speak
the criminal. It was the face of a man who
had suffered much, but crime had not left
its indelible and unmistakable marks upon it.
I do not mean to imply that it was a frank,
honest face, but there was more in it of
sorrow and sadness and mental pain than of
cupidity and vice. I had seen it before.
I never forget a face. I tried hard to
remember the circumstances under which I
had met the prisoner.

'^I have seen that man before," I whispered
to Ernstone.

^^ Have you? Where''

^^ I cannot remember ; but I know him''

'^ Your counsel has spoken for you," said
Mr. Justice Miller, in his hard judicial voice

(how it carried me back to Baveno ! ), ^^ but
I will hear you."

^' I wish," said the prisoner, ^^to ask the
policeman a question."

^* Great heavens!" I exclaimed, ^^ it is
George Harmer ! "

^^ Silence in the Court ! " cried the usher.

I had half risen. Ernstone pulled me
back upon my seat.

The judge intimated that the prisoner's
application was out of order. The counsel
for the prosecution, however, rose *in reply
to inform the Court that he had no objection
to offer against it. Counsel for the prisoner
shrugged his shoulders, and intimated that
he was in the hands of the Court.

^^ I hadn't thought to say a word, your
lordship," said the prisoner, in a tremulous
voice, but with a certain confidence and
clearness of elocution that seemed to promise
something worth hearing, '' but I feel that I
ow-e something to the kind friends who have
spoken for me, and that the previous conviction
which has been mentioned may, if I

remain silent, send me back to transportation
for life''

(It was George Harmer. I watched him
with an eager eye. I listened to every word
that was said with breathless attention.)

^^ If your counsel sees fit," said the
judge, ^^ you will have an opportunity of
addressing the Court later."

^^ I only wish to ask the policeman a
question''

^' Policeman, stand forward," said the
judge.

An intelligent looking officer stepped into
the witness-box.

'^ You may put your question through
me'' said the judge.

^^ Will your lordship ask who gave him
the information upon which I was arrested ? ''

Counsel for the prosecution rose to object.
Scotland Yard, he said, had necessarily its
secret sources of information, and apart from
that the question was one which could
hardly be considered relevant as touching
the evidence before the Court. Counsel for

the defendant ventured to differ, and the
Court ruled in favour of the prisoner.

** Will your lordship ask him if it was a
woman ? '' said the prisoner.

'was it a woman who gave you the
information upon which you arrested the
prisoner ? " asked the judge,

'^ It was, your lordship," said the policeman.


'' Will you ask him," said the prisoner,
'' if she is in Court ? "

Counsel for the prosecution again objected,
and an interesting wrangle on both sides
was finally concluded in favour of the question
being put.

^^ She is in Court, your lordship," said
the policeman.

There sat within a short distance from
the witness-box a woman, whose features
were partly veiled by what ladies, I believe,
describe as a ^^ complexion fall." As the
prisoner spoke she raised her head, with a
defiant glance towards the dock, and then at
the counsel for the prosecution. It was then

that I noticed an expression which, like a
flash of thought, brought back to me the
two young people, Mr. and Mrs. Harmer,
whom I had met on their honeymoon at
Antwerp. There was noticeable in the
woman the same calm, statuesque beauty, the
straight classic nose, the low forehead, the
bluish-grey eyes, the strongly-marked chin,
which had previously impressed me. Here,
then, at the Old Bailey was the sequel to the
Antwerp holiday, the consummation of my
own forecast of trouble.

'' Is that the woman who informed against
me ? " asked the prisoner, pointing to the
seat she occupied, all the time turning his
head in a different direction.

^^ It is," said the officer.

^^My lord and gentlemen," said the
prisoner, ^'that woman is my wife I "

There was something so dramatic in the
declaration that it sent a thrill of surprise
through the court, and you may be sure
that I was deeply moved.

The judge raised his double eye-glasses

to look at the woman and her husband, as
the latter proceeded, without further remark,
to make a statement to the jury.

^' My lord and gentlemen, I will, in a
few words, put my case before you. If,
when you have heard it, you think I am
worthy to be sent back to Millbank for the
rest of my miserable days, I shall not complain.
Six years ago I had a studio in
Newman Street. I was a decorative artist.
It was necessary for the purpose of my work
that I should have a model from which to
design a figure of Victory for a panel at
Norfolk House. One day my patron sent
me a beautiful young woman for this purpose.
I fell in love with her, and six months
afterwards I married her. I had saved two
hundred pounds, and was making generally
an income of three to four hundred a year.
I took her for our honeymoon on a tour
through France, Holland, and Belgium. I
had studied as a boy in Holland, and had
made many pilgrimages to Antwerp. I was
anxious to show her the scenes which had

inspired what little ability I possessed. We
returned to London. My wife developed
very extravagant tastes. She ran me into
debt and ruined me. All this time my one
object was to please her. It did not matter
to me what she asked or what she desired,
so long as I could administer to her happiness.
We drifted into bad society. She
introduced me to strange people of strange
habits. One night we visited together a
coiner. He was a Dutchman. I joined
his confederacy. My artistic qualifications
made me a valuable acquisition to the band.
I became a manufacturer of spurious money,
my wife one of three women who passed
most of the spurious coinage, in London,
Paris, Vienna, and Berlin. Eventually we
were taken. I was advised by my counsel
that if I made certain declarations my wife
would escape the punishment of her crime.
She pleaded that she acted under my control
and authority ; I strengthened her plea by
fully endorsing it. She wept plentifully ; I
think I did so too, as she stood by me in

the dock. She was acquitted ; I was sentenced
to five years' penal servitude. Two
months ago I was released on a ticket-leave,
and a few pounds were given me by
the officer of a charitable society. I sought
out my wife, and found her living with
another man. She did not confess this tome,
I discovered it for myself. I took a
lodging, begged her to come home tome,
and to rest assured that I would
retrieve the past by an honest course of
life. I had, while in prison, been allowed
to do something in the way of my art. She
said it was impossible for her to come tome
at once, but she would in a fortnight.
I obtained employment with the firm, the
members of which have given me the character
you have heard. I found my wife's
address, and sent her, each week, money that
she might not be dependent upon any one
else. The fortnight passed; she did not
return. I saw her occasionally, still influenced
by my former infatuation and love
for her, and now by a new desire to lead

her into a better life. Six weeks went by
in this manner, when one morning I received
a letter from her appointing to meet me that
night by the Grower Street Station of the
Underground Railway. I had passionately
urged her to come back to me and had
intimated that it was unwise for her to
tempt me to take vengeance upon the man
who kept her from me. She begged me to
meet her at nine o'clock, and promised she
would go home with me. I was there
punctually. She came to me, and, placing
in my hands a small parcel, she said,
There, George, is all the money you have
sent me ; I have saved every penny of it :
hold it for a minute. Dutchy, as you call
him, is round the corner ; he is quite reconciled
to my going; I promised that if you
were here to keep your appointment I would
go back for a minute and say good-bye forever.'
I pressed her hand ; said ^ God
bless you ! and I forgive him ! ' She hurried
away and I waited. Five minutes had not
elapsed when the policeman came up to me,

VOL. III. c

and said, ^ Your name is George Harmer.' I
said ^ Yes, it is.' 'You have a ticket-of-leave,'
he said. I said, ' Yes, that is true.' ' Then
I arrest you for being in the possession of
counterfeit coin.' I told him he had made
a mistake. I did not, however, object to
accompany him to the station-house, but I
was waiting for my wife, and begged him
not to take me away for a few minutes
longer. He said that was a pretty tale to
tell; I must come along and explain it to
the inspector. I went with him, the packet
in my hand just as it was when she gave
it me. They opened it at the station-house,
and found it to be a packet of spurious gold
and silver; and that, your lordship and
gentlemen of the jury, is the simple truth
from first to last."

Nobody doubted it for a moment.

'' Not Guilty I " was the prompt and

decisive verdict of the jury.

*' A pitiful story, truly," said the judge,

looking at the prisoner ; " true or false, it

has obtained your acquittal. You are discharged."



'^ It is true, my lord."

'^ I believe it is,^^ said the judge.

'' I know it is ! " I said, rising, and
pushing my way towards the prisoner.

^^ Silence ! " cried the usher.

'^ Who is this person ? " asked the judge,
'^ let him stand forward ! "

^^ It is Mr. Horace Durand!" said Colonel
Ernstone, rising in his seat.

'^ Indeed ! an unexpected pleasure," said
Mr. Justice Miller, looking at me through
his eye-glasses.

^^ Usher, show Mr. Durand to a seat on
the bench. And request the discharged
prisoner to come to my room.

^^ Yes, your lordship."

Harmer disappeared beneath the dock.

'' And Colonel Ernstone, I would like
to speak with you."

Only a few minutes had elapsed before
I was shaking hands with Mr. Justice
Miller. The Bar was greatly excited. While
Ernstone was explaining to the counsel that
I was the Durand whose adventures were
c2

referred to in the morning paper, and that
my uncle was the judge's intimate friend,
Mr. Justice Miller was congratulating me
on my safety and welcoming me back to
England.

^' Not quite the hard-hearted judge you
would have thought, eh ? " he said, with a
somewhat cold smile.

^' You have tempered justice with mercy,
in the only case I have heard you try, sir,"
I answered.

'' But you do not love me in your heart.
No matter, tell me how I can serve you."

^^Is it possible you did not know who
this man was whom your patience, let me
say your kindness, has saved from the vilest
of vile conspiracies ? " I asked.

'' Not my patience, nor my kindness,
Mr. Durand," said the judge, ^' but duty.
You know this man. I believe I have seen
him before; I occasionally see a criminal
twice ; but that never changes my neutral
feeling towards him; I am the servant of
the Law."

^'This poor wretch," I said, ^^ shot with
you on a first of September at Dunstan's."

^^ Is it possible ? " said the judge.

'' He was the decorative artist whom the
Squire, in his hospitable way, invited to join
our party in the Breedon Valley," I said.

*' Dunstan gave his social instincts a wide
range," said the judge, looking up towards
the Bar for the first time.

'^ May it please your lordship," said an
elderly barrister, '' in the case of "

'^ Mr. Durand, good day! '' said the judge,
^^I hope we shall meet again soon; my
secretary will show you to my room ; you
will find this person, Alexander D. Russell,
alias George Harmer, there ; if I can assist
any philanthropic designs which you and
Colonel Ernstone may entertain in his interest
you may command my services."

'* Thank you very much, my lord," I
said.

Colonel Ernstone had indeed succeeded
in turning my thoughts into new channels.
Trying to recognise the hand of Providence

in this last incident, I am bewildered with
the complications that belong to it.

When I went into the judge's room,
George Harmer was standing in the middle
of it, pale and agitated.

'^ My poor friend ! " I said, taking his
hand, which he tried to withdraw from me,
^' you have indeed suffered."

He gripped my hand, his lips quivered,
and great tears rolled down his pale, worn
cheeks.

CHAPTER II.

I BECOME FAMOUS.

Antiquity has a maxim which describes
Fame as resembling the shadow that retires
when pursued, but follows when shunned.
A certain philosopher, who has written very
pleasantly upon aphoristic and other subjects,
contests the truth of the maxim in question.
^' A pretty metaphor," he says, *^ will often
give currency to a falsehood." He thinks
that, ^^if a man chooses to let fame alone,
fame will be very content to let him alone."
I am not anxious to take up the cudgels in
favour of proverbs and the like, but I present
myself as a living example of the wisdom
of the ancient writer who likened fame to the
shadow that follows when shunned.

At the same time I might point to my
career as an instance of the amiable philosophy
that '^ everything happens for the
best." Who would have thought that the
calamity of my being disowned by my uncle
Grantley would be my first step to fame and
fortune ? The preacher previously quoted
declares, that, if the votaries of celebrity
knew how seldom the most conspicuous
names form the subject of thought or discourse,
they would not be so eager to chase
^' the phantom Fame." Seeing that I never
dreamed of being celebrated, I have not
been afflicted with the passion for notoriety
against which many writers have so much to
advance ; but, in spite of the inconvenience,
not to say annoyance, which the fame of my
exploits inflicted upon me during the first
few weeks of my experiences of becoming
celebrated, I am free to confess there is a
certain amount of pleasurable emotion in
standing apart from the crowd, and in feeling
that after death one will not be altogether
forgotten.

As if it were not a sufficient claim to
*' limitation " that I was the hero of an
appalling shipwreck and the discoverer of a
new group of remarkable islands, the Old
Bailey incident was a newspaper and society
topic the next day. I awoke, indeed, to find
myself famous. My name was in every newspaper
and on every lip. The ^^ manliness"
of my conduct in Court was in keeping with
the modesty which I had exhibited in regard
to my singular adventures and remarkable
discoveries. The incident of the Old Bailey
occupied a prominent space in the London
daily papers; and I was invited by a
dramatist to join him in weaving it into a
story for representation on the stage.

Indeed, I should like the reader to try
and guess something that I was not invited
to do at this period of my career. It seemed
to me as if London for forty-eight hours
simply concentrated itself upon me and my
affairs.

Invitations poured in upon me from all
quarters, invitations to dine, to dance, to

breakfast, to lunch, to subscribe to hospitals,
to attend meetings of the Aborigines' Aid
Society ; invitations to consider suggestions
for the conversion of the Bulonagan and
Kututu islands into Joint Stock Companies ;
to form associations for pearl-fishing, dia-condemning,
collecting gutta, and tropical
farming ; invitations to write for this paper
and that magazine, to give this publisher
the honour of publishing the book which of
course I should write, fully describing my
adventures ; invitations to sit to fourteen
different photographers, three of whom in
the most delicate way offered me a royalty
on the sale of every copy sold ; invitations it
seemed to me from everybody, to do everything,
except an invitation from my uncle
Grantley, towards whom my heart was
yearning for friendship and forgiving recognition,
and in the absence of which even a
command to the royal presence at Windsor
was not sufficient compensation.

If in my wildest moments I had dreamed
that all this notoriety awaited me in London

I should not have had the courage to face it.
Bewilderment but feebly describes my
general condition. An outcast, who five
years previously had gladly embraced an
offer of little less than labourer's work on
the quay at Gloucester to be received in
the royal presence chamber of the greatest
and most gracious Queen known to history,
was something too overwhelming for realisation.
Nothing could have been more
considerate or amiable than the royal
interest in the story of my adventures, more
particularly in that part of the narrative which
dealt with my intercourse with the King of
Kututu. It would not become me to enter
into particulars of my visit to Windsor, the
recollection of which will however always
remain with me as one of the most cherished
remembrances of my life.

For a whole week I was kept in a
continual whirl of excitement. The Geographical
Society invited me to address a
meeting on the new islands. I did so, and
relieved myself of one half of Mr. Jeffrey

Waller's draft I concluded my sketch of
the Bulonagans by offering a subscription
of OjOOOZ. towards the costs of an expedition
to these islands, and for the relief of the
King of Kututu. The next morning the
press, in referring to my remarks, commended
my generosity, and I fear that this somewhat
ill-advised disclosure of my wealth must
have excited the envy or jealousy of rival
lions and struggling merit ; for there appeared
in one or two journals articles openly
questioning my veracity and sneering at
my ostentation. My association with a
convicted coiner was remarked upon with
playful vindictiveness. The Superfine (bless
its honest spoken scepticism !) challenged my
geographical knowledge, and almost in the
language of a modern classic declared it
did not believe there was any such personas
the King of Kututu. Indeed, the unsympathetic
and daring reviewer had the
audacity to suggest that the entire business
had been got up in Peterborough Court to
extend still further ^' the largest circulation."

Orders rolled in for The May fair Magazine
nevertheless. The editor rubbed his hands
with delight at the sensation which he had
initiated, when he handed me pen, ink,
and paper in the little room adjoining the
editorial chambers. I was greatly impressed
with the profitable nature of writing for the
press when a cheque for a hundred guineas
was posted to me ^^for the Shipwreck article
with thanks." All of a sudden I understood
the meaning of ^^ the wages of an ambassador
and the treatment of a gentleman ; " and I
offer this experience of mine as ample
endorsement of Mr. James Pain's Nineteenth
Century praises of the profession
of writing. It is true that The Mayfair
Magazine only sent me two guineas for
that early sketch which the editor had
remembered so long in connection with my
name. But the circumstances attending the
two contributions were of course entirely
different, and I can quite understand why
London journalists now-a-days ride in the
Park, and hob-nob with princes. One

hundred guineas for a contribution a little
over a column in length! At that rate
I could have afforded to give all my ten
thousand pounds away. I don't know that I
argued the business out in this manner, but
I might have done so, and acting upon such
conclusions should of course have come to
grief. I had, however, no time to theorise
nor to speculate, events carried me from one
excitement to another with such great rapidity.


At first I was inclined to be very angry
with my hostile critics. For an entire half-hour
I had serious thoughts of going to the
office of The Superfine and thrashing somebody.


But Colonel Ernstone said ^^ that would
never do." '^ The proper course," he argued,
'^ would be to go and make friends with
them."

I laughed satirically at the suggestion.

*you are wrong, my friend," he went
on, ^^ never quarrel with a newspaper — they
always have the last word. I give you the

same advice that Baron Anderson or Martin,

I forget which, gave to my old friend the
Bishop of Durham. It was that bishop who
was so awfully rich, and whom The Times
attacked. The churchman asked the judge's
advice. When the assizes were on in the
North, the two old boys dined together at
the deanery. ^ I think I shall write to the
Times and explain where the writer is wrong ! '
Don't do anything of the kind,' said the
judge, * take my advice ; you have no chance
in a fight with an editor. If The Times
charged me with murdering my grandmother,
I should certainly offer no defence. Supposing
I did, and they apologised or explained,
they would probably say that, ^ it is true, it
seems, that the learned judge did not murder
his grandmother, but it is well known that
he is an adulterer, which, in the eye of the
Church, is a crime of almost equal importance
; ' no, my dear Bishop, don't write to
The Times, they will have the last word,
whatever you may say I ' And I repeat that
counsel to you, Horace." I accepted it.

The very next night Ernstone introduced
me to the editor of The Superfine himself,
a pleasant unassuming old gentleman, who
did not hesitate to denounce the writer
who had contributed the objectionable article
in question to his pages. He quite disagreed
with it, and he should, most assuredly,
acquaint the author with his opinion upon
the subject. I sometimes wonder if he
^^ laughed in his sleeve," as he said
so. He certainly had no opportunity of
laughing anywhere else, for I watched
him narrowly. Later I met the author himself.
Did I shoot him? No. He turned
out to be one of the most inoffensive of men ;
and moreover he most emphatically denied all
knowledge of the article in question. I was
telling this to the editor of a popular
weekly paper the other day, who said he
was quite right to deny the authorship of
the article if it suited his convenience.
^^ I frequently," he said, ^^ write to angry
correspondents, and declare that the objectionable
paragraph to which you allude

^ quite escaped my notice,' when I had
really written it myself — it saves such
a lot of trouble and bother." My
friend in this case is a wag. He might
have been telling me the truth or not.
One of his leading views of journalism I
know is, that it is the first duty of an editor
to make his paper entertaining. Similarly I
can testify to the fact that he holds it to be of
primary social importance that a host should
amuse as well as feed his guests. My critic
in The Superfine turned out, as I have already
explained, to be one of the mildest mannered
and pleasantness of men. In regard to the
special work which he was employed to do
he frankly admitted that he was not a newspaper
fellow, don't you know, but was
studying for the bar, my dear friend, and
hated sensationalism of all kinds, and especially
when it was associated with exploration
or geography, or travel, don't you
know; but at the same time he confessed he
liked me and he would make it all right,
dear friend, in an article for another paper.

VOL. III. D

Could not of course ask The Superfine to
withdraw what it had said, but I might rely
on him to put the case for the other side in
glowing colours in The Censor, He was
utterly indifferent to the responsibilities or
duties of journalism, being as it seemed a
mere contributor to the press and not a
member of the so-called journalistic profession.
I was very sorry that I had mentioned
the matter at all to this gentleman,
he was really so apologetic in his remarks
and so full of assurance of his kindly feelings
towards me. I believe it is characteristic
of critics and reviewers that writers who are
most aggressive on paper are often the
mildest and most genial creatures away
from their desks. A similar peculiarity
obtains among commercial men. I have
heard persons from London who used to
visit Squire Dunstan in the old days say,
that, while he was a prince of good fellows
and the most generous of hosts outside business,
he was a perfect fiend in a monetary
transaction. ' ' Will have his pound of flesh ? "

a certain City man said in the hearing of
Dunstan himself; ^^ that's not it at all;
wouldn't mind if he would be content with
that, but he will have a pound and a half."
Yet what a kindly, generous, considerate,
liberal fellow he was outside what these
people call business !

Ah how well I remember the dear old
squire, his choice Madeira, his travels on
wheels about the Manor House, his pleasant
dinner parties, his remarkable guests from
town, his splendid horses, and his handsome
unsophisticated yet accomplished and clever
daughter ! He was a model squire, and she
was a delightful lady of the manor. It was
difficult to realise the solemn fact that he
was dead, that Warrington Manor had
passed into other hands, that Helen Dunstan
was now what might be called a woman of
the world, since in the interest of true charity
she had done battle against some of the
harpies who make it a stalking-horse for
their own selfish aggrandisement. Ernstone
told me that she had only sold the manor on
da

lease of years, that she still retained the
freehold, and he believed she had parted
from it for a time because the pleasant
memories that once belonged to it had become
sour and harsh anal disagreeable. He
suggested that the day might come when
Miss Dunstan, like my friend the merchant,
would feel that longing of old age which
stretches out imaginary arms to the scenes
of its childhood. As if Helen Dunstan could
ever be old ! The idea seemed to me to be
perfectly preposterous.

I think as we grow older our memory
for the earliest incidents and scenes of our
youthful days strengthens. The happiest
periods of our life remain with us, oases in
the desert ; and the bitterest things that have
occurred also remain, as if to heighten by
contrast the effect of the events that are
sweet. To-day I seem to hate the spot
where Welby threatened and persecuted me,
though my heart goes out in tenderness and
love to my father's tomb close by ; while the
stale ^Hobaccoy" smell of the *^ Angel, "where

my uncle bade me seek him if ever I should
be in trouble, is as delicious to me, in its
way, as the perfume of gardenia that reminds
me of my dream in the gardens of
the Villa Verona.

It was little time that I had for these and
other reflections during my busy week in
London, busy with emotions and incidents,
busy with fame and fortune. By the end of
the week I was so *played out," to use a
graphic Americanism, that I was not sorry to
receive a telegram from Father Gabriello
requesting me to go to Antwerp immediately,
and naming my favourite hotel as the place
of rendezvous. Ernstone had only just gone
down into the country to arrange for my
visiting the Hallamss, and to get my uncle
there, he said, when this message reached
me. I telegraphed to his Yorkshire address,
and the next evening at Antwerp received
his reply, ^' Oddly enough*' it ran, '^ your
mother and Miss Dunstan are at Brussels ; I
have wired them to await me there — be
prepared to see us at Antwerp — let me beg

of you not to leave , at all events until you
see me there."

It will be readily understood that my
feelings continued to be in a state of great
disturbance at the prospect of renewing my
acquaintance with Father Gabriello, seeing
Constance Gardner and Helen Dunstan
again, and meeting my mother once more.
If London was a city of emotions for me,
Antwerp promised it a strange and exciting
rivalry. It seemed as if I was hurried from
one sensation to another. Since I had
landed at the London Docks I had gone
through a round of adventures, and Ernstone
predicted that one of the most surprising
experiences of all was in store for me in the
interview I had yet to have with the agents
of Mr. Jeffrey Waller. The head of a distinguished
firm of solicitors had left his card
at Long's Hotel, with a request that I would
fix a time when I would call upon him, or
when he should repeat his visit to me. While
therefore my trunks were being packed for
the night mail to Brussels, I telegraphed to

Messrs. Blandford and Blandford, of Essex
Street, Strand, informing them that they
might expect to see me almost as soon as
they would get my message.

In all my experiences of savage life, at
all events dating from my left-handed escape
from the ovens of Bulonagan, I do not think
I have ever felt a more nervous fear of
disaster than I endured in the first few days
of my navigating the London streets, immediately
after my arrival from the East by
the P. and O. steamer. It seemed to me as
if every hansom was engaged in running
the gauntlet of all the other vehicular traffic,
with a view to taking all the possible risks
of coming to grief. On one day I tried
a private brougham, but the competing
carriages, cabs, and waggons seemed to be
engaged in a conspiracy to run me down.
Possibly my sailor-life, passed so much on
broad ocean paths, and my long habit of
comparative seclusion among those sunny
islands of the sea, basking under an equatorial
sun, had unfitted me for the hurry and

bustle, the feverish stir, and perpetual motion
of the London streets.

Mr. Blandford, the senior partner of the
firm of Blandford and Blandford, smiled
at me in a curiously interested way, when
I told him what my impressions of the
London streets were ; and I was prompted
to the confession simply because the
hansom in which I was driven tried to
enter Essex-street through the shop-window
at the Strand corner of it, and was only
prevented from doing so by the considerate
intervention of a policeman who happened
to be passing at the moment. I am told
that the London cabman are the best drivers
in the world. If recklessness is the chief
factor in good driving, then I think they
are. Ernstone says the cabbies have greatly
degenerated since he was a young fellow
in town, and I should not wonder if the
statistics of accidents in the streets do not
prove his assertion.

Mr. Blandford said he did not ride in
cabs much ; and he advised me to invest ina

good useful brougham, a pair of sturdy-cobs
quiet to ride or drive, and an experienced
and sober coachman.

^^ For," said he, ^^ except from choice,
there is not the smallest necessity that you
should distress yourself with the apparent
vexation you feel in regard to the use of
public cabs''

'^ Indeed ! " I said, ^^ I suppose my offer
of 5,000Z. towards an expedition to Kututu
has led you, like the rest, into the belief that
I am a very wealthy man, though as Mr.
Jeffrey Waller's solicitor I should have expected
that you might have known better."

sand I hope after this interview, Mr.
Durand, we may say as your solicitors also.
Blandford and Blandford, I need hardly
remark, do not go a begging for clients ;
quite the contrary ; we are continually declining
them ; but in your case we shall
feel a great personal interest in attending
to your business."

'^ But, my dear sir, I have no business
that requires attention," I said, ^* and, while

thanking you very much for your compliments,
I can hardly think you have desired
me to call for the purpose of making proposals
for the management of my affairs,
when in truth I have no affairs."

'' You are a man of business, 1 see," said
Mr. Blandford; ^^ I feared you were not, from
what Mr. Waller said about you, and judging
from your irritation at the traffic of the
London streets. Mr. Durand, I am glad to
make your acquaintance, and I hope we
may be good friends. Mr. Jeffrey Waller
has charged me with the duty of informing
you that he has made you his heir."

*^ His heir ! " I exclaimed.

^^His heir," said Mr. Blandford, sand
there is only one condition attached to his
munificence. Mr. Jeffrey Waller is the
descendant of an old family of London
merchants, known throughout many generations
for their probity and honour. Electing
to enjoy the freedom of bachelorhood, Mr.
Waller has no children, nor is he likely to
marry. At his demise he makes your title

to succeed to his wealth depend only upon
your consent to add his family and his
Christian name to your own. It would
stand thus — Horace Durand Jeffrey Waller;
and it seems to me, I take the liberty of saying,
an improvement. In the meantime he
places to your credit, through me, the sum
of twenty thousand pounds, which is at your
service, to be returned at your convenience
in case you do not accept his proposal, which,
in case you do, is to be considered as forming
part of his estate. You hesitate ? "

'^ I am slightly bewildered," I said, '^ and
on the spur of the moment do not know
what to say except that I thank you, sir, for
the information you have given me, and that
I am grateful to Mr. Jeffrey Waller for the
interest he has taken in my welfare."

^^ But you decline his generous dispositions
in your favour, eh ?" said Mr. Bland -
ford rising from his seat and standing in
front of his fire, with his back to the ruddy
blaze. ^' You say 'No,' as Waller suggested
you might ? Are you so full of false

pride as our dear old friend thinks, or are
you the man of business I believe you to be?"

Mr. Blandford was a grey-headed gentleman,
with a clean-shaven face, and a pair of
dark piercing eyes. He was dressed a little
after the fashion of my uncle, and looked
more like a country gentleman than a
London solicitor. He eyed me curiously,
but not without something of a friendly
expression of countenance.

'^ Mr. Blandford," I said, ^^ I have undergone
so many surprises of late that you
must forgive me if I ask you to repeat to me
the proposal which you seem to think I
ought to refuse."

^^No, sir, not ought; my view would be
that you ought to say ' Yes ' to it at once ; to
hesitate is, I should say, to trifle with good
fortune, if not to fly straight into the face of
Providence ; but Mr. Jeffrey Waller had an
idea that you might refuse, and in that case
he has instructed us as to an alternative will.
The proposal, or rather let me say the invitation,
is this "

He repeated the heads of his previous
communication, and while he did so I tried
to master the situation.

*^ And," said Mr. Blandford in conclusion,
*^ I do not know any family which might
not consider it an honour to quarter upon its
escutcheon the arms of the Wallers, and no
name that could be lowered by association
with that of our esteemed and honoured
client."

'^ I don't know that I have an escutcheon
to quarter anybody's arms upon for that
matter," I said ; ^^ but I have a name that is
honourable if not distinguished."

'^ And on that matter," said Mr. Blandford,
^^ I really do not know that Mr. Waller
rejoices in the luxury of a coat of arms ; my
reference to armorial bearings was a figure
of speech, my tribute to the honour and
probity of the Wallers is a matter of fact."

'' Mr. Waller has been most kind to me,"
I said, ^^ and I was deeply moved to see him
so distressed when he could find no trace of
his old home in Oxford Street. His sudden

departure filled me with regret and his letter
with wonder. This that you have now told
me, as I said before, surprises and bewilders
me. Is it necessary that I should give you
an immediate answer ?"

'' No, not at all ; tomorrow will do, or
next week, or next month, or next year.
Mr. Waller has made his will, but he would
like to be informed of your views speedily,
and we are instructed to telegraph to hin at
Singapore the result of this interview."

Then tell him, Mr. Blandford, that I
am deeply sensible of his kindness ; that I
am now on my way to the continent ; but
I hope to return in a few days, when I will
give you my answer."

'^ Which will be sufficiently prompt, seeing
that he cannot arrive at Singapore under a
month," said Mr. Blandford, '' and in the
meantime you understand that you may
draw upon me for any sum you please up to
twenty thousand pounds."

'^ Thank you very much," 1 said. ^^ I
do not require money, and that I am comparatively

rich is partly through Mr. Waller;
though I have brought some little property
from the East in the way of pearls and other
things that are easy of realisation."

'^ As you please, Mr. Durand; and let
me say in conclusion, that, if you would like
to consult any other lawyer in the matter or
place me in communication with any other
firm of solicitors, we hold ourselves entirely
at your command''

^^ You are very good; whether I say ' Yes '
or ' No,' Mr. Blandford, it will not be necessary
to say it through any third person."

^' Good-day, Mr. Durand; pardon me for
saying you are a very lucky fellow."

'^ I have heard so before, Mr. Blandford,"
I replied, ^^ and sometimes I think I am."

I travelled all that night on my way to
Antwerp via Brussels. It was bitterly cold.
I felt the harshness of the weather keenly in
spite of my furs and wraps. The tub of a
boat in which I crossed the channel reminded
me of The Flioebe. I do not say this disparagingly
of that excellent but ill-fated

craft. There was nothing in common between
the two vessels ; one sailed, the other steamed,
yet I was reminded of The Fhoebe as we
ploughed through the waters plunging and
rolling ; and it seemed to me that I ought
to have placed myself in communication
with the owners. When I came to reflect
upon the matter, it appeared odd that they
had not written to me, seeing how much
noise my article in The Telegraph had made,
and that the entire press of the country was
discussing my proposal for an expedition to
Kututu and the Bulonagans. As I looked
out into the dark night, I recounted to
myself some of the perils I had gone through
as a mariner, and I began to wonder whether
the carpenter of The Fhoehe still lived. I
talked to one of the men on board the channel
boat, but the sailor-men of that craft
were of an entirely different mould to the
mariners who had been my shipmates onboard
The Fhoebe, I made a note in my
mind to write to the owners of The Fhoebe
from Antwerp, making inquiries after the

carpenter, and tendering my evidence to
them in regard to the loss of the vessel.
Moreover I had hardly had time to think of
George Harmer, whose misfortunes recurred
to me now with double force as I travelled
onwards towards the two cities where I had
encountered him, at the height of his happiness,
and seen also the gathering of that
terrible storm which was eventually to overwhelm
him.

VOL. Il E

CHAPTER III.

WITH FATHER Gabrielle.

I found Father Gabriello at the hotel
when I arrived at Antwerp. He had not
changed in appearance nor in manners. He
was the same genial cleric as of yore. A
man of medium height, he was thick set,
broad of shoulder, and of a robust habit. He
was addicted to no mortification of the flesh.
Great fasting formed no part of his religious
exercises. Yet he was, I should say, a priest
of the strictest morality, and he certainly
had a kind heart. A round-faced, florid complexioned,
grey-headed man, he had genial
eyes, and there was firmness as well as
generosity in the form and expression of his

mouth. I feel quite sure that in saying he
was heartily glad to see me again he delivered
himself of no mere formula of courtesy.

^^You look tanned and weather-beaten,"
he said, '^ and I suspect your mind has been
as well disciplined as your body since last
we met."

^^ I have seen the world, father," I
answered.

'^ When we parted last you were a
smoothed-faced enthusiastic youth ; to-day
you are a man with a beard on your face,
and in your experience, I make no doubt ;
let me congratulate you upon your prosperous
and safe return''

He shook my hand warmly.

^^You have read the English papers,
then?"

'^ Yes, and the French."

^^ Has my return, then, interested France?"

^^ All the world, I think," said the priest,
'' for your name is in every newspaper I
have seen during the past week, French,
German, or English."

e2

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF Illinois

•^ And yet my uncle has made no sign,"
I said. ^' You know him well, do you think
he will?"

'' Not until you run up your signals of
friendship," he said.

^^If I thought the response would be
what I could desire, I would signal him
immediately," I said.

'' There is time enough," answered the
priest. '^ You have not seen him lately ? "

'not for years, and he has probably
forgotten all about me ; but I have heard of
him."

I did not learn until a later day that
Father Gabriello is a distinguished member
of the Society of Jesus with considerable
liberty of action, and that he is personally
known in all the great cities of Europe.

'' And Colonel Ernstone, I hope he is
well?" he said presently; ''no young man
had ever a more devoted or attached friend
than you have in that distinguished military
officer."

"He is well, I thank you, and I am

fully sensible of his great kindness to me.
I seem to have the faculty of making friends.
Some weakness in my character, I suspect,
excites the sympathy of stronger individuality.
I have recently had a very remarkable
evidence of the most unselfish generosity;
but I need go no further than ' present
company as they say. Believe mo, I
sincerely appreciate the interest you take
in me and my fortunes."

'^ A truce to compliments," responded
the father, ^' let us discuss events ; and, above
all, let me explain why I took the liberty of
sending for you."

By this time we were comfortably seated
near the stove, in the room that had been
set apart for me, and the priest gradually
introduced into his conversation the name of
Constance Gardner.

'^ Soeur Constance," he said, '^ was broken
in health when you knew her under her
worldly name of Judith Travers. She has
not improved since then physically, but she is
perfectly happy in her mind. Our Little House

of Mary is a holy place. The sisters do not
belong to one of the strictest orders of the
Church. Life under the dear Lady Superior
is made as cheerful as the constant performance
of religious duties will permit. Dame
Fridoline belongs to the lay sisterhood, and
her harp is heard in the choir. She had a
hobby, as you know, for saving money. Only
yesterday, she confessed to me what the
object of it was and desired my assistance.
The hand of Providence must have been in
your return to England. Dame Fridoline had
an only son who had fallen into bad ways and
been sent to prison. She was saving money
that she might place him above temptation
when he should be released. A letter
which she wrote to him a short time since,
to the care of the prison authorities, was
returned to her, with the information that
he had been discharged on a ticket-of-leave,
granted to him not only upon the ordinary
regulations of the prison, but through the
influence of some friends by whom he had
once been employed as a decorative artist,

and who were enabled to lay before the
Home Secretary some important exculpatory
facts connected with his career and his crime.

'' Surely you cannot be speaking of
George Harmer ! " I exclaimed.

^^ I am. Since his discharge he has
made no sign to his mother ; and I only
gather by the newspaper reports of the story
at the Old Bailey that he is the son for
whom the harpist has been saving, and who
is grieving for news of him. The explanation
of his silence is apparent. How could
he tell her that he was once more a prisoner,
re-committed for trial ? "

dear me!" I said, ^^ I begin to think
that I was born to be useful in spite of the
prognostications lavished upon me in my
youth that I should come to no good."

'ewe all have our allotted missions,"
said the priest.

*^I suppose so'' I answered; '^I do not
quite know what mine is yet; my experiences
are very mixed, and at present the
results are not particularly definite."

*^ Carry the cross and the civilisation of
commerce to those savage islands of the
Eastern seas! What higher mission can a
man be born to ? "

^^Poor old lady!" I said, allowing this
remark to pass through one ear and out
at the other, '* what a happy woman
she will be, when with news of her son's
safety she receives him back to her arms !
A mother's love is said to be the most
beautiful, self-denying, and the holiest earthly
passion.

^^It is; and Holy Church has typified it
in exalting the Mother of Christ to an
equality with Him, which your Protestant
Church rejects."

Indeed," I said, '^ I am not a theologian,
and if I were I believe I should range
myself on the side of simplicity of doctrine
and ritual, as opposed to complicated faiths
and mysterious ceremonials. But let us talk
of "

'^ Soeur Constance ? " said the priest.

'' Yes," I said.

^^She has asked about you frequently of
late, and on the very day of your return
expressed a wish to see you ; ^ for she said,
I shall be called away soon, and I would like
to say good-bye.' "

An hour after this conversation I was
being driven with Father Gabriello a few
miles out of Antwerp to the Little House of
Mary. I had taken a travelling bag, the
priest having begged me to remain all night
as the guest of the Lady Superior.

There is a small house not far from the
convent gates'' he said, ^^ where visitors are
provided with beds ; and the entertainment is
not to be despised even by guests who have
visited royalty."

The snow fell as we journeyed onwards.
It was quite dark when we arrived at a small
house which Father Gabriello entered,
telling the man to put up his horse at the
blacksmith's close by, where he would be
accommodated with refreshment and a bed.

There was no person in the little house
except ourselves. Our footsteps sounded

strange and hollow. A pleasant smell of
burning wood pervaded the place. The
priest struck a match, lighted a candle, and
led the way into a small comfortable room,
warmed by a modern German stove. A
white cloth was laid for supper. The priest
placed a candle in the window.

^' You appear to be surprised at our
quarters ? " he said.

'' No, I have ceased to be surprised at
anything."^

'' The explanation is very simple," said
the priest ; ^^ male visitors come to the
Little House of Mary, priests, friends, and
relations of the sisters ; hospitality is one of
the divine tenets of the Church; it is dispensed
here outside the precincts of the
convent."

While he was showing me my room and
explaining that we would visit the convent
tomorrow, when I might see my sister
Constance, as he called her, two lay-sisters
came into the house and placed a hot and
dainty dinner upon the table. Having

seen us ^^ fall-to" they left tis as unceremoniously
as they had come.

^^You recovered in due time from the
youthful madness which was afflicting you atour
last meeting ; of course I knew you
would, with the assistance of the explanation
that was given to you by our friend the
judge," said the priest as we sipped our coffee.

^^Does one ever recover from such madness,
as you call it ?"

'' Oh yes !"

'^ Your sacred calling forbids that you
should speak from experience ?" I said.

^' I vas once a youth and not always a
priest," said the father ; '^ but we will talk of
you. Let us for example go back to your
uncle. Colonel Ernstone told me something
touching the matter that separated you."

^'I could not comply with a wish that
was dear to him ; he resented it by disowning
me."

You must have crossed him at a serious
point."

'^ I suppose I did."

'' You can atone ?"

'^ I cannot recall the past, I cannot
restore the dead to life. Squire Dunstan,
in regard to whose views my action was
inimical, is no more. His death may even
have increased my uncle's grievance."

He is an old man, and should have
ceased to cultivate resentments. You say
you have not sought him by message or
by letter since your return ?"

No."

'' You must."

'' I bear no malice," I said, '^ and I have
a real affection for him. But why, Father,
do you turn our conversation away from
Miss — Sister Constance ? Ah, sitting herewith
you I can almost feel as if tomorrow I
should see again the Villa Verona and the
gracious lady who "

"' Then, my son, do not encourage such
thoughts, unless you can feel that the lady
of the Villa is no more."

'' No more'' I exclaimed.

'' Judith Travers is dead," he said. ^* But

Sister Constance lives ! Attune your mind to
that. Listen ! "

As he spoke, he opened the lattice. The
strains of a distant chant came faintly in
upon the cold winter wind. I thought I
heard the sound of harps. The voices of
the singers were women's. It was like celestial
music.

'' Think of saint-like women," he said,
'' on their way to the better land, when you
think of Constance Gardner."

I went to bed with these words in my
mind, and I awoke in the night, at the
sighing of the wind, with them still there.
*' Think of saint-like women on their way to
the better land." I felt lonely and sad. The
darkness was black. No sound could be
heard but the moaning of the wind. Not
even the distant bark of a watch-dog broke
in upon the monotony of it, nor any other
noise that suggested life or home. I was
cold and wretched. '^ Why did I return ? "
I asked myself. '^ Why did I not remain in
that land where it is always afternoon ? '' It

seemed to me that ease and sunshine, and
the unsophisticated manners of an uncivilised
people, presented far more possibilities of
happiness than this every-day world of
Europe, with its conventionalities and its
everlasting fight for life. And yet I had a
vague longing to see my old room at The
Cedars, to sit in the garden with my uncle,
to chat with Sandy, the old Scotch servant,
to fish in the Avon, to ride over the
dewy meadows, to wander, gun in hand, over
the autumn stubble.

When I slept I dreamed of Jeffrey Waller
and Helen Dunstan. She had gone to live
at Manilla, and had become his ward. In
command of an expedition to Bulonagan,
he had picked up my Irish king in an open
boat at sea. He had been defeated in a
battle with the Bulonagans, and had escaped
in the pinnace of The ~Phoehe^ with the carpenter
and old Dick Smith. I was in charge
of my own steamer, one of the most superb
boats ever built on the Clyde. Colonel Vanstone
was with me, and we landed, with our

Irish friend and the carpenter, at Manilla,
where the merchant received us. I was not
the least surprised when Helen Dunstan came
forward to welcome us. She was dressed ina
picturesque Eastern costume, and looked
very handsome. ^' We are to be married tomorrow
! " she said, sand Mr. Waller has
arranged that my dear father's spirit shall
bless our union at the altar." The Irish king,
overhearing her, said he had hoped to find
the practice of human sacrifice abolished, at
all events in Manilla. ^' Bi jabers," he exclaimed,
slapping me on the back, shave I
saved you from the voracious maw of Lofulu,
to have you gobbled up by a princess of
Manilla ? " It seemed perfectly natural that
he should say this, and that Helen Dunstan
should only smile at him, and take me into
the house, which gradually changed from an
Oriental dwelling-place, with palms and giant
ferns shading the windows, to the cosy
library of The Cedars, where my uncle
was waiting for us. ^^ Ah, this is as it should
be, my dear boy ; welcome both of you

to The Cedars, and may we never part
again ! "

Then I awoke and heard the convent
bells chiming through the frosty air. It
was morning. There was a thick rime
upon the window-panes, and snow upon the
branches of a clump of elms that stood like
grim and hoary sentinels, guarding the convent
gates.

CHAPTER IV.

SISTER CONSTANCE.

Breakfast was served as quietly as the
supper of the night before. It will, I hope,
not be deemed frivolous, at this period of my
narrative, if I pause to say that the coffee
was delicious. One got at it, I remember,
through a rich head of cream. There
were hot rolls and butter that Father Gabrielle
commended with an approving eye.
The little room, with its polished floor, its
plain sideboard, its shining stove, its perfume
of burning wood, its white table-cloth, and
smoking coffee was very home-like and
pleasant. The sun was shining upon the
frosted window-panes, where a transformation
scene was going on, developing a full view

VOL. III. F

of the roadway and the old chateau, which
had been converted into a holy house.

I was glad to be up and talking once
more. The night had been full of curious
adventures, and I had a feverish longing to
talk rather than to think.

^^ Do you believe in dreams, father ?''

'^ In respect of their manifestations of
coming events, or in what respect?"

Generally I mean."

'^ The faithful have always seen visions,"
said the priest, ^^ and in the old days our
Heavenly Father conversed with the prophets
through dreams."

^^ T don't think I meant my question to
bear the complexion you are putting upon
it. Do you think, in these present days, we
unconsciously forecast events in dreams ?''

*^ When the mind is under the influence
of a particular desire it is a natural thing to
dream of its realisation. Have you been
dreaming that you were reconciled to your
uncle r

'' Well yes, that was a feature of my

dreaming ; but it was not a principal, if I
may speak of it in that way, of the occurrences
that have been coursing through my
brain all night."

*^ A churchman of your Protestant establishment
has very shrewdly said, dreams
follow the temper of the body and commonly
proceed from trouble or disease, business or
care; an active head or a mind that is
restless; they are the outcome of fear or
hope, of wine or passion, or the result of
fantastic remembrances ; as contingent as if
a man should study to make a prophecy, and
by saying ten thousand things hits once in a
way upon a true one ; and that dreams have
no certainty because they have no causality,
no proportion to those effects which many
times they are said to foresignify."

^' Then you do not believe in dreams ?''
^^ When they are given to holy men or
women for holy purposes, as related in the
scriptures, yes, for then the mind is attuned
to the divine will and the accepted of Heaven
are so etherialised in spirit that they are
f2

capable of a spiritual intercourse with the
angels."

^^But history, sacred and profane, has
examples of visions appearing to unworthy-persons
for sacred ends ; and was it not an
ass to which heaven on a great occasion gave
the privilege of speech?"

'^ We are becoming theological," said the
priest ; 'let us talk of the dream that has
troubled you, or rather that promises you a
boon for which you have been longing
perhaps."

'' The last of my nocturnal fancies forecast
an incident which had not taken possession
of my mind. Thoughts of the possibility
of my reconciliation with Uncle Grantley
may have inspired it; but if you have
patience to resume the subject we will revive
it at some other time; for I see that your
thoughts are beginning to move in the direction
of our business here, the contemplation
of which makes me feel a trifle nervous, and
not a little sad, the more so as it seemed tome
last night, awaking and dreaming, that

your last words foreboded the end of Sister
Constance's earthly journey."

Breakfast was over now and we were
sitting by the stove, Father Gabriello toasting
his shins, I smoking a cigarette ; yet,
while we both as it were tried to comfort
the physical side of our natures, the moral
would busy itself with that which is solemn,
not to say depressing.

'* Death is not necessarily a matter for
melancholy ; it is only sleep after all, sleep
and dreams, only that the latter are real,"
said the priest ; '^ the body rests, decays, disappears,
the spirit is released from its
dungeon, and being blessed of the Father,
Son, and Holy Ghost, enters into its everlasting
joy."

^' The heathens of the Eastern seas after
all are not much behind the churches in
their views of immortality ; many of the
tribes h ve a similar theory to your own."

'say faith, hope, not theory," interrupted
the priest.

''A similar faith, though others believe

in a sort of transubstantiation ; but, as you
say, death being the commonest of daily
events, the familiar shadow should not overcome
us with a sense of gloom and trouble."

'' The true Christian, my friend, is not
afflicted at the shadow; but to the most
truly religious, and to the most sensible of
men and women, life is not less solemn
than death. All the great phenomena of
nature are solemn, and the Son of God was
a man of sorrows ; the truest happiness is
found in the fulfilment of duty, in exorcising
ambition, in cultivating a healthy mind ina
healthy body, in accepting the present
existence as probationary, and in making
the best of it,"

I think we were both trying, more or less,
to ignore the pathos of the blighted life of
that lovely woman, who had sought relief, ina
living death, from the taint of a cruel world ;
for Father Gabriello with all his scriptural
texts and philosophic teaching, was a man of
robust tastes and worldly appetites. In spite
of the tone and character of our conversation,

he wrote a memorandum and laid it upon
the table as we left the little inn, naming
the hour for dejeuner a la fourchette and
noting down suggestions for two particular
dishes and a certain wine, of which his
experience approved.

Soon afterwards, sallying forth into the
cold air and crushing the crisp snow under
our feet, we passed the sentinel elms, and
entered the little House of Mary.

We were received, with other visitors, by
an aged lay sister. The other people were
ushered into a waiting-room. I and the
priest were conducted along a corridor, down,
one flight of stairs and up another, until we
stood in a simple room, one side of which
was a grating not unlike a large prison
window. A curtain within shut from our
gaze the interior beyond.

Presently the curtain was drawn, and an
elderly woman of a singularly benevolent
countenance appeared. The priest introduced
me as Sister Constance's only friend
of the outer world, the brother whom she

wished to see. The Lady Superior, addressing
me in French, said a few words of
welcome, and then spoke of Soeur Constance
in terms of great affection.

I heard a footstep coming along the
corridor that led to the spot where the Lady
Superior was standing. It was slow and
halting, and yet it was not the step of an
old woman. I felt my heart beating in a
strange manner. I was reminded of my
poor father's funeral. No thoughts of the
Villa Verona came into my mind. If they
had they would have been associated, rather
with the tomb of the Capulet, than with the
balcony scene in that tragic story, whose
hero and heroine I had had the audacity to
quote to Judith Travers in the days of my
youth.

It was a vision of saint-like beauty that
stood before me, with great soft eyes and a
pale face. It was a voice of infinite gentleness
that said, '^ Brother Horace, I thank
you for coming to me. I desired that you
should see that I am happy, I wished you to

know that I had not forgotten you. I had an
inspiration to say good-bye to you''

*^ I am glad to fulfil any wish of yours,"
I said, and I think I spoke in solemn tones
as one at a death-bed, ^^ and I hope I maybe
permitted to see you again."

^'That may not be, my brother," she
said, 'but we will cherish the recollection
of this interview. It is permitted to me
to-day to speak of the outer world with
you. I have many months ago charged the
good father to acquaint you with certain
matters, the relation of which forms part
of what I have chosen myself to regard asa
penance and a duty, and in which the
good father has promised not to thwart me.
You are the only friend I ever had in that
world where once I lived. [A tear coursed
slowly down her cheek as she spoke].
Since we parted it has been a source of consolation
to me that Heaven had kept sacred
within my poor heart sufficient purity of
thought and hope to awaken the sympathy
of a noble and loving nature."

I turned aside to hide the emotion I felt
at a confession which indicated so much of
the keenness of an old sorrow. What trouble
this beautiful woman must have passed
through to still be thankful that she had
inspired in me a pure and manly sentiment
of esteem and love !

sand now Horace, my brother, goodbye,
and may the blessed Virgin have you
in her constant care ! " she said, raising her
eyes towards heaven and then letting them
rest affectionately on mine.

She put out her hand through the iron
bars. I bent my head reverently and kissed
it.

The next moment the curtain was drawn
and I was alone with Father Gabriello. I
sat upon a wooden seat, that filled the
eastern end of the room, and stared blankly
at the bars and curtains which separated two
worlds within a world, two worlds as different
from each other as if they were ten
thousand miles apart.

Presently we returned to the little house

over the way where luncheon had been prepared
for us. I could not eat, and even
Father Gabrielle seemed to regard the meal,
on this occasion, as rather more of a duty
than a pleasure People do eat and must
eat, even when sorrow and death are of the
party. I remember that there was much
quiet feasting at Oakfield House when my
poor father was buried, and that the liquor
flowed freely.

Light feathery snow was flying about as
the carriage drew up for our departure. The
sun was shining nevertheless, and our coachman
gave us a cheery greeting, in which he
commended the weather of the new year.

I had forgotten all about the new year,
had taken no note of the passing of the old
one, or the coming of the new, so thoroughly
had the events of the past few days absorbed
me.

As we drove along towards Antwerp
Father Gabriello spoke continually of Soeur
Constance.

^^ I am to tell you all her story one of
these days," said he.

'^ How ill she looked, yet how beautiful! "
I said.

^^A Magdalen," he replied, ^' whose life
is a touching lesson, and whose death will
give to paradise a spirit that may be welcomed
among the Saints. If ever a soul was
cleansed of mortal taint it is the soul of
Soeur Constance ! "

^^ You knew her before she lived in Italy?"
I asked.

^^Yes; she attended a chapel where I
had a minor charge for a time in London."

'' Was it true, the story Mr. Miller told
me ? " I asked, lowering my voice, for I felt
ashamed at the mere suggestion of it.

^' I do not know what he told you ; but
he had opportunities of reporting her correctly."


^' I think he exaggerated."

'' In what respect ? "

^^ The impossibility of our marriage."

'^ He could not have exaggerated the
un desirability of it."

^* His description of her attendant, Madame
Fridoline, was an infamy."

'' Then it was a lie."

^^ He said Miss Travers was more notorious
than famous."

'' That was true."

' Do you know that we lived in the same
town as girl and boy ?"

^^ Yes, she told me, and her great desire
is that you may remember her only as
Constance Gardner, girl and woman."

^^I can never think of her as anything
but a good, pure, high-minded, suffering
creature."

'^ One who with a righteous training
would have been an ornament and a blessing
to her sex and to the world," said the priest.

'^ It does me good to hear you say so."

^' I need not say that whatever I may tell
you of Soeur Constance is outside the Confessional.
She has told me nothing under its
sacred seal, and has treated me always as a

friend. When first I met her I gave her
advice, not simply as a priest only but as a
friend of the friendless ; for, though at that
time she was a prominent figure in artistic
London, she could not, among all the crowd
of her admirers, reckon upon one true friend.
When they knew that her house in May fair
was stricken with small-pox not one of them
went near her. The doctors were true to
her as they are to suffering humanity at
large, and with God's blessing they brought
her through with an unblemished face and a
soul that was purified. I was her confessor,
and it was in my presence, on her recovery,
that she made gifts to lier people, the few
who had remained with her, and announced
her retirement from the stage and from the
world. The old woman, Mrs. Harmer,
known to you as Madame Fridoline, never
left her side."

<^ Why have I not seen her again?" I
asked.

^^ She preferred that you should not, but
she shall know what you have done for her

son, and shall yet have an opportunity of
thanking you."

Arrived at the hotel the priest said,
*^ And now Mr. Durand I must say good-bye
for the present; I am not staying at this
hotel, and I have some duties here that
require my attention."

*ewe shall meet again, of course," I
said.

*^ Oh yes, often I hope."

While we were shaking hands, the landlord
of the inn informed me that a gentleman,
who was accompanied by two ladies,
was waiting to see me.

CHAPTER V.

IN WHICH I MEET MY MOTHER AND HELEN
DUNSTAN AT ANTWERP.

I felt towards Constance Gardner as one
dead, — a beautiful creature I had known
in a dream. I think I associated her with
my father in heaven. The thought of love as
connected with her in a worldly sense would
now have been a sort of sacrilege. She filled
my thoughts as a sacred story might. I
could no longer realise the idea that she had
inspired my first passion. The lady of the
Villa Verona was a different being altogether.
Calypso had indeed become Dar-thula.
The Juliet, with pouting lips and
soft warm hand, was now the Juliet of the
tomb. She was a saint whose hand I kissed,
a saint on her way to Paradise.

'your mother is here," said Colonel
Ernstone, in his blunt soldierly fashion,
*^ your mother — and Miss Dunstan."

'' Give me a little rest " I said, ^^ I am in
no condition to see any one at present."

'^ You look ill, that's a fact'' said Vanstone.


^^ I am quite well, but I have had a
shock," I said.

^'Hang me, but we shall drive you mad
among us ! We are keeping you in a chronic
state of shock, it seems to me. May I ring
the bell?"

'' Certainly."

'^ Waiter, a bottle of Champagne, Ro-deer,
and anchovy toast."
Bien Monsieur J'

'' You must keep yourself up," said Vanstone.
^^ This is the time of day to drink
champagne, and you are just in the condition
when it is good for a man."

I accepted his prescription.

^* You are in trouble ? "

No."

VOL. III. G

'^ Something serious has happened?"

*^ Yes, serious enough. I have said goodbye
to Constance Gardner for ever."

'^ But you had long since ceased to contemplate
the possibility of "

^^ You don't understand me; Constance
Gardner has not long to live; there was
death in her thin hand, when she laid it
in mine only two hours ago."

'^ Poor child! You have been to the
Little House of Mary with Father Gabriello.
A kind, benevolent, good-hearted priest as
ever I knew."

^^Yes."

^' You must not dwell on your visit ; you
have other duties ; and the world has claims
upon you. I dare say that sister of the
Church is happy in her way. Once religion
has fairly taken hold of you, death means
pleasure. There is a sort of arrogance in it
as if we who live are to be pitied. I have
seen it on the battle-field and in hospitals,
among both friends and foes.

'^ She looked very beautiful," I said,

^^ but SO thin and fragile, so pale, and with
such great tearful eyes — it was a heartbreaking
sight to see, Ernstone.''

^'No doubt, the poor child! And of
course you would feel it keenly ; but did
she not seem happy ? "

^' Yes, I think so, very ; there was a kind
of supreme content in her words and manner."

Stone furtively filled my glass and
pushed it towards me.

No, no, I cannot drink ; it is of no use
your trying to drown my feelings ; it is much
better to let them have full play, or give
them rest in "

^^ A change of subject," he said, finishing
the sentence, '^ and that is what I propose.
Let us talk of your mother and Helen
Dunstan."

I stirred the fire and looked into the burning
coals as he rattled on.

^' Your mother is one of the most delightful
women I ever met," he said, ^' and her
friendship for Helen Dunstan is that of a
sister. Most extraordinary thing they should

g2

happen to be in the neighbourhood, just as
Fate whisks you off from London and lands
you here. I begin to thinly I am a regular
confirmed believer in destiny now, just as
Napoleon was. I remarked it only an hour
ago to your mother, whereupon Miss Dunstan
said if Horace Durand is Destiny, then Mrs.
Welby believes in Destiny also. Clever,
eh ? And a well-turned compliment."

^^ It is odd that my mother should have
taken so many years for the development of
her faith in me," I could not help saying,
with a touch of bitterness in the recollection
of how little I owed to my mother's practical
interest in me.

*^ It was Fate, my dear boy. Fate and
Welby. She could not help it. Think how
young she was, and how overbearing that
master mind of the Welby nature could be.
My dear Horace, don't revive the disagreeable
of the past. Think of all the
pleasant things you can. God bless my life,
what it is to have a mother at all, and such
a mother ! I don't care whether she was all

the youthful mind could msh or not ; that
is not the question ; at this moment you
ought to be the happiest fellow alive."

I walked about the room as he went on
talking. I do not think he quite appreciated
the state of my feelings. I could not adapt
them all at once to the late sudden changes
of Fate's kaleidoscope. One set of startling
pictures and strange events had succeeded
another set so quickly, that I was bewildered
with the varied claims which they made upon
me.

My mother! I hardly remembered the
time when that sweet name had ever stirred
me much. It was my father whom I loved
most ; indeed it was only my father who had
cared as it seemed to win my young affections.
And yet I had dim memories of gentle
domestic scenes, in which my mother was a
charming picture of girlhood with a very
little boy at her knees. I recalled her sitting
at the square piano. This brought back
the image of my father pouring his great
soul into his violoncello ; but these reminiscences

culminated unhappily in that parting
when my step-father dragged me from my
mother's arms and threatened me.

As I had grown older I had bitterly
resented my mother's marriage with Welby,
whom I hated now with what I considered
to be a justifiable loathing ; yet he made
patriotic speeches in Parliament and was
beloved of the people, if one might judge by
their cheers and the eulogistic articles which
many leading newspapers wrote about him.
I had already secretly promised myself
the luxury of attacking him with all
the literary skill I could command, and my
thoughts, busy as they were, had found room
to recall my uncle's suggestion that I might
one day fight him for his seat in Parliament.

How could I meet my mother, with these
feelings active within me ? And how could
she meet a son whom she had neglected all
these years ?

^^1 know your sentiments towards
Welby," Ernstone said by-and-bye, *^ but
that need not embarrass you in regard to

your mother. It is true they live together
in the same house, but only out of respect
to society. They may be called friends
but nothing more. Mrs. Welby has her own
mission ; he has his ; don't let your dislike of
him steel your heart against your mother."

'' Has she sought this meeting ? ''

'' She has."

'' And Miss Dunstan ? "

^^ She knows nothing of the details of
the row you had with your uncle."

'' Did the poor old Squire know ?"

'' Yes."

^' And nothing passed on the subject
between him and his daughter?"

'^ I conclude not."

*does she know anything about that
scandal with an actress at Baveno/ as they
called it in Worcestershire ? "

'' Yes."

^^ What does she know? "

^^ Only what I have told her."

^^ And what is that ? And when did
you speak of it ? "

*-'It is quite four years ago since I explained
some of the circumstances of your
infatuation. I saw that certain reports which
had reached her caused her pain ; and
therefore told her frankly what had taken
place."

Thank you, Ernstone ; you are a true
friend."

*^ I hope so'' said the colonel, '' my view
is that the truth never hurts an honest fellow,
and so I told your uncle. But he was too
much annoyed to listen. She was disappointed
too, but not so much so when she
knew that no disgrace attended the, circumstances
of your Italian adventure. I am
quite sure she would have been very indignant
if she had known exactly why you and
your uncle parted."

Does she know why I am here ? ''

'^ Partly."

She is very rich, is she not ? "

** Yes, no doubt ; though it is reported
she has had some heavy losses lately through
a great failure in a mining speculation

which the honourable Mr. Welby, M.P. had
induced her to put money in."

'' The scoundrel ! "

^^ Then she has given away enormous
sums; nobody knows how much except the
late Squire's solicitors, who are continually
struggling against what they call her
philanthropic extravagance. She has several
regular almoners, and she conducts her
business of charity upon a system that is
marvellous. There is as much discipline
and administration in the work as there is
in the command of a regiment. She has
reports, dispatches, inquiries, books of account,
emigration schemes, house-toulouse
visitations, loan-offices, and the deuce knows
what. Her idea of charity is no perfunctory
affair, I can tell you. She goes about herself
into all kinds of places, Mrs. Welby with her ;
and not long since she kept me for two hours
listening to an account of some of the cases
of imposture with which they have had to
contend, the charity mongering they meet,
the elaborate schemes for turning the stream

of public benevolence into private channels
which they have been fortunate enough to
frustrate; and I have often thought of an
old theory of yours, while talking with the
dear girl, that women go into the profession
of philanthropy and immerse themselves
in convents, because they are crossed in
love."

^^Didlsayso?"

'' Of course you did."

^^ I hope you don't remember all the
foolish things I used to say."

'^ I don't call that foolish anyhow, and
you have every reason to put it down among
your wisest reflections."

'* Do you think so ?"

*^ Yes. But are you thinking about what
I am saying to you ? Or are you still woolgathering
?"

^' I am preparing myself for a very trying
meeting."

'^ Will you let me arrange it ? "

^' I think so. What do you propose ?"

^' To bring the two ladies here straight."

'^ No, I don't believe I could stand that ; I
would rather see my mother alone."

'' You are a sly dog, Horace," said Vanstone;
*^ that means you are to see Helen
alone also, of course."

'^ Is that being a sly dog?" I asked.

'' Yes."

'' Then I am one," I said, now earnestly
trying to respond to his efforts to make me
cheerful. ^^ I remember my uncle telling
me that I was a lucky dog years ago when
his views for me in that direction were
favoured by her father'*

'' I shall go and fetch your mother," said
Ernstone.

'' No, it is my duty surely to go to her."

*ras you please, I will prepare her for
your visit."

The music of the familiar chimes rippled
through the frosty air as I waited for his
return. They touched new chords in my
heart and were less plaintive than of yore.
I looked out into the square. The snow
was glittering in the sunshine.

*^ She is ready to receive you'' said
Ernstone returning; *turn to the right as
you leave this room and knock at the second
door."

^* Come in," said a soft voice.

I saw before me a slight, pretty woman,
in a purple velvet dress with a rich lace
collar ; the girl-mother I had known grown
into a woman. Her lips moved as if she
would speak ; and the next moment she lay
weeping in my arms.

*^ Horace!" she said, between her sobs,
'^ can you forgive mc ? "

^^ I am your son, mother, I have nothing
to forgive," I answered, smoothing her
brown hair, and kissing her upturned tearful
face.

With my arm around her waist, I led her
to a sofa. We sat down together.

'^ Why, great heavens, mother ! " I said,
*you are only a woman now; what a girl
you must have been at Oakfield House ! "

^^ And I had no mother to counsel me,"
she said, the tears filling her blue eyes ; ''I

was a weak, vain, poor creature, and I do
not deserve this present happiness.

^^ Mother ! " I said, '^ I made you cry-when
we parted all those years ago ; but
these I trust are tears of joy."

I kissed her again, and she laid her head
upon my shoulder.

^' How you must have suffered, my dear! "
she said.

^'And you?"

'^ I have prayed day and night for this
reunion'' she answered.

'^ Why how small you are ! " I said rising
and standing apart from her.

^' You are so tall ! " she replied.

^^ I remember when I was not up to your
shoulders," I said, *sand now you are not as
high as mine."

^^ If I am high enough to reach your
heart, Horace, I am content."

'^ God bless you, mother!" I exclaimed.

^^ He has blessed me in this longed-for
embrace," she answered, sand I hope I may
not commit the sin of being too proud and
vain of you."

After the first pressure of delight at our reconciliation
had passed my mother asked me
scores of questions and answered as many that
I did not ask her. She told me that I should
find her greatly changed, she hoped for the
better; that she had educated herself in
many directions. ^^I am not the silly little
mother you knew at Scarsdale." Then she
spoke of Miss Dunstan, and their great
friendship for each other ; how they had
often and often talked of me ; and how they
had wept together with delight over the
newspaper accounts of my escape and return.

^^May I bring her to you?" she said
suddenly.

Yes, mother."

I was like a child with a new toy in the
use of that most lovely word '^ mother." I
never addressed her without it. '' Mother !"
To look at her, she might rather have been
my sister, and a little sister at that. She
left me to go into an adjoining room, and to
return with a lady more than a head taller
than herself, a very Diana indeed, the graceful,

unsophisticated but high-spirited girl of
the Worcestershire valley, with the dignified
bearing of a splendid womanhood.

^^ Mr. Durand," she said, putting out her
hand, '^ I am very glad to see you again."

*^ Thank you, Miss Dunstan ; it is worth
while to have gone away for the pleasure of
this welcome back."

There was a warm cordiality in the grip
of her hand, and a quick blush passed over
her face.

'' You have seen many strange adventures
and many wonderful countries'' she
said.

'' Yes," I said, '^ and yet now that I have
shaken hands with you, and heard you speak
once more, I could almost imagine that it
has been all a dream."

^^ We have often talked of you, your
mother and I. Were you not surprised to
hear of our having become friends and companions
? "

'^ It gave me great satisfaction," I said.

When I knew her first, Helen Dunstan

was a tall girl with a slight figure. Five
years had finished and rounded off her
charms. The lady of the Villa Verona, in
those mad days of Baveno, was not more
graciously endowed, with swelling bust and
graceful lines of beauty, than this Helen
Dunstan grown into womanhood. Moreover
there was a dignity of bearing in her manner
that I had never seen in any other woman.
It seemed an unconscious condescension on
her part to be of the world and in it ; and,
when I say this, I am thinking more of
goddesses than angels. She wore an olive-green
velvet gown, the waist fastened with
an antique silver clasp, and round the throat
and at the wrists ruffles of old point lace.

^^ What interesting things you will have
to tell your mother," said Helen ; '' Colonel
Ernstone says your experiences are stranger
than any novel he has ever read."

'^I fear he overrate my adventures or
underrate the novels ; though I have indeed
seen some remarkable things."

'' What a terrible shipwreck ! " she said,

lifting up her liquid eyes to mine with a
world of wondering expression in them,
and to think that we should none of us
have recognised you in the Mr. Horris of
the carpenter's story ! If we had had any
idea that you had gone to sea, I suppose
it might have occurred to us."

'^ I ought to have written to the dear
old squire, your father'' I said, '' he must
have thought me very ungrateful ; it was a
sore shock to me, believe me. Miss Dunstan,
when I learnt that I should see him no
more in this world. Forgive me for arousing
sad recollections, but I feel a great constraint
in speaking to you without mentioning
him. I do not myself think we should
cease to talk of dear friends when they have
only gone before us to that other country."

I saw a tear trickle slowly down her
cheek, and I went on talking of the squire,
for his memory was a bond of sympathy
between us.

It seems to me that some of the savage
people are wiser in this matter than we are ;

VOL. III. H

such for instance as those who regard their
dead as fortunate in having gone to a happier
country. Your father was always a good
friend to me, and 1 have often thought of
Warrington Manor when I never expected
to see it again.

^^ Do not apologise, Mr. Durand, for mentioning
my dear father. It is kind of you,
and it shows that travel has not changed your
generous nature. Mrs. Welby and I have
talked you over in this respect you maybe
sure."

^^ And with more kindly consideration
than I deserve, I make no doubt," I said.

^^No, Horace, we have only done justice
to you," said my mother.

*^As if a mother," I answered, ^^ would
be content with doing mere justice to her
son. Perhaps I can in return say to my
mother more than I might say at this happy
moment to Miss Dunstan. Next to the
natural happiness a son must feel at the
welcome home, which he receives from a
loving mother, is in my case the pleasure

which I experience in meeting again the
daughter of my dear old friend. Believe
me, Miss Dunstan, I am deeply touched at
this proof of the continuation of your friendly
interest in me — your runaway vagabond
neighbour."

^^ My dear Mr. Durand," said Helen
Dunstan, in a voice slightly tremulous, ^^ I
do not forget old friends, and I take great
pleasure in congratulating you upon your
escape from many perils, and upon the
honest honourable fame you have won for
yourself, and which I never doubted you
would achieve."

I was deeply touched at this tribute of a
noble woman, all the more so that I felt it
was undeserved.

'^ Thank you. Miss Dunstan," I said,
vainly endeavouring to conceal my emotion,
'' it was very good of you to think so well of
me, especially when you must have heard
many things calculated to shake your good
opinion."

H 2

^^ True friends only remember the good
they know of each other, when scandal is
busy with their names," she said.

At this moment there was a tap at the
door. My mother got up and opened it.

'^ Colonel Ernstone ! '' she exclaimed.

^^ I hope I don't intrude," he said, ^^ as
the old fellow says in the play, but the truth
is, I begin to feel jealous."

*' And well you may," said my mother,
'^ you must have begun to think we were
going to monopolise Horace altogether."

^' My dear Mrs. Welby, I am not jealous
of you and Miss Dunstan. I am jealous of
Horace, jealous of his monopoly of two ladies
who thought something of me a few hours
ago, and who now find metal more attractive
in this lion from the East. Ah well, it is
just like your fickle sex; I ought to have
known it would be so."

'^ Ah, my dear old friend," I said, taking
his hand, '^ I shall never be able to repay
your kindness."

^^ Nonsense ! do you think you owe this
meetings to me, for instance ? Nonsense !
your mother was dying to see you and "

^^ But for Colonel Ernstone would have
missed you," said Helen ; ^^ we were starting
for London when we received Colonel Vanstone'
s telegram to await him at Brussels,
as you had just left for Antwerp."

*^ Always meddling in my affairs ; just
like him," I said, ^' bless his kind heart ! "

*^ It is true," he said, ^^ I have become a
regular Paul Pry, I feel it. What shall we
have for dinner ? It is a most momentous
question I assure you. Fits is waiting for
orders. He has suggested^o^f^^^ pm^mentiere^
turbot with sauce crevettes^ omelette cVAgneau
a la puree de marrons poularde en demi-detail,
filet de bam a la Renaissance, because
au cresson, and half-a-dozen startling extremes


The dear fellow saw that we were all
more or less under the influence of strong
emotions ; and this is how he relieved the
strain of the situation.

'^ If the ladies have nothing to suggest
and you, Horace, have no special dish to
mention, I think I can manage it," he said ;
*^ I mean to put the chef on his mettle."

My mother and Helen smiled. They
both estimated correctly, as I did, this interruption.


«^ Very well then, if you have nothing to
say I shall order the dinner," he said.

He left the room for a moment to speak
to Fritz and then returned.

^^ Dinner at six, continental time; and
that will give us leisure for a drive. The
carriage is at the door. Come along
Horace and leave the ladies to select their
cloaks and discuss their driving bonnets. It
is very cold, Miss Dunstan, put on your
warmest cloak! And, Mrs. Welby, don't
forget your shawls. You see (turning to me)
I am obliged to think for them ; they left
their maids at Brussels. We will attend
you (turning to them) in the hall. The
light will soon be gone ; so we must hurry.
Just have time for a nice little drive ; and

Fritz can lay the cloth for dinner while weare
off the premises.

As the ladies disappeared Ernstone took
me forcibly by the arm and dragged me away
to my own rooms.

CHAPTER VI.

STILL LINGERS UNDER THE CHIMES AT ANTWERP.

"I congratulate you, myself, everybody!"
Ernstone exclaimed, as he closed the door,
^^ I never doubted the result, nor did they,
although your mother thought it best to have
no servants about to tattle, as she said ; so,
with your leave, we will all go to Brussels
together in the morning, ^ a happy family,
and without a scene,' to quote your mother
again, for servants to talk about."

'' You seem to have had a general council
of war at Brussels," I said.

'' Yes, and you are our Waterloo," responded
Ernstone; ^^ there was a sound of
revelry by night."

'' My dear Vanstone are you not making

too much of this business ? My vanity will
begin to be excited."

'' I shouldn't wonder," said Ernstone,
^^you ought to be the proudest fellow alive,
with such a mother and such a "

He hesitated.

''A what?" I asked

^' A prospect of happiness," he said.

^^ My mother is an enigma," I answered ;
^^ she must have been a weak-minded unsophisticated,
I was almost going to say foolish,
little woman when I was a boy, and now "

^^ She is as clever as she is amiable, and
as amiable as she is pretty," said Ernstone ;
'^ you take after your father, I suppose,
you are not half as good looking as your
mother."

'^My father, God rest him, was one of the
best men that ever lived, and I say that in
even your presence," I replied ; '^ I count him
first, you second, and my dear hot-headed
old uncle third."

*' Thank you for self and uncle. Won't
he be pleased when he hears "

^^ Hears what?"

^* That you and Miss Dunstan have met,
and that you have mutually resumed the
flirtation which was only postponed till after
your trip to Italy."

^^ Do you think there is anything more
than the renewal of an old friendship in all
this?"

^^ Ask me if I have eyes and ears ? Ask
me if I am a fool ? But don't put these
questions to me' just now. We must join the
ladies."

^^ You are kindly-thoughtfulness embodied,"
I said; *' I wonder if I ought to
feel very happy. I don't think I ought, but
I do."

Once or twice it seemed to me as if that
saint-like figure of the House of Mary threw
a shadow over my sudden and unexpected
happiness ; but the human heart has a trick
of turning to the sunny side of life, and I
confess that mine glowed with the warmth
of new sensations. To be a perfect hero, I
suppose, I ought to have buried my love and

happiness and all concurrent joys in a living
tomb with Constance Gardner, but I do not
profess to be at all a model hero or a representative
man. I am rather one of the
world's accidents, a person who has become
famous in spite of himself, a waif and stray,
yet a favourite of Fortune, an example of
the truth of the saying, that ^^ a cloudy
morning ofttimes brings forth a pleasant day."
The morning of my life was cloudy enough,
Heaven knows, and storm and tempest struck
me in youth and in manhood ; but I am like
a barque that has been rent and torn at seato
be driven at last by stress of weather into
the port of Good Fortune, to refit and take
up a freight of precious stores.

It was very strange to me to be packed
into a carriage with ladies at all ; but to sit
with my arm round one of them and the
other leaning towards me, the better to hear
my answers to her questions, was a blissful
novelty. Ernstone pretended he was jealous
of me ; but he smiled and looked as happy
as any of us. Every spark of resentment in

regard to my mother had gone out of me.
I loved her as if she had been the gentlest
and most affectionate mother ever boy or
man had known.

^^ You cannot dream how happy I am,"
she whispered to me ; ^^ I live for the first
time to-day, Horace."

I thought of the dream of yesterday, and
remembered that she was not in it. ^^ How
poorly dreams 'forecast the future ! " I
thought, ^' and then I saw my uncle welcoming
those two people at ^ The Cedars.' "

'' And you are glad to see Helen Dunstan
again ? " whispered my mother.

'' Yes, mother."

^ as she not beautiful ? "

u Very."

'^f I could call her daughter, as well as
friend, Horace, I should have nothing else
to live for."

'^ Then we will not talk of it," I said;
'' I want you to live for me only."

'^ To-day's i)e6a^*," said Ernstone, ^^has

a curious account of your projected expedition
copied from The Standard,''^

'^ But you do not think of accompanying
an expedition, even if it does go out ? " my
mother asked with a quick expression of
alarm in her voice.

^' I do not expect to leave England again
for some time, mother," I said, '^ and, when
I do, we will go together''

*^ And Helen ? '' she whispered.

*^ Ah, she does not know why my uncle
sent me away ; I will tell you one of these
days."

^'I believe I heard my name," said
Helen, for indeed she could not help it ; my
mother was so overjoyed with her new position,
and so bent on making me still happier
than I was, that she continually introduced
Helen into all her plans for the future.

'' I was saying that you must come too,"
said my mother.

'^ Why, of course," said Ernstone ; '' and
me too,' as the American politician said."

'^ I am not a good sailor," rejoined Helen

quietly, not willing evidently to have my
hand forced by my mother, who could not,
nor did she try to, disguise the nature of her
feelings in regard to Helen and myself.

A pleasant drive, a cosy dinner, and a
long delightful talk afterwards, made time
fly. It was nearly midnight before we
separated. We dined in my room ; after
dessert the ladies retired to their own, and
we joined them again for coffee. The
shutters were closely clasped against the cold
without, the curtains drawn to concentrate
the warmth within. There was an open
fire-place in the room. We sat around it
and talked. My mother laid her hand in
mine and listened to stories of my adventures,
and Colonel Ernstone annotated them
with lively sallies. But I was, I am bound
to say, most interested in the passing
remarks of Helen Dunstan. My heart was
full of a new kind of sympathy in respect of
my mother. To be reconciled with her was
a delicious sensation, akin to the calm rest
at an oasis in the desert, after a long.

weary, and dangerous march. In my feelings
towards Helen Dunstan I recognised a
certain dumb expression of anxiety. I found
my eyes wandering to her expressive face
for an approving glance. With all the dignity
of her appearance, the grace of her carriage,
the striking beauty of her regular features,
the stately pose of her well-shaped head,
there was a soft pensiveness in the expression
of her eyes that went straight to my heart.
She combined with the form and figure of
Diana the soul of a gentle, loving woman. It
is the privilege of the sex to outdo each other
in their conquests of the susceptible heart
of man. The barrier, which at one time
had existed between the possibility of a
union between myself and Helen Dunstan,
had in a worldly sense been removed when
Constance Gardner fled from Italy ; but the
reader will remember my scornful repudiation
of the suggestions of Mr. Justice Miller
and Colonel Ernstone that I should outlive
my hot love for the lady of the Villa Verona.
They were right, nevertheless, to this extent.

that my heart had come to recognise the utter
impossibility of realising the hopes that once
had wholly possessed it. A bride of the
Church, Constance Gardner was now as much
beyond my reach as if she had married in the
world. Apart from this, the slander, on the
evidence of Mr. Miller, against her reputation
had gradually thrust her further away from
me, and converted an ardent passion of love
into pity ; while my recent interview with
her had lifted her entirely oufc of the pale of
human hopes and fears, beyond all considerations
of this work-a-day world. I fearsome
of my lady readers will regard these
observations in the light of special pleading
a man's defence of man's fickleness ; for it
is impossible to deny that the passion of my
first love had been cooling down ever since
it may be said to have reached boiling point,
to gradually simmer into brotherly interest,
and finally to settle down into pity. There
was a time when I would have married Constance
Gardner, at the sacrifice of the respect
and friendship of every person I had ever

known, and at the risk of awakening one
morning to a feeling of contempt for myself,
with, of course, a misanthropic view of the
world in general. I ought to feel grateful
to Mr. Miller (but I do not) for checking mein
the full career of my infatuation. It was
the woman herself who saved me, in the
which she showed a far higher magnanimity,
I think, than a man is capable of, where his
heart, or perhaps one might more correctly
say his passions are concerned. Poor Constance!
There were possibilities in her
nature, and in her career, which only the
Infinite can understand or estimate aright,
and will be taken into account when she
stands forward for judgment.

Long after the ladies had retired we sat
together by the fire in my room, Ernstone
and I, and smoked. For a long time we
neither of us spoke. We looked into the
burning coals and encouraged our inner
reflections. There is no truer proof of a
sympathetic friendship than is shown in
the fact of two men enjoying each other's

VOL. III. I

society silently as in the full tide of conversational
intercourse. A pipe or a cigar helps
this quiet communion of two kindred souls.

It was a relief to sit and think. My
thoughts were in a strange tangle.

^^ When shall we go down to Breedon?"
Ernstone asked presently.

^^ Do you think my uncle will expect
me?"

'^ I dare lay odds he is all anxiety to see
you."

*^ And yet he makes no sign."
^^ What sign would you have ?"
^' A letter, a message, anything."
^' Supposing we all go down together ?
Miss Dunstan has not been into Worcestershire
since her father's death."

'^ It would be a sad journey then ; and I
confess that I look forward to going to
Breedon with more or less of a melancholy
feeling. It was a bitter thing for my uncle
to thrust me out upon the world. Great
heavens, when I think of it, even now, I can
hear the rustle of the chill October winds

in the reeds by the river; and I can sec
myself a shivering, penniless, wretch, tramping
through the night, and standing at last
on the quay at Gloucester, with a strong
sense of misery."

'^Ah, if the truth were known, Dick
Grantley suffered as much as you did
yourself ; though his confounded obstinacy
would not let him own it."

'' He had no right to treat me so cruelly.
Because he was kind to me when I needed
it, he had not bought me body and soul.
I was not his chattel''

'^ It was in your interest that he was
angry with you."

*but, when he saw that something had
occurred which made it impossible for me
to do what he wished, his heart should have
been big enough to make allowances forme."


^' The truth is, when one gets to be an
old fellow," said Ernstone, '^ one expects a
young one to act just as if he had gone
through all our experience; and it is a

i2

peculiarity of youth that it insists upon
buying its own experience."

^'I am not sure that I ought to make
any advance towards a reconciliation with
my uncle," I said, smarting at the moment
under the recollection of that night march
in the bleak autumn weather, and conscious
of having been left to fight my own way
through indescribable difficulties, and to
find my best friends among strangers.

'^ I rather think," said Ernstone, ^' your
uncle will invite us all to ^ The Cedars.'
But you promised to tell me all about your
interview with the solicitors of that extraordinary
partner of yours, Mr. Jeffrey
Waller."

'' Another time," I said.

'' You are hipped! What is it ? "

'^ Reaction, I suppose, the touch of pain
that follows pleasure."

^^ There is no pretty Manilla girl or
Sooloo beauty out yonder," suggested Vanstone,
'' who is just now putting in a claim
for remembrance, eh ? "

^' No, but there are moments when I
think the merchant is right in preferring to
live there rather than here."

^' You are in the humour to think anything
just now; your condition of mind is
akin to the drop-down which an overdose of
champagne gives a fellow ; you go up to a
giddy height of bliss, and you come down
like an exploded balloon. I think we will
go to bed. Rest is what you want. Goodnight,
my boy, you will be all right in the
morning''

And so we parted for the night.

In my bed-room the fire had subsided
into a glow of ruddy embers. I drew my
chair before it and planted my feet upon
the fender. It was a great old-fashioned
room, with a four-post bedstead, a heavy
mahogany wardrobe, and on the walls
some half-faded tapestry, illustrating a boar-hunt.
The candles made deep shadows here
and there, and the red glare of the fire
fell on the hearth-rug. The shutters were
closed and over them the curtains were

drawn. The bells up in the tower outside
played their fantastic chimes. I hung upon
the weird music, and thought of the convent
and its pathetic story of disappointment.
Then my thoughts wandered to George
Harmer's honeymoon and its terrible eclipse.
I saw in imagination that Belgian scoundrel
of the Brussels Gardens following up the
cue the wretched woman gave him, and
gradually compassing the decorative painter s
ruin. I pictured the prison in which
he had suffered, and I seemed to see his
white face, in the burning coals, as he
stood forward to confront Fate in the dock
at the Old Bailey. Then the chimes ceased
and my thoughts wandered away to Sooloo,
to Brunei, to Boulonagan, to Kututu, to
come back again, with reminiscences of
Motley and the Spanish fury, to this unexpected
and sudden visit to Antwerp. At
last I lost myself among the counterpanes,
blankets, and curtains of the old four-post
bedstead ; and when I awoke it was noon.
'your mother was getting alarmed at

your long sleep," said Ernstone, who came
into my room with Fritz and the coffee,
^' but I would not have you disturbed until
you rang your bell."

^' Thank you very much ; I feel ' as
fresh as paint as an old shipmate of mine
used to say when he was particularly well.
I have slept as soundly as I used to do in
the forecastle of The Phoebe'

'^ With a better meal awaiting you than
ship's allowance," said Ernstone ; ^^ and the
blues of last night ? "

^^ All gone," I said.

^^ Then we will let in the sunshine."

He drew the curtains as he spoke and
disclosed a bright blue sky.

^' The ladies have been out and all over
the city ; it is a glorious morning, frosty
but kindly. We shall all meet at breakfast
in an hour ; will that suit you ? "

"Yes, capitally," I said; and away went
Ernstone to report me.

I almost felt ashamed at monopolising
so much of this stalwart fellow's time and

attention, especially when I thought of his
position and his deeds. I felt as a subaltern
might who had been unduly promoted to
a position in which he had the general
of a brigade for his aide-de-camp. Now and
then I found myself wondering whether all
I was doing would turn out to be a dream,
and whether I should awaken standing cold,
wet, and hungry on the quay at Gloucester.

Helen Dunstan was a picture of rosy
health as she came into my mother's room to
breakfast, escorted by Ernstone. They were
a striking couple, she a tall commanding
figure in a clinging morning gown, he still
taller, with iron-grey hair and moustache.
But that he was twenty years her senior and
looked it, an earnest lover of Helen Dunstan
might have felt a twinge of jealousy of the
gallant officer.

'^ Was I Helen Dunstan's lover ? " I asked
myself more than once during the day, in
connection with this thought, that emphasised
the physical beauty of these two representative
English figures.

CHAPTER VII.

REFLECTIONS AND REMINISCENCES.

It is somewhat of a satire on human life
and hopes that, while Helen Dunstan was
fanning the embers of an old friendship
into a flame that very closely resembled love,
Constance Gardner was passing away to
that land where there is no marrying nor
giving in marriage, with my name upon her
lips.

The reader already understands that the
relationship between Father Gabriello and
Soeur Constance was something more than
that implied by their respective positions.
He had been her worldly as well as her
spiritual adviser. He was her trustee in this

world, her sponsor for the world to come.
She had appealed to him on a bed of sickness,
and had acted upon his advice when,
rescued from a hateful disease, she had
become strong again, and in full possession
of her many personal charms. Her almoner,
her friend, her fatherly protector, he had
obtained that dispensation from the Pope,
which had opened to her the arms of the
Church, and given her a home in the little
House of Mary, which, if it belonged to one
of the lowest and least restricted orders of
the Church, was nevertheless known for the
abundance of its charities. I may not enter
into further explanations of my knowledge
of the details set forth in the next chapter
than is suggested in these remarks, except to
add by way of emphasis, what you already
know, that Soeur Constance had made it a
matter of personal penance not only to
refuse the seal of privacy on her confessions,
but had made it obligatory upon Father
Gabriello to acquaint me with all the particulars
of her history since the day whenas

related in an early chapter of this work)
she ran away from Scarsdale. In laying
the circumstances before the reader I have
chosen to adapt the priestly record to my
own narrator method, or want of method, for
which I crave the forgiveness of Father
Gabriello, and the tender consideration of
those critics who may detect in the arrangement
some breach of the artistic principles
that govern the construction of an autobiographic
record.

It is quite certain that Soeur Constance
did tell her own story, and it is equally
certain that the leading points of it are
known in the artistic circles of London.
Whether it came to my knowledge in the
exact form in which I convey it to the reader
is a matter which after all is of no moment.
It is not intended as a slur upon the stage,
but it may be taken as fairly illustrating
a phase of theatrical life which was more
common a few years ago than it is today,
and which, with a growing educational
taste and a higher appreciation of Dramatic

Art, may one day become impossible. The
reader will note that both Colonel Ernstone
and myself were right in our estimate of the
very colourable statement, which Mr. Miller
made to me in regard to what had transpired
on his visit to the Villa Verona, at a certain
critical period of my fortunes. I learnt
afterwards that his version of what had transpired
between himself and Crinoline (Mrs.
Harmer) was also greatly exaggerated, for the
purpose no doubt of intensifying the impression
he wished to make upon me.

'^ His motive was a good one'' said
Colonel Ernstone, ^' and that must be taken
into account ; besides which, my dear Horace,
so far as the poor lady herself was concerned,
he said less against Judith Travers than
Judith Travers has said against herself."

^' In my then frame of mind I think if he
had said more I should have strangled him."

^^I think you would," said Ernstone;
'^ and, with far more occasion for resentment,
I have often wondered, since then, why
Shakespeare did not make Claudio run his

sword through Don John when, without
rhyme or reason, as it seems to me, he steps
up to the two princes and deliberately utters
his pestilent libels against Hero''

^^ Poor Connie! she was caught in the net
just as completely as Marguerite," I said,
without paying much attention to my
friend; for it jarred on me to remember
that Hero lived to establish her innocence
and to marry the man of her choice. '^ And
in her case the Mephistopheles was in petticoats
! Is it not a cruel blight upon a noble
art, that certain so-called patrons of the
drama should dare to introduce into theatres
the sort of creature who, as in the case of the
temptress of Judith Travers, was the agent
of evil, and who to-day, according to newspaper
gossips and censors of the stage, still
demoralises the stage?"

'^ My dear Horace, all conditions of life
are more or less tainted by the moral leprosy
to which you refer. In connection with the
stage, it is more apparent than in other
places. The truth is, some of the London

theatres are in the hands of men who neither
understand nor respect art. They are mere
vulgar money-makers, and they are not
particular how they grow rich."

^' Is that so? But I have heard you
speak of So-and-so and So-and-so in high
terms of respect, and yet I see their names
advertised in the announcements of several
theatres."

'' And I hope you will understand that
I am sincere. The stage can give to the
world patterns of virtue and womanliness
that are not be excelled in any class of
society. It may also be quoted per contra
as the merchant would say ; and the per
contrast are well known. As a rule they are
not clever, and as a rule they are under the
protection of so-called distinguished patrons
of the drama. A fellow of Ours, a lieutenant,
married an actress, one of the best little
women that ever lived, and I know two leading
artistic families in town that are model
households. Poor Judith Travers, as you
have often said, if she had only been well

brought up, had in her the making of a
splendid woman."

^^When I was a boy, Ernstone, she was
literally a waif and stray of Scarsdale, a
child whom some people looked upon as
uncanny, her grandmother being reputed to
be a witch. If I had been older instead of
younger than Connie, I should probably
have gone off with her after those strolling
players. Think of it ! In that case I should
not have been likely ever to have been received
at ^ The Cedars ' ; I should not have
known you, nor Squire Dunstan, nor ever
perhaps have been reconciled to my mother

*nor have experienced the bliss of
knowing Helen Dunstan," interposed Vanstone.


^* I should probably have become an
actor, a great actor, — who knows? — and in
that case Horace and Mrs. Durand might
have conducted a theatre together, and
rivalled in respectability the managerial
families you know in London."

^^If! ^ There is mach virtue in an if,'
one of the play-actors says somewhere," observed
Ernstone.

'' I don't know about the virtue of it,
Ernstone," I answered, 'without for a
moment going against my Shakespeare, but
it is a very powerful factor in the destinies
of a fellow, considered from my point of
view."

'^ And do you think you would have preferred
the career you have just sketched out
to the reality ? "

^^ I can. hardly imagine a world that
would have been tolerable without I had
known you in it, and without this meeting
with my mother ; and I would not barter my
recollections of Breedon and Warrington
Manor for anything ; though I think it would
all be very tame without my wanderings
in the Eastern Seas. To speak frankly, I
believe I am quite content to be what I
am and who I am ; and I would not blot
out either Constance Gardner or Judith
Travers. Parting with the first by the Scarsdale

river, and with the second, a saint-like
penitent, on her way to heaven — are pathetic

episodes in a stormy life which "

^' ' Make all the world kin,' " said Vanstone,
'' and you and I in particular ; sorrows
bind men together more than pleasures. But
I will not have you pursue this theme to
make us both sad."

^^ There is something akin to pleasure in
pain itself'' I said, ^' and I think I taste
sweetness even in the bitter of that poor
martyr's confession."

We have already seen that Ernstone,
who had the reputation of being a cynic and
a matter-of-fact man of the world, was really
a man of sentiment. If time permitted and
the occasion warranted it, I think I could
also discover him to you as a literary critic
of no mean order.

^' I am not sure that you are justified,"
he says, ^' in giving to the world any details
of that poor woman's life, however much

VOL. III. K

good it may do as a warning and an
example."

If I were writing this narrative for
Colonel Ernstone I should of course act
upon his advice. As I approach the end of
my task I begin to wonder what he will say
to my revelations concerning himself and the
Hallamss. In this matter I have it is true,
protected myself, and them, by using fictitious
names, and transplanting the locale of
events to districts not associated with either
family. One is bound to pay some deference
to social proprieties, even in an autobiographical
romance which is more or less
true, and more or less a contribution to
current history.

CHAPTER VIII.

THE CONFESSION OF JUDITH TRAVERS,
OTHERWISE CONSTANCE GARDNER.

^^ If you think the exhibition of my heart
will help you to read your own ; if you think
the confession of my secret and blighted life
will be a warning to you ; if you feel that
my present holy rest will encourage your
own spiritual aspirations ; why, then, sweet
companion of the cloister, listen !

'* Orphaned in infancy, I was left to the
care of an old woman who made a slave of
me. She was superstitious, kept body and
soul together mostly by narcotics, was reputed
to be a witch, and was of a truth a cruel
woman. She ill-treated me, and I bore it
until I was almost verging on womanhood ;
k2

though at sixteen I was as innocent and
unsophisticated as a child of ten.

'^ Once when she had beaten me with more
than usual severity I resolved that I would
run away. A theatrical manager had induced
the old woman to let me appear as an angel
in the play of Faust at the local theatre. Soon
afterwards a company of strolling players
passed through the town. I followed them.
In the darkness of that cruel time I can still
see one sympathetic face looking at me with
tearful eyes. I can still hear one gentle
tender voice say ^ good bye ! '

*^ His name was Horace Durand. He
was a boy, many years younger than I, and
more highly placed in the little town where
I was born. He had a happy home, a father
and mother of great respectability, a future
full of peaceful promise. He was not a playmate,
but I had spoken to him, and for years
I carried him in my sweetest recollections.

^' By tortuous paths and devious ways I
reached London. With some little experience
gained under the canvass of a travelling

company of players, and after an illness in a
strange lodging where they had left me to die,
I began my career as an actress in a famous
London theatre. My salary was fifteen
shillings a week. I lived at Hollo way, and,
when I had paid the rent of my room and an
occasional omnibus fare, I had nine shillings
left for food and clothing. Now and then I
had to suffer the pangs of hunger to save
myself from the equally bitter pains of cold.
I learned in those days how little we require.
Warmth and food represented to me happiness.
Would to heaven I had never desired
more than these mere necessaries of life ! If
I had been a great artist, the consciousness
of power, the belief in a future of ambitious
success might have saved me. But the
capacity to feel grand ideas and to sympathise
with noble sentiments — these gifts of
nature slumbered so long in my poor soul,
that, when the one grand passion of all
came to c.v/aken the rest, it was too late, too
late!

'* That night I am going to tell you of a

lady of the ballet ' was sent to dress in
my room. I had an apartment all to myself
because it was so small that it was deemed
impossible for two persons to use it at the
same time. But my friend of the ballet was,
for some reason connected with the re-building
of the theatre, put into my cell. When
I saw her fine underclothing, her silk hose,
the lace on her petticoat, her satin corset, I
was ashamed to make my toilet in her presence.
She noticed it, and was so frank
and generous that I liked her at once. ' You
are ashamed of your clothes,' she said ;
you need not be.' I remember her exact
words. ' You are a far prettier girl than I,
and it is your own fault if you do not dress
better than I do.' She took me by the
shoulders and looked into my face. ^ And
positively you look hungry ; you don't get
enough to eat ! ' The tears came into my
eyes. what do they pay you a week?'
I told her. *And you are trying to live
upon that?' she asked. I said I did live
upon it 'Why, my poor child,' she replied,

' you are committing suicide ! Have
you a mother V ^ No.' ^ Nor a father ? '
^No.' ^ A sweetheart?' ^No.' ^ Then, why
do you consent to starve ? When I was
your age I struggled for a whole month
against poverty for the sake of my father
and mother and the honour of their name.
You are without an excuse.' Understanding
from what she said that she was rich, I
asked her what salary she received at the
theatre. ' Nothing ! ' she said ; ' nothing,
and find myself ! And yet I have the prettiest
bijou brougham in town, a lovely house,
half-a-dozen servants, and drink ' fizz ' everyday
at luncheon ! ' I listened to her with
wonder, with the kind of fascination we have
in contemplating the graceful movements of a
serpent or a tiger. She clasped a string of
diamonds round my neck, and bade me look
into the mirror on the wall. How they
flashed ! Between the acts a messenger brought
into the little room a hot dish of sweetbread
and a small bottle of wine. I had bought a pair
of second-hand boots at a pawnshop that day,

in consequence of which extravagance I had
been obliged to dine upon a penny roll. I
was very hungry. If the ballet woman had
not invited me to eat, I think I must have
begged for a mouthful.

^^ She insisted upon taking me home in
her brougham. There was a bitter east wind.
Poverty had never seemed so ugly to me as
on that night. My landlady took the opportunity
of abusing me the next day, for I
owed her a fortnight's rent. ^ Come gadding
home in a swell's brougham, a disgracing
my house ! ' she said, ' and then not pay
my rent ; if I am to have a fine madam of
your sort in my house, at least let me be
paid for the disgrace of it ! ' I went out
and pawned all I had in the world and paid
her. There is no stronger hand to drag a
woman down to hell than a pawn-ticket,
unless it is to be virtuous and to be discredited
even when you are starving for
honesty's sake. And oh, the cruel unfeeling
city that bows and makes way for Vice
in diamonds and tramples on Virtue in rags !

^^ The day came when a brougham waited
at the state-door for me; when I wore
diamonds, and no longer went shivering to
my rooms, cold and hungry. My pictures
were bought by gentle, unsophisticated persons
in country towns to adorn artistic
albums. I had a house in Mayfair. I drove
in the Park. My pair of ponies were famous.
Ah ! dear friend, turn away your head !
Yes, take away your hand ! I was toasted
of men and envied of women. They hung
my brazen face among pure and noble ladies
on the Academy walls. That theatre in
which I had dressed night after night to
appear six or seven times and only to speak
once ; that theatre in which the acting
manager used to swear at me if I was half
an hour late ; that theatre in which the manager
insulted me when he first engaged me ;
that house of infamy where I had tried to
earn an honest living became my own. It
lighted all its lamps for me ; it spread all its
softest carpets for my feet ; behind the scenes
artists high and low exercised their profoundest

courtesies to please me. In front
the audience flung its bouquets to me. Not
that I was a great artist. I was not. Quite
the contrary. But the leading artists of the
Academy designed my dresses. The most
famous French modistes made them. Fine
ladies came to study the fashions at my
theatre. Esthetic artists sat in the stalls to
gloat over the lissome graces of a woman's
figure ! Yes, sigh my poor friend, and
regret you ever desired to know my story.
Sit apart and cover your chaste eyes !

'^ Nay, pity the poor moth with its gold
and crimson wings fluttering in the flashing
lights of London ! Ah ! but you will pity
me soon, my sister, and take me back into
your arms again.

^^ An epidemic of fever fell upon the
wealthy quarter of the town. It struck me
through my barricades of gold. But all the
medical skill of Vanity Fair bent itself to
my rescue. I was nursed by Sisters of
Mercy, and found solace in the administrations
of a priest of our Holy Church.

When I was well enough I went abroad.
On the dreamy shores of Ago-Maggiore I
found myself apart from the world. Perfect
rest was the prescription I had to carry out.
Nobody must know of my retreat. I lived
incognito my name a new one ; aye and my
life a new one. I met him accidentally. I
have told you his name. When I am dead
it may be found engraved on my heart, for
all my prayers, my vigils, my fasts, my
penances will not obliterate it ! Young,
enthusiastic, a student, educated to love
the noble and the true, . to hate the false,
the vulgar, and the mean. A face open
as the day, an ambition of the loftiest,
I loved him. For the first time I felt
the passion I had toyed with ; for the first
time I could declaim the poet's lines that
had fallen, with a hollow ring from a hollow
heart, before audiences who had been content
with the mockery because the mocker was
tricked out in artistic robes, in a sensuous
atmosphere of art and music. For the first
time I understood Marguerite's woes and

Ophelia's tender words. For the first time
my heart seemed to go out to the noble and
the pure, the beautiful and the true, and I
had tears instead of laughter for hearts that
broke with love. Listen, sister, now, and
pity me! I learnt to pray then. It was
the inspiration of his deep, true eyes that
raised my thoughts to heaven, that lifted my
soul from the world's gutter, that showed me
the hideous moth, its wings ragged and
torn.

'^ Had I courage to let him see the creature
I was ? No. I had only just begun to live.
His presence thrilled me. I hung upon the
music of his voice. I wept for very joy.
He often questioned me about the sadness
he traced in my eyes. Now and then he
talked of Paris and once of London. I
mentioned to him the name of a French
artist whose reputation was not good in the
estimation of righteous people. He had
never seen that vile woman he said, and
he hoped he never might. He had not
been in London since he was a boy. When

he left me that day I tried to think I, too,
knew not that other woman, my other self ;
but conscience gripped my heart, and showed
me myself. I prayed that it might turn out
a dream ; I flung myself on my face and lay
prone for hours, praying that I might wake
and find life just beginning, there and then,
under the soft Italian skies, with Horace
Durand, in the path that true love strews
with flowers.

*' I bent Fate to my own strong will. It
seemed as if heaven itself had made a compromise
with me — my love was so absorbing
a passion, a blissfulness so all engrossing,
pure to me and him as the limpid streams
that trickled down the mountains in whose
grateful shadows we sat letting the days slip
by. And it came to pass that I did indeed
forget myself, and who I was, and what I
had been ; it came to pass that I remembered
nothing but that I loved and was beloved;
and it must have been that some latent
purity of thought and hope and faith that
belonged to my childhood looked up at him

out of my false eyes, or he could never have
poured out his very soul into my ears, and
pictured me his wife, the partner of his joys
and sorrows. After long days of sun and sweet
perfumes, when the earth has lain in the
arms of the hot and wooing sun, there come
storm and tempest.

It had been a bitterness in my cup of
joy to learn that he had forgotten the poor
little Constance of his boyish days, who now
hung upon the honey of his lips ; for I had
remembered him the first hour I saw him
as a man, and had experienced a new joy in
recalling his childish tears, and his regretful
good-bye in the hay-meadows by the green
lane of the English valley far away. The
shadow of the tempest fell upon my Italian
dream in the shape of a visitor from London,
who knew Horace and was his uncle's intimate
friend. A hard just man, who blotted
out my dream, laid waste my blissful hopes,
devastated the harvest of a sweet summer,
and left me once more a waif and stray of
the world. sister, touch me now ! Let me

feel your arm around me ! One moment
let me lay my head upon your shoulder !

** ^ Judith Travers,' said the just man,
this Horace Durand is the nephew of one
who saved my life and honour ; this Horace
Durand is the hope and joy of my friend's
declining years ; I am here to break off his
association with you. He does not know
you ; he thinks you a saint ; when he learns
who you are he will loathe you.' He was a
just man but cruel ; he addressed me as a judge
might from his high seat; and he spoke
this sentence against me. ' This he said,
is what will happen should you resist my
appeal to give him back to those who are
his friends, and to the old man who is entitled
to his respect and obedience. tomorrow,
fortified with full details of your career,
he shall stand before you and say, ' There is
a man at Baveno who declares that he has
an interest in the Regent Theatre ; that he
is here to take you back to London ; that
you are '

^^ I heard no more. As he spoke I seemed

to see my love standing before me with pale
face and flashing eyes. I fell before the
cruel sentence as one dead, and when I
awoke expected to find myself in purgatory.
But Fridoline was by my side and Father
Gabriello. They gave me restoratives ; the
dear father fortified me with wise advice;
and I knew that my days in the world
were over. * Let us begone,' I said, ' I am
content. It is enough that my soul has
passed through the sweet pastures of a pure
love; it is better to have loved and lost,
than never to have loved at all.' And it
entered into my heart to feel that I was
Constance Gardner once more, saying a goodbye
again, in the which I found a new
solace. Hush ! Do you not hear those
sweet sounds ? They are other harps than
Fridoline's, poor dear ! I did not think to go
before her, for she is old and I am young.
Kiss me, sweet sister ! Your chaste lips will
find no Judith here, but only the persecuted
maiden by the Scarsdale river, who has

found her everlasting rest in the loving arms
of Mary."

And so passed away one, who, under more
fortunate circumstances, might have been an
angel upon earth, as well as an angel in
heaven.

VOL. HI,

And is this Yarrow ? — this the stream

Of which my fancy cherished

So faithfully a waking dream ?

An image that hath perished !

that some minstrels harp were near.

To utter notes of gladness,

And chase this silence from the air,

That'll my heart with sadness ! " —

Wordsworth.



CHAPTER I.

THE HOUSE WHERE I WAS BORN.

I am standing by the house where I was
born. The river is rolling between me and
the well-known hills. The music of the miller
rises and falls upon the wind.

The first suggestions of spring are in the
air, but winter hovers among the clouds. I
have stolen away from London and from
everybody, to wander about this old town of
Scarsdale and to visit my father's tomb. I
have had a busy time in many ways. I
fancied this journey to Scarsdale as a combination
of rest and duty.

How different my home-coming to that
of the Ulysses whose adventures inspired my
earliest dreams! No enemies are arrayed

against me ; but the old home, where is it ?
As I stand here my heart seems to seek
another resting-place. This is not my home ;
my somewhat scattered affections cling
rather to '' The Cedars " than to " Oakfield
House." Sorrowful recollections overtop all
that is joyful in my memories of Scarsdale.
And nobody questions my right to be here.
There is no fighting to be done. The truth
is, I stand here and nobody knows me, and
if they did what have I to battle for ? Do
I desire to be avenged on anybody ? I did.
But somehow for the moment the sweet reconciliation
to my mother makes even the name
of Welby no longer quite a red rag to my
hate. For is not her name Welby ? This
thought sends my mind wandering away to
Helen Dunstan and the Worcestershire valley.
It goes, as it came, with a vague sense of
past pleasures not properly appreciated nor
understood.

I am standing, I repeat, by the house
where I was born, and I fear me, I am, like
an unkind critic at a new play, rather looking

for what is disagreeable than for that which
is good and pleasant. I remember how the
people of Scarsdale sneered at my French
father ; how the boys of Scarsdale persecuted
me. Suddenly I think of Tommy Barnes,
and he gives a prompt cue to my anger. I
seem to see in him the representative of the
entire crew of my boyish detractors. He
is the concentration of all that is hateful tome
in Scarsdale, and I remember that he
once flung a stone at Connie Gardner ; that
he clapped his hands when Laudanum Nanny
beat her ; and that he was the villain of the
true story with which I entertained my shipmates
on board The Fhoebe. Welby and
Barnes stand before me in imagination as my
bitterest foes, Barnes the worst of the two.
I offer up what must, I fear, be a profane
prayer that I may meet Tommy Barnes.

All this is weak, if not trivial ; it strikes
me so as I write it ; but it is worth studying
from a psychological point of view,
as showing how real and lasting are the
troubles, the hopes and fears, and the animosities

of youth. Moreover the events which
follow more or less justify this accentuation
of that boy-ruffian Tommy Barnes. One
would have thought that my great success
(had I not been received with consideration
even by Majesty itself ?) would have been
sufficient for me. Not at all. As I stand
here once more, in my native place, I think
of Tommy Barnes, and long to hold him by
the throat and shake him out of his boots.

I glance furtively in at the windows of
this house where I was born. It is all
changed. The old square piano is gone.
The flowers and the music-books, the quaint
furniture, the violoncello by the fire-place;
they are here no longer. I could not imagine
my father sitting there caressing that old
fiddle with such surroundings as those which
now vulgarised the once pretty room. In
the old days even a stranger, not called upon
for any sentimental feelings in regard to
home, contemplating the arrangement of
colour might have felt the happier for a
view of the parlour at Oakfield House.

While I stand recalling the past, with a
regretful anger at the vulgarising of the
dear old room, a troop of noisy children
come bounding from the house. They stop
however to stare at me. I ask them where
they are going. To school they say. ^' To
Dame Skinner's ? " I ask. No ; they have
never heard of Dame Skinner. Do they
know Tommy Barnes I wonder ? No ; but
their father knows Lawyer Barnes. Oh, I
say, and who is their father ? The manager
of Welby's factory they say, and then they
scamper off.

I move away, going towards the river.
Presently I cross the bridge leading to the
factory, and I recall my first meeting with
Connie Gardner, the persecuted grandchild
of Laudanum Nanny. The mist rises as of
yore upon the meeting of the waters. Looking
down, I see what might be the self-same
school of minnows and sticklebacks which I
left disporting there when I was a boy. My
imagination follows the course of the brook
as it flows on to the sea. I associate the

career of Connie Gardner with it. I see her
starting on her journey to the great ocean of
oblivion, now struggling, now moving along
in smooth places and calm weather, now
contaminated by the great world in great
cities, to slip away again into peaceful channels,
and, finally, to disappear as an individuality
in the great ocean, whither all our
human barques are bound. I mix her up, I
say, with this river of my youth, which flows
through a wide country, at first a pure and
lovely stream, fresh from the hand of God ;
then a work-a-day brook, turning mills ;
next forced to carry the unsavoury burdens
of towns, the refuse of dye-works, the dregs
of coal-washings; but, finally, to be quit of
all its degradations in the broad and mighty
ocean.

As I ponder thus by the river, a figure
crosses the bridge. In imagination, I see
my father with a child upon his shoulders,
and presently the tolling of the passing bell
falls upon my ear.

Scarsdale, which seemed so picturesque

when I was a boy, is a shabby town. I goto
the inn where my uncle Grantley made
me write down his address, and I find that it
is as sycophantish as it is shabby. A party
of tradesmen and others are smoking their
pipes after their mid-day meal They do
not know me. I sit down among them.
The conversation is political. It nearly
always is in country taverns. They talk
more politics and know more about politics
in provincial cities than they do in London.
Indeed they talk little else, and their partisanship
is as strong as it was when their
forefathers fought the battles of the Roses.
Illustrative of the truth that there are
exceptions to every rule, I find that the
Right Hon. Jonas Welby, M.P., one of Her
Majesty's Ministers, has literally bought
Scarsdale body and soul. The chief
employer of labour, he had instituted an
organisation of charitable gifts of coals and
blankets in winter, of tea and beer in summer.
He headed all the local subscription
lists for everything that could be subscribed

for, and he was continually en evidence as
the chief patron and protector of the town.
He paid for his membership of the House of
Commons in this way. In London he was
not known to spend a penny more than was
necessary to maintain his town-house ; but
there his wife's name helped him, for she
was indeed a benevolent woman, and in
league with Miss Dunstan for good, patriotic,
and truly charitable work. But these
tradesmen at the Scarsdale inn are talking
of little else than the noble qualities of their
distinguished member, Mr. Welby. I can
only endure this for a very short time. Just
as I am about to leave a new-comer speaks
of myself. He says the mayor of the town
is calling a meeting to say something or do
something about '^ this Horace Durand, who
has discovered the new islands, and made so
much noise in London." I hear this as if
they are talking of some one else, and I go
out into the streets, and set my face towards
the churchyard where my father is lying. A
plain slab gives the date of my first great

sorrow. ^' And is it so many years ago ! " I
cannot help exclaiming. '^ And am I that
small boy who stood by an open grave on
this spot and wept bitter tears into it ? ''
Then I think what companions we should
have been, he and I, if he had lived ; how
we should have read together and walked
together ; how he would have taught me the
philosophy of Ulysses as well as the mere
story ; how he would have opened to me the
world of French poesy and song ; how he
would indeed have been my master, guide,
and friend ; and how I should have dreamed
dreams sitting by his side, while he inspired
them with his eloquent 'cello.

As I stand ruminating in the churchyard,
I note the long white road over the hills up
which my fancy was wont to travel and lose
itself in the old days ; and on the other side
of which was the palace my father told me
of, that was more wonderful than anything
Ulysses ever saw. It occurs to me that I
will go and find that palace now, without
guide or compass. I know that the palace

is Chatsworth, but I will go over the hills toit
now my own way, and come upon it as if
I was its discoverer ; as if it might be the
palace of some powerful monarch in a foreign
land. The same inviting road still mounts
the same hills that shut out of the wide world
Oakfield House and its adjacent river in the
days of my youth. It is not as white as it
was; but this is not a summer-day, though
the sun is shining.

I find the beginning of the long road.
By-and-bye I pause near the spot where
Connie Gardner said good-bye to me when
she ran away.

CHAPTER II

A PRETENCE OF EXPLORATION THAT LEADS TO
A REAL DISCOVERY.

Coming down from London by train to
Scarsdale, I find at a bookstall a secondhand
copy of Mr. Marvel's ^^ Reveries of a
Bachelor." It exactly suited my then frame
of mind. Pausing here in the lane, now
bare of leaves, which was so umbrageous and
flowery in those early days, I try to understand
my feelings in regard to Helen Dunstan,
and in doing so sympathetically recall
the chapter where the moralist lights his
cigar with a wisp of paper. It does not
burn so easily as at first — it wants warming
before it will catch ; but presently it is in a

broad full glow, that throws light into the
corners of his room.

^^ Just so," he thinks, "the love of youth,
which succeeds the crackling blaze of boyhood,
makes a broader flame, though it may
not be so easily kindled. A mere dainty
step, or a soft blue eye, are not enough ; butin
her who has quickened the new blaze there
is a blending of all these, with a certain
sweetness of soul that finds expression in
whatever feature or motion you look upon.
Her charms steal over you gently, and most
imperceptibly. You think that she is a
pleasant companion — nothing more ; and you
find the opinion strongly confirmed day by
day — so well confirmed, indeed, that you
begin to wonder why it is that she is such a
delightful companion. It cannot be her
eyes, for you have seen eyes almost as pretty
as Nelly's ; nor can it be her mouth, though
Nelly's mouth is certainly very sweet. And
you keep studying what on earth it can be
that makes you so earnest to be near her, or
to listen to her voice. The study is pleasant.

You do not know any study that is more so ;
or which you accomplish with less mental
fatigue. Upon a sudden some fine day,
when the air is balmy, and the recollection
of Nelly's voice and manner more balmy
still, you wonder if you are in love ! '*

Now, while I am looking up and down
this Scarsdale lane the air is not balmy. It
is brisk and bracing, however, and the sun
is shining, and I look back to the old days,
and again my heart seems to wander away
from the incident that used to touch me so
nearly when I thought of it. As when standing
opposite to Oakfield House I found my
mind every now and then wandering ofi* to
^^The Cedars," and the gentle Breedon country,
so now did my fancy find its way into
that same valley, with pleasant recollections of
a certain September day, when the journalistic
echoes of the guns at Sedan broke in
upon an interesting tete-a tete between two
young people.

Was I in love with Helen Dunstan?
Had the 'crackling blaze of boyhood"*

VOL. III. M

which lighted up the gardens of the Villa
Verona been succeeded by ^^ the broader
flame " of manhood ? I had not seen Helen
for nearly a month, nor my mother either.
Business in connection with the proposed
expedition to Kututu ; an urgent summons,
from the owners of The FhoehCj to Bristol ;
a visit to the Hallamss in Yorkshire ; sundry
interviews with Jeffrey Waller's solicitors ;
some claims on my time in connection with
George Harmer's affairs ; and other matters,
had occupied my time. Meanwhile my
mother had gone home, and Helen Dunstan
with her. I had kept my mother informed
of my doings generally, but I had said
nothing of my intended visit to Scarsdale.
My uncle had made no sign to me, nor I to
him. We were both suffering from the
ravages of a false pride, which neither
Ernstone nor Hallam had been so far able to
overcome.

With this pause for reflection, and also to
acquaint you with a few necessary facts, I
walk on. The road rises gently. Now and

then I get fine views of the surrounding
country. I see the little town of Scarsdale
at my feet. The river winds about it as if
proud of the meadows, the factory, the
streets, and the grey old tower of the parish
church. It occurs to me that I almost wish
Helen Dunstan could see the place where I
was born. I pause to find in the distance
the exact spot where Dame Skinner's school
was. (Looking for it later in the street itself
there was no sign of it ; a grocery store and
a new inn occupied the ground.) I try to
find the site of it now from the high ground
of the ascending road. There is no longer
any revenge in my heart against the Dame.

So far as she is concerned my memory
deals chiefly with the laburnums and lilacs
that filled her garden, and nodded at the
school-room window. I see her gay cap, and
hear her prosing, and I sijiell her pork chops.
Then Tommy Barnes rises up in the picture,
and I hate him. He has unconsciously gathered
up unto himself all my boyish animosities.

m2

It is strange that it should be so ; but it is.
Then my memory goes off at a tangent to
the forecastle of The 'Phoebe and to the
simple-minded brave fellows, who found real
entertainment and delight in listening to the
story of my first childish adventure.

The weather is not warm. I am hot
nevertheless. I have been climbing this
white highway during more than two hours.
I arrive at a village. One would never have
expected that there was such a halting-place
as Stanhope when looking at the hills from
Scarsdale. I enter the wayside inn, ^^The
Rose and Crown," and refresh myself with a
glass of ale.

^^ How far is it to the summit of these
Scarsdale hills ? " I ask.

^^ D'ye mean to the top ? "

^^Yes."

^^ Before you gotten well started down
into the valley t'other side ? "

^^Yes."

'^ Oh, a matter of two or three miles."

^^ Can you send a conveyance into Scarsdale

for my luggage, and give me a bed here
to-night ? ''

a We've gotten a spring cart as we can
send; are you walking then ? "

** Yes, a few miles."

This seems to excite doubt as to whether
the spring cart is at liberty or not.

I only arrived at the Angel last night;
my bill cannot be much; here are five
sovereigns ; pay it, and also the charge for
the cart, and give me the change later."

The landlady's opinion of me goes up at
once, and there is much bustle of getting
out the cart and horse, in the midst of which
I go on my way. The country changes
from meadows to moorland, from a pastoral
highway to a rocky road. I meet lumbering
carts and waggons. The drivers repass the
time of day " with me. They are earnest,
healthy looking men. The road is hard with
a February frost. I trudge along trying to
feel that I am once more that boy in the
velvet frock, but the effect is too great a tax
upon the imagination. Somehow my thoughts

will wander to people and things that have
no association whatever with Scarsdale or its
surrounding country. I find myself thinking
of Helen Dunstan, and the Worcestershire
Valley, of my Uncle Grantley and '' The
Cedars." Since the Emperor gave up his
sword at Sedan and thus broke in upon my
tete-astute with Squire Dunstan's daughter,
he has had to accept defeat at the hands of
the grim conqueror of all, and the dear old
capitalist on wheels has followed in his wake.
Yet my mind goes back to the Worcestershire
September, as if for the moment nothing
had changed except myself. And I feel
that I am greatly changed. Analysing the
condition of my mind I come to the conclusion
that I am drifting into love with
Helen Dunstan, and I confess it with a
sensation of quiet pleasure. It does not
make my pulse beat, nor my temples throb,
nor do I grow hot and cold at the thought of
it. My feelings are twilight compared with
noon ; the soft calm tenderness of an English
summer landscape with the reflection of the

sun left in the sky; and the peace of cooling
shadows compared with the hot drowsy heat
of noonday.

I plod on. Strange that the impulse topick
up one of the threads of my boyish life,
and follow the clue of early fancies over the
hills and far away, which set me exploring
this white Derbyshire road, should become
quite inoperative. I am on the highway which
filled my imagination when a boy ; but my
thoughts are miles away. Even the joy of
taking my dear little mother into my arms
and feeling her kisses on my forehead, with
tears in my own eyes, responsive to her sobs,
awoke in me no striking remembrances of
Scarsdale, except in the way of a pleasant
domestic picture which was eventually
smudged and blurred. I had come to associate
my mother with Helen Dunstan, and
Helen Dunstan carried me away to Worcestershire.


As I reach the summit of the range of
hills, the point of my destination, it begins
to snow. At the outset of my walk I mount

upwards, along the winding road, with a
glimmering of the first desire of my boyhood
to cross '' those littler Alps one day,
and see the grand palace," that was
more wonderful than any of the palaces
that existed in the days of Ulysses. We
cannot revive the past. The old sensations
are burnt out. We are apt to mistake
the embers for real fire. Compensations
come in new conditions of life, other emotions,
other pleasures, toned down and
softened by memories of the keener blissfulness
and the sharper miseries of our youth.

Protected by an excavation of the rocky
bank of the road, a wayside inn offers a
picture of comfort and ease which is accentuated
by the suggestion of snow in the air,
and the deepening shadows of the winter
afternoon. The landlord is at the door
superintending the baiting of a pair of
horses in a miller's waggon.

'what palace is that in the valley?" I
ask.

'palace!" says the landlord, " I know

of no palace in these parts except Chatsworth,
and the Duke calls that a house, and
it's a good five miles off."

He calls it a house because it is a palace,
as some people call their houses palaces
though they are only houses, eh ? "

^' I am not good at conundrums, Mester,"
answered the landlord, ^^but my missus is,
and, if you like to step into the bar, she'll
may be wrestle with it."

As he spoke the wind blew upon the sign
which swung over the doorway, and it
creaked a sort of satirical approval of the
landlord's not very original humour. I
looked up. ^^ The Dunstan Arms '' in gold
letters confronted me. I had been thinking
of hardly anyone but Helen Dunstan for the
past several hours, and as I looked upon the
name of the inn it seemed as if the curious
noise just referred to was now a croak of
derision. ^' The Dunstan Arms ! " As I
repeated the words to myself, another gust
of wind came along and made the sign fairly
scream.

*' You donna seem to like the sign," said
the landlord, eyeing me ; ^' you're not the
first as has objected to it."

*^ On the contrary, I like the sign," I
said, ^^ but it struck me as a little odd; it
does not like the wind evidently."

'^ Nor more dont we, Mester ; the wind
that bangs that there sign about brings snow
at this time of the year."

indeed!"

'^ Name hanna changed things in that
respect ; folk says as it is na lucky to change
name o' the place. But the Denverss was
never nowt to me, and Miss Dunstan has
been kindest friend to me and my missus
and the children we ever had ; and I've paid
her the only compliment as is in my power
and that's ' The Dunstan Arms ! ' "

He pointed to the sign, and entered the
house. I followed him, walking over a clean
stone-rubbed and sanded passage into a
bright, neat, shining bar-parlour. A blazing
wood fire in a cosy ingle-nook ; a counter
full of flashing pewter cups and glasses ; a

mahogany round-table polished so that you
could see your face in it ; a white-boarded
floor with a great woolly rug on the hearth ;
several old mahogany chairs; on the walls
half a dozen pictorial representations of
hunting in Derbyshire ; and on a window
seat a few newspapers and The Mayfair
Magazine. Such was the interior that
mirrored itself in my mind. A rosy buxom
woman of forty-five, in a white-spotted blue
gown and white apron, and on her head a
cap adorned with cherry-coloured ribbons;
such was the landlady who bade me '^ Good
day, sir ! " as I entered.

'' Mrs. Hunt, mester here wants to ax
you some questions," said the landlord," and
I'm going down to the hall to see Miss
Dobbs, who wants me to look after some
things as she's expecting fro' Lundun by the
train at Bakewell ; so my service to you,
sir."

He nodded to me and went out.

^^ Miss Dobbs!" I exclaimed as he left
the room, 'sand who is Miss Dobbs ?"

'^ She's Miss Dunstan's companion and
housekeeper in one, and there is not a
kinder heart nor a keener tongue ever
went together in this world than Providence
has blessed Miss Dobbs with," said
the landlady."

'^ That's true," I replied, remembring
how she had called me a fool on that long-past
September years ago.

*' You know her?"

'' I think so."

Then you know a woman of a thousand."


'' But what is she doing here ?"

^' Everything," said Mrs. Hunt, " everything,
if you ask me."

*' She lives in the neighbourhood, then ?"

'^ I should think the did when she is
here."

^' Yes, that seems likely enough," I
replied, adding the question '^ then she is not
always here ?"

'^ No, she's sometimes in London."

I suspect the fact that I did not at once

make inquiries about Miss Dunstan is another
illustration of my growing love for
her. There is a page in Mr. Marvel's book,
marked to this day and the leaf turned
down, as I marked it in the railway carriage,
on my way to Scarsdale. I think it
greatly influenced my feelings at this time
and encouraged me in coming to a conclusion
about them ; and I shall hope to refer to it
presently apropos of my conduct in this
present chapter.

'^ Sometimes in London," I said, taking
a seat near the window, and picking up The
May fair Magazine,

It was the copy which contained my
article on the Boulonagans and Kututu,
relating my adventures there, and entering
into proposals for the equipment of a relief
and search expedition.

^^ She gave me that book," said the landlady.


^^ Indeed," I said, not without a slight
sensation of the pride of authorship.

^' It contains a report of the doings of a
friend of theirs, Mr. Durand, the exploring
gentleman," she replied.

^' Report " was hardly the right word to
apply to my essay, I thought, but Mrs.
Hunt was a reader of newspapers, and the
district reporter of The Scarsdale Times
often called at the Dunstan Arms on his
journeys between the head office and Bakewell.
He spoke of everything as a report,
and Mrs. Hunt had a great respect for him.
I had a glimmering of the true situation of
affairs in regard to Miss Dobbs, for I suddenly
remembered that Em stone had told
me in a letter that Miss Dunstan had bought
an estate not far from Scarsdale ; but I felt
like a boy with a packet of sweetmeats, who
wishes to make it last as long as is compatible
with continual tasting. In order to
propitiate the landlady, therefore, I ordered
a pint of madeira (she said her master had
a special tap of madeira which she was sure
I should like), and lighted a cigar.

Had Ernstone been present he would
have regarded it as sinful to smoke with
such wine ; but I was alone, and I had a
fancy, in remembrance of Mr. Marvels delicious
reveries, to light my cigar " with a
wisp of paper."

^'A friend of theirs? " I said, echoing her,
with an emphasis on the word theirs.

^^ I mean her and Miss Dunstan," said
the landlady placing the wine before me.

^^ Rather an odd person this Mr. Durand,
I should think," said I, not with my usual
ingenuousness.

*^ Odd ! he's one of the bravest men that
ever lived," she answered.

^^ Shouldn't have thought so by his own
report in this magazine."

^' Oh, but that's his modesty. He's
made a deal more of that carpenter and
Dick Smith and the Irish king than there
was any need."

^^ Really!"

'' A sight more ! Why he'd seen no endo'
troubles and adventures, even before the

shipwreck as well as after, that he never
mentions; though there was a man here
yesterday, as says he knows a man as might
be better called Euylsis than him as a matter
of mere travelling, though not as regards
being cast on a highland of man-eaters."

^^ I quite agree with him," said I.

*' Do you?" said she, '' you'd better not
let Miss Dobbs hear you say so."

^^Why?"

'' I told her this morning what the man
said, and she called him a fool."

^^Did she though?" said I, ^^she appears
to use pretty strong language."

eyes, she does," said the landlady ; *but
there are some folk who make a show of
being hard for sake of hiding a soft heart,
without which defence they would be imposed
on continually."

A sound observation, the philosophy of
which was original on Mrs. Hunt's lips ;
for she could never have read Goldsmith's
^' Gentleman in Black."

The claims of some other part of the

house took the landlady away for a few
minutes. She left me lost in wonder and
perplexity. ^' Can it be," I said to myself,
^^ that the palace I am in search of is the
Derbyshire home of Helen Dunstan ? "

VOL. m. N

CHAPTER III.

I CONDESCEND TO ENGAGE IN A VULGAR BRAWL.

So soon as Mrs. Hunt returned I ventured
to put my inquiring thought into a
question.

^^ And Miss Dunstan?" I said, ^4s she
then the owner of the palace below the hill
yonder''

'' Derwent Hall ? Yes," she replied, " and
you may well call it a palace, for except
Chatsworth I know nowt as beautiful, not
being what folks call a show place. But eh,
how it's improved since Miss Dunstan bought
it!"

^^Isit?"

'that it is indeed. It's a palace compared

with a dog-lisle since the Den vers left
it and she took it."

'^ They were mean people, the Den vers,
eh?"

'^ Mean ! Lord, lord, I should think they
were. But they had no money, heaven
forgive them, and a spendthrift son."

^' Then they were to be pitied."

^' That's what folk said when my mester
changed our sign from Denverss Arms to
Dunstan Arms. They said it was worshipping
the rising sun. And John Thomas,
my mester, says the sun's nowt to do with
it ; anson is as anson does, he says, and no
more Denverss for me, he says''

'^ Which I don't call very polite'' said a
young man, who stepped into the bar accompanied
by an old shabby-looking bashful
kind of man, '^ not to say ungrateful ; but
it's my delight on a shiny night, ain't it,
Sammy?"

'^ So you says," responded the shabby
man, shambling into a seat by the fire.

n2

^^ Mrs. Unt, mam'' said the younger of
the two new comers, '' two 'ot hales with
plenty o' ginger, and I shall want a bed
to-night."

'' Yes, Mr. Barnes, by all means," answered
the landlady; ^^but let me advise
you, if my mester comes in, not to speak
about the Denverss and the Dunstan Arms,
'cos he doesn't like you, and he's inclined to
cut up rough about it lately."

'' Oh, is he? very well, he'd better not
cut up rough with me because there's such a
thing as law, Mrs. Unt, and it's my delight
on a shiny night, aunt it, Sammy ?"

'' You says so," replied Sammy, rubbing
his hands, not with satisfaction but with
cold.

I took an immediate and strong antipathy
to Mr. Barnes. He was a horsey-looking
young man of about my own age. He was
pale, with short brown whiskers closely
cropped, tall, with a dark cut-away coat and
tight-fitting light brown trousers. When he

entered the room he took off a heavy overcoat
and laid it upon a chair. He wore a
light neckerchief with a horse-shoe scarf-pin
stuck in it. His hat was a short beaver, very
prominently turned up at the sides. He
slapped his legs with a stumpy riding-whip.
His eyes were light and restless ; his eyebrows
were light and straggly ; his nose was
long and shapeless, his mouth hard and
cruel.

'^ Oh, you've got this piece of 'humbug
here, have you?" he exclaimed, taking up
The May fair Magazine ^^ it's all over Scarsdale,
and the Corporation are going to call a
meeting about it."

^^ Indeed, are they, what for?"

'* To pass a resolution to invite the
beggar to a banquet = He was born at Scarsdale,
you know."

*^ Yes, I have understood so."

*'A regular ound ! " said the stranger;
I know'd him when I was a lad ; Frenchy
we used to call him ; I got him turned out of
old Mother Skinner's school, the mongrel ! "

^^ Did you now, and I suppose you think
that is something to be proud of ? "

'' Right you are, Mrs. Unt, for it's my
delight on a shiny night, and I wish it
wasn't after sundown, eh, Sammy ? "

'^ So you says," answered Sammy.

'' But we must wait till the morning, eh,
Sammy ? We are up to larks, we are, Mrs.
Unt ! You wait ; eh, Sammy ?"

Lor, how you goes on'' answered
Sammy.

'' Mrs. Unt, I'm regular enjoying myself
just now. It's as good as a play. That Miss
Dobbs she called at our office this week
about a little matter of business, and she
says, when it was over, 'Mr. Thomas Barnes,'
she says, ' you are a Idiot ' "

'^ Idiot, I think the lady would have said
if it is the Miss Dobbs I have the honour of
knowing," I said, turning towards the group,
with my fingers itching to take the fellow
by the throat, for all in a moment I spotted
the enemy of my boyhood, and my very soul

rose against him as if he embodied the cause
of all my boyish grief.

'' Well, I said Idiot ! " he replied, sand
I wasn't talking to you."

^^ You were speaking of friends of mine,"
I said, rising, ^' and I am going to make you
apologise."

^^ Oh, indeed ! " he said, grasping his
whip.

^^ Don't be alarmed, Mrs. Hunt," I said,
^^ he will apologise, and on his knees."

^' Will?" he exclaimed.

^^ Yes," I said, ^^ go down upon your knees
and say, I humbly beg pardon of all here
for disrespectfully mentioning the name of
Mr. Horace Durand, and I confess myself a
coward for having done so."

^^ I'll see you hanged first. Mister'' he
said, squaring his shoulders and half-raising
his whip as I stepped towards him.

My desire was to induce him to strike
me, that I might wipe out some of those
old sufferings which I had endured when a
boy at the hands of himself and others.

suffering which I felt then as bitterly as if 1
were a boy again in a velvet frock, scoffed at
and hooted and tauntingly called ^^Frenchy."
How deeply the animosities and the injustice
of boyhood sink into the heart !

I touched him on the collar.

^^ That's an assault ! " he said, stepping
back; ^^I'm a lawyer's articled clerk, my
father is the junior partner in the firm of
Short and Barnes, and I call you, Samuel
Mercer, and you, Mrs. Unt, to witness that
he struck the first blow."

During all the time that he was speaking
he was preparing to hit me with his
whip.

Mrs. Hunt ran out of the room, evidently
to call assistance.

** Down on your knees ! " I said.

He raised his cudgel above his head. Ashe
did so, I struck him full in the face with
my right hand, landing him one with my
left, under his right jaw, as he fell. The old
man shambled towards me. '^ Stand aside! "
I said, '' I have no quarrel with you' and I

thrust him back into his seat as my ancient
foe, his face all bloody, gathered himself
together, and came at me with a pewter pot.
I caught him by the wrist, twisted the weapon
out of his hand, and hit him again. I felt as
if I could kill him. ^^ Murder! Mercy!" he
screamed. I took him by the throat and
forced him upon his knees. ^' Beg Horace
Durand's pardon ! " I said, ^' or I will shake
the life out of you."

^^ I do, I do ! " he gasped.

^^ Confess yourself a cowardly sneak ! " I
said.

^* I do ! oh, mercy, I do."

Mrs. Hunt, her husband, and the ostler
appeared on the scene at the moment.

^^I told you he would apologise, Mrs.
Hunt." I said, ^^ and I must now apologise
to you for making a scene."

^^ And a nice mess too, mister ! " said the
landlord surveying the disordered room, and
the red marks of the fight, ^^for which I
don't thank you, I can tell you ! "

'^ It was not the gentleman's fault at all,"

said the landlady, ^^Mr. Barnes brought it
all on himself."

I'm dying ! " gasped Barnes, " go fora
constable and a magistrate."

^^ Constable and magistrate ! " exclaimed
the landlord taking him by the collar and lifting
him up, '^ come here and wash your face."

^'What's his name, who is he?" he
asked, standing up and leaning against the
landlord; ^^ I'll have a warrant out against
him."

'^ I am a friend of Mr. Durand and Miss
Dobbs," I said, '^ and amstayingat ' The Rose
and Crown ' yonder. Mrs. Hunt, let me pay
you for polluting your clean and wholesome
parlour with unpleasant reminiscences of this
creature. I cannot pay you for the pleasure
it has afforded me to teach him a lesson incivility."


I slipped three sovereigns into her hand,
buttoned my coat tightly across my chest,
took up my stick, and walked away.

'' And this comes of eaves-dropping," I
said as I strode out down the road for the

'^ Crown, '^ five good miles away, and after
sunset. ^' Listeners hear no good of themselves''
I said, ^' is not always true, but
I am glad he had nothing good to say of
me. I never felt so happy in my life!" I
could not help talking to myself aloud as I
walked. Mrs. Hunt's madeira was fine
liquor. It had done me a world of good.
'^ Horace, my boy," I said, as I bounded
along (it was much easier going down hill
than up), '' you are indeed a lucky fellow!
A kind providence directed your steps to
^ The Dunstan Arms ! ' " Heaven forgive me,
I felt as if I was hitting my step-father too
when I was smiting Tommy Barnes ! The
wind came rollicking up the hill as I rattled
along. I felt my face bm^ng under its
pleasant friction. There were sharp bits of
snow in the air.

^' And Helen Dunstan lives yonder in the
palace over the hills!" I said; ^^what a
wonderful discovery ! Talk of Kututu, Derwent
Hall beats it altogether. To think that
I should have dreamed of that palace over

the hills as a boy — to find it, when I am a
man, with Helen Dunstan in it ! "

'' Hurrah ! " the wind seemed to cry,
coming along and shouting away up the hill
where the last glimmer of the lights at '' The
Dunstan Arms " had faded out. The moon
was there instead — white and shining, high
up in a luminous sky. A carriage and pair
of horses came steaming up hill, with lamps
and cracking whip. '^ Good night!" said
the driver, as I stood aside to let him pass.
'* Good night," I answered, ^' and God bless
you ! "

'' Same to you ! " shouted the driver.
*' Ah ! ah ! " the wind seemed to cry.

^'And God bless everybody for that
matter," I said, and I thought I heard in
response, '^ You're another, whatever it is ! "

I was very merry, and set off to run for
very joy. By-and-by the lights of ^^The
Rose and Crown " greeted me in the valley.
I paused to rest awhile, and to make some
calmer reflections upon what had occurred.
The moon appeared to be racing along as if

to overtake me. A few fleecy clouds accompanied
it. One or two stars twinkled overhead.
The wind whistled as it does at sea.
Great stretches of rocky boulders, lying
among beds of heather, stretched away on
either hand. The road was hard and white —
that same dear highway upon which my
boyish fancy was wont to travel in years
gone by! This may seem trivial to you,
my friends ; but oh ! the delight of it all tome
!

CHAPTER IV.

A BUNDLE OF LETTERS.

'' The Rose and Crown " was full of light,
and busy with tokens of hospitality and
comfort. My luggage had arrived, and I
appeared to be in high repute. I was shown
to a bedroom with a blazing fire upon the
hearth. My portmanteau had been carried upstairs.
The one private parlour of the house
had been made ready for me. The shutters
were tightly closed, and the room made snug.
It is possible that a packet of letters which
had arrived for me at the Scarsdale Hotel,
and which " The Rose and Crown " man
had brought with my luggage, had inspired
these special attentions.

I ordered supper, and I ate it with
infinite relish. Afterwards I went into the
bar-parlour and sat by the fire. It was nine
o'clock. A few travellers by road to Scarsdale
came in to warm themselves and chat.
They warmed themselves inside and out.
Hot rum and water was their favourite
drink. Some of them had a teaspoonful of
honey added. They talked chiefly of the
weather. One of them said there had been
a row and a fight at '^ The Dunstan Arms."
The landlord of ^^The Rose and Crown"
was deeply interested in this piece of news.
It entertained me somewhat, especially when
I learned that '^ a stuck-up nowt" from
Scarsdale, ^^ horsey Barnes, the lawyer chap,"
had got the worst of it. At the same time
the consciousness that I had been engaged
in a vulgar brawl, and almost on the very
threshold of Helen Dunstan's house, brought
a flush to my cheeks that was not pride.
When the narrator said ^^ chap as had
leathered horsey Barnes said as he was
stopping at ' Rose and Crown,' " the landlord

promptly denied it, and, as it seemed
to me, for the purpose of propitiating me
with the idea of the great respectability of
his house. I made a remark now and then
and went on smoking my cigar, until the
last traveller appeared to have gone on his
way; and then I said good-night and was
shown to my bedroom.

Here I found, upon a chest of drawers
with my dressing-bag, that same packet of
letters to which I have referred. They had
been dispatched from my hotel in London,
according to my instructions, to Scarsdale.
I had left orders that this address should be
given to no one, but that any person calling
should be informed that I would be back
in town very shortly, and that in the meantime
any cards or letters would be sent on tome.
I found in the packet which had been
forwarded to me at Scarsdale several epistles
of great interest. The first to attract my
attention was, from whom do you think?
My uncle. I could not believe it until I had

twice turned to the signature and the once
familiar address. It ran as follows : —

^^ You Ungrateful Vagabond, —

'' I conclude by your silence that it
is not your intention to ask my forgiveness
^ for having turned you out of my house
(though not out of my heart, as you
^ thought, on that cold autumn night, a
^ hundred years ago as it seems to me) ; and
^ therefore, taking a leaf out of the Book
of Job, I commit myself to this piece of
^ humiliation and patience.

''I request that you will come home.
Yes, sir, home; and, seeing that you are
now independent of me and are a great
man, so Ernstone, and even my lord judge
Miller (only think of Miller sitting on the
Bench and hanging folk) say, I make this
a request and not an invitation. I request
you, mark me, to come home ; in the same
way that if you were poor I should invite
you, and pray you not any longer to
punish your doating old fool of an uncle
^ by keeping away from ^ The Cedars.'

^' Five years ago I would not have confessed
that anything you or anybody
might do could induce me to sacrifice one

VOL. III. O

'' jot of the Grantley pride; but I grow old
'' and somewhat feeble, and I have no ties
'^ of blood nor affection about me, and I think
'' I did you a wrong; yes, I think I did;
though damme where you got the Grantley
^^ pride from to resent it and stand by your
^' resentment I do not know — not from your
'^ mother, that's certain, for a more gentle
^^ bending creature does not live.

'but you are a hard-hearted specimen
'^ of the Grrantley pride, Horace, to keep it
^^ up so long, when, confound you, you''
ought to know that I am not at heart the
'* tyrannical old dog I appeared to be that
'' one night. I thought you would have
'^ been back again the next day, and I and
'' Sandy almost came to blows because he,
'' with his infernal Scotch impudence (and
'' wisdom, the blackguard), said you'd never
'' come back till I begged your pardon.
^' Dick Grantley beg his nephew's pardon
'^ for having failed to make a gentleman of
'' him, I said, was a good joke, and I ordered
^^ Sandy to beg mine for proposing such an
^^ insult; and — would you believe it? — the
'' pig-headed porridge-eating varlet defied me,
^^ and offered to leave my service that minute,
^^ saying that my temper was unbearable,

'^ and that if a stripling like Master Horace
^' could bang my bit of money down, and
^^ quit without a sixpence, he had come to
the conclusion that he could do the same.
^^ A mutiny all round you see, a wicked
^^ mutiny with you as the chief, and you
*^ will understand what a time this blathers'
headed Scot has led me. He was always
^^ a saucy upstart from the first day I took
^^ him into my service, five-and-thirty years
^' ago, and age has not improved him, though
^^ I am not the master to turn a God-forsaken
creature like Sandy out upon the world,
^^ as you will well believe I feel assured.

^' Colonel Ernstone has done my heart
*^ good by his account of your meeting with
'' your mother and Miss Dunstan at Antwerp,
"• and I have had the honour of a visit from
'^ Mr. Justice Miller, who says you are a fine
'^ fellow, but that he thinks you will never
^^ forgive him for some slight exaggeration
which he says he put into a statement he
^' made to you in Italy. Miller is a vvonder-
^^ ful man, and his wife, a lady in her own
^^ right, doats upon him. Old Burton had a
'^ good knowledge of the sex, Horace, eh?
'' you argumentative scoundrel ! Be good
'' enough to consider that I am shaking my
o2

^^ fist at you; and that Sandy is chuckling
^^ over your having the best of the controversy
^' while he is pretending to be decanting a
^^ bottle of that old Madeira which is more
^^ than five years better than it was when
'' you last tasted it.

'' I don't think I ever wrote a letter in
my life a tenth as long as this, and yet
"' confound the whole business if I know
'^ when to leave off, and I have so much to
'^ say that I feel as if I had only just begun.
^^ It is entirely of my own free will that I
'' send you this; for even Ernstone has
'^ given over prodding me on to doing somers
thing, and I have long since forbidden
'^ Sandy to mention your name, though the
'^ mutinous scoundrel fills my table with cori-
'^ founded newspapers that are full of it.
^^ Come home, my boy, and forgive your
'^ domineering old uncle, who never yet
'' offered such a plea to man or woman in
'^ this wide world, and hopes never again to
"entitle anybody to expect it; though
Sandy, in the row I told you of, had the
audacity to say that I was worthy to be
'^ one of the two Babes-in-the-wood uncles
for what I had done to you. I believe I
rather liked him for calling me names,

'^ because he was standing up for you you
^^ aggravating, stubborn, good-for-nothing,
^^ dear old chap after my own heart.

^^ In conclusion let me say that if you
^^ expect me to confess any more than this
'^ that I was in the wrong, you can stay
^^ where you are wherever that may be, for
^' nobody seems to know, and Sandy says
*' you have maybe gone to sea again.
'^ It will not be necessary for you to
^' tell Ernstone, or Miller, or anybody else,
^' that I have written you this letter; but
^' just come right away and we will forget
^^ what we cannot remedy. I believe I am
'^ more like an old woman than the ' starchy
'^ Dick Grantley ' you have heard of. I am
^' looking for your coming as if (had I ever
'^ been worthy of such a blessing) you were
'^ my own son instead of a mere fascinating
^^ nephew who does not care a brass farthing
'^ (and serves me right) for his tyrannical
^^ but repentant old uncle,

richard Grantly''

I need not say how sincere was my
delight and satisfaction at the receipt of this
characteristic epistle. The next letter in the
bundle was from the victim of Circe.

^« My generous Friend and Benefactor,"
it began ; and after some over wrought compliments
it went on as follows : —

'^ I had the honour to call upon you, my
mother accompanying me, with the hope
that we should have the opportunity to
'^ thank you in person for all your kindness,
^' and at the same time that we might wish
^^ you good-bye, as we are going together to
'^ America, where I have a prospect of good
'' employment, and in which country I shall
'' endeavour in some measure to retrieve the
^^ past, solaced and encouraged by my
'' mother, who has made many sacrifices in
^^ my interest and for my welfare. She has,
*^ by dint of much self-denial, saved several
^^ thousand pounds, and I am urged by an
'^ artistic friend to believe that I shall find a
'^ good field in the cities of New York,
'* Boston, Philadelphia, and Washington for
decorative art, as he is convinced that
*^ America, being rich, is now seeking the
'' lasting pleasure and satisfaction that is to
^^ be enjoyed in an appreciative contemplate'
tion of that which is beautiful in form and
^' colour, and the worship of which is now all
'* that is left to me, and I thank Heaven for

'^ leaving in my heart a germ of that old
^^ love of Art which is now to give me rest,
^^ employment, profit, all in one, and to
'^ prove a purifier of the baser Nature that
'' has hitherto pinned me to the earth and to
^^ the mire thereof.

^^ Forgive me for writing in this strain;
^^ it is done out of my desire to explain to
^^ you my hopes, and to show to you my
^^ plans, that you may feel you have not
'^ helped me in vain. My mother wishes me
^^ to add her thanks to my own, and asks me
^^ to entreat you to think well of her and not
*^ according to report, but to believe that she
^^ was devoted to Soeur Constance and in all
^^ things served her faithfully. ^ Tell him,'
^^ she says, ' with the wreath I have laid
^^ upon her grave I leave one-half my heart
^^ to live out the remainder with my son,
'^ whose salvation under God I owe to him
*^ (Mr. Horace Durand), to whom I can never
'^ be sufficiently grateful.'

sand now, Sir, good-bye: we say it
'^ together, me and my mother ; and we pray
^^ that you will be rewarded here and heres
after for your goodness to both of us, and,
^^ if ever you should desire to communicate
^* with us, a letter addressed to the care of

'^ the Guion Line Company, New York, will
*^ find me, as I shall arrange with that
^' Steamship Company to keep my address
*^ and forward any letter, in the hope that
'^ one day I may hear from you, my dear
^^ Sir and only friend in England.
'^ Your obedient, faithful Servant,

'^ George Harmer''

A third letter ran as follows : —

*^ My dear Horace,

^^ Striking tents and moving off — the
^^ deuce knows whither, and without noti-
'^ fiction to your principal ally, is, in the
^' language of the streets, ^ a rum go.' Is
^^ it a Sulu beauty, or ' a little French milliner'?
Or is it Je&ey Waller? A
*^ secret amour, or a mysterious commission?
*^ I hope the cabby's order was not — ' To
'' Manilla.'

*^ ^ Back in a few days, and cards or
^' letters will be forwarded,' the hotel porter
^' says, and, if I were not the mildest
mannered fellow that ever cut a throat or
'' picked a pocket, I should tell you to go to
'' the deuce as an ill-mannered son of a gun,
^' and leave you to your fate. But I conclude

you are obeying some behest of
Love or Pluto, or both, and so, for auld
lang syne, I forego the right to be angry.

^^ Wherever you are you see the papers
of course, and the question about Kututu
and the Boulonagans in the Commons last
night will not have escaped you. The
Secretary for the Colonies appears to be ina
fog as to the possible latitude of the new
countries. This is not to be wondered at
when he stumbled in his geography over
a question as to Sarah and Sulu. The
Right Hon. Jonas Welby, I am told, is
anything but pleased at the frequent
mention of your name in the public
journals, and your uncle (with whom I
have been spending two days) tells me
that the probability of your marrying
Miss Dunstan is gall and wormwood to
him. Dick Grantly is more worldly wise
than some people think, and I have this
day received a hint which leads me to
believe he is right when he thinks that
there is more in this than belongs to
dislike of his step-son.

*^ Miss Dunstan's lawyers in London are
also Mr. Welby's solicitors. During the
last two years there have been several

** suits in respect of a Joint Stock Mining
'^ Company in which Mr. Welby had induced
*^ Miss Dunstan to invest a very large sum
^' of money. The Breedon lawyers, who at
^' one time conducted all the Dunstan
^^ business, are sore at the treatment they
have received. They attribute the change
^' to Welby. I met one of the firm in
^' London to-day. He told me in confidence
^^ that Welby has contrived to unload most
^^ of his responsibility in the mining suits
'^ upon Miss Dunstan, and that a warrant of
'^ execution has gone down to Scarsdale in
'^ respect of Miss Dunstan's Derbyshire
^^ estate.

'^ This is strange news and ill news, and
^' I have determined to make a rapid march
**^ of investigation upon Derwent Hall, where
'^ I may fix my head-quarters for some days,
^' or return to town at once, according to
'^ the march of events.

^' Know therefore, my mysterious friend,
^^ that, if you do not find me at my chambers
'' in London, I am to be heard of at Der
went Hall, near Scarsdale, Derbyshire.

** Yours indignantly to command,

Tom Ernstone."

I pondered over these letters far into the
night ; and when I had, as it were, relighted
my cigar ^' with a wisp of paper," after the
manner of my literary friend of ^' The
Reveries," it seemed as if there was sweetness
instead of bitter in the possibility of
Miss Dunstan losing her property. I cannot
help thinking that her wealth was a stumbling
block to me, in those days when my
uncle Grantley expected it to act as a loadstone
to my affections. Latterly her possessions
of gold and lands had not occurred tome
in connection with the possibilities that
were growing out of the renewal of our
friendship. Now, I could not help feeling
that if she were penniless tomorrow I would
go straightway to her and offer her my
hand and heart. '' But," asks my friend
the moralist, ^' can a heart once lit be lighted
again ? " Mr. Marvel argues that it can ; but
there is something like special pleading in
his summing-up ; so much so, that, had the
question been adjudicated upon in favour of
his theory, a new trial might have been

granted on the plea of ' ^ mis direction " of
the jury in the judge's address. There is
another philosopher who does not beat about
the bush, nor give undue colour to the
evidence upon which he charges the menin
the box. Mr. Thackeray, discoursing of
^' Love and Marriage," contends that it is
desirable for a man to be in love several
times. He declares that if a man loses the
object of his first passion the loss in no
instance has been known to kill. *^ If you
win her," he says, '' it is possible that you
will be disappointed. But, hit or miss, good
luck or bad," he would be sorry that any
young fellow should not undergo the malady
which first struck me down under the blue
skies of Italy. '^ Every man ought to be in
love a few times in his life, and to have a
smart attack of the fever. You are the
better for it when it is over ; the better for
your misfortune if you endure it with a
manly heart ; how much the better for
success if you win it and a good wife into
the bargain ! " And you will remember that

the contented citizen into whose mouth
Thackeray put these words had been
married twice, and — who knows ? — may
have had almost a polygamous hope of
lighting his cigar with a new match.

My thoughts rambled on over this broad
field of sentiment and common sense. If I
had been a poet I fear I should have degraded
my muse with a prosaic record of
an earthy world. Money, common sense,
love, expediency, philosophy, — it seemed as
if I had re-lighted my cigar with a wisp of
paper that had done duty as the leaf of a
ledger in a huckster's shop. It must have
been the vulgar taint of Ernstone's reference
to a warrant of distress being issued against
Miss Dunstan's property. Fancy a dirty
^' man in possession " of the palace which I
had discovered lying at the foot of those
romantic hills that had been the wonderland
of my youthful imagination, and had cast a
glamour of poetry over the fancies of my
manhood ! Is it surprising that my thoughts
for the moment groveled in the mire of a

conventional existence with debts and duns
in it ?

The firelight that has been playing upon
the old-fashioned bed-chamber has gone out.
There is only a glow of embers in the grate.
I turn from reminiscences of Thackeray to
Ik Marvel, and remember that he of the
'^ Reveries " died a bachelor after all. He
lingered too long in the sunny glances of
Nelly's soft blue eyes. One morning she disappeared,
and years afterwards she met him
a comely matronly dame, and presented him
to her gallant husband and their two little
boys. They all dined together. "It is
very jovial at table ; for good wine, I find, is
a great strengthener of the bachelor heart.
But afterwards, when night has fairly set in,
and the blaze of the fire goes flickering over
your lonely quarters, you heave a deep
sigh ! " And Nelly was his second experience
! There was a Louise before her. I
think to myself, " Helen is, in truth, my
first and second experience, and I will make
Ernstone, my uncle, and my mother happy

by rendering such chances as those suggested
by the bachelor-moralist impossible''

I am endeavouring'to record my thoughts
faithfully, even at the risk of presenting
myself in an unfavourable light to my lady
friends, who may think that in these last
reflections my heart does not respond with a
sufficient warmth of gratitude to the love of
Helen Dunstan, and which, it may also be
said, I count upon too confidently. Nevertheless,
I feel certain as I sit pondering over
the embers of this winter fire, away among
the Derbyshire hills, that should Miss Dunstan
become Mrs. Horace Durand she will
have a faithful, true, and devoted husband.

CHAPTER V.

^'the palace that was more beautiful
than anything ulysses ever saw."

There had been a thaw during the night.
The next morning, when I started to drive
from '' The Rose and Crown " to " The Dunstan
Arms," it was spring. It is true the
snow lingered here and there in white
patches, but the sun was shining high up in
the heavens, and the birds were singing in
the hedgerows round about the roadside inn.
The air was mild, and there was a smell
of newly-turned earth in it. It was as if
the dear old world had just awakened from
a long sleep. The horse in ^' The Rose and
Crown" gig neighed triumphantly as the

landlord cracked his whip. A lark was
carolling in the clear sky above us.

As we sped along the road, the doors of
wayside cottages were open to let in the
first breezes of spring. One or two windowsills
were yellow with crocuses in pots.
Men were at work in their little gardens ;
labourers were pruning the hedges ; rooks
were busy in the tall elms ; and when we
came to the moorland it seemed to stretch
far away like a dark carpet that had been
spread for the clouds to make flitting shadows
upon it.

I left my charioteer at ^^The Dunstan
Arms," and walked down the hill towards
that palace in the valley. Do you know
Derbyshire? It is full of ^^ dales." This
was one of them into which I was penetrating.
As I went down hill, a velvety slope,
with jutting rocks and trees, gradually arose
in front of me. I don't know how many
'* dales " there are in Derbyshire, but they
are very numerous. Monsall Dale, Miller's
Dale, Harley Dale, Dove Dale, and a score

VOL. III. p

of others occur to me. I have studied the
rural mysteries of most of them; but this
was my first excursion into the valley, where
Derwent Hall nestles among the oaks and
elms, the birch and firs, of one of the most
sweet and peaceful bits of landscape it is
possible to imagine.

The road was fringed with alternating
wood and meadow, with now and then a deep
lane that finished in a nutty-looking copse
suggestive of summer rambles and autumn
harvests. A dry-stone wall marked the
boundary on either side of me, the interstices
filled with lichens and mosses, and in
the bank below I felt that there were violets
and primroses ready to shoot up through the
fallen leaves so soon as the sun should give
them sufficient encouragement. I thought
of them as typical of the bright hopes of men
which had been long buried under desolating
winters of disappointment. Presently I came
to a toll-gate, where the ruddy-faced 'pikeman
was leaning over the half door, smoking,
and unconsciously taking in the gentle influences

of the spring morning. A numerous
company of barn-yard fowls and pigeons
were briskly investigating a quantity of
wheat which the 'pikeman's wife was distributing
among them in the road. The chief
chanticleer of the party paused as I passed
by to utter a general challenge of mortal
combat to all creation ; and the sun blazed
out as if it endorsed the loud defiance. '^ A
fine morning," said the smoker, taking his
pipe out of his mouth.

^^ It is indeed," I said, and the entire
country now opening up at my feet seemed
to smile. It was as if Nature had just flung
wide open all the shutters of her house, and
said ^Hhe night is over, and the summertime
is at hand." A trout-stream came
laughing round a bend of the valley, as if it
had burst out of the rocky sides of the dale ;
and as I traced its course my eyes fell upon
the towers of Derwent Hall, reflected, with
their surrounding trees, in the river which
here spread itself almost into a lake, as if
for-the purpose of acting as a mirror to the

scene.

p2

As I walked on, I came to the lodge-gates
; and, being admitted, found myself
traversing a long level roadway with park-like
grounds on either hand, until at length
the landscape opened right and left, with
wide, sweeping lawns in front of me, and
Derwent Hall looking down upon me out
of many diamond-paned windows. The
doors of the porch-like entrance were wide
open, and, as I approached, a carriage with a
pair of ponies came out from a roadway
through a clump of trees on the right, and
pulled up, to the evident delight of a fine
Newfoundland dog that welcomed them with
joyous barks and bounds. Before I had
time to speak to the servant, who now came
to the door, I found myself in presence of
the lady of the hall. A blush, betokening
either surprise or pleasure, suffused her
lovely face. I think it was something more
than astonishment that sparkled in her eyes ;
for I saw her before she saw me, and noted
the calm that was in her face, the absence at
the moment of active thought or feeling.

The light that passed into it — the sunshine,
I am vain enough to say, went straight to
my heart, eliciting responsive emotions.

'^ My dear Mr. Durand ! " exclaimed Miss
Dunstan, ^' I cannot tell you how glad I am
to see you ! "

I pressed her gloved hand, but said
nothing for a moment.

Thank you very much," I stammered.

She looked almost oppressively handsome
— this Diana of my boyhood, a picture
of English health and beauty set in a framework
of manorial hall, and oaks, and velvet
lawns. A Newmarket coat of myrtle-green
plush, trimmed with sable ; a short skirt of
plaited satin ; a small toke or hat of the same
material as the jacket ; a pair of gauntlets
or driving-gloves ; the rich yet simple fashion
and colour of her attire set off her singularly
neat clean-cut style of beauty.

'' Surely, something wonderful is in the
wind!" she said; ^' Colonel Ernstone arrived
only half an hour ago, quite unexpectedly,
and on business he said, and I am just now

going to the Bakewell Station to meet jour
mother."

^' It never rains but it pours," I replied.

^' Will you accompany me to the station, or
go inside and find the Colonel ? " she asked.

'' I will go with you certainly, if I may."

"John," she said to the servant, who
stood by the horses' heads, "put Normandy
into the dog-cart, drive to the station, and
bring Mrs. Welby's luggage. I will drive
Mr. Durand."

Yes, Miss," said the servant, as the lady
of the manor signified that I should take
my seat; "and Nep will go along with you."

Nep was the dog. He expressed his disappointment
in various ways.

You shall come back with us, Nep; now
be a good dog and do as I wish."

Nep barked his submission and stood still
as the pair of ponies answered to their
mistress's touch of the rein and trotted
away.

"Poor Nep!'' said Miss Dunstan, "do
you see that he turns his head away ? He

could not restrain himself if he watched us
go. When discipline requires that he should
not do something he likes, he shuts his eyes
or hides himself from temptation."

'' A true philosopher," I said.

^^ Indeed he is," she answered, 'miss
Dobbs says he is far wiser than any man she
has ever met, but you know she has peculiar
views."

^' Yes, I remember, though I have often
thought she estimated me correctly when
she more than suggested that I was a fool."

*^ She was not rude enough to say anything
like that to your face; if she did it
was only bravado, she did not mean it ; and
she is very eccentric, as you know."

'^ She looked at me pointedly, and said
she hated fools."

^^ Did she really?"

'^ Yes, do you not remember ? "

No reply. Only a harmless flourish of
her long white whip, at which the ponies
scampered along at increased speed.

'rit was at the partridge-shooting, on

that second of September when they brought
us the news that Napoleon had given up his
sword at Sedan."

*^ What a memory you have !" she said.

^^It seems but yesterday," I replied,
^^ and I wish we could put the clock back and
drive straight into that green Breedon lane
and continue that old feast of St. Partridge."

Now she caressed the ponies gently
with her whip, and pulled them into a walk ;
for we were ascending a hill.

'' I think we will drive through Chatsworth
Park," she said ; '^ it is a long way
round, but we have plenty of time, and I had
intended to make a detour of a few miles to
give Nep a run. This is the first morning
in spring."

'^ And I have robbed Nep of his treat," I
said.

^' He is so noisy, and I could not take
care of both of you and the ponies as
well."

^^ Then you think I am sufficient of a
philosopher to be classed with Nep ? " and I

felt at the moment that I would not mind
being a dog for her sake.

*^ I think very highly of Nep," she said ;
^^ but he is not so great a traveller as you ;
he has not even visited his native land,
where Cabot or some other Ulysses of
several hundred years ago discovered his
ancestors."

'' He is wise enough to know when he is
well off," I said.

By this time we had entered Chatsworth
Park. The sun was flashing on the gilded
windows of that very palace which my
father had told me of when I nestled by
his knee, and devoured his stories of the
great Ulysses. The spreading oaks made
shadows on the green turf. The Derwent
meandered along its pebbly bed. A hare
went bounding along the level mead. Rooks
were calling to each other among the trees
beyond the ducal mansion. The national
flag was flying over the wooded heights by
the observatory.

Have we plenty of time ? "

eyes, the train is not due until two
o'clock."

'' Time enough for the ponies to walk all
through the park ? "

'' Yes."

*^ It is so pleasant to talk. Do you not
wonder why I came to Derwent Hall ? "

'^ I think it is part of some studied plan
to give me pleasure."

*^ No," I said, ^' I found your house quite
by accident."

'' Indeed."

'' When I was a boy at Scarsdale a great
ridge of hills shut in the little town from the
rest of the world. My father took pleasure
in telling me of a palace that lay in the
valley beyond them. It was Chatsworth. I
knew nothing of it in those days, except
that it was grander than anything Ulysses
ever saw. The other day I thought I
would like once more to see my native place.
Wordsworth's poem on his revisiting Yarrow
had always greatly impressed me. Scarsdale
ought to have been my Yarrow. I

went there to revive my childhood ; but my
thoughts would run off to ^ The Cedars,'
and the pastoral country round about Warrington
Manor. It came into my mind,
nevertheless, that I would pick up that
childish thread of romance, and follow the
clue of it over the hills, and discover the
palace in the valley, as I might have done
when a boy. It was an odd notion, frivolous
perhaps ; so I kept it to myself ; it was
like putting a boyish fancy into practice. I
climbed the white road, and halted finally at
The Dunstan Arms ' to discover ^ Derwent
Hal.' "

show very strange!" she said, checking
the ponies until they stood still, '' and did
you not know I lived there ? "

'' Not until the Hunts told me."

^^ I thought you knew I had bought
Derwent Hall; did we not speak of it at
Antwerp ? "

'' Yes, but I had no knowledge of the
precise situation of it ; and going forth infancy
to discover the palace of my youth, I

found Derwent Hall. Surely the genius of
good fortune put it into my head to explore
these hills, and guided me to the threshold
of your Derbyshire home ! ''

The ponies moved on.

*' Do you think so ? Then I am very
glad."

^^ If one read it in a book one would not
believe it."

I took good care to say nothing of my
encounter with Mr. Thomas Barnes, ^Hhe
lawyer chap."

^^ It is quite a romance in its way," she
said, '' and you did not know of Colonel
Ernstone's arrival ? "

'' No."

^' Nor of your mother coming down, when
she only left here last week with the intention
of staying in town for a month, at the
end of which time I had promised to join
her?"

^^No."

'^ It is strange," she said, ^^ but I quite
agree with you as to the interposition of
good fortune in all this."

Then I suddenly remembered that Vanstone's
visit was connected with something
unpleasant, even bearing the possible suggestion
that this house of my lady of the
manor might vanish from her possession
like the flying palace in ^^The Arabian
Nights." The thought brought me straight
down from the skies of sentiment and romance
to the level earth of reality ; but the
sun shone, the birds carolled, the river
flashed along between its green banks, the
harness-bells played a merry tune in response
to the drowsy tinkle of distant sheep-folds ;
and an emotion, too deep and fervent for any
other feeling to intervene, lifted my thoughts
and fancies once more to the height of the
joyous inspiration of the spring — the very
season which the poets associate with the
dawn of the tender passion. All of a
sudden it seemed as if the past had become
an entire blank to me. I lived only
in that present moment. I realised all the
possibilities of a flame re-lighted which had
occupied the philosopher's thoughts. Then

a chill of fear struck me, lest the tender endowment
of my soul in respect of this dear
creature, who sat by my side, had come too
late. She had never seemed so beautiful, so
desirable, as at this moment, the fresh breezes
of spring in her face, her red lips half-parted,
a lock of her rich brown hair, that had
escaped from her hat, fluttering upon her
shoulder, her eyes catching the blue-grey
hues of the sky. How sharp is the poet's
etching of the influence and effect of the
gracious state of love !

I tell thee, Love is Nature's second sun,
Causing a spring of virtues where he shines ;
And as without the sun, the world's great eye,
All colours, beauties both of Art and Nature,
Are given in vain to men ; so, without Love, ;

All beauties bred in women are in vain.
All virtues bred in men lie buried ;
For Love informs them as the sun doth colours. "

^^ Do you remember that day we spoke
of just now — that second of September six
years ago ? " I asked suddenly, my heart in
my words, and my voice trembling.

'' Yes, quite well," she said.

The gilded gates of the park now came

well in sight, and somehow they seemed to
stimulate my purpose ; for in a few minutes
we should be once more upon the highway.
The ponies were still walking, the reins
lying loosely upon their white backs, the
whip in its socket, the driver's hands reclining
upon the soft apron-rug.

'' I wonder if you remember the point at
which our conversation was invaded by that
blustering messenger ?"

^^ It is so long ago," she said; but her
voice was modulated almost into a whisper.

^^ May I say what I was going to say
then, and should have said, but for that
business of Sedan ?"

Yes, if you really think you know
what you were going to say," she answered.

^'Ic^oknow," I said, placing my hand
upon hers. '' I was going to say, ' I love you,
will you some day be my wife ? ' "

Her hand trembled beneath my own.
She did not speak. The ponies stopped.
A blackbird upon an adjacent oak burst out
into a rich loud song.

^'I have taken you by surprise," I said;
^' forgive me, I should have waited for a more
fitting opportunity. You are not angry ?"

^^No."

It was a whisper. The song of the
blackbird almost drowned it.

'* If I had made that confession in the
Breedon Valley on that September day what
would you have said?"

^' Yes," she answered.

'' And now, what would you say ? "

I could not keep the question back.

'^ Ask me when we return," she said.

I looked up into her face. It was pale
and agitated.

'i Forgive me !" I said, '' it was a selfish
thing to speak to you as I have done so
suddenly."

'' No, no," she said.

'' Let me take the reins ; may I ?"

^^ Yes," she said.

I stepped out of the carriage. She moved
into my seat. A feeling of triumph coursed
through my veins; and with it a sense of

exercising a protective influence over my
companion. There was a flattering significance
in her handing over the reins to me.
It was emblematic of submission. I could
have fallen at her feet in recognition of
this true woman's token that she too was
conquered.

You forgive me ! " I said, as the ponies
broke into a trot, '' for I love you with all
my heart and soul ! "

I took her unresisting right hand in my
left and pressed it to my lips.

*^ Say one word — sweetheart — Helen ! "
I urged in the selfish madness of my success.

^^ My dear Horace !" was her reply.

The Park-gates flew open. I gave the
ponies their heads as freely as I had given
rein to my own thoughts and desires. They
scampered along the road, pausing no more
until they halted at the little road-side
station, where Nep greeted them, and his
mistress, with noisy demonstrations.

We had not long to wait. The station
was full of excitement. Six passengers were

VOL. III. Q

^^ going on." They were all wildly busy
with their luggage. The station-master was
full of anxious importance. He had time,
however, to touch his hat to Miss Dunstan.
Nep bounded hither and thither. There
was much flashing of signals. It was a
relief, all this, to the strain upon Helen's
thoughts and my own — a useful prosaic diversion.
We had hardly paced the platform
twice before the train came steaming into
the station.

A few minutes later my mother was sitting
by the side of Miss Dunstan, and the
ponies were scampering back to Derwent
Hall. I drove in with Tom and the luggage.


^^I was to tell you, sir," said the servant,
^^from Colonel Ernstone, that he wants to
see you as soon as you can, private ; that is,
you was to go to his room the minute you
could."

Very well," I said.

sand I was to drive the shortest way
back and get ahead of the ponies''

'^ All right, Tom," I answered, ^' I am
quite at the Colonels disposal''

^^Yes, sir, then I'll just put the 'loss
along."

*^ By all means," I said.

The chestnut responded gaily to a touch
of the whip, and, taking a narrow lane outside
the Park, we headed the ponies, by
twenty minutes, at Derwent Hall.

q2

CHAPTER VI.

TREAD YOU NEVER SO LIGHTLY SOME OF THE
MUD OF THIS Work-a-day WORLD SHALL STICK."

*what is it, Ernstone?" I asked, the
moment I was shown to his room.

'^ The devil to pay," he said.

'^ Then pay him and have done with it,"
I answered.

'' You are in good spirits''

'' I am."

'^ Uncommonly good spirits ! " said Vanstone.


^^ Uncommonly," I replied ; '^ never was
happier than at this moment ! "

^^I am glad of it," he said, ^^for I was
never more perplexed."

indeed!"

'' Tell me all about it."

'' I will ; sit down."

He pointed to a sofa, a broad comfortable
seat in front of the fire. We were in his
bedroom. I sat down.

^^ Last night you thrashed a man at * The
Dunstan Arms ' ? "

'^ Yes, I had that great satisfaction."

'^ There was an old shabby fellow with
him ?"

'' Yes."

'^ They are now in this house. Do you
know what their business is ? "

*^ One of them is either a lawyer or a
lawyer's clerk, I believe."

^^Yes, Mr. Thomas Barnes," said Ernst
one, ^* and the other is his man ! "

^^ Oh," I said. swell?"

'^ They are in the next room."

Indeed ! " I said, becoming curious.

'' The next room is my dressing-room,"
he said, '' and I have induced them to stay
there until I could see you."

'^ You are very mysterious, Ernstone,"

I said, rising, ^^ it is to save me pain or
trouble, T know. Am I to be arrested for an
assault, or what? "

*^No, it is worse than that," he said;
what I am striving to do, is to save
Miss Dunstan from annoyance and humiliation."


tell me then, what is the matter ?'' I
sid, anxiously.

^' That fellow Barnes holds a writ of distraint
upon this property, and the shabby
person is a bailiff, whom he is about to leave
here in possession," Ernstone replied.

'^ A fitting conclusion to my brawling! "
I said, bitterly, ^^ and probably the result of
it."

'* No, they were in the neighbourhood
last night, but a writ cannot be executed
after sundown, and it is quite likely that
your intervention delayed the business. I
knew what was going to happen in time to
get down here and call on Barnes. The two
beasts indeed came with me from Scarsdale,
so that I could the better break the shock of

it, somehow. It was at Scarsdale this morning
that I learnt you were here, and then I
had at once a bright idea."

'' Yes ? "

^* I will tell you what it is presently. In
the meantime let me inform you that you
are at the bottom of this trouble."

I? "

^' Your step-father is more malicious than
I thought. In a joint action against him
and Miss Dunstan in connection with a colliery
investment, his solicitors, who were
supposed to be protecting Miss Dunstan's
interests, have allowed judgment to be signed
and a writ to issue on Derwent Hall. Your
mother had told Mr. Welby about our meeting
at Antwerp, and of the probability of
that match, which your uncle desired so much,
being arranged. He thinks you mercenary,
and he also now hates Miss Dunstan for your
sake. The document and its bearers in the
next room are his emissaries of revenge.
He wishes to annoy Miss Dunstan and to
disappoint you."

miserable wretch!" I exclaimed,
^^ what then is to be done ? " '

'^ The amount claimed is fifteen thousand
pounds. I have telegraphed from Scarsdale
in your name, requesting Messrs. Blandford
and Blandford to hold themselves in readiness
to remit to the bankers there, by wire,
to your order, and to be paid to you in
person that sum."

^^ Yes, well?"

'^ You have not drawn the sum Mr.
Waller placed with Blandfords to your
credit ? "

'^No, not a penny."

^* My brilliant idea is that we now drive,
as fast as horses will carry us, to Scarsdale,
and that you ask for the money. If even we
do not get there until after banking hours, I
have arranged with the manager that he will
still honour the order of Rothschild; and
the principal of the firm in which Barnes is a
junior partner will come back with us, and,
giving a proper receipt for the money, will
order a surrender and retreat."

^^ My dear Ernstone, you are a genius as
well as a friend in need. Come along, let
us go at once''

'^ First a word to the enemy ! " said Em-stone,
and he disappeared into the next
room.

If my love affair in Italy had in it strong
elements of romance, my present one threatened
to annex prosaic, if not vulgar, aspects.
This thought passed through my mind in a
vague way, but it did not disturb the settled
happiness that had taken possession of it. I
think the idea that I would not be sorry if
Helen were no longer rich, invaded my
common sense and conquered it. Such an
event would place my love beyond question
of those mercenary motives which Mr. Welby
was ready to ascribe to it.

^^ That's all right! " said Ernstone, coming
back, ^' I have tipped Barnes, and undertaken
to make it up between you. A mutual
apology is what he suggests. Until we return
they consent to be locked up with two
bottles of port wine and a tin of biscuits.

Must not starve the garrison you know.
I have a note ready written to explain to
Miss Dunstan our sudden disappearance, and
mentioning the hour of our return."

A carriage and pair of horses were awaiting
us at the south entrance of the house.
The driver had already received his instructions,
and we were quickly on the road to
Scarsdale. On the way our conversation
never flagged. So far as I can remember
it ran along as follows : —

'^ Is not this a strange business altogether?"
I asked.

'' Yes."

^' You think it is spite and not necessity?
I mean do you think Mr. Welby is a rich
man?"

*' He has the reputation of being wealthy."

You think he is merely trying to injure
Miss Dunstan on my account ?"

^' That is my impression."

^' Are not the solicitors, then, very lax in
their management of her affairs ?"

'she is not wholly in the hands of

one firm. Her Worcestershire property is
managed by the local lawyers at Breedon ;
her public works are in the hands of the
London solicitors, who had charge of much
of her father's business ; and Welby's solicitors
are jointly concerned for her in the
mining investments which she has made
under the advice of Mr. Welby."

^' Has my mother a special settlement ?"

'' I think so."

'^ Miss Dunstan's property is very large ? "

^^Yes."

^' Do you think she will be angry at this
interference of ours?"

'^ I propose to acquaint her with it when
the matter is settled, sparing her the humiliation,
at present anyhow, of the details, and to
urge upon her the concentration of all her
business matters in the hands of one firm."

^' Wise and considerate," I said, ^'but only
what might be expected from you, Ernstone.
You know I hate flattery as much as you do,
and I know that good fellows dislike being
told they are good fellows ; but I must, dear

old friend, tell you that I think you the best
fellow in the world."

'' Nonsense, nonsense !'' said Ernstone,
^^what is the good of friends unless they
make themselves useful ? "

^^^Some man is a friend for his own
occasion, and will not abide in the day of
trouble,' is, I think, a reading from Scripture,"
I replied.

'^ That sort of person should be drummed
out of the regiment of friendship," said Vanstone;
^^but you always over-estimate my
little services. I must have something todo.
There is no woman in the world for
whom I have so much respectful admiration
as for Mrs. Welby ; next to my own daughter
I love Helen; your uncle is the dearest
friend, anywhere approaching my own age,
I have on earth ; and I add to these follies
an affection for you ! It is mere selfishness
after all if I am fortunate enough to be of
service to any of these good people who trust
me and believe in me. I am not much of a
sentimentalist, Horace, but I believe the

greatest real happiness to be obtained on
earth is in the healthy and sincere intercourse
of true friends ; and, mind you, it is
not necessary that the exercise of the offices
of friendship should only exist between man
and man. I believe in the friendship of a
man and a woman, and when we deny to
two people this relationship because they are
man and woman we shut out of life one of
the greatest pleasures of friendship."

'eyes, no doubt."

I did not quite see the full drift of
Stone's unexpected dissertation upon men
and women's friendships. I understood it
at a later day, and am blessed now with a
full appreciation of it. The carriage rattled
along as we talked, past " The Dunstan
Arms," past ^' The Rose and Crown," over
moor and fell, along deep lanes, over white
roads, and pulled up in due course at the
Scarsdale telegraph office. Ernstone dispatched
to Blandfords his second telegram.
Then we hastened to the lawyers. Short and
Barnes. They handed us a message addressed

to me. I opened it. Messrs. Blandford
informed me that they awaited my
instructions. These were now on the way
to London. Short and Barnes drew up the
necessary papers for closing the transaction.
Then we went to the bankers. The manager
invited us into his private room. He was
good enough to be complimentary to me, and
entertained us both with an account of the
public banquet that was to be offered to mein
my native town.

In less than an hour we were on our way
back, with Short and Barnes's receipt for the
fifteen thousand pounds, and accompanied
by Mr. Short himself. It was quite dark
when Ernstone led the way to his dressing-room,
and unlocked the garrison. Mr. Short
thereupon informed his partner and '' the
man" that the warrant had been satisfied,
and they could quit Derwent Hall ; whereupon
the enemy of my youth, with whom
I had picked that Quixotic quarrel on the
previous day, asked me for my apology and
my hand.

^^ Certainly' I said; ^'I regret that I
beat you, Mr. Barnes, if you also regret that
you gave me cause for doing so'*

eyes, I regret and apologise, and hope
we shall be friends in the future."

'' Thank you, Mr. Barnes," I said, and I
really felt sorry for the poor creature.

We shook hands, and presently Ernstone
and I had the satisfaction of seeing the trio
driven off the Derwent domain in the dog-cart.

'' And now to reconnoitre our own
position," said the Colonel, ringing the bell.

^'What about dinner?" he inquired of
the servant.

^^ Mistress, Mrs. Welby, and Miss Dobbs
have dined ; the cook is waiting your orders,
and a table is laid for you and Mr. Durand
in the great hall; the ladies dined in the
small dining-rooms''

'* Oh, very well," said Ernstone.

^* What orders for the cook ?"

'^ To do his best, Jones, for two hungry
men, and we will be ready for dinner when
he is ready for us."

And now, by the way, you had better
show Mr. Durand to his room. It takes me
twelve minutes to dress, Horace."

^^ All right'' I said.

sand if you please," said the servant,
^^ mistress and the ladies will be glad to see
you in the gallery parlour after dinner."

^^ Our compliments, Jones, and we shall
pay our respects to them as soon as possible''

*' Yes, Colonel," said Jones, and thereupon
Ernstone commenced his toilette and I
proceeded to my own room, feeling that
many interesting, not to say startling,
events, had taken place since I had reappeared
some fifty-six hours previously on
the threshold of the house where I was
born.

It jarred slightly upon my somewhat
romantic sensibilities the taint of vulgarity
that seemed to hang about these recent events ;
and in writing this narrative I have doubted
greatly whether the principles of true art are
not outraged by this association of poetry,
romance, and love, with a public-house

brawl and '^ a man in possession." If any of
my friends should insist upon considering this
autobiography from an artistic stand-point,
let me hope that they may regard the
common-place details referred to as a recognition
of the modern mania for so-called
realism. I may thus escape from what
otherwise might be looked upon as an unpardonable
ignorance of the true canons
of art. The introduction of money affairs
into love passages may be considered to
degrade the poetry of passion. I know
a rigid esthete who cannot endure any
mention of Oliver Goldsmith because he
swam in debt'' and actually allowed himself
to be ^^ dunned for his milk-score and
arrested for rent ;'' but I am not an esthete ,
and I remember the great heart that beat
above the empty pocket and the legacy of
sweet poetry it has left to us. So above
the suggestions of the world's common place,
and the earth that is earthy, do I place high
in my thoughts the noble woman who has
given me her love.

VOL. III. K

'^ Dinner, sir ! " said a voice at the door ;
*' the Colonel said I was to show you the
way, sir."

He led me along a tapestried corridor,
and down a broad staircase, upon the walls
of which hung relics of the chase ; down into
a hall where the firelight played upon a
polished oak floor, and into the old diningroom,
which was a picture of magnificent
comfort. The north side of the great gothic
hall was lighted in the day-time with four
oriel windows. They were now draped with
marine velvet curtains; the space between
was panelled oak, with the work of a great
master let into each of the central panels,
and above and below were plaques in china
or bronze. The south side of the room was
occupied by the fire-place, set deep into an
ancient ingle-nook with carved oak seats on
either side. Outside the ingle-nook stood
several high-backed chairs, and on the walls
were hung a battle-piece by a Dutch master,
and some finely-finished figure-studies by
Velasquez and Rembrandt. The east end of

the room was filled up with a music-gallery,
underneath which was an old oak sideboard
ornamented with several pieces of antique
plate. At the west end there were a couple of
cabinets guarded by two full suits of armour.
In the centre of the room and opposite to
the fire-place a table was laid for dinner.
Chairs were placed for two guests. Ernstone
came into the room from the opposite side
as I entered it.

With the dessert we received a message
from the lady of the house. The Bakewell
Madrigal Society were in the habit of meeting
at the hall for practice once a week. Would
we like to hear them sing ? Of course we
would. The lamps in the music-gallery at
the east end of the hall were thereupon
turned up. A company of choral singers
entered and sang, ^^ Who will o'er the Downs
with Me" and ^^Sir Patrick Spent." It was
not difficult to have imagined oneself away
back in the middle ages, only that I suspect
neither the fruit, the wines, nor the singing
were equal to those of the Derwent Hall of
R 2

to-day ; and my fancy travelled through the
vocal music to the little gallery parlour
beyond, where Helen and my mother were
listening to the madrigals. I wondered if
she had already told my mother of what
had passed between us in Chatsworth
Park.

^' And to think' said Colonel Ernstone,
'^ that it should be possible for Welby's
malice to overshadow this dear old place ! "

'^ Don't let us talk of it," I said, ^Hhe
shadow has passed, though the memory of
it is to me something akin to the trail of a
slug upon a ripe peach."

And I think, if this autobiography were
an imaginary one, I should have left out, in
these latter chapters, Mr. Barnes and his man.
It seems to me that they encumber the
sweetness and light of the place with a touch
of the gutter ; yet how continually one
brushes shoulders with the leprosy of the
world every where ! In London, morally and
physically, it is continually at your side.
Poverty and wealth, crime and virtue.

misery and happiness, what a motley crowd
it is ! And how close together in the London
streets ! One soon grows accustomed to the
strange incongruities there ; too soon. But
here in the Derbyshire dales, in that valley
beyond the Scarsdale hills, I looked for all
the gentle dignity of peace, and something
of the romance of a poetic past. I found that
I was still in the great world. In the grounds
of the Ulysses palace itself I heard the
whistle of the London express and knew that
it burrowed its way right under Haddon
on its flight to and from the metropolis.
What matters that fate flings a freckled
little lawyer and a dingy bailiff into the
realistic picture? One can still follow the
amatory expedition of the gallant riding
over the downs to gain a winsome bride ;
one can still enter into the vocal spirit of
the fatal voyage of Sir Patrick Spent. The
sanguinary rites and the unholy scenes of
domestic life in the Boulonagan islands did
not destroy my memories of the pastoral
lands of Warrington Manor.

*' Coffee here or in the gallery parlour?"
asked the servant.

'^ In the gallery parlour," was my quick
response.

The man led the way up the grand staircase,
along a narrow corridor and into a
small panelled room, which gave upon the
music-gallery.

My mother. Miss Dunstan, and Miss
Dobbs were awaiting us, Helen presiding
over a dainty tea-table. Miss Dobbs rose
and bowed.

*^ Am I still so objectionable a person in
your eyes?" I said; ^' may we not shake
hands after all these years ? "

^^ Oh, yes, by all means," said Miss
Dobbs, '^ if you wish it."

My mother and Helen exchanged
glances, as if they had already discussed the
manner in which Miss Dobbs would receive
me.

We shook hands.

^' I congratulate you Mr. Durand on your
great achievements," said Miss Dobbs.

^' Thank you very much ; I hope to
surpass anything I have done yet," I said.

'* Indeed!" she replied. ^^ There is, I
suppose, no end to a man's triumphs. It
would be rude if I said you have already
accomplished a great deal more than I expected
you would."

*^ Not rude, honest, and characteristic of
Miss Dobbs," I replied.

^' Thank you," said Donna Sancho, taking
her seat in a prim stiff fashion.

My mother and Helen smiled.

'^ You need not wait," said the lady of
the house to the servants who were in attendance,
'^ draw the curtains of the gallery, and
see that the ladies and gentlemen have supper
when they have finished their programme."

A portiere had been raised over an archway
leading to the gallery. The servants
lowered it. The charm of distance was thus
given to the choral music. ^^ would that
my Love," arranged as a quartet, now fell
upon the ear as if it might have been a
serenade under my lady's window. Adjacent

to the gallery parlour there was a tropical
conservatory protected by a high bank, on
the slope of which part of the east end of
the hall was built ; so that the palm-house
could be entered through a corridor in which
there were alcoves of flowers. They were
prettily lighted with lamps. After coffee
and a general chat I found an opportunity to
talk apart with Helen. Every married
woman is a match-maker; and my mother
lent her assistance to the creation of my
opportunity.

Miss Dunstan was regarded, I believe,
by many persons as what is called a strong-minded
woman, inasmuch as she had instituted
a business-like system of charity, done
battle with a number of persons who make a
trade of so-called philanthropy, written a
pamphlet in favour of extending out-door
parochial relief, and made more than one
public speech on the education and protection
of the poor. '' Strong-minded" is used
towards woman as a term of reproach ;
but I have known more than one or two

instances in which the desire to help to drag
this poor old world out of the gutter has
been associated with the most tender and
gentle natures. Only the strongest natural
impulse to be useful to suffering humanity
could bring such women into the public eye.
Miss Dunstan was one of these '' angels upon
earth' with a brain of almost masculine
power, the motor of its action a heart full of
tender sympathies, and a nature susceptible
of the warmest affection.

I hope I shall be forgiven if, sitting by
her side, talking over our plans for the
future, I felt vain of my conquest. To hear
this beautiful woman confess that she returned
my love ; to win from her the naming
of a date for our marriage ; to feel a cold
chill at the thought that I might have lost
the happiness in store for me ; all this, you
may be sure, held me in a condition of
pleasant excitement.

When it was settled between us that, from
a day already named, we should part no
more, we talked of the dear old days in

Worcestershire. Warrington Manor, I learnt,
would come back into Helen's possession
very shortly, and whatever happened she
had already determined always to reside
there during the hunting seasons. She
had bought Derwent Hall chiefly because my
mother liked it. Mrs. Welby was a native of
the county, and had been brought up among
its hills and valleys.

^^But my own heart, as yours does, goes
out to the valley of the Avon," said Helen.
^' I do not think any country is so pastoral
and sweet as that which surrounds Warrington
Manor."

^^ And none can ever have such dear
associations for us," I said, and she returned
the pressure of my hand.

nevertheless, Colonel Ernstone declares
you will always be a traveller ; he quoted tous
at Antwerp Tennyson's lines on Ulysses,
making the great explorer, even in his later
days, resign his sceptre to Telemachus, and
sail the seas in search of new adventures."

'^My ship is sailing into a sweet and

peaceful harbour which I never looked to
reach," I said, " and, wherever it may sail
in future, you and I, Helen, will never part
company. What do you say to our visiting
together those sunny lands which yonder
palms faintly suggest ? Think of our visiting
dear old Jeffrey Waller at Manilla !
Fancy lying at anchor off Kututu, awaiting
a visit from the Irish king ! "

*' I fear my thoughts are too much occupied
with the Boulonagans when I think of
Kututu," she answered.

*^ When we visit those distant seas together,
Helen," I said, ^^ we will make
assurance doubly sure — a steam-yacht after
the pattern of Waller's, manned by picked
men, commanded by an officer of the Royal
Navy, and fitted with more luxurious comforts
than were ever dreamt of by Cleopatra,
or the furnishers of her gilded barge."

As we wandered back to the gallery
parlour, where Colonel Ernstone and Miss
Dobbs were finishing a game of chess, having
my mother as an interested looker-on.

the choristers were singing the last bars of
a dreamy madrigal, the refrain of which
was ^* Good-night ! good-night!" As if by
general consent, we accepted the suggestion
of the music, and took our leave of each other
for the night, my mother kissing me on the
forehead, and whispering, ^^ Horace, you
have won the sweetest, purest woman in the
world ! "

'^ I do believe it, indeed !" I said, '^ which
proves that good fortune is no respecter of
persons."

CHAPTER VII.

ON THE WAY TO THE CEDARS.

The next day my match-making mother
was gratified with the intelligence I gave
her; and Ernstone said, '' You are at last the
lucky dog your uncle spoke of." Miss Dobbs
was unusually civil to me ; and I was indeed
very happy.

'' I think it would be only common kindness
now," said Helen, ^^ if you were to go
and see your uncle, poor dear man ! "

"" I will go," I said, ^' you are right''

^^ Of course she is'' said Ernstone, when
I spoke of it; semen are naturally selfish;
you would have liked to go on staying here
until the wedding."

Nothing would be more delightful," I
replied.

<^ Why, certainly, as our friend in the
play says, but the truth is we both ought
to be off ; I came on business ; my business
concluded, I have no right to stay any
longer; you came by accident — Fortune is
always leading you by the hand. After
what has occurred, propriety, I believe,
demands that you should now be almost a
stranger at Derwent Hall until you are
master of it."

^^sthatso?"

'' Yes, I am sure it is."

It was hard work to part with Helen
even for a few days. Ernstone said, it
would be quite correct for my mother and
Helen to pay a visit to '' The Cedars "
during my stay there. As for himself, he
must return to London. Before he left,
with my permission, he should speak to
Miss Dunstan about business. My route to
Breedon partly covered Ernstone's road to
London. My mother and Helen drove with
us to the station. No white ponies this
time, and we made no detour through Chatsworth

Park. A handsome, roomy barouche
and pair carried us to the railway, and we
both watched it return as far as we could see
it, after we were deposited at the station.
We noticed that it took the road leading to
Chatsworth Park. Thinking over the incident
of the first time I had ever been driven
through these lovely grounds, I could not
help feeling as if there might have been some
kindly forecast of happiness, in that early
longing of my boyhood to travel over the
white road to the palace that was more
beautiful than any Ulysses ever saw.

At Derby we got the London papers,
and among them a weekly journal of gossip,
from which Ernstone read: — ^^ Strange rumours
are afloat, affecting the financial credit
of a prominent politician, not to say a statesman,
whose recent losses in certain mining
transactions have already been made public.
The gentleman in question is also the proprietor
of several factories, which, owing to
the prohibitive tariffs of France, Germany,
and America, have not been worked at a profit

for nearly ten years. Wages have been paid
out of capital to the tune of, it is said,
fully a thousand a week during the past
three years. But for this the operatives of
the district in question would have been
paupers. It is said that notice has been
given for the stoppage of the works next
week."

Ernstone had taken a seat next to me, in
order that he might read the paragraph
aloud without disturbing a gentleman who,
with his travelling-cap pulled over his eyes,
was fast asleep in a corner of the carriage.

^'Welby!" he said.

'' Do you think so ?"

'' I am sure of it," he answered.

^^ Then the Short and Barnes business
was not malice but necessity."

^^ Both," said Ernstone.

^^ What will happen?"

'^ A crash that will be a nine days'
wonder," said Ernstone, ^Hhe ending of an
ambitious life in the Bankruptcy Court."

'' And my mother ? "

*^ Alien your mother found that all sympathy
between herself and Mr. Welby had
ceased to exist, a private agreement of separation
was drawn up, and fresh settlements
were made. For the sake of appearances
they occasionally lived in the same house
and received there during the London
season," said Ernstone.

'' Ah, my poor mother ! *' I could not
help saying, ^' how could she ever have seen
the smallest prospect of happiness with such
a man ! "

^^ She was very young and inexperienced,
I have always understood," said Colonel
Ernstone.

'^ And he was rich," I found myself
saying, sand she was ambitious. Ah, well !
she has suffered. Thank heaven she lives,
and is still comparatively young and pretty.
Bless her dear heart, she will be one and
the other when her hair is white for that
matter ! "

'^ I should not wonder!" said Ernstone,
and by this it was time he changed carriages

VOL. III. s

for London, leaving me to go on to Birmingham,
Worcester, and Breedon.

The old gentleman in the corner woke
up at the call of the guard.

^'Why, how do you do? " he said, looking
at me.

'^ Mr. Blandford ! '' I exclaimed.

*eyes, the same — odd we should meet
here — have been to Scarsdale to see that all
was right in that little matter — on my way
back to town. Good day ! "

'' Stay, Mr. Blandford," I said, " would
it be possible for you to accompany me to
Breedon ? I greatly need your advice."

^^ If I could get to town tomorrow night,
yes," he said.

'' I will engage that you do so."

^^ Very well then, I go with you. Guard,
get me a ticket, can you ? for Breedon — I do
not go on to London."

'' All right, sir," said the guard.

^^But I am for St. Pancreas," said Vanstone,
handing his bag to a porter.

'' Before you go, Ernstone, let me introduce

you — Mr. Blandford, Colonel Vanstone."


'' Glad to know you, sir," said Ernstone;
'^if Durand is wise lie has much to consult
you about ; I shall see Miss Dunstan's lawyers
tomorrow. It is another piece of
Durand's good luck to meet you here so
opportunely''

The next moment Ernstone was gone,
and Blandford and I were on our way to
Breedon. We had the compartment to ourselves.
Blandford looked as trim and bright
as when I first encountered him in Essex
Street. A clean shaven face, with the exception
of short side whiskers, hair closely
cropped and grey almost to whiteness, strong
regular teeth, dark hazel eyes, broad in the
shoulder, courtly of manner, he was a perfect
type of the higher grade of family lawyers.

'' I am glad you have resolved to act upto
Mr. Waller's wishes — a great good man
Waller, and rich as Croesus," said the lawyer.


^' Have you heard from him ? "
s2

^^Yes, twice by telegraph from Singapore
— instructions in regard to the erection
of a memorial to his father and mother in
Marylebone churchyard — and information
that he sailed last week for Ceylon ; also a
special message giving his best remembrances
to you, which I sent to your hotel."

^' A kind old gentleman ! " I said, *^ I
don't know what I should have done without
him in the East."

'^ Nor he without you, so he said — loves
you as a son— nothing left to live for but to
see you happy and prosperous. So he assured
me — eccentric no doubt — he saw a
great deal of you out yonder ?"

'^ Well yes ; and he was deeply interested
in my adventures," I said.

^^Not a relation in the wide world that
he knows of," went on Mr. Blandford; ^^odd
that he should have stayed away from the
old people in Oxford Street so long; but
intended to return, so he said, every year,
and the time passed on and on. Travellers
and explorers are odd people — Livingstone

for example, neither glory, home, nor family
brought him back. Suppose you want to be
oiF again, eh?"

^^ No, not yet, Mr. Blandford; but what
do you think of a honeymoon trip round the
world, and a call on the way at Manilla, and
perhaps at Kututu?" I said.

^^ Well, if the bride is a good sailor, and
the bridegroom has a fancy for the sea and
for strange countries, I should say they know
what is likely to please them best. When
I married I took my wife straight home
into Essex Street, forty years ago, and we
have lived there ever since. You must give
us the pleasure of your company some day
and bring your good lady— before you goon
that long trip you speak of, eh ? "

^' I should like it very much," I said.

'' Since it may transpire in our business
relations, may I ask who the lady is V

^^ Miss Dunstan," I said.

*' Ah, so I thought — permit me to congratulate
you. She is involved in the financial

troubles of your step-father — but not
seriously — that is, not seriously for her."

^^ Then it is true that Mr. Welby is in
difficulties ?"

^' Oh yes — concluded you knew all about
it — that was my reading of your call for
fifteen thousand pounds."

I thought it best then to explain the
whole of the circumstances connected with
the matter.

You can trust Colonel Ernstone ? " was
his interrogative comment.

With my life," I said.

^'I would trust some men with my life
whom I would not trust with my money,"
he replied.

''He is my uncle's oldest friend, mine
too, and he was the intimate friend of Miss
Dunstan's father," I said.

'' Colonel Ernstone?" said the lawyer reflectively,
'' of Redan and Cawnpore fame ?"

'the same."

"Then I know all about him— you are

right, you may trust him with your honour,
your money, your life — quite right, I beg his
pardons

At Birmingham I sent my uncle a telegram
announcing the approach of my companion
and myself, mentioning that I had
met Mr. Blandford accidentally on the road,
and had important business with him. By
the time we arrived at our destination I had
enlightened Mr. Blandford upon many points
which I thought it well that he should know
concerning myself, my hopes, and my
ambition. At the Breedon station a simple
brougham awaited us, with Sandy on the
box by the side of the coachman. I saw him
jump down as the train ran in alongside
of the platform. The next moment he
was saying, ^^Ah, Master Horace, you've
come at last, and the Squire's mad to see

ye."

'^ Sandy, old fellow," I said, taking his
rough honest hand, ^* it is music to hear
your voice again."

Ah, God bless you. Master Horace, and

I thank the Lord I've lived to see this day!"
exclaimed Sandy.

^^ Jeffrey Waller was right' said Blandford,
as we were driven towards the Cedars,
** he is a judge of character, and there is
luck in his very touch ; you will do honour to
his name as you have done to your own ; the
expression of that old Scotchman's face is
the best testimony to character you could
ever receive."

*^ The merit is in his own good heart,
the dear old chap ! " I said, '^ and you must
not forget that his master, my uncle, turned
me out of his house as an ungrateful blackguard,
and on reflection I am not sure but
that he was right."

'' Wait until I see him," said the lawyer.

He had not long to wait. The dear old
fellow was standing in the porch. He
gripped both my hands, but was too much
overcome to speak.

Having handed over Mr. Blandford to
the care of Sandy, he insisted upon himself
showing me to my old room. When we were

inside and the door was shut, he said, taking
my hand again, '' Horace, this is the happiest
moment of my life''

^^ And mine, uncle! " I responded.

The old man turned his head aside to
hide his emotion, and I was glad he did so ;
for his touching welcome had brought the
tears into my eyes.

It moved me also very much to see the
familiar things of my boyhood, carefully
preserved, almost as I had left them ; my
fishing-rods, cricket-bats, my gun, and a
little cupboard of favourite books, occupying
one side of the spacious chamber where I
had slept happily and in peace, all those
years between the time when I left Scarsdale
and that unhappy night when I went
away, with the sighing of the wind among
the reeds in my sad yet stubborn heart.
* * «

At night, after we had dined, and just as
my uncle and Mr. Blandford had discovered
several links of association in their early
lives at college and in London, a telegram

was delivered to me from Ernstone : ^* Welby
seized with sudden illness on his way to the
House of Commons — taken home, and died
at six o'clock."

CHAPTER VIII.

IS SOMETHING LIKE A SHIP THAT PUTS INTO
MANY PORTS AND SAILS SAFELY HOME AT LAST.

If I had to write this work over again, I
should act upon what I understand to be the
general rule, that, although the Preface to a
book stands first, it should be written last.
It is quite possible that, had not Mr. Wilkie
Collins said to a friend of mine ^^ in writing
a novel, you should always begin at the
beginning," I should now have been engaged
upon the Preface instead of taking up my
pen to write this last chapter ; for I have a
high opinion of the constructive ability of
the author of " The Moonstone." I ought,
of course, to have remembered that, while

partaking of the characteristics of a novel,
'^ A Modern Ulysses " is after all an autobiography,
and therefore not altogether subject
to those rigid rules of a fixed plan and
design which were insisted upon by Lord
Lytton even more severely than by Mr.
Wilkie Collins. Sir Walter Scott, it is
true, was not guided by • the '' cut and
dried " principle. Mr. Anthony Trollope's
'^ clockwork " method would have excited
his loftiest scorn, for he had no belief in
*' literary men of method." Authors, ^^ who
can lay aside or take up the pen just at the
hours appointed," could. Sir Walter thought,
be never '' any better than poor creatures."
I do not know whether he was right or
wrong ; but I think if ever I wrote a real
novel, that is, a story of imagination, plot,
and character, I should begin by making a
complete sketch of the incidents and plan
and purpose of the story. When I commenced
this present narrative I had it in
my mind to finish it with certain events that
are foreshadowed in the previous chapter,

the most important of them being my
marriage with Miss Helen Dunstan. From
the first I determined to dedicate the volumes
to the generous King of Kututu, to whom I
owed my escape from the cannibals of the
Boulonagan islands. And so, with that workmanlike
maxim in my mind ^^ begin at the
beginning," I wrote my ^^ Dedicatory Preface"
first, and it went to press with the
early pages, the printer following me up
for ^^more manuscript" as fast as I could
write. As a consequence, some of these
chapters have been written in London, some
at Antwerp, several in Worcestershire, and
this last one upon the balcony of Jeffrey
Waller's house, shaded by tall palms,
through which I catch glimpses of the distant
sea. At my elbow sits the best and

loveliest woman in the world, and .

But that is not the point. It was the
Dedicatory Preface about which we were
speaking. I ought not to have written it
until the book was finished. My original
idea was to bring the narrative to an end in

England and to carry the completed book, in
my trunk, on a journey of search and pleasure
to the Eastern seas. ^^But," said Mr. Wilkie
Collins to the American interviewer, ^' I
doubt if Buller kept rigidly to his absolute
rule of fashioning to the minutest detail
the whole structure before beginning to work.
It may have been his theory, but I doubt if
it was his practice. It is well to have the
scenario sketched out, but it is impossible
for an author of any imagination to proceed
far in the composition of a story without
seeing various ways in which to turn the
current ; naturally he will choose the best."
So it came to pass, in my case, that having
settled to finish with the usual wedding peal,
I found there was a point further on, which
claimed to be the proper goal. This prevented
my carrying the three volumes out to
the East, which is not the only reason why
I regret that I did not write my prefatory
letter last, instead of first. Not that I have
any desire to withdraw the sentiments or
opinions therein expressed, but because circumstances

have arisen which call for a
modification of its form, and of the language
in which it is expressed. On reflection, persons
less hypocritically inclined than myself, may
think that certain unlooked-for events, which
would have induced me to write in a somewhat
different strain, are after all not unpleasantly
accentuated by the preface remaining
unaltered ; though I deem this explanation
necessary, and at the same time
trust it may prove not altogether uninteresting.


w& * « #

A feature of modern travel is its combination
of luxury and adventure. Ladies
go round the world in their husbands' yachts,
and make excursions to the scene of Captain
Cook's death. Holiday parties penetrate
the mysteries of the Eastern seas, reading
their last season's novels in the shade
of palm-decked creeks ten thousand miles
from home. They follow the tracks of
the ancient explorers in floating palaces,
and I know a noble lord who succeeded

in keeping his champagne iced right across
the equator. I wonder how often these
nineteenth-century navigators think of those
adventurers who laid down the first courses
upon the world's charts. We talked of them
on board The Pioneers as we steamed into
waters of which we might almost have
exclaimed with '' the Ancient Mariner" :

We were the first that ever burst
Into that silent sea.

We pictured Vasco Nunez climbing the
other side of one of those distant hills, which
bounded our horizon, to fall on his knees at
sight of the great ocean he had come in
search of ; we tried to realize the figure of
the Spanish hero, knee-deep in the Indian
sea, holding aloft the banner of Castillo
and taking possession in the names of Don
Ferdinand and Donna Joanna; and it set
us marvelling at the possibility of such menas
Vasco Nunez, in Spain, and Walter
Raleigh, in England, falling victims at last
to jealous intrigues and royal ingratitude.
Success in those past days was hardly less

fatal than failure. The planter of the
colony of Virginia was murdered at Westminster
by order of James the First. Vasco
Nunez was executed at Ada. They had
both conferred exceptional glories and blessings
upon the flags they served and upon
the people whom they loved.

It is not surprising that the Spaniards
of to-day continue to lay hands upon the
islands of the Sulu and Celebes Seas. Their
easy, though cruel conquests, in these waters
are the ragged fringes of a once splendid
inheritance. We steamed quite recently
between the Borne coast and Tavitavi
(or Tawe-Tawe as Jeffrey Waller called it),
and wondered why the English government
or Rajah Brooke had not taken possession of
it ; ^^ for," said Waller, ^' its occupation would
just break the chain of Spanish stations that
stretch across the channel between the
Celebes Sea and the China Sea, and which
they will one day complete"* Indeed Mr.

Spanish troops have occupied the island since these
lines were written.

VOL. III. T

Waller greatly blamed the British government
for permitting Spain and Holland to
plant their flags indiscriminately upon the
various islands of these Pacific and Indian
oceans. ^' In many cases," he said, ^Hhey
do not occupy the lands, but they add them
on their charts to their existing settlements,
and one day between Spain, Holland, France,
and Russia, England will find a new Eastern
question upon her hands quite as important
as that which includes the water-way of
the Suez Canal."

Colonel Ernstone and Mr. Waller were
never tired of discussing these things, and
Mrs. Ernstone, Mrs. Horace Durand, and
the present writer, were an excellent audience
as The Fioneer steamed on her speculative
course for Kututu. According to The
Straits Times and other journals, published
at certain stations of civilisation in what
may be generally called the Indian Ocean,
travellers studying the prospects of North
Borneo and the adjacent islands are in the
habit of consulting a book entitled ^^ The

New Ceylon." One of them considers its
forecasts overdone. A letter which we read
at Sarawak, in the journal just quoted, treated
the author as somewhat of a dreamer ; though
the critic himself finished with suggestions of
possibilities that eclipse the sanguine predictions
of the author's most problematical chapters.
Many of the details of exploration in
'' The New Ceylon '' were founded upon private
reports written by Mr. Witty, an Anglo-austrian
explorer, whose death at the hands
of a party of savages, worthy of the Bulon-
again islands, was chronicled last year. The
newness of this island of the Sun is sufficiently
demonstrated in the fact that '^ The New
Ceylon " (too fanciful a title perhaps) is
evidently the accepted authority upon the
new territory ; though the author is far from
being the first to speak of the possibilities of
tropical farming in North Borneo. Among
other books which Jeffrey Waller had collected
for our edification and instruction was
Captain Sunday's '' Narrative of Events in
Borneo and Celebes," founded upon the
t2

^^ Journals of James Brooke, Esq.,'' whose
description of the river and town of Pan-hassan,
ten miles to the north-east of Tam-passu,
is far more glowing than anything
attempted in '' The New Ceylon." Since
this last-mentioned work was compiled, other
more important explorations have been conducted
and on scientific principles, the sober
details of which will, it is to be hoped, be
given to the world undisguised by a ^ taking
title," and with evidences of " roughing it,"
which the correspondent of The Straits
Times insists upon as a leading feature of
the growth of the island, as if any new
settlement had ever been established on those
'' lines of luxury " which, as I have previously
hinted, belong to the adventures of
the wealthy, and not to the efforts of men,
be they Mongolians or Europeans, clearing
the forests to build new homes.

But in the latest treatise upon the newest
English colony in the East a question is
touched (chiefly second-hand, by the way)
concerning which Jeffrey Waller had much

to say on our excursions in The Longer.
I refer to the subject of the influence of
England and other naval powers in the
Eastern seas, and more particularly in the
Pacific. It was The Edinburgh Revision ina
critical article on Wallenstein's *' Russians
in the Moor," Bax's '' Eastern Seas,"
Colombo's ^^ Russian Development and our
Naval and Military Positions in the North
Pacific," and Paul Gaffarel's '' Les Colonies
Franchises," which captivated the author of''
The New Ceylon." When one considers
that the Pacific Ocean occupies nearly one-half
of the surface of the globe, and that its
extent is greater than that of all the dry
land, it will be conceded that here is ^^ a
world of waters" that offers space for imperial,
colonial, and individual adventures. With
Spain, Holland, and France, abnormally
active in their respective spheres of Eastern
aggrandisement, Russia yearly extending
her already powerful footing upon the coast
of the North Pacific, and the Panama Canal
becoming a possible factor in the question of

naval strategy in time of war, British interests
in the Pacific are undergoing serious
changes. ^^ Fancy," said Mr. Waller, impossibility
of Russia being now not only in an
easy position to harass Hong Kong and
the China and Japan trade, but to send
a squadron across the ocean in thirty days to
attack the western seaport of the Dominion of
Canada. General Selby Smyth commanding
the British forces of Canada, speaking of
the small force at Victoria, directs attention
to the fact that Vancouver is only four
thousand five hundred miles away from
Petrapaulovsk, and that the Moor is
barely five hundred miles further off."
*****

The Pioneer had met us at Singapore,
whither we had travelled by a P. and O.
steamer. And you have not guessed who weare?
Not after the revelations of my last
chapter? This pleasant journeying is not
my honeymoon tour. Mr. Blandford and
my uncle, strange to say, changed those first
thoughts of mine.

^^ I took my wife home to Essex," said the
old-fashioned lawyer, ^^ and if I might offer
an opinion," said my uncle, ^^I think Warrington
Manor would be a good place to
come to if you are married in London."
Talking the matter over with Helen, we both
found so many pleasant points of agreement
in this view that Warrington Manor coming
back into her possession just in time to be
prepared for us, we went home from London,
and commenced our partnership for life in
the Worcestershire valley, to the great satisfaction
of my uncle Grrantley, who, as her
father's friend, gave the bride away. It is
not necessary that I should describe the
wedding. Let it be sufficient to say that all
our friends were present, the Hallamss, the
Blandfords, in addition to several titled ladies
and gentlemen, a few literary and scientific
notabilities ; and that at the breakfast Mr.
Justice Miller proposed the health of the
bride. My uncle had advised our bringing
his lordship ^^ into the family circle, because
you know after all he was Dunstan's friend,

and is one of my oldest acquaintances, and
he is really a great person." My uncle,
indeed, had his own way generally, and it
was no small addition to my own happiness
to give him pleasure. He assumed quite a
paternal authority towards both Helen and
myself, but with such an utter absence of
anything like dictation, all his actions being
so thoroughly under the control of his affection
for both of us, that we found ourselves
unconsciously leaning upon his judgment
and advice. We drifted, as it were, upon
our course, without any other thoughts for
the time being than belonged to our new
life. We had so much to say to each other,
that for many days the time slipped by in
that pastoral valley as sweetly as if we
had revived Arcadia. It was summer. The
fields were yellow with buttercups, the air
soft with balmy winds, and the atmosphere
fragrant with the perfumes of woodland
blossoms. Apart also from our own mutual
joys, we had a pleasant consciousness that
we had both fulfilled the kindly hopes of

those two dear old men who had thought
so wisely for us ; though the reflection that
Squire Dunstan had not lived to bless his
child at the altar gave me many a secret
pang. And, while I never ceased to regret
this break in the link of our perfect happiness,
I never thought of the past without
congratulating myself on the fact that som
bold wooer had not carried off Helen Dunstan
while I was far away. Ah, my friend of
The Reveries," a heart may be re-lighted
and kept a-blaze, even when one sanctifies
a corner of it to the memory of a dead and
regretted love !

But it was, after all, more or less of a honeymoon
trip that cruise of The Fioneer which
belongs to this closing chapter of the present
narrative. En route for Singapore, we
picked up Mr. and Mrs. Colonel Ernstone at
Naples. It was in the winter of the year in
which I discovered Derwent Hall that the
widow of Mr. Welby married Colonel Vanstone,
thus giving me, in my old friend, a
father-in-law whom I both loved and respected,

and in whom my mother found, for the first
time in her life, a congenial companion. The
dear little woman, she grew to be more like
a sister than a mother to me. It seemed
almost ridiculous for a great bronzed and
bearded fellow such as I was (and am) to
call her mother, she was so petite j and looked
so many years younger than her age. Erne
stone might well have passed for my father,
not alone in respect of his grey hair, but in
the general appearance of responsibility and
dignified bearing that characterised him.
Sturdy of build, and with an elasticity of
carriage that youth might have envied, time
had left impressions of care upon his face,
though it had not dimmed his eye nor
clouded his spirits. They were a handsome
couple, our fellow voyagers, who had been
travelling in Italy (in a gentle sympathetic
talk with my mother I found that they had
visited the Villa Verona), and, from the
moment they joined us on board the P. and
0. steamer, became persons of great interest
to our fellow-passengers. Jeffrey Waller met

"US at Singapore, and took us to Ceylon, whereat
a spot near Pillory, he had two handsome
bungalows, one of them quite a recent
erection. I think the latter had been specially
built for me. The other was a house
which he had used for some years during his
trading expeditions to Colombo. It was a
lovely and exceptional site, on the Mortal
river, the situation being on the slope of a
partially-wooded hill. We rested here for
several weeks, making excursions in pleasure-boats
on the river, visiting several Dutch and
other European families in the neighbourhood,
(friends of our host) and superintending
some finishing touches for our cruise in those
mysterious waters through which we were
steaming at the beginning of this chapter,
and back to which point I beg to invite your
attention, lest I should be tempted to loiter
longer at our pleasant quarters in '^ the

island of spices."

* m *

Understand then that we are four days
out from Sulu, steaming, as our captain

believes (according to my data, and the
information obtained in the interval of my
Bulonogan experiences by Mr. Jeffrey Waller)
for the Bay of Kututu. We are feeling our
way, at four or five knots an hour, in sight of
land, moving over the clear waters as silently
as if the active age of electric accumulators
and their accompanying marine and other
motors had come. That ghost-like boat on
the Thames which is the pioneer of the new
power, did not glide along more noiselessly
than does Mr. Waller's superb vessel on this
equatorial sea. We are all sitting together,
in varying attitudes of ease, in that saloon of
The FioneeTj where the owner first entertained
me, near the quay at Meimbong. A
picture of luxury then, the saloon is now a
heaven of delight. Added to the familiar
decorations of former days are ornamental
trifles indicating the presence of ladies ; and,
above all, here are the ladies themselves.
Mrs. Ernstone, with a half-open book upon
her lap, is looking out to sea. Helen
is reclining on that broad couch I told

you of. Jeffrey Waller, his white hair
pushed away from his massive forehead,
is sitting by the table, studying a chart ;
and Ernstone is reading aloud an editorial
article from an American newspaper, apropos
of Kututu, on the burlesque of royalty which
is going on in the Hawaiian kingdom. You
must know that I had narrated, in a famous
Transatlantic journal, some of my Bulonagan
adventures, and that the question of continuing
the King of Kututu in the sovereignty
of that island and his suzerainship
of the Bulonagans had been a matter of
comment in New York. ^' But'' said the
humorous Republican writer of The Times
in that city, 'for Heaven's sake, if Mr.
Durand should succeed in his endeavour to
confirm the kingship of the Irish adventurer
under the protection of Queen Victoria's
Government, let us have no repetition of the
fantastic parade of Royalty which is made
by the present monarch of the insignificant
Hawaiian kingdom. It is very remarkable
that at a time when the mummers and formalities

of Imperialism are being laid aside
in countries in which ancient custom and
centuries of usage have sanctioned them,
there should be a revival of these obsolete
frivolities in the little seven-by-nine kingdom
lost in the wide wastes of the Pacific Ocean.
During his late tour around the globe the
King saw much that his predecessors could
^ not have dreamed of. They were semi-barbaric,
and he is an educated and well-read
monarch. In foreign countries he saw
what may be considered the true strength of
nations, and he must have seen how small
and mean are the shows by which royalty
in ancient times maintained its hold upon
the common people of monarchies. If travel
enlightens a man, a travelled king surely
ought to be as susceptible to illuminating
influences as the humbler citizens of his
domain. But the King of the Sandwich
Islands comes home determined to outdo
all of his predecessors, if not all of his royal
brethren, in the pomp and circumstance of
Imperialism. He will be crowned, forsooth.

as if he were not already a good enough
king for his poor and over-taxed people.
He will have thrones in plenty, two of these
antiquated pieces of furniture having been
ordered from the friendly and ultra-republican
city of Boston. He will have a crown,
too, and his Royal Majesty is reported to
have selected an assortment of these gewgaws
from the vast and varied assortment kept on
view in the museums of Europe. There is
to be a sceptre, a cap of maintenance, an
orb, such as Charlemagne and Pepin were
wont to hold, and other glittering and musty
historical rubbish. For want of a royal hall,
rich in the associations of a nation's history,
and in order that the show shall be free for
all, it has been determined to have the performances
in the open air in front of what
is called the Royal Palace. To accommodate
the sight-seers, platforms have been erected,
as at a circus, and from these will be viewed
the pomp and pageantry of the first real
coronation that the Sandwich Islanders have
ever beheld. The mere description of this

bit of royal theatricals is enough to provoke
a smile on the face of any sensible person.
To a sober Republican these ceremonies seem
like an elaborate travesty of Royalty." And
so they are ; and we all agree that, should
we eventually cast anchor in the bay of
Kututu, we will use our influence, with a
view to win, from the Republican critic of
kings, a favourable notice of our newly-discovered
monarch. Mr. Jeffrey Waller, asa
practical commentary upon our remarks,
produces from his mysterious cabinet a crown
and sceptre; ^4or," said he, ^^ it seems to me
that these things are the proper symbols
of kingly Majesty ; but, if you think they
are likely to offend the gentleman in New
York, we will not produce them at the
Kututuan court." We all agree, however,
that they are so simple, and in such good
taste, that they should not be excluded from
the gifts the merchant had provided for my
Irish king, and which included a handsome
Winchester rifle and other valuable examples
of modern invention.

As we chat over the future, we are under
the dreamy influences of the present, the
calm, blue sea and sky, and the soft breeze
that seems to come in at the open ports,
though it is chiefly the result of the punkah,
with its origin of motion at the engine
that propels the vessel. And now the land
which looked at first like clouds, and then
like undulating hills with palm-leaves marked
out against the sky, appears to approach us.
We are at the entrance of a lovely harbour, and
it seems as if the vast palm-clad mountains
are coming out to meet us — so quietly is The
Fioneer approaching them. All at once weare
motionless. Then we are at anchor. We
all go on deck. The number of our crew is
a surprise to us as they muster ; and to see
our two raking guns in position, fore and aft,
we might be a gunboat of Her Majesty's
Fleet, or a pirate in disguise.

^' Captain thinks there is a pirate village
up the creek yonder'' says Waller in an
aside tome. ^^ But I have seen more of the
corsairs of these seas than he has ; and I
believe we are off Kututu."
VOL. ui. u

'^Do you, indeed'' I exclaim, my
heart beating wildly at the possible realisation
of the success of our holiday expedition.


I sweep the coast with my glass. Nota
soul is in sight. All is still as it is
beautiful. The blue sea seems to whisper
to the shore. Along the rising ground,
and up among the hills, tower the silent
palms, terrace upon terrace. Not a leaf
moves.

^' It is like the Boulonagan coast," I say,
sand there are no breakers."

My wife glances at me a little anxiously
from beneath her broad white hat. Mrs.
Ernstone is leaning upon her husband's arm,
looking towards the point where a rivulet
comes streaming out of the hills and down
to the shore, a thread of silver upon the
golden beach. A little further away in that
direction we can see a break in the vast
amphitheatre of hills.

sand there lies the village, no doubt,"
says the Captain to Mr. Waller, directing his
glass upon the point, '^ they must have seen

US long ago, and that is why I think they
are what I told you."

^^ What do you say to giving them a
salute ? " says Waller.

''By all means," answers the captain,
and almost the next moment The Pioneers
thunder awakens the echoes of the unknown
land.

It is an impressive moment, and there is
not wanting a touch of peril in it ; for the
pirates of all these seas have made gallant
fights even with English gunboats. Helen
lays her hand in mine, and I note that it
trembles.

'' You are not alarmed ? " I ask.

^^No, but awed; there is something so
marvellous to me in that iron voice of conscious
power summoning the Unknown as it
were'' she says.

As she speaks, the deck vibrates under
the shock of a second salute. The sound
travels far away ; but not a leaf nor tree
stirs along the shore. A white cloud sails up
above the rigging, and hangs there like a
u2

flag. There is no response, except the repetition
of the boom from hill to hill.

'' Launch the pinnace ! " says the captain,
with an expression of impatience in his
voice, and at that moment there shoots out
from the creek a solitary canoe. The pinnace
is launched and manned, all the same,
with a well-armed crew. Por a moment the
canoe pauses as The Pioneers boat pushes
off ; but it comes on again fearlessly. Covering
it with our glasses, we see that it is
a single canoe. The rower comes pounding
along, digging his paddle into the water at
a tremendous rate, and shooting through the
sea at remarkable speed. Presently it and
the pinnace both cease rowing, as if by
mutual consent. A palaver ensues. The
pinnace is signalled to return with the canoe.
The long-boat swings round and heads for the
ship. The canoe follows humbly in its wake.
As the native grows under my glass, I think
I recognise him. When last I saw him, I
believe he wore a turban decorated with a
pearl set in dull silver. A sash was wound

round his loins, and he beat a drum in the
King's procession. Now he only wears a
strong; but I notice his armlet of stones
and shells, and the grotesque bird tattooed
upon his chest.

'^ Yes ! " I exclaim, turning round triumphantly
to my friends ; ^^ I recognise the
native — this indeed is Kututu ! "

The native leaps from his frail boat,
catches hold of the rope we fling to him, and
swings himself on deck. He has recognised
me on the instant. Posing himself in a
picturesque attitude of submission one
moment, he stands before me erect the
next.

'^ Welkumo, say Make belinda white
Durance come, come ! " it seemed to me
were the words he uttered.

I gather that he means the King welcomes
me, and bids me come to him. The
language was neither Malay nor any patois
akin to Malay that I had ever heard, though
I detect the Mayalese now and then in a
curious jumble with a few English words,

such as ^^ welcome," '^ good," ^^mucli,"
^^ peace," and a general invitation to partake
of betel. With all this there is a feverish
anxiety to induce me to leave the ship at
once.

A council of war is held, and it is decided
that I shall go on board the pinnace,
reconnoitre the situation, and report
thereon. Helen is loath to let me go, and
my mother is greatly concerned, but I am
so well assured of my safety, have so formidable
an escort, and so excellent an example
of confidence in the King's messenger,
that presently I am sitting in the stern of
the pinnace, making for the shore.

We have hardly landed when I can see
that something serious has happened. A
party of. the King's chiefs meet us. First
laying down their arms, in token of submission,
they take them up, carrying them
reversed, and, chanting a dirge-like song,
they fall into procession, leaving us to follow
them. They lead us to a lonely grove, and
halt at a barbaric kind of temple, partly built

of bamboo and palm-leaves open on all sides
and unroofed. In the centre, resting upon
a rough bench, is a coffin formed out of the
trunk of a tree. Moving slowly round and
round the catafalque were a troop of men and
women who utter plaintive sounds; while
at its head sat motionless a native of much
dignity of pose and figure.

'^ Make belinda, the King is dead," said
a comely-looking youth of eighteen summers,
stepping from out the shadow of the adjacent
jungle, '' he say you come, make us
know his will."

The speaker was a lithe, supple-limbed
youth, far lighter in colour than any of
the other natives. He wore a chain of
gold and unpolished stones, and a loose
robe fell gracefully from his shoulders, over
an embroidered strong. In a light sash
round his waist he carried a revolver and a
knife, and his black hair was held from his
forehead by a fillet or band of a curious
yarn.

I bowed to the young native, and stepped

reverently towards the coffin. Surely there
lay my friend, dressed as last I saw him,
with his whistle, his pipes, and his rifle lying
by his side, and upon his breast a cumbersome-looking
packet, addressed in Roman letters,
that had been formed with difficulty, to M5r

GOOD FRIEND H. Durant.

The chiefs and people gathered around
me as I opened it, and read the King's
message.

** The white god good, true ; the King
say you come over the great seas ; you are
here," said the young chief, slowly, as a man
speaking in a foreign tongue, who chooses his
words.

I read as follows, every word written in
Roman capitals: —

'' The wound they gave me never healed.
^' I did not tell you of this my son, for he
'^ was one of the surprises I had for you.
*' But never intended him for my place.
^^ Meant send him to England. But now it
'' is best he shall be King. His wish is so,
'' He is brave, has man's heart. I believe
'' you will come. You know what I wish.

** Farewell. Pray for the poor misguided
^' soul of Famous O'Brien.

'^ KuTUTU Rex."

When I had mastered the contents of
this last will and testament of the first King
of Kututu, I conversed, in Malay, with an
elderly chief, and found that the people were
willing, and indeed anxious, that the youth
who had addressed me in English should
reign over them, ^^ for," said the chief , ^^it
was his father's wish, and also that he can
speak to the white god in His own tongue,
and can address the gods of Kututu and
Bulonagan likewise in theirs ; beyond which,
he possesses the secret of the fiery thunder."

Thereupon I read to him the will of my
poor dead friend, and begged him to proclaim
in Kututuan, that I would attend, with
a company of the great white queen's people,
to do honour to their new monarch, at such
times as they should appoint. At this the
natives gave a loud shout of joy, and the
young chief bowed his head before me ; but
no sooner had they done so than they returned

to their offices of mourning. I learnt
that at sundown the body of the king would
be conveyed to a mausoleum, which he
himself had had constructed in a rocky
cavern near the coast ; and that on the
morrow they would formally seat the new
King upon the throne where his father had
sat, and pledge him their allegiance.

And so, signalling my attendants, who
had halted at a short distance, I retraced my
steps to the coast, and the pinnace pushed
off for The Fioneer, I felt much saddened
at my friend's death, all the more so that his
fatal wound had been received during that
Bulonagan revolt of which I had been the
innocent cause. The old chief told me that
the Bulonagans had, ever since, paid an increased
tribute, and that the instigators of
the rebellion had been executed. I confess
that, with the memory of the dead Irishman's
calm genial face in my thoughts, I felt
blood-thirsty enough, at the moment, to be
glad that the ungrateful rebels had been
severely punished.

When in our illuminated saloon at
night I had related what had transpired,
Mr. Waller seemed to think the King had
really had some spiritual forecast of my
coming. He argued that without such encouragement
he could never have so prepared
himself for my visit.

^^ And this, you see," he remarked, ^^was
the opinion of the natives themselves, and
depend upon it there is truth in the very
simplicity of the savages' untaught faith in
spiritual manifestations."

It appeared to comfort the good old man
to think that he had come upon, what he
conceived to be, another natural proof of the
active influence of unseen agents upon the
general affairs of men.

My wife and mother could not sufficiently
wonder, not only at the confirmation of my
discovery of a new world in the tropical sea,
but at my timely arrival in the interest of
the Irish succession.

Early the next morning quite a fleet of
canoes surrounded The Fioneer, several of

them loaded with fruits, flowers, fish, and
birds. Durian, oranges, mangosteen, figs,
fowls, and the strangest looking fish, were
heaped upon the deck, as the contents of
boat after boat were hauled up. Some of
the fish were perfectly blue, others a brilliant
red, as if they had caught the glow of a
cluster of orchids which were lying among
the fruits. It was a gorgeous picture of
colour. A few of the chiefs came on board.
We gave them knives, necklaces, pipes,
and tobacco. Beckoning several of the
women who hung back, Mr. Waller brought
out some of those imitation gems which he
had shown me years before at Sulu.

'' There," he said to me with a quiet
smile, ^' now you know what they are for."

He gave the women handful of reckless,
armlets, and rings, that set their black eyes
dancing with delight and reflecting the
flashes of the dazzling gewgaws themselves.

Then, at a signal from the shore, the old
chief who spoke Malay informed us that the
Kututuan people were now awaiting our presence,

since he understood it was our desire
to do honour to their king. He explained
to me that the ceremony of installation had
commenced with the rising of the sun, and
that the young monarch awaited our visit,
after which he desired to visit his father's
friends on board the great fire-canoe.

Two boats carried us to the shore. The
same clear blue sky as that of yesterday
canopied the entire vault of heaven. Just
as motionless stood the giant palms. The
late king had made a roadway through the
half-cleared jungle to the principal village.
We found awaiting us a couple of roughly -
built carriages drawn by buffaloes. Attended
on foot by our armed guard, we
stepped into these primitive conveyances,
the first that had ever been seen in the
island, and were escorted to a wide space in
front of the royal palace. Here the young
king himself came forth to meet us. Then,
pointing to seats by his side, which we at once
occupied, he sat upon his father's chair. Betel
nut fruits, and a native liquor were handed

round. After we had all partaken of the
refreshment the King spoke to us in English,
expressing his deep gratitude at the honour
we had done him, and hoping, when the time
should be considered ripe, that there would
be trade and alliance between the great
white queen and Kututu. Thereupon Mr.
Jeffrey Waller handing the plain gold crown
and sceptre to my wife, Helen, with the
grace and majesty of a queen, herself stepped
forward, and, placing the tiara upon the
young monarch's head, handed to him
the sceptre, which she told him was nota
weapon, but only the symbol of power
and authority, such as the great white
queen carried on State occasions. A vast
crowd stood round about, calm spectators of
the scene, and when the young king stood
up in his crown, and with the glittering
sceptre in his hand, they gave three wild
shouts, flinging their arms aloft and brandishing
their spears to such an extent, as to
greatly alarm Mrs. Ernstone, She clung to
her husband in a manner that did not escape

His Majesty, who smiled at me and said,
^' This great chief's wife braver, more beautiful,
but not more good than that," indicating
a comparison between Helen and my mother,
as well he might ; for my wife was standing
erect yet pliant, graceful as a willow wand,
her dress a white clinging robe, a huge fan
in her hand, her head protected from the
sun by a white straw hat, shaped something
like what I believe ladies call '' the granny
bonnet." She was a picture of feminine
strength and beauty. ^^ And I only wonder,"
said Mr. Jeffrey Waller when we were once
more fairly on board The Fioneer, '^ that
the young king did not ask you to give her
to him for his queen."

'' Which of course Horace would have
done at once," said Ernstone.

'' And one day, when you did not mix
his liquor properly, he would have beaten
you with his new sceptre," said my mother,
at which comical view of the situation everybody
laughed heartily.

The king invited us to a feast and

games for the next day; but the captain,
whom we took into our confidence, said,
All's well that ends well ! There were
two thousand savages around that wooden
palace to day, and we shall have the northern
monsoon against us if we are not lucky
enough to steer successfully into our course
for Manilla within forty-eight hours."

Therefore, when the night had come, we
gazed our last upon the watch-fires of Kututu.
The boatswain's whistle gave the cheerful cue
for weighing anchor. The stars came out
like great diamonds, which looked still
brighter mirrored in the quiet sea. Presently
the radiant world above us began, as
it were, to move. The ^^ milder suns " that
'' love a shade to cast, and in the bright
wave fling the trembling mast," marched
along in a gorgeous procession. The poor
little lights on the coast gradually faded out,
and we were once more at sea. Long into
the night we sat upon the white deck, Helen
and I, too much impressed, with the wondrous
calm, to speak. I think we offered up silent

prayers of humble submission to the Divine
ruler of the great world and its multitudinous
seas. Steaming between the star-lit heaven
above us and the star-lit sea below, it seemed
as if we were floating in space, so calm, so
gentle was the night. Then the knowledge
that we were far away from familiar waters
stimulated the imagination, and sent it on
strange mysterious journeys. Presently my
wife, in a whisper, as if fearing to disturb
the universal stillness, said, ^' Do you believe
those stars are peopled with beings having
holier aims and sublimer missions than are
allotted to the inhabitants of this lower world
of ours ? "

"' I only know," I said, taking her gently
into my arms, ^Hhat this present world,
with you, is enough for my dearest hopes,
let yonder radiant spheres be what they
may."

And so the ship sailed on, freighted with
loving hearts.

THE END.
VOL. III. X
