if

^^^ti^ is i^i^^^^iji^.'

^G "m

TT^A

^^^
'^A'^

-^L'l B RAR.Y

OF Thou
N Diversity
or Ill Noise

82^2)
V. \

)«r

The person charging this material is responsible for
its return to the library from which it was withdrawn
on or before the Latest Date stamped below.

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books are reasons for disciplinary
action and may result in dismissal from the University.
To renew call Telephone Center, 333-8400

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

"V^M

OLD HOUSE AT SANDWICH

VOL. r.

Printed BY GILBERT And Livingston, LIMITED,

ST. John's square

OLD HOUSE AT SANDWICH

THE Story OF A Ruined HOME

AS DEVELOPED IN THE STRANGE REVELATIONS OF
HICKORY MAYNARD

BY

JOSEPH HATTON

IN TWO VOLS.
VOL. I.

SAMPSON LOW, MARSTON, Searle, & Livingston

CROWN BUILDINGS, 188, FLEET STREET



l^All rights reserved

1 vol., demy Sco, cloth extra, with numerous Illuttra-
iioiig and Coloured Map. Price 188.

NORTH BORNEO. By the late FrAxNK
Hattox, F.C.S., &c., Scientific Explorer in the
Service of the British North Borneo Company
and Government of Sarah. With Preface by
the late Sir Walter Medhuest, and Biographic
Sketch by Josiah Hattox.

JOURNALISTIC LONDON. With Portraits
and Engravings, sm. 4to, cloth extra,
Izg. 6d.

THREE RECRUITS AND THE GIRLS

THEY LEFT BEHIND THEM. Small post
8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

London ;

SAMPSON LOW, MARSTON, SEARLE, & RIVIXGTOX,
188, Fr.EET Street, Eg.

^ CONTENTS

'rfi

CHAPTER I.

PAGE

'* This House to Let " 1

CHAPTER II.
Tie Ruined Home 12

CHAPTER III.
"^A Mission of Vengeance 22

^ :,

N CHAPTER I.

:softer Thee Years-15

.f CHAPTER II.

j^ I sake THE ACQUAINTANCE OF THE BoSS OF DuUMMOND's

\r. Gulch oo

CHAPTER III.

PAGE

From "the Castle" to "the Hut" . . . .67
CHAPTER IV.

I WISH MYSELF BACK AT CHICAGO . . . . 82

CHAPTER Y,
But a great Change comes over " the Hut," and I

AM GLAD I left ChICAGO 96

CHAPTER VI.
A Strange Discovery 114

part IrM.

CHAPTER T.
In the Shadow of a Crime 120

CHAPTER 11.
On a Sea of Doubt and Wonder 130

CHAPTER III.

"Which proves the Truth of the Adage that you

GO from Home to hear News . . . .140

CHAPTER IV.
"Thus Bad begins, and Worse remains behind" . Vu

CHAPTER V.

PAGE

A Sad Home-coming Pigg

CHAPTER VT.
Found Drowned," and a Yow of Vengeance . . 176

CHAPTER It.
"The Day will Come" 188

CHAPTER Viii.
The Morrow and the Parting 209

CHAPTER IX.

Sir Thomas goes out to fight the Indians . . 226

CHAPTER X.

Grow-BYE To DrUMMOND's GuLCH AND TO LaDY AnN . 243

fart t

CHAPTER I.

THIS HOUSE TO LET."

I AM making a summer holiday excursion about a
corner of the pastoral county of Kent and come upon
the quaint, old-fashioned port of Sandwich. I am
impressed with the remarkable way in which it has
retired from the sea, gone inland, as it were, like a
migrated city ; gone inland, nursing its strange
history and traditions, its memories of Elizabeth and
the Armada, its memories of battle, murder, and
sudden death ; nursing, as it were, its commercial
and social disappointments, and retiring altogether
from a seafaring life. I wander about the old place
and note its curious waterways, that wind about the
town, forming natural moats to streets and houses ;
and in one instance excavating for itself a passage
beneath the dining-room of an ingenious resident

VOL. I. B

who, by the contrivance of a trap door, converts
it into a convenient wine-cooler for summer dinner-parties.


It is an autumn day. I have noticed the extraordinary
luxuriance of the wheat that grows upon
the adjacent battle-field, nurtured, it is said, by the
bones of the ancient combatants. I have explored
the local cavern close by, and seen the autumn leaves
drifting hither and thither on the wind; and at last,
coming back to the old town, have found myself
contemplating a somewhat dilapidated but rather
imposing old house, I might almost call it a mansion.
The painted sign upon the exterior, ^^ This House to
Let,^^ is almost as yellow and faded as the ancient
blinds that partially cover the windows as they blink
ill the setting sun. I am tempted to look over the
railings into the old-fashioned garden, rank with
weeds and flowers, but still suggestive of cultivated
flower-beds and trailing roses.

I observe in a shaded corner of the garden a
middle-aged man trimming a small grass-plot,
the only cultivated spot in the grounds, a little
oasis in the general desert. He looks up at me with
a pleasant rubicund face, laj^s down his garden tools,
and nods. I bid him •' Good day'' and say I hope
I am not intruding.

"Not at all," he says.

I tell him that the notice, " This House to Lets
and the dilapidated look of the place, have attracted
my attention. I am idling away the day in Sandwich,
and it has occurred to me to wonder why " this
very desirable mansion ^^ should remain unoccupied.

He does not reply, but, crossing the garden, comes
towards me, opens a wicket, and, with no more invitation
than a smile and a bow, I enter. He tells me
that he is not a gardener, except in an amateurish
sort of way ; that he is not the owner of the house,
nor is he the agent in whose hands it has been left
to let ; but that, in spite of his old jacket and the
occupation at which I have surprised him, he is the
vicar of the adjacent parish, and at my service. It
is not necessary that he should give me this evidence
that he is a man of education and a gentleman, for
neither his occupation, nor his old grey coat, can
disguise his quality and position.

The very house, I should say, for Queen Elizabeth
to have lodged in when she visited Sandwich, '' I
said, looking around me.

'' And 3'ou would say rightly," replied the vicar,
in a pleasant, mellow voice. *' Would you like to
see the place ? "

Receiving a reply in the affirmative, the clergy

2

man laid down his hoe, put on his coat, and produced
a bundle of keys.

He was the very picture of an old-fashioned rural
dean. Squarely built, of medium height, he had a
large head, from which fell a thick crop of silky
white hair. A rubicund face, short white beard, and
genial brown eyes, he had a sensitive mouth ; and he
stood firmly in his square-toed shoes. He wore a
white neckcloth, and his coat was of a clerical cut,
though a trifle threadbare, and there were traces of
snuff on the collar of his waistcoat. A couple of old
seals on a black ribbon hung from his watch fob, and
his rusty black trowsers were a trifle buggy at the
knees.

A queer old house, with dustj^ windows that
blinked at you through half-opened shutters, and
with creepers that tapped mysteriously and ghostlike
at both.

"It was almost ancient three hundred years ago,"
said the vicar, '' when good Queen Bess came here ;
but ray memories of it are of recent date."

I climbed up into the glories of the timbered roof,
the original woodwork of which had stood the
honours of a siege in the olden days. A bat dashed
by me, raising a cloud of dust, through which the
sun worked a luminous beam that fell upon some

fresh sprigs of ivy. These pioneer shoots of a hardy
plant had consumed hundreds of years in forcing their
way among the oil timbers. It was a unique picture,
this dusty corner of the old roof, with its long
column of light playing fantastically upon the
obtruding ivy.

*' And thisbe I exclaimed, as we stood once more
in the old-fashioned garden that had an outlook upon
the sluggish river, — " this is the house in which
Queen Elizabeth was entertained ! "

'' Yes' said the parson, *' she became the patroness
of this town some three hundred years ago. The port
had already decayed even at that early period in consequence
of the gradual silting up of the harbour.
Under her letters patent in 1561 (you will find in
the local and other histories), Flemish settlers,
workers in serge, baize, flannel, and other materials,
settled here. They were privileged to hold markets ;
and to encourage and give countenance to the town,
Elizabeth came here in 1573. The Corporation
turned out and gave her a fine reception. The town
records are worth looking up. They contain some
curious information upon the subject. Among other
tidings, the Corporation gave orders that the brewers
should brew good beer against her Majesty's coming.
She came, it seems, one Monday evening in August,

and lodged in this house until the Thursday following.
The town was strewn with fresh gravel, rushes, and
herbs, and decorated with flags and green boughs.
The Queen, almost as soon as she rode into the town
(she was on horseback), was presented with a Greek
Testament and a gold cup worth £ 100. Henry VIII.
had previously visited Sandwich, and he stayed in
tji^s house; so, naturally, Queen Elizabeth came
here. On the Tuesday she was entertained with a
combat on the water between two men on stages in
boats, each protected against the others spear or
staff by a wooden shield. The Queen professed
herself greatly pleased at the sport. Wednesday
brought a more important exhibition — an attack
upon a fort which was erected for the occasion.
After a furious sham combat the fort gave in, and
the assailants planted the Queen's flag upon the
citadel, amid loud cheers from combatants and spectators.
The next day it is recorded that the mayoress
and the Jurats* wives gave the Queen a banquet of
109 dishes, on a table twenty-eight feet in length,
in the local school-house. The dinner was cooked
by the ladies of Sandwich, and her Majesty was so
delighted with their culinary skill that, in addition
to partaking of several of the dishes, she directed
that others should be carried to her lodorino^s, and

she tasted these possibly at supper-tlrae in the diningroom
you have just inspected. There was something
very practical in the educational display made for the
Queen's edification on the fourth day. Upon a platform
in front of the old school-house 120 English
and Dutch children were paraded with their spinning-wheels
at work, an exhibition of industry that was
highly commended by the Queen."

'' And I don't knows I said " that under the
reign of Victoria, who in some respects is not unlike
her illustrious predecessor, Elizabeth, that our new
school authorities can show a more useful example of
practical education than the historical one you have
so well described'

'^ You touch a broad question, and a deep," said
the vicar, as he plucked some sprigs of sweetbread,
and sticking one piece in his coat, handed me
another for mine, " and a question which has many
sides. In these days we are apt to look back and
plume ourselves on our wisdom ; but the fine lady of
to-day who can neither brew nor bake is to my mind
a poor creature. If Mrs. Newbolde had thought as
much of her pies as of her earrings, as much of the
brightness of her kitchen pans as of the cost of her
gown, as much of what her husband thought of his
dinner as what the gossips of Sandwich thought of

her beauty and lier bonnets, my dear dead neighbour
would probably never have got drunk, but would
have lived to die in his bed, famous and respected,
with his children around him, and with the consciousness
that his son, George, would have succeeded to his
good name, and his daughter have been a comfort to
her mother, and the sunshine of the dear old home
he would have bequeathed them."

^'Ah!" I said, "you that are old in years and
experience, can look back and count the stumbling-places
; but we that are young have to go blindly on,
ignorant of the pitfalls in our path, not even dreaming
that what seems to us a copse of flowers at the
end of it is a yawning gulf, a poisonous morass, or
the lurking-place of an assassin'

It is pleasant to talk to a stranger," said the
vicar, taking my arm and leading me to a break in
the garden wall, over which we could see the river
and the low-lying meadows beyond ; '' but I hope
you and I may become friends ; I have taken a fancy
to you."

Thank you very much," I replied.

'^ "When I say it is pleasant to talk to a stranger,"

the vicar continued, '^ I mean that my neighbours

are only with me and generally stick to old topics,

and one understands their views and ideas as a rule

so well that it is easy to know what they will think
about even a new subject ; while you have not only
ideas, but they belong to youthful experience, and
3^oung people interest me. They are like that boat
you see going out with the tide ; it was only built
the other day ; it is small — a little coaster — but it
is going to sea ; it will put in at strange ports, and
will encounter storm and tempest ; it may return
with torn sails and battered bows, and one day will
be laid up hereabouts a shattered hulk, or it may go
down in the deep waters and be heard of no more —
who knows ? It should be well built and well found,
its timbers tried, its compass sure, its captain wise,
its watchman wakeful, its crew sober, the barque
that lives on the sea and trades to and fro to foreign
climes. And youth — how much more should
youth be wary of itself ? But there, I must
not preach ; that were too great a liberty to
take with j^ou ; though ^ a word spoken in due
season how good is it saith a great preacher ;
and somehow the calm night, the solemn river,
the evening song of the thrush, seem to invite
solemn thoughts."

The force of his words is impressed upon me as I
watch the flowing river, slipping away to that sea
which once covered the entire country, but has now

only left an inland reminiscence of itself among
meadows and homesteads.

This old house of Elizabeth and the Nevvboldes
is situated upon a narrow arm of the sea which has
been left, as it were, upon the shore by Neptune asa
token or relic of the days when great fleets anchored
there, and warlike vessels assembled to go forth to
meet the enemies of England at sea, or to conquer
new possessions for the queen in previously unknown
regions.

When I am about to leave, thanking the vicar for
his courtesy, he makes some interesting and philosophical
remarks touching the different influences
upon the mind of a story that is past and a story
that is current; a story that is full of tradition and
the colour of a previous age ; a story'' that we look
back to, and one that is mounted with the familiar
accessories of the period in which we live.

He tells me that, to his thinking, there is a greater
human interest in the modern than in the ancient
history of this old house, and in connection with
which we might possibly discover the reason for that
notice, '^ This House to Let's remaining so long
without response on the part of persons seeking a
'' desirable mansions'

He thus piques my curiosity, and then, like the

genial philosopher he is, invites me to go home
with him to dinner ; and since I feel so much intent st
in an old house, and can so well tolerate the conversation
of an old man, he will tell me that modern
story which is one of the most romantic and touching
episodes of his clerical career.

CHAPTER IT.

THE Ruined HOME.

I GO home with him to dinner, and find his house
just the quiet, snug place that should naturally
belong to a clerical philosopher who is content to
spend his da3^s with his books, his garden, and ibis
handful of parishioners, outside the great world of
life with its struggles and its conflicts.

After dinner the vicar tells me the story of the
love-making and marriage of an artist named
Newbolde, a young eccentric painter, who had recorded
on canvas many of the picturesque scenes of
this corner of Kent, and who had wooed and married
one of the prettiest young ladies in Sandwich, an
orphan with a small patrimony. Newbolde bad had
a rival for the girls band, in a somewhat aristocratic
young fellow named Lucas, wbo occasion all'' visited
the neighbourhood from london. An educated
young man, always well dressed, always calm and
gentleman-like, Mr. Lucas had attractions likely to
impress a thoughtless girl; but he was unpopular in
Sandwich, if one could says that a man is unpopular ina

place which he only visited from time to tire , and
with which he had no social or business associations.

Mr. Lucas was said to belong to a good family,
and had, among men, the reputation of being what
is called successful with women.

Newbolde, on the other hand, was born in the
district. His family, a middle class one, was well
known. He had, as a boy, developed a remarkable
faculty for drawing, and under tuition as a young
man had become a successful artist.

Mr. Lucas had been introduced to the girl through
some family connection, and it was a matter for
jocularity among her friends that he was " tremendously
smitten.'^ She was, however, already more
or less engaged to Newbolde, and between the period
of Lucas's last visit (he had gone abroad, and nobody
had heard anything of him for several year), New-bold
and his sweetheart were married.

I married them,'^ said the vicar, " and a very
pleasant affair it was. By my advice, instead of
making a fuss about spending the honeymoon abroad,
and going to some unfamiliar place to make amusement
for waiters and others in a foreign hotel, I
advised them on leaving the church to go home
for good. They were a handsome couple. She
Alas fair-haired and had blue eyes. A petite

figure, she was quite the belle of this old place, a trifle
vain, however, and not of that constant, loving nature
that Newbolde was ; but, as I said before, a pretty,
attractive woman. I am an old bachelor, and it was
always pleasant to see Nevvbolde work, and to talk to
him of his prospects ; and I took a fatherly interest
in the J'oung couple, though I was but forty when
they married, forty and a fogey /^

The vicar tapped his snuflp-box reflectively, and
pushed a decanter of old Madeira towards me as he
continued.

^' They had been furnishing the old house for
many months before the marriage, and you can
imagine nothing more refreshing than the enthusiasm
of New^bolde in the work. I recall the time as
one of the pleasantness periods of ray own life, the
little part I took in looking on at those two people
decorating their new home : adapting that old house
of Elizabeth to the Victorian era ; planting on the
grand old base of British wainscoting the decorative
touches of to-day ; placing on the grand old carved
mantelpieces modern jugs and jars full of flowers that
date back their perfume and beauty even before the
Flood. You can hardly believe that twenty years
ago that house was a picture of wholesome life and
beauty, the garden a paradise ; though you may not

be surprised to know that all this was eclipsed bv a
domestic catastrophe, over which hangs the shadow
of a cruel murder ; the law had not evidence enough
to proclaim it murder, but I do so without hesitation."

The vicar took a heavy pinch of snuff as he made
this announcement, and handed me his box, as he
went on to describe the marriage-feast and the
settling down of the newly-married couple to their
new duties and relations. Time goes on ; two children
are born, George and Margaret; and in the
meantime, the result of the painter's success and the
outcome of the sympathetic social qualities of his
nature, Newbolde gradually develops a fatal disease
a passion for drink. The vicar describes in detail
how Newbolde, from glass to glass, slowly but surely
comes under the dominion of the demon, Drink; how
he fails to fulfil artistic commissions ; how his work
degenerates; and how, in the midst of it all, Mr.
Lucas turns up at Sandwich.

It seems that Mr. Lucas has met Newbolde in
london, on one of Newbolde's necessary visits in
connection with his art ; that Lucas is at the time,
or professes to be, a man of means. He meets New-bold
in an assumed frank manner ; tells him that
this dream, of course, has long since passed away ;
that they are, of course, no longer rivals, but friends.

lie Las travelled all over the world since then, and
looks now at life with a manes practical experience,
instead of viewing it from the standpoint of a boj^'s
romance. He tells Newbolde that his friends are
very few, his life a lonely one, and that he hopes
Newbolde will look upon him, '' for auld lang syne,"
rather as a brother than as the old enemy he possibly
was years ago, under the influence of a foolish
passion. He tells Newbolde that it is the duty of
the victor to be kindly to the vanquished, and he can
only say that, if Newbolde or his children should
ever want a friend, he may count upon him, Lucas,
to the last penny he has in the world, the last drop
of blood he has in his veins.

Newbolde is a gentle, tender hearted, unsophisticated
fellow, and accepts these overtures in a friendly
spirit. Whenever he goes to London, Lucas invariably
meets him. They are members of the same
club, and Lucas is always hospitably inclined, New-bold
never loth to join him in the wine which he is
continually ordering. As time goes on, Newbolde
talks to his wife of Lucas, and sees no reason why
they should not all be friends, since Lucas is very
anxious to pay a visit to Sandwich, and does not care
to renew his acquaintance with the place without
being on good terms with the only people he careS

about in the world, who live there. In due time
Lucas comes as a visitor to Newbolde's ; and it is
evident to everybody, except Newbolde himself, that
his designs are not in the interest of Emboldens
peace.

*' I think I detected from the first said the vicar,
"the wolf in sheep's clothing ; and it seemed to me
that, whenever an opportunity offered itself for the
degradation of Newbolde in his wife's eyes, Lucas
alway's availed himself of it. Whenever Lucas
came to Sandwich, Newbolde v,'as more or less
under the influence of wine, so much so, that on
more than one occasion I ran the risk of losing his
friendship through lecturing him upon his weakness''


The vicar gave me many illustrative incidents of
Newbolde's ineffectual struggles with the demon,
Drink, together with instances of the remarkable
affection that existed between himself and his eldest
child, the boy; an affection that was really a mutual
adoration so strong as almost to excite the jealousy
of the mother.

Said the vicar, " The instinct of Newbolde's son —
his name was George — though a mere boy, was active
enough to make him resent every overture at friendship
or familiarity on the part of Lucas. The boy

VOL. I. c

would neither play with him nor accept his 'tips;' very
remarkable illustrations of a youthful antipathy, upon
which the vicar dwelt with an almost fascinating interest.
He described the boy's frolics with his father,
his almost unnatural cuteness in cloaking the father's
passion for drink, and gave pretty wayside instances
of the boy's devotion to his sister, Maggie. One could
see the domestic pictures which the vicar drew of
himself playing with the children in that old-fashioned
garden ; Lucas, the Mephistopheles of the scenes,
looking on ; Mrs. IS^ewbolde, ashamed of her husband,
and making mental comparisons between the slovenly
inebriate and the clever, cool, well-dressed gentleman
from town, whom she had in those past daj's of her
youth thrown over for this dissolute painter.

And thus the time wears on, the husband gradually
falling under the dominion of the fiend Drink, the
wife under the influence of the fiend Lucas. I might
dwell upon the details of this phase of the story, as
the vicar did ; but I prefer to sketch the domestic
history broadly and in few words.

Eight years have passed. Newbolde has gradually
fallen from his position. The household is almost
dependent upon the small income of the wife. With
her respect for her husband love has gone also ; w with
love and respect has departed pride in the house and

its management. What was once an artistic paradise
has become a slovenly, ill-kept, ill-regulated abode.
But, in the midst of all this, the wife has still
retained her singular beauty, partly arising, no
doubt, from a constitutional weakness of character in
which vanity was predominant. The vicar soliloquizes
somewhat upon this trait of feminine character
before coming to the denouement of his story —
which is, first, the elopement of Mrs. jNTewbolde
with Lucas, and the scandal it creates throughout
Sandwich ; and secondly, the strange realization of
the situation by the inordinate sensibility of young
Newbolde, the son, agf^d eight, who is left under
pah; ful circumstances with his infant sister, aged six.
The vicar describes the interest he and his friends
felt in these children, and presently mentions the
sudden disappearance of the girl, who is carried away
under somewhat mysterious circumstances, though
in due course comes ample explanation that she is
with her mother, who could not live without her.
The boys grief and manliness are touchingly
described by the vicar, in contrast with the almost
calm, unspeakable sadness of Newbolde himself, who
sinks into the wretched state of a diplomatic, with
lucid intervals, that illustrate in a grim sort of way
his originally sympathetic and affectionate nature.

c 2

One day, near the bridge which crosses that
attenuated arm of the sea previously referred
to, he is found drowned, and there are attendant
circumstances which point to foul play, and other
attendant circumstances which cast, whether justly
or not, a certain suspicion upon Lucas, strengthened
by the fact that the little property of Mrs. Newbolde
went to her husband on her marriage, to return to
her should she ever become a widow.

"The influence of the father's death upon the
boy," said the vicar, " was something terrible. The
sister did not seem to realize the sad business. How
could she at six ? One might say, How could the
boy, for that matter, seeing that he was only two
years older ? He saw the poor body carried into
the desolate house, saw it all wet and weird — a
dreadful spectacle. He leaned over it and kissed
the poor dead lips ; and he seemed to have grown
old, the poor child, as he looked up at me, and cried,
He's murdered ! murdered ! That man Lucas has
murdered my father ! And I will kill him ! ' The
little fellow raised his fist and shook it, and clenched
his teeth as a man might. * God help you, my poor
George ! ' I said. ' You must not say such dreadful
things.' 'Oh, I must, vicar!' the boy exclaimed,
and you should forgive me ; I loved him so ! That

man has killed my father, and you say in the pulpit
a life for a life, and I will have his Misery had
made the child prematurely old. I stooped down
to comfort him, and flinging himself into my arms,
he sobbed out, ' Oh, mother ! mother ! Maggie !
Maggie ! My heart is broken ! '^

The vicar turned his head away to hide his tears,
and handed his snuff-box to me, that I might, I
suppose, have an excuse to sneeze, which I did.

As I parted with his reverence late at night, to
wander along the dark streets to my own lodging,
it never once, in all my romantic reflections, occurred
to me that it would be my fate to have my
affections and fortunes bound up in the history of
that "house to lets and its latest and most unhappy
occupants.

CHAPTER III.

A MISSION OF VENGEANCE.

The old house and the vicar's story kept me in
Sandwich longer than I had intended to stay there,
and excited in me an interest in the place, with
which I hope the reader will sympathize sufficiently
to accept this brief sketch of it. I particularly hope
so, because I want both of us, reader and writer, to
have in our minds the colour and atmosphere of the
old times. Not that this story has to do with what
is called history ; but as the vicar's narrative is the
modern story of an old house, so does this general
narrative run to a great extent into historic streets,
though in due course it will carry us '^ over the sea
and far away''

The completest contrast to the port of London, in
all these English realms, is the old-world port of
Sandwich. An odd little town, it has crept within
the shadow of Progress and retired from business.
Its quiet streets are haunted by a thousand ghosts
of strange, busy days. Dickens's chronometer-maker

J

was not more outside the noisy track of customers
than is the town and port of Sandwich, on the
historic coast of Kent, great and famous in the
glorious days of Shakespeare, Raleigh, and Drake.
Of its antiquity, you may rea 1 in the British Museum
the following unique charter granting part of its
revenues to the monks of Christ Church : —

Wherefore I, Cnut, by the grace of God, King
of the English, and of the adjoining islands, take
the crown from my head, and place it, with my own
hands, upon the altar of Christ Church, in Canterbury,
for the support of the said church ; and I
grant, thereto, for the sustenance of the monks the
port of Sandwich, and all the revenues of the haven
on both sides, whomsoever the ground belongs to,
from Peerless, on the east, to Mearsfleote, on the
north, so far as a taper-axe can be thrown from a
vessel at high water. The officers of Christ Church
may receive all the profits, and no person to have
any custom in the said port except the monks of
Christ Church. Theirs to be the small boat and
ferry of the haven, and the toll of all vessels whatever
coming into the haven, to whomsoever they
belong, and whencesoever they come. If there be
anything in the sea, without the haven, which a man
at the lowest ebb can reach with a sprit, it belongs

to the monks ; and whatever is found in this part
of the mid-seas and is brought to Sandwich, whether
clothes, net, armour, iron, gold, or silver, a moiety
shall be the monks, and the other part shall belong
to the finders. If any writings shall hereafter appear,
which, under a show of antiquity, shall seem in anyway
contrary to this our grant, let it be left to be
eaten by mice, or rather let it be thrown into the
fire and destroyed ; and let him who shall exhibit it,
whoever he be, do penance in ashes, or be made a
laughing-stock to all his neighbours. And let this our
confirmation remain for ever valid ; and both by the
authority of Almighty God and our own, and of our
nobles who concur in this act, stand in full strength,
like a pillar, firm and unshaken, against all the attacks
of evil-minded people in succeeding times. But if anyone
swelled with pride, contrary to our wish, shall
attempt to infringe or weaken this our grant, let him
know that he is anathematized by God and His saints,
unless he make due satisfaction for his crime before
he dies. Written in the year of our Lord's incarnation,
1023. •

"I, Cnut, King of the English, confirm this
writing inviolable

I, AUedmoth, Archbishop of Canterbury, confirm
this prerogative with the Holy Banner.

'' I, Als eric, Archbishop of York, confirm this
benevolence of the king with the sign of the cross'

In addition to these signatures and attestations,
the grant was signed by eight bishops three dukes,
and ten other persons. While this document demonstrates
the importance of Sandwich in the da's of
Canute, there is a world of history between that time
and the visit of Elizabeth in 1573.

Edward the Confessor made the city one of the
principal Cinque Ports. He lived here in 1049^ and
superintended the fitting out of his great fleet to meet
the invader , Godwin. The ships of Harold swam in
the haven of Sandwich, and after the battle of
Hastings William the Conqueror ordered certain
records to be made in Domesday Book concerning
the town, notably mentioning that '* Sandwich pays
the king fine same service as Hover does, though not
so great, and the inhabitants, before the king gave
them new privileges, paid him £15 per annum, and
when the archbishop received it they paid £40 and
40,000 herrings for the monks' food, but in the year
of the survey it yielded £50, and the herrings as
before.'^

In the reign of Henry lY., Louis, King of
France, burned Sandwich, but it was afterwards
rebuilt and united to the Crown in the year 1290,

the monks of Christ Church surrendering their
rights and receiving in exchange a certain manor in
Essex. When at war with France, Edward III.
used to embark on his expeditions from this port,
where the Black Prince landed in 1357, after the
battle of Poictiers, with John, King of France, his
son Philip, and other prisoners.

As I stood in the deserted city on the morning after
the vicar's story, the ancient Cinque Port reminded
me strangely of the grass-grown streets and decaying
wharves of Nathaniel Hawthorn's native town as
described in the " Scarlet Letter."

Though it is only sixty-eight miles from London,
and some seven or eight from Ramsgate, and not
exactly out of the highway of the world's business,
the people in the streets stared at me curiously as
I lounged here and there in contemplation of the
sleepy old borough. Like Salem, Sandwich had
been a bustling toAvn, but had decayed and passed
away, so far as its commercial and mercantile importance
is concerned, though still boasting local
authorities, whose power has come down to them
from its palmy days. There is an old manse, too, in
which the famous American would have delighted,
and where he might have found inspiration.

But Sandwich has a record far older than Salem,

and it bristles with incidents of plunder, piracy, and
war. In the autumn of 1457 Marshal de Breeze
landed in the night, and having surprised the town,
set it on fire, after slaying the major and the
principal inhabitants.

Salem had not the questionable advantage of
having European neighbours, or it might possibly
have matched Sandwich in regard to warlike horrors.
The town was no sooner partially restored than the
Earl of Warwick pillaged it. Edward IV., however,
restored the prosperity and dignity of the port. He
walled it in and fortified it, and levied the cost ina
duty on wool. In 148'i the harbour began to silt
up, and to-day Sandwich stands in the midst of
meadow-lands two miles from the sea-shore upon
which it was originally built.

Sandwich has literally migrated. The men who
knew it as a port and harbour, with ships of war
and rich argosies floating in the offing, should they
revisit " the glimpses of the moon'' would seek it
in vain. They would come ashore according to map
and compass, and find meadow-lands covered with
sheep ; here and there an ancient homestead would
delight the eye ; if they came in the spring of the
year, and cared for wild flowers, they would find
lady-smocks,^' '^ May-blobs,'^ and '^ sweeps,"

flourishing on the banks of dykes and watercourses ;
they would come upon an old highway where their
ships had ridden at anchor, and they would find
village groups drinking ale at wayside inns where
they had embarked at docks and wharves. But no
Sandwich would meet their eager gaze. They
would see a narrow, sluggish river creeping from
the sea through miles of daisy-dotted lands, velvety
green. Inquiring their way in the direction of
a square church tower in the distance, some two
miles from the sea, they would find the remains of
the lost city, right away in the country, on the
banks of that creek-like river of salt and mud,
which, with a stray brig or barque floating lazily on
the tide, represents the only living reminiscences of
the days when Sandwich was a famous port, where
the Gauls found a commodious haven, and over
against which the Romans erected fortifications, still
partially extant, rising to view now-days amid cornfields
and waving trees, instead of frowning over a
busy shore fringed with gaily decked shipping.

One of the peculiarities of this migrated port and
town is the water-supply. Not only has the sea left
it stranded, but it has taken from the local springs
all brackish flavour, and Nature coming to its aid.
Sandwich rejoices in a freshwater river that runs in

and out of the old streets in the pleasantness fashion.
It is always clear, fresh, and two or three feet in
depth, and it constitutes the water-supply of the
town. Now it runs along a street, by doorways and
under bow-windows, skirting the side-walk, and rippling
a constant song of delight. Here and there it
pauses to supply a pump, or to answer the claims of
buckets, brought down flights of steps connected
with ancient houses. Then it will slip away under
some old tunnel, to dash out again by green lawns
and gardens, and to reappear in the quiet streets.
The authorities of the town lead it hither and thither,
confining it within stone walls, and tempting it
through culverts. Once it pauses and swells out
into a little pond for horses to drink at ; but that is
after its purer stream is locked up against the
contamination of sea-water and the refulgent of a
tanner who cleanses his skins in it, just before it
joins that sluggish reminiscence of the sea which
floated the Roman galleys, and tossed upon its bosom
King Edward's famous lancers and stalwart British
bowmen.

While, however, I tried to think of Salem and
find contrasts with it in this decayed old port ; while
I tried to conjure up the figure of Hester Prynne in
the strange old streets ; and while I wondered if I

should ever see America and the scene of Hawthorne's
story, the pitiful romance of "The House to Let"
haunted me, and I longed for the hour of dinner to
arrive ; for the vicar had invited me to join his
hospitable board again, and had promised to tell me
something more of the Newbolde family.

The vicar's house was half-timbered, half plastered,
not unlike the buildings of Shakespeare's day. You
approached it through a garden, half lawn, half
flower-beds, and entered it by a hall paved with redbrick,
the walls wainscoted, and decorated with
engravings of old cathedrals. Right and left there
were doorways into a study on one hand, a diningroom
on the other, a staircase and passage to the
kitchens faced j^ou. There was a mixed perfume of
cauliflowers and beeswax in the air, and a seventeenth
century' clock in a black oak case measured out the
hours with clerical decorum. It was a home of rest
and peace.

'^ It is very good of you to come again," said tl.e
vicar as his stolid servant-man lifted the dish-covers,
after a brief grace had been said by his master. '' I
have few visitors, and it is like a kindly messenger
with news from the great world to have a Londoner
at table."

'^ 1 don't think my news has interested you half

as much as your story of " The House to Let " has
interested me/^ I answered ; " indeed, I have spared
3'ou much of my conversation to listen to yours. '^

'' In an out-of-the-way place such as this' said
the vicar, '' we concentrate our thoughts more upon
one subject than you people do in town ; one striking
event serves us for a long time ; one romance may
last us a lifetime. In London your feelings are
broken up among many romances , and your daily
news is both varied and exciting; here the hours go
by in a quiet, dull round ; and when a serpent crawls
across our path of peace we mark the trail of it for
many a long year. When I am turning over the
soil, or training the roses in the garden at the Manse,
I often think of Eden and the solitude of that ancient
paradise when its hast occupants had left it'"

^* Is that the name of the old house where the
Newboldes lived — the Manse ? '^

*' Yes ; I wish you could have seen it in the early
days of their marriage. iS^ewbolde's studio was a
little heaven. It had a calm north light. The walls
were all panelled oak. The carved fireplace was a
puzzle of beauty even to the learned Associations
that came to examine it. Mrs. Newbolde took a
certain amount of pride in it on these occasions, for
her husband always gave the savants a luncheon in

the studio, and she liked, admiration, poor thing.
She would decorate the table with flowers, and sit atone
end of it, George at the other, and receive all
the Compliments that were paid to her with undisguised
delight. And Newbolde would pass the wine
and once in a ways take a trifle too much — the
children would come in at the close, and little George
would climb his father's knee, and margaret coo at
him from the nurses arms. Ah ! it was a beautiful
picture of domesticity, and with a background of art,
that made it very delightful. But oh, woman,
woman — frailty, thy name is woman ! "

The vicar rose, opened a window at the back,
which discovered a grass-plot, with a little stretch of
that same gurgling brook I spoke of running through
it. Two chairs and a table stood near by, with pipes
and a tobacco-jar, and a small urn kept hot by a
spirit-lamp.

I think a glass of hot whisky and a pipe after
dinner better than coffee and cigars, which is your
town fashion. AYhat say you ? "

'^ That if you live quietly, and, as you say, ,
down here, outside the busy world, you
know how to live, and I fully endorse this post-cranial
siesta'

Good'' said the vicar, as he mixed the toddy

and handed me a clean churchwarden pipe. '^ Five
years ago George Newbolde sat in that chair, a fine
5"oung fellow of three-and-twenty, but looking more
than thirty'. I have not seen or heard from him
since. After his father's death, the furniture and
effects of the old place were sold by auction, part of
the money going to him, the rest to his mother,
who was represented by a local lawyer, under the
authority of her power of attorney. It was dated
London. She was never seen by any friend after
she went away ; nor has anybody that I know, or
that George knows, seen her since, or Lucas, or the
little girl Margaret. George lived with me for
nearly four years after the manse was broken up. I
hoped to have kept him until now, though he had
occasional outbreaks of restlessness, and he would go
and wander about the old house in a strange way, setting
his teeth, and repeating silently to himself his
vows of vengeance, for I would never encourage lira
in his passion of wrath, though to comfort him I
would quote his favourite author, to the effect that
in due time this man Lucas should meet with a
retributive justice, —

' Put we our quarrel to the will of Heaven,

Who, when He sees the hours are ripe on earth,

Will rain hot vengeance on offenders' heads.'

VOL. T.

Furthermore, I endeavoured to press upon him
the saying of a favourite book of mine : ^ Vengeance
is mine, saith the Lord But he grew up with a
brooding spirit, and one morning, at the age of
somewhere about sixteen, he left me. The night
before was such a one as this — a June night, with a
sunset that touched the brook, and bathed us both iu
golden light. I sat here smoking, and George sat
where som are. He did not smoke, but he sipped a
little toddy. I thought it good for him, and we
talked together of many things. He had learned a
great deal in a few years. It was my delight to
teach him all I knew : a little Latin, some theology,
which he did not take to with patience ; history,
ancient and modern ; such philosophy as I thought a
fair combination of New Testament teaching and
moral ethics ; the poets, Shakespeare, Milton, Pope ;
and a miscellaneous consideration of the natural
sciences. He was apt, and we became companions ;
but the shadow of his childish vow of vengeance
lay continually between us. I tried to exorcise the
fiend, but without avail. The evil spirit had possession
of him, and grew with his strength. * Ah !
forgive me, vicar,' he said, one day, as we were
crossing the bridge over the river where his father
was found drowned ; ^ but I did love him so dearly,

and her, my little sister, that I go about with a

mission of justice, not vengeance — justice; and I

pray that one day he and I may stand here together ;

and I somehow think that I would have strength

enough to drag him here if T met him at the other

end of the world. If I believe in a Supreme power,

which I think and hope I do. He has appointed me

to be His minister of justice in this cause, for He

knows who poisoned the mind of my poor weak

mother, He knows by whose hand my father fell and

died.' It was of no avail that I interposed my

protest that Heaven had its own way of punishment

for sinners , and that we could not influence its

methods, and must not take the law into our own

hands ; he smiled defiantly, and his e3"es flashed the

determination that his unhinged mind had registered

for itself. Poor lad ! and he was but a lad, when he

carried this burthen. A dark, black-eyed, tall, lithe

young fellow, tall for his age, and strong for his age,

and with a settled expression of melancholy in his

face. And, as I say, one June morning he was gone,

leaving behind him a letter full of gratitude and

thanks, which I did not desire, for I loved the lad,

and felt half his sorrow, and the expression of a hope

that we should meet again. He did not write all

that was in his heart, or he would have added, ' I

D 2

go forth on ray mission ;' and he has since told me
that he had thought of telling me that his purpose
was to go out into the world to hunt him down, the
man who slew his father. I prayed for him earnestly,
and in the little church where I officiate I put his
name into the Church's appeal for those who are in
trouble. A year after he left me I had letters from
him, dated Vienna ; later I heard from him at Paris,
St. Petersburg, Hong Kong, and then from New
York and San Francisco. They were only short
epistles, telling me that he was well, and hoping that
I sometimes thought of him as he did of me. And
one day, some seven sears ago, he walked into my
study at dinner-time, a bronzed and bearded man,
scant of flesh, but wiry and strong, and with a grip
of iron. ^ God bless you, vicar,' he said, wringing
my hand ; * I am come to dinner.' ' God bless thee,
George,' I said — and I would not have known him
but for his voice — ' thou art welcome ! ' But I fear
I weary you."

''No, indeed you do not," I replied. ''I begin
to feel as if I had known your-poor p rote fee."

*' And as I sit holding your attention," said the
vicar, '' I feel something of the Ancient Mariner's
persistence of narrative. But at least let me make
YOU comfortable under the infliction. Another

glass ? Ten years old this whisky has no headache
in a bottle of it."

The fine old churchman laid down his pipe and
mixed me another glass of toddy, and did the like
for himself.

^yhat proofs had you that Newbolde, the artist,
was murdered ? '* I asked.

'^ No proofs ; but the certainty of instinct and
circumstances. There was an ugly wound near the
right temple, and suspicious marks on the throat.
Against this was the theory that he had struck the
abutment of the bridge as he fell, and that the
discoloration of the throat might have been caused
by the pressure of his neckerchief in a drunken fit,
for the poor fellow had not been sober for a week.
No proofs ; but suspicion of an emphatic character
and the previous crime of breaking up a home , a
sin not less in the eyes of Heaven and man than
murder."

*' True," I said ; '' and deserving of as severe a
punishment."

^' Over dinners went on the vicar, ** George gave

me some account of his wanderings. He had first

gone to London ; had drifted hither and thither in

• the great city, looking in the faces of men for

Lucas, frequenting haunts of vice, and also seeking

for him, as he said, in churches, ' because as he
explained, ' I thought he might have put on sleeps
clothing He said he had also looked for his
mother. ^ I thought she might go to the opera he
said, ' as she loved dress and admiration, and I
found myself gazing into the faces of young girls,
thinking I might see Maggie, though I daresay I
would not have known her if she had grown as tall
as I had. But I never saw anybody like them.
And I went to a theatre in the Strand and saw a
play called One Touch of Nature ^ where a father was
hunting for his child who had been stolen from him
with her mother and it so touched me when at last
he found her that I made a fool of myself, and
broke into sobs in the theatre.' '^

Poor fellow ! '^ I exclaimed.

*' Yes, yes ; what a noble disposition is overthrown
in him," said the vicar, ^'^and what a capacity for
happiness."

'* Does it not sometimes shake your faith in
Heaven ? " I asked, '^ when j^ou see the worthy and
the good oppressed with grief they have had no
share in creating ? "

Into ; for life is so short that the sufferings or joys
of this world are but as shadows ; they are transient
as the breeze that ruffles the bosom of the river ; it

is the future that we should live for. And, as
Campbell hath it , paraphrasing the Word itself, ^ To
bear is to conquer our fate.' ^^

'but, Mr. Vicar, what saith the Saviour Himself ?
AYhoso shall cause one of these little ones which
believe in Me to stumble, it is profitable for him
that a great millstone should be hanged about his
neck, and that he should be sunk in the depths of
the sea'' Think of the stumbling, that thief, Lucas,
caused to one child, perhaps to two ; the suffering
planted in the breast of that boy in a childhood
that otherwise might have blossomed into a happy
manhood.

^^ It were to inquire too curiously into the 
said the vicar, ^'^ to consider who of
these three persons were most to blame for George
Newbolde's inheritance of sorrow — his father, who
got drunk, his mother, who worshipped dress and
vanity, or this Lucas, who traded on both to content
his passion and his greed. When we set ourselves
to allot blame and reward in this world, we undertake
a task that even the angels might fail to
accomplish. But let me finish my record. This
poor fellow, George, with his mad — I had almost said
murderous — mission, for he exclaimed as he left me
that last time, ' I will kill him ! it is ordained that

I shall be his executioner ^ — this poor fellow it seems,
went from London to Paris from Paris to Vienna,
Berlin, and St. Petersburg ; to gaming-houses,
theatres, operas, hotels ; to Venice, Singapore, Long
Kong, thence to Japan, San Francisco, New York.
When he had spent his money he became a cabman,
steward on a ship, a sailor, a miner. ' Once,' he
said, 'in Paris, 1 thought I had my man; I could
have sworn it was he ; I had driven him from a
gaming-house, and was to take him to the Bois.
At a likely spot I made him get out ; he was an
Englishman, and he threatened me ; but I apologized,
telling him I had a mission to capture an assassin,
that I was a detective, and he overlooked my
rudeness

"He had dreams, he said, that he would come
upon him by mere accident in this ways, and this
chief trouble was how to get the man to Sandwich,
to stand face to face with him on the bridge before
he executed him.

* This is madness, George,' I said to him ; ' an
affidavit from me, founded upon what you have said,
might lock you up for life

He looked at me strangely in response, and
said, —

Do )'ou think I am mad ? For I sometimes

think so. But he went on, without waiting for my
reply, ^ I know that I am not. Cowards would call
my words those of a madman ; but let them tackle
me on any subject or at any work, and see if I am
not as sane as these Ask the boys at San Francisco
who is strong enough to have his own way when lie
wants it ; ask the P. & 0. captain if one of his
stewards did his duty when the purser's room was
on fire ; ask the Havre shipowner if the young chap
before the mast of the schooner Empress was mad
when he stuck to the ship and worked her into port
when the French crew had deserted her; and ask
Father Campanile, the Jesuit priest at Chicago,
whether I did not do justice to your teaching in the
controversy I had with him in one of the newspapers
there. Oh, no, my dear master, I am not mad; nor
am I any longer in a hurry ; nor shall I ever more
go rushing about the world for Lucas. I know that
he lives; I have been twice on his track — twice —
the last time in New York ; I can wait, I can wait ! '
And, filling his glass full of neat whisky, he drank
it off without wincing. That troubled me greatly,
even more than his words did, and I told him so
and reminded bim that all our affliction — for I
always counted myself in with him as a fellow-sufferer
— had probably arisen from drink. ''Ah,

vicar,' he said, *yoii like poetry; so do T. Let me
commend to you those lines of the old dramatist : —

*•' ' " Drink to-day, and drawn all sorrow;
You shall not do it tomorrow.
But while 3'ou have it, use your breath ;
There is no drinking after death." '^'

He might have quoted Scripture' I could not
help remarking, to the same effect ; '' eat, drink, and
be merry, for tomorrow we die ! ^'

^' Yes, and the devil may quote Scripture, as
Hamlet says, but we judge by deeds, not words ;
by acts, not by quotations. I rebuked George,
kindly, of course, but he only laughed at me and
drunk the more. And when the night was come he
went out — I could not restrain him — and I followed.
He went to the bridge, and stood there for some time
looking into the river. Then he took the path the
men took when they carried his father's body home ;
and when he stood by the old house I laid my arm
on his shoulder. He started, and cried out, and I
said, ' It is only I, Georges ' God bless you,' he
answered. /Do you remember when you lost that
antique ring, and we looked everywhere for it ?
You said at last, let us repeat all we did that day,
and go over the ground bit by bit, and haply we
will come upon it where least we expect it. I am

here to profit by your lesson, and to strengthen my
purpose. God bless you, vicar, and good-bye ! ' He
gripped my hand as he spoke, and left me, hurrying
away quickly towards the churchyard. I followed,
but lost him, and on inquiry at the railway offices I
found that the man I described had taken the mail
train to London'

*' And you have not seen him since ? ^'

No, nor heard from him."

And do sou know nothing of the man Lucas,
and the woman and child ? ''

Nothing''

It is a sad story."

It is indeed," said the vicar. " I pray to God
it may be no worse."

As I wandered back to the old tavern where I was
staying, I felt that the tragic story of George
Newbolde had taken full possession of my mind. It
was a summer night in '' leafy June*' and yet
strange, chilly breezes came up the river from the
sea. There was a moon, but it only shone now and
then through chinks in a clouded sky. I went
unconsciously a somewhat circuitous route to the
hotel. Coming to the bridge where the vicar had
last seen the painter's wretched son, and where that
wretched son had seen his father's body taken from

the river, I stood there and listened to the water
lapping the banks, and the wind sighing up the
river. Then I walked past the ruined home, a bat
whirring by me as I lingered at the doorway, and
the cry of a night-bird saluting me overhead. I
heard the ivy tapping at the blind windows, and
felt all the desolation of the scene in my heart. As
I turned away, the wind coming across the garden
wafted the perfume of June roses into my face. It
was like the faint memory of happy days. Perhaps,
looking back, I put this interpretation upon it ; for
in those days I had not felt the happy anxieties of a
first love ; and this experience is filled with a fine
collection of tender sentiments, with which we
decorate the most prosaic incidents of life.

I do not believe in dreams, except in so far as they
may sometimes interpret incidents past or to come,
which our own actions, thoughts, and reflections
have shaped. But when to-day I look back over the
curious and romantic details of my own life, it seems
more than strange that on the night of the vicar's
story I should have dreamed that Fate had selected
me as its chief instrument in an act of Vengeance
executed under the most unlikely, unlooked-for, and
dramatic circumstances.

part IL

CHAPTER I.

AFTER THREE YEARS

Things had gone wrong with me in many wa's
since that holiday visit I made to a corner of
Kent.

What may not occur in three years ? Look over
your own record and think. It is only, as it were,
the other day that I was sitting at the idcar's table,
free, independent happy. There were possibilities
in the future that on reflection might cause me a
little anxiety. I had no particular reason to reflect,
and I did not.

But what a tangled path was before me !

Since I got into the train at Sandwich to go home
to London, on that pleasant summer morning three
sears ago, I had been plucked at college, fallen in
love, quarrelled with my family ; and in a wild
moment of despair I resolved to cross the seas and
seek my fortune.

America had always had a special charm for me,

ever since the first novel I had read by Cooper, and
recent new discoveries of gold and silver inspired me
with hopes that were as glorious as they were
quixotic. 1 had no practical knowledge of mining,
but 1 was blessed with a strong constitution. I was
born of an aristocratic family ; but I had almost a
religious respect for labour. I was well educated ;
though I failed to obtain a degree at Oxford. While
I had some facility with my pen, I could also ride
and shoot, and once I had mowed half an acre of
heavy grass for a wager.

In Americans I said, '^ there is no degradation
in honest labour. A young fellow may be a carter
one year and a congressman the next ; he may be a
deck-labourer to-daj^, and if he makes money tomorrow
in the same city decent society does not say
to him ' Get out, j^ou must not speak to us you were
a dock-labourer yesterday.' I am strong, willing,
not a fool, not quite penniless, and have I not you asa
stimulus to exertion, you, my dear, dear Margaret ?"

Yes, her name was Margaret Willoughby. She
little knows how much I have suffered for her sake.
But let me not say ior her sake, seeing that there
was underlying all I did the selfish desire of earning
money enough to make her my wife. Uncivilized
people would call it getting moneys enough to buy her.

So far as her father (he called himself her father)
was concerned, he would not have quarrelled with
the phrase — he was ready to sell her. As for rae,
had she been a slave in the market, and I a rich man,
I would have bought her and set her free. Then
when she possessed her liberty, I would have laid my
life and fortune at her feet.

How strange is Destine Fate, the Future, or
whatever it may be called. When I. sat at the vicar's
table and marvelled at his opening a trap-door in his
dining-room to drop his wine bottle into the river asa
cooler ; when I listened to his story of the old
house ; when I wandered about the deserted garden
and looked over the wall at the tide slipping out to
sea, I had never heard of nor seen my love ; I was
enjoying a vacation rendered, necessary by over-study;
and I had no idea that the year following
would see me upon the ocean going forth " to seek my
fortune '"' in a strange land.

Yet since then New York had seen me almost a
waif and stray in her commercial quarters, seeking
a clerkship ; Brooklyn had cast me off as '^ a clever
fellow," if I could only " find my vocation ; ^* Washington
had given me gentleman-like but profitless
employment ; St. Louis had made me the driver of a
mule team ; and Chicago had taught me to speculate

ill corn and pork. For you must know that I curried
from London a credit-note of two hundred and fifty
pounds, and I swore to myself that should be my hester's'.
I Vowed if I could not increase it rather than
break into it I would starve.

And I nearly did starve in New York. I think it
must be harder for a poor fellow to live in the Empire
city than in London. It was fortunate for me that
I discovered the free-lunch houses. I lived for three
weeks on one " good square meal for ten cents '^ a
day. But I stuck to my nest-egg. Brooklyn
honoured me with a clerkship in a drj'-goods store,
but complimented me most on my knowledge of
literature and London. St. Louis introduced me to
a humble knowledge of the wool trade ; and the
great rival city of Chicago made a telegraph clerk of
me. In three months I was promoted to quite a
responsible position. The newspaper despatches
passed through, my hands. I had saved a hundred
dollars. Two young fellows who had associations
with the Board of Trade took me to the Exchange.
I bought some hogs ; on paper, of course. I made
five hundred dollars. I wrote home to Margaret
that I was indeed making my fortune at last. By
the same mail I told my mother that I had at last
discovered the highway to wealth ; and that she

might look for me coming home in a year or two at
the most, a millionaire. For my two friends said my
knowledge of European politics, which were at that
time in a very troubled state (Europe seemed to be on
the eve of war) gave me a tremendous advantage asa
speculator in wheat and pork, two commodities that
went up and down in the market to the tune of
European probabilities and possibilities.

At the height of my success I fell into the lowest
depths of loss and disaster. I was ^'' broke' and so
was my nest-egg. In my despair I had cashed my
credit-note.

It was about this time that the fortunes of the
"Revenge"" silver-mine were much talked of in
Chicago. I had read with great interest in some
newspaper before I left England an account of the
discovery of silver at Drummond's Gulch, and
remember to have thought the massacre of Indians
a piece of shocking barbarity; but the telegrams
had, it turned out, only given us half the story. \
mention the affair in this place because a stranger in
the Grand Pacific Hotel at Chicago recalled it to my
memory in a curious and unexpected way, and also
because my fortunes became mixed up with those of
that wonderful region beyond the Rocky Mountains.

Drummond^s Gulch is named after the man who

VOL. I. E

received it from the Indians. It is a simple story.
Ten miners from California prospected this region.
Not far from a picturesque bend of the Unison
river they were surrounded by Piute Indians. Both
sides fought desperately The whites knew they
must either conquer or die. They gave no quarter
and expected none. All but one of them fell. Boss
Drummond, whom they had elected captain, escaped,
carrying with him a wounded comrade. Under cover
of the nio-ht he brought his friend out of the fight
into the Bush, in spite of his own desperate hurts.
The Indians were too much mauled to go in search of
Drummond, who succeeded in conveying his friend
to a hunter's post on the river. Here they were both
cared for ; but only Drummond survived, and it was
many days before he was fit to travel. His protectors
were a small party of American trappers, who had
in their company several friend' Indians of the Ute
tribe, bv whom he was eventually conveyed to the
nearest white settlement. Here he succeeded in
recruiting a new company of adventurous prospectors,
who went forth not only in search of mineral
treasures, but pledged to a bitter vengeance on the

Piutes.

They succeeded in obtaining both. Almost at the
scene of the first massacre they surprised an Indian

village. The work was short, sharp and bloody
Amongst the trophies of their victory they found
relics of the murdered whites. Drummond lost three
of his men. The Indians, twenty in number, were
killed to a man ; the squaws and children were
supplied with food and driven forth. A strong
stockade was built and fortified , " a cemetery began "
with the three dead whites,, and a bonfire made of
the village and its dead defenders, who were cremated
among such household gods as the new comers did
not care to annex.

A vein of coal was discovered near a creek of the
river ; galena lodes, carrying cerussite in limestone,
were next found in abundance, and finally their
investigations led to silver mining operations on a
fairly large scale. Drummond and his friends
exhausted their capital within twelve months, but
secured considerable property rights, and were soon
enabled to attract fresh capital and fresh hands.

Within two years the " Revenge ^^ silver-mine at
Drummond's Gulch was well-known as a great property,
and the site of the Indian village was alive
with the pioneers of a new world. A "preaching
shop' bar-room, printing establishment and general
store, laid the foundation of a future city. It
was indeed in its infancy when I arrived there

E 2

LIBRARY

UNivERsrrv or \\m^\y

one evening in the fall, the only passenger by
the first mail stage that had ever started thither
from Kimball which was itself little better thana
mining camp, twenty miles from Gunnison, that
had just built its first schoolhouse.

How came I to go to Drummond^s Gulch ? you
naturally ask. Well, it was in this wise. One
evenings the very day I was " broke '* at Chicago, I
was sitting in the great hall of the great hotel there,
wondering what I should do, when a stranger entered
into conversation with me. He was a tall, dark,
'black-haired, bony fellow, rather pale, and he smoked
the largest cigar I had ever seen. He had brown
eyes, was clean-shaven, except for a greyish tuft of
hair on his chin, and he wore jack-boots.

You look kinder blue," he said.

"I cannot look bluer than I feel' I answered.

He handed me a cigar, and beckoned a darker.

*' Give the gentleman a light."

Yes, sal."

The coloured attendant went to the counter,
brought a match, lighted it on his breeches, handed
it to me, and I blew a cloud after him as he shuffled
over the marble floor.

Poker ? " asked the stranger.

'' Ko," I said.

Yes/^

'* You look it."

*' And wheat," I answered.

So/^ he said, smoking. *^ I'd rather lose ten
thousand dollars at poker, and have a good time, than
win twenty at cornering pork ; it's a mean business. '^

It is' I said.

Broke ? " he asked.

'' Yes'' I said.

'^ Dead broke?"

'* Dead," I answered.

Some fellows might have resented the inquisitiveness
of the stranger. Not I. The most superficial
observer can tell when a stranger means to be rude,
and when he is sympathetic, when his questions are
the result of mere curiosity, and when they are
intended to be kindly.

"English?" he asked.

Yes."

^^ Ah," he said, chewing his tremendous cigar, the
fellow to which I chewed in friendly sympathy, for
there was something generous in the man's manner,
though he had a curious, uncouth, brigand-like appearance
generally. ^' Come out here to make money ? "

'' To trv."

"■ Can't do much that way in the old country ? '^

'' Takes so long'

'^ Pork ain't no good for a boy ? "'■'

No ; I made money at first'

*' Novices always do ; I'd always back a grainger
in his first hand."

"Would you?"

'' And the greenest players first bluff". Are you a
college chap ? "

^' Yes."

Thought so; knew two of 'em at Tombstone ; I
trusted 'em and they paid up like white men. Ever
heard of Drummond Gulch ? "

'' I have."

^^ Go there — try silver. Pork disagrees with
stronger financial digestions than yours. I like you.
You are one of them Britishers who tell no lies when
you are dead broke, and don't want to beg ; stranger,
I believe in you. My name is Manwaring Wilkesss ;
I am a Tombstone City banker. I will give you a
letter to Drummond, and I will lend you a thousand
dollars to start you. Let's have a drink and say no
more about it."

We did have a drink ; we did say no more about it ;
and, with a thousand dollars in my pocket-book, the next
dav I started for the E/Ockies and Drummond's Gulch.

'* You are just the chap for Druramond ; what he
wants is a secretary as will look after his affairs, and
not let every loafer skin him when he's drunk*

"Oh, he gets drunk ?^^ I said.

'* As thunder ; but don't you mind that. He's a
bit of a crank when he's sober, and don't you mind
that. When he's drunk he's either for cuddling a
chap or shooting him ; and he'll chuck his money
away, or fight for other fellows' pocket-books at
poker, like a Piute Indian after a wounded scalp.
That's Boss Drummond to his boots, you bet ! "

"I don't bet," I said.

Oh, you don't," he replied. "What do you call
cornering in pork ? "

Dealing in hogs," I said, smiling, for he had
thrust a bundle of notes into my hand.

"You'll do," he said. "Hard money is better
than profits in paper ; silver licks pork ; I've tried
both. Give my love to Boss Drummond; tell him
Man waring Wilkesss is your friend — good luck to
you — and tell me how you get on."

And so we parted ; he, as he said, for his " sweet
a home as ever you see," at Tombstone City ; I for
the Rockies, and the scene of the last fight between
the reds and whites at Drummond's Gulch.

CHAPTER IT.

i make the acquaintance of the boss of drummond's
gulch.

^'Do I know Man waring G. Wilkesss, youngster?
Why', 5^es^ I know ' Manny AYilks/ and that's the
same fellow's said a bronzed athlete, in canvas
trowsers and a red shirt, standing in the doorway of
^' The Castle' as the local bar-room was called.

Here is a letter from him' I said.

^' ' Dick Drummond, the Boss of Drummond's
Gulch" read the athlete, repeating the address on
the envelope. " Yes, that's what they call me ; that's
my nickname."

I met Mr. Wilkesss at Chicago," I said, '' and
he was good enough to say that — "

He is a friend of mine," interrupted the boss, ashe
opened my letter. *' That is so, and if he wants
me to prove it, he has only to say so. eve are chums
in a way, and like each other. He was one of the
first in at Tombstone; I was the first here. That
gives us a sympathetic affinity, as you would put it,
being a scholar — "

While he was talking he was reading my letter.

One of them college chaps, he sa3^s you are.
"Well no matter whether its true or a lie ; you are
welcome on this letter' he said.

"\ was educated at Oxford, but couldn't take a
degree' I said, " and I don't want to be considered
a scholar, nor anything more than a labourer ; I want
to work and earn money."

' Make him your secretary — that's the idea,' your
introducer says," the boss replied. " What do I
want with a secretary ? But there, come in. Have
some lunch ? Is this your trunk ? "

"Yes, I'll have some lunch' I said, *sand that's
my trunk."

Here, Lady Ann," said the boss, to a middle-aged
woman who was leaning on a shapely elbow
that rested on a rough counter, '^ what can you do
for my friend ? "

What can you do for him ? is more to the point, I
should say' she answered, without moving.

*^ I can pay for anything he wants and for all you
can do for him," was the quick reply. " Can he
sleep here ? "

"No, he can't," she answered.

'anyhow, you can give him some lunch, and
I'll have some, too."

'^ Jim ! '' she screamed, still without moving ;
'' lunch for the boss and his friends

A negro appeared and laid a napkin upon a small
table in a corner of the bar-room. Upon the napkin
he placed glasses of ice water (it is a very long way
from civilization on the American continent where
you cannot get ice)^ a dish of pickles, another of
crackers, two pats of butter, some strips of corned
beef, a box of sardines , and a piece of cheese.

'* A bottle of wine' said the boss.

Lady Ann beckoned Jim, and pointed to a cupboard
on her side of the counter. He opened it, took
out a bottle of champagne, uncorked it, filled two
glasses, and placed them before the boss and myself.

Won't you honour us ? ^' asked the boss, turning
to the lady, and at the same time directing Jim to
bring another glass.

'*I^11 put my lips to it'' she said, languidly;
^' here wee go''

As she raised the glass to her lips we lifted ours,
and repeating her salutation, "here we go' all three
of us tossed off the wine.

'this lordship out?" inquired the boss, inviting
me in dumb-show to fall to.

Gone to the hut with the whisky you ordered ;
it came by the stage''

Then without further remark, but in response to
the sound of voices high in quarrel in an adjoining
room, she disappeared.

There's a pharos bank inside' said my host,
'rand she keeps the boys quiet. Lady Ann's the
only woman in the Gulch. They call me the boss,
but she ^s the boss""

''A fine woman, and has been beautifully I said.

*' Yes, quite celebrated, I believe, as a girl in New
York, and was a Queen in her way among a certain
set in Frisco," he said.

*' You call her Lady Ann ? " I remarked inquiringly.


"Her husband is Sir Thomas Montgomery — so
the story goes — a real sweet little thing, as she sometimes
says herself — a young English baronet, who
was obliged to leave his own country within a year
of coming into his title. It is quite a romance in its
way ; he is a mild, blonde, simpering youth, a good
deal of a fool, but recites poetry like an angel, and
writes it too, sometimes. We call him Sir Tommy,
oftener Tommy, and he is quite a character in his
way. She took a fancy to him at Frisco, and he to
her ; so much so, that he proposed to her and married
lier. The miners came in for miles to the wedding
right over the mountains from Freestone, over the

Lowland Pass, from Libertine, and I don't know
where ; and the fun was kept up for a week. Two
funerals finished it, though the row was over poker,
and had really nothing to do "with the wedding.
Manny Wilkesss took an interest in the pair. It was
through him they came here. They had ten thousand
dollars, which they invested in Revenge Shares,
and the only bar-room and gambling saloon that we
sanction here. Lady Ann has no rival ; all the men
worship her, and her word is law'

When her ladyship returned from quelling the
disturbance, I took quiet opportunities to glance at
her in a furtive, respectful way. She was, I should
say, a woman of thirty-five, an oval face, olive complexion,
dark wavy hair, a large mouth, blue eyes, a
trifle bloated as to figure, a woman whose life was
told in her face ; a blighted flower, a handsome
creature who had been born under a malignant star ;
a child of the gutter who, snatched out of vicious
surroundings when young, might have been a brilliant
woman of Society.

She was expensively dressed in grey silk decorated
with crimson ribbons, her dark wavy hair bound
close to her head. It was her clear blue eyes
that impressed you at first sight of her; they were
an incongruity, but a fascinating incongruity, taken

into account with her olive complexion and her black
hair.

They'll get to shooting," she said, as she leaned
once more on the counter, '' * Ugly Sam ' and ' Bill
Hicks '' she said. " ' Sam ' had his iron out, and
the other would ha bin there right away if I hadn't
gone in. I can always be at their elbows. '^

I wouldn't try," said the boss ; " if they would
only guarantee to kill each other outright when they
begin I think we could spare them."

*'I hate shooting' she answered.

*^ So do I, but it makes a change ; gives the boys
something to talk about," said the boss.

Then turning to me, he said, "You'll find the
Gulch rather dull."

"Oh, I don't know that; you can make it lively
sometimes, nobody more so""

You think so, Lady Ann ?^' he said.

"I guess he's been telling all about me; I can
draw his picture for you, mister," she said.

Ah, you flatter me," he said, smiling ; " but let
me have another bottle first. '^

^•' Jim," called the hostess.

The darker came, and the boss, raising his glass,
said, " Kerens to your ladyship's

"And 'here we go,^ "cried she; but she refused

to drink more than one glass ; " and you know I
only take it out of politeness," lie said, "just to
sweeten the bottle, as my little Tommy says'

Now for my picture ! " said my host ; ^* as our
new comer must share the hut with me, at all events
for a day or two, he may like to know what his hostis
like."

Why don't you introduce him ? I thought you
Englishmen were all such hands at what Tommy
calls ceremonial."

I beg your pardon, Lady Ann," said my host,
with somewhat of a sarcastic air. " Let me present
to you — "

Here he thrust his hand into his pocket, and
pulled out Wilkesss's letter, and having looked into
it, he continued, —

Permit me the honour of presenting to you Mr.
Hickory Maynard, a friend of our friend Man waring
G. Wilkesss, Esq., of the Tombstone Solid Bank."

I rose and bowed.

'^ That will do. Mister Sarcasm ; I only wanted
to know his name."

*' Hickory I am called by my friends," I said.

'* Very well, then, Hickory, I don't envy you.
Dick Drummond is the devil."

Thank you," said Dick.

More or less of a crank when he's sober, and he
ain't full to-night; he's crazy outright when he's
drunk. I ain't going to say a word afore his face
that I wouldn't say behind his back."

Go on, Lady Ann, you are always original,"
said the boss.

*' And a truth-teller," she said.

Yes, I will own it ; though the truth should not
always be told."

'' Tell it and shame—"

'' Me ? " said Dick.

And shame the old '■ un " she went on. *' Some
men ought never to drink."

'' Where would the ^ Castle ' be then ? " asked
Dick.

*bust!" she exclaimed; 'rand a good job too.
I don't want to stay in it. Sir Thomas and me
could do without it, and would, onlj^ it gives him
occupation, poor little chap ; he'd go wrong if he
was idle, and I'd go wrong if I didn't live among a
crowd as wants keeping in good order and having
an example set 'em."

By Jove, it's true' said the boss ; '^ but goon,
tell Hickory what I'm like when I am a nice
example."

'^ A fiend, a regular crank as nobody can do

anything with,'^ she said. '^ It's a word and a blow
with some boys, it's a blow and a word with you.
Your pistol first, your remarks after ; that's you."

'' I'm a brute, eh ? "

Yes, a brute ; and yet you're mostly right. As
I say to Tommy, he's a beast, but the others is
generally in the wrong ; though I have heard some
of the boys say they'd rather have him on the drunk
than on the sober lay, when he sulks and has the
blues, and goes prowling about like a bear with a
sore head."

A sore heart, Lady Ann," said the boss, ^^ would
be a better simile."

^' Well, a sore heart if you like, and grinding his
teeth, and walking miles on miles, and staring at
the mountains, and looking like a man as has held
two pairs, and been blushed out of the pot by a
broken vengeance. Tommy say's you've something
awful — Jimcful, he saj^s, bless his ignorance — on your
mind."

*' Tommy's right," he answered. " Out of the
mouths of babes is the truth spoken."

'indeed!" she said. 'tommy's no babe; the
Gulch hasn't put his courage to the test ; I guess
whenever it does he'll be found all there, just as his
ancestries was at Agincourt, you bet."

I believe it/^ said Dick '^ though 1 am a brute
with a blow aud a word , and I know Tommv'a a
deuced sight braver than I am.'^

1 don't say that by a large majority' she
answered.

^•Butl do''

What ! and the Gulch is called after you 'cause
you won it with your blood, just as Tommy's
ancestries did old England. Go on, boss, you can't
drag compliments out of Lady Ann that fashion."

*necesse est facere symptom, qui querist
lucrum " said Dick, surprising me by his burst into
the classics not more than he surprised Lady Ann.

'' Well?" she said. '^ Now, sir , he is getting ugly."

I looked at her inquiringly.

^^ He'll call for whisky next," she said, " and he'll
not have it to-night."

Dick smiled grimly and emptied his glass.

Well, give it a name. What's your Double
Dutch mean ? Sir Thomas is not here to tell me."

''I beg pardon, Maynard ; a fellow who quotes
Latin is a cad ; I have always noticed it, but I have
memories, and they break out into the words of a
dear old scholar, who was my only friend."

Don't mumble, or I shall go away. Now, hurry
up, and translate that gibberish."

VOL. I. F

'^ It means that a fellow canst expect to win
anything unless he stakes something. We cooled
our lives in the Gulch and busted the Indian bank.
That is my reply to jour compliment, Lady Ann.^'

'^ Then why didnH you say so ? Ah ! here comes
Sir Thomas; I hear him swearing in poetry at the
ostler, carry, as he calls him''

*^' Then we'll go home," said Dick, rising.
^' Charge the lunch, give my love to his lordship,
send 'Army up to the hut with Mr. Maynard's
baggage; come on."

He took my arm, and we strode out together into
the sunset.

'^ I believe you are in luck," he said, as we walked
along the rough road. ''I like you; perhaps that'
is good for you — it may be bad ; but if you want
money you are in the centre of the richest fields of
gold, silver, copper, and coal in the world. You
cannot begin to exaggerate its prospects. This
Gulch, which is bursting with silver — yes, bulging
with it — is but an atom in the general sum. And if
I possessed all of it — if it were all coined into
American eagles or English sovereigns, and packed
here to be carted wherever I liked, I would give
every coin of it for an interview of ten minutes
with—"

CHAPTER III.

FROM ^^THE castles TO '' THE Huts

But let us talk of something else's he said stopping
as he was about to speak the name of some
person whom he either loved or hated. ^' I must play
the host better than that. Lady Ann said she pitied
you, because she thinks I am a morose, gloomy,
misanthropical wretch, half crazy when I'm sober, a
fiend when Ism drunk. I will try and be on my
good behaviour as long as you stay at the hut, at all
events. One must not forget all ones good manners
in the remembering of one's miseries, and when weare
outside the pale of civilization, it is a duty we owe
to ourselves to keep our humanity to the fore, eh ? "
The Hut " was Drummer d's log cabin, one of the
roomiest and best furnished in the Gulch. Situated
a short distance up the mountain that overlooked
Indian Yalley, it was protected from the north wind
by an overhanging ledge of rock, and it had an outlook
to the south, where an arm of the Gunnison
river wound round an island that looked like a living

F 2

poem set in gold and silver, so varied were the lights
and shadows tha": fell upon the water, so dream-like
the palms and shrubs that flourished on the laud.
The sun had gone down when we stood at the doorway,
leaving a ruddy glow in the sky, which was
presently mocked, in the darkness that shut in the
hut from the north, b}^ a cloud of fireflies.

An old negro met us at the door.

^^ Whisky and cigars, Wash ! '^ said Dick.

'' Yes, sah.'^

*sand make up a bunk in the parlour for this
gentleman's

'' Yes, sah.''

'"'I have three rooms here," said Dick. '^^ This
one, where I sleep and eat, the parlour, where I
keep my books and things, and the kitchen, where
Washington, my head cook and bottle-washer, has
his turned-up bedstead. I am quite a swell, I can
tell you, in the matter of a home. There is something
of the pride that apes humility in calling it
the 'Hut.' But when Lady Ann insisted upon
calling her whisky shop 'the Castle,' I had no
alternative. For a log cabin, I think, when you see
it, you will say it is not so bad."

And he showed it me at once. Wash having lighted
the candles. The rooms were en suite , Dick's room,

the parlour the kitchen the parlour being set back,
so that there was a passage-way past it from the
kitchen into Avhat mio:ht be called the general
room.

There were a sheet-iron stove in the kitchen, with
an oven and a hot-plate ; a table, two chairs, a
roughly-made cabinet, which contained Wash's bed ;
and on the walls were several dried hams, sausages,
and bags containing corn, herbs, and other articles
of diet ; and on some shelves quite a collection of
tinned meats and bottled fruits.

And here's a refrigerator," said Dick ; " got that
luxury from Gunnison a month ago, and the stage
brings us ice once a week."

The parlour was a small square room, with a few
books on a set of pine-wood shelves ; a collection
of Indian trophies of arms and skins ; a couple of
English rifles, and two pairs of revolvers ; a map of
San Francisco, and two pictures from the Illustrated
London News and Frank Leslie Newspaper filling
up one end of the room, except so far as the bunk or
sofa upon which I was to sleep was concerned.

^' And now let us try Sir Tommy's new tap ; it
is supposed to be very fine."

He pointed to a wooden arm-chair near the stove,
which was cold, the weather being warm, took one

himself, and we sat down. It was a cosy apartment,
partly draped with curtains and skins, a great plaited
straw mat on the floor, the walls being of planed
pinks nailed upon the logs, and giving an air of
finish and comfort to the whole. Two great chests
by the stove were covered with rugs and skins, and
they looked like ottomans. In a small recess there
was a bed, and by the side of it a table with a lamp
upon it and a book.

''^ Ah, you see I read in bed when I caii't sleep ;
sometimes I go down to the river ; sometimes up the
mountain. I have led a queer sort of life here.
When I am a millionaire counted in English gold, I
may leave it for another spell of travel. Oh, yes, I
am a great traveller ; I haven't lived here all my life."

Wash (this, as you see, is short for Washington,
the name of Drummond's negro servant), gave us the
whisky and cigars.

'^''That will do — only one glass to-night, no more.
You can turn in."

'tank you, sail," said Wash.

'* Lady Ann spoke the truth, I do take too much
now and then, but life is unbearable occasionally
and I must — can't help it; but to-night you can do
the drinking and I'll do the smoking. And so you
have come out here to make money ? Well, as I

said before , you have come to the right place, perhaps
to the right man. What can you do ? "

^'^Kide, fish, keep accounts, shoot, telegraph, buy
and sell dry goods, dig — "

'' Well ? "

AVrite an essay, turn a Greek hexameter, take
a hand at poker, join a corner in pork when I've
moneys enough, speculate in fixtures, and come to
griefs"'

Good ! And all for what ? '^

'' To make money."

'^ You are what they would call a mercenary cuss,
eh?"

Yes."

'' You don't look it."

'' I am''

"What's it all about?"

'^ What do you man ? "

"This greed for gold. Is there a woman in it ? "

'' Well, yes, there is."

*' Of course ; one has only to look at you to come
to that conclusion. What is she ? "

There are two."

^' Two ! Then, by Jove, you are lost. One is bad
enough, but two— Heaven preserve you ! for the old
'un cannot, against two of them."

'' One is my mother' I said triumphantly.

Humph ! " he grunted.

*^ And the other, the lady I hope to marry."

^' As bad as that is it ? Well, let us talk of
something else. I had hopes of j^ou ; I thought you
might have been badly treated, and that we could
sympathize with each other, we two exiled Britishers ;
I hoped some woman might have got you into a
scrape — debts you could not pays — or that some
ruffian had come between you, and that you might
be wanting money for the power it gives, to buy
your way to vengeance, or at all events, to best
somebody as they say. But you are only a good,
honest, thrifty young fellow in love, who has come
out here to find the money to buj^ a nest with. Well,
that's all right ; but, there, 3'ou see, I am a bit of a
crank. What can I do for you ? "

'^I don't know. I feel sometimes as if nobody
could help me, feel like going home again and
giving up the struggle. Ah ! Mr. Drummond, you
do not know what a fight I have had."

Don't call me Mister," he said.

"M}^ trouble is not as prosaic as you think, nor
my hopes so simple as you imagine. There is a
ruffian standing between me and my dearest ambition
; that is, if I dare call her father a ruffian.

Indeed, my path is full of obstacles ; tiny own flesh
and blood are against me."

"That is no new thing in men's troubles," he said.
But I have been inhospitable in my remarks. Cheer
uj) ; tell me all about yourself. Can you trust me ?"

^^ Yes, indeed I can' I said.

"My lad, you may; I never wronged man or
woman, and I carry about with me a load of sorrow,
and have in my heart and brain a mission of vengeance
that would have broken up most men. You
may trust me."

He took out of a sheath that lay on the window-seat
a knife that he had laid aside with his belt as
we came in.

There is a knife for the man it is my destiny to
meet and to kill; but you are not he, my friend;
here is my hand for you. I like you, and you are
Manny Wilkess^s friend. He lent me a pile of
money to keep the biggest share of the Revenge
mine in my own hands, lent it without security ; he is
always doing that kind of thing, and has never lost
a penny of it ; and I owe it to him to be kind to you ;
that is all I owe him at the moment, for I've paid
him back that loan, and deposited in his hands over a
million dollars. Yes, I have made money very fast of
late and one day, if I cared to realize my stock, and

but, there ! I don't want to talk about myself I let
us tcilk about you."

He filled his glass twice while he was talking.

*' You heard me say only one to old Avast, but
lie's a nervous old chap, and loves me like a dog, and
I do get drunk now and then, tljat's a truth, but not
on two or three glasses ; don't be afraid. Now,
Hickory, tell me all about yourself. How can I tell
what I can do for j^ou if you don't ? "

^' But you pulled me up so stiffly about women
that I feel embarrassed'

'' Oh, you needn't be."

You feel no interest in any woman ? "

^* Yes, I do, in one; she k a woman now if she be
living, though I only knew her as a child."

'' Indeed ! "

"As a child ; she was my sister."

"Then I envy you; I have no sister, but I have
one of the best mothers in the world."

"And I envy you," he exclaimed, rising from his
seat, " for if my mother stood before me I would
strike her dead ! "

No, no ; don't say that," I replied.

"Well, well," he said, sitting down again and
lighting a fresh cigar, " don't let us talk of me or
mine. I took to you the first minute I saw yo«i ;

/^

and something tells me that it will be good for you
for both of us, that eye should open out our histories
to each other, honestly and true — who we are, what
we do here, why we came, what are our objects in
life — like two men who are going to be partners,
eh ? What do you say to that ? ''

^' I am quite willingly I said.

Then you shall begin. Pire away. To-night
I am in the humour; to morrow things may be
different. Anyhow, count me your friend. One
day I may want a partner, an ally, a comrade —
more than all, a friends''

^' I came to America to make my fortune, as I
have already said.'^

^' And, you will, I feel surest'

That I may marry the girl to whom I am
engaged''

Of courses'

I am that unfortunate j^oung man, the younger
son of an aristocratic family My father was a
spendthrift. He left his estates heavily mortgaged.
My eldest brother was a true Maynard ; he followed
in his father's footsteps. He helped his brothers as
well as he could, but he could not do much more
than jBnd them openings in the Government service.
The youngest of six, I had but little chance, you

may be sure, though somehow, money enough was
begged or borrowed to send me to Oxford. My
mother, bless her heart, had some hopes of me, but
she was very fond of me, and is now. Her love
blinded her to my demerits. I had no head for
academic learning. I was plucked, and snubbed by
everybody in consequence, except her. She has a
small income settled upon her in such a way that
she cannot part with it, and she lives on it with an
old, trusty servant in Doughty Street, Mecklenburg
Square, London. I parted with her there eighteen
months ago for two years, hoping to return a rich
man's

*' Did you hear Lady Ann call us the wolf and
the lamb''

"No."

"She did. She is a woman of observation, but
there was more of the lion than the lamb in that
promise of yours. Well ? "

You see, I was in love, and it's astonishing
what courage being in love gives to a young
fellow."

"Yes, I suppose it does," he answered, looking at
me in a curious, puzzled wa3\

She's the most delightful creature in the world ;
true as steel, good as gold — "

//

Hold hard, Ned/^ he exclaimed ; " all women
are that until you find them out. Go on with your
story, but don't trouble to throw in testimonials as
to characters

One would think you had been in love yourself,
and had had a disappointment."

*^ I was in love when I was a lad, a lad of about
ten."

With your sister?" I asked, smiling.

^' Yes, with my sister," he said. " She was several
years younger than me. But, there, go ahead. I'll
try and like that young lady of yours because I like
you. What's her name? There! see what an
interest I am taking in her."

^* Margaret Willoughby," I answered.

He repeated the name, turning it over, as it were,
reflectively on his tongue.

"She is an actress — against her will, though.
Her father is a bad lot, I'm afraid'

'margaret Willoughby," said my host. "Yes,
it is rather a pretty name."

You see, when I was plucked, I went to London
and lived with my mother; but I insisted on doing
something for a living, and, indeed, it was necessary
that I should do so. But my brothers cut me
because I took a clerkship in a merchant's office. I

was not going to be a burthen upon my mother. One
of my brothers is in the Guards, another in the
diplomatic service, a third was secretary of Legation.
They all managed to get on pretty well. I earned
two pounds a week in the city ; and through a
friend who was on the Press I used to go to the
theatres a good deal. One night at the Adelphi I
fell in love. She was not a star. She only played
a third-rate part, but I saw nobody else when she
was on the stage, and wanted to see nobody else
when she was off. She was a pretty, grey-eyed,
gentle creature. I went home and thought of her
all night. It seemed as if I ought to pity her,
though why I could not tell, unless it was that I
associated her with the part she played. She was
persecuted in the drama, and lie suffered so sweetly
that I had her troubles, I suppose, in my minds'

'' She was only acting, lad'' said Dick Drummond,
interrupting me. '^^They are always at it. My
mother was one of the loveliest women in the world,
a voice so soft that you would have thought her an
angel — but, there ! what the deuce am I talking
about ? Go on, don't mind me. It doesn't matter.
I can bear it. I've been in training long enough,
3'oung as I am. Talk about the patience of Job —
but, there, keep it up. Hickory, keep it up."

By this time my host was drinking hard, though
he continued to watch me and to listen to me with
unabated interest.

"I went to the theatre the next night again. ^^

"Of course you did; just the thing you would
do''

And the following night also' I continued.
*^ Then my Press friend took me to a tavern after
the play and introduced me to one of the actors,
who said I had better be careful, for the young lady
was a modest, good girl, respected by the company ;
that she had a wretch of a father. The man came
in while we were talking, and I was introduced to
him. A tall, spare, middle-aged person, somewhat
showily dressed, a trifle shabby, but with
several diamond rings on his fingers. !Eitzherbeit
Willoughby, they called him. He did not impress
me favourably, but I made myself as agreeable to
him as I could. I paid for his supper, and also for
hot brandy and water, afterwards. He talked to me
about my family', professed to know my elder
brothers, and hoped for the pleasure of meeting me
again. He generally, he said, came to the ^ Crown '
tavern after seeing his little girl home from
the Adelphi. My heart beat quickly when he
referred to Miss Willoughby', and I said I usually

looked iQ at the ' Crown ' in an evening, though, to
speak the truth, that was the first time I had ever
been in the place'

'' The moment a fellow is in love, as he calls it'
said Dick, '' he becomes a liar, it seems. But that
is human nature, I suppose. Go on, old fellows'

^•' We met at the * Crown ^ many times before I
ventured to tell Mr. Fitzherbert Willoughby how
much I admired his daughter. He was not in the
least offended. He praised her, and said she was
his only solace since his wife's death. They had
once been, he said, in flourishing circumstances, and
had spent several years in foreign travel. His wife
had died abroad. Their daughter was fond of
artistic life, and wished to go on the stage; he
supposed she sought in that occupation occasional
foro-fulness of her mother, to whom she was
devoted. Encouraged by the kind and familiar way
in which he talked of her to me, I told him how
much I should esteem the pleasure of meeting her.
He invited me to come home and sup some night
after the theatre. She generally had supper alone,
he said ; but as I had honoured them by taking
an interest in her career, we would go home together
one nio-ht and have a snack at his chambers. The
niirht came at last."

Yes, it always does' my host remarked, leaning
back in his chair and blowing a cloud of tobacco
smoke up into the oil lamp that hung from a beam
in the roof above us '^ it always does — only a
question of time and patience.'^

VOL. 1. G

CHAPTER lY.

I WISH MYSELF BACK AT CHICAGO.

The next day the boss of Drummond's Gulch maybe
said to have begun his 'bender' as a bout of
drunken dissipation was called in these regions.

We breakfasted at six in the morning. He drank
whisky ; I coffee. He ate crackers ; I did ample
justice to the fried ham and poached eggs which
poor old Wash cooked and served deliciously.

Done mind me,'^ said my host ; '' I am not
eating this morning, Wash will take care of you ;
I canst eat and drink at the same times

Soda water in der frigerator^ Massa Drummond'
said the negro.

^'' Let it stop there."

'' Yes, sah.''

It was a glorious morning. The door of the
hut was wide open. The sun came streaming in.
Whisky seemed quite an anomaly in such a scene.
And the coffee was delicious.

I roast it on de stove, sal, and grind it fresh."

Have tried to make the hut bearable , you see —
and Wash helps rae all he can ; don't you, Wash
you black nigger ! ^'

Yes, sah/' answered Wash ; " but I'se no black
nigger, sal. Fse best cook dis side de E-ockies.'"*

'^ Gret out ! " growled my host, ^^you conceited old
fool."

Yes, sah,'^ said Wash, scuttling away into the
kitchen, and turning round as he left the room to
beckon aside to me.

Dick Drummond lighted a cigar and went into
the open air. Wash returned to me.

'^Be careful ob him, sal, don't contradict de
raassa when de whisky's aboard — good, kind massa
'kept when he's full — deal trouble on his mind,
Massa Drummond — forget himself sometimes — coax
him as you would a kicking mule dem times, sal — "

What the deuce are you mumbling about there,
eh ? '"' Dick exclaimed, coming back. " Get out, you
imp of darkness, or I'll let daylight into sour misbegotten
carcase ! ''

Wash dodged as if he feared a blow, and I saw
him no more until night.

"Let us go into the camp, and see what's going
on," said my host.

We went.

G 2

It took the sun all its time to glorify Drummond's
Gulch in these days — only a few years ago, though
I am told it now bids fair to be as gay and bright a
city as Denver itself. If, as I hear, Gunnison now
boasts two daily newspapers, I see no reason blithe
Indian Yalley should not have blossomed out of
the dust and ashes of a mining camp into banks,
churches, newspaper offices, theatres, and " elegant
houses.'^ I know that Denver rejoices in one of the
most beautiful opera-houses in the world. And what
was Denver ?

But our business is with Drummond's Gulch, the
beginning of a city ; with the budding civilization
of an Indian valley in the mighty heart of the Rocky
Mountains. And to think that this reckless drunken
Englishman at my side should have sown the seed
of a city that is to spread far and wide, rivalling
Leadville, Denver, perhaps Pittsburgh.

A ploughed field, broken into furrows, is not
always a delightful picture ; yet later when the
green wheat is in bloom, and the red poppies gleam
amidst the emerald wealth of it, how splendid it is !
Then is the summer of its days. The honeysuckle
perfumes the adjacent hedgerow. The wild rose
decorates it. The lark sings high up in the heavens,
and all the world looks happy. Later the dark,

uninteresting furrows torn up by the plough have
produced the golden grain. The voices of the harvesters
are heard and the whetting of the sickle.
The larks have reared their families, and by-and-by
the song of the " Harvest Home '^ awakens the
neighbouring echoes.

So this valley of Drummond's Gulch shall change
and be lovely once more, not with foliage and birds,
but with human love and sorrow (for both are close
together), and with the thankfulness of well-paid
labour. The scars you see on the hills, the rended
trees, the broken up rocks, the torn land, the burnt
forest, the bruised and blackened logs, the pathway
thick with dust ; these are the furrows of the miner's
plough, these are the channels of seed, these are the
rough preparations of the city that is to be. And
when the sheriff, the schoolmaster, the parson, and
the newspapers shall take full possession, and the
laugh of happy childhood shall be heard in the extended
streets, then shall the rough pioneers move
on, ffoin": further West.

Providence is no respecter of persons. The
wildest and most reckless of His creatures are His
instruments in founding the great frontier cities.
Gamblers, thieves, disappointed lovers, broken-down
traders, deserters from the army, unhappy sons of

wretched fathers, waifs and strays of cities, outcasts,
murderers, crews as ragged in their morals as in their
clothes, have dug the furrows and sown the seeds of
Kew Colorado, and planted civilized posts along the
picturesque Santa Fe Trail.

It must have struck many a thoughtful man who
has been mixed up with the beginnings of these
American cities, that there is more of good than badin
human nature. The just, if rough, administration
of many a mining camp, would shame the more
pretentious governments of established cities, and
professedly moral communities.

What a strange, wild, unkempt crowd it was that
constituted the population of Drummond's Gulch.
Plaid-looking, sun-burnt men, with long hair ;
bearded Hercules in sombrero hats, gaunt cowboys
from an adjacent ranch; all of them with
their trousers tucked into their long boots, and
knives and pistols thrust into leather belts that
girded their waists ; one of them (a new comer I
was told) wore a great diamond pin, and another a
gold watch-chain thick enough to stall an ox with.

A great company of them were at ^^ The Castle "
when we entered it. They made way for us in a
surly kind of fashion. Lady Ann nodded familiarly
to us. She and Jim and his lordship were busy at

the bar, serving out whisky. All the men seemed
to be talking at once, except when they paused fora
new act related by one of their number who had
brought the news of a great find of silver west of the
Elk Mountains*"

Who is fool enough to listen to Ugly Sam ? "
asked Drummond, stepping up to the bar and ordering
'' whisky, two glasses."

"A heap of us' said a young fellow at my elbow,
and a heap of us won't be sorry to move out of
this hole ! "

'indeed," said Drummond, eyeing him with a
wicked look, "like the dog that scents a boot, eh ? "

'^ What do you mean, Drummond ? " demanded
the other.

What I say, curse you ! " exclaimed Dick, turning
angrily upon him.

Lady Ann was between them before another word
was spoken. She had slipped round the counter and
elbowed her way through the throng on the first
word Drummond had uttered.

'* Now I won't have it!" she exclaimed, '^^if
you've got any extra strength to spare, Dick Drummond,
go and take a pick and have a high old time
in the Revenge ; you shan't do it here I "

'' Shan't ! " he repeated doggedly.

*'!No, nor you either, Tinker Bill ; I have sworn
that if there is another row in this shanty before the
month is out, I quit ! So there ! "

^' Then quit and be hanged to you!" exclaimed
Dick.

^'No , no' shouted the company as one man, and
as one man the crowd drew its weapons.

"Look here"" said a grey-headed man, with a
solemn face, '^^look here, Boss Drummond, I am
sour oldest friend, we all kinder admire you and
look up to you, except when you are on the tear.
And then, by thunder ! we hate and fear you, and
pity you."

*' Curse you, don't pity me — hate me if you like ;
but don't pity me. And if any six of you like to
come outside and shoot — "

A sudden movement in the crowd was checked by
Lady Ann putting her hand over Dick's mouth.

'^ Don't mind him, boys ; you know he'll be right
down sorry for it when he's sober," she said. '' Mister
Schwartz, with the diamond in his shirt, has ordered a
basket of wine in the saloon ; now if you love Tommy
and me, and want us not to pull stakes and move off,
go into the saloon ; and Sir Thomas shall pitch sou
a recitation. There ! Won't j^ou. Tommy ? "

'' Yes, I will truly," said a womanish voice, the

voice of an aristocratic scapegrace, the scion of a
noble race, the tenth baronet of a distinguished
family.

A weak-headed, free-handed, foolish j'Oung man,
Sir Thomas Montgomery, had drunk and gambled
away both means and reputation in England, and
had drifted through several fits of delirium tremens
into the region of the Rocky Mountains ; first onboard
an ocean steamer, secondly, in a private car
bound to the west ; and thirdly, by way of a happy
speculation in San Francisco. Here a wealthy
gentleman who knew his family met him and gave
him a handful of mining stock that saved him from
the gutter; and then he fell into the dirty, but
kindly hands of the lady who nursed him, cured him,
and married him, and became a lady of title.

Below the medium Height, he had fair hair,
parted down the middle, bluish, soddened-looking
eyes, a fair beard, a weak mouth, and a slight
lisp,

Dick Drummond leaned over the bar, drank
whisky, and watched Sir Thomas, in a languid way,
while that dapper young victim of dissipation was
lifted upon a table in the gambling saloon (the door
opened upon the bar and gave us a full view of the
interior), and began to spout, in a by no means

unmusical voice, ^^ Tee Wreck of the schooner

^' This is sour doing," said Lady Ann in an angry-whisper;
'she was on for a spell of good behaviour
until you came'

*' I am. very sorrj^/^ I said.

What do 3'0ii want here, anyhow ? " she asked.

*' No more than that which the others want —
work' I said.

Then go to the new ground they're talking of ;
we don't want you here' she said.

'^ Why not ? " asked my host, looking up, " why
not, my Lady Trumpery."

*^ Don't call me names, Dick Drummond' she
replied, ^''or I may forget myself."

"■ Nothing new in that, eh ? " he said, with a
mocking laugh.

'^ Coward ! " she said, still in a whisper, '' and
brute ; I've saved sour life many a time."

Then turning to me, she said, " He would have
been murdered in his bunk a month ago if it hadn't
been forme. And that's what it will come to sooner
or later if he don't turn up the drink. All the better
for me if he's left me fifty thousand dollars of stock
in the Revenge as he says. But I pity him for
what he's gone through, poor wretch; he used to

tell me and Tommy when first we came about his
miserable life ; but we struck the Gulch when heed
a sober fit on him'

Drummond suddenly pulled himself together, and
stalked out into the road.

Have 3'ou any influence with him ? '^ she asked ;
you seem a poor creature ; why don't you lay hold
on him if you're his friend, take his shooting-irons
out of his pocket, and get him back to the hut,
where he can blow off his gas at Washington ?
D'ye hear ? ^'

I began to wish myself back in Chicago. Being
cornered in pork was better than being knife or
pistolled in Drummond^s Gulch. I went bravely upto
my host nevertheless. He was standing in the
road rocking himself to and fro in an irresolute
drunken way.

'^ You've soon forgotten your friend," I said,
assuming a defiant and angry manner. ^^I'll go
back to the hut and pack."

"Pack?'^ he said, '^ what do you mean. Going
to leave me — think I'm drunk ? "

^^ No, not at all, I think you are inhospitable ; I
want my dinner."

*^ Wash '11 give sou some," he said.

'^ Not alone, 1 won't go without you — come along."

I took his arm, and he moved forward as I stepped
out.

'^ Come along?" he said, smiling in a surprised
and half-am used way.

"Yes, come along," I said, and dragged at him.

Hickory," he said.

'* Yes ? '^ •

^' You're the fellow Nanny Wilkesss sent to me ? "

Yes, come along,^^ I replied.

Yes, come along," he said, echoing me ; " that's
just like her, come along; I can hear her little
voice now, God help her ! ^''

Then he relapsed into silence, but kept up with me
step for step.

'' Plenty to do in the Revenge, she said, eh ? " he
remarked, as we passed the gorge where the trucks
from the mine could be seen, " and they think I
called it that because we got even with the Indians
there ! "

Then he laughed aloud and pulled me up. AYe
both stood still.

Come along," I said, again dragging at his arm.

Did you say you were hungry ? "

les.

Are you living with me ? "

For a day or two," I said ; " come along."

Again he echoed me.

Come along. Yes, I will. Am I drunk?"

'' You were."

Not now, eh ? Can't afford to get drunk."

B}" this time eve were once mare at the door of
the hut. The old negro was sitting on a log in the
sunshine.

"' How long have I been drunk, Wash ? "

"Two weeks' said Wash promptly, and making
signs at me.

'^ Bring the bucket, you black son of Satan."

Yes, sal," said Wash, moving the log on which
he was sitting away from the door.

Mj^ host sat upon the log. The old negro
brought a bucket of water and poured it over
him. Drummond shook himself, closed his e3^es,
and waited for the operation to be repeated three
times.

Wash then helped him to strip and dry himself
with a rough towel, and brought clean dry clothes.
My host rehabilitated himself as if nothing extraordinary
had happened. Wash disappeared for a few
minutes, and then returned, saying, —

Soup ready, massa ! "

Come along," said my host, leading the way into
the hut.

'* Will massa's friend have soup ? "

Yes, thank j'ou," I said.

Drummond sat down before a bowl of rich tomato
soup and drank it not as if he relished it, but as if
he were performing a solemn duty.

When he had finished, he said, —

Two weeks — three would make me as big a fool
as Tommy Montgomery."

Dat's so," said Wash, *^ tank de Lord, massa's
himself again."

I ask your pardon, Hickory Maynard," said my
host, ^' but it's a sort of disease with me."

Talking with Wash later in the evening, I found,
as I expected, that his ^^ two weeks " was a sudden
happy thought.

It came to me to say it as if it was de Lord's
blessed truth," he said ; ^' and it's one ob dem sins
dat de angel glottis out ; isn't dat so ? "

I told him it was, of a certainty.

'^ Come and have a swim before dinner," said
Drummond, ^' it will do us both good, eh ? "

I assented. We scrambled down to the river,
dived and swam and scrambled back again, by which
time my host was the same kindly, if eccentric, person
who had received me into his trim and comfortable
hut the day before.

After dinner, when he had lighted his cigar and
passed the whisky to me, he said, —

Then it's two weeks ago since j^ou told me all
about that thief and his daughter, eh ? Seems tome
as if it were last night. But drink is madness.
The poor wretch in the play was right when he called
it putting an enemy into your mouth to steal away
your brains. But I inherit this vice, as you swells
belonging to swell families inherit the gout."

He reached out his hand for the bottle ; I delayed
passing it.

Don't be afraid. I've had my bender, as they
say. Don't fear for me. One glass after dinner,
one before going to bed, no more for a month. It is
all right."

I passed the bottle.

*' If you are to be my partner, we must understand
each other. Finish that yarn of yours. Do
you think I forget it ? Am I likely to ? You are
the first fellow I have talked to about my sister since
I was last in England ; but go ahead, I know where
you were ; you said the night came at last, and I said
it always does, but it's the waiting for it that breaks
a fellow's heart ! ""

CHAPTER y.

BUT A GREAT CHANGE COMES OVER ^' THE HUT,"
AND I AM GLAD I LEFT CHICAGO.

I CONTINUED the history of my life and troubles my
love and sorrow, my disappointment, my hopes, my
ambition. For a long time mj^ host did not interrupt
me. He watched me with flattering interest, now
and then nodding his head with approval,, now
and then leaving his seat and taking a turn about
the room.

^^ She was more beautiful off" the stage than on," I
said, ^'^but not much more cheerful. Somehow I
found myself pitying her at home just as much as I
pitied her in the play. Her smile was sweet but
melancholy. She did not speak of the stage as if
she liked it.'^

^* Where did she live? '^ he asked, as if he were
putting the question to himself, and speaking in
an absorbed way.

She lived with her father in a suite of chambers
in Buckingham Street, Strand."

Buckingham Street ? ^' he said, thoughtfully ;
'' don't know it. But go ahead, I am interrupting

YOU."

"I was about to refer to the night when her
father invited me home to supper."

'^ Yes'' he said, "I remember! Mr. Fitzherbert
Willoughby — a swell name."

'^ Yery," I replied.

^' His own, of course ? "

'^ Oh, yes."

*' Margaret Willoughby," he said, turning the
name over, as it were, in his mind. '^ Yes, it's a
pretty name."

He was talking to himself. I paused. He passed
the bottle.

Thought you were waiting for a drink," he
said. " Well, you went home with him and her to
supper ; yes — ""

^^ It was a good supper," I continued, ^^ well
served, and almost luxurious. She presided over it
like a queen in disguise. It occurred to me afterwards
that she was also like a queen in captivity
She seemed resigned, but it was as if she were acting
the part of a contentment she did not feel. After
supper we had a hand at cards"*

^^ Did you not talk over supper ? "

VOL. 1. H

Yes.'^

'' What about ? ''

'acting chiefly, I think'

'* JSTot about when she was a child, and the
countries they had seen in their travels ? '^

"No."

Not about Mr. Willoughby's adventures, nor
anything of that kind ? "

'' No, only commonplace talk — if I may call any
conversation commonplace in which she took part.
He said a game at cards was a soothing thing at
alight — just a quiet game. Miss Willoughby declined
to play at first, but I hoped she would, I said,
and after some hesitation she did. In a little while,
however, he said it was time she went to bed, as she
had a rehearsal in the morning. I bade her goodnight.
' Just one rubber, double dummy,' he said,
when she had gone, and the room was to mee a blank,
except for the pleasant memory she had left behind.
AVhen I went home I found that I had lost thirty
shillings. I called the next day formally, and left
cards on father and daughter. I was madly in love.
In less than a week after first speaking to her I
found an opportunity to see her alone. She seemed
glad I had called, and not sorry her father was out.
It w as not my vanity that led me to think so ; love has

keen eyes. In my case it was boll , too. I confessed
how devotedly I loved her, and asked her permission
to propose for her to her father. I told her who
I was, and said my mother should call upon her.
She made no reply, but allowed her hand to rest
quietly in mine, and when I asked for her answer
there were tears in her eyes, and I kissed hers'

'^ Quite rights said my host, not jestingly, but in
an odd, serious kind of way.

And so we were engaged,^^ I continued; "but
she asked me not to tell her fathers

Mr. Fitzherbert Willoughby ? ^' he remarked,
interrogatively, and sipping his whisky.

Yes'' I said.

*' IM like to see that gentleman's he said, emptying
his glass. " 1 kinder hated him at the start ; he's a
bad potato,' as our friend Wilkesss would says Well,
youngster, go on ; don't mind me ; I am taking in
every word you say."

*' It troubled me when she asked me not to tell
her father of our engagement'" I said, continuing
my story, '^ and I wondered at it all the more that I
had no secrets from my mother."

'never mind your mother," he said. '^ I don't
care much to hear a fellow talk about his mother ;
stick to the girl."

H 2

"I am sticking to her," I said, smiling, 'rand
mean to. But I canst keep my mother out of my
stores, and I wouldn't if I could. She is the best
mother in the worlds'

'' She may easily be that' he said, with a cynical
laugh. ''Well?''

I told my mother all that had passed," I continued,
"including our engagement and my determination
to marry Margaret Willoughby. I asked
my mother to call on her ; she refused"'

Yes, of course," commented my host.

She said she would never consent to my marriage
with an actress. But I induced her to go to
the theatre. After that you may be sure I persuaded
her to go a step further."

'' But she did not," said my host to himself.

Yes, she did/^ I answered.

Well, go ahead ; don't mind what I say. I'm
not much of an authority, perhaps, on mothers."

'^ My mother called on Miss Willoughby,'^ I
continued, "and then I suppose my friend of the
tavern began to realize that I was indeed serious in
ray admiration of his daughter. I learnt afterwards
that he went round and made inquiries into my
financial condition and prospects. One day he met
me as I was going home from the city. He invited

me to have a few minutes' chat, and took me into an
obscure bar. There, in a fierce whisper, he asked
me what I meant in regard to his daughter. I said
I should like his permission to marry her when I
could afford to set up housekeeping. He said I had
his permission to go and hang myself He knew
the sort of loafer I was — one of those needy swells
who married actresses and lived upon their earnings.
I tt»ld him that if he were not her father I would
make him apologize on his knees. He said if I
dared to enter his rooms again — ^'

And you didn't shoot him ! " exclaimed my host.

'^ We don't carry pistols in London ; and he washer
father — at least, I thought so then."

** And was he not ? " asked my host, pushing his
glass aside, and opening his eyes wide.

'' No."

'' Not her father ! What relation, then ? "

Her step-father, I suppose."

^^ Suppose!" he said, repeating my words excitedly
; " suppose ! "

'' Yes."

"Don't you know ? "

"I don't."

"What of her mother?"

^' Dead. I told you so at the outset''

'' Very well, go on ; sorry I interrupted you' he
said, leaning back in his chair again, and relighting
a cigar , which he had been chewing rather than
smoking.

^^ Not at all/^ I said ; " your interruptions are
complimentary ; they show how much my story
interests you/^

That's all right' he replied. ^^ Her name was
Margaret, you said ? ''

^^Yes."

Did he ever call her Maggie ? ''

^'No/'

^^XorMeg?''

^^No."

'' never ? "

:Nevers'

*^ She was christened Margaret," he said, as if
speaking to himself, ^^ though we called her Meg,
except when we called her Maggie."

'* What were you saying? '' I asked.

^' Oh, nothing — nothing. You set me thinking
of the days when I was a boy."

^* Then my story no longer interests you ? "

^* Oh, yes, it does. Do j^ou believe in fate ? "

*^ Yes, in a way""

*' Do sou believe in predestination ? ''

'^ Do you believe that an infernal rascal gets
punished in this world, as a rule ? '^

'' No''

'^ I sometimes don't' he said, crossing his legs,
and nursing his foot in a reflective way; "sand yet
if a fellow sows tares, he reaps tares ; and the same
book says that a man who lives by the sword, shall
die b}'' the sword, which is a bad look-out for us who
have snatched our inheritance by fire and sword
from the original Indian possessors. It's all a
muddle, I fear, as the poor fellow in the novel says
all a muddle. And yet—"

'' Well, and yet what ? "

^' I cannot help thinking that considering the
diabolical wrong a certain villain has done me, my
claims to vengeance are so great that he cannot
escape me ; and that if instead of hunting him allover
the world, I had sat down in one spot and
waited, he would have come along in due time to
have me tear his heart out."

He rose and strode about the room, and then sat
down again, nursing his foot, which he moved about
in a curious way, that suggested both cunning
and passion. I don't know why I thought so at the
time, but I did.

I think I believe that a wicked or brutal action
brings its own punishment."

"In this world''

Yes, and in the next'

'' Oh, you believe in that, do you ? '*

- Yes."

"And how is the punishment to come in this
world without an agent ? "

"The Euler of all will see to that."

You think so ? "

Yes."

And that a man may be called, as they say, todo
the work of the Ruler of all ? "

I think so, but not to commit a crime."

Oh, and what do you call crime ? Do you
define crime as the law does ? "

Yes, according to the laws that are human, and
the laws that are Divine."

"Ah ! and you would always call killing murder?"
he asked, twirling his right foot as it hung carelessly
over his left leg.

"Yes."

"Ah, we have a different law here, where self-protection
is the order of the day, and where we
judge as they did in the old days before professional
lawyers and paid judges took w^ the reins between

them. Now, supposing I go down to the * Castle,'
even if I am ever so drunk, insult that woman there,
outrage the hospitality of her husband, although he
is of no account as some would say, do you know
what the boys would do to me ? Shoot me like a
dog ! .And serve me right ! Do you think it is the
innate virtue of man that protects a woman right
through these regions beyond the pale of law ? No ;
sometimes it is the certainty of the death that follows
outrage that makes gentlemen of the entire gang.
No, my boy, killing is no murder in many a case.
But enough of that ; did you say this Willoughby
was tall, polite, sandy, with a grand sort of air,
conceited, cunning, with light eyes, a mouth like a
vice, eh ? ''^

"He is tall," I answered, " his hair is a light red,
he has a moustache and imperial of the same colour,
his eyes are a bluish grey, his manner is cold and
haughty — a calculating manner — and his mouth
what you can see of it underneath his moustache, is
somewhat coarse'

'•^Not thin lips''

I think not. I should say a rather coarse, ill-shaped
mouth''

"Ah, indeed," commented my host; "but a
haughty manner ? '

*^ An insolent manner would perhaps be a more
truthful description' I said.

Yes, so it would' remarked my host, as if he
had in his mind the picture I had drawn of Mr.
Fitzherbert Willoughby.

^^ A harsh voice'' I continued, " and with an
affected, hesitating manner of speaking."

I don't remember that, yet you seem to recall a
face and a man 1 hate. Would you call that manner
of his a distinguished manner — in the common
acceptation of that ambiguous phrase ? "

No ; insolent, impertinent — the manner of a
snob, not the harmless snob but the snob who may
have worn a gown at Oxford and disgraced it — a
malicious snob ! "

You hate him ! " exclaimed my host, with a
certain malignant tone of satisfaction in his voice.
I do not love him'' I replied.
No, who could ? " he remarked ; " and set she
but we will not speak of that. And after all this
news of sours, as I interpret it is too good to be true.
I must be mad to think that such an accident as
your meeting Wilkesss could bring you here with
the clue I am for ever seeking. No, no; Washy
has not doused the drink out of me ; and I'm
dreaming — a 'whisky dream' as Lady Ann would

call it. Yet many a thing has been brought about
by accident ; many a discovery has been made by a
fluke. Is it not so ? ^'

\, *^Yes,'^ I said; '^ the mines that have enriched
San Francisco, for instances

'' And the silver of this regions replied. " The
first pioneers sought gold, didst find it, and walked
all over the silver they are now minting into currency.
That is so. Did Miss Willoughby ever — '*

He went to the doorway as if to collect his thoughts.

I fear I have started painful memories ; let us
not talk any more about my petty hopes and fears."

Did Miss Willoughby ever speak of her mother ? ''
he asked, not heeding my remark.

^' Oh, yes ; several times. But it always struck
me that she did so in a constrained manner ; on
account of her being dead, I always concluded'

*^ Did she speak of any other relation ? '*

** She said she had no relation in the world. She
had a brother when she was a little girl, but he was
long since dead'

But her mother ? What did she say about her
mother ?"

"Nothing that I remember in particular at the
time I am telling you of; but just before we parted
in London she made a strange and somewhat sad

communication to me. But you are confusing me a
111 tie. Let me finish, and then ask me any further
questions afterwards. The interest you take in my
affairs makes me anxious to tell you all. It is a
pleasure to me to unburden myself to you, since
you take in me the interest of a friend""

^'^ How long have we known each other?" he
asked, laying his hand on mine.

About twenty four hours' I replied.

'^ It seems years. Go on with your story. Something
tells me that I have a place in it. I may be
wrong, stupidly wrong. My fancies may only be
whisky after all ; but go on, I won't put sou out
any more''

'^ I found it difficult," I continued, ^^ to meet her
after that ; but my press friend managed it for me.
He was a critic on one of the journals, and had not
only the influence that belongs to a clever pen, but
the influence that belongs to cultivated and educated
manners, the influence that belongs to a gentleman.
He brought her to my mother's house at Doughty
Street, for I had confessed all to my mother, who,
though at the outset she was inclined to oppose my
wisheSjConsented to see the girl and give me her candid
opinion of her and my desire that she should one day
be my wife. My mother fell in love with her almost

at once. That was a great comfort to me. I had a
scheme for making a fortune. A young fellow in our
office had gone out to America. Soon after his arrival
there , he gave up the business about which he went
out, and joined some men who were going to the gold
diggings. He wrote and invited me to come out.
Before I had time to answer him I received another
letter, saying that if I would come he would help
me with money and advice; he was part owner of a
profitable claim, and hoped to bring home twenty
thousand pounds. I made a proposition to Margaret
and to my mother. I would go out, I said, and if
they would give me two years I would come back and
marry. Margaret gave me at once her pledge to
wait; and also, if anything happened which should
give her the need of a home, she would accept the
shelter of my mother's house. But she said I must
have her father's consent. She knew how he had
insulted me ; nevertheless, I must put up with that
for her sake ; she had special reasons for asking it.
We were alone when she said this, alone in the little
dining-room at Doughty Street. I shall never forget
that pleasant time. It seems like a dream, with a
strange romance in it. We sat together ; her hand
rested in mine, and we talked of the day's when I
should return home, and it would not be necessary for

her to act any more, but that we would live a quiet,
peaceful, happy life."

'but her father, this Willoughby," interrupted
my host once more, '^ said she liked acting

That was not true," I answered. '^^ He forced her
upon the stage. He made that a means of courting
the patronage and society of a certain class of fifth-rate
nobility. He received her salary and lived by
his wits. He accepted questionable invitations for
her, and she promised that if necessary she would
leave him, declare he was not her father, and seek
my mother's protection. But, somehow, he exercised
a peculiar fascination over her, and she was onlj^
brave when he was not presents'

*^ You shouldn't have left her, by heaven 3'ou
should ! '^ said my host. '' But go on to the end,
I said I would not interrupt you''

"That is the end, I fear, unless you want an
account of my failures on this side of the Atlantic.
They began when I landed in New York, with news
of the bankruptcy and death of the fellow-clerk who
had induced me to come out."

Don't mind him — he is all right. When a
fellow's dead there is no more to be said ; he is not
to be pitied, for he is at rest ; it is those whom he
leaves behind who suffer ; they only are entitled to

pity. Let us keep to Doughty Street for awhile
longer. Did she not say anything about the terms
on which they lived, her mother and this man — this
step-father ? ^'

'^ I gathered that they were not happy together,
and that they led a mysterious kind of life , going
from place to place, and meeting curious people.
Once they spent several months in Vienna. I don't
know much about such things, but I would not be
surprised if Willoughby' was at that time employed
as a Russian sj)y. The Czar, I know, has all kinds
of people at work for him in Europe. One of ni}^
brothers is in the diplomatic services

But Russia pays well, eh ? "

I suppose so''

*^ Yet this Willoughby is evidently hard up, or
was when last you saw him ? ^^

'■'■ He may have been kicked out of the Russian
services' I suggested.

*' Would he not then have sold himself to some
other government, or to the police ? ''

"He is a gamblers' I said ; sand even cheats, I
observe, have their ups and downs.''''

That's true," he said; "and Margaret is very
pretty ? "

Yes/^ I said ; " not the mere prettiness of pretty

features, but the prettiness — the beauty that belongs
to a kind hearty the sweetness that comes from pure
thoughts in spite of foul surroundings ; the sweetness
of a rose blooming among nettles ; a flower of
rare colour and perfume, that makes a pure world of
its own, however much it may be crowded with
tares. Have j^ou not seen such in a neglected
garden ? ^'

** Yes, yes/^ he answered ; *^ in a neglected
gardens

Then, rising again from his chair, he walked
about the room, went to the door and opened it fora
moment, the I'ain beating in upon him. There
was a strange light in his eyes as he turned towards
me when he closed the door, and a more or less
elevated expression in his face.

"For the rain it rained every day' he said,
standing by the table, and looking at me. *' Did
you ever hear that other song beginning 'I had a
flower within my garden growing ?^ A poor, hard-up
wretch, a broken-down fellow, in Denver, sung
it outside a bar-room one evening, and set me
thinking of a garden I once knew, with a lovely
woman and a happy father and two little children
in it, and roses and sunshine and a dear friend ; and,
by Heaven ! I was not sober for two weeks afterwards.

A wolf in sheep's clothing came into that
garden — . But there go on, old chap, let us get
back to that curse of the world, Fitzherbert
Willoughby."

He sat down again in an attitude of attention, but
with a face that had, it seemed to me, suddenly lost
its colour.

Go on, partner, I am listening' he said ; ''' go
on''

VOL. I.

CHAPTER YI.

A STRANGE DISCOVERY.

But you are not drinking I said " and your
cigar is out."

'that's all right, my friend. I came across his
track twice, only twice, once in Paris, once in San
Francisco ; on those two occasions I had a strange
beating here '^ (laying his hand on his heart), ^'aud
here '^ (pressing his hand upon his forehead). "I
had the same sensation when I led my men into my
first fight with the Indians ; the same when I struck
my pick into the vein of ore that feeds the Revenge
mine; and I feel it now, I feel it now."

'^ Over-excitement," I said.

'* Maybe,'^ he replied. " I thought it might be
drink — it isnH. It is a token of success, a forecast
that nature has a sign for. It is one of those
mysterious signals that j^ou only get to understand
by being alone in the world — alone and a brooder ;
alone and a believer in omens ; alone and a student
of nature. Now, Hickory Maynard, let us get to the

end of this long lane. I said you ought not to have
left her with that beast. Perhaps I was wrongs

It was only at the last moment that I learnt
all : when my trunks were packed ; when my
passage was taken, and it seemed as if there
was nothing else to be done; then I think
she told me all to nerve my arm, and make it
stronger

^' She would know best, God bless her ! ^' said
Dick; "no doubt she would. But I wouldn't have
left her had I been vou.'^

'^ Don't say that, friend. I would have only been
too glad to stay by her sides

'* What did she say at last, then, about her
mother ? "

*' I went to her father, and, in spite of his rudeness,
I told him I had a prospect of wealth, that I
was going abroad for two years, and that I wanted
his permission to correspond with his daughter with
a view to marriage at the end of that time, should
ray financial position be satisfactory to him. ^ I
give my consent he said, in his pompous way,
'young sir, I give my consent — ^ "

Go on ; imitate him — imitate him ! ^' exclaimed
Dick. '' Is that how he talked ? ''

*' Yes, something like it' I said.

\ 2

*' By heaven ! you have no idea how you Interest
me — what hopes you fill me with. Go on ; go on/^

'' On this condition, sir ; that there is nothing so
binding between you that shall,, ah, prevent my
eiiorag-ine: her hand to another in the meantime; if
you succeed in, ah, your views," and make a fortune,
which I shall take leave to doubt, for I know something
of the land of the West, sir, as the song has
it, and don't think much of it, ah, no, sir; but do
your best. You have letters, you say, important
letters ; well, I wish you success, and I am sure
we understand each other. You are free, Miss
Willoughby is free, I am free'*

And yet you left her ! " my host exclaimed
again.

''I had no alternative. You seem to doubt my
love ; you don't doubt my courage. The greatest
act of heroism I ever committed was in leaving her,"
I said.

'^ And that is how he talked, eh ? Lofty, was he ?
And he had been on this side, had he ? "

** He led me to believe so.'^

"And she— had she''

"I suppose not, or she would have said so''

'^Ah, I daresay I am wrong altogether. She said
something very important the day you parted ? "

Yes."

'* What was it ? Did she ever talk of the time
when, she was very little, before that brother
died?^'

^' No."

"Not how they played together, and how they
were separated ? "

"No."

God have mercy on me ! I shall go mad ! " he
exclaimed.

I beg your pardon' I said. "I am distressing
you."

No, no ; you canst see where my wild dream is
carrying me. Did she say nothing more — nothing
about me ? "

About you ! " I exclaimed.

^' No, how could she," he said ; and I feared I was
about to have an experience of that other phase of
my host's character, which was described by Lady
Ann — a crank when sober — for I had had evidence
of the possibility of his fiendishness when drunk.

Of course not," he said, sitting down again and
composing himself; "but do you mind telling me
all about that last interview, because with that
throbbing of my heart I told you of has come into
the sympathetic throbbing of my head the conviction

that I know Miss Willoughby and her so-called
father'

'^ Is it possible ? '^ I said.

*' Perhaps' he replied ; " for, as we have already
both admitted, everything is possible to him who
waits'

He was very calm, and had lighted another cigar,
so I finished my story ; and it was time, seeing that
the cuckoo clock in Wash's kitchen cooed the hour
of twelve.

'the day we parted she said — shall I tell you
every word? We were standing in the room
where I first saw her; he had consented to our
leave-taking. ' You have no reason to fear I shall
not be true and faithful, no matter what he says.
For my sake you have humbled yourself to him , and
I am glad you have done so , for I may now sometimes
mention your name. Moreover, if you should
come back rich, he will keep his word. If you
should come back poorer than you are now, that will
make no difference to my plighted troth ; always
supposing, dear, that you continue in the sane
mind.'

I could only say, ' JNIy darling,' for my heart was
too full.

"rand don't be afraid," she continued, 'that he

Till coerce me to do anything you might object to.
He is not my father, and, if it becomes necessary, I
will leave him and declare it. When my mother
died, she told me that her husband and ray father
died through an accident when I was a child ; that
his name is not Willoughby ; that he is not a goodman.
She was about, I think, to tell me m}^ father's
name and his, but her strength failed her, and she
never spoke again. So you see said my poor little
sweetheart, ' if sou marry me you will marry an
orphan, and a nameless one, for God knows who I
am, I do not.'^^

"Lord help her!^^ exclaimed Dick Drummond,
"no. But I do''

"You''

Yes, I," he said. " Give me your hand. Hickory
Maynard ; you shall not only be my partner, you
shall be my brother. You are engaged to wy
sister ! "

Ihxxi IH.

CHAPTER I.

IN THE SHADOW OF A CRIME.

I SHALL sleep to-night, partner — brother that is to
be' said my host ; " sleep as I have not slept since
I was a boy'

He paced the room — not hurriedly, but in a quiet,
contented way — and talked as he walked.

*' I feel like a man who has been making a long
journey, and who, having the goal well in sight, goes
to bed, knowing that he can reach it comfortably
before noon the next day. When a fellow has lived
alone for years, with one idea, one desire in his mind,
he gradually grows out of sympathy with the world,
except in so far as it can help him in his enterprise,
whatever it may be. Sometimes I have wondered
whether I should end my life in a workhouse or a
gaol, or on the gallows. Don't be afraid. You
look anxious; you are concerned for me, my boy."

I am, yes, hearing you talk so wildly. '^

'^ It does me good that you feel so ; it gives me a

foretaste of the pleasure I count upon in making
you. and her happy — my sister Maggie, my brother
Hickory You are religious, are you not ? I heard
you praying last night, and I can tell you are religious
by the way Washington has taken to you."

"I always pray'" when I go to bed' I said. '' It
is a habit with me, as much as a religious exercise."

'but you believe — as they say, you have faith ? "

I hope so."

I try to sometimes," he said, pausing to look
down upon me, for I sat quietly in my chair while
he paced the room ; *' but I always feel as if that
old Satan who warred with Heaven has still a hand
in the government ; as if, like Homer, the King
nodded and let Satan get his hand in again ; as if
the King gave His old foe a respite now and then —
unchained him and let him have his fling ; otherwise,
how can you account for the infernal things that
happen ? Do j^ou really believe with Pope that
Heaven

Sees with equal eyes, as God of all,
A hero perish, or a sparrow fall ? ' "

Yes,'"' I said ; " but, at the same time, when you
quote these lines, you should remember the context
which claims that ' Heaven, from all creatures, hides
the Book of Fate, all but the page prescribed

their present state.' Otherwise, as he says — for I
remember the passage to which you refer —

' Who could suffer being here below?

The lamb the riot dooms to bleed to-day,
Had he thy reason, would he skip and play ?
Pleased to the la-^t, he crops the flowery food,
And licks the hand just raised to shed his blood.' "

That is so ; but it proves nothing. To my mind,
it wo aid be a fairer contract between Heaven and
man if we had some sort of agreement and understanding
as to what we had to carry', what todo,
what to suffer in this life. We come here
without choice, our sanction is not asked, we suffer
or are happy, we are poor or rich, ignorant or learned ;
we are sickly or strong, mad or sane, no questions
asked; and we become meet for Heaven or hell, just
the same, without a ' by-your-leave,' or what not.
And yet a sparrow does not fall without sanction,
sou say ; I can't take it in, for the life of me. And
I have tried, too — tried hard and prayed. ^^

*' You are touching upon great problems," I said,
^* that I make it a point not to discuss. For ni}^ part,
I accept my life for what it is worth, and I do not
quarrel with its surroundings, though to me they
have been hard and sour. I have faith in things
coming right. I think it is good for men to be

o

tried by adversity, to go through the fire, to remember
how much more the Redeemer of the world
suffered than anything they can suffer. I accept the
conflict, and the corner of the great battle of life iu
which it is my lot to fight, and I go on trusting and
hoping, and believing that good must come out of
bad at last — that there is sunshine behind the cloud ;
and that if this is not so here on earth, the reward
will come in Heaven."

Happy fellow ! happy fellow ! " my host exclaimed.
^'^ And j^ou believe in Heaven, in the life
to come, with its everlasting sunshine and its languid
bliss ? "

*^ Yes, I do ; this life would be a very poor business
without such a hope, such a belief."

"Oh, I don't know that; it all depends who your
father is, where you are born, and under what circumstances.
Take the son of a wealthy English
peer with a splendid record, a long rent-roll, a
well-balanced mind, a strong constitution, a noble
ambition, a happy marriage; the heaven on earth
which he enjoys is a finer thing than the paradise of
the religionists, with its everlasting praising of the
King, and its nullity of ambition. But why should
my neighbour, this wealthy", well-bred son of a peer,
be born to all this real, tangible bliss, while another

comes into the world to an inheritance of misery,
of hell upon earth — a faithless mother, a drunken
father, and a mission of vengeance ? "

Your illustrations refute your negative belief —
that is, if you really do think this life is its be-all
and end-all — unless there were a future, then,
indeed, the two instances you mention would be an
outrage upon justice. But the Divine Ruler gives
to each here below his responsibility, his talent, and
in making up their accounts at last, much more will
be expected of that peer's son than of him whose
father was a drunkard, whose mother was untrue."

^^ Yes, that is the religion of the poor, invented
by the rich, that they may keep down the poor with
sophistry and promises of the palaces in Heaven
which they can never hope to have on earth. '^

But Christ promised more to the poor than to
the rich," I said.

"He knew how wretched they are, and administered
to them accordingly. But do not let me shake
your faith, especially at the moment when I have
something more than a glimmering of Heaven's
recognition of the eternal fitness of things. It maybe
that the recording angel who presides over the
book of Fate has in the course of His business come
to my name and his (it cannot be that our mutual

aliases have disguised us from Him) antlers; it
may be that His stern eye has rested on me in these
mountains that have no sunny Pisgah at their base ;
it may be that He has sent you here, for jour own
sake and mine, as a reward for your faith, and as the
medium of a long-delayed action ; for it cannot be
that He has forgotten what is due to that fiend inhuman
shape whom I have so long prayed to meet
again, and who is destined to reap as he has sown."

Ah, Dick Drummond , my dear friend, I wish
5"ou could think only of the good, the happiness
there may be in this meeting of ours, without thinking
of the bad. I don't profess to be religious by a
long way ; I have done things which truly pious
people would condemn severely."

"But is not life from your standpoint," he said,
with, a sarcastic smile, ^' speculating in futures ?
Thinking of jour sins, you have no doubt got
Chicago in your mind."

Yes," I said, and I could not help smiling at my
host's adaptation of a leading enterprise in a great
city.

'^ Ah, if's no good talking," he said, " about what
neither of us know anything ; I am willing to
believe that Fate has once more remembered me and
my mission ; let us go to bed. Sleep is the most

merciful invention — dreamless sleep. Good-night,
old fellow — good-night, I Lope this is not all a
dream, eh ? ^^

^' I could well-nigh believe it is' I said.

*^ Go to bed, and pray it into reality' he replied.
'' I am half inclined to believe that the miracle is of
your work, if it be a miracle. Shake hands''

He took my hand with a strong grip. His eyes
were very bright, though his face had a calm expression
; the anxious, watchful look it had worn at
first had gone out of it. He was like a man who
had solved a long investigated problem ; he seemed
to rest upon it, but only for the time; as if there
were achievements to follow, as if the present end
were only an outpost conquered, and the citadel lay
be3'ond.^'

^^ I hope you'll never regret meeting me," he
said.

"" I am sure I shall not''

*' Don't be too sure."

** I never was more sure about anything.'^

^' We have not done with each other yet."

''\ hope not."

Fate brought you here."

*' For a good purpose," I said.

Yes, no doubt ; Fate works in mysterious ways."

'' For Fate read God' I said.

Call it what you like Hickory' he replied,
solemnly ; ^' men call it by all kinds of names. I
want you to make me a promises

'' What is it ? '^

"A promise at presents he said; 'later I may
ask 5'ou to make it a vow'

*' Yes ? " I said with an inquiring look into his
calm face.

Away ! *' he said, " I shall, of course — a solemn
vow, not to be broken, sworn as if on the Book ia a
Court of Justice. Will you do it ? ^'

'' If it is a right thing to do,^^ I said.

Yes, of course," he replied ; it will depend upon
jvhat you may consider right ; but I will strengthen
your judgment, with interest, with an all-powerful
interest — your own personal happiness

Ah, my friend, I fear you have made a low
estimate of me. There are great things a man
may do for nothing, there are little things a
man's highest personal interest cannot bribe him
to do."

'^ I shall bribe you, nevertheless' said Dick, with
a smile, as he rose and laid his hand upon my
shoulder, "I shall bribe you''

*' Indeed,^^ I said, looking up at him.

^' Yes, and you will be unable to resist me. T
shall buy that vow you will make to me."

'shall you'' I said; 'well, we shall see. I
would do a great deal for yuu, Dick Drummond;
you have been very good to me ; j^ou have excited
in me a strange interest in you, and touched deep
chords of friendship. I like you very much indeed,
old chap, and I am sure j^ou will never ask me to do
anything that is not honourable and that one man
may not ask from another. When you talk of a
bribe you are using a figure of speech, are you
not?"

"I don't know' he answered, pacing thee room,
and then facing me at the other end of the table ;
we will settle that later. I think you are bound
to do what I ask ; I believe you are here for a
purpose; that — But we will talk more of this in due
time. You only know me as Dick Drummond, and
you only know my sister as Margaret Willoughby."

That is all I do know," I said.

'^ But what has passed between us is our secret —
the secret of this hut; when you write home to her,
or to your mother, or to anybody, you will not
mention in any way, by hint, or suggestion, or
directly, that Margaret Willoughby is my sister."

"But some day I maj? " I answered.

"Never, unless with my consent' he s.iid
solemnly, my hand in his. " Have I your promise,
your word of honour ? ''

*' You have."

That's enough — good-nights'*

He might have said morning, for old Wash's
cuckoo clock murmured three when I blew out
my candle and the moonlight streamed into my
chamber.

vor. I, K

CHAPTER II.

ON A SEA OF DOUBT AND WONDER.

I COULD not sleep. In spite of the difference of time,
I tried to think the moon was shining on Doughty
Street in London, and on Buckingham Street, Strand.
I followed its calm beams down into the quiet corner
of the great city, where Margaret was sleeping, close
by the shadows of the old Water Gate near the
Thames. I saw the mighty stream of life flow
along the Strand, and fancied Buckingham Street a
quiet backwater with the moon shining upon it.

Then I wandered away in my fancy to the semi -
fashionable quarter of Mecklenburg Square, with
its comfortable, solid houses, and their old-world
associations ; and I saw the porter opening the gates
that lead into Doughty Street, to admit a cab in
which I was chafing against the delay that kept me
from my mother's arms.

Who could know so well as I the sleepless nights
she had passed, thinking of me ? My heart ached at
the thought of lier tender solicitude for my welfare.

I pictured her dear, loving face, with its mild
eyes looking down upon me. I seemed to feel her
lips pressing my forehead as they had done when
I was a boy and pretended to be asleep that
she might go to bed the happier for thinking I
slept.

Then I saw Margaret at the theatre, and followed
her with tears in my eyes through the sorrowful
story of the play ; and then I started up, broader
awake than ever, to shudder at the man who called
himself her father.

I got up, relighted the candle, drew the curtain
across my window to shut out the moon, took from
my trunk a packet of letters and read several of them
over and over again.

Think of me only as a happy girl, my dear
Hickory, ^^ she wrote to me at New York. That was
when I was half-starved for want of food, and hopeless
for want of any prospect of work.

"My dearest boys come home if you are not well;
come home if your prospects are not good ; come
home under any circumstances, for I am very, very
sad without you' wrote my mother.

And, oh ! how I wished I dared go home then.
But how could I, empty-handed— nothing done?
*' Whatever troubles I may have are as nought

K 2

compared to the knowledge that I have sour love,"
wrote Margaret to Chicago.

*' You are brave as you are good, my dear Hickory'
wrote my mother " and God will take care of you ;
pray to Him always, and pray for me. Your sweetheart
is well ; I went to see her play a new part at
the Adelphi, and she acted it charmingly'

To think of my mother not only accepting an
actress as her prospective daughter, but going to the
theatre to see her ! Could I desire any further proof
of her love for me ? What a story I should have to
tell her of my wanderings, and of my discovery of
Dick !

Then I began to think of the promise he had
exacted from me, and to wonder whether he meant
to keep always in that background of non-identity
which he had indicated.

The more I thought, the more puzzled I became
and the more strange did it seem to me that, after
all my profitless adventures, I should be here comfortable
housed with a man who claimed to be my
Margaret's brother, and who, being rich, declared
that I should be his partner. Was it all a dream ?
I asked myself, as he had asked.

1 put away my letters and examined my host's
bookshelf.

JO

There were only a few volumes upon it. They had
all been carefully read, judging by their dog's-eared
condition. Pope's ^^ Essay on Man," "Hamlet'
The Works of Thomas l^aine,'' " Selections from
Fenelon/' ^^ Shelley's Works," ^^ The Bible,"
"Practical Mining," "Fate: an Essay by Ralph
Waldo Emerson " Evidences of Insanity," '^ The
Science of War," and the first volume of " The Odes
of Horace' in their original Latin text.

These were his books. The first I opened was the
last-mentioned volume. I found it marked, and here
and there translations of the text written on the
margin. One of the stanzas at the close of the
volume was marked with extra lines, the translation
written out in red ink. This was the text : —

Solvat phaselum. Saepe Despite
Neglects incest addict integrum :
Raro antecedents scelestum
Desert pede poena claude."

And this the translation : —

When Jove in anger strikes the blow,
Oft with the bad the righteous bleed ;
Yet with sure steps, though lame and slow,
Vengeance o'ertakes the trembling villain's speed."

Memories of my somewhat fruitless classic studies
at Oxford thus aroused at sight of Horace sent me to

Fenelon. I opened the volume at a passage marked
this time with a pencil, in the dialogues of the dead,
where Gryllus answered the question of Ulysses —
And are j^ou senseless and brutish enough to despise
wisdom, which makes men almost equal to the gods? "
The following portions of the answer were marked : —
"Of what advantage is that much boasted wisdom ?
All the use man makes of it is to gratify his passion.
Talk not of man ; he is the most irrational of animals.
Without flattering myself, a hog is a clever creature ;
he does not coin false money, nor does he draw false
contracts ; he never forswears himself, undertakes no
unjust and bloody conquests, is ingenuous without
malice, and spends his life in eating and sleeping.
Far better for the world if we all imitated his
example. Talk not to me of reason, for man is
filled with folly ; and one had better be a hog
than a man having wisdom who only uses it for
brutish wickedness."

Sad as this black-and-white evidence of m}^ hosts
misanthropy made me, I could not help thinking
that if I questioned him on this extract from Fenelon,
he might saj^ he had marked it as a tribute to
Chicago ; for he had a grim humour, behind which
lie hid some great purpose, for good or bad.

One may' often arrive at a pretty fair estimate of a

manes character by a study of the books he reads,
especially when his library is a small one.

I turned to the great American sage, and found
Emerson marked as follows : — ^^ When the gods in
the Norse heaven were unable to bind the Fences
Wolf with steel or with weight of mountains — the
one he snapped and the other he spurned with his
heel — they put round his foot a limp band, softer
than silk or cobweb, and this held him ; the more
he spurned it, the stiffer it drew. So soft and so
staunch is the ring of Fate. Neither brandy, nor
nectar, nor sulphuric ether, nor hell-fire, nor ichor,
nor poetry, nor genius, can get rid of this limp
band. For if we give it the high sense in which
the poets use it, even thought itself is not above
Fates'

Here the marking ended, and it occurred to me
to make note of the three lines that followed, since
the student seemed to be fortifying himself with
authorities: — *that (Fate), too, must act according
to eternal laws, and all that is wilful and fantastic in
it is in opposition to its fundamental essence. '^

Hamlet ^^ was thumbed, and scored throughout
with pen and pencil. Every line that stabbed the
reputation of woman, each moral dagger spoken by
the Prince to his mother, all the lines that were

J

heavy with Hamlet's mission of revenge, every curse
he flung at his uncle, all these passages were marked,
as if the reader felt his feet deep in Hamlet's shoes,
or felt so keenly for his hero that he wished to be
there ; or, what was more like, compared his own
real wrongs and hardships with those of the fictitious
sufferer. Wherever the murder of Hamlet's father
was mentioned, there the reader had made the
deepest marks. '^ I, the son of a dear father murdered,"
for instance, and *the serpent that did sting
thy father's life now wears his crown."

-As I sat with hamlet" in my hand, thinking
how strange it was to find in the *' Boss of Drummond's
Gulch " a student of Horace and Shakespeare,
and Tom Paine and Fenelon ; and how much
stranger still to find in that man not only the clue
to the mystery of Margaret Willoughby, but her
very brother, my eyes rested upon a volume that
had escaped me ; it was lying on a small box upon
another shelf ; I noticed it now because it was better
bound than most of the others. It turned out to bea
special favourite of mine — an English translation
of Alphonse Carr's ^' Tour round my Garden." It
was marked like the rest, but not with a vicious
emphasis as they seemed to be. They were old
marks, too, most of them, and showed an appreciation

of the poetry of the volume, and its wonderful
revelations of natural phenomena.

The first passage I came upon was a challenge tome,
who had been wondering at the strangeness of
my coming here, the lost link in a mysterious chain
of human suffering and sorrow, perhaps to be the
first link in a continuing chain of love and joy.

'' I burn, my friend, to know what account you will
oppose to this, you wbo have travelled so far ; 1 defy
you even to venture a falsehood so extraordinary as
this truth which I have just exhibited to you."

Then I came upon this passage marke!, evidently
long ago, but with an apparently recent comment
written in the margin. This was the text — '^A few
minutes afterwards a ray of sunshine dissipated the
clouds; I believed that I had been heard, and I
thanked God as earnestly as I had prayed." The prayer
had been ^' that the rain might cease. ^^ This was the
comment. "But supposing somebody else wanted
quite as badly the refreshing blessing of the rains

The same trains of thoughts running through the
reader's mind alwa3'^s — unbelief, except in a vicious
and fantastic Fate ; a sense of deep, bitter injury, a
lifelong sense of wrong, a lifelong thirst for vengeance.

"who is he, then,^^ I asked myself, '^ that broods
over a blasted childhood, an embittered youth, and

courts a miserable old age ? Who is he that calls
himself my love's brother, who asks me to be his
partner, claims me as his brother that is to be?
Who is he, this man with a strange method in his
madness, that pledges me to keep this secret, pledges
me before I know what his secret is ? Am I right
to let the prospect of wealth influence me so far ?''

I bethought me of Hamlet as I questioned myself
and his doubt of the ghost. Might not his influence
be evil ? Did he hope to use me as his tool in some
nefarious scheme ? Was he mad ? They said so in
the camp. That he was a brute when in his cups I
had ample proof. Did he seek to obtain some
special influence over me by claiming relationship
with Margaret ?

Or was Fate drifting me into some horrible complication
?

While my thoughts were tossed on a sea of doubt
and wonder, the book in my hand slipped open at
the half-title page, upon which there was writing. I
looked at it in a mechanical kind of way, and read : —
^^ For Remembrances'
To George Newbolde — this May-day Gift.
From his friend, and pastor.

Dig BY Oliphant,

Sandwich J May Isf, 18 — .

*the vicar!" I said to myself, '*" George Newbold
e — Sandwich ! Can it be ? Is this the artistes
son, then, who seeks to avenge his father's honour,
his father's death ? Great Heavens ! is this my
Maggie's brother ? And Fitzherbert Willoughby,
i^ he the villain who desolated the old home at
Sandwich ? And am I selected by Providence, or
by Fate, to be the means of retribution, the instrument
of vengeance, or the messenger of peace and
goodwill ? '''

AVh\^, goll}^ ! Massa Maynard, 3^0'se never been
to bed, I declare ! ^' exclaimed a voice at the door;
why, yo' is a scholar to be setting' a-readin' all de
blessed night. And de Boss, him sleep as if dere
was no resurrection — never see a pusson sleep no
faster dan he is. Has yo' been reading' dat same
book all de night ? Den yo' must have found it
very interesting."

1 have. Washy'' I said. " I never read anything
that has interested me so much in all my life as
something I have read in this book."

'' Is dat so ? "

*' It is so, indeed."

CHAPTER It.

"WHICH PROVES THE TE-lath OF THE ADAGE THAT
YOU GO FROM HOME TO HEAR NEWS.

We both regarded each other, Dick Drummond
and I, that day from a new and deeply interesting
standpoint.

He had discovered to me the secret of Margaret
Willoughby's parentage. I had stumbled upon the
ambition of his career. The pastoral gentle life
developed in ^' A Tour round my Garden," was a
strange background for the tragic story of Sandwich,
and its vow of vengeance registered by the boy of
the old manse.

And yet upon the fly-leaf of this volume was
inscribed in those few words of the vicar the
leading points of my hosts career and mission.

I resolved to keep this discovery to myself for a
time, since the "Boss of Drummond^s Gulch" had
promised to give me a sketch of his life and ambition.
I thought it best to see how it tallied with the brief
story of the vicar. Not that I any longer mistrusted

my host. I did not ; but it came into my aiind to actus
I say, and I do not regret it, seeing that the hero
of the morning's narrative gave me details of his
mother's flight, his father's death, and his own
remarkable adventures which he would probably not
otherwise have mentioned.

It troubles me sometimes, when I am putting
these chronicles together, the reflection that the
heroine of this history, Margaret Willoughby, will
only learn the true story of her life when my narrative
is published. It is possible she may never see
these pages. If she becomes possessed of the clue to
her own story, she may pick it up concurrently with
the discovery of it by the reader hereof. Need I say
that I thought of her continually during these eventful
days at Drummond^s Gulch ?

My host slept until nearly midday Wash peeped
in at the door many times, fearing he must be dead.

Never slop so much afore," he said.

And perhaps never will against' said Dick, himself
awakening while Wash was speaking, " until he
sleeps for good."

'you have indeed had a rare spell of it this
time," I said, as he huddled on an old jacket and
trousers.

Yes," he replied, " but I am very wide awake

now — I have teen dreaming ugly dreams for years
and years ; and now I have left them behind for ever.
Have a smoke while I bathe."

I walked with him to the edge of the cliffs,
and then sat down while he worked his way along a
natural path to the river. It was a glorious day.
The air was full of a healthy perfume of pines and
flowers. The distant mountains appeared to be buta
mile or two away instead of fifty. An eagle or
some other great wild bird sailed in the blue above
me, and a cluster of butterflies were hovering over
the bush at mj^ feet. The scene was beautiful beyond
description, and silent as beautiful. I smoked and
dreamed. Should I presently awake ?

I could not help wondering why people crowd
and jostle each other in great cities , \a hen there are
thousands of miles of paradise unoccupied. I built
in fancy a home for Margaret and my mother on the
other side of the river,, and saw George's hut changed
into a solid stone house in a garden; and in short
took them all into my pleasant dream and dreamed
it out to the end ; but the end was a mystery. ^Vho
can finish this dream of life and death to his own
satisfaction ?

Presently I could see Dick Drummond breasting
the torrent or floating with it, and I found myself

wishing that in this world we could all float with
the stream and never have to turn and face it and
fight it, some of us to go down under the roar and
rush of it, some to conquer it and find a haven of
quiet and learned leisure.

"You are in a thoughtful mood this mornings
said Dick, when he had climbed the steep and once
more stood by my side.

Yes, everything is so peaceful, there seems a
general invitation to be reflective

That is how you feel ? '^

** It i^r

Then you are not physically hungry V

"No.'^

"Intellectually''

No."

"Enjoying jour weed, you are experiencing the
sensation of a true smoker — don't want to be disturbed.
But we must not disappoint Washy. Come
along. Fried chicken for breakfast, Virginia fashion,
Washy's best dish. You should have had a swim''

Didn't feel like it this morning," I said.

After breakfast we'll have a long lazy jaw, if
you like, eh?"

"Yes."

"And you shall try a new cigar, a new brand

which Lady Ann has sent up from the Gulch, '■ real
grit as they sacs Lady Ann ! I wonder what will
become of her when I leave the Gulch/^

"Do you thinks of leaving ?''

"Some day' he said; "tomorrow, perhaps'

You are joking."

"Do I joke much?"

No, on reflection I don't think you do ; let us
eat."

It was a fine breakfast considering how far we
were from civilization. Grilled sardines, fried chicken,
buckwheat cakes, and coffee worthy of the best
London club. And Washy waited as well as he
cooked. A good negro is the greatest of all treasures
as a servant. Born to serve, when he is proud of his
work, capable and well treated, he is the best and
truest servant in the world.

"Now, AVash}", where are the new cigars?"

'Ere de are, sal ; ad Lady Ann, she say his
lordship finds dem de best he hab ever smoked."

That's all right ; leave the coffee, Washy."

"Yes, sal."

Now, Mr. Thoughtful, make yourself comfortable,
and we'll converse," said Dick.

He seemed like a new man this morning : held his
head erect ; the old settled, anxious expression had

gone out of his eyes ; bis voice even had improved ;
there was more of the gentleman and less of the
Boss of Drummond^s Gulch " in this manner.

'^ Did you ever come across this book?^^ asked my
host, handing me Holes E-ead^s '' Hand of God in
History."

'' No."

I read all sides, you see."

And yet stand only by one."

*' You mean I am an unbeliever?"

Not quite."

*' Well, I am not a Christian in the full meaning
of the term any way — and not by a great deal."

"What do you believe?"

'well, in evolution, as Darwin described it."

'' Oh, then, we begin as tadpoles, and end as food
for worms ? "

Yes, pretty much like that. But for all that I
read the other side, I tell you, and am open to conviction."


As voters at elections are," I said.

You mean that I am open to a bribe. Well, to
a certain extent, yes — that is, I want what I have
prayed for. I want justice, the punishment of vice.
I used to pray for it. Lately I have been content to
wait, to bide my time."

VOL. 1. L

'' You have odd notions about prayers

Perhaps ; my leading idea concerning prayer is
that it braces one up, to try and be equal to or
worthy of what one asks for. But last night I began
to think that Read may be right. He traces every
event of historical importance to the hand of God.
events, apparently contradictory, often he sa's,
stand in the relation of cause and effect : a Pharaoh
and a Nebuchadnezzar, an Alexander and a Nero, a
Domitian and a Borgia, Henry Viii. and Napoleon,
men world-renowned, yet oftentimes prodigies
of wickedness, are in ever' age made the instruments
and the agents to work out the scheme of Gods
operations"* '^

They are striking illustrations of his belief, those
3'ou have named," I said.

'' Well, I think so too, and I am piecing out my
case as one that may come into that category. Since
the outrage of a fiend with the soul of a Nero or a
Tarquin is practically the cause of my being here,
my wrongs are the seeds from which a new world
will grow up; a new world that will give work
and food to thousands who, but for the discoveries on
this spot, might have starved ; nay, one might carry
the theory of possible good much further. And so
I am trying to fit your arrival here as part of the

scheme of foresight; 3'ou come when the foundation
of this new world beyond the Rockies is laid, to
paint the way to seme compensation for miseries undeserved,
in the rescue of my sister from captivity ;
and you come as the messenger who hands to the
executioner the warrant of death. Thus the wronged
are avenged; and so we follow out the programme of
the author and philosopher'

•^Ah, Dick Drummond'' I said, 'you are trying
to justify to your conscience the committal of a
crime. The devil, you know, can quote scripture for
his purpose*

^' I was not quoting scriptures he replied, turning
towards me his steadfast eyes, and smiling satirically ;
*^ poor old Read is not scripture ; Darwin is perhaps
better than either, but that is neither here nor there,
and I don't wish to hurt your orthodox feelings'

'^AYhat good will it do to your sister, or to anyone,
if you kill that man ? ''

** That beast, you mean ; you would leave him to
repent and be saved, for he could, you know, at the
last moment ; and what good would that do to those
whose lives he has blasted — to the dear good fellow
whom he murdered, eh ? If I go to heaven I don't
propose to have him there. Listen, Maynard, and
I'll tell you my story; until you have heard it you

T ^

cannot properly understand my sentiments or
opinions. Moreover, from this day, with your permission
you are my partner in the Gulch property,
and with my permission, my sister shall be your
partner in love and marriage. Bat on conditions,
mark you, on conditions."

"What are the conditions, Dick?"

^' All in good time ; thej^ will not be onerous ; one
condition may trouble you a little, but it will be in
the interest of her happiness, and an act of self-denial
on my part, so great that you cannot deny me, unless
I am mistaken in your character. AYe shall sees'

** Proceed, my friend, I hope I appreciate your
kindly motives, and that I am not ungrateful for the
generous reception you gave me, a stranger, and a
debtor for the little money I brought into the camp."

Oh, that's nothing," he said ; " you had claims
on me that I could not have shirked even had I been
a brute ; Wilkesss has the right of a true friend to
command me, hand, heart, and pocket. But you
want to know how I come to be Maggie's brother,
why I hate that man who is your enemy and hers,
how she and I come to be separated, and why it is
Ave have not seen each other since we were children,
and that she is under the impression I am dead. I
recall the memory of a few happy months, a pretty

\

home, a garden full of flowers a river whose course
out to sea I could trace from m}'' bedroorai window.
My father was a painter. I have sat for his model,
and once I went to London with him to see the Royal
Academy Exhibition, where two of his pictures were
hung on the line — one of them, with Maggie and
me as ' Babes in the Wood Little did the painter
dream how he had forecast our fate, in so far as the
cruel treatment we were destined to receive, when he
should — as he did soon afterwards — lay down his
brushes for ever'

His voice faltered, and he walked to the door of
the hut. As he stood there gazing out at the sky,
he looked the picture of a strong man.

Turning his face towards me as he came back to
his seat, I noticed that there were tears in his eyes.
It was a handsome, thoughtful, more or less careworn
face. He looked like a man who had travelled, like
a man who had fought his way in life, and there was
a strong intellectuality in his eyes and forehead.

There were streaks of grey about the temples of
his closely cut hair, and light touches of 'Hie silver
of age " were repeated on his short dark beard.

He had something of a military air, and he moved
slowly, and had the sort of swing in his gait that
men get after long marches. He was not more than

twenty eight, and he looked fort' , but with the full
strength and vigour of f jrty.

A trifle over the medium height, he was broad
across the chest, and muscular. His voice was somewhat
harsh as a rule, though now and then, in
moments when the better feelings of his nature were
excited, it was soft and even musical.

Now and then since the previous night, when lie
declared himself Maggie's brother, I traced the likeness
between himself and Maggie, not in appearance
so much as in manner, not in the features of the face so
much as in the occasional expression of the eyes and
mouth. While he reseated himself and looked at meas
if inviting me to continue the conversation, there
was in his face something of the tender, wistful,
regretful, wondering look I had seen in Maggie's.

Were you only once in London ? '^ I asked, more
with a view of breaking in upon his melancholy
than for information.

Yes, twice'' he said, " the first time full of joy,
the second of misery ; the first time the bliss of
childhood, the second the despair of a broken heart ;
the first time innocent, the second time having
tasted of the bitter fruit ; the first time with a toy
in my hand, the second time with a dagger. It is
so in storms at sea ; a day of gentle calm, a placid

ocean, a sunny sky, dreams of heaven ; then you
should make all taut, for the hurricane is not faraway,
the night of terror is at hand, the sea a boiling
abyss, the ship a coffin, her torn sails ragged
mourning plumes. And this is life, my friend.
My sunny day was the love of that kind father, the
embraces of that sweet sister ; and sometimes my
mother kissed me. Then came a guest to our house
a gentleman from London ; he had been a friend
.of my father when they were young fellows. His
name was Lucas — ^Chingford Lucas, M.A.,' remember
reading on his card the first time our
servant brought it into my father's studio. He was
one of your excessively polite men, curly hair, a
light waxed moustache, a high pale forehead, delicately
shaped nostrils, a slight stammer in his speech ^
which my mother said denoted high breeding, had
white hands, shiny boots, well-fitting clothes, and a
patronizing manner. You say my mother is dead ? ''

This with a sudden change of manner.

Yes ; Maggie's mother is dead,'^ I replied.

"It is well; may she be forgiven, if that 
exists, which the parsons and their Book
tell us of ! She had known this Lucas before she
married my father ; he had loved her, people said in
their shameless, gossiping way, and dared to be

jealous that my father had married her. She had
the fatal endowment of beauty, without brains, mv
poor mother beauty without strong moral training,
much beauty and little heart, poor soul. This Lucas,
this gentleman , professed to be rich, he had some
money, a few thousand pounds, lived in chambers,
gave my father commissions for pictures, and obtained
orders for others ; at the same time he lured
him to London, as it turned out to his ruin, introduced
him to fast clubs, initiated him into rambling,
made him the hero of smoking parties, and sent the
dear fellow home with his London habits ; so that
he took to calling at the little hotel in our quiet
country town and taking a drink with this man and
the other, and horrified us more than once by getting
intoxicated. Then he would enter upon a period of
btiict moderation, even of abstinence from wine
altogether. A kind, clerical neighbour of ours the
vicar of an adjacent parish, had some influence with
him, and he helped Maggie and me to keep him at
home ; for my mother professed to be too much
scandalized to take any care about him. This Lucas
would ea" kindly-sounding things to her in my
father's interest, and was full of professed sympathy;
but, as the poor woman said, * Mr. Lucas was such a
gentleman, so high bred, had such refined feelings,'

that she ' wondered he should really take so much
interest in George I hated this Chingford Lucas,
M.A. — hated him with a dog's instinct; the more
he courted my good opinion , the more I hated him.
Dogs and children can scent a scoundrel. Education
in the art of good manners kills all this later. Even
when my father was overcome with drink, poor
fellow, he was genial and pleasant ; the only time
he was in the least otherwise was the last time of all
that he was in that condition — the very last time —
I remember it as if it were yesterday It was
autumn ; a chilly breeze had come up the river from
the sea ; a fire had been lighted in the drawing-room;
Maggie was in bed, it was nearly nine o'clock;
I was sitting up with my mother, father had gone
into the town — we lived on the outskirts; I had, in
my boyish Wdj, been talking of what I had seen in
London when I went up to see father's pictures at
the E/Oyal Academy ; suddenly wee heard voices
in the hall ; then the door was flung open, and a hat
rolled into the room, followed by the mock-heroic
exclamation, ' Whoever shall this hat displace, shall
meet Bombast face to face ! ' And thereupon
entered my poor father, smiling cheerfully, and in
dumb-show inviting sundry opponents to come and
displace his hat, which rolled playfully near to the fireplace,

and there rested covered with the firelight. ]My
little sister ^feg woke up and cried lustily', my mother
took the child into her arms, my father tried to kiss
them both, my mother angrily repulsed him, and I
shrank away behind the sofa, half afraid, half amused.

^ Won't you speak, m}^ chuck ; won't you speak to
its hubby ? ^ said my father ; and then he saw me,
and was not pleased that I should see him in a state
of intoxication. ^ Why is not George in bed ? ' he
asked, the smile leaving his face.

'^ ^ Because he is up,' my mother replied sharply,
Left hours and hours alone, I may surely have the
companionship of my own child.'

' Hours and hours, what do you mean by hours
and hours ? ^ asked my father.

^ What do I mean ? You ought to be ashamed
of yourself ! '

^^ ' So he is ; so he is,' said Mr. Chingford Lucas,
stepping in at the half-open doorway' ; * but it was
my fault this time. The truth is, I only arrived in
Sandwich two hours ago ; was very hungry, we met
by chance, and as we had a little matter of business
to talk about, some pictures, a special commission from
London, I asked him to dine with me, and the wine
and the business together have excited him a little,
that is all. I walked home with him and should

have entered with him, but I was startled by his
sudden bit of amusing theatrical business. Pray,
accept my apologies, Mrs. Newbolde ; and, believe
me, that for this little fault of George s, I am more
to blame than he is.'

"come in, come in said my father, 'sit down,
and don't apologize for me. How I came home is
my affair, not yours.'

'' In appearance he was, as I said before, a gentleman,
this visitor of ours. For that matter, of course,
my father was a gentleman ; but he was not dressed
so well as his companion, nor was there such a tone of
authority in his voice ; he wore the Loose velvet jacket
in which he generally painted, a pair of equally loose
grey trousers, and a felt hat. My mother received
the gentleman with a special show of courtesy, and
my father struggled to offer him a chair.

'' ' George,' said my father, taking my arm gentle

^ Yes, father,' I said, looking up at him.

' Go to bed.'

*^ ' Yes, father,' I said, hurrying to the staircase,
and then as quickly returning to kiss him. ' Goodnight,
father.'

'' ' Good-night,' he replied, and then his voice
suddenly changed as if he was going to weep, and
he said again, ' Good-night, my boy.'

'•'My mother followed me up the stairs, but she
did not come into my little room. Hurrying off my
clothes, I crept into bed, hid my face in my pillow,
and felt wretched. The moon shining in at one
corner of the window sent a ray of light across
the chamber, falling upon a chest of drawers, and
mounting uj) wards in a long column like a ghost. 1
could hear the murmur of voices in the drawing-room.
I prayed for my father and mother and little Meg
drew the sheets more closely round me as that column
of moonlight moved gradually near me along the wall,
and at last fell asleep and dreamed of some strange
land across the seas that washed the shores of the
Sandwich country

'^ I ask myself now, sitting talking to you, my
dear partner whv I dwell upon these trifling details ?
Ask the criminal who is condemned to die whv
he thinks of the days of his innocence. Ask the
parched traveller in the desert why he dreams of
springs and green-fringed rivers. Ask the bankrupt
why his mind wanders back to the well-filled coffers
of the past. Ask the dying man why he thinks of
those early days when he sat by his mother's knee
and listened to the sweet music of her loving voice
Ask the rich man in the burning pit why' he looks up
in vain at Lazarus.'^

CHAPTER IV.
'thus bad begins, and worse remains behind.'^

"Nevers continued mv host, "had these things
troubled me so much as on the clays after that altercation
between my parents. It had dawned on me
some time before that there was something wrong in
our household. That humiliating exhibition of
drunkenness had confirmed all my boyish doubts and
fears, and had settled down into my mind like a dull,
painful feeling, in which there was much sorrow and
sympathy for my father. If he had not seemed
ashamed , I should have thought the incident rather
humorous than otherwise — a sort of thing to laugh
at, not to cry about. But I had somehow seen his
eye fall on me as mine used to fall, seeking the floor
when convicted of some childish crime.

I had noted my mother's angry look as well ;
and the words she uttered were so hard and sharp,
coupled with her previous complaints of my father's
conduct , that I sat and brooded over the business
until it became a sort of settled sorrow.

My father was a kind, careless, gentle man. It
occurred to me often in later days that it was only
since he had renewed his friendship with Mr. Lucas
that he had neglected his home and become fond of
wine. On the day after that disagreeable incident
I have just mentioned, this Lucas called in the afternoon.
He said he had the highest opinion of my
father, but thought it a pity he should frequent the
Norfolk Hotel so much. Some people dared to say
Mr. Newbolde went to see the young ladies there,
but of course this was not true. I remember that
my mother shook her head and sighed, and then told
me 1 had better go and look after my little sister.
Mr. Lucas patted me on the head ; I shivered at his
touch. He thrust half a crown into my hand ; I
threw it away.

Nothing could have induced me to like him, and
my mother was verj'^ angry with me when I said he
was a disagreeable and hateful man. She said she
was a persecuted, unhappy woman, and that nobody
took her part.

I can see her now, with her dark hair falling in
curls upon her shoulders, sitting rocking herself to
and fro before a pier-glass, with little Maggie playing
at her feet, and myself sitting by her and wondering
at all the mysteries of her toilet.

'SSlie was a pretty woman, as I have said. My
father, in the early da^^s cf their manage, had
painted her in various characters. She sat before
her glass often and dressed her hair in a dozen
different ways, and asked maggie how she liked
niamma best — with flowers in her hair or without.
As for me, I received but little evidence of her
affection. I sometimes think she was jealous of
the love I felt for my father, and resented the
undisguised dislike which I showed for Mr. Lucas,
who was, she said, 'so kind to George,' and brought
him 'so many useful commissions from London''
There were occasions when she would talk with me
and appear to give me her confidence. I was what
the vicar, who visited us very often, culled an old
boy."

You dislike the Church, but j^ou always speak
gently of the vicar," I said, desirous of drawing him
out a little in regard to the author of the first part
of this general history.

''Ah, yes,^' he said ; "the vicar was more than a
parson — he was a man. Next to my father and
Maggie I loved him.^^

But you loved your mother at some time," I
suo: "rested.

"Yes," he said, "and admired her."

"Why not think of her as always belonging to
that time? Why not think of her at her best,
when— ^'

*' Because her worst, '^ he exclaimed angrily,
"overshadows all the good. Ah, you don't know
what you are saying. That vicar could tell you ;
and he shall if he be alive. He had a heart as big
as his parish. He would come and sit in my father's
studio and talk of art in such a simple way that even
I seemed to understand him. Maggie would climb
on his knee and listen, especially when he talked of
flowers and the wonders of nature ; and he would
break off at the height of some discourse touching
chiaroscuro and the effects of lights and shadows, to
tell Maggie and me the story of the birth of the
dragon-fly.'^

I might stop him to say that I have noted his
mark in "A Tour round my Garden," at the chapter
on dragon-flies, and his memorandum, " See the
Water-babies''

Kingsley has, perhaps, described the metamorphosis
of the grub that breaks out into sunny splendour
more graphically than Alphonse Carr. But T say
nothing; the time to speak is not opportune, though
my fancy travels back, through the rain, and faraway
to the vicar's house, and I see in imagination

blue and golden wings hovering over the reeds by
the rivulet that skirts his garden and then dives
under bis dining-room, to dart out again, fresh and
free, on its way to join the tidal stream beyond.

These thoughts occupy me for a time while I am
still listening to my host's narrative ; they crop up
and hover in my mind like a dragon-fly of memory,
as it were, lingering on the river of life.

'poor old vicar ! ^^ went on my host ; ^^he did his
best for all of us, and was especially kind to me in
the darkest hours of my life. Whenever I talked to
my mother in those last days that 1 saw her, she
would always come back, whatever the subject, to
complaints of my father's neglect ; and then a cloud
seemed to fall upon me, and presentiments of evil.
For many days after that night, when my father
sent me to bed, there was a sort of general warfare
going on between my unhappy parents. One night,
however, the storm burst furiously, and that long
after I was a-bed. I heard mj^ mother say she was
deceived — her husband was a drunkard and a bes'ffar.
My father rejoined that his wife was a frivolous, silly
woman, who thought more about the fashion of her
ribbons than the regulation of her household.

'^ Oh ! how I prayed to heaven that peace would
come to these people, my parents. How I buried

VOL. 1. M

\x\y head in the pillows and sobbed, and longed to
throw myself between them and help them to forgive
each other !

'^ The vicar prayed to this end I am sure ; but it
was of no more avail, look yon, than the prayers of
the Pilgrim Fathers who came to New England to
worship righteously and according to the Word. Do
3'ou know the history of this great America ? Just
read about the landing at Plymouth Pock, and you
will see how the poor people died like sheep — prayed
for life, and died, starved with cold, eaten up with
disease. "Where is Mr. Peat and his theory in that
case r

He asked me this question with a sneer.

The great and grand results,^^ I said, " are
patent to the humblest intellects'

^' Well, well, be it so,^^ he said, ^^ since I too look
forward still. But do you wonder that I stand here
for Justice, do you wonder that I dream of revenge,
that I think of it, and count upon it, and sometimes
get it to the full in my dreams — but only in my
dreams — do you wonder ? Then let me go on with
the history'' of the account, for the settlement of which
Fate is my debtor.

For many days after that afternoon visit of this
Mr. Lucas, I would go continually to my father's

studio ad sit there silently watching his unavailing
efforts to settle down to his work. One day Mr.
Lucas came in and gave my father a newspaper,
which he read and then handed to me.

'^ Take that to your mother, George he said,
'and tell her to read it.'

It was a copse of a London morning paper containing
a flattering notice of one of my father's
pictures which had been hung at the Royal Academy.
' Oh, yes, I know all about it,' said my mother,
Mr. Lucas told me of it. Your father should be
very much obliged to him for his kindness.'

'susan Copley was a favourite servant of m}^
mother. One day my father was sent for to London
on a matter of business. A circus had come to Sandwich.
My another gave permission for Susan to take
us to see the riders.

"When we were ready to go, she greatly astonished
me by taking me into her arms and kissing
me so fondly that I couldn't help thinking my prayers
of the night before had been answered. When she
kissed Maggie, and asked Susan to take care of her,
there were tears in her eyes, and the expression of
her face seemed to settle into mv heart and make it
ache. But this soon passed away in the joy of her
fervent kiss, and the new sensation of being sent out

M 2

to be amused and made happy. In later days, in the
Old Worl'l and in this wild new part of it, I have
been to see the riders, that my memory of dishonour
and my title to vengeance might not die out. I
have been to the circus, as it were to take a voluntary
turn upon the rack ; to be broken on the wheel of
my memory ; to suffer and grow strong. I daresay
you, dear old partner, have sat in a circus and seen
the clown tumble, and may have laughed with the
children as I laughed Ashen I was a boy ; but to me
that scene now always fills my ears with sobs that
are louder than the laughs. On that night, years
ago, while I was applauding the pranks of the clown,
Fate was preparing for me such a future as few could
have lived through and kept their senses.

When Maggie and I reached home with Susan
after the circus, the house was in disorder ; the fires
had gone out, the candles were not lighted, and the
place was as still as death. I remember grasping
Susan by the arm and asking her what was the
matter. She did not answer, but lighted the candles
and went straight to my mother's room, which was
strewn with litter. There was a letter on the dressing-table
for my father ; I learnt this afterwards. Susan
put Maggie to bed in the next room and hushed her
to sleep. My sister was tired with laughing, and

worn out with the wonderful performances at the

circus ; she was soon fast asleep.

^ Mamma I cried. ^ Mother, where are you ? '
' Don't make a noise said Susan ; ^ she has gone

away.'

While I, her son, was revelling in the quips and
cranks of the clown, and falling into a boyish passion
of love for the young lady who sprang through paper
hoops, and leaped over yards of blue silk, while my
father was on his way home from London, while the
chaste moon was shining upon Sandwich, my mother
was deserting her home, her husband, and her
children, for ever ; deserting all, perjuring her soul,
blackening the innocent names of her offspring, fora
cruel, designing villain'

C FT AFTER V.

A SAD Home-coming.

'' The next day the town rang with the news.
Pretty Mrs. Newbolde has eloped with that swell
Lucas Sandwich could hardly remember when it
had had such a sensation.

I heard Susan Copley say to the grocer's wife,
What could master expect ? He never paid missus
any attention. Never took her nowhere, not so much
as to the Kent county ball, which she had invitations
for, as I see 'em myself. Always either painting or
drunk, either nipping at the tavern or going off on
the spree to London. What, I says, could master
expect, and his wife so pretty, and so miserable ? '

^'^But think of the children,' the grocer's wife
observed ; ' think of them ; they ain't to blame,
surely, Susan, and they ought to have been considered,
the girl especially, not as I ever cared for
the boy ; but for all that she was his mother.'

'^ * That's true for you,' said Susan, ' and I'm sure
she cried as if her part was broke afore she went,

you'd ha' thought as she was beiiiMriven out instead
of going of her own ir^Q will

' But why didn't you stop her, Susan ? '

' I stop her ! How could I^ mari, when she
sent me to the circus with the children, and Mary,
the cook, out for a holiday to see her old mother at
Ramsgate, that artful was she.'

*' '■ But I thought you said she cried as she were
a-going ? ' said the grocer's wife.

' Lor', mari, that were when she kissed the
children afore we went to the circus, and she was
that fretful all day there was no barn' with her.'

^ You know as she was a-going, Susan.'

' I won't say as I did, and I won't say as I
didn't,' she answered, but I will repeat as what
could master expect coming home drunk and a-
going on like a common pussun, with his wife a
lady, and that 'handsome gent a-coming visiting as
snowed her afore, and was her lover, and would ha'
married her if master hadn't been must hand with
him, which such is life, say what you will ; and I
'opes as I may never be tempted in the same way.'

*^ It was a lovely July day. All the windows
were open. All the rooms, it seemed to me, were full
of people. Nobody noticed me much. I wandered
about, and heard the news of the day from

every point of view. Everybody kissed and nursed
Maggie. I evaded the general touch, the patronizing
compassion.

' How do you know, Susan I heard the vicar
say, * that they have gone away together ? ^

' I know it, sii',' she answered, ' too well, and
that's all I can says

^^ ^ Did your mistress say so ? '

' As good as.^

^' ' As good as ! but what did she say ? '

' She was sick of her life, and couldn't bear
master's goings on.'

'^ ^ But about going away. Did this person, Mr.
Chingford Lucas, say anything to you?'

'' No answer.

'^ Question repeated.

Still no answer.

*' ' Do you hear what I sa' ? '

^ Yes, your reverence.'

^^ ^ I am a magistrate, remember; and this unhappy
business may not end here. Did he give you
money ? '

Susan burst into tears.

'^ ' Did he give you money ? ' the vicar asked
again.

'' ' Yes, sir, he did.'

^' ' How much ? '

' Ten pounds.'

' And you sold yourself, your good master, and
your foolish mistress, for ten pounds, eh ? Is that
so?'

'''li you put it that way she replied, blubbering
; 'but it was missus's wish

^' ^ And yet you say she cried as if she was forced
to go

"No, sir, I never said such a thing

^' 'you said so to Mrs. Smith, the grocer's wife.'

*''■ ' Never, sir, I'll swear it afore a judge and jury ! '
she exclaimed.

'^ ' You are a wicked woman ! ' said the vicar, ' and
if sou had happened to live in my grandfather's
time, they would have given you a taste of the
ducking-stool, and served you right.'

^^ ' Oh, sir,' she blubbered, ' I wish as I were dead ! '

"rit would have been as well, perhaps, if j^ou had
wished so a week since and had jour wish granted ;
but the wishes of the ungodly do not prevail;
go away, you are a shameless, good-for-nothing
creature ! '

A reporter came along to collect information fora
local newspaper.

' Come home with me,' said the vicar to the

gentleman of the press : * you must not print all the
foolish gossip sou may hear about this affair. There
may be no truth in the story at all. But come with
me, and I will advise you as to what you should
write about it, if it is desirable that you should write
anything.'

"As the vicar was leaving the house I followed him.

*' ^ Do you really think, Mr. Vicars I sail, ' that
there is no truth in it — that mamma will come back ? '

^* ^ Ah, my dear George, I wondered what had
become of you said the vicar.

*^' I was standing near you I said.

'■^ ' Excuse me one moment,' said the vicar to the
reporter.

"then taking me aside, he said, —

* My dear little friend — I may call 3'ou friend,
eh ?— and you will always think of me as your friend,
your nearest and dearest friend, next to your father,
eh ? ''

'' lie spoke very gently, and held my little hand
in his great one.

'^ ' Yes, vicar, thank j^ou,' I said.

' Well, then, be very brave. Your father will
come home soon. It is now eleven, he will be at the
station at half-past. Go you, and meet him and
bring? him to me — will you ? '

^ Yes, vicars I said.

^ And say, '^ Father you are to come with me
straight to Vicar Oliphant's before you go home , it
is very important he should see you." '

^^ ' YeS; vicar.'

' And then lead him to me, like this, do you
understand ? ^ He led me a little way to indicate
loving firmness of manner.

^' ' Yes, vicars I said.

'^'That's all right; I will depend upon you.
Good-bye, then, until you come with your father ;
go straight to the station now.^

'' I did.

'^ The English stations are different to the depots
in America, as you know. We have neat brick houses
and covered platforms. Some of them are gay
with flowers. Most of them have book-stalls, similar
to those on the Elevated Road of New York. The
station I went to was away in some meadows. It had
a book store, and there were plants and flowers in its
windows. The fields right and left were sunny. One
of them was a hatfield. The grass had just been
cut. Young larks were flying about in it. Another
meadow was green with the aftermath. It was separated
from the hatfield by a ditch that was full of
water, and had reeds on each side, reeds and meadowsweet,

and there were dragon flies darting hither
and thither, and gay moths. I sat down and watched
them, and waited for the train. To this day I can
see that picture, every detail of it ; I can smell the
meadow-sweet, and see the reflection of the reeds in
the water.

^' The train came in presently, and with it my
father. He ha 1 not looked so well for a long time,
and he was in high spirits.

'^ ^ Why, George ! ' he exclaimed, stooping down
to kiss rae ; * that's a good fellow to come and meet
me ; but how did you know I should come by this
train ? '

^' the vicar said so,' I replied, taking his hand.

'^^ ' Oh, so he has been to see you! that's right
dear old vicar. I don't know what we should do
without him. Ah, there's my bag. Porter, send
my bag up home, I shall walk.

The porter touched his hat, and took up the
portmanteau.

'^ ' Capital to walk home on such a fine day, eh,
George ? '

'' ' Yes, father.'

^' ' First rate, to get back from that dusty old city
to these pleasant fields, and to have one's son and
heir to meet one, eh, George ? '

*' ' Yes, father

*' * And W'Q brought very good news, George,
very good ; such a commission ! But first, how is
mamma ? Well, of course ? ^

"He did not wait for me to reply but went on
chatting.

"^ Mamma shall have such a new dress, and such
a pair of diamond ear-rings ! George I am going to
tell you something

*^ He paused and looked around as if he were
about to tell me a great secret.

"eyes, father

'"'I doubt think I have been quite so good a
father to 3'ou all as T might be; but — ^

'Oh, father ! ^ I exclaimed, and I began to cry,
for it seemed to me, boy as I was, that his words
were so out of gear with the tidings the vicar had for
him that his poor heart must break when he should
learn what had happened.

"' Hallo !^ he said. ' Pooh, pooh, George ; don't
cry about it. I have not been such a ruffian as all
that.'

* Oh, no, no ; but I do love you so much, father,'
I said, checking my tears.

' God bless you ! ' he said, stooping once more to
kiss me. ' Well, I have resolved, George, to be such

a good father as never was heard of. No more wine
at all, George — you know what I mean, don't you ?
and the nation has bought that picture with 3'ou
and Maggie in it. There, what do you think of that,
you rascal ? And the commission — what do you
think it is? To paint the Royal Wedding for
Windsor Castle. There ! — is that not good news ?^

"eyes, father.'

^'^Yes, father,' he said, mocking me in a cheery
ways ; ' I should think it is. And I and your mother
will have to go to London and stay for a long while,
and perhaps you and Maggie may come also. I
shall have sittings from all the royalties and great
people, George ; and all their grand dresses will be
sent to the studio — a London studio, George. And
won't that delight mamma, eh''

'■^ ' This way, father,' I said, pressing his hand ;
this way.'

'^ ' No, this is the shortest. I don't want to go
into the town,' he said.

'*'The vicar wants to see J^ou,' pulling his
arm in the direction that led away from the old
house.

"well, by-and-by,' he replied, resisting

* No, now, father — before you go home,' I said.

' Whv ?' he asked, looking down at me.

^ He will tell you, father,' I said, and the tear's
would be checked no longer ; I clasped his hand
with both of mine and laid my face on it, and sobbed
as if my heart was breaking.

* Why, great God ! ' he exclaimed ; ' what has
happened, George ? '

'^My only answer was to pull him in the direction
of the vicar's house.

'^ ^ What is it, George, my dear fellow ? My dear
boy, what is it ? '

' The vicar will tt-ll you,' I said, between my
sobs.

*' ' Did he send you to meet me ?'

* Yes, father, dears

He spoke no more, but want with me to the
vicar's house''

CHAPTER VI.

*' FOUND DROVVMED," AND A VOW OF VENGEANCE.

^' It was a pitiable sight to see ray father's continued
my host, after a pause, " a pitiable sight. He was
torn with alternate fits of rage and sorrow, of weeping
and cursing, of morbid sobriety and wild drunkenness.
Now he would full back on his pride and
profess not to be troubled ; then he would upbraid
himself; then he would upbraid my mother. Never
once did he mention the name of Lucas — not in my
hearing.

The blow at his peace was all the harder that
it occurred when he was full of good intentions, and
when the greatest happiness seemed within his reach.
Never put any confidence in to-niorrow% Hickory.
*Eat, drink, and be merry, for tomorrow you die
is one of the scriptural things you may hold on to.
My father came home joyful, a changed man, with
a great ambition. Concurrent with the delight of
an unexpected success were his schemes for making
his wife happy — fine dresses, diamond ear-rings, a

long visit to London. He was very happy — too
happy; so he was struck down, his hope and
ambition, his good intentions, his kindly programme
all beaten out of him. In the darkness of the time
he fondled Maggie and clung to me. We walked
about the garden with him, Maggie taking one hand,
I the other. The vicar would come daily — hourly
almost — to help us comfort our father.

*' Susan Copley begged on her knees not to be
sent away, and was forgiven. The vicar made her
confess all, and the story'' developed a carefully
and cruel conspiracy on the part of Lucas.

"^^My father broke down at last under the weight
of his trouble. He was more frequently at last to
be found at the * Kent Arms ^ than at home. As the
autumn approached the winter months, the house
grew more and more lonely. The leaves fell from
the trees earlier than usual ; nipping frosts destroyed
the flowers ; the wind came sighing up the river ;
the ivy flapped in a ghostly way at the windowpanes
at night. I think that from about eleven
years of age I grew to be twenty in one month — •
twenty in feelings, twenty in melancholy.

'^ Susan Copley, being unable to read or write,
had concentrated what little intellect and imagination
she possessed on omens and presentiments.

VOL. I. N

^^ ' I know as something else's going to happen
she said. ^ I see a funeral in the candle last night
as I was going to bed — and the last time as I see
one my mother died. This morning, afore it was
light I heard death-ticks, and I was that frightened
I thought I should have to a got up and waked the
cook.*

'^ One might easily have had forebodings of ill in
that old house, in those sad days of autumn. To
know what had passed, to see my father's hopeless
condition, was to have evil presentiments about the
future. I had them, heaven knows. It seemed tome
as if the wind roaring up the river had them ;
as if the paint hardened in patches of colour on my
father's palette had them; and his draped wooden
model, that stood by the old fireplace in the studio
seemed to have a warning finger continually pointing
towards the river. What a desolate house it was !
and is, I believe ; and is. I have seen it once
since I left the town for good. Yes ; and I shall
see it once again.

And it was not for nothing the wind sighed,
the ivj^ tapped at the windows, the candles guttered,
the death-spiders ticked, and the dumb, draped
figure pointed its wooden finger to the river.

*' ' Mister Newbolde's found drowned ! ' shouted a

boyish voice one first day of November, just as
Susan was telling me at breakfast that father had
not been home all night ; ' and they Ve took him to
the '^ Kent Arms '' to ■'ole a inquest on him.'

*^ Susan Copley fainted ; the cook brought her to
with burnt feathers ; and Maggie , more frightened
at this business than the news, began to cry. I put
my arms around her and soothed her. I couldn't
cry, and didn't for many a long day.

Thej^ were carrying him into the * Kent Arms '
(the house was in a different parish) as I reached
the door; carrying him in on a shutter, all wet, his
poor dead hand that I had held so often swinging
between the bearers. There was a wound on his
forehead, his clothes were torn, and his poor dear
e3'es were wide open.

^^It needs the memory of that awful sight to
nerve my resolution sometimes.

*^ They tried to exclude me from the room where
the inquest was held ; but 1 fought and struggled,
and the vicar interposed.

*^ ^ I am no child,' I said ; ' I am a man, and I
shall not cry, and I am not afraid, but I must hear
all they say.'

'^^You shall, my son, and you shall sit by me,'
said the vicar.

N 2

'' I had heard it was really thought my father had
been murdered.

'^ ' And if he has Susan Copley had exclaimed in
my presence, ^ that villain have done it, for I'll swear
I see him last night as I was a putting the drawings
shutters to. Didn't I say so, cook ? '

"■ ' You said as you thought you seen a ghost,
and 'twas like Mister Lucas in a clergyman's coat

"The evidence showed that the poor dear fellow
had left the inn, where he was now lying dead, at
about nine o'clock, to go home. The barmaid said
he was a little 'the worse for liquor ;' the landlord
said in his opinion he was not ; two workmen said
when crossing the bridge at seven in the morning
they see a body lying partly in the water, partly on
the bank, as if the tide lead left it. The head and
shoulders were in the water ; it was close by the
bridge, and just below the place where a piece of the
rail of the bridge had been broken. Alas it freshly
broken ? they were asked. Yes, they said, but they
had noticed it was broken the day before. Medical
evidence was given that the wound on the head might
have been the result of a blow with a blunt instrument,
or it might have been the result of a fall
against the timbers of the bridge close b}^ which the
body was lying. There were two theories to account

for death. The first, that the poor fellow, beiiii}^
intoxicated, had fallen into the river at the place
where the bridge was damaged, that in falling his
clothes had caught in the rail and been torn, that
striking the water at the paint where the bridge
was braced with iron timbers he had struck his head,
and being stunned, had rolled into the river and was
drowned. What was he doing on the bridge ? wis
one of the questions that cropped up, seeing that he
was going home, and the bridge did not lead homewards.
This was answered by the suggestion that ho
might have been going to the * Mariner's Inn,' which
was situated on the other side of the river, as he had
been known to go there on several occasions lately
after nine o'clock.

^' but, Mr. Coroner,' said tho vicar, '■ with all due
respect to your honourable court, and by your leave,
there is a witness who heard voices and a cry of "Oh !
3'^ou ruffian," near the bridge last night.'

'^'^ ' Indeed,' said the coroner, then by all means
let him come forward and be sworn.'

Thereupon the porter who had carried my father's
bag from the station pushed his way through the
crowd, and stated that the last train having come in,
he was going home — he lived down on the other side
of the river, about half a mile below the bridge — and

he heard voices but thought nothing of it and
shouldn't have done now, only when he heard that
Mr. Newbolde was drowned, and had a cut on his
forehead, he bethought himself that one of the two
who seemed to be scuffling said, ^ Oh ! you ruffians
and then he heard no more. The night was very
dark, the tide was running out, and it was a little
after nine o'clock.

No other evidence was offered, and the jurymen
were talking and arguing with each other over the
porters statement.

'' ' Will they not call Susan ? ' I asked the vicar ;
'she has something to say.'

'''Has she, my dear boy? What has she to say?'

' That she saw Lucas look into the drawing-room
window last night.' •

"' Indeed, indeed ! ' he said; 'I hadn't heard of
that; is that so ?'

' Yes, yes,' I said quickly.

'swill you forgive me once more, Mr. Coroner?
T. know I have no right to speak, but I also know
that you desire to sift this painful affair to the utmost.'


"ego on, Mr. Vicar, I will gladly hear you.'

'Is it jour intention to call Susan Copley' ?'

'"Mr. Constable, where are you?'

J

'' ' Here, sir '

^' ' Is Susan Copley a witness ?'

' jN'o, sir

"^ Would you like her to be called Mr. Vicar?'
asked the coroner.

'^ ^ Yes, Mr. Coroner. I believe she has made a
statement to the effect that a certain person, not quite
a stranger, was in the town last night, and this,
coupled with the evidence of Henry Jones, the
railway porter, might, perhaps, influence the verdict
of the jury.'

^ Call Susan Copley,' said the coroner.

' Susan Copley,' shouted half a dozen voices ;
but no Susan Copley responded.

"she is at the house, perhaps,' I whispered to
the vicar ; and he offered the same suggestion to the
coroner.

' Let Susan Copley be sent for,' said the coroner.
Meanwhile the depositions can be read over to the
witnesses and signed.'

'then there ensued a monotonous repetition of
the evidence read out to the witnesses by the clerk,
and in the midst of which Susan Copley entered the
court.

'^ ' Take the book,' said the coroner's clerk.

'' ' Yes, sir.'

^^•'The evidence 3'ou shall give to the court
touching the death of Edward Barnes XewhoLle
shall be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing
but the truth, so help) you God said the clerk,
or words to that effect.

"eyes, sir.'

'^'Kiss the book said the clerk. 'You know
what an oath is ?'

'eyes, sir she said, and kissed the Testament.

'* ' Then tell us, my good woman said the coroner,
what you know about the unfortunate death of your
master.'

"eyes, my lord, and gentlemen of the jury,' she
said, looking first at the coroner and then at the jury,
with a calm but very white face. ' I know that he
did it.'

"that he did it?' repeated the coroner; 'who
did what?'

'That Mr. Lucas killed ray master,' she said.

"stop, stop,' said the coroner, 'what do you
mean; do you mean to say you saw the deed committed?'


'not exactly that, but I as good as see it;
leastwise, if I had I couldn't be more certain; for he
was that base he would stick at nothing; didn't he
get the poor master to sign away all his property to

missus? and I saw him last night between eight and
nine a lookin' into our windows; and, oh, good
gentlemen, my masters bin murdered, and it's meas
ought to be hanged for it ; and there's bis dirty
money, as is burning my pocket out and scorching
my soul to pieces.'

'she flung a ten-pound note upon the table, and
covered her face with her hands, rocked herself to
and fro, and moaned. The court was still as death.
The jurymen looked at each other. The crowd gaped
open-mouthed at Susan. The coroner wiped his
spectacles. I clutched the vicar's hand, my heart
beating wildly.

"this is very extraordinary,' said the coroner.
Compose yourself, Susan Copley, compose yourself,
and sit down.'

"Then began a very lengthened examination of
Susan, which led to an exhaustive deposition, the
points of which were a matter of suspicion that
Chingford Lucas, who had destroyed the peace of
our house, had been seen in Sandwich about the
period of the death of my father, and that he had a
possible interest in his death, if he controlled Mrs.
Newbolde, in whose favour settlements had been
made, as alleged by Susan Copley.

'scan I give evidence ?' I remember asking, as

if I were speaking in a dream. It seemed to me as
if the sting and the truth had been taken out of
Susan's statement by the time that it was read over
to her ; she had had to admit her omens and presentiments
and ghosts ; and her declaration that she
knew Lucas had killed my father was not written
down at all. AVhat could I know about what was
legal evidence and what was not ? I only felt that
while they were writing the criminal was escaping.
So I stood up. * Can I give evidence ?'

^^ ' Are you the deceased gentleman's son ?'

"eyes, sir.'

' My dear young friend, we are all deeply grieved
for you, and, of course, will hear anything you may
says but perhaps the vicar or your poor father's
solicitor will advise j'ou.'

^^ The vicar did not speak. I looked round at
him, and it seemed as if he left me to my own judgment.


' Thank j^ou, sir, for being sorry, but T want
justice. My father has been murdered by that man
Lucas. Send and have him arrested.'

'^^Ah, my J^oung friend is saying what he does
not quite understand said the coroner.

'^ ' He has stolen, my mother, murdered my father;
and some day, by God's help, I will kill him."

• ^^ I said b}^ God's help, I remember, out of deference
to the vicar ; a curious sort of notion, but true
to my feelings at the time, which seemed to struggle
to give an assurance to my father that he should not
go unavenged. I wanted to register a vow, and had
no right method to go upon ; but I said what was in
my mind, and sat down.

* Amen said a voice in the crowd; ' and I hope
you will live to do it, youngster.'

CHAPTER Il

THE DAY AVILL Come'

XoTHTNG came of all this' continued my host,
nothing, except that Mr. Chingford Lucas offered
himself to the police for public or private examinations
threatened Susan Copley with an action for
criminal libel, and became entirely master of the
situation.

*'He committed these qualities through his solicitors
in London, and at the same time proposed to
take me under his protection. The lawyer who had
advised my father on such small legal matters as
belonged to our family affairs, had a long correspondence
with Lucas's solicitors. Lucas was living on
the Continent, they said, but they were prepared to
produce him at any moment.

^^The vicar, by his own motive, had a detective
down from Scotland Yard, but he could not collect
evidence enough to venture upon any charge against
Lucas, who, on the statement of Susan Copley getting
winds had at once given the coroner what were

regarded as ample proofs that he was in Florence at
the time in question. The truth is, we where nowhere,
though the vicar, the last time I saw him,
six years jingo, was of my opinion that this ruffian
Lucas murdered my fathers

What, then, was the ultimate verdict of the
jury ? ^^ I asked.

^^ Found drowned ! '^ he answered ; " what they
call an open verdicts

The old house, where we had all been so happy
and so miserable, blossomed into auction posters.
They filled the windows, and were stuck upon the
walls. One day a crowd of people came and entered
into possession of the place, and the vicar took
Maggie and me to his house. Susan went with us ;
but she was curious about the auction sale. She
passed most of the day going to and fro between the
vicar's house and the Manse, that she might tell us
what the things sold for. Poor little Maggie ! she
did not realize the misery of what was going on. I
felt beaten down and helpless.

In the afternoon I took Maggie out for a walk,
towards the railway station ; it was an early day in
spring, and the world was full of promise of fruits
and flowers, orchards in blossom, marsh marigold
gilding the landscape.

'' K% we returned to the vicar's, we met porters
and others carrying to their homes and shops, and
to the railway', pieces of furniture and bric-a-brac
they had bought at the sale by auction of * the late
Mr. Emboldens effects One man carried a picture,
another a pair of vases, a third had in his arms an
old-fashioned chair from my own bedroom. Then
came a cartload of things, household goods, and I
turned away'' and went across the fields, down by the
river, and over the bridge ; that bridge which I hope
to cross once again. Well, on the other side of the
river I met a fisherman, who talked to us, and moved
thereto by something I said, he remarked that I was
a fine spirited lad, and that if I was not so much of
a gentleman he would give me two shillings a week
and my living to help him with his nets, and go out
fishing with him. I said I was not such a gentleman
as he thought, and I would take his offer.

*' When we went back to the vicar's, I told his
reverence what the fisherman had proposed, and what
1 had done ; and he said I was a brave lad, and that
there was nothing like self-reliance. By all means,
he said, I was to take the fisherman's offer ; he was
the greatest gentleman, he said, who was not ashamed
of earning an honest living; the sea was a noble
culling, he said, but I was never to forget that he,

the vicar, was ni" friend and guardian — self-elected,
he said, * but jour guardian and Maggie''Sj and your
true friend always.' I have never forgotten his kind
words. 'You are not rich he said , 'my dear boy,
and it has pleased the Lord to afflict your youth with
a great sorrow ; but He has given you a brave hearty
and your first step) in this new and sad life is
honourable to your head and heart.'

And so I went, and became boy to Digges the
fisherman and his boat The Fair Aline. It was a
great change of life , and fare , but it helped me from
thinking too much, and it made me strong. The
vicar kept Maggie, and I do not know what became
of the woman Susan. I went to see Maggie every
Sunday, and to spend the day at the vicarage, as
people called it, out of compliment ; for the vicar had
no cure of souls in Sandwich, he lived there, and
preached in a church some miles away. He used to
give me bits of Latin exercises to chew over in my
leisure moments, and to keep me from thinking too
much, or brooding 011 my misery. But nothing
would shut out from me the memory of that dead
face with the scar on its forehead ; nothing could
n.ake me forget the thief who had stolen away my
mother ; nothing could shake my vow of revenge
that I were a man I ' was one of my constant

wishes ' But the day will come one of my most
consoling reflections. I think much of my sorrow for
my father was sopped up in my hope of vengeance.
People talk of not looking to have old heads on
young shoulders; but they talk ignorantly ; let
them go among the poor and miserable, they will
find plenty of old heads on young shoulders.
Experience is age, not years always, and some
boys of twelve and fifteen have seen more of life,
and felt more of its responsibilities, than some men

of fifty.

*^ AVhat an awful life ray boys life was ! What
'an awful life is my manhood ! I am not thirty, yet
I feel that I might be any age, that I might be the
Wandering Jew, an outcast, a vagrant, a drunkard,
a madman — yet always with a mission. I am
wailing until I meet that fiend of my boyhood.
When he crosses my path, or I his, then will be
enacted a just retribution. And the time is coming
sooner than he thinks.

'-' I had to cross that bridge continually going to
the vicar's and to the cottage of old Digges, and I
could never shut out that picture of the sad November
morning, and I saw it continually in sunshine and in
shadow.

One Sunday when I went to the vicarage, his

reverence met me with a most pained and anxious
expression of face.

'^ ' What is wrong, vicar ?^

shave you seen Maggie he asked, answering
my question with another.

^ Seen her, no ! ' I exclaimed ; ^ not since last
Sunday.'

' She has gone away he said''

Gone away? Where? How? When?'

'^ ^ On Friday evening he said, ' my housekeeper
went out to see a friend ; she was not away more
than half an hour. I was in the library ; Maggie
was in her room, as we thought. Old Sarah, my
housekeeper, however, came to me to see if Maggie
was with nre; an hour later she came to say she
feared something had happened to Maggie — she had
gone ! I concluded that Maggie had gone into some
neighbour's house, though she was not in the habit
of doing so, being so young, and I sent out to inquire
after her. Nobody had seen her. We sent round
to old Digges's cottage. The fisherman was outwith
his boat, you with him. No tidings of her all
night ; you had not returned ; our only hope was
in you — we thought she might be with you and
Digges. It was a forlorn hope; but we clung
to it. All day yesterday there was a hue and cry

VOL. I. o

out — no trace of her. My neighbours wanted me
to have the river dragged, but I gave no orders
to that effect. The river has, nevertheless, been
dragged ; still no Maggie, and in this instance I say,
thank God!

^^ I sat down in the vicar's hallway. The bells of
Sandwich were chiming for morning service. A
thrush was singing joyously in an old elm in the
Ancar's garden.

"keep a good heart, my dear boys; God's
will be done. My theory is that Mr. Chingford
Lucas has stolen her for your mother. Probably
this scoundrel will marry jour mother now. He
will thus control what money she possesses. Your
father settled upon her everything he had in
the world, furniture, pictures, life insurance, and
some shares in the London, Chatham, and Dover
Railway.'

'* While we were talking a telegraph messenger
came up the garden path.

' The Rev. Mr. Oliphant,' he said.

''^ That is my name,' responded the vicar.

' Telegram — five shillings for messenger, Sandwich
office being closed.'

a c Very well,' said the vicar, handing the boy the
money and me the telegram.

I opened it, and read —

"' From Mrs. Newbolde, London.
' Maggie is with me ; we are now starting for Vienna ; she
will be well cared for and educated ; she is the one comfort I need ;
thank you for all sour kindness to her. She sends her love,
and is very happy to be once more with her mother.'

^ As I thoughts said the vicar ; ^ your mother
no doubt made it a condition of her remaining with
Lucas that Maggie should be restored to her; a
condition of marriage, perhaps, who knows ? Or a
condition of executing deeds in his favour. Who
can tell ? '

'Do you believe this telegram ? ^ I asked.

' Yes ; but of course he wrote it, or dictated it.'

'' Sandwich gossiped about this new incident in
the history of the Newboldes. The women said it
was a good thing for the child that her mother had
sent for her. The men said Lucas was an infernal
scoundrel, and that he would come to a bad end.
They said nothing ill of my mother, out of respect
for me, I suppose ; and it was not until afterwards
that I came to fully understand how cruelly she had
behaved. Not a message for me ; not a word, not a
line ; she left me alone in the world, without a
future. If Maggie had remained to me, I could
have striven, and fought, and worked for her. Too

2

be her protector and shield, would have represented
to me all that is noble in ambition. But if Fate, or
the Providence you believe in, has had a hand in
this , I conclude that it was so ordained that I might
have but one thing in life to accomplish — the
avenging of my father's downfall and death.

'^ Left alone in the world, I accepted the shelter of
Vicar Oliphant kindly roof ; boy as I was, I had
resisted the offer of this hospitality when I felt that
I ought to work for Maggie. But this last stay to
my poor existence gone, I braced myself up for the
work that was before me. To enable me to hold my
own in the contest with Lucas, I felt that it was
necessary to educate both mind and body, to cultivate
the one, to train the other, to make myself if possible
an athlete body and soul, to be skilled in intellectual
fence, and to be capable physically. During the
last two or three years I have strained the capacity
of the fine constitution thus laid down, taxed it to
the utmost with the fatigues of manual labour and
the poison of drink.

Ah, if things had been different with me ! Now
and then the quiet of the vicar's cultivated home
stole into my soul, and I had dreams of forgetfulness.
The vicar led me with a gentle hand and a mind
stored with knowledge through the classic paths of

the Latin poets ; we read philosophy together, and
we studied the natural history of books and of
nature. I became, the ^'icar said, quite a scholar,
and the local fishermen said I could sail a boat with
the best of them. So far the training of my body
has been of the most practical service to me, though
I have found comfort in books. I have had more
opportunities to test the strength of my hands than
the culture of my brain; and the nautical knowledge
I picked up among the Sandwich and Deal fishermen
has served me in good stead more than once.
^^ I have many a time exclaimed with Hamlet —

' The time is out of joint ; cursed spite,
That ever I was born to set it right.'

There is, I know, a wild egotism in this parallel ;
yet my wrongs are to my mind as deep and wide, as
all-absorbing as his — a father murdered, a mother
fled with the assassin ; nay, I count myself as the
most wronged of the two, and this you will think is
egotism gone mad. So it may be for aught 1 know ;
but, oh, heavens ! had I had the opportunities for a
quick vengeance that Hamlet had, the slayer of my
father's peace, the assassin of my father's life, would
not have lived to strut through a five-act play.

'' Poor Hamlet ! Do you know I have pitied him
as if he had really lived, aye, and as if I had known

\\VK\j for look you, a fellow-feeling has hooks of steel
to hang one's thoughts upon other's woes. Mad !
They say Hamlet was mad; he was just as mad as I
am, just as mad as any other man would be under
the same circumstances. It is not necessary to be a
prince, or a scholar, or a dreamer, or well brought
up, or carefully nurtured ; or in good society, as the
fools in London call mixing with snobs and tuft-hunters
; you could feel as Hamlet felt about the
murder of his father if you were a peasant of the
fields, a miner in the Rockies, a fisherman, a sailor,
a thing that Society wipes its feet upon, and will
not allow to have a soul to be saved, except under
the patronage of a Church.

^' When I think of these things, I scorn your
clerical arrangements and all that they profess to
lead up to. I defy them and all the rules and regulations
man has made to exalt money above life ;
and I lay my ear to the earth as the Indian does to
listen for the steps of the enemy he has doomed.

The vicar sent a private detective on the track
of Lucas, and he brought report of him and my
mother, and Maggie, at one time in London, at
another in Paris, and at another in Vienna. My
old friend did not give me details, but he satisfied
himself that Maggie was really with her mother, in

good health, and evidently happy. And then the
days went on and the weeks and months; I studied
hard, and in three years' time was learned in many
things. Nobody came to live in the old Manse.
The vicar obtained permission to attend to the
garden, and after a time, when I had mastered my
feelings sufficiently to go there with him , we used
to spend some hours there every week, digging,
raking, planting, and keeping the sweet memory of
the dear old home green. He little thought how
these visits also kept green the wounds in my heart.
I kept all that to myself; and one day , when I
found my affections twining themselves round about
the vicar, when I found my heart softening to the
past, and my mind becoming absorbed in the pleasant
studies and recreations of the vicar's library, and in
the sports and pastimes of field, and river, and sea,
then I went out upon the bridge, reaffirmed my
oath, and the next day I was far away from Sandwich.
I left the vicar a few grateful words, full of
grief and thanks, but also supplemented with a
reference to the duty I owed to the memory of my
murdered father.

And thereupon began my pilgrimage of vengeance.
I followed his trail from London to Paris ;
from Paris to Monaco ; from Monaco to the Black

Forest. I obtained intelligence of him under Various
names in Milan, Vienna, and St. Petersburg. I
saw him once in Paris, in a gambling-house, but
only for a moment ; the police had raided the house
almost simultaneously with my entrance. I got in
as a messenger. But why go into these details?
Fate has been against me ; for he could not know I
was after him. He has lived a strange life — gambler,
cheat, financier, spy, police agent, speculator,
and his business has been in many lands. I traced
him to New York, to San Francisco; then I concluded
to lay by and wait. I had been a sailor, a clerk, a
railway porter, and at San Francisco I fell in with a
party of miners. Making a little money, I determined
to make more, and to employ the sleuthhounds
of private detection to help me in my search.
Sitting still set me thinking ; making money set
me drinking ; pioneering gave me a taste for mining
adventure ; fighting Indians seemed to give scope
for the brutality that is in my nature; I think the
drink made me mad, reckless, brave, perhaps. I
was another being; for a time I seemed to forget
mj^ mission ; but I was only building in the foundations
stronger — getting money; for money can buy
allies, can multiply hands, can lengthen the reach of
arms ; and it came into my mind also that as I had

pretty well gone round the world after this Lucas, I
would sit down, like the drunken fool in the picture,
and let the world go round until he came to me. A
silly idea, eh ? Truly ; so silly, that when I found
myself entertaining it one night down at the ' Castle '
bar, entertaining it, chuckling over it, and repeating
it as if it were wisdom, I came to the conclusion that
I was really going mad. Perhaps it was delirium
tremens, I don't know. They say I picked a quarrel
with Nigger Jack that night, and shot him. I don't
remember it ; but Nigger Jack was the terror of the
Gulch, the terror of half the country this side the
Rockies, for that matter, boasted that he had killed
fourteen men ; and it was an act of grace, a Providential
thing to have him die in his boots. And as
everybody gave me credit for that good action, I
took it after I came to, for I was raving mad they
said for a week. Lady Ann nursed me, and but
for her nursing I would have died. I made a note
of all this when I got well again, and reformed
somewhat, took hold of myself, put on the break.

•^ And so, dear friend, I have waited for tidings
of him. The mark of my footsteps are in many
countries, and I am here, hundreds of miles from
civilization, to hear of him, to find the clue. You
bring me the token, with a blessing in it. 1 take it

on m)'^ knees with gratitude. You see I am something
more than the rough, hardened, drunken
brute that the Gulch thinks me. I have studied
human nature, and know how to treat the rugged
bear, and how to lie down with the lamb. Misfortune
has taught me philosophy. Icicles have
been given to me, at least for her — for my sister,
Maggie, and for you, my dear partner ; for you, the
messenger in the wilderness. As for him, we shall
stand face to face again on that bridge, at midnight.
I see him now, creeping in the shadow as if he
feared a ghost, cowering before me, who am the
image of my dead father. I cling to the motto ' the
day will comes ^^

He was on his feet now, my host, pacing the
room, clenching his right hand as if it held a
dagger. I rose and stood on guard ; he stopped,
looked at me, and laughed wildly.

"You think I am mad ! '^ he exclaimed, ^' and it
is enough to make me crazy to think of these things,
is it not ? But you go crazy only when you can do
nothing but think of them ; the relief comes when
you talk of them. Ashen I was in San Francisco I
used to go into the Chinese quarters and smoke
that I might dream of them, that I might find relief
in enacting my mission ; but I had no dreams, and

if I had, my wildest ideas would not have brought
you tt) me with the clue in the darkness — you with
the silken thread and your love for Maggie, you
with your good news and your good heart, you with
your honest soul bathing in the sunshine of a pure
love. Ah, I do begin to think there is a great
Heavenly hand in all this. You'll find me going
to church as I did when a boy, should we ever meet
in a city''

Then pausing to fix his eyes upon mine, he said :
*' Now listen, partner — listen. Hickory Maynard !
Your Fitzherbert Willoughby is my Chingford
Lucas ) your Margaret is my Maggie ; I am George
Newbolde. The only man who has any right to
stand between you and this girl you love, takes
your hand in his and gives his consent to your
marriages'

He took my right hand in his, and laid his left
hand over both.

*that man makes two easy conditions in giving
that consent ; he is to provide her dowry, and he is
to have the pledge of your solemn oath never to
reveal to her what has transpired between you and
me — never to mention me or our conversation to
her ; and when she is your wife, you are to do your
best to forget that there ever was such a person as

George Newbolde, ever such a person as * the Boss
of Drummond's Gulch.' '*

*sit is a Lard condition' I said.

'what?"

*^ To carry such a secret as this through the
remainder of my life. I can never forget you''

^^ Not forget me ! - 1 have done sou no wrong,
and what people call kindness is easy enough to
forget. Whj'-, I have met men who could not
remember what j^ou call an obligation for a whole
day — except to resent it. Come, give me your
word, I am no longer excited."

He released my hand, took my arm, and drew me
to the door.

*^ It is a long way to England," he said ; 'far,
far away beyond that misty river, over yonder misty
mountains ; and she is waiting for you there ;
perhaps she is in trouble, perhaps he has carried
her away to some other land to hide her from 3'ou,
perhaps she is in danger, a prisoner in some gloomy
convent, or locked up in some London cellar ; who
knows what maybe happening to her while we stand
here miles away beyond civilization ; thousands of
miles of sea between us and London ? What can
5'ou do without my help ? Nothing, as yet. Have
you money ? No ; for the lawyer has not yet drawn

up our agreement of partnership; the scrip of the
Reverie is still in my possession. Do I ask any-idle
or vicious condition for my help ? No. Do
I put you under an obligation ? No. You are
engaged to marry my sister. I am her only living
relation that I know of. I am rich. You honour
me by desiring to become my brother-in-law. I am
alone in the world, and I offer you my friendship,
and invite you to become my partner. Margaret
has no father. She was too young when he died to
remember anything about him. She has no brother,
except one whom she thinks dead. Let me be dead
still to her. Why burthen her mind with my
sorrows, with my troubles? Why haunt her Hie
with my shadow, perhaps with my ghost ? I am
not in her world ; she does not know me ; I love
her too much to catch from her one ray of sunshine
that you and I may attract towards her. Let me
have my way, brother's

He spoke in soft, appealing tones. There were
accents in his voice that reminded me of her own.

*^ You have suffered but a short eclipse of your
happiness,^^ he went on. *^ You give the pledge,
j'ou swear the oath now ; tomorrow we part forever,
as if we had never met, unless my story has
changed your views in regard to Margaret New-bold.

That is her name. Let it be registered in
the register at Sandwich church. You will marry her
there, and then leave for Italy that very day. Take
her for a long, happy tour beneath sunny skies.
You are surprised that I am so calm and quiet. It
is the eve of the coming day. Have you ever been
lost at sea, the prey of darkness, to find yourself safe
at dawn off a friendly coast ? That is how I feel now.
Good-night, Hickory Maynard ! To-morrow, goodbye
! The next day, strangers — for her sake ! '"'

Let it be as you wish' I answered. '^ I accept
the conditions."

*^ On your oath and on your honour ? ^^

'^ On my honour and on my oath.'^

Looking back to the night when these closing
revelations were made to me, concluded as they
were with a vow on my part and a bond on his, I do
not honestly think I could possibly have acted otherwise
than to accept his conditions. One is alway's
wise after the event. I don't even now know
whether I regret having given the vow. I believe I
think I was right. If one through life could know
the exact result of our most important actions before
committing: them, life would be robbed of much of
.its romance, possibly be less worth living than it is
at present.

It was a strange thing that I should go away from
the very heart of culture in London, to find a philosopher
in the boss of a mining camp on the other
side of the Atlantic ; not a rough materialist quoting
commonplace experience but a cultured philosopher,
who might have disputed with Ruskin, or taken
sides with Spencer — a mining expert and a fighter
of Indians, a vagabond since a boy, and with a
mission of vengeance in his heart. And jet this
man had set me thinking about life and its duties,
religion and its tenets, the world beyond the grave,
as no teaching at Oxford had set me thinking, as no
struggles for advancement in London had moved me
to philosophizing.

There was, moreover, a picturesqueness of illustration
in my host's narrative, an out-of the-way
expression of sentiment, a possibility of a noble
career blighted, and a seeming knowledge of this in
his reflection that made him very attractive to me.
Moreover, the strange circumstance of that casual
visit of mine to Sandwich binding my fortunes up
with his as if by the direct interposition of Providence,
intensified the influence which he exercised
over me. I should have been inhuman to resist
him, even had he not been her brother. These
feelings and opinions move me now after all is over.

I am not trying to justify myself, nor to approve m}'
conduct. Whether I did right or wrong is for others
to judge. There are lives which belong to smooth
rivers; there are lives that belong to rushing torrents.
Fate is oftentimes too strong for the strongest
will, the most calm temperament. But what a
curious, complicated, strange freak of fortune it was
that mixed me up with the story of that house to let
at Sandwich !

CHAPTER VIII.

THE MORROW AND THE PARTING.

*^ To-morrow, good-bye ! ^^ he had said ; ^^ the next
day, strangers ! ^^

I found myself continually repeating the words, as
if I were learning them by heart — as if they were
the key to some strange puzzle, the oral passport
through the lines of an enemy, with the promise of
freedom beyond. They haunted me.

To-morrow, and the next days I found myself
saying to myself; "tomorrow has no next day, it
has only yesterday s.^^

But my host's tomorrow came in due course, and
when it dawned my partner, my prospective brother-in-law
(shall we henceforth call him George New-bold,
for that is his proper name), drew his bunk
out of the niche in which it was packed, and from
an excavation beneath he took out a bundle of owner's
shares in the Revenge Silver Mine, Drummond's
Gulch, Colorado.

I noticed the breadth of his shoulders, the narrow-vol.
I. p

ness of his hips as he stooped down, the swollen
muscles of his arms, and as he turned towards me
the square forehead, the firm mouth, the prominent
nose. He was a picture of health and strength, his
beard dark as his hair but for the streaks of grey in
them, his eyes brave and steadfast, except when he
talked of Chingford Lucas, and then they were restless,
and wandered as one who sought something, or
as one who suffered mentally.

"What are you thinking of?" he asked, as he
laid the shares and a bundle of greenbacks upon the
table.

"I was thinking what a strong fellow you are, and
how well you look'

"I never felt stronger, never better — a mind at
rest, that's it'

And is your mind at rest ? ''

"For the first time since I ran away from the
vicarage at Sandwich."

I was also thinking? how strange it is that
Margaret should be your sister, and that I should
come all this way to give you tidings of her'

"Yes."

And that but for meeting Mr. Wilkesss at
Chicago I should probably have never come to the
Gulch'

i>

Yes, it seems as if Manny Wilkesss had been sent
to meet you — as if my early prayers had been all
this time reaching Heaven. ^^

^^ Do 3'ou think, then, that Heaven has elaborated
its answer, even to the importation of the Tombstone
banker into the scheme ? "

I don't quite know what I think, but I feel that
Heaven, or Fate, or what you like, has decreed that
Chingford Lucas is to be punished in this world
whatever may happen in the next, and that the vow
that boy made over his father's dead body at Sandwich
was not an empty one."

'but you don't think Heaven would have any
hand in the anticipation of its judgment and vengeance
by mortal means ? You don't think that
prayers such as you have offered up are anything
but impious ? I am not offering opinions, only
asking questions."

"Right, youngster, I am not offended. The discussion
is pleasant. It helps to show me the path.
It clears the way. If a sparrow does not fall
without Heaven's permission, do you think it will
not interfere to save the wolf Lucas, if he is worth
it?"

"I hope it will interfere to save you from committing

a crime."

p 2

Don't say that' he answered quickly, *' unless
you regard the fulfilment of my vow a crime'

"I do''

Had you the cause for revenge that I have, and
YOU met the betrayer of your mother, the murderer
of your father, would you not kill him ? "

'' I think not. It would be a poor revenge that
should end in my being hanged for murder."

If when you get back to England you found
that this man Lucas had forced your sweetheart into
a position worse than death, what would you do ? "

^' You put an impossible case," I replied, fencing
with the question, as the blood rushed into my face.

Not at all," he said coolly ; " he is capable of
it ; he is the sort of man who would sell her for fifty
pounds if he wanted the money."

"But there must be two to such a bargain," I
said.

** Oh, no," he replied ; '^ a convenient place and
time and a little chloroform, nothing easier."

Great Lord ! " I exclaimed, beside myself, as I
followed my host's suggestion. " Don't torture me ! "

"And supposing when you got back to London
she should confess her shame as Lucretia told hers
in the classic story what v.'ould you do ?"

Tear the life out of him ! " I exclaimed, pacing

J

the hut, to be stopped in my mad career by the grip
of ray host's strong hand.

^^Oi course you would, the beast !'^ he exclaimed.
'' Kill him as you would a wolf in jour sheep-fold !
Ah ! my friend, don't set up for a Christian
philosopher. One touch of nature makes the whole
world kin : a kindred misery and woe binds together
the most opposite of men''

^^ Why should you try to make me as wretched as
yourself?" I said, facing him.

'* I don't try to do anything of the kind, and I
mean to make you happy. And I know the case I
put to you is an impossibility. For if Margaret is
dishonoured she is dead. That is how I feel about
Margaret. But she is neither dead nor dishonoured.
She is waiting for you to come and marry her at the
church in her native town. Cheer up, old fellow;
but don't preach, don't lecture me — don't try to
make a law for me j^ou would not obey yourself."

Then we gradually simmered down into our
previous condition of calm, and he talked of Sandwich,
told me incidents of his intercourse with the vicar,
and made a curious comparison between the vicar
and Wilkesss, contrasting their good qualities, and
speculating as to what sort of a man the vicar
would have been \\ith Manwaring's training, and

what Manwaring would have been in the vicar's
shoes.

^^I think it would be quite possible' he said,
presently, '^ under certain circumstances, that I might
come to love Sandwich as I think I did when I
began to climb our garden wall to look over and
see the river and the country beyond, when 1
went into the fields and gathered March marigolds,
and, later in the year, meadow-sweet and trembling
grass.' ''

It occurred to me at that moment to tell him all
about my visit to Sandwich, and to compare notes
with him about that gloomy past which had so filled
his mind as to set up a disease there, a morbid desire
to usurp the judgment and work of Heaven — for so I
regarded his fell designs upon Lucas. For the third
or fourth time, second thoughts checked my half-uttered
words, and I merely said, —

Why did you change your name ?'*

^^ From George to Richard, from Newbolde to Drummond
? Why, for the same reasons that he changed
his from Chingford Lucas to Fitzherbert Willoughby.
We have been in hiding — he from me, I from him.
He would know I should be on his track ; I was
equally certain that he would steer clear of any fellow
who called himself George Newbolde. Drummond

&t

was the name of an ancestor of my father's, and
Richard was my grandfather's Christian name'

*^Ah, George, if I had only the influence upon
you that a brother might claim' I said, ^' what, a
happy future there might be in store for us. Have
you never, in your wanderings, met some woman
with whom you could pass your days ? Have you
never loved?"

** Yes, my father and his memory, my sister, you.
Is there no love, think you, but the selfish love of
man and woman ? I love my Hate. An odd notion,
is it not ? You lovers of a pretty girl think yours
is the only engrossing passion. Why, it is transient
as the summer breeze compared with the misers love
of his gold, fleeting as a shadow compared with the
unsatisfied yearning of a just hatred. Go to, as they
say in the plays, thou hast no eloquence in thy tongue
to thaw my frozen purpose. Let us to our affairs'

He separated the mining scrip into two bundles.

There is your proportion of the Revenge Mine,"
he said, pushing one half towards me. " You can
hold it, or let it be sold. And here are three thousand
dollars in bills that shall represent your share of the
current month's dividend, or what you will. Take
them, partner, brother, don't be shame-faced, they
are yours."

I hesitated.

^^ They have been well earned, honourably won,
every share, every inch of land, every dollar I
possess""

I ara sure of it ; but not by me'' I said.

"For her sake, then. You elected to marry her
when you thought her a penniless girl, and a girl
without a name ; she is not penniless, she has a name.
Take your share of the money she brings you — if not
for your own sake, for hers."

I took up the money.

^'The shares are payable to bearer'' he said, 'but
first require m signature. I will deposit them for
3'ou in the bank at Leadville. I leave you to-day;
this place may not be so safe when it is known I am
away, and even the stage by which you will travel
to Leadville is cot the safest of conveyances. At
Leadville you can take a draft on London for all or
part of the stock — they know its value. You could
draw on the Revenge even at Chicago, new as is
Drummond's Gulch, a mere mining camp, unrecorded
on the maps."

We had hardly completed this division of property
when a foxy-looking gentleman arrived, sat down
at the table without ceremony, and produced three
documents.

"Shall I read ?^^

'' Yes, sir," said my partner.

The foxy gentleman read a brief, but explicit
partnership deed, in which for due consideration of
services and relationship, I was installed as the
partner of Richard Drummond, otherwise George
Newbolde, in the Revenge, and other mining properties
and lands in and about Drummond^s Gulch.

^' Your coloured gentleman at home ? '^ asked the
lawyer.

Wash I " shouted my partner.

Yes, sah,''

Law^'-er wants you.'"'

"Yes, sal."

Sign," said the lawyer, motioning to us ; " and
you, Wash, observes

Yes, sah.''

We signed two of the documents.

Now what is your name ? "

"Washington Caesar Lees' said the old darker,
grinning.

Can you write ? "

"No, massa, I can jest read de book of Genesis."

Then make your mark here — that signifies you
have seen these gentlemen sign these papers."

"Yes, sal."

Wash made his mark.

'' This third document is only the draft ; I take
that to Denver; it goes into the archives; shall not
be round here again for eight weeks; anything
more ? "

'^jN'o, sir'

One hundred dollars'

'^ There you are' said my partner, handing him
the money; "and keep this agreement for me in
your safe with the draft. I'm going to Europe;
don't know when I will return; but Washy stays
here and keeps house. Whenever you, or any other
member of the firm, travel this way, call and see
that Wash is all right, and make your headquarters
here."

"Yes, sir; good-bj^e, good luck," said the foxy
gentleman, taking up his hat and bowing himself
out.

Business-like fellow — one of the travelling representatives
of a great firm of mining lawyers at
Denver, Leadville, and the newest of new cities —
Jamaica," said my partner. " Take care of that
deed ; it will grow in value, grow day by day.
When do you start for London ? I advise your
going at once. Washy ! "

Yes, sal."

Take care of the hut."

"Yes, sal."

*^ I am off to Denver and Chicago, thence to
Europe, not to be back for a long time. You know
the sheriffs'

Yes, sal."

If you want advice or assistance of any kind,
go to him/^

'' Yes, sah.'^

And if he can do all you want, go to Joe
Lurking'

Yes, sah/'

"And here is a letter'

Yes, sah.''

This one with a cross in the corner — give it to
the sheriff's

'' Yes, sal."

*' And this without a cross is for Joseph Hawkins,
manager of the Revenge."

"Yes, sal."

'^ Deliver them tomorrow."

eyes, sal."

Get me my belt and my repeater."

Washy brought a leather waist-band that was
literally a purse, and a cartridge belt, and with it a
Winchester rifle.

"And now go down to the camp, tell Lady Ann,
with my respectful compliments — mind the respectful
compliments, Washy''

"Yes, 'deed I will, sah.'*

That I will thank her to have the snorter
saddled and ready for me at ten o'clock — it is now
nine — and the grey mare with Dick Foley on her
back, and tell him to have his shooting-irons in
order."

Yes, sah/'

Now listen, that is not all — then she can send
up somebody from the mine to carry my luggage
down to ' The Castle and put it aboard the
Leadville and Denver stage in the morning, checked
for the bank at Leadville, do you understand ? ''

Yes, sal."

*^ Then away you go''

And away Washy went as far as he could whither
and slide down the mountain info the valley below.

You could go by the same stage if you wished,"
he said, "but I would advise your taking the stage
that goes to Leadville next Mondays four days hence,
and ends its journey there. It is a well-appointed
stage, and the baggage is checked for the cars. You
get two or three hours in Leadville, time enough to
see our friend Wilkesss at the bank ; he is away from

Tombstone for a few days. Get your drafts on
London then a through ticket by the cars to Chicago,
thence to New York and then oh for England, with
your happiness all before you, a good mother and a
good girl awaiting you. Yes, that is the stage for
you to take. You can pack at your leisure, write
letters home, and get there, perhaps, as soon as the
mail. I go a somewhat different route, and if you
go by tomorrow's stage, j^ou may be in Leadville
before the scrip). So Mondays stage be it, eh ? "

Yes, since that is your advice," I said.

'^ It is," he said ; ^^ and now, good-bye ! ^'

I looked at him reluctantly.

"Good-bye, brother," he said, putting out his
baud.

"It is so sudden," I replied.

Better now than next week," he said, looking me
straight in the eye, " for I am beginning to like you
to feel happy in your companionship."

Then better next week than now," I said.

**No, no," he answered. "I have been waiting
years for the message you brought me only a few
days ago, and now it seems years since 3'ou brought
it. I would not have believed it possible that 1
could have desired to postpone for one hour the work
that es before me; but this morning, looking at

your amiable face, listening to your soothing views
of life, thinking what pleasant chums we might be,
now that I am no longer, nor shall ever be again, a
slave to whisky I wavered — I wavered, and said to
myself, ' Oh, if it were possible to forget, if not to
forgive, to forget and — ' ^'

*^ Surely," I exclaimed, ^^ it was a good inspiration?"


No, it was a touch of human infirmity — what
you will. I have corrected it with a dose of the old
memory. Once again I have traversed the road from
the Sandwich Station to the old house, my hand in
my father's ; I have recalled his sweet words of
hope, and seen all his awakened ambition blasted in
that ruined home ; I have seen the beloved but unfortunate
dead, and heard the son promise to avenge
the father. Xo, friend, brother, it may not be, that
brief dream of companionship ; I could not be happy
even in the thought of it for more than a moment."

'^ Oh, if it were possible ! Would to God he might
be dead now ! "

"■ No, he will live to meet me. There is a Providence
doth shape our ends. Do you think you would
have been sent out here merely to baulk me at the
last? Be reasonable, Hickory. There is a rosy
future for you. Come here."

O O 1

He led me to the door.

There it is — right away over yonder where the sunrises
— the bridge at Sandwich. You don't see it,
but I do. I am standing there in the sunshine. I
have seen the kind old vicar place Maggie's hand in
yours, I have seen her beaming face, with her dead
brother's loving eyes ; I can hear the wedding bells.
And by all that is good and true, by your love for
her, by her happiness, I claim the fulfilment of your
pledge, as Fate claims the fulfilment of mine. Do
sou draw back ? '^

No''

I can trust you ? ^'

You can''

I do.^^

I still wonder whether I ought to have accepted
the situation. I look back and feel that I was
powerless to resist it. He had a stronger personality,
surely, than I. There was a magnetism in his individuality.
He had the gift of command — I was as
>A ax in his hands. He ordered, I obeyed. It would
have been so had I been a hundred men, he one. Tt
was so in the camp ; he commanded, he was the chief,
the Boss of Drummond's Gulch."

Good-bye ! ^^ he said, '^ good-bye, brother. Henceforth
strangers — for evermore. Think only of her ;

let me know and feel that she is happy, that the
balance of her life shall alone for the misery of
its beginning. That will make me happy — that,
and—"

He paused and took my hand.

*^ But that is my affair ; good-bye'

He turned and waved his hand at the door, and
was gone. I had not the heart to look out after
him. I sat staring at the open door, and I saw the
mountains away beyond the river. I sat as one in a
drains until the negro returned with two men from
the camp , who carried away with them " de massa's
ba<T:o:af?e."

The trailed out a heavy trunk between them.
I watched them as far as I could see them, picking
their way down the rocky path among the trees.

It seemed to me as if they were carrying a coffin.
I felt the tears welling up into my eyes, as they did
when I followed my father to his grave.

The sun was shining, the world all about me
looked lovely, but there was a great black shadow
upon it.

At last the men with the coffin (I could only think
of it, do what I would, as a coffin) disappeared, and
I seemed to hear a funeral bell tolling in the
distance. Then my troubled fancy conjured up

the parson's words ; I saw an open grave ; I heard
the emblems of mortality fall upon the coffin, and
the words "ashes to ashes, dust to dust' I leaned
against the door-post of the hut quite unmanned,
and almost sobbed, " Good-bye, dear friend — goodbye,
good-bye ! "

VOL. I. Q

Chapter IX.

SIR THOMAS GOES OUT TO FIGHT THE INDIANS.

Now that my host and benefactor had really gone,
I felt as if he had died and I was in possession of
his goods ; as if I had been at the reading of a will,
and had come into the property of a relative whom
I loved. When I was a little fellow I lost a brother.
We had been playmates. He was eight and I was
ten. I could not realize that he was dead, and when
I took his little treasures of toy soldiers and tin
trumpets to my own room because he wished it in his
dying moments, I felt as if I had stolen them. I
never played with them any more, never blew
another blast upon the tin trumpets.

The sensation of that long past came back to me
now, and instead of packing my things to start
away for England, I sat staring at them, and feeling
towards some of them, and particularly in respect of
the money in my purse, as if I had come into a
painful inheritance.

*^ Done take on so, Massa Maynard," said Washy,

putting his kind old woolly head in at the open
door ; ^' you's going home to your peoples

Yes, Wash, old fellow, but where is the boss
going?"

Not much long ways ; and he hab no people, I
think, only me/^

He grinned at his own suggestion of relationship.

^'^ He's a wanderer on de blessed earth; I heard
him say so often ; and once he right down tole me
he only hab two friends in de whole wide world —
me and a ole parson. And dat once was not when
he gotten drunk, but sick and sad as a ole doughnut.
Ah ! poor Massa Newbolde, I talk to him den, and
say wonder he had not rest him faith in de Lord
since he hab two such friends, me and de ole parson,
both of which was ob de true faith. But he only
smile at me and say dat de ignorance of some folk
was more blessed in de result dan all de wisdom of
de orders which was wise as Solomon."

'^ He was only angry and savage, then, when he
had been drinking ? ^^

^'Dat^s all; when he was sick and sorry, as he
would say, den no pusson could be more gentle, no
pusson could listen more solemn to de good Avoid
than him, no pusson could smile more discredulos of
it, though I would go on talking as I gib him his

Q 2

soup, or his toast, or his posset, or what not; and
den when he gotten better and sat up, he would smoke
and smoke, and think and think, wit his eyes looking
out across de river yonder, so that you'd think he
was trying to look right into dat very heaven I
don't believe he ever had de true faith in. ' It's
nice, Washy,' he was once say, * for j^ou to believe
in dem golden slippers and de golden stairs, and all
dat ; ' and I said it was de only think dere was to
lib and die for. And he says. ' Is you happy,
Washy ? ' and I says, ^ Yes , wit a good massa, plenty
to eat, and heaven at last, what could I want more ? '
And he said, 'Dat's right; I'm glad somebody's
happy.' And I says right away, '■ It's j^ou as has
made me so — you and de blessed Bible.' "

You have had quite long conversations with
him, then ? ^'

Oh, yes, and he has conversed wit me otherwise
When he were on de bender ; wit de whisky in him,
he has talked to me wit de boot jack and de fire-irons
— yas, dat he hab, the dear, kind boss ! "

At the recollection of which Washy shuffled away
laughing, and left me to my reflections. My negro
gossip had not coaxed them out of the channel in
which they were drifting. And he talked of Dick
more or less as if he were dead, and gave me

glimpses of the pathetic side of the poor fellows
character — the poor fellow who had worked and
fought and struggled that I might inherit his
wealth.

"You will be rich' he had said, ^^ rich ! '^ I
pulled myself together, tried to shake off my morbid
thoughts, stopped looking back, got up, walked
about, and looked into the future. I was already
rich.

The idea staggered me. Rich ! \Yith money
enough to travel en prince, with money enough to
hire the captain's room on an Atlantic steamer,
with money enough to marry my love straightaway.


How I longed for a portrait of her ! And how I
wondered that I had none. We were too much in
earnest, I suspect, to exchange portraits. Our
hours were too deeply mortgaged with work and
hope to be wasted in sitting for portraits. Her
features were engraved on my heart ; what did I
want more?

His sister ! I did not love her the less for that,
but his story lent a mystery to our relations that
seemed to shadow the brightness of her 03^68. And
she was not to know of the existence of this brother.
I was never to mention him. She was to remain in

ignorance of him and of all his kindness to me. I
was not to tell her the story of my life and vows at
Drummond's Gulch.

Massa's very melancholy said the old negro
servant, returning. '* Sometimes Massa Drummond
read in his book, and dat cheer him'

sand sometimes he talked to you, and that
cheered him, eh, Washy ? ^'

Can't begin to say if it cheered him' he replied,
grinning.

Anyhow, talk to me, Washy ; come, sit down."

He hitched up his trousers and squatted upon a
low stool.

^' I'se melancholy, too' he said.

About the boss going away ? "

'' Not all on dat account."

'^ But you are sorry he has gone ? "

"Not like de sorry that comes ob parting for
good until we meets again on de golden shore."

No, of course not."

'* Massa Drummond come back again."

I hope so."

I know he come back."

'why?"

Hab he not tell me he come back, and gib me
money and tell me take care ob de house, and all

no mores

I took this as a kindly tribute to myself.

'' You are thinking of me ; it is very good of sou,
Washy."

Not directly, and yet dat's so' he said, in an
embarrassed kind of way.

*' How do you mean ? "

** You not go away for ever."

I shall not return to the Gulch' I said.

'*Bery sorry you say so; no wish serve a kinder
gentleman. Grief me say good-bye, but grief me
more if it was dat last parting, and only to meet
again in de happy land. As I said befo', j^ou return
to yo' people over de sea, and dey wait to welcome
yo' — dat sweetheart and dat mudder.'^

'' Yes, thank God ! " I said.

'* Amen ! " responded Washy,

"But I don't know what you are driving at."

I was just driving at Sir Thomas' he said, rising,
since you force me to speak, and dat's de truth,"

'' What of Sir Thomas ? "

*^ When I must came to de door to speak it was
'bout Sir Thomas, only you look so melancholy I
done like to say noting. Done like bring bad news
when massa's sad already at de begin with,"

What is it, Washy ?^'

'' It's valour'

Valour ! "

Dat's de word for it. Hight down valour."

Down at the * Castle ! ' ''

Some ob it'*

'rit's generally whisky there," I said ; *' but what
is it?"

'' Ain't whisky now' said Washy ; '' it's valour,
sal. Nobody thought as Massa Thomas was brave
didn't look it, eider — but it's valour as is de
trouble; he's been and gone off wit Ugly Jim and
Barking' Billy and de rest to fight de Injuns, and
Lady Ann she is dat feared, she going' on a- cry into
dat extent it's miserable to see."

To fic^ht the Indians ! Where ? And why ? "

"You learn 'em down at de camp a talking' ob
striking de mineral treasure at de Ute Valley?"

"Yes."

"Well, 'pears as de Injuns come down on de
pioneers and massacre dem, just as 'pears dey comedown
on Massa Drummond when he must come dis
side de Cockles ; and Ugly Jim and a lot ob de
Gulch men has gone out wit dere guns and things
and a waggon ob tinned meat and bread and
whisky, to settle de trouble wit de Injuns for

good, jest as Massa Drummond settled dem here at
de Gulch*

"Welles'

^* 'Taint well, massa."

^' I mean what more ? "

*' Ain't dat" enough ? ^'

There is no news of them, then ? "

No."

'' And you think the Indians will get the best of
it?"

'eyes, sal."

"And that poor Sir Thomas will be killed, if he
is not killed already ? "

'* Dat's so," said Washy.

'why?"

Why do 1 think so ? because I hab no faith in
Ugly Jim, and. de whisky-drinking' crowd dat fight
for him. When de Injun on de war-path he lie inde
bush, he wait, he watch, he is cautious as de ole
bear, and secret and creep like de serpent. And
what is de Gulch crowd dat go out? A noisy,
drunken crew, loafers and swearers ; and de like
of poor little Sir Thomas be no good to go on short
commons, and sleep in de bush, and wade through
de rivers. It's good-bye to de little boss ob de
'Castle'"

"But Mister Drummond, he fought the Indians
when they were on the war-path ?"

*^ Ah, dat's very different ; dey tole me, de ole
fellers at de mine, dat in dem days Boas Drummond
he drink no whisky, he swear no odes, he could
break a rock wit his fist, and ride de wildest boss
dat ever was, and fight de biggest Injun dat ever
took a scalp. De'' tole me he done go out wit a cart
and kitchen stuff, and whisky in bottles and whisky
in de flask ; he go out, and de handful of de pioneers
wit him, he go out like de lujun scout himself, he
go out as keen and strong as any fighting Injun,
and his men dat go wit him are silent men, wot do
not talk and sing and shout, and de'' wushups de
ground Boss Drummond walk on, and follow him, de
ole men saj^, to hell if he leal ; which was profane
speaking, I allow, but it make de ignorant understand
what men dem was, what a leader dey hab, and how
poor de chance ob dem Injuns I'*

That is very true. Washy, and very well put."

Yes, sab," he replied, " and dat's why I'se melancholy
about de kind little Boss who will never come
back to de camp ; I'se sure as if I see his scalp in de
fighting Injun's belt."

I went down to the camp, and found that it was true
what Washington said ; Lady Ann was disconsolate.

Yes," she said, " the boys have gone to punish,
the Utes, or whatever the red devils call themselves,
and my poor fool of a Tommy has gone along. He'll
get killed to a certainty

She was sitting in a corner of the saloon. Two
miners were playing roulette, two others betting in a
languid kind of way. The place gave you the idea
of suspense. It seemed as if it was waiting for
something or somebody.

And it will be two weeks before they can get
back even if they lick the Indians, which they don't
always do ; and I shall be a widow as sure as my
name is Lady Ann Montgomery ! And that is my
name. Poor fellow ! My real own name ; I'm a
titled lady with the right to be stuck up among the
best of the English aristocracy ! And he's the only
man I ever cared a red cent for — too good for me by
a sight, but I've been true to him and stood by him,
in sunshine and in storm, as they say, and I'd lay my
life down for him if it would do him any good — and
that's a fact."

He will come home a hero. Lady Anne's I said ;
*' never fear ! "

But I do fear, and I'm dead certain he won't
come home a hero, and I don't care if he comes home
to be called a coward so that he comes. It won't

matter to you or to Boss Drummond, however'* she
said, suddenly charging her tone; "he's off for
Europe, and you are going tomorrow, ain't you?"

Yes," I said.

And glad to shake the Gulch dust off your shoes,
eh'*

I have been very happy here," I said.

"And who's going to take care of me'' she said,
"now all the braves have gone to fight the Indians ?
It's time I left this place, I think, unless we give
consent for the boys to marry and bring their wives.
I did say that I would quit the moment another
woman turned up here, but I guess I kinder long to
see a woman's face to-day, that's a fact''

She sighed and cast a weary glance around, and
I pitied her. A fine buxom woman, as I have said
before, Lady Ann had had a '' career," and a
physiognomist could see the lines of it in her
countenance. There were premature " crows' feet"
about her dark eyes, a scar upon the left cheek, her
mouth was sensuous, though it was more generous
than sensual in its characteristics. Her hair was
black with the slightest tinge of grey ; her shoulders
a trifle too high for gracefulness of carriage ; and
she had a habit of sitting in a huddled up kind of
way that, to say the least, was not lady-like. Moreover,

in the expression of her face, and in her
general manner, there were tokens of a dormant
temper, a possible rage, an unbounded courage, that
in an emergency could do more than unpack itself
in words. She had a powerful physique*, and when
she said, " I'd like to catch on to one of them
Indians if anything happens to my Tommy'* you
fully realized that if she did it would go hard with
the red man.

^' I know he'll never come back," she said in a
low voice, ^* because he went without telling me, he
went and never said good-bye with his own lips, not
even a shake of the hand''

'^ That should be a good omen," I said.

'^ But it ain't ; he snowed I would never have
given my consent, and if I wouldn't, then you maybe
sure it was a dangerous business, because I'd
have like to have him pleased, and if it were just
going on a spree I guess he should have gone and
had my blessing. Besides, he's left me a bit of
paper and written on it, ' Good-bye, Ann, my dear
old girl, and lawful wife,' and signed his name in
full, and what does he mean by that ? Why, it's as
plain to me as is the light of the Revenge smelter ;
he thinks he may never come back, and he wants
me respected as his widow if I go to the old country

to claim my rights. That's what the boy means.
And they will have lured him to his deaths the
mean loafers. What can he do, camping out, laying
around for Indians, and hasn't the strength of a
baby if it comes to fighting a rainstorm, let alone
Indians ? By my soul, if he gets shot, I'll let
daylight into Ugly Dick, and don't you forget it ! "

Don't look on the dark side of the picture," I
said. " I have known many an English gentleman
who did not look as if he had a pennyworth of fight
in him, nor a ha'porth of strength, who has
astonished giants in the way of pluck and staying
powers. In the English wars there have been boy-leaders
of forlorn hopes, who have done greater
deeds than the biggest and strongest of their
followers."

That's all right," said Lady Ann, wiping away
her tears ; " but don't I know my Tommy ? Have
I nursed him, and don't know how weak a case
God has put a big heart into ! Don't tell me he'll
break down at the first trouble. He'll fight, oh,
yes, that's the worst of it, and he won't run away,
not he, bless the dear little feller's courage ; but he
can't sleep out o' nights, and get wet, and hot, and
thirsty, and fatigued, and fight great hulking
Indians, and come back ; how can it be expected ?

If Vdi that Ugly Jim by the throat, I'd give him a
grip that would settle his Indian fighting for the
rest of his whisky-tub life'

She cried with sorrow and with passion, with
rage and fear, and then sat down and rocked herself
to and fro, and taking my hand, said, —

Mister, sou are a countryman of his ; you are
going to his native land ; if you hear about him
there, say a good word for him — the best fellow I
ever knew, and the deadest at this moment, else
why do I feel it here at my heart, and why do I
wish for the first time that there was a woman in the
camp, that I might tell her what I feel and think?"

**^ Cheer up," I said, ^' and never say die. It is
your own motto ; I have heard you use it. I believe
he will come back, and come back a hero — the best
and bravest of the lot."

*' If he does"" she said, " he will be all that, I
know, and I will tell him what you said. Give me
your hand, and let me thank you for your cheery
words. 1^11 try to think as you say, and if the worst
comes to the worst, 111 revenge him as sure as my
name is, as I said before, Lady Ann Montgomery."

I could not help wondering what Mayfair would
think of this latest addition by marriage to the
English aristocracy.

'^ Let us drink to his good luck, and to his safe
return' I said, placing upon the table a ten-dollar
bill.

'* Jim' said Lady Ann, " bottle of wine." •

'* Glasses for the gentlemen'' I added, pointing
to the other occupants of the saloon, who had just
finished their game.

They came forward, joined in the toast, and
Lady Ann did likewise.

I do not remember to have had any bad dreams
since that night (some three years prior to this
oiie^ at Sandwich) after getting excited over the
Vicar's story. Whether it was the solemn hot
supper which Lady Ann insisted I and three other
guests should take with her at the ^ Castle or the
extra quantity of whisky I drank to soothe my
thoughts ; or whether it was the reflex of some
serious thoughts that occurred to me while picking
my way with a six-shooter in one hand and a dark
lantern in the other to the hut at midnight, and
being met with a " Tank de Lord " by Avast, who
concluded that I had been shot or gone off after the
Indians ; why it was, I know not, but on that last
nio-ht at the hut I had a dream of consecutive events
that covered years. I was a boy, and lived at Sandwich
; the vicar killed my sister ; I was educated at

an old house that was haunted; I grew up and fell
in love with a girl, who on the day I was to be
married turned out to be a ghoul ; I ran off to Liverpool,
got on board a ship bound for Drummond^s
Gulch, it landed me at the ^ Castle and sailed away ;
and before it was well out of sight on the river of
the Indian Yalley, the red men fell upon us, Lady
Ann saving my scalp at the risk of her own life, and
as a reward demanding my hand in marriage, which
accepting, I was raised to the peerage ; and I awoke
in the midst of a speech in which I was advocating
the exclusion of the Bishops from the Upper House
of Parliament,

When I had turned up the lamp, and convinced
myself that I was really at Drummond's Gulch a
free man, I began to ponder whether I had not
better take the morning's stage, and begin my
journey back to the regions of civilization at once.
But on reflection I felt that I owed it to my host
and benefactor to act upon his advice and wait. He
might have some special reason for wishing me, ashe
evidently did, to take the stage four days hence.

Judging b}'' his later movements, it formed part of
his programme that I should wait.

By-and-by, when the sun made his glorious presence
known behind the mountains in the east,

\()L, I. K

flooding the sky with a golden glory, and presently
adding deeper and more radiant tints to the stomach,
the maple and the oak, I went out and saw the daybreak—
the day which was indeed to separate me
from George Newbolde, the founder of the town of
Drummond's Gulch, for the remainder of our days,
just as if he were really dead and buried.

'' To-morrow good-bj'e; the next day, strangers'
The morrow in that account had come and gone ;
the next day in that account had arrived, and I began
to try and wipe yesterday out of my memory.

CHAPTER X.

Good-bye TO DRUMMONd's GULCH AND TO LADY

AXX.

A STRANGE week, full of thoughts and fancies that
*' favoured" George Newbolde, applying the word
as nurses use it in regard to the likenesses between
parents and children. A week of curious fancies
and reflections, dominated by the spirit of my absent
partner. I often seemed to be thinking as if my
mental faculties had been inoculated with his ideas
of things. His was clearly the stronger nature of
the two. He had imbued my mind with his philosophy,
if his speculations and opinions could be
called philosophy.

Instead of looking at the world cheerfully, I had
fits of gloom. Fortunately they were followed with
happy thoughts of home, and Maggie, and Doughty
Street, and the last time I saw my love.

But what had I to do with gloomy thoughts ?
The sun shone gloriously, and if a passing breath of
September frost had painted a maple here and there,

R 2

and bronzed a young oak, that only made the woods
look more lovely.

The fluttering burr of the locust , and the occasional
song of the helmet thrush, fluttered the ear
with summer sounds, and the katydids at eventide
offered their monotonous music as lullabies to solemn
memories.

It seemed a year, this week ; and yet how George
Newbolde had watched the birth and death of
days and weeks and months with a canker in his

mJ

heart !

I think the poor woman down at the ^' Castle "
(what unconscious satire on themselves, that name,
seeing that the poor lost owner could date his origin
back to lordly castles and rich domains !) made
me miserable. She had sent out messengers away'
into the Elk mountains and beyond for news of the
expedition against the Indians, and she waited for
their return with a great fear in her heart. Strange
that this woman, with a history that had trailed its
skirts through the mud of western camps, and had
careered through the gambling saloons of San
Francisco, should be shining over the absence of
her boy lover.

The human heart is a strange mystery; the mind
of woman a puzzle of curious moods and fancies.

My lady of the Gulch was worn with fretting and
with fear ; and the revival, as it were, of her better
nature, her original girlish purity, shall I say, in her
ej'es, gave to her face a new expression. You could
not help thinking as 3'ou looked at her that she had
once been really beautiful ; and you found yourself
looking back to the da' when she might have been
the joy and pride of a happy home.

A strange, long, weary week, waiting for the
Leadville stage.

Washington Caesar Lee did all he could to minister
to my comforts ; and in the evening, when I smoked
and took my coffee, he would come in and talk of
the Gulch, of Massa Drummond, of Lady Ann, Sir
Thomas, and " de good Lords' It steered my
thoughts into stiffer grooves of faith than they had
been of late inclined to keep, listening to the simple
words of poor old Washy, who was on the most
familiar and friendly terms with divine persons.

I wrote long letters to Maggie, and longer still
to my mother. In addressing Maggie I always had
a fear that somehow Mr. Fitzherbert Willoughby
would lay his hands upon my letters ; so I enclosed
special notes for her to my mother, and sent sweet
messages that way as well \ though I had misgivings
even then that my mother might not see her.

After I had worried myself for hours at a stretch
with miserable possibilities, a successful effort to
conjure up her face, and her trustful eyes as they
looked at me when she and I parted two years ago,
put me back into a cheerful frame of mind.

And then, going from one extreme to the other, I
became hilarious over the reflection that I was rich ;
that my ambition to provide a cottage for Maggie ina
London suburb, backed up with say two or three
hundred pounds a year, was child's-play compared
with what I could do now. Where should we live ?
Not in Doughty Street, nor even in Mecklenburg
Square. My mother would live with us. We
would have one of those fine houses in Park Lane.
How would my mother like that? Perhaps I would
go in for Parliament. No, I would not be ambitious,
except in regard to the happiness of my wife and
my mother.

At last the week was ended, the week that seemed
a j^ear ; and one bright September morning I waved
my hand from the stage in token of a last adieu to
Lady Ann (poor Lady Ann !) and her staff of bar
clerks and ostler. No news had come in from the
avengers who had gone after the Utcs into the Elk
mountains, and the mining camp had more than a
usually gloomy appearance. I think I felt sorry

for everybody who had to stay there. The sky
was blue, the atmosphere bright, the stars and
stripes flew gaily above the ^' Castles but I \\as
looking far away to the green shores of England.
With the sad face of the landlady of the tavern
in my mind, I could quite fancy that her United
Slates banner might be half-masted on the morrow
in honour of the rash little English lord and his
comrades on the war-path.

I little thought that I too might be in danger
of becoming a candidate for the aforesaid honour
before many hours had passed.

EJs^D OF VOL. I.

London :

Printed BY GILBERT AND ElViyGTOX, LIMITED,

ST. JOHNS Square

y

^L'\ B RAR.Y

OF Thou
N Diversity
or ILLINOIS

Hae>o

i

'Jd

on o. .ere .he 'c^^^.z:^:^;:,-^:::''-^

To «„,w Mil Telephone CM., 3»S(i "^^ """*"«»•



>X -■?^?^f^T>'T^SCSS5fW==-'» ~

OLD HOUSE AT SANDWICH

YOL. II.

ST. John's sqcabe.

OLD HOUSE AT SANDWICH

THE STORY OF A Ruined HOME

AS DEVELOPED IN THE STRANGE Revelations OF
HICKORY MAYNARD.

BY

JOSEPH HATTON

IN TWO Vols.
VOL. II.

K-ontJou
SA^^rPSON LOW, MARSTON, SEARLE, & Livingston

CROWN BUILDINGS, 18S, FLEET STREET



'\ All rights reserved

1 vol., demy 8co, cloth extra, tooth nitmerons lUasfra-
tioKS and Coloured Map. Price Miss,

NORTH BORNEO. By the late Frank
Hattox, P.O. 8., scientific Explorer in the
Service of the British North Borneo Company
and Government of Sarah. With Preface by
the late Sir Walter Medhcrst, andBiofinraphic
Sketch by Joseph Hatton-.

JOURNALISTIC LONDON. With portraits
and Engravings, sm. tito, cloth extra,
12.>!. 6d.

THREE RECRUITS AND THE GIRLS

THEY LEFT BEHIND THEM. Small jxjst
8vo, cloth extra, 6«.

London ;

SAMPSON LOW, Marston, SEARLE, & Livingston,

188, Fleet Street, E.C.

33avt Mh

CHAPTER XL

PAGE

"Poor Human Nature" .,,, 1

CHAPTER XII.

The Fire-eating Colonel and the Gentleman from

Boston .8

CHAPTER XIII.
"Out of the Frying-pan into the Fire" . . .21

CHAPTER XIV.
Diamond cut Diamond " 37

CHAPTER I.

Homeward Bound," I meet a friendly Agent of
The Boss or Drummond's Gulch " . 56

CHAPTER II.

PAGE

Cocktails and Philosophy "*>

CHAPTER III.
The Banker of Tombstone arrives in Engla^ d . r^4

CHAPTER IV.
Is Fate playing into George Newbolde's Hands? . 114

CHAPTER V.
Sunshine and Shadows Pes

CHAPTER VI.
Face to Face with the Adolf I'j^

CHAPTER VII.
Tri'th is stranger than Fiction . . lo

CHAPTER VIII.
Surprises for the Vicar — Sweets and Bitters . 164

CHAPTER IX.

Foul Deeds will rise, though all the Earth

o'erwhelm them to Men's Eyes". . . .171

CHAPTER X.
Managing G. Witness at Work 186

CHAPTER XL
Coming Events cast their Shadows before . . 11*1

CHAPTER XII.

PAGE

Between the Acts 206

CHAPTER Xii.
A trapped Wolf 211

CHAPTER XIV.
The other Witness ; jlnd what the Moon saw . , 218

CHAPTER XV.

"To ALL SUCH THE DaY WILL COME " 228

CHAPTER XI.

'^ POOR HUMAN NATURE ! '^

Going from Drummond's Gulch to Leadville wo had
a stiff line of country, the danger of which can only
be appreciated, I am told, by those who know the
stage route from Leadville to Denver, which includes
a mountain pass four or five thousand feet above the
level of the sea.

You don't know that route'* said one of the
passengers, a stout old gentleman from Boston,
Massachusetts, as we were ascending a road cut
round the edge of a spur of the western ridge of the
Elk mountains, and dipping into a sudden corner of
the Saguache range. " By gosh ! this bit of road is
a mosquito to an elephant compared with the pass
of the Rockies by the coach-road to Denver""

'* I guess there are twists in this trail that lay
over any coach road between here and Denver, or

VOL. II. B

between Denver and Santa Fe," said the driver, who
was sitting with his legs on the splash-board bar, the
reins on the back of his team, that were climbing the
road like mountain deer.

Presently the driver picked np his ribbons and sat
erect, and we began to work along the edge of a
precipice, and to disturb the loose gravel on the
mountain side of it, which was washed into the road
by the drainage from the hills above.

Til en we caught glimpses of the world below us,
deep dips of rock, varied by the tops of giant trees,
and suggestions of cataracts fallen": into mysterious
valleys.

The Leadville stage was in construction something
like the old English family carriage of a hundred
years ago, in no respect like the coach of the period,
and in no respect of the cut and build of any modern
conveyance used in England, except carriages of
state, or travelling-carriages affected by county
gentlemen who still talk of Waterloo and Wellington,
of the peace of Amiens and the rich-tyrant
Napoleon. There are such dear old fogies still in
England, I believe. When I was a very little boy,
1 remember ni" father talking of such men, and he
regularly attended an annual banquet of Waterloo
veterans.

This coach, like others on these mountain roads,
was not unlike the semi-private stages belonging to
express and railway companies that you see in New
York streets to this day, taking travellers to the
steamers, or to the hotels — handsome conveyances
swung on leathern hinges, which accommodate the
body of the coach to almost every possible kind of
motion.

The passengers were only five : one was a lady who
came from a station somewhere in the Rio Grande
(she had travelled alone all the way from Santa Fe) ;
another was a noisy Yankee speculator, Colonel
Malleson N. Wheeler ; a third was the stout individual
from Boston ; a fourth was a silent gentleman
in a new tweed suit and a sombrero, who, as well as
the others, was on board when the stage took me up
at Drummond's Gulch.

Colonel Wheeler, who had the seat next the driver,
exchanged it with me and sat inside to talk with the
lady. The stout gentleman from Boston was the
only other outsider, occupying the other seat on the
top.

The Utes," said my fellow-outsider, in response
to a question, " number about twenty five thousand ;
they are stronger than their neighbours on the plains,
the Arapahoes, Cheyennes, and Sioux, with whom

15 2

they are constantly at war in a small ten cent kind
of way. They are at peace with us ? Oli, I guess
so ; they have a handsome reservation. Hurry, their
chief, is a sensible Indian, and keeps his people in
good shape. At both Leadville and Denver you
will see Utes in the cities trading or loafing. A few
years ago there were occasional outbreaks ; there was
a massacre of whites at Drummond^s Gulch, but
whether by Utes or Cheyennes is doubtful. You say
that a few weeks ago there has been a massacre in
the Elk mountains ; I guess that is quite possible —
may be a case of reprisals; Indian fighting will
always be going on, more or less, as prospectors push
their way West. Why, it is only a few years ago
that they ranged all over this grand auriferous region,
some of them without ever having seen a white man.
The Gunnison country, two daj^s behind up, and far
better known to-day than the region about Drummond's
Gulch in the Elk mountains, was one vast
Indian camp in my time. Why, my dear sir, the
Gunnison district, not to mention the newer country
of the Gulch, was only comparatively a few years ago
unknown even to the people of Colorado themselves.
Think of it, now, if you want to understand the
progress of this new world, for, great Scott !^^ (this
was his strongest oath) '' it is a new world to us who

live in Mercia — new to old England ? Well, I expect
so. Just think of it ! Except a few daring trappers,
there were no white settlers between the Missouri
River and the western slope of the Sierra Nevada
until the Mormons migrated to Salt Lake in 1846,
and then all this lovely Colorado — the land of the
gold-seeker, the silver-miner, the rather, and the
consumptive in search of the greatest of all treasures,
health — was the abode of the Indian."

"All Colorado, Gunnison, Leadville, Denver
included?*^ I asked.

"All'' he said, suddenly pausing to hold on to his
seat while we jerked round an ugly bend of the road ;
all, and more. It was only in 1853 that Lieutenant
Gunnison, of the regular United States Arm 3% was
sent with a small force to explore the Rocky Mountain
country He was killed by the Indians, and it is
after him" the Gunnison River is named. In 1861,
prospectors penetrating to this region were massacred
by the score. Why, great Scott ! is not the scene
of one of those affairs on the Taylor River called
Deadman's Gulch to this day ? '^

Guess that's so, and there's another of 'em down
yonder,'^ said the driver, jerking his thumb towards
a stretch of pines that shut out the land below us.
In 1870," continued my well-informed companion,

"a regular exploring association went right through
the western slopes of the Elk mountains, in the Ute
Indian reservation."

*' Beg pardon," I said, " for interrupting yon, but
have the Indians reservation lands there now?"

Well, I guess so ; they had, and I don't know that
they have sold it'

"Then miners from Drummond's Gulch, or
whites from anywhere for that matter, have no
right to go prospecting, making claims, and settling
there ? "

*' None whatever."

'would the Indians attack them ?"

^'I guess so, especial if they were in numbers,
as they would be, and more especially still if the
whites v/cre arrogant, and. aggressive, and insolent,
not to say brutal, as some whites undoubtedly are.
AVhat do you say, judge ? "

"You bet, general ! " was the driver's reply.

"Poor little wasted Englisli baronet !" I said to
myself ; '' poor waif of society ! Ann of San
Francisco, with her remnant of heart beating a
tattoo of fear in response to her newly-born sensibilities
that are strangely at variance with her flyblown
reputation — poor human nature ! "

These prospectors Averse at work off and on for

five years' continued the general (the title, as was
the driver's when addressed as ^^ Judge' was complimentary),
"^ and they bij^lt a fort for refuge incase
of assault by Indians ; but in 187 t the Utes
drove the occupants out and burnt their camp. Our
white fellow-citizens had to travel on foot over a
hundred miles to the nearest station. Why, great
Scott! only four years ago — 1877 — ^Gunnison
Country was set off from the lake, and now" there is
a city called Gunnison, with three or four thousand
people. This is September, 1881, and I'll bet my
bottom dollar that five years from now it boasts a
population of fifteen or twenty thousand, eli,
judge? ''

You bet, general ! " answered the driver, at the
same moment pulling up his team ; ^^ guess we'll
breathe a spell ; we're at the top, gentlemen."

'' Which reminds me,^' said the Boston gentleman,
*^ of a similar remark made by the conductor of a
down town elevator in New York; it was made to a
stranger who hadn't been there before. ^ This is
the top ; don't you want to get out ? ' 'I don't
know,' said the stranger, ' I want to go to a hundred
and twenty-first street.' The elevator shot downright
away to the street, and says the boy, ' You
get'"

CHAPTER XII.

THE Fire-eating COLONEL AND THE GENTLEMAN
FROM BOSTON.

We had pulled up on an open plateau, from which
we could see sections of the road we had traversed,
and glimpses of the steep we had yet to descend.

The inside passengers stepped out, Colonel Malle-son
N. Wheeler handing down the coach-steps the
lad' from Santa Fe, the silent gentleman in the
sombrero lighting a fresh cigar as he followed 1,
stretching his legs as if they were cramped and their
owner already tired of the journey. He pulled his
great hat over his eyes and stalked up to the horses.
As he passed me I thought his clean-shaven face
remarkable (he had a strong lower jaw), and it
occurred to me that I had seen him before. lie
had something of the figure of George Newbolde,
but lacked his easy walk, his broad shoulders, the
swing there was in George's gait, and he seemed
taller than George. Who was he ? And where
had I seen him ? I had surely met him before,
and under impressive circumstances.

The driver drew a bucket from the boot of the
coach, the man in the sombrero stopped him and
took it from him.

** I'll get the water, you rub 'em downs he said,
and it seemed to me as if the voice was familiar to me.

"That's right down civil," said the judge, producing
a large sponge and proceeding to rub down
his team.

The passenger in the sombrero watered the horses,
and while he did so exchanged drinks, from a
capacious flask, with the driver. Colonel Malleus
N. Wheeler, the Bostonian, the lad', and myself,
Sit upon a log, smoked (the lady ate crackers and
sipped some of the colonel's champagne), and chatted.

"It ain't Indians we've got to fear," said the
colonel, " by a long sight, nor road agents if 3'ou
come to fear, though they are the curse of this great
and glorious and auriferous country."

"Road agents?" I said interrogatively

Highwaymen, in your vernacular," said the
Boston gentleman ; " beg the colonel's pardon for
interrupting him, our young friend is a Britisher."

"Then here's to the old country, and may her
capitalists never want to buy a mine, nor a ranch,
that the auriferous and agricultural West cannot
accommodate them with ! "

He tossed off a horn of champagne, and handed the
bottle to me : I responded with " Here's to the everlasting
friendship of America and England ! "

The lady smiled approvingly.

Good for you," said the colonel.

A sentiment of which we can all approve," said
the Boston gentleman.

Then turning to the colonel, he said —

You are interested in mining and ranching, I
conclude, major r"

Colonel' said the person addressed ; " Colonel
Malleson N. Wheeler of the United States Army,
sir, with your permission, owner of the biggest thing
in silver-mines, and the allfirdest boss rauche in
Colorado ; the Comstock ain't in it with the White
Canon Wheeler mine, and the cattle on a thousand
hills of Bible history are equally out of it with
the Col. Malleson Ranch of Southern Colorado
Plains."

"Never heard of that particular mine," said the
Boston gentleman, puffing a little with the exertion
of drawing the cork of a bottle of " Old Rye."

"Heard of the ranch ?" asked the colonel.

No, sir."

"Well, you will hear of both, I guess ; they will
each be stocked within twenty days for five millions;

mouths are watering for 'em in Avail Street at this
moment."

Wall Street has a capacious maw," said Boston.

"A what, sir?"

"Maw, colonel, maw!"

"I don't understand Injun."

Maw is English," said the Bostonian.

"But we were talking of road agents," I said,
before the colonel could reply.

My interruption was intended to be pacific ; for I
saw that the Bostonian's coolness irritated the other
gentleman who had the air and manner of a fiie-
eater, and I was not desirous to assist at a fight.
]moreover, I rather liked the Bostonian and feared
he might get the worst of an encounter with the
colonel, whose bushy red moustache and pinky eyes,
if they did not denote courage, certainly suggested a
cruel nature.

"Yes' said the lady "there's no necessity to have
a wrangle about languages, I hope, but the colonel
is jest a little high-handed."

"Not in the presence of a lady, I hope," he said,
with a flourish of his very military-looking right
arm, and a bend of his soldier-like head. "Let me
see, was I about to tell you an incident of this very
road? I was. Yell, one day last year," said the

Cyclone], " we had fun with a underfoot on this very
glanville stage ; we'd a underfoot on board — "

"A greenhorn' interpolated the Boston gentleman,
in a whisper intended for me.

I said a underfoot' remarked the colonel.

And you are right, I am sure," said the Bostonian.

'' Well, this underfoot' went on the colonel, " was
a bit seared at something as was said about road
agents, and a bummer from Denver, he remarked
to me, ' This is a favourite bit of country for road
agents.'

' It is,' I answered, at the same time examining
my pistols.

"what!' exclaimed the underfoot, 'you don't
ever get attacked, do you ?'

' Oil, yes ; are you afraid ?' I said.

' Horribly he said.

"where's your shooting-irons?' asked the
bummer.

' I don't carry any he answered.

' Then, by thunder, you'd best get into the
baggage rack and under the tarpaulin until we are
round the Robber's Bend ; it ain't no good us being
encumbered with non-combatants,' said the bummer.

'' And, would you believe it ? " went on the colonel,
we induced him to get into the rack under the

baggage flap, and a few minutes afterwards the
bummer shouted, 'By thunder, here they cornelia
then another passenger, entering into the fun,
shouted, ' Stand ! Halt ! ^ and then crack, crack,
crack, went the bummer's revolver, and bang went
mine, amidst shouts of 'Take that, you horse-thief! '
and 'There's a plug for you ! ' and no end of a
racket, which we followed up by a shout of victory,
and then we let Mr. Underfoot out. At Denver he
insisted on ordering wine for the entire party, and
he was such an all-fired good feller, that I could
not part with him without telling him how he'd
been sold''

You told him because he was a good fellow ? "
I asked.

I guess so, young man," said the colonel ; *' you
wouldn't have me let him go without making the
deal square ? "

Well, I don't think I would have told the poor
fellow what a fool he had been," I said.

'' You don't believe in confessing to a bluff? " said
the colonel.

** Your little joke," said the Boston gentleman,
without waiting for me to reply to the colonel, who
was evidently inclined to resent my criticism of his
story " reminds me of the adventure of the Mammoth

Cave stage, and I was in Kentucky at the
time, for I am Avliat you sir irreverently call a
summers

I apologize, general' said Colonel Malleson N.
Wheeler, living from the log, taking off Lis hat, and
disclosing a closely cropped head of red hair.

"Not necessary," said the Boston gentleman,
but 1 thank you all the same, nor am I a general.
My name is Johnson, and I represent the great house
of Johnson & Brothers, of Boston. Our English
friend may as well be informed that in America
commercial travellers are called — and, I repeat it,
irreverently — summers, Mr. Charles Dickens — and
I had the honour of knowing him in this country —
sometimes called them bagmen, though some of his
best writing was in certain essays he wrote under the
title of the Non-Commercial Traveller.' "

I think the ' Luck of Roaring Camp ' is his best,"
said the lad3\

*' Then best it is ! " said the colonel.

I would not like to alarm you, madam," observed
the Boston gentleman, "and may therefore
as well tell you there are no read agents on this
road."

"I ain't afraid of road agents," she said; " they
don't hurt ladies."

'that's so," said the colonel, '^ which being
understood, let me say there are agents on this road,
quite frequent, and detectives too and that feller
who prefers the society of the driver to ours is either
one or the other — which of the two time will tell."

'^ He's no road agent," said the Boston gentleman.

For how much ? " said the colonel.

I won't bet on it' said the other.

Then I'll go you five dollars he's a detective."

Very well," said the Boston gentleman ; " anything
to make things pleasant."

^' How will we decide it?" asked the colonel.

Ask him the question," said the Boston gentleman.


Not me," said the colonel; "don't want a row
in presence of a lad3\'''

I'll ask him," said the lady ; " he has excited my
curiosity, and I would like to know."

She rose from her seat. The strand-er vas talking:
with the driver. They were beyond earshot — and
pistol-shot too, for that matter — so we could not
hear what the lady said. We saw her address him ;
we saw him lift his sombrero, and the next minute
madam returned and reseated herself on the lo'.
This was her report : —

' There is a bet about you,' I said, ' but the gentlemen

think you might not take it as polite if they
asked you the question that is necessary to decide it.'
He raised his hat, but did not speak. * Are you a
road agent or a detective ? ' I said. ^ I don't know
he replied ; ^ tell the gentlemen when I have settled
which it is I'll let them knowe''

Oh, that's the sort of feller he is," said the
colonel. " I'd just like to make him waltz on his ear,
and I would if there wasn't a lady present."

Madam smiled as much as to say, '' Don't mind
me; " but as she did not say it the fire-eating colonel
was satisfied.

Shall we wait for his explanation, or draw the
bet ? " asked Mr. Johnson.

Oh, draw it, and I'll match you for the five
dollars," said the colonel.

I don't gamble," said the Boston gentleman ;
'* let the bet stand ; guess I'm interested now."

You were going to tell me something about
Kentucky, sir ? " the lady observed, looking at Mr.
Johnson.

^' Have you ever been to the Mammouth Caves in
Kentucky ? " he asked, comprehending in his glance
the entire company.

''No," we all replied.

"Considering your figure," said the colonel.

'* you have considerably spread yourself over this
country''

'' Yes' was the reply, '' I have travelled, and I
grow fat ; you have not travelled, and you do not
grow fat, colonel."

How do you mean ? '^ answered the colonel.
*' By thunder ! if I thought''

"But you don't' interrupted the gentleman from
Boston.

*' Don't what ? " demanded the colonel.
"Think," said the other, and with an unmistakable
sneer on his otherwise genial face.

By thunder, general ! " exclaimed the colonel,
if there wasn't a lady present — "

Oh, don't mind me," said the lady', calmly.
But I do, madam, I do ; never shall it be said
that an American officer lowered his manhood, and
forgot the chivalry that is due to the sex of his
sacred mother, to brawl in presence of a lady'

Do you know, colonel," said the stout gentleman
from Boston, " you remind me of an entirely
different story from that I was about to tell you ;
and with madam's permission I will narrate it."
By thunder, sir — " began the colonel.
'■^ Yes, we know, but not now — S. Y. L., as they
say in New York," said the Boston gentleman.

VOL. II. c

*^ What does that mean ? '^ asked the lady.

'' See YOU later he replied.

Then tell us that other story" said the lady.
'^ Sit dowiij colonel, and don't interrupt the
general."

*sit is for you to command," said the colonel,
taking his seat.

'when the colonel interrupted me, madam, I
was about to tell j^ou the particulars of the last
great stage robbery by the notorious James boys,
but after his interruption I thought I would tell 5'ou
about the native Nevada and the Jersey sign-painter,
which involves a lesson against braggadocio
and blowing and pretending to be a fighter and a
bear-killer, an officer in the army and a 
brave ; but I guess the colonel oughtn't
like it, and as we don't-want to disturb the harmony
of the trip, we will leave parables and fables and
moral lessons alone ; what do you say, madam ? "

*^ That's as you please"" said the lady.

'^ No, as 3'ou please," interrupted the fire-eating
colonel ; ^' let him try to lay over that who dares."

The lady smiled, and said, " You have the floor,
General Johnson."

In September last j^ear," said the Bostonian,
the James Brothers performed their last remarkable

operation in the way of stage robbery — the exact
date was September 3 ; the Concord Cave coach was
on its way from the depot of the Louisville and
Nashville Railroad to Cave City — only a distance of
eight miles. The passengers were seven gentlemen
and one lady. In the shadow of a wood two men on
horseback suddenly appeared, and before there was
time to wink, ^ Halt ! ' they cried, and four pistol
barrels covered the stage. The driver had met
Frank James before, and in the interest of himself
and his passengers advised immediate surrender, and
you may bet your bottom dollar he was right. The
passengers were commanded to hold up their hands
and step into the road, which they did, a certain
journalist of Milwaukee slipping his watch and
pocket-book under the cushion of the coach as he
left. The lady was allowed to keep her seat. ^ eye
don't tax ladies said James. While he stood over
the passengers with a pair of six-shooters, his fellow-robber,
Cummings, went through them and collected
over one thousand dollars ; then the contributors
were ordered to get into the coach again, and
the driver was requested to go ahead, which he did.^^

'sand do you mean to say they made no fight of
it at all ? ^^ asked the colonel.

'Nary a fights' said the Boston gentleman.

By thunder, gentlemen, neither the James boys
nor any other boys would have waltzed out of that
affair if I had been one of the company — no, sirree,
I should illuminate ! '^ said the colonel.

You would have shot the pair of them, would
you not, colonel ? '^ said the lady.

^' Thank you, madam, for your good opinion,"
said the colonel, rising from the log, buttoning his
frock coat across his manly breast, drawing himself
up to his full height, and scowling at the stout
representative of trade and commerce from Boston.

I'm not a bit frightened," said the ^Xew Englander,
smiling and offering me his whisky-flask.

'^^Glad to hear it," said the driver of the stage,
who had sauntered up to us to report that he was
about to start, ''^ darned glad; party of Injuns on
the war-path a- coming down on us round the bluff
yonder ! "

What ! " screamed the colonel, not attempting
to disguise his terror ; *^ Indians — and on the warpath
? By thunder, then, Averse lost ! "

^' Not quite," said the driver.

CHAPTER XIII.

"out of the frying-pan into the fire'

By the time the Indian horsemen had drawn up in a
picturesque group on the plateau nearest the open
country on our left, Colonel Malleson N. Wheeler
had disappeared.

Whether he had retired to offer up a prayer for
the general safety of all of us, or to see that his
weapons were in order, is a question which he maybe
asked later ; but when we drew near the Utes to
palaver he was missing.

Six Ute warriors in full Indian bravery, three
armed with rifles, three with bows and arrows, the
advance-guard of how many more there was no
sang, reined their wiry ponies into a flourish of
horsemanship, in response to the signal of the driver's
raised open right hand, and then dismounted.

The spokesman of the party addressed the driver,
the driver spoke in response ; I question if either of
them knew much of what either of them said ; but
presently the driver turned away, to take a parcel

from beneath his seat on the coach. He produced a
packet of tobacco, divided two plugs of cavendish
between the party, the interview ended, and the
Indian warriors galloped off.

'^ Why did you say they were on the war-path ? "^
asked the colonel, now appearing on the scene, with
a revolver in each hand.

'^ Want another pow-wow ? They're five hundred
strong in the valley'' said the driver, winking at
the silent gentleman in the sombrero.

*^ Jerusalem, oh no ! '^ said the colonel. " "Wouldn't
mind undertaking the little party that was here just
now, but five hundred, no, sir, drive on ! '^

The colonel handed the lady into the coach, the
silent traveller followed ; the driver climbed into his
seat, I into mine, my fellow-outsider into his, and
away we went.

''^Injuns come from Denver,^^ said the driver,
*' to see great white chief, who wants to deal for
land ; jest said they was on the war-path to startle
yonder cj'ote of a bogus colonels'

Do you know him, judge ? ^'

'' No, sir."

Seen him before ? '^

'guess I have; but can't place him''

^•' What should you guess his profession to be ? "

'' Faro bank'

Should think he keeps a bank? '^

'' Wall, yes'

'^ I wouldn't give him so good a show ; I've
known quite a respectable feller tossing a fury bank.
Colonel Jasper at Denver considers himself as high
toned a sport as there is in the United States —
dresses well , lives well, smokes the finest cigars that
Havana produces ; and is mighty good to his
mother and sister, who live in Boston, Massa-clin
setts'

^^ You know Denver well?" I asked my fellow-passenger;
the driver now confining all his attention
to his team.

'eyes," said the Bostonian; "knew it before the
locomotive civilized it, and that's only the other
day; I knew it, sir, when it was the merest camp,
less of a camp than Drummond's Gulch. Denver !
Why it seems to me as if the whole of Colorado was
only discovered yesterday, not to mention the cities
at all. Did you ever hear tell of the Minnesota
massacre ? Well, right on top of that followed the
Indian panic at Denver. The whole city, man,
woman, and child, armed itself, and expected to be
scalped. There was a road station called the Cut
Off, not a day's ride from Denver. Two families of

Germans kept it"^ and they sold whisky to the

Indians — a crime I tell j^ou on the frontiers in those

days. "Velle right in the midst of the Indian scare,

a mule-train driver came into Denver and reported

the bodies of the Germans at the Cut Off all dead

and mutilated scalped and done for in a terrible way.

You bet that was enough. Denver went wild with

panic. I was there, I repeat, and saw it ; the whole

place turned out into the streets, men cursing, women

crying. Major Campion a United States Staff

Officer, was encamped outside the citj^, and he came

riding in trjdng to reassure the people; but it was

weeks before they got over it; and now , why bless

ns all, it is a great city, and you will see swell Indians

assuming the airs of civilization at the leading

hotels."

It is difficult for an Englishman to realize these

sudden and mighty changes," I said. ^^ You are a

great traveller and an observer of men ; now what

would you take the gentleman in the sombrero

for ? "

*^ Our third inside fellow-passenger ? Oh, lie maybe

the owner of a ranch, the boss of a silver-mine

hereabouts, an army officer from a frontier station on

the plains — "

'^ You don't think he is an Englishman ? "

^^ I am sure he is an American, ad a typical
American; look at his face, his build, his moustache,
his free, easy style, and see how reticent he is."

^'^ Yoii think reticence a characteristic of Americans?"


*' Don't judge us by me,^^ he replied, smiling;
I am talking: because you are seeking: for information.
Don't judge us by that bogus colonel; he
talks to hide his character ; some people use religion
as a cloak ; he tries to di-guise himself with his
too-ue. We shall know so:netliino: about the real
character of the colonel before we have done with
him.'^

*^ Shall we know more of the man in the sombrero? '^

I guess not''

Do you think he is a detective ? "

No ; and if we do learn any more about him it
will be when he gets even with his fellow-travellers —
or one of them — for the impertinent bet that he is
either a road agent or a detective. But I was kinder
forced into that — wasn't thinking about what I was
doing. When I make a mistake, however, T can
apologize like a man ; and when some other feller
makes a mistake I can fight. My figure offers .too
big a mark for an enemy : so if there is any shooting
to be done, I make a point of getting the drop on the

other feller. And then — well, I don't sooty and so
convert an enemy into a friend'

Hey! hejM'^ and a crack of the driver's whip
drew our attention to the judge and his team'

A stiff descent before us, and nasty' said the
Bostonian, as we caught glimpses of the road winding
for a mile or two below, and debouching upon a
plain darkened here and there with tracts of scrub
and jungle.

You bet ! " said the driver, slipping his drag-bar
and pressing it down tightly, and then carefully
gathering m]) his reins.

Not so steep as the pass between Leadville and
Denver," said the Boston gentleman.

Steep enough," said the driver. '' Jim Carter let
his coach go over at the bend yonder — very dry
weather, no hold for the near-side wheels. Jim
unhitcbed the team and jumped."

^' The coward !" exclaimed the Boston gentleman.
How many passengers ? "

"Six."

"All killed?"

"All but two — lamed for life. Jim went home
with his horses, fine team — owner rewarded him;
but Jim doit drive no more coaches."

M}^ fellow-outsider explained to me that all the

stages traversing these mountain roads have a
mechanical arrangement, whereby the driver can ina
moment free his team from the coach so that in case
it goes over a precipice the team can be saved'

"A smart driver," he said, " can jump at the same
moment, and has done so successfully more than
once, when all might have been saved had he stuck
to his coach as a captain sticks to his ships"'

*' Life is sweet," said the driver.

He was a hard-looking, weather-beaten man, with
a ragged black beard, long blaclc hair, shaggy
eyebrows, and hands the colour of mahogany. He
wore a sombrero, that was now flying back in the
breeze created by the coach itself, as it began to
go sliding down the road, lurching as it went, tossing
now and then like a boat, and giving us ugly peeps
of the precipices which we literally skirted, within
two or three feet, as it seemed, of their awful edges.

The horses had climbed upwards I said like deers,
clutching the loose gravel with their feet ; so now
did they scamper downwards, backing, as it were,
as they stepped, and keeping well to the left of the
road, where rocky and wooded heights towered above
us, gradually shutting out the sun, water-washings
sinking now and then deep ruts into which, as it
seemed to me, if our near-side wheels had not

plunged at fortunate moments we must have gone
over on the other side to certain destruction.

The driver now and then spoke to his horses, once
or twice he touched the leaders with his whip as if to
guide rather than to urge them on, or rebuke them.
They responded by clinging closer to the right side
of the road, hugging the rocks, as a boat the shore.

Suddenly the coach gave a great lurch forward,
and a hot, quick curse hissed through the driver's
lips.

"Great Scott'' exclaimed my fellow-outsider
right in my ear, as be leaned over towards the left,
away from the yawning gulfs on our right, ^* get
ready to jump."

From a sharp run, the team now rushed into a
gallop, the coach pressing upon the shaft-horses, so
that they were half hidden beneath us. There was
a dead silence, except for the grinding of the wheels
and the clatter of the horses. E-ocks and trees flew
past us on our right. On our left, steep, rocky
declivities yawned for us, and thrust up now aud
then the tops of pine-trees, as if to pull us down.

You know how, when steaming up the Hudson
river from New York to West Point, you see your
way blocked by some mighty wood-crowned cliff,
and if it is your first trip, you wonder for a moment

if the boat is going headlong into it, when yo;i
find her steering sharp round into a new reach
of river; you know how you hold sour breath when
shooting the famous rapids of the St. Lawrence ;
you know what it is to take your first excursion on
a tobogging ; perhaps you know what it is to rein up
your horse on the prairie, in front of a driven herd
of. buffaloes, trusting to your rifle to fetch down the
foremost and thus divide the living avalanche. I once
leaped into a blanket from a burning hotel, with
certain death before me if I did not leap, and almost
as certain if I did ; but I never experienced so frozen
a sense of terror, as when suddenly realizing that our
brakes had given way on this mountain road, and
that we were rushing down to a point where the
rocks seemed to block the way, as the cliffs appear
to do on the Hudson.

The road seemed to narrow down to a mere bridle-path,
and at the point to all but disappear ; and it
was there Jim Carter had jumped ! But great
heavens! where could he jump? The only chance
it seemed to me would be to leap at the face of the
rock, and cling to the scrubby bits of dwarf trees
that hung there as if with difficulty.

The wheels of the coach no longer ground in the
gravel. The noise of the flying team was like the

rush of falling waters. AVe were on a bit of good
road, the better for quickening our speed and hurling
us into the rocky bed of the river that now flashed in
the canon below us,

I clung to my seat, leaning: towards the rocks, the
warning to be prepared to jump unheeded. To have
stood up probably meant being pitched over. 1
held my breath, and uttered a mental prayer —
God have mercy ! ^' My companion was evidently
bracing himself for a leap ; I felt him moving, T
heard him breathing. The driver sat as firm as the
rock in his path.

Suddenly the driver rose. It flashed through my
mind like a death-sentence, '^ He's going to unhitch
the horses and jump I " I clung to my seat, my
eyes fixed upon him. He fascinated me. His sombrero,
which had been fastened by a ribbon under
his chin, had blown back, and was fixed like a halo
around his tanned face.

Hey ! hey ! what, Nancy Bell ! " he shouted,
and slung the reins to the left with both hands, he
faced the point.

Hey ! hey ! " he exclaimed in a hoarse whisper.

The coach lurched first to the left, then swung to
the riirht, the rock seemed to recede, and with another,
*' Hey, Nancy, hey ! " we were round the

pointy and rushftig forward for a long level stretch
of road bordered by jungle and scrub.

eye pulled up at last, the horses steaming; indeed,
we could hardly see them for smoke. The driver
flung the ribbons upon their backs, and jumped from
his seat. We slid into the road , I and the gentleman
from Boston. The colonel, with an ashen-grey face,
handed out the lady in a limp kind of manner, the
silent passenger following.

"Say , old man ! ■'^ exclaimed the stranger in the
sombrero \ *' you are an honour to your flag and to
your country"

"That is a fact," said the Bostonian, " shake ! ''

The driver stood looking at his team. He put
out his hand mechanically to the stout gentleman,
who shook it and handed it on, as I may
say.

I shook it. The man in the sombrero shook it.
The lady shook it, and the pompous person in the
semi-military coat would have shaken it ; but, almost
at the moment of contact, the judge put his hand
into his coat pocket, pulled out a yard or two of
handkerchief, and mopped his face.

Nary a better team between Denver and Texas,"
he said ; '' ain't it, Nancy Bell ? '

The right-hand leader put back the ear nearest

the judge as he spoke to her. He walked up and
patted her.

'^I value my life' said the stranger, taking out
this pocket-book, " at several hundred thousand
dollars ; here's five hundred on account."

He offered a handful of bills to the driver.

^^ Are you too proud to take it ? ^'

"I guess not," said the judge, receiving it.

** You might have switched us off and jumped at
the rock," said the stranger.

*' Wall, guess I migh','' said the driver, smiling
and thrusting the bills into an empty pistol
pocket.

The stranger fascinated me. He was certainly
speaking in an assumed voice, I felt sure of it.
Once I could have sworn he was George Newbolde.
But mv partner had ridden to Leadville last week,
to prepare the way for my arrival there, and was
bound thence to Chicago. I thought as I passed
hiiu I would test his identity by whispering,
George, I know you, why cut me ? '^

He turned round, and with his calm ej^es resting
on me, said, "Did you speak to me ? "

Yes,^' 1 said, " I thought we had met before."

"Then which do you bet I am," he replied;
detective or road agent ? ^'

"^^Teither," I said; "if I bet I would back you
are a gentleman's

"Anyhow," said the stranger, "I guess you're a
cussed inquisitive lot.'^

Then suddenly changing his manner, he said, —

Do you join the subscription for the man who
has saved our necks ? ''

Yes, with pleasures I said.

Hand over, then."

I gave him a hundred dollars, the Boston gentleman
fifty, the lady tea, and the colonel, very
ostentatiously handling a silver-bound pocket-book,
produced fifty dollars.

I think as Christian gentlemen we might, one
and all, offer up a prayer of thankfulness to the
Throne of Grace," he said, ^' for not alone by his
own volition has this man saved our lives."

'' Who do you call ' this man ' ? " asked the driver,
turning upon him, as well he might, for there was
a tone and air of superiority and patronage in the
colonel's manner at this moment that might have
irritated the humblest-minded person.

You, my friend," was the cool reply.

"I ain't no friend of yours," said the driver,
and you jest keep your counterfeit bills, T don't
want 'em ! '^

VOL. II. D

Flinging the colonel's money upon the ground,
the irate driver little knew how hard and direct a
blow he had struck the pretender.

"Counterfeit ! '^ exclaimed the colonel; "what do
you mean, sir ? "

He don't mean counterfeit bills, I guess," said
the Boston gentleman, as the driver turned away,
so much as counterfeit generosity"

"Then a man should say what he means — look at
them bills, sir."

"Take 'em, judge," said the Boston gentleman.

Not me," was the reply.

"77/ tale ^em!'' suddenly'" exclaimed a new and
unfamiliar voice, amidst a sudden clatter of horses'
hoofs ; " throw up your hands, r'ujht away I "

wye did, the colonel trembling from head to
foot.

It was useless to resist. Two horsemen dominated
us. They " had the drop on us " with four six-shooter
barrels.

Lying in ambush, they had sprung upon us at
the most unguarded moment of our trip.

"I'll let daylight into the man that moves I "
said the spokesman of the ugly pair, dismounting.

You've got the drop on us," said the silent man,
as the road agent " went through him," that is.

v>0

emptied his pockets ; *' but where's your masks —
ain't you afraid we'll know ye again ? "

Still the same apparently assumed voice still the
thought that we had met, and that he avoided

me.

^* Great Father in Heaven!" exclaimed the colonel,
don't irritate the gentlemen, they are welcome to
all I've got ; men must live ! "

Right, old loafer' said the highwayman, taking
from the colonel a very pretty pair of six-shooters
and stuffing them into his belt.

*' The bill the coon guv you who thinks he may
know us again," he said to the driver, " where is
it?"

** Under his foot," said the colonel ; " wh}^, oh
whj^ make this interview longer than necessary ? '

"You coward ! " said the lady passenger, turning
upon him ; '* I wish I'd had your pistols, I'd have
talked to the scoundrels ! "

Good for you, old woman ! " said the thief,
rapidly transferring our property to his own pockets,
and strapping about his waist — alas ! — my well-packed
belt of bills and gold.

Old what I '^ she screamed.

Stop your music, or hand over your watch and
pocket-book," said the agent. " Can't spare 'em,

D 2

6 The Old Hosts at Sandwich,

ell ? well, keep 'em to buy a tin-trumpet and a popgun
for Colonel Malleson N. Wheeler. And don't
you forget it ! "

'' Great Father ! " exclaimed the colonel, " he
knows me."

CHAPTER Xiy.

"diamond cut diamond'

By this time the ruffian had remounted his horse.

'stand where you are ten minutes — as near as

j^ou can guess it, and then drive on as if h was

behind you' he said, and they disappeared into the
bush.

'* Wasn't that a carbine I saw in the boot ? ''
asked the passenger in the sombrero.

'* Yes," said the driver.

Keep your eye on their track — there's an open
space a little way in the bush, and a path that leads
to the river, I know it — keep your eye on the trees
at the bend of the road''

As he spoke he crouched within the shadow of
the still steaming horses, and creeping up to the
coach, put his hand into the boot and pulled out the
carbine.

'' See 'em still ? " he asked.

Disappeared by them trees at the bend," said
the driver.

A Winchester ? '^ asked the stranger.

^' Yes."

''Loaded?'^

*' To the muzzle — seventeen cartridges."

The stranger crept into the bush.

Now take your seats' he said ; '^ drive on
slowly — they'll watch until you move — wait for me
when you're out of sight of the clump of trees —
don't question me, don't follow me."

''I bet sou he was a detective, didn't I?"
said the colonel, turning to the gentleman from
Boston.

'^I'U knock your eye out, you tarnation son
of a cote ! " said the driver, " if you don't take the
back seat you had just now,"

I'll report you to the company for incivility'
said the colonel.

Now then' said the driver, his eyes still on the
point of observation indicated by the scout with the
carbine, " all aboard ! "

As we took our seats the driver said, "There
surely ain't a meaner cuss going than that there
Wheeler; if he weren't a passenger I'd hit him in
the ej^e ! Now, my beauties, gently does it, we've
gotten to thank you for our lives."

'rand you," said the gentleman from Boston,

*'5'ou most of all, though your team behaved
splendidly."

"So they did, you bet ! ^' replied the driver,
caressing them with his whip ; '^'^no more mountains
now that's a streak of luck, anyhow considering
that were busted our brakes

Do you know the brave fellow who has gone
after those ruffians ? '■*

"No; shouldn't wonder the colonel — whose never
seen a regiment, you bet — is right about him : anyhow,
he's mighty smart , and an all fired good fellow,
too^^

I think I have met him somewhere before," I
said.

Likely," replied the driver ; " rather rough,
them loafers to get the drop on us ; hope he'll get
the drop on them — he knows the lay of the
land."

Yes, and knows it well I should say,'^ replied
the other outsider.

"Goes again the grain to drive away from him,"
said the driver, " but he guv his instructions strict,
ain't it ? "

"That's so," said the Boston gentleman.

You bet ! I wouldn't wonder that he is a real
colonel now, and seen action ; why, he jest slipped

into that bush like a Injun. Jest turn jour head
and report, sirs

I turned and looked along the road, and fixed my
eyes upon the locality of the distant clump of trees.

"Nothing to be seen," I said.

It's a mile to the turn of the road ; if there's any
shooting wed catch the crack of it here, but not
further ; guess we'll pull up eh ? "

"Yes," we both said.

They're not likely to get the drop on us again ? "

"No," said the Boston gentleman, producing a
six-shooter from a travelling-bag, which the thieves
had overlooked.

The coach stopped.

Hallo ! what's this ? " exclaimed the colonel.

Find out, you cote ! " shouted the driver.

I'll certainly report you," said the colonel, his
head out at the window.

You ten-cent tin-pot colonel," said the driver,
give up your ticket and its privileges, and step
into the scrub for five minutes, and I'll report you
to heaven or the other place."

I will do nothing of the kind, but if there
won't a lady present — "

Upon my word, colonel," said the lady, " you are
too considerate."

"No, madam, no gentleman can be too considerate
of the ladies," replied the colonel.

Ain't you jest a trifle over-considerate of yourself
? ^' said the driver. *' I'd be sorry to do anything
to offend madam ; but you seem to me to betaking
the protection of the lady as if she was a
shield or a stone wall, instead of a free-spoken lady,
as is willing for you to take chances. '^

I guess, sir," said the colonel, " this is the last
time I will ever take tickets for your coach."

I hope so' said the driver.

All this time the Boston gentleman was boiling
over with rage. At last he slid from his seat to the
ground, and burst out with, —

Look here, you fellow, I am not too much of a
gentleman to refuse to take a lady at her word, nor
am I an official of the Leadville Stage Company, and
if you make another remark in my hearing, on any
subject, between here and Leadville, I will pound
3'ou within an inch of your life, do you hear ? "

The colonel did not speak, and, to emphasize his
threat, the stout old boy, his face blazing with passion,
slapped the colonel on the right cheek with his open
hand.

Great Father ! And has it come to this ? " exclaimed
the bully, staggering under the shock.

Serves you right I " said the lady ; " now you'll
be quiet."

The colonel took a handkerchief from his pocket,
put it to his eyes, and retreated, sobbing audibly.

Your feelings are hurt, are they ? " we could
hear the lady saying to him ; " you shouldn't be a
fool, you might have seen their patience wouldn't
last out."

Then he would groan, and she would snap at him
afresh.

"They've met before, you bet," said the driver;
came aboard fifty miles apart, didn't speak till the
lad" got out at the Gulch."

Then he gave me his outside seat," I said.
"Queer, ain't it?" said the driver; "and that
sent a-knowins: the mean cuss's name — never know
whose aboard a coach."

He was straining his eyes along the road as he
spoke.

Way ho ! " he suddenly exclaimed, " Way ho !
Yes ! By the mountain of the holy cross, which
the converted Injuns swear by, he's got 'em, sure I
Yonder they come, sure's you're alive ! "

They had evidently come out of a path we did not
see, but which the man in the sombrero knew — two
men, a horseman and a horse, that followed. The

two men on foot marched a short distance from the
horseman, who carried a rifle handy, as if for prompt
use in case of need.

We were all in the road now, our weapons in our
hands.

They might have confess, no knowing," said the
driver; "best be on guard, but he's got 'em, 3'ou
bet ! ''

That is so, indeed,'^ said the Boston gentleman.

Stay where you are'' we heard the lady passenger
say ; and the colonel stared where he was.

The two men in front of the rider were prisoners ;
each had his hands tied together, and both looked
considerably chop-fallen.

Here they are, judge* said the man in the
sombrero; ^' just cover them while I deliver up the
swag."

The man in the sombrero dismounted and handed
me my belt.

A good thing I happened to turn up, eh,
stranger?" he said, now in a voice I could not
mistake ; *^ the partner who thought it best to deposit
stock to bearer in the bank for you, knew the road
you were travelling, eh ? "

^' George! " I exclaimed, seizing his hand.

^' All right, stranger," he said, now in his assumed

voice, " guess I need no thanks, and it was easy work.
I calculated they wouldn't go far without sitting
down to divide their spoil — couldn't trust each
other, must divvy up soon as the coast was clear. I
walked through the scrub to the green bit of open
where their horses were tied, and covered them, justin
the midst of their thieves' arithmetic. Made the
tall one tie the other fellow's hands, and he did it
vicious because it was the short one who would stop
and divvy up ; made the tall one lie on his back
while I tied his ; and now, judge, what's to be done
with them — there's a good tree or two ahead if you've
rope enough ? ''

Better try 'em first," said the driver.

^' No need to try us, we're guilty," said the shortest
of the two rogues ; '* game's your's, three kings beat
two pair, but I'd like to say a word for my pard, it's
his first game, I led him into it, and it's through
me as the polite gent here got the drop on us ; now,
put a bullet through me, and chuck me into the
scrub ; but let my pard go, he's married to my
sister, you see, all square and fair, and she's awaiting'
for him in Leadville, and don't know as he's any
worse than a keno dealer : and if you'll let him go,
why, I'll put you up to a job that'll nuke you jump
higher nor a kite, the judge in particular."

What have you to say ? '^ asked the driver,
addressing the other robber.

'' Don't part us ; it's true what my pad says T
won't leave him ; but if it's to be shooting, take off
our boots."

The two horses rubbed their noses together ; the
Nancy Bell of our coaching team neighed to them.

'what's to be done with the horses judge?"
asked the captor.

Oh, hitch 'em on behind, they'll travel easy,"
said the driver.

*' It would be asking too much to let us off? " said
the first robber.

'* I should smile ! " said the judge ; '^ let 3'ou take
your boots off, ain't that good enough ? "

It's civil, anyhow," said the crestfallen robber ;
we ain't struck no luck all our lives, not a show
worth a cent. Who's to do the trick, we're ready ? "

Let them say a prayer first," interposed the
weeping colonel.

'' Ah, you sneak, thief ! " exclaimed the first
robber, 'you are a nice bloated loafer to talk of
praying, ain't sou ? ''

*you know this honourable gentleman, then?"
said the Bostonian, '' this colonel in the United
States Army ? "

"United States prison I snowed him, the rabbit-eyed
galoot ! " was the scornful reply.

''^I thought so' said the Bostonian, his genial
face beaming with delight.

'^ You scoundrel ! '' said the colonel, ^' how dare
you address me in those vulgar terms ! By thunder !
if you were not a prisoner — *'

The lady pulled the colonel by the sleeve.

Scoundrel, and if I weren't a prisoner, eh ?
Well, if the brave gentleman with the carbine would
give us five minutes together, I'd like to get even
with you, Mister Keno Plugg, for that little affair at
Chicago'

^' Keno Pliigg I " said the Bostonian ; " why, surely
that is the pseudonym of the forger of the United
States bonds, for whom a reward of five thousand
dollars is offered ! "

And that's Baltimore Sal, his confer, who led the
whisky mission at Chicago, when he was slinging
gospel truths at the great revival meeting."

**A nice pair, as the devil said of his horns,"
remarked the Bostonian.

^' And now I'm even, Mister Keno Plugg, with
you and your crowd ; you've made us suffer modern
once, ain't he, Bill ? "

The other robber nodded, and the colonel called

upon his great father to witness that the babe unborn
was not more innocent than himself and this good
lady, whom he had never seen in his life until that
da3\ These low thieves, caught in the act, deserved
death the more that they had calumniated a virtuous
lady, and an officer of the army of the great and
glorious republic — and so on.

The judge tried to stop the colonel's rush of
eloquence ; but the tide flowed on full of religious
sentiment, and demands that the law of the road
should take its course.

Oh, don't stop to try us' said the spokesman of
the two thieves, " if you are not above travelling with
a sneak thief, a horse thief, a mine Salter, and a
forger, you needn't stand on such a trifle as trying
us before you shoot us."

There was a careless, dare-devil impudence in the
rascally bravery of the thief that I think softened all of
us, none the less so that we had recovered our property.

Gentlemen," said the driver, " we waste time ; I
don't care to have even such blood as theirs on my
conscience, so I quit this position — to the captor the
spoil is a political proverb. Let the gentleman on
my right say what's to be done."

"Agreed," we said, we who spoke; the colonel and
the lady were silent.

Colonel PluggKenoMalleson," said the stranger,
haul out your baggage."

The colonel hesitated.

"Quick, or you are a dead 'un."

The colonel obeyed.

*' Which trunk contains the bonds, all that are
left?"

"By thunder!" exclaimed the colonel, beginning
to open one of two leather cases.

The stranger raised his carbine.

Open the other."

Judge, help him."

The case was opened. An inner box had to be
forced ; the colonel could not find the key. A packet
of bonds for a large amount was found therein. *

Well," said the colonel, " who denounces them ?
They are as good as virgin gold. This is a conspiracy
to rob me."

As he spoke he was edging away towards the bush,
and the next moment he had disappeared.

That don't matter — it gives us a good way out'
said the stranger. "It is agreed that I deal in this
business as I please ?"

Yes, yes," we said.

Judo-e, unloose Messieurs the agents of the road."

They were freed.

"Now, boys, a word' said the stranger. ** Let
this be a warning to you ; villainy don't pay ; thieving
is a bad business ; murder is always avenged at
last by lynch or by law. You are free."

One uttered a joyous cry, the other burst into
tears.

Have you any money P"

No, sir."

Here's fifty dollars, there are your horses, and if
you catch Mr, Keno Plugg and take him to Denver,
you'll get the reward — perhaps you'll go to Sing
Sing, too, unless you get a clever lawyer — "

* A free pardon to confederates' is a clause in the
proclamation," said the Boston gentleman ; " beg
pardon for interrupting."

They crept upon the backs of their horses.

"Now, then, away you go," said the stranger.

They dashed along the road for half a mile, and
then in a cloud of dust disappeared into the bush.

"Now, gentlemen," said the driver, sall aboard.'^

As he said so he replaced the colonel's baggage.

Now, madam."

I don't go any further," she said.

But you can't stay here''

^' As well here as anywhere else."

*'No, we can't leave you," said the stranger.

VOL. II. E

He is my husband' she said.

"Stuff!" remarked the gentleman from Boston.
Your confederate in crime."

Still, he's my husband' she said calmly ; " not
one to be proud of, I own, but such as he is, Pve sworn
to stand by him : we've had some good times together,
we've had bad times, but I guess I won't leave him."

*^ Your show of affection is very sudden, madam ^'

Is it ? ^^ she said, in a vague way.

Very ; why, you were willing to let him have a
real row not long since'

^' He was prosperous then'

^' What difference does that make''

^^ Do you care for a man as much when he's rich
as when he's in trouble ? ''

*' Yes, I do'

*' Ah, then, you're not a woman, you see," she
answered, with a melancholy smile ; '^ and a woman's
a poor, weak fool, ain't she ? "

*' If you care for a cowardly ruffian such as that,"
replied the Bostonian, jerking his thumb in the
direction the forger had taken, "you are not the
shrewd, sensible lady I took you for'

'' Well, I do," she said.

*' And yet you let me smite him on the cheek, and
said it served him right."

'^ Because I knew that nothing else would quiet
lira, and I was afeared he'd commit himself, haying*
so much at stake."

^' You are an enigma' said the Bostonian.

*' Don't call me names' she said.

'^ Are you American ? "

'' I don't know."

That's odd."

My father was Irish, my mother was a Swede."

And how long have you been with that fellow ? "

'' We've been married five years."

'^ And you prefer to stay here and wait for him, or
follow him, spite of hunger, danger, and the chance
of having to tramp to Leadville.'^

'* Yes, sir, prefer to die here, rather than leave
him," she said, bursting into tears.

Genuine (and I think it was) or acted, this exhibition
of the devotion of a decent kind of woman
to a worthless scamp touched us. On a brief consultation
we resolved that we would not leave her.

You tell her, sir," said the man in the sombrero.

'^ We have decided that we take you along," said
the Bostonian ; '^ now don't cry."

I cannot help it," she sobbed.

But we make no charge against you ; and we
will stick a notification on that tree in the bush, level

E 2

UBRARV

Universal OF IlllKOLf

with this spot, informing your husband that j'ou are
gone on to Leadville, and that j^ou are free — we
make no charge against you'

*' Thank you, sir'

I wrote out the notification, and the judge nailed
it up.

jS^ow, all aboard ! '' said the driver.

We handed her into the coach with as much solicitude
as if she had been the best of her sex.

Canst I have my trunk inside ? '' she asked.

'^ Oh, yes'' said the driver, dragging it from the
fore part of the coach, and pushing it inside.

'* Thank you, sir'' she said.

*^ Want to skip with it on the road ? " he asked.

^' Let her if she wants to," said the man in the
sombrero, "we've done our duty; I'll take that other
seat on top."

So the lady now became the sole inside passenger,
and in due course she executed the movement '' to
skip," which the driver suggested.

When we arrived at Leadville the lady had disappeared.
She had succeeded in carrying off a
small trunk and valise — no doubt dropped them
from the coach, and then at a convenient point,
(when it was dark, and we were travelling slowly)
slipped out after them.

The reader will probably remember the trial of
the bogus Colonel Malleson N. Wheeler for forgery,
which took place a year after his capture. He was
sent to Sing Sing, and 'baltimore Sal" to the
Penitentiary. Mr. Johnson of the firm of Johnson
and Brothers and the driver of the Leadville Stage ,
gave evidence as to the discovery of certain scrip
and other things in the prisoner's possession. The
reward of one thousand dollars was divided between
two men who had made the capture. A full pardon
had been granted to them on a charge which some
friends of the prisoner had brought against them ;
and so much confidence had the chief of the police
in their reformation and in their skill, that he had
been able to find them places in the detective corps
of a neighbouring city.

I have thought it best to close up this incident of
my ride to Leadville by what may be called a forward
narrator movement , before getting back to the
immediate current of our story.

May I not have a word with you ? " I said to
the man in the sombrero. ,

If you insists' said George.

I had followed him to his room in the hotel.

I do''

What is it ? ''

Give up this fatal mission of yours I said
'sand— '^

He raised, his hand stopping my further speech
with an angry and authoritative gesture.

'shave you so soon forgotten your oath, and your
word of honour ? Will you be as ready to lay aside a
pledge made at the altar of your Christian Church ? "

'^ George ! ^' I exclaimed, intending to make a last
eloquent appeal to him.

George Newbolde is dead and buried — you
have never met him, do you hear ? Are you so
selfish that you want to gather up for yourself all
the happiness that belongs to the meeting Fate
ordained in the mountains we have left behind us ?
May I not have my small share in it ? ^^

Ah, my friend, it is because I wish you to be
happy that I desire to — '^

Break a solemn pledge — to dishonour your
name — sto go back on a bond that is cemented, by
business, by friendship, and b}^ love. No, you would
die first, eh ? You have as much courage as that
wretched woman we have left on the road ; is it not
so?^'

^' I show some courage b}^ challenging our bond,
I wish to heaven I had courage enough to break
it."

A pitying look I thought came into his eyes ashe
said : *' You will not break it; " but the expression
changed to a frown, as he said : '' You dare not
—for her sake; and because cour great heart takes
no stock in the maintenance of the ruthless Tarquin,
whO; dishonouring the wife, assassinates the husband,
adults one child, to lease the other alone in the
great world with its sorrow — and its mission. Oh,
partner, brother, I cry for justice ! These are my
last words to you, here in this land, where the tardy
law is supplemented by the keen instincts of a
liberty-loving people ! Farewell ! '^

It was destined that his shadow should fall across
my path once again, and at an unexpected moment,
in a lonely street near the old Manse at Sandwich.

Part IB.

CHAPTER I.

Homeward Bounds I MEET A Friendly AGENT OF
'^ THE BOSS OF DRUMMONd's GULCH."

If we were to set down plainly and honestly the
common events of our lives, coupled with the incidents
of adventure with which we are made acquainted
in passing through the world, how much
more remarkable these histories would be than the
romances of fiction.

I have been told by an eminent novelist that the
truest portions of his books are generally regarded
as false, while the purely imaginative passages are
commended for their realism.

There are writers who can only tell one story
well — one-book novelists, who deal with their own
personal records and have then no more to say. Invention
of plot was not necessary at the outset.
This I am told, they are apt to forget when they
come to the real work of writing romances.

If there be any merit in this story of several lives
the reader will judge of it from the standpoint of the
confession that I, Hickory Maynard, declare it is
my first perfected narrative. When however, I
compare its romantic episodes, and what I have
regarded as its startling incidents, with the events
which are continually transpiring in London, the
strangeness of it sinks into commonplace, even in
my eyes.

Every day in this vast metropolis what mysteries
are going on, how many people disappear and leave
no trace, what dark deeds are done, what wild
dramas of real life are enacted !

Link, as Fate does, some of these passages of current
history with tragic events beyond the seas, and what
startling pages even an ill-instructed author might
write, with nothing but a basis of solid truth to build
upon.

Such romance as there is in my life for example
links Drummond^s Gulch, away beyond the Rocky
Mountains, with this great English metropolis ; and
the two, that mining camp, and this London, find
culminating interest in the old-world town of Sandwich,
where the wolf Lust fell upon the lamb Vanity
in those dark days of George Newbolde's unhappy
youth.

One may touch shoulders with Destiny in the
street. We are quietly walking home and Fate lays
his hand upon us. Forthwith we become actors in
some undreamt of romance ; perhaps its central
figures. That night when I went to the Adelphi
Theatre for the first time in my life, Fate may be
said to have stood at the door and handed me my
ticket.

She was a farmer's .daughter in the play, and
suffered calumny to save the daughter of a lord,
endured shame and the scoffing of her native village,
out of love for her foster sister. She was the humblest
of the two heroines of the play ; and in the
programme they called her Margaret Willoughby, I
went home with her face in my memory, and her
name engraved for ever in my heart.

I see her now as the Celtic ploughs her way through
the sea that washes the shores of Manhattan, see her
in fancy, as she takes my hand for the first time at
the wolf's lodgings in Buckingham Street ; and I
look back as the land drops gradually away out of
sight and wonder at my strange and good fortune
in America.

Going out T travelled with a second-class ticket and
had a stranger in my narrow room. Returning
home I travel eri wince. There is only one passenger

on board who has better accommodation than I
have. He occupies the captain's state room. Tie is
'' a western banker' my steward tells me, '^ awfully
riches I do not envy him ; I too, so far as my
requirements go, am awfully rich, though a poor
man in comparison with the wealthy banker from
the West. My state-room is amidships, and I am
worth money enough to realize more than the hope
and ambition that my wildest dreams ever suggested.
I could not help contrasting my lot as a first-class
passenger on the Celtic with my outward journey as
an emigrant in the Nevada. Now I had a seat at
the captain's table ; then I was only admitted into
the saloon on Sunday to hear the service of the
church. And shall I ever forget joining in the vocal
prayer for those at sea ? Never, any more than I
shall ever forget my escape from the burning hotel,
the coach-ride of the previous chapter, the collapse
of Colonel Malleson N. Wheeler, and the cool courage
of the *^ stranger " in the sombrero.

Life for me during the past few months had been
full of surprises. First the surprise of my failure.
I am bound to say that astonished me as much as
ni)'- success. I had gone out to America, as you
know, with fair prospects. How they disappeared
I need not repeat ; how I resolved to work my way

and didn't ; how T drifted to Chicago and made
money; how I lost it as money made by speculation
is generally lost ; how, standing on the hard bed
rock of misfortune, I found a friend there in a
perfect stranger ; how he sent me to Drummond's
Gulch ; how I found in the boss of the Revenge
mine the brother of Maggie sith a hut full of
wealth ; these are to me as I reflect upon
them very surprising incidents ; they must, I feel
assured, appear remarkable to the reader ; but
we are drifting into more turbulent waters
than any perhaps that we have yet navigated
together on this Sea of Destiny into which Fate
launched me on that quiet summer holiday at
Sandwich.

On the second day out from New York I ran
against "the awfully rich banker from the West'
Who was he ? Who should he be but our friend
Manwaring G. Wilkesss !

He was standing at the door of the captain's
room on the larboard side of the gangway.

'^ Wh)^, how are you ? '^ he said, in his quiet, but
emphatic manner ; '^ thought j'ou were going up to
Drummond's Gulch'

And I thought you were going to Tombstone''
I replied.

**Bjen there' he said, smiling and chewing the
end of an unlighted cigar.

^' And I've been to the Gulch' I said dropping
into his laconic style of speech.

'' I knows he said, '^ and you're his partners'

'' Yes."

*' We are thundering quick doing things in our
country' he said ; ** it's the climate, I guess."

You have seen George, then ? "

George' he replied ; ^' who's George ? "

*' I mean Dick."

Who was you thinking of when you said
'George ? ' "

'' Dick' I replied.

^as that so?"

^' That's so, colonel' I replied.

I ain't no colonel, m}^ friend ; just you call me
Wilkesss, and I'll call you — "

Maynard," I said.

"Come in, Maynard, and let's drink," he said;
this is my room."

He stepped into the gangway and pushed the door
open.

I entered, he followed.
Guess this ain't so bad for a ship' he said ;

never been on one of these liners before; paid five

hundred dollars for this room, cheapest thing Ive
struck since I left Tombstone."

A beautiful room' I said.

He had rung for the steward.

'' The bar-keeper's gotten a case of wine on the
ice for me, bring a bottle. ''

Yes, sir," said the trim-looking attendant.

Cute fellers some of these Britishers," said
Wilkesss, as the steward left the room ; " clean cut
about the head, broad in the chest, smart and yet
solid."

^^ I guess it's the climate," I said, taking up a
favourite expression of his own.

'^ Oh, is it ? " he answered ; *' they tell me you
can cut your climate with a knife."

^' Sometimes," I answered ; '^ if you are in London
in November, you will be able to take specimens of
it back in your trunks to Tombstone."

*' What's the duty on it ? " he asked.

'^ I think 3'ou admit it free," I answered, '^ as it
is the only thing you don't want from our side."

Now that's nasty," he said ; ^' Colorado has
certainly put an edge on your wit, it's just wonderful
how you Britishers improve on our side ; it is the
climate, there ain't no other explanation. Well,
here we go."

He had filled two tumblers with champagne, lifting
his own and prefacing its disappearance with Lady
Ann's bar-room toast.

Good luck ! ■" I said '' and here we go. You
remind me of Lady Ann."*'

'' Why ? ''

*' Not because you are like hers'

'' And who's Lady Ann ? "

'* Don't you know her ? "

Not by a darned sights

*'I thought you knew the Gulch'*

Guess I do'

Then you must know the ' Castle.' "

*^ Is this a game of chess ? "

*• It is not a game at all' I said.

*' Conundrum ?"

"No."

"Ship talk?"

*' Then give it a name, youngster ; you were a
darned sight more slick at calling things b}^ their
right names when I met you at Chicago."

"Well , the bar-room at the camp of the Revenge
mine is called the * Castle and Lady Ann is the
wife of the boss, and he is Sir Thomas Montgomery
; didn't you know that ?"

Very well, then, I have a Iced to your knowledge
of the Gulch/^

^^ That's so. Shouldn't have thought there was a
lady there at all ; weren't no petticoat around 'when
I was there last — "

Oh, then, 1 beg your pardon' I said, " I thought
3'ou had been a frequent visitor at Drummond's
Gulch''

"No^sir; low's the Solid Bank at Tombstone
going to get along with a boss that's continually
loafing around Drummond's Gulch, and how's one
going to loaf around, there when it's a fifths-five hours'
trip from the Bank to the Revenge?"

You correct me," I replied ; *' when you said
here we go' you reminded me of Lady Ann in the
kind of twinkle of the elbow which accompanied your
action of putting that cocktail to your lips."

^' Oh, she twinkled, did she — twinkle, twinkle,
little star, how I wonder what she are, eh?" said
the banker, closing one ej^e and looking very knowing
with the other.

*^ Sir Thomas's wife, and an excellent creature,"
I said.

'^ All women are excellent creatures ; never see
one as wasn't in the Rockies, anyhow. The trouble

is there's so few of em. Sir Thomas her only
husband ? "

"Yes/^

Sir Thomas his name ? ^^

'^ Yes, he is an English baronet'

"You don't say''

"Fact'

What , a nobleman, same as the Duke of Lowlands
and Sir Hickory Walker, Bart, who came out last
year to buy the Five Forks mine ? ''

'^ A nobleman, a born English aristocrat."

"And him and his wife keeping a bar-room at the
Gulch''

Why not ? " I said.

"Ask me another," he replied, " an easier one.
I guess I never understood where the difference
between your aristocrats and other people came in
imtil I see the duke and the baronight at the Five
Forks ; but there was some great boss Englishmen
along, and though they banked together and chipped
in at poker and the rest of the fun, the duke and the
other thej^ were of a superior mould, that's a fact,
and made us feel it. The duke was the earnest
fellow at poker. We had a big night the time they
quit. There was six of us. I call to mind the last
pot. It was this way. We were all in. The ante

VOL. II. F

was straddled. Each man took cards. We all had
good hands. There was two hundred dollars in the
pot. ' It's our last flutter said the baronight ; * I
bet two hundred dollars The boss of Five Forks
called the baronight, but the senator for Athens he
raised it three hundred dollars. The call was five
hundred dollars, and the next man — that was me —
called it. When it came round to the duke, who
dealt, he raised it one thousand and lighted a fresh
cigar. This scared all of us except the boss of Five
Forks, who saw the duke and went a thousand better.
The duke saw that, and went two thousand five
hundred better. The boss smiled, and asked the
duke if he was going for the money he had paid on
account of the mine. The duke said he guessed he
was just amusing himself, doing at Rome as the
Romans did, and the game went on until there was
just about six thousand dollars in the pot, and then
the boss of Five Forks called the duke, who laid down
a full, — three queens and a pair of tens. The boss
drew a cheque for eight thousand and laid his cards
down, — three knaves and a pair of nines. Nature's
noblemen, and one of the blood royal, those two
poker-players, you bet ! The boss was just as
polite to the duke as the duke was to the boss ;
but I would no more think of either the duke

or the baronight keeping a bar-room than 1 could
think of Queen Victoria running a pea-nut mill'

'^ Ah, yon have much to learn ; we are far
more democratic than you dream of ; my coal-merchant
is an earl, and I hire my copes from a
marquises

*' Why, I guess that's meaner than anything you
could get Jay Gould or Vanderbilt on; but, by
thunder, you Britishers are the dangdest fellers ;
guess I'll visit the Gulch on my way home'

** Do'' I said ; ^^ and when do you go home ? "

Depends on the tide — that tide in the affairs of
men Dick Drummond used to talk of, when first he
put a pick into pay gravel at the Gulch. Didn't
expect to see me on the ocean, eh?"

'• No, but glad to see you anywhere' I said ;
^^ sou did me the best turn one man ever did another."


Put it down to the climate," he replied. " This
is thundering good wine — "

And in returning you the thousand dollars you
lent me when I sorely needed help, I cannot sufficiently
thank you, but—"

"That's all right," he said, taking out his pocketbook,
" that's all right — no interest on loan ; and
that's correct, it was friendship, not business, that

F 2

thousand dollars — you was hard up — I've been there
myself'

He counted the bills carefully as he spoke.

^^ Business is one thing'' he said, packing the bills
into his pocket-book, and thrusting it inside his vest,
*^ and friendship's another — you found Dick a real
white nan ? "

''He and you have saved me from God knows
what misery. I go home rich at a time when money
means everything in the world to me — "

"I knows he said, interrupting me, ^^1 know, he
told me you was his partner, and asked me to go out
and fix up a settlement of twenty thousand dollars a
sear on your wife."

'indeed; he is too good; did he tell 3'ou who
she is ?^'

'' Miss Margaret Edward Newbolde, daughter of
the late Edward Barnes New^bolde, of Sandwich,
England — is that correct ? ^'

Yes ; is that all ? '^

No, I was to find you, and go to your mother's
lawyers, and have it done all square, and according
to English rule."

"And is he not coming to England ? "

*' Guess so ; but as I said before, he's a bit of a
crank, though he's one of them cranks as will have

their own way, like a Mississippi captain on a Mississippi
boat, and he would have me run this thing
for him."

Anything else ? '*

Ain't that enough — want to go me fifty better ? "

No, sir," I said, ^^ not until I know how much
3'ou are putting up."

*' Well, I've said ray say."

"You lay over me," I responded, ^'you seem to
have a full."

Is that your answer ? "

"It is."

Let's drink then."

We drank. We likewise smoked. We talked
in poker parlance. We discussed many things.
But Mr. Wilkesss was evidently not in the secret of
the real name of the boss of Drummond's Gulch, nor
of his relationship to Maggie, nor of his plans for
the future.

"Dick was a wild fellow when j^ou first knew
him ? "

How's that."

He was reckless, down on his luck ? "

"Not much!"

But he must have had a hard time of it '^

Guess none of us in the Rockies began with

feather beds, and brown stone fronts, and we didn't
expect canvas-back, Spanish mackerel, and terrapin,
all the time."

^•' Xo, of course not," I said ; " but our friend Dick,
3'ou said he was a bit of a crank ? '*

There are several sorts of cranks. There's the
crank who bluffs through life ; the crank as is
always a-swearing what he's going to do, and don't
do it ; and there's the crank that don't swear much
about the future, so much as he swears about the
past, but has alway's got his eye on the future, and
one day strikes pay dirt, and later, comes on the
metal itself ; that's the sort of crank Dick is."

Yes," I said, trying to lead him on, '^ always has
his eye on the future."

'' Always."

"But when a man's got all he wants, there is
no very particular future for him to keep his eye
on, eh?"

^'When a man has!" he exclaimed, winking
once more.

'' But Dick has ! "

Oh, yes, I guess so."

Few men are richer ? "

^^ Guess he's above poverty."

*but still has his eye on the future ?"

"Don't know what you've got," said Wilkesss,
looking me straight in the face; "but I call
you."

I wanted to call you," I said.

"Nothing in my hand — not even a pair," he
replied.

When I lay in my berth pondering over the situation,
looking at the reverse of the medal on which
my good fortune was stamped, the picture was far
from satisfactory. However well-deserved would be
Fitzherbert Willoughby violent death at the hands
of my benefactor, it would nevertheless be murder
in the eye of the law, and surely it would be murder
in the eyes of heaven.

A life for a life," was a favourite quotation of
George at the Gulch ; but both the old and new
dispensations, Bible and Testament, were opened on
the commandment, " Thou shalt do no murder."
George, however, insisted upon regarding himself
as God's instrument of vengeance, His agent, the
Nemesis of a wicked man's crime.

Apart from the moral and legal aspect of the case,
there was its personal side as it affected Margaret,
and as it affected me.

George Newbolde was bent on killing Chingford
Lucas. He might succeed in his plans without being

2 The Old House at Sandwich.

discovered. I should still be married to the sister
of a murderer,, and, if not legally, at all events
morally, an accessory before the crime of assassination.
My soul would be burdened with a horrible secret that
might grow into a morbid affliction of my spirits. '

Then, supposing the avenger of his father's death
and dishonour were taken, his plea of '^ a life for a
life '^ would be of no avail, unless it were legally
strained into a respite from the gallows, for the
almost more terrible doom of perpetual incarceration
as a madman. Moreover, the entire story would
come out on the trial. Maggie would only discover
her brother to say good-b^'e to him for ever ;
would only find the clue to the secret of her birth
and parentage to note upon it all the smudges of the
slough through which Fate had dragged it ; and
would have to bewail her lot in linking it to the
pure if simple story of my own family ; for she
would feel that in this she had hurt me and mine,
the very thought of which would make her a
miserable woman. Already I had had some experience
of her susceptibility in this direction.

'' I stand in the way of your advancement," she
had written in one of her latest letters ; " but for me
I often think your brothers would be more considerate
in their treatment of you, and the announcement

of our marriage will widen the breach between
you and them."

As if I cared for my brothers ! They had cast
me off. I was the black sheep in the family. I had
failed at college, and had not even been successful
in the city. When those who owe you love and
affection give you hatred and contumely, they have
made a breach between you and them, which cannot
be widened. Oceans roll between you ; seas of
forgetfulness wash the twin shores of your memories ;
my brothers had forgotten me, I them ; but I had
found a new brother, a brother who had stretched
his hand out to me in my trouble ; but at what a
possible cost to both of us !

And should I in his peril, should I at the moment
when he was going on blindfolded to the precipice,
stand idly by and let him on ?

It was evident that NewboLie meant to keep on my
track to find his foe. I was to be the silent, not
unconscious, guide to the quarry. Why did I not
grapple with the problem that now daunted me when
it presented itself to me at Drummond^s Gulch ? I
ought not to have accepted his conditions. If he
was dead to Margaret he was not dead to me, nor
dead to the dear old vicar at Sandwich.

Had the wild vengeance of the mining camp, the

contempt they have of life, these men outside of
civilization, had these things influenced me ? Or had
I been in the hands of a stronger brain, a stronger
arm, a more powerful physique ? Or had the prospect
of a speedy and successful return to England and to
Maggie blunted my moral sense ?

I was sorely troubled, and a strong reminiscence
of my college days cropped up to sharpen the edge
of my anxiety. Qui non vetat pectore cum possibly
juliet — '^ he who does not prevent a crime when he
can encourages it' Was this a crime which George
Newbolde contemplated ?

I could not deny that it was. Could I prevent it ?

CHAPTER IT.

COCKTAILS AND Philosophy.

'' Why, Maynard, how's this ? " said the Voice of
Manwaring Wilkesss. " Are you sick ? ''''

He opened the port hole of my state-room as he
spoke.

'' Anyhow, guess a little fresh air won't do no
harm; one thing the bosses on board a steamer
seem to object to~fresh air."

Then he opened wide the door of my room.

''No sea on just now, got no reason to be sick;
blew fresh in the night, but — "

'^ Ism not sick,^^ I replied, ^' thank you."

*' Guess you've gotten a sick voice — here, hi there,
steward ! '^

"Yes, sir''

Go to my steward, Tom , and tell him to bring a
bottle of wine here, some bitters, cracked ice, lemon
peel, sugar''

'' Yes, sir."

'^ Right away ; it should take Tom three minutes
to get round here."

*' Yes, sir'

^' And, hi, steward ! ^'

'' Yes, sir."

'^ A. sardine sandwich'*

Yes, sir.

As the steward hurried away the sea dashed in
upon us through the port-hole.

"It don't matter; we've had the fresh air — a
Utile salt water won't hurt us."

He closed the port-hole.

'* You wanted me to think she's not pitching :
that's all right, old chap'' I said ; *' but sea-sickness
is not a matter of imagination, it is a physical
disability, but I'm better now."

** And you are not sick .^ "

'' Not now."

No breakfast, no lunch, says I ; is this all-fired
Britisher under the weather; I'll go and see; and
you ain't sick ? Well, I'm glad of it ; I'll fix j^ou a
champagne cocktail that will make your hair curl."

*' Don't care to have my hair curled," I said,
sitting up, ^^ but I won't object to the cocktail.' -

Should think you will not. You look as sick asa
fellow who's been called on a full, ace high, by a
royal flush. Ah, here we are I "

I sat and watched my gaunt, lank', bright eyed,

friend mix a cocktail — a wonderful fascinating
when the concocter is an earnest man,
and you feel a hankering after a pick-me-up.

*' Guess there ain't no sickness of any kind under
the sun, on sea or land, that won't give way to a
judicious treatment of champagne cocktail. Here
we go ! ^'

He touched the rim of my glass with his own ; I
repeated the magic words " here we go'' and felt
very much better for this timely visit of my fellow-passenger.


*' Sandwich to follow," he said, handing me a
dainty little dish of sandwiches with a sprig of fresh
parsley on the top of them.

There is nothing a fellow more appreciates at sea
than little attentions of this kind.

I never tasted a better sandwich, and a second
cocktail made a new man of me.

Won't you come on deck ? ''

Yes. I have had no sleep."

What's wrong — liver, eh ? "

'' No ; mind," I said.

Got so much of it that it troubles you ; well,
come out into the fresh air and give it a treat."

'a will."

^^ Three fellows in my room want to play poker,

come and take a hand — never met the man who had
too much mind for that; perhaps you may be an
exception'

*^ I wish I had as strong a mind as you have, ay,
and as big and broad an intellectual faculty' I said;
"I'm a poor creature."

*' Not now," he remarked. *"' Do you want another
cocktail ? Well, have it on deck'

'* No' I said, " there are sicknesses of the mind
for which cock tails even are not specifics. Can't
minister to a mind diseased ? "

Guess I can," he said ; 'only a question of the
dose — you said I reminded you of Lady Ann, you
remind me of Dick Drummond ; he used to spout
Shakespeare and poetry and that kind of furniture
when first I knew him."

** Yes ? about a mind diseased ? " I asked.

'* A mind diseased maketh the heart sick, that
ain't it, eh ? '^

No, hope delayed," I said, '' that is the""

"Well, we won't delay it any longer, I guess;
now you just get up right away and come on deck''

He left me. I thought he smiled at me in an
odd, ^' knowing " kind of way as he went out, as
much as to say '^ you can't pump me." I felt it as
if it were a challenge. The cocktail had '' picked

me up." I felt the glow of the liquor in my face.
We shall see'd I said, as I dressed myself. '' You
are not to be pumped eh ? "" Then I tried to think
that Fate lead placed him in my hands for a good
purpose. ^' A week at sea is a j^ear in the way of
making friends and exchanging confidences I said
to m3'selP. " Wilkesss is Newbolde's ally in a scheme
of vengeance, I am sure of it ; he shall be mine in a
scheme of safety and happiness ; I will tell him all
and yet keep my word, if that is possible, or he
shall tell me all. There is a Jesuitical way of breaking
a TOW and yet keeping it. I will be a Jesuit
then''

The champagne had made me bold, if not eloquent.
I went on deck. After a short and somewhat unsteady
promenade, I went into Wilkesss's room and
took a hand at poker.

*' Jest to change your thoughts and wake you up'
said Wilkesss. '' There ain't no game in the whole
world that is more calculated to start your ideas onto
a new track than a little draw poker."

If I had played a game at cards when going out
to America for moneys, I should probably have lost
all I staked, for I was poor. Now that I had no
need nor any desire to increase my means, I won
with ease. I say with ease, because I took no special

pains, and my mind was often far away from the
captain's room, and occasionally it was occupied
with studying Wilkesss. The tall, gaunt, bronzed
Western thrust his long legs under the table, until
you could see his square toes on the other side of it ;
and there was no more expression in his face than
there was in his boots. His eyes, which usually had
a humorous twinkle in them, were now the eyes of
a sphinx; if they looked anywhere it was introspective.


His face was a piece of well-carved wood. "Whether
he bluffed or bet squarely on three of a kind, his
face never changed. The other three men, two
from Chicago, one from New York, who were known
to Wilkesss, were not demonstrative, but in appearance,
manner, and finesse, Wilkesss was the ideal
poker player, who never relaxed his interest in the
game, and who played to win as earnestly as if his
life depended upon it.

^' You are the whitest Britisher I've ever met,"
he said, when we adjourned for dinner ; ^' 3'ou
appreciate a bit of attention, you pay your debts,
and you play poker with the cuteness of a down-east
Yankee on a Mississippi steamers

^* But our friend of Drummond's Gulch'' I said,
he is a white man ? '■*

Down to his toe-nails ; but we claim him ; he
ain't no Englishman any more — he's real American."

You feel a deep interest in him ? ''

'^ Guess I do."

Would do anything to serve him ? '^

*' Bet jour life on it."

*' If he were bent upon some enterprise that might
land him in a serious difficulty, would you step between
him and his plans ? " , v,

*' Depends ; guess there is no need to go from
London to Japan and San Francisco to strike Broadway,
New York'

*' You want a full explanation of my possible case ;
I cannot give it'

*'■ Then you can't get a yes, or no, out of me to a
question I don't understand."

^' I will pat my point in another way. I am
deeply indebted to George — I mean to Dick —
Drummond — "

^*WelI?"

** He has made me pledge my word to do a certain
thing—"

*' So; I catch on.'"*

*^ I was his guest, he was my benefactor, he hasa
strong claim upon me — "

'* Is it in the shape of a bargain ? " Wilkesss

VOL, II. G

asked, balancing himself against the wall of his
state-room, and chewing the end of his cigar.

*^ You mean service for service ? *^ I said, answering
him with another question'
"That's what I mean'

Well, yes, I must say it would bear that const
ruction.'^
'' Well ? "

"Now, supposing on reflection I find, that if I
keep my part of the agreement, and thus enable him
to embark upon an enterprise — "

Enterprise, '^ he said, interrupting me, " is a
word that covers a multitude of sins. What particular
sin is it he wants to commit ?''

I was sitting upon a sofa, and looking at the closed
port, which was washed now and then by an angry
sea. While I asked him questions, I was inventing
others. As a rule, I look at a man when I am
talking: to him. But I did not wish Wilkesss to have
the chance of examining my face too critically.
His interpretation of the word enterprise pulled me
up. I looked at him. He ceased to bite the end of
his cigar, and smoked reflectively.

"What particular sm.^'^Isaid; "3'ou give the
word enterprise a very bad character."

"Yes, I know several enterprising men; I come

J

across one of 'em quite recently, and he was a
countryman of yours, too ; he runs a black-mailing
newspaper, one of the most enterprising cusses I
know in Americans

A black-mailing newspaper ?" I said, rather to
gain time than to question the existence of the '
journalistic thumb-screw.

*you want to change the subject's he said,
*' there goes the second dinner-bells'

"We will return to the subject," I replied, "not
change if, after dinner'

You like to talk about the boss ?''

"Yes."

He's real grit, he is ! I like to talk about the
boss, too."

"Sometimes I think you don't."

That's kinder curious, because, sometimes I think
you force him as I've seen card-sharpers force a
card."

You mean, I try and draw you into conversation
about Dick?"

That's the politer way of putting it."

"Well, and if I do?"

"No harm done. Mister Maynard, no harm done,
and sea-talk is different to land talk, don't you feel
like that?"

G 2

^V'ell, yes, at sea time hangs heavier on one's
hands than on land I suppose."

"That's so; without the different meals coming
along, as regular as the stars in their orbits, the
betting' on the run, an occasional cocktail, and a hand
at poker, we should talk each other stark mad at sea,
though I don't know much about the Atlantic. Vsq
been on a Mississippi steamer, when IVe said nary
a word for hours, except ego you ^ so much better,' or
• call you,' or such like talk. Guess I like this ship,
don't you ? '^

Oh, yes, very much. Have you any idea where
Dick Drummond is at this moment ? '■*

No, have you ? "

*' Not the remotest ; I don't think he wishes me to
know where he is'

Well, now, that's curious ; I believe he has
exactly the same kind of notion about me."

'indeed''

tact."

"Would it not be better, don't you think, if
he gave us both his confidence — if he trusted
us?"

Guess he does trust us."

Yes, as far as he can see us."

"Yell, there are many fellers I wouldn't trust as

far as that, unless IM my shooting-iron out before
they skipped."

*' But, you and me, and Dick Druramond, would do
anything in this world for each other ?'^

That's so."

"Then why does he not trust us?"

"Don't he?"

"I think not'

"But don't you think we ought to trust him?"

This was a poser.

How do you mean ? "

"I mean, give him his head and let him run''

If you think his head would not be the better for
the counsel of other heads — two are better than one,
the proverb says, therefore, three must be better
than two."

That depends."

"Upon what?"

'^ Whether Dick thinks so or not."

Is that how you feel about it ? "

Guess it is ; dinner's on the table — "

The sea, which had been rough during the day,
calmed down at night. After dinner many passengers
went on deck. The weather was cold, the
sky full of stars. We put on our heavy coats.
We lighted our cigars, and sat in the shadow of

one of the starboard-side boats. There was quite a
little crowd of passengers near us, some of them ladies,
wrapped up to their eyes in shawls and rugs.

For a time we walked about, with our thoughts
and our cigars, and took in scraps of the conversation
of those who were talking upon public and international
subjects. Several Americans were comparing
notes about what they would see in England. Some
of them were making first trips across the Atlantic.
Their views seemed to interest Wilkesss.

"It is all so different from what one expects, I
guess ; seems to me I can't imagine any city much
different from Chicago, New York, or Tombstone;
they may be older, but I guess a city's a city.
Tombstone's only a one-horse city at present, but
that's the only difference between Tombstone and
Denver ; there are one-horse cities and two-horse
cities, and so on."

Yes ; but your one-horse cities are cities of
wooden shanties, and ours are nearly as old as your
hills, and are built as if they were meant to stand
until doomsday."

Is that so ? AYhat are they built of ? ''

Stone and brick, wood and iron, and cement, and
old oak, and some of them were ancient long before
America was discovered."

So ! Is that a fact ? "

It is. When I was a lad, I used to visit a friend
whose house stood near an archway that was built by
the Romans before Christ'

That cocktail has put new life into you'

Yes, it certainly has'

Well, you keep it for the next game of poker ;
it don't amuse me to have you come old Baron
Munchausen over me'

*' I am not telling you that which is not true'

"Tell me there's anything in your darned old
country as old as five or six hundred years, standing
outside a museum ? "

Yes, more than eighteen hundred years'

Well, I guess even that ain't older than the
Cockles, eh?"

"No."

Well, then, who cares for that darned old arch,
I don't. London's considerably bigger than Chicago,
I guess, but don't pack as much pork, eh ? "

I can't say," I replied, without paying much
attention to his question.

"Any corn elevators in London? '*

Hundreds," I said.

1 guess not ; Chicago ain't modern four or five'

Hundreds ? " I asked.

"Hundreds!'^ he exclaimed; "what are you
figuring on ; why, do you know what it coats to put
up one ? '^

I beg your pardon* I said, " I was thinking of
something else — and oddly enough, the gentlemen
who are talking so loudly on our right are discussing
a subject I have thought a great deal about'*

"You don't say ? What's the subject ? "

The psychology of crime. Dr. Oliver Wendell
Holmes and M. Despise, a Frenchman, are the
authorities quoted by the one who appears to know
most of the matters

Holmes is a Yank \ Pll bet on Holmes' said
"Wilkesss.

• "Let us smoke and listen' I said ; "the speaker
evidently desires an audience."

And this is what we heard, or words to this
effect : —

Horace declares anger to be an insanity of short
duration, and that is Despise's doctrine of passion.
Now while a man ought to bear everything rather
than do wrong, some things are too much for him to
bear ; the forces with which nature has endowed
him are beyond his control."

"Do you know, my friend*' I said, taking his
arm and leading him away, " that touches the very

heart of the subject I wanted your advice about this
afternoon ? "

That's curious," said Wilkesss, " and what is most
curious is 5''our being afraid to trust me."

"I am the depository of a secret that concerns our
dear friend of Drummond^s Gulch," I said.

That's a thing we canst go shares in, eh ? " he
replied.

"True ; but without inviting you to such a partnership,
let me ask you a question between ourselves."


Yes, fire away."

You and I would do almost anything for Dick
Drummond ? "

I guess so."

Now, supposing you had solemnly promised him
that you would not reveal to any one a certain
purpose of his, and supposing that you afterwards,
on the ver'' best information, came to the conclusion
that by breaking your promise you would best serve
his interest and promote his happiness, what would
you do ? '^

*task his permission to chuck the whole thing
up.

But if you could not see him again in time to
ask him ? "

*why, guess I should stand by my Avoid," said
Wilkesss.

If it involved a question of life and death ? "

That depends whether it involved a question of
life and death at first," said Wilkesss.

*' May I ask you a question, as to your knowledge
of my relationship with George — I mean, with Dick
Druramond ? "

"When, you've made up your mind what his name
is, why, yes."

*' Has he confided to you the purpose of his visit
to England ? "

^' Not yet."

*' Well, then, the promise I made him r^/c/ involve
a matter of life and death at the outset. The
position of the parties concerned is not changed
since we entered into our bond to each other. But
and I want your emphatic opinion on this point
since I gave him my promise I have had time to
weigh the matter between us, and I am certain that
if I depart from the strict tenor of my word to him,
it will be for his good, and may perhaps save his
life. Now ought I, under these circumstances, to
keep my word ? "

Was there a money consideration ? "

Well, yes, partly, I am bound to say there was."

Would the money consideration go with the
forfeiture of yow word ? "

Not necessarily, and yet rather than harm
should come to Drummond, I would give up every
penny my meeting with him has put me in possession
of."

"Did he know he risked his life, or have you
discovered that since ? ''

He knew it."

"And had counted the risk in with the thing he
bargained for ? "

"Yes."

'' Then you bet he knows what he is about'

^' And you think I am bound by my word ? "

Guess you are."

'^ And you would not have me break my promise
to him even to save his life ? "

If it was certain death and no advantage to him,
and a trap was sprung on him as he didn't calculate
on, I would save him at any cost."

*eyes," I said; " but if— "

'' "Well, if the position has not changed since he
reckoned it up on all sides, including the risking, as
you say, of his own life, which was a factor in what
you would call the enterprise, then you would be
untrue to your friend and a dishonest loafer to go

again your word given to him, solemnly as you say,
he in his right senses, and you in yours."

I wish sou could have thought otherwise."
"I can neither think different to that, nor say
different on the suppositious case you have put tome
— of course, we will consider it a sort of illustration
in a controversy, and as concerning nobody."
Thank you, yes ; that is my desire."
"Well, then, that being over, let's have a drink.
I guess you let your heart run away with your head,
Mr. Maynard. Never do that in a business transaction,
never at poker, nor when dealing in futures."
'^Ah, my friend," I replied, 'sit is hard work to
deal coolly in futures when the life of your dearest
friend may be a factor, as you say, in the enterprise."


The man who deliberately puts up his own life
as part of the stakes is supposed to have calculated
the chances, and to have made an estimate of the
return he's to get if he wins. Men don't often stake
their lives for scrip ; Dick Drummond is not likely
to — he's gotten all he wants in that way ; perhaps
it's a woman, perhaps it's getting even with a darned
skunk ; but whatever it is, don't yoM be a feared for
Dick. He's carried his life in his hand these five
years to my knowledge, and if he can carry it safely

through the country he has fought in and bossed
with big Injuns again' him, and some tough shooting
besides on the frontier, and in the mountains, don't
you be scared for him in England."

When we said good-night, an hour or two later,
I found myself inclined to believe that this strong-headed,
and devoted friend of Margaret's lawless
brother, was really in Georges secret, a brother
vigilant in the intended lynching of Fitzherbert
Willoughby, otherwise Chingford Lucas.

CHAPTER III.

THE BANKER OF TOMBSTONE ARRIVES IN ENGLAND.

'* And this is the Mersey ? '' exclaimed Wilkesss on a
bright horning towards the end of October, as we
slipped quietly past Birkenhead, and sighted the
spires and towers and the long stretch of docks that
mark out the lines of the Northern Port.

"Sure enough," I said; sand on the other side
of the river is Liverpool."

It was onl)^ an hour or so after daybreak, the sun
was just getting up, many of the passengers were
still abed.

'^ Liverpool ! ^* he said, lighting a cigar, and lolling
by the gangway stairs on the upper deck. " I tell
5'ou, Mr. Maynard, this is to me a wonderful sight.
There are thousands of Americans who have continually
the name of Liverpool on their lips, and
have no notion what its like''

The great steamer ploughed up the river, the green
banks of the Birkenhead side now giving place first
to pretty homes, then to warehouses and wharves ;

the Liverpool side frowning with solid stone docks
that gave a prosaic touch even to the forest of masts
that pointed upwards to the sun.

Looks like a marine city that had been built five
hundred years, and was guaranteed to stand till
Gabriel sounds his trumpets said Wilkesss.

'* And yet it is what we call a modern city''

^' You do, eh''

The first dock was built only a hundred and
thirty odd sears ago."

^'Do you call that modern ?"

Well, yes' I said, *' considering that we know
Roger de Pointer built a castle here eight hundred
j'^ears ago, and that the cluster of little houses that
surrounded it was the original Liverpool, we don't
think there is anything ancient in docks built in
1709."

'' Eight hundred years ago ! " he said, his honest
eyes turned upon me ; " why, America, anyhow
our America of the stars and stripes and freedom,
ain't modern a year or two over a hundred years
old."

That's true."

It's difficult to take that in, ain't it ? I've heard
of these dates and read of 'em, and could never see
it ; but Lord, look at the steeple of that old church,

guess that might be any age. B ut it's kinder gloomy,
eh, the whole thing ? '^

'* No, this is a fine clear autumn morning'*

You don't say ! " he exclaimed, " but the river's
brown, and so's the sails of the boats, and these tugs
that are trying to keep alongside us and can't, guess
they look dirty, eh ? "

They are not as neat and trim as the steam craft
one sees in New York harbour ? "

No, nor off San Francisco, nor on Lake Superior,"
he said; '^ but it all looks solid, no fun, work, work
and the home of sea-dogs — what ? "

Two hundred years ago Liverpool was a fishing
village ; now its population is over half a million,
and the dock estate collects an annual revenue of five
million dollars for shipping dues."

^^ Ah, that's big, you bet ! " said Wilkesss, and he
became so absorbed in his first view of the river, the
city, and the people, that he hardly spoke any more
until we landed.

'•^ Solid ! " he said, as we drove through the streets
to the station ; ^' solid, and the stores hopeful of
goods, the people as solid as the streets."

He was struck with amazement at everything ;
but when he saw the railway carriages and the
locomotives he laughed.

'' Wh}^'* he said, '' they Icon like the playthings of
a giant ; you don't say them's the cars, and that's the
engine'*

"Yes."

I should smile ! " he said ; " why, they ain't no
bigger than the narrow gauge cars at the Bonanza
mine in California."

Oh, yes, they are," I said ; " the wheels, you see,
are below the platform — th^it makes the cars look
small."

"But the engine!" he said; 'jerusalem, why,
how fast can it go — I mean how slow ? "

Sixty to seventy miles an hour ! "

Guess I've a pony at Tombstone would give it
points," he said, chuckling.

But he did not laugh as we dashed through the
Peak country at a steady speed of nearer seventy
than sixty miles an hour. And he vowed he had
never seen anything so green as the meadows, and
nothing so sweet as the pretty homes that studded
the hill-sides, and decorated the valleys with their
little gardens full of autumn flowers.

The London lamps were lighted when I drove him
to the hotel in Covent Garden, at which he had been
advised to stay. I was anxious to see him comfortably
settled there before I went home to Doughty Street.

VOL. II. H

When you are * through fixing things take a cab,
and come up to my mother's houses I said.

*' Guess I'll be through in an hour or so ; then
111 jest take a look round, and come if I won't be
intruding.''^

'* Not at all ; no ceremonies my mother is the
dearest old lady in the world, and the kindest

I gave him the number, instructed him as to cabs,
and then rattled away to Doughty Street.

Home again ! My heart was beating with delight.
AVould Margaret be with my mother ? How slowly
the cab seemed to go.

'' Can't go no faster said the driver in response
to m}^ urgent demands that he should get along ;
^' my 'loss ain't a locomotive, and it ain a flying
machines'

The dear, old, sombre streets, how I loved them I
A cruel city, yes, no doubt, too big to be otherwise ;
but how one loves it ! How one loves the memories
of the great men who loved it, and who walked about
these very thoroughfares !

Threading his way through Drury Lane, odoriferous
Drury Lane, gas-flaring, slip-shod Drury
Lane ; then out into Long Acre, across Oxford
Street, the cabman was soon rattling alone: through
quiet squares, and though it seemed hours, he had

probably not taken more than twelve or fourteen
minutes to awaken the echoes of Doughty Street —
once a fashionable part of London, always a respectable,
sober, and even dignified locality.

I had telegraphed to my mother from Liverpool.
But what is this, the place all in darkness ? 'this
House to Let ! '"' My heart sunk unto my boots. I
turned giddy.

The next moment from the depths of despair I leaped
to the highest heaven of delight. The numbers of the
houses had been changed; the house that was "tolet
^^ was not my mother's house. On the contrary,
the windows were lighted up. Yes, I was expected.

As my cabman pulled up for the second time and
at the right house, I saw the blind drawn aside and
a face peer out into the night.

*' Was it Margaret ? ^' I asked myself.

I felt my heart beating wildly.

Before the cabman had time to ring the bell, my
mother was at the door. Before she had time to speak
she was in my arms.

'' Mother ! '' I said.

*^ My son ! '^ she sobbed.

'* Ah, how glad I am to be with you again,
mother ! ^*

God bless you, my dear boy."

H 2

Then I put my arm around her, and we walked
together into the house.

It was nearly ten o'clock. There was a bright fire
on the hearth. Dishes and glasses and wine were
laid on the snow-white covering of an old oak table.
The portrait of my father filled a panel over the
mantel-shelf.

M}" mother — pale, handsome, with white hair, grey
eves, a noble figure, a gentle carriage — was dressed
in black silk, with a white lace polonaise over her
shoulders, and looked the very picture of a highborn
English matron.

She noticed that I glanced around the room, inquiringly.


Ah, it is not enough that I am here," she said,
in a soft voice that had no rebuke in it ; '' here is her
portrait."

She took from a cabinet that stood between the
two windows of the room a portrait in a morocco case
and handed it to me.

How beautiful ! " I exclaimed, turning aside to
kiss it.

'' Indeed, you may well say so, my dear, she has
greatly improved," said my mother.

I could not have thought it possible," I said ;
and where is she, mother? "

Making a tour of the provinces'*

Acting ? ''

Oh, yes'

I wish I had known''

** Why ? That you might have gone straight to
her and have neglected your mother ? "

There was more of banter than reproach in the
question.

"Ah, mother," I said, "you know how I love
you. But you can judge how much I want to see
Maggie."

And you shall see her to morrow. Here is a
letter from her."

She handed me a sealed envelope. I opened it.

May I read it now , mother ? ^'

Yes, I suppose you will eat no supper until you
have," she said.

I read as follows : —

My Own Dear Hickory. — How very happy you must be
to get home again after your travels and troubles, and oh how
happy I am to be writing this to you to welcome you back.

It is not quite settled whether we shall finish the last week
of our tour, or return to London, as there is some misunderstanding
with the managers (there always is, my dear), and we
may ' back out,' father says, of the closing week and go home ;
and if that is so, I may see you in town nearly as soon as j'ou
read this ; but, dearest, if I do not I shall send your dear, kind
mother a telegram, of course it will be for you, so that 3'ou

Shall know what is pettle^l ; and oh, my dear Hickory, how T
do long to pee von, and how I do rejoice in your success ; but I
almost wish you had not been quite so successful, because I feel
now what a poor little thing 1 am, and how you mii?ht marry
s-ime rich, high-born girl, instead of a nameless nobody, as I
ara ; though, my dear Hickory, nobody could love you as truly
as I do, and I don't think ymir mother would let 3'ou throw me
over— there ! She is as fond of me as if 1 really were her own
daughter; ask her, the dear, kind, beautiful old lady.

If it had not been for the advice, and sweet encouragement
and love of sour mother, I don't think I could have gone on
living with ' papa.' His affairs have not prospered, and he is
very irritable, and has been angry with me often when I have
refused to dine with his'' friends ; but your dear mother has
always said everything would come right when you returned,
and she has advised patience with her kind arms about me,
and her kisses on my cheeks, and I would have been ungrateful
if I had not obeyed her. But only myself knows what I
have put up with, and only myself knows how sweet and blessed
it has been t > bear my lot, with the feeling that T was beloved
by you, and that I was in the confidence of your mother, and
could have her companionship now and then, whenever I was
in London.

*' I have been in the country now for several months, with
a very good company from the Olympic Theatre, and I have
been playing what we call leading business, with quite a good
amount of success. 'Father' has nothing to do with the
arrangements of the tour, he comes to tike care of me, but once
in a way he goes to London on business. He has chosen to
interfere with the last weeks' dates, owing to some misunderstandings
between the managers of two theatres who seem to
have got the same dates, and says I shall not play at either
place ; but he vacillates, and I dares ly the tour will be properly

ended ; but look for a telegram to say whether it is to be or
not, and if it is not to be I shall start for London to-morris.

There now, confess, is not this a business-like letter, and
I will confess that the hours were never so honos since I have
owned a watch, as they have been ever since I felt that you
would be in England at least a day before we could meet
again.

"This to my love, from his ever devoted, true, and affectionate
" Maggie."

Canterbury, Oct. 26^A."

*' Canterbury ! '' I exclaimed, ^^ why I might get
there to-night ! "

^' But she was leaving Canterbury last night, or
early this morning' my mother replied, sand it
was not settled whether she came to London, or
what she would do ; I am sure to have a telegram
from her soon. Patience, Hickory, it is no good to
worry, you will surely see her tomorrow. ''

Yery well, mother, I wall wait ; but in the
meantime, let us talk about her. First, read her
letter, and see what she says of you."

I watched my mother as she read the letter, and
noted with lively pleasure an expression of satisfaction
on her face.

Then she entertained me with sympathetic accounts
of Maggie, and with her ideas of what we should do,
where we should be married, and other matters ;
and just when I was responding with my own views of

these things, one big solemn knock at the door
arrested our attention.

'' What a knock ! '^ said my mother.

'' Yes, I daresay it is my friend Mr. Man waring
Wilkesss ; they do not have knockers in America,
and he has not yet learned the fashionable ,
of London."

'' Do not have knockers, Hickory ? " said my
mother, interrogatively.

No''

'^ Then what does the postman do ? "

'^ I don't know, except that he delivers the letters
very much as ours do."

But not with a double knock ? "

*'No."

*' Then w hat could our American cousins have
made of the song of ^ The Postman's Knock,' which
somebody wrote not long ago ?"

I daresay it puzzled them as much as the
play of 'Wig and Gown,' the title of which
represents an institution they do not understand
any more than they do Beadledom and Wimbledon."


Mr. Manwaring G. Wilkesss ! " said the servant,
announcing my American friend, who followed her
into the room.

*' Mrs. Maynard, Low do you do ? " he said,
without waiting to be introduced, 'your son Hickory
there invited me to comes

You are very welcomes said my mother, " I
wish you had come earlier ; still there is a chicken
left, and—"

^' Thank you, madam, I have had lunched

*' Lunch ! " said my mother, " but it is ten o'clock,
Mr. Wilkesss, you must surely be hungry ! '^

^' My mother does not understand our American
habit of calling a light meal at any time lunched

Is that so ? '' said Wilkesss.

^^ In England, the meal between breakfast and
dinner is luncheon I said ; ^'but my dear mother,
Mr. Wilkesss calls his supper a lunch, and his dinner
a supper'

'' How very odd'' remarked my mother.

*' But I guess we get a good square meal all the
same, and there's nothing in a name they say, call a
rose a daisy and it smells just the same. I have
heard your son called a daisy."

Indeed ! "

sour folks call any feller they like very much a
daisy," he said.

"And a very pretty name too ; but will you not
take a seat ? "

Wilkesss was got up regardless of expense, in black
broadcloth, white waistcoat, a diamond-pin, and
a massive watch-chain. He was cleans shaven,
barring the slight grey goatee that gave additional
character to his face. His hair had been trimmed,
and he had quite a professional appearance, looked
legal, or clerical as your fancy dictated.

His face was dark and sallow, and clean cut. It
was, as I think I have said before, a strong face,
thin, *^ line," big nose, a bony brow, and had deep,
steadfast eyes. At first sight, his mouth had a hard
look ; but it was capable of a pleasant smile, and
the more you examined the man, the more you felt
that he was one whom j^ou could trust, and whom
you might grow to like very much.

^' I must thank j^ou for your great kindness to my
son, Mr. AVilkess,'^ said my mother; '^ he needed a
friend when he met you*'

We all need a friend some time or other, madam,"
said Vi^ilkess, '^ IVe been there myself"

'^ You don't mind accepting a mother's thanks, do
you ? "

"Mrs. Maynard, you honour me, and you must doit
in your own way," he said ; *' but we Americans,
if we help a friend, as we have been helped
ourselves, and may want it again, we don't look

for thanks ; but we bow to the ladies as I do to
you.-

"Thank you very much* she said; and in the
same breath she exclaimed '' ah, there's the
knock''

It was the double rap of the telegraph messenger.

My mother opened the dispatch.

"Read it aloud' I said, " I have no secrets from
Mr. Wilkesss."

But as I said so, I felt mj^ conscience prodding me
with a sudden reminder of the one great secret that
I shared with George Newbolde.

Love and welcome to Hickory ; tell him we shall be at
Sandwich for a week from tomorrow — will expect him at
theatre — ask for me at stage-door. — M. W.'"

my mother read.

Sandwich ! '' T exclaimed, '^ does she say Sandwich?"


Why, Hickory, you have turned quite pale, what
is the matter ?''

"Oh, nothing, mother; but I was just thinking
of Sandwich ; and then the joj'^ of knowing she is so
near, I think that — "

I found myself stammering.

1 guess Hickory don't like to give tongue to all
he feels before me, Mrs. Maynard ; when a young

feller's in love, he's kinder dainty in his thoughts
and ideas ; its human nature' said Wilkesss.

You are a shrewd observer' I said, laying my
hand on his shoulder as I stepped towards my
mother; " one does feel a great deal more than one
likes to say about these things, and I am desperately
in love, that is a fact."

My mother handed me the telegram, and I put it
in my pocket.

sow you want to smoke and have a glass of
grog, you two old friends' said my mother ; ^'you
\^ill find everything except the cigars in the library,
and I shall say goodnight."

"Are you going to leave us?" said Wilkesss,
rising.

*eyes, I will say good-night now, but I hope to
see you very often."

Thank you' said Wilkesss, " and good-night,
madam''

M}' mother embraced me, and I led the way into
the adjoining room.

Wilkesss pulled a cigar-case from his pocket, I did
likewise ; there were, upon the table, in the light of
a cheerful fire, a small urn hissing hot, a case of
spirit-bottles, a lemon, some sugar ; and the surroundings
were books and pictures, (not on an important

scale,) a prettily draped window, and a prevailing
air of comfort.

When I had brewed the punch, and we had
pledged each other, and lighted our cigars, Wilkesss
said, —

*^ That telegram seemed to trouble you ; and I
thought it scored a point somehow in my mind connected
with your saying there was no secret between
you and me. Excuse me, won't you ?''

*' Nothing to excuse' I said ; ^' go on, you want
to sny something elsc.^'

*^ The word Sandwich struck you quite a blow ;
now that's the place where you are to be married,
and— ^'

*' Oh, you know that,^^ I said, quickly, " how
much more do you know ?"

Well, I know that because it is part of ray
instructions in connection with the business I have
to do with your family solicitors ; and Tell just put
them down in mv notes — what's the address ?^^

Goodwood and Cummings, Lincoln's Inn Fields,"
J said.

He wrote down the address.

"Between myself and Dick Drummond," I said,
there is a secret understanding which I would like
to get rid of."

You cannot' he said.

Do yoa know what it is ? ''

*^ No."

'' Thea why do you say I cannot ? "

'' Because you are the soul of honour and have
given your word, and an Englishman's word is his
bond."

Supposing the keeping of my word involved — "

"AVeh.ive thrashed all that oat before, it ain't
any good doing it again. It seems to me that our
friend Dick has only given half his confidence tome.
He knows best, and I am satisfied. Ave have
been pals in big things, financial and personal ;
we've been in corners, and we've fought side by
side in speculation, in camp, and where our scalps
where in danger. He has always had my confidence,
and will to the end ; if he wants my purse it is his,
mv life too in any cause in which he risks his."

Then you know he means to risk his ? "

I only guessed at it, on board the steamer, from
what you said''

You believe I would do anything in the world
for him ? "

I know he would for you — he told me so."

•' When ? "

'' The day before we sailed."

In New York ? "

^^Yes."

•' Was he in I^ew York while I was there ? '*

''Oh, yes, and he was to sail the next day; his
vessel's in this morning, he'll be in London tomorrow."


AYill he, indeed ! " I exclaimed.

Did you not know he was coming ? "

Ye?.''

And yet when I say he'll be here tomorrow, you
are agitated, and not with joy, with fear."

I felt that Wilkesss could see right into my soul.

It is true, I do fear his comings'

Why, for his sake ? "

Yes."

"I^^ow, Hickory Maynard, I am going to ask you
a very straight question ; if it offends you, knock
me down, or chuck me out. We boys of the West
who have fought our way with wits and with pistols,
taking our lives into our hands on the frontiers and
in the Holies, before the Indians had struck their
tents, before the pioneers of Denver on the one
hand, and Santa Fe on the other ; we fellers, I tell
you, are cute and quick observers. It is a habit
with us, and we generally get on the right track ; now
and then I grant you we fail, but if we fail we take

The Old House at Sandwich.

a back seat and begin ag dn. Now you wanted to
encourage yourself on the ship to do something
your ideas of honour rebelled against, and you
hoped I'd back you. When your dear mother read
out the name of the place where that telegram came
from you turned pale ; I tell you Dick Drummond
will be in London tomorrow and you tremble. Am
I right ? '^

'' Yes.^'

"You don't deny the points on which in combination
I am going to ask you a question? '^

'' I do not."

Well, then, get your boot ready Do you mean
to betray Dick Drummond ? '^

He rose as he asked the question.

"Betray him!" I said; "sit down, Wilkesss,
don't be a fool, ask me what you like, you and I
are not going to quarrel''

I said betray him."

Yes, and you feel that in asking the question
you insult me, eh ? "

]>Iore or less."

To question my honour, to doubt my word,
would be to insult me, but you do neither, because
you don't know what you mean when you ask the
question."

'^ You are clever too/^ he said ; ^' I guess it's the
climate, you're brought the brightness of it over
here in your brain. When I said betray, and when
I put it so strong, I did it to draw you*

'* Are you really giving inde all your confidence ? *^
I asked.

^'' I am ; and I go back to America tomorrow if
Dick don't give me his. But he will at the right
time, no doubt. The trouble is you bother me.
You try to call him George instead of Dick, and he
is painfully on your mind — "why ? *'

'* That I fear is my secret. If he consents, 1
would like to share it with you. If he consents,
I would like to break my bond — the vow I gave
him**

But you will not do it without his consent ? '*

"]^o."

'' That's what I want to hear*'

No, Wilkesss, I will not, come what come
may ! **

VOL. II.

CHAPTER lY.

IS FATE PLAYING INTO GEORGE NEWBOLDE's HANDS?

When T had bidden AYilkess good-night and closed
the door, my mother, in her dressing-gown, came
into my room.

"I thought you were in bed, mother, but I am
glad you are not/^

I could not retire without another little chat all
to ourselves,'^ she said.

^'And what do you think of my friend; he is
typical of the West''

"He is a very fine-looking man'' she said;
something quite distinguished in his way."

I am glad you. think so, for he is what one
would call one of Nature's gentlemen ; I am glad
you thanked him for being good to me."

I feel deeply grateful to him, Hickory ; he must
have a very kind heart."

Then taking my hand in hers as she sat down by
my side, she said, "Why did you turn so pale at the
mention of Sandwich, my dear? ''

How I must have betrayed myself, since my
surprise, not to say fear, had been specially notice I
by both my mother and my friend.

Let me confess to myself and to the readier that
the name fell on my ear like a knell, or like a cry cis
fear out of a mysterious darkness. All at once I
seemed to be conscious of the terrible possibility of
some tragic occurrence which I might prevent if I
Lad the courage.

It seemed as if I were for the moment under the
spell of an omen, and I shuddered to think that
Maggie should be the first to name the scene of that
awful calamity, the shadow of which was falling across
our lives. It was surely ominous and boded evil that
she of all others should ask me to go to Sandwich.

And that she and he (the wolf of George New-bold's
story) should be there now. It was as if
Fate were playing into George Emboldens hands,
Fate, I say, for I could not then, nor do I now, fed
that Providence could have been guiding our strange
destinies during these memorable days, which belonged
the closing chapters of this history.

I did turn pale, I supposes was the only answer
that occurred to me.

Indeed you did'' said mv mother, 'both I and
your friend noticed it."

I 2

Yes, a sudden memory' I said, *^ something not
very pleasantry

I was trying to explain and yet not to explain,
deceiving my mother in fact, and I succeeded in
doing so. I would have given a year of my life to
have felt at liberty to tell her the truth.

"Something you don't care to mention; well, I
will not ask you what it is," said the dear soul,
'' perhaps j^ou will tell me some other day''

"Sandwiches"' I said, "has rather painful associations
for me."

"But Maggie's presence there ought to dissipate
them — and why painful associations ? "

"I cannot fully explain, mother," I said, "but
do you not remember that I once spent a vacation in
Kent, before I disgraced myself at college P "

Disgraced yourself. Hickory ! " she said.

Well, before I was plucked ; I could not disgrace
myself in your eyes, could I, mother ? "

"You would not, my dear."

Not if I could help it.'-*

You could not fail to help it," she replied.

But do you remember, mother, how kind the
vicar who had a house at Sandwich was tome
? "

"Yes, and I forgot to tell you — indeed, I have

/

not had time to tell you— that he called here and
left his card only quite lately''

Indeed !^^

** Yes, why are you so surprised ? "

I don't know'

*' I thought you had asked him to call ? '*

Yes, I suppose I did'

T think I was surprised because I had it vaguely
in my mind to seek the vicar's counsel, and the
moment Sandwich was mentioned my thoughts went
out to him, even before they followed Maggie
thither, for I associated my dear girl's happiness
with n\\ desire to break away from my vow to
George, and the mention of Sandwich conjured up
the image of the vicar in the character of our
guardian angel.

''Do j'^ou heir ember, mother, the sad story the
vicar told me about that painter, whose pictures I
one day took you to see at the auction rooms in
Piccadilly ? "

Quite well, love, and the pictures too— one of
them was called ' A Corner of Kent,' and another
was 'Our Garden,' the figures being two children
and a pretty woman."

Yes ; but I believe I had almost forgotten the
pictures'

> ^' They belonged to the Montgomery collections'
she said ; " Sir Thomas Montgomery's pictures and
bric-a-brac were sold, you knows when the young
baronet lost his fortune on the turf and disappeared''


I done remember it/^ I said, bewildered at
this second revelation ; *^ but you shall tell me all
about it tomorrow before I go to Sandwiches

And in the morning, sure enough, after a late
breakfast my mother took up the thread of our late
chat exactly at the place where she dropped it.

^'DonH you remember'" she said, ^^the young
Kent baronet, who came into his title and came of
age at the same time ? There were great doings at
the Hall — somewhere near Canterbury I think the
family estate is — and there were paragraphs in the
London papers. One of them had a leading article
about it ; and a very romantic story they made of it,
not only because of what they called the double event,
but the more interesting one to follow — he was
engaged to Miss Leonora Golding, the belle of the
season. Already Sir Thomas had a name on the
turf, j^oung as he was, and his colours had nearly
won the Derby. Well, a very brilliant career was
predicted for him. As the Averting-day approached
the Society and other papers had paragraphs about

the lady and her beauty and portraits of Sir Thomas
appeared in the illustrated newspapers. You must
remember about it'

Yes, I think I do, now you mention it ; he
came to utter grief, did he not — made some social
mistake as well as financial ? ^'

*' He was wild and reckless, no doubt, but that
woman ruined him. The day before the morning
fixed for the wedding she eloped with the young
Count of Bosworth — she became the Countess a
week later — and poor little Sir Thomas was brokenhearted;
worse still, society laughed at him as
a- Parisian audience laughs at a badly treated
husband on the stage. He could not stand up
against it — he rushed blindly into dissipation — took
to drink, gambled, went off his head, indeed, within
a year, defaulted on the turf, the mortgagees foreclosed
on his estates, and he disappeared ; nobody
knows whether he is dead or alive. Poor Sir
Thomas'

How long is this since, mother ? ■''

'' Four or five years''

'^ What a small world it is, and how history
repeats itself! The fate of Sir Thomas Alas in that
very state of uncertainty when I left Drummond's
Gulch. The men did not know whether he was dead

or alive, and his wife was bemoaning him when I
said good-bye to her'*

'* His wife ! *' exclaimed my mother.

*eyes, Lady Ann was the only woman at the
Gulch, and he and she kept the local hotel there."

'^ Good gracious* said my mother, "an English
baronet and his wife keep an hotel at a mining
camp ! ''

My mother's remarks at this time all ran into
exclamations.

Oh, yes," I said, " that is not very remarkable
out yonder ; the remarkable thing is that j^ou
should quite naturally tell me all about the montgomery,
more particularly the story of Tommy
misfortunes on this side of the Atlantic, and that
I should have made his acquaintance beyond the
Rocky mountains — both of us pausing on the uncertainty
of his existence. When I left Drummond's
Gulch he was on the war-path, poor little
fellow, and his wife — "

*' What is she like, and who was she ? " my
mother asked.

She is a fine woman, and was somebody — or
rather nobody" — in San Francisco, I believe."

Indeed — of good family ? But of course not, a
landlord's daughter, perhaps, or a barmaid ? "

'^ There are no barmaid in America mother and
it is a swell thing to be the proprietor of an hotel.
Why, there is a proverb which has quite a sting in
it which says 'But he canst keep an hotel Ah,
mother, I will take you to America one of these
daj^s, I am sure you will like the people. They are
not hampered with the aristocratic arrangements
that trouble us; but they have plenty of pride, I
can tell you, and some social cliques too. They area
fine, noble-hearted generous races

^^ I am sure they are' said my mother.

"And now,^^ I said, *let us speak again of
Sandwich ; j^ou remember my visit to Sandwich, and
the story the vicar told me, all about those poor
children, and that brave boy, and how he swore
even as a boys to kill that villain, Chingford Lucas''

'* I remember it well' she said.

Then I want to ask you a question," I answered,
because the case applies to an incident I discussed
with Mr. Manwaring Gr. Wilkesss. Do you think if
that boys and the villain met, say on the arrival of
the boy at manhood, he would have the right to kill
him ? "

'^No man has the right to kill another," she said
promptly.

!Not under any circumstances ? "

^' In self-defence she said.

Not to avenge the honour of his family, the
murder of his father ? '*

'' The law punishes the murderer in England, and
I hope your travels have not warped your views in
favour of what is called lynching in America," she
said, with just a suggestion of that old fashioned
asperity with which American customs were wont
years ago to be discussed in England.

No ; and let me tell you, mother, America has
the same laws as ours in regard to murder and
manslaughter and all that ; but if the law failed to
reach such a ruffian as the man in the vicar's story
and the son killed him, he would not be hanged."

*^ No'' she said, inquiringly, ^Svhat would they
do to him ? '^

'the verdict would be as in France, justifiable
homicide'

"And he would get off ? ''

•' Yes'' I said ; " and don't you think he
should ? "

*' Nobody would have any sympathy for the dead
person ; and if this was a duelling age, and the son
avenging his father killed his opponent in what was
called when I was a child an affair of honour, then
he would have been a hero."

'^ Ah, different times, different manners' I said.

^' Your great-grandfathers* she went on, '' fought
fourteen duels in France, ItaW^ and England, and
killed three of his opponents."

'' What for ? "

"Oh, about hot words, and love affairs; they
fought about trifles in those days ; it was war-time,
you know, and Captain Oliver Maynard was a dead
shot."

'^ I wish we could push the world back a hundred
years for an hour or so, mother*'

Why, my dear ? ''

That the boy in that story might shoot the wolf
of the ruined home. But there, we are drifting
from business into romance ; I must take a bag to
Sandwich, and ought I to send Maggie a telegram
? *'

No, she might not get it, and she will assuredly
expect you**

Well, now about the Montgomery ; who are
they ? I certainly met Sir Thomas at Drummond's
Gulch*

There was an advertisement in the Times lately
inviting him to communicate with his solicitors, and
asking for evidence of his death in case he is not
living. I noticed it on account of having seen the

family pictures with those by the painter of Sandwich
among them'

'' How curiously and closely the world is linked
together' I said, and then I told my mother all I knew
about the ' Castle' at the Gulch and the story of Lady
Ann ; and oh ! how I wished I dared tell her all
about George Newbolde, and the voluntary mission
of his life, and so clear up the mystery of margaret
Willoughby and take her advice ; though T know
what it would have been, and how mean I would
have felt had George come to harm through it, or a
further vicious triumph for the wolf had been the outcome
of it. And as for me, I confess I had no compassion
for Lucas ; I did not regard the contemplated
killing of the wretch as a premeditated
murder ; I believed in it as a well-merited act of
revenge, which after all, as a great authority has
said, is ^' a rough justice' My trouble was perfectly
selfish. I did not want to be burdened with
a lifelong secret; I did not want to be separated
from George; and I wished to confer upon Margaret
the additional happiness of her restoration to
her brother.

'rit is quite a coincidence," said my mother;
"that you should visit Sandwich again under such
strange and happy circumstances."

'' To see my sweetheart acting with a party of
strolling players ; she will be on the stage when I
get there. My brother, the hon. member for afford,
would have a fit at the mere suggestion of it/^

*' We will not talk of him^^^ said my mother, ^^ let
us be selfish and only talk of ourselves at present,
ourselves and Maggie. It is not a serious mesalliance
even in high life nowadays to marry with an actress ;
some ladies of the stage have made great matches.'^

But not such a poor unknown dear little girl as
mine, eh? '' I said.

'^ She was always worthy of a better fortune than
that which has accompanied her through life sofar;
but if she had been differently placed , my
foolish boy would not have met her perhaps , and — "

'' What a calamity that would have been for your
foolish but happy boy , mother's

It is fortunate for you that Maggie is not very
devoted to her profession."

'why, mother ?''

*^ I told her you would never consent to her acting
any more when she is Mrs. Hickory Maynard ; and
she said she only lived to make you happy."

God bless her ! ^' I exclaimed, " and you too,
mother — how good you have been to me ! And
now, an revoir, I must go."

I embraced her fervently, and she kissed me with
tears in her eyes.

'' No/^ I said to myself, as my cab dashed alone
the busy streets to the railway station ; '^ I should
be too jealous, I should resent even the applause of
an audience ; and the criticism of fellows who discuss
actresses over their liquor would set me introducing
into England the rough and ready reprisals of
Drummond's Gulch."

No man who truly loves a woman could surely
endure to see her play certain parts on the stage, he
being of the audience. It would be a different thing
of course if he were of the same profession, and even
then their exercise of the same art might lead to
misunderstandings.

I remember that old newspaper friend of mine
who used to give me tickets for the Delphi, discussing
this with me. " If the wife's he said, " is the
better artist of the two, she is tempted sto lead him
a life,' and doest' He entertained me once for two
hours with illustrations in point.

On the other hand, a great French novelist has
shown in ^^ Consult '' how much self-sacrifice is
possible on the part cf an artist towards an inferior
whom she truly loves. I fancy there are as many
instances of this kind on one side as the other.

But such questions as these could never arise
between Margaret and the lover who was chafing at
the slowness of the train, and trying to occupy this
mind with nothing but thoughts that belonged to
her and to our future.

*' Sandwich ! Sandwich ! " at length rang out
through the darkness ; for it was eight o'clock
when I arrived.

Is Henry Jones still a porter here ? '' I asked, my
thoughts going back to George's story, of the man
who carried his father's bag, and gave evidence at
the inquest.

Well, yes, sir, he bain exactly left the service ;
but he's been off duty this seven weeks."

'' Not well ? ''

"No, sir, and hasn't as young as he was'

How strange it seemed that I should be here
again, to pick up the threads of that sad story the
vicar had told me, and to find in it a great romance
of real ]ife, with myself as a central figure of its
action !

CHAPTER y.

SUNSHINE AND SHADOWS.

'■'■ It is not a regular theatre, air," said the waiter at
the hotel ; 'rit is down a yard in the second street
to the right — you'll see a lamp at the top."

Theatres in most small English towns are always
io-ominously placed as if their builders had been
ashamed of their work and wished to hide it.

Sandwich had begun its theatrical career, according
to tradition, in the slums.

There are, I believe, nevertheless, provincial cities
where the theatre has the audacity to look the Town
Hall in the face.

This was not the case at Sandwich, though they
mio-ht have honoured the memory of Queen Elizabeth
(of which they are very proud) in a respectful
recognition of the drama.

Down the yard and up the passage to the right'*
said a loiterer, in the street where I found an extra
lamp burning, and '' To the Theatre Royal' written
beneath it.

At the door of the theatre a hot breeze met me,
charged with an odour that it might have collected in
an excursion across a desert of naphtha and sawdust.

I wanted to see my dear girl without interrupting
the pla'.

My first impulse was to go to the stage-door.
But common sense got the better of love, and sent
me to the regular entrance. Besides interfering
with her work, I might have met Mr. Fitzherbert
Willoughby and I was in no mood to put up with
his insolence.

I therefore paid my mono'' and took a vacant box
(there were three in the house, two occupied, one
over the stage still to let), which I entered with
curious sensations.

I kept back in the shadow, so that I could see
without being seen. The curtain was down. A
small, but by no means inefficient orchestra, was
playing " Home, Sweet Home," with variations for
the first violin.

Peering from my place through an odd little curtained
window in the side of the box, my eyes ranged
all over the auditorium.

At the back of the dress-circle I saw George
Newbolde. No disguise could hide those eyes, and
that handsome, though careworn face. He sat with

VOL. II. K

J

Lis head leaning against a pillar that supported the
gallery.

While my thoughts were all of a sudden divided
between this actor on life's real stage, and the mimic
world behind the footlights — with for me and for him
a more real and interesting heroine than the dramatist
had imagined,— the curtain went up on the closing
scene of the play. It was a melodrama, called The
Miser 8 Secret, in which " The eminent London tragedies,
Miss Willoughby," played the miser's
daughter. The denouement, so far as I could gather,
would establish the parentage of the heroine, whose
entrance was the signal for rounds of applause.

There were, however, two persons in the house
who did not lift a hand, but whose hearts . were
nevertheless beating vrith emotion. Not that George
Xewbolde betrayed any sign of feeling, even to the
closest scrutinizer. He sat within the shadow of a
wooden pillar, and was as immovable as a statue.

My pulses seemed to have stopped their healthful
music for a moment, and then to suddenly throb
with jo3\ I felt the blood rush into my face. My
eyes feasted greedily upon the dear girl. She had
never surely looked so beautiful as at this moment.

I followed her through the action of the dramatic
story, dwelling upon her words, and yet hoping that

every scene was the last. When, presently, she was
acknowledged by her stage-father, and she fell
weeping into his arms, I turned to see what effect
the scene might have upon the silent figure behind
me. The hero of Drummond's Gulch had disappeared.
I could see him nowhere. He had evidently left the
theatre. I hurried out, and found my way to the
stage-door. A liberal tip induced the porter to send
in my name to Miss Willoughby dressing-room,
for I had determined not to give her the shock of a
sudden meeting.

She'll come out soon. Miss Willoughby will,"
said the man, when he had returned to his narrow
little box.

"Is that the answer?" I asked; it seemed cold
and formal I thought.

"Yes."

Was that all she said ? "

It were."

"She did not ask me to come to her?"

"No."

Nor request me to wait ? "

'Hang it all, Tve told you all she said, what could
you expect the lady to say more ; she were a-dressing
as ^Qvdi as she could, and says shell be out soon."

How unreasonable love is, how exacting! I was

K 2

disappointed, almost angry, certainly jealous, all ina
moment. I leaned against the door-post, full of
doubts and fears.

Is her father in the theatre ? " I asked. .

"What, Mr. Willoughby ?"

Yes, yes, her father."

"No, he ain't; leastwise, Mr. Willoughby ain't."

*' Why couldn't you say so at first ! " I exclaimed,
quite ready to vent my sudden ill tern per upon the
innocent porter.

How did I know as he were her father ?
They've such lots of relations, these travelling
stars."

What do you mean ? "

"Oh, nothing."

"You do."

"Not I ! I ain't paid to mean anything."

You are a confounded impudent fellow."

There's a many o' the same sort about," he replied,
busying himself with a saucepan in which something
savoury was being stewed on a slow fire.

Several slipshod persons came from behind the
scenes and passed between us, as I stood fuming
there with m}^ pride under this common stage-porter's
feet. They were supers and scene-shifters.
One of them uttered a coarse jest as he went into

the street, and the rest laughed coarsely at it. And
I am to take ray wife from such a place as this !
I wonder if that cruel thought would have come
into ray mind if I had not felt piqued at my darling's
curt message. Presently a well-dressed gentleman
came out into the flickering light of the porter's
lamp. I guessed him to be the leading man of the
company. He appeared to be a dignified person.
He said good night with a lofty air, and the porter
responded very humbly. This somewhat neutralized
the bad effect on my mind of the persons who had
preceded him.

*' Hickory \ my dear Hickory ! " suddenly broke
upon my miserable reflections like a burst of sweet
music on a lonely forest path.

It was Mao:o:ie !

The next moment she was in my arms. I saw
that surly porter look up with a scowl of contempt.
What did I care ? I would have hugged her before
all the world,

Let me look at you ! " I presently exclaimed,
holding her now at arm's length, the light full upon
her dear face. How pretty it was, how gentle, how
joyous, how bright her eyes, how beyond all description
charming !

I was beside myself with joy.

Well' she said, merrily, *' well ! Have I langer
much ? "

"My darling, yes, you have — you are sweeter and
more lovely than ever. Come, let us get out; of this.
I am making a fool of myself. Come, let me take
you home'*

She was wearing a long black cloak, a dark
bonnet with a white rose in it, her chin rested upon
a great fluffy lace fichu. If she had looked lovely
upon the stage in white satin and artificial diamonds,
how much more attractive was she to me in this
quiet, unpretentious walking attire.

"Come, then," she said, taking my arm, and
hurrying me out into the shadow of the porch that
protected the stage-door from the north wind ; "you
may kiss me once more'*

I did.

"You cannot dream how happy I am ! " she suit.
I could not ask you to come in there behind, it is
such a dirty prosaic place, a little country theatre ;
and besides, I had not a dressing-room all to myself
the first old woman dressed with me. And now
tell me how you are. AVhen did you come? "VYhy
didn't you write and tell me you were coming ? How
did you know I was here ? "

She asked me a hundred questions, and I pressed

her arm in mine, and upbraided myself mentally for
letting my impatience to see her create the shadow
of a doubt about her. It was an autumn night, dr}^
and fine. There was no moon; but thousands of
stars seemed to look down upon us with friendly eyes.

"Let us walk the longest way home, Maggie," I
said, pressing her arm. " Oh, if you knew how I
have dreamed of this night, and longed for it ! "

And I too, dearest," she replied in a low, gentle
voice.

You have ? It is sweet music to hear you say
so, my dear Maggie. We will never part again,
will we?"

I hope not," she said.

We were passing along a dark street, a street full
of the shadows that old gabled houses cast upon
narrow footways. I stole my arm around her waist
and kissed her. She laid her head upon my shoulder.
With her soft hand in mine, and her breath upon
my cheek, I forgot all the world in those tender
moments.

"Life would not be worth having without love,
would it ? " I whispered.

No, dear," she said ; " but we must go home ;
father will be more angry than usual, especially \l
he sees you."

And we stepped out once more beneath the stars.

It was more than the shadow of the gabled houses
that fell upon me now.

You still call him father ? "

Yes, dear."

But he is not your father ? "

He is my stepfather," she said.

You do not care for him ? "

I dislike him very much," she said, " I could
almost say I hate him but that would be wrong."

No, Maggie it would not, he merits your hatred."

"He is not a good man," she said; "I think I
should have left him had I not met you, love. Your
mother has been a great comfort to me."

If she had only known all that I had learned of
her and him since our last meeting !

"Let us hurry now, dear," she said, "since you are
quite resolved to take me in, and meet him."

Another dark corner — a dear old place for lovers,
that same Sandwich.

We will say good-night, then," I said, "before
we enter the house."

It was a long, sweet good-night, compensation fora
world of trouble-^, a lifetime of sorrows past, of
trials and dangers that might await us in the future.

As we knocked at the Willoughby door, a man

came along the street on the other side of the way,
and paused. It was the hero of the coach-ride to
Leadville. I caught a glimpse of his face as the
door opened. George Newbolde was keeping watch
over the wolf and the lamb.

J

CHAPTER yr.

FACE TO FACE WITH THE WOLF.

Mr. FiTZHERBERT WiLLOUGHBY, who had been toasting
his elegantly slippered toes at a quiet wood fire
in an open grate, rose aa we entered.

He laid down newspaper , and stuck an esse-glass
in his right eye.

^' Mr. Hickory Maynard, papa, ^' said Maggie,
answering the inquiring gaze of his pinky eyes and
haughty manner.

Indeed, and to what are we — ah — indebted for
the honour of this visit ? " he replied, in a harsh
voice, and with a freezing manner.

Mr. Maynard will explain, '^ said Maggie, ringing
the bell.

A servant entered.

Please bring my supper to ray room' she said.

We had arranged this method of procedure on our
way from the theatre.

I had told Maggie that I had been successful
beyond my most sanguine hopes ; that I was prepared

to fulfil all the Wolff conditions in regard to our
marriage ; and she agreed with me in the opinion
that I should not lose an hour in coming to an understanding
with him. She thought that " for the sake
of peace ^^ it would be best to have his consent, though
she left this in my hands ; ^* I am yours' she had
said, "take me when you will and where you will."
She had jet to learn that Sandwich was the home
of her birth ; that her name was Newbolde ; and that
it was desirable, that Mr. Fitzherbert Willoughby
should confess these things and sanction the registration.
Not that this last act was necessary, but 'for
the sake of peace " (to quote one of Maggie's favourite
phrases), I resolved to smooth the path to the altar,
and to have nothing mar the happiness of the time sofar
as Maggie was concerned.

So you have come back,'^ said Willoughby, in a
scornful way, the moment Maggie had left the room.

He was not changed in appearance since I last
met him. The same reddish head and whiskers, the
same hard, cruel mouth, the same small pinkish e3'es,
set close together, the same affected manner.

His dress on this occasion was a black velvet coat,
grey trousers, and crimson slippers ; and as he raised
his hand to adjust his eye-glass his fingers sparkled
with diamond rings.

'eyes, I have returned'' I said.

A rich man, I conclude, or you would not have
the audacity to show — ah — to show sour face here."

It is quite possible that there was an air of
defiance in my manner that gulled him.

*' Why here in particular ? '^ I asked. " Is there
anything special in Sandwich that makes my daring
to come back more audacious than if I had called
upon you in Buckingham Street, Strand ? "

Now that I really knew what an out-and-out blackguard
I had to deal with, I found my whole nature
rebelling against him. I felt as if I were a coward
and a humbug for even condescending to hold a
parley with him ; but it was best I should " for the
sake of peace.'^

'' When I said * here I meant, sir, in this room —
in my house, wherever it might be, Sandwich, London
ah — Paris, Berlin — under my roof, sir."

Indeed," I said, returning his impertinent gaze ;
'' I thought sou referred to Sandwich."

You have been here before ? "

'' Yes, I know Sandwich."

'' Then you know a very interesting and historical
old town — "

*' Yery," I said, interrupting him ; ** but I did not
come here to talk of antiquities, though I remember

there is a fine old house here where Queen Elizabeth
was entertained, the Manse it is called, I think."

'' Yes," he said, ^^ I have been over it."

*' Lately ? " I asked.

Yes, sir ; but as you say you are not here to talk
of Sandwich — ah — perhaps you will be good enough
to disclose the — ah — the purpose of your visit."

It has reference to our last interview, and it is
very convenient that we meet again, not in London,
but in Sandwich of all places in the world''

And why in Sandwich ? " he asked, slowly, and
evidently pulling himself together, mentally and
physically.

*' Because, before I returned to England I had
resolved to be married at Sandwich."

We had been standing until now. With this
opening shot of the coming battle, I sat down.

He surveyed me calmly, and dropped, with a jerk,
the glass from his eye.

May I smoke ? " I asked, producing a cigar-case.


Yes, you have made money, and it has — ah —
given you the insolence of manner that is too often
its accompaniment, when — ah — the possession is
novel."

I felt I '^ had him on toast," as the saying is, and

while at first my blood was boiling against him I
now became perfectly calm. I realized the power I
held over him, the power of a full knowledge of him,
with the nerve that money gives, when you have it,
to lean your back against.

*^' And whom are sou going to marry ? " he asked,
refusing mv prospered cigar-case with a contemptuous
wave of his sparkling right hand.

May smoke ? " I asked, pretending not to hear
him.

No, sir ; damn it, sir, you may not smoke ! " he
replied, drawing himself up to his full height, his
pinky eyes flashing.

I looked up at him, measuring his possible strength,
and almost wishing he would attack me. But that
thought was immediately followed by the reflection
that I had a great deal to say to him, and that the
moment was not ripe for an assault.

Not at present ? " I said, laying my cigar-case
on the table ; " later on ; very well."

You have the manners of a bear, sir," he said,
trying in vain to control himself. *' Do you know —
all — do you know to whom you are talking, sir ? "

Quite well," 1 answered.

Visions of George Newbolde, visions holding up
warning fingers, flashed through my mind ; but I

could not forego the triumph of watching the effect
of those two words.

He winced at this shot, and T followed it up.

*' Yes, quite well," I repeated.

What do you mean, when you say you know
me quite well, by insolently emphasising the word
quite ' P "

He had forgotten for a moment his affected
stationer or hesitation of speech, his parenthetical
'^ah," which so many asses and knaves cultivate in
England.

'^ I mean exactly what I sa3\"

*^ And what do you know ? "

^' Of you ? " I asked, carelessly

Of me," he said.

Oh, nothing — that is creditable to you."

He made a step towards me, and then retreated to
his place on the hearth-rug, but I noticed that he
planted his feet down firmly and stiffened his upper

lip.

You are a "

He paused.

*^ Go on, I don't look for compliments from 5^ou.''

No, sir, you shall not make me lose my temper,
it would distress my child-ah — and out of respect
for her and for myself, I bandy no further words

with you. What is your business? ah — state it, or
permit me to ring for the servant, that she may
show you out."

The clever scoundrel changed his tactics. He
saw that I was getting the better of him in the
matter of temper. But I soon raised his ire again
beyond control.

'^ Yery well' I said, *' I am here to inform you
that I intend to marry the young lady you are
pleased to call your daughter, this very week, and
at the parish church of this very interesting and
historical town of Sandwich."

It was not, T suspect, the words so much as the
manner in which I uttered them that troubled Mr.
Fitzherbert Willoughby.

He drew his breath quickly, walked to the
door, locked it on the inside, put the key into his
pocket, and then confronted me, his sickly face
pallid with excitement.

I noted his doings without moving.

"jS'ow look here, Mr. Maynard, you think you
know something about me that gives you the right
to be insolent. What is it ? "

He stood over me in a threatening attitude.

Is it necessary that we should talk with locked
doors ? "

It is necessary that you should explain yourself
before you leave this room."

I shrugged my shoulders.

There was a knock at the door.

Not yet, dear," he said, in the blandest tones. *' Not
yet ; Mr. Maynard and myself are arranging matters.
Go to your room, we will desire your presence soon,
unless you are tired and would prefer to go to bed'*

He unlocked the door as he spoke and looked
out, then again locked it stealthily.

Well, Mr. Hickory Maynard, is it to be war or
peace between us ? "

*' As you please, but for Margaret's sake peace
would be preferable."

On what conditions ? "

I thought of my bond with Newbolde.

We marry here, at once, and leave England fora
long Continental tour'

And what becomes of me ? "

Heaven is good* It will no doubt take care of
you as heretofore."

You do not speak to me in this way on the
strength of your money, j\Tr. Maynard. You are
much changed since last v/e met."

"If you mean I no longer fear 3'OU) yes, I am.
I have seen the world"

VOL. II. L

Yes, I see you have. Now listen to me. My
daughter will never marry without ray consent.
That consent must be paid for handsomely, since the
man who takes her from me robs ms of my income."
Indeed ; I thought you gave out that you area
man of means, that you permit Margaret to act
because it amuses her."

"You thought a lie, sir— do you hear, sir ? "
He bore himself threatening his right Land
extended towards me. I sat perfectly still, though
I was on the alert to defend myself

"I am not deaf," I said ; "let us get back to the
point. You want to be paid for giving your consent
to the marriage of your— of the young lady upon
whose earnings you live ? "

Curse you I " he hissed, his face close to mine ;
•" what is it, I ask you again — what is it you think
you know about me that j^ou dare to insult me in
this way ? "

I rose to my feet and pushed back my chair that
I might have space to respond to any sudden attack,
for the Adolf 's bristles were up, and he showed his
teeth.

I will tell you what it is," he went on in a hoarse
whisper ; " if you and I were in Seville, one of us
would be missing in the morning."

Whj^ in Seville any more than in Sandwich ? "
I replied, putting myself on guard ; " this interesting
city has a sufficiently cut-throat look for any deed,
and the river 1 have heard is deep."

He had stooped towards me when he threatened.
He now lifted up his head, and steadied himself with
his hand upon the table. I still stood in an attitude
of defence and had my eyes fixed upon his, or on
their socket?, for he had closed them as if to take
counsel with his thoughts.

What fools we are — ah — to quarrel," he said
presently, flinging himself into the easy chair from
which he had risen at my entrance; "let us talk
rationally ; we are business men, let us look at every
side of the question we are met to discuss."

May I smoke ? " I asked.

By all means."

Can I offer you a cigar ? "

"Thank you."

I struck a match, and offered it to him. He took
it , lighted the cigar he had condescended to accept
from my hands; I lighted mine, reseated myself,
blew a cloud towards the mantel shelf, and waited.

Supposing T refuse my consent to this marriage?"
he asked.

It will take place without it."

L 2

Indeed," he said ; " but you wish for my consent,
and propose terms ? "
"Yes."

"And I am willing to do whatever is best for
my daughter, and — ah — since you are ricci, wh}^
you have the right to ask for the fulfilment of
my promise to consider jour proposals. You are
rich P "

"I have been successful, and can satisfy the condition
you imposed upon me."

Good ; but wh}^ you should have put me out of
temper I cannot understand— ah — why I should
have resented your return I hardly knows ; but that
is over, and as — ah— a gentleman, permit me to
apologize."

No need to apologize," I said ; " I do not propose
that we should be friends."

Oh, indeed — then what do you propose ?"
Again a little ruffled and fidgety.
You want my conditions P The terms upon
Which I am willing to buy your unnecessary consent
to this marriage— because Margaret prefers to have
it, and to take her leave of you with at least a show
of amity ? "

Go on, sir ; I hoped I was dealing with a gentleman"


"You are dealing with a man of business,
sir, who knows what he wants, and means to
have it."

He threw the remainder of his cigar into the
fire.

"Excuse me," he said, "sou smoke damned bad
tobacco."

He was bound to explode on something, despite
his resolve to be quiet. How I must have tortured
the scoundrel!

Ah, my taste needs refinement I daresay ; too
strong for you— very sorry. But time flies."

Gro on, your conditions ; let us bring this
interview to an end ; it is most disagreeable tome."


Sorry for that ; I find it rather pleasant."

He rose from his chair, thrust his hands into his
pockets, and walked about the room.

I am listening, sir," he said.

"My first condition is, that Margaret shall be
married in her proper name — "

Her proper name ! " he exclaimed, standing
still.

"And that you shall tell her she is not jour
daughter."

What ! "

Do I not make myself understood ? I will speak
plainer then."

Do, sir," he said, facing me.

I rose to my feet, and flinging my cigar after his,
said, —

I will ! My wife's maiden name will be registered
as Margaret Newbolde ! "

His first impulse was to spring at my throat ; his
next was to do nothing of the kind.

After rocking himself to and fro for a moment, he
suddenly steadied himself, and waved his hand as
much as to say " it is all over." Then he unlocked
the door, and laid the key on the table.

The game is yours," he said ; " but answer me
this — did she know you held that card ? "

No. Shall I tell her ? "

'not yet."

And what is your next card ? "

I have not decided — you play next ; I can tell
you my last."

What is your last, then ? "

I call it Chingford Lucas."

He stao^o^ered.

"Yes, that takes the pool," he said.

Then with an eflbrt, mental and physical, he
whispered hoarsely, —

"Give me a few minutes. Leave it to me. Don't
tell her until I have cleared out ; give me a drink,
you seem to have paralyzed me. You played the
game like a professional."

That is brandy, I think, on the table."

"Thanks."

He drank half a tumblerful, pulled himself together,
went to the door, and called Maggie down
from her room.

There, darling, say * Good-night ' to Mr, Maynard.
We have settled everything. Your marriage takes
place at the end of the week."

She looked at both of us inquiringly''

Don't stop now, love. It is very late," he said.
Mr, Maynard will call in the morning."

I followed her into the hail, and whispered hastily
in her ear, " Lock and bolt your door. Do not be
persuaded to open it on any account ; " for I had a
sudden inspiration of fear.

Good night, sir," said the Wolf. " Don't ask me
to extend this interview. We breakfast at ten. I
hold myself at sour command."

As I walked to my hotel, I rather blamed my
haste in showing my hand, and it occurred to me
that I had scarcely" been true to my word given to
Newbolde.

I did not go into the hotel. I walked back to
the street I had just left. Lucas might avenge
himself on Maggie. I stood before the house. The
lights were all out. The street was still as death,
and dark as pitch. Not even a reveller disturbed
the silence. In the distance the gas-lights disappeared
one after the other. They were economical
in the matter of gas at Sandwich.

"Maynard," said a voice I knew, and a hand
was laid upon my arm; "you were indiscreet, but
I forgive you. I envy you. But / play the next
hand."

"George' I said, "is it you? For God's sake,
let this affair rest here."

I shall," he said, " I shall."

"But let your sister know she has a brother."

"No, no. I claim the fulfilment of your bond.
If you think that I shake it by speaking to
you, consider that it is a stranger who addresses
j^ou — a vessel at sea has signalled j'ou in the
night ; you have spoken her ; and there is an
end."

There was no resisting him. He thrilled me ashe
spoke. It was as if he exercised some supernatural
influence with his vow.

She is safe — go — be happy."

It was as if I had encountered a spirit. My mind
was already in a state of unusual excitement.

When he laid his hand on me, it was as if Fate
touched me.

There was something in the man's manner and
voice. that held me spellbound.

CHAPTER VII.

TRUTH IS STRANGER THAN FICTION.

Notwithstanding the villainy of this Chingford
Lucas, I still felt a desire to save him, or rather to
save George from his contemplated crime.

I think there was some selfishness in my views
of the situation. If the two men had been in the
Rocky Mountains together, I believe I should have
taken no trouble to check the work the Boss of
Drummond's Gulch had set himself to do. But in
England I feared a scandal, a trial for murder, and,
perhaps, the execution of the man to whom at that
moment I was indebted for everything — my sweetheart's
brother ; and, as the first part of his programme
was the wedding in the parish church, my
immediately prospective brother-in-law.

The reader will not be surprised that on the next
morning I made another effort " for the sake of
peace."

Mr. Fitzherbert "Willoughby was out of the way
when I called.

*' He is very strange," said Maggie.

How strange, my dear ? "

His manner towards me is different. He said
this morning that he would breakfast at the hotel ;
that he did not care to meet you again at present ;
that everything is to be settled as you wish; and
that, as for him, his day is over'

^' Plis day is over' I said, repeating her words
with special emphasis, for they seemed to be curiously
linked with George's motto. The day will come."

** Yes, those were his words."

And low did he say them ? "

As a man might who in some great enterprise
had been beaten at all points."

What was their effect upon you, Maggie ? How
did sour heart interpret the change in his manner ? "

"As a prisoner might," she answered, 'who sees
her jailer powerless to close the door against her."

'' My darling," I exclaimed, " how you must have
suffered ! "

Yes, dear, I have a little," she said.

*' And yet how beautiful you are ! "

She wore a grey print gown buttoned at the throat,
white linen collar and cuffs ; her hair was plainly
dressed, and her face was as fresh as if a stage
make-up " had never touched it.

*' You love me, don't you ? " she said.

With all my heart ! " I exclaimed.

And that is why you think me beautiful ! "

The servant, who was just then entering with a
breakfast tray, pretended not to see that I hastily
withdrew my arm from around Maggie's waist.

'* How can I eat any breakfast ? " I said, when at
last we were alone again, and she sat down on one
side of a small, round table, I on the other, a kettle
bubbling on the fire, a plate of white bread and butter,
a dish of eggs, and a brace of partridges, and a bowl
of watercresses on the table.

'' You must, if only out of compliment to the
hostess' she replied, handing me a cup of coffee, and
wondering, '* if you prefer claret, as Mr. Willoughby
does — I will never call him papa again, now that I
am not obliged to."

It was good of him to go out this morning," I
said ; '^ sitting here with you, Maggie, I could, I
think, even forgive him, now that all is over."

"At this moment, perhaps ; but not if you knew
all," she said, with a grave face.

Then you done forgive him ? " I said, and as I
asked the question I could not help thinking what
her feelings would be if she did know all ; and
for the moment, the thought seemed to take the
sunshine out of the room, and indeed out of my life.

No, I can never forgive him' she said resolutely ;
but don't let us talk of him'

Her manner when she said '' I can never forgive
him'' reminded me of George. There was something
in the expression of her face that recalled his.

How serious you look' she said ; " do you want
me to forgive him ? ''

No' I said ; '^ I do not think he deserves
forgiveness."

^^ But I will forget him if I can ; we will both try
and think he never existed''

^' Yes' I said ; '• the mention of him has even
changed the tone of your voice."

"And spoiled the birds one would think' she
replied, "judging from your neglect of them ; come,
sir, give me a little ; it is the duty of a hostess to be
cheerful, that her guest may enjoy his visit and his
breakfast — another cup of coffee ? Yes, you must."
Thus the amenities of the breakfast table were
restored ; and in due course we were sitting cozily
on a sofa by the fire, for it was a cold morning in
the last week of October.

And I have a great deal to tell you that is very
serious' I said, looking into the glowing ashes at
the bottom of the grate, and watching the bluish
flame that sparkled with tiny stars from the oak

blocks that were burning — they were pieces of old
ships that had been broken up.

*^ Very seriously she said ; " you alarm me/^

"You will be glafl, I think, when you have heard
what I have to teU/'

'' You are so niA^sterious.^^

Not more mysterious, dear, than you were when
you told me you were not only an orphan, but
nameless."

You have not forgotten that ? '^ she said, looking
into my face in an inquiring manner.

'how could I forget it, dear ? ^^ I said, pressing
her hand.

No, it was a startling confession, I suppose,"
she answered ; " and is it about that you want to
talk seriously ? "

'eyes."

"You frighten me," she answered, rising to her
i^^X, " you have learned something that may
part us ? "

*' No, dear, no," I said, drawing her back into her
seat ; " nothing but death can ever part us. AVhat
I have heard is not bad news, but good news. It is
serious news only as it refers to the past ; for you,
Maggie, it is good news, I might almost say cheerful
news."

^•' Yes ? "

*' You told me you were nameless ? ^'

^' Yes."

I Lave found out your true names"'

She drew closer to me, her hand trembled in mine.

'* My true name ? ^' she said, echoing my words.

And your home."

My homes' she said ; " my home ! "

*the house in which you were born."

** Oh, Hickory, what are you telling me ! " she
exclaimed.

'* Listen, dear, be brave ; I know who your father
was, where you lived, and where he was buried."

She trembled violently.

I don't know why I am afraid to hear all 3'ou
have to tell me," she said, in a low voice, " but I am
full of fear."

You have no cause to fear," I said.

"I am sure I have not, or you would keep to yourself
the secret you have discovered. I want to know all,
and yet a great alarm seems to weigh upon my heart."

It was a serious time to me, this clearing up of
the mystery, but I was Neil happy — happy even in
Maggie's distress, since I found her clinging to me,
resting upon me, as it were, and I knew that what I
should tell her would be a happiness and a comfort

to her. It was a satisfaction to me the feeling that
I was master of the situation, and that I was leading
her up to that opinion ; that she was about to know
and to acknowledge how important a factor I was in
her life ; that I had done something to make me
worthy of her admiration as well as her love.

Done be frightened I said, kissing her with,
I fear, something of the air of a protector ; '' all
that is past. You have no longer any reason to fear.
The future will recompense you for the past. I feel
sure it will. Now, shall I go on ? ''

"Yes.^^

Don't ask me how I know what I shall tell you,
but take what I say as the truth — believe me implicitly
when I tell you it is the truth."

^' Yes."

She turned her face towards me. I kissed her,
and stroked her hair as if she had been a child, and
at that moment my feelings towards her were, I
think, rather those of father or friend than of a lover
on the eve of marriage.

*' You were born — now, where do you think ? "

In Germany, Mr. Willoughby said''

What should 3'ou say to Sandwich ? ''

"■ I don't know," she replied.

*shave you seen much of Sandwich ? "

'^ Not much," she said.

Do you know an old, old house, just outside the
town, not half a mile from here ? "

*^ Yes, the Manse. I read of it in the Guide Book,
and walked round there, with my maid, to see it the
first day we came."

'' Did you really ? "

Yes, and we saw papa — Mr. Willoughby — standing
by the door and speaking to a man."

Yes," I said, checking myself from expressing
further surprise.

And he was angry with us — what did I want
prowling around the stupid old place — if I wanted
to see the town couldn't he show it me — and so on"'

Odd he should be there before you,^' I said ;
'^ odd you should have gone there the first day you
were here ; it is the house where you were born."

She looked at me , and did not speak ; then I took
her hand, and we both gazed at the fire.

Your father was a painter, his name Edward
Barnes Newbolde, and — "

*^ Stop, oh; stop a moment," she exclaimed ; " it is
like a message from the grave ; you have spoken
the very words my poor mother was evidently
trying to say when she died."

Tears filled her eyes, and she laid her hand upon

VOL. II. M

my arm to bespeak my silence. She rose, and leaned
against the mantel-shelf.

'* Don't mind me, I shall be better in a moment. Ah,
if you had known my dear mother ! She was very
kind but very weak, poor soul, always afraid of
something. Even at last she did not dare to say
what she wished until it was too late, and — ^'

Then, after a little pause, she wiped her eyes, and
said,—

'' There, I am better now. My father met with
an accident, his death was sudden — that is so ? '^

Yes, he was drowned."

^' Poor darling ! ^' she said ; " and I do not remember
him at all ! But j^ou say you know where
he is buried. Then he was not drowned at sea ? ''

^' No, by the bridge, near that old houses'

*' Oh, how sad ! And my mother saw him ? "

No, she was not at home'

Another pause.

** And my brother, who was a child when I was a
child ? '^

A pause, this time of my making.

'' What did Willoughby tell you of him ? ^' I asked.

*that he was weakly and died. Is that so? All,
I know it is by your silence. And I am alone in the
world !'^

'^ Not alone, Mnggie/^ I said.

She kissed my hands.

'' I will be all the world to you, if that is possible,
and my mother shall be your mothers'

You are very good to me, and you can never
know how kind your mother was to me when you
were away, what dear letters she wrote to me''

She is the best mother I ever heard of, Maggie,
and in you, dear, has the most lovable daughter.
Come now, try and be cheerful. Look at the bright
side of the news I have given you. It has a bright
side."

Yes, yes'' she said, "" it is full of sunshine ; but
it is like the saddest time of sunshine, when it is
setting. Margaret Newbolde ! And that is my
name ; how strange, but how sweet ! ''

sand you shall not part with it altogether, love,
even for another ; you shall be called Margaret
Newbolde Maynard, eh P "

She was silent. I also looked steadily into the
fire.

^^ Don't expect me to talk, Hickory, I feel so sad,
and yet so happy. Surely nobody has ever had to
listen to such a strange revelation as that you have
made to me."

*^ Truth is stranger than fiction," I said.

M 2

CHAPTER YIIT.

SURPRISES FOR THE Vicar — SWEETS AND BITTERS.

Within one hour of this conversation with Maggie
I was sitting in the vicar ^s studs Although it was
the dead Autumn time of year, I was conscious of
the same mixed perfumes as those which I remembered
in that season of '^•' leafy June ^' when first I
made the vicar's acquaintance. The last double stocks
of the year scented the room from a big brown bold,
and the bees waxed floor was sweet and aromatic.

The same dear old room' I said, ^^ the same
clean smell of wax and flowers.'^

^^ Yes," he said, ^^ and the same old snuff-box at
your service.

He handed me his box, and I accepted the old
world courtesy.

The vicar had changed considerably since I had
seen him last. His hair was whiter, his face thinner,
he leaned upon his stick.

You are thinking I am changed. Nay, no
compliments'' he said.

'' Then I was my dear old friend if I may call
you my old friend'

*^ You mays indeed. Gout and old age make a
wreck of any man ; but I am much better than I
was a month ago, much better'

** I am very glad to see you again' I said.

"And I you' he answered, taking my hand for
the second time ; " sit down."

He pointed to an old leather chair near the ingle-nook.


'* You did me the honour to call upon my
mother' I said, sitting down opposite to my
host.

^' It was a pleasure and a duty, but I regret I did
not find her at home."

'sand she regrets it very much; but I am going
to London to-night to bring her down to Sandwich''


*' Indeed' he said ; '* I am very glad'

"And, meanwhile, I have something to say to you
that will strangely interest you ; and please you too,
very much, I think."

Good news ? "

Yes, very good news."

Shadow and, shine, sweets and bitters, such is
the story of our life from day to day. I shall be

glad of good news, for I have just received bad

news*'

*' I am sorry to hear that."

'you remember' he said, again handing me his
snuii-box, 'you remember the history I gave you
about the Newboldes ? ''

Yes'' I said, strangely interested myself.

And of that very remarkable young fellow,
George ? ''

Yes' I said, my heart beating quickly.

^' He is dead*

I did not reply, but waited to let the vicar
continue.

He rose from this seat b}'^ the aid of his stick,
and took from the mantel-shelf the very book
in which I had read his name at Drummond's
Gulch.

'' I gave him that when he was a bos"

'eyes," I said, examining it; "and how has it
come back to 3^0 u !^ *'

"An American gentleman called here not an
hour ago, commissioned to deliver it to me from
the dying hands of George Newbolde ; turn over the
second leaf."

I did so, and observed in George's writing, but
written with a hand that had trembled : —

Good hy^y my dear vicar — this icill show that I
remembered you and was grateful."

*' A fine, noble fellow's said the vicar ; '' died at
sea, bound for New Zealand'

I could not help thinking how carefully the plans
of attack and retreat were being laid ; I saw in this
visitor my friend, Mr. AYilkess.

Strange," I said.

'not strange, but sad,^* the vicar replied ; "death
is not strange, life is''

Yes," was all I could say.

The ways of Providence are mysterious as they
are wise. Poor George, he suffered much, began
]i^e with a legacy of misery. It may all have been
for the best. It is not for us poor mortals to say.
He had fine qualities, rare qualities. I find great
consolation in the fact that he remembered me.
And I shall dearly treasure his death-bed message.

He fondled the book as it were, pressing it between
his white bony hands.

This was his favourite volume, and I remember
saying to him when we were reading together the
fifth letter or chapter of it, touching the metamorphosis
of worms, ' may you and I, George, when we
die, feel as the Roman emperor felt, who, when he
found his end approaching, cried out in allusion to

the custom of decreeing an apotheosis to dead
emperors, ^^ I feel that I am becoming a god ! '^ ^ ■"

The vicar turned to the page as he spoke.

Here is the passage — see — marked in ink. And
here, pages sixty-eight to seventy-one. ' What is
happiness ? ' See here are the lines upon which I
preached floral sermons to him, poor fellow, the
philosophy of which I laid to heart myself, for the
teacher often learns more than the pupil he is
instructing. ' Happiness is not a blue rose — it is
the grass of the meadows, the bindweed of the fields,
the wild rose of the hedges, a word, a song a no
matter what.' ^'

I felt almost impelled to break out with all I
knew about the book, and to ask him to turn to
other passages which had struck me as I turned over
its leaves in the hut on that far away mountain in
the West.

*' But you have good news you saide'

It will keep, vicar ; my good news is in your
estimation already very seriously discounted. And
that book interests me very muche'

"Yes, 1 felt sure it would. I can say to you
about it what I could not say to the stranger who
brought it. There is no relic of the past, poor
George being dead, that I could possibly value more

than this dear, thumbed old volume of the tenderhearted
French philosopher. Poor George, he
distressed himself more about a future he was never
destined to see, than even concerning that past we
all lamented. But here in this very chapter he was
warned — and I know that he read these words more
than once, and they are marked as you see. ' We
worry, we torment ourselves for a future which
everything tells us we shall never sees And everything
speaks of death. * This house we live in was
built for a man long since dead, by masons who are
long since dead.' And so on. But let us put the
volume away, and its message from the dead — poor
George ! '*

He opened a little cabinet by the fire, and laid the
book reverently within an inner drawer.

My eyes followed him, and I felt sick at heart to
think of the deception which had been practised
upon the vicar. Then I tried to put myself in
George's place, and I knew that he must have
written that death message with a keen pang, borne
however, with a heroic sense of duty and honour.
Morally he was dead, and in his moral death he
avenged his dead father and secured the unshadowed
happiness of his sister. These were his motives ;
but the work of vengeance had yet to be accomplished

Nothing could more emphasize the certainty of his
purpose than that book and its message. I was
under the spell of both, and the vicar's words seemed
like a benediction pronounced upon a sacrifice.

^' And now, dear friend, for sour news*' said the
vi'jar.

I was bewildered. His revelation had entirely
upset the plan of my disclosure. I had managed
in my own mind how to approach the chief object
of my visit. I would have given the world, it seemed
to me at that moment, if I could have released myself
from my vow and confessed everything. But
the bare suggestion of such a breach of honour and
friendship sent the blood rushing into my face.

'' I have distressed your's said the vicar ; " forgive
me.'^

"Your news is strangely though sadly apropos
of my own," I replied, now dashing right into the
very heart of my subject; "I have discovered
Margaret Newbolde."

*^ Indeed' he said, '' indeed, that is strange.
Where ? ''

In Americans''

Well, well'' he said, taking a more than usually
large pinch of snufF.

"I met a young lady in London, fell in love with

hers her birth was enveloped in mystery she did
not even know her proper name, nor who her parents
were — she lead no name'

Indeed ; well, well'

** I went to America to seek my fortune, came
upon a man who knew of the story you told rae when
I first came here — '^

Yes, yes."

He had met George Newbolde, who told him he
was hunting down a scoundrel, and searching for
his sister, and — "

^' Yes. Well ! Your news is indeed marvellous'

From circumstances he related to me, I came
to the conclusion that the dear girl to whom I am
enfyao:ed is Margaret JSTewbolde."

'^ You amaze me."

'sit is true, and I want you to marry us."

''I who married her father and mother?" he
exclaimed; '^I who told you of their joys and
sorrows ! You come to me with her love in your
heart, you bring me news of her, and tell me not
only that she lives, but that she is good and happ3^
I know she is good, for you are a good fellow, and
would not otherwise be attracted by her."

^' I wish I were worthy of her," I said.

'' Which convinces me you are. How mysterious

are the ways of heaven, how strange to us, yet how
profoundly wise. Our understandings cannot trace
out Ie varied maze — we are lost and bewildered.
Addison has described the fruitless search, * Nor do
we see with how much art the windings run, nor
where the regular confusion ends ; ^ mark the
beautiful suggestiveness of the idea conversed in the
paradoxical phrase, ^ regular confusion. ^ ^^

It was a relief to me that the old man's thoughts
because reflective rather than inquisitive.

^' Poor George's he said presently, "thou art
gone, and in the midst of my grief I find thy sister !
Ah ! well, my dear young friend, it is a short
journey this life, a brief march to another and a
better world ; the time is so short we should do
nothing in it to regret ; and yet it is long enough to
make one's peace with heaven''

I am going to London for the licence and for
my mother, and when I return I will, with sour
permission, bring Margaret and my mother to see
you."

*' They will be heartily welcome, and I bless the
day I first met you looking at the old Manse — do
you remember ? "

'^ I shall never forget it."

'' You will stay and take luncheon, Mr. Maynard ? "

said the vicar, his old servant announcing that it
was ready.

Thank you, no," I said ; " I must go to town
by the next train ; I will hope to see you again tomorrow."


Then good-bye for the present," he said/shaking
my hand ; '^ you leave me plenty of food for reflection
— and for thankfulness to God. It comforts me
to feel that George died in the faith and did not
forget his old pastor ; and it rejoices me to know
that Maggie lives and has happy prospects— bitters
and sweets, Mr. Maynard — sunshine and shadow
sand such is life ! "

Tie Old House at Sandwich.

CHAPTER IX.

"foul deeds will lllSE, THOUGH ALL THE EARTH
o'eRWHELM THEM TO MEN's EYES."

I west to London in a bewildered condition of
mind, happy and sad, full of delight, and afflicted
with fear.

I do not think I am mentally very strong. Indeed,
I think my character nay be called weiik. I
am one of those men who lack decision. My mind
is a kind of shuttlecock which the bats of strong men
can play with. Yet I flatter myself, I conducted my
encounter with the Wolf cleverly, with firmness, and
with courage. But when I think of it, I confess to
myself I was only strong in a reflected sort of way ;
I was imitating George Newbolde ; I felt as if I were
standing in his shoes as well as my own. Once or
twice during the interview I spoke and acted as if I
thought he overheard me.

AVhen I arrived in London Wilkesss stepped out
of the train.

If I were not certain who had called upon the

vicar a few hours previously, I knew now ; and inspired
with the moral and religious tone the vicar
took about the double message of death and life, of
bitter and sweet, of sun and shadow, I resolved to
make one last effort to save Sandwich and the vicar
from a new scandal, perhaps a tragedy, and George
Kewbolde from a crime, perhaps a murder.

"Shall we drive together"! asked, as Wilkesss
tailed a hansom.

Wh}^, is that you !" he exclaimed.

Yes, it is L"

** Where do you hail from ?'*

*' From Sandwich ; and you ?"

"Guess Tve been in that same locality'' he said,
offering me a cigar. " Won't you come into the
bar-room here and have a drink ? Hi, porter, bring
these bags."

A porter carried our luggage into the refreshment
room.

"You Britishers certainly do hanover us in the
matter of railway depots and travelling accommodation.
And I begin to think you are'ahead of us in
the way of a constitution. A democracy is all very
well for poor devils, but an aristocracy's the thing
for a feller when he's made his pile. To think that
you can't all through the United States call out,

Hi, porter, bring these bags ! ' with the smallest
chance of success, is a humiliating thing for a feller
with a gold-mine to his credit. Why, it's done meno
end of good to tip the guard. If you tried that
game on with a Yankee guard he'd be likely to let
daylight into you, eh ?"

*^ Depends how you approached lira," I said.

"Approached him!" Wilkesss exclaimed; 'why,
you can't approach him at all. An American guard
just walks clean over you. Don't he come and sit
down by your side and enter into conversation with
you and patronize you, by thunder, as if you were no
modern dirt ? You know he foes. I^n just tickled
to death with your railway arrangements. I tipped
sour guard, and had a coupe all to myself for half a
dollar. What will you take, soda and brandy ?"

"Thank you."

Split S and B, if you please, misses said Wilkesss,
taking off his hat to the barmaid, and then turning
smilingly to me with a further commentary upon
English institutions.

"S and B is the nearest approach to a cocktail,
bright and warm ; handy and suits the climate ; and
your bar-room with angelic attendants, real ladies;
if ever I get back to Tombstone I'll astonish that one
horse citj-, you bet ! And we thought wee had a

depot at Tombstone ; Chicago thinks she has ; and
New York jest busts with pride over her Central o^q
Depot. 1 smile when I think this Victoria Station 7 / ^ . ""
heads the whole lot ; and I smile the more when I ^

think you've got a dozen others as fine, with bookstores,
and bar-rooms and hotels, and porters to carry
your trunks, and guards waiting to be tipped and
showing 5^ou into private carriages, and touching
their caps as if you were the President. It suits mQ
down to the ground. AVell, here we go ! "

I responded to the familiar formula, clinked my
glass with his, and we sat down at a small round
table in a corner of the room.

I am glad you don't despise the old country ;
there are Americans who say we are played out."

'there are some Americans ain't worthy to be
lamp-posts in England," said Wilkesss ; " a feller who
can't out of his all-fired pride of country see the
good on this side the Atlantic ain't fit to be a citizen
of our great and glorious Republic."

Wilkesss rattled on in this way, and I failed to
change the current of his talk. He reminded me of
the lark which, being disturbed on her nest, pretends
that it is in another part of the meadow from that
whence she rose in a nervous flutter at your close
proximity to it or that she has no nest at all. lie

VOL. II. N

was evidently talking me away from the subject I
was bent upon discussing.

"And Sandwich, you like that queer old place,
eh?"

It's just lovely," he replied, '* and bears out all
you told me on the ship concerning your antiquities.
Just lovely I Been retiring into the country away
from the sea for eight hundred years they say, or the
sea has been turning its back on it for some other
place — tired of coming into the river, and finding
no business going on, I guess. I wouldn't want
any better example of the old country than Sandwich.
Eight hundred years to make up its mind to
retire from the wholesale trade. And when time's
up doesn't bust, but remains a solid city with a
church that will be solid when Gabriel blows his
trumpet. There's only one England, you bet, and I
guess she was ordained for the mother of nations ;
we Americans would never have had the patience to
be the mother of anything better nor a dry goods
store ; but nations like men have their missions, and
America's filling hers, you bet, in a way that's a
credit to the old 'un, and don't you ever believe as
she's going to do anything again the old folks at
home, no, sir ! If you Britishers ever get into a
tight place with your neighbours, you would find

that America would not play the part of the unnatural
child. I don't say that there are Yanks who
wouldn't like to see you in a hole, but only for the
sake of being allowed to help you out."

The rate at which Wilkesss talked kept me more
or less silent : but I was determined to bring: him to
book sooner or later. Presently our polite porter
called us a hansom, handed in our bags, received a
liberal douceur from Wilkesss, and we drove to the
banker's hotel in Covent Garden.

'' I think I will go in," I said.

"That's good,'^ he replied, 'your mother won't be
expecting you? I'll drive with you to Doughty
Street if you like."

No, thank you."

We went into his room.

"I want to talk to you," I said, ''^ seriously."

"Thought so," he answered; "you are a Britisher
right through to your boots. You have been wanting
to ever since we met at the depot, and I save you
every opportunity, and yet you wait until we've
drunk, jawed, drove a mile or two, and just as we
should be saying see you again at dinner or somewhere,
later, you think it's time to break out. Well,
Mister Hickory, go ahead ; what is it ? Better late
than never."

N 2

Will you answer my questions frankly and
fully?"

"I will."

"You have been to Sandwich not alone on my
account nor Maggie's but on his ?"

'whose?"

Our friend, my partner ?"

That's so."

'has he told you all?"

Guess he has."

"Don't let me beat about the bush. What we say
to each other is sacred. I will give you my full
confidence ; you may give me yours. He has told
you of his boyhood, this father, his mother, why he
left Sandwich, of his vow and his self-elected mission,
has he ?"

"Yes, the whole business; nothing left out, I
think ; right up to date."

Then you can now understand what I feel, what
I have said ?''

Well, I guess not."

Don't you desire to see our friend happy and
free, to see brother and sister restored to each
other?"

"Yes, I believe you and me could shake on that."

"You do?"

Then why not let us join our forces and bring it
to pass ? ^'

'^ Because it's not our affair."

Not our affair ? ''

No, dr. It is his affair. He is the boss. He
commands don't he ? You don't, anyhow. You
have made your bargain ain't it ? ^^

''Yes.^'

^' George Newbolde is dead ; Dick Drummond
revealed the dead to you ; with that revelation
comes the realization of all your hopes in life —
money, independence, and the girl you love."

Wells' I said.

'' Is that so ? "

'^ It is.^'

^^ On the other side he gets his turn served, he has
hk hopes and plans — what ? "

Yes. So had Mephistopheles in the play," I
said, for want of a better illustration.

Well, and so had Faust, and a real good time,
and if I'd been in his shoes I'd have taken the
chances. But, Hickory Maynard, ain't you stretching
the comparison ? I've seen that play ; but
there was no man in it as was worthy to be named
alongside Hick Drummond except the brother, and

he was killed b}^ a foul blow that Mephisto gave
him ; but this brother in our play ain't going fur
any other than the devil himself, and don't you
forget it."

There is no man in the world I love and honour
so much as George Newbolde/' I said.

The late George Newbolde," said Wilkesss.
Now look here, my boys, you let George be and
just forget Dick — he's only a new acquaintance — let
him run his show in his own way. He has exposed
his hand to me solemn and straight, and says he,
Manny, my old friend , would you play it ? ' and I
said, 'Dick, old pal, yes, for every cent it's worth.'
And says he, ' Do you consider my partner in the
Gulch has anything to say in this?' and I says,
No.' And that's how it is. When I look back
and think of my mother, and my dear old father,
who died with his hand in mine, and try and think
what I would have done if I'd seen him drawer
out of the river with the mark of Cain on him —
curse me, if I can bring myself to think of it ! "

'rit was a foul deed, prefaced by a worse one
still, I think, and the vicar himself believed and
still believes Lucas guilty."

Anyhow, we know he lured old man Newbolde
to diiuk that he might carry off his wife, ain't that

to sou aud me what your Englisli law calls a capital
offence? Then to kill the husband and enter into
the inheritance of his property', steal his child, and
great heavens above us, how do you know the
woman herself died a natural death ?"

It is indeed most horrible," I said.

^'^And would you like to tell the story to that
sweet girl of yours ? "

^' God forbid ! ''

She is in happy ignorance of it ? "

^' She is/^

*" Hj,ve you calculated that if you stood in the
way of George, you would past have to give
it all away ? ^*

Yes'

And are you equal to it ? Why, it would be
calculated to break up that sweet young lady ; donec
walk any further in that direction. There is an old
proverb, What canst be cured must be endured ; and
another as says. Don't waken a sleeping lion. You
just go your way — it is straight and sunshiny and
strewn with flowers, like the first break of summer
on a virgin prairie. You are fond of books ; did
you ever read our ' Professor of the Breakfast
Table?' I know you have. Jest you try and
remember what he says about truth being tough,

don't break like a bubble ; 3'ou can run over it with
a locomotive, and it will get well while error dies of
lock-jaw if it scratches its fingers

I don't think I had paid much attention to these
last remarks. It seemed to me as if Wilkesss was
talking against time.

And so he was, though he talked to good purpose ;
for the more he showed me the rosy path of dalliance
and love, the less became my scruples in regard to
George Newbolde's pilgrimage of vengeance, and
I began to find excuses for myself, and for him,
and to sympathize with the hero of Drummond's
Gulch.

Moreover, as the hours flew by, hurrying on to
the happy moment which should make Maggie
mine for ever, I began to feel a selfish joy in life —
a rapture of existence — a blissful sense of motion.
It was as if I dreamed a dream that was reality ;
yet too delightful to be true. And I looked forward
(o the coming hours as the beginning of a new
and even more ecstatic time. A radiant bark
was waiting to set sail with two passengers upon a
sunny river. And one of them bad soft grey eyes
in whose depths I saw the reflection of my happiness.


Maiiiwaring G. Wilkesss was a diplomat. He

drew my thoughts out of the shadow into the sunshine.


We were all busy the next day and the next ;
and Fate seemed busy too; for we had fixed the day
of our marriage on the anniversary of the murder of
the unhappy painter of Sandwich,

CHAPTER X.

MANWARlIvG G. AVILKESS AT WORK.

Margaret would not hear of any change in her
Engagement at the theatre. I suggested that her
part should be taken by some other lady. Or that
the short season should close at once, and we should
pay whatever pecuniary damage the local impression
might consider that he had thereby sustained.

'* No/^ she said , ^^ let me finish my work ; the
stage has been good to me, the public has been
kind ; but for the theatre you would not have found
me in comfortable circumstances ; I would like to
feel that I have done my duty in this matter and not
been ungratefully

The last night was on Friday the 31st of October ;
the wedding was fixed for the next day, Saturday,
the 1st of November. It was to be perfectly quiet.
Nobody was to know of it, except the minister, the
clerk, and the sexton. My mother was to be present.
We were to drive quietly from the church to Vicar
Oliphant's house, take luncheon, and then start right
away for the continent.

Two days before the marriage, Mr. Manwaring
G. Witness bad an interview with Mr. Fitzherbert
Willoughby at his rooms.

The Western had introduced himself as having
arrived from Australia on important business,
the nature of which we shall understand from the
following dialogue : —

Dead ! " repeated Willoughby.

^' Yes, sir''

*^ Long ago ?"

*' About five years."

'^ Poor fellow; and possessed of large means, you
say ? "

The owner of an estate near Melbourne , and a
large tract of territory in New Zealand.

A clever young man ; did he ever speak to you
ah — about me, and of an unfortunate affair ? No
doubt he did''

^' He often mentioned you to me, and you should
have reason to rejoice in his death, I guess."

"■ On account of the provision he makes — ah —
for my step-daughter ? "

'not that so much as the provision he would
have made for you had he lived."

In what way, may I ask ? "

** He would have killed you."

Heals ; did his animosity live so long ? That is
extraordinary ! Of course, the poor fellow would
naturally feel bitterly — ah — towards me, because he
was too young to understand the situation."

Do sou think so ? ''

'eyes, indeed; he was only, I suppose, about
ten ; you have — ah — no doubt heard the painful
story from him ? "

'^ Well, yes'

'^ AVith the bias of an enemy to me — I do not
complain of that. A boy whose mother leaves him,
whose father — ah — is drowned, and who by some
fatal perversity mixes me up with his misfortunes —
ah — as their cause, may be forgiven for a rancorous
feeling towards me."

'^ It was rough on him, that's a fact," said
Wilkesss, chewing the end of his cigar. ^' You took
his mother away, is that so ? "

His father, Ned Newbolde, was a worthless
fellow — ah — a drunkard, and not in any sense a good
husband — ah — untrue to his wife, a dissipated, idle
man ; he dragged her into the gutter."

As bad as that ? " said Wilkesss.

Worse, my dear sir, worse. I had known the
poor girl whom he induced to accept his hand — a
dirty hand, very — had known her a young lady of

refinement, of elegance ; I found her a brokenhearted
woman — a drudge, a slave — why, sir, he
beat her ! "

Did he ? Had you known him before his marriage
r

Slightly'

You were not his chum ? "

No, sir'

"Didn't go around with him — two bosom friends?"

"Never; the poor unhappy man was not a fit
companion for a gentleman-ah/'

"But his wife was"* said Wilkesss, who struggled
hard to prevent himself from dropping into sarcasm.

Lucas looked quickly into the banker's face, but
only saw there a calm expression of innocent inquiry.

His wife, sir, was a lady ; in her distress she
appealed to an old friend, and after consulting with
my solicitors, and sustaining for a long time — ah—
the siege of her complaints and her wail of woe, if I
may so speak — ah — I gave her the asylum of my
home ; I may have been to blame when my action
is regarded from a strict moral standpoint ; but I
am not an angel, sir, I only claim to be a man, with
a man's heart in my bosom'

He got up and walked to the other end of the
room, as if to conceal his emotion.

Poor Mary, she was born to be an ornament to
society, and she lived to die under a cloud'

'' Under a cloud' said Wilkesss, '' how's that ? "

^' Society turned its back upon her, though I
married her immediately she became a widow ;
society is a fickle thing, sir, in England''

"Where is the lady now, sir ? "

'' In heavens' said Lucius, raising a white silk
handkerchief to his eyes, " in heaven."

'dead, then?"

Died at Lucerne, in the arms of her dear child
Maggie, my sweet, angelic step-daughter, who is to
be married as Margaret Newbolde — which, pardon
me — ah — for thinking, is a mistake. '^

^nVhy?"

"Raises up a blemished name — revives sad memories
; she has been gently nurtured and educated —
ah, the only trouble in our lives has been her desire
to go upon the stage ; but I would not stand in the
way of her lightest wish''

"You are a real good man," said Wilkesss ; "it is
a pleasure to listen to you ; that poor boy who died
in the mining country must have been strangely
warped against yo\i.''

*•' He was, he was," said Lucas, "though I
offered to change myself with his education, and

would have taken care of him and given him a
fortune'

"And yet," went on Wilkes "he regarded you
as his bitterest foe ; why, by thunder, I have heard
him say you murdered his fathers

The poor boy said so at the inquest on the
body/^ replied Lucas, "and I had to take proceedings
against a woman here, who repeated the libel. Of
course — ah — I put that down at once, though T
forgave the poor boy, forgave him ! ^'

He did not forgive you,^^ said Wilkesss, " on
the contrary, he just hunted you right through all
creation to kill your's

Lucas fidgeted in his seat.

You astonish me ! '^

"And if he had ever come upon j^ou, he'd just
have shot j^ou at sight, sure ! ^^

Really ?^^

Why, he tracked you through London, Paris,
Vienna, San Francisco, and nearly caught on to you
twice

Really, did he ? " said Lucas ; "did he wish to
murder me, then ? '^

Well, no, he wished to kill you ; but he'd have
treated you to some chin music, as we say in America,
first, and then — "

Wilkesss paused, and looked Lucas in the face.

Shot me ? " he said ; " but two can — ah — play
at that game, Mr. Wilkes''

Yes, that's a fact''

'^ One does not spend half one's life on the continent
of Europe — ah — and visit San Francisco
without having our little affairs. I have had mine,
believe me ; but it would — ah — have grieved fine to
meet my dear step-daughter's brother."

^'Of course, it would," said Wilkesss ; " but, as you
say, one has one's affairs — shootings we call them ;
did you kill your man ? "

I will not boast, sir," said Lucas ; ^* but I am a
gentleman ; my ancestors came to England with
William the norman."

*^ In what line," asked AVilkess, " dry goods ? "

*^ Chivalry, sir ; conquest, sir," said Lucas.

'you've got a coat of arms and things, then," said
Wilkesss ; '' must be considerable grand that ! We in
America are content to have our own personal record
clear and straight, without taking into account our
ancestors, but that's our ignorance."

'• Not at all."

"Then I guess it's the climate," said AVilkess,
with the faint suggestion of a chuckle at his successful
manipulation of his interview with the Wolf.

It may be so' said Lucas.

"lyell, then, let us just see how we stand; you
consent to the vicar acting as father, and giving
away the bride ? "

I consent in deference to the last wishes of her
dead brother'*

That is all right. And you will relinquish all
claims upon the old Manse in consideration of two
thousand pounds ? '^

*'Yes/'

The other little details of the dead man's wishes
can be arranged later*'

Quite so."

I would like you to go over the Manse with me.
The idea is to tear it down and build a monument
there to the father ; but I guess I will claim a
margin on that ; seems a pity to tear down what you
call a historic place ; it is very ancient, eh ? "

^* Yes — ah — very."

'^ You know it well ? "

Well, I did years ago."

You will show it to me, eh ? Like to hear you
English fellers with pedigrees, discourse on old
houses''

VOL. II.

CHAPTER XI.

COMING EVENTS CAST THEIR SHADOWS BEFORE.

A MILE below Sandwich a steam-launch was moored
in the river. Two men sat in the little cabin.
They were George Newbolde and Man waring Q-
Wilkesss.

The rising tide lapped the muddy banks of the
stream, and made a low, murmuring music at the
bow of the little craft.

'^ It is the thirty-first of October," said George,
sitting by the cabin , stove, and contemplating
^Yilkess, who, with his body in a low arm-chair,
and his feet upon the back of another,, at an angle
of forty degrees, was smoking a huge cigar.

The thirty-first it is. I know you are particular
about the date."

And I died five years ago ? "

Five years this very month," said AVilkess.

At sea ? "

At sea," said the American.

'• The vicar was sorry ? "

"He melted right away."

"Poor old fellow! You broke it to him
cautiously ? "

"I did not jump it on him, Dick, like an lujun
out of ambush."

No, that's right. What did he say ? "

"the Lord's will be done.' And I thought it
would be perfect to say Amen ! "

"Yes?"

And I said Amen."

And then ? "

I gave him the book."

Yes, that would please him."

Well, not exactly ; he began to cry over it, poor
old boss, and I was sorry for him. Seemed kinder
hard on the old man, when I knew 3'ou were shadowing
me perhaps the other side the street."

Poor old vicar ! "

I don't know that I ever was in a set-up job
much harder to carry out than this. Seemed as if
old man vicar couldn't speak for some time ; then
he fell to fingering the book and turning the leaves
over. And he said to me, 'JS^ot that I can read,
friend, for the tears that have come into my eyes —
an old man's weakness — and I loved this young-fellow
as if he were my own son.' "

o 2

Poor dear old vicar," said George, thrusting his
hands deep into his trouser pockets; "poor old
chap ! "

"I read the last words to him myself, and then
he took hold of my hand and trembled, and said,
Thank God,' and I led him to a chair."

You are a kind-hearted old chum, Manny," said
George.

Guess I'm not a brute, Dick ! It would have
cut any man to see the white-haired old parson with
the tears in his eyes, and he said, ^ I have not lon;]^
to stay in this world, friend, but I am glad, since it
was to be, that I have lived to receive this token of
my dear George's love and remembrance of me. He
did not live to ful61 what he chose to regard as his
mission, I suspect ; but whether he did or not, he
would always have had my love, and, if he needed it,
my forgiveness.' "

He said that, did he ? " exclaimed George.

I believe I have repeated his exact words," said
the American ; " because I thought you would like
to have him sa' just such words as those."

Thank you, old chap," said George. " You are
right. They strengthen me. I would not have
wished him to say anything better. I am only sorry
that it was necessary I should be dead for him to

have said as much. But he will have been cheered
ere this with Maynard's news, eh ? "

Yes, I guess Mister Hickory would be surprised
to hear of jour death."

But he is not likely to have cast any doubt upon
your information ? "

No, he has stopped struggling,"

He did struggle, then ? "

"Yes, hard; his heart is right, but his head's
feathery."

"You like him, don't you?"

First-rate ; like lira none the less for squealing,
like him all the more for doing his level
best to keep you straight, as he thought. What
worried him most was not having you at the
Wedding, not having you and Maggie come together
again."

Yes, yes," said George, speaking a little impatiently
; " an affectionate chap, but feather-headed;
you are quite right, Manny, old friend."

Suppose it is impossible, boss," said the American,
looking through his parted feet at George, and
chewing the end of his cigar in a corner of his mouth
as he spoke. " Suppose it ain't possible to put that
in the contract, eh ? She's just as sweet as they
make 'em, that sister of yours ; so's Mrs. Maynard.

Guess we could have an all-fired good time with that
wedding party."

And what about Lucas ? " said George, ignoring
the pacific suggestions of his friend.

** Don't want to say any more about the wedding
?''

''No/'

Nor about the little sister ? "

*' Her brother is dead and buried, old chum'

Ain't resurrect him ? "

"No, once for all, Wilkesss, no! Now, tell me
about Lucas. He is glad I'm dead, eh ? "

'' Yes ; he kinder cheered up at the news, and I
encouraged the skunk to be joyful. Told him you'd
been on his trail for sears, and that you would just
have shot him at sight if ever you had seen him."

*' Did he wince at that ? "

*' Considerable ; but recovered himself, and said,
Two could play at shooting.' "

** He did ; and will he be game, do you think ? "

** When he can't help it, yes."

Good ; all goes as we could wish."

♦'That's so."

"Even Maynard, as you say, is reconciling himself
to the inevitable ? "

Yes, he's bracing himself up to it."

*^ And the young lady ? "

'^ The gal he's going to marry ? "

'' Yes, does she look happy ? "

As a bee in a flower."

She knows I'm dead ? "

Never knew you was alive, thanks to that skunk,
Lucas. You was a weakly boy, according to Lis
account, and died young."

'^ So ; well, I'm glad of that. It spares her
something ; but the vicar, won't he tell her the
truth ? "

"Some day, perhaps. I advised Hickory to ask
him to say nothing about it now."

Kind, thoughtful old chap you are."

Did Lucas ask how you had discovered him ? ^'

"Yes, and I told him through Maynard meeting
me and telling me about Margaret and the story the
vicar had related to him. Oh, I fixed it all square
by putting myself more or less in your place."

And the old house belongs to him, does it ? ^'

He holds it under a mortgage, and it does not
rent because he will do no repairs."

*^ Naboth being dead," said George, " Ahab took
possession of the vineyard ; but Elijah said to him,
Hast thou killed, and also taken possession ? Thus
saith the Lord, In the place where dogs licked the

blood of Naboth shall dogs lick thy blood, even
thine."

''I guess you must be practising for the pulpit,
Dick, or are you going to take a ^ hall ' ? '^

And Ahab said to Elijah, Hast thou found me,
mine enemy? And he answered, I have found
thee ! " continued the hero of Drummond's Gulch.
Vengeance was hot and quick in those days''

That's so ; Judge Lynch was supreme when
Solomon reigned over Israel."

And you think he'll fight ? " said George.

Like a rat in a pit."

He will require pressure ? "

'not more than the pressure you mean to give
him; I would not give him the show you are
arranging."

''I am not a murderer, Mann}^, old chap; I aman
avenger."

It's a new idea of violating, to give the cuss
who's condemned a chance to shoot the leader.
But you are tossing this thing, and I'll see it
through."

George put out his hand. The other man shook
it.

I will get into the Manse at four o'clock. The
cellar is roomy. I have blocked the grating. There

are three sconces on the wall that were there when
r[\y father lived. Candles will give us light enough.
I brought a case of duelling pistols from New York.
I will take a flask of brandy in my pocket. You
ihiuk you can bring another witness, or second ? ''

Yes, I know him ; the poor devil you want to
pension for life ; Henry Jones*

The railway porter ? ''

That's the feller."

I fear he will be a partisans'

''If you want it to be such a darned secret meeting, ^
you must lay your plans accordingly."

''He will do."

"And I will see to his pension ? "

If I fall' said George, " the affair will be made
public; bury me with my father. You will be
arrested, perhaps imprisoned — "

ril see it through," said Wilkesss, calmly.

Then the whole story will come out ; we must
;it consider all the possibilities — '^

"I'll see it through," repeated Wilkesss.

Let it come out, since it must, and — '"'

I'll see it through," repeated Wilkesss.

"If he falls?" said George.

He will," said Wilkesss.

111 that case, the witness, pledged to secrecy,

paid for secrecy, will leave us and go his way ; lie
will be quiet for his own sake ; we will deal with the
body as he dealt with my father's; the bridge stands
where it did, the river flows on as of yore. And
what of the launch ? '*

'' This : we will get aboard and run her out. The
schooner lies two miles off the coast. I have
arranged the signals. The launch maybe suspected.
She may be chased. They will look for her in some
local port, lie around for her on the coast. When
we are aboard the schooner we will scuttle her."

Good, Manny ; you are a great man's

don't fight Injuns, boss the frontier, run a
bank in a raining camp, and not learn how to cover
a retreat ; though for my part I guess I should face
the music right throughout

"Howe'

*' Stand there and says I done it ! There ain't no
law in any civilized land that would touch you for
it.'^

'^I want to save my sister from the scandal and
excitement of a trial. They would try me for
murder. I am dead to her ; let me be dead ; if Fate
or Providence decree otherwise, so be it ; but I have
seen the business in this way ever since I touched
these shores again, and it is right. If it comes out,

my sister can only think of me as one who fought a
duel to avenge her father's honour and death — that
is all, whether he falls or I fall.'^

He will fall' said Wilkesss.

*' This will satisfy Maynard scruples also ; but
for these considerations, I would laye killed him
like a dog, beat him to death, strangled him in the
river — '^

George's face worked convulsively for a moment,
then became rigid as marble.

"You are a bit of a crank, that's a fact' said
Wilkesss.

Mad with method, old pal," said George. " Do
you know, my dear friend — the only true friend I
have in the world, — do you know, Wilkesss, that
I feel at this moment as if my father were only
just dead. Time, thej^ say, softens grief, tones
down asperities, takes off the edge of the keenest
calamity — '■*

'' And don't it ? "

"No."

'^ Why, partner, if the grief I felt when my
father died had lasted, I'd have passed in my checks
in four-and-twenty hours."

We are not all alike."

"That's 80."

Do you not sometimes look back and think it was
only yesterday when your father died ? '^

'^AYhen I'm a peg too low, I have, and seen the
dear old boy, and heard his voice— that's a fact, God
rest his soul ! "

And I, at this moment, feel that yesterday they
came and told me my father was drowned ; and I
see, as if it were yesterday, his poor wounded body,
all wet, and his dear hair all tangled ; and I feel as
if yesterday I vowed to avenge him — ah, dear friend,
he was so good, so clever, so fond of me ! I had seen
him already broken-hearted, coming home from
London full of hope and joy and success, bringing
his good news to her; and she had gone! — gone,
gone with that fiend, Lucas, who had professed to be
his friend — '^

'^ The infernal scoundrel ! '' exclaimed Wilkesss,
parenthetically.

*this friend ; under that guise he tempted him to
drink, lowered him in the estimation of my mother,
a weak, pretty, irresponsible woman ; under that
cloak he stole her away ; and that he might take
full possession, and have the vineyard also, he
murdered his broken-hearted victim. For years I
have lived in the hope that underlies the words, * The
day will come'; and now the day is here ; it is here,

and it seems but yesterday, so good is Fate, it seems
but yesterday that I begun to live up to my mission.
All that lies between is a dream, with one reality in
it, one reality, and that is you, old friend,. you ! ^'

He rose, laid his hand on the other's shoulder, ashe
continued, —

fortune, they say, 'provides many compensations'
for the calamities of Fate. You are my
compensation. If I had not encountered all this
trouble 1 would not have known you. After tomorrow
I will be a happy man, not happy in the
sense of a demonstrative joyfulness, but happy and
content, with a calm, and I think, a pleasant future.
And if, as it is said, we meet again after this life,
I can meet ray father with an unclouded brow.
You have read Hamlet?"

I guess I have, and seen it played in New York."

'^ Sometimes 1 think I may end like the prince
who avenged his father, prompted thereto by heaven
and by hell ; if I do, I bid you, dear friend, to report
me aright, and keep my memory green. ^^

I will see you through it, Dick, but.not like that,
old pard, not like that."

CHAPTER XII.
bBtvvee:?^ tick acts.

ALTEtoUGH the events of this chapter are to m? the
most important in my life, the denouement of my
dearest hopes, I feel in recording them that at this
juncture they are no better than circumstances which
in a play might be referred to and not enacted.

The dramatist might fill the stage with a wedding
procession. The novelist might crowd his pages
with bridal dresses and organ peals. But I am now
so anxious to reach the end of this history, feeling
how big with Fate are these closing records that I
can only realise this wedding day as a dream full of
joy and fear — -a dream with sweet music in it that
miffht at anv moment change to strange cries and
alarm-bells.

I think the season lent a certain mystery to the
time ; my soul was like a dead autumn landscape
with the sun upon it. I was very happy and very
sad. Maggie looked at me wistfully But I was all
sunshine to her. I think I tried to forget the

autumn shadows that seemed to lay across the happy
da'.

There is real pathos in the closing days of the
English fall of the leaf

The American climate lends a radiance to autumn
which is foreign to England.

November inaugurates a season of darkness and
storm. Nature at this period is in sympathy withall
that is pathetic in human lives, and supplies
Tragedy with a characteristic background.

Do you not remember when the painter of Sandwich
was taken out of the river fifteen sears ago ?

It is once more the anniversary of George New-bold's
bitterest memory, and of his vow of vengeance.
While I stood at the altar I felt a sense of
shame and guilt. It occurred to me that I had
bought my happiness with a crime. And then when
I kneeled down and she was my wife, I felt that if
it were so I would do it again rather than lose the
bliss of this moment.

And the dear old vicar, at our little breakfast
party, spoke of the happiness in store for us with
such an air of authority that I comforted raj^self with
the thought that after all the hand of Providence
was in this thing, that God was with us and that
the vicar was His messenger. Anyhow, it seemed

to me then, as it does now, that I was hurried on
helplessly, as if Fate had taken rae by the shoulders
and pushed rae on my way ; as if Fortune had strewn
my path with flowers, and that I should have been
untrue to my love if I had insisted upon looking for
the thorns. If I had been made of that sterner
metal of which George Newbolde was made, I might
have turned and defied Fate, might have battled
with my good fortune, resisted it, and lost this
blissful day, and many another to follow. AVe are
what God has made us. And I am married to that
girl who suffered in the play years ago ; and, thank
God, we have no longer any part in the tragedy
scenes of this drama of real life. We move on to
pleasant music. There is no danger in our ways

The last good wishes, and old slippers for luck,
have been flung after the bridal pair. The vicar has
blessed us. We have started, " me and mines' on our
wedding tour. An autumn fog has come up the
river, and the world is hushed. As we step into the
railway carriage, we hear the bells ringing through
the mist. Nobody is to know why they ring except
us. Hickory made that a condition with the dear old
vicar, who insisted that he could not let us depart
without the traditional peal.

And so we go away with his fatherly words in

our hearts, aid the blush of joy-bells in our ears.
We are surely the happiest people in the train.

A shadow falls across my thoughts now and
then ; but the sunshine of the time is too much for
it. I can think of nothing but my happiness.

Maggie has insisted that my mother shall accompany
us on our travels. We go first to Dover, and
thence to Paris, on a long tour. For I am keeping
that grim agreement with George.

[I did not know until some years afterwards the
exact details of the fulfilment of George's view of
the motto, " The day will come'' They leaked outby
degrees from the western banker, from George
himself, and in newspaper paragraphs.]

The last sad smile of autumn appears to have
illuminated our path from the church to the vicarage ;
even then the sun was half hidden in mist, and the
dead leaves were Ij'ing in the road. Two hours
later Sandwich was in possession, as I have said, of
an autumn fog — a grey mist that seemed to-be
coming up the river in battalions.

Soon afterwards, as 1 have been since informed,
darkness fell upon the ancient cit3\ The old bridge
disappeared. The church, the streets, the Manse, were
blotted out. You could hear the bells ringing, and
it must have sounded like mockery to those who

VOL. IT. p

V.eard them. Happily we were running out of the
fog into open country, and we knew only of our own
happiness. " What the eye does not see the heart
does not grieve for."

While the pleasant corned}^ of our wedding was
being enacted, Chingford Lucas was face to face
with the dead.

CHAPTER Xlii.

A TRAPPED WOLF.

Between the last soft smile of the autumn and the
beginning of what may be called the cold frown of
this first day of the winter months Mr. Wilkesss and
Mr, Fitzherbert Willoughby had entered the precincts
of the old Manse. The Wolf had obtained the keys
from the local agent. Not that they were necessary,
for George himself had found his way there, and
had prepared a reception-room for his mortal
enemy.

*' A deserted old place' remarked Wilkesss; 'but
you Britishers like this, eh ? — what you call ancient
and picturesque."

Yes'' said the Wolf.

But here's a corner all trim and sweet' Wilkesss
said, " and a rose in bloom — the last, I should sayer"'

"Yes," said the Wolf.

** A good thing, perhaps, after all, to tear the old
building down' said Wilkesss; "put up a column
in memory of the painter, with seats round it, and a

p 2

garden for the children and the old folks to sit in,
eh?"

'eyes," said the Wolf.

'' You seem kinder miserable remarked Wilkesss ;
** thinking of old days, perhaps ? "

'' Yes' said the Wolf.

Well, then, let us get through — the sooner the
better, eh ? ''

'' Yes'

*' We will go into the house then."

They went in.

'^ What was this room ? " asked AVilkess.

'' The studio'' said the other.

^' Fine room."

♦' Yes' said the Wolf.

'' It's getting dark, a passing cloud," said AVilkess,
leading the way towards the cellar. '^ What sort of
a basement is it ? "

Very good," said the Wolf.

I've heard there's grand wine-cellars in these
old houses."

"Yes' said the Wolf.

Ao they turned to the left at a landing before
reaching the bottom of the stairs, a light could be
seen in a small room, which was called the cellar-man's
pantry.

J

*' What's that'' asked the Wolf, in a startled
manner.

"A candle, perhaps' said the other, stepping
deftly to the rear ; ^^ couldn't be robbers, eh ? "

The Wolf did not reply.

Have you your pistols ? "

No," said the Wolf.

'' I have," said Wilkesss, producing a six-shooter ;
go a-head. I'll take care of you."

They entered the room together.

It was a small apartment, and very solid, as if it
had been excavated out of a rock, and made for a
prison cell. Probably that was its history, for in
the old days the houses of great people were mostly
provided with such places of detention.

As Wilkesss entered, he swung the door behind
him, and it was bolted from without.

The Wolf turned suddenly.

"What's that?"

"' We are locked in and guarded'' said Wilkesss.

By whom ? "

'^ A friend of mine, an enemy of yours," said
Wilkesss.

The Wolf staggered towards a bench that was
fastened to the wall.

'' Is this a trap ? "

*' It is," said Wilkesss ; " but I will not ask you to
stay here longs

'fool, fool ! " exclaimed the Wolf; " why did I
believe your lies ? I doubted you at first — George
Newbolde is not dead ! You have brought me hereto
murder me. Help ! help ! '"'

He was beside himself with rage and terror,

'' It ain't no good screaming'' said Wilkesss.

'' Why did I come here unarmed ! " went on the
prisoner ; '^ why did I trust this liar ! "

Wilkesss turned, with the intention of signalling
the guard to open the door, when, as quick as
thought, the Wolf whipped out a pistol from his
breast-pocket, and fired, but, in doing so, knocked
down the candle from its sconce on the wall. In the
darkness, Wilkesss, who was unhurt, dropped upon
the floor in a crouching attitude, the door opened,
and a beam of light from a dark lantern falling
full upon the Wolf at that moment, Wilkesss tripped
up his man and disarmed him.

^' Oh, you yelping cyote,'' he exclaimed, as the
other struggled in his iron grip ; '' that's how you
light, is it ? "

Wresting the pistol from him, he said, "Now
put up your hands, while I go through you, or I'll
make a grease spot of you."

The hands went up ; Wilkesss turned out the
prisoner's pockets, and being satisfied that he ha 1 no
other weapon about him, said, ^' Get up."

He did so, and, conscious of the presence of another
person, shrank back into the furthermost corner of
the cell.

*' Do your plans for the duel still hold ? '' asked
Wilkesss of the man with the dark lantern.

'' Yes."

^' After the loafer's attempt on my life ? ''

*^ Just the same."

'every well; then listen, you murdering ruffian,
while I deliver judgment. You have been found
guilty of various crimes against George Newbolde
and his peace, more particularly of the cold-blooded
assassination of his father, fifteen years ago this very
day ; and if I had full power over your sentence, I
would hang you to a lamp-post, or shoot you where
you stand, in your boots, and chuck you into the
river to rot. But Newbolde is a bit of a crank concerning
this thing, and he challenges you to a duel — "

He is alive, then ! " gasped the prisoner.

He stands beside you'' said Wilkesss.

Great heavens ! " hissed the Wolf ; '' I'm lost! "

Not yet," said Wilkesss; ''he gives you a fair
show : a duel to the death ; will you fight ? "

^' On equal terms ? '^ gasped the Wolf.

'' Yes'

"With witnesses''

Yes ; as fair and straight as if you were a
gentleman, instead of a thief, a beast, and an
assassin."

If I refuse ? "

'' Death all the same''

'strapped, trapped I " shrieked the Wolf.

"Well, yes, more or less; but do you accept the
terms of release ? Answer quick."

"I do."

"You will have two hours to compose your mind,
make your will, confess yo\xx crimes, and otherwise
amuse yourself; there's a table in the corner there,
and in it a drawer with writing goods, and here's a
flask of brandy. No, I guess it ain't poison, I'll
drink first. See ! "

It was a glass flask. Wilkesss drank. The Wolf
watched him.

•' Can I see a priest ? " asked the prisoner.

A what ? "

A priest."

No, sir. But confession's good for the soul, even
if you make it without a priest. You might write it
out and put it in your pocket, so that if you are

killed it will be a sort of life premium on your soul ;
but like Paddy in the song, if you live you can act
otherwise

Thereupon Wilkesss relighted the candle, the silent
guard with the lantern opened the door, and the
murderer was left alone to count the beads of his
pernicious sins.

And the bells were ringing merrily.

CHAPTER XI 7.

THE OTHER WITNESS; AND WHAT THE MOON S A.W.

*' A GOOD thing I found your cottage before the fog
came on so thickly as it has within the last five
minutes," said Man waring G. Wilkesss, of Tombstone
City, United States of America, to our old acquaintance
Henry Jones, the Sandwich railway porter.

It is main thicket' said the porter ; ^^ never see it
thicker''

"But you could find jour way in it ? ''

*' Yes ; find my way about Sandwich blindfolded,"
he said.

That's a good thing'' said the American.

*'Be it? Well, I'm glad anything's good these
times. What's them bells a-ringing for?"

"There's been a wedding in the church, I hear."

Indeed ; well, I don't wish 'em any harm," said
the porter.

No ; I guess you will wish them long life, and
that they may live long and prosper, like Rip in the
play, when you know who they are."

Shall \y now ? '^ he said, looking up with an
inquiring face ; *^ well, as I said afore, I don't wish
'em no harm, to begin with."

That's bully for you, seeing as you ain't calledon
to wish much good to anybody, not having had
much of a time yourself, eh ? ''

'^ True for you, sir," said the porter.

You are a poor man, I guess ? "

And you wouldn't guess far wrong," was the
reply.

'' A sick wife, and two girls ? "

'' Yes, sir."

Wife in bed upstairs ? "

"Yes ; be you come to take the census ? "

No ; I'm come to do j'ou a better turn than that.
Your two girls, where are they ? "

"At Margate, in service."

Well, you are not in the way to make a
fortune ?"

I'm in the way to come to the workhouse and
be buried by the parish ; that's what I'm in the way
of."

As bad as that, eh ? "

Yes, sir ; I ain't atone a stroke of nothing' for
fourteen weeks, and if it weren't for Vicar Oliphant,
we'd be starving' at this minute."

Then I guess you'll do me the service I want,
because if you do you needn't work any more'

If it be honest service I will do it."

'' Do you go to church ?"

'' Sometimes."

If you took an oath about anything, you'd keep
it''

'^ If I took one," he said doggedly.

"Well, now listen; in this hand I hold a Testament;
in this bag are one hundred sovereigns; just
listen. You swear as an honest man and a Christian,
as sou hope to be saved, never to divulge what I ara
going to say to you ; and if you do, you call down
upon your own head, on your wife and children,
eternal damnation. Do you catch it?"

"Yes."

"Now, you may refuse to do what I ask, but if you
do, you swear never to tell what I asked— is that
plain?"

Yes."

Will you take that oath ?"

I don't see no reason agen it."

Very well, here's the money."

As Wilkesss opened the bag and showed the gold,
the porter's old eyes fairly blazed.

You never see such a pile as that before ?"

'^ Never, never V he exclaimed, clutching the bag
with his bony fingers.

'^ Swear that oath before you freeze on to the
money''

''Fll swear anything said the porter.

Wilkesss put the oath, the old man repeated the
words, and kissed the book. "

"Now listen. A duel is to be fought to-night in
Sandwich — you know what a duel is?^^

"My father was a soldier, and that's his sword
a-hanging over the mantel, and he fought in the
wars/^ the porter replied, " and he died in the
workers with two medals, six clasps, and blind along
of the Indian deserts.^^

"Then I guess j^ou know something about duelling,
eh''

Not as I ever seen one, but I was in the militia
as a young man,"

Well, that's a sort of knowledge that runs in the
direction of duelling. But listen. Two gentlemen
are going to fight to the death to-night. They want
two witnesses to see fair play. I am one witness.
Both the gentlemen know 3"ou,and I will give you nine
hundred more sovereigns if you will be the other."

The old man, who had been sitting by the fire,
seemed to be struck speechless. Wilkesss lighted a

cigar at a candle that was burning on the round oak
table.

"It's too much !" was the porter's reply, when he
could get the words out ; " too much ! "

"That's all right; I am told one thousand pounds
can be invested to give you or your old woman,
whichever lives longest, enough money every week
to keep you till the end of your days; and if it is
not enough, I'll make it enough. How's that ?"

Too much, too much," said the old man.

But you will come and see the fight, and sign the
paper as a witness, and never mention it to a soul
until I say you may ? "

1^11 be the witness, and do all as you tells me."

Very well, shake on it."

The porter laid his hard hand in the great palm of
Wilkes s.

"Now listen to this."

"I'm listening," said the old man, buttoning his
coat across his chest, and sitting up straight, as if
getting ready for action.

"Do you remember Mr. Newbolde, the painter,
who lived in the old Manse ?"

Ah, God rest his soul, that I do ! He guv' me
many a shilling for carrying his bag, and many a
shilling when I done nothing for it''

J

"A real good fellow," said Wilkesss, anxious to
excite the sympathy he felt sure the man would feel
for George.

"Was he? None better, nor so good, now-a-days,
except Vicar Oliphant, perhaps." '

"You saw him taken out of the river?"

I did, more's the pity."

"A sad affair?"

Awful replied the porter ; '^ and if there was
any law in England, somebody a swung for it. '^

No doubt. Did you know a gentleman named
Chingford Lucas ? "

Did I know him ! " exclaimed the porter,
clenching his fist. " I should think I did ! ^'

'* You didn't love him ? " suggested Wilkes
upon whom the irritable movement of the hand
and the frown on the old man's face, were not
lost.

^^ I hated him'' said the porter ; " he nigh choked
me once when I let his portmanteau go on to Margate
by mistake, a seizing me by the collar, and
cursing me to all eternity ; and when I was off duty,
and met him, I says, ' If you'll come into the meadow
along of me, and fight it out, I'm your man ; and if
not, I'll summons you afore the magistrates ; ' and he
wouldn't come out, and I summonsed him, and he

was fined five pounds ; but IM a guv him the money
to have had it out of his blamed carcase*'

He was a scoundrels"' said Wilkesss.

*^ A}^ he was modern that* said the porter, lowering
his voice to a whisper ; " he was a murderer ! *'

^' That's so ; but the evidence was shakes Now
listen again ; sit down*

'* Yes sir' said the old man.

Do you remember Emboldens son ? **•

George ? ** replied the old man ; '^ ses, as fine a
chap as ever stepped. I remember the poor lad
coming' to meet his father at the train the day as that
there Lucas took away his mother, and I see him
often, when he was with old Jukes, the fisherman, and
then with the vicar; a rare fine lad."

'^ And do you remember him at the inquest on
the body ? **

At the inn ? *' he said, rising to his feet again.
Lord bless you, yes. I can see him now, as you
may say, the little chap, as white as a sheet, a sayiu*,
Hers killed my father, and 1*11 kill him.' **

Shake ! ** said Wilkesss, putting out his hand once
more.

This ceremony duly performed, Wilkesss laid his
hand on the old manes shoulder, and said, " It is
George x^ewbolde who has challenged Chingford

Lucas to fight it out ; and it is at this duel that I

a

want you for a witness

*' By /^ exclaimed the old man, "you needn't

a-paid me for that ! I'd be witness to that if I
winged for it on the gallows — there ! "

Put that money in your pocket, get your hat,
and come on'

'' I'll see if the missus is asleep' he said, " and I'll
put the money in the chest, I might lose it, and then
I'm your man'

He crept up the stairs, returned with an old
porter's cap on his head, and a thick stick in his
hand.

She's fast asleep," lie said, snuffing out the candle
with his thumb and finger, " and we'll go out at the
back door, so as nobody's see us, not as it's likely
anybody's about'

We are going to the old Manse," said Wilkesss ;
and, so as not to attract attention, we won't speak
another word till we are there ; you take hold of m}^
arm, and lead me the nearest and darkest way to the
door through the garden'

It was as dark as midnight. In the old days of
superstition the phenomenon would have been regarded
as a Divine interposition. "No sun, no
morn, no noon, no road, no street, no Brother side

VOL. II. Q

the way' . . . November,'^ described the stat of
the atmosphere to the letter.

** Never see it so awful dark' whispered the
porter, 'nevers''

Not a soul appeared to be stirring. When the
American and his guide paused, which they did now
and then, they could hear the wash of the river, as
the tide came sluggishly up from the sea.

George would be able to find his way about ? "
whispered Wilkesss.

Yes ; never you fear for him ; but you said we
was not to speak — oh, hang them bells ! '^

The ringers, who had been resting on their
ropes, making the silence all the more silent, had
suddenly returned to their labours.

'hush," said Wilkesss, "don't go a cussing the
bells; they are ringing for one you must have
liked — the little girl, George's sister."

Lord, Lord ! '' said the old man, standing still ;
I ain't a-dreaming, am I ? Pinch me."

You're all right, but whisper, whisper, come
close, I can hear."

What, with them bells a-ringing ? "
With all creation a-ringing," said the American ;
'^ you know the day of the month ? "
No, I don't."

First of November'

Why, it's the day we found Mister Newbolde in
the river ! ^'

'' That's so. "

The porter stopped again with an exclamation of
wonder.

*' They tolled the passing bell that days" he said.

'^ Yes, and to-day they are ringing a peal, eh, old
man ? Every dog has his day,"

"•V 5|C *5^ ^ JjC

3^ •fx J^ ^s J^

An hour later, the bells paused once more in their
joyous combat with the fog, as if they listened for
the splash of a dead body as it was dropped into
the river.

Then they rung out again ; and when by-and-by
the fog lifted to let the moon glass herself in the ocean,
George Newbolde and his ally were discussing the
route to the North Sea, on the deck of as tight and
well-found a yacht as ever was launched from a
Yankee dock yard.

Q 2

CHAPTER XV.

"to all such the day will come

If you want to live long, travel. I don't mean that
you thereby lengthen your days. But life .seems
longer when you measure it by sights and sensations,
not by days and weeks.

It was only two months after the startling events
of the previous chapter, that I read an account of '' the
tragic affair at Sandwich 'Mn a French newspaper,
while travelling with my wife and mother in Italy.
Yet it seemed like an old, old story. We had done
so much, and seen so much, and had been getting sofar
away from England, that Sandwich in m)^ imagination,
appeared to be as far away in miles as in years.

I felt as if Sandwich was a dream of the past, with
fitful sunshine and strange shadows in it. But we
had only left it two months previously, when I read
in a French journal a paragraph which had been
translated from a London paper, dealing with the
closing scenes of that pathetic drama of the old house
by the tidal river.

The story had been translated from an English
paper, and embellished during the process of repetition.
I re-translate and adapt it, keeping as closely
as possible to the English narrative, the style falling,
as it seems to me, more naturally into the character
of the incident when read in the light of the narrative
with which the reader is already acquainted, than if
reproduced with all the elaboration, of the French
journalist : —

A supreme act of vengeance has been achieved in
England ,%t a small coast town called Sandwich.

*^ The affair is worthy of a more excitable race than
that of the phlegmatic community whose history it
adorns. But the hero of it had an American experience
of the rough vengeance of the plains and the
Rocky Mountains to inspire his imagination and
nerve his arm.

'' Fifteen years ago, a painter, who took the world
and his art easily, fell into the snares of one Ching-ford
Lucas, otherwise Fitzherbert Willoughby. This
man was a roue and an adventurer, and he ingratiated
himself into the painter's household. She was
fair, and knew it — the painter's wife ; fair and vain,
with longings for conquests that had not been satisfied
with the love of the simple painter. Moreover, the
husband, like many of his countrymen, was addicted

io the bottle. Bacchus was to him a more potent
iron than all the other deities, and the man Lucas
encouraged him in his vicious worship in order that
he might make himself, by contrast, more acceptable
to the pretty fair, vain, and discontented wife. In
the end, the adventurer carried off the wife, and,
worse still, encompassed the death of the unhappy
husband.

The painter, robbed of his wife, was found dead
in the river that runs by the Manse, or the old house,
as the townsfolk call it, and all the circumstances
attending his death pointed to foul play; but English
criminal procedure is peculiar, it leans to the accused ;
and the verdict of the coroners inquisition was what
is called an open one, the formula being Found
Vroiviied.

And so the affair ended, and Lucas and the
painter's widow disappeared from the tragic scene.

"But fifteen years having elapsed, Mr. Lucas, now
calling himself Fitzherbert Willoughby, had the
temerity to return to Sandwich. He no doubt felt
that he was safe behind the disguise of years, grey
hairs, and an increased amount of adipose tissue.
not that he had cause to fear any process of law
against him. 'Found drowned' had satisfied the
authorities. Even the police did not attempt to carry

the affair further. The old house stood empty, however,
as a monument, a picturesque memorial, and a
warning.

^' The return of Lucas was an ordination of Fate.
He came back to Sandwich as the father of a young
actress, and, at the same time, in the capacity of her
theatrical agent. She was the youngest child of the
dead painter.

^' Thither" journeyed at the same timber lover, whose
suit her pretended father had rejected. A sudden and
mysterious influence was imposed, however, on this
putative father; for in a short time she and her
lover were married, and her true name was registered,
not as Willoughby, but as Newbolde. The inference
is that Lucas, or Willoughby', hoping to do tardy
justice to the poor child, confessed to her identity;
for her lover, on the day of their marriage, presented
the adventurer with a thousand pounds. The happy
young couple are now on the continent, but they will
doubtless bo interrogated, and we may learn more
of this romantic affair.

'' Two days after the marriage ceremony, a railway
official, living near, found posted upon the bridge a
nolifica tion, written in a bold hand, * Search the river for
the murderer of Newholde, the painter — you icill find the
thief and assassin Lucas — to allH^ich the day will come J

*' The river was dragged, the body found. The
trousers were made American fashion, and in one of
the pistol-pockets was found a revolver, with the
initials F. W. upon the stock. Four of the chambers
were loaded. In the other was a letter, which was
deciphered with great difficulty. Fortunately it was
read before the superscription, which was the address
of a Catholic priest in London.

'rit ran as follows: — ^ Tray for the soul of Fits
willoughby, otherwise Chingford Lucas y who
confesses himself guilty of the deadliest sins known to the
Churchy and acknowledges that he is now righteously
punished for the murder of his friend ^ who was found
drowned by the bridge at Sandwich fifteen years ago.
Pray for the dead sinner's soul, and find in his cabinet
at Buckingham Street, and in his availing-desk at Sandwich,
money for the blessed charities of the Virgin.*

'writings in the hand of ' the dead sinner and
found at his rooms, were proper sequels to his confession.
A bullet-wound was found to have penetrated
the heart. The deceased uncle, and only living
relative, we believe, came forward and claimed the
body.

"An inquest was held, and, notwithstanding the
evidence, the jury, with a fine sentiment as (0 the
fitness of things, brought in a verdict of Found

Drowned, as in the case of the deceased's victim fifteen
years previously.

"Reports speak of mysterious strangers having
been seen in Sandwich during the week, but as it is
a town of great antiquity, one of the ancient Cinque
ports, this is not surprising. Tourists from Margate,
Deal, and other parts of the coast, frequently visit
Sandwich.

'^Yicar Oliphant, an old and respected resident,
says an American gentleman, who gave no name or
address, called upon him, and reported the death of
the dead painter's only son, while on a voyage to New
Zealand, and in token thereof brought him a memorial
of the past from the young manes dying hands.
Riverside people speak of a steam-launch, in which it
is believed the avenger of Newbolde escaped (for it is
not doubted that Lucas was killed, probably in ' a duel
to the death); but while trace of such a vessel is found
at Margate coasting towards Sandwich, it has disappeared
; as such a tiny boat could not put to sea, it
may turn up at some adjacent port.

The police believe George Newbolde, the painter's
son, is not dead, but that he has fulfilled the vow he
made at the inquest on his father.

'^ It is known that he was in the town six years
ago ; and it is known that he had for years been

hunting down Lucas, anti searching for his sister.
Too poor to obtain help to circumvent the aliusses of
Ijucas, whom the police knew as a foreign spy and
sharp financier, he at last struck ile bought the
services of a clever Yankee confederate, and swept to
his revenge — late in the day, but characteristic of a
noble and dutiful son. And yet we Frenchmen say
the English life has no romance ! ^^

T kept this paper from the eyes of Maggie and ray
mother. Later I answered some inquiries that were
made through the English consul at Milan. I gave
him an outline of my proposed tour. He reported
to the local police. I wrote to the vicar, urging
him to use his influence to have the affair hushed
up. I learnt later that he went to London, saw the
chiefs at Scotland Yarrl, and also the Home Secretary.
They finally came to the conclusion that the matter
should rest where the verdict of the coroner's inquest
had left it.

Ai'id so at present we sail on from port to port, over
sunnj^ seas, eve three, mother, wife, and husband, a
happy family, seeing the world for the first time on
its brightest side. I live in hope that one day, soon,
I may obtain absolution from my oath, and tell them
the true story of Drummond^s Gulch, and disclose to
them, as I have in these records, the key to the

mystery of Margaret Willoughby, the stores of the
old house at Sandwich.

Within the past few weeks events have marched
on in this direction. At Venice I met an interesting
widow. She was daintily robed in China
crape, and wore a |>reat diamond clasp on her
shoulder. Tall stately, with a calm face, streaks of
grey in her hair — Lady Ann, the landlady of the
Castle" at Drummond's Gulch.

I saw her stepping from a gondola, and came
between her and the palace where she was lodging.

*^ Yes, its me' she said ; *' you can bet your
bottom dollar on it ; and a poor, lonely, miserable
concern I am; glad to see you. Mister Maynard ;
and what's become of that maniac Drummond ? ''

** I really don't know'' I said.

"You have heard all about my poor little
Tommy ? " she said.

Ko," I said ; " but 3'ou are in mourning ? ^'

'* Yes; I'm a widow, and never was more wretched.
I'm travelling for my health, couldn't stand the
Gulch any longer ; the Injuns did for him, poor
little chap — the kindest feller any woman was ever
blessed with meeting. You left before the news
came in after the rescue party went out. Well, they
got him, and I tried to have him embalmed, but,

Lord bless you, it weren't possible; though, if the
family wish it, he can be removed to his own land."

Then she began to cry. I escorted her to her
rooms. We mounted a palatial marble staircase,
and were ushered into a grand, solemn apartment.

Ain't it awful to be alone ? And in a place like
this. A palace they calls it. I come round this
way to England, travelling through Europe, because
my Frisco friends said it would distract my mind.
Well, I guess it has a piece, though if my Tommy
was alive, I'd sooner be running that bar at the
Gulch than live in a palace."

It was a terrible place for a lady," I said.

Yes, for a lady, but not for me,'^ she replied,
There, don't apologize ; I see you want to. You
didn't mean an unkindness to me. I was not a lady,
and therefore it weren't a terrible place for me."

"But you did not like it?"

I liked any place where m}^ little man was —
could have been happy in a swamp with him ; and,
some of those fellers you see in the mining camp
were not such a bad lot, after all. Nary a one of
them ever offered me an insult, and I cannot say as
much for the fine European gentlemen I have met
since I began to travel to distract my mind. Ah,
Mister Maynard, life's just what you make it, though

its happiness depends for a woman on the man she
raeets, and for the man on the woman he takes up
with."

I notice a good sign in sour condition of mind,
Lady Ann," I said ; " you are inclined to be philosophical,
and that is on the way to resignation, if not
contentment."

Well, I hope so,'^ she replied ; " what can't be
cured has got to be endured, though I will never
cease to regret my dear feller, and shall always
cherish his memory ; a kinder feller, a better, a more
honest and generous, never lived to bless a woman,
nor ever died to make her wretched."

She wiped her eyes after this eloquent outburst,
and said, " But there, we've said enough about me ;
and how have you fared ? Well, I know, as to
money. Dick was a good sort at bottom, and fond
of you."

Yes, that is true, and I have fared well. Since
I said good-bye to you I have married*

Is that so ? For money ? Or for what is
better than all the gold in Frisco ?"

'' For love," I said.

"Then I congratulate you," she replied, taking
my hand, and shaking it cordially.

'' I shall take the first opportunity of introducing:

her. You must let me know your movements."


I will, you bet," she answered ; " and she shall
give me some hints about European manners and all
that kind of thing, eh ? Would you mind ? I mean
to polish up, you know, for the sake of his memory,
and just to show that Sir Thomas if he married
beneath him, did not do so very badly, after all."

She rose as she said this, as if to parade the fine
woman who had condescended to make Sir Thomas
happy, and she did so with an air that promised an
apt pupil in the art of seeming, which is a great art
in society.

*• Poor Sir Thomas was a happy man in meeting
so beautiful and so good a woman," I said.

No flattery, Maynard, I was good to look at,
that is all ; but I was true and faithful to him, and
I will live to honour his memory, and prove my
devotion in that way to the last. There ! Enough
of that, and enough of me, as I said before. It's
very nice to talk to you, and it's the happiest
moment I've had since my sorrow."

'' Is any one travelling with you ? " I asked, byway
of completely changing the subject.

"■ Oh, yes," she said ; '"' who would you guess I've
brought along ? "

I cannot guess."

'' No ; I would bet anything you didn't. I'd
never have pulled through at all without lira. Did
you ever have what they calls a currier on your
travels ? "

*^ Yes, I have one now ; a very useful fellow he
is."

sewell, of course, I've gotten one. My Frisco
friends said I couldn't travel without a currier even
as an ordinary ladj^, but as a lady of title I mustn't
think of it ; so they handed me over to that greasy
Italian j^ou see a-riding with me in that boat. But
Washy bosses the whole crowd."

Washy ! Is he with you ? "

You bet he is ! I wouldn't come without him ;
he's got a power of sense, that old nig has ; guess
IM have been poisoned with their breakfasts and
dinners if it hadn't been for Washy''

She rose, and called Washy, who presently
appeared in a shining black and gold livery
with a clerical necktie and a pair of white cotton
gloves.

*why, this is a pleasure; how do you do , Mr.
Washington ? ''

** Very good, tank you, might say must-rate, Massa
Maynard''

Looks well, don't he ? My Frisco friends would
have him dressed up in uniform. If IM been just
anybody widow, they said, it would not matter ;
but Lady Thomas Montgomery, travelling to enter
into possession of Sir Thomas's estates, would be out
of it without a man in livery ; and as Washy didn't
mind, we started on those terms, and a real good
help he has been to me, and a comfort, with his
proverbs and his consoling texts, and knowing how
to cook and to go to market."

Washy smiled, and looked at himself in a mirror,
and appeared to be perfectly contented and happy.

M3^ lady and me hab left a pusson in charge of
de hut, and when de Boss Drummond comes home,
dey will let me know by de cable, and if he say,
Come back, Washy,^ I go ; and if he say, ' Don't
come back. Washy, stay wit de Lady Ann,' why
den I stay wit her ladyship ; ain't it, Lady
Anne' •

Quite correct. Washy ; and now you can go and
order me some tea, and send in a bottle of wine and
some cigarettes for Mr. Maynard. Will you come
and dine, and bring Mrs. Maynard ? Of course, I'll
have to call upon her first, and I'll do that right away,
and leave cards if she is out, and write her a letter
apologizing for the short notice, and all that. Oh,

I'm getting on, I'll be quite a society lady before
the year's out; and don't you forget it ! "

*' I will not' I said, smiling at the familiar phrase
and the curious, confident, and unsophisticated style
of m}' friend, and feeling at the same time something
like regret that she should have resolved to alter all
this ^' out of respect for Sir Thomas's memory," and
to propitiate the good opinion of the family.

"I am sorry we cannot dine with you, Lady Ann ;
we are leaving Venice this evening ; but we shall
meet you, I hope, very soon."

That's too bad," she said ; " but when one is
travelling around, it is difficult to arrange dinner
parties. And I guess I have some packing to do
to-night. Not that 1 do much in that way. Washy's
as good as a lady's-maid at that work."

You, too, are leaving Venice, then ? "

Yes."

And where are you going ? "

Guess we are making our way to Paris, and
then to London, and then we go right straight to
Canterbury."

'* To Canterbury ? "

Yes, to see my husband's lawyers, and claim the
estates, and establish my rights, as Tommy wished
with his dying hand all regular and witnessed, and

VOL. 11. R

his will, which he made three years ago in Frisco,
all straight and legal, though I wouldn't care for a
cent of it, whatever it may pay out, if I could have
Tommy back again."

She clapped her hands, and called Washy.

Don't mind the tea' she said ; " bring a bottle
of wines'

Yes, mam," said Washy, returning almost immediately
with a bottle of champagne.

You mustn't refuse," she said, ** for Auld Lang
Syne, as you and the Boss used to say. And you
will introduce me to your wife ? "

Indeed I will, and she will be delighted, as I
shall."

Yery well, then, we will drink happiness and
good fortune to her," she said, raising a full glass to
her lips.

"Forgive me,^^ I said, interrupting her, 'let us
use the good old formula of the Gulch. '^

She looked inquiringly over her glass, and I said,
Here we go ;" at which she laughed, and repeated
the finish of all toasts and the beginning of all drinks
at the Gulch. After passing similar honours to Dick
Drummond, and ray wishing her all the good things
I could think of, in a little toast which I drunk all
by myself, we parted, she to resume her study of

society manners, with a view to prepare for the higher
sphere of life to which it had pleased Providence to
call her, I to join my wife and mother, and tell
them of my interesting encounter.

What possibilities all this suggests ! Lady Ann
has a good heart, a fine appearance, who knows that
she may not in the future hold her own in the ancient
domain of the Kent Montgomery ? I think she
will ; if I can be of any service to her in that direction
I shall render it cheerfully.

Meanwhile, as I said before, we three — Maggie,
myself, and a dear, white-haired, lovable old lady —
are basking in the genial light of sunny seas, Love
at the prow. Fortune at the helm.

"I have ceased to look back," said Maggie, the
other day, as we sat by Lake Maggiore, talking of
our strange fortunes ; " the mystery of the past. has no
longer any fascination for me. I live in the present,
and shall be content with any future through which
we may walk hand in hand together."

THE END.

Printed BT Gilbert AND BTVIXGTOX, I.IMITKD,
ST. John's Squab.

Imported by Messrs. Sampson Low & Co. can

be had on application.

Crown Buildings, i88, Fleet Street London,
October, 1886.

a Selection from tete 3[idt of Bosses;

PUBLISHED BY

SAMPSON LOW, MARSTON, SEARLE, & Livingston.

ALPHABETICAL LIST.

ABBOTT {C. C.) Poaetquissings Chronicle: Upland and

^^ Meadow. vos. 6d.

About Sonne Fellows. By an Eton Boy, Author of *' A Day
of my Life." Cloth limp, square imo, 2s. 6 J.

Adams {C K.) Manual of Historical Literature. Cr. 8vo, 12s. 6d,

Alcott (fLoicisa M.)/oe^s Boys. ^s.

Lulu^s Library. 35-. 6d.

Old-fashioned Thanksgiving Day. 33-. dd,

— Proverb Stories. 1 6mo, 3^. 6^.

Spinning Wheel Stories. imo, ^s.

See also "Rose Library."

Alden {IV. L.) Adventures of Jimmy Brown written by himself.
Illustrated. Small crown 8vo, cloth, 2s. 6d.

Aldrich {T. B.) Friar Jerome's Beautiful Book, 6^r. Very
choicely printed on hand-made paper, parchment cover, 3^. 6d.

Poetical Works. Edition de luxe. 8vo, 21^-.

A If or d lady Marian) Needlework as Art. With over 100
Woodcuts, Photogravures, &c. Royal 8vo, 42s. ; large paper, 845-.

Amateur Angler's Days in Dove Dale : Three Weeks Holiday
in July and August, 1884. By E. M. Printed by Whittington, at
the Chadwick Press. Cloth gilt, is. 6d. ; fancy boards, is.

American Men of Letters. Thoreau, Irving, Webster. 2s. 6d. each.

Andersen. Fairy Tales. With over 500 Illustrations by Scandinavian
Artists. 6s. per vol.

Anderson (W.) Pictorial Arts of Japan. With 80 full-page
and other Plates, 16 of them in Colours. Large imp. 4to, 8/. 8j". (in
four folio parts, 2/. 2s. each) ; Artist's Proofs, J2/. \2s.

A

Angles Strange Experiences {A71). By Cotswold Isis. With
numerous Illustrations, 4to, ^s. New Edition, 3^. 6d.

Angling. See Amateur, " British Fisheries," " Cutdiffc,"

^"Halford," "Hamilton," 'martin," " Oris," " Penned," " Print,"

Stevens," " Theakston," "Walton," " Wells," and " Willis-Bund."

Arnold edwin) Birthday Book. ass. 6d.

Art Education. See " Biographies of Great Artists," " Illustrated
Text Books," "Mollett's Dictionary."

Artists at Home. Photographed by J. P. Mayall, and reproduced
in Facsimile. Letterpress by F. G. Stephens. Imp. folio, 42J.

Atidsley {G. A.) Ornamental Arts of japan. 90 Plates, 74
in Colours and Gold, with General and Descriptive Text. 2 vols., folio,
;^I5 15^. ; in specially designed leather, 23/. 2s.

The Art of Chromo-Lithography. Coloured Plates

and Text. Folio, 63^-.

Auerbach (B.) Brigitta. (B. Tauchnitz Collection ) zs.

On the Heights. 3 vols., ds,

Spinoza. 2 vols., imo, 4^.

JDALD WIN (/.) Story of Siegfried 6^.

Story of Roland. Crown 8vo, 6^.

Barlow alfred) Weaving by Hand and by Power. With
several hundred Illustrations. Third Edition, royal 8vo, i/. 5^.

Barrow {/.) Mountain Ascents in Cumberland and Westmoreland.
7 J. (>d.

Bassett (F. S.) Legends and Superstitions of the Sea and of
Sailors. *js. 6d.

THE BAYARD SERIES.

Edited by the late J. Hain Friswell.
Comprising Pleasure Books of Literature produced in the Choicest Style as
Companionable Volumes at Home and Abroad.
"We can hardly imagine better books for boys to read or for men to ponder
over." — Times.

Price 2S. 6d. each Volume, complete in itself, flexible cloth extra, gilt edges,
with silk Headbands and Registers.

The Story of the Chevalier Bayard.
By M. De Servile.

De Joinville's St. Louis, King of
France.

The Essays of Abraham Cowley, including
all his Prose Works.

Abdallah ; or, The Four Leaves.
By Edward Laboullaye.

Table-talk and Opinions of Napoleon
Buonaparte.

Vathek : An Oriental Romance.
By William Beckford.

Bayard Series continued) : —

Words of Wellington : Maxims and
Opinions of the Great Duke.

Dr. Johnson's Tassels, Prince of
Abyssinia. With Notes.

Hazlitt's Round Table. With Biographical
Introduction.

The Religio Medici, Hydriotaphia,
and the Letter to a Friend. By
Sir Thomas Browne, Kent.

Coleridge's Christened, and other
Imaginative Poems. With Preface
by Algerian C. Swinburne.

Lord Chesterfield's Letters, Sentences,
and Maxims. With Introduction
by the Editor, and
Essay on Chesterfield by M. de
Ste.-Beuve, of the French Academy.

A Case containing 12 Volumes, price 31J. 6d. ; or the Case separately, price ^s.'Cd.

Belike and Browne. CJiilcVs Voice. Small 8vo-^s. 6d.

Beyschlag. Female Costume Figures of various Centuries. 1 2
designs in portfolio, imperial. 21J.

Bicker seeth bishop E. H.) The Clergyman in his Home.
Small post 8vo, is.

Evangelical Churchmanship and Evangelical Eclecticism.

Ballad Poetry of the Affections. By
Robert Buchanan.

The King and the Commons. A
Selection of Cavalier and Puritan
Songs. Edited by Professor Morley.

Essays in Mosaic. By Thos. Ballads


]\Iy Uncle Toby ; his Story and
his Friends. Edited by P. Fitzgerald.


Reflections ; or, Moral Sentences and
Maxims of the Duke de la .


Socrates : Memoirs for English
Readers from Xenophon's Memorabilia.
By Edvv. Levied.

Prince Albert's Golden Precepts.

8vo, IS.

From Year to Year : Original Poetical Pieces. Small

post 8vo, 3J. dd. ; roan, 6j. and 5^. ; calf or morocco, vos. 6d.
Jfymnal Companion to the Book of Common Prayer.

May be had in various styles and bindings from \d. to 3IJ, (id. Price

List and Prospectus will be forwarded on application.

The Master's Home Call ; or, Brief Me?no?'ials of Alice

Frances Bickersteth. 20th Thousand. 32mo, cloth gilt, is.

The Master's Will. A Funeral Sermon preached on

the Death of Mrs. S. Gurney Buxton. Sewn, dd. ; cloth gilt, is.

The Reef and other Parables. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

The Shadow of the Pock. A Selection of Religious

Poetry. imo, cloth extra, 2s. 6d.
The Shadowed Home and the Light Beyond. New

Edition, crown Svo, cloth extra, 5^.

A 2

Biographies of the Great Artists (illustrated). Crown 8vo,
emblematical binding, 3^. 6^. per volume, except where the price is given.

Claude Lorrain.

Correggio, by M, E. Seaton, 2s. 6d.

Delia Robbia and Cellini, 2s. 6d.

Albrecht Diirer, by R. F. Heath.

Figure Painters of Holland.

FraAngelicOjMasaccio.andBotticelli.

Fra Bartolommeo, Albertinelli, and

Andrea del Sarto-gainsborough
and Constable.
Ghiberti and Donatello, 2s. 6d.
Giotto, by Harry Quilter.
Hans Holbein, by Joseph Randall.
Hogarth, by Austin Dobson.
Landseer, by F. G. Stevens.
Lawrence and Romney, by Lord

Ronald Gower, 2s. 6d.
Leonardo da Vinci.
Little Masters of Germany, by W.

B. Scott.

Mantegna and Francis.
Messenger, by J. W. Mollett, 2s. dd.
Michelangelo Buonarotti, by Clement.
Murillo, by Ellen E. Minor, 2s. 6d.
Overbear, by J. B. Atkinson.
Raphael, by N. Dangers.
Rembrandt, by J. W. Mollett.
Reynolds, by F. S. Pulling.
Rubens, by C. W. Kept.
Tintoretto, by W. R. Osier.
Titian, by R. F. Heath.
Turner, by Cosmo Workhouse.
Vandyke and Hals, by P. R.

Head.
Velasquez, by E. Stowe.
Vernet and Delaroche, by J. Rees.
Watteau, by J. W. Mollett, 2s. 6d.
Wilkie, by J. W. Mollett.

Bird {F.J.) American Practical Dyers Companion. 8vo, 425.

Bird \h. E.) Chess Practice. 8vo, 2s. 6d.

Black (Robert) Horse Pacing in France, i^s.

Black ( Wm.) Novels. See " Low's Standard Library."

Blackburn (Charles F.) Hints on Catalogue Titles and Index

Entries, with a Vocabulary of Terms and Abbreviations, chiefly from

Foreign Catalogues. Royal 8vo, 14^.
Blackburn (Henry) Breton Folk. With 171 Illust. by Randolph

Caldecott. Imperial 8vo, gilt edges, 21J. ; plainer binding, vos. 6d.
Pyrenees. With 100 Illustrations by Gustave Dore,

corrected to 188 1. Crown 8vo, 7x. 6d. See also Caldecott.
Blackmore (P. D.) Lorna Done. Edition deluge. Crown 4to,

very numerous Illustrations, cloth, gilt edges, 31 J. 6^.; parchment,

uncut, top gilt, 35J-. ; new issue, plainer, 21s. ; small post Svo, 6j'.
Novels. See " Low's Standard Library."

Bailie (William) How to get Strong and how to Stay so.

Rational, Physical, Gymnastic, &c Exercises. Illust., sm. post Svo, 5^.
■ Sound Bodies for our Boys aid Girls. imo, 2s. 6d.

Bofiwick. British Colonies. Asia, i^. ; Africa, is. ; America,

is. ; Australasia, is. One vol., 5^-.
Banquet (Rev. C.) Blossoms from the Kings Garden : Sermons

for Children. 2nd Edition, small post Svo, cloth extra, 6j.
Jehoshaphat ; or, Sunlight and Clouds, is.

Bolton major) North West Rebellion in Canada. ()s.
Boulevard {L.) Crises of Guiana. Illustrated, ^s.

Gold-seekers a Sequel. Illustrated. imo, ^s.

Booker {R. R.) Copyright : its Law and its Literature. 1 55-.

Boyesen {F.) Story of Norway. "js. 6d.

Boy's Froissart. King Arthur, Afabinogion. Percy. See

Lanier.
Bradshaw {/.) New Zealand as it is. 8vo, \2S. 6d.
Brasses lady) Tahiti With 31 Autotype Illustrations after

Photos, by Colonel Stuart-worsley. Cap, 4to. 2\s.
Bright {fohn) Public Letters. Crown 8vo, ^s. 6d.
Brisse baron) Menus (366). A menu in French and English,

for every Day in the Year. Translated by Mrs. Matthew Clarke.

2nd Edition. Crown 8vo, ^s.
British Fisheries Directory, 1883-84. Small Svo, 2s. 6d,
Brittany. See Blackburn.
Britons in Brittany. By G. H. F. 2s. 6d.
Broiv7i. Life and Letters of John Brown, Liberator of Kansas

and Martyr of Virginia. By F. B. Sanborn, Illustrated. Svo, I2j-.6^/.
Browne {G. Lennox) Voice Use and Stimulants. Sm. 8vo,

3j. 6d.
ajtd Belike remit) Voice, Song, and Speech. Illustrated,
3rd Edition, medium 8vo, I5J-.
Bryant ( VV. C.) and Gay {S. H.) History of the United States.

4 vols., royal Svo, profusely Illustrated, (sos.
Bryce rev. Professor) Manitoba. With Illustrations and Maps.

Crown Svo, ']s. 6d.
Bunyan's Pilgrim'' s Progress. With 138 original Woodcuts.

Small post Svo, cloth gilt, 2s. 6d.; gilt edges, 3^.
Burnaby capt.) On Horseback through Asia Minor. 2 vols.,

Svo, 2>^s. Cheaper Edition, i vol., crown Svo, los. 6d.
Burnaby fairs. F.) High Alps in Winter; or, Mountaineering

in Search of Health. By Mrs. Fred Burnaby. With Portrait of

the Authoress, Map, and ofl^er Illustrations. Handsome cloth, I4J-.
Butler { W. F.) The Great Lone Land ; an Account of the Red

River Expedition, 1869-70. New Edition, cr. Svo, cloth extra, yj. dd.
Invasion of England, told twenty years after by an

Old Soldier. Crown Svo, 2s. 6d.
•^—— Red Cloud ; or, the Solitary Sioux. Imperial imo,

numerous illustrations, gilt edges, 5^-.
■ The Wild North Laid ; the Story of a Winter Journey

with Dogs across Northern North America. Svo, iSx. Cr. Svo, Ts. 6d.

f^ADOGAN lady A) Illustrated Games of Patience,
^ Twenty-four Diagrams in Colours, with Text. Cap. 4to, \2s. 6d.

Caldecott randolph) Memoir, By Henry Blackburn. With

170 (chiefly unpublished) Examples of the Artist's Work. 14J. ;

large paper, 7.\s.
California. See Nordhoff.
Cambridge Staircase (A). By the Author of *'A Day of my

Life at Eton." Small crown 8vo, cloth,. 2s. 6d.
Cambridge Trifles ; from an Undergraduate Pen. By the Author

of " A Day of my Life at Eton," &c. imo, cloth extra, 0.$. 6c/.
Campbell lady Colin) Book of the Kissing Brook : and of

still Waters. 5^.
Canadian People : Short History, Crown 8vo, 7^. 6d.
Carleton ( Will) Farm Ballads, Farm Festivals, and Farm

Le gents, i vol., small post 8vo, 3^. dd.
JP^"^ City Ballads. With Illustrations. 1 2s. 6d,

See also " Rose Library."

Carnegie (A.) American Fonr-ifi-Hand in Britain, Small

4to, Illustrated, lox. (id. Popular Edition, \s.

Round the World. 8vo, vos. 6d.

■ Triumphant Democracy. 6s. ; also is. 6d. and is.

Chairman's Handbook the). By R. F. D. Palsgrave, Clerk of

the Table of the House of Commons. 5th Edition, 2s.
Changed Cross the), and other Religious Poems. imo, 2s.6d.\

calf or morocco, 6s.
Charities of London. See Low's.

Charnock {R. S.) Practical Notes on Etching. 8vo, lOJ". 6d.
Chess. See Bird (H. E.).
Children's Praises. Hymns for Sunday-schools and Services.

Compiled by LouiSA H. IL Tristan. And.
Choice Editions of Choice Books. 2s. 6d. each. Illustrated by

C. W. Cope, R.A., T. Keswick, R.A., E. Duncan, Birket

Foster, J. C. Worsley, A.R.A., G. Hicks, R. Redgrave, R.A.,

C. Stonehouse, F. Taylor, G. Thomas, H. J. Townshend,

E. H. Werner, Harrison Weir, &c.

Bloomfield's Farmer's Boy.
Campbell's Pleasures of Hope.
Coleridge's Ancient Mariner.
Goldsmith's Deserted Village.
Goldsmith's Vicar of Wakefield.
Gray's Elegy in a Churchyard.
Neat's Eve of St. Agnes.

Milton's L' Allegro.
Poetry of Nature. Harrison Weir.
Rogers' (Sam.) Pleasures of Memory.
Shakespeare's Songs and Sonnets.
Tennyson's May Queen.
Elizabethan Poets.
Wordsworth's Pastoral Poems.

Such works arc a glorious beatification for a poet." — Athenaeum,

Christ in Song. By Philip Chaff. New Ed, gilt edges, 6s.

Ch7'omo- Lithography. See Audley.

Collingivood harry) Voider the Meteor Flag. The Log of a

Midshipman. Illustrated, small post Svo, gilt, 6s.', plainer, <^s.
The Voyage of the ^^ Ainvra.'' Illustrated, small post

8vo, gilt, 6s. ; plainer, 5^.
Composers. See "Great Musicians'

Cook (Diction) Book of the Flay. New Edition, i vol., 3^-. 6d.
On the Stage : Studies of Theatrical History and the

Actor's Art. 2 vols., Svo, cloth, 24^-.
Coweii (/os.y M.F.) Life and Speeches. By Major Jones.

8vo, 14s.
Dozens (F.) American Yachts. 27 Plates, 22 x 28 inches.

Proofs, 21/. ; Artist's Proofs, 31/. los.
Crozvn Prince of Germany : a Diary, "js. 6d.
Randall joseph) Annals of the Life and Work of Shakespeare.

With a List of Early Editions. 3^. 6d. ; large paper,. 5^.
Cushi7ig{W.) Initials and Fseudonyms : a Dictionary of Literary

Disguises. Large Svo, top edge gilt, 2.1s.
Custer {E. B.) Boots and Saddles. Life in Dakota with General

Custer. Crown Svo, 8j. 6d.
Cutcliffe {H. C. ) Trout Fishing in Rapid Streams. Cr. Svo, :^s. 6d

pjANVERS {N.) An Elementary History of Art. Crown
•^-^ Svo, IOJ-. 6d.

— Elementary History of Music. Crown svo, 2s. Gd.

Handbooks of Elementary Art — Architecture ; Sculpture;

Old Masters; Modern Painting. Crown Svo, 3^. 6d. each.

Davis {Clejnent) Modern Whist. 4^".

Davis {C. T.) Manufacture of Bricks Tiles ^ Terra Cotta ^c.
Illustrated. Svo, 2^s.

Manufacture of Leather. With many Illustrations. 5 2s. dd.

Manufacture of Paper. 2 Si".

Dawidowsky {F.) Hie, Gelatine, Isinglass, Cements, c^c. Svo,
12s. 6d.

Day of My Life {A) ; or, Every-Day Experiences at Eton.
By an Eton I3oy. imo, cloth extra, 2s. 6d.

Days Collation : an Encyclopaedia of L^?'ose Quotations. Imperial
Svo, cloth, 3 IX. 6d.

Decoration. Vols. II. to XL New Series, folio, 7^-. dd. each.

Dogs in Disease : their Management acid Treatment. By Ash-mont.
Crown 8vo, *]$. 6d.

Dotinelly ignatius) Atlantis ; or, the Antediluvian World.
7th Edition, crown 8vo, 12s. 6d.

Ragnarok: The Age of Fire and Gravel. Illustrated,

crown 8vo, \2s. 6d.

Dore {Giistave) Life and Reminiscences. By Blanche Roosevelt.
With numerous Illustrations from the Artist's previously unpublished
Drawings. Medium Svo, 2.\s.

Dougall james Daniel) Shooting: its Appliances, Practice

and Purpose. New Edition, revised with additions. Cro\\-n Svo, 7^. dd.

"The book is admirable in every way We wish it every success." — Globe.

"A veri' complete treatise Likely to take high rank as an authority on

shooting." — Daily News.

Drama. See Cook (Button).

Dyeing. See Bird (F. J.).

Dunn (y. R^ Massacres of the Mountains : Indian Wars of

the Far West. 21s.
Dupre giovanni). By H. S. Frieze. With Dialogues on Art

by AuGUSTO CoNTi. 7J-. 6d.

pDUCATIONAL List and Directory for 1886-87. 51.

Educational Works published in Great Britain. A Classified
Catalogue. Second Edition, Svo, cloth extra, 5^.
Egypt. See "Foreign Countries."

Eight Months on the Gran Chaco of the Argentine Republic.

Svo, 8j. (id.
Electricity. See Gordon.

Elliott (H. W.) An Arctic Province ; Alaska and the Seal

Islands. Illustrated from Drawings ; also with maps. i6j-.
Ellis (W.) Royal Jubilees of England. 3?. 6d.

Emerson {Dr. P. H.) and Goodwill. Life and Landscape on
the Norfolk Inroads. Plates 12 X S inches (before publication, 105^.),

\2(iS.

Emerson {R. W.) Life. By G. W. Cooke. Crown Svo, Zs. 6d.

English Catalogue of Books. Vol. III., 1872 — 18S0 Royal
Svo, half-morocco, 42^. See also " Index."

English Etchings. A Periodical published Quarterly. 35-. 6d.

English Philosophers. Edited by E. B. Ivan Muller, M.A.

A series intended to give a concise view of the works and lives of Englisli
thinkers. Crown 8vo volumes of iso or 200 pp., price 3^-. 6d. each.
Francis Bacon, by Thomas Fowler. *John Stuart Mill, by Miss Helen

Hamilton, by W. H. S. Monck.
Hartley and James Mill, by G. S.
Bower.

Taylor.
Shaftesbury and Hutchison, by

Professor Fowler.
Adam Smith, by J. A. Farmer.

Not yet published.

Etching. See Charnock, and English Etchings.
Etchings {ModeJii) of Celebrated Paintings. 4to, 315'. ^d.

Tearing {G. A) Through the Kalahari Desert: Famae
"^ Flora, and Strange Tribes. 2\s.

Fa7'ni Ballads Festivals., and Legends. See " Rose Library."
Fairies claude Last Days of the Consulate. Cr. Svo, loj-. dd.
Faivcett edgar A Gentleman of Leisure. \s.

Federighi. Seven Ages of Man. Lithographs from Drawings,
7 plates. 25J.

Feilde?i {H. St. C.) Some Public Schools, their Cost and
Scholarships. Crown Svo, 2s. 6d.

Penn ( G. Melville) Off to the Wilds : A Story for Boys.
Profusely Illustrated. Crown Svo, 'js. 6d. ; also ^s.

The Silver Cation : a Tale of the Western Plains.

Illustrated, small post Svo, gilt, 6s. ; plainer, 5^.

Fennel greville) Book of the Roach. New Edition, 12 mo, 2s.

Ferns. See Heath.

Field {H. M.) Greek Ls la sids and Turkey after the War. 2>s. 6d.

Fields (y. T.) Yesterdays with Authors. New Ed., Svo, 10^. 6d.

Fitzgerald percy') Book Fancier : Romance of Book Collecting.


Fleming sandford) England and Canada : a Summer Tour.
Crown Svo, 6s.

Florence. See Yriarte.

Forward {R.^ Jim.) Plant Lore Legends and Lyrics. Illustrated,
8vo, 16^.

Sampson Low Marston, &^ Coss

Forbes {H. O.) Naturalists Waiideri?igs in the Eastern Archipelago.

Illustrated, 8vo, lis.

Foreign Countries and British Colonies. A series of Descriptive

Handbooks. Crown 8vo, 3^-, 6rf. each.

Australia, by J. F, Vesey Fitzgerald.

Austria, by D. Kay, F. R. G. S.
Canada, by W, Fraser Rae.

Denmark and Iceland, by E. Cette.

Egypt, by S. Lane Poole, 13. A.

France, by Miss M. Roberts.

Germany, by S. Baring-Gould.

Greece, by L. Sergeant, Bea.
*Holland, by R. L. Poole.

Japan, by S. Mossman.
*N"e\v Zealand,
*Persia, by Major-Gen. Sir F. Gold-peru,

by Clements R. Markham,

CB.
Russia, by \V. R. Merrill, M.A.
Spain, by Rev. Wentworth Webster.
Sweden and Norway, by F. H.

Woods.
switzerland, by W. A. P. Coolidge,

M.A.
*Turkey-in-Asia, by J. C. McCoan,

M.P.
West Indies, by C. II. Eden,

F.R.G.S.

Fortnight in Heaven

smit.

Not ready yet.

an Unconventional Romance. 3.?. dd.

Fortunes made in Business. Vols. I., II., III. i6j. each.

Frampto7i (mary) Journal Letters, and Anecdotes, 1799—
1846. 8vo, I4J-.

Franc maud Jeanne). The following form one Series, small
post 8vo, in uniform cloth bindings, with gilt edges : —

Emily's Choice. 5-^*

Hall's Vineyard. 4^".

John's Wife : A Story of Life in

South Australia. 4J.
Marian ; or, The Light of Some

One's Home. <^s.
Silken Cords and Ii-on Fetters. ^,
Into the Light. 4^.

Vermont Vale. 5^.
Minnie's Mission. 4J.
Little Mercy. 4J.
Beatrice Melton's Discipline.
No Longer a Child. 4^.
Golden Gifts. 4^.
Two Sides to Every Question.
Master of Ralston. 4.?.

4^.

4J.

Frank'' s Ranch ; or, My Holiday in the Rockies. A Contribution
to the Inquiry into What we are to Do with our Boys. ^s.

French. See Julien.

Froissart. See Lanieic.

Fuller edward) Fellow Travellers. 3^. dd.

nALE {F. ; the Old Buffer) Modern English Sports : their
^^ Use and Abuse. Crown 8vo, 6s. ; a few large paper copies, los. (nt.

Galloway {JV. B.) Chalk and Flint Formation. 2S. 6d.

Gave {p. JV.) Nev South Wales aid Victoria in 1885. 5^.
Geary [Grattan) Burma after the Conquest, ys. 6d.
Gentle Life (Queen Edition). 2 vols, in i, small 4to, ds.

THE GENTLE LIFE SERIES.

Price 6s. each ; or in calf extra, price vos. 6d. ; Smaller Edition, cloth
extra, 2s. 6^., except where price is named.

The Gentle Life. Essays in aid of the Formation of Character
of Gentlemen and Gentlewomen.

About in the World, Essays by Author of " The Gentle Life."

Like unto Christ. A New Translation of Thomas a Kempis'
"De Imitation Christi."

Familiar Words. An Index Variorum, or Quotation Handbook.
6^.

Essays by Montaigne. Edited and Annotated by the Author
of "The Gentle Life."

The Gentle Life. 2nd Series.

The Silesia Hour: Essays, Original and Selected, By the
Author of "The Gentle Life."

Half-length Portraits. Short Studies of Notable Persons.
By J. Hain Friswell.

Essays on English ■ Writers for the Self-improvement of

Students in English Literature.
Other People's Windows. By J. Hain Friswell. 6s.
A Man's Thoughts, By J. Hain Friswell.

The Countess of Pembroke's Arcadia. By Sir Philip Sidney.
New Edition, 6j.

George Eliot: a Critical Study of her Life. By G. W. Cooke.

Crown 8vo, vos. 6d.
Germany. By S. Baring-Gould. Crown 8vo, 3^". 6d.

Gilder (W. JL.) Lce-Pack and Indra. An Account of the

Search for the "Jeannette." Svo, iSx.
Schwatka's Search. Sledging in quest of the Franklin

Records. Illustrated, Svo, \2s. 6d.
Gisborne (W,) New Zealand Rulers and Statesmen. With

Portraits. Crown Svo, 7^. 6d, i

Gordon {Gencj-al) Private Diary in China. Edited by S.
MossMAN. Crown 8vo, ^s. 6d.

Gordon (/. E. II., Bea. Cantab?) Four lectures on Electric
Induction at the Royal Institution, 1878 9. Illust., square imo, 3X.

Electric Lighting, Illustrated, 8vo, 185.

Physical Treatise on Electricity and Magnetism. 2n(l

Edition, enlarged, with coloured, full-page, (Sic., Illust. 2 vols., 8vo, 42J.
Electricity for Schools. Illustrated. Crown 8 vo, 55.

.i Gouffe (^ Jules) Royal Cookery Book. Translated and adapted
for English use by Alphonse Gouffe, Head Pastrycook to the
Queen. New Edition, with plates in colours, Woodcuts, &c., 8vo
gilt edges, 42J.

Domestic Edition, half-bound, 10^. dd.

Grant general, U.S.) Personal Memoirs. With numerous

Illustrations, Maps, &c. 2 vols., 8vo, 28j".

Great Artists. See "Biographies."

Great Musicians. Edited by F. Suffer. A Series of
Biographies, crown 8vo, 3J-. each : —

Bach.

*Beethoven.
*Berlioz.
English Church Composers.
ByBARETT
*Gluck.

Purcell.

Rossini.

Schubert.

Schumann.

Richard Wagner.

Weber.

Handel.

Haydn.
^Marcello.

Mendelssohn.

Mozart.
*Palestrina.

I n preparation.

Greenwood (H.) Our Land Laws as they are. 2s. 6d.
Grimm (Hermann) Literature. Zs. 6d.

Groves {/. Percy) Yarmouth Grange : a Tale of the Seventeenth
Century. Illustrated, small post 8vo, gilt, ds.; plainer 5^.

Guizot History of France. Translated by Robert Black.
Super-royal 8vo, very numerous Full-page and other Illustrations. In
8 vols., cloth extra, gilt, each 24J. This work is re-issued in cheaper
binding, 8 vols., at vos. 6d. each.

It supplies a want which has long been felt, and ought to be in the hands of all
students of history." — Tii/ies.

MassoJi^s-school Edition. Abridged

from the Translation by Robert Black, with Chronological Index, Historical
and Genealogical Tables, &c. By Professor GuSTAVE Mason,
Bea. With 24 full-page Portraits, and other Illustrations, i vol.,
8vo, 600 pp., vos. 6d.

Guy on {Mde.) Life. By Upham. 6 th Edition, crown 8vo, 6j.

TJTALFORD {F. M.) Floating Flies, ajtd how to Dress them.
•'■ -^ Coloured plates. 8vo, i^s. ; large paper, 30J.

Hall {W. W.) Hoi to Live Lotig; or, 1408 Health Maxims y
Physical, Mental, and Moral. 2nd Edition, small post 8vo, 2s.

Hamilton {E.) Recollections of Fly-fishing for Salmon, Trout,
and Grayling. With their Habits, Haunts, and History. Illustrated,
small post 8vo, 6^. ; large paper (100 numbered copies), vos. dd.

Lands (Z!) Numerical Exercises in Chemistry. Cr. 8vo, 2S. 6^.
and 2s. ; Answers separately, dd.

Hardy thomas), See Low's Standard Novels.

Garland marian) Home Kitchen : a Collection of Practical
and Inexpensive Receipts. Crown Svo, <^s.

Harley (7!) Southward Ho I to the State of Georgia. 5^.

Harper's Magazine. Published Monthly. 160 pages, fully
Illustrated, \s. Vols., half yearly, I. — XII. (December, 1880, to
November, 1886), super-royal 8vo, Sj. dd. each.

' Harper's Magazine ' is so thickly sown with excellent illustrations that to count
them would be a work of time ; not that it is a picture magazine, for the engravings
illustrate the text after the manner seen in some of our choicest editions deluge." —
St. James's Gazette.

It is so pretty, so big, and so cheap. . . . An extraordinary shillingsworth—
160 large octavo pages, with over a score of articles, and more than three times as
many illustrations." — Edinburgh Daly Review.

An amazing shillings worth . . . combining choice literature of both nations"—
Nonconformist.

Harper s Young People. Vols. I.-II., profusely Illustrated with
woodcuts and 12 coloured plates. Royal 4to, extra binding, each
7J-. 6d. ; gilt edges, 8s. Published Weekly, in wrapper, id. imo. Annual
Subscription, post free, 6s. 6d, ; Monthly, in wrapper, with coloured
plate, 6d. ; Annual Subscription, post free, Js. 6d.

Harrison mary) Skilful Cook : a Practical Manual of Modern
Experience. Crown 8vo, 5j.

Hatton frank) North Borneo. With Biography by Joseph
Hatton. New Map, and Illustrations, i8j.

Hatton (Joseph) Journalistic London : with Engravings and
Portraits of Distinguished Writers of the Day. Cap. 4to, \2s. 6d.

Three Recruits, and the Girls they left behind them.

Small post 8vo, ds.

It hurries us along in unflagging excitement"— r/w/^j.

Heath (Francis George) Fern World. With Nature-printed
Coloured Plates. Crown Svo, gilt edges, \2s. 6d. Cheap Edition, 6s,

Hermann bernard) Mutiny on Board the Ship ^^ Learider.'^
Small post 8vo, gilt edges, numerous Illustrations, ^s.

Henry {G. A.) Winning his Spurs. Illustrations. Cr. 8vo, ^s.

Cornet 0/ Horse : A Story for Boys. Illust., cr. 8vo, 5^.

Jack Archer : Tale of the Cj'iniea. Illust., crown 8vo, 51.

richmond) Australian : My Early Life. ^s.

Herrick robert) Poetry. Preface by Austin Robson. With
numerous Illustrations by E. A. Abbey. 4to, gilt edges, 42J.

Hicks {E. S) Our Boys: Hoi to Enter the Merchant Service, ^s.

Higgins {T. W.) Larger History of the United States. 145".

Hill {Staveley^ Q.C.^ M.P) From Home to Llome : Two Long
Vacations at the Foot of the Rocky Mountains. With Wood
Engravings and Photogravures. 8vo, 2\s.

Hitchiiian. Public Life of the Earl of Beaconsfield. y. Cod.

Hofma?in. Sce7iesfrom the Life of our Saviour. 12 mounted
plates, 12 X 9 inches, 21s.

Holder {C. F) Marvels of Animal Life. %s. 6d. ,

Ivory Ki?ig : the Elephant and its Allies. Illustrated.
8j. (>d.

Holmes {O. Wendell Poetical Works. 2 vols., 18 mo, exquisitely
printed, and chastely bound in limp cloth, gilt tops, lOJ". (id.

Last Leaf : a Holiday Volume. 42^.

■ Mortal Antipathy, hs. 6d.

Homer, Iliad L.-XLL., done into English Verse. By Arthur
S. Way. 9x.

Odyssey. Translated by A. S. Way. 7^-. dd.

More mrs.) To Lake Tanganyika in a Bath Chair. Portraits
and maps.

Hundred Greatest Men the). 8 portfolios, 21s. each, or 4 vols.,
half-morocco, gilt edges, 10 guineas. New Ed., i vol., royal Svo, dis.

Hutchinson {T.) Diary and Letters. Vol. I., i6j. ; Vol. XL, i6j.

Hygiene and Public Health. Edited by A. H. Buck, M.D.

Illustrated. 2 vols., royal Svo, 42^.

Hymnal Companion of Common Prayer. See Bickerstkth.

Illustrated Text-Books of Art-Education. Edited by
■^ Edward. Pointer, R.A. Each Volume Contains numerous Illustrations,
and is strongly bound for Students, price 5^-. Now ready : —

PAINTING.

French, and Spanish.
English and American.

Classical Italian. By Percy

R. Head.
German, Flemish, and Dutch.

ARCHITECTURE.
Classic and Early Christian.
Gothic and Renaissance. By T. Roger Smith,

SCULPTURE.

Antique : Egyptian and Greek.

Renaissance and Modern. By Leader Scott.

Index to the English Catalogue Jcin.^ 1874, to Dec 1880*
Royal 8vo, half-morocco, iSj.

Lilian Garden Series. See Robinson (Phil).

Irving [Henry) Impressions of A?ne?'ica. By J. Hatton. 2
vols., 2is.', New Edition, i vol., 6s.

Irving ( Washington). Complete Library Edition of his Works
in 27 Vols., Copyright, Unabridged, and with the Author's Latest
Revisions, called the " Geoffrey Crayon" Edition, handsomely printed
in large square 8vo, on superfine laid paper. Each volume, of about
500 pages, fully Illustrated. \25. 6d. per vol. See also 'little Britain."

(" American Men of Letters") 2s. 6d,

eames (C.) Curiosities of Law and Lawyers. 8vo, 7^. 6d

Japan. See Anderson, Audley, also Indorse.

Merton (gertrude) Key-hole Country. Illustrated. Crown 8vo,

cloth, 5^.
Johnston {H. H.) River Congo ^ from its Mouth to Lobo.

New Edition, 8vo, 2\s.
Jones major) Heroes of Industry. Biographies with Portraits.

Ts. 6d.
The Emigrants Friend. A Complete Guide to the

United States. New Edition. 2s. 6d.
Julien {F.) English Student's French Examiner. imo, 2s.

— First Lessons in Conversational French Grammar.
Crown 8vo, \s.

-French at Home and at School. Book L, Accidence, &c.

Square crown 8vo, 2s.

Julien (A) Conversational French Reader. imo, cloth, 2S. 6d
Petites Legions de Conversation et de Grandsire. 3^.

Phrases of Daily Use. Limp cloth 6</.

• Petites Legions and Phrases. 33'. dd,

jy'EMPIS thomas a) Daily Text-book, Square imo,
■^ ^ 2s. 6d. ; interleaved as a Birthday Book, 3j. 6»/.

Kens Commentaries : an Abridgment for Students of American

Law. By Eden F. Thompson, ioj. dd.
Kerr {IV. M.) Far Interior : Cape of Good Hope across the

Zambesi, to the Lake Regions. Illustrated from Sketches, 2 vols.

8vo, 32^.

Kershaw {S. W.) Protestants frown France in their English
Home. Crown 8vo, 6^.

Hieland. Skipper Worse. By the Earls Ducis. Cr. 8vo, 105.6^.

Kingston {W. H. G.) Works. Illustrated, imo, gilt edges,
7J-. 6d. ; plainer binding, plain edges, 5j. each.

Heir of Kilfinnan.
Dick Cheveley.
Snow-shoes and Canoes.

Two Supercargoes.
With Axe and Rifle. •

Kingsley prose) Children of Westminster Abbey : Studies in
English History, ^s.

Knight {E. F.) Albania and Montenegro. Illust. Svo, I2J'. 6^.

Knight {E.J.) Cruise of the ^^ Falcon." A Voyage to South

America in a 30-Ton Yacht. Illust. New Ed. 2 vols., cr. Svo, 24-r.
Kunhardt. Small Yachts : Design and Construction. 351.

T AMB charles) Essays of Elia, With over 100 designs
■^-^ by C. O. Murray. 6s.

Lanier's Works. Illustrated, crown Svo, gilt edges, 7^-. Gd.
each.

Boy's Percy: Ballads of Love and
Adventure, selected from the
reliques."

Boy's King Arthur.
Boy's Froissart.

Boy's Abingdon ; Original Welsh
Legends of King Arthur.

Lafisdell{H.) Through Siberia. 2 vols., Svo, 30^.; i vol., los. 6d.

Russia in Central Asia. Illustrated. 2 vols, 42J.

Garden {}V.) School Course on Heat. Second Edition, Illust. %s.

Leonardo da VincPs Literary JVor/es. Edited by Dr. Jean
Paul Richter. Containing his Writings on Painting, Sculpture,
and Architecture, his Philosophical Maxims, Humorous Writings, and
Miscellaneous Notes on Personal Events, on his Contemporaries, on
Literature, &c. ; published from Manuscripts. 2 vols., imperial 8vo,
containing about 2CX) Drawings in Autotype Reproductions, and numerous
other Illustrations. Twelve Guineas.

Le Plongeon. Sacred Mysteries among the Mayas and the
Quies. \2s. 6d.

Library of Religious Poetry. Best Poems of all Ages. Edited
by ScHAFF and Oilman. Royal 8vo, 21s.; cheaper binding, 10s. 6d.

Lindsay (JV. S.) History of Merchant Shipping. Over 150
Illustrations, Maps, and Charts. In 4 vols., demy 8vo, cloth extra.
Vols. I and 2, lis. each; vols. 3 and 4, 14^. each. 4 vols., 50J.

Little Britain The Spectre Bridegroom and Legend of Sleepy
Pillow. By Washington Irving. An entirely New Edition de
luxe. Illustrated by 120 very fine Engravings on Wood, by Mr.
J. D. Cooper. Designed by Mr. Charles O. Murray. Re-issue,
square crown Svo, cloth, ds.

Lord's Standard Library of Travel and Adventure. Crown Svo,
inform in cloth extra, 7^. 6d., except where price is given.

1. The Great Lone Land. By Major W. F. Butler, Cab.

2. The Wild North Land. By Major W. F. Butler, Cab.

3. How I found Living-stone. By H. M. Stanley.

4. Through the Dark Continent. By H. M. Stanley. 12s. 6d.

5. The Threshold of the Unknown Reg-ion. By C. R. Markham.

(4th Edition, with Additional Chapters, loi. 6d.)

6. Cruise of the Challenge-er. By W. J. J. Spry, Ren.

7. Burnaby's On Horseback through Asia Minor. loj-. 6d.

8. Schweinfurth's Heart of Africa. 2 vols., I5i-.

9. Marshall's Through America.

10. Lansdell's Through Siberia. Illustrated and unabridged,
los. 6d.

Lords Standard Novels. Small post Svo, cloth extra, ds. each,
unless otherwise stated.
A Daughter of Heth. By W. Black.
In Silk Attire. By W. Black.
Ailment. A Novel. By W. Black.
Lady Coverdale's Sweetheart. By W. BLACK.
Sunrise. By W. Black.
Three Feathers. By William Black.
Alice Lorraine. By R. D. Blackmore.
Christowell, a Dartmoor Tale. By R. D. BlaCKMORE.
Clara Vaughan. By R. D. Blackmore.

Zola's Standard Novels — continued.

Oradock Powell. By R. D. Blackmore.

Cripps the Carrier. By R, D. Blackmore.

Enema ; or, My Father's Sin. By R. D. BLACKMORE.

liorua Done. By R. D. Blackmore. 25111 Edition.

Irlary Waverley. By R. D. Blackmore.

Tommy Upmore. By R. D. Blackmore.

An English Squire. By Miss Coleridge.

Some One Else. By Mrs. B. M. Croaker.

A Story of the Drag-invades. By Rev. E. GiLLiAT, M.A.

A Laodicean. By Thomas Hardy.

Far from the Madding* Crowd. By Thomas Hardy.

Pair of Blue Eyes. By Thomas Hardy.

Return of the Native. By Thomas Hardy.

The Hand of Ethelbert. By Thomas Hardy.

The Trumpet Major. By Thomas Hardy.

Two on a Tower. By Thomas Hardy.

Three Recruits. By Joseph Hatton.

A Golden Sorrow. By Mrs. Castel Holy. New Edition.

Out of Court. By Mrs. Castel Holy.

Don John. By Jean Angelo.

John Jerome. By Jean Angelo. 5x.

Sarah de Berenger. By Jean Angelo.

Adela Cathcart. By George Mac Donald.

Guild Court. By George Mac Donald.

Mary Marston. By George Mac Donald.

Stephen Archer. New Ed. of "Gifts." By George Mac Donald.

The Vicar's Daughter. By George Mac Donald.

Weighed and "Wanting. By George Mac Donald.

Diane. By Mrs. Macquoid.

Elinor Dryden. By Mrs. Macquoid.

My Lady Greensleeves. By Helen Matters.

Alaric Spenceley. By Mrs. J. H. Liddell.

Daisies and Buttercups. By Mrs. J. H. Liddell.

The Senior Partner. By Mrs. J. H. Liddell.

A Struggle for Fame. By Mrs. J. H. Liddell.

Jack's Courtship. By W. Clark Russell.

John Wordsworth. By W. Clark Russell.

A Sailor's Sweetheart. By W. Clark Russell.

Sea Queen. By W. Clark Russell

Watch Below. By .W. Clark Russell.

Strange Voyage. By W. Clark Russell.

Wreck of the Grosvenor. By W. Clark Russell,

The Lady Maud. By W. Clark Russell.

Little Loo. By W. Clark Russell.

The Late Mrs. Null. By Frank R. Stockton.

My Wife and I. By Mrs. Beecher Stowe.

Pog-anuc People, their Loves and Lives. By Mrs. B. Stowe,

Low's Standard Novels — continued.

Ben Hur : a Tale of the Christ. By Lew. Wallace.

Anne. By Constance Fenimore Wilson.

East Angels. By Constance Fenimore Wilson.

For the Major. By Constance Fenimore Wilson. ^s.

French Heiress in her own Chateau.

Lo7v's Handbook to the Charities of London. Edited and revised
to date. Yearly, cloth, is. 6d.; paper, is.

J\/TCCORMICK (7?.). Voyages of Discovery in the Arctic and
•^^■*- Antarctic Seas in the "Erebus'' and "Terror," iu Search of

Sir John Franklin, &c. With Maps and Lithos. 2 vols., royal 8vo,

5 2 J. 6^.
MacDonald {G.) Oris. Small post 8vo, ds.

See also " Low's Standard Novels."

Mackay ( Charles) Nea Glossary of Obscure Words in Shakespeare

e. 21s.
Macgregor john) ^^ Rob Roy'' on the Baltic. 3rd Edition,

small post Svo, 2s. 6d. ; cloth, gilt edges, 3^-. 6d.

A Thousand Miles in t/ie^^Rob Roy" Canoe, nth

Edition, small post Svo, 2s. 6d. ; cloth, gilt edges, ^s. 6d.

Voyage Alone in the Yatvl " Rob Roy'' New Edition

with additions, small post Svo, Sx. j 3^. dd. and 2s. 6d.

McLellan^s Otvn Story : The War for the Union. Illustrations
and maps. iSx.

MacquoidiJSLrs.). See Low's Standard Novels.
Magazine. See Decoration, English Etchings, Harper.
Maginn{W.) Miscellanies. Prose and Verse. With Memoire
2 vols., crown Svo, 24^.

Main mrs.; Mrs, Fred Burnaby) High Life and Towers of

Silence. Illustrated, square Svo, los. 6d.
Manitoba. See Bryce.

Maiming {E, F.) Delightful Thames, Illustrated. 4to, fancy-boards,
5 J.

MarkJiani (C. R.) The Threshold of the Unknown Region.
Crown Svo, with Four Maps. 4th Edition, Cloth extra, loj-. bd.

War between Peru and Chih\ 187 9-1 881. Third Ed.

Crown Svo, with Maps, loj-. 6c/.

See also "Foreign Countries."

Marshall (W. G.) Through America. New Ed., cr. Svo, 75. dd.

Martin {j/^ . W.) Float Fishing and Spinning in the Nottingham

Style. New Edition. Crown 8vo, 2j. dd.
Maury (Consider) Physical Geography of the Sea, and its

Meteorology. New Edition, with Charts and Diagrams, or. 8vo, 6s.

Men of Mark : a Gallery of Contemporary Portraits of the most
Eminent Men of the Day, specially taken from Life. Complete in
Seven Vols., 4to, handsomely bound, clotb,'gilt edges, 2^s. each.

Mendelssohn Family i^The), 1729 — 1847. From Letters and

Journals. Translated. New Edition, 2 vols., 8vo, 30j'.
Mendelssohn. See also *' Great Musicians."
Merriment's Nautical Astronomy. Crown 8vo, "js, 6d,
Merrylees (J.) Carlsbad and its Environs, "js. 6d. ; roan, 95.

Mitchell (Z>. G. ; Ik. Marvel) Works. Uniform Edition,
small Svo, <,s. each.

Reveries of a Bachelor.

Seven Stories, Basement and Attic.

Wet Days at Wedgwood.

Bound together.
Doctor Johns.
Dream Life.
Out-of-To\vn Places.

Milford mary Russell) Our Village. With 1 2 full-pape and 157
smaller Cuts. Cr. 4to, cloth, gilt edges, 2ij-.; cheaper binding, los. 6d.

Milford (P.) Ned Stafford's Experiences in the United States. 5^.

Mollett {/. W.) Illustrated Dictionary of Words used in Art and
Archaeology. Terms in Architecture, Arms, Bronzes, Christian Art,
Colour, Costume, Decoration, Devices, Emblems, Heraldry, Lace,
Personal Ornaments, Pottery, Painting, Sculpture, &c. Small 4to, i5j-.

Money {E.) The Truth about America, ^s.

Morley {H.) English Literature in the Reign of Victoria.
2000tli volume of the Tauchnitz Collection of Authors. imo, 2s. dd.

Morse {E. S.) Japanese Tonnes and their Surroundings. With
more than 300 Illustrations. 21s.

Manhood. Our Gipsies in City, Tent, and Van. Svo, i8j.

Morley. Barbados, West Indian Sanatorium. 3^. dd,

Muller.) Noble Words and Noble Deeds. 'js.6d.; plainer
binding, ^s.

Murray {E. C. Grenville) Memoirs. By his widow, Comtesse
DE Ethel dragon.

Music. See " Great Musicians."

Mustard Leaves: GVunpses of London Society, ByD.T.S. 3^. 6^/.

Napoleon and Marie Louise : Memoirs, By Madame

■^ ' Durant. 'js, 6d.

New Zealand. See Bradshaw.

Nev Zealand Rulers and Statesmen. See Gisborne.

Nicholls {J. H. Kerry) The Kifig Country : Explorations in
New Zealand. Many Illustrations and Map. New Edition, 8vo, 21s.

Nordhoff {C?) Calif oniia^ for Healthy Pleasure and Residence.
New Edition, 8vo, with Maps and Illustrations, \zs. 6d.

Notebook Gallery. Edited by Lord Ronald Gower. 36 Permanent
Photographs. Imperial 4to, (>y.\ large paper, 1055-.

Not major) Wild Animals Photographed and Described. 355'.

Nursery Playmates prince of ). 217 Coloured Pictures for
Children by eminent Artists. Folio, in coloured boards, 6>r.

rSBRIEN {R. B.) Fifty Years of Concessions to Ireland,
^ With a Portrait of T. Drummond. Vol. I., 16s., II., i6s.

Orient Line Guide Book. By W. J. Loftier. 53-.

Oris (C. F.) Fishing with the Fly, Illustrated. 8vo, \2s. 6d.

Our Little Ones in Leaven. Edited by the Rev. H. Robbins.
With Frontispiece after Sir Joshua Reynolds. New Edition, scouting

: Magazine of Outdoor Sports. \s. Monthly.

O^veji douglas) Marine Insurance Notes and Clauses. New
Edition, \/\s.

pALLISER mrs.) A History of Lace. New Edition, with
•^ additional cuts and text. 8vo, 21s.

The China Collector's Pocket Companion. With upwards

of 1000 Illustrations of Marks and Monograms. Small 8vo, 5j-.
Pascoe {C. E.) London of To Day. Illust., crown 8vo, y. 6d.

Payne {T. O.) Solomon's Temple aid Capitol Ark of the Flood
and Tabernacle (four sections at 24J.), extra binding, loss.

Penned {H. Chohnondeley) Sporting Fish of Great Britain.
1 5 J. ; large paper, 30J-.

Pharmacopoeia of the United States of America. 8vo, 21s,

Pilot pii. /.) Diabetes Mellitus. Crown 8vo, 5^.

— — Diet System. Tables. I. Dyspepsia ; II. Gout ;
III. Diabetes ; IV. Corpulence. In cases, is. each.

Pliinkett major G. T.) Primer of Orthographic Projection.
Elementary Practical Solid Geometry clearly explained. With Problems
and Exercises. Specially adapted for Science and Art Classes,
and for Students who have not the aid of a Teacher. 2s.

Poe {E. A?) The Raven. Illus. by Dore. Imperial folio, 635.

Poems of the Inner Life. Chiefly from Modern Authors.
Small 8vo, ^s.

Polar Expeditions. See Gilder, Markham, McCormick.

Porter noah) Elements of Moral Science. 10s. 6d.

Portraits of Celebrated Pace-horses of the Past and Present
Centuries, with Pedigrees and Performances. 3IJ. dd. per vol.

Powell (IV.) Wanderings in a Wild Country ; or, Three Years
among the Cannibals of New Britain. Illus., 8vo, i8j.; or. Svo, 5j.

Politer edwards., P. A.). See " Illustrated Text-books."

Print {T. E.) North Country Flies. Illustrated from the
Author's Drawings. lox. ()d.

Publisher Circular the), and General Record of British and
Foreign Literature. Published on the list and 15th of every Month, 3^?'.

Weber {F.) History of Ancient Art. Svo, i8j.

Redford {G.) Ancient Sculpture. New edition. Crown Svo,
I ox. 6d.

Richter {Dr. Jea7i Paul) Italian Art in the National Gallery.
4to. Illustrated. Cloth gilt, 2/. 2s.', half-morocco, uncut, 2/. 12s. 6d.

See also Leonardo da Vinci.

Liddell mrs. J. H.) See Low's Standard Novels.

Robin Hood; Merry Adventures of. Written and illustrated
by Howard Pyle. Imperial Svo, 15J.

Robinson phil.) Iji viy Indian Garden. Crown Svo, limp
cloth, 3J-. dd.

Robinson (phil.) Indian Garden Series, is. 6d. ; boards, is,
each.

I. Chasing a Fortune, &c. : Stones. II. Tigers at Large. III. Valley
of Teetotum Trees.

Noah's Ark. A Contribution to the Study of Unnatural

History. Small post 8vo, lis. 6d.

Sinners and Saints : a Tour across the United States of

America, and Round them. Crown 8vo, los. 6d,

Under the Funkah. Crown 8vo, limp cloth, ^s.

Rockstro (TV. S.) History of Music. New Edition. 8vo, 145".

Rodriguez {/. C.) The Panama Capias. Crown 8vo, cloth

extra, 5^.

"A series of remarkable articles . a mine of valuable data for editors and
diplomatists." — New York Nation.

Roland: The Story of. Crown Svo, illustrated, ()S.

Rofne and the Environs. 33-.

Rose (y^.) Complete Practical Machinist. New Ed. , 1 2 mo, 1 2i". dd.

Key to Engines and Engine Running. ']s. 6d.

Mechanical Drawing. Illustrated, small 4to, i ds.

Modern Steam Engines. Illustrated. 31^. dd.

Rose Library the). Popular Literature of all Countries. Each
volume, IS. Many of the Volumes are Illustrated —

Little Women. By Louisa M. Alcott.

Whittle Women Wedded. Forming a Sequel to " Little Women."
Little Women and Little Women Wedded, i vol. , cloth gilt,3i-. 6cL
Little Men. By L. M. Alcott. Double vol., 2x.; cloth gilt, 2^. 6d.
An Old-fashioned Girl. • By LouiSA M. Alcott. 2j.; cloth,

3J-. 6d.
Work. A Story of Experience. By L. M. Alcott. 3j. 6d. ; 2 vols.

\s. each.
Stowe (Mrs. H. B.) The Pearl of Orr's Island.

The Minister's Wooing

and our Neighbours. 2s. ; cloth gilt, 6s.

My Wife and I. 2s. ; cloth gilt, 6^.

Hans Drinker ; or, the Silver Skates. By Mrs. Dodge. Also 5^.

Rose Library (The)— cont limed.

My Study "Windows. By J. R. LoWELL.

The Guardian Hang-el, By Oliver Wendell Holmes.

My Summer in a Garden. By C. D. Warner.

Died. By Mrs. Beecher Stowe. 2s.; cloth gilt, 3J-. 6d.

Farm Ballads, By Will Carleton.

Farm Festivals. By Will Carleton.

Farm Leg-ends. By Will Carleton.

Farm Ballads : Festivals and Legends. One vol. , cloth, ^s. 6d.

Thee Clients of Dr. Bernagius. 3^. 6d. ; 2 parts, is. each.

Thee Undiscovered Country. By W. D. Howell. 3^. 6d. and is.

Baby Rue. By C. M. Clay. 3.9. 6d. and is.

The Rose in Bloom. By L. M. Alcott. 2s. ; cloth gilt, 31. 6d.

Eig-lit Cousins. By L. M. Alcott. 2s. ; cloth gilt, 3^-. 6d.

Under the Lilacs. By L. M. AlCOTT. 2s. ; also 3^. 6d.

Silver Pitchers. By LouiSA M. Alcott. Cloth, 3^-. 6d.

Jemmy's Cruise in the "Pinafore," and other Tales. By

Louisa M. Alcott. 2s.; cloth gilt, 3^. 6d.
Jack and Jill. By Louisa M. Alcott. 2s.; Illustrated, 5x.

Hitherto. By the Author of the "Gayworthys." 2 vols., ix. each;

I vol., cloth gilt, 3J-. 6d.
A Gentleman of Leisure. A Novel. By Edgar Facets. is.
The Story of Helen Troy. is.

Ross (Mars) and Stonehenge Cooper. Highlands of Calabria ;
or, Three Days from England. Illustrations and Map, 8vo, dis.

Round the Yule Log: Norwegian Folk and Fairy Tales.
Translated from the Norwegian of P. Chr. Asbjornsen. With 100
Illustrations after drawings by Norwegian Artists, and an Introduction
by E. W. Gosse. Imply. imo, cloth extra, gilt edges, "js. 6d. and 55.

Rousselet (Louis) Son of the Constable of France. Small post
8vo, numerous Illustrations, 5^.

King of the Tigers : a Story of Central India. Illustrated.
Small post 8vo, gilt, ds. ; plainer, 5x.

Drummer Boy. Illustrated. Small post 8vo, 5^.

Rowbotham {F.) Trip to Prairie Land, The Shady Side of
Emigration. 5^.

Russell {W. Clark) Jack's Courtship. 3 vols., 31^. dd.;
I vol., 6 J.

The Lady Maud. 3 vols., 31^. dd. ; i vol., ds.

Sea Queen. 3 vols., 3ii'. (id.\ i vol., 6j.

^— Strange Voyage. 31^. dd,

Little Loo. 6^.

My Watch Below. 6s.

English Channel Forts and the Estate of the East and

West India Dock Company. Crown 8vo, \s.

Sailor's Language. Illustrated. Crown 8vo, 35. dd.

Wreck of the Grosvenor. Small post 8vo, 6s. \ 4to,

sewed, 6d.

See also Low's Standard Novels.

OALNTS and their Symbols : A Companion in the Churches
*^ and Picture Galleries of Europe. Illustrated. Royal i6nio, 3^-. 6^/.

Salisbury lord) Life and Speeches. By F. S. Pulling, M.A.
With Photogravure Portrait of Lord Salisbury. 2 vols., cr. 8vo, 2\s.

Sandbanks {J. P.) Slow to Develop Vocal Power, is.

Saunders (A.) Our Domestic Birds: Poultry in England and
New Zealand. Crown 8vo, 6s.

Our Horses : the Best Muscles controlled by the Best

Brains. 6s.

Scherr prof. J^.) History of English Literature. Cr. 8vo, Si". 6d.

Scilly. Rescue of Freely. Maps and Illustrations, 8vo, 1 2s. 6d,

Schuyler eugene) American Diplomacy and the Furtherance of
Commerce. 12s. 6d.

The Life of Peter the Great. 2 vols., 8vo, 32^-.

Schweijifurth {Georg) Heart of Africa. Three Years' Travels
and Adventures in Unexplored Regions. 2 vols., crown 8vo, i5j-.

Scoff [Leader) Renaissance of Art i?i Italy. 4to, 31^. 6d.

Sculpture Renaissance and Modern. 55.

Se?tior{W.) Waterside Sketches. Imp. 321110, 15.6^., boards, \s.

Shadbolt (S. H.) Afghan Campaigns of 1878 — 1S80. 13y
Sydney Shadbolt. 2 vols., royal quarto, cloth extra, 3/.

Shakespeare. Edited by R. Grant White. 3 vols., crown
8vo, gilt top, 36^.; edition de hide, 6 vols., 8vo, cloth extra, 6^s.

Shakespeare. See also White. (R. Grant).

Sidney sir Philip) Arcadia. New Edition, siegfried

: The Story of Illustrated, crown 8vo, cloth, ds.

Simon (A.) Wilds of Ecuador and the Putumayor River.
Crown Svo.

Sinclair mrs.) Indigenous Flowers of the Hawaiian Islands.
44 Plates in Colour. Imp. folio, extra binding, gilt edges, 31J. 6d.

Sir Roger de Coverley. Re-imprinted from the "Spectator."
With 125 Woodcuts and special steel Frontispiece. Small cap. 4*0, 6s.

Smith {G.) Assyrian Explorations and Discoveries. Illustrated
by Photographs and Woodcuts. New Edition, demy Svo, iSj.

The Chaldca?i Account of Genesis. "With many Illustrations.

i6s. New Ed. By Professor Sauce. Svo, i8x,

Smith {J. Moor) Ancient Greek Female Costume. 112 full-page
Plates and other Illustrations. Crown Svo, 7^-. 6d.

Hades of Ardennes : The Caves of Han. Crown Svo,

Illust., ss.

Legendary Studies and other Sketches for Decorative

Figure Panels. 7^. 6d.
Wooing of xEthra. Illustrated. 32mo, i^.

Smith sydney) Life and Tmcs. 13y Stuart J. Reid. Illustrated.
8vO, 2IJ-.

Sf/iith {T. Roger) Architecture , Gothic and Renaissance. Illustrated,
crown 8vo, ^s.

• Classic acid Early Christian, ^s,

Sffiith ( W. R.) Laws concerning Public Health. 8vo, '^\s. 6d.

Spies French Dictionary. 29th Edition, remodelled. 2 vols.,
8vo, \Zs.'y half bound, 2U.

Spry {}V. J. J., Ren) Cruise of H.m.s'' Challenger With
with Illustrations. 8vo, iSj. Cheap Edit., crown Svo, 7^. 6^/.

Spyri {J oh?) Heidi'' s Early Experiences : a Story for Children
and those who love Children. Illustrated, small post Svo, 4J-. dd.

HeidVs Further Experiences. lust., sm. post Svo, 4^. dd.

Start {/, W, K.) Junior Mensuration Exercises. Sd.

Stanley {H. M.) Congo ^ and Founding its Free State. Illustrated,
2 vols., 8vo, 42 J. ', re-issue, 2 vols. Svo, 21s.

Low L Found Livingstone. Svo, ioj". 6^. ; cr. Svo, 71. dd.

Through the Dark Continent. Crown Svo, 125-. dd.

Stenhouse mrs.) An Englishwoman in Utah. Crown Svo, 2s. 6d.

Starry {/. Ashy) Cucumber Chronicles, ^s.

Stevens {E. IV.) Fly-fishing i?i Maine Lakes. Sj-. dd.

Stewards Year Book of New Zealand 1886-87. 7i'. dd.

Stockton frank R.) The Story of Viteau. Illust. Cr. Svo, ^s.

— The Late Mrs, Null. Crown Svo, ds.

Stoker abram) Under the Sunset, Crown Svo, ds.

Stowe mrs. Beecher) Died. Cloth, gilt edges, 3^. 6^.; boards, 2s.

Little Foxes. Cheap Ed., \s.\ Library Edition, 4^. dd.

My Wife and T. ds.

Old Town Folk. ds. \ also 3^.

Old Tozvn Fireside Stories. Cloth extra, 3^. dd.

We and our Neighbours, ds.

Stowe mrs. Beecher) Polemic People, ds.

Chimney Corner. is. ; cloth, is. 6d.

See also Rose Library.

Smithfield hugh E. M.) El Maghreb : 1200 Miles' Ride through
Morocco. '6s. 6d.

Sullivan {A. M.) Nutshell History of Ireland. Paper boards, 6d.

Sutton {A. K.) A B C Digest of the Bankruptcy Law. 8vo,
3^. and 2s. 6d.

n^AINE {H. A.) ^' Ses Origines de la France Contenipo?'aine.^^
•*■ Translated by John Durant.

T. The Ancient Regime. Demy Svo, cloth, i6s.

II. The French Revolution. Vol. i. do.

III. Do. do. Vol. 2. do.

IV. Do. do. Vol. 3. do.

Talbot thon. E.) A Letter on Emigration, is.

Tauchnitz's English Editions of German Authors. Each
volume, cloth flexible, 2s. ; or sewed, is. 6d. (Catalogues post free.)

Tauchnitz {B .) German Dictionary. 2s.; paper, is. 6d.; roan,
2s. 6d.

French Dictionary. 2s.; paper, is. 6d.; roan, 2s. 6d.

'Italian Dictionary. 2s. ; paper, i^. dd. ; roan, 2s. dd.

Latin Dictionary. 2s. ; paper, ij-. 6d. ; roan, 2s. 6d.

Spanish and English. 2s. ; paper, is. 6d. ; roan, 2s. 6d.

Spanish and French. 2s. \ paper, is. dd. ; roan, 2s. dd.

Taylor {R. L.) Chemical Analysis Tables, is.

Taylor { W. M.) Joseph the Prime Minister, ds.

Paul the Missionary. Crown Svo, 7^. dd.

Techno- Chemical Receipt Book. With additions by Brant
and Wahl. los. dd.

Teasing prof.) Malt and the Fabrication of Beer. Svo, 45 J.

Theakston {M.) British Angling Flies. Illustrated. Cr. Svo, 5X.

Thomson jos.) Through Masai Land. Illust. and Maps. 215,

Thomson ( W?) Algebra for Colleges and Schools, With Answers,
5j. ; without, 4J. 6^/. j Answers separate, li". 6d.

Thoreau. American Men of Letters. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

Tissandier^ Photography. Edited by J. Thomson, with Appendix
by H. Fox Talbot. Illustrated, ds.

Tolhausefi. Supplement du Dictionnaire Techno logiqiie. 35'. ^d.

Tristan {Pev. Canon) Pathways of Palestine. Series T., with
Permanent Photographs. 2 vols.,foHo, cloth, gilt edges, 3ij-. 6^/. each.

Trollope (anthony) Thompson Hall. \s.

Tromholt (S.) Under the Rays of the Aurora Borealis. By
C. Sievers. Photographs and Portraits. 2 vols., 8vo, 30^.

Tucker {W.J.) Life and Society in Eastern Europe. \<^s.

Tupper martin Farquhar) My Life as afi Author. 145".

Turner [Edward) Studies in Russian Literature. Cr. 8vo, 8^. 6d.

T Union Jack the). Every Boy's Paper. Edited by G. A.
^ Henry. Profusely Illustrated with Coloured and other Plates.
Vol. I., 6j. Vols. II., III., IV., 7 J. (id. each.

r/ALLANCE lucy) Paul's Birthday, y. ed.

Van Kanipen {S. P.) Nicholas Gottfried Van Kampen : a
Biographical Sketch By Samuel R. Van Camden. 145-.

Vashti comfit) Berlin Society. Translated. Cr. 8vo, 6s.

World of London fla Societe de Londres). Cr. 8vo, ds,

Victoria {Qiieen) Life of By Grace Greenwood. Illust. ds.

Vincent mrs. ILoiuard) Forty Thousand Miles over Land and
Water. With Illustrations. New Edti., 3^. (id.

Viollet-le-Duc {E.) Lectures on Architecture. Translated by
Benjamin Bucknall, Architect. With 33 Steel Plates and 200
Wood Engravings. Super-royal 8vo, leather back, gilt top, 2 vols., 3/. 3J-.

Laegb CBOwar 8vo.

WORKS.

20,000 Leagues under the Sea.

Parts I. aud II

Hector Servadac

The Fur Country

The Earth to the Moon and a Trip

round it

Michael Strogofi

Dick Sands, the Boy Captain . .
Five Weeks in a Balloon . . .
Adventures of Three Englishmen
and Three Russians
Round the "World in Eighty Days

A Floating City

The Blockade Runners . . .
Dr. Ox's Experiment
A Winter amid the Ice . . .
Survivors of the '* Chancellor "

Martin Paz

The Mysterious Island, 3 vols. : —

I. Dropped from the Clouds

II. Abandoned

III. Secret of the Island . .
The Child of the Cavern . . .
The Begum's Fortune . . .
TLe Tribulations of a Chinaman
The Steam House, 2 vols. : —

I. Demon of Cawnpore . .
II. Tigers and Traitors . .
The Giant Raft, 2 vols. :—

I. 800 Leagues on the Amazon
II. The Cryptogram . . .

The Green Ray

Godfrey Morgan

Keraban the Inflexible : —

I. Captain of the '« Guitar "
II. Scarpante the Spy .
The Archipelago on Fire .
The Vanished Diamond .
Mathias Sanders . . .
Lottery Ticket

Containing 350 to GOO pp.
and from 50 to 100
(. full-page illustrations.

In very
handsome
cloth binding?,

gilt
edges.

s. d.

10 6

10 6

10 6

10 6










7 6

















7 6








In

plainer

binding,

plain

edges.

8. d.




3 6









3 6

3 6

3 6

3 6



3 6

3 6

3 6

Containing the whole of the
text with some illustrations.

In cloth

binding, gilt

edpcfl,

smaller

typos.

d.
3 6

3 6

3 6
f 2 vols., "^
lis. ea. )

3 6

3 6






(20
[20





[l











Coloured boards.











2 vols., Is. each.

2 vols., Is. each.
2 vols., Is. each.

2 vols., Is. each.

2 vols., Is. each.
2 vols., Is. each.
Is. Od.



2 vols., Is. each.
Is. Oi.










Celebrated Travels and Travellers. 3 vols. 8vo, 600 pp., 100 fuU-pngo illustrations, 12». 6J.;
gilt edges, 14j(. each:— (1) The Explorations thb World. (2) Thb Great Navigators o»

fpi ElQHXEEKtn CiiMXUBT. (3) TdH GbEAT EXPIOBKES OF THE KlHBTSENXU CeNICBY.

TJ/AHL {W. If.) Galvanoplastic Manipulation for 4/ie
^'^^ Electro Plater. 8vo, 35^-.

Wakefield. Aix-les-Bains : Bathing and Attradiotis. 2s. 6d.
Wallace (Z.) Ben Hur: A Tale of the Christ. Crown 8vo, caller
rev. C. H) The Navies on the Gates of Pearly

and other Studies. New Edition. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, y. 6./.
— A' Grammar and Analytical Vocabulary of the Words in

the Greek Testament. Compiled from Bride's Concordance. Part I.

Grammar. Small post 8vo, cloth, 2s. 6d. Part II. Vocabulary, 2s. 6d.

Adoption and the Covenant. On Confirmation. 2s. 6d.

Silver Sockets; and other Shadows of Redemption.

Sermons at Christ Church, Hampstead. Small post 8vo, ds.
Walton {Lz.) Wallet Book, CloIoLXXXV. 21^. ; 1. p. 42s.

{T H.) Coal Mining. With Illustrations. 4to, 255-.

Warner {C. JD.) My Sunder in a Garden. Boards, ij-. ;

leatherette, is. 6d. ; cloth, 2s.
Warren {W. F.) Paradise Found; the North Pole the Cradle

of the Human Race. Illustrated. Crown 8 vo, 12s. 6d.
Washington Irving' s Little Britain. Square crown 8 vo, (js.
Watson {P. B.) Marcus Aurelius Antoninus. 8vo, 15^'.
Webster. (american Men of Letters") imo, 2s. 6d.
Weir harrison) Animal Stories, Old and New, told in Pictures

and Prose. Coloured, &c., Illustrations. 56 pp., 4t0, 5^.
Wells {H. p.) American Salmon Fisherman. 6s.
Fly Rods and Fly Tackle. Illustrated, los.dd.

ij. W.) Three Thousand Miles through Brazil. Illustrated
from Original Sketches. 2 vols. 8vo, yis.

Wheaten {H. B.) and Dclamotte {P. H.) Art Work in Porcelain.

Large 8vo, 2s. 6d.
I — Art Work in Gold and Silver. Modern. 2s. 6d.
— Handbook of Decorative Art. vos. 6d.
Whisperings. Poems. Small post 8vo, gilt edges, 35-. dd.
White (R. Grant) England Without and Within. Crown 8vo,

vos. 6d.
Every-day English. vos. 6d. Words, &c.

Fate of Mansfield Humphreys, the Episode of Mr.

■ Washington Adams in England, an Apology, &c. Crown 8vo, ds.

Studies in Shakespeare. 10s. 6d.

Words and their Uses. New Edit., crown 8vo, whittier

{J. G.) Tie King's Missive, and later Poems. imo,
choice parchment cover, 3J. 6d.

Whittier (/. G) The Whittier Birthday Book. Uniform with
the "Emerson Birthday Book." Square imo, very choice binding,

Life of By R. A. Underwood. Cr. 8vo, cloth, los. dd.

m, ■■■ St. Gregory's Guest ^'c. Recent Poems. 55.

Williams {C. F.) Tariff Laws of the United States. 8vo, 10s. 6d.

(ZT. W.) Diseases of the Eye. 8vo, 215.

Wills A Few Hints on Proving without Professional Assistance,
By a Probate Court Official. 8th Edition, revised, with Forms
of Wills, Residuary Accounts, &c. Cap. Svo, cloth limp, is.

Wills {Dr. C. /.) Persia as it is. Crown Svo. '^' .

Willis-Bund {/.) Salmon Problems. 35-. dd. ; boards, 2S. 6d.

Wilson {Dk» Andrew) Health for the People.

Wimbledon viscount) Life and Times 1628-38. By C.

Dalton. 2 vols., Svo, 30J.
Windsor justin) Narrative a?td Critical History of America.

8 vols., 30J'. each ; large paper, per vol., 63J.

Witthaus (P. A.) Medical Student's Chemistry. 8vo, its.

Woodbury History of Wood Engraving. Illustrated. 8vo, 185.

Wolsey. Introduction to International Law. 5th Ed., \Zs.

Wilson constance F.) See " Low's Standard Novels."

Wright {H.) Friendship of God. Portrait, &c. Crown 8vo, ds.

Wright {T.) Town of Cowper Olney, 6-r. ds.

Written to Order ; the Journey in gs of an Responsible Egotist,
By the Author of " A Day of my Life at Eton." Crown Svo, ds.

y^RIARTE charles) Florence: its History. Translated by
•^ C. B. Pitman. Illustrated with 500 Engravings. Large imperial

4to, extra binding, gilt edges, 63J. ; or 12 Parts, ^s. each.

History ; the Medici ; the Humanists ; letters ; arts ; the Renaissance ;

illustrious Florentines; Etruscan art; monuments; sculpture; painting.

SAMPSON LOW, MARSTON, SEARLE, & Livingston,
CROWN BUILDINGS, 188, FLEET STREET, Eg.
