OF Thun
Diversity
OF ILLINOIS

8Z5

H552ur

v. I

WATERS OF March.

BY

JOHN HILL.

Farewell and adieu !
Each year that we live shall we sing it anew ;
"With a water unravelled before us for sailing,
And a water behind us that wrecks may bestrew.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

LONDON :

TINSLEY BROTHERS, 8, CATHERINE STREET, STRAND.

1883.

[All rights reserved']

v. /

CONTENTS.

$axt the Jirsi.— Wxt ffl&xnUt's %%h.

CHAPTER I.

PAGE

CHARLIE DEANE MAKES A CHANGE OF HABITAT . . 3



CHAPTER II.

I

IN Gurgle VASTO 19

i



f CHAPTER III.



5 " THE SPOTTED DOG * 35

r

CHAPTER IV.


OVER THE SHERRIS-SACK 58

CHAPTER V.

PAGE

THE MAN WITH THE MORBID TEMPERAMENT . 81

CHAPTER VI.

GOSSIP IN THE GARDEN 102

CHAPTER VII.

CASPAR ON CHRISTMAS . 121

Part the <S£ontb.— JUmals of a "<Shil}rit" Family.
CHAPTER I.

ROW THE DEGENERATION SET IN 141

CHAPTER II.

"A SOFT LIKE OF PLEASURABLE DAYS " 153

CHAPTER III.

THE YOUNGEST LIVING REPRESENTATIVE OF DICK Warrington

174

$art tfu c Hhix'b.— Caspar's jaitettmnur Jttabtuss.

CHAPTER I.

*AGE

ON THEIR TRAVELS 187

CHAPTER II.

SHOWING HOW A SUMMER MORNING MAY BE WASTED . 205

CHAPTER III.

DICK Monteith . . 222

Part the Jixat
THE Winter's TALE.

VOL. I.

CHAPTER I.

CHARLIE DEANE MAKES A CHANGE OF HABITAT.

Charlie Deane lived with his grandmother,
Mrs. Deane, when he was at home. She
was what he termed a " dear old girl," to
distinguish her from her daughter — his aunt
Miss Deane, whom he called " a jolly old
girl;" and his orphan cousin, Lily Carew,
whom he described as a "nice little girl."

The family lived in a dwelling which was
either a cottage or a bijou villa residence,
according as one took obvious fact or house-agent
fiction as a guide, in the outskirts of

a tolerably fashionable watering-place on the
South Coast Railway line.

Mrs. Deane was aged, sweet-tempered,
kind, stately, and very handsome, and held
the dogma of the infallibility of Charlie in
all things, as well as a strong belief in his
capacity for becoming Lord Chancellor, Field-marshal
of the Forces, and Archbishop of
Canterbury, together or separately, if he
directed his efforts rightly.

Miss Deane was a rather young old
maid, not untimely, decided, housekeeping,
and energetic, with a tendency to believe
she could write novels. Her principal duties
consisted in looking after her mother, lest
she should sit with a north-east wind blowing
on the back of her neck in the garden, or
take walks exceeding two hundred yards in
length, or do any of the many daring and
dangerous things in which charming but
infirm old ladies take such a cheerful

pleasure ; also in looking after the solitary
servant, Emma, lest she should admit beetles
into the soup, or levees of her admirers into
the kitchen, or smear the bars of the grate
with flour, or ring the dinner-bell without
putting any knives on the table. In fact,
Miss Deane did most of Emma's work daily,
just to show her how it should be done,
which treatment that damsel endured complacently.
Miss Deane also made cherry-brandy
for visitors (cherry-brandy having
now supplanted elder-wine in female households).


Mrs. Deane knitted peaceably, sitting bolt
upright in an armchair in which dignity
was a more prominent characteristic than
comfort, while her daughter read aloud such
portions of The Times as she considered
interesting and edifying. These generally
were the deaths of old friends, letters about
vivisection, and articles on foreign policy.

Then the two ladies would usually enter
into a mild discussion, in which Miss Deane
said " Oh no, dear ! " a good deal, while they
always selected subjects they imperfectly
understood. They were Conservatives of the
delightful old Church and King (not Queen)
school, and poured wonderful reviling on
Mr. Gladstone, which would have done his
heart good to hear. Mrs. Deane's deceased son,
Charlie's father, having been at one time in the
army, they were naturally strong authorities
on military matters, and made it extremely
warm for the civilians of the War Office.

In the evening Mrs. Deane, her daughter,
Charlie, and Lily Carew played whist. When
Charlie was away they played dummy, or
"dumb," as some people prefer to spell it.

They were in a state of very comfortable
and settled " genteel poverty." They had
seen better days," but the better days had
faded years ago into irrevocable perspective

to such an extent that they scarcely regretted
them, and the bijou villa residence had long
been regarded as an unalterable and final
home. The word "bijou," as applied to
houses, is, as a rule, a euphemism for
"stuffy," but this was an exception. Inside
it was comfortable enough, and full of the
curious mob of so-called " curiosities " invariably
accumulated by old ladies as the
magpie traditionally accumulates earrings and
pieces of rag (the magpie being the marine-store
keeper of the feathered race).

There were, of course, the " things "
which somebody brought home from Fiji
and somebody else from Hong-Kong. All
the male ancestors of the family had been
soldiers or sailors from time immemorial,
who died in distant regions at the bidding
of King George or King Yellow Jack, which
partially accounts for all these. There was
the set of chessmen from India, and the

strange and awful stuffed bird from Heaven
knows where, which had a bad smell ; and
the miniature, in a morocco case, of the
gentleman who gave it, in a tight uniform,
with a beautiful figure, curly hair, and sweet
complexion, done in the days when officers
did not wear moustaches, and did wear oily
black all-round whiskers —

Why, he's a man of wax !

Then there was a muddle of porcelain of all
countries and dates, valued not for its appearance
so much as for association's sake. A
few portraits hung on the walls, of varying
merit, a few photographs (mostly visionary
and faded ones) in frames stood on the table,
which always bore a vase of fresh flowers
in the middle of it. There were tall vessels
in corners full of rotten roses. There was
a bookcase containing the " Navy List "
from 1791 to 1834, the " Letters of the

Duke of Wellington," and other warlike
works, which were certainly not much
read; Miss Jane Austen's novels and Miss
Farrier's, which were ; a row of " Spectators,"
Dwight's Travels," " Kensington on the
Art of Farriery," " Blair's Sermons," <c Gil
Bias," several modern religious works,
"Young's Night Thoughts," and the complete
works of John Milton. This collection
was hereditary. They subscribed to
the local library for modern literature, and
sometimes got it, though usually, as happens
at watering-places, after it had ceased to be
very modern.

The household retired at ten. When
Charlie was at home they went to bed half
an hour later, and had a tray in, with "port
wine " and biscuits. No one drank wine orate
biscuits at this unearthly hour except
Charlie, to whom this was a particular attention
; therefore he made a point of accepting

them, and not betraying his cordial detestation
of port as a beverage. (The Danes
said "port wine " and "sherry wine;" not
port " and " sherry")

Then " Charlie's room " upstairs was
sacred to him. He did what he liked,
kept what he liked, read what he liked,
and smoked what he liked and when he
liked in that room. What he did like to
keep, read, and smoke in that room were
respectively a fox-terrier, Lever's novels and
Shakespeare, and fine-cut Cavendish.

Charlie was about twenty at the time
we start with him. He was a tolerably
good-looking, very good-tempered, happy,
brown-looking little man, who parted his
hair on one side and wore an eye-glass.
The latter was not a vain adornment, buta
necessity. He was not very contemplative
and analytical, and of course had
not very much experience. He accepted

certain current notions of right and wrong,
honour and dishonour, etc., as eternal
verities, without endeavouring to view them
with the eyes of a critical outsider, or to
ask himself whether the above accepted
terms were capable of any definition sufficiently
exact and unanimous to be of value
as a practical guide.

He had plenty of wit and sense, and
not too much logical consistency. He was
one of those people who can do wonderful
things and commit wonderful sacrifices, if
need be, from an instinctive sense of duty
and honour, without troubling themselves
with ethical definitions or clearly supported
notions of the meaning of those two words.
This disposition is what is often known
as manliness, and, combined with plenty
of cold tubbing, outdoor exercise, and a
cheerful disposition, will make a very
pleasant and useful member of a human

community. He had been to school, and
had been instructed, further, in the private
tutorial manner, by a curate in the parish,
an old friend of his father, who made
private terms with Mrs. Deane, the exact
nature and amount of which she would
not reveal, though she spoke of the tutor
as an " excellent " man.

He (Charlie) then announced his desire
to make a livelihood in the profession of
medicine, and to study it forthwith in the
metropolis. His grandmother said she had
no doubt he would do very well if he
tried. "Though," she added, " I should
like you to go to college, dear, like young
Mr. Farringdon and Mr. Carpenter, from
here, and like other gentlemen's sons. But
it seems to have been ordered otherwise."
(The " ordering otherwise " actually consisted
in the absconding of a trustee long ago,
with a lame slice of the family fortunes.)

Charlie replied :

Oh, never mind. I've had a very
decent education ; and old Merewether took
lots of trouble to persuade me that equations
were interesting, and that Thunder did
them at home for fun, when he hadn't
anything to read. I fancy I can do about
as well without a university as some
fellows I know seem to do with it. Jerry
Carpenter does nothing but play the common
ape there, as far as I can judge by
his vacation stories ; and of course Warrington's
a swell, and needn't work — so he
doesn't."

Miss Deane said :

"I hope you will try this time, at any

rate."

To which her nephew replied :

"I don't know exactly what people

mean when they say that of me. I've

always been trying."

« Very — sometimes," retorted Aunt Lucy,
with a smile.

And it was determined that Charlie
should join a large hospital, recommended
by the family doctor, who had been there
himself many years ago. The first step he
took was to set up a terrific exhibition of
bones in his room, on a pedestal, with a
shawl round them ; the whole being crowned
with an aged tall hat of the " potato-bogle "
order. This gave him an opportunity for
diagnosing his first case of hysteria — Emma,
the maid, being the patient. His next proceeding
was to win a scholarship at St.
Philip's Hospital, which sent him home,
crowned with glory, until the winter session
should demand his residence in the metropolis.


And one fine September day it became
necessary that he should leave his home
for a longer time than he had ever done

before. Such days are critical points in
that period — by some called life, and by
one "the days of our vanity" — which is
to us such an important little patch on the
skirt of eternity.

At the moment of beginning the second
volume of our life, we feel strongly inclined
to look over the first, not with a
critical, but with a partial and regretful
eye. The first volume comprises the period
before we thoroughly enter the world — the
stage of existence in which we say " There
is no place like home," without adding the
cynical " Thank goodness ! " in which we
believe reverently, from our provincial nest,
that the majority of mankind, in the far-off
and unknown encampments of intellect
and industry, are good, wise, benevolent,
and clever ; though of course not quite so
much so as we are ourselves ; that beautiful
girls are adequate objects of worship, and

sources of high and enduring joy and
peace ; that when they declare they will
never be able to do without us, etc., they
are telling the truth, and are as pure and
virtuous as they are lovely ; that wealth
and fame are easy to get ; that the people
who get them are sure to deserve them ;
and that life is, on the whole, extremely
pleasant — a copious appetite and flawless
digestion lending much force to the above
convictions, on whose accuracy the second
volume throws much light. And then, long
afterwards, in quite other days :

In the change of years, in the coil. of things,
In the clamour and rumour of life to be,

one recognises that some of those days, in
the first volume, were the best that ever
one spent ; that never since were there
days like those, and never will be again.
And they require no chalk to mark them

in the life-calendar. But one does not
think of all this till afterwards. What
generally strikes one most, on opening the
second volume, at the time, is the binding
and the title-page. Perhaps that is because
we cannot remember what they were like
in the case of the first, owing to our tender
age at the time the edition was issued.

At any rate, Charlie Deane remembered
few things better than the landscape bathed
in the bright mist of a late autumn morning,
gracious with sunlight, magnificent with
the richness of colour of mature foliage at
its climacteric, finished by the far-off sea
in a narrow white line, which he saw out
of a second-class railway window as the
train left Sokebridge station for London
Bridge. The first movement of the train
gave him the notion that he was fairly
started in life, and his rather regretful
mind rebounded with a feeling of indecent

i. c

dent joy and excited anticipation as he lit,
with dignity, a threepenny luxury which
he called a cigar. The train seemed to
hesitate to take him away from the family
circle on the platform, who were giving
directions all at once through the window,
accompanied by Mr. Merewether, the curate.

Mind your health, dear," said Mrs.
Deane.

The red currant pots are covered with
newspaper, the blackberry with plain white
hurriedly added her daughter.

"Mind that little dodge I told you of
dividing one side of a quadratic by the
other ! " almost shouted the good curate.

Lily Carew, a small and iniquitously
pretty person of sixteen, said nothing, but
looked at Charlie as his train struggled
verily away. And he remembered that
look more than all the landscape, platform,
quadratus, and jam-pots put together.

IN Gurgle VASTO.

You may be sure that among Charlie Deane's
numerous friends in Sokebridge there were
several who recommended him thoroughly
respectable London lodgings, known to them
for the last thirty years, previously used by
their fathers when the Corsican Usurper was
at large, and before that too. You may be
equally sure that, with the exception of
one in the Great Desert commonly called
Manchester Square, these were situated in
Bloomsbury.

You know that not uninteresting nook
of the universe — that rather shabby but distinctly

genteel quarter once inhabited by
persons of quality," now the lair of professional
men and women, with a strong dash
of Bohemia about it, tempered by the presence
of the British Museum ? You know the
quasi-respectability implied by the numerous
large brass plates on the street-doors of the
doctors, solicitors, and architects, and the
undeniable solemnity and dignity of aspect
of those same rigid, long, brown streets ?
They are marvellously alike, the streets and
squares of this quarter, all of the same once-yellow
London-clay brick. It would be very
excusable here, at night, to wander by mistake
into a street not one's own, and insert an
unwilling latch-key into a wrong door. Indeed,
I am not sure that one would be
undeceived on entering the house. And if the
valuable morceaux of sculpture which decorate
the squares were transplanted in the
night, no one would be much the wiser.

And oh, the trees and vegetation in those
squares !

Bloomsbury has its conveniences, as well
as other parts of the town. The line of
demarcation between Dives and Lazarus maybe
said to have its centre here. For on
the east and west of the quadrangular quarter
are the City and West End ; on the north
and south, Islington and St. Giles's.

And it is not far from the land of cafes,
taverns, and theatres, between Charing Cross
and Lydgate Hill.

And in one of those interminable, dusky,
flat-roofed, tall streets Charlie got, per recommendation,
a combination apartment — a
sitting-room with a bed in it — at the humble
rent of seven shillings a week. But the
loftiness of the situation compensated for
the lowness of the price. It was on the
fourth floor, 91, Great Brown Street. And
terribly dismal he found it for the first few

days. After duly calling on his dean, he
found he had several clear days before his
lectures began, in which he had nothing todo
but recreate himself by anatomise melancholy,
consuming jam, and indulging internal
babble of green fields. And these four or
five were about the most weary, gloomy,
long-drawn-out days he ever spent.

In the first place, he had not acquired
the mental and bodily acclimatisation which
the provincial in London has to go through.
He failed to find 91, Great Brown Street
homelike and cheerful, and had not grown
to relish the queer faint smell of the staircase
left behind them ages ago by the deceased
persons of quality," who no doubt once
owned the house. And he was not accustomed
to live in a house that shook if the
wind blew, if a cab passed, or if he dropped
a volume of Quaint on the floor, and had
partition walls composed apparently of several

laminae of paper. Then lie missed the
friendly face of some tea-administering lady
when he sat down to breakfast, brought
km by a minute but elderly and resolute
infant. And he sat in the evenings,
after tea, smoking sadly, watching the dull
rigid street light up for half an hour with
the misty, deep, yellow sunshine that sought
every window, polished door-frame, or other
surface that had the least reflecting capacity,
at the time when the sun looked its last
on London, for one short autumn day, from
its smoky funeral fire in the south-west. And
he studied the appearance, and listened to
th* penetrating voices or instruments of
coftermongers, street - musicians, cats' - meat
men, shrimp men, water cress men, potted-geranium
men, muffin men, duster, old-clothes
men, coachmen, and milkmen, who
seemed to regard Great Brown Street as
thir permanent beat. And he watched the

neighbours go out with jugs to fetch the

beer, or with empty baskets and flaccid

reticule, which they brought back full and

inflated from the green and other grocers.

He saw the young person over the way go

out every evening, in the same neat hut

and well-fitting ulster, to her duties at tie

theatre. And the young man on the thM

floor opposite but one, sitting in his opm

window, smoking a meerschaum, and studying

what looked very like his own " Quail's

Anatomy," and the bald-headed man below,

who was always going out and returning wlh

a newspaper and a jug of beer. In fate,

he was very lonely and dismal indeed, aid

would not have believed what happy fractions

of their existence people had lived hee,

and will still ; or how many jovial dinners

and teas had taken place in these lofty blacks

houses, with their hideous uniformly

of roof and chimney-stack ; or what pretty

faces had looked out of those remote attic
windows to attend to the wants of some
debilitated smoke-dried vegetable in a pot,
or to guetter an opposite neighbour.

And when the light faded, and the lamplighter
appeared, he would lie on the green
rep sofa (stuffed apparently with three brickbats
and a stiff piece of iron wire) and dream
of the game of dummy his grandmother and
aunt and cousin were just then beginning,
and wonder if Lily were regarding regretfully
the empty chair opposite to her. And on
the evening of the last of these days but
one, a Saturday, he became socially, as well
as geographically, a true member of the
Bohemia in which he lived, and of which
he had formed a great ideal through his
multifarious reading, more especially in the
pages of Thackeray ; and London life grew
brighter, and he first saw Caspar Eosenfeld.
And this was how it happened.

He had spent the morning in studying
the topography of the huge and complex
barrack which was to be the scene of his
labours in the ensuing session, and in
learning the names of its wards, which
were all called after celebrated scriptural
invalids, " Naaman," "Jairus," "Job," etc.
I am not sure one was not labelled
Peter's wife's mother." He watched an
occasional melancholy heap of human helplessness
being carried by porters to the
operator's den, and took a sombre joy in
the fact that there were human beings
far more pitiable than himself.

Just as he had come to the conclusion
that he had had enough of this exhilarating
pursuit, and was making for the door to
avoid the distant, but audible, conversation
of a gentleman who was having a loud
and angry discussion with two energetic
devils, who had come through the roof,

solely, the patient asserted, for the purpose
of annoying him, "as if it was not enough
to have blank ants and cockroaches all over
your bed," a hand was thrust into his, and
a voice said, " Hullo. Deane ! " Charlie
hung on to this hand warmly for a second,
and then looked up to see who the owner
was, remarking, " How are you ? " very
gratefully and cordially.

It was Jerry Carpenter, his old schoolfellow,
whose Greek Charlie used to crib
for him in consideration of his inferior
classical talents and far superior size. He
was a tall, thin young man, with an
intelligent face, and a few years older than
Charlie. The latter said, " Hullo, Walrus,
is that you ? " an epithet, by-the-way, he
would have been afraid to use in the old
days, when Carpenter was a large youth
with a hoarse voice, in his first cutaway
coat, given to passing a razor over his face

three times a week, and threatening to
"lamb" boys who didn't do his verses.
Now, Charlie was as pleased as if he had
found a long-lost brother; more so, in
fact, for a long-lost brother would only bea
relation, while he felt as if this young
man, who wore a two eared stethoscope
arranged as a necklace, spectacles, and a
moustache, were a real and leal friend.

"Didn't know you were here, young
'un; like your cheek to call me Walrus.
You wouldn't have dared to do that at
Whippingham."

But this isn't Whippingham ! "
Very true. And I daresay you could
lick me now if you tried. You look a
comparatively decent member of society
now you are grown up. First year ? "

Yes. Have you belonged here long ? '>

il Two years. I'm dressing for old Jemmy

now. I say, come out and lunch somewhere I"

"All right."

Let's see — where shall we go ? Have
you any particular preference ? Do you
know town well ? "

Not very."

As a matter of fact, the only knowledge
Charlie possessed of London was derived from
the works of Sir Richard Steele, Mr. Addison,
Dr. Johnson, and William Thackeray, mainly
interesting from an antiquarian point of
view.

"Well, let's go to Fleet Street. Never
mind your quotation about green fields ;
that's played out. We'll go to 'The Cheese.' "

And they went to "The Cheese."

"Well," said Jerry Carpenter, during
lunch at that pleasant old hostelry, "what
have you been doing since you left
Whippingham ? "

Improving my mind at a tutor's near
home."

Delightful. And you have the world
before you in all its novelty. Hope you'll
like it. I've been two years at Cambridge,
where I should have read for the Bar if
I had been able to surmount the initial
difficulties, little-go, etc. ; but they kicked
me out after about four ineffectual attempts
on my part to grapple with that infernal
steelyard, and the cistern filled by A and
B and emptied by C. Don't know why
anybody should be required to make
calculations on such ridiculous contingencies.
That was not the only reason they ejected
me, though. I played pitch-and-toss with
the discipline rather. I asked the proctor,
who was also my junior dean, to make a
composition for fines at the beginning of
term ; came in at what hour of the night
I pleased, dressed as I pleased, dined and
kept chapels as I pleased, and in general
behaved like a grown-up human being of

independent habits and tastes. So they
expelled me. In vain I pointed out all
the strong temptations I had not yielded
to, such as the spreading of glue on the
masters seat in chapel on his preaching
days, the massacre of the cook, the committal
of arson on Browning College, or
the prosecution of all tutors for obtaining
money under false pretences. In spite of
this impassioned protest, the decree went
forth, and I went forth. And jolly glad
I was to come here instead. For, let me
tell you, my young friend, though verses
and the use of the steelyard and logarithms
be beyond me, the use of the speculum, the
forceps, and the Symes knife are distinctly
in my line. Besides, I'm in love with
London. She is black, but comely. I
have lots of friends — very jolly fellows
some of them ; all in Bohemia, of course.
You have read your ' Pendennis ' ? "

Bather."

And your Dickens ? "

"Of course!"

Well, now, you must study the town
as it is, and compare it with what it has
been — see the old face under new lights."

I shall be glad to see any face at all
that isn't that of a 'bus-conductor or a
waiter. They are about the only human
beings, except your dean, I have spoken to."

Poor devil ! Alone, friendless, and in
London. So pathetic, ' stony-hearted stepmother,'
and all that. Well, I don't mind
betting you like London better than the
country before many weeks have passed.
Come with me to-night to ' The Boar's Head '
in Eastcheap, or rather to ' The Spotted Dog,'
and you shall see."

Charlie was cheered by a friend's voice,
and began to feel revive in him the interest
and mysterious reverence one feels for London

and its literary and romantic remembrances,
after the reading of the pages of the great
departed, who walked this very street and
sat in this very tavern so many years ago.
It may seem ridiculous to you, who are
familiar with the town from Kensington to
Mile-end, but to Charlie Deane, the inexperienced,
young, and enthusiastic stranger,
London meant not only the desolate fourth-floor
in Bloomsbury and the great hospital,
but also the alehouses of Falstaff and his
prince ; <c The Mermaid " of Raleigh and
Shakespeare and Jonson ; the lurid dawn
of Cromwell ; the Alsatia of Niger Olim
in Whitefriars ; the elaborate wit of
the coffee-house period ; the sturdy and
aggressive didactic doctor, who once sat in
this very tavern, as in many others ; the
adventurous Thomas and Jeremiah of Mr.
Egan ; the immortal Pendennis and Warrington
; and many other immortals, whose names

VOL. I. D

are equally well known to all, and which
it were wearisome to recapitulate. I am
not sure that Whittington and his Cat did
not help to form the cloudy romantic muddle
that was beginning to fill Charlie's brain, to
the exclusion of the last day or two's deadly
Heimweh.

But these were the days of his vanity.
And it was arranged that Jerry should call
at his lodgings, take tea there, and " carry''
him subsequently to "The Spotted Dog."
Charlie had not the faintest idea what and
where "The Spotted Dog" was, except that it
was, of course, a tavern of some kind. He
was informed by his friend that really " goodmen
" went there to spend a few leisure hours
in intelligent conversation. He used the term
"good man" as known in University vernacular,
meaning a generally or particularly accomplished
person, and, therefore, to be commended.


Drawer, fill out this gentleman's carouse,
And harden him for our society.

Charlie's friend Carpenter "dropped in"
for him in due time, and after doing justice
to the eggs and bread-and-butter and marmalade,
that constituted the evening meal
in this modest menage, and smoking pipes
in front of the window for half an hour or
so, talking languidly about nothing particular,
as is the habit of men after a meal, both
started out into gas-lit London, walked across
Oxford Street, down that charming and redolent
thoroughfare called Drury Lane into
Wych Street, leaving Nell Wynne's quaint

old house behind them. Somewhere, not far
from the Strand, Jerry suddenly turned into
a public-house with very low ceiling and
irregular floors, and other signs of considerable
age. Through the bar-room of this they
passed into a back-parlour with a door pierced
by a "red lattice." This was nearly full of
men smoking, talking, laughing, and drinking.
At first, Charlie only distinguished, in the
misty atmosphere, one figure, which separated
itself from the others by standing before the
fire, while the rest were on settles round
the two tables, which nearly filled the small
apartment. It was certainly a rather remarkable
figure. A tall young man, of about
twenty-seven, in dark blue serge, well fitting
and becoming to his symmetrical figure, but
worn and discoloured ; a suit of clothes that
was evidently accustomed to be worked in
and smoked in. His linen was clean, however.
The clothes do not make the man ;

but they are a very important outward and
visible sign of a possible inward and spiritual
grace or disgrace. One generally observes a
dress as rapidly and readily as a face, and
it becomes quite a part of the expression
and personality of the wearer.

What would a bishop be without his costume
? How could we distinguish a judge
from a convict without theirs ? This young
man's face, however, was the most striking-part
of him. It was not an every day British
face by any means. It had not the ordinary
rather thick snubby comeliness of many a
young man whose good looks are mainly the result
of health and cleanliness rather than actual
form. Nor was it the handsome dragoon-head
of penny serial romance, for which the recipe
is a small cranium, round head, marked eyebrows,
hawk's nose, massive jaw, and a long
blonde moustache that sweeps the floor, or
ladies' cheeks, as circumstances may demand.

Nor the type of face produced by Oxford
higher culture, with which society has become
so familiar of late years. Such faces belong
to beings far too beautiful and refined to
defile and degrade themselves with the atmosphere
and fellowship of cc The Spotted Dog,"
or with any other kind of fellowship except
that of beauty and flattery. So far I have
said all that this interesting young man's
face was not. I will try and dimly indicate
what it was. It was rather a long, oval,
sallow, clean-shaven face, with wide forehead,
horizontal brows, deep-set, long, dark-blue
eyes, a slightly aquiline nose, a really beautiful
mouth, with thin lips, that smiled as
those of a young faun, above a rather deep
and rounded chin. The head was covered
with curly black hair that grew down the
middle of the forehead, leaving the temples
bare, and expanded into crisp bushes behind
the ears and occiput. There was something

strange and yet familiar about this face. It
meant a great deal ; but it would be difficult
to say what it meant most, as those dark-fringed,
deep-set eyes altered their expression
into every conceivable variety in the course
of about five minutes, and the mouth was
sometimes full of gentle fun, sometimes of
almost savage scorn. He seemed to be laying
down the law pretty freely, on the general
nature of things, to his friends, many of
whom seemed older than himself, when the
two new-comers entered.

"Let me introduce my friend Deane,"
said Jerry — " Caspar Kosenfeld."

u You will consider yourself very welcome
here, Mr. Deane. I hope you will find a
seat somewhere. This is the Merman Club,
founded for the propagation of discreet
stories, and the association of men of intellect
for the purpose of mutual edification.
On certain evenings of the week, particularly

the Saturday, this resort becomes a sort of
witches' kitchen, where the genius is momentarily
being evolved from the smoke, though
at this moment the latter is probably more
obvious to you than the former. The witches'
cauldron is always simmering here. We have
a sort of porridge of wit and erudition,
science and art, fiction, poesy, and drama
in it, instead of eyes of newts and toes of
frogs, though it must be said that frequently
the only sign of the pot's vitality is the
crackling of the thorns under it. What will
you drink ? "

Charlie hesitated amid the shower of recommendations
of their respective favourite
beverages from different consumers. Finally
he and Jerry each ordered whisky and water,
while Charlie listened in a bewildered way
to the strange talk he heard round him.
Caspar Kosenfeld went on :

"You see round you art, science, and

literature personified. Here is my ancient
friend, Jack Miller, once one of the riotous
and profane, in the Prince and Pons period,
now a sober and married man who never takes
anything stronger than Scotch whisky and
black Cavendish. He represents art as well
as he can. Jerry Carpenter is, of course,
science itself. Mr. Laurence here writes
poetry, which his neighbour, Mr. O'Eourke,
criticises. Mr. O'Rourke is also given to
writing special correspondence, from Spain,
Chicago, Uruguay, Hong-Kong, and other
places of political interest, in the silent
watches of the night, from his upper room
overlooking the Thames Embankment. That
small, brown, and hairy creature in the
corner, with spectacles and a churchwarden,
is Tom Saunders, who writes tragic romances
when he isn't telling funny stories here, or
stories which he thinks funny. I daresay
the drama will drop in later."

"Why don't you tell Mr. Deane what
you are yourself, Caspar ? " asked the man
described as Jack Miller, and addressed by
everyone as Jack, a young man with much
yellow hair, a feline moustache d la Moliere,
and a short, black pipe.

"Perhaps he will find out some day.
Perhaps I shall some day find out myself
what I am, whence I come, and whither I
go. I am Caspar Eosenfeld, and overseer
from the dignity of as many centuries as
our friends the pyramids you ambitious upstarts
of the latter days. Beyond that,
darkness. "

It began to dawn on Charlie now that
there seemed a trace of a well-known type,
a tinge of Oriental blood and fire mixed with
the Western wit and sang-froid of this new
acquaintance. Caspar Eosenfeld belonged to
the same race as Isaiah, Spinoza, Heine, and
Mendelssohn.

Are you a fellow-student of Carpenter's,
Mr. Deane?" asked Jack Miller.

"I am — at least I have become so this
session. I am in London for the first time."

I wish I could experience that sensation,"
said Eosenfeld. "A very curious one
it must be. You see, I was born there."

A very enjoyable place, London' remarked
Jerry, with the air of one giving
information.

It might be made so, at any rate," replied
Eosenfeld; "if I had the privilege of
administering euthanasia at my discretion to
the inhabitants, of suppressing the majority
of newspapers "

Putting a prohibitive duty on French
three-act farces," suggested O'Eourke.

"And on Irishmen," added Tom Saunders ;
whereupon a " bear-fight " ensued, O'Eourke
being a Galway man, who had escaped being
called Blake by. miraculous interposition.

Charlie found a seat next to Laurence
the rhymer, who seemed quieter and less
inclined to boyish gambols than some of the
others, and remarked, good-naturedly, to
Charlie :

You mustn't think we're always as
silly as this, you know. Do you care about
literature at all ? Have you any particular
tastes ? "

I have had very little opportunity and
time for developing a taste as yet. I have
been a sort of omnivorous feeder, in a small
way, from ' Every Boy's Magazine ' to
Hamlet;' I'm afraid what little I have
read is awfully mixed."

Better have your fodder mixed," said
Eosenfeld, " than to feed exclusively on
thistles, as certain literary and other tribes
do." This man had an extraordinary facility
for hearing and joining in about five
conversations at once.

"We generally spend the evening," explained
Laurence, "in drawing each other
in this way, stimulating riposte by attack,
and being as playfully idiotic as this sad
life will permit, in the short time allowed
us before we. get quarrelsome. We were
discussing the rather stupid question, ' Is
life worth living ? ' a few minutes before
you came in, and no one had answered the
question properly."

Oh, nonsense ! " said Eosenfeld ; " I
will put the question from the chair (which
doesn't exist) in the normal manner, and
everyone must answer, after his own fashion.
You first, Laurence ; you are nearest the
fire — this fire I mean ; Saunders, by right
of seniority, being nearest the one which is
eternal. Maximilian Laurence, you shall tell
the truth, the whole truth, etc. Is life
worth living ? "

Is that question worth asking ? I'll

tell you when I thought it more worth living
than at any other time :

In the mists of still October, when the year was growing
old,

When the earth began to robe her in her rust and
bronze and gold,

When there flamed a fleeting colour on each dead leaf-paved
pool,

Till that dimmer time and duller when the evening
air grew cool j

When the distant trees were darkened, and the last

pale glow was gone,
And the branches bent and hearkened to us, and the

first stars shone ;
When the trees began to quiver, when belated rooks

were calling ;
When we wandered by the river, where the autumn

leaves were falling ;
Till the dark days of December, when those leaves

were wet and rotten,
When I found I must remember all I thought to have

forgotten.

Is that your own ? "

"It is."

"Not bad for you. Now, Miller."

Of course life's worth living, always is,
except when you have recently broken your
heart, or your clay-pipe for the twenty-fifth
time. Ask another ; where did all that picturesque
stuff come off, Laurence, that you
are maundering about ? "

Nay, but where are the snows of yester-year
? "

"No further information to be got from
that witness," said Kosenfeld. "Thaddeus
O'Kourke ? "

When you have a good tavern, good
whisky, and good baccy, life is extremely
enjoyable. I don't speculate on its value.
You begin to leave off enjoying when you
analyse your joy. The worth of life reaches
its acme at an ambrosial Saturday night at
'The Spotted Dog'"
Saunders ? "

"This life, bad or good, is the best weare
sure of. There's the respect that makes

calamity of so long life. Let's have a fresh
fill-up all round."

"Jerry?"

So Ions' as human beings want their
hip-joints excised, and their appetite demands
hod. pot. and pil. rhea comp., life
is very satisfactory to me, if not to
them."

"Mr. Deane, may we ask your ideas
on the subject ? "

I think, after all I have heard, the less
I say the better. I think that the best
thing in life is to find kind and jovial
friends, when you are in a state of solitary
desolation in a London lodging, which
exactly represents my case."

"Mr. Deane," said Jack Miller, "you are
the youngest of all of us, and so have had
the least sorrow. I congratulate you ; here's
your health ! "

"Mr. Deane," added Eosenfeld, "you

have therefore all your sorrow to come. I
congratulate you ; here's your health."

I think Deane gave one of the best
and truest answers of all," said Laurence,
though he wasn't poetic, and didn't try to
be cynical, like Jack; or grossly material,
like that animal from Gal way, with the form
of Falstaff, the appetite of Gargantua, and
the tongue of Panurge ; or sententious like
Saunders, who merely cribbed from 'Hamlet ;'
or — by-the-way, Caspar, your own views on
life will be gratefully received."

I have so many different ones — quite
an assortment, in fact. Life may be treated
in the style of Victor Hugo, for example :
'Life is an omnibus, plying between the
eternity and the eternity. At the end of
the journey it has become overloaded. It
upsets. It has no driver, except the "needs
must" driver. The horses are wild, for they
are our desires, and they kick over the

VOL. I. E

traces. The luggage is memory, which is
twofold — joys and sorrows. These are the
great duality of life. The former are in a
small valise ; the latter in a Saratoga trunk,
or have to be towed behind in a furniture
van. The wheels are Time and Fortune.
We are the passengers. Love makes the
wheels go round "

"I w r ant to see them go round' murmured
Miller faintly.

' And death is the conductor, who takes
the fare"

I prefer a hansom," remarked Miller,
with room for a second person in it."

I should like a brewer's dray, starting
with full casks," said O'Eourke.

"With yourself as solitary passenger, I
suppose?" said Eosenfeld. "At the end of
the journey, or previously, the casks would
be empty. Or you might have a donkey-cart,
you know, and draw it yourself — save
expense."

That's coarse, unusually coarse for you,
Caspar."

"Have to adapt my conversation to the
audience — sweets to the sweet, you know'
retorted Eosenfeld, with the engaging smile
of one delivering a high compliment.

"I say, Caspar' said Miller, " have you
heard about Thaddy O'Eourke's home-coming
last Sunday ? "

"No."

Here, it's telling my stories they'll be,
now ! " exclaimed the much-baited Irishman,
as well as using me for a whetstone for
their blunted wits. If it is to be told, and
it ought to be, I have the copyright."

Is it a good story, O'Eourke ? " asked
Eosenfeld, with an expression of deep anxiety.

It is."

(Qy. Why does an Irishman invariably
say "It is," "I am," and "I did," when
Yes " would be sufficient ?)

E 2

Invor.u

"Then you had better let someone else
tell it."

Ah, it's jealous he is ! Well, last Sunday
I came home in a cab (I often come
home in a cab), and found I had no key.
Whether a key would have been useful tome
or not, if I had it, I leave to the envious
and scurrilous among you to imagine. So I
had to ring the bell. I hoped the slavey
would come, but, as the devil would have
it, the landlady, of whom I go in bodily fear,
had sat up for me. It's only the ingrained
malice of her disposition that prevented her
from going to bed, thought I, and making the
wretched drudge of a domestic servant sit up
in a kitchen chair for me among the beetles.
She came to the door, and looked like
Clytemnestra and Medea after she robbed
herself of her whelps, rolled into one ; or
my heated imagination, always a strong
one

Hear, hear ! " from all.
"Made me think it. I put on one of
my best Sunday smiles. I put on a smile
as I do a clean shirt, you know."

Never before could I account for the
usual permanent gravity of O'Rourke's face,"
blandly remarked Caspar.

The portly special correspondent threw a
tobacco-pouch (not his own) at the interrupter,
and continued :

I explained to her that through pressure
of business — public man — time not his own,
all that you know — I had missed the last
train ; and, in order to spare her natural
anxiety and trouble, had taken a cab and
driven like blazes. That last unfortunate
expression, I fear, took from the soothing
effect of my previous words ; and I think
there must have been something odd about
my appearance — someone had been chalking
my back, or something. At any rate, I

couldn't account for the resonant guffaw of
the cabby. He might have been more
grateful, too, as I found afterwards, but too
late, he had got one of my few sovereigns
instead of a shilling. Mrs. Macpherson —
that's her name (I hate your Scotch people,
Miller ! ) — said :

' Do you know what time it is, Mr.
O'Eourke ?' in a voice that raised my hat
by strong erection of the hair.

' Yes, of course, dear Mrs. Macpherson.
It's two, Sunday morning ; but I tell you I
missed the last train.'

"More inexplicable laughter from Jehu.

' Do you know what time it is, Mr.
O'Eourke ? '

"well, what time is it at all, then?"
I exclaimed, entirely bothered.

' It's six on the Sabbath afternoon,
Mr. O'Eourke, and you're a disgraceful
spectacle to a Christian congregation.' She

likes long words, does Mrs. Macpherson.
'And that's what it is to be a benighted
Papist ! ; she added, being Free Kirk of the
straightest kind herself. I eliminated myself,
and became for some time an 'unknown
quantity "

The evening advanced with night amid
conversation of this kind, freely irrigated by
whisky and water, until Charlie completely
lost the sense of lonely desolation which the
dusky oppressive magnitude of the great
phenomenon called London had at first forced
on him. A few actors came in after their
duties at the theatre were done, and the room
became very crowded, and the conversation
very loud and rapid, and mixed ; much of
the fire and countersign of wit being on
subjects and persons he but slightly understood,
or had heard of only by name. At
last Jerry said it was time they went, if
they meant not to be run into Bow Street as

incapable. Charlie was so independent and
cheerful by this time as to offer to stand a
hansom. The men in the room shook hands
with him, and said good-natured words, which
he, as a very young man and a stranger, felt
deeply, and will never forget. Such was his
first soiree en Boheme. He has assisted at
several since, but never at one which gave
him so much unmixed pleasure or so much
respect for his fellow men. What surprised
and attracted him was the perfectly cool
temper with which most present gave and
took the most biting personal jests, which
would irritate a commonplace or stupid mind.
He went to bed as proud as if he had spent
the evening with Shakespeare and Jonson
and the meteoric young Marlowe at " The
Mermaid," or with Christopher North and
the immortal Shepherd at Ambrose's. Of
course one does not soberly compare the
worthies of the square table of "The Spotted

Dog" to any of the above Olympians. I
merely express Charlie's emotion, not an
opinion. And he saw that the man Caspar
Rosenfeld was by far the ruling mind there,
among many that were above the common.
And he hoped he should see him above all
again.

OVER THE There's-SACK.

Of course Charlie wrote the next morning
home, giving a florid description of how he
had met with the great wits and authors of
the day, and assisted at their chaste and
erudite orgies.

He also tried to extract satisfaction to his
curiosity about Caspar Eosenfeld from Jerry
Carpenter, who only said : " What is he ?
Well, he is a Jew for one thing, and a
devilish clever one. What else he may be
is a mystery to most people. You'll soon
know as much about him as everyone else
does ; but you'll be lucky if you find out

more. He writes a good deal. Ta-ta, I
must go and collect heart sounds now. Doing
quite a record in bruits this morning." And
Charlie walked out and soon met Thaddeus
O'Eourke in the Strand, who insisted at once
on his coming and "having a drink' at
the nearest hostelry. In vain Charlie protested,
with a certain relic of reverence for
his alimentary canal, that it was eleven a.m.
The journalist said :

Nonsense ! Have something to give
you an appetite for dinner."

"I've got one."

"Well, have something to take it away,
then. A good sherris-sack hath a twofold
operation. If I had a thousand sons, the
first human principle I would teach them
should be to forswear other potations and
addict themselves to sack. Waiter!"

"Yes, sir. Good-morning, sir. How are
you to-day, sir ? " A

This was the head-waiter, an old friend,
who had been head-waiter at all the more
brilliant resorts of both London hemispheres,
until a virtuous metropolitan government
drove him to a Strand bar-room.

Got any sherris-sack, Alec ? " asked
O'Kourke.

"No, sir; I'm afraid not, sir. Make you
a sherry-cobbler, sir ? "

"Ah, well, it doesn't matter at all.
Bring me some whisky, then — Irish. What
will you have, my dear Mr. Deane ? "

Well, I'll have whisky too."

You're quite a stranger in London, I
think, are you not ? Don't recollect seeing
your face here often. How did you like
your visit up there, round the corner, at
'The Dog?"

I have seldom spent so pleasant an

king."

"That's right. I hope that you'll spend

a lot more. What did you think of
Kosenfeld ? "

"I thought he was a very curious man
evidently clever, but "

"Well, but what? I'm rather curious
to know a stranger's impression of him."

Charlie remembered Rosenfeld's rather
remorseless joking at the amicable Irishman's
expense, and said :

"I thought he was rather gratuitously
nasty at times — seemed to have some warp
in him that made him say things some
people would call — well, I can't find exactly
the word."

"Ill-natured?"

Something near that."

"Ah! He does talk in an ill-natured
way ; he criticises too pitilessly, too ; but I
have known him do kind and tender things
that many a jovial amicable fellow never
thought of. One night at 'The Dog' he

suddenly looked at his watch, quite early in
the evening, and said he was going. Everyone
asked why. 'You are all so infernally
dismal he said, c especially when you are
funny by an obvious effort.' And he went
away. We shrugged our shoulders and sent
for more whisky, but certainly half the life
of the place went with him. I found afterwards
that his landlady's little girl had been
ill and unable to sleep), and that this bittersweet
re viler and mocker had sat by her
bed, telling her fairy tales — mostly, I daresay,
of his own invention — and amusing her
for hours, until the dawn came, and she slept.
Then Caspar went away, lit a cigar, and
walked to Westminster Bridge and watched
the sun rise, and fidgeted about the parapet
for half an hour dubiously, for the mere fun
of annoying two policemen, and making them
think he was meditating suicide."

I should like to know him better."

Daresay he'll be in here this morning;
he often is; When I saw him again, after
what I told you, I said we knew the reason
he went, and had forgiven him for leaving
ns. He said, ' There was nothing to forgive.
I didn't do . it out of love for my species,
but because she was a pretty child. She'll
pay me back, I daresay, when she grows
up.' 'Why need you be spoiling your best
actions by talking like that ? ' I said. ' Wait
till you have some good actions of your
own to spoil ; you'll do it soon enough then,
you'll find.' Talk of the devil — here he is !
Hullo, Kosenfeld, what are you after here at
this early hour ? "

I am going to write a Treatise on Fools,
ancient and modern, and have come here to
gather studies. Good-morning, Mr. Deane.
I haven't seen you since the evening I made
your acquaintance at that tavern."

What will you have to drink, old man ? "

"Drink? I? At this time in the day?
Nothing. I see, Mr. Deane, this incurable
old toper is trying to allure you into his
Falstaffian ways. Talking of Falstaff, I've
been given one of the numerous new annotated
editions of the bard by some modern
society, to review for the ' Parthenon.' The
system adopted seems to be unlimited obligation.
Like Juliet, they would have Romeo
cut out into asterisks. I don't know how
to treat it exactly. I think I shall say :
This is an author that deserves to be better
known. We have no doubt the efforts of
this Society of Able Thinkers will bring him
a long way further up (or down) to the level
of the mind of the B.P.' It's extraordinary
how little English people know or care
about Shakespeare. T, as an Englishman,
am ashamed of them. You know, Deane,
I, though a Jew by descent, of which I
have a very pardonable pride, am to all

intents and purposes an Englishman. I can't
help it ; I was born so."

Well, but about the Treatise on Fools ? "
said O'Eourke. "You're a terrible man to
stray from a point when you once get
talking."

Oh, the Treatise on Fools — yes. I'm
afraid a lifetime will be insufficient to complete
it in. It's a subject so vast as to
demand encyclopaedic dimensions. I've got
a sort of scheme, though. We begin with
a dictionary or peerage of notable fools,
ancient and modern, having annual appendices
in fresh editions, as necessities may
arise. You see, the people who are to read
it will be mostly fools who are not notable
people like you, O'Eourke, or me — who
will like a few examples to revere before
they go on to definition and classification.
The only authorities of importance on the
subject are Solomon and Erasmus of Eot-

VOL. I. F

terram ; other great men have only treated
it incidentally."

Give ns some notion of your definitions
and classification."

"I have prepared a few. I wonder what
any publisher would say to this scheme :

Definitions.

"The word 'fool' is, as a rule, a convenient
equivalent for the more lengthy and
cumbrous expression, 'average human being
Of these there are many classes.

(a) Clever Fools — 'o^Spos of older textbooks.
Examples: Societies to promote the
rendering of lofty poetry into the vulgar
tongue.

"(b) Stupid Fools. Examples: People
who subscribe to the above.

"(c) Persons concerning whom it is
doubtful to which of the above classes they
should be assigned. Neb. — The doubt is.

only as to the appropriateness of the adjective.
Examples: Many members of both
Houses of Parliament, the governors of
hospitals, and most dramatic critics.

"(d) Persons concerning whom no such
doubt exists. Examples: Common jurymen,
Thaddeus O'Rourke."

"Caspar, man, you spurt your venom
about as a cuttlefish does ink. You'll get
yourself disliked."

"That can make little difference to a
man who never tries to get himself liked."

You seem to succeed in some cases,
Mr. Eosenfeld, without trying, if I may
judge from what I saw and heard the other
night."

Look here, Deane, you are a young
man. Don't take things too seriously. You
will find as you live that there are few
greater misfortunes than a literal mind. At

f 2

the same time it is quite true that the way
to get yourself liked is not to try, or, at
any rate, to pretend not to try."

"Well, I must be off," said O'Eourke.
"See you all again."

Come round to my rooms," said Eosen-
feld, " and smoke a pipe."

Charlie went.

Eosenfeld lived in a couple of rooms not
far from Gray's Inn Eoad, principally furnished
with books. Every available wall-space
held a bookcase, and no doubt the
drawers and lockers were full of note-books
and miscellaneous MSS. He cleared two or
three volumes, which had been sent him to
review, off the sofa, invited his guest to
sit on it, and handed him a tobacco-jar,
rolling a cigarette for himself, and filling a
couple of glasses of wine.

"Now then, Deane, let's hear all about
yourself. You see my manners are peculiar,

and my way of obtaining information is to
ask for it at the directed source. I take
an interest in you ; I don't know exactly
why — perhaps because you are the only acquaintance
I have who is fresh to life, and
who doesn't make cynical half slang jokes
which he thinks very clever, and gossip
about theatre people, or rave about the
Romantic school and the Elizabethan school,
and the Essayists and the Ballade-people and
the Naturalists — all things under the sun,
from Botticelli to Balaam's ass. There is
a wholesome tone about you suggestive of
fresh grass and rolling downs ; there is a
look about you which suggests sea-bathing
and birds-nesting. Yarn away to me ; don't
be shy — you see I'm not. Then I'll yarn
to you as long as you like."

"Well, I feel, as you delicately hint
I look, awfully green ; and I'm awfully
obliged to anyone for being friendly to me

here in London, which I'm beginning to like
awfully on that account. And it's awfully-kind
of you fellows to let me in among
so many much older and cleverer men than
myself. "

"Awfully. Father a doctor, as you are
going to be ? *

No ; soldier. My people live down

in shire ; sort of seaside village, you

know, with a few county families dotted
about. They're a pretty cheerful crowd. Two
or three families living close to us — tea
and tennis, and church and picnics, and
school-feasts, and all that."

Charming ! Any sisters ? "

No. There's a cousin of mine, though,
living with us — hasn't any parents, you
know."

"She?"

"Yes."

I see." And he exhaled smoke.

Now, Deane, that I have cross-examined
you, which I hope you did not think impertinent,
as it was not so intended, I have
got a pretty good notion of you ; and you
are at liberty to ask me questions ad lib.
When you are satisfied with the information
obtained, we will talk on general topics
of interest. Perhaps, though, a natural shyness
will prevent your asking what you most
want to know ; so I'll anticipate your questions,
and tell you that I am an Englishman,
of Germ an Jewish descent. I write stories,
-and songs, and essays, and reviews, and
whatever else of intellectual interest the
blessed race of publishers will take. I criticise
plays, and can get you orders for them,
or even make you acquainted with female
members of the profession, if you will get
.a written permission from your parents. My
aim in life is to live as well as possible.
My experience is that the possible is by no

means so good as it ought to be, or so
bad as it might be. Did you ever read
ethics ? "

"Hardly at all."

Well, I don't know that I would recommend
you to begin. Fancy a man, at
a critical cross-road of his existence, taking
a handbook of ethics as a finger-post ! Did
you ever know what it was to be wandering
along endless country roads, at night-time,
trying to make up your mind that sleeping
under frigid Jove was really quite comfortable
and picturesque ; and feeling quite weary
of everything, and convinced that a world
made up of mud and gravel-stones was
worthless and hollow ? And then, do you
remember how your spirit flamed up again
when you saw a tall, white creature, with
stiff arms and frozen fingers, which you
knew to be a guide-post? And how you
got up the hedge-side to read it, thinking

of the warm supper and whisky of the
approaching inn, and found it was too dark
to read which way to go ? "

Have you been through all that ? "

Well, no. But I can imagine it. That's
how the moral philosopher treats you when
you really want a guide. Do you know the
story of the Moralist and the Ruffian ? "

No," replied Charlie, laughing.

"Then I will perform the function of
Mr. Barlow, and tell you. A moralist of
the most approved modern type, very impartial,
you know, who ' gave ' you views
without ' identifying ' himself with them,
was strolling on the Thames Embankment,
absently listening to the clocks striking, and
the plash of the occasional body dropping in,
alive or dead ; when a ruffian, also of the
highest modern type, who happened to be
also strolling there, met him, and remarked :
Give us yer blank watch ! - The moralist

reflected that there were several courses open
to him. Altruism said : ' Give him your
watch, and press him to accept the chain,
and your sleeve-links, and that ring Martha
gave you — it's a very valuable one, and will
procure numberless quarterns of happiness to
this person Egoistic Hedonism said : ' Lead
him on to a discussion on topics of the day
calculated to interest him, such as intemperance,
until you see a policeman looking,
then run away Utilitarianism said : ' Chuck
him into the Thames Intuition said : ' He
will be far more likely to chuck you in
Common-sense said : ' Hit him under the left
ear The ruffian said : ' Now then ! wot a*
yer thinking about ? Think I come yere all
the way from my suburban villiers, to be a
witness to your blank last will and testament'"


And what did the poor moralist do ? "
He suddenly remarked ; e Oh, look here,

you know, hang up philosophy, unless philosophy
can make another policeman ! ' Then
he bolted, howling, and managed to arrive onto
the Lambeth Bridge."

Do you always illustrate your opinions
by inventing instructive anecdotes ? "

Generally. It gives greater life to an
idea. I fire off much worse things than
that in society, sometimes, if I have an appreciative
and serious audience who believe
me. Now, look here, young man : did you
ever see the process by which a novel is
reviewed ? "

Never."

Well, you shall. You observe these
three volumes ? Very good. I look through
the second chapter of the first. I observe a
great deal of French in the mouths of all
the English characters. It's easy to deduce
that they are English (though I haven't read
the work and don't mean to) from the way

they talk French. Then I begin : c It is perhaps
to be regretted that English authors
and authoresses cannot confine themselves to
the unrivalled and supreme tongue bequeathed
to them by the mighty departed of many
centuries. More especially, when their knowledge
of foreign tongues is so extremely
elementary as it is in the volumes before
us You say that style is gush, mostly ?
"Well, you are right. I meant it to be. You
see, it depends what paper you are writing
for.

"Now let's see what the characters do.
Oh, they give entertainments in what they
call literary and artistic Bohemia. That is
an irresistible temptation to the lady novelist,
who lives in a villa by the seaside. Once let
them begin raving about Bohemia, and you
have them. In the first place, Bohemia is
played out as a title — worn to an essence ;
there's plenty of essence, but it wants a new

name. We will call it Illyria. Now Illyria
is a country these nice old ladies don't and
can't understand. They get it up, as they
think, from books ; well, there, Heaven knows
there are guide-books enough on the subject,
though the only ones that approach accuracy
are those of W. M. Thackeray — and the nice
old ladies don't like him. He is so unfair
on women, don't you know, and all that ;
and makes them either wicked or foolish, ora
muddle of both, as a rule — and that's so
unjust, you know, etc. I heard a man say,
the other day, that the only thing Thackeray
could not describe was an Irish gentleman.
I said perhaps he never saw one. I have for
some time regarded them as occupying the
position of that dear old dodo we hear so
much about. Yes. It's curious. But I always
hear that Thackeray can't describe women or
Irishmen. I expect soon to hear he can't
describe domestic servants."

"Aren't you supposed to be reviewing a
novel ? "

Oh yes ; but there is no hurry. You
can read it if you like, and give me some
ideas. Fresh young mind, you know, and all
that gag."

But don't you take more trouble over it
than this ? There might, I should think, be a
lot of things in it you would miss ? "

Shouldn't lose much by that. No,
young man, I know by 'touch' what kind
of a book a novel is — unless it's a very good
one, and I have hardly any experience of that
sort."

Wish I hadn't been such an infernal
young idiot when I was at school, or I might
be able to make money a little in this way,
pending the time when they make me a
doctor."

"You are all right. Don't bother your
mind about the past. Take what the gods

give, and what humanity gives (except its
advice and its diseases) — and be happy.
Look here, Deane, you've done your pipe,
and I've bored you enough, and I want to
work in earnest, so you can get out now.
Will you come with me tomorrow to the

Gallery, in Bond Street? I've got to

write an article on that."

Thanks, I should like to come."

All right. Be here at 10.30. Breakfast
with me in a humble way."

Thanks, awfully. Good-bye."

Good-bye. I was so afraid you would
say au revoir ! "

Not after your late remarks on the use of
the French language."

Charlie walked homewards, half-fascinated,
half-repelled, and wholly bewildered by this
strange man, whose tongue leapt from one idea
to another, like an ape in a mango-tree.

Charlie went to his hospital that afternoon,

trying to say cutting things d la
Rosenfeld, and bringing out strong opinions
on art and literature — some, I fear, being
second-hand.

You see he was but a man, and had only
been that a year or two.

THE MAN WITH THE MORBID TEMPERAMENT.

Charlie's appearance at Rosenfeld's 
was punctual, his face radiant and
fresh, his appetite exhaustive. Caspar, who
was one of those men who wake late and
watch late, and breakfast on coffee and a
piece of bread, gazed on his guest with an
amused and languid interest, as the latter
rapidly and completely absorbed eggs, toast,
and beefsteak with the cleanliness and despatch
of a dog in good training. After this
very satisfactory performance Charlie accepted
one of Caspar's cigars, and spread himself

VOL. I. Cx

out on the sofa; while Eosenfeld stood in
his favourite mantelpiece attitude, looking
down on him as if he were a newly-acquired
domestic animal. Then Charlie Deane took
up his parable and spake :

"Look here, Eosenfeld. You told me
yesterday you would answer any questions
I like to propound about yourself, which was
of course very kind of you ; but it may
have escaped your memory that I didn't ask
any, and that you gave me, in the course
of a very amusing and instructive discourse
on novels, ethics, Embankment bathers,
Thackeray, Illyria, and other things, no
personal information whatever."

"You are a miracle of penetration, and
appear to be developing a latent talent for
sarcasm. Fact is, I forgot all about myself
yesterday, among the many more interesting
topics we started."

You started. Well, you have awakened

my curiosity, and I want to have it satisfied ;
so far, of course, as you please."

I am thinking of writing what O'Rourke
would call an autobiography of myself."

Why don't you ? "

I'll leave it to fame and that very interesting
class of humanity we all talk about
so much, called posterity, to compile my
biography by-and-by. I could send posthumous
correspondence to The Times from
Tophet, correcting their fictions and describing
the Tartarean Fleet Street, where bad
journalists go who ' compile ' travels, biographies,
leaders, etc., out of the British
Museum, hearsay, and whisky. They are
punished by having to write, set up, and
publish endless columns of contradictions of
most that they have ever written, apologies
for their true things not being new, and
their new things not beinor true : while it
is one of the tortures of the general popu-

G 2

nation of the modern Inferno to hear small
black devils shrieking each edition as it comes
out."

Yes ; but this autobiography ? "
"I have read in the pages of metaphysicians
and persons labouring under other
forms of mental affliction, that all evil is
essentially and ultimately good. I never
realised the partial truth of that till I discovered
that, to the literary man, his follies
and faults, affections and sorrows, his gains
and losses in the eternal card-dealing, had
a marketable value should he have the power
and the will to put them on paper. The
only revenge one can take on the fates and
fools that make it their province to modify,
bewilder, and worry one's life is to describe
them and pocket the sheets."

"Doesn't it get dangerous sometimes?"
It gets embarrassing. One can never
describe a knavish or foolish person in a

book without a dozen claimants for the
original springing up in a state of cap-fitting
irritation, crossing : ( Das sind ja mine
langer Ohren ! ' "

"You are again wandering from the
subject.' '

"Well, I was born somewhere in that
part of the world called the East — not far,
judging by the smell, from St. Mary Axe.
At the time the great country of which I
am a legal citizen was waging fierce heroic
war against another great country, and every
person and every newspaper was dreaming
of cutting foreign throats, of breaches, ambuscades,
light brigades, and debts five
figures long — or more. This last was my
father's particular dream, as he supplied contractors
with much of the needful paraphernalia
of the army, just then engaged in
seeking the bubble reputation, and getting
it, though little else, from the prescribed

source. So I came into a very flamy, thunderous,
and volcanic world, and perhaps
assisted with my infant hands in packing
soldiers' greatcoats of the celebrated and
enduring material called shoddy, and boots
of the best lacquered brown paper. These,
I believe, were sources of great gain to my
father, Nathan Eosenfeld. To do him justice,.
I must add that he supplied the enemy's
troops in precisely the same manner with
sublime impartiality. I am not sure about
the origin of that interesting old gentleman.
He exists still, though we are not on intimate
terms. I will tell you — and you are
one of the very few men I ever have told —
about him, which will perhaps explain to
you some of the curious views I take and
express on men and things. This is in confidence,
remember, and if you misuse it I
can make you regret it more than you ever
regretted anything yet."

All right. I'm a gentleman. But don't
tell me more than you like."

I won't. But I know you are a gentleman,
and not quite the same as some of
my whisky-drinking out-door friends. Well,
as to my father, I am not quite sure
about his origin. To judge by his hearty
and frequent appreciation of meals, and his
inability to see a joke except of the
coarsest description, I should say he was
German born. To judge by his extreme
smartness at making money, without any
scruple about patriotism, honesty, or like
chimcerce, I should put him down as English.
The houses of our ancestors have branches
in Amsterdam, Frankfort, and Rome, so that
throws little light on the subject. How long
the London branch had existed before my appearance,
I know not. I had no brothers, and
one sister, Jessica, a year or two younger than
myself, in giving birth to whom my mother died.

My father stuck to the old faith, and
trotted off to the synagogue, and behaved
in the most exemplary manner from Friday
evening to Saturday evening, every week,
which served as a stimulus to him to pack
all possible iniquity into the remaining six
days. He had a great objection to wasting
time, and a greater to wasting money. He
was very particular about his observation of
the law — I mean the ceremonial, not the
moral.

He of course never ate meat that had
suffered indignities from a Christian pole-axe.
As the amicable Dean of St. Patrick
observes, we have often just enough religion
to make us hate, and not enough to make
us love, one another.

"Personally, I have found it easy both
to love and to hate, especially the latter,
without much religious assistance. That is
parenthetic.

' But though my parent would have suffered
torture rather than partake of food
not Coster, he had no great difficulty in
parting with our poor pretty Jessie to an
affluent Christian gentleman with a West-end
villa, though you may be sure he got
a compensation for her loss which he considered
fully adequate. When it was a
question of ducats and daughter with him,
he knew which to choose readily enough.

Now you will understand that my disposition
has received something approaching
a warp, the sort of thing the average idiot
calls a 'morbid temperament.' "

But is this possible ? " said Charlie,
horror-struck.

Quite. But don't run away with the
idea that Jews are to be abused on that
account, or infer generals from particulars
in the popular way. I was unfortunate in
my parentage, but of my race I have a

right to be as proud as any man. I lifted
up my voice and made observations on this
transaction to my father, of such kind that
he declined to feed, clothe, or lodge me any
longer. He had not done so hitherto to
any very luxurious extent, as I was a
solicitor's clerk, and lived in a lodging
above an eating-house in Lydgate, on my
salary. But the sire dismissed me into the
future with much forcible anathema. I have
seldom seen that pleasant old person since,
though I hear he flourishes still. "

"Kosenfeld, I understand you now. I
had no idea before I came to London what
terrible things can happen in the world —
beyond police-court reports, which don't impress
a man much. Look here, I'm a
devilish young and foolish fellow compared
to you "

Never mind, you'll get less young intime,
and more foolish, like everyone else."

But, if you'll allow me, I'd like to bea
friend of yours. You've been awfully
kind to me, in the few days I've known
you, and I don't forget things, and if some
people don't like your ' morbid temperament,'
I'm not one."

Magnanimous offer ! Young one, I take
you at your word. I'll be a sort of private
tutor to you, if you like, on the world in
general ; though the mere fact of my having
been in it longer than you scarcely is an
evidence of wisdom on my part. Age
doesn't bring wisdom, judging from most of
the elderly people I know."

Well, what did you do next ? "

Oh, nothing particular ! Went in for
dissipation. There is, in the existence of
every man above the dead level, some crisis
in his life in which he seeks relief in dissipation.
I'm not such a fool now. I depend
on literature for existence, and a tolerably

decent existence I make out of it, though
perhaps not such a good one as my publishers
and editors do."

"Kosenfeld, you know, I think life would
be rather different for you, rather better in
various ways, if you took an interest in
some — some girl, you know."

Do you, now ? Well, of course you
speak from experience ! "

I don't mind confessing that, to a certain
extent, I do. There's a young woman
who is the alternate consolation and pest of
my existence down there by the sea. We
fool about in a bland and childlike manner,
no doubt, but I would give the blood of my
body for her, if necessary."

But fortunately it is not necessary,
eh, or likely to be ? Well, and do you
want me to go sporting about in a bland
and childlike way, shedding my blood at
intervals, and all that sort of thing ? Don't

you think even Gray's Inn Eoad and morbid
literature are more comfortable, safer, and
less expensive ? "

Oh, but it does make such a difference
to a fellow's whole character, and way of
talking and behaving and looking at
things ! "

"What does?"

"Why, a girl."

Indeed ! Go on. This gets interesting."

"You feel somehow what a coarse-talking,
horse-playing, hulking kind of
brute you often are."

"And this is one of the advantages of
being in love ? You feel a conviction that
you are a coarse hulking kind of brute.
Proceed ! "

"And that makes you want not to be
one, and makes you dislike talking and going
on with fellows the way one often does,
don't you know ? "

Yes ; I think I can understand."

"And you take an interest in good sort
of things — books, pictures, poetry, sea, trees,
white clouds, moons, and all sorts of
things."

"Does that catalogue represent a synchronous
or a consecutive mental picture?"

"Sort of reeled-out panorama, with
music."

"Quite so. And doesn't it really occur
to you that your views and experience have
not that startling novelty either to me or
the rest of the world that they seem to
have to you? You are quite right. There
is nothing in the world so worshipful as an
honest, brave, intelligent, and pure girl, and
I am prepared to fall down at the shrine
when she comes ; but the invoice hasn't
been received yet. It's all right, my boy ;
you go on having a good time, and gathering
roses while you may. I have no such

embarrassments as love affairs, because I do
not know a woman in the world fit to love.
I'm very comfortable. I don't do anything
so silly as to deny the existence of lovable
women ; on the contrary, it is to me a
terrible idea to conceive the number of
charming, witty, and beautiful women that
one has never seen or spoken to, and never
will see or speak to. That is what Faust
meant when he asked for Helen of Troy.
He meant to incorporate all the dead ladies
of past times into one supreme whole, 'the
many lights dwindled to one light and
embrace all the old-world beauty at once."

The ones we do see and can't speak
to are tantalising enough. I never saw so
many pretty women as in London."

"But think of the thousands, hundreds
of thousands, of all nations and languages,
blonde and brown, Egyptian and Circassian,
English and American, French and Spanish,

Jew and Greek — fair faces we shall never
see ! Ah ! what shall we lose ? "

"What will they lose?"

Quite so. That is another view of the
subject. The upshot and net result of it
all is, that we both like nice girls very
much when we can get them — that you are
in the very well-known acute stage so
accentuated in early patients; while I, after
a series of convalescence, have got a callous
cicatrix where my emotional centre ought to
be. Now, don't tell me I can't talk scientific
shop with as much meaning as any other
fellow."

"I don't quite understand whether your
way of treating the matter is quite serious
or quite affectation. It's some of both, I
think."

Do you ? "

"I do. In the first place, that callous
cicatrix is all rot, if I may so speak. You

have got as much emotional capacity as
most people, and a good deal more than
some. You are like a lonely wild creature
in a den, who wants a mate, and growls
and tears at the rest of the world for mere
sorrow."

My son, the world is the den ; and a
very majestic one, with plenty of space for
the more powerful animals to exercise in,
and not half enough for the others. The
great amusement of the beasts is killing
each other, according to the original scheme
that they should do so, graphically elucidated
by the poet Isaac Watts and the prophet
Darwin. Why the keeper doesn't interfere
is not certain. It is said that he used to
walk round with a long whip, but that one
day the monkeys stole it, and strangled him
slowly with it. The beasts have run it their
own way ever since, and will, until the proprietor
disperses them, or takes them away."

VOL. I. H

"Who is he?"

"I don't know. He has several aliases.
One is Apollyon. Bead your ' Pilgrim's
Progress?"

"No."

"Time you did, then. Isn't it curious
that two men can never sit together for an
hour or so without talking about women ?
I don't care if they are the age of Methuselah,
they do it all the same."

Very good thing, too. Better than
politics, horses, and drinks, which are often
the only alternatives."

Certain women were made in the dark
backward and abysm of time, for the same
inscrutable reason as snakes, thorny roses,
and other apparatus (Persian and otherwise)
of the poet, including his "Waverley pen.
They were to be a helpmeet, a source of
peace, and of all comfort and gladness to
men. They are, when they get the chance.

Their special and characteristic virtues are
consistency, generosity, truthfulness, gratitude,
and a certain capacity for letting personal
predilections lapse in their ardour for the
advancement of general principles. They
are beautifully impartial. The same one
will go through the same tricks of hand,
eye, tongue, etc., with six different people in
the same evening, on the same step of the
same staircase. They are possessed of a
noble ambition to please men and annoy
each other, for the sake of which they
voluntarily undergo labours, dangers, and
sufferings, which occasionally end in laying
them out under the horrified gaze of a
coroner's jury — verdict : died of living to
please. Martyrs quite, I think."

What do you mean by talking of
women like that ? You insult the sex."

Not the whole sex. Nothing so unfair.
No ; there is one noble exception, the jolly

II 2

girl. I don't mean a hoyden or a horse-breaker,
I mean the girl who is not exactly
pretty, but the next thing to it, called nice.
She has read your favourite books, and
understands, or makes you think she does,
your own pet jokes and ideas better than
anyone else. You are on intimate — in fact,
on chaffing — terms with her. You never
say a sentimental word except in mockery,
and one day you find yourself kissing her
wildly before you know exactly what is
happening. It is a peculiarity of the jolly
girl to like this treatment. Keep her if you
catch her. Then there is the girl descended
from Lilith and the Niggard snake."

"Oh, yes; you evidently know all about
it ; but this style of conversation is not
comfortable somehow. Let's start for this
picture-gallery, eh ? "

It is about time, if we mean to go.
Come along."

And thus began the alliance between this
oddly-assorted pair, which lasts to this day.
Is it not written in the Book of the Journal
of Dr. Charles Deane, F.R.S., whence I extract
this information about Rosenfeld and " Charles
his friend ".?

GOSSIP IN THE GARDEN.

Treating of the species puella irritant (communis vel
corsica).

And Charles Deane associated, as much as
their several occupations and opportunities
permitted, with Caspar Eosenfeld. And it
came to pass in the lapse of weeks — yea,
months — of London life, the former young
man began to assume certain more or less
innocent airs and dignities, to make certain
compassionate remarks about " provincial
ideas," to quote sundry theatrical tags and
music-hall refrains, to frequent various resorts
not strictly professional — even shrines patronised

by a sect of Ephesians spoken of by
Falstaff's " upright rabbit. " He also talked
in a somewhat slighting manner of such
persons as had not the incalculable advantage
of residing in London ; all of which,
as Caspar remarked, for a youth who, six
weeks before, did not know the way from
Charing Cross to Temple Bar, w r as not bad.
He also got into the habit of talking professional
" shop," and alternately irritating
and amusing Caspar by his imitations of the
voice of the man with the cleft palate, or
his incoherent outpourings about the beauty
of the nurse in the Jairus ward — "Jairus's
daughter," as Caspar rather profanely nicknamed
her, after a few days of Charlie's
ravings.

And so the season wore on, through sun
and fog and rain and snow, to December,
when the young apprentice in the art of
healing proposed going home for Christmas,

armed with all his town reminiscences and
education, several music-hall songs, an incipient
moustache, O'Kourke's anecdotes, and
Caspar's sayings, with which to dazzle and
impose on Sokebridge society. He was a
good boy, nevertheless, and corresponded
dutifully with his home circle, and worked
hard at his hospital ; in consideration of
which facts his amusing and extremely
natural little pieces of affectation may be
excused. But he was not quite the same
unsophisticated youth who left Sokebridge
Junction the previous December — at least,
so he flattered himself. One grows older ina
session in London than in a cycle of
Sokebridge. Shortly before Christmas he
left the capital to its pantomimes and goose-clubs,
and went home, where he found everyone
in the house prepared to fall down and
worship him, from Mrs. Deane to Emma.
Even his cousin Lily, who usually treated

him with the courtesy of a small Beatrice,
paid him a little more respect, and took him
out into the garden to criticise the growth
of his moustache. The garden, by-the-way,
of the bijou villa residence was rather a
nice one, in a small way. It had a minute
patch of lawn, cut up into flower-beds (pink
and scarlet geraniums in masses, I regret
to say), round which a gravel walk ran,
which lost itself in sombre bondage at the
end remote from the house, and then
penetrated a small kitchen garden, which
produced a few rather deformed and greenish
peaches in their seasons, some cooking apples,
and large quantities of red and black currants
dear to Miss Lily — and, of course, potatoes.
In a corner of the kitchen garden resided
certain fowls, which said Lily flattered herself
she kept. She brought them their food
certainly, when she did not forget ; and
took away the eggs, when there were any ;

and if that were not " keeping" fowls,
Miss Carew would be pleased to know what
was.

Did I tell you what this young person
was like ? She was a thin-featured, slender-limbed
brunette, with level eyebrows, greenish
eyes, and plenty of black hair — dead black,
almost visible even on her slender wrists and
between her brows :

to fX€o~6(j)pvov Se fir) foi
SiaK07rre fi rare fio-ye.

She had not quite done growing, had a fastidious
appetite, a tolerably active mind, and
occasionally a tongue of intolerably teasing
tendencies. Her father had been an engineer,
who was employed at the time of her birth
in constructing a railway for the republic
of San Beccafico in Central America — for
which, by-the-way, that State never paid
him. And Lily had been nursed by a female
native of the republic, who spoke "soft

bastard" Spanish, mainly in the form of
oaths, or prayers to San Beccaflco, Sant'
Ago, and other eminent Spanish-American
divinities. Before the little girl had had
time to become thoroughly spoilt, her
parents took her to England, under the
charge of a genuine British nursemaid, whom
they had been fortunate enough to catch on
the rebound from another English family ;
and Lily was soon Anglicised, though traces
of the air and blood of San Beccaflco
manifested themselves in her occasionally.
Orphaned at the age of nine, she had been
since then an inmate of Mrs. Deane's small
home ; and her aunt Lucy had attended,
with much pains and trouble, to her upbringing.
Health and strength she had, and
the sea-air of Sokebridge kept them at a
high pitch of efficiency.

And she and Charlie paced about the
garden, the calm December afternoon of his

arrival from London, kicking through the
dead leaves, watching the deep yellow southwestern
sky, and getting up an appetite for
tea. The Deane household had tea at six —
tea at which everyone sat at the table,
and ate solid and wholesome food ; not one
of your fashionable afternoon teas, which
you take standing, or crouching on a spindle-legged
chair in a corner, with a slice of
bread-and-butter balancing on the edge of
your saucer. Not at all. This was the
genuine, comfortable nursery tea, indulged
in by families who dine at half-past one.

"Now tell us the gossip of the place,"
said Charlie to his cousin.

I don't think much has happened since
you went away that we didn't tell you in
our letters. You know Geraldine has had a
family 1 " Geraldine was the cat.

"Yes. I saw that in the first column
of The Times, How are they ? "

Well, one of them is very well, and
very happy I should think, as I'm keeping
it. The others were slain in some soft
secret way by the gardener, one morning
before I was up. I was very, very angry,
and he laughed. I suppose you would laugh,
too ? You torture kittens, I know, at your
old hospital, and give them smallpox, and
gout, and things, just for fun. Mr. Carpenter
told me so."

"He has a very strong imagination.
He has come back, then ? I must go and

look him up."

Yes. And he said you were awfully

dissipated in town. I didn't believe that.

I didn't think you had it in you to be

dissipated. You were always a good sort

of boy."

Thank you," replied Charlie, not entirely

enjoying this compliment. He would have

liked to be supposed capable of a little

"wildness," somehow, and this bland confidence
in his thorough propriety of conduct
did not please him so much as it ought
to have done.

"Did Carpenter give you any more confidential
information ? "

"Yes. He said you had struck up a
great alliance with a Jew, who, mentally
speaking, might be called the Wandering
Jew."

"Oh, Rosenfeld! He's the best fellow
in the world — and awfully good-looking.
I'll show to you his photo, and one of his
letters, when he writes. Mentally speaking,
he's a long way above Carpenter, or me
either, for the matter of that. You seem
to have had a good deal of conversation
with Jerry Carpenter ? "

Of course. I have known him since
he was a schoolboy nearly, and he is very
nice — nice-looking, don't you think ? "

"Jerry? By Jove! I never thought
of him in that light. I daresay he is."

"Besides, I could hear about you, you
know, from him." This with a conciliating
look that was irresistible.

Nice things he seems to have told
you about me ! "

"Oh, that's not all."

"What else is there?"

I don't think I ought to repeat private
conversations like this. Come and see my
kitten."

What an aggravating little thing you
are ! "

Oh, very well. Then I won't aggravate
you any more." And Lily wandered off into
the shrubbery by herself, and looked round.
The look round brought up Charlie, as a lifted
umbrella brings up a hansom, and he said :

I say, don't let's quarrel before I've
been here two hours ! "

"I didn't quarrel. I seemed to annoy
you, so I went away. Mr. Carpenter never
said I was aggravating." Poor Jerry was
mentally consigned by Charlie to the pit of
perdition ; but what he said was :

"You never are aggravating where you
don't try to be. Make peace, and I will
attend the kitten through all the disorders
of its infancy."

You would amputate it all over, I should
think, if I let you. Mr. Carpenter is its
family practitioner."

"Look here, if you mention Jerry again,
I'll amputate you all over."

Don't talk like that, or I won't show
it you."

"I don't want to see it," retorted Charlie
gloomily.

Why not ? " This with alarm and grief.

If you can't trust me so far with your
property, you'd better not introduce me toit."

And Charlie continued to assume an
expression of sombre offence.

,e Oh, I didn't mean that ! Charlie, of
course you are to be its physician-in-ordinary.
I was only teasing you."

At this complete and abject surrender
Charlie allowed himself to be conciliated,
and the minute black and graceful furry
mass was produced and criticised, and " took"
to Charlie at once ; crawling all over him,
and fixing its claws inextricably in his clothes,
and depositing hairs freely thereon.

"Mr. Farringdon's come back from Oxford,"
observed Lily ; " and they say he is
engaged to someone in Scotland with a lot
of money. Aunt Lucy says it's his cousin,
Miss Monteith."

"Really!"

Yes. And she said it was a mistake
for cousins to marry ; and grandma said it
was ridiculous."

VOL. I. I

And what did you say ? "

Oh, I said it was ridiculous too. It
must be near tea-time ; let's go in."

Do you think it ridiculous in all cases ? ''

"Oh, I suppose there might be exceptions
sometimes." And as no further opinion
on the subject could be extracted, they went
in to tea, where Charlie was made to "tell
all about" London, and confess how he had
forgotten most of the small commissions which
had been given him to do there, though he
had " thrown away his money," as Aunt Lucy
said, on a gorgeous Dore-Tennyson Idyll for
her, and a piece of china for his grandmother,
which latter Caspar the critic had helped him
to choose and obtain at a reasonable price,
in some dark Soho den where antiquities
grew and multiplied and replenished the shops
to overflowing.

These things appeared gradually in the
course of his unpacking, which, like Pendennis's

" plucking," was done in public,
more or less impeded by Lily's assistance,
as that damsel insisted on examining all his
surgical instruments in detail, and wanted
to " try " them on any victim that might be
handy — preferably Charlie, though he suggested
the kitten. For Lily he had got a
black fan with a delicate Watteau scene
on it.

How very pretty ! " said his aunt. " I
had no idea you had developed such an
artistic taste."

Lily was temporarily rapturous and
subdued.

"It isn't entirely my taste that is responsible.
I had advice from this man ; "
and he handed up a cabinet photograph, a
magnificent Van der Weyde portrait of Caspar
Kosenfeld in his ordinary workaday clothes,
with his hair unbrushecl. Caspar was a man
who would not take the trouble to adorn

i 2

himself, and looked passing well in spite of
it — perhaps better.

What a strange face ! " said Aunt Lucy ;
"and yet there seems something familiar
about it. I'm sure I have seen someone like
that here. I shall remember by-and-by. He
is handsome, I should say."

Let's look," said Lily from her kneeling
rummaging position.

It was handed to her.

Do for a description in your novel, Lily,"
observed Charlie.

Lily Carew had a permanent unfinished
novel always on hand, of which the plot
altered materially about once a month. It
described the adventures of a beautiful but
poor orphan girl, surrounded by embarrassing
male admirers : and was rather more original
though less constrained by the fetters of
probability, composition, grammar, etc., than
the more advanced productions by which

Aunt Lucy made a few guineas from time
to time.

I'll tell you who that's like," exclaimed
Lily.

Whom ! " gravely suggested Miss Deane.

Well, whom it resembles then. It's
that Mrs. Brandon who drives two black
ponies about. I saw her shopping in Soke-bridge
on Saturday. Who is, or whom is,
the man, Charlie ? I don't see the use of
bothering about grammar on weekdays."

Evidently," replied Charlie. " And the
man, as you call him, is the person Jerry
describes as the Wandering Jew."

"Mr. Carpenter called here a few days
ago," observed Mrs. Deane. "He seems a
merry young man, though, I should think, a
little too wild. He does not think very much
before he speaks."

He was unfortunate enough to make
some blasphemous remark about Mr. Disraeli,

I suppose," said Charlie, laughing. "I
remember when he made himself very unpopular
in this house by using the expression,
'verbose with the exuberance of his intoxication
in connection with that statesman."

"And now change the subject quickly''
put in Lily, "as I have had no end of politics
since you have been away, Charlie. The
kitten's a Radical, just to season the family
opinions, and goes about with a yellow bow
on the higher festivals."

I hear Farringdon's to be married."

Yes, it seems so, to Miss Dick Monteith
of Kimburls," said Miss Deane. "Mamma,
do you know how the Menteiths of Kimburls
are connected with the Warrington ? "

"Wait a minute, dear. Didn't Monty
Menteith? — no, it was Willie Menteith of
Warstairs ran away with Gertrude Farringdon
of Keckleshope on the south side of the Border

in '14. Yes, I know now ; by her had
issue, Richard and Monty Menteith, while her
brother had the Keckleshope place, and his
younger son came and settled here ; and that
would be this Farringdon's grandfather, came
here in '30* Then Monty died, and they sold
Warstairs, when Richard came into Kimburls,
and Richard's son married Miss Johnston
of Corpeddie, daughter of Lord Corpeddie,
you know, the law-lord, in ? 58 ; and their
only child is this daughter, Richard or Dick
Menteith, Kimburls. Kimburls himself is
alive now. So this young Farringdon is
her "

Oh, good gracious, grandma, do stop ! "
exclaimed Charlie. " I never realised before
what it was to have an ancestress who was
Scotch, and who had such a marvellous
memory."

"Ah, you young people may laugh, but

if I didn't remember these things, I'd like to
know who would?"

"That is unanswerable," said Charlie.

Ah, they were always a shilpit lot, those
Warrington of Keckleshope."

CASPAR ON CHRISTMAS.

Christmas "set in" in Sokebriclge this year
in a charmingly old-fashioned manner, with a
low temperature, dry atmosphere, bright sunlight,
and heavy death-rate. It penetrated
the poetic minds of the shopkeepers, so that
their windows burst forth into exhibitions of
holly and ribbons, raisins and citron-peel,
birds and adipose beef, and more adipose pig,
in front of which the populace stood in admiring
groups. Few things stimulate the average
British citizen's awe and admiration for what
is great, good, and sacred so much as a row
of colossal carcases of oxen with bunches of

holly stuck on them, except, perhaps, the
same exhibition in pork. The inhabitants of
Sokebridge assumed through habit a kind of
forced and fictitious joviality, utterly foreign
to their very every-day and dead-level souls,
usually absorbed in Local Board wrangles and
political religious dissensions.

The benevolent subscribed to procure the
paupers their annual gorge of roast beef, and
then settled down placidly to their own private
gorge of the same, while the paupers looked
forward to twelve months more of semi-starvation
to get up an appetite for next
Christmas. The face of the principal grocer
had peace and good will writ large on it,
possibly none the less because the other
grocer was making a comparatively bad thing
of it. He even left off for a day or two
anathematising " them stores," as he induced
innocent fathers of families to have last year's
figs, candies, and crackers sent in, observing :

Been keeping' 'em for you, sir " (which was
true); "just got 'em down from London"
(which was not). A placid and lardaceous
joy was visible on the butcher's highly-coloured
face, as he reflected on the bones
and fat he had so dexterously inserted into
portions of bovine anatomy that customers
would think they grew there, if he only fee'd
the cooks sufficiently to keep up the illusion.
And having sold the offal and scraps remarkably
well to the poor, under the brilliant
but delusive gas-glare of Christmas Eve, he
went to the conventicle next day which
represented his particular form of schism
with a clear conscience, a sense of duty
done, and of rest well-earned. Charlie and
Lily wasted long snowy mornings in chattering
of nothing particular, cleaning skates,
and decorating the house, and went out
skating in the dusky still afternoons, till
the sun set low and red and streaky behind

the trees, casting its long glittering glance
on the dead leaves and snow tracks, when
they came home, hot, laughing, and tired,
to tea.

They invested freely in those " Christmas
Numbers" which contained illustrations of
moaned granges, of which every window from
basement to attic is illuminated on the evening
which sees the return of the wandering
prodigal. They also indulged in much messy
and viscous cookery, in comic songs, and —
though this revelation is of a confidential
nature — in " dressing-up." Charlie thought
he could act, and Lily was perfectly certain
that she could ; so they chose the exalted
legitimate " line, and gave the grave-digging
scene, with a real skull, and a costume
for Hamlet, cleverly extemporised by Lily
from an old waterproof cloak, and a black
velvet hat and feather of her own, slightly
arranged " for the purpose.

With all her histrionic powers, Lily would
never learn her words thoroughly, for which
deficiency she made up by " cheek," and one
or two original and surprising gags which
would have greatly entertained the deceased
doyen of dramatic literature. For example,
she impulsively replied, " I shan't ! " to the
advice, "To a nunnery, go ; and quickly
too ; " all of which will show that these two
young people had very few cares, and a great
capacity for innocent enjoyment. Miss Deane
was what she called "very busy "for a few
days before Christmas, writing letters to those
distant relatives — distant in relationship,
distant in residence — who are written to
regularly once a year. Miss Deane had a
very good handwriting, and was fond of
using a pen, whether in romance-writing,
visitors-books, washing-books, journals, or
recipes for oil of jasmine, tread e-pudding,
and beetle-traps. Mrs. Deane continued to

knit in her upright armchair, and to call to
mind how many of her contemporaries had
died since the same season of feast and
thanksgiving the year before. She took a
quiet but cheery pleasure — almost triumph —
in these researches and comparisons, and in
making the household thoroughly comfortable
by adding placidly, " And now I feel that
my turn is coming next. Ye'll do well to
make the most of me this New Year " — Mrs.
Deane ignored Christmas, except as a religious
commemoration — "for ye'll not have me
another."

Nonsense, mamma ; you're quite well
as well as ever."

"Just that! I'm in my usual; but I
know, I know." The fact that this threat
of departure had been uttered annually for
some eleven years took largely from its force,
yet it was disturbing.

On the 24th December, Charlie received

a letter from Caspar, of which he read parts
aloud at tea-time. It was as follows :

Address in future, Barnard's Inn.

"Dec. 23, 187—.

"Dear Deane,

Imagine me writing at a table, the
only article of furniture left, except a chair
and a bed, etc., in the palatial premises,
Gray's Inn Lane, you know. I am moving.
The hearth rug is standing upright in a roll
in the passage, waiting for me to go out and
kick it over in the permanent darkness of
the stairs. A pale and rickety bedroom
candle is on the floor, where the slave left
it when she and the fire went out sometime
before I came in. There is no fender.
I don't know what to do except remain in
bed for the next few days, as they have
taken away all my books and most of my
other property, and are now going to leave

off in the middle of the job — as they properly
call it — ' because, if you please, sir,
it's Christmas-time. '

Christmas is an occasion for raising all
the baser and bestial tendencies of humanity
into a prominent and dominant condition.
It is about ejecting time at the puts.,
which are numerous about here, and the
street seems to be everybody's way home.
Everybody ' mostly lives in Clerkenwell
and Hatton Garden. The revellers are noisy
and noisome. They have imperfect command
over their limbs and tempers. Some
are armed with concertinas. There are, I
should say, about six homeward-bound barrel-organist,
grinding against time and each
other. The carol of ' Moses and Aaron ' is
being given by the crowd. Workmen who
move my things, and women who wash
my shirts, have been pestering me for
Christmas-boxes, and looking at me gloomily

when I gave them, with faces that distinctly
said, ' What do you call that ? ' I know
they go and convert my gifts into fine old
buttery gin. I know they will return and
recline, grateful, moist, and lethargic, on
my doorstep., and disclaim all knowledge of
their own address. I know civilisation is
at a standstill, that the police-cells are filling,
the herald angels singing, and the death-rate
from cold and destitution rising. It is,
notwithstanding, a great and glorious festival,
and we have got to put up with it. I
may get peace when these people are all
gone home, or to sleep, or to the police-station,
or into the Thames. Goodwill to
men never was one of my strong points.
Was at ' The Spotted Dog ' this afternoon —
very stupid. Half the men were drunk,
and quarrelled over points of grammar and
pronunciation. Jack Miller was silent and
superior, and looked in an ill-temper. Laus

I. K

rente was not there. I left soon ; I was

obliged to. — Yours in spleen, and malice,

and wrath,

Caspar Bosenfeld."

What a very bitter disposition ! " said
Miss Deane.

"Poor young man!" said her mother;
"he must be very lonely. Has he no home,
no parents to go to ? "

No, grandma," said Charlie ; " I'm afraid
he hasn't."

"No wonder he doesn't like London just
now. Why not write and ask him to spend
Christmas with us, Charlie ? There's a
room."

Well, yes ; but, grandma, he is a Jew,
you know."

"All the more reason to be kind to
him at Christmas," quietly replied the old
lady.

"He is literary, you told us, didn't you?"
said Miss Deane.

"He is."

"Ah, well, he might give me some
hints."

"He's awfully good-looking," remarked
Lily. " I hope you will ask him, Charlie."

Charlie winced at this, and said :

"Do you think you and he will get on
together — I mean you, grandma, and Aunt
Lucy ? " totally ignoring the small but important
person with the raven fringe, who
was gloating over Caspar's photograph in an
album, or Charlie's — as they were on opposite
pages, no one could be sure which.

"I have seen his photograph and I have
heard his letter, Charlie," said Mrs. Deane ;
"and I think I understand him already
almost as much as you do. I've seen more
men than you have, dear."

So Caspar was "wired" to. Rather to

k 2

Charlie's astonishment, he arrived on the
brilliant frosty Christmas morning, and won
Mrs. Deane's heart for ever by going to
church.

Among the brilliant and fashionable part
of the congregation Charlie perceived his
acquaintance Farringdon (descended from
Farringdon of Keckleshope, on the south
side of the Debatable Land), not looking
the least like a reiving moss-trooper, being
a good-looking, neatly-dressed young man of
the day, with close-cropped reddish fair hair,
a rather prominent nose, and a rather retreating
chin. His father, old Mr. Farringdon,
was a sort of dilettante recluse, whose convictions
did not permit him to come to
church, but did permit him to lie in a
Chinese wicker lounge before a blazing wood
fire, on an antique Dutch-tiled hearth, with
L'Heptameron des Nouvelles de Marguerite
d'Angoulesnie," bound in vellum, on his knees,

and a heavy silver-mounted meerschaum in
his mouth, containing a scientific and scented
mixture of his own invention, which filled
the artistic gloom of his tapestried room
with a heavy Oriental odour. Mrs. Warrington
had been, and was not. The paternal
Farringdon was of somewhat stronger mould
than the son, and did not respect the latter
much, though he tolerated him. Young Farringdon
certainly looked as if he had that
subtle stamp of excellence called the Oxford
Tone, with which that ancient academy hall-marks
(or college-marks) her nurselings. But
although he was so far cultured and could
be pleasant in a way, it was not an entirely
genuine kind of pleasantness. He could be
sometimes rather amusing with an effort, and
very commonplace without the least effort.
He was not idle. At the Union he had been
at first one of those prophets of commonsense
who quote " Macaulay's Essays," and

the "recent article in the 'Fortnightly
Reviews to which the honourable opener
probably refers." But he was never known
to have been carried away by an enthusiasm,
foolish or otherwise. He never, for example,
joined the gang who carved their way to
perfection and beauty with pickaxes, at the
bidding of their distinguished and eloquent
Slade Professor (who is here mentioned with
reverence and gratitude wholly devoid of impertinent
intention). There, that is enough
about young Farringdon for the present ; we
shall have enough of him by-and-by.

There was one other figure in the church
which attracted Charlie's attention through
its novelty, and Caspar's for other reasons.
It was that of a tall, square-shouldered, very
well though quietly dressed woman, young
and lady-like, with a sombre, almost Egyptian
type of beauty, rare in Sokebriclge. She had
a clear pale face, and shadowy black-fringed

eyes, whose colour could hardly be guessed,
and a perfectly quiet, perfectly impenetrable
expression. Her hands and feet, those important
criteria of feminine perfection, were
well formed and well clothed.

Lily explained to Charlie in a whisper
that she was "that Mrs. Brandon. "

Caspar found Mrs. Deane a great source
of interest and admiration in the course of
his visit, and temporarily melted down from
the normal critical and dissatisfied state into
one of childlike fun and joviality, with only
short and occasional irruptions of the
"morbid" element. He gave Miss Deane
copious information in the matter of publishers,
and the sins and imperfections of
that august body, and got on to quite
chaffing " terms with that pleasant and by
no means unprepossessing lady, who had
not yet attained her fifth lustre.

Lily Carew worked herself into what

she considered a desperate attachment for the
handsome and eccentric young litterateur,
which she cultivated in silent and solitary
despair for the few days of his stay, and
forgot all about after his departure, in the
excitement of " tobo^inins: " down a snow
slope with Charlie in a saucer-bath and
tea-tray. Caspar expressed an intention of
taking " Charlie abroad in the summer.
He was one of those men who take to
foreign languages as a duck does to water,
knew his way about Europe pretty well, and
had a genius for getting from Paris to the
Carpathians on twopence-halfpenny, and living
in plenty all the time. Charlie was wild
about the project, and wanted to " shunt on
the summer session like a panorama, you
know."

When Caspar went back to town, with
requests to come again when he had time
(requests that were sincere, and by no

means akin to "Look us up when you come
our way ! "), he said to Charlie at the 
Station, as he lit a cigarette :

"Do you know who that Mrs. Brandon
is?"

"No."

She is my sister Jessie."

HOW THE DEGENERATION SET IN.

In the good old times, and in that portion
of them called the year 1604 or thereabouts,
when a lamentably incomplete quarto of
"Hamlet" was perhaps the greatest possession
the public had in the civilised South,
Dick Farringdoun was a moss-trooper of the
fearless old school, whose motto was "Tak
quhat ye can, haud quhat ye can," who lived
in a tall black tower on the Scotch side of
the Border in the uncivilised North. For his
achievements, various and valiant, see old
ballad-literature of the locality. He drank
deep and rode far and fast, and feared no

man, from His Sacred Majesty James VI.
upwards. Between this "rank reiver" and
one Halbert Lee of Keckleshope, on the
English side, a feud arose, originating in a
difference of opinion between the two (perhaps
when on the same vestry), in which
said Halbert became personal, and made
irritating and contemptuous observations on
the whiteness of Dick Farringdoun's liver.
Farringdoun, resenting this, went back to
the Keep, and Lee, chuckling, to Keckleshope
Castle. Farringdoun got out his head-piece,
gauntlets, heaviest boots, sword, and patroness,
and set the housemaid (he was an unmarried
man, and young) to polish the same, making
grim Scotch jests between his teeth anent
the occurrence of a rift in Hobbie Lee's
muckle wame" in the immediate future.
Having put all these impedimenta on (without
which no Border gentleman travelled),
he summoned a troop of second and third

cousins, who appeared in like guise, and the
party set out for Keckleshope. They arrived
in the dewy dawn of a September morning
before the castle, and blew a defiant Scotch
air on a trumpet. Lee expected visitors, and
fired a culverin, which sent the trumpet and
the musician, who was not many feet from
the mouth of the gun, into the four arts
of infinite space. The Farringdoun family
then shouted an alarming " slogan," and proceeded
to assault Keckleshope, which kept
them well occupied until lunch-time. By
then Hobbie Lee was a corpse, half the
castle in flames, the cattle under the care
of five or six grim second cousins of Dick's,
and Mrs. Halbert Lee, a young and prepossessing
person, under the care of Dick
himself.

There were very few left alive on either
side ; but Dick Farringdoun took Reckless
and kept it, giving his surviving relatives

the flocks and herds, with which they
rode placidly home, conscious of a well-spent
day. After a decent period spent in failings
and reviling, Mrs. Lee discovered that Dick
was a better-looking and younger man than
the late Halbert, and agreed to become
Mrs. Farringdoun (a process easily accomplished
in those days " without benefit of
clergy ") if he, on his part, would agree to
settle there, on the English side. Reckless
being a larger and pleasant place than
the Keep, which was cramped and old-fashioned,
Dick magnanimously accepted this
condition, and gave the Keep to a second
cousin.

And then the Farringdoun degeneration
set in. The new Mrs. Richard was a charming
young woman, but frivolous and extravagant,
and possessed withal of romantic
and vaporous notions on social and political
matters. And in an evil hour she persuaded

her husband to come to London, to attend
the Court of King James, and buy some
modish suits of clothes for himself and for
her, particularly the latter. Instead of selling
out a little stock to obtain money, Dick
harried " someone else's stock, and travelled
comfortably on the proceeds. In
London he slowly went to grief. He was
not happy. Scotchmen were not very popular
in London just then, and his feelings
were often hurt and his accent mocked by
'prentices, whose flippant town slang he did
not understand, whose " peasants " and
"washes" were beneath the dignity of his
sword. And he would not stoop to flatter
his " royal sonship," and so became unpopular
at the Court, where good-looking but impertinent
young men snubbed him, and made
love to his wife. The happiest day he ever
spent was the one on which he and his wife
had front seats at one of the first perform-vol.

I. L

dances of "Macbeth." The representation of
so much bloodshed, and the use of so much
strong language, made him feel proud of
Scotland, and fancy himself once more a
bachelor in the dear old Keep. And I regret
to say that he drank far too much, forgetful
that he had not his accustomed extremely
active exercise to counteract the effects of
alcohol.

And a son was born to him in London,
who should, he had hoped, have been born
at Keckleshope, after his return. But he
never returned. The climate, the habits, the
mockery, the disappointments, the idleness,
and the drink of London conquered and
broke down, in the prime of life, the great,
strong, coarse, childlike nature which had
never feared to face a foe, and fatty degeneration
of the heart and muscles and
cirrhosis liver did what no one on the
English or Scotch side had ever succeeded

in doing. Dick Farringdoun died. His son
grew up, and was educated in England — in
London, in fact — and amused himself in the
metropolis. His mother was a professional
beauty for some years after poor Dick's
death, and finally became absorbed in religious
devotion after the manner of Archbishop
Laud, alternating with fits of extreme
dissipation after the manner of the
Court. The son (named Halbert in a
fit of remorse on the part of his parents)
became that very feeble thing, a Court
hanger-on without money, until his mother's
influence with the elect got him made a
page. Then he grew up, and we hear of
him no more until we find him one calm
summer evening galloping like the wind,
with some friends, along the road that led
quickest away from a place called Long
Marston Moor, looking nervously over his
shoulder at certain distant Ironsides who

L 2

were powdering hotly after him. He then
seems to have disappeared for a time, residing
quietly at Keckleshope.

The one original quality of the poor old
moss-trooper which adhered to his descendants
was a capacity for ' ' hanging-on " in some
inscrutable way to Keckleshope Castle. They
had a quiet way of tenaciously holding whatever
they imagined to be theirs, unless it
were money — they generally spent that.
Having failed conspicuously as a Cavalier,
he became a Roundhead, and tried to leave
off swearing. After his first victorious
skirmish in this capacity he thought fighting
was a rather good business, as he quietly
pocketed a few family jewels and a silver
tankard from a smouldering house, used
as a defence by the infantry, until he received
the following brief but impressive
despatch :

"Aug. 18, 1648.

TO CAPTAIN Abingdon I THESE.

Sir,

I would have you to knowe that if
you should in future bring the armie into
the hatred and contempt of poore and peaceful
people, by plundering them of their lawfull
goods, as I hear you have latelie done, I will
presently hang you up. See Esther vii. 10.

Your loving friend,

0. Cromwell."

This document, unrevealed by Mr. Carlyle,
is in the archives of the Farringdoun family.
Halbert did not plunder again. But he
kept the jewels, and in the glorious period
that followed 16 GO he wore them, and told
the tale with many witty but mythic incrustations
on it. But he did not show
the letter. He married a young person of

quality somewhat late in life, bought a
baronetcy of the Merry Monarch, had a son,
enjoyed Etherege and Dryden thoroughly,
and died intestate and intemperate. On his
deathbed he was not quite sober, but very,
very repentant, and extremely alarmed as to
the immediate future of that valuable commodity
he called his soul. He is said to
have seen many devils in his bedroom,
which annoyed and terrified him. The
priests made a miracle of it. The "leech"
who attended him, and was a sceptical follower
of the heretic Harvey, said they were
due to Nantes brandy. But the leech was
coughed down. A series of uninteresting
Farringdouns of Keckleshope fill the archives
till the reign of George III., at which period
they elected to omit the " u " in the final
syllable of their name, as savouring of Scotland,
and, therefore, vulgar. They were
beaux and wits, and all married persons of

quality, all partook freely of the intoxicating
bowl, and were generally affected
prigs or contemptible blackguards.

One distinguished himself greatly in that
gallant train who called themselves Shocks
and Jacobites. As time wore on they
became more and more uninteresting, and
less like the simple-hearted, brave, but brutal
Dick of Dick's Keep. The only thing that
redeemed the family from extinction was
the fresh blood — not always of the best
quality, physically speaking — put into it by
the persons of quality whom they usually
married. A trace of the old spirit flashed
up in one of them, a handsome and dreamy
boy, who followed the fortunes and misfortunes
of another "shilpit" family, whose
name was Stuart, and died for them on the
field of Culloden.

The Warrington of Sokebridge came
from a younger son of the last Keckleshope

baronet but one, I think, and brought
away a good many valuable little odds and
ends with them when they migrated southwards.


A SOFT LIFE OF Pleasurable DAYS."

The Warrington of Sokebridge were the
richest people there, and lived in the best
house in the place. And they had not
earned the wealth. Not at all. They had
"come into it" (which was like the Warrington),
and stuck to it (which was not). The
present inhabitants were Claudius Malcolm
Farringdon, father and widower, and George
Malcolm Farringdon, son and sole child.
(Some deceased Farringdon had christened
his son " Malcolm," and the latter, thinking
it sounded pretty, had perpetuated it into a
family name.)

Claudius was a learned but lazy gentleman
of about fifty-five, " or, by 're Lady,
sixty." If he had not been a Farringdon he
would have been a distinguished artist, poet,
or litterateur ; but the fatal hereditary quality,
to describe which I have borrowed Mrs.
Deane's word, came out in him in the form
of a lamentable lack of energy. He was
very good-natured and agreeable, provided
that things went on exactly as he wished
them to, that his meals were well cooked,
and that he was not bored. From Anacreon
and Catullus to old tapestries and Japanese
porcelain, he liked everything that pleased his
cultivated wits and senses.

In erudition, wit, and general culture, he
excelled his son George, of whom mention
has been made, as much as Addison's " Spectator"
does a modern "Society" weekly, or
as '14 claret captured from the French does
14s. Gladstone's bought from the grocer.

He had travelled a good deal in a
luxurious and easy way, and seen a good
deal of gentes et urges. And very queer
gentes and very odd and interesting portions
of urges sometimes too. Now he had settled
down very comfortably in the house at Soke-bridge,
supplied with the newest books,
reviews, and magazines from town, and
groceries from the stores. Being a rich
man, he deeply resented extortion from local
tradesmen. And being a man of fastidious
taste, he distinctly repudiated Sokebridge
groceries as articles of diet. The house was
a luxury even for the passer-by to contemplate.


It was not exactly an old, but a very
elderly house, of red brick, turned warm
gray with patches of lichen, which left only
the deep and weathered red on the outline
of each brick. The white wooden window-frames
were flush with the external wall-surface,

and the close-clinging variety of
Virginian vine grew up between the windows,
throwing out skirmishers high up in the form
of slender stay sprays, whose leaves flattened
themselves by close application to the
wall. The door was overshadowed by a
narrow wooden lintel with a piece of zinc
nailed over it. The roof was of brown tile,
in which frequent long flat-topped undulations
raised themselves to cover a white-framed
attic window. And on many of the
tiles was a thick layer of velvety moss of a
deep dark green, which reminded one of the
plush covers of a theatre stall. The house
was of this shape, E ; and within and in front
of the three-sided enclosure was a lawn of
deep rich turf, with a sun-dial and cedar-trees.
And on to this lawn Claudius Farringdon's
study opened. In this study he sat, smoking
good cigars or expensive tobacco mixtures of
his own devising, and cultivating his treasures

of art and literature. Here China and Japan
contributed their choicest ornamental treasures
to fill and crown the tall inlaid cabinets
of mediaeval Venice ; and the luxury of
modern Persian - carpet - covered low deep
lounges contrasted with the stiff dignity of
upright black carved antique chairs ; while
a large quaint leaden lamp, once in a Hebrew
synagogue, hung from the centre of the
ceiling. The heavy arras of dark dull
colours, interwoven with gold and silver
wire, concealed full bookshelves, in which
were not only the usual works which "no
gentleman's library should be without," but
also quaint archaic treatises on fencing and
venery, with strange engravings by Dutch
and Italian artists ; various missals, some
containing illustrations of the best and
rarest fifteenth - century masters ; as well
as countless volumes of old plays, in
which Claudius luxuriated, and original

editions which he loved to contemplate. The
arcanum, the holy of holies of the collection
was a cabinet near his own armchair, containing
works of various ages, but all distinctly
precious to their owner. Among these
were The Book of Rabelais, Catullus, Martial,
Juvenal, Ransome's " Dames Galantes,"
if Contes Drolatiques de Balzac," " Mademoiselle
de Maupin ; " the works of Massinger,
Wycherley, Sedley, Dry den, Aphra Been,
Jonathan Swift, Flaubert, Below, Crebillon
fils, " Le Moyen de Parvenir;" the novels
of the late Messrs. Henry Fielding and Tobias
Smollett ; and every new volume of the
annals of the Kougon-Macquart family as it
appeared. Most of these he could reach without
rising from his fireside armchair, with
the little table near it for coffee, matches,
a paper-knife, a pencil, tobacco, etc. Out
of such easy reach, but accessible on rising
up, on rising up, were Plautus. Aristophanes,

Moliere, Scarron, Voltaire, Ben Jonson,
Chapman, Horace, Boccaccio, De Danville,
Baudelaire, Byron, J. J. Rousseau, De Musset,
and Erasmus. These formed the middle
zone. The " Delamere " was a handy-modern
one for use. He had a wonderful
mediaeval one for show — long, thick, and
narrow, with quaint illustrations — among the
antique books in another part of the room.
The Plautus and Aristophanes were solid little
brown leather works, Cf Amsterdam, Types
Ludovici Elzevirii, A° 1652, Sumptuous
Societatis" The Horace, "Ex Officina Jacobi
Jonson et Johannes Watts, mdccxv.," in red
and black. The third and highest zone contained
Cervantes, Homer, aeschylus, Heine,
Hugo, Dante, Goethe, Marlowe, and Shakespeare
only.

Claudius Malcolm Farringdon had read
all these, and many more also ; but he read
the first and handy zone oftener.

Having so far revealed the habits, the
habitat, and the very diverse tastes of this
curious mortal, let us investigate his personas
he sits by the fireside, his legs crossed
before him, a cigar in one hand, the exhilarating
pages of " La Curse " open on his lap,
contemplating through his double eyeglasses
his son, in the opposite chair, and conversing
with him, on the afternoon of Christmas Day,
while Charlie Deane and his friend are speeding
on skates over the flooded fields three
miles away, with Lily Carew between them,
beaming like a little Lesbia on each alternately.
Claudius is a young-looking old man
in a black velvet smoking-suit. His well-formed
picturesque head, fine but faded eyes,
and " well-bred " expression remind one of the
portrait up above him of the Farringdon who
died in the '45. The iron-gray moustache,
long and pointed and twisted, one end up
and the other down, in a careless way, hides

largely the mouth. That is just as well ;
for the mouth is the weak point of the
Warrington. Young Anthony up there in
the powdered hair and white satin and gold
coat has no moustache, and has a wonderfully
weak " half kissed away " mouth, pretty and
passionate withal, but scarcely capable of
closing up with a snap, and saying : " I will !
Though the heaven fall and the earth be
rent, I will ! " No. He looked far more
likely to say : " I won't unless I'm obliged,
and then I'll fail." And Claudius had a
mouth not unlike this, which had made
pretty and poetic promises to women, and
not kept them ; which had given kisses which
the giver forgot and the receiver remembered.
His chin and jaw were nicely and roundly
carved out of blancmange sunburnt to a
nicety, carefully divested of any sign of
bone. His iron-gray hair was cut very
short, and was absent on the upper surface

VOL. L M

of the head, except for a little black tuft
in front of the parietofrontal suture, which
he diligently parted and brushed. His nose
was aquiline. The Farringdon nose always
was.

"I was going to tell you," said he to
his son, "that some electioneering fellow came
here while you were at Oxford. Heaven
knows what induced Alphonse to let him
in. He bothered me a great deal ; not quite
so much as I bothered him, though. I don't
quite know for whom or what he wanted
my vote and interest. I wish you had been
here ; you may take an interest in these
things. You talk politics at the Union,,
don't you?"

"Well, yes. But that's not what I
wanted to talk about just now."

I didn't know you wanted to talk about
anything particular. However, proceed."

I want to get married, you know."

"So you have said before. I believe
most young men feel a craving in that
direction at some period of their existence.
I felt it myself once, hence your presence
here. You'll get over it."

"Then don't you want me to do it?
Don't you want the family to be kept up
after — afterwards ? "

"After my death, you mean? I don't
care twopence if the family is blown into
infinite space by dynamite, or if some one
drop — kicks the earth into primeval chaos
after that unfortunately inevitable event. I
haven't the slightest objection to your marrying
if you want to, or to making you an
allowance if you can't earn any money. I
suppose that is what you are driving at ? "

"Not exactly, though of course that would
have to be discussed, and it's kind of you
to mention it. But I thought, perhaps, you
oughtn't entirely like to have a family

m 2

turning you out of your comfortable den
here — and — er — upsetting your household,
and all that."

"Upsetting my household? You don't
quite carry me with you."

"Well, you know, I'm not more particular
than other fellows, you know, but you
couldn't expect the lady I marry to live in
the same house with Mrs. — er "

"Jessie? Well, who asked the lady you
marry to do anything of the kind ? "

Oh, well, if you mean to hang out permanently
in town, well and good. You will
have your club handy, and all that, and "

"Look here, George. We are misunderstanding
each other. Let me make it perfectly
clear to you that although I have no
objection to your taking to yourself a wife —
six if you think it would make a merrier
family — I do distinctly repudiate any intention
of being in any way bothered by the

transaction. I don't mind coming to your
wedding, if you will let me send some of
my own wine in advance for the breakfast ;
but if you think you, or your wife, or anyone
else, except my own convenience, or the
leader of the danse Macabre, are going to turn
me out of this house, you are mis taken."

Oh, well, I thought it was usual ; very
well, we can live somewhere else," was the
rather sullen reply.

"You may live where you d — n please,
and I hope you'll enjoy it," placidly replied
this reverend senior, exhaling smoke, and
examining the backs of his hands. " By-the-way,
I don't envy you your father-in-law."

"Mr. Menteith?"

Kimburls, man ! Kimburls, with as
many 'r's' as you can manage. Fancy
calling a Scotch feudal chieftain, a Glasgow-born
landowner, by his name ! "

"Well, I don't pretend to be up to all

the delicate forms and ceremonies of Scotch
proprietary dignity."

"No, you had better not. You would
take nobody in. There is not a trace of
the Scot about you. I know Kimburls.
He thinks he has a pretty wit, and throws
off unconsidered trifles for that exhilarating
periodical, variously called by the natives
of Glasgow the Belie and the Belly. Being
an Advocate of the Faculty of that city,
he prides himself on his pure Saxon English,
and thinks it vulgar to have an accent, which
is unfortunate for him. I daresay, now, you
think him an extremely intellectual man.' ,

He is a well-read man."

"That is, he quotes Horace, and says
'eradicate' when he means f take out"

"Well, Fm not going to marry him."

"Fm not so sure of that. You will
find him rather a burr, I fancy. And the
young lady is pretty enough, certainly, and

very good, I should say, and romantic.
Given to Walter Scott and Mr. Aytoun,
probably. Quite fitted to discharge the
function assigned by Ago to her c that
was ever fair and never proud"

I don't quite remember at this moment
what function he did' assign to her."

Well, get the book and see by-and-by.
Shakespeare quotations that do not
occur in leading articles are thrown away
on you, I'm afraid. Well, putting things
candidly — as I generally do when nothing
is to be gained by putting them otherwise —
and setting aside popular twaddle on the
eternal sanctity of the marriage-tie and all
that, I think your bride elect does not compare
with my lost sheep of the house of Israel."

Don't you think it's almost time you
left off talking and thinking in this way ? "

Again to quote a Shakespearean saying,
from a lady's mouth this time : c When

will I begin to patch up my old body for
heaven ? ' It's very kind in you to take
an interest in my spiritual welfare, but I
advise you to keep all the religion and
morality you've got for yourself; you'll want
them all I fancy."

You are a hopeless old sinner, governor."

"And a doosid comfortable life I find
it, and intend sticking to it, thanking you
for your well-meant advice all the same.
When do you want to marry Miss Menteith ? "

We thought in about six months' time.
I am going abroad with them in the summer,
and I shall have taken my degree then, and
eaten dinners enough to be called at the
Temple."

"Are you two young people really in
love with each other ? "

"What awfully romantic ideas you come
out with, governor ! Well, she is very fond
of me, I believe; not enthusiastically, perhaps;

but IVe known her from infancy, and she
can't help seeing I'm a decent sort of fellow,
and all that, you know."

She is a very discerning person, then.
And are you equally struck with her merits ? "

I like her better than most girls I've
met; in fact, I like her awfully."

Marriage judiciously based on mutual
esteem ; very judiciously indeed. By-the-way,
do you mean to address her as Richard ?
I know it is understood in Scotland that one
out of every six families have a daughter
called Miss Jack, or Miss Blair, or Miss
Andre ; but won't it strike the benighted
Southerner as rather remarkable ? "

"She is called Dick generally; I must
put up with that."

As she puts up with you ; case of mutual
concession."

"Then it's all right as far as you are
concerned ? "

Certainly ; I wish I could return the
compliment. Now let us talk of something
else. It is a pity you are not a fluent
French scholar, or you might read this aloud
for me, it would save trouble."

That ? By Jove, governor, I wonder
the neighbours here call upon you ; you are
so ostentatiously improper."

"It amuses me and doesn't hurt them.
As for their tolerating and calling on me,
you know very w r ell, or ought to know, that
plenty of people would call on old Horne
himself, if he settled in a seaside mansion
with plenty of money and a French cook.
And they would say horns were very becoming,
and they would affect a fashionable
hoof-limp, and wear false tails, until the
poor devil became bankrupt, and made a
composition with the local tradesmen of
nothing in the pound. Then they would
say he was the Father of Lies, and that

they had always said so ; and each wonder
what the rest could possibly find in
him. Besides, I awake their curiosity as
well as their greed. I have things, and
books, and pictures utterly strange and new
to them, and I give a little bachelor dinner
sometimes, which the men come to and seem
to enjoy. I'm devilish popular, in fact, and
run after by churchwardens, school-board
people, fox-hunters, ball-committees, hospital
managers, regatta-mongers, politicians, and
deuce knows what besides. They all think
they can get something out of me if they
try hard. They haven't tried quite hard
enough yet. I put on my oldest manner,
and they go away in a very good humour,
and that's the humour of it."

"And how long are you going to live
like this?"

Faith, I will live so long as I may,
that's the certain of it ; and when I cannot

live any longer, I will do as I may — that
is my rest, that's the rendezvous of it."

That is rather nonsense, isn't it ? "

That is the certain of it ; but Corporal
Nym is responsible, not I, and that's the
humour of it," replied the old gentleman,
chuckling at his son's evident annoyance
at having been trapped into criticising a
quotation as an original remark.

Oh, another of your d — d Shakespearean
people. You always select the biggest blackguards
in Shakespeare to quote from, as far
as I can gather."

I select what I think will appear worth
the occasion. Take a cigar ? "

Thanks; I will."

Now take a book, and hold your tongue,
as I want to finish the history of this edifying
lady this nice cold afternoon. I like to seethe
snow outside. It makes the fire seem
warmer."

"Hard lines for the poor who haven t
any fires."

D — n the poor ! And do get a book
and sit still, or go out, or something."

THE YOUNGEST LIVING REPRESENTATIVE OF
DICK Warrington.

The very exemplary individual described in
the last chapter married a pretty young wife
long ago, who spent her few and sorrowful
years in ministering to his comforts like the
typical Oriental slave, in making much of
the pretty boy that was born to her, and
telling him stories of the prowess of his
ancestors, as she lifted him up to see the
picture of Sir Anthony Farringdon of the
7 45, or showed him the silver tankard captured
from the enemy by the bow and spear
of Halbert Farringdoun in 1648, and generally

spoiling him, and with the best intentions
in the world giving him an essentially false
idea of his own importance, which his father's
plain-speaking never entirely corrected. This
lady had a long concealed painful internal
disease, of which she died, rather than trouble
the husband whom she loved and revered,
as only a woman could love and revere such
a worthy object as Claudius Farringdon. And
he recompensed her with a very artistic and
very expensive grave, though he resented
her death keenly.

George was a boy then, who disliked
taking a cold bath in the morning, and
dabbed the towels with a sponge to give
them the semblance of having been used.
He might have had a hot bath if he had
asked for it ; but he preferred to have the
credit of the other.

He was a pretty boy, and gained a certain
amount of popularity both among his

school companions, and subsequently among
women.

As he grew up he became particular
about his dress, his boots, and his social
standing. When he went to the University
he subscribed to all the boating and athletic
clubs, and wore their costumes. But he
thought cricket a bore, hated boating, and
abhorred football. Beading was not his
strong point, but he liked to possess nicely-bound
books, and to pick up the catchwords
of the fashionable white vellum school of
literary babblers who founded Amaranth and
Asphodel clubs, and fancied they understood
Villon and Rabelais, and could write poetry.

George never tried writing. He had
sense enough to know that men who wrote
verse at the University met with much
ridicule ; and George keenly resented and
deeply dreaded ridicule, though he liked to
endeavour to "spare it about," like old

Nickieben in the poem. He could not, of
course, but he liked to try.

He liked to make friends, but disliked
to share them. He liked to give the impression
that they were more intimate with
him than with others. It was an elaboration
of the Codlin and Short principle. The
one Scotch quality which had survived in
him was the principle which is often the
key to the secret of Scotch success all over
the world, and is embodied in the sacred
formula erewhile shouted by the Caledonian
infant who has picked up an object which
he values, such as a dead mouse or a
marble, to the warning of his comrades :
Nae halves and quarters. Hall o' my ain,
and name o' my neighbour's ! "

He smoked Turkish cigarettes, which he
did not make, but bought, and looked down
with unmeasured contempt on the black
Irish clays in which his Cambridge acquainted.

I. n

tance, Jerry Carpenter, burned black cavendish
and Irish twist.

The hereditary qualities, then, which came
out in him were acquisitiveness, tenacity to
what was, or what he imagined to be, his
own, and a certain fondness for strong drink.
He did not " drink," in the popular acceptation
of the term ; but he liked sherry and
bitters before lunch, sherry and biscuits in
the afternoons, sherry for dinner, and whisky
and water hot afterwards.

He danced well, which was, of course,
to him as indispensable a social quality as
dressing well, and gained him much popularity
of a certain kind. He went to a
fancy ball at Glasgow, when staying with
his connections the Menteiths of Kimburls,
as his white satin and gold ancestor Sir
Anthony of the '45, and created much sensation
by the accuracy of the resemblance.
He was a medium sized, well-made, reddish

fair young fellow, with the Farringdon nose
and mouth, and his mother's eyes. And he
had known Miss Dick Menteith from childhood.

And she had never seen any better man
than he among the young merchants and
advocates whom her father was pleased to
patronise as friends.

And he represented to her the liberal
arts, dress, and civilised accomplishments of
the refined South, as contrasted with the
extremely unattractive side of Northern life
with which she was familiar. And her young
and imaginative mind had striven to endow
him with a halo of picturesque ballad-born
interest and romance, at once praiseworthy
and pitiful. When a child, she had been
educated on songs and stories of the wild
old days gone by, in ringing and triumphant
or pitiful and pathetic verse, by an old
nurse. At a later acre she had revelled in
the paradise of many mansions laid open

N 2

to her by Sir Walter Scott, and became infected
with a touch of that fervid tragic
devotion which many a noble Scotch man
and woman has felt for the ill-starred family,
whose misfortune it was to draw? their friends
to ruin with them. In fact, she was a very
ferocious Jacobite, and went through many
interesting and perilous adventures in that
cause —-in her mind's eye — at the age of
about fourteen. Solitary and romance-fed,
living with an unsympathetic Glaswegian
father, faintly remembering a dead mother,
it is not surprising that she should grow
to like the youth from England, who was
first her playfellow and leading gentleman
in any historic part she chose to dictate, be
it Leicester, or Rob Roy, or Ivanhoe, or Dirk
Hatteraick, and subsequently, in later years,
her cultivated and civilised companion. Poor
Dick ! How could she help being fond of
'Fore God, her only jig-maker f

And her father and aunt encouraged it,
and bowed down and worshipped George
Malcolm Farringdon for the sake of the
sheets of gold and of silver, the estates,
and the goodly apparel he was expected to
inherit, and the name of which the association
with that of Menteith would be once more
freshened in the minds of men.

And old Kimburls, as Richard Menteith,
Esq., was invariably styled in Scotland, went
blandly about Glasgow city, talking of "my
son-in-law that is to be, Farringdon of the
Keckleshope family, you know." And tall,
shapeless, sandy-haired merchants, advocates
and Writers to the Signet, and even a few
Lords of Session, friends of the late Lord
Corpeddie (father of Miss Johnston of
Corpeddie, Kimburls' wife), went about the
streets, grinning at the wind and dust and
fog as only a Scotchman can grin, saying
to one another : " Miss Dick, Kimburls*

daughter, will be marrying' that Warrington,
they tell me." " Hell be an Englishman ? "

Farringdon of Keckleshope, they say.
That is, Kimburls says. It's likely it'll not
be true ? "

Old Lord Cowbiggins, a gentleman of the
oldest possible school, said conclusively :

Keckleshope ! Dick Menteith is too
good to marry any Keckleshope Farringdon
that ever was hatched. Kimburls is" a d — d
money-hunting old gomeril, and young Farringdon
is a conceited humph. Set them up !
I'll give that gainful a bit of my mind when
this d — d court rises."

Worthy old Mr. Toumharns, the Free
minister, said to poor Dick : " My dear, he
may be the most excellent young man in
the wurrld. All not say he is, but he
may be. But surely he'll be an Erastian?"
Which of course made Dick violently defend
him " and like him all the more.

George knew little, and carecl less, about
ballads, and did not understand the language
or the spirit in which they were composed ;
but he gently patronised them, and talked
about their possessing a certain barbaric
beauty. . Dick, whilst holding his superior
critical powers in due reverence, felt inward
convictions of a partially emotional, partially
instinctive nature, which George's expressions
scarcely conveyed. She did not quite
comprehend the purpose and utility of the
potent critical talisman nil admirer. And
w T hen she played the old melodies she knew on
the old piano — a flat rectangular piano, fitting
into a dark niche — with the light of the pale
wax candles on her fair small head, Kimburls
would nod his head and wave his hands
strictly out of time, while Miss Jane Menteith,
in her chair, would gradually and unconsciously
unbend, forget the account of
the General Free Assembly which she was

reading, and begin to remember temporarily
that she was a woman with a live Scotch
heart. There was not much of it, but it
definitely existed somewhere in the rigid and
attenuated thoracic cavity of the paternal
aunt. And Dick's music proved that occasionally.
As for George Farringdon, all the
sentiment that could respond to stimulation
in him was evoked. It principally resembled
the feeling of a street-boy between whom
and a bun a plate-glass window is fixed.
And it must be said for George that he
succeeded in breaking the window. And
they expected to get married in about half
a year, when the summer was over, and
with it their trip to Europe, and when
George's University had endowed him with
her testamur.

Ici weiss night was da noah warden soil 1 ?

Scion lambert's im feuchten Grande,
Die Federals machin ahnungsvoll

Um den alter Stadtwall die Rude.

And the long-projected expedition of Charlie
and Caspar to foreign lands actually took
place in the Long Vacation succeeding the
summer session. It would be a cheap and
humble tour, Charlie represented to his relations,
paid for out of his own money earned, in
the form of a scholarship, by his own labour.
His grandmother admitted that travel was
a great thing for a young man, and " opened
his mind ; " and let him go, after giving him
advice and caution of a somewhat obsolete

nature, derived from her own experiences of
a bridal tour. Aunt Lucy insisted that he
was to keep a journal ; and Lily Carew expressed
a desire to accompany him, in the
favourite Shakespearean disguise of a boy.
But he and Caspar (the "personal conductor"
of the journey) started alone, and
their quarters are now in the heart of mountain
and forest land, where the sky is blue,
the river brown, and the buildings red. It
matters not in which of the two dozen and
odd kingdoms, hereditary principalities, and
grand duchies. It is sufficient to state that
the town is in a grand duchy, that it contains
a Resident — something between a barrack
and an hotel in appearance, provided
with helmeted sentries promenading before
vividly striated sentry-boxes. Said town is
called Schlangenberg, and is situate in the
valley of the Schlange, a brown and speckled
tributary of the Rhine, which well deserves

its phidias name. The brown comes from
plentiful and frequently-stirred mud, combined
with Schlangenberg sewage. The
broad gray dabs and speckles of dry colour
are flat stones. Yet the river is beautiful,
and one can love it, smell and all.

Charlie and Caspar are sitting in the
garden of a tavern or Gardens Wirthschaft
on the oue side of the Schlange, watching
it reflect the town and sky on the other.
The town is ancient and beautiful. Its tall
houses are high-roofed, and covered with
tiles which in daylight are red-brown if old,
and mottled-yellow if new, but are now of
a uniform dusky colour. The tower of the
old Stift-Kirche stands up in the centre of
the encampment of human dwellings, with a
red stone shaft and bell-shaped bulbous
steeple of blue slate. Behind and ' above
the town is the Schloss — an ivied, mossy
Burg-Ruine, with empty roofless towers and

skeleton gables, through whose window-fretted
wall the moon will shine later on, giving
such stainless beauty and still dignity to
this great silent sepulchre of the dead Middle
Age, and its mighty and ferocious Sitters
and Grass (who were to the present grand-ducal
dignity as great a contrast as the
tenantless Schloss is to the ceremony and
sentry-ridden Resident), as will make the
most prosaic tourist leave his bed and his
Baedeker for a while, to think confusedly of
higher things.

It was built from the red quarries in the
wooded hill on whose side it stands, as the
town was — and continues to be.

Behind the delicately-etched outline of
fir-tree tops that crown the crest of the hill
is the faint golden glow of a moon arisen.
There is also a hill behind on this side of
the river, where our Gardens Wirthschaft
and its two English occupants are, called the

Traubenberg, from the many shelving vineyards
that cover it, tier above tier, whereof
in the proper season the natives make a
pallid golden beverage, a very "poor creature,"
which they call Schlangen-wein. The triangular
notch formed by the river-valley seen
in section between these two hills is filled
by the distant western sky and a wide level
plain, now shadowy, limitless, and sombre
with twilight, specked here and there by the
spark of a train rushing as fast as a German
train is permitted to rush.

The firmament is faint from the fervency
of a summer day just departed. The long,
thin, frayed, vaporous streaks of cloud that
slope across it are now dull brown, that were
a quarter of an hour ago dazzling flame and
salmon-colour. The atmosphere that looked
green, and azure, and opal, is now gray —
a pale, colourless, transparent gray — cut
sharply across by the three arches of

the high-backed, black-looking, old stone
bridge.

And everything except the bat above is
very still. And the scent of the flowers and
shrubs comes out now as it never does in
the day.

And the two sunburnt travellers, sallow
in this demi-jour, have ordered two fresh
glasses of beer.

What a splendid old town it is ! " at last
observes young Deane, after a prolonged
silence.

"It is. Strange that it should be when
it holds such mean crawling things as it
does. Go across the bridge, and into the
streets. What is the soul of this beautiful
body ? Swaggering soldiers, sodden students,
cringing Jews, dirty lanes, an atmosphere
of Manner cheese, fried fish, garlic, German
tobacco, and other worse and nameless things.
In the Wirthshauser, what ? The Schlangen-

berger Anzeiger and beer. In the cafes ?
Billiards, the Schlangenberger Anzeiger, and
beer. In the houses of the Philistine ?
Dulness, the Schlangenberger Anzeiger, and
beer. In the Resident ? A Grand Duke,
some soldiers, more dulness, more Anzeiger,
and much more beer. In the Schloss ?
Silence and nothing, and trees and twilight.
And that is the best place of all."

Can no good thing come out of Schlan-
genera % "

"We have just come out of it. I look
towards you. Prosit ! "

"Prosit!"

One of the best things," adds Charlie,
"that comes out of it is this refreshing
amber fluid."

The best thing they produce in Germany
except music and poetry. All we have to
complain of is that they make them in too
large quantities."

VOL. I. O

Don't you like German poetry and music,
then ? "

"And beer? Of course I do. I like
everything that is good when it is good. I
even like Germans sometimes."

You are very condescending. Aren't you
of German descent yourself ? Thy name
bewrayeth thee."

My name betrays a race that had art and
letters when the Germans were in an even
more barbaric state than at present."

That's hardly consistent with your last
speech, is it ? "

If there is one thing I think it a stern
kindness to check in a rising young man,
whose aim is to make himself generally pleasant,
it is the habit of attacking people for
inconsistency. Inconsistency is one of the
few luxuries, except beer, which Fate spares
to a poor man, and one of the dearest human
vices, as you will find, when you have learned

to know anything about women. I didn't say
I thoroughly admired Germans, or that I
thoroughly admired anybody. The best butter
has hairs in it, as a proverb of this dear and
truly delicate old country hath it. Here I
will give you some facts, hitherto neglected in
natural history books, that will explain my
appreciation of Germans. There are, I would
have you know, two sorts of rats, the hungry
and the fat, as the poet says. There are also
two sorts of human beings — the clever and
the stupid. In England that fact can be
realised as well as the fact that the latter classis
in an incomparable majority. But though
a really clever and good Englishman is far
better and cleverer than a really ditto ditto
German, a stupid German is less offensively
aggressive than a stupid Englishman — he
keeps and recognises his place more. You
don't find my friend the clever fool so much
here. I think he is a genuine British product.

o 2

There is a forwardness about the British fool
which is not so noticeable in the German one."

Why are you always so beastly discontented
with everything ? "

I am not aware that I said I was discontented
with anything. I said that the
streets of Schlangenberg smelt, and intimated
that the majority of their inhabitants were
rather stupid, in which respect they resemble
the population of any other place. I did not
express dissatisfaction or surprise at that fact.
I have no reason to be otherwise than placidly
comfortable. I have a fine evening, a beautiful
outlook, good beer, and a highly entertaining
friend, who has not spoken three
sentences as yet, I fancy. I am not in love
with anybody. Was wills du noah mer ? "

What do you propose that we should do
now we are here ? "

Enjoy the beauty of the place. Climb
the hills when we feel so disposed ; bathe in

the river ; go walks ; talk ; smoke ; write ;
read."

Nothing could be better as a holiday
programme. And is that all you came here
for ? "

1 might have proposed our going to a
dozen different beautiful places. Fate drifted
me here. It is a good place. We are free,
we are alone, we live cheaply and pleasantly,
and are not likely to fall into scrapes. When
I go back to England it will be when the
Knights of the Pen are gathered at the
Round Table of < The Spotted Hound.' "

The garden the pair were sitting in overhung
the riverside road, which was protected
from the landslips which might have interrupted
the traffic by a red stone wall some
nine feet high. The summit of this wall was
at their feet. A low wooden trellis ran along
the broad flat edge, covered with clustering
clematis and Virginian vine, long stray sprays

of which hung down over the wall below.
They could see a considerable distance along
the road in both directions — one way towards
the bridge, the other up the winding, darkening
river valley, where village lights began
to gleam redly. Far away the white dusty
road's curves swerved round cliff and bush
and rock, until it lost itself in a final winding.
At this part of it a black spot appeared, not
unlike an insect in motion. The gleaming
lividity of the road made it visible where it
would otherwise have been indistinguishable
in the shades that were rising. (The shades
of night do not fall — pace Longfellow. The
highest parts are the last to be obscured in the
gloaming.) This black spot, on nearer examination,
proved to be a two-horse droschke
taking someone out for the favourite evening
drive along the river. It passed under Charlie
and Caspar's eyes as they sat looking over the
trellis. Charlie and Caspar were sitting on

opposite sides of the table. The former faced
the east and the valley of the Schlange ; the
latter faced the west and the bridge, open
plain, and sky. The town joined their separate
views into a semicircle, of which the
bridge leading to the town was, roughly
speaking, a radius, regarding the table in the
riverside beer-garden as a centre. The result
of this was that Caspar saw whoever might
be sitting with their backs to the horses in
this carriage as it turned to cross the bridge ;
and on this seat of the droschke sat a girl
apparently quite young, dressed in white,
with a large straw and cream satin Vandyke
hat with a white feather. She carried a white
fan. And Caspar saw her face, and saw
nothing else. He could not have described
her then, except to say that she was fair, and
that he knew she had the most peaceful and
beautiful face he had ever seen. It came on
him like a shock, this vision that went away

into the dusk as quickly as it came from it.
But she saw his face and dark hair leaning
on his hand in the sallow gray glow of the
evening. Charlie had not seen her.

Homeward-bound tourists, I suppose ? '*
said he.

"Who was sitting on the seat facing
you ? "

Old gentleman and lady — gray felt
squash hat ; white sunshade lined with
green ; Baedeker ; mild cigar."

Then they strolled out, paid the "latin,"
and went across the bridge, and back to the
tall old house in the Boss-plats where they
lodged.

There was music, and " Italienische
Yacht" in some garden not far off; and
Charlie leaned out of the window listening
to it, and letting hot tobacco-ashes fall on
the policeman as he passed and repassed.

There are few more beautiful, peaceful,

and one may say pathetic things than distant
music on a summer night, especially if that
music be "An den chosen blauen Donau,"
as it then was. I know that the waltz is
hackneyed, and I know that the Donau is
not blue,, but that is nothing.

The rooms were very high — high enough
to satisfy Professor Teufelsdrockh, late of the
Wahngasse of Weissnichtwo— being two out
of a row of several garrets. Very comfortable
garrets, however, these two travellers found
them, being men of a nature to find comfort
wherever were health, fun, and friendship.
Ubi bene, ibi patria, as the students used to
shout through the open windows of their
kneipe-locals. And when the Schloss arose,
like a red dream-picture from the "Nibelungen
Lied," out of a base of morning mist, through
which the July sunrise gleamed with the
solitary and mysterious glory of early morning,
the sight was worth the effort of

climbing four flights of polished wooden stairs
to see.

By-the-way," said Charlie, bringing his
head back into the room, " who was sitting
in the part of the carriage I didn't see ? "

"In mine eyes, the sweetest lady that
ever I looked upon."

"Oh! And these things being thus, what
do you mean to do ? "

I shall go most obstinately to bed ; and
you had better do the same. It's past ten,
and one can't sleep long in these summer
mornings."

"You can. But I mean, what course are
you going to adopt with regard to the fair
unknown — by me unseen ? Are you going
to write verses ? Are you going to recant
all the scorn you emptied from the buckets
of your bitterness on young lovers ? Are
you going to serenade ? Where do you think
you'll break out first ? "

M I think I shall incontinently break your
head first, if you indulge in much more of
the shorter catechism of insanity. Because
I simply remark that I saw a pretty girl
with an attractive expression, and borrowed
from Shakespeare for the better utterance of
that opinion, why should I be made a target
for blunt arrows ? Your mind jumps at
romantic conclusions with such telegraphic
haste that one can see clearly what is uppermost
in it. But you needn't invest your
friends with the mantle that cloaks your own
mind."

You are too emphatic, old boy, in your
defence to be genuine. It's not good enough."

Lord ! and how long have you professed
apprehension ? "

Since I fell into the same hole myself.
I have not been the same man since."

Haven't you ? Well, you haven't long
been a man of any sort at all. You will

be able to be a great many different ones in
ten years or so, if you go on in this way.' 7

Caspar Eosenfeld, you are babbling nonsense,
as an excuse for changing the subject.
You are suffering from love at first sight,
and are ashamed of it for unknown reasons."

Go to bed," grunted Caspar.

I say, how about the ' callous cicatrix
eh?" To this sally there was no reply, and
Charlie undressed in a leisurely way, walking
about the room whistling.

' Caspar ! " Silence. < ' Caspar ! "

Well ? "

Eemember it is written, ' Eros, the
oldest and the youngest of the gods"'

"Though it be not written, remember
that you are an ass."

You quote wrong. It's the other way."

'What is it, then?"

Eemember that I am an ass."

Quite so. Good-night."

SHOWING HOW A SUMMER MORNING MAY BE
WASTED.

When Caspar came down the next morning
he found Charlie just; returned from the
enclosed mud-puddle, locally called a bathing-place,
and walking up and down the garden
while the maid Anna brought breakfast. This
meal was spread under an acacia-tree in
the back-garden, and the consumers sat on
springy iron chairs, whose legs sank deeply
when sat on into the turf — no, not the turf,
but the earth, studded with alternate small
stones and weeds, which is thought to be

turf in Germany. Charlie remarked, flourishing
the local news sheet :

I have been pretending to read this
beastly thing, to impose on Anna, while she
brought the coffee. Perhaps you can tell me
if there is anything besides advertisements."

Let's see. A series of solide mddchen
want places. There will be a great double
military concert on Sunday evening in the
Blumen-Garten, by the united efforts of the
Grand Ducal and Imperial 107th Infantry
Regiment and the Grand Ducal and Imperial
18th Cuirassier ditto, under the leading of
Herr Ober-Capellmeister Grunbaum, with
Bengal illumination. That will please you,
especially the Bengal illumination. The only
news which is not copied from the English
paper of the day before yesterday is the recent
arrivals at the hotels."

Talking of recent arrivals, when I went
for my morning dip, while you were snoring

(don't deny that you snore), I met a fellow
there I know at home — rather a decent sort,
who has a place in our neighbourhood. I
have been slightly acquainted with him for
years, and, though he was a little too aristocratic
to fraternise with a humble beggar like
me at home, here of course it's different (you
know the funny way one finds intimate
friends abroad in people whom one barely
nods to in England), and he happens to be
here. He is staying at the same hotel with
some people called Menteith."

All this is truly interesting ; especially
the fact that he is staying at an hotel which
contains some people called Menteith. Is
that the end of the story — all the early worm
you have picked up ? "

Don't scoff till I've done. His name is
Farringdon. He was in church that Christmas
Day, you know."

More and more exciting this story grows.

His name is Farringdon. He was at church
on Christmas Day. Pray go on."

I found them in the paper. Here they
are : ' Hotel sum Kron-Prinz. — Menteith,
Scotland ; Miss Menteith, Miss K. Menteith ;
Farringdon, England"

"Well?"

Well, it appears that the old male
Menteith is a kind of uncle or third Scotch
cousin, or something, to Farringdon."

"Do you take sugar?"

"Yes, lots. Then another curious thing
happened. While we were standing about
on the shore, after coming out of the Bad
Place, as it's called (and it was hot enough
this morning), the man Farringdon said he
was waiting for his aunt, or third Scotch
cousin, to come out of the female Bad Place.
She came. Farringdon introduced me as an
intimate friend of his. Aunt (or cousin)
Menteith bowed stiffly, and seemed conscious

that she looked as if she had been bathing.
I don't mean clean, you know, but dishevelled.
So I left them."

"Your coffee is filming over. You will
be able to skate on it when this exhilarating
romance about people I don't know is done."

The aunt is the lady who was in the
back seat of that carriage last night ; but
I am boring you. What shall we do after
breakfast ? "

Go on, you malicious young ape ! You
have left off at the instant an element of
interest got into your story."

Oh, it doesn't signify. There isn't
much more to tell."

"Was the aunt Menteith alone?"

Certainly. Why ? You seem to find
my story less stupid than I thought you
did."

It was as stupid a story as only you
could tell. Is that all of it ? "

VOL. I. P

"Well, they suggested I should dine at
their table d'hote"

And you accepted ? "

"Not exactly. I said I had a friend
with me — an eccentric sort of cuss, who
wore his hair long, and wrote in the papers."

Blaspheming idiot ! She'll think I'm a
reporter."

Who's < she ' ? "

Aunt Menteith, naturally. What effect
did your telling description — quite uncalled
for, by-the-way — have ? "

"What does it matter what people like
that think of a contemner of public opinion
like yourself ? "

"Answer my questions, or I'll brain you
with the coffee-pot."

They said, c Oh, bring him too ! ' I
accepted for both."
"Like your cheek."
"And explained that you were generally

harmless, though your relations paid me
handsomely to look after you in a medical
way, permanently."

"You have indeed distinguished yourself
this morning. You deserve your breakfast now."

The coffee is an importation from the
glacial period, and has pillow-cases floating
on it, and noisome beasts walking on them.
It's all your fault for making me talk so
long on matters you swear don't interest
you the least." And Charlie ate.

Caspar communed with himself, pushing
his cup away from him, and lighting a
thing called a cigar in Germany and costing
ten pfennigs, invented all sorts of schemes
and long stories of what might happen if
he once got acquainted with that quiet fair-haired
fairy in the two-horse droschke.
Charlie had not seen her (presumably " Miss
E. Menteith "). Caspar, you see, had, and
that made a great difference between them.

Caspar's self-communion, so far as it can be
articulately portrayed, was of this kind :
Question is, what is to happen ? Shall I
let her remain for ever to me the passing
vision of a summer evening, like the clouds
with golden wings that give the still sky its
beauty, and are gone before we have well
seen them ? Or shall I be introduced in the
ordinary way, and perhaps find that she is-fond
of lawn-tennis, crewel-work, and Miss
Brandon's novels ? But supposing I find
nothing of the sort, but that she is what
she looks — beautiful and pure and gracious,
full of all fair thought and strange
imaginings ? I was too far off to see her
eyes' colour. I think they must be gray and
deep, like the sea, like those eyes Baudelaire
tells of, or those other eyes, perhaps,

That wax and "wane with love for hours ;
Green as green flame — blue-gray, like skies,
And soft, like sighs.

And sometimes there should be a wondering
far-away look in them, like the recollection
of some old Edda story or Nibelung romance,
which she figured in in a previous state of
existence, or one of those tragic and mysterious
.anonymous poems so plentiful in her
native land. There is a fairy tale in her
eyes to him who can read it. And perhaps
I might read it. And I have not even seen
the book yet. Let time shape, and there
an end." And he stared up through the
smoke into the blue air.

"Well, what's the matter with you?"
said Charlie, wiping his mouth. " What
shall we do this morning ? "

"As it is my duty to write letters, and
yours to read ' Otto's German Grammar '
and ' Materia Medica,' we will taste of the
keen pleasure of neglecting our duties. We
will ascend to the woods near the Schloss,
we will take pipes, and some instructive

book to lay open before us to impose on
public opinion. Then we will lie about and
watch the clouds crossing the fir-tree tops,
and the sunshine coming in long dewy-diagonal
downstrokes between the stems,
and you shall tell me all your hospital
funny stories over again ; and I will laugh,
and then "

Well, after this invigorating morning ? "

"After that we will dine at one o'clock,
in accordance with the custom of this savage
and benighted country, at your table d'hdte
at the " Kron-Prinz."

"All right. By-the-way, didn't you say
there was a girl in that carriage ? "

In which carriage ? "

Don't be a hypocrite ! Seriously, wasn't
there ? "

In sadness, cousin, I do think there
was. And she was fair."

Charlie softly whistled the refrain of a

popular comic song, which might be considered
as an irreverent comment on the
"situation," as he would call it. Charlie
was fond of theatrical slang, and thought
the use of it showed a deep acquaintance
with the modes of the town. I regret to
add that he knew all the popular music-hall
songs, and too frequently and too appositely-quoted
them. His whistle just now was
peculiarly irritating, suggesting a hideously
vulgar jargon (or goblin, as Villon might
call it) about " real jam," which drew from
Caspar the remark : "If I am to take you
out with me you will assume the virtue
you have not, and behave like a civilised
member of society, and not spread the idea
that I associate with that cross between a
satyr and the Aquarium orang-outang called
a medical student, who lives in a music-hall
and sleeps in a police-cell."

"Now I call that unkind, as it is only

through me that you have the slightest
chance of speaking to that young lady, for
whom I have the profoundest respect. Come
on ! "

And Charlie clattered down the red freestone
steps, which led from the garden into
the street behind the house, whistling,
There's another good man gone wrong ! "
Caspar put a copy of " Faust " in his pocket
and followed, looking round for some object
of trifling value and considerable weight to
hurl at his volatile and flippant friend in
the foreground.

Nothing can be pleasant as a morning's
occupation than a climb up the moist shady
sand-paths that lead through fir and beech
woods, up to and beyond the old Schloss of
Schlangenberg. There it is cool, though the
Eoss-Platz and the Anlage be frying at 33°
Celsius (by the Grand-Ducal and Imperial
public thermometer and Witterangs-Bericht.)

And there is a pool there, where white water-lilies
float, and yellow ones hold up roundheads
on slender strong necks, an inch or
so above the water. And grass grows down
to the edge, and trees cast their shadows
on the . water, and make stripes of shade
and sunlight on the body of the mutilated,
moss-eaten, gray and red stone Triton, who
is meant to spout up water in the middle —
and doesn't. He did it last, probably, when
the Schloss had a roof on it.

Better than the Strand this, and the
1 Benk-City-Benk ! ' 'buses, and the special
editions, and boxes of lights, isn't it ? " said
Charlie.

"Ay, or St. Philip's Hospital, redolent
of antiseptics and anaesthetics, and resonant
with wailing children. This is the place in
which to read German poetry."

"Or to sing English," replied Charlie,
gazing into the reedy, weedy pond, and softly

chanting his diabolical chorus of " Real
Jam."

You annoy me very much," said Caspar ;
I think I should pitch you into the pool,
if it were not certain that you would raise
mud for a fortnight."

"I might find Ophelia somewhere at the
bottom."

"No, sir ! Ophelia floats eternally on an
English stream, which is always carrying her
to the German Ocean and never gets there.
We will never give Shakespeare up to the
Deutsche. They may have the 
bank they call ' Helgoland/ if they like ;
but not — not our Shakespeare. I know there
is a prevailing impression in the University
here that he was a German author, but that
is simply their cursed conceit."

You know, Kosenfeld, theoretically, if
there is anything in heredity, you ought to
be enthusiastic about the Fatherland, and

deride and despise English customs and
intellect, and English commentators of the
bard."

"My dear young friend, if there were
half as much in heredity as Zola makes out,
I ought to be buying old clothes and eating
fried fish this minute. Do you read the
naturalism school at all ? "

Not more than I can help. It is rather
a trial, too, to my French."

If they are a fair representation of all
grades of French society, I'm sorry for
France."

There isn't a single person you can really
like in them."

"I never could quite reconcile the naturalism
of Medan with the naturalism of
Nature. I like one, and I don't like the
other. It doesn't matter. There are still
great men in France whose words are good
to read, and don't take away the appetite.

What I object to even more than the high
priest of Cloaca at Medan are the posse
of young disciples who blow his trumpet.
"A has Medan! Vive Meudun!"

But the discriminating and occasionally
impatient reader cannot, in all conscience, be
dragged through the irresponsible chatter of
two lazy young men, indulging in midsummer
day's dreams in a German forest. If there
had been a different arrangement made by
the Fates, there might have been an opportunity
for listening through the tree-stems
to the "music of man with maid," which
would be more attractive than the spasmodic
and intermittent profundity and badinage of
two sun-tanned, tobacco-exhaling males.

They talked about many things, from Ben
Jonson to bacteria and from bacteria to
foreign politics, and Caspar quite forgot that
he had a book in his pocket, till he felt it
bumping against him when they both got

up to descend the hill. The Schloss was then
full of tourists, adorned with puggarees, and in
abject bondage to their patron saint Baedeker,
and feeling obliged to insist on identifying
all the things described by that authority,
instead of beings content with the fact that
the whole was beautiful, whatever the name
and century of the baron or elector who built
some wall or pinnacle.

When the two reached the promenade
lined with chestnut-trees, the shady Anlage
where all Schlangenberg exhibits itself of an
evening, it lay in a state of calm hot desertion.
The hour of one in Schlangenberg is as
sacred as the hour of muezzin in the laud
of Islam, and not a human being is abroad.
The same tranquil and solemn solitude exists
in every town, street, and lane of the Fatherland
at that hour, for then takes place the
most important event in the daily history of
the German nation. At one Germany dines.

In deinen Auger hab' ici ernst eleven

Es blithe drink' von Lie' und Gliick ein Schein.

The Hotel sum Kron-Prinz is the oldest,
most respectable, and most expensive — or
least cheap — in Schlangenberg, and consequently
the one best known and frequented
by the numerous foreign visitors. It is the
centre of all events of social importance. If
you want to be married or buried, you will
do it " from " this hotel. If a committee sits
to organise a boating or tennis club, it dates
its decrees from it. The American ball takes
place in its white and gold fest-seal on the
4th of July. It is in the same square as
the University and the Grand-Ducal and

Imperial town-pump, and is an imposing
building advantageously situated. For further
details (in German-English) see the
proprietor's advertisement in " Bradshaw."

As Caspar stood in its dining-room,
dividing, his attention between a life-size
print of the hereditary Grand Duke and a
hanging time-table of the Schlangenberg-
Traubenberg-Donnerwetzingen - Starts - Eisen-
bain-Gesellschaft, he had the pleasure of
hearing a male voice saying : " I say, Deane,
who's the blue and sallow-faced man ? Looks
like an actor on leave, doesn't he ? " The
blue and sallow-faced man continued imperturbably
his study of the Person-Tarif.

Shut up. He'll hear you. It's my
friend Eosenfeld. Told you about him, you
know. Awfully clever chap : writes and all
that, you know." Then Charlie said in a
louder voice, "Let me introduce you men:
Farringdon — Eosenfeld. "

Caspar turned round, and found a fair
and rather good-looking young man, in the
act of saying " How are you ? " and thrusting
forth a small and rather pretty hand, with
a big seal-ring on it. They shook hands.
George Farringdon was faultlessly dressed,
as Oxford men generally are. Caspar was
in his usual ancient but becoming suit of
dark-blue serge. Then Miss Menteith the
elder appeared, a tall and gaunt lady (rather
like a man dressed up, as Charlie remarked
afterwards, with characteristic irreverence),
who gave Caspar what she would describe
as a "boo," and made remarks anent the
heat of the day. English and American
travellers of various ages and sexes were
trooping in by this time, and pale perspiring
waiters in low-necked shirts were rushing
along in the style peculiar to waiters, bearing
impossibly high piles of soup-plates. Among
them arrived the large form of Menteith of

Kimburl3 — a red-faced gentleman with small
gray eyes, a turned-up nose, and shining
white hair — who shook hands with Caspar
and Charlie, remarking, "Ye'll be George's
friends I'm thinking ! " very cordially. Kim-burns
was always cordial. It suited his style
to display a kind of bluff hilarity, coupled
with half-humorous, half-cunning observations,
which were made more amusing, or
more expressive, by the deep Glasgow grunt
in which they were delivered. There are
three kinds of Glasgow voice. There is the
plaintive high whine (not to be confused with
the Highland scream), the guttural grunt,
and the mixture of the two. Menteith of
Kimburls had the middle tone of the above.
Miss Menteith, " Ma sister," as he reintroduced
her, had the first variety.

And behind Kimburls came a small
figure, in a pale, creamy-white dress of
washing print, dashed here and there with

VOL. I. Q

pale pink ribbon, with fair brown hair drawn
up from the back of the neck into a flat
round coil near the top of the head, and
developing into a curly and still fairer halo
round the upper part of a face, of which the
large gray eyes had in them a still absorbed
and dreamy look until they met Caspar's,
Then they suddenly became aware that they
looked on human beings as well as the deep
blue heaven beyond the open windows of
the " Kron-Prinz " dining-saloon. The profile
was delicate and distinct, with a straightness
verging on the retrousse. There are straight-lined
noses and chins which verge on the
aquiline, and others which verge on the
opposite type. Such persons as possess
them probably have relatives in whom the
characteristic concavity or convexity is more
marked. Kimburls, for example, had a decidedly
concave outline to his nose. This
girl's complexion had the purity, and, one

might almost say, the seeming fragility, o
white egg-shell china with the dawn shining
through it. Her hands and feet were in
proportion to the slight and light body, and
the whole structure looked frail enough to
ride on a silver cloud, or cross the sea by
walking over a lunar rainbow. Caspar is
responsible for these rather fantastic illustrations.


This was Miss Dick Menteith, who shook
hands with Charlie and Caspar when introduced,
oblivious or unaware that such a proceeding
was unconventional ; thereby causing
the raising of the eyebrows of one George
Malcolm Farringdon for a second, as he
glanced critically at the careless travel-worn
suit of clothes and unusual face of
Caspar, black-browed but gentle, like night,
set pale in a background of wavy black
mane. The brown, compact, cheerful little
man with the eyeglass offended him not.

Q 2

He was a familiar object to Farringdon, and
wore the collars and boots prescribed by
good form," and might be tolerated, in
spite of a poor origin and a tendency to
smoke clay-pipes ; but the friend, the " blue
and sallow faced " man, the " awfully clever
chap," annoyed him, George Malcolm Farringdon,
very much. For at dinner, and
during the subsequent service of coffee in
the hotel-garden, the blue and sallow-faced
man gently but firmly, with an apparent
absence of intention or design, " walked
through" and "gave away," as the men of
the West phrase it, all George's pet notions
and theories on things in general in the
most natural way in the world, and introduced
an originality and a knowledge of
men and things into the conversation such
as were, George felt, something very different
from his own superficialities and dilettantisms,
with which he had dazzled the girl used only

to a limited section of Glasgow legal and
commercial society.

Caspar also made himself popular with
old Kimburls, and, in a less degree, with
Miss Menteith senior; and George felt a
vague conviction stealing over him that, if it
were ever possible for a person so near ideal
perfection as himself to make a mistake, he
had, perhaps, made it in being so suddenly
cordial to Charlie Deane, simply because he
had a familiar face and spoke English.

Caspar felt that he was making a commonplace
exhibition of himself through overstrained
efforts to suppress natural eccentricities
of his style, which to strangers were
often startling and the reverse of conciliatory.
He talked with Dick Menteith less than with
anyone, and summed up his impressions to
himself, as he sat balancing his wooden chair
on its hind legs, and watching her listen to
him, as she twisted a syringa-blossom to

pieces, or played with a teaspoon, and occasionally
laughed unrestrainedly in the way
of one who has not outgrown the charms of
nonsense, or learned that the highest social
achievement is the art of concealing sympathy
save in the form of well-bred dilution.
And his summing-up took the form of
certain lines from that " dead shepherd " remembered
and partially quoted in like time
of need by Phebe :

It lies not in our power to love or hate ;
For will iu us is overruled by Fate. . . .
Where both deliberate the love is slight ;
"Who ever loved that loved not at first sight ?

But Leander's method of broaching the subject
has been rendered obsolete by the incrustations
of social restriction which have grownup
since his time on the sudden passions of
men or women. The Hellespont is more easily
crossed than these. And not so cold.

And one cannot, in ordinary nineteenth-century

society, to which one has been but
recently introduced, suddenly emit a poetic
and rapturous, as well as very personal,
address, in a tone of frenzied conviction.

Therefore Caspar Eosenfeld said to Mr.
Menteith : " Is this your first visit to Germany?"
to which he, with the caution of a
witness under cross-examination, replied :

Well, we have not been here before."
Then waxing eloquent for the benefit of a
listener who had not yet heard his opinions
on Continental Europe, he added : " We stayed
a couple of days in Cologne. My womankind,
as Oldbuck had it, were tired, as we
had had a long sea voyage."

Who is Oldbuck ? " from George Farringdon.


Dick looked up reproachfully. " Oh, you
know, surely," she said ; " have you forgotten
Walter Scott so soon ? "

"Of course not. But I didn't immediately

take for granted that the laird was
quo ting.' '

Yere knowledge of Scotch literature is
a bit rusty, ma lad. I'm not a romance-reader
myself, but I know Monkbarns."

I thought you said Oldbuck ? "

"A did."

Oh, I see." And George, sullen under
the subdued laugh in Caspar's eyes, relapsed
into critical silence.

"A was saying' we made the voyage by
Eotterdam ; and that's a long hurry from
Leith Pier, ye'll allow."

Certainly," said Caspar, with a glance
of pity at Miss Dick Menteith. He threw
away all his available pity on her, unaware
that she was the best sailor of the family,
and had sat upright on deck at night on a
camp-stool, looking at the sea and the starlight,
when not ministering to the comfort
of her much-suffering aunt.

Arm a good sailor," continued Kimburls,
as if the importance of his own sea comfort
were paramount; "and it seemed a pity to
waste on rellrods the money ye could spend
abroad, when a good, cheap, and wholesome
sea surrey would save it."

Ye would," said his sister, with decision
and asperity.

At Cologne I think they charged us
for two candles we did not burn ; but as
I put fohrr into ma bag after ard pet the
latin', as we say in Scotland, it was a small
matter. We visited the cathedral."

"Did you make them rake out those old
three kings ? " asked Charlie.

No," replied Aunt Jane Menteith. " We
did not wish to encourage their blind delusions."


A racket ye were unwilling to enter
the edifice."

"Perhaps," said Caspar, "you agree in

calling it the Bastille of the German
mind ? "

Certainly. Was it Luther said that ? "

"It was a German Jew who said it. It
always seems to me a pity that the three
kings can't rise up for an hour or two, and
compare the rich dim solemnity and stony
grandeur of their shrine with a certain inn-stable
they once visited. That stable-stall
has developed into countless magnificent cathedrals,
with gold and jewellery and cunning
work inside, with the lame, and the halt,
and the blind, and the poor crouched on the
steps of their porches. And the wealth inside
does not make the beggar less hungry, ashe
kneels when the procession passes by
him."

Ye're right, young man, ye're right ! "
said Kimburls, choosing to discover a strong
Protestant bias in Caspar's remarks.

"We saw them kneeling in the street,"

said Miss Menteith ; "it was perfectly
scandalous."

I was~so sorry for them' said Dick.
Sorry ! " retorted her aunt. " Set them
up ! "

11 On their feet, Jeanie, surely — surely."
Charlie, apprehensive of a religious discussion,
to which he knew by domestic experience
elderly Scotch people were prone, said quickly :
Where did you put up in Cologne ? "
"At the Hotel du Dome." Here Mr.
Menteith recapitulated the candle incident,
and criticised the hotel dietary, and concluded
by adding confidentially to Caspar and Charlie
that there was a bottle of good whisky which
travelled with him. " AVe are very comfortable
here," he added, " and have most pleasant
apartments, with a balcony looking over the
square ; we can see the people in the flower
and fruit market in the morning. A go out
and barren with them. AVe lurrnt a good

quantity of German. It's not unlike broad
Scots."

"And over the tops of the houses," said
Dick, " you can see the castle. It is the
only thing that induces me to get up early,
because I can see it under morning sunlight
from our sitting-room balcony."

That is more than I can do. I don't
think I ever saw a sunrise in my life," said
George Farringdon, " except from the deck
of that beastly Channel steamer."

"We have certain attics in this square,"
said Caspar, "which also have the advantage
of that eastern view. In town, where there
are no particular attractions about the daylight,
where jocund day lies yellow on the
sooty chimney-pots, I generally sleep till
late ; but here, I confess, I simply must getup
to see one of the most beautiful sights
there are on this earth — the sunrise lighting
those red walls and misty woods."

We have made a few pleasant acquaintances
in this hotel," observed Kimburls, who
was not enthusiastic about the beauty of
Nature, " which helps us to pass the time
pleasantly. There is an extremely intelligent
and diverting Dutch gentleman "

Who plays chess," continued Dick. " He
sat next to me at dinner, and said, ' Do
you speak English ? ' I said ' Yes c Ah,
I am a Dutchman. I speak English. Do
you play chess ? ' ' No I said. It was
not quite true, but I hate the game. I
suppose I deserved to be told, ' Ah zo ! Then
I will teach you I had some difficulty in
escaping afterwards. My father adores him ;
and they talk about commerce and play
chess every evening."

Ye know nothing about it, Dick. He
is a most diverting and well-informed
person."

"He is not very diverting when he is

discussing things with his wife in the night.
Their room is next to mine, and the wallis
made of paper, and in the morning, when
I want to sleep, she talks a great deal, walking
about the room, while he, evidently in
bed, with his voice coming from somewhere
near the wall, low down, says ' Each zo ! '
at intervals, trying to go to sleep, and agreeing
with everything she says ; and you know
he has always got that carved wooden smile."

Men cannot be fairly judged when they
are sleepy in the morning," said Caspar.
"The very act of awakening them embitters
their disposition, and takes away from them
any becoming or amiable character they may
have in wakeful, washed, and well-fed moments.
They feel as they look, and that
is the worst thing, perhaps, I can say."

Do you answer to your own description,
Mr. Eosenfeld ? " asked Dick ; " when you
wake, I mean."

"Ask Deane ; he generally wakes me.
The only enjoyment he finds in it is probably
the consciousness that I have yet to suffer
what he has already recovered from. In
getting up, it is the first step that costs
more than in any other situation."

"Waking Caspar is a difficult and a
thankless task' said Charlie.

George Warrington looked bored.

I saw you, I think," said Dick to Caspar,
"yesterday evening."

Where ? " asked Caspar ; then, observing
Charlie's unconscious eyeglass betraying a
certain faint derision in the eye behind it,
destined to become orally emphatic in the
confidence of subsequent privacy, he blushed
internally for his duplicity, and added : " Oh
yes, you mean in that bier-garden on the
other side of the Schlange. You were coming
back from a drive."

You saw me too, then ? "

I saw you."

He did not add that he had seen little
else ever since.

And so Caspar and Dick chatted on,
with frequent conversational intermissions on
the part of Kimburls and his sister. When
the two young men left to get their hats
from inside the hotel, Kimburls said :

A verra pleasant and entertaining young
man'

George, taking for granted, for reasons
of his own, which young man was so described,
said :

"Well, so you all seem to think; I'm
shot if I can see it." Then he added : "He
seemed to me to talk a lot of rot about a
number of disconnected things, and I can't
say he amused or instructed much — at least,
it was lost on me."

"Ye can't well deliver a discourse with
heads, joodyspree, and a pairraration in

ordinary conversation, on a hot day, with
strangers," said Kimburls.

He had George safely in tow now as
prospective son-in-law, and could afford to
patronise and break jests upon him, or what
went for such in the Kimburls mind.

It's rather nice to talk nonsense sometimes,"
added Dick.

Dulce est deseepere in locke" concluded
her father.

Miss Jane Menteith set him down as an
apparently respectable and not ill-informed
young man. George didn't want to say anything
against the fellow, but fancied he was
a Jew.

And the young lady herself? Well,
strange to say, though she was amused and
interested by the man from an unfamiliar
planet, it never occurred to her to compare
him in any ways to her " bachelor," her
ancient playmate, her quasi-cousin George,

VOL. I. K

whose person and ways and wits were matters
of every-day experience to her. She was buta
few months over eighteen, had never been
to school, and had all her knowledge of men
and women from books and songs, heard,
found, and studied in an old Scotch country
house ; and it had not as yet entered her
mind that marriage was anything but the
constant association prolonged through the
future which had always existed in the past,
and she classed the fierce passions and strange
adventures of the men and maidens in her
mediaeval ballads and plays with the age of
miracles. She had, of course, had modest
little dreams of the ideal "him" — not in
the style and costume of the nineteenth
century, but in a steel headpiece and a
two-handed sword, riding a black horse in
the moonlight across the mosses and marches ;
or in a buff coat and large-brimmed beaver,
charging with Prince Rupert for his King.

But she had not quite found him in George
Farringdon, in spite of his descent. The
liking she had for this undeniably good-looking
young man was of the kind that
it had always been since childhood, and no
man had ever taught her that this kind of
liking, though satisfactory from some points
of view, was not just everything ; and, such
being her position, she acquiesced placidly
in the engagement, and never dreamed of
studying the rest of male humanity with a
view to bettering her selection. George,
whose feelings were of a much warmer nature,
instinctively felt that her condition was something
of this kind, and was afflicted by a
continual nervous dread of the impressions
other men might make on her — a dread which
made him morbidly sensitive to any real or
apparent inferiority of himself to them, and
laborious to make himself shine before her
was the ideal of gentlemanly good form, combined

with as much artistic perfection and
culture as good form permitted. He was
always suspecting her of forming sudden
attachments for men whom she had in
reality never regarded as other than episodic
acquaintances. The idea of giving her time
and chance to find a better man than himself
had not entered into his head — that was not
in the Farringdon temperament. "Hall o'
my ain, and name o' my neighbour's." And
he regarded Caspar gloomily, and longed to
catch him tripping. Caspar did not regard
him at all at present, being occupied in
gradually breaking through Dick's boundary
of shyness, by not talking to her much, and
talking to the others on subjects he thought
likely to interest her. And every word he
said did interest her, though she did not
analyse her sensations in the orthodox way
of romance, or recognise that it was the kind
of interest no man's words had ever waked

in her before. Whatever the theme of conversation
might be, from Schlangenberg
scenery to Shakespeare, Caspar had something
to say which, though not necessarily
consisting of coins from the mint of genius,
was new and attractive to her, both in matter
and in manner. Kimburls she respected and
loved instinctively and dutifully, of course ;
but she was used to the treasures of his wit
and wisdom, which he had emptied on her
lavishly from infancy up, till the store was
nearly empty. George was George, and, as
such, very nice of course. Aunt Jane
deserved and got immense reverence (except
when she had recently bathed or was on
the high seas, on which occasion her dignity
suffered a temporary lapse) ; but she was nota
person to joke with.

But Caspar was new, an advantage which
the above three possessed not; he was also
strangely attractive in appearance, and that

in an unusual style. He was uncommon,
from her point of view, in voice, dress, face,
colour, thought, and mode of expressing it,
and of different experience and education from
any man she knew. And he puzzled her.
Charlie never provoked any speculation in
her mind, a fact which did not appear to
her as in any way remarkable. She set him
down as a "nice little fellow," and as such
left him uncriticised further. As he was a
good four inches taller than herself, though a
small man, this was condescending. There is
that, perhaps, in an eyeglass which provokes
irreverence in the mind feminine. During
the conversation in the garden that pleasant
little man seemed to discover a comic side
to the situation, to judge from the occasional
spasms which shot across his face like cloud-shadows
over the wind-swept sea, as he conversed
gravely with Miss Menteith the elder

on various serious matters. He had in his
mind the image graven of her first appearance
before him that morning as the hastily
and " casually " clothed Anadyomene.

And it came to pass in the course of the
afternoon that an expedition was proposed by
Kimburls of the united party to the Schloss,
to start when the heat of the afternoon had
passed away, which proposition was unanimously
accepted. In the mean time the three
young men adjourned to a cafe at the corner
of the Universities Plats, where Charlie and
Farringdon played billiards in their shirt-sleeves,
and Caspar sat looking on, smoking
and drinking Culmbacher beer. It might be
noticed that Caspar took off his hat on
entering, while Farringdon strode in with his
on his head ; and while the latter was complaining
of the smallness of the table and the
largeness of the balls, the former was ransacking

literature and his memory for comparisons
to Dick Menteith. And he thought,

There is none like her, none,

Nor shall be till our summers have deceased.

Caspar had experience enough to diagnose
his own symptoms, which she certainly had
not.

In the evening of this hot, calm July
day, the party wound their way up through
the woods to the Schloss. The Laird of
Kimburls discoursed to Farringdon on the
probable value of the timber, and pitied the
natives for neglecting such a ready " source "
of profit. Farringdon compared notes about
the trees on the Sokebridge Manor-house
estate, and expressed a wish that it were
possible to buy and export castle and all to
beautify the said estate. This certainly
showed that he felt, to some extent, its
extraordinary beauty and fascination.

Caspar said, " Do you think that, Miss
Menteith ? " and Dick, to her own and everyone
else's surprise, found herself saying, " No'
which was an unexpected blow for George
Farringdon.

This young man was always verging on a
true appreciation of what was good in nature
and art, and always spoiling his best ideas by
some such remark as this. He seemed incapable,
in the midst of a scene of profuse and
wild beauty, of completely divesting himself
of the bondage of the commonplace, though
he might make the most laudable and pitiable
struggles to do so. When he became conversationally
" artistic," as he would probably
have called it, the effort was too obvious.
He and the Laird of Kimburls walked first,
then Miss Menteith, Charlie, Miss Dick Menteith,
and Caspar, in a row. Charlie was
wickedly practising on Aunt Jane's credulity
and known strong opinions on the subject, by

telling stories of physiological atrocities of a
fantastic and fictitious nature.

Caspar and Dick talked but little, and
occasionally laughed when Aunt Menteith
came out with dogmas about the startling
longevity and venomous character of toads,
which Charlie capped by gravely exhibiting a
hideous old heirloom of a ring which he wore,
stating that it had been extracted by a warlike
ancestor from the head of some primeval and
gigantic batrachian.

Aunt Menteith indulged in a variety of
other interesting superstitions by no means
uncommon among partially educated persons ;
such as that the sun will put fires out —
though it is capriciously harmless to candle
flames, which would be much easier to
extinguish — that the blackthorn causes cold
weather in spring, that the moon rules the
weather, and that a party of thirteen had indefinitely
awful results, beginning with the

death of the thirteenth, without explaining on
what principle the Angel of Destiny selected
the thirteenth.

Caspar felt that that walk through the
woods was one of the things not to be forgotten,
insignificant as they appear at the
time. It was not very late, and there was yet
quite light enough to make it seem very dark
there, except when the pale birch stems
gleamed among the dark rough firs, or a
clearance had been made which let in the sky.
They passed the old pond presided over by the
ruinous Triton, where Caspar and Charlie had
lain discoursing idly and fitfully in the morning.
The road then became narrow, and gave opportunities
to Charlie, who was one of those
creatures of superfluous energy who slash at
surrounding vegetation with their sticks as
they pass it. Then it grew narrower still, and
steeper, and the ladies' pace slackened, and the
party became a procession of two and two

instead of a row, Dick and Caspar forming the
rearward portion. Farringdon occasionally
looked behind him in a nervous way, and
struggled in the shackles of an interminable
conversation which his future father-in-law
kept up on the inferiority of German commercial
energy as compared with that of Great
Britain, more especially that portion of Great
Britain which is situate on the Clyde.

"We will be leaving in a week for
Dresden' said Dick. " I am sorry we are
going so soon."

"Are you? You will find much more to
amuse and interest you there than here."

Maybe ; but I am interested and amused
here. I like the place wonderfully. I feel
that it is a sort of home I have once known or
dreamed about. I should Eke to be able to
come up here by myself before the dew is dry
or the tourists awake, and think that I am on
the point of restoring the time when men

rode out from here through the trees and
through the morning mist with the sunlight
streaking their armour ; that if I spoke the
right word everything would come to life
again — a sort of Sleeping Beauty's castle, you
know."

Then you assume ownership of the castle
in these dreams ? " said Caspar, with a smile
which partook of the pensive and childlike
qualities sung by the poet.

Oh, I didn't just mean that, you know
that. I should like to go on for ever seeking
the word to say which would make the ruins
rise, and the bones join together, the trumpeters
blow, the flags flutter, and the spears
glitter as they escorted the ladies to — well,
whatever ladies went to then."

A garden-party ? "

Just that ; or a tournament, or hawking."

"While the howls of the tortured prisoners
dimly resounded from that dungeon

where the water drips. Do you know that
vault that opens like a cave on the path here ?
You go down steps into it. Inside there is a
spring of cold water which drips on for ever.
Into that vault prisoners were inserted in
those good and picturesque chivalrous old
times. They were not made to work, like our
convicts. Their sole occupation was to listen
to that water dropping. If they were thirsty,
as they generally were sooner or later, they
found themselves separated from that cheery
little stream by a narrow abyss of vague depth,
just wide enough to keep their mouths six
inches from the water ; of course it was dark
always. Another amusement of the leisurely
and peaceful moments of the barons bold was
the extraction of wealth from Jews. In
Ivanhoe " they use the actual cautery. Here,
I am told, they borrowed the old English
dentistry method."

Is that the dungeon ? "

It is. That modest and retiring structure,
like an elderly ice-house, plastered over
with advertisements of the town band."

Dick stayed a few seconds, and then said :
You can hear the water now."

It was picturesque, certainly, to live in
those days, or even in the later days, when
Marshals Turenne and Tilly were at large ; but
it was not comfortable. Family quarrels took
the violent form of burning, hanging, and
skull-splitting. I am not sure that libels and
actions are an improvement, after all."

Oh, I would reform all that. Everybody
would behave nicely, and we wouldn't have
any real fighting — at least, nothing more
dangerous than what the students here do,
that they may walk up and down the Anlage
with dirty handkerchiefs to their faces."

END OF VOL. I.

CHARLES DICKENS AND EVANS, Crystal PALACE I'HESS.

ILLINOIS Library

ACT URBAN *^ CAMPAIGN

BOG .Ces

WATERS OF Mala.

3. £iohtl

BY

JOHN HILL.

Farewell and adieu !
Each year that we live shall we sing it anew
With a water untravelled before us for sailing'.
And a water behind us that wrecks may bestrew.

IN THREE VOLUMES. '
YOL. II.

LONDON :

TINSLEY BROTHERS, 8, CATHERINE STREET, STRAND.

1883.

All rights reserved']

H5S'2 ^
V. Z

CONTENTS.

part the '^hirii.— Citspnr's f^libsttmrntr ^ 05.

CHAPTER III. (continued.)

Page
DICK Monteith 3

CHAPTER lY.

CASPAR ANALYZES HIMSELF 15

CHAPTER V.

CASPAR'S DREAMING 47

part tht Jfflttrtlt.— Jl most Ship xrf the ^onsz oi Istml

CHAPTER I.

PA&B
MES. Brandon 65

CHAPTER II.

THE Return JOURNEY 85

CHAPTER III.
dick's deeming 103

CHAPTER IV.

JESSICA STUDIES THE Sole OF ATE 118

CHAPTER Y.

DICK STUDIES TWO Pictures 148

CHAPTER VI.
IN ILLYRIA AGAIN 172

CONTENTS. vii

part tki S'l^th.—^tcxxuQt mb '^ttdh anb 'excision.

CHAPTER I.

WEDDING March 199

CHAPTER II.

THE DUTCH DEVIL 219

CHAPTER III.

A FRIENDLY ALLIANCE 241

part the mire.

(Continued.)
CASPAR'S MIDSUMMER MADNESS.

VOL. II.

CHAPTER III. (continued),

DICK Monteith.

Here Caspar and Dick Menteith reached the
front terrace of the castle, which overhung the
river valley, a terrace of red stone, which
Kimburls persisted in calling a 'balcony.'
And Caspar said, " Come and look over the
parapet." And they leaned on the broad
balustrade with their elbows, and looked up
and down, right and left. Below, dark green
depths, shaded by heavy hanging ivy, cooled by
minute cataracts gliding over mossy miniature
precipices. In front, and far below, the river

B 2

Schlange brown and bright, with an endless
timber-raft struggling sinuously through anarch
of the town bridge, and on the other
river-bank the white, hot road, winding
along the base of the Traubenberg, with its
facade of hanging gardens, new villas, and
old taverns, above the red, sloping, buttressed
wall. To the right, the brown-tiled
house-tops and red spires of the town, which
the evening sun was shining on for the last
few minutes of the day. Far away over
the fog-laden plain beyond, the factory
chimneys stood up, and sent their thin,
straight streaks of brown smoke athwart the
lines of misty crimsoning western sky. To
the left, the dark, steep-sided, tree-clad river
valley wound out of sight, growing momentarily
dimmer and duller. Neither of the
two spoke for some time, for what they
.saw and felt was far more than any words
sos theirs could then express ; and inspirations

and spontaneous eloquence deserted
them. At last Dick said :

"Will I see anything in Dresden better
than this ? "

Caspar looked at her for a moment, and
replied :

No. After all, I don't believe sou will,
or anywhere else either." This broke the spell
of silence, and Caspar continued: "Where
did you get your enthusiasm for nature and
medisevalism ? If I may say so without
rudeness, I don't think you inherited it."

I live in Scotland."

"Well?"

The only books I have had to read
that I cared for were old books, old histories,
old ballads, and Sir Walter Scott. I really
think the most modern author I have read is
the Ettrick Shepherd."

"Don't you read the modern nineteenth-century
novel ? "

''I have read some. I like them when
they are good ; but I don't like many."

That remark implies a minor premiss
uncomplimentary to the books."

'' Oh, it does that ! " Curiously enough,
Caspar did not find the slight and rather
plaintive Scotch accent, which was undeniably,
though conspicuously, present in
Dick Menteith, either ridiculous or irritating,
though the ;manner of speech of her father
and aunt frequently gave him both those
impressions. But there was nothing ridiculous
or irritating about this quiet, small,
white figure in a crowning straw hat, leaning
on the wide red-stone balustrade, and
gazing into the far-ofi" sky.

Do you write books ? " said she, turning
her face Casparward.

I have co-operated in producing a play
once, and have written songs and stories in
magazines. I never wrote a novel. I may

some day, though I doubt if either public or
publisher would like it."

"Why?"

'you see the matter between the public
and me is this. It is very simple. I don't
like them, and-those that know me, or think
they do, seldom like me. We should say
disagreeable things to one another. It maybe
my misfortune, and it may be theirs ; but
I have an immense faculty .for disliking
people — perhaps the only strong and thorough
faculty I have. It would command Dr.
Johnson's robust respect, no doubt. But
critics and librarians are not Dr. Johnson
at least, not as a rule."

"But I don't see why one would dislike
people ? "

No. You are not one who would very
readily provoke, or feel hatred or contempt.
I hope you will remain always in that mind."

'' Are you not happy ? "

Caspar resisted the temptation to say that
he was at that moment particularly happy,
and replied :

Not always. I am informed by those
who consider themselves judges, that I have
a morbid temperament, because I tell the
truth as it seems to me — namely, that
human beings on the average are very mean
animals, and that I'm one of them. I have
been rather prejudiced perhaps by the eccentricities
of Fate in my own particular experiences."


*' I think you're just a little proud of that
morbid temperament,' as you call it."

'* Don't suppose I'm affecting an opinion
or playing a part ; I should have no purpose
in doing that. I mean what I say. Perhaps
I am a little proud of my discoveries ;
they are as worthy being proud of as many
other things which are held to justify pride.
However, never mind pride and misanthropy

and meanness ; they are not savoury subjects
when we are looking from the Schloss of
old Schlangenberg into the evening red.
Tell me what you are thinking of'' (This
last rather suddenly.)

Dick turned her eyes again on Caspar's.
'rit is difficult to know whether one thinks
at all in a scene like this. At any rate, it is
not very unspeakable."

These were the words of her mouth. The
meditation of her heart, which Caspar read in
her eyes, was, " I am thinking of you." (Long
pause.)

Well, Dick," said George Farringdon,
have you discovered anything in infinite
space ? "

I am not very sure."

Jolly view, isn't it ? " observed Farringdon
carelessly to Caspar.

'lawfully jolly," returned that individual
drily, with a perfectly untranslatable face.

Dick was not quite sure what she had
discovered in the purpling region of the
west ; nor was she quite sure why she felt
just a little annoyed with George for his
slightly unexpected and inopportune observations.


But she had no time to speculate on
these questions, as the party reunited, and
the conversation became general, modern,
and every-day, the voice of Kimburls being
dominant. Dick spoke little, and coiled a
shawl round her neck and shoulders with
a little shiver, as they turned their backs
on the terrace, and all it looked upon, and
found themselves in the darkness of the
wood, where the fire-flies were chasing one
another among the leaves. When the town
outskirts were reached, Caspar said he must
withdraw, and Charlie, of course, took the
cue.

On shaking hands, Dick said to Caspar,

Will we see you again tomorrow ? " in a
rather low voice. Why she should ask such
a harmless question in a low, rather than a
loud voice, she did not entirely know.

But Caspar thought he did, and said :
Yes, you may be sure of that."

And he and Charlie strode away into
the town, and lost themselves in the narrow
lanes till they found themselves outside an
old tavern, at a secluded corner of a tall
narrow street. This Caspar led the way
into, and ordered supper, while through the
open windows on the opposite side of the
street came the joyous chant, "/cA love mir
cas alter Burthen leben'' from a club of
uproarious students.

While waiting for supper, Charlie tried
to spell out the jokes from the Fliegender
Blatter, and Caspar leaned out at the
window, regarding the street below and the
stars above. And he was happier than he

had ever been before in his life, as he
reflected : " And I can read the fairy-tales in
those eyes ! Watch this town, you golden
fires that fret the majestical roof of earth !
It has more in it than beer and stupidity.
It contains the girl I shall always love, and
who shall always love me. I know it ; I can
make her ; I can reveal it to her.

Let come what will, there is one thing worth
To have had fair love in the life upon earth :
While skies had colour "

*' Here's the supper, old man ! "

They ate with appetite and contentment.

'* Do you mean to cut out Farringdon?"

asked Charlie carelessly, at the end of their

meal.

Cut — out — Farringdon ? As how ? "
''Ah, I see ! "Well, the sooner I enlighten

you the better, as you seem to take an

unusual interest in this matter. George

Farringdon is engaged to Miss Dick Menteith,
and has been so for the last six or eight
months."

Caspar sat perfectly still, leaning forward
on his elbows on the table, and looking
straight before him into Charlie's face.

I did not know it," he replied shortly.
^* I thought he wanted to be, but not that
he was."

"I thought I'd better tell you."

*^ Quite right. Let's pay and go."

And they walked home.

In the night Caspar rose silently and
went for a long walk under the starlight,
through the woods to the hill-top above the
town, where

The air with sparks of living fire was spangled,
And night, deep-drenched in misty Acheron,
Heaved up her head, and half the world upon
Breathed darkness forth.

The cold crimson dawn had arisen over

the river valley when he came down. Then
he lay on his bed, and after throwing a book
on the floor he had sought some few futile
minutes' solace from, remained there on his
back watching through the open attic-window
the first sunshine on the distant facade of the
time-worn ruin on the misty mountain-side.
There were streaks of crimson and pearly
layers on a vivid green eastern atmosphere.
Then the nightingale's voice became dumb,
and the noisy tramp and traffic of the flower
and vegetable market far below began. And
Caspar stood at his window watching. Far to
his right and below, in the balcony of the
hotel in the same square, he saw the fair
sunlit little head of Dick Menteith. She
was looking at the same sunrise, and at the
same blue-print market-women in ceaseless
movement.

Behiiet rich Got ! Es war' zu scion geese,
Behiiet rich Got ! Es hat night solemn sein.

Caspar spent the morning of the next day
in fierce perturbed discussion with himself, in
keen analysis of his rather obscure and indeterminate
position, and in making and
unmaking resolves as to what he was to
say or do.

A couple of hours' silent smoking after
breakfast in the garden, accompanied by
strides up and down that limited tract of
land, did little to reduce the spiritual Maelstrom
which had occupied the place of a mind

in him ever since that well-intended but
epoch-marking statement of Charlie's.

The latter young man, when tired of the
exciting adventures of James, Mr. M., and the
daughters of the merchant, as portrayed in
the work which professed to teach him
German without a master, looked up at
Caspar with a curious, amused, and withal
wistful eye, through what he (Charlie) termed
the Monocle of the Higher Criticism ; and
after studying him for some minutes in
profound silence, observed :

"You had better sit down and talk. It
will be better for you to do that than to
roam up and down like a confined arboreal
ancestor."

"What ? " said the other suddenly, turning
on his heel.

If you want the advantage of my advice
and sympathy, you had better tell me your
symptoms."

'' Peace ! Thou tallest of nothing, and
dost mightily drivel withal."

I was talking of you from the point of
view of your medical adviser and asylum-keeper."


"Yes. That's particularly brilliant as conversation.
Have you much more of that
kind of thing to say ? "

*' Goodness ! The man is trying to be
disagreeable, and doesn't know how. In sober
earnest, man, leave off that silent rambling ;
I can't stand it. If things aren't exactly
square between us, well, they ought to be
made so, quam celerrime, or what's the use
of anything, you know ? "

"It is curious to notice how your usually
incisive and coherent style of talk degenerates
when you are in what you call earnest."

Well then, look here ; have I done you
any harm ? "

Not that you know of."

VOL. II. o

"Then why the devil do you snub me
when I try to be pleasant? That's coherent, I
think."

I beg your pardon ; I was ill-tempered
and unpleasant. I was only looking on you
as an impersonal object to (spiritually) throw
things at. Anyone else would do."

All right ; I understand. I fancy IVe
been there myself. Usual routine, I suppose ?
Insomnia, incoherent ravings when alone, strong
susceptibility to lunar and biliary affections ? "
Quite so. Patient displays great mental
acerbity when not alone, tending to relieve
itself in violent deeds or remarks on the
nearest inoffensive object — so look out; sees
faces — particularly one face ; has an exaggerated
craving for tobacco, a diminished appetite
for all meaner things ; feels an exalted contempt
alternately for the human race and for
himself, together with a sullen silence, or
undignified tendency to unpack his heart

with words which are profitless ; progress
from bad to worse."

And he has also a feeble and transparent
jocularity."

'' Yes. D d funny, isn't it ? "

Look here, man, you've got it bad.
Excuse my slang. Don't try to be funny, and
sit down and say in plain English, what do
you mean to do ? "

'ein plain English, my view of the situation
is this : Here is a girl who is not
sufficiently experienced to know that she does
not yet know her own mind, although she has
made it up to marry a man — a man whom I
do not highly appreciate, but who does not
appear to be particularly unworthy, though he
is distinguished neither for great learning nor
great taste. That is, he might make a very
pleasant and serviceable comrade for her, as
you say he has been her friend and companion
from infancy, etc."

That's all very well as far as it goes ;
but you know, to put it with due regard to
truth, you are worth any fifty of George M.
Farringdon, as the Americans would call him,
and she, if she's the girl I think she is, could
be fonder of you than she ever will be of him''

That may or may not be," replied Caspar
through his set teeth, again beginning his
quarter-deck stride. "The question is, have I
any right, under the circumstances, to try to
make her take that view of the matter ? Of
course the common vulgar Don Juan joke
doesn't come in here. I should fail to see the
point of such jokes about this girl in particular
in fact, they would annoy me considerably.
Do the facts justify me in supposing that it
would be better for her, or worse, if I were
to place myself in antagonism to this young
man? Whether it would be better or worse
for him, or me, we will provisionally set
aside."

I should say the facts were very simple
indeed. Here is a girl — a nice girl. Two
men want her. One is of a higher class
in the animal kingdom than the other.
Evolution and common generosity say, 'Give
her the best.' "

Interpreting that in the flattering sense
you intend, I still say you omit important
factors on both sides, if I may treat this
kind of thing as a sort of quadratic equation.
You forget that she knows this fellow
well, and likes him ; that she has been
brought up with certain ideas, comforts, and
habits of life, traditions he may partially
keep up, luxuries he may be able to increase,
society he can move in ; all of which
things are not to be found in me. On the
other side, she probably guesses but faintly,
if at all, that my notions on many subjects
dear to her may be very different from her
own, and repulsive to her; or that my life

is one of hand-monmouth income, hard work,
and rather lycian amusements and society.
You couldn't offer her a bar-room, and call
it society, could you? And I don't just
now know of any other I could take her
into. I could only offer her a share in the
profits of my magnificent genius, which
brings in just enough to keep one body
inside clothes and outside food. Besides, I
should have to try and persuade her to act
in defiance of her family. You realise the
meaning of that, I suppose? Well, having
no compensation except my interesting
person to offer in return for a lower life
and estranged family, strange ways and
notions, and highly probable ultimate workhouse,
with boys selling special editions, and
girls penny bunches of violets, looming before
us, without the fortune that is dug up in
the seventh tableau of a melodrama coming
with redemption in its hands, I say, No.

I aren't ask her to face all that, even ina
dream, and she is not expecting me to
ask her."

"But supposing she takes a liking to
you, whether you choose or not? Such
things have been; and mere flight on your
part would then be too late."

"Doing that kind of thing would only
serve to accentuate the (hypothetical) present
phase of her fancy, and stimulate her latent
instincts into analytical activity."

"Very prettily put. "What its precise
connection with the plot is one sees. So
lucid. And what might you interpret the
present phase of her fancy, as you call it'
to be?"

"Don't try to be sarcastic, young one;
it doesn't suit you ; you haven't got the
vocabulary for it at your disposal, and it
doesn't irritate me in the least."

Oh, doesn't it ? Then why that crushing

reply ? However, don't begin to argue.
I know nothing about love and all that. By
Jove ! there's the postman ! " And Charlie
rushed to waylay the dignified, flat-capped,
military-looking old man, who was spelling
out English names on letters. There was
one for Charles Deane, Esq., to which he
paid great and agitated attention.

'' Who is it from, Charlie ? Anyone I
know ? "

-Lily."

Oh ! Anything in it ? "

'^Doosid little."

As there was extensive crossing visible
on the large thin paper, which some people
will persist in using, this statement seemed
unaccountable. Caspar at length looked as
if he had made his mind up to some course
or other. His face brightened, his talk
became more fluent and flippant, and he
seemed to find more amusement in things

that surrounded him than when in his
former inly concentrated condition.

Charlie retired into the fastnesses of the
fourth floor, where he was left undisturbed
by Caspar, to re-read Lily Carew's letter,
and to answer the same, which he did in
the following manner :

'^16, Eoss-Platz, Schlangenberg.

"Dear Lily,

"I got your letter to-day, and am
grateful, though it is not exactly what I
call interesting. There are several things I
don't care twopence about, on which you
give me full details, and several more which
I care a good deal about, on which you
say hardly anything. Soever mind. Excuse
my plainness (bother the phrase ! I mean
plain speech). As my dear old friend Otto's
grammar would say, Charles has the bad

pen, the muddy ink, the un satisfactory-letter,
and the disturbed temper.

*the matter is that that dreadful old
lunatic, C. Kosenfeld, has gone and fallen
in love with Miss Dick Menteith ; and she
is in a fair way, if he makes an effort to
accelerate her, towards the same condition
with regard to C. E. The latter party has
been wandering about the country like Lear
and his fool, especially the latter, when he
thought I was asleep and didn't know, and
worshipping

The dawn and the moon and the trees,
And bogies and serpents and crows,

like primitive man, out of poetic despair.
It's an awful shame to laugh at him, because
it's really a great pity, and Lord only knows
what will happen. I mean to prescribe pot.
bromide gr. xxv. After a morning of arguments
nagging, and walking up and down

the garden like a Barbary cat, he has arrived

at a kind of cheerfully triumphant expression

and a rather jocular style of conversation,

so I presume that he is going to unmask

his batteries and declare war with G. M.

Farringdon, in which case I advise G. M. F.

to look out. But how Caspar can support

a wife when he gets her is beyond me. I

hope it mayn't be equally beyond him.

"Tell me, when you write, all about

yourself — what you are doing, reading, and

thinking. I can't tell you how much I miss

you here. I am sure you would enjoy such

a jolly place as this is. Write soon —

whatever you like, but write soon. — Your

affectionate cousin,

"Charles Deane."

This epistle Charlie stamped and took to
the post at once. He usually posted his
answers to Lily's letters half-an-hour after

they came, as clerks say, "to hand." She
usually began writing about ten days after
receiving his correspondence, and then forgot
to post her letter for a few days more. It
was her way, just as the opposite way was
his. Then he came back to Caspar, saying :
'' Well, is it all right ? "

"Yes, Charlie, it's all right. Where
shall we dine ? " He did not mean to quote
Romeo.

In the afternoon Caspar and Charlie
performed their usual digestive tramp under
the chestnuts of the shady Anlage, where
Caspar railed a good deal on the German
corps-student, his ideas, his affectations, and
his amusements. After a while they met
Farringdon (everyone meets everyone else on
the Anlage), when Caspar suddenly changed
his tone completely, and began an eloquent
defence of the free life and unfettered mirth
of the German student, to Farringdon's considerable

disgust, as that gentleman held the
opinion, common to young Oxford and
Cambridge, that the studious of a German
university is invariably an object of both
pity and contempt. After listening to Caspar
for a few minutes, he said :

"I always regarded them as a set of
thorough cads. They certainly dress terribly.
Don't they spend most of their leisure
time in drinking beer ? "

** Yes. Why not ? It is very good beer.
They enjoy it. So would you. Would you
not like to come to a hieijpe just once in a
way, out of curiosity ? "

"How can I go?"

I can take you. I belong to a society
of students here. I am very fond of temporary
dissipation, combined with good songs
and stories."

"You understand the awful language,
then ? "

Oh, yes ; after a fashion I understand
several languages."

The three walked on together.

'you live in town, I suppose, when you
are in England ? "

'eyes. I oscillate between Barnard's Inn
and the Strand."

I suppose sou literary and artistic men
have rather a gay time of it — not much
fettered by conventionality, eh ? " Here
George looked knowing.

Caspar looked knowing too, and repeated
the impressive formula, "What do you think?"
at which Farringdon laughed ; and Charlie
thought Caspar was really going mad.

Are you in town much ? " asked Caspar.

I used to go down to town a good
deal in the vas. I have been in Scotland,
and in my place down at Sokebridge lately."

I was only wondering I hadn't met
you anywhere at the places where men do

meet — supper-rooms, bars, and stage-doors,
for example. Eemember the Duke's ? Know
Scott's?"

Er — I have been there, I believe."

^^ Once — out of curiosity? Like me.
Last time I was there I saw a charming
young woman ch-sing ants round her plate
with a knife. Of course there were no ants.
Early in life, I thought, for that sort of
thing."

By Jove, you seem to take things
calmly ! "

*' What's the use of taking them any
other way ? Give me life, and plenty of it,
and the rest of the world can do and say
what they please."

"You'll have to change all those idea
when you settle down like me, and marry."

*^ I ? Settle down ? No, sir. I prefer
to sip my sweets reflectively, at all times
and places, unshackled by domestic ties. T

have no relatives to speak of, and occupy
myself studying humanity, especially in its
female varieties, in the style of the experimentalist."


"Strikes me you're a devilish gay dog,
you know, and you don't seem at all ashamed
of it."

*' Ashamed ?

I say of shame, what is it 1
Of virtue, we can miss it ;
Of sin, we can but kiss it.
And it's no longer sin."

And Caspar soon launched out into what
Falstaff called 'discreet stories."

After they had parted from Farringdon,
Charlie asked :

I say, are you cracked ? "

Caspar flicked a leaf with his stick.

*only north-north-west. Show me a
handsaw, and I will without difficulty identify
it among a mob of hawks. '

What did you want to go and make
yourself out a dissipated boastful cad for ?
Above all to that fellow ! "

"Why above all to that fellow?"

*' Because he's safe to go and repeat and
exaggerate it all to the Menteiths."

Not quite all, I fancy. Still, supposing
he does?"

People always believe anything bad
about other people sooner than anything
good."

Precocious cynic ! And then ? "

And then ! Why, it's enough to make
the girl take a distrust — a disgust almost —
at you. And, by Jove, considering the
handle you've given that fellow, she wouldn't
be far wrong, not knowing you more than
she does."

And if she did," replied Caspar through
his teeth, with a sort of writhe, 'were it
not a consummation devoutly to be wished ?"

VOL. II. D

Charlie was silent awhile, and then said :

*' You are a howling maniac, old fellow !
Quixote wasn't in it. But it won't do.
You'll never be able to keep it up."

'ewe shall see."

Well, I wash my hands of it. It's
your business, and not mine ; but I must
say I'm sorry to see a good thing go wrong
'a beautiful world broken up,' as the
fellow in * Faust ' says — just through your
fantastic self-will. It is such a pity ! "

*' Kreiiz ! Donnerivetter ! And doesn't
it occur to you that I may be sorry, too,
for the collapse of the fairest vision that
ever crossed my mind's eye ? More sorry
than it would be easy or profitable to express.

We built a castle in the air,
In summer weather, you and I;

The wind and sun were in your hair —
Gold hair against a sapphire sky.

You may be right — time will show. God

help her, if it be so ! Never mind. Talk
of something else."

Naturally, at this invitation, Charlie maintained
a dead silence. He could not chatter
on passing trivialities while his mind was
trying to master the extraordinary and, to
him, most unnatural behaviour of his friend.
Caspar could, and had most of the conversation
to himself — which was a curious fact.

"I wonder if I forced or overdue it?"
reflected he in the mean time. "It doesn't
much matter if I did. That man would
never have detected it."

Later in the day, when he and Charlie
met the whole Menteith party in a garden
where the Stadt-Orchester discoursed sweet
sounds to the best of its ability, Caspar's
behaviour was simply woful. He boasted
like a Bursch of the amount of beer he could
drink ; he made jokes on religious topics,
and cynical remarks on womankind ; paid

D 2

occasional compliments to Dick Monteith of
a vapid and " flirtations '^ description, and,
a things which lowered him in his own estimation
more than aught else, he submitted
to the statements and dogmatism of Kim-burns
and Farringdon on matters social, political,
and artistic. He gave anecdotes of
theatrical experiences behind the scenes, and
reminiscences of every tavern from St. Paul's
to Temple Bar, which presented him in the
light of an experienced Paul's Walker, or
bar-room loafer of the most debased description,
who gave "straight tips." It were
idle to attempt to describe the keen internal
torture it caused him to watch the effect of
this on his audience. Dick was perfectly
bewildered, and scarcely knew what to think;
Miss Menteith was simply scandalised, and
Farringdon and Kimburls triumphant ; while
Charlie — honest man ! — felt more anger than
sorrow, and longed to shake his friend by

the collar, and kick Farringdon into infinite
ether. You see Farringdon was revealed at
his best to Caspar, who had no knowledge
whatever of him beyond what he observed.
And what he observed was a young man in
the most exalted, pure, and perfect condition
possible to such a young man ; for being really
in love with a fair and pure young girl, he
was by that fact raised above his normal level.
Even a man of exceptional powers, yea, also of
genius (neither of which descriptions applies,
of course, to poor George), is in a higher,
better, and altogether more efficient and
attractive condition when in love than at
any other time. He burns to excel, for the
sake of, or at any rate in presence of, the
woman, and that renders him independent of
all other and baser tastes, desires, and motives
for the time. " They say, base men being in
love have then a nobility in their natures
more than is native to them." Thus Caspar

formed an essentially exaggerated estimate of
Farringdon's qualities as a man and a gentleman.
But even Caspar, with his terrible resolution
to dash his bark on the rocks before
he had time to become sick and weary of the
voyage, could not avoid an occasional breakdown,
a lapse to his real self from the part he
affected. And the worst, and to his mind
most fatal, that occurred was this.

The conversation had got as far as Shakespeare,
after travelling through multifarious
preliminary channels of the musical glass
order. Caspar was first of all irritated to
find Kimburls and Farringdon cordially agreeing
with him on some commonplace opinions
he had expressed, and that loosened the high-pressure
control in which he was holding his
just then highly susceptible and irritable
nervous system. Then the question came,
Was Hamlet really mad ? " from Dick.
Kimburls said, '*I thought that was universally

admitted. To give you my bonnafeedy
opinion, that's a play I do not really prefer
to read myself." Miss Menteith the elder
knew that William Shakespeare was a play-actor,
and there her knowledge ceased and the
bard's condemnation began.

Farringdon was bound to put in a voice
from the cultured academic and oracular circle
he frequented, who read and talked about
Shakespeare, misspent his name, and read him
very little, if at all ; so he said : " The sublime
madman of Elsinore was always a favourite
character with me. One feels a strange subtle
sympathy with his doubts, hesitations, and
difficulties. Of course he was mad ; I never
heard the contrary seriously maintained.
What do you think, Eosenfeld ? you are a
dramatic man, I think ? "

"Looking at the recognised symptoms of
his insanity, his killing such a wise and
harmless counsellor, such an ideal father, as

Colonies, this subsequent unfeeling remarks,
his brawling: irreverence at a funeral, his
brutal conversation with Ophelia "

'* Then you agree that he was mad ? "
said Kimburls and Farringdon in one voice.

Caspar looked despairingly round him like
a detected criminal, caught Dick's eyes fixed
on him with a mournful curiosity, and drinking
in his words — she knew her Shakespeare
well, better than any but himself in the
company — and suddenly all his great resolves
to be insincerely commonplace fell with a
crash, and he said slowly, with the flame
of a forlorn hope shuddering through his
eyes :

"Looking at all these things, I think
the theory of Hamlet's madness perhaps the
foremost among the many idiotic Shakespearean
theories which weary and worry the
world."

There was an expression of relief in Dick's

face, and one of stern satisfaction on Caspar's
as he rose to take his leave. He and Charlie
went away.

After they had gone, George said :

I believe half that fellow's conversation
is just swagger, you know."

Which half, t wonder ? " said Kimburls.

"Oh, I don't pretend to understand the
man myself You hear all he says about
himself, and you know what I told you."

As Caspar and Charlie walked away into
the dark, leaving the music and mirth of the
Palmen-Garten farther and farther behind,
Charlie made one last appeal.

** It's too bad, Caspar ; I can't stand it —
it's like suicide."

My dear boy, I can't stand it myself ;
I miscalculated my own powers. Look here,
if you don't mind, we will leave here tomorrow,
and roam about on foot a little in
the Black Forest, or somewhere. I would like

to be away among woods and mountains,
where we can be alone ; where there are no
English tourist hotels, and where there is
nothing to remind one of this place. It is tome
the most beautiful place on the face of
the earth, and I shall come back to it again
some day years hence, when it has simply
become as a grave that one visits, but I can't
look at it now."

All right. But "

"Now, don't argue. I know my own
mind. Don't talk to me about it just now,
or I shall not be quite sure if I have a mind
at all. I give her ujd — all chance of her —
to him, because I think it seems best for
her; but if he fails to make it best for her,

then But I don't threaten, or go about

hating and cursing people. I may kill him,
all the same. I'm talking an immense deal
too much, as it is. I don't want to bore you,
old man ; but Richard has not quite recovered

his identity yet. I think you had better goto
the Herr Kleider-Macher in the Haunts
and ask him to call and measure me
for a strait waistcoat."

Well, on the whole, I think I had."

''Ah, it will be all right by-and-by, when
our summer in Schlangenberg becomes a
dream of what was and no more is.' "

I am not so sure of that, as far as you
are concerned. One doesn't always wake
up from these dreams as soon as one could
wish."

How do you know ? Nightmares of the
mind don't last longer than the intellectual
indigestion which causes them. What's the
time ? "

Bed-time ; it's between eleven and
twelve."

"Very good. We go at 8.40 tomorrow
evening."

Long afterwards, poring at night alone

over that terrible scene of supreme sacrifice
and disappointment, in which Hamlet says,
'' You should not have believed me — I loved
you not'' Dick thought she understood, just
between herself and Shakespeare and the stars,
what it all meant. But she did not understand
yet ; she was only puzzled. She was
not angry with Caspar, as her father and
aunt were, nor did she deride him, as her
bridegroom did, in a way that almost
suggested personal malice or envy on his part.

But late that night, when they were
standing together in the hotel balcony, George
and she — he smoking cigarettes, she trying
to distinguish the different colours of the
stars, he noticed that she suddenly shivered,
in spite of the extremely high temperature of
the still, thunder-laden, summer night ; and
George said :

"Hullo, what's the row with you, little
woman ? "

'^ I don't know. I feel as if someone a
long way off had just died'

Cheerful ! Look here, you're getting
nervous, or hysterical, or something. Have
some wine."

No. But listen, George. Let us be
married soon. Don't think that a very
strange or silly thing for a girl to say."

George looked at her curiously, and
replied :

All right ; sooner the better, I think."
He dared not say '' Why ? "

And below, in the square, covered by
the shadows of the chestnut-trees, stood a
pale tall man, looking up into that bright
soft yellow light, intersected by the iron
tracery and creeping plants of the balcony,
and the two figures which stood on it. And
gentle intermittent flashes of summer lightning,
low down on the horizon, made the
scene flicker and expand and contract before

his eyes, like a vertiginous dream; and lie
said to himself :

Now, I wonder whether I have done
an act of heroic renunciation, as poor Charlie
thinks, or made myself ridiculous, to gratify
an insane scruple, as I dimly surmise ? It's
one or the other ; but I'm hanged if I know
which. Good-bye, du reine shone, holde !
There never were days like these, and there
never will be again."

There's something in his soul,
O'er which his melancholy sits on brood.
He shall with speed to England.

At 8.40 the next day a long train carried
Caspar and Charlie, in the moonlit twilight
of July, slowly — so slowly as only a German
express can go — across the level plain and
fertile fields that lay beyond the denouement
of the Schlange valley. Caspar sat gazing
silently through the open window at the
mountains, which were darkening and disappearing
in the night and distance. He
looked at the last tall pinnacle of the red
roofless ruin overpowering the fir-tops, with the
eyes of one who knows that he sees for the

last time for many years the scene of the
shortest and sweetest hours of a hard and
wearisome life, and is on his way to a wearier
weariness again, made more bitter by the
vision of what might have made it sweet.
Of course he was a fool, it will be said.
Perhaps he was. At any rate he did not
deny it. In that respect he deserves the
sympathy of a goodly majority of human
units.

And so Caspar Eosenfeld turned his back
and fled, carrying with him a deathless
memory of two calm gray eyes gazing into
a summer evening, made up of great fiery
golden wings of sunset clouds, which lost
in the wind stray gleaming feathers and flakes
wherewith the green-blue north-west became
flecked as with little flames. Such was the
scene in which he said a decorous society
good-bye to Dick Menteith. Farringdon
forgave him his Shakespearean criticism, and

asked him to the approaching wedding at
Sokebridge Manor.

And then Caspar went to summon a
Dientsmann to carry his portmanteau.

Beyond the glades,
On the fir-forest border, and the rim
Of the low range of mountain, was for him
Xo other world ; but this appeared his own

just long enough to make the loss an un-forceable
thing. At last Caspar took up
his parable and said :

You know it is a wonderfully comfortable
life one leads here in Germany, wandering
from a Bier-garden lit with paper lanterns
to a forest lit with stars, dissolving-view
fashion. Can you think of anything pleasant
than the warm nights scented with syringa-bloom,
when we have sat listening to the
Corelli-lied floating through the silence, and
watching the fire-flies chasing each other

VOL. II. E

among the branches above ? Did you ever
catch a firefly in your fingers ? ''

'' Father ! "

And didn't you feel ashamed of yourself,
and let it go again ? "

"As a matter of fact, I did ultimately
let it go, because I could not find out how
it lit itself and put itself out."

*' But if dissection could have done it,
you would have liked to know. Now there
I differ from you. I fail to see what I can
gain from finding out some instructive fact
about ganglia or fibrillar epithelium. Let
it remain in the air, out of reach, and keep
it the untainted and mysteriously-beautiful
thing that it is. Leave it alone ! "

"Well, hang it, man, I'm not going to
touch it ! "

Pause, during which an examination of
tickets took place through the window.

"I say, Charlie, do you remember, on

the occasion on which you first revealed
yourself to me in London, we discoursed
largely on the Value of Life " (in capitals),
where we all ' took a hand,' and came to
the conclusion that the question was beyond
discussion ? "

Yes."

"Well, on reflecting over all the twaddle
talked by myself and others on that occasion,
and combining it with other ideas, I can't
quite seize any particular purpose or use in
the world at all. Of course when any of
us says the world or universe, he means the
world or universe so far as it concerns him
and his intimate friends. Now what in the
world is it all for, this seething mass of
impotent wisdom, dominant stupidity and
spite, wild desires, wilder delights, hopeless
hopes, and hearts astray ? You are out in
some still gloaming, with a wan primrose
light in the horizon, with one great bright

E 2

LIBRARY ^-'— -
University OF Hfiwofj

star and two little ones above it, and you
are talking to a girl, and watching her eyes
begin to swim, and her head lean back to
look up into your face, and the sound of
the water, the smell of the firs, the voice
of the nightingale all say the same thing
to you ; and you understand it as well as
the language the stars speak together, till
you shiver as you almost overhear the passionless
little jokes they make together at seeing
a man make such a fool of himself again,
for the billionth time, in the good old fashion.
Then you know that your faith will become
unfaith, and that all the picturesque, fervent,
and eternal love and truth and beauty which
you thought had entered your life are part
of a phantasmal gray joke, whose laughter
resounds through the hollows of hell. All
ideas of praise or blame are not in it hereto
use a convenient phrase. Give everyone
leave to seek his happiness frankly his own

way, and he straightway makes a ridiculous
spectacle of himself, and either gets hung,
labelled a hero by a leading article, or totally
forgotten."

And whistle o'er the lave o't ! " replied
Charlie, trying to adopt a cheerful and
frivolous tone, though really terribly touched
by his friend's wild talk.

For a week or two they walked from
one village or small town to another in
the Black Forest, which was what it always
is in summer — a place for dreams, fairy tales,
and moonlit wanderings, mental and otherwise.
They came across occasional batches
of students with knapsacks, who sang as they
went along in the evening light, and were
quite happy as long as they had beer, and
could apply to a view, a sky, a variety of
beer, or a country Keller-model impartially,
their favourite epithets "samos and ''col-
lossaal 1 "

'the German student," observed Caspar,
is not a bad fellow, but he is a baby.
Bearing that fact in mind, and taking care
not to show that you find anything ridiculous
in the things he thinks sacred and serious,
such as a Bier-comment or a Mensur, you
will find him a faithful friend and a jovial,
if occasionally slightly besotted or wearisome
companion. I think we grow old sooner in
England ; in London of course we do. Then
these fellows are always getting in love, and
sending bouquets by Dienstmdnner to some
girl they once or twice have danced silently
and solemnly with at the periodic ball. Then
they become sombre, they rave (and occasionally
weep a trifle) to all their friends,
intimate and otherwise, under the seal of
secrecy, over a Liter-drug of beer."

This sentiment Caspar delivered as they
sat in the guest-room of an old inn, *die
"Weiss Rose," with their elbows on an old

wooden table, carved with the monogram
of a student's corps, and with the nicknames
of its various Active, Alter Herren
and Conhneipanten, in radiating lines.

How long do you want to roam these
woods and hills, spinning internal ghosts and
seeing them ? " asked Charlie.

Why ? Don't you enjoy it ? "
Of course I do, and am indebted to
you more than I can ever repay for getting
a benighted outsider like me into this part of
the world pleasantly and safely."

Nay, do not mock me, fellow-student."

"But I sometimes think you look as if

you wanted to be back in England. You

look tired, and bored, and seedy ; and I

think the Strand would be a good ."



Highest sterbe-blasslich laus,
Sei detroit du bist zu Has !

That's your idea ? "

Well, Halts, in that, is the only word
that makes an intelligible appeal to me.
You must not quote German to me which I
shan't find in the text-book of Dr. Emil Otto."

"Don't you think these paths are better
than the Strand ? Here we have only our
friends the fir-trees, and the old forest is
like a great church, with starry-pointing
spires ; and in the deepest inmost shrine of
its darkness, where the smell is sweeter than
incense, and where all the noises of earth
are far away and deadened, lives the spirit
of the Schwarzwald, the elfin Commissioner
of the Woods and Forests Department, placed
there aforetime for those to find who could ;
and if a poor, sorrow-sick devil seeks her
alone, he will find her by the one star far
above her haunt, and she will take his tired
head in her bosom and console him, as
the whining infant that he is likes to be
consoled."

There entered the room a young girl
with roses to sell in a basket. She was
pretty in a fair, outdoor, sunburnt style.
Caspar looked at the roses, and at the girl.
Then he spoke to her for a little while, and
made her smile. She understood his German,
but she did not understand the expression
of the man who sat, leaning a dark wan
face on his hand, and looking inquiringly
up at her. She was a popular character,
accustomed to the badinage of the travelling
student, and was not very bashful ; but here
was something out of the common — a young
man who made no attempt to clasp her
waist, or to make foolish or coarse jests
about her beauty. For once she felt instinctively
both shy and pitiful without
being quite able to give a reason for
either.

What will you let me have a rose for ? "
asked Caspar.

The two blue eyes looked into this brown
ones, and lost their shyness, keeping only
their pity ; and the Schwarzwald patois
said :

I will give you two roses — beauties — if
you will kiss me once."

And the bargain was made good, and
the girl escaped out of doors to think it
over.

*' She is no Juden-hetzer,'' remarked
Caspar, with a quiet laugh. " She has not
been educated up to that pitch."

"This is all jolly interesting for me,
you know. Suppose you gave me one of
those ? "

Caspar threw him a rose, remarking:

You weren't on in that scene, my
friend."

I was not. I don't understand the evil
brogue you both talked in ; but I understood
the ' business I must learn German.

Somehow I don't believe old Otto and
Charles has gone out riding with Mr. M.'
to be exactly the quickest way. I think I
shall Send my time speculating in roses."

But (I speak as a fool) how about the
Lilies in that connection ? "

Let us change the subject."

And a long silence ensued. The Swiss
clock swung its pendulum on the wall, and
the Frau Within passed in and out at
intervals, fetching a plate or a beer-mug.
It was about nine o'clock in the evening
by now, and nearly dark, as the "Weiss
Rose " was plentifully overshadowed by
trees.

*'I am going out," suddenly remarked
Caspar.

What for ? "

"Exercise."

You have been walking all day."

Well, I want to see the moon rise."

They went out among the motionless
trees. A strange, pale haze was hanging
over the farther reaches of the forest,
luminous with the whole potency of the
already risen full moon.

This is almost better than I had hoped*
said Caspar. "Don't you think it is one
of the greatest and calmest pleasures in life
to stand still, in the middle of a night like
this, and drown your mind in the beauty
of it, as in a pure and harmless intoxicant ?
This is the midmost shrine I spoke to you
of, where lonely Nature shows her supreme
sympathy with lonely men. Here the world
is full of the still atmosphere of inexhaustible
pity, instead of the merciless, glaring progress
of daylight, the passionless scorn of the
stars, or that inexorable roaring sea Shakespeare
knew of. The bats seem too shy to
fly ; perhaps they are tired, like me. Oh,
heaven and earth 1 Charlie, let this be my

last night in Germany. Let us go away
tomorrow morning to England, and I won't
bore you any more with this drivel. We
will hear a music-hall song ; we will be
funny and flippant, and pretend to rail on
women ; we will take cold Irish and soda,
and flirt with barmaid ; I will review bad
novels, and you shall dress abscesses. You
were right. I want to be at home again.
I feel a great deal too amiable and compassionate
to mankind. I'm sure that's a
symptom of something seriously wrong with
my mental health. But it's a transitory
symptom, and ought to vanish in London."

** I think you had better come away.
You are talking utter rot by the yard, and
are quite different from what you generally
are. I shan't know what to do with you if
you become violent, you know."

Well, suppose you go in and impact our
night shirts."

'' Very well. Don't stray too far."

'' No fear."

Charlie reluctantly left his friend, and
walked slowly towards the inn. At the
door he turned round and looked behind
him. The form of Caspar was dimly discernible,
leaning against a tree, around which
he had wound one arm. On this arm his
head leaned back, and looked up into the
sky. Then Charlie went indoors. Some
short while after, Caspar strode in, grim,
wild haired, and haggard.

Well, what have you been doing ? "

Dreaming — the worst dream I ever
had : and I don't know when I shall wake."

Princes, and ye whom pleasure quickened,

Heed well this rhyme before your pleasure tire;

Eor life is sweet, but after life is death :
This is the end of every man's desire.

And Mrs. Brandon shut the book, and leaned
back in the low deep chair, with long eyes
narrowing into a laugh. They were very
fine eyes, with a feline softness about them,
almost a caress, as they looked at the listener
to the above verse. *' Shall I go on?" she
said.

Claudius Warrington, pale as usual, the
same neat semi-bald head, with black bilateral
patch of hair above the forehead, the same
iron-gray moustache, with long waxed spikes

VOL. II. F

pointing symmetrically outwards, the same
faded eyes, was sitting in his usual place in
that study that looked toward the lawn
where the sundial was. Claudius, speaking
lazily and indistinctly, with a long cigar
between his teeth, replied :

No. It is very nice, and very cheering
for an elderly man, but I think that will
do for the present. Whenever you get the
bit in your teeth as to what to read, you
select something superfluously funereal. I
don't know why."

'^ I thought it seasonable and appropriate."

'^ Thanks. I am afraid I can't recommend
you as an agreeable companion to the
average elderly gentleman. I don't mind,
myself; in fact, it's rather interesting to
watch the progress of one's own declining
vigour. Have you sent that letter to
George ? "

Yes."

Hem ! We will get that wedding over,
and the two young fools — and the two old
fools — out of the house as soon as possible.
That letter ouo;ht to brings them."

O CD

'/ Yes."

Why are you so motionless and sombre
and subtle this afternoon — so mysteriously
monosyllabic ? "

*' I didn't mean to be mysterious. I
said yes, because I didn't know of anything
more interesting to say."

Do you know you are rather provoking ?
Of course you know it, though. You always
do know your part well. Do you study
expressions and tones in private, Jessie ? "

I know my part, as you say. I know
you too, and that it is only by occasionally
irritating you that one can keep you content.
You have the palate of your — well, maturity,
and it demands sharp sauces."

*' You are still a very charming woman,

p 2

though one of Venetian super subtlety, too.
How old are you now ? "

"Twenty-seven."

By Jove — yes, so you are. It must be
twelve years since I discovered you. You
looked very nice then ; but it was rather
an unkempt, untutored niceness, you know,
before I selected proper books and play
and habits for you. You always had a taste
of your own for colour and costume, and
have, I may remark, indulged it freely. But
your accomplishments, and, perhaps, to some
extent, your opinions, are my work. How
is it you are not more inclined to desert me,
and find some wider and more — er — profitable
field for the display of your talents
and attractions ? "

*' Gratitude, perhaps."

You were always marked by the responsive
tenderness of your emotions, weren't
you ? In fact, you like me with all the

disinterested attachment of a young woman
for an old man, and watch over me as a
wild cat might watch her captor or her
captive, with certain claws and teeth ready
for either, should occasion demand."

*' I mean now to watch you like either
of the beings you talk about, until — well,
until you don't require any more watching,
if you want to know."

*' And supposing I had rather go without
that attention ? "

"And told me to go? Gave me, in the
delicate language of my childhood, the sack ?
Well, the result would be very simple. You
would be alone. Your affable temper, your
particularly attractive and philanthropic
principles, your fluent tongue, and your
numerous accomplishments, have at last
brought you to the condition that you,
Claudius, have, beyond me, not a friend
in the world. I was fool enough, as a young

girl, to do what many other foolish young
girls probably did, I loved you. And with
us that means something a little different
from the pretty emotions of fair Saxons.
When a woman of my race loves a man, she
would cut her body in pieces for him, lie
for him, steal or murder for him."

Give up everything, except her dresses
and her looking-glass, I daresay. You libel
your interesting sex and nation, I hope."

** And when she finds afterwards that
that man's love is a sham, that he bid for
ber as he would for a china saucer or an
old book, don't you suppose that it makes
some difference to her ? Can't you understand
bow she loses most of her scruples,
and her love of her fellow creatures, as well
as ber self-respect ? "

But I still don't quite see the point of
all this. You never talked like this before,
though you do occasionally emit a rather

sour remark. I thought, perhaps, you were
going to pose for that style, imagining it
to be attractive. If I'm such a very objectionable
person, why don't you go away ?
If I'm ill, or want admiration, applause,
love, amusement, cigars, or doctors, I can
always get the best varieties and brands
by paying for them."

For a long time, Claudius Farringdon,
I have noticed that you are drifting to
death."

What do you mean ? Are you the
family ghoul?"

"You are sliding down a slope steeper
than you think. It is interesting, as you
just now said, though you did not mean it,
to watch your collapse, to see that elegant
body and that brilliant brain changing
slowly into a mass of useless and rather
ugly matter, only fit to put into a leaden
box, with a coat-of-arms and a label on it.

And nobody will be sorry. Not a soul.
Your son's grief will be very temperate — a
good deal discounted by the compensating
fact of his inheritance ; and as you never
did anything noble in your life, you will be
forgotten even sooner than those dead who
really were noble."

'* Thy most exquisite reason for this
exhilarating prophecy ? "

"I have watched when you did not
notice it."

'eyes, I did. However, go on."

'' You walk very oddly."

"No, I don't. Nobody sees it. I don't
see it."

Not the only thing you don't see. You
asked me the other day why I had a green
dress on. I did not think it worth while
to argue about it, but I had no green dress
on."

Eh ? " Claudius was now a little startled.

^ Are you lying, or are you a devil come
to torture me ? "

'another thing, serious, too, for a good-looking
man like you. The pupils of your
eyes are different sizes."

Don't suppose that matters much to me
or anyone else. Anything else ? "

'you are losing your old art of tying a
neckcloth neatly. And you walk very badly
in the dark''

But all this is, after all, very trivial, and
hardly worth your tragic speech and pleasant
allusion to the family vault."

"It is not trivial. I have read all about
it."

The devil you have ! "

"And know it all by heart. It was an
accidental case of a man I saw in the street
in London one day put it into my head,
and I asked questions, and found references,
and "

'well?"

He was walking oddly. I will not describe
it. I read about celebrated cases.
They all began like you, and they all — all,
mind — died soon, in many unpleasant ways."

Ha ! Well, if it be now, it will not be
to come. I may be all the villain you describe,
but I am a gentleman, and death is
accepted by gentlemen quietly, as a necessary
evil. Have you any particular reason, beyond
the natural amiability of your disposition that
is to say, for wishing to convince yourself of
my approaching dissolution ? "

Jessica Eosenfeld — it is as well to give
her her name — got up from her lounging attitude,
and knelt at Claudius's side, and kissed
the palms of both his hands fiercely and
repeatedly, saying :

"We women, and I of all women, are
mad, I think. I thought I hated you, but I
could love you more than ever, and die when

you died — together, like those people they
drowned — if you would let me, darling. I
want some one to love me, and make a child
of me again. I never was a child, I think ;
and I never knew my mother ; and you have
tried to teach me to be bitter, and bright,
and hard like yourself, and nearly succeeded.
There may not be much more time ; let us
forget all the cruel things we have said, and
all the clever books, and plays, and everything
— let me have only real love for a little
while, and I can go laughing through any
hard life that change and time can bring. I
feel like a lost child, with no home, no past,
no country, no faith, no friends. I have
nothing but you ; and you will love me really,
dear, won't you ? Just say it once, and send
me away if I bother you." And she laid
her face on his velvet smoking-coat and
sobbed nervously.

*' Don't make yourself ridiculous and my

coat moist. If you lead heard that kind of
thing as often as I have you would know it
doesn't fetch the intellectual stalls, though the
gallery may wail. Get up and dry your eyes,
and be sensible. Love is nonsense. I never
loved anyone, and didn't usually believe it
when anyone professed to love me. Much
happier and quieter if you keep out of it."

The woman sprang upright, drawing quick
breaths, as if about to say something violent.
But she turned away slowly, and said in a low
voice, as if to herself : '' I don't care what
becomes of me now."

Claudius stood up slowly, and mechanically
lifted one hand to his moustache. He
found it necessary to sit again.

"My God! and that fool of a doctor
here said my pains were rheumatism — nothing
more. I don't understand this."

What is mysterious is always more terrible
than what is comprehensible. Claudius disliked

these obscurely symptomatic changes
these occasional slips of hand or foot and
twinges of pain — more than any severe
commonplace suffering. The primitive nations
of the earth either worshipped or execrated,
in both cases feared, all phenomena they could
not explain, and all noiimena by which they
explained them. The average modern is
often not unlike his ancestor in this respect.
The only difference is that he can explain
a little, not much more. He does not
perhaps burn witches, but he pays money
to mediums. He does not often journey to
consult the Delphic oracle, but he often is
found deeply versed in Zadkiel's Almanac.

Claudius Farringdon would not probably
have done any of these things ; but he was
distinctly alarmed now, and realised that
before the irresistible, invisible, slow push
from the hands of Death even gentlemen of
ancient lineage, warlike ancestry. Epicurean

education, and cultured taste must stagger
and give in, and that not too gracefully.

Tell me what else you know about this,"
he said. ''I shall send for some specialist
from town tomorrow."

*^ I don't know anything about any other
disease, but I have learnt this one by heart.
Stand still, with your feet together, and shut
your eyes."

Claudius obeyed, rather puzzled. In about
fifteen seconds he swayed backwards and fell
with Gradual acceleration into his chair in a
heap.

Then he believed, and trembled.

Don't leave me, Jessie, while I last," he
said, this time perceiving the occasional
indistinctness of his words.

She stood pale and still, looking down on
him.

Poor thing ! " she said. " You are a
coward, after all. Yes, I'll stay with you.

I'll put poison in your wine if you dare to
drink it. Dare you ? "

We will see a London physician tomorrow."


** I will write about it. I want to go
away to town myself for a few hours."

Don't be long, How long does this sort
of thing take, do you know ? "

I don't know. No one does. It varies.
You have been building up this sepulchre for
yourself all your life. And I mean to see it
shut on you. Good-bye for the present."
And she left the room.

Her next proceeding was to change her
dress, put on her outdoor attire, and walk
out at the front door. There, almost on the
threshold, she encountered Alphonse the valet
a shaven, black-muzzled, ape-like Parisian,
who had the general aspect of a well-to-do
comedian. He touched his hat, saying : " The
letter-bag, madame."

Oh, let me see ! Very well, Alphonse,
I will take it to monsieur."

The valet delivered up his bag, touched
his hat again, and disappeared, humming a
little tune about the admirers and adventures
of a person called Amanda, about whom it
is sufficient to state that though it is not
known how good she should have been, it is
certain that she was no better. He also made
a quaint grimace when he ascertained that
he was unobserved save by a female servant,
which childlike performance brought to his
simple mind relief and satisfaction.

Madame took the letter-bag again into
the study, where Claudius still sat motionless
and thoughtful.

Pick out the letters, please," he said ;
'* tell me if any look interesting."

After casting aside circulars, prospectuses
of benevolent societies, accounts rendered,
cards for afternoon parties, etc., she selected

a letter with a rather neat blue and white
stamp in the corner.

"Here is one from your son, from Dresden.
Shall I read it?"

He is prompter than usual in replying.
Yes, read it by all means."

' Dresden, Saturday. Hotel Kaiserhof.' "

"That is one of his nice business-like
habits to date a letter 'Saturday'"

I don't want him to have business-like
habits. They would only delude him into
thinking himself capable of competing financially
with your astute compatriots, my dear.
You don't like him, I know. However, read on."

*' * Dear Governor, — Got yours this afternoon.
Sorry to hear of your state. Will
follow this letter home. Have reasons of
my own for wishing to hurry wedding, which
I daresay you won't mind taking place from
the Manor House'"

VOL. II. G

*' And give Kimburls, etc., beds ! Like
his infernal impudence. Continue."

'^ ' You, of course, will congeries (delicate
word that, I take it) Mrs. Brandon, lord tern.
Won't require more than a few days to turn
us off. ' "

"Fine prose style. Anything more?"
** * Will you " of course congeries " me ? ' " ,
"With this wedding taking place in my
house, the prejudices of such society as would
be represented there demand it ; and as it
will not cause me any very great or prolonged
trouble, and may on the whole amuse me,
the wedding will take place here, and you
wall amuse yourself in town for a few days,
or anywhere else you please. Let us have
the rest of the letter."

' Talking of which, I don't know who
Mrs. B. is, or where she comes from ; buta
fellow crossed our path this trip who sometimes
reminded me of her appearance.' "

Mrs. Brandon pinched the paper rather
hard, and read on :

'^ ' He was travelling as tutor, or something
— I don't know — to young Deane, whose
people live at Sokebridge, you know. He
struck me as a howling cad, a member of
the Hebrew persuasion, with most obnoxious
opinions and a most impertinent manner of
expressing them. When I saw him talking
to Dick I felt inclined to kick him. He
was evidently much struck with Dick, and
pestered her with his attentions, which
naturally made her uncomfortable.' ''

Is he sure it was Dick that was made
to feel uncomfortable, I wonder ? " remarked
Claudius.

* The fellow was rather good-looking ina
way I don't admire, but awfully bad form.
I believe some vague suggestion was heard
that he should come to the wedding ; but
that is one of the engagements I fancy

G 2

one had better forget. It would only upset
Dick and do nobody any good. Deane might
come ; lie is a neighbour and a gentleman.
The other fellow's name is Caspar Eosenfeld.
We shall arrive, bar accident, about twelve
hours after this — Kimburls, Miss Menteith,
Dick, and self. — Your affectionate son,

' George Malcolm Farringdon.' ''

"So I have to take them all whether I
like it or not. I say, Jessie, my affectionate
son doesn't know quite what an interesting
letter that is to you, eh ? "

No ; nor do you. But he will. Look
here ; of course it is understood that I go
away during this wedding. If you don't
mind I'll go this evening, as I don't want
to see any of these people."

^' Go when you like. I am sorry, but
go."

The sea hath its pearls,
The heaven hath its stars.

At six o'clock on a still August afternoon,
shortly after that other evening spent in
the moonlit Black Forest, Caspar stood in
the bows of the large steamer Lady Tyler,
watching the gradual advance of that vessel
between the multitudinous wide mud-banks
which flank the seaward road from quaint,
parti-coloured, old Rotterdam, while the long
sun-path over the ripples became slowly less
dazzling and deeper coloured straight ahead
of the ship.

Charlie was below, satisfying a hearty

appetite which had not been legitimately
appeased through some twenty-eight slow
hours of dusty, hot, second-class German and
Dutch railway-travelling.

Caspar paid no attention to the confused
crowd of passengers, luggage, horses, oozing
fruit hampers, and barrels of uttering, which
the Dutch dock labourers had piled miscellaneously
about the deck, or to the anxious
speculations of bystanders as to the probabilities
of a pacific passage. One nervous
old gentleman ventured to ask his opinion
on that subject, saying, '' Do you think there
is any danger in these vessels, sir ? " Caspar
gently replied, " I don't think there is any
hope of this one sinking," and was spared
further inquiries.

And then he leaned alone on the bulwark,
with one arm around an iron stanchion,
listening to the rush of water driven in lateral
wrinkles by the passage of the vessel. And

the hollow murmurous swirl of the sea sang
to him in a thousand different variations of
tune — one song, one long chorus of pity
and dreamy desolation. The water was
white, glittering, still, and hazy away right
and left and ahead among the low, green,
misty mud-islands, until it reached a line of
gray-purple waves and white foam-streaks
which marked the threshold of the open sea.
Small dark-sailed craft were passed by the
steamer, with the full light of the descending
sun throwing their warm madder or carmine
canvas into strong relief against the wan
waste of water. Or perhaps they appeared
ahead as dark sharply-defined obstructions
to the sunlight.

And then the foamy frontier of the
Channel became faintly tinged with pink,
while the sky became hazy, coppery-red,
merging into deep yellow, and then undefined
warm transparent gray under the cloudless

blue. The ship steamed sedately on, giving
a slight roll as the ground swell made itself
manifest, while the western haze became
warmer in colour, the sun sank lower, and
the waters sang louder. And Caspar Eosen-
feld, with his coat wrapped round him,
catching occasional dashes of cold salt spray
across his eyes and lips from the little waves
that broke and splashed, shaped the sea-chime
gradually almost against his will into
some sort of words. And these were of
them :

For in your eyes I think I once have seen

A light like love, that meant the world to me,

God help me ! dreaming of what might have been :
God help you ! for it was too good to be.

Why in the world did I ever go to
Schlangenberg, I wonder ? And now that
I have found it to be the best resting-place
of all my restless life, I wonder if I ever
can go back to it again ? I wonder what

things such a fellow as I am is likely to
enjoy for the remainder of his period of crawling
between earth and heaven ? And when
my face has become Hie map of days out-worn
and my hand has been played, my stake
lost, my last glass emptied, my last quarter's
rent due to the Fates paid, what shall it profit
me to remember that I have surrendered
and lost the best thinoj earth ever offered
me ? What hinders me from now resting
under, instead of steaming over, this glancing
green and purple sea ? I suppose because
I like still to dream of the most
beautiful valley in the world, containing the
town where I lost you for ever — you fair
pure little girl, whose face follows me, and
looks at me out of foam-framed mirrors,
coloured like a lily lit with the Bend-roth.
That is behind me now, and there is only
left what is before me — the vague shimmering
sea, without visible limits, with a fierce

red sun sinking away from sight, and marking
our roadway in fire, till we reach, some
later darkness where there are no stars."

It is very cold," observes Charlie, at
that instant appearing, pipe-smoking, ulster-clad.


It is a nipping and an eager air."

'why the devil then don't you come
below ? There's some tea and beer going."

I don't want any tea, or even beer. I
want to look at this sea and sky, and seethe
last of the ' Low Countries,' as our dear
writers of an earlier day call them."

'you want to observe the revolutions of
the paddles ? "

"Yes."

What do we do when we get to the
other side ? "

Go to Liverpool Street, where we arrive
at some comfortless hour of the morning.
Then we drive to Barnard's Inn, wash, and

breakfast, after which you may do what you
like'

I must go home, I think."

'^By all means. Give my compliments
to your people."

"That wedding of Warrington is expected
to come off there soon. They are on
their way back, if they haven't arrived, Tm
informed."

"Give them my hearty congratulations."

"All right."

And the steamer sped on in chase of
the vanishing sun.

When there was no longer any daylight,
only a coppery-gray ghostly similitude of a
sunset sky reflected in the east, behold, there
appeared dimly through this cloud-curtain
the golden round moon, which had transformed
the Black Forest into a scene from
an elfin tale, by the aid of a few trifling
ounces of aqueous vapour, a day or two

before. It now changed the colour of the
sea from purple shades and pink lights to
pale shimmering gray. The water-surface
began to lose its level appearance, and to resemble
in places great sloping slabs of glistening
oily matter, among which phosphorescent
flashes glanced from time to time,
like lightning between colliding clouds. And
the moon's exaggerated circle became smaller,
paler, and brighter, and the whole sea
flickered. The deck and boats of the steamer
gleamed white, while Caspar figure and the
neighbouring ropes and fittings looked like
brown etchings. And their shadows swayed
to and fro across the rocking moonlit deck.

Did it ever occur to you," observed he
suddenly, "to think how you would like to
die?"

"The way that hurt least."

In bed, composing your last words, or
your last words but one ; in fact, taking

your farewell benefit among an admiring
and weeping audience of relatives and
friends and remote descendants, with a
special reporter in a corner taking memoranda
for the last pages of your biography ?
Or on the tented field, waving a fragmentary
blade, and casually observing victory!'
to any bystander who might be at leisure
to listen — aforesaid verbatim reporter, for
example; you always find him lurking near
heroes' death-scenes ? Or swirling round
and round in the wash of the Maelstrom ?
Or going up in a fragmentary condition,
with cinders and lava and whatever is left
of the late Enceladus, towards the heavens,
and descending like a rocket-stick ? ''

Charlie suggested prussic acid as the
most rapid and painless method.

But that involves the notion of suicide,
as well as the consequent notion of a
stuffy tavern, and nervous jurymen 'viewing

' yo hurriedly vide Dickens), and returning
a complicated verdict in dubious
grammar, in which the visitation of Heaven,
temporary insanity, censure of a chemist,
and beetle-poison would be artlessly mixed
together, followed by a paragraph in the
afternoon papers. All of which painfully
vulgar, and very poor from an artistic point
of view''

"Would you mind explaining the tendency
of all this discourse ? "

'' I don't know that it has any particular
tendency. I was throwing out observations
at large, on an interesting topic. I think
the moonlight is going to my head a little.
I should like to take the stars and treat them
as a fount of fiery gold type, and set them
up into sentences, in capital letters, with
planets for stops and comets for commas, so
that I could transmit messages from myself
to the limitless universe. I would print

such a song as the spheres would chime to,
and the meteors dance, on the brows of the
darkness of space, like fireflies in the black
wild-woven hair of a bacchanal. And I
would sign my name with a flourish at the
bottom, with that celebrated fir-tree dipped
into Etna."

"And what would the song be?"
*^ It ought to be in that language that is
so rich and beautiful that all philologists are
deaf and blind to it. It would tell how the
sea is made up of all the tears of all time
from sorrow-laden men and women, who
lost all that made their lives beautiful and
happy ; and from all the poor children who
are lost and beaten and starved and misunderstood
; of those old men whom their
children think bores when they become infirm
and childish, and laugh at and neglect,
and will not listen to their old stories,
though the same old hands that now spill

the soup from the spoon have once made them
toys ; and all the girls who have loved men
who grew tired of them, who lied to them
or bullied and struck them ; all the desolate
destitute who sell their bodies at last ; all
the great sleepless, enslaved, and oppressed
of the whole world, from the east to the
west ; all who have lost their hearts' delight
come and tell their grief under the still
summer starlight to the sea, and one or two
of them find the sea sing them such a soothing
song that, listening to it, they follow and
fall asleep for ever.

And all the great men of old time, who
hold out to us the hand of pity, and send
us the voice of tears in laughter across the
centuries, have sent the echo of their dead
immortal voices out to the listening world,
in the eternally-varying monotony of the
music of the sea. Here in the German
Ocean, not far from Holland, you hear in

the Rauscli of the waves sometimes the infinite
sympathy and serene majesty of Shakespeare
saying :

Take all my loves, my love ; yea, take them all :
What hast thou then more than thou hadst before ?

And from below come faintly up the peals
of bells of buried cities, where people once
lived and loved and sorrowed, who are at
peace for ever. And at last comes the
answer to all my riddles of time and life,
in the mocking retort of the sea-nymphs,
who say :

It is night in your brain,
And the lightnings of madness flash through it ;
And for very sorrow you are a very driveller."

Poor old chap I " observed Charlie,
staggering as the swell increased. " Hadn't
you better go below and sleep ? "

It is a relief to me to have got all
that interesting gush of bile off my system,

VOL. II. H

to use a graceful metaphor. I didn't know
you were attending or listening. Why
didn't you put in derisive cheers? Somebody
ought to stop me when I come outwith
the utterances of irresponsible frivolity."

"I thought you oughtn't be safe to
interfere with. I thought perhaps you didn't
feel welles

*nor do I; but it is the sea-sickness of
that weary bark one has heard of that I
suffer from, not the ordinary basin variety."

'' What do you mean ? "

There's a reference in it ; you can look
it up and find it in a dictionary of quotations
if you can. You had better go to
bed, or turn in, or whatever these nautical
people call it."

What do you mean to do all night ? "

Stay here. Nights like these are too
good to lose."

And when the cold yellow blaze of dawn

displayed the English coast, Caspar was
walking the deck, when Charlie ascended,
shivering in his ulster, to look around him.

"Well, what of the night?"

*son reflection, I believe my talk to
have been the veriest rot ; wasn't it ? I
hope you didn't pay any attention to it ? "

"Not the least."

"Then let us breakfast before we have
to go ashore. The night and the sea have
separated us from Germany now ; we are
in British waters, and the dreaming time is
over. We will read sporting papers and goto
the Gaiety bar ; we will drink the porter-beer,
sell wives in Smithfield, and box.
Steward ! what will you give me per pound
avoirdupois of lesser German coinage ? "

I say," observed Charlie after a pause,
while the shivering, insufficiently-washed,
tired, and sleepy passengers were assembling
on deck as the steamer got alongside its

H 2

pier — " I say, what a holy show that fellow is t
You should have seen his preparations for
sleep and sickness down below. He tied an
awful handkerchief, meant to be white, round
that cap, and when the ship lurched he read
a small book backwards. I couldn't help
noticing him. I found the book when he
had gone up for a minute or two to be
sick, or look at the view, or something ; it
was Hebrew, as well as dirty, and had ' Julius
Bloemendaal, 29, Castle Street,' inside."

Caspar looked at the man.

A Dutch Jew ; not prettier than the
average. They don't show to advantage at
sea. They will sometimes persist in wearing
those cloth caps and long coats. Are you
certain that was the address ? "

Quite. Why ? "

*' Oh, I don't know who the house belongs
to now, of course. I was mistaken. It
doesn't signify."

But Caspar eyed this person keenly as
they ascended the greasy gangway, bag in
hand, ticket in mouth. The traveller did
not notice Caspar at all, and went into the
Custom House to wait for some parcels.
Caspar and Charlie got into the train, and
they saw the stranger, who was a caricature
of the ordinary dingy and sea-sick Dutchman,
no more.

In the foggy orange-red light of a London
morning, at that cheerful resort called the
Great Eastern Terminus, E.C., with the lurid
colouring of the atmosphere on their faces
and hands, Charlie and Caspar entered a cab
and started for Barnard's Inn.

"Awfully glad I am to get back to the
dear, squalid, jolly old town again !" exclaims
the former.

"So am I."

"Still we had about as good a time as
they make it, I think."

"Very likely. Now don't begin that
sort of thing immediately you get your feet
in a hansom, or I shall turn rusty. I don't
want to talk about Germany just at present.
Let's get a daily paper, and discuss police
cases and inquests and new burlesques."

And this because there rang yet in his
brain, faintly borne over the past moonlit
sea, the far-off echo from the forest-clad
Schlangenthal :

God help you ! dreaming of what might have been ;
God help you ! for it was too good to be,

which he knew the heart of his life would
hear for ever.

What did I feel that night 1 You are curious.
How should I tell 1

In the great art-gallery of Dresden, George
Farringdon and Dick Menteith were wandering,
a little ahead of Kimburls and Miss
Menteith ; and they were all supposed to be
looking at the pictures. The laird, indeed,
was rashly critical, and used the expression
*breadth" a good deal, until his daughter
asked him what he meant, on which he
sought for new expressions, and wallowed intellectually
in polysyllabic definitions, until
she was sorry she spoke. He was particularly
attracted by cattle pictures. It is
difficult to say why. He was not at all an

authority on agricultural matters ; but it
probably came within his theory of feudal
chieftainship to imagine himself endowed, if
not with vast herds, at any rate with a vast
power of criticising other people's. George,
who had been there before, and ascertained
which works it was right to admire, guided
them straightway to The Madonna. Miss
Menteith senior disapproved of pictures of
this description, because they savoured of a
lady late of Babylon, "fond of flirtation
and dressing in red," as the dear late poet
of " Ingoldsby " hath it. Kimburls saw that
this was not quite the same as the dozen
and odd other Madonnas he had seen already,
here and elsewhere, and to his credit be it
said that he ventured no remarks upon it.
George was inclined to be rapturous in a
low voice, with the language of the subject
picked up at Oxford. Poor Dick, who could
not understand why she felt nervous and

ill at ease, looked up at that face with some
vague and inarticulate

neige

Du Schmerzenreiclie !

written in her dumb eyes. She had not
read " Faust ; " she did not know enough
German. She was only a little Scotch girl
of eighteen, who did not cast about for
heroic or pathetic quotations in which to
express feelings too foreign for her own
vocabulary.

She felt that she ought to be very happy.
She was walking about in a pleasant place,
with the man she was going to marry, whom
she liked, and had liked for years, and she
was going to please her parents, and gain
a certain position (and probably a " stake "),
by so doing. And yet she almost caught
the faint echo of the laugh of that " phantasmal
gray joke" Caspar spoke of

The roof and the air seemed heavy, the
beautiful far-off country along the Elbe seemed
strangely sad, and she felt, above all, anxious
to get back to England. And just once —
it may have been from a faint fantastic
resemblance in some Velasquez portrait,
and it may have been the irresistible self-assertion
of nature breaking through the
dutiful and peaceful monotony of habit —
the personal image of Caspar Rosenfeld came
into her mind ; and if she had been left
alone to think herself out under the eyes
of the apotheosis Mother, the chances are
strongly in favour of the occurrence of a
revolution in her ideas on certain matters.
But she was interrupted by George, who,
keenly watching her face, said : "I think
you have had enough of this place, Dick,
and the laird looks as bored as he can be ;
and between ourselves I am getting rather
in the like state. Let us go."

"Very well."

I say, I know now what you are
languishing after — some of those ices at the
Cafe Francis. We will go round there.
Kimburls and your aunt are not above such
comforts, I know. And when a girl has
your pathetic expression, Dick, one may
generally safely put it down to hunger."
George was an observer of human character,
female and otherwise, you see, and it pleased
him to give expression to his experiences in
keen phrases.

*' I think I am rather tired, George," Dick
replied. '' Yes, I daresay you may be right.
I have an unsatisfied desire for ices."

'' Oh, Fm away, Jeanie ! " remarked
Kimburls. '' My head is full of four centuries
of fine arts wambling together."

And they followed George to a cafe.

Dick Menteith had been discovering
slowly, in the course of some weeks past,

that her relations' minds and ideas did not
expand in the direct ratio of the demand
made on them by novel, artistic, or naturally
beautiful surroundings. In fact, they thought
and talked much as they usually did when
at their residence in the immediate neighbourhood
of Glasgow, hankered after their periodical
home newspaper, and displayed undeniable
and impenetrable opacity to the influences
of environment, which keenly and deeply
penetrated Dick. Even with George she
was not at all times perfectly satisfied. She
was the victim of mental distress, consisting
of a vague anxiety founded on physical weakness,
excitement, and fatigue, and other and
obscurer causes.

She did not sleep very well, and had
strange and not always pleasant dreams.

Miss Menteith noticed that her niece
seemed pale and out of sorts, and mentioned
the fact to Kimburls, who recommended a

"rhubarb peel." George slept profoundly,
and digested moderately well. He had scraped
acquaintance with one or two roving young
Englishmen who imagined themselves to be
reading' and, through ignorance of the
language and habits of the place, made
billiards and the consumption of mixed
drinks their chief amusement.

And Dick had no one but him to whom
to reveal her ideas confidentially. And he
did his best to understand, and to criticise
from the omniscient Farrins^donian and
Oxonian standpoint, whether he understood
or not. Dick never got as far as to speculate
whether it was her bounden duty or
not to marry this young man. She had a
strangely feverish desire to accelerate their
marriage, and was more anxious thereanent
than she dared say.

She was afraid of something, she knew
not what. At last the slow-moving Kimburls

made her see a doctor ; an old Englishman,
with a gray beard and gold spectacles, who,
after tapping her chest and back, and asking
questions, said to her father :

'' There's nothings the matter with her
except a little nervousness and fatigue ; would
be hysteria in a weaker girl. Been brought
up in the country on porridge and milk, I
hope ? "

Largely."

"I'll give her a little tonic. She has
nothing to be anxious about, I take it ? "

Not she ! She weill be marry in' when
we're away again to England, and has herman
with her."

'^ Happy days, happy days ! Ha, couldn't
do better. Thank you. Yes. Good-morning."

And all science revealed to Dick was that
she was in a fair way to salvation, if she
married George Farringdon.

And the dicta of science coincided with

those of lier relations, and of what she supposed
to be her conscience.

And one last afternoon, as she and her
lover were watkins in the evening: alongside
the Elbe, looking onwards to the great red
fringe of western clouds over the bridge joining
the Altstadt . and Neustadt, Dick found
herself in a kind of day-dream, relating to
a conversation on the terrace of the old
Schlangenberg Schloss at a similar time of
day, earlier in the summer ; on which occasion
it had been prophesied that she would like
Dresden less than the Schlangenthal. And
she was a little tremulous when she said
to George : ''Do you think that is as beautiful
as Schlangenberg was ? "

'' That what is as beautiful ? Oh, the
scene ! Well, on the whole, yes. I would
as soon be in the one place as the other,
with you, little girl, to make remarks on
and to add to the beauty of scenes ; but I

think this is a more civilised place than
Schlangenberg. You meet better people, and
can get better things. That Kron-Prinz table
d'hote was disgraceful. A college-hall couldn't
have done it worse."

This was the evening on which Caspar
and Charlie were supping on black bread,
cheese and eggs, and beer, in the guest-room
of the inn of '^ The White Rose," in the pine-forest


Made sad by dew, and wind, and tree-barred moon.

"I think we will all be glad to return
to England — don't you ? "

"I do. And that reminds me that I have
had a letter from the governor to-day I
wanted to mention to you. He doesn't
often write, and when he does he generally
has a pretty definite reason. He says — well,
I'll give you some extracts : ' If you want
me to be present in an efficient state at your

wedding, I strongly recommend you to accelerate
it, as I have found my health deteriorating
lately. I have curious sudden sharp
pains about my body, and the doctor, who
tries to look as if he knew all about it,
suggests an approaching attack of gout or
rheumatism. I asked him if that would
account for my occasional partial deafness,
and he said I must take care of myself.
I told him I had spent all my life
in taking care of no one else. I think
people of my habits and tastes ought to
have an omniscient doctor as a kind of
permanent body servant, to tell them exactly
what to eat and drink, and how long to
sleep, etc., so as to get the utmost value
out of life, and balance dissipation and
recuperation with scientific accuracy. The
fact is, Fm getting old, I believe, and may
expect legitimate promotion to the upper or
lower house before many years. It is, per-vol.

II. I

laps, just as well, as I have done and read
nearly all the amusing things that a man
of intelligence and taste can. Besides, my
exit will be convenient for you at the
approaching crisis of your existence."

'' Now, what puzzles me about this,"
continued George, '' is that it is not in his
handwriting, and, lazy as he is, I never knew
him dictate a letter before. That is very
curious. But I do suggest that we go home as
soon as we can, and get this wedding business
settled and done with. What do you say ? "

'' George, will it make you really happy if
I marry you, do you think ? "

^'What do you mean ? Why do you talk
like that ? "

I mean, would it be a very terrible thing
if you were to lose me ? "

Lose you ! If you married anyone else
I think I should shoot him, if you want to
know."

Dick sighed.

*^ Very well, dear."

** Don't let us ever argue about that anymore,
if you don't mind."

'' I never will again. And, George, let
us go home now ; I want to rest and think."

As Dick walked back with him along the
riverside late in the saffron twilight, she
made up her mind that she must marry
George Farringdon as soon as possible. It
was now her evident duty as it had been
her hoped-for privilege. And now, for the
first time, did she experience that slight
waning of attraction which occurs in a
hoped-for privilege which has become an
evident duty — that faint trace of repulsiveness
inherent in such actions as seem
obvious moral necessities, where liberty of
action becomes subordinate to what is called
the dictate of conscience. She lay thinking
on her bed that evening, watching the gentle

I 2

onset of darkness, and listening to the music
and murmur of the town. Music always
mixes with the evening of a people set free
from their work in a German town.

And she dreamed awake of the days gone
by in detached scraps of scenes : of ballads
first heard on the nurse's knees by the firelight,
which wakened her first interest in
those strange passionate tragedies in unfor-
table verse which illustrate the lurid book
of Scotch history ; of ses qui pedal soporific
sermons from Mr. Toumharns the Free and
far from " stickit " minister, which she, a
weary little person in a short frock, had been
constrained to "sit under"; of paddling in
streams with cut feet ; of personated scenes
from the mystic and magical panorama displayed
by the author of '' Waverley ; " of red-owned
students hurrying through dark foggy
streets ; of fiery song-tunes provoked in the
autumn gloaming from the old piano about

the Young Chevalier, General Sir John Cope,
or the man for whose sake the bells rang backward
and the drums beat as he rode to the
West Port ; of a comely young Englishman,
whose presence made a refreshing variation in
the circle of legal toddy-consumers and dry
anecdote-retailers, whom Kimburls delighted
to honour and was wont to entertain ; of New
Year nights spent merrily, when the laird
forgot his dignity in the unbridled and
athletic license of the Houlachan ; and lastly,
of clear summer evenings of a new and unsurpassed
beauty, in which she had talked a few
short sentences with the strange pale man
with the pleasant voice, whom she never
would see, in all probability, again. And the
stars came out, the people wandered and murmured
below, and the distant music floated
in through the open window. Such retrospective
visions, they say, come to drowning
men.

JESSICA STUDIES THE ROLE OF ATE.

When Jessica Rosenfeld left Sokebridge
Manor, it was to the railway station that
she walked with a rapid but graceful gait,
and face reminding one of those beautiful
sudden summer storms, when the sky has
become gray and purple, the buildings livid,
and the wind has begun to lift the dust
and shake the leaves. She did not display
any great unevenness of manner or uneasiness
of mind ; but a passer-by would certainly
have looked at her, and almost as certainly
have remarked first, " Pretty woman, that ! "

second, "Looks sulky, rather; wonder what
she's after ? " What she was after at present
was a train to London Bridge, which she
caught. And she lay back languid but stern,
with those splendid Semitic eyes darkling
under a pair of menacing level brows, waking
conjecture in the minds of her fellow first-class
passengers. Hers was a curious face.
The nose was straight in repose, but became
slightly aquiline by a peculiar, and to many
people pleasing, muscular action when she
smiled. She did not smile very often, but
when she did, the likeness to her brother
became almost suddenly manifest.

Her meditations, as she sat in that carriage
opposite a colonial bishop and his lady,
were strange — principally on her spoilt life,
her fervent and foolish youth, her weary
and hopeless womanhood, and her last passionate
breakdown, in which the hot floods
of insuperable natural passion had at last

rent their thin coating of superinduced conventional
ice, to be again petrified by the
cold bitterness of ungrateful laughter. This
time, indeed, the love once possible was
drowned, frozen, dead for ever ; " and a
certain grim and growing determination succeeded
to it that the laughter should not
always lie on one side. And that unhappy
letter of George Farringdon's had suggested
to her the vision of a catastrophe to that
young man and his family, as yet dim and
misshapen, in which she would one day
appear as the triumphant avenger of that
long-seeming life of hers, where all that
was pure and happy and womanly in the
good sense had been lost and spoilt, and
mocked to death, in which she would see
herself laughing amid the desolation and
ruin of the last of the Farringdon family.
And the colonial bishop opposite saw her
soundless laugh, and did not know whether

to feel admiration for her beauty or alarm
for her sanity most.

At London Bridge she alighted, called a
cab, and drove along King William Street
and Fenchurch Street to Lydgate. At the
corner of Leadenhall Street she dismissed
the cab, and walked on eastward to Duke
Street, up which she turned, ultimately
arriving at a house on one side of Castle
Street, Bevis Marks. A private house apparently,
as no name or advertisement of any
kind appeared externally visible. A dingy,
smudged brick, early eighteenth-century
house, with a doorway and front all leaning
a little backwards. It had been, no doubt,
built upright originally, and had settled down
into its most comfortable position and stuck
to it. Though not inviting, or precisely
what might be called clean-looking, it suggested
nothing disreputable. The windows
on the ground-floor revealed nothing, for

their blinds were down, and no light was
apparent behind them. A street-lamp shed
its light on the small, thick, shining brass
figures of the number twenty-nine on the
door, and the much newer black knocker
below. It was now evening, in fact, rather
late in the evening, and most of the shops
in the neighbourhood were shut, except in
not far distant Whitechapel, and the streets
were pretty lively when Jessica knocked at
the door. Nobody's attention seemed to be
attracted by this performance, except that
of the passers, mostly juvenile, who stared
and made not very sotto voce remarks about
her dress and appearance. Those level brows
lowered again, and a further and more energetic
application of the iron knocker to its
anvil brought out a man — a dingy man, who
looked like a true portion of the furniture
of such a house. An acute inquiring face,
with a short grizzly red beard, a long grizzly

red hano^ino^ lock brushed forward over the
upper flap, let us call it, of each ear, a rather
beak-like nose, small rather angry-coloured
eyes, surmounted by a soft black cloth cap
with a peak, from under which reddish curls
oozed behind ; round his neck a discoloured
red object, misnamed comforter, tightly
knotted, formed a very characteristic colour-discord
with his hair. His body was clothed
in a long dark coat belted at the waist — of
a taller man, once — and his legs, so far as
they were visible, in wrinkled high boots,
very aged, very ill-fitting, and tending
upwards at the toes. Evidently a Jew ;
apparently a Dutch one.

"Vat you want?" He stood with the
door-handle in his hand.

Is Mr. Nathan Eosenfeld in ? "

You want to see seem ? "

I do''

Will you gif your name ? "

'jessica Kosenfeld."

"All, com in! You can see seem. Ee
is eengeslapen."

Gone to bed ? "

No. Groot stool — armchair. Com in
late from te West. 'Ere is te room. 'Ere
is Nathan Kosenfeld."

"Thanks. And who are you?"

I am Julius Bloemendaal of Rotterdam,
one of te people, and servant or clerk, as
you like, to Nathan Kosenfeld. Ee trust me
vit "

"With what?"

"It noting. Nathan Kosenfeld is a
beautiful man, a groot man, a good man."

"Thank you. Good-night."

Julius Bloemendaal of Rotterdam withdrew.


Jessica stood in a small back room, simply
furnished with an old leathern chair, a table,
a pewter inkstand, and a safe. An old man

was in the armchair asleep, with his mouth
open. A copy of the Old Testament Scriptures,
in their original tongue, was on the table,
a steel pen and some blue ink were in the
inkstand, and what was in the safe the owner
of it best knew. The said owner looked at
times venerable and rabbinical ; but this was
not one of the times, as his head hung on one
side, with a gray beard pressed up crookedly
against his shoulder, a black skull-cap having
fallen on to the floor, where it lay in and
unpleasant side uppermost ; and all his limbs
had the peculiar Guy-Fawkes helplessness of
appearance peculiar to aged limbs when their
owner sleeps in a chair. A paraffin lamp
burned low on the mantelshelf, and its
presence was distinctly appreciable in the
room, apart from any little light it gave.

The old man was dressed respectably, but
shabbily, in black. Perhaps the blackest part
of the costume was the linen, as the cloth was

nearly white in the places most subject to
friction. The head was as venerable as baldness
could make it, and the face curiously
apostolic — meanly apostolic. I do not know
if Judas can be legitimately called an apostle.
But he was like Nathan Kosenfeld, I know.
Old Eosenf eld's occupations were various.
He was Marsden k Co., of Craven's Court,
W., in his elegantly got-up circulars, informing
the youth of our Universities and Military
Academies of his willingness and ability to
advance ready money to any amount at
moderate interest. To impecunious young men
and maidens seeking situations as secretaries,
governesses, actresses, etc., he was an Educational
and Dramatic Agency, on a brass plate
curving round a door-post in a street off the
Strand. Here, young men with very elegant
manners and ready-made clothes kept large
metal-clasped books. And in the books were
the names written of such as had had (and

usually lost) faith in the agency, and worshipped
the golden mirage of hope which it
set up. And the guinea fees of them were
gathered together, and the books were opened
quarterly, and the commissions thereof divided
among the subordinates, in lieu of wages — a
plan which made them singularly apt at their
work of encouragement, urbanity, and inventive
procrastination.

To ambitious but obscure authors he was
the Society for the Introduction of Amateurs
to the Public, and " ran " a magazine in connection
with it, where the Great Obscure paid
handsomely for the insertion of their valuable
contributions and a copy of the magazine containing
them, which they showed joyously
and unsuspectingly to their surprised friends
as evidence that they were making a name in
literature in the distant metropolis.

He visited these various offices in rotation,
and was fully acquainted with the working

of them all, though he scarcely ever was
visible to a visitor. If he was seen he assumed
the air and dignity of a crossing-sweeper or
accidental chairman, and disappeared. No one
suspected him of being the ''guv'nor," as he
was styled by his reverent subordinates. The
wholesale and export clothing department had
been given up long ago for more fashionable
and lucrative speculations, such as the above ;
but he continued to reside in the house in
which he had originated the former business
in London. It was his own, and it was quite
good enough for him. Not having any particular
tastes, he did not squander his money
in gratifying them. The pet amusement of
his leisure hours was the compilation and
correction of accounts kept, for reasons known
to himself, in Hebrew. He was not an exceptional
monster, he was not a Barnabas of
Malta ; but he was a rather ingenious man,
who knew the wants of his erring fellow-creatures,

and would consent to gratify them
for a due recompense. And it appeared in
his experience that, as a rule, the primary-form
of want, of gratification, and of recompense
consisted of money. As long as they
paid for it, it was immaterial to him how they
used it, or even whether they ever indeed
got it or not. And this elder was the father
of Caspar and Jessica Kosenfeld. The latter
woke him up by a well-placed prod with the
point of her umbrella. He started and stared
with the imbecile gravity of a recently-awakened
man. He recognised his daughter
with some surprise.

Oh, you have come, have you ? Take
the chair, sit down, and tell me your news."
And he replaced the skull cap on his head,
reassuming with it the venerable appearance,
turned up the lamp, and continued :

** I thought I was never going to see you
again."

VOL. II. K

I did not come for the pleasure of your
society."

Ho, ho ! She didn't come for the pleasure
of my society ! And what did she come for ?
To visit the poor, to see how they live, in
their daily plodding industry, their humble
East-end homes ? And is she going to leave
me a tract ? Or does she want her poor old
father's hard-earned money to buy her
dresses, eh ? "

"Don't be a fool, Nathan Eosenfeld, and.
listen to me. My lord and master is going
to die."

Of course he is. So am I some day."

"But he is going to die soon. And his
son will reign in his stead."

Don't she look beautiful," muttered the
old man, " with those clothes and that face,
in this poor old room ! And to think that all
that is my work — my work ! And she is
ungrateful, aud says, Don't be a fool !"

*^ And I say it again. It is of no use to
talk like that to me. We know each other
pretty well by this time. I want to talk
business."

"Yes?" And Nathan became grave
hind eager. *does the great Herr want
ononey ? " .

'' Claudius Farringdon ? No. He never
spent a penny over his income, and wasted
nothing in charity. But his son is, as far as
I know him, a fool, and will marry another, I
believe, soon, and they will want it. Not yet.
Later. Now listen. The son has not, and I
think will not, have any idea as to who or
what I am beyond what he sees. And if I
induce him to spend money — he doesn't like
me, you know, because I always snub him ;
but he shall, if I like — and if I recommend
him to Marsden & Co?"

'mustn't recommend him to them. Nasty
blood-sucking money-lenders. Bad lot ! "

K 2

'eyes, I know they are. And you can
speak with authority. I daresay you will
expose them some day."

Ho, ho ! Yes. That is a good one.
Expose them ! Yes. Go on."

Question is, will Marsden & Co. deal
with him in their usual way ? "

"I should not think they would consent
to make any alterations in their usual terms,
without good cause is shown. What do you
want them to do ? "

'behave as usual."

"Aha! What for, now ? "

That is my business. My aims, and
those of — well, Marsden & Co., if you like
to keep up that little fiction, happen so far
to coincide. You make your profit, and I,"
she added in a low voice, " make mine."

How can you do this ? "

That is also my business."

And supposing I refuse ? "

*' Then I should say you were a greater
fool than I ever took you for. I might even
threaten to expose Marsden and all the
agencies — put you, your address in Castle
Street, and your personal appearance and
interesting biography, in a society paper, for
example."

Don t send the article to one of the
papers I own, then." (shad her there!" he
reflected, with a pleased smile.)

*^ Which are they''

"That is my business. All of them,
perhaps."

"Well?"

Is there no fraud ? no law-breaking ? "

You always have such a respect for the
law. No. Safe as any other of your transactions,
any two of which would, I should think,
put you in gaol for life, if you got your rights."

Is this filial ? is this affection ? is this
gratitude ? I ask ? "

Don't talk to me about gratitude. You
know how much of that is due from me
better than most people."

'swell, but it is this, you know. I do-not
like making promises in the dark.
I generally keep my promises ; but I want
to know the conditions first."

How you do worry about nothing ! I
make you a very simple proposition, and,
from your point of view, a very attractive
one, and you argue and make scruples and
pretences and difficulties as much as if I
had come to borrow money of you. I might
never have told you anything about my plan,
if I had liked to work things my own way."

And why did you ? "

*' Because I thought it would make things
simpler if you and I entered into a partnerships
a purely business nature."

Oh ! And what commission or profit
might you want ? "

*' None that I shall not have without your
help."

^'No money?"

"Claudius will provide for me, I believe."

"You believe. Where will he find the
money then?

Where he generally does find it, I
suppose."

And where do you think that is ? "

"I don't know. Investments or something."


You are not quite as business-like as
I thought you were, or you would have found
out all that long ago. Shall I tell you what
he has done with it ? "

You ? What do you know about it ? "

What do I know about it ? Oh, not
much ; but I had dealings with him before
now, my swell young lady. If he is your
lord and master, I am . No, I am talking
nonsense ; I am half asleep, I think.

You go and call for Julius, and we'll have
something short now."

I will call Julius if you like, but I
am not hungry ; and I want to know,
have you anything new to tell me about
Claudius ? "

'' New ? No, nothing."

Then what were you talking about ? "

Talking about ? Oh, nothing. I aman
old man, and I wander sometimes."
(Let it be understood that this old man
"wandered" in an ineradicable Frankfort
accent which would be tiresome as well as
difficult to represent in phonetic spelling.)

Have you lent him money ? "

'* Claudius Farringdon, Esq., of Sokebridge
Manor ? I have not lent him money. Have
some schnapps ? Julius ! " The citizen of
Rotterdam appeared. " Bring some glasses."

'^ Now, my beautiful, aristocratic, and

ungrateful daughter, where are you going
to sleep''

"I shall go to an hotel in Devonshire
Square, unless you will give me a bed
here."

You shall have your mother's room.
The furniture is old, but it would fetch
fancy prices. But — I am only a hard-working
poor old man."

"You want to be paid for the room?
Certainly. I would rather pay you than
take it for nothing. But about my proposition
? "

*'0h, that? You come and talk to me
again about that when Claudius Farringdon
is dead. See if you're in the same mind
then."

"Why not now?"

You don't seem to have found out your
own plans and things quite yet. When you
can plainly say what you want, perhaps I

can help you better. I can very likely get
what I want out of the Warrington lot without
your help, without having you interfering
in my business."

All that is stupid. You think it caution;
I call it obstinacy. You might even get the
Manor House if I helped you. It was always
your dream to be a country swell with a
house ; and you'd be a magistrate too, and all
sorts of things."

"Now look here," said the old man, *fen
larks. What do you mean ? Am I to act
in blind obedience to you ? No. Not good
enough. But if you will stand in and do
what you are told, I don't mind giving you
a little commission."

Mr. Rosenfeld had not the slightest intention
of letting his daughter go without
making some judicious arrangement with her.
He knew her temper of old too well not to
know that if disappointed by him she was

capable of taking any rash step in retribution
which, considering her far too intimate knowledge
of his affairs, might prove unpleasant,
or at least inconvenient, for him. If anyone
thinks his character impossibly, monstrously
base, he need only study closely the contemporary
history of meanness as displayed
in our police and other courts, to be convinced
that the achievements of human baseness
are only surpassed by its aims; and that
treachery, cowardice, and cupidity can descend
as far as truth, courage, and love can
ascend. Yet the poor fellows in the abyss
can sometimes see the stars, if only reflected
on the surface of the pitch in which they
defile themselves.

sewell?" said Jessica.

"I first knew Farringdon long ago in
Germany, in the good old times when the
tables were going. He did not waste much
there ; no, not such a fool. But some of his

friends did, and they introduced him to me.
He was sharp ! Oh, he was a beautiful man.
You never saw his name backing a bill.
When his friends lost and got cleaned out
he cut them. When they wanted money he
recommended them to come to me."
"Well?"

"Well, well, well! You are in a hurry.
You shall have your news, then, without
any delay. He has left his house and a few
hundreds a year to his son George. With
the rest of his capital he has made an investment
— I am speaking of years ago now,
but it is all the same — he has bought an
annuity for his life, and that's more than
any of your foreign loans would give him,
and safer too. And every penny he owns
is spent on that annuity, and I suppose he
spends every penny of the annuity in making
himself comfortable ; yes, and getting you fine
dresses. I wonder you ain't more grateful too."

Jessica's face was a study. If Claudius'
face and a bottle of vitriol had been handy,
the two might have come into sudden contact.

And when he dies ? "

You have — well, you have some pleasant
recollections to fall back on. He owes you
a debt of gratitude, he never can repay, ashe
told me when he acknowledged a certain
communication, and he doesn't mean to try
to repay it. He says that when —-some stupid
thing out of a play, I forget — but when he
is dead it won't much matter to him what
happens to anyone else. He is a sharp mana
beautiful man ! "

"How do you know this is true?"

** Because I managed the transaction for
him."

*' You bought his money, in short, and
gave him the means to make his life the
shorter."

*'To make his life the shorter; yes."

'' And you did this knowing that it would
one day suddenly leave me without a penny,
without the slightest warning ? "

'* Don't be angry, my dear; I meant to
provide for you, if you behaved nice and
business-like. I only told you this just to
show you that you ain't much good without
me to help you, as the income you expected
will be spent by Mrs. George Farringdon
on crocks and brass, and dresses and peacocks'
tails, or whatever ladies do blue their
money on now. Of course a beautiful young
lady like you wouldn't be long, I daresay,
in placing herself somehow. But you'd better
stick to me, and I'll show you how to work
this business. But don't you go to have
any mysteries ; no kidding, you know. It
takes more than one woman to best me."
And they conversed for a long time in low
tones.

After a time Julius Bloemendaal was

invited to join in the discussion when he
entered bearing a tray of glasses, and Mr.
Eosenfeld produced from the safe a square
bottle of gin. Jessica would not have any,
;so Julius drank her share.

After that, and much bolting and locking,
they all retired — Jessica to the old bedroom,
with its sloping floor and frowsy atmosphere,
which had not been renewed for years, where
the dust lay on the furniture, and where the
bed had been made hurriedly by the worthy
Julius. And she lay awake nearly all night,
pursuing vivid streams of imagination to
startling and dramatic conclusions with that
excited clearness of mind peculiar to the
silent night-watches. At last she fell asleep,
this dark pretty woman, like a curled up
cat in the large square bedstead, with her
dress and linen and lace strewed and scattered
carelessly all round the room, making
a strong contrast to its prim shabbiness. And

she smiled in her sleep. Whether she dreamed
that she was playing with little " Reddish er "
boys in the free and easy manner of long
ago, about Castle Street and Bevis Marks,
or that she was administering hot retribution
to the Farringdon family, is not known. But
she smiled in her sleep. She almost purred.

Mr. Kosenfeld the elder did not pass a
very comfortable night. The strange muddle
of cunning, avarice, and superstition which
formed his consciousness made him restless.
Was his daughter going to revenge herself
on him for some fancied wrong of long ago ?
Was it a fancied wrong ? Had she any
information she did not divulge ? Was it
really prudent to return her lead now, and
trust to over-trumping her afterwards ? What
was the matter with her ? She was angry
with somebody. Who was it ? Only the
Warrington ? And if there were several people
included in her wrath, was he one ? Why ?

Why not? He had not, perhaps, been the
best of fathers; but the times were hard,
and men had to be hard too, especially on
those who might happen to be soft. But
this embarrassing, incomprehensible, to him
lady-like young woman, with rich garments,
wafting about with her swinging skirts a
faint atmosphere of vague perfumes of
Araby, was not soft. She was hard, and he
did not know how hard. Then there was
that ungrateful young son of his — was there
a plot between them to visit the sins of the
parent on that parent, instead of letting them
settle down in the hereditary fashion prescribed
by the law ? And many other equally
groundless speculations passed through that
apostolic old head as it lay moving uneasily
on a dirty pillow. And it was very dark,
and Mr. Kosenfeld thought he heard someone
move in the next room where the safe
was. He covered his head then with the

VOL. II. L

bedclothes, no doubt in order to think what
he had better do. Then his imagination,
heated, no doubt, by the confined position,
portrayed to him Julius Bloemendaal of
Eotterdam, armed with pistols and daggers,
blowing the safe open with dynamite, and
copying all his private transactions in a fair
text-hand at the table in the next room.
This roused him to action, and he very
cautiously and tremulously got out of bed,,
struck a silent lucifer, lit a tallow candle,,
and opened the parlour-door. Any robber
who saw the grisly form of Mr. Eosenfeld
senior in a night shirt, holding a tallow candle
crooked, must have thought himself '' come
for" before his time. Mr. Eosenfeld found
nothing and nobody, as might have been
expected, but made use of the opportunity
to take, for purely medicinal purposes, another
dose from that square bottle of schnapps.
Then he went to bed and slept, and dreamed

horribly. He dreamed very nasty dreams
indeed, which made him wake up suddenly
in a perspiration and strike matches.

Then he observed : " What a thing it is
to be a parent ! Such a lot of anxiety and
everything ! Go and have some more schnapps."

After this dose he slept sound.

L 2

DICK STUDIES TWO PICTURES.

About twenty-four hours after his letter
George Farringdon, his bride elect, and her
relatives arrived at Sokebridge Manor. Kim-burns
had not been there before, nor his
sister, nor his daughter. When they had
journeyed south on previous occasions, their
course had been limited by the latitude of
London, where Claudius had seen and conversed
with them on several occasions for the
shortest time bare civility demanded. But
on this occasion the latter was constrained
to play the host — constant in courtesy,
ready in conversation on subjects which did

not interest him, willing to walk or eat in
company when he wished to read and lounge
in solitude. The laird had got the fixed idea
into his slowly working, but retentive mind
that Claudius Farringdon's strong point was
the pursuit of agriculture, and poured forth
long georgic, to the other's great tribulation,
on black bulls. Claudius disliked few subjects
more, except commerce, Kimburls' alternative
basis of discourse; and he went through
more self-sacrifice than he ever had done
before in those few long days which the laird
spent under his roof. He had not even the
consolation of satirising him before an appreciative
audience. Then Kimburls, in the
height of the delicate humour superinduced,
or at least intensified, by whisky, made sly
allusions to his sister setting her cap at
Claudius— witticisms which made the latter
gentleman's moustache droop limply, and
brought beads of cold sweat to his brow.

Jane Menteith herself cannot be said to have
deserved these insinuations, as she spent most
of her conversational powers in setting her
brother right when he introduced his own
reminiscences into conversation. George and
Dick went out walking in the grounds and in
the neighbourhood, and were pointed at and
commented on by local critics. George rather
liked being seen with her, being stared at, and
being whispered about. Public opinion was
a guiding factor in his theory of existence,
however small the public, the opinion, yea,
and the existence might be to other eyes than
his. He was now proud, defiant, self-conscious.
A Caesar trailing a fair captive at his chariot's
tail may have known this elation when he
overheard the scarcely suppressed comment of
the admiring Arrius among the crowd. Very
likely he did, unaware that his right place
would be at a cart's tail, with the ductile cowhide
sinuously hovering in the immediate background.

No doubt Arrius would have cheered
with equal loudness at either procession, and
made jests of equal delicacy.

George Farringdon appropriated the admiration
and applause of the remote descendants
of Arrius who beheld his lady's beauty,
to his own glory, as the clown bows when the
audience clap hands at the athlete.

Dick did not thoroughly enjoy all this.
She was made unusually shy by the unusual
nature of her position. She was confused by
the number of influential families to whom
it was found necessary that she should be
exhibited, the wearisome iteration of mothers
and daughters who scrutinised and criticised
her, and poured out the same strictly correct
conversation one after another, scrupulously
denuded of originality, strictly modelled on
precedent, strangely barren of ideas. She
was made uncomfortable by the feeling that
her father and aunt were making themselves

both tiresome and ridiculous to one who was
not so tolerant or of necessity partial as
George. She could not quite bring herself to
like Claudius. He often amused her, but she
was rather afraid of him, from some impression
which she admitted to be vague and
ridiculous, but nevertheless failed to entirely
lose during her stay in the old brick house.
Being rather addicted to imaginative flights,
or, as her aunt put it, rather silly, just at
this period, she associated Claudius in some
mysterious manner with his house, giving the
latter a tinge of his personality. She had not
been in a house like it before, and its very
beauty of antiquity made it vaguely suggest
the owner hidden away in some recess of it
for a short hour's repose, perhaps, from the
boredom of unaccustomed hospitality. He
seemed of no particular age, a sort of household
elf or tutelary demon or deity, who had
grown up with the structure and read queer

old books in it since the time, perhaps, of
Charles the Merry. And he said curious
things and looked curious things sometimes,
and she invested him daily more and more
with a sort of sulphurous halo. He rather
admired her, and was on the whole kind to
her after his fashion. He discovered that
this little girl, who would be his daughter-in-law,
was fond of books, and told her she
might read any of his she liked ; " only," he
added, "if you feel curious about any with
which you are not already acquainted, I
advise you to consult me first. Don't consult
George ; he doesn't know one from the
other."

He does ! he reads a great deal. He
often talks about books, Mr. Farringdon, your
books too."

'eyes; I know he does," replied Claudius,
with a dry smile. 'rand I respect you for
defending him, little girl." And he went

away. . " So she thinks George is fond of
reading* he mused afterwards. *^I wonder
how long he will succeed in keeping that idea
up ? However, it's their affair ; and the
sooner they settle the matter the sooner I
shall be at peace'*

Dick strolled round the library, with its
strange, rare ornaments, exotic furniture, and
quaint aromatic scents, and regarded the
book-titles. She looked a strange contrast
herself, in her fresh creamy print and lace
summer dress and fair coiled-up hair, to the
dim, heavy-aired, arras-hung haunt of a
luxurious old hermit like her future father-in-law.
She read a page here and there of
certain old friends, and looked with some
longing at the treasures in old vellum and
brown calf, and with an indistinct apprehension
and a kind of awesome curiosity at the
prevailing yellow of the French department.
And she sat in the chairs, trying and comparing

them, to find wliicli one was most
comfortable. This was, of course, Claudius's
own fireside one. Here she sat and looked
about her, thinking dimly of a possible day
when George might own this place and she
would have it largely at her disposal — this
part of it at any ' rate. She felt inclined to
leave the outdoor possessions, such as the
stables and the cattle, to take care of themselves,
provided she might lurk among these
books, or some of them, in a room whence
she could see the sea and the trees. Many
such and stranger dreams lurked in that deep
armchair. The beauty of the place and its
situation impressed her deeply, and tended to
intensify her feeling for George. She looked
at the gray-green flat foliage — masses of the
great cedar overshadowing the little green
lawn behind, where the warm afternoon sunlight
of August revealed the livid lichenous
gray shaft of the sun-dial, and made the

grass-plot around it bright and tempting to
straying feet.

She had escaped, as it were, from her
relations for a short time, and George having
gone out, he stated, to the stable, on some
important quest, she had been left temporarily-alone.
Claudius did not want to be criticised
by her too minutely, as he felt he would be
in a tete-tete, where the new eyes of this
young girl would notice tokens of infirmity
about him, which an every day spectator
would miss. So he left her to enjoy solitude
in his library. She occupied herself, as has
been said, in a general tour of inspection.
At last came the turn of the pictures. She
was struck by the undeniable beauty of Sir
Anthony Farringdon, and did not criticise
the other qualities incompletely suppressed
even in the work of a courtly and not too
realistic painter, such as self-indulgent lips,
straitened brain-space, and a general tone of

what may be described as hard-softness in
the expression — hard for others, soft for
himself. All this she did not just at once
discover. She only noticed that he was
good-looking, that he had a pretty 
coat on, and that he resembled
George. In a dark corner of the room
another picture caught her eye, as she was
walking over to examine a large blue jug,
of German mediaeval structure and immense
height, which towered above her on a carved
black stand of some solid heavy-looking wood.
And she stood with one arm lightly caressing
the base of the jug, with its dull 
tracery of arms and allegories, and
looked at the picture. It was small — about
half life-size — and represented a woman, or
rather the upper half of one, in an Eastern
dress, with small gold coins strung across
the forehead, and strong dark yellows and
reds predominating in the fantastic but

graceful dress. The colours certainly were
loud, as loud as tambourine and triangles ;
but they gave an undeniably appropriate
setting to the strangely un-english face. It
suggested languor, especially in the pose,
which was one of reversion against a dull
dirty white plastered wall, which contrasted
magnificently with the shapely exotic little
head and its vivid costume. The whole
figure leaned and lounged against this wall.
The attitude was perfectly simple, such as
any person might adopt who did not like
the sustained exertion of unsupported uprightness,
and did not particularly seek after
the poses which are a photographer's idea
of grace. If all this meant languor, the
beautiful, sullen, and disdainful mouth meant
passion, maybe cruelty ; while the long dark
eyes, with wan lids half closed, looked impenetrably
subtle, and expressed a high sensuous
potential. The skin was warmly and

opaquely pale, rather like those Spanish skins
unsurpassed described by De Musset. The
face was rather long, the nose apparently
straight, possibly aquiline.

Dick was startled by this face. It did
not look friendly, but it looked inexplicably
familiar, and strangely connected with some
dream or some part of her past life; and
she remained, fascinated by it, leaning on
the black wooden stand, with the blue jar
above her head, looking at this Oriental
woman with the pale skin and level black
brows. Then she looked back again at Sir
Anthony, whose pretty, vicious, fragile face
glanced into the room with arrogant and
desirous eyes. Dick felt as if she had wandered
into some enchanted den, where the
atmosphere, the hangings, the fantastic garniture
from Japan, China, Venice, Holland,
Germany, Florence, Pompeii, and Regent
Street, so diverse and yet so harmonious,

were all illusory, uncanny, and fearsome, that
it was just wildly possible that a certain old
wizard, with a spiky, iron-gray moustache
and a velvet jacket, might, by the use of
one of those old vellum books and some
of those strange and penetrating 'drowsy
syrups " and fumigants, transform her to a
half-length picture, to be eternally hung between
the white-and-gold young ancestor
and the mysterious Macassar or Alone
flashing forth in the dim tapestried corner
opposite to him.

Where have I seen you before, you
curious and pretty creature ? " she almost
said aloud to the unknown portrait.

While she was wondering George came
in. He wore (on the premises) a suit of
flannels and a large flexible black felt broadbrim,
which he delighted to curve and adjust
before a glass in private. Since that fancy-dress
ball in Glasgow Dick had seldom

thought him so like Sir Anthony up therein
the frame. George looked at her with
wondering pale-blue eyes — fine large eyes
which faced you innocently and unmoved,
like those of a blind man or the melancholy
variety of village natural. Sir Anthony's,
however, were dark, like those of Claudius.

I've been looking for you all over the
place. This is the place it last occurred tome
you might be in. Wouldn't you like to
come out ? "

'eyes, if you like. I've been looking
round at all the books and things. Mr.
Farringdon very kindly told me I might.
What beautiful things there are here ! "

'' Regular palace of art — rather ; " and he
glanced over his shoulder at a small rectangular
bevelled mirror in a flat brass frame
with branching candlesticks, to see if his
hair looked as it should, and surreptitiously
corrected the irregularities in it produced by

VCL. II.

the act of taking off his hat. Then he
looked vaguely rouDcl the room, and halted
like a pointer before Sir Anthony, and
said :

'* What do you think of him ? Come
here and look."

Dick came, and they stood together, he
with his arm round her, looking up at the
ancestor.

He is handsome. Don't you wish you
could dress like that now, George ? You
would look splendid in that costume ; and
then I could have brocaded trains and
powder, and you lace ruffles and a sword ;
and we could dance a minuet and a gavotte
in the hall, with the lamp high up above
and reflected in that shining dark floor."

Yes. Do you knoAv, some of the
people about here find a kind of resemblance
to me in that fellow's picture ?"

George had a way of sometimes ignoring

intervening conversation until lie had fully
got rid of any point that might be occupying
his own mind — usually one of a purely
subjective character. Some people were made
irritable by this habit, especially if three or
four talking together were several topics
ahead of George and the first instalment of
his rather vague and partially - expressed
verdict on some other topic, when it occurred
to him to give the rest to a world that
was not waiting for it. It gave the impression
that he had not listened, which is
always unsatisfactory to participants in a
conversation.

But Dick forbore to be impatient, and
took for granted that George's ideas were
more important than her own, and felt
gently rebuked, as if she had somehow said
something silly.

'rit is rather like you, certainly."
'' I thought you would sec it."

M 2

George, who is that ? Is it a portrait ? "

Dick turned round, directing his attention
to the other picture.

'' That ? Oh, that is a fantastic fanciful
sort of thing it pleased the governor to get
once. He thought it reminded him of someone
he knew, I believe."

It seems to remind me vaguely of someone
I know. I was trying to think whom just
when you came in."

Curious. Well, look here : I have to
inform you that there will be some people
here this afternoon — to tea, you know — and
I want you to show yourself. By the way,
one of them is an old acquaintance, Charlie
Deane. We don't know them very intimately,
but there has always been a certain
friendship between the J families. You see,
they are quite well-born j people, although
they are hard up."

"Oh, I'm so glad to hear that I He has

an aunt and a cousin — yes, and a grandmother,
hasn't he ? "

Yes ; two first are coming with him.
How did you know?"

"He told me; I happened to remember
it. And now — yes ! now I know whom
that picture reminds me of. It is that Mr.
Eosenfeld, who was with Charlie Deane in
Schlangenberg."

George had long ago seen the resemblance.
He replied :

** By Jove ! so it does, now you mention
it. As that is a picture by a French artist —
probably from a model in Paris or Algiers,
or somewhere — I can't account for it."

"You didn't like Mr. Eosenfeld, did
you?"

I don't think we were calculated to get
on remarkably well together. I believe we
thought differently on most subjects. Besides,
he was a Jew. I'm not prejudiced against

Jews. They have their uses ; but I bar them
in society."

You asked him to our wedding, didn't
you?"

Oh, yes ; but then one asks everybody
and anybody to a wedding."

"I don't see why one would."

*' Neither do I. I'd much rather not ; but
it's the right thing to do, and people expect
it. Besides, every one who is asked has to
sive a present. Comes in useful."

"If we could furnish a house exclusively
with travelling clocks and sets of dessert
knives and forks — yes. I wish people didn't
give presents, and dinners, and breakfasts,
and all that. Oh, George ! 7nust we be
married before all this crowd of people, who
don't know or care about me, and will make
remarks to each other in low voices and
laugh? I'm getting so tired and frightened
of it all. And you know I've no one but

you to consult ; so you must tell me what
is best. It is no use talking to father or
Aunt Jane ; they have made up their minds,
and are peacefully determined never to
unmake them. I can't help being shy,
though it may be silly."

*' Ought to get' over that. Why, how are
people married in Scotland ? I mean respectable
people ? "

"At home. The minister comes to their
house, and a few friends are there "

And a few broth, and a few toddy after
I know. Well, wee do these things otherwise
in England. I daresay we shall get
over the ordeal. In the meantime come
and walk about out of doors."

And George Farringdon removed his
bride-elect from the baleful glance of that
shadowy suggestion of Caspar Eosenfeld up
in the corner, with her glances of invitation,
of defiance, and lazy subtlety at the white-coated

cavalier. She seemed to laugh at
them all.

I believe those two get down from their
pictures at night," said Dick, "and play-cards,
and then Sir Anthony sings, and the
lady plays a tambourine. I should think she
could dance, too, if she chose to take the
trouble. Sir Anthony would sing some of
the old Jacobite songs, as we used to, you
know, when we were children, at the cave-period,
as Professor MacGillivray used to say,
of our existence, when you were the Young
Chevalier, and I Flora MacDonald. And
perhaps she sings with him ; and when the
cock crows, and the day dawns, they go
back. I suppose they have to get on chairs
to do that."

Governor ought to know. He is generally
there till dawn, reading and smoking."

George, I'm afraid you're not romantic."

"Dick, I'm afraid you are. No, I admit

I'm not. Romance is all very well for
children, and poets and painters, and people
who lived ever so long: ao^o, when men wore
picturesque clothes, but it doesn't suit me.
All the romance in my life has been put into
it by you, Dick. I go in for realism and
analysis."

*the people who write novels seem to
find there is still something left in this
century to talk about."

"Mostly women, and they talk mostly
sentimental rot. The only novels worth
reading, as giving a true view of life as it
is, are the French naturalists."
*' Are they the best ? "
"They are the truest and the most interesting."


"Are they better and truer than Walter
Scott, or any of the English and Scotch novels
written now ? "

Certainly. None of that picturesque

affectation and sentimentality about them.
They mean business."

Will you let me have one or two to
read ? You know I don't know much about
foreign literature, so you must educate me."

'let you read naturalistic novels? Not
quite. Ladies don't read them."

'' Don't they ? Well, perhaps they are
right. But ladies can read Scott, and
Dickens, and Thackeray, and Reade, and
Besant, and Black, so I suppose I must
stick to picturesqueness and sentimentality.
But do you like reading books I mustn't
read?"

Here they reached the secluded shade of
a cedar-tree, and sat on a bench concealed
from public view.

"Never mind discussing literature now,"
said George, "and give me a kiss."

They and the cedar and the grass-grown
ground made a very pretty group indeed.

"But, Georges'

"Well?"

Isn't this sentimentality ? "

Oh, shut up ! "

IN ILLYRIA AGAIN.

It was one of those warm, bright days in
August, when London looks perhaps at its
best — a time selected to leave it by certain
who call themselves Society, whom irreverent
statistical science calls, I believe, the Floating
Population. If the minute congeries of assimilated
units, self-termed Society, knew how
very pleasant certain London seasons are
when they are not there, they might perhaps
stay longer. Perhaps some of them, in their
secret souls, do know very well indeed what
London is like in August and September
after all, though they keep the knowledge

of these mysteries to themselves. This mayor
may not be. At any rate, it may be safely
said that though there was a block in what
the papers called the "vehicular traffic'' in
Holborn, though every form of business
went on as usual, though the theatres were
crowded, and the pavements black with
hurrying human millions, there was Nobody
in town. And nobody seemed to miss the
distinguished somebodies who were not in
town.

Caspar Kosenfeld threw down his pen
impatiently, and went and sat in his open
window to listen to the distant roar of the
tide of London life, and to watch the
changing tone of the leaves in the few
melancholy trees which adorn that restful,
ancient, and quaint courtyard of Barnard's
Inn. He was not much disturbed about
the empty days spent by waiters in Pall
Mall clubs while their august employers.

many of them British legislators, were
killing the smaller and less formidable
varieties of wild beast and fowl on moor
and main. He took a letter out of his
pocket and re-read it. That morning he
had had a dream. He was walking on the
Thames Embankment in the evening, towards
an immense, vague, and beautiful building
veiled in warm yellow sunlight mist. He
knew by the independent intuition of a dream
that this was the Palace of Westminster, and
was not in the least surprised to observe
that instead of its stones being gray, they
were red. The red palace and the sunset
mingled in one gloriously confused reflection
in the water, such as only may be seen in
dreams or in Venice. There was not a human
being near, nor were there any boats on the
water. He was not at all surprised at the
fact, and accounted for it scientifically by
observing, "It must be the Boat-race."

Which, for a dream, is not on the whole
a bad piece of reasoning. And he saw coming
towards him, out of that indescribable and
splendid composition of sunlight, mist, architecture,
colour, and water — Dick Menteith,
alone, and apparently expecting to see him
there. He remembers that they had a long
conversation, that ' she told him the marriage
with Farringdon was all a delusion, and that
they were going together to open Parliament,
and she had come to ask him to write her
her Queen's Speech. And she laughed and
cried, and clung to him as he kissed her
eyes and hair. And then he wrote the
Queen's Speech, there on a piece of paper,
on the flat-topped embankment balustrade,
looking out over the river towards — towards
the vine-clad Traubenberg, with the white
gleaming road below, where the peasants
led their carts slowly through the dust. And
he wrote, she leaning over his shoulder-'My

Lords " She took the pen from him,

and it grew dark, while the palace remained
glowing red, outlined on the blackness of
chaos. She wrote in the air. '' When the
rain comes," she said, " you will see it." The
rain came, and they stood together under
it. And the thunder came. And they stood
together under it. And the Speech she wrote
on air came out in blue Gothic lightnings
letters ; and he could not read it, and woke,
murmuring :

God help me ! Dreaming of what might
have been. God help you ! For it was too
good to be."

A letter had been thrust under the door
by his laundress, who was laying breakfast
in the adjoining room. It was the letter
he now, towards evening, read again, with
the calm, warm, western light slanting in
at the window and revealing the worm worn
frailty of its woodwork. The letter was a

fair enough sequel to the dream to illustrate
the truth of a well-known saying concerning
the relation between dream and fact.

It was from Charlie Deane, and below
are its contents :

Sokebridge, Aug. 28.

"CD. Car, salute dicit. We are all
right. Hope you are. Beastly hot; almost
as hot as Schlangenberg. I immerse daily
in sea. 6.M." (Charlie's hieroglyph for grand-mamma)
" says I've improved by the tour.
Said I hadn't noticed much difference myself
She wishes me to record her gratitude to
you for the parental care you've taken of
me, and hopes I wasn't much trouble. I
forbore to tell her the trouble and creaking
were largely on my side. We, i.e. Aunt
Lucy, Lily, and self, went to call on the
Menteiths and Warrington, etc., a day or
two adeo, and had afternoon tea. We saw

VOL. II.

]\Iiss D. M. first ; she and Lily took to each
other immensely, which surprised me, as they
are so different.

'' Then G. Farringdon turned up, having
evidently been spending the time in dressing
himself prettily, and scenting his handkerchief
with chypre, which I abhor. She — Miss
D. M. — then asked me how and where you
were, and casually, quite casually, remarked
that you and I were expected at her wedding,
appealing to G. F. for corroboration. He
looked rather thunderous, but caved in and
confirmed the invitation with a sort of gloomy
cordiality, adding, however, that he was
rather puzzled where to put you up, as the
house was pretty full. I relieved, and I
trust annoyed him by saying we were going
to entertain you. Miss D. M. was much
obliged, and looked it. So you have got
to come, respected sir, and that right soon.
Wedding on the 1st ; come any day before

that — there are only three, but send message
first. We are all longing for you, especially
my aunt, who admires you very much. Lily,
whose cheek is unbounded '^ (chaotic interval),
'' and who is now looking over my shoulder
and making me blot and sputter as above,
indulges herself in the hope that you will
write a book about her, and is pestering
her guardians for a peacock-blue velvet dress,
with which to dazzle and dismay your critical
eye. An attic has been swept and garnished
for you. Lily has now inserted a penholder
down the back of my neck, and a scrimmage
has ensued, so farewell."

Caspar pocketed the letter and walked
about the room, finally settling in a chair
and staring into the empty fireplace, his
legs stretched out before him, his hands in
his pockets, his shoulders high, a short pipe
still in the corner of his mouth, where it

N 2

had been, intermittently, since breakfast.
He had no coat nor waistcoat on, nor collar,
and his hair was hanging about his forehead.
The table was occupied by books, paper,
some unwashed breakfast apparatus, and a
tabby kitten, who was minutely investigating
a tobacco-pouch, with an expression of strong
disapprobation.

A knock came at his door, heralding the
entrance of two men. The first was Mr.
Jack Miller, notable, as usual, for an expression
of calm self-convinced superiority
to all terrestrial beings, produced by a long
contemplation of them and of himself, particularly
of the latter, held as a vital and
consoling faith, and externally proclaimed
by a tendency to walk with his nose and
chin uplifted. Mr. Miller usually succeeded
in irritating Caspar by his tendency to
despotic utterances on things social, artistic,
and literary, in which strict accuracy was

subordinated to a certain quality called smartness.
Mr. Miller, having demolished, to his
own satisfaction, all objects usually deemed
worthy of veneration, placed himself on the
unoccupied pedestal, and invited worshippers.
As far as the practical results of his art were
concerned the worshippers remained coy.
But there was a small sect, mainly feminine,
sho did to some extent share in the cult.
He dressed with a view to economy and
picturesqueness combined, and was a great
believer in strangely tin ted silk handkerchiefs
and velveteen. Part of the present artistic
style consisted of a crop of long hair, to
which he paid great attention, and on account
of which he gained much derision. It was
certainly a cheap adornment, accessible to
the poorest. This, however, had only become
apparent since he had known Caspar, which
gave strong grounds for suspicion that it
was an imitation of the latter's. It was

also attributed to his habit of rapturously
adoring the fifteenth-century Italian painters,
and their nineteenth-century English rivals ;
and opinion was divided among his friends
as to whether he really did admire them,
or merely gave way to the modern temptation
to be eccentric. He still continued to
pour quotations from his favourite poets on
any one who would listen, in and out of
season. Caspar, whose knowledge of literature
included everything Jack Miller wholly or
partially knew, as the German Ocean includes
the Thames Sewage — as Miller himself gracefully
remarked one day, in a state of mingled
wrath and humiliation — occasionally inflicted
signal discomfiture on Miller, when he ventured
into the vast world of the unknown,
and trifled with its terminology with the air
of a connoisseur.

Well, he was as he was made. A few

liked him and a many did not. His companion
was observing as they entered :

Bar your chiaroscuro and flake-white,
youre a very ignorant man, Miller. Now
see, Fm forty-two. If you carry your years
with the grace and sprightliness, mingled
with dignity, which I do, when you re that
age — well, you'll be a holy show. And
that's truth."

And the speaker gave his hat a touch
more in the direction affected and profanely
nicknamed by the cavaliers of old, turned
up his long, grizzly-brown moustache, adjusted
his glasses on his nose, and laughed
at Miller a defiant wrinkled laugh. His
hands, plunged in his trousers-pockets, pushed
back laterally the skirts of a time-honoured
frock-coat, which was known in more than one
European and Asiatic capital. His trousers
were a little frayed at the feet, his boots

showed signs of wear. He looked what he
was, an irreclaimable Irish Bohemian, who
considered it no reproach to be such. And
a more keen and careless-tongued, adventurous,
child-loving, reckless, generous, happy-unlucky,
picturesquely-shabby good fellow never
walked Fleet Street, or " stood " a friend a
meal or a drink. Should he read these lines,
he will have the liberality to forgive the
necessarily inadequate representation of his
many amusing and endearing qualities.

'rit is you, is it, O'Eourke ? What is
your news ? How are you. Miller ? "

Isn't he a picture ? " observed O'Eourke,
standing contemplatively by Caspar, his head
critically on one side, his hat more so.

'jingle in the Fleet," suggested Miller,
flicking his leg with a switch. " Why this
thinness, Eosenfeld?"

If you mean why am I partially dressed,
because it is a hot day. I sit here because

I am tired. I am tired because I've been
writing magazine verses which express a
state of mind exactly the reverse of my own,
which is unfit for publication."

Why don't you come out ? Nonsense
sticking in here on a day like this. There's
a gaudy sunset coming on out in the direction
of the Marble Arch."

'* I don't care. I have not your monomania
for sunsets in Oxford Street. Besides,
there are likely to be plenty more where
that came from if I should hanker after one
at any time."

'•' Come and have a drink," said O'Eourke.

I don't feel inclined to come out, or to
have a drink. What do you two want?"

Wanted to see you, and hear all about
you. You've been missed by me. Miller tried
to bait me in your celebrated style by making
derogatory remarks about Ireland and the
barra I'm going to represent ; but it has not

the flavour of your patent unrivalled exhilarating
misanthropy and soothing non-intoxicating
pessimism."

'* This is not the place to compose extempore
leaders, O'Eourke."

"Why haven't you been to see us?" asked
Miller. " Our menage has been increased by
a bull-terrier and a black kitten, both in their
first childhood ; and Rosa's rapidly going into
her second over them. We are a merry
family."

*'No doubt. But if a merry family will
live in Brixton, they can't expect a person
of my busy habits to get there often. Besides,
I've only been in England a few days, I
believe."

Where have you been — Paris ? "

''No, Germany."

"Have a good time?"

Oh yes. Spent most of my present available
cash. The Investigator has been unusually

dilatory in sending me the periodic
cheques too."

'' And they have had reams of your copy,
as I have noticed, the last two or three weeks.
You have been pungent lately. That's partly
what we came to talk about ; but it was
nearly put out of my head by a yarn of this
man's, to the effect that two hundred and
fifty per cent, of the English army were
Irishmen, which was another apology for the
fact that "

'' Oh, bother ! " interrupted O'Rourke.
You take too many words to say too little.
It just means landlords are in season again,
and good bags are expected. About you
and 27ie Investigator, the matter is that it
has changed hands. The new proprietor is
ostensibly one Dr. Van Westerdijk, though
he is no doubt backed by some anonymous
capitalist. He doesn't look a typical Croesus
himself"

'* Foreigner ? "

"A London foreigner. I don't know any
good of him. He is not often at the oflSce.
They have got a new editor ; Jew, I think :
in fact, it is in their hands, rather. The rest
they are going to keep on. Saunders is there
as usual, and Skinner and Moriarty, and that
lot."

Doesn't much matter to me as long as
they pay, and that soon."

'they don't do it soon," said O'Eourke.
I had a couple of columns there two or three
weeks back, and had to go and freeze onto
the place for four hours to get it. 'Isn't
like what it used to be in poor old Wilkins's
time. "Westerdijk is a low Jew baste. I beg
your pardon, Caspar, but he is. What I also
meant to tell you was as I'd had a row with
him — never mind why, or I shall get into a
nest of circumlocutions parentheses no human
power could extricate me from, and there I

shall remain in a sort of extra circle, say
the Upper Circle of the Inferno, crawling
through a tortuous sentence for all eternity.

The fact is ''

"Begin again'

*'Thi3 same proprietor, Westerdijk, also
runs a lucrative Society weekly, with illustrations.
Miller does some of them, d — d
badly too. Now I'm in his list of the lost,
his 'Index Expurgatorius,' for all time, because
— well, I expostulated with him mildly
on a purely personal matter ; in fact, I nearly
knocked his ugly head off with a cane chair;
but that's a matter of detail. As no one
knows of this yet, it occurred to me you
might fill my place on this Society rag. The
catastrophe only came off a little while back ;
I bet they'd take copy with your name toit
without reading. You seem to want to
raffle in the spondoolicks just now. Here's
your chance."

'isn't it cutting away your ground in
any way ? "

Not a bit. I'm busy on one daily, and
have sold the non-existent Irish right of a
lot of old mag. stories, and am engaged to
fake up some new East-end stuff — docks and
Chinese, and all that. You send them a
serial story."

If Ireland were populated by O'Rourkes,"
said Caspar, "it would be, if possible, more
of an earthly paradise than it is at present.
Thank you, old man; I'll act on your hint.
As you observe, I'm impecunious just now,
and am writing off my quarter's rent in
magazine verse. I must get some man to
share these rooms or quit them, I'm afraid.
Look here, O'Eourke, I don't know that
making amiable speeches was ever a practice
of mine. You'll have to do without that ;
but you understand I am much obliged to
you, and am thankful to find in Illyria the

human kindness wliicli is very scarce out
of it."

"All right," said the kind-hearted Irishman.
" Vive la Boheme ! I only hope you
won't have a row with any of these sweeps
of compatriots of yours."

I can't afford to have a row."

'^ Why don't you get a partner in here ? "
asked Miller. 'rit would halve the cost of
the diggings."

'haven't got a partner. Never had.
Don't know that I want to." After a pause
Caspar added : " I beg his pardon. I have
a partner in my eye."

Have him in your rooms," said Miller.

You University chaps," said O'Kourke,
"always say rooms. It's a perfect shibboleth.
It takes years to teach an ex-university
man to say chambers or apartments."


"Heaven defend me from calling the

place I live in, however humble, apartments
! " replied Miller.

"The word implies solitude," said
O'Rourke. " Originally, apartment signified
a room you meant to be apart in. What
apart meant we know from stage directions."

Lord, Lord ! " misquoted Miller, " how
these old men are given to this vice of
punning ! How ill a pair of glasses and a
post on a penny daily become a fool and a
jester!"

I've had more than a pair of glasses,
and will gladly take another at your expense.
And mine is not a penny post. That was
Sir Rowland Hill. You're a very ignorant
man. Miller."

*'So you have said before."

'when you two have done gibing at
each other," observed Caspar, "perhaps you
will tell me the name of this Society paper
and its whereabouts ? "

"It is called The Lamp, and its slaves
send their contributions to Key Court."

Thanks."

'^ Dress yourself, man, and come out and
look on the daylight while you can, and have
a drink."

'thanks, O'Eourke. But I told you I
don't feel inclined to come out, or to have
a drink."

What's the matter ? "

Work's the matter. If I'm to do something
for this Fleet Street night-light, I
must do it. I can't be sure that Tve anything
near enough completion to send in."

You're very laconic and matter-of-fact
to-day. What's wrong?"

Oh, nothing ! Nothing you can put
right."

'' Look here, old pal ; if you want a quid
or two, I've got a little to spare. It isn't
much, because I've got the detached villa

VOL. II.

in Brixton next to this painter chap, with
water-rates, and a wife and child waiting
for me inside it ; but don't be offended at
my offer. It isn't often I've a chance of
making such. Generally the other way."

*' O'Kourke, if there can be an angel in
drab shorts and gaiters, as Mr. Weller states,
I have no hesitation in saying there is one
in a shady frock-coat and black-rimmed
glasses. But I'm not distressed immediately
that way. And I will come out with you
and have a drink." And Caspar went into
his bedroom to make himself presentable.

What's it mean, do you think ? " said
O'Eourke to Miller.

If it was any other man I should say he
was in love or in liquor, but Rosenfeld "

Is not such a fool. Very funny, isn't
it, all this impecuniosity business ? "

Very," replied Miller rather drily, thinking
sr of Rosa's threatened sealskin.

I know a man, soldier too, has danced
vis-davis to that old skunk Metternich, at
Vienna, and had to pawn his orders to get
breakfast."

** I am ready now," said Caspar, reappearing
in his usual outdoor attire.

"Come on, then," said O'Rourke. 'Til
take you to a place where you'll meet a
circus-clown and a strong man."

*take me where you like. K lamb on
its way to the butcher is violent resistance
compared to my docility. By-the-way,
Miller, you are about my size — can you lend
me a black Sunday coat for a day or two ? "

Oh, yes ; come down home with me
to-night, and you can carry it off. What
are you going to do ? "

'i'm invited to a wedding, and — I'm
afraid I must go."

"Not your own?" observed O'Rourke,

in a note of alarm.

o 2

Caspar laughed.

''I should not dress up for that, I
fancy."

I didn't know. I thought you looked
depressed."

WEDDING MARCH.

A mannikin stood in a wedding dress ;

My love stood by him, and both said, Yes ;

A thousand laughing devils echoed the loud Amen.

It was a brilliant morning, the 1st of September,
when the white convolvulus clambered
round the stalks of growing grain, and was
duly anathematised by the farmers for so
doing ; when the first faint yellow leaves were
falling, herald flakes of the many-coloured
floor, which later would be brown and crimson
and umber on all the paths, and rotten, black,
and ruinous in mould-pits at last. The annual
transit gloria terrace was beginning. The air
was still, the sun hot, the sky blue and

hazy, the sea glittering with the many-faceted
ever-moving ripples, which laughed at poor
Prometheus, and have laughed and scowled
alternately ever since. The summer was
going, the woods were dying, and Dick
Menteith was being dressed for her wedding.
Caspar and Charlie were sauntering on
the green edge of the cliff, in black coats
and tall hats, waiting rather impatiently for
the time when they should enter the large,
new, and extremely fashionable church where
the wedding was to take place.

Caspar's face was transformed by the
sunlight into a white mask with black shadows
on it, as he stood " on the brow o' the
sea," following with his eyes a white gull as
it flew over the far-spread Channel into the
place where sea and sky met indistinctly
separable in a band of gray-blue haze.
Charlie would have been cheerful enough,
but for a certain nervous anxiety. He was

disgusted and irritated about the marriage,
and his mind was uneasy about Miss Lily
Carew, the mysterious workings of that young
person's emotional centre, if she had one,
being a constant puzzle — a charm to his
eyes and ears at one moment, and a simple
provocation to his temper at the next. And
he thought he might legitimately use Caspar
as a convenient object whereon to discharge
the meditations of his troubled mind. So he
suddenly said :

'' I don't think I can stand all this much
longer."

All which ? " said the other, turning
round with a wan smile.

"Well, first of all, this church and breakfast
business. What's the use of you loafing
about stretched on a spiritual rack, making
spasmodic jokes at intervals ? man ! drop
it. It's not too late. We can smash the
whole pitiful concern between us. Look here,

if you will undertake the Young Lochinvar
part, I will do my best to help ; and once
you have declared war and love you will
find we can see all the Warrington and
Kimburls at the devil ! ''
'* Nonsense ! "

It isn't nonsense, though it may not
be expressed with the coherence of a Times
leader. And, by Jove ! I'd make it into a
parti carre ; if I only could once manage
it nothing in the world should part us
then."

Caspar trembled. 'rand suppose I don't
want to bring about any such result in my
own case ? "

I can't suppose so when I see that you
would give your very life for a girl, who is
going to throw herself away innocently on
that gowk, George Malcolm Farringdon. It
is so pitiful ! "

'' He is not a gowk. He is her affianced

husband ; and if ever man loved woman he
does. And she likes him in her peaceful
way. Don't talk to me any more about
that. You know I cannot help it, or carry
out quixotic Gretna Green escapades. Drop
the subject, I don't like it. Let's go and seethe
opening farce''

And they walked towards the church,
while nursery-maids wondered and said :
That's 'im ! " Near the church - porch
juvenile gazers with pipes of clay smoked
and spat, and laughing in the cacophonous
manner peculiar to the British lout, observed,
'' Lardydar, that's 'im ! " They subsequently
made the same remark of any decently dressed
male who appeared.

All this sort of thing tends to set off
the solemnity of these occasions," said Caspar
to Charlie, as they wandered round the inside
of the building looking for a seat. They
mixed with the crowd near the east end.

Then there appeared two young gentlemen
from Oxford, friends and supporters of
Farringdon, with kid gloves, and camellias
and maidenhair in their button-holes.

Then appeared Warrington, handsome and
excited, resembling more than ever the young
man who fought for the white cockade. The
nursery-maids liked him, and said he was
ever so much 'handsomer than the first one
wdtb the black back' air."

Then there was a great deal of waiting,
as well as fidgeting with hats on the part of
the two young gentlemen from Oxford. The
minutes lingered. Then a kind of murmur in
the crowd, such as is heard at the firing of a
bouquet of rockets, only more subdued, made
Caspar shut his eyes and shiver. AVhen he
opened them again Dick Menteith, in a white
satin dress and white lace veil, was passing
before him on the arm of a very elegant
old man with a beautiful fissure and waxed

o

iron-gray moustache.

She did not see Caspar. She only saw
the confused crowded dazzle which a stage
novice sees on the rising of the curtain.

Charlie had disappeared into the crowd
to speak to his relations, who were present
as mere spectators. Claudius Farringdon
looked like an elderly Mephistopheles as he
smiled into his hat for a few seconds, in
reverent conformity with aristocratic church
usages. He had gone through a great deal
that morning. He had first of all been
obliged to get up much earlier than usual,
and dress himself in a way in which he did
not usually dress except when in town. Then
he had listened politely to the conversation
of Mr. Menteith of Kimburls, on the commercial
Treaty dispute, during a considerable
part of the morning. But it was a consolation
to him to feel that he was, next to the
Happy Pair (as the local paper subsequently
called them), the most imposing and conspicuous
person present. He could not quite

understand why the soles of his feet had a
kind of woolly feeling, or why he sometimes
lifted them so high in walking. That had
bothered him a good deal lately. He hoped
he was not going to get worse. He did not
see the tall, brown-outlined figure of Mrs.
Brandon, far off against a white stone pillar,
with her dark impenetrable eyes fixed on him,
with a half smile on that face that might have
descended in a direct line from the Serpent
of old Nile. Nor did he see the eye-glass
of the little medical student, Charlie Deane
(whom he scarce knew by sight), peering
curiously at that occasional high-stepping
action of his, and muttering, *' Patient feels
as if he were walking on balls of worsted.
Yes, respected sir, we shall hear from you
soon, I think, advertising for a permanent
situation in Hades."

'' What ? " said Lily, who was trying to
see the bride through the numerous human
bodies which intercepted the view.

Nothing. Hush ! They are beginning
the service'

It took a vicar and two curates to make
George Farringdon and Dick Monteith man
and wife. Caspar noticed that the vicar
shied " (as Charlie subsequently expressed
it) at the name "Richard" as applied to a
lady. And he wondered why he felt himself
inclined to laugh.

Kimburls and his sister — the other parties
to the transaction — were, of course, there :
the former in his best broadcloth — not new,
of course, but what he wore on the Sabbath-day
at home ; the latter in a lavender silk of
antique design, which made a great deal of
noise, certainly not describable by the rather
soothing word froufrou. She had worn it
first at her brother's wedding, and will, no
doubt, be prepared to wear it, dyed, at his
funeral. It served to set off the manly
dignity of her person very effectively.

The vicar read St. Paul's exhortation to

married persons, and took the opportunity to
add a few remarks of his own, to the visible
annoyance of the congregation, who began to
tramp noisily out.

And then Caspar's mind's eye wandered
to the solitary chambers in Barnard's Inn,
where he sat one summer afternoon, not so
long ago, in an armchair on one side of the
fireplace, looking at another one, empty, on
the other, and fancying a small, fair head,
nestling in its cushioned back, with quiet
eyes smiling at him in the way eyes smiled
before sorrow came into the world, in far-off
days that never were, which some men have
loved to dream of in their great, loving,
and pitiful hearts, that toyed with the
joyous (whose joys they shared not), and
pitied the sad and sinning, because they
had sorrowed and sinned themselves. And
he saw the small hands pour out tea for
him, and search wonderingly through his

books, and heard the voice make playful
comments on what he wrote, satirise and
worship him all the while — the same gentle
voice he had just heard say " I will !'' to the
question that fixed her fate for bad or good.
He saw a large straw-and-satin white-feathered
hat — always the same one — thrown carelessly
on his table among pens and books and pipes,
and he knew that the deep gulf, reaching from
the abyss to the stars, which separated him
from so many human sympathies might have
been stepped over then and filled up for ever,
and the bitterness of life made sweet for him
so long as life lasted. And with all this he
felt a great ferocious joy, greater than that
Scsevola felt with his hand in the brazier.
For Scsevola, if he ever existed, had a pit and
gallery to play to, which probably was a
source of satisfaction to him.

Caspar Eosenfeld felt that he seared his
soul before the solitary and eternal eyes of

VOL. II. p

God, *' unless," as he reflected, " the universe
goes on passionless Juggernaut wheels of its
own, in which case I'm, perhaps, making an
Altruistic ass of myself." Then the organist
(a local amateur) suddenly crashed and pealed
out that exulting '* Wedding March," which
has turned the old days to derision to so
many ears before now, and the principal
characters of the foregoing drama filed
out.

Then there was a breakfast at Sokebridge
Manor, of course. At this, as has been
previously intimated, Caspar and Charlie were
guests, and were each placed beside some
ordinary tolerably pretty and tolerably silly
girl of the neighbourhood. Charlie's neighbour
said to him, in the lull of noise after a
much-applauded, elegant, and epigrammatic
address from Claudius, '' What is the matter
with your friend ? He looks as if he had
lost something."

'* Perhaps he has," replied Charlie, and
changed the subject.

It is not necessary to state at any length
the facts that the vicar delivered an impressive,
mildly jocular discourse, *' coupling with
it the name of his friend and former pupil,
George Warrington'' who replied that he
was aware he was taking away a treasure
beyond his deserts {'* which," Charlie remarked
in an aside to his partner, *' is true ") ; or that
Kimburls was what he called " betty " in
the Glaswegian tongue ; or that one of the
young gentlemen from Oxford emitted several
rather dislocated remarks, in which Hymen,
the Graces, and the bridesmaids got very
much mixed up, terminating with the facetious
sentence he had surreptitiously pencilled
in the fly-leaf of his prayer-book in church,
'got up" ever since, and remembered perfectly
— all but the point — at the critical

moment. It was all very weary and dreary.

p 2

At least it seemed particularly so to Claudius
Farringdon, who wanted a comfortable chair,
a cigar, a laughter-provoking book, and solitude
as an antidote to the superfluity of
fatherly emotion he had been compelled, by
the convenances, to display all the morning,
and to Caspar, who wanted to be alone with
the sea and the sky and himself.

At last he and Charlie were released, and
walked silently back to the bijou residence,
where Caspar retired to Charlie's room, which
commanded the garden. There he sat in
the open window, reading to himself some
*^ chronicle of wasted time," and looking
across the dark-green fir-tops beyond the
garden into space, while Charlie was giving
his relatives an account of the breakfast, and
displaying a small fragment of mottled black
matter, with a yellowish-gray cortex, which
he asserted to be a portion of the cake he had
brought for Lily. That damsel ate it forthwith,

and proceeded to ask where Mr. Eosen-
feld was. Whereat her cousin, Mr. Charles
Deane, chid her for devouring the whole of
the cake herself; and a short and merry
war ensued, in the midst of which the noise
of wheels was heard in the road in front of
the house. This was the carriage returning
from the railway station. George Farringdon
and his wife were just then in a first-class
compartment, accompanied by some very new-looking
leather-covered dressing-cases, bags,
and umbrellas, a travelling clock, several
Society and illustrated papers, en route for
Paris.

She seems almost too young to be
married," said Miss Deane.

*' I don't know," said Charlie. " She is
older in some ways than you'd think."

If she's too young she'll grow older in
the course of a few years, most likely," remarked
Lily, with a certain pertness which

is occasionally displayed by young girls, more
especially towards their near relatives.

We've around all about her and him
over and over again' she continued, "and
repeated the same things to one another till
I'm sick of it."

If you are as well-behaved, as well-read,
and as nice and kind as Dick Menteith —
Farringdon, I mean — at her age," said Miss
Deane, *' we shall all rejoice, I'm sure, and I
shall feel my trouble in bringing you up has
not been entirely thrown away."

Lily laughed.

Wasn't I an awful little pest to educate,
Aunt Lucy ? "

Well, to put it candidly, dear, you were.
I suppose most children are, and that you
were not worse than the rest ; but, you see,
you came to us almost wild, and wanted to
pray to a hideous little silver Spanish saint
some servant or some one had given you in

the benighted place you were born in ; and
you got into fearful passions, and said awful
things in Spanish, which I'm glad to say I
didn't understand, and which I'm more glad
to say you've forgotten."

I was one of your earliest victims," said
Charlie. " Being a small boy, I was ordered
about like any amount of slaves. I was
directed to climb trees to get you eggs, and
cones, and funguses, and various other articles
of scientific interest. I had to descend with
eggs in my mouth, in awful peril of swallowing
them ; and if one broke down my
oesophagus, as did once happen, and not a nice
egg either, you laughed consumedly and did
a war dance round the tree."

I'd like to do it again, too," replied Lily.
I know I should destroy my dignity and
my dress, but I'd like to go bird's-nesting this
very afternoon."

*' I regret to say that birds do not build

nests in September, much, unless due notice
is given beforehand that they will be required.
It is not usual. But you can worship a
gri-gri if you like."

I suppose you think that awfully clever,"
retorted Lily, who was not easily "sat on."

I more than think it. You might come
and fish for efts and bully-heads too in
stagnant ponds and running brooks. That
was one of your great juvenile amusements
when you had ceased to worship idols. But
it is risky work for a young person in her
seventeenth year, with heels and a skirt,
which, though with all the brevity allowed by
decorum, is evidently very tight."

Dr. Johnson says, ' The man who resorts
to personality, and considers it wit, should bean
object of deserved scorn — and several other
things — to everybody'"

'does he, indeed? And does he finish
his sentence as artistically as that ? "

I'm going out," concluded Lily, without
noticing Charlie's last dab ; '* it's far too fine
an afternoon to stay poking about the house."

And she disappeared, snatching a knitted
black Tarn o' Chanter bonnet of Charlie's from
a peg in the passage, for the better protection
of her head.

Mrs. Deane came into the room, bearings a
bag which contained all the apparatus needed
by a perpetual knitter, including an unfinished
pair of socks, destined for Charlie's winter
wear.

Where is your friend Mr. Eosenfeld,
Charlie ? " said she.

*' Upstairs, grandma ; he's writing letters,
or reading, or something. He's in my room.
There's plenty of tobacco there, and a copy of
Shakespeare, so he can't lack occupation."

'' Go and see him, dear, and ask him if
he would like to walk, and see that he is
amused. When a young man is staying here

it is not fair to leave him to fash himself
being civil to an old woman like me, or reading
books by himself in an attic. He has time
enough alone in London to read, I am
thinking."

*' I believe he is fonder of talking to
you than any other member of the family,
grandma," replied Charlie, leaving the room.

He went upstairs, and found Caspar
sitting on the sill of an open window, with
a book in his lap. Charlie looked over his
shoulder, and read :

"For love is as strong as death ; jealousy
is cruel as the grave ; the coals thereof are
coals of fire, which hath a most vehement
flame. Many waters cannot quench love,
neither can the floods drown it."

THE DUTCH DEVIL.

Me. and Mrs. Gnome Farrino^don travelled
to Paris, and their names were inscribed on
the books of that luxurious and gigantic
caravanserai called the Grand Hotel du
Louvre. They appeared at the table cVhote
pretty regularly, usually sitting in the same
places, and became the nucleus of a small
fortuitous concourse of very harmless good-natured
English people, flavoured with an
American admiral of indefinite age and quaint
affectionately caustic tongue. They visited
all the places and things which they ought to
visit, they took drives and dined out of doors

in the various notable resorts within and beyond
the barriers, and were for a while extremely
happy and cheerful. George was still very
much in love with his wife, and was her undisputed
and of course undisputable lord. To
be seen about with her was a cause of respect
and envy in others, and therefore of natural
exaltation in himself. And the sensation of
daily association with a lady of delicate tastes,
artistic tendency, personal beauty, and pleasant,
if sometimes rather incomprehensible dreamy
conversation, was new and grateful to him.
And he was grateful. He directed her to
choose, with the assistance and advice of the
best providers, a winter walking costume.
And when they left, when Paris grew cold
and windy, and drove its birds of passage
to rest and saunter in the Promenade des
Anglais, and watch the ceaseless lap of the
tideless sea, he was still undisturbed in the
belief that his wife was in love with him,

and regarded him as perhaps Undine regarded
her knight. She might have been a fairy
gift to him, to better and beautify his whole
life, if he had only for a moment imagined
her, or anyone else, capable of bettering or
beautifying such a complete and satisfactory
thing as he had hitherto found it. As for
Dick herself, she was now nearer loving her
husband, in the natural sense of the word,
than she had ever been. She lived more in
the present — a more wakeful life. Everyone
was kind or good-natured to her, the world
she lived in was bright, new, intelligent, and
comfortable ; and destiny seemed to be shaping
for her a placid, moderately happy life,
untainted by high intellectual struggles or
strong emotional influences. Something permanent
of this kind was no doubt what she
expected, when they started in the express,
provided with Mann boudoir sleeping-cars, for
the South.

Judging her husband as a moral thermometer,
she had only noted his maximum
register, and that not in the shade, or
corrected to that sea-level which large human
experience and time alone can teach.

The American admiral and a few other
recently-found friends saw them off at the
station. As the train started, the Admiral
remarked to the little circle on the platform,
as he cut off the end of an immense cigar :
'gingerbread's pretty as long as the gilt
sticks on, ain't it?"

How cynical you are, Admiral Seaman!"
observed a young English lady, still under
the influence of that moon associated popularly
with honey.

'how?"

"I do believe you are jealous of Mr.
Farringdon."

Maybe."

In a train, in the course of a long

journey, it is usual, after a decently prolonged
suspicious silence, to make more or
less acquaintance with one's fellow-passengers.
Some people enter into conversation ant once ;
some — these being usually English — require
a trivial accident to loose the strings of their
tongues ; some require several hours' premeditation,
a custom-house and a collision.
But they will all talk ultimately if they are
given time. A few hours' travelling found
George Farringdon in conversation with the
one fellow-traveller in his compartment. He
spoke English well, but with a distinct
accent. He was a small man, quietly, but
well dressed, with a neatly-shaped head, very
close-cropped reddish hair, forming a point
on the forehead, narrow dark eyes, gold-rammed
glasses, a rather beak-like nose, a
thin upper and a thick under lip, a small
waxed moustache, and a pointed chin. He
looked about thirty, but was probably younger.

His eyebrows had a trick of going up and
down as he talked ; in fact they were his
principal gesticulatory apparatus. His face
was rather long in proportion to its width,
and had no definite expression. He seemed
courteous and well informed. His conversation
had a general and wide scope, such as
any well-informed traveller might indulge in.
He seemed well acquainted with France, or,
at any rate, with the more frequented parts
of it, as well as with London. He occasionally
put an illustration or a quotation
into his talk, which suggested some acquaintance
with literature of an ordinary and
generally-quoted kind. He seemed to possess
a good deal of information about Nice, as
well as about Monaco, and, having discovered
that the Warrington were visiting the former
for the first time, ventured to recommend to
them an hotel there — Beau Eivage, Bellevue,
or some such name — which they saw no harm

in trying, at any rate. They took refreshments
together occasionally at such places
on the way as afforded them the time and
materials. The journey, of course, from Paris
to Nice is long, and the best of scenery
becomes wearisome after hours of railway
motion, railway oscillation, and railway dirt,
the latter working itself insidiously into
the space between the neck and the collar,
the wrist and sleeves, and making the hands
unctuously gritty. So that the conversation
in time languished from interest to commonplace,
from commonplace to sleepy silence in
cramped attitudes. On nearing the destination,
all became brisker, however, and more
confidential. The stranger stated that he
was going to the before-mentioned hotel —
call it Bellevue — and hoped he might
frequently see them again. The Warrington
expressed a similar hope. Then the stranger
asked if he might be allowed to introduce

VOL. II. Q

himself, and presented a card. It bore the
name " Dr. Julius van Westerdijk."

*' I am a Dutchman," he said, laughing ;
but I am also all but a naturalised Englishman."



George Farringdon gave him his card
gravely, and they parted at last for their
several apartments, expressing mutual esteem.
In fact, George invited him to join them
at dinner ; but Dr. Van AVesterdijk delicately
declined, saying he was sure, in their present
tired state, they would rather be alone.

'' Decent fellow, that," observed George.
First foreigner I've come across that I
really like. But then he's half an Englishman
really. Talks about the Park and the
theatres like a native Londoner."

He is very polite," said Dick, " and I
see nothing against him ; but I don't quite
like his looks, somehow. I daresay it is
quite an unreasonable fancy."

Daresay." And they dined.

After a few long lazy sunny days,
acquaintance ripened into intimacy, and
George Farringdon spent a good deal of
this spare time in the society of Dr. Van
Westerdijk. They smoked cigarettes in the
hotel smoking-room, and discussed the English
papers and the hotel cookery. They walked
about together, and drank beer in cafes.
Even Dick thawed to the new friend, whom
she now described as " the little Dutchman."
Her attitude resembled that of the child
who has been introduced to some strange
animal — say a tame stoat — and has discovered,
through daily association, that it
apparently does not bite. Dr. Van Westerdijk
allowed to leak out, in process of time, that
he was the proprietor of the Investigator (a
critical weekly paper dealing in literature,
science, and art), which gained him respect
in the English colony, and later, that he

also owned Tie Lamp, which gained him
much more respect, mingled with fear.
People who had hitherto ignored his existence
suddenly began to cultivate his acquaintance,
and occasionally had their reward when
they read in the paragraph information,
entitled " Flashes," their own names among
those of such English visitors as were sufficiently
exalted to deserve mention in a
Society paper. George Farringdon was one
of the first to receive that gratification, and
his heart warmed to the small foreigner from
that hour forward.

Have you ever been over to that
gaming-shop — what's its name — near here ? "
said George one day, himself well knowing
its name, having just finished reading a denunciatory
article upon it in an English newspaper.
They were sitting in the hotel courtyard,
round a painted iron table supporting
coffee and matches. George was on two

chairs, Van Westerdijk on one. Dick was
indoors, dressing to go out.

"Yes. Vain

it as bad as they make out ? "

I do not know how bad tey make it
out ; but tey cannot paint it blacker tan it is."

*' I mean all this business about suicides,
and dropping fortunes in a few hours, and
so on."

"It is done. Often. Were was a mana
quite yong man, vit a larch fortune, and
a beautiful place in Wales, who went over
were and dropped te tam lot in tree says.
Last some. I knew him."

Want of system, isn't it, makes a fellow
lose ? "

Want of money, as a rule. Yes. Do
you mean to write an article on it ? "

No ; not in my line, that, I'm afraid."

Ah, now you will excuse me if I say,
do not you go were to satisfy your own

curiosity. I am an otter man tan you, and
perhaps have seen a little more of te vorldt,
and vot I say is, tone go ! You have a
vaife — a charming vaife — and you are heir to
a creat name and estate ; you are young,
you are prove, you are of te chivalric class.
Think of all those responsibilities, and heifer
mind te ladies who will share you away, as
the sirens tried to share Ulysses. Neffer
mind te clang of te rouleau, te song of te
Thine daughters, or te ring of te Nibelung
goldsmith. I have not offended you ? No ? "

No, of course not, old fellow. Much
obliged ; but I think I know the world well
enough by this time to take care of myself."

"If I hat not known tat I should not
has spoken. Tone go I Look at me ! I
neffer go."

Here Dick appeared, the one feature the
garden missed, for no roses grew in it. She
said, " Are you ready, George ? "

Yes." George tilted his brown hat
forward from the nape of his neck, buttoned
his brown coat, and stood upright.

Dr. Van Westerdijk had been standing
ever since Dick appeared, bowing at intervals,
his heels together.

Do you know," she continued, " old
Admiral Sleaman has come ? I met him on
the stairs."

Oh, has he ? Rum old boy ; no harm
in him."

Contrariwise. And he has brought a
curious-looking Irish friend with him from
Paris, a patriot, the Admiral explained."

"Too patriotic to lis in Creat Britain,
perhaps, Madame Farringdon. Tat does
occur."

*' I don't know. I liked his face, though
he did look rather ' fiery and untamed.' "

Enter Admiral Sleaman, U.S.N., and with
him a robust gentleman with a tall hat

on one side, black-rimmed eyeglasses, and a
long grizzled red moustache.

Glad to see you, Mr. Farringdon. Let
me present my old friend Mr. Thaddeus
O'Eourke — Mr. George Farringdon from
England. What in anything's wrong with
your friend ? " Dr. Van Westerdijk had disappeared,
with a greenish complexion beautifully
"interpreted," as the critics say, by
the colour of his fur — hair, that is to say —
and a very unpleasant expression. He had
blotted himself out. It was like the operatic
scene where Mephistopheles cringes and dissolves
as to his backbone before the crucial
experiment of the sword-hilt. It is, perhaps,
hardly fair to compare the little Doctor to
Mephistopheles after his benevolent and
thoughtful advice to George.

"Well, we are going out. Meet you at
dinner. Admiral ; and you, too, I hope, Mr.
O'Eourke. Good-bye."

*' Mr. Warrington," began the Admiral.

"Yes."

Who was that man ? "

A friend of mine — Dr. Van Westerdijk,
proprietor of the Investigator, of which you
may have heard."

''Ah!"

The Warrington disappeared.

''O'Kourke."

'sir."

Mrs. Farringdon is quite a sweet young
lady, is she not ? "

She is."

"I'm told Mr. Farringdon is a wealthy
young man."

I don't know."

Who is Dr. Van What's-his-name, anyhow?"


"He is a blank sweep."

Yes, he is so ; snipe, we should say.
What scared him ? "

''My face. It has been frequently admired
; but he is prejudiced against it because
he saw it last through the disintegrating
works of a cane chair."

"How?"

''- 1 was breaking the same over his head."

Good for you. Have a cigar ? "

The Admiral produced two immense ones.
O'Eourke selected one.

"Say now, what do you know of that
complex result of inexplicable causes — that
Dutchman ? What's his game ? "

'game of hawk and pigeon. Very old
game that."

Here, waiter ! " added the Irishman to
one who happened to be passing.

"Sir."

Do you know Dr. Van Westerdijk ?
Does he come here often ? "

He has been here once or twice every
year for four years."

'' Here, take this and go and take a
drink. How does lie make his money ? '^

He gets some from England now. He
has circular notes sent him. Changes them
in the hotel."

*' Any other way ? "

Of course. He is well known here as
the Dutch Devil. Why ? Because he always
wins and never loses."

'^ Where?"

'' At Monte Carlo. Where should it be ? "

"Thank you."

After the paternal advice George Warrington
had received from Dr. Van Westerdijk,
it is hardly necessary to explain that, as a
man of the world who wishes to complete
his mundane education, he took an early
opportunity of visiting Monte Carlo, Nor
is it, perhaps, necessary to add that he did
not mention the fact to his wife or to anyone
else. On the first visit nothing particular

happened, and lie came back with
the conviction that it was not half as
exciting or attractive as either its enemies
or its devotees made it out to be, and that
a quiet pool with fellows you know was far
more amusing. From the second visit he
came back a winner by a small amount,
bought a box of cigars, and came to the
conclusion that it was not bad fun after
all. From his sixth venture he returned in
the state generally known as "cleaned out."
He sought out Dr. Van Westerdijk, and
made a full and self-abasing confession to
that worthy, concluding with :

'rand I'm hanged if I know how I'm
going to pay the hotel bill, to say nothing
of the journey back to England. I suppose
the police can't make them fork out ? Of
course I know the whole thing's a swindle."

"No. The police will not gif you back
te money you trow away, unless you can

proof it to be a swindle, and tat is not
likely. 'Ow much to you want ? "

George, on whose despondent heart a ray
of light now shone, mentioned a sum.

'* All tat ? I can pay your hotel bill
and your tickets if you like. Yes ? But
I am too poor for the rest."

"My dear fellow, I couldn't think —
you're awfully good, you know ; but really,
could you advance me a little ready ? "

In te first place, tone go to any of
te professional money-lenders here ; tey are
worse tan Monte Carlo. I advise you to
go back to England. When you are in
London, you go to tis address ; take my
card wit you — tey are friends of mine — it
is a firm of honest merchants who may help
you. No ; I forgot."

"What?" George was being alternately
raised and depressed, as a fish that is played,
or a pipe that is played on.

"I think tey dislike advancing money.
Tey to not wish to be compared to te
common Shews and swindlers."

*' Couldn't it be managed somehow? Do
think of some dodge'

"You shall have a note from me, and
I will ask it as a particular favor to me.
Perhaps tey will ten to something."

'you are a good fellow, Van Westerdijk,
and I'm awfully lucky to have met you."

"Luckier still if you had tekken my
advice."

"I say."

'veil?"

"Don't talk about these things when
you are with my wife, will you ? She
wouldn't understand, you know."

"Of course."

George wrung his hand and disappeared.
The little "Dutch Devil" skipped fantastically
round the smoking-room, snapping a

rude air on his fingers, and then looked
nervously out of the window to see if he
had been observed. He then sat down, lit
a cigarette, drew a sheet of note-paper to
him, and wrote as follows:

'* Madame,

'' The young man is going to England.
He goes to M. & Co. Let them be ready.

"I kiss your hands, and hope to see you
soon again. — Your most humble servant,

"Van Westeedijk."

Kiss your hands ! I'll kiss your face
yet, madame ! " he muttered. " Genius," he
observed in his own tongue to the empty
chairs, "claims higher rewards than expenses
and commission. I am not a machine to
be satisfied with coals and occasional oiling.
I am a creature of emotions, and my emotions
centre in one object ; at least they have done

lately, since our first interview a few months
ago, gracious Empress of Weissnichtwo. You
with your face, with what is rarer — your
brain — behind it, your passions behind that,
allied to me with my brains, my manners,
my education, and my influence — Lord of
Abraham, what a partnership ! You want
a master to direct your powers ; none could
fill the place like me. I will be your
master; I, Doctor of Philosophy of Leyden,
I swear it ! "

Mr. Farringdon, sir," said Admiral
Sleaman, "that Dutch friend of yours is a
snipe. Let himjalone. Excuse me, but that
is so."

'^ Excuse me. Admiral, but I prefer to
choose my friends for myself, and have
reason to count Dr. Van Westerdijk among
my best," replied George haughtily.

A Friendly ALLIANCE.

After the wedding at Sokebridge, Kimburls
and his sister took their leave of Claudius,
and were conveyed in a train to distant
Glasgow, to the great relief of their distinguished
host, who had latterly found their
presence almost maddening, unrelieved by
that of the younger generation, and thrown
unrestrictedly on his resources of entertainment.
They diverted him to the last moment
with long wrangles on routes and " Bradshaw,"
which exciting treatise they studied
and discussed together, becoming extremely
warm and dishevelled over it before arriving
at a definite issue of distinct mutual coiitra-

VOL. II. R

diction, at which juncture they appealed to
Claudius as umpire. The latter — whose
notion of travelling was to put his hat on
and start when Alphonse told him the carriage
was ready ; to get into the train when
Alphonse told him it was time, and that the
tickets were procured, the carriage warmed,,
and the newspapers cut ; to get out when
Alphonse told him the destination was reached
and a cab waiting — was not of much assistance
to them, until the idea occurred to
him : ** I must put these creatures in charge
of Alphonse, and tell him not to come into
my sight again till he can certify that they
are in a fast train which does not stop for
thirty miles from here." He therefore offered
the assistance of his servant, who was used
to travelling. They accepted, and the result
was that in half-an-hour's time they were
at the station ; in two hours they were in
London. Claudius was very nearly carried
away by his feelings into doing an eccentric

saraband round his library when they drove
away. He very nearly fell over various
things, subsided into his armchair, and
ecstatically lit his largest, curliest, deepest-coloured
meerschaum. That afternoon Mrs.
Brandon arrived, having been, Claudius presumed,
in London all the time. After a
short conversation, in which Claudius told
her all his troubles and experiences of the
last few days, she said :

And what has become of the young

couple ? ''

"Paris, pictures, dresses, shop-visiting in
broken English, ices — you know."

Indeed ! Where shall I forward Mr.
George Farringdon's letters ? "

'hotel du Louvre. Now let's drop that
subject."

"Very well. Shall I read you something?"


"If you will be so kind. Here is this
rather recent French book that has attracted

a lot of attention, the papers say, ' Le Nabab.'
Do you know it ? "

Yes ; I'd like to read it again. There's
a character in it I should think you would
admire — the Due de Mora. Where's the book ? "

Here you are. Make yourself comfortable,
take forty cigarettes and a matchbox
into your lap, and drive ahead."

"Your Excellency shall be obeyed."

That evening Mrs. Brandon wrote a note
and posted it herself. It was as follows :

Dear De. Van Westerdijk,

If you think of visiting Paris I should
recommend you to go to the Louvre. It is well
worth seeing. Mr. N. K. will gladly give you
letters of recommendation to his friends the
bankers, Steinthal & Schloss, Eue Vienne.
I enclose photograph as per desire. It is a
good likeness.

Yours very truly,

*'J. Brandon."

The only curious thing about this note
was that the photograph enclosed was not
of herself. It was George Farringdon's. Three
days later came a post-card from Paris, with
two or three words in a strange tongue, which
read from right to left. She smiled pleasantly
and threw it in the fire. It amused her to
wonder what the bright eyes of monkey-faced
Alphonse had made of this when he laid the
breakfast and scanned the correspondence.

At the same time," she reflected, " this
is absurdly theatrical of him. It is rather
like the half-educated political conspirator,
who reveres symbolic red caps, and skulls, and
bowls of blood. He might just as well have
written in good English and put it in an
envelope. Ah ! but he has saved fifteen
centimes by this means. I forgot that. He
is scrupulous with our money, we are to
understand, I suppose. He is a clever little
man — I rather like him. I don't believe he
could deceive me — or that he would try."

The mysterious inscription only meant
I have known him' and implied, no doubt,
that Van Westerdijk had used the photograph
sent him for the purpose of identifying its
owner. As we know, he did not make any
effort to make the young Warrington' acquaintance
until they started for Nice. He
spent the rest of the time in amusing himself
in Paris, as he could very readily afford todo,
with the combined assistance of the profits
of two serial papers, the letters to Steinthal
& Schloss, and an occasional little stroke of
'business " of one kind and another. In what
he called " business " the little Doctor walked
apart and was peculiar, and his ways were past
finding out. It may be that he was particularly
lucky at games of chance, such as
the Bourse, or games of skill, such as billiards.
It may have been both or neither, for all his
acquaintances ever succeeded in discovering.
Whatever it was, it seemed to prosper.

In the meantime Caspar stayed on with

the Danes through the early autumn, becoming
more and more of a general favourite
in that house. Sometimes he would go with
Charlie and Lily in a boat, and pull or sail
round the cape," as Lily called the journey
by water out of Sokebridge Bay into its next
neighbour Barton Bay ; and they would rest
on their oars in the still September evenings
out on that placid sea, and all look out to the
shoreless west, where the clouds were in alternate
orange and smoky streaks stretching over
miles and lonely miles of horizon. And they
would turn then to the sun-streaked angles
and promontories of the brown and yellow
earthy cliffs, which bore on their shoulders
the little town, with its red roofs coming here
and there through some cleft or depression
into the sight of the gazers on the water far
below. Sometimes, again, they would go out
for long walks, through woods and over downs,
till Caspar quite learned the geography of the
neighbourhood, and began to wonder why

people who lived in the country ever cared
to leave it. He and Miss Deane had long and
amusing discussions in the evenings, beginning
usually with literature, and ending with things
in general. She and he each wrote a story
against one another and against time. He
read his aloud, by request, and amused and
surprised them with it, and then insisted on
Miss Deane's being: read. This was done
against all protest by Charlie, and both stories
were inserted, to the great delight of the
whole Deane family, in the Lamp, to
whose staff Caspar had succeeded in attaching
himself.

To Lily Carew he was the object of special
interest and curiosity. He was, she thought,
a riddle to which she knew the answer. She
had guessed, with the help of Charlie's Schlan-
genera letter, at a state of things which never
entered the dreams of the elder branch of the
family. Much as they liked Caspar, he had
many moods and strange sayings and looks,

for which they were unable to supply reasons.
It came into Lily's head that she had the
opening chapters of a complicated and rather
enthralling romance before her, to which she —
and perhaps Charlie — alone had the paperknife,
as it were. He was reticent and laconic
whenever the Warrington became the subject
of conversation, as, of course, often happened,
and said nothing which suggested any special
interest in them on his part. All the more
reason, argued this female detective and
psychologist, for taking all that was unsaid
for granted. She had a taste for mysteries
and romances (was she not an author Vj and
here was her opportunity for mixing in one,
in some capacity or other. She resolved that
she was competent to take upon herself the
office of interrogator and repository of confidences.


Accordingly, one fine afternoon, when her
grandmother was dozing over her knitting,
her aunt out shopping, and Charlie engaged

in reading np the accelerator and depressor
nerves in his room, she found Caspar pacing
moodily about the lawn with a pipe in his
mouth, no hat on his head, and a volume
of German poetry in his hands, and spake
to him as follows :

'you'll get a sunstroke, Mr. Eosenfeld ! "

"Ah, you, is it?" And Caspar's face
brightened. He liked the pretty and wayward
little brunette, as one cannot help
liking anything lively, pretty, and I nearly
said harmless ; but it is unsafe to make
assertions which events may disprove.

"It is me — I, I mean. I am going into
the kitchen garden, not to pick a cabbage
to make an apple-pie of, but to eat gooseberries
and black currants. Will you come
and have some ? You had better, or I shall
take them all and be very ill, and it will
be your fault."

Yes, I will come. Don't depend on
me for the eating, though."

And they strolled off.
"Don't you like black currants?"
"When I was your age I didn't have
the chance of getting any. Now I don't
care much for them. We are Time's fools."
What were you reading when I came ? "
A sort of story about a poor trumpeter,
who made songs in exile about the land
he left behind him, about the old home, and
how heavy it made his heart, and a good
deal more to that effect, with elucidations
by a very acute old cat."

"Tell me more about it; translate some."
These orders are very sudden ; I don't
know exactly which you would like."

Begin with the one you were reading
when I interrupted you."

In English it is something like this :

This is of all life's cruel wrongs the wrongest,
That fairest rose-buds bear the thorns of pain ;

That in all love, the shortest and the longest,
We meet at first, at last to part again.

You will understand that it is quite against
my principles to translate. It is fatal to
this kind of German verse."
'never mind, go on."

For in your eyes I think I once have seen
A light like love, that lit the night in me.

God help you ! dreaming of what might have been ;
God shield you ! for it was too good to be.

I can't get any further, I don't think,
without muddling it worse."

'' Why do you read that melancholy
stuff?"

Why do you eat black currants ? "

That is a comparison I had not thought of
making. I don't think that book agrees with
you half as well as they do with me."

'don't you? Why not?"

Because you are always reading it when
you are by yourself, and you look gloomy
and solemn — like Hamlet. Then you are
very cheerful with us, and talk a great deal
of nonsense when there is any one to listen,

like Hamlet. So I think you must have
something on your mind, also like him."

Dear me ! What else have you been
pleased to notice?"

'' Only one other thing which has any
connection with your solemnity, and your
striding about with a German book and
without a hat — you will really get softening
of the brain if you don't get a hat."

'^ Like Hamlet, you would add ? "

No. I used to think he was mad,
because I was told so ; but if I did, I aren't
say it now before you."

Well, what is this other thing you
have noticed ? Symptoms that my brain is
becoming what Galen says most brains are
merely a spongy gland ? "

"You won't be offended, if I tell you?"

*'No, not visibly."

"Promise."

"By the nine gods I swear! What was
it?"

"Your expression when Dick Farringdon
passed you on her way to the altar."

'' Eh!" said Caspar suddenly, in a different
and deeper voice. " What did you see then ? "

"Oh, I'm not good at describing! You
know what I mean. I'm awfully sorry if
I've annoyed you."

«']Sro — no — no," replied Caspar absently and
slowly; "I did not think I was so transparent."

I like her so much," said Lily, with a
girl's tact for saying the right thing when
she chooses.

"Do you, Miss Carew? Then I think
she has got a good friend."

Is that sarcastic ? "

"No; not the least."

I thought the whole thing, wedding and
all that, such a hateful pity. I never liked him ."

Caspar said naught.

"Mr. Rosenfeld, girls can do things and
understand things that men can't always.
You may think me an awful young fool,

but I do think sometimes. I wanted to tell
you I would stick to Dick Farringdon, if I
could be any good to ber, whatever happened
to her. I know something will happen to
her; and I don't care what people say, you
know, as long as I get my way. So remember,
I shall always be her friend, and ready todo
anything for her. I thought you would
like to know this when you are away by
yourself working in London, and she should
be here, perhaps. I like her more than any
girl I ever saw. Don't you ? Oh, I beg
your pardon ! "

*' Lily Carew, I can only say thank you.
I am very glad you told me this; though
how on earth you come to know so much
about it ''

About you, you mean ! Oh, I'm a
witch — a black witch."

I think you are. We'll burn you some
day ; say next 5th of November."

Now, that is unkind, after all my

trouble. This is all private and confidential,
of course, Mr. Eosenfeld?"

Certainly''

And thence a firm alliance was ratified,
which remained firm, for all the flouts and
jeers which were usually exchanged before
an audience, between Lily Carew, the English
waif from Spanish America, and Caspar
Eosenfeld, the Jew.

Some weeks after this, on looking over
the paragraph 'flashes" in a copy of The
Lamp, Caspar was surprised to read that
Mr. and Mrs. Malcolm Farringdon had
arrived at Nice, and were staying at the
Bellevue Hotel.

How on earth do they get in here ? "
was his reflection.

THE END OF VOL. II.

Charles DICKERS AND EVANS, Crystal Palace Press.

OF THE

University

Of ILLINOIS



H552w
v5

WATERS OF March.

BT

JOHN HILL.

Farewell and adieu !
Each year that we live shall we sing it anew
With a water untravelled before us for sailing.
And a water behind us that wrecks may bestrew.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. III.

LONDON :
TINSLEY BROTHERS, 8, CATHERINE STREET, STRAND.

1883.
[sall rights reserved']

H 552 ^

Contents.

hart ihz Fifth.— Jtarriap ml death anb ^ibisixrn.

(Conned.)

CHAPTER IV.

Page

Thatcher's 3

CHAPTER y.

Versa Jena 20

CHAPTER I.
"i don't care" 39

CHAPTER II.

GEORGE HOLDS Two CONSULTATIONS ! . 62

CHAPTER III.
LILT SENDS HER INVOICE 82

CHAPTER lY.

LILT LEADS THE WAT 96

CHAPTER V.

THE WAT LILT LED 116

CHAPTER VI.

EXPERIMENTUM IN CORPORE Vii " . . . . 145

part the seventh.— she £id (Gathered in.
CHAPTER I.

LITTLE SKELTON STREET 171

CHAPTER II.

THIS HOUSE IS MINE ! " 199

CHAPTER III.

MRS. BRANDON'S VISITORS 217

Chapter IV.

PAGE

he's not safe ! " 235

CHAPTER V.

SCHLANGENBEEG 245

CHAPTER III.

Fab

LILY SENDS HER INVOICE 82

CHAPTER IV.

LILT LEADS THE WAT .96

CHAPTER V.

THE WAT LILT LED 116

CHAPTER VI.

EXPERIMENTUM IN CORPORE Vii " . . . . 145

part the ^^benth.— she gift m-&ihtxzb in.
CHAPTER I.

LITTLE SKELTON STREET 171

CHAPTER II.

THIS HOUSE IS MINE ! " 199

CHAPTER III.
MRS. Brandon's visitors 217

CHAPTER IV.

PAGE

he's not safe ! " 236

CHAPTER V.

SCHLANGENBEEG 245

fittt the Fifth.

(Continued.)
MARRIAGE AND DEATH AND DIVISION.

VOL. III.

CHAPTER IV.

Thatcher's.

There is a rather small hotel in one of the
streets running westward from Bond Street,
labelled Private, for reasons best known to
the proprietor. It is called Thatcher's Hotel.
Of course, Thatcher was and is not, but has
gone to join the highly-respectable fellowship
of defunct hotel-keepers in the upper room
(labelled Private) of some Elysian public-house.
The name of the present occupier
is Limerick, and he was once chief butler to
a duke. Notwithstanding this potent fact

B 2

in his favour, the tradition of the primeval
name carries a certain glamour with it, which
Limerick felt his own would fail to cast
on the generations whose ancestors had
handed down to them recommendations of
Thatcher's." Even now people said : " I
don't know who manages the place now ;
all I can say is, it used to be very good."

It had none of the harshness or meretricious
architectural attractions of your
modern great institutions, carried on, as it
were, by machinery under an anonymous company.
There was no eternally "singing"
electric - bell, or swift silent elevator at
Thatcher's. If you wanted to ring a bell,
you applied your weight to the end of a
green rope and waited. If you wanted to go
upstairs, Thatcher was not going to encourage
the luxurious tendencies of an effete civilisation
by propelling you up a shaft.

The entrance-hall was panelled, the ,



rail was wooden, solid, and wide, and the
floors and stairs a trifle to the right or left
of the plane of the horizon. At the door
an elderly waiter perpetually posed, and
treated you with the familiar deference of
an old family servant — utterly different from
the modern pallid, low-necked, fee-hungering
foreigner, who is either supremely supercilious
or abjectly servile.

A sort of square pulpit in the front hall,
where a porter sorted perpetual letters and
read the afternoon paper, gave the place
almost the air of a club.

The chambermaids were elderly — distinctly
elderly — the colouring of the house
was sombre, and the passages smelt faintly
of old upholstery and simmering mutton-chops.
The bill of fare was limited. You
might have steaks, chops, ^' joint," fowl, thick
ox-tail, mock-turtle soup, and fried sole ; and
there was a large cavernous inexhaustible

cheese, which stood as a decoration on
the real mahogany sideboard of the coffee-room.
Folk-lore said that the late Thatcher
was performing in the way Jacques du Bois
describes in the nurse's arms when that old
cheese was new. In fact, it was an old-established
family hotel, where the worth of
your money, not conspicuously laid out in
entertainment, was exhausted in keeping up
the intense respectability of the house.

In a private sitting-room upstairs, adorned
with a gilt mantel-piece mirror, a stamped
crimson baize wall-paper, four large prints
of " The Meeting of Wellington and Blucher,"
"The Trial of Charles I.," " The First Meeting
of the Royal Academy," and Wilkie's 'john
Knox Preaching," there sits in the window,
watching the street, with a current number
of The Lamp on her knees, a girl apparently
waiting to go out of doors, for she
has on a black hat, and a bronze-green velvet

TEATOEEB's.

jacket-body over her gray-green dress. She
is a very dainty and fragile small beauty,
who had now almost ceased to be startled
when addressed as Mrs. Farringdon.

It was March, and they had been here
several days, principally that Dick might
behold all and reap some of the advantages
of London life — from her husband's point of
view. That gentleman had been out since
their rather late breakfast. He had to go to
his boot maker's, he said, and he had not come
back yet, and it was near lunch-time, and
they were to go out immediately after lunch.

Dick had read all the paragraphs concerning
the movements, and stud or yacht purchases
of what the French like to call " the
high life," as well as a great deal of quaint
information from competent authorities concerning
people, things, and theatres, which
conveyed little information to her.

And between the paragraphs she had tried

to think over the curious experiences of her
first few months of married life — of the
Mediterranean pleasure-towns, and of the successive
days which seemed to mark themselves
only by successive breakfasts, luncheons,
walks, drives, dinners, and novel-reading,
with no great and distinguishing accent or
variation, no particular thing done, said, or
heard worth remembering. But what was
to be seen did not depend on the variations
of human habits and temperament. The
sea, and sky, and sunlight remained in their
perfect beauty the same, whether gazed upon
by cosmopolitan gamblers or by English
wedding tourists. She and George had been
the night before to a theatre, and to another
the night before that. Dick had been a
little amused, a good deal puzzled, and
somewhat surprised. George had explained
to her that certain speeches were witty,
because they referred to some town-slang

phrase of the day. He had been rather
"gravelled," to use a Shakespearean term,
by her asking him why he laughed so much
at certain jests on the stage which bore to
her no meaning. She asked him if there
was not just then a version of " Hamlet "
being rather remarkably performed in London.
George suddenly recollected that there was,
saying :

Would you like to go ? Lots of people
do go. It's one of the things to have seen,
I fancy''

There had gradually appeared between
them an increasing lack of common and
sympathetic topics of conversation. Ifc had
narrowed down almost to the statement by
him of facts picked up from acquaintances
and from the papers, and occasional facets
of an imperfectly humorous kind. George
did not seem to notice and observe many
things until his wife called his attention to

them. He would then assume the critical
attitude. She had detected him more than
once using a phrase from a newspaper paragraph
as his own spontaneous wit. Then
occasional friends of George's would appear,
old Oxford acquaintances from his club, and
the like, who talked a kind of solemn supercilious
argot, in which well-known social
names, theatres, the various entertainments
given in and by that microscopic fraction
of the community which they called Our
Set, and themselves, and their movements,
their health, or their plentiful lack of it,
and their favourite beverages would be
curiously intermixed.

The favourite topic of George's friends
was one of themselves in his absence.
Perhaps one of them might fancy himself
to be gifted with a sense of humour or
mimicry, and imitate well-known actors, or,
still more preferably, music-hall artists, and

then say, with a kind of heavy good-nature,
mixed with a dash of remorse : " But I m
afraid you don't care for this sort of thing,
Mrs. Farringdon ? " to the patient little lady
who tried to be kind and sympathetic with
these impossible self-centred young powers,
because to her, if not to him, they were
George's old friends.

But she had now lived in the intimacy
of marriage with George for several months,
and had found out, vaguely and gradually,
a good deal. She had found that the friction
of every-day life removed that external garniture
of borrowed wit, that admired faculty
of criticism and artistic conversation that
raised her husband so far above the mixture
of bluntness and sordidness of her family
circle. In fact, George Farringdon was
common-place, good-natured when he had
his own way, and not always thoroughly
and lucidly honest. It was very hard ; but

Dick had to let these convictions course
through her soul 'like iron through her
blood' Could she admit to herself the
next horrible idea, thought she, as she satin
that upper window of Thatcher's Hotel,
with The Lamp in her lap — namely, that
her marriage was a great mistake, which her
parents, her circumstances, her ignorance, and
her dutifulness had hurried her into ?

Could disobedient independence have produced
a better state of things? Questions
too hard almost for a nineteen-year-old bride
to ask herself. And far harder for her to
hear the answers to them out of the abyss
where truth conceals itself until it is too
late to be aught but food for regret. For
those answers reiterated themselves more
distinctly from day to day, whenever a meal
was taken or an hour or so passed in the
company of George Malcolm Farringdon.

At last he came in ; neat, short-haired,

well-washed, and slightly scented, perfectly
gloved (three buttons), a white 
bouquet, with maidenhair fern, in his
coat. His clothes were quiet in colour, defied
criticism in fit, and were a model of the latest
cut made fashionable by his tailor. He had
a cigarette in his mouth, and looked young,
delicate, and what might be called pretty.
He put his hat and umbrella on the table,
and said cheerfully :

Well, Dick, how have you been getting
on ? "

Oh, I don't know. I have been reading
and looking at the people who passed. What
did you do ? "

Well, I went down to that fellow in
the Haymarket, you know, and gave it to
him hot about those boots. He says he'll
make it all right, and the best of it is he
won't charge. The fellow saw he hadn't
a leg to stand on with me. Then I went

down the Strand to get a couple of stalls
for that Shakespeare thing you wanted to
go to."

"Thanks for remembering that."

"And while I was there I thought Fd
look in at the Thespian Restaurant. I don't
like it so well as the Praetorium, because
you meet such infernal cads there — nothing
but actors and literary characters on the
loaf. Saw one decent fellow there, though,
a man who gives valuable tips on certain
events. I must thank him for the way he
put me through that Manchester."

'^ What's that?"

Equine contest, dear — race."

"Do you like betting?"

''No, not particularly. Never run the
chance of losing much — not such a fool ;
but it is good form to know a little about
those things."

What is ' good form,' dear ? You know

you promised to explain all the things in
which my education was deficient."

"Now I wonder if you are trying to be
witty, little woman ? "

I don't see anything to be witty about.
I just asked."

Good form is doing what other fellows
do, who know how the thing should be done."

'rand how do they know better than

you?"

"Well, I don't say they do. But it is
a subtle kind of thing. Every fellow who is
a gentleman born knows what it means. It
is good form to pay your debts of honour, to
dress properly, to know the right people,
and to talk about the right things. Well,
then, I was going to tell you, in there I met
your old friend with the black hair and the
shaven face, the Hebraistic person, you
remember, who was with Deane at Schlan-
genera."

I remember."

And he was good enough to offer mea
couple of stalls for the first night of the
new Shakespeare play, which had been given
to him. He gets in as a critic or something.
He's not half a bad fellow."

"I don't think he is at all a bad fellow.
Did you take them ? "

Father ! Never refuse a good offer."

"But he won't be able to go himself
now."

"Oh, he doesn't mind that. He can
easily go some other time, I suppose. Well,
then I took a hansom, had a row with the
driver about sixpence — ended in my giving
him a drink ; went to the club, where I found
Crawshay — you remember Ally Crawshay :
you've met him, old Magdalen man. He's
dropped an awful lot on the Manchester. He
was infatuated enough not to take my advice.
Always told him what to do. He's no

definite prospects, and I don't believe that
mother of his lets him have much — or has
much to give him. The late baronet chucked
most of what he had on all sorts of things
horses, ladies of the ballet, and Lord
knows what other iniquitous extravagances."

"I am sorry for his mother, if he goes
on losing her money. Is that good form too ? "

"Well, he's a very good fellow, anyhow.
Always was an awfully popular man. I say,
you mustn't think you can understand the
instincts and intricacies of a man's life quite
yet, or we shall have you writing a romance
of the nineteenth century, or Society paragraphs
in Westerdijk's paper, or something."

I don't think I do understand men's
life here quite yet. But, George, haven't
you any friends who do something ? Something
besides talking at the club, and buying
clothes and boots, and betting on horse-races
? "

VOL. III.

'swell, most of my pals are like me, too
well off to need to do anything. There's
Deane — not that he crosses my path much —
he does an awful lot in his own line, I believe,
and gets prizes and things ; and doubtless is
now making scientific discoveries, and benefiting
the human race in some Smithfield
slum. It's quite right of him, and he's
got his money to earn ; but I shouldn't like
it if I weren't obliged to do it. Then
there's this man Eosenfeld, great pal of
Deane's, who wears seedy clothes and writes
things. Well, he may be very clever ; but
he looks an awful scarecrow, and I shouldn't
think he could invariably pay ready for his
dinner. Well, that isn't at all good form,
you know."

"Can't a poor man be good form?"
"Well, he can, I suppose. But I'm shot
if I see how. I wish you wouldn't pelt me
with those unhappy words."

"Well, I won't any more."

A knock came at the door, and the
ancient family retainer brought in a telegram.
It was from the Sokebridge doctor, and ran :

Your father in very critical state. May
not last. Better come."

'' Goodness ! " remarked George. '' I
wonder what we had better do ? "

*ego there, of course. I suppose they
have time-tables in the house ? "

Well, I suppose we had. But we shall
miss the use of those theatre tickets. However,
that will be more loss to you than tome,
perhaps, as I don't care about the way
they do Shakespeare now."

What way Mr. Farringdon did prefer he
did not stop to explain, but went to inquire
about trains.

They started for Sokebridge rather late
that afternoon.

c2

Versa Urn.

The stars blazed in the still spring night
above the silent black mass of the old house
at Sokebridge. There was no light anywhere
save in one window, whence a dull yellow
radiance filtering out on either side the
opaque blind signified that some watch was
kept in that house. It was early morning.
In perhaps half-an-hour one might expect to
see another kind of yellow radiance develop,

And flaky darkness break within the east.

But there was one in that house, in that
candle-lit room, who had seen his last dawn,
ay, and his last daylight, too, for the Night

had taken him to herself for ever. He had
not even had the privilege of warning or
amusing those he left behind by carefully
selected or spasmodic and spontaneous 'last
words." For he had died speechless and
powerless. The slow relentless destruction
that had long hung over him, like the axe
of the guillotine, had fallen at last.

Jessica alone had ministered to him and
seen him die. George and Dick arrived
only in time to see the corpse of Claudius
Farringdon. And a very dandified corpse it
was — well shaven, and possessing waxed
moustaches.

Dick had long ago gone to bed, tired,
sad, and shocked through her whole nervous
system. She had never seen a dead man
before ; and it seemed to her, who knew
not how long the sepulchre had been
building, that the end was awfully sudden.

George was standing before the great

coal-fire in the library, which had warmed
Ms father's long watches on many a winter
night. There lingered yet here, in Claudius's
sanctuary, a faint mixture of subtle scents
and choice tobacco. They were the only
souls he left behind to haunt the place. The
shutters were shut.

Nestling in one of the deep lounging-chairs
before him sat Jessica. In this very
serious moment of time, when the house was
hushed, and half the county round anxious,
silent, and solemn, when the life of the
man who had been more important than
aught else in her history had just flickered
down like an illness lamp upstairs, her first
instinct was to make herself as comfortable
as possible. George had his hands in his
pockets, and looked puzzled and gloomy.

^^ What were the last things he said,
Mrs. Brandon, when he could speak or
write ? " he asked.

"He gave directions that the vicar
should not be called in, saying that as he
had an aversion to being bored all his life,
it would be hard to be bored now, when he
could not help himself. Then he said : ' The
house and books will be George's, though I
don't suppose he'll care to read them.' Later
he said : / 1 don't want any interesting fictions
inscribed on a tombstone about the number
of my virtues and the people who will
weep for me. In fact, I don't care twopence
where you put my carcase, or what you put
over it.' The last thing he did was to look
at me and repeat :

You're a fair viol, and your sense the strings ;
Good sooth, I care not for you ! "

*' Quotation was one of his strong points,
gratitude was not."

There ensued a few minutes of silence,
.at the end of which Jessica said :

I suppose you were not much pleased
to find me here ? "

George looked at her. He had never
had a solitary conversation with this curious
lady before in his recollection, nor had he
ever studied her appearance minutely. On
previous occasions his mind and hers had
been full of other things. The rise and fall
of the flame-light was on her face — the best
light it could be seen in for artistic effect.
The fire was the foot-lights; George was the
audience, coldly inclined towards the play,
but curious to know more of it, in spite of
all d priori canons of criticism.

A great deal depended on Jessica's skilful
dealing here, in her mind at least. It was
true that one part of her scheme had been
accomplished through the aid of the skilful
and trustworthy man, Westerdijk ; but, being
a woman, it was not satisfactory to her that
a scheme of which she desired the accomplishment

should be controlled by anyone
but herself. She had quite set out on her
course now, and was a purposeful and skilful
woman. She had sold herself to the devil,
in antique parlance, in an hour of savage
misery, and meant to have her money's
worth of the bargain. She calculated on
all but two things ; first, the fact that she
was a woman, and that, therefore, her
emotions, however strong at starting, were
not certain to be persistent through all time,
and might possibly leave her in a very
awkward predicament by changing, some
fine day, in the sudden and apparently
causeless way peculiar to emotions when they
alone occupy the place of motives.

The other contingency she had not calculated
on was the failure of her own personal fascination
to have its due and customary effect.
In neglecting this possibility she was certainly
justified by experience, by her looking-glass.

and by her knowledge of the kind of creature
her powers were to be exercised on. Her
present task was to make peace with the
young heir, to convert that rather provoking
assumption of cold moral superiority, which
sat so well on George, into a more friendly
familiarity — no more.

You did not expect to see me, I suppose
? " she added, her first question failing
to elicit a definite answer.

"Well, I can't say I was surprised. Of
course I knew what ties — I mean I knew
your expectation that — at least I took it for
granted."

My expectation that — what ? If I may
ask, Mr. George Farringdon, who will shortly
be Mr. Farringdon without the George, what
did you take for granted ? "

If you will have it, I took for granted
you would come to look after your own
interests — as I have no doubt you have."

"Where the carcase is, etc. And I am
the ideal vulture, in your mind's eye ? "

I must ask you to speak respectfully
of my father, whether he is alive or dead,
please, Mrs. Brandon."

Did he, as far as you know, or do you
generally speak with any kind of respect or
consideration of or to me ? "

"That is different."

"Will you kindly explain the difference
in our behaviour or situation which makes
me forfeit any respect which is due to him ? "

"You shouldn't ask things like that. I
don't want to say things to offend you, and
the answer to that question probably would.
Be content with getting what you can out
of the sinking ship."

Mrs. Brandon looked annoyed.

Do you know how much I shall get ?
Do you know how much Claudius leaves
behind him ? "

'* Not exactly. I know lie is a wealthy
man. He lias lived as such, and always paid
his debts."

'then he never took you into his confidence
about it ? "

I can't say he did exactly. So you won't
get your information out of me."

But supposing you get it out of me ?
Supposing the confidence withheld from you
was reposed in me — what would you say ? "

George was startled and wrathful.

"I believe he was d — d helpless old ass
enough in his latter years to do many things,
but hardly that."

I must ask you to speak respectfully
of my friend, Claudius Farringdon, whether
he be alive or dead," said Mrs. Brandon, with
that very charming smile which accentuated
the slightly aquiline tendency of her nose.
She then continued: 'you will be able to
convince yourself very soon, no doubt, whether

I am telling you the truth or not ; and when
you hear it you will see that I could have
no motive in telling you such things if they
were not true. Your father will leave you
the place and the principal that brings in
the annual allowance he let you have at
your marriage. That is all."

Oh, come now ! Why, I have spent a
couple of years' income in the last seven
months, I suppose. Look here, if you know
so much about it, tell me who has got the
rest — not you ? "

''No, not I,"

'' Well, who, then ? I daresay we can
run them in for undue influence."

'' As you would have tried to do if it had
been me." Again the aquiline smile.

I shouldn't wonder if I did. And, by
Jove ! Mrs. Brandon, you had only got to
show yourself, and the judge would see what
a strong case I had," added George, laughing.

This crude compliment seemed to rather
please than annoy Mrs. Brandon, though it
suggested a well-known precedent case in
Greek mythology.

'' He has not given his money to anybody
who can be charged with undue influence.
He has spent it on himself, in the form of
an annuity. He got the most out of it in
that way during his lifetime, and, of course,
it didn't matter to him what might happen
to us''

'' !" remarked George. '^ People

oughtn't to be allowed to throw their money
away on books and hric-cl-hrac and things
when they've others to come after them t
It's a man's duty to leave his property to
his posterity."

"What would he have said to anyone
who told him so ? "

''He would have told posterity to follow
his example and take care of itself, in all

probability. "What's to become of you? Do
you get nothing at all ? "

Not even the formal shilling with which
people, in books, are cut off. But I'm provided
for. IVe laid by for a rainy day. It
may be looked on as a drizzling day now,
I think."

It is for me, certainly. However, I'm
glad you have not been landed as I have.
I have been counting on something better
than this state of things. In fact, I shall
be rather in a hole soon, I fancy. Wriggle
out somehow, I daresay."

I daresay. Like a slow-worm," she
nearly added.

What do you mean to do ? "

"I shall leave here tomorrow. I have
been getting a place in town ready to receive
me. I have a home — at least, I have made
one quite good enough for my small necessities,
95, Tavistock Square. If you will

condescend to call there sometimes, when
you have nothing else to do, I shall be
glad to have a chat with you. Whatever
else I am, I am at any rate an old friend
of your father's, am I not ? "

*'I shall be very happy — oh, certainly,"
replied George. It was wonderful to see
how far the attitude of moral reprobation
had broken down in the last few minutes.
This may be simply accounted for by remembering
that he was being talked to by
a pretty woman, rather older than himself;
that she had not taken from him any property
which theoretically should be his ; and that
his wife was safe upstairs in her bedroom.
This may not seem highly cogent or perfectly
moral reasoning, or indeed reasoning at all;
but it was quite sufficient for George. The
potent fact of propinquity overcomes many
scruples, and Mrs. Brandon, free and iu dependent
in London, would be on a very

different moral level to Mrs. Brandon dependent
at his home and capable of exerting
** undue influence." If anyone had suggested
to him that he was putting himself in the
way of temptation, he would have resented
it as impertinent and most unfair. He was
man of the world enough to take care of
himself. Even a sharp fellow like Van
Westerdijk had admitted that.

Hadn't you better go and get some
rest now, Mr. Farringdon ? You will have
a good deal to do the next two or three days."

I think, on the whole, I will. What
are you going to do ? "

'' I shall stay here and read a little ; then
I shall pack up. I'm going by the early-train
tomorrow. I shan't be wanted here."

Ah — yes, I daresay you are right," said
George, who was wondering how his wife
was to be introduced to this other lady ; and
felt grateful to her for removing a difficulty.

VOL. III. D

Dick's questions might be easily staved off;
but to have the two meeting at meals, etc.,
involved complications beyond his diplomatic
powers. " Well, good-night, Mrs. Brandon''

Good-night. I'm not so bad after all, am
I ? " she added, bending those Oriental eyes on
him, and waking in him the impulse to say :

By Jove, no ! "

If anyone had told him on the preceding
day that he would shake hands with Mrs.
Brandon, and that willingly, he would scarcely
have believed it. Yet it happened.

And she subsided again into her chair
with a quiet laugh, as he shut the door.

So I shocked you, Mrs. George, and you
can't associate for a single evening with me ?
Never mind, I think I have got you all now.
And the sins of the father shall be visited
upon the children till they learn that I do not
forgive or forget, and the Jew girl shall pay
you back with interest your outlay on her,
Claudius Malcolm Warrington. George is

a weaker fool that I thought him. It would
be amusing to squeeze him like an orange
and throw away the skin, even if I did not
hate him and all the tribe and all their
belongings. And poor old Caspar, I wonder
what he is doing? He shall share the spoil
if he likes — the girl for him ; he did not
know I saw him at the wedding, and that
I heard of him in Germany. The girl for
him. The estate for father, who can then
become a baron if he likes, and help to keep
the Eastern Question stirring, and give large
sums in charity ; good advertisement for him
always pays. And I ? Well, I get satisfaction.
Julius — I nearly forgot him ; he
will want to be paid off, I suppose. That
will be the affair of Baron Nathan von
Eosenfeld." And she read for a time. " Grand
lines these," she murmured :

Time turns the old days to derision,
Our loves into corpses or wives ;

And marriage and death and division
slake barren our lives.

"This is the sort I really like. It's warm,
though. Wonder how Mrs. George would
like it? I'll leave the volume in her way,
with a page or two turned down, before I
go. Hate those good girls — always did.
They always take such jolly care to let you
know they're good, and that they know it.
They hate TJs because the men prefer Us,
and the men are right. What are sixty fair,
pure, pallid, flaxen-haired girls to one of us ? "

THE Spread NET.

I don't care."

My heart is sir, I arena tell,
My heart is sir for somebody.

After Claudius Farringdon's remains had
been buried with all the barbaric pomp
suitable to his position in the county, and
satisfactory to the tastes and pockets of the
undertaker, George began to discover that he
was not half as much affected by the loss
as he imagined he theoretically ought to be.
Having lived a good deal apart from his
father, and been uniformly treated by the
latter as a distant and, on the whole, undesirable
acquaintance, he scarcely felt himself

in a son's position and did not seem to
miss a father. Indeed, *' if it had not been
for that beastly annuity," as he pleasantly
put it, George would have viewed the change
which made him lord of the manor with
extreme placidity, or rather with that sober
joy, that black-crape gladness occasionally
seen playing over the expressions of an
assembly of relatives, to whom as a last
sad consolation, a surprisingly favourable
codicil is being read.

After a few afternoons of loafing round
the stables with cigarettes, in a black suit, a
few nights of dozing between whisky and
water and The Sporting Times, in a wadded
smoking coat, and a few bad quarters and
halves of hours with the family solicitor,
who annoyed George very much by pointing
out to him the smallness of his income as
compared with the largeness of his liabilities,
he discovered that Sokebridge was slow —
devilish slow, as long as it was bad form for

the neighbours to call. ''I suppose," he said
to Dick, " they wouldn't stand it, if we sent
out cards next week ? I don't think they
would — you see, if I had the governor's
income as well as his place, it wouldn't
matter what one did ; but as things are we
must mind what we are about — here, at any
rate, where they are all sticklers for these
old-fashioned dodges — or people will be
cutting us."

Do you want people to come and call ? "
asked Dick, with some surprise.

"Well, it would make the place more
cheerful. It's rather a cow's life one leads
here, without society."

*' But it is such a beautiful place."

*' Scenery — oh yes, of course. But I'm
not so jolly enthusiastic as all that. You
can't talk to a sunset or a view."

I once thought you liked everything
beautiful so much."

Yes — I know — quite true ; but, all the

same, it's deuced dull when you've got
nothing else. I've read every blessed Society
paper through. By Jove ! now, if there was
a theatre or anything here ! — but then I suppose
one couldn't go. Someone would be safe
to see one."

'' George ! "

*swell?"

Why do you wear mourning ? "

You must. It's the right thing. People
expect it."

Dick asked no more. She knew George
pretty well now. If your pottery is cracked
it is of no use to expose its flaws. It is not
consolatory, and it will exhibit them often
enough without assistance.

At last George determined to go to
London, saying he would find some house
to let furnished for the season, and come
back for his wife when it was ready.

Dick was content enough to be left

behind. She had the library to employ her
time indoors, and meant to arrange a room
for herself with a selected set of books and
other appurtenances, as George had given her
carte blanche to do. Besides, there were the
extensive and really beautiful grounds to
roam about in, extending to the sea one
way, and halfway up the avoided down the
other. Poor Dick ! A girl of nineteen ought
not to like solitude. It is not a good sign.
And in her loneliness in the old house among
the old furniture, the old treasures, the
pictures and the books, Dick thought very
sad thoughts indeed, as she sat in her own
window, watching the April days die; looking
at the great splendid sunset clouds,
looking at the light rosy flecks and streaks
high up in the blue, as the light and life
faded out of them, waiting for the soft night
to advance from the west, and the lonely
stars to shine over the stillness sea. The

world and the sky and the sea were beautiful,
but they were terribly empty of all but
memory for her. She might have had — so
much ! She had got — so little ! It was just
the million-and-first repetition of the old
story. *' The world is empty, and gives us
our wishes no more. Father, take back your
child to yourself. I have enjoyed the one
joy of the earth, I have lived and I have
loved." Old reiterated words, old reiterated
story, quite as old as the world, perhaps as
old as the universe. The people in Mars and
Venus and the Pleiades probably know the
story and sing the song ; but it appears to
each of us as an unexampled and horrible
novelty. Dick had lived, and loved — loved
one man and married another ; nothing commoner
: now she was finding it out too late ;
nothing commoner. It happens every day,
no doubt; so do murder, and lying, and
treachery, and birth, and love, and death :

important things some of them to most of lis.
Dick was alone in the world, and thought
she knew nobody she cared to speak to or
think of — but one ; and he was too far for
speech, and too near, much too near, to her
thoughts. Why, why, why ? was the whole
burden of her lamentation. " Why was I so
weak, so ignorant, and so short-sighted ?
Why is my whole life spoilt and made sad ?
Why am I punished so much for just being
a silly little girl and knowing no better ?
And he — he — if I could only stand again
in the shade of the old red tower and hear
him speak, and watch his eyes, and look
with him far away into the crimson sky;
once see again the face I never quite see
when I dream of him, and have him talking
to me alone in the summer evening ; there,
where the fire-flies were circling in the fir-trees,
where we looked down on the lights
of the town below that made it so beautiful

at nio'ht — and then die afterwards. I don't
think it could be wrong just to see him
once like that, and ask him to forgive me
for being — what I can't help ; it wouldn't
be wrong if I died afterwards, and he would
understand." And she did not cry. She
sat still thinking all this, while the stars
rose over the sea, and the cold night wind
came in and brought her dreams, more and
more dreams from beyond that sea. And
she took the wind to her bosom and welcomed
it, because it came from over there — the
place where she had once been very happy,
so happy that she did not know it. She
went over all that Caspar had ever said to
her — she found she had it all by heart.
She remembered the colour of his clothes,
the way he looked when he said : " Goodbye,
Mrs. Farringdon." Then the thought
came suddenly : '' Suppose this should be as
bad for him as it is for me. Would I be

glad or sorry ? I should be glad, glad, glad 1
and now I'm wicked as well as unhappy.
Oh, my darling, shall I never be able to
tell you ? " And the cold night wind blew
on her from over the sea, and Dick sat alone
in the darkness, watching and waiting, waiting
for the tears that would not come, and the
love that would not go.

All very absurd, wasn't it ? But it was
no joke to her. It was not one only, but
many nights that saw Dick sit so, gazing
at the sea in the time of deepening shades :
that is, the time for rest and memory. All
evening clouds and summer twilight skies
are full for those who can read them, of
messages and memories. Dick could read
them. Everyone can at some time, when
love has lent a painter's eyes and sorrow
a poet's heart to the perhaps otherwise commonplace
being.

Over and above all which — Dick caught
a bad cold.

In the park of Sokebridge Manor there
runs a broad and shady path, on a low slope
near the sea. It is in deep shadow, save
where a rare streak of sunlight finds its
way, in the afternoon, through the immense
trees that grow at irregular intervals on
either side of the way. There are giant firs
whose lowest branches sweep the ground
between ancient elms, some half split by
storms of long ago, above whose highest
and most insecure-looking twigs the rooks,
noisily circling, discuss their annual architectural
efforts. A lower growth of shrubs
joins the trees into an almost continuous
wall, save where some steep slope leads to
worn stone steps disappearing into darker
and more ivy-grown woody recesses, or where
a tree-formed cavern half reveals a fishes
fountain, where no waters plash to disturb
the stagnant pool where weeds float in pale
green streamers, where tall reeds stand motionless

in solitude unbroken even by a breeze,
and where newts and tadpoles flourish exceedingly.
Through an occasional arch-like
aperture on the lower slope glitter foliage-framed
visions of the distant sea, purple and
green. And from here it looks solitary too.

The path is of old copper-coloured gravel,
unwept and uncared for now, with patches
of green moss looking like verdigris on the
copper. Since Mr. M'Cullach, the head
gardener, had retired after Claudius Warrington's
death, his place had not been filled,
and his underlings took their own way, which
led them by the most direct route to the
nearest public-house. Consequently the path
was unpolluted by the process dear to gardeners,
by them called tidying up.

On this path sauntered the girl-wife,
Dick Farringdon, and her new-found friend,
Lily Carew, in the rosy and flamy light
of a spring evening, when the new pale

VOL. III. E

yellow and green leaves had begun to speck
the sombre woods, when the face of the sea
was lit with a salmon-coloured glow from
the west, and the hidden voices of the nightingales
sang all round them.

'rit is almost a new place to me, you
know," said Lily Carew ; "I hardly ever
remember coming here while old Mr. Warrington
was alive."

'rit is beautiful, isn't it ? "

Yes. It seems just the place for you
to live in, with plenty of beautiful things
to look at, and not too much to think about."

"That's a pity, for we are going soon.
George has written to say he has found a
house, and will come and fetch me."

What a shame ! "

"Why?"

"To leave this place now of all times.
Don't tell me you really want to go to
London ! "

"Ob, I don't just know It's beautiful

here, certainly. I can't say that I wish I
was away. I suppose a place always looks
best when you are going to leave it."

Don't go, then. Say you mean to stay
here. Put your foot down firmly. Never
mind the beetles, you won't crush them."

"That won't quite do. You see George
wants me to be in London."

Lily's brow lowered.

'^ No one would make me go anywhere
I didn't like, if I had fifty husbands."

Wait till you have one, Lily."

Well, I know what I would do, and
what I wouldn't do. But there, I never
went in for having an angelic disposition."

*' Is that meant to imply that I do ? "

'' You don't need to go in for it, my
dear Dick, any more than you need to dye
your hair fair. But I think bowing before
the storm and being humble to adversity,
and so on, is all rubbish."

E 2

Do you ? But I don't propose doing
either the one or the other, I am only going
to town for the season."

London is a hateful j)l^ce. The average
of small-pox has risen lately ; you will catch
it and lose your beauty."

^'Oh, I think I can risk that. Then
there are all sorts of nice things to do. There
is the Academy."

I hear it is going to be a disgracefully
poor Academy this year."

"And then there are the theatres. I
take quite a childish delight in going to
theatres — you see I never was in one before
I was married."

"Yes. That must be jolly!" said Lily,
forgetting her assumed oracular pessimism ;
and then, suddenly relapsing into it, added
impressively : " the papers say that the drama
has never before reached such a low ebb as at
the present moment."

''I don't believe you ever read a newspaper
and you are just inventing. But I
should really like to see the Academy.
Fancy now, if some poor fellow, who lived
and worked in a garret by himself, had
sent some small landscape which the hanging
people had put in some out-of-the-way
corner where no one noticed it, while he
kept watching the people pass by, and
wondering and hoping if someone would
at last stoop down and look at it. And I
might see it, and then it might be some
place I remembered, in Scotland say — or —
or Germany. And I would buy it, and bring
it down here ; and he would be so happy,
and buy a new pipe and some beer, and
take the rest home to an old mother
perhaps, and she would be proud and glad
and I should have done it."

''He would spend it all on beer. They
always do."

'' Indeed ? Oh, but you know there are
splendid geniuses, poor young men, living
alone and working hard against debt and
time, and wearing out their brains to reach
the hearts of people who don't care twopence
whether they live or die. And it is often
quite an accident if people get to know them
and like them ; and when they are proud,
and won't paint pictures of babies or write
silly novels, which people like, they go on
getting older and prouder and sterner-hearted,
and poorer, until they just die. And no one
at all cares, except the one or two friends,
poor like themselves, who have always stuck
to them without being able to help them.
And that must be just awful."

Really ! You have a wonderful imagination,
Dick. I don't believe much in your
friend the starving genius. They can always
paint old masters for dealers, or write tracts
and Floriline verses, and I believe as long

as that keeps them in tobacco and whisky
they don't much care for national recognition
of their genius. Unless the nation recognised
it at a shilling a head in a private gallery.
But it's a pity you are going away so soon."

"Why?"

Because Charlie is coming, and we asked
him to bring a genius with him. He is not
starving exactly, I'm afraid, but he is otherwise
everything you could want. He wears
old clothes — he told me he dealt in them —
has long hair, and is as mad as the united
hat trade. And I like him ever so much.
So do you."

"Who is it then?"

Don't be hypocritical — I beg your
pardon, Dick, I couldn't help saying that.
It's Caspar Rosen feld, of course. I never
knew anyone like him, did you ? "

"I don't think I ever did."

** It's so delightful to see him trying to

delude himself into the idea that he is misanthropic
when he is really so absurdly good-natured
and tender-hearted."

Do you think that ? "

Of course. I know it. Don't you ? "

Well, yes ; I've often thought something
of that kind was really what his nature was."

Oh, you have, have you ? And don't
you think he's awfully good-looking — in a
strange sort of way, I mean, quite different
to the ordinary handsome man one sees or
draws on scraps of paper from imagination,
with a Greek nose and a big moustache ? "

'' I am not in the habit of drawing handsome
men from imagination."

*' What do you do it from then, memory ?
That's better, of course."

Nonsense. Look, there is someone coming
down the steps."

'' Goodness ! It's Charlie — I suppose Mr.
Kosenfeld is behind. Oh, I am glad "

Surely, he isn't behind, I hope — I don't
see anyone. How do you do, Mr. Deane ? "

"Delighted to see you again, Mrs. Farringdon.
Well, Lily, in your orisons are all
my sins forgotten ? "

'' Why haven't you brought Mr. Kosenfeld,
Charlie ? and how did you know we were
here?"

Caspar wouldn't come. Some bosh about
work or something, and didn't seem to want
to come ; I didn't know you were here, and
I have been exploring the park for you on
spec for about an hour."

Is Mr. Rosenfeld working very hard ? "
asked Dick.

** Seems to be. I found him the other
day wallowing in ' copy ' in his shirt sleeves,
smoking a clay pipe, and looking awfully
played out. He does his journalistic work
all day, and independent writing of his own,
with coffee, all night, I fancy."

"But why?"

"That's just what I said; and he said
beggars couldn't be choosers, or some equally-refreshing
and original sentiment. Kum old
boy. I say, Lily, don't you think it's time
to go home to tea ? "

"Wait a minute, Mr. Deane. "Why
shouldn't you and Lily come and take tea
with me ? We will have it in the library,
then we can go and watch the sunset afterwards,
and you can take Lily home."

That is a most inviting proposition ; I
think we should be foolish not to accept it,
don't you, Lily ? "

Oh yes, it's awfully kind of you, Dick."

"My dear people, I only want your
company a little longer; and I have a proposition
to make which we will talk about
when we get indoors. Come away."

The three went together into the house
and sat in that luxurious old library, where

a trace of the old atmosphere still lingered,
though the glass door opening on the lawn
was open, and the spring air was straying
in. Tea, and bread-and-butter, and small
cakes on a small table between them, invited
attention.

Luxury, by Jove ! after Great Brown
Street," remarked Charlie. '' London's a very
nice place ; but it's nicest for the people
who can afford to live in the country."

'* There!" exclaimed Lily, '^ that's just
what I've been saying ; and here's Dick
going away to London just as I have begun
to know her."

"Listen a little while. What I was
going to propose was," said Dick, "that I
would ask you and your aunt. Miss Deane,
to come and stay with me in town, when
our house is ready, for as long as your
grand mamma can spare you. I don't think
George is likely to object ; I asked him one

day if I might, and he said 'All right.'
Will you try to get over your disapproval
of London for a while ? "

'' You angelic little creature ! " exclaimed
Lily, falling upon Dick's neck, and behaving,
Charlie said, as Mr. Crumbles did to Nicholas
Nickleby at their celebrated farewell.

After the pale twilight had begun to
replace the glow of the evening, Charlie
noticed that Dick Farringdon had a cough.
He said :

"You have no rio^ht to be sitting in
open windows like this at night, Mrs. Farringdon.
You have got a cold already ;
take the word of the faculty for it, you
can't afford to risk getting it worse."

*'I don't care."

Charlie did not seem to hear this.

What ? " said he carelessly.

I must be more careful. You are
right, no doubt." But Dick moved not

from her position in a low chair in the open
French window, with the breeze on her that
filtered through the cedars and came from
the land of the setting sun.

Charlie and Lily eventually left, and
rambled home together, were slightly late
for supper, and took the consequent scolding
very complacently.

GEORGE HOLDS TWO CONSULTATIONS.

In the meantime George had gone to London.
On business, he stated to such acquaintances
as he saw at the railway station, with that
tendency to apologise to public opinion
which characterised him. In the train he
took out a very elegant pocket tablet of
ivory and a gold pencil-case, and appeared
to be absorbed in deep calculations. Judging
by his expression, the results were unsatisfactory.
This was natural, for the figures
he was jotting down and wrestling with
were his budget, his strictly private plain
statement of revenue and expenditure, in

which the latter item bore to the former
the proportion frequent in South American
Republics. Notwithstanding this fact, ho was
of course travelling in a first-class carriage.
People like George economise by reducing
their wives' dressmakers' accounts, circulating
library subscriptions, and pony carriages,
criticising the servants' appetites, and
saying : *^ I can't think what you want with
a maid. Why can't women dress themselves,
I wonder?" The last things it occurs to
them to disestablish and disendow are their
cigars and dog-cart, man-servant, luxurious
travelling, and sporting papers. As there
was no one in the compartment to report
him and gain a reward of five pounds by
doing so, George put his feet on the cushion
before him, dismissed the budget into his
pocket with a parting oath, and settled himself
to smoke sleepily a long and mild cigar
(one of those celebrated Havana that are

exported so plentifully from the free city of
Bremen), to glance at Tie Lamp and The
Sporting Times, and digest the matutinal
brandy-and-soda with which he had fortified
himself at starting. By the time he
reached the terminus he was plunged in a
refreshing sleep, with the expression of an
infant in whom there is no guile. On
waking that expression altered. He left his
newspapers in the train, had his portmanteau
and hat-box put on a hansom, and
drove to 'the Tavistock" in Co vent Garden.
No Thatcher's for him when he was
en jargon — ridiculous idea — such hideous
slaveys too, they made a fellow sick to look
at them. There he had a plate of whitebait,
some cutlets and tomato sauce, a pint of
champagne and a glass of chartreuse. After
these simple refreshments, so suited to a
healthy young man obliged to economise,
many of whose betters lunched on biscuits

and a glass of milk in Newcastle Street, lie
strolled out into the Strand and entered the
inviting portals of the Gaiety Restaurant,
settled in a niche before another chartreuse,
and was before long there detected by Dr. Ian
Westerdijk, who was returning from the
City, and had not failed to enter this one
of the many places at which many a literary
character is accustomed to halt on his way
(with a black bag) from business to home.
This dignitary settled down by George's
side and invited him to drink at his (Dr.
Van Westerdijk's) expense. George, who
knew that was the right thing to do,
whether he wanted it or not, elected to take
another chartreuse. The doctor ordered a
black coffee. Black coffee was the limit beyond
which his dissipations never strayed
in business hours. In whatever mysterious
haunt might be his home, perhaps he took
a glass of Schiedam.

VOL. III. F

"I have been wanting to see yon," said
George.
Yes ? "

Fact is, I'm in rather a hole, you know
that advance Marsden & Co. made —
deuced kind of them it was to break their
usual rules to make it, too — I ought to pay
it back, you know."

Yes, I should say you ought. Som-time,
soon, yes?"

It's been left a good deal to my discretion,
but I have lately had a note, or rather
my solicitor has, quite a civil note you
know, not pressing and that sort of thing,
but meaning at the same time that they
would like to see the colour of my money."
*-Vell? You will pay ten. You 'ave
chose come into a fortune ? No ? "
*^ Devil a bit. Wish I had."
'' I tort you had. Who is te man were
vit Ions black hair and a mouth made for

talking ? Do you know ? Yes ? I know
most people here, but I 'ave not seem before."

Where ? Which ? "

Standing at te bar with my contributor,
Moriarty."

*' That's Kosenfeld. I don't know who
Moriarty is."

*' Tat Eosenfeld ? Ah, another of my
pepol. But he does not com often to the
ofl&ce, and I am not were often. I know
his hant writing. Yes."

*^ Well, but what do you think I had
better do about this money? I suppose
there is only one thing to do ? "

"Yes?"

Go to the Jews, I mean. Do you
know anything in that line ? Could you
lay your finger on a man who could advance
cash for a short time, any blooming interest
he likes, you know, and wait till he gets it ? "

'' I should be very sorry to advise any

F 2

yong man to do anything of the sort. Chose
think vot course you are entering on. You
would have to gif security — vot security
could you gif ? Chews won't tek your words,
you know, not if you were te Queen's son."

"There's the place."

'but tat is a serious responsibility for
you, supposing you could not pay ? "

'•' Oh, but I could in a little while. Half
what that old solicitor said was all bosh to
frighten me, I believe. If he thinks that's
the way to stop me doing what I like with
my money, he'll find he's jolly well mistaken
that's all."

"Yes. I would not be dictated to. No
not for Venice. No ! "

I don't see what Venice has to do with
it. However, if I am determined to get
some money, it can't do you any harm to
tell me of somebody, if you can, who is less
likely to land me than some unknown and

accidental chap I may happen on. Anyhow,
if you can't tell me of anyone, perhaps
Rosenfeld can — he's a Jew himself."

The little doctor started, and his eyebrows
went up and then down, and he said :

You wait. Anode think ? Yes ! Now
look up here. Do you really mean to borrow
money ? "

*' I do, as you put it so. But you know
I must."

'' You most. You see I 'ave don all I
could, as friend, to present you ? I told you
lonkako at Nice, you most not risk your
future at te gaming table. You go, you
game, you play, you win, you lose, you are
artupp ; you must get money, you go wit
little letter from me to Marsden & Co. —
honest, gentlemanly merchants, who make
you a private advance chose out off courtier tome,
and tey tek your words for it, you signing
a bit of paper as a matter of form. You

are a gentleman, you 'ave a character — a
position."

Yes, yes," said George impatiently, " I
know all that, my dear fellow, and assure
you I believe you have said everything judicious,
and your acts have been as kind as
your words. But it all goes to show I must
get the money."

"I suppose you most. Veil — I can get
it for you."

Good man ! I believe there isn't a
difficulty a fellow could get into you haven't
a remedy for."

'' Oh, I don't know," said the small Dutchman,
with an amiable smile.

Caspar, who was lounging against the bar
at this moment, turned round, and looked
keenly from under his level black brows at
the pair.

Who's that ? " he said, in an undertone,
to Mr. Moriarty.

"Van Westerdijk. Don't ye know urn?
He's our preproyutor."

The devil he is ! "

"I don't know the other. Why, haven't
ye seen the former before ? "

'' I think I have." And Caspar continued
to survey the pair.

"Look here," said Van Westerdijk to
George, "can you branch to meet me — and
the Shylock I shall sint — tomorrow, severe
at som time — or som other tay ? "

Oh, yes. Sooner the better. But look
here, I draw the line at pictures and cigars
and wine, you know. I only want cash ! "

Traite. You shall 'ave it."

I don't know how to thank you for all
your good nature. Van Westerdijk, I'm sure."

"Don't trow your gratitude away on te
undeserving. I don't lent you the money. I
most be off now. I will write to you. Goodbye."



*eta, ta." And Van Westerdijk left the
niche. George felt cheerful, talkative, and
generally benevolent. He had had a pint of
champagne, and three glasses of chartreuse,
and his difficulties were staved off, presumably,
for the time. He felt he must talk to someone
it did not much matter to whom, and looked
up in search of an acquaintance. He caught
Rosenfeld's eye at once, gravely contemplating
him. George nodded amicably, and beckoned ;
Caspar strolled over to him, and sat down at
George's invitation. George vas cordial. He
was excited. His face glowed. His conversation
at times ran a narrow risk of becoming
intelligent.

Haven't seen you for ages, Eosenfeld.
You all right ? "

"Thank you, yes. Are you staying in
town ? "

*' Came up house-hunting. Left the missus
at home. Knocking about en jargon.

You understand that sort of thing, don't
you ? "

I think so' said Caspar, with a strange
longing to wring his interlocutor's neck.

*when I'm sick of it, I'll settle the house,
and go back you know, fetch her up, and be
proper."

'' Is Mrs. Farringdon quite well ? "

"Very jolly indeed, thanks. Know the
fellow I was talking to, don't you ? Van
Westerdijk ? Of course you do. You write
for The Investigator, don't you ? "

"Yes."

Can't say it's much in my line, so I won't
pretend I've read it. But I read The Lamp
every week. It's often spicy, but I can't quite
rise to the high intellectual level of you
Investigator fellows. I do like art and literature
and that sort of thing in a way, but The
Lamp puts one up to all the tips, just enough
to be able to talk about in society, you know.

while the other thing analyses, and criticises,
and synthesis, and so forth until your brains
addle."

*'I often feel that myself. Is Dr. Van
Westerdijk a great friend of yours ? "

'best I have in the world at present.
He's landed me out of a money difficulty, and
that's the best thing a friend can do, I take it."

'unless he lands you in another. But I
am speaking generally. I know but little of
Dr. Van Westerdijk."

"And that little? Good?"

"Well, on the whole— bad."

He didn't know you by sight. He asked
me who you were."

"Curious. I asked who he was. Don't
consider my opinion of him as final, on any
account. He may be the ideal philanthropist
as far as you are concerned. Men take strange
fancies. You were saying he was going to lend
you money ? "

George was now at that particular stage
when men become confidential, and ready to
swear eternal friendships with comparatively
indifferent persons on the slightest stimulus.

'' Well, my dear fellow, the facts are this,
way. But you're having nothing. What will
you take, champagne ? "

'' Thanks, I'll have a glass of beer."

'* Oh, rot ! Have some of the boy. Waiter t
A small bottle of champagne, and two glasses""

"Yes, sir."

Well, I was going to say, I'm in debt.
All fellows are. All the fellows I know are.
But they've mostly got people or expectations
or something to help them out of it. I had
people — at least I had a governor, and I had
expectations. Well, he went and died and
landed me most iniquitously. It turns out
that he has been living on an annuity, and
has left me as poor as I was before, bar the
estate. Well, there's a ramshackle old house

not good for much, bar picturesqueness, and
as I was saying to my wife, beauty is very
nice — nobody more ready than me to allow
that — but I'm d — d if you can eat it, or make
it draw your carriage, and buy your clothes.
There are a lot of books in it — some of them
may fetch something — some jugs, and crockery,
and furniture, and so on. Wife likes them,
and so of course do I, but I have not her
enthusiasm for the antique and romantic. She
reads The Investigator, you bet."

'does she?" said Caspar. "Ah!" And
Caspar remembered that accidental admission
whenever he laid pen to paper thereafter, to
produce '' copy " for that organ.

George doled out champagne liberally.

"Won't your friends join us?" he asked,
looking at Mr. Moriarty, who was discussing
the critical condition of their mutual motherland
with Mr. O'Eourke, who had arrived a
little while before.

Oh, they are very innocently happy with
their whisky. Better leave them. Besides,
you don't want to talk of your affairs before
strangers, do you ? "

'' By Jove ! No. You're right, Eosenfeld.
Here's your health, old fellow. Well, I'm
going to get my debts paid by the Hebrews.
Beg your pardon, didn't mean anything
offensive."

'^ Don't mention it. It no more offends
me to mention money-lenders, because I ama
Jew, than it would offend you, as a
Christian, to hear me talk of burglars or
drunkards, professions considered too violent
and hazardous by my people. But you won't
get money without heavy interest, and heavy
security."

Oh, bother the interest ! I don't mean
to pay anything till I feel inclined. They
can have the house and place for security."

"Suppose your bill falls due when you

are not ready to pay, are you prepared to
give up your father's house, and all the
refinements, little luxuries, and all the acres
you own ? "

Well, of course not. It's risky. But
what can I do ? Look here, Kosenfeld, you're
a good fellow ; you know me, I'm devilish
sorry if I've ever been offensive to you, I
am a little patronising sometimes, I know."
George was now sentimental.

Well, you are. But I don't mind. I
don't want to see you, and yours, dragged
into an abyss, whose depths you know
nothing of."

But what am I to do ? " George was
alarmed and excited, with the dread of some
nameless, shapeless horror. Two pints of
champagne, and three glasses of chartreuse,
and his debts and doubts produced an unhappy
crisis in his mind, synchronous with
a waving sensation in the eyes, and internal

physical uneasiness. Caspar thought long,
and said at last :

Make over your estate in trust to someone
— say your wife. You can enjoy it just
the same, and no one can touch it."

By Jove ! I will. You're my guardian
angel, Eosenfeld."

Quite so. But do you think you can
keep the same mind a day or two longer?
Until you are out of the clutches of Dr. Van

Westerdijk and his friends ? Believe me "

Ah ! It's me friend Caspar ! " said a
familiar voice, and a pair of glasses beamed

radiantly on the pair. "And Mr. 1 know

um very well. I've forgot his seem — knew
um at Nice — Admiral Layman, chorion
wife. Remember O'Kourke, sir ? "

Of course, of course. How are you ?
Have some champagne ? "
\ *' Don't think I'll mix champagne with
whisky. I've brought ut with me. I hord

ye talking' of Dr. Van Westerdijk : I hope ye
don't believe in um still ? "

*' Well, I don't know just what to think.
I think, if you men will excuse me, I'll go
out in the air and think there. Cool my
head, don't you know. Good-bye, see you
all again soon." And George went away
with a slight lurch.

''He's drink."

"Not quite. But he's excited."

"He's forty." And Mr. O'Eourke cocked
his hat, fingered his moustache, and ordered,
at Caspar's invitation, his seventh glass of
whisky, which he took with the same impunity
and equanimity as the preceding six.
It affected him in no way but to enrich his
brogue.

It's horrible," he remarked axiom amicably,
to see a man drunk. It degrees humanity
provided humanity is capable of degradation."


George, after a short walk in the " caller
air" of the Strand, hailed a hansom irresolutely
and automatically.

"Where to, sir?"

"Ninety-five, Tavistock Square."

VOL. III.

LILY SENDS HER INVOICE.

About a week after the events recorded in
the last chapter, Charlie Deane lay reading
in bed in all the lazy luxury of a Sunday
morning, whose spring sunlight streamed in
at the open window, the following letter
which had arrived late the night before :

Dear Charlie,

I meant to have written before, but
you see I didn't. You know my way of
putting things off, especially agreeable things.
I have been enjoying the pleasure of
anticipation of writing instead of doing it.

Hope you enjoyed it too. We — i.e., Aunt

Lucy, Dick F., and self — are coming next

week to stay with D. in Kensington. He

is to meet us in London. That's like him,

isn't it, not to come down ? At first Aunt L.

resisted going, and I was disrespectful, after

which there was a fight. Of course she had

to give in ; so we're coming. I don't think

D. is well; she has a cough and a curious

far-away look in her eyes at times, so that

you might think she had lost something long

ago — had let a bird fly away into the sky

and was watching for it to come back again.

My own idea that; very pretty, I think.

She came to see us again the other afternoon

and stayed tea. G. M. has taken to her,

and the kitten has taken to her. So she has

survived every ordeal of criticism the house

can furnish. Good-bye till next week.

** Yours,

"Lily.
G 2

"Pes.— Kind regards to Mr. Rosenfeld.
"Pes. 2.— G. M. says, what church do
you go to ? "

Charlie smoked on calmly, and letting the
letter drop in his lap, gazed out through his
eye-glass at the clouds floating high above
the chimneys of over-the-way. *' Write sometime
to-day," he reflected. " Compliment heron
the use of pretty similes ; must keep up
the superior tone with a girl like that, or she
may learn not to respect you — which would
be fatal."

Referee — py — por ! " shouted a sudden
boy below, gazing invitingly up at Charlie's
open window. Charlie remembering that
bodily repose was not inconsistent with intellectual
occupation, bought a Referee dressed,
and leaned back in his chair reading it, his feet
on the window-sill, his pipe hanging securely
between his canine and bicuspid teeth and

emitting a thin languid streak of smoke at
intervals. After extracting all that the paper
yielded, down to the advertisements, he
knocked the ashes of his pipe out on the
window-sill, threw The Referee on the floor
on one side of his chair, stretched, and went
for a short walk round the room, pausing at
the bookshelf to review the titles, and makeup
his mind what to read. After about four
laps," he lit another pipe and settled down
to enjoy *' Esmond," and opened the book
first quite accidentally at the chapter headed,
"An old story of a woman and a fool."
Oh, hang it ! I hope this isn't a sortes
Thackeray ance." Before he had been occupied
in this way long, the fidgety period set
in, and after a few admiring glances of the
sunlit sky, and a few more at the chimney-glass,
he brushed a hat of the kind described
as *' unexceptionable for Sunday wear," and
went out for a walk. He wanted to be in

the sunlight and among the people, so he
turned out of Great Brown Street into the
Tottenham Court Road, to which it is near,
walked along Oxford Street a short way,
descended Berwick Street, and prowled
through the maze of Soho, musing on the
fate of the unfortunate constable Peter
Forth, and glancing at the interesting,
though somewhat squalid surroundings, had
a glass of lager beer and some bread and
gorgonia cheese at a dark little restaurant
where gentlemen with low-necked shirts, black
ties, wide trousers, gray-yellow skins, and
narrow-brimmed hats were smoking and playing
at small games of dominoes with a childlike
pleasure, and found his way ultimately
into Piccadilly. Then he walked to the
Park, and sat on a bench for a time, observing
the passers ; then he got round
gradually to the Marble Arch, and strolled
back along Oxford Street, not stopping till

he got to Holborn, where he turned into
Barnard's Inn, and invaded Caspar's den.
That gentleman was reading a large book
which lay on the table before him, and
looked up as Charlie entered, with one of
those sudden smiles which rarely lit up his
dark face, and rapidly passed away.

*' Come in ; you bring the daylight with
you."

** You look as if you wanted it. You
have been staying in and grinding out copy
too much. You look awfully yellow."

I feel awfully yellow. I'm resting now
and trying to collect a few ideas. I have
had to do a review of the ' History and
Antiquities of the County of Rutland,' in
two immense volumes, this morning, for that
beastly Investigator. The Lamp mercifully
comes out on Saturday, so it is off my mind
for the present. I am beginning to wonder
now whether I shall ever be able to write

and think again in my own way, on my
own subjects. I am becoming a sort of
machine, capable of turning out so many
novel notices, so many ' Short Stories,' so
many ' Copies of Verse ' per month.

He cannot think who needs must swink.

That is pathetically true in this best of all
possible worlds, where you are ruled by the
holy law of Supply and Demand."

"I don't know what sinking is, but I
don't see why you should write trash if you
can do better."

"You will know some day what it means.
You won't find it in your medicine books
and sporting papers. As for my writing,
when one works to order for bread-and-cheese,
one must write trash very often.
Look at the songs at the music-publishers,
things that become the fashion and are
howled and croaked and bayed in the ,

the music-hall, the street, and the
excursion-train ; do you suppose that all the
people who write them cannot do anything
better ? Some of them can write real
poetry, but they know better than to
waste their time in trying. If I had a
fortune "

Well, if you had a fortune, if you
struck ile, what would you do ? "

I would write to please myself, and
possibly to incidentally displease other people.
I would own a theatre, and I would have
it called the English Theatre, and I would
have unadulterated English dramas played
there, of the best authors who have been
since the Miracle Plays vanished with the
dark mediaeval night at the first streak of
the daylight of dramatic literature. I
would have frequent change and no long
runs. If any of the fortune was left after
that, I would start a monthly periodical, to

air the views of all such men as had the
brains to find, the tongue to explain, and
the courage to utter truth on all subjects.
That would probably be even more unpopular
than the theatre."

"How do you mean?"

"Oh, I mean that I would have no long
political articles from men who write from
three or four different party standpoints in
the course of a day, and twist the same
fact three or four different ways to suit the
audience. They can do that elsewhere if
they like. I would not deprive them of
the means of making a living for their wives
and children out of the folly and credulity
of the nation, but they should not do it in
my magazine. I would not say to a contributor
: ' My dear fellow, I am quite of
your opinion, but they will never stand it,
you know. ' * They ' should have to stand it
if it were true, sensible, and well written*'

'they oughtn't read it."

Oh, yes, they would. Somebody would
say it was scandalous, or blasphemous, and
denounce it in the highly moral and consistent
' organs ' as they call them, and then
the public would rush. And I would not
have anyone preaching the fine old principle
of steadily and heavily sitting on first
attempts, strictly qua first attempts. I
would admit, after due deliberation, the
proposition that you cannot begin with a
second attempt. Nor would I print a notice
of a book or play knowing that the writer
had not read that book, or seen more than
one act of that play. Now let us hear your
news."

I was going to tell you several things,
only you will talk so much yourself that I
thought I would let you run down before I
began."

I don't often have anyone to talk to —

at least, not anyone I can give the genuine
outpouring to. I don't call ' What are you
going to have ? ' and ' I don't mind if I
do,' conversation, and that is what I mostly
get in the week-day walk of this life."

''Vve had a letter from Lily. Kind
regards to you."

Thanks."

She and aunt are coming to town this
week."

^^Keally? That is unusual, isn't it?"

"They are coming to stay with Dick
Farringdon, at their new house in Kensington."


"Ah, Mrs. Farringdon — she is coming
with them?"

Yes."

"I see."

And Caspar smoked silently.

At last he spoke and said :

There was a thing I was going to ask

you. I never met anyone I thought I
would ask it of before — but, would you care
to share these chambers with me ? There's
another bedroom I don't use, you know, and
there is plenty of room for your books and
penates here. You haven't any furniture to
move but pipes, I suppose, and as you have
sour work to do and I have mine, we
shouldn't disturb one another much. It
would lessen your expenses, and, what is
also important, mine, and I think we could
tolerate each other. Think it over by yourself
at leisurely

Charlie started up.

Doesn't want much thinking over !
It's just the thing I've been dreaming of,
though I shouldn't have dared to suggest it
to you. Of course, I will, old man. And
if we don't like it, we can leave off, you
know. It is the happiest thought we have
had yet."

"All right. Let's sally forth and get
some dinner now."

And they walked to a certain foreign
restaurant well known to them, which concealed
itself up a court in Holborn, where a
select few of their acquaintances usually
assembled on Sunday evenings to eat a very
good and well cooked dinner at the low prices
which are an indispensable ingredient of
Illyrian sustenance. They found Jerry Carpenter
there, full of professional anecdotes
given with a kind of light-hearted enjoyment
peculiar to the medical student who regards
human suffering and death purely from the
artistic and, to some extent, jocular standpoint.
Carpenter was a little in awe of
Caspar, and did not take up quite so much
of the conversation as he would have done
before another audience. They had only
got as far as the soup when Mr. Jack
Miller appeared, and a comfortable, apparently
merry, and evidently noisy parti carve was

instituted, who sat for a couple of hours,
chatting of all things under the sun and gaslight,
over coffee and cigarettes, until Caspar
said he must go to his chambers and work.

Miller mounted an omnibus as the commencing
stage of the complex journey from
Holborn to Brixton, and Charlie and Jerry
Carpenter walked towards Bloomsbury together.
Carpenter lived in Bernard Street,
so they walked up Southampton Row and
across Russell Square together, Charlie having
accepted an invitation to smoke a pipe and
discuss diseases in Carpenter's rooms. On
his way home, several hours later, Charlie
passed through Tavistock Square. He then
noticed a door opening, and a man in evening
dress, cigarette in mouth, leaving the house,
and walking towards him. He did not
appear to notice Charlie, and hailed a passing
hansom.

He was George Farringdon.

*' By Jove ! " muttered Charlie, gravely.

LILY LEADS THE WAY.

"I'm going out, so you people can do what
you like," observed George Farringdon, buttoning
a chocolate-coloured Newmarket coat
and lighting a cigarette. 'Tm going to
the club first to look for letters," here he
paused and glanced at his wife, who said in
an unconcerned tone, *' Yes ? "

'sand then I've promised to meet some
men who asked me to go down with them
to Richmond to dine."

Then you will not be back to dinner ? "
'well, not if I go to Richmond. Do
you object to my going there ? " This a
trifle defiantly.

"Not the least."

Then through the doorway : " Oh ! Well,
good-bye ! "

And the clang of the front door sealed
the interview, and sent Miss Lily Carew ina
pas seul round the room, expressive of
relief, delight, and triumph.

"And now we will do what we like,
Dick, spend a ' happy day ' somewhere. You
look as if you wanted air and exercise and
dissipation. What shall we do ? "

That depends a good deal on what your
aunt wishes. She can only stay a few days
away from Mrs. Deane, so we must let her
enjoy herself in the way she likes best in the
short time."

Dick, neglect your strict sense of duty
and propriety for a minute or two ; I want to
talk honest common sense."

I am glad you want to do that. Well ?"

If I ask you questions, will you under-vol.

III. H

take to give either a true answer, or none
at all?"

"Very well. Proceed with the Shorter
Catechism."

"First of all, parent you glad, fearfully
glad, as glad as I am, between ourselves,
that Mr. Farringdon is gone out for the
day?"

Dick looked this way and that, as if a
mode of evasion were to be found in the door
or window.

You might tell me. You know Fm nota
gossiping, frivolous girl."

I'm glad to hear that. But is it necessary
for us to talk about these things ? "

"You evade the question, which shows
you don t like to admit that you do snatch
a fearful joy from the temporary absence of
that man."

"Is it quite right for you to call my
husband 'that man'"

I don't see anything offensive in it. He
is a man, isn't he ? "

'^I am afraid he is. And I, being a
woman, do not wish to discuss him with
you, who are a girl."

My dear Dick, you are a girl, and quite
capable of feeling what another girl can.
"When you try to be dignified and matronly
with me you only make yourself ridiculous.
But you are a girl with a very Scotch trick
of not answering questions. The Shorter
Catechism is not finished yet."

"Well?"

Did you ever — before you were married,
of course, I mean — know any man you — well,
thought you might care for ? You know what
I mean."

Why are you so curious ? "

Natural feminine vice, the books say."

I never knew any men at all — at least,
very few," said Dick the Truthful, *' before

H 2

I was married, to any extent. I didn't have
my head full of ideal flirtations, like you."

Horrible libel ! Now I will be less
merciful. Will you make an affidavit, or a
power of attorney, or whatever it is, that
there is no man in the whole world that you
like better than any other man — not meaning
your father, of course, you know ? Don't
prevaricate. Remember, twelve intelligent
fellow-countrymen have their eyes on you."
Dick looked unhappy. " I don't think so."
I thought I would trap you into forgetting
all about Mr. Warrington. I should
make a splendid barrister. You hear what
she says, gentlemen ? She doesn't think so,"
continued Lily, addressing the mantelpiece,
"which means that she won't say yes, and
aren't say no, for fear those young men with
the stretcher should come in, who carried out
Ananias. You may leave the witness-box."
** You are very silly, I think."

I don't feel as silly as you look. People
generally do when they have to tell the
truth. Truth has stuck at the bottom of
that old well so long that it has got
unsavoury. Its like my poor cat at Soke-bridge
when they fished her out of the duck-pond.
I call her Ophelia in consequence."

Ah me, such words as these I should
abhor. And yet I like them for the orator,"
said Dick, gently stroking Lily's curly black
scalp.

What's that out of ? Shakespeare ? "

No. Another great poet I found in the
Manor House library. I used to pry about
there by myself a good deal. I often had
time for reading."

'' Because he did the kindest thing he ever
did, which was to leave you alone a good deal.
What is the book ? "

Not a book for girls."

Then why did you read it ? "^

I have left off being a girl a long time ago''

Poor Dick ! I believe you have. But
they shall not spoil your life more than I can
help. I shall stick to you as long as you will
let me."

To this valiant and valuable promise Dick
said :

So you shall. I can't afford to lose you.
Give me a kiss, Lily." And these two girls
cried a little in each other's arms, and
wondered why, for a few minutes.

'' Do you know what I would do in your
place, Dick ? "

What ? "

I should kill George Farringdon."

Hush ! Don't talk like that."

I hate him. I didn't know I could hate
anyone so much."

Don't ! "

Why not ? "

It is not right."

I don't care when I hate or love anyone,
whether it is right or not." Silence.

Why did you ask me those questions,
Lily ? I can't suppose it was simply to make
me uncomfortable."

'rit's my turn to be evasive now. Why
should it make you uncomfortable ? If I
knew anyone worth liking I should like him,
and if I thought he was worth it Fd love him,
though the sky split, the earth rent, and my
acquaintances cut me."

That's a very fine climax, certainly.
But if you had no right to do so ? "

"Everybody has a right to love anybody,
if anybody deserves it; but anybody often
doesn't."

How do you know ? "

"Got up the subject from books. However,
as you wish me to suppose that you
have no one of this kind in your mind's
eye, we may drop the subject."

"I think we had better. We are not
gaining anything by it, and I rather fancy
you are uttering most unprincipled doctrines,
though I don't undertake to distinctly state
how and why."

Here Miss Deane entered, and Lily said :

*'0h, Aunt Lucy, wouldn't you like to
go out for a long excursion somewhere — to
St. Paul's, or Somerville, or something?
We shall have all the afternoon to ourselves,
and I want to get out of the latitude of
civilisation ; I want to go on a river steamer
from Tapping Old Stairs to Rotherhithe or
Greenville, or one of those places. I'd like
to go for a walk through Billingsgate, and
Seven Dials, and Petticoat Lane, and all
the places people talk about in books. Dick,
I'll bet I know more about London than
you."

"Do you?"

Yes. Where's Smithfield ? "

"You must ask an easier one than that.
Where is Smithfield ? "

"It is in the parish of St. Bartholomew
or St. Luke, near the part of the world
called Clerkenwell. A market takes place
there. Bartholomew Fair was formerly held
there, where you bought pigs."

'this statistical knowledge is truly surprising,"
said Dick ; " but I think you
have forgotten to mention another important
feature of the neighbourhood. I'm sure it's
there, though I don't know where Clerken-
well and Smithfield are."

*' Oh, I suppose you mean the hospital.
Yes, by-the-by, I should have mentioned
that."

'which reminds me that my nephew
promised me that I should have a neuralgia
prescription they recommend now, yesterday,"
said Miss Deane. " I suppose he
has forgotten all about it. That's like a

young man; they mean well, but they are
thoughtless."

Well, Aunt Lucy, if I were a dresser
in a hospital, and I had a good fracture to
look after, or something really important
like that, I should think myself quite right
to forget my own toothache, if I had it, to
say nothing of my aunt's."

'* You can't possibly know anything about
neuralgia, Lily, or you wouldn't make a
joke of it or call it toothache."

*' But where did you get all this phraseology
about dressers and fractures, Lily ? "
asked Dick, laughing. 'you do remember
an apothecary ? "

"Dreamed it. Let's all go and get on
our things."

If we are goinor out we had better
take umbrellas," said Miss Deane. 'rare you
sure, Dick, you ought to go out these cold
autumn afternoons ? "

*' Oh yes, Miss Deane ; I must. If I
don't go with you, I shall go out by myself
when you are gone, and commit some imprudence
that will write me in the roll of
fame and give me a bad cold. I'll go and
get ready."

'•' How careless that child is of herself ! "
said Miss Deane to Lily as soon as Dick
was gone. *' She goes out on impulse in
all sorts of winds and fogs, totally forgetting
how delicate she is. Her mind is stronger
than her body."

"Don't know, I'm sure. It isn't much
of a sign of strength of mind to catch a
cold in your chest and let it stay therefor
months, and then go out looking for
another. I believe Dick wants to make
herself worse."

Oh, you wouldn't suspect her of anything
so wicked ? "

'wicked! I don't know. What might

be wicked in you and me is different
for Dick. Her actions have another rule
altogether."

'^ What do you mean ? She is a dear
little thing; but I suppose she's human,
like me, and the cook, and everyone else ? '^

As human as possible ; but I'm sure
not like you, or the cook, or anyone else."

"You're contradictory to-day, Lily.
What's the matter? Have you and Charlie
been fighting again''

I wish you would let Charlie alone, and
not either keep poking him down my throat,
or lecturing him on things he can judge
best for himself about. I can't have an
ordinary difference of opinion with someone,
or a headache, or be cold, or hot, or still,
or fidgety, without you talking Charlie,
Charlie, Charlie, all day. I wish he was at

the bottom of the Well, no, I don't ;

but do let him alone, and me ! "

There was a certain trace of a tendency
to tearfulness in Lily's voice, which offered
a temptation to improve the occasion Aunt
Lucy could not withstand, so she said :

*' But you really must not give way to
temper in this way, dear " (Miss Deane
always said 'dear" when she was in the
didactic mood) ; " you don't know how bad
it looks."

"You don't know how bad it will look
if you don't leave me alone."

It makes people reflect on us, and
think how badly we must have brought you
up."

"And that's a fine unselfish reason for
correcting me, isn't it ? " retorted Lily, with
the nearest approach to a sneer she had
ever yet attained. "Look here. Aunt Lucy,
I like you very much ; but it's only fair to
tell you, as you don't seem to know it,
that I am not a little girl now "

Then sou shouldn't behave like one."
'^ And there are things I have my own
opinion about, and mean to keep ; and things
you don't entirely understand," was Lily's
defiant, if vague conclusion.

She has all her poor father's obstinacy,"
reflected Miss Deane. "He called it resolution.
We called it self-will. He always
would have his own way — and much good it
did him, poor fellow ! " Then she turned to
communicate the essence of this reflection to
Lily, and found that young lady had relinquished
the skirmish — had, in fact, left the
room. She had gone upstairs to dress for
out of doors, and to cry a little. The girl
was nervous and irritable, and easily upset,
what with Dick's affairs, with which she was
far more intimately acquainted than her
aunt, and certain obscure symptoms of her
own, rather new to her, into which the
pleasant face and dictatorial eye-glass of a

certain hardworking and yet cheery medical
student entered with unusual frequency. By
the time she had performed her toilet and
come downstairs three steps at a time, however,
she had forgotten all about the recent
fight with her aunt, and was making frivolous
jokes about the people they passed in the
street, and the sights of London generally,
including a grinning and prancing Neapolitan
with unholy music, to whom she insisted
on contributing a penny. She seemed excited,
but she had a certain plot in her mind,
perhaps a mistaken one, but kindly meant,
of which the results will appear.

How regal you look, Dick, in all those
furs ! A sort of small edition of an Empress
of Russia. I never saw one, but I'm sure
they are like that''

Really ? It is difficult to be dignified
when one is accompanied by a girl who is
tall enough to make people think her grownup,

who suddenly stops you to look at a
monkey in a red dressing-gown leaping at
the end of a chain, or goes up a side street
to see Punch and Judy. Why, the other
day. Miss Deane, when I was out with her,
she entered into conversation with some street
boys who were carrying a guy, and gave
them a whole handful of coppers, to buy
explosives with."

*that is all very well, Madame Dignity,
but if I gave some coppers to the guy boys,
you gave sixpence in silver, and you enjoyed
Punch and Judy as much as I did. If weare
both babies, don't let us be ashamed of it."

Here is Earl's Court," said Miss Deane.
Though who the earl is and where the court
is, I never could make out. Where are we
going?"

'where would you like to go. Miss
Deane ? " asked Dick.

'* Could we go to St. Paul's ? I have not

been there since I was quite a little girl.
You, who know London, may laugh at me,
but I confess a fascination for St. Paul's, and
the Tower, and even the Monument : one
might find Lodger's if one sought diligently,
I dare say."

Well, you can't do them all in one dark
afternoon. Aunt Lucy. Let's take the train
to the Temple and then take a walk down
Fleet Street, then we could come back by
Newgate, or Ave Maria Lane — I like Ave
Maria Lane, nice old-fashioned name — to
Holborn, and so home. We can always
drive if we are tired."

'^ Would you like that. Miss Deane ? "
asked Dick.

^'I submit to your guidance. I don't know
my way about London, but I should like to
walk down Fleet Street. I feel such a quantity
of learning and power and influence
must always reside there." (Hear, shades of

VOL. III. I

Hoolan and Doolan, and bow 1) " What
attraction Lily can find in Newgate, I don't
know."

Why, they used to hang people there,"
explained Lily.

'' You can't resist going there now, Miss
Deane, can you ? We might find the tavern
where my Lord Tomnoddy and Refuse and
their friend, Sir Carnage Jerks of the Blues,
went."

Isn't that rather an improper book for
young ladies, Dick?"

"Is it? I didn't know it was when I
read it, and it amused me. However, as
I cannot unread it, I must remain in my
iniquity."

"You never used to be sarcastic, either,"
said Miss Deane.

"I suppose it's coming on me with the
other infirmities age brings. Well, here is
the booking-office."

Aunt is in an awful temper," said Lily
in a whisper, as that lady purchased three
tickets. " I think it's the neuralgia, you
know, so one must put up with it. She used
the most dreadful language to me while you
were upstairs getting ready."

'did she?" replied Dick, laughing at the
idea of poor, good, quiet, respectable Miss
Deane breaking out under the influence of
neuralgia into wild blasphemy. And they
entered a train and started.

I 2

THE WAY LILY LED.

*what a beastly day!" exclaimed Charlie,
hanging a damp overcoat over the back of a
chair and carefully wiping, warming, and
brushing the cylinder hat which is as inevitable
a badge of office to the respectable
medical man of to-day as the gold-headed
cane to the one of yesterday or the day
before.

I had not appreciated that fact completely
till you brought the slimy spirit of
a damp omnibus in with you."

Luxurious brute ! You have been
sitting all day before a comfortable fire,

massacring unhappy female novelists, with a
pipe in your mouth ; and then you rail on
really useful and philanthropic members of
the community who have borne the cold, and
the rain, and the noxious exhalations of a wet
London day in alleviating the sufferings of
their fellow-man."

'* If you mean to be oratorical on philanthropy
to me, I shall be seen shortly 'waling
my fellow-man,' as well as ' calling him an
ass, at least to all intent.' Your usefulness
I shall begin to believe in when 1 see a
marked alteration in the death-rate — you
know in which direction I mean. Your philanthropy
will do very well in lectures and
newspapers as an advertisement — not good
enough here."

Charlie had now for some little time past
shared Caspar's chambers in the old Inn,
finding the plan agreeable and convenient
to both and a distinct improvement on that

vista of desolation called Great Brown Street.
He emptied his pockets of note-books and
stethoscope, and continued : ''I think this
part of the world is going back to the primordial
slime out of which Huxley and
Haeckel say it sprang. I wish they would
not always choose weather like this to hook
up the pavements in, though, and spread
wooden trestles with red lanterns on them
for the fun of seeing the traveller tumble
over them. Got a genuine case of Addison's
disease : Carpenter and I tossed for it, Fve
got it'

"And this is what he calls philanthropy,
I suppose. I think weather of this sort has
its advantages. It gives half of the population
an excuse for staying in public-houses
they would otherwise feel a moral discomfort
in remaining in."

Here Charlie spake at large on various
unpleasant diseases and modes of alleviating

the same, which may possibly be of the nature
of caviare to the general reader, and then,
having exhausted all his hospital topics,
reverted by an irresistible fascination to the
weather.

'' Oh, bother the weather ! " retorted
Caspar. 'draw the blinds down, light a
pipe, and converse on rational subjects, or
hold your tongue."

What have you done all day ? ''
"I've written a few things, and thought a
few more. I have been wondering why people
are always so fervently and rashly recommended
in sermons, moral lectures, and the
like, to lean implicitly on that infallible and
portable moral pedometer and compass which
they call Conscience. When the majority of
humanity throughout all time have more
usually gone wrong than right in their judgments,
in their taste, in their sense of colour
and sound, in their comprehension and

digestion as well, I want to know why their
subjective criteria of conduct should be worth
more attention ? "

'' Most people don't pay it much, anyhow.
I say, I've bought some Sally Lunns for tea."

«« Very nice of you. One would think we
were two elderly maiden ladies. We ought
to have a cat."

By Jove we must have a cat. We will
put aside a tithe weekly in a bag, lay up a
fund in fact, wherewith to purchase meat."

Caspar stood before the fire with his hands
in his pockets and his back against the
mantelshelf, contemplating a table laden with
books, magazines, and pieces of paper. After
a while, he said :

"Have you been at the house in Kensington,
lately ? "

'^I was there yesterday afternoon — I had
a few hours to spare, as Andrew MacPherson
didn't lecture. I took tea there."

It never occurred to you to mention it
before?"

'' I didn't think I had anything to tell
which you would care to hear."

'' Had you anything to tell I would not
care to hear?"

Only confirmation of what I always said,
which I suppose you admit by this time, that
that girl's marriage was a beastly error, that
she knows it, that he knows it, and that the
devil knows what chaos they will drift to."

'^ Go on, explain. You go there often and
know more about it than I do, who have only
been once or twice since they settled there."

'' She has left off liking George Farringdon.
That is the natural result of prolonged intimacy
with him. He is not a man, it appears,
who improves on acquaintance. And he is not
such a fool as not to feel that he is a smashed
idol — and he doesn't like the sensation. And
he has got into his small mind the idea that

his wife is willing: and ready to receive some
cavalier servant who will be more interesting
than G.M.F. And his behaviour is
curious. I think he must have adopted the
rather crude notion, that he will make matters-more
satisfactory by attempts to provoke her
jealousy. I speak in plain and vulgar
language — by getting a little game on elsewhere."


"Where?"

Charlie looked uncomfortable, as an
honourable man telling the "lie pious"
generally does, and replied : " How should
I know ? I don't take an interest in his
pursuits, beyond so far as the bare facta
affect the lady I am sorry for. He is also
more inclined, by simple irritation, to indulge
in the flowing bowl, and his appearance is
thicker, older, and less attractive. Getting
a complexion like those seasoned club men
you see loafing in Piccadilly about 12.30 in

the day. He still wears beautiful clothes and
smokes cigarettes. I should like to have him
to myself in the middle of a ring for ten
minutes. And by Jove ! Td think you
deserve a d — d hiding too, for making such
a melancholy, shortsighted ass of yourself at
Schlangenberg ! "

"My dear fellow, you are right and I
was wrong. You predicted on instinct perhaps
— so did I. You thought you spoke
and acted from the depth of your convictions
so did I. Shows how much this conscience
they all rave about is to be relied on asa
monitor. We walk like Alpine climbers,
along a narrow ridge, all the days of our
life, with a precipice on each side. We go
with the darkness before us, and the cruellest
part of all is that we are roped together in
groups, so that the slip of one brings ten
to the abysmal catastrophe. Best to cut the
rope fore and aft, as some do, perhaps. And

I would give the sight of my eyes to have
one of those days over there in Schlangenberg
again. There never were days like those —
and there never will be again. Have you
any more to say on this matter?"

"Her only friends in the world are my
people — my cousin Lily in particular. You
know what her relations are — and now you
know what her husband is — we must stick
by her — until she wants it no more."

What do you mean ? "

She is looking rather more fragile than
ever. Verb, sap.'^

'how — why is that? You know something
of your profession, I suppose — give mea
guess."

'she suffers from the reflection on her
naturally delicate general system, of the prolonged
nervous shock of accumulated annoyance
and disappointment for one thing."

Is it likely to grow worse — physically ? "

"Yes, if she is not relieved somehow'

What would relieve her ? Shall I shoot
him?"

Charlie looked at Caspar through his eyeglass
critically, with the experience of eve
or six hospital sessions expressed in his calm
demeanour.

"Not a bad idea. But the shock would
make her worse — more vulnerable, more predisposed
to some attack of some disease, I
mean. No. There are two things that will
cure her. One more surely than the other.
One is the getting of what she wants "

And that is ? "

"The love of the man who has left her
alone to drift into the body of this death,
when he might have saved her from it. Man I
She would be healthier and happier with you
this day in a court off Gray's Inn Lane among
Irishmen and tuberculosis bacilli than living
in the burden of bought upholstery with

that cl — d snipe. There, that's my notion.
"Work upon that."

You said two things would set her right.
What is the other ? "

"Death. If anyone ever had seeds of
phthisis she has."

Caspar walked up and down the room.

*shark!" said Charlie, "human tread on
the stairs."

'ego out and see if it is Mrs. Murphy,
and tell her to lay the table for tea."

"All right — Good Lord! Look here,
Caspar."

And a young lady in black with a racoon
tippet, and a very wet shiny umbrella, a
rather brief-kilted skirt, and very muddy
boots (which it did not occur to her to wipe),
lounged into the room, remarking : " We have
come to see you — and want some tea. How
do you do, Mr. Rosenfeld?" Caspar had
risen with a rather bewildered smile, which

turned into an almost transfixed look when
lie saw behind Miss Carew — of course it was
she — the calm grey eyes, fair pale face, and
small stately fur-clad form of Dick Farringdon.
Miss Deane brought up the rear, saying :

"I hope you won't consider us as intruders,
Mr. Eosenfeld, but I happened to
remember as we were going along Holborn —
we have been to see St. PauFs— that Charlie
had forgotten some neuralgia medicine for me,
and Lily insisted on our invading Barnard's
Inn — I'm afraid we are rather like locusts
and Lily did not think of mentioning
that these chambers were yours as well as
Charlie's."

AVhich was like Lily," observed Charlie,
helping that young lady to remove her tippet,
and taking charge of the hat which she cast
casually into a bookshelf.

"I knew from Charlie you lived in
Barnard's Inn, but, not being a Londoner,

I tlioagtit it was a great place like Lincoln's
Inn, where our solicitor lives, and till I saw
your name on the door had no idea you lived
together."

"And I did not know it, Mr. Eosenfeld,"
said Dick.

*'A11 these apologies are quite unnecessary,"
replied Caspar, sand it has fortunately
occurred to Charlie to bring in some Sally
Lunns, on which we will shortly have a mild
debauch. Tell Mrs. Murphy to borrow some
extra tea-cups, Charlie ; shout down the stairs
and see if she's come."

I'm awfully sorry I forgot your toothache
stuff. Aunt Lucy."

*' Neuralgia, dear, please."

"Much the same thing from the professional
standpoint."

Charlie gets us physic at trade prices,"
remarked Lily, " so we are taking advantage
of the occasion of being in London to lay in a

stock. We mean to choose different forms
of pestilence to be stricken with all the winter,
so as to get our money's worth."

I think you have grown, Miss Carew,"
observed Caspar.

Sir, I am grown up."

*' Indeed. And you are becoming vastly
witty."

He always tries to irritate me," said Lily,
explanatorily to Dick, ^'by pretending to treat
me as a child, and thinks it funny."

Here Charlie's voice was heard in loud
colloquy with Mrs. Murphy on the next
landing. Lily continued :

How funnily you live here ! Do you
always use somebody else's tea-things ? "

Only when visitors, with the happy
digestion and catholic appetite peculiar to
those of tender years, are brought to see us by
their kind friends."

"Very well, Mr. Kosenfeld. I shall take

VOL. III. K

down all this, and it will be liable to be
used against you at your trial."

"You won't when I tell you you shall
have some blackberry jam by-and-by."

"And cream?"

"And cream. In a saucer. On the hearth-rug.
We were just saying we missed a kitten
here."

"Mr. Eosenfeld ! " And the offended brunette
drew herself up to a commanding five
feet three.

"Miss Carew?"

"You are very irreverent. I will take
deadly vengeance for this."

gentle lady, do not put me tort
For I am nothing, if not critical."

"The table looks as if you had been
critical to-day," observed Dick, pointing to
the little pile of three-volume novels and
miscellaneous " copy " on the table.

I have not been venomous this morning,
Mrs. Farringdon. My fangs were drawn by a
lady who had written a book that was interesting
and manly, without being either risque
or a small-beer chronicle. There it is. You
can take it away if you like, if you have not
read it."

'but do they become yours, after reviewing
? "

'eyes. If I like."

Thank you. I will take it. I shall read
what you say about it afterwards."

May I ask how you will know where to
find my notice ? "

'•' Oh, I always see your notices. We get
The Investigator every Saturday."

But I mean, how do you know which are
mine ? "

That is an easy one," said Charlie. " I
tell her. Ask another."

"What a quantity of books you have''

K 2

exclaimed Miss Deane. " I go to them like an
animal to its prey."

"None of yours have come across me
yet. Miss Deane — I'm looking forward
to it. I have purchased a new, bright,
and incisive steel pen, and am keeping it
for you."

I hope you won't get the chance of using
it. I don't like your reviews of lady novelists.
They always make me turn tremulously over
the leaves of Lindsey Murray, or of a French
dictionary."

'have you a prejudice against female
authors ? " asked Dick, scanning the titles
in Caspar's bookshelves.

Not at all. But I have against their weak
points."

Which be they ? "

Composition, knowledge of the marriage
and other laws, their owen and other languages,
heroic male anatomy "

"Such as 'nerves standing out like
whip-cords and ' pulsating veins,' " put in
Charlie.

Well, my pulse is a vein, I'm sure," said
Lily, dogmatically. " I feel it''

Charlie felt it, and replied :

'' With all deference to your superior knowledge
of the subject — (that's sarcastic) — I must
continue to affirm that your pulse is not a
vein. It is not even in a vein. At any rate,
you are in a very abnormal condition if it is,
and had better call at the hospital tomorrow
and be dissected. Jerry and I will toss for
the job."

Oh, Charlie ! Don't be nasty. Go away.
Boo!"

"The great fault of your nephew. Miss
Deane," said Caspar, "is that he will talk professional
shop at all times and seasons. I jeer
and make remarks about Bob Sawyer and Ben
Allen in vain."

'' May I look at this book of ballads ? "
asked Dick. Caspar went to the bookcase.

Of course. Let me take it down. Won't
you let Charlie carry it home for you by-and-by.
You might like to look at it at your
leisure. He's dying for an excuse like that
to walk home with his cousin," added Caspar,
in a lower tone, with his wily variety of
smile.

*' Oh — you are very kind " — Dick looked
into Caspar s face — " I believe you would
let me take the whole bookcase if I wanted."

*' Certainly. In a Taylor's van. And," he
added, on a sudden impulse, turning over the
leaves, and speaking lower, *you can always
have all I can give or lend — from life downwards
— do you know that ? "

She replied in a low voice :

"Yes— I know— that." Then she added
louder, *' I wanted to see if this has any of
the ballads I know in it. I have never forgotten

them. AVhen you have ever heard a
Scotch ballad told or sung to you, as a child,
in Scotland, Mr. Eosenfeld, you never forget
it as long as you live. Still, I daresay you
know more of them than I do."

'bring them to the light. Find me the
one you like best." Dick obeyed in the most
natural, child-like, matter-of-course way.

Which do you like best ? " he said ; " I
like the sad ones."

'^ I generally like the ferocious ones. But
you search for yourself. Ill proclaim the one
I like best by-and-by."

'*I like 'Inmost Willie' best," said
Charlie.

"• I like ' Robin Hood,' " said Lily.

I'm glad to hear that. Miss Carew. I
like 'Robin Hood'" said Caspar. "I don't
care if he was a Solar myth, I like him."

Solar myth 1 Bosh," observed Charlie.
Robin Hood was a jolly good fellow, who

had a good broad sword and ' took cubits
frae nobody.' He did more good than
Coeur-de-lion — was a pleasant and more
socially estimable person .'*

What is a Solar myth ? " asked Lily.

"A Solar myth, my dear child," replied
Charlie, *' is a story. Mrs. Harris was one.
The recipe is simple. Take any important or
unimportant historical personage of more thana
century ago, and find other ones like him
in different lands. Mix well together, find
discreditable details about him, and serve up
hot. For instance : John Smith loved Bessie
Brown. So did Tommy Black. These things
being thus, the latter punched the former's
head, and fractured the base of his skull, so
that he died. Jessie went to the funeral,
and drove back from it with Black, fainting
in his arms, on a jaunting car. Very well.
Mark now, how a plain tale shall put you
down. Max Muller.

"In the Danish legend, the female character
wears her red kirtle and comes home
in a boat. In the Sanscrit poem of Jasya
Brasna she walks over the sea at eve, shod
with golden sandals — these Indian fellows
are always poetic. The Chinese romance of
Je-se-bro-ne " is in twelve quarto volumes,
written long-ways in black splashes of paint,
down six columns on each page of thin rice
paper — but it all comes to the same thing.
The explanation of the parable is so obvious
that the meanest intellect must accept it, and
generally does when told to by a persuasive or
peremptory Solar mythologist.

*' Jessie, poor girl, is the Evening red —
or the Dawn, all the same. J. Smith is the
sun. Black is — naturally — the Night — takes
a female form in some varieties of the Smith
myth. The kirtle is the hue of the sunset
(here, in your lecture or essay be eloquently
picturesque). The boat, or horse-car, is, of

course, the descending chariot of Phoebus.
The gold sandals will (or rather won't, as you
don't know it) remind you of a line of modern
poetry.

Dawn skims the sea with flying feet of gold.

Such in the rough is a Solar myth."

It's very pretty," said Lily, " I nearly
cry when I think of it."

Is that the proper scientific method,
Mr. Eosenfeld?" asked Miss Deane.

Charlie knows just enough about these
subjects to turn them into a stumbling-block
and a derision. But the Smyth myth is a fair
enough caricature."

Enter Mrs. Murphy, with an untied black
bonnet, an astonished expression, and the tea-things.
When she had gone, after spreading
the table and setting down the butter-dish
with a determined and offended bump, Lily
settled down in front of the fire on the floor

with a toasting-fork, the Sally Lunns, and full
command of the butter. She turned round
leaning on Dick's knees, who was turning
over the ballad-book by the firelight in one
of the elderly and decrepit armchairs, and
said: "Isn't this a jolly sort of life, Dick?
Wouldn't it be grand if you and I had some
chambers to ourselves, and an old woman
with rusty silk bonnet-strings to wait onus
? "

What would you do with yourselves ? "
asked Caspar, who was standing at the opposite
corner of the mantelpiece watching the
process.

I think I should collect books and read
them," said Dick, 'while Lily practised
cookery."

Wouldn't our names look grand, painted
in black over the door ! "

While this mild mirth proceeded, Caspar
looked down at Dick in the fireside armchair,

with the light falling: on her bent-down
head as she talked to Lily or inspected
her book. And he remembered how, during
the maddened melody of the " Wedding
March " so long ago — perhaps a century ago
he had had a mental vision of that head
in that chair, as one of the things which
might never be. And here it was now, come
with the mockery of one of those heavenly
dreams in time of sore trouble, which leave
the dreamer worse off than before. Dick
Farringdon walked, and talked, and sat, and
ate, and drank, and laughed in these his
rooms. It seemed scarcely possible to him
who heard, as it were, far away the teasing
tones of Lily the irrepressible, who was born
under a laughing star, and the good-natured
badinage of Charlie Deane, that this delicate
embodiment of some fairy legend should be
sitting before his fire in all her graceful noli
me tangere purity, her quiet appreciation of

innocent fun, with that fair, gentle face,
whose expression the last few months of quiet
endurance had transformed to that of grown
womanhood. She had gained experience and
lost strength. There, in that rickety old
cretonne armchair, sat the one love of his
whole life, beyond the reach of hope. His
whole desire was to give her peace and happiness,
his whole delight in procuring her some
temporary fraction of them, and his destiny
apparently to fail. For the more they saw
of each other, the more they felt the barren
hopelessness of the separate path honour compelled
each to follow, with the ravens of fate
and time waiting, hovering, and croaking
ominously above them.

This is one of my favourite ballads, Mr.
Kosenfeld," said she, *' 'Helen of Kirkconnell.'
Here are several more too, I am very fond
of, like that of 'Mary Hamilton'"

'' You have selected the best poem almost

in the Scotch language. It combines the
pathos of one class of ballad with the terrible
ferocity of the other, and the wonderful
poetry of both. I like — next to that —
*Edom of Gordon'" Caspar did not explain
why.

And he turned away on a pretence of
arranging books to hide the expression he
felt came into his face as he muttered inwardly
and almost inaudibly :

"And in the Gordon's foul heart blue
He's Broken his fair lady."

Then, tea having been consumed. Miss
Deane gave the signal for departure. " Will
you come with us, Mr. Deane?" said Dick,
'^ I want you to carry these books for me —
if I may have them ? "

Of course," replied Caspar. '' Here they
are, Charlie. Don't drop them, and take care
of your party. It's night in the streets."

Holboni and Oxford Street are pretty
safe, I think," said Dick, smiling.

"I don't know," said Charlie seriously.

Why, be there bears in the town ? "

Mrs. Farringdon, don't ! It is quite
bad enough to live with a man who has
Shakespeare at his finger's ends."

*'Ah! I occasionally flout old ends too,
Mr. Kosenfeld," she added, as they descended
the narrow wooden stairs of the old Inn. " I
am much obliged for a pleasant evening I
didn't expect."

'* I hope you are not going to make a
little speech, like the well-behaved children
who say, ' Thank you for a pleasant evening ! '
by direction, when they leave a party ? "

*' And I think I must thank you," she said,
^' for something else. I hope to get George
to take your advice about the Manor House.
He is a little dubious yet, but a word or two
from you, I think, will settle it. Will you

kindly speak that word or two when you see
him?"

This was provocative of a strange mixture
of anger and pity in Caspar, Anger that
her comfort and peace should depend upon
the decision of such a man as George, pity
that she should ask for the help of a stranger
to guide the erring and undecided steps of
that young man. He simply said, '' I will,"
as he stood at the foot of the steps, watching
the forms of Charlie and Lily departing, with
Miss Deane behind them. And Dick vanished
too, and the sooty old trees looked sootier
and lonelier than ever when she had gone,
pointing with stiff, black, slender fingers at
the unattainable stars.

EXPERIMENTUM IN Corpore Vii."

Caspar returned to his chambers, and stood
with his back to the fire, gazing abstractedly
at the tea-table, with its disorder of cups,
plates, crumbs, and open books.

He stood still a long time, his hands
in his pockets, his back against the high
and narrow wooden mantelshelf, apparently
plunged in thought. And his reflections were
something of this order :

I wonder what I shall make of all this ?
Some of my friends would say, 'Make copy
of it.' That I don't suppose I shall do, at
any rate, just now. I don't seem to hanker

VOL. III. L

after selling my love to printers — though.
Heaven knows what other use or benefit it
is to anybody. Is this Honour we all rave
about so much more use in this case, really,
after all ? Why should not we — I at least —
do what nature dictates, and see Honour and
everything else at the devil, and have happiness
instead ? Eh — let us see to the bottom
of this whirlpool. Love pulls one way,
Honour pulls the other. Let Reason judge
between them. Desire says, Fly away to —
well, to anywhere out of the way of adverse
criticism and heavy tradesmen's bills — say
Schlangenberg, persuading Her in a cun-
singly-chosen moment to come too. Accelerate
that young man's collapse, by helping
him with my advice to squander his substance
on the Chosen People and the Midianitish
woman — wonder who she is ? When he has
descended the ladder to the perdition which
awaits him, pull it up out of reach — they

would do that for him. Rescue her from her
despair, and let the old hens of society cackle
over it as they list, and as they dare. Does
Love say that ? If so, is it love of Her,
or of one Caspar Rosenfeld, of Barnard's
Inn ? Reason is an awkward cross-examiner.
Honour says, to start with, Love must be
unselfish. Here, I fear, Honour betrays a
lamentable ignorance of human nature. Then
it says, respect the woman you love, do not
persuade her to that which will lose her her
own respect, and perhaps yours. If she can
endure what seems to you hard, you must
endure surely as much as she can. The
worse her fate, the more noble her endurance
is, the more deserving of your love she becomes,
and the more tender of the stainless
majesty of her innocency must you be.
Reason clenches the matter by saying that
Love and Honour in opposition is an impossible
condition, both being rightly under

2

stood. Caspar Rosenfeld says that he is left,
between them, very much where he was
before, and that all they said has been stated
much more lucidly before by many people."
And he lit a pipe, cleared the table, put the
crockery into the small recess which served asa
pantry, and, after walking about the room
awhile, sat down with the book of ballads
open on the table before him at the place
where Dick had last been reading it.

A step came up the stair. Too early to
be Charlie returning. A knock came at the
door.

Charlie never knocked.

Come in ! "

A man entered, respectably dressed, with
certain foreign touches in the form of his
collar, and the black bow on his breast below
it, and the cut of his overcoat. A person
with short reddish hair, a small waxed
moustache, and no very particular facial

character beyond smallisli eyes, mobile eyebrows,
and a rather large sharp-edged nose
which supported spectacles. A person a
trifle below the average height, who carried
his hat in one hand, and presented a large
glazed card with the other, as he bowed in
the sudden manner' peculiar to the Gothic
races, drawing his heels together with a
click. "Dr. Julius Van Westerdijk" Caspar
read on the card. Watching his visitor's
face, as he took the shade off the lamp, he
seemed to read something there too, in a language
which was not wholly untranslatable.
Mr. Caspar Kosenfeld ! "

'well?" said Caspar shortly, rising and
standing again before the fire.

I represent Messrs. Marsden & Co., of
Craven Court," continued the stranger in a
marked Teuto-Batavic accent. There was a
Mephistopheles suddenness about his appearance.


Do you ? I daresay you represent them
very well," replied Caspar drily. Dr. Ian
Westerdijk bowed and looked flattered. He
did not know English tones quite well enough
to readily distinguish the gibe serious-ironic
from the compliment serious-sincere.

Yes. I am directed to call on you to
inform you, dat we have been visit — "
(" Beautifully begun ! " reflected Caspar —
Legal introduction in Anglo-Dutch ") " that
our client, Mr. George Farringdon r-"

'your what?"

"Our client. Yes."

Dr. Van Westerdijk had a peculiar and
rather irritating habit of using the word
"Yes," as a kind of incidental interjection.

Dat Mr. Farringdon has been told tings
about us rich is planters, libels. Dat you
have told him to make over his estate to
his wife. Yes I " The Doctor got more
eloquent and less English as he proceeded.

*dat I have been sent to inquire if all tis
is true vot you say to seem — I mean if you
did say to seem vot he say you say to seem."

Whom can the ass have babbled all
this to ? " thought Caspar, meaning by the
ass George Farringdon.

'' Have you ? And what do you expect
me to tell you ? "

Vot you tell seem about us ? " This
rapidly and sharply. Caspar was still pulling
at his pipe, and leaning on the mantelshelf.


I don't see the slightest reason for
telling you anything. However, I don't
mind repeating to you a few of my expressions
concerning ' us,' as you call it, meaning
by sus,' I suppose, Marsden & Co."

*eyes!"

I said that the firm was unscrupulous
and extortionate. The statement was not
original on my part. I was quoting from

the words of the Bench at a certain
county court where Marsden & Co. figured
in the person of a solicitor's firm called
Silver k Chick. Curious the number of
foreign names that seemed connected with
Marsden & Co. Do you want any more
of my remarks ? You are welcome to such
as I can remember, and can take them down
here in black and white. I'll give you
facilities."

You do not spike to de point. No ! "
said the Doctor, rather angrily.

I am tame, sir. Pronounce."

"Tit you use your influence to persuade
Mr. Farringdon to make over his estate intrust
to someone, so dat it could not be
seized while dat someone vos plaise ? "

"I did."

Well, Marsden & Co. request you to
hold your tong about ten, and keep your
opinions to yourself and advise you to influence

Mr. Farringdon, who means to consult
you again about it, to gif op chat idea."

*' All the which is like Messrs. Marsden &
Co's cheek. And supposing I accept this
warning, what will they do for me ? "

Anything. Were is a nice advowson
for sale we have got — you would have it
dirt cheap — sell it if you don't like it —
some Christian would give plenty for it.
We could get you on in journalism too."

"I see. And supposing I dont?"

We take proceedings."

"Sounds formidable — very formidable."

'^ Yes ! "

What does it mean ? "

The little foreigner grew concentrated and
ferocious.

*' It means we'll tell you sorting you
don't know ! It means I am proprietor of
De Infestigator and De Lamp you get all
your little moneys from, or most of it, and

Ill strike you off the staff, and get dem to
write down in reviews in half te papers of
London however you write anywhere till
everybody is afraid to employ you, and we
will not has you interfering with us — No !
And you will be just stared out, and serf
you damn right. Yes ! "

'your threats are more definite than
your promises."

Dey will be — to you — if you don't lookout."


Caspar laughed a little, and thought :
Here is my opportunity to kick Warrington
down that ladder to ruin I was thinking
of just now, and of profiting into the
bargain."

Think ! " said the foreigner. "It's bad
business quarrelling wit De Infestigator, Vot
do you think ? "

Dr. Van Westerdijk seemed to pride
himself on his acquaintance with town slang,

and to have principally associated with
persons who used it.

The Infestigator suggested some scaly-aquatic
monster when pronounced by him.

"I will ponder the question," said Caspar.
*ein the meantime, my learned friend, let
me ask you a few questions, just to give
your mind occupation. Which was your
university ? "

'' Oh— Leiden."

In what faculty did you graduate ? "

^^Philosofee."

** In what year ? "

'' In de year — de year '74."

'shave you a list for 1874?"

"Yes. You could find my name dere."

I daresay. I thought your name too
good a one for you to have invented."

Vot you mean ? "

I mean that you were quite right to
copy a chance name, instead of drawing on

your imagination for an unverifiable one.

Very sharp of you."

I consider you mean to insult me 1 "

"Consider anything you like."

"You shall prove your words."

I will. I say that in '74 you were

not Dr. Van Westerdijk. Shall I tell you

why ? "

"Vain?" The learned strangers eyes

looked shifty behind those glasses. " I do

not know at all vot you mean. I think you

are mat."

"Because as late as August last year

you were Julius Bloemendaal, and a d d

snipe you looked. So you do now for the

matter of that, though you appear to have

risen in the world since then."
"It is a lie!"
The Doctor's expression became very

unpleasant.

You don't give the lie with conviction.

You should practice that a little. Yoa can
go now, and tell Marsden & Co. that I
shall always be glad to warn guileless and
affluent youth against their pleasing allurements.
Tell the head of the firm — you
mark me, the head of the firm — that his
messenger has given a good deal more
information than he has received. If it
hadn't been for you, Julius Bloemendaal,
Westerdijk, etc., I should not have guessed
that Marsden &; Co. was an old acquaintance
of mine, living at 29, Castle Street.
Never mind how and why."

I believe you are de devil. But you
are an awful fool ; we'll stars you, man."

"Thanks. In the meantime get out,
and don't come back."

Bloemendaal (for he Westerdijk was —
shaven, shorn, and properly dressed, but
always a Rotterdam Jew) was angry, and
puzzled, and admiring all at once, and said

in a rash moment, as lie opened the
door :

If you will stand in, you shall have
de young woman, Mrs. F., all to yourself.
We'll take care of seem."

It has been hinted that Caspar Eosenfeld
was rather a tall man. He was also a
strong man, and given at various periods
to gymnastics of a quaint and Germanic
though effective kind, as well as to boxing
and fencing. He was spasmodic in his
practice of these diversions, and never in
training, but he was energetic and wiry.
After his last unfortunate utterance, Mr.
Julius Bloemendaal (by no means a formidable
antagonist to anyone) found himself
seized by the collar behind and actively
propelled through the doorway towards the
top of the stairs. A series of sudden and
remarkable phenomena were then observed
by him. He first felt the violent impact

of a hard body on the part of his person
anatomically known as the gluteus maximus
muscle. He then was assaulted by a railing
and a wall which rose at his head, and a
floor which spun round with him with
terrible velocity. He also distinctly saw
the fall of more than one meteoric body
through the air. What happened then he
was not sure. The next thing he remembered
was finding himself in a reclining
attitude on the stairs, with his right foot
through what had been a tall cylinder hat.
His spectacles were broken too ; but as he
saw equally well without them, and in fact
had had them made of flat glass, cheap, at
a little place in Goodge Street by Fitzroy
Square, that was not of so much consequence.
The hat, which was in the latest fashion
and cost five-and-sixpence and a couple of
Cubes of Dutch growth, at Simmons', down
High Street, Whitechapel, was a more serious

loss. Besides, it is injurious to the dignity
of a great and respectable firm that its
commissioner should parade Holborn decorated
as to his head with what looks like
a second-hand concertina, partly open.

He did a sort of war-dance on the pavement
of Barnard's Inn, shouting anathemas
of many kinds.

To parody a once popular song at the
music halls :

He cursed him in Hebrew,
He cursed him in Dutch,
He cursed him various ways.

Caspar, having shut his outer door, so that
the entry was pervious only to such as held
lackeys, opened the window, and looked
out, his elbows on the sill, his pipe hanging
from the corner of his mouth, his long black
hair tossed by the breeze of the night, and a
gentle smile playing round his mouth.

"Do you know vot you lias done?"
shrieked the injured one below.

Experiments in corpore vile. A doctor
of Leiden can translate that."

And Caspar shut the window, and retired
to his table, and recommenced the study of
first, ballads, then an old and particularly
rare 'eben Jonson," in which he tried to
immerse his mind, and found the attempt a
total failure. He read Bloemendaal for
Boabdil, and Barnard's Inn for New Inn.
When Charlie returned, pretty late, inquiring
why the outer door was '' sported," Caspar
replied :

'' Sit down, and Til tell you."

And he told him.

Charlie whistled. Then he said :

*' The denouement is very satisfactory, anyhow.
I wish I had arrived when he was below
outside ! By Jove, I am sorry I missed him.
Lucky I spotted him on the boat."

VOL. III.

This is not the denouement, unfortunately,
my boy. It is only the end of an
act. I have got to look for retribution now.
I have taken certain steps already. While
you were out, after this intelligent young
Dutchman s departure, I wrote to the editors
of the two papers, that I would be glad if
they would send cheques for arrears — (sounds
dignified — means very little) — as I declined
to supply further contributions. That message
wil] arrive by the earliest post tomorrow,
and will meet the Dutchman when he comes
to discharge his thunderbolts, converting the
latter into damp fireworks''

"That's burning your ships and no mistake.
Better than letting the enemy sink
'em."

What may follow, we can discuss at
length at some other time."

It will be rather serious for you, won't
it?"

It will. And I mean to make it serious
for them if I can. They have chosen to make
war. I accept it. They may bring me to
lodge in the Dials, or even in St. James's
Park — but they can't make me hold my
tongue. And that is what they mostly dread.
I will use all my might, for Dick's sake, to
keep that unhappy idiot out of this last mess
he is trying to get into, and I will make
things as warm for Marsden & Co. as I can.
Pleasant family mine, certainly. I'll trot
out its history in its entirety — see how
Marsden & Co. like that. I have left that
man alone to pursue his own path, for comprehensible
reasons, hitherto. He has chosen
to forget all mercy and humanity, to say
nothing of all honour and honesty, and to do
the cruellest act he could think of to me, as
well as to others ; and lastly, to send a scoundrel
to splash the mud of his meanness on the

skirts of a sweet and innocent lady and now,

M 2

by the God of Abraham, I will not leave him
alone ! "

'don't get in such a passion, man, I
daresay it will come all right, ultimately."

What is the use of talking like that ? I
am not made of leather, with veins running
salt water, like half your Normans, and
Angles, and Picts, and other barbarians I
Calmness won't keep us out of all the chaos
that is coming. Still, let us be calm. Charlie
you will go in with me ? I must make
selection of such friends as I can depend
on.

Never so few, and never yet more need ! "

"I say, who is this Marsden that you
make such a row about ? " asked Charlie, with
some anxiety.

Nathan Eosenfeld, my father. His real
and private address always was the one you
saw in Bloemendaal's pocket Bible. That is

what attracted my attention at the time. I
was born there."

Good Lord ! Excuse my remarks on
calmness, old man, but of course I go in with
you. And — damn it, I think you might
admit some energy and some courage and
some faith in us Angles and Picts and other
barbarians ! "

I do, my young friend, I do. It's all
right. But they are made of leather pretty
often, all the same. Never mind, it's a good
resisting fabric. Now approach

The ragged'st hour that time and spite dare bring ! "

After a few days Caspar received the small
sums owing to him from The Lamp and
Investigator respectively, and proceeded to
expend the same in the discharge of various
small debts, principally at the grocer's and
tobacconist's and the old house bulging with
old books in Clement's Lane, where he occasionally

was tempted. Having recently acquired
the complete works of Voltaire and of
Swift, he had to pay a bill of forty-three
shillings and sixpence. Before his severance
from the periodical publications above-named,
this had appeared ridiculously little to pay for
so much, but now, having no longer the
prospect of constant employment at good
pay, it seemed ridiculously much to pay for
so little.

Having satisfied himself that he was now
free from fear of bills, and owed no man anything,
he walked placidly back to his chambers,
jingling, with his hand in his left trouser-pocket,
the sum of nine and sentence, the
capital on which his future career was to be
supported.

It was about five on a hideous November
afternoon with a fog and an east wind, Charlie
had just come back, snorting, coughing, and
cursing, from the scene of his daily toil.

and was restoring himself with the warmth of
the blazing coal fire and a small dose of
"whisky. Caspar poured his remaining silver
and copper money on the table. Charlie
turned round :

*what are you doing?" said he.

"You see this interesting numismatic
collection ? "

"Wel?"

'rit is all the money I have in this best
of all possible worlds."

I can lend you two or three quid fora
while, if you mean that."

"Yes, of course. But I don't mean
that. I don't know whether, when, or
where I can earn any more just now.
Luckily there isn't a quarter-day here for
another month or so. And in a month all
sorts of things may happen."

THE NET Gathered IK

LITTLE SKELTON STREET.

Little Skelton Street is situate in the
populous and unfashionable parish of St.
Giles, and serves as a kind of overflow pipe
to Big Skelton Street, in which luggage-laden
four-wheelers on their way to Euston and
King's Cross, vegetable vans on their way
to Covent Garden, hansoms theatre-bound
from Bloomsbury, omnibuses plying between
Charing Cross and Tottenham Court Eoad,
costermongers' carts, penny ice-stalls, chestnut,
whelk, and potato trucks create a tolerably
permanent congestion. Little Skelton

Street is narrow, and its houses are tall and
old, mostly provided with attics, in the
windows of which cared birds and small
hanging gardens are generally to be detected.
The chaste architectural monotony of Bloomsbury
is not found here. The houses are of
different heights, and can be individually
distinguished. They shoulder one another
like an ill-drilled squad of recruits who have
not yet been arranged according to their
heights. The ground-floors are mostly occupied
by shops, where trades of a more useful
than attractive nature are carried on. You
can get letters of glass and porcelain hereto
stick on windows — such letters as you see
disposed in graceful curves on the fronts of
public-houses advertising '' Mart ell, Hennessy,
& Co's Brandy," and "Danville & Co's
best Whisky." You can also get coffins
cheap and wholesale — reduction on taking
a dozen — as well as dry colours for grinding,

tin cooking utensils, locks and hinges,
second-hand — or second-foot — boots, 
ulsters, fit guaranteed, genuine
pork sausages, tobacco, and The Police News
(the two latter at the same establishment).
The most interesting and artistic establishment
is the one whose window exhibits
grinning masks, trick-wigs, bottled spangles
and orient pearls, red shoes, green satin
cloaks, and glittering swords and helmets.
For this is a theatrical neighbourhood.
Drury Lane is the nearest home of the
drama. Little Skelton Street being only
eighty yards long has only three public-houses,
a corner one at each end and one
in the middle, K. L. and C, as stage directions
tersely express it. But not Little
Skelton Street alone is supplied by these, or
they might appear disproportionately numerous.
Every few feet on either side shows
the orifice of a court, 'rent," *yard,"

"buildings," or "passage' whitewashed at
the mouth, apparently in order to give the
dirt a fair chance of showing itself, and this
short street makes up for its shortness by-possessing
vast receding depths of a more
or less habitable nature on either side, which
show that it is only an artery whose lateral
capillaries can hold at least twice as many
people as the mere frontage building. Little
Skelton Street is only the central duct of
an extensive system of ramifications. The
life goes on in the crowded branches and
recesses. At the dark entrance of each court
lounge a little crowd on fine summer evenings,
specimens of what the inside can
produce in far greater numbers if it chooses
to try, or if anything disturbs it. An ants'
nest usually has a few lazily moving sentinels
at the surface. Graze it with your foot,
and the ground is black with them. And
they can sting. If you look inside you will

see women seated on doorsteps nursing children,
and conversing on topics of the day
with one another, and exchanging opinions
and relating facts of a nature quite peculiar
to the locality, and calculated to puzzle and
bewilder the traveller. The males are mostly
young — either children or lads just old
enough to have coarse loud voices. They
have pale, dirty faces, and red eyelids. They
open cab-doors in the Strand, sell newspapers,
black boots, and gambol sweetly on
the Thames Embankment on Sunday afternoons.
If they are strong enough, they
assault unprotected and feeble-looking wayfarers
when they find an opportunity. They
subsist largely on herrings, tripe, whelks,
high meat bought cheap on Saturday night,
or stolen from the butchers' stalls down in
the not far distant Dials, gin and beer. They
prefer the two latter forms of refreshment.
When they cannot afford the necessary, they

confine themselves to the superfluous. That
is, they deny themselves food to get drink.

The street itself is shabby-genteel — at
least it is undoubtedly shabby, and probably
considers itself genteel, but the regions right
and left of it are unmitigated 'groceries,"
and present in a complete form the terrible
problem of retrogressive evolution — the
Survival of the Unfit.

One fine May evening, about six, when
the sky was growing warmly yellow, and the
cry began to be heard of such as sold casement
in the streets, when the cats stalked
proudly in the wake of that cry, and the
dogs grinned and ran about, divided in their
minds between following the sweet and alluring
fragrance of high liver in slices, and
pursuing their traditional foes, the cats. Miss
Ada Clarence appeared at the garret window
of No. 37, and began to water the little row
of flowers spread on the leaden parapet. She

also inspected and fed a canary, hanging out
there at the side of the window, and addressed
it as '' sweet " and as '' pretty Dick," formulae
which the bird endeavoured to repeat after
her, receiving much encouragement thereto
from his mistress. After this simple pastime,
she turned her eyes toward the attic window
of No. 36, on the opposite side, and seemed
to be interested therein.

Miss Ada Clarence was a very pretty girl,
tall, slender, well-shaped, blue-eyed, graceful
you will see many like her between six
and seven in the evening, descending Wendell
Street or Bow Street, armed with a small
bag or basket. She was an actress of burlesque,
that is, she had recently been promoted
from the chorus to a speaking part
two lines containing three puns. Malicious
friends said the minute basket she carried
contained her costume for the stage. She
had no particular parent that she was aware

VOL. III. N

of, and supported herself by the use of the
gifts with which nature had endowed her,
namely, a good voice, a pretty face, keen
wits, a merry heart, and a shapely form.
And a very honest living she made. She
liked fun, music, melodramas, lager-beer, and
oysters. She was not of those who ride in
victorias with the burden of unsought sealskin
on their backs, and the burden of ruined young
men (sitting very lightly) on their consciences.
She lived alone in the attic in Skelton Street,
with the flowers and the canary-bird. She
had very few male friends, and they were
gentlemen. They were gentlemen sometimes
in very reduced circumstances too. But they
managed to have little banquets sometimes,
where the " wit was better than the wattles,"
as was remarked at one of them, and where
she shared with a few carelessly clothed
happy-go-lucky sons of science and literature,
who were prepared to assault anyone who

spoke evil of or to her, that cheerful, but not
very nourishing food, called le pain h6nit de
la gaiety.

Her name was, of course, not Clarence.
What her real patronymic was — if she had
one — no one knew. They talked of her as
^^Ada," or "the child." She had got on
very well up to two-and-twenty without a
surname. Perhaps somebody will give her
his some day.

Heureux qui meters sa coarse
Au bonnet de JMimi Pinson !

There was one just now residing over
the way in the attic of 36 who had been
for some years — almost since she was a wild
little girl who played hide-and-seek with
London for a playground — a great friend of
news. In his prosperous days he had taken
her to theatres, and shared with her many
a pleasant supper afterwards, where the thirst

2

bringing anchovies were antithetic to the
thirst-quenching lager-beer. In his days of
tribulation she had sometimes given him the
same treat. They were not in love with
each other. They scouted the notion. He
never made a sentimental approach to her —
and there seemed no room for sentimentalism
in her.

He now seemed to be in a state of inordinate
financial depression. So much so
that he would not accept help from her.
That is a bad sign," she thought, " it means
he has no hope of returning it." And he
used to accept — only to return. He seemed
to have lost a good deal of the careless gaiety
which he used to display in her society,
which so few people beside herself seemed
able to awake in him. And this girl, who
was above all sentiment, and considered love
as described in books all nonsense, thought :
'^ There must be some girl in the case ; just

being hard up would never make him like
that — it used rather to cheer him up than
otherwise. I wonder what he is doing now ?
Writing, I suppose. He is always writing —
he does it too much. Another bad sign. He
used to be lazy. It must be some girl. And
the poor fellow is trying to get rich — and
when he tries for things he generally gets
them. And then he will marry her, and all
the good old times will be gone for ever.
She is a swell, I suppose, and they will live
in the suburbs or in the country, far away
somewhere — and the jolly old times will just
be something to dream about and forget as
soon as — as soon as I can. And he will get
respectable — and I shall get old, and ugly,

and fat. Oh "

She happened at this stage of her reflections
to look down into the street, and beheld
a quaint procession on the other side of it.
First, with the serene pomp of a drum-major.

walked Thaddeus O'Rourke, Esq., bearing in
his hands a large cage containing a grey
parrot which emitted at frequent but always
unexpected moments a loud and piercing
squawk. Behind him Charley Deane with
the shimmering, silvery, corrugated end of
a large German sausage protruding from his
coat-pocket. Beside him walked Jerry Carpenter
carrying two bottles wrapped in newspapers.
Behind walked Mr. Jack Miller,
smoking a cheap cigar and carrying two more
newspaper-clad bottles. A scarlet claw of
a lobster protruded from his pocket where
it was associated with a lettuce.

The procession halted at 36, knocked,
and were admitted. A few minutes later
two heads — Charlie's and Jerry Carpenter's —
appeared at the open attic window and
beckoned emphatically to Ada. She thought :

"I don't see him beckoning. He doesn't
want me now. I shan't go." And she took

up some needlework and proceeded to prick
her fingers severely in the effort to do one
thing and attend to another. Then she determined
to look at 36 no longer, and straightway-put
down her work and gazed — 36-wards.
Then a third head, a head with long black
hair, a face with a queer, wrinkling smile on
which the evening sun shone, appeared, and
said :

"Ada! Come over. You are wanted."
'' I don't believe it," muttered she. " I
won't go." And she snatched up a hat, put
it hurriedly on, powdered her face, almost
forgetting the farewell glance at the looking-glass,
and went downstairs, and across the
street, where the door was opened to her by
Caspar Eosenfeld. She was greeted upstairs
by a welcoming cheer. On the table,
among books and MSS., stood the bottles
containing beer. Carpenter was hastily slicing
the lettuce with a scalpel, previous to cracking

the resisting parts of the lobster with a
pair of bone-forceps.

The parrot stood on the floor in a corner.

'' I Ve brought a spain' bord to cheer
um up," remarked O'Rourke, explanatory.
I've taught um to whistle the * Wearing' of
the Green.' He swore naturally when I
bought um, and has since learned to say,
Sparragrass twopence a bundle and "

Here the parrot interrupted, using (only
too distinctly) language proving that he had
been born and brought up in the neighbourhood
of the Seven Dials, where, as is known
to the London reader, naturalists do mostly
congregate.

Shot up, ye baste ! "

"I say, Rosenfeld," said Miller, "if The
Lamp tried to ruin you, O'Kourke has, we
hope, succeeded in ruining The Lamp"

"Has he been writing in it?" asked
Caspar pleasantly.

He has been writing about it — and
to rights. And I've declined to contribute
further illustrations."

'* Noble sacrifice!" said O'Kourke. ^^t
was not until the Jew baste declined to contribute
his salary, though."

"O'Rourke and I saw Van Westerdijk,"
added Miller, " and gave him large fragments
of our mind. I don't think he has had such
a thorough and respectable slating since you
kicked him downstairs, which latter event, by
the way, we have given full publicity to. It's
nuts to the other weeklies."

"For these reliefs much thanks. My
brains have been rather addled lately. I
have been able to write nothing but verses,
and there doesn't seem to be that mysterious
thing called an opening for verses just now.
I've got a volume of them in existence. One
publisher has refused it already — says it's too
morbid, or too cheerful, or too something else

don't think I read his letter much more
carefully than he reads my works. Another
has had them now for weeks. Has them still.
Never mind. It doesn't matter. Let us feast.
Well Ada, how are you, and the tickle-bird ? "

"We are very well, thanks. Why don't
you take to the stage, Mr. Kosenfeld ? I
should think you might do something that
way."

'* I might make a decent gravedigger,
perhaps."

"What a nice cheerful view you seem
to take of things, Kosenfeld," observed Jack
Miller, "we shall see you driving a hearse
soon."

I think I should feel more at home
inside."

Give us the privilege of post-morning
you first, old fellow," said Carpenter ; " brains
like yours ought not to be lost to the college."

What a glorious immortality for this

gathering it will be if we are grouped together
in pathological bottles some day," said Miller,
*' on a special shelf, all to ourselves. People
will pay to see it."

Ada, would you prefer picric acid ? It
is a nice becoming colour," suggested Charlie.
^'O'Eourke will, of course, be in absolute
alcohol."

"If ye mean I'll be in liquor to all
eternity, I scorn the insinuation — and "

And accept the conditions ? "

"If you are aU going to talk like this,"
said Ada, " I shall go home."

Hear, hear ! " said O'Kourke.

"Have you got a cruet-stand anywhere,
Eosenfeld ? " asked Carpenter.

It's on the floor by that heap of books,
along with a bottle of ink."

Eight. There isn't much vinegar ; don't
you think some temporary arrangement might
be made with the ink? There is more ink

in this room than any other liquor, I think.
Mademoiselle and gentlemen, the salad is
made and the fatherly feast is spread.
Here, let's drag the table into the window ;
two of you can sit on the sill, and the
other two can have the chairs."

"I'm sorry there are no more chairs,"
said Caspar. ''I feel shy about borrowing
any downstairs, as my landlady has an unhappy
conversational monomania about arrears
of rent, and refuses to believe in my volume
of poems. Look here, Charlie, you and
Carpenter can camp out on the floor, and
we will feed you. O'Kourke, if you will
help me take the breakables out, we will
capsize the wash-hand stand, and it will be
unto you as a throne. I daresay some of
you won't mind drinking beer out of teacups
under the circumstances."

These various arrangements were carried
out, and an interval of comparative silence

ensued, during which the lobster salad was
consumed. Ada, kindly but rashly, said she
had never had one she enjoyed so much,
on which she was given some more. The
sausage was then attacked, and the whole
meal concluded with a wild debauch on
bread-and-butter. Then O'Eourke arose, took
up his parable, and said :

''My leeds and friends!"

''Oh Lor! He's going to make a
speech," murmured Charlie with his mouth
full.

This joyous occasion should, in my
opinion, be marked in some special manner;
and it seems to me that the best way
would be that we should drink with due
solemnity "

"Trust O'Rourke for finding an excuse
for drinking something," said a voice from
the floor.

Should drink with due solemnity the

health of our friend here who has lint his
palatial primroses for our entertainment
and diversion. We have all known um for
years in poverty and wealth — not much of the
latter — and we can confidently assert we never
hord um say a kind thing or do an unkind one
to anybody. While expressing contempt and
aversion for mankind he has been tinder to
women, kind to children, and a true and
generous friend to his fellow-man. When he
had money he spent it in helping his neebor
by stilts, in given' square meals to poor devils
who sometimes wanted um, and, if yell allow
me to add, Ada, in savin' poor girls from
going wrong. All this I proceed (literally)
from the housetop. I can't talk to-night — the
thread of eloquence was spent in leader writing'
this afternoon. Long may he wave ! "

Loud applause followed this effusion, as
well as a copious imbibition of beer, after
which a noisy version of *'Forhe is a jolly

good fellow " was given, accompanied by loud
squeaking and the frequent and irrelevant
statement of the price of sparragrass from the
parrot, who was wildly excited.

'' Speech, Caspar ! " was next the general
cry.

"Thanks, O'Eourke and friends, thanks.
I can't make a speech just now. I drink
your healths with great pleasure all the
same."

"Why this tragic gloom, Eosenfeld?" asked
Carpenter.

A feast is incomplete without a death's
head at it, I suppose."

It's that girl — that girl, sang a voice
through Ada's brain.

This feast has gone away now where the
others are. The remembrance of them is to us
like music far away on a summer night. The
clink of the knives — or perhaps fencing foils —
beating time to the chorus on the glasses

echoes in our ears sometimes when we sit incorrect
evening-dress (at rare intervals) at the
rich man's table, and murmur to ourselves
Hans Breitman's lament for his *'barty."
Those wonderful "scratch" banquets, where
the guest contributed what he could forage,
where there were not enough forks, those
celebrations of the fraternity of impecuniosity
where the joke was ready, the laughter free,
and the appetite exorbitantly disproportionate
to the supply, belong to the days that are
never to be forgotten. Though there was no
champagne, there was youth and laughter.
And these together defied the world and the
devil. The feasters are scattered, the old
tavern has perhaps become a glittering restaurant,
the tall old attic-laden street has perhaps
been improved away. And we stray sadly
round the ground trodden by those wandering
feet long days ago and wonder where the
revellers are whose ghosts surround us still.

Gone — gone to the colonies, to the marriage-market,
to the devil, to the House of Commons,
to the cemetery. They are great authors and
painters, county magistrates, physicians, "prime
donne, statesmen, fiddlers and buffoons, and
perpetual drunkards. But they all remember
the days when they shared together in Soho,
or Bloomsbury, or the Eue de Ecole de
Medicine, or Leipzig, or Vienna, the loan
venit de la gaiety. This may be tiresome, it
may be mawkish sentiment, it may be a talked
out subject — but, you who know — is it not
true ? You who have left your youth behind,
and are prosperous, and ordered to mineral
springs by your doctor, would you not give all
your wealth to bring back one of those bygone
hours ?

Time rakes away his dustheap of dead roses.

Of empty cups, of Broken vows.
Spent love, and all dim memory discloses

The morning after youth's carouse ;

VOL, III. O

He shows us shades of unforgotten faces,

"We hear the voices far away
Of revellers, who leave us still some traces
Of songs whose echoes haunt old halting places,

"Where night was often turned to day.

A knock came at the door, and the landlady's
little girl brought Caspar a letter.
*' Ah," said he. " Sally ! "

Yes, Mr. Rosenfeld."

Caspar read the letter.

"Tell your mother to make out her bill.
Take this round to '' The Duke of York," and
ask them for change. Bring some bottles of
wine — claret." Exit Sally.

Brethren and sister. Mr. Marsh accepts
my poems, and begs to enclose a cheque, as he
pleasantly and delicately puts it, ' to go on
with.' I told him I wanted it, or I should
cease to * go on ' at all."

After the wild howl of delight, which
naturally arose at this announcement had
partially subsided, Ada said to Caspar:

'' I am glad, but — you will leave this
street now, I suppose, won't you ? I shall
miss you and your pipe at the window in the
evening."

"On the whole, Ada, no. There is no
knowing how long this money may last.
The people here are clean and moderately
honest, principally from lack of temptation
to be otherwise, and I am used to being here
now — no. I shall not leave. Is that all
right, Ada?"

Yes. That's all right." And she leaned
out of the window and whistled to the canary
over the way.

"Now let us be joyful," said Miller.

Let us kick out the presiding death's head.

Tell it it's only a common seven-and-sixpenny

skull after all, and not even good enough for

stage purposes."

The child Sally re-entered, saying : " Please

sir, mother says here's the bill, and thank you,

o 2

sir, but ' The Duke of York ' say they don't
know nothing about no cheques, and they won't
give anything on it, sir." {" Sally evidently
looks on a cheque as a sort of pawn-ticket,"
remarked Miller aside to Ada.) ^' And please,
sir, they won't give any wine on trust, and I
was to take this up to you, Mr. Eosenfeld,
which it came whiles I was out."

This " was a telegram.

Nice, hospitable, trusting sort of people
at * The Duke,' aren't they ? " said Caspar
opening the telegram envelope, 'sand all the
banks are shut long ago."

He read the message, and stood for sometime
silent and motionless with it in his hand.
Then he looked up, and none of them there
had ever seen such a desolate and desperate
face before. His eyes were wide open and
vacant, as if they saw something far off, his
mouth was rigidly shut, and his cheeks showed
the outlines of the contracted muscles. His

colour did not change much, Then he seemed
to remember himself, and handed the telegram
to Charlie. It said :

'* Carew, Sokebridge,

To Kosenfeld, Little Skelton Street.
^^ If you avant to see D, again, come novo ;
she ivill not live much longer. Rapid consumption,
they say."

*slily will be with her," said Charlie,
"and has sent this probably on the sly."

Will you excuse me, friends ? " said
Caspar. " I am afraid I shall have to leave
you directly. Who has a time-table ? "

O'Eourke had an "A.B.C."

** I can catch a train at — no — there wil]
not be another to Sokebridge till to-morrow''

Where from ? " said O'Eourke.

Victoria."

"Look at Waterloo."

"Good. I have it. 7.15. Quick train.
Give me some money, somebody ! "

Those present emptied their pockets of
what they had. It was not much.

'' It is enough," said Caspar. '*' You shall
have it next time we meet. Good-bye, you
people — you are all the friends I have left —
and you are friends. Ada — I'm sorry I can't
entertain you to-night — I'm not very amusing,
I'm afraid — I'll come back and tell you why
some day. Good-bye." He snatched up a
hat and ran downstairs, and soon they saw
him hurrying away in a hansom.

"What is it?" asked Ada in a whisper
to Charlie.

'' The girl he loves is dying. Head this."

Ada read the telegram and said, " May
I keep this? He won't want it again?"

THIS HOUSE IS MINE ! "

For ever and ever farewell.

Sever a cry so desolate, not since the world began,
sever a kiss so sad, no, not since the coming of man.

Caspar was whirled along in the evening
express, and strained his eyes to catch the
first glimpse of the far-off sea, golden in the
sunlight of the long May evening, as the train
approached the little red-roofed, cliff-crowning
town. He looked for it many miles before
it could come in sight, but his impatience
travelled faster than the train. He remembered
well the afternoon in early October when he
had last travelled on that line ; when the

autumn mists made the distant woods loom
mysteriously, when the green was overcast
with a dust of rust and bronze, and the
brilliant gold and umber billows of bracken
spread over the ground among the tree roots,
and scarlet and crimson flecks of creeper
streaked and patched the heavy dark green
ivy which climbed and clung on the gables
and chimney-stacks of the villages. Thin
perpendicular smoke-streaks hovered and had
no energy to ascend through the windless
atmosphere, and everywhere was the motionless
dead silence of decay. That was a month
after Dick's wedding. It was brighter now,
and the sun shone through the narrow twig-intersected
slits in the walls of dark fir trees
and pale larches, past whose shelves and gables
and thin rigid stems the train rushed from
time to time. Caspar had never been so
anxious to hurry through such a scene before.
At last he did see the pale glittering far-spread

sea, under long sloping streaks of soft
gray and golden clouds which stretched and
dwindled away into points, and frayed out
into overhanging fringes tinged with semitransparent
brown, on a back-sky of the palest
blue that ever was seen in heaven.

Small moth-like trawling boats hovered
apparently an inch or so above the luminous
sea surface. Suddenly the train rounded a
curve, and the red roofs of Sokebridge, on the
top of its cliff, and the great green downs
behind and inland became visible. Caspar
could see far and away on the wooded rising
ground beyond the town the dark perpendicular
mass of the Manor House, with its
crumbling old brick chimney stacks waiting
to be lit up by the growing glow, that came
over them every evening.

When the fringe was red on the western' hill.

The engine whistled, the train slackened.

and Caspar's heart beat horribly. He was
out of the train before it stopped, and, casting
a rapid glance up and down the platform,
left at a swinging stride for his destination.
He had to walk through the one main street
of the town, where such of the inhabitants
as had no better occupation were standing
talking together, before shop windows and in
doorways, about each other and about the
*' state of the foreshore." The Sokebridge
mind was always in a condition of tumult
regarding the '' state of the foreshore," though
it did not explain where and what the " back"
or "aft" shore was. Caspar remembered
afterwards that he had heard and noticed all
this conversation with a certain dull curiosity.
He remarked the photographs, in a window, of
Mr. Gladstone between a popular murderer
and Miss Maud Transcribe. And then he
got free of the town, and walked away past the
semi-detached colony, past the new cement-faced

Wesleyan Chapel into the downland, as
the evening was coming on, and the sky
getting deeper in colour. As he walked
up the avenue, with its carpet of un-swept
leaves, he shivered in his great-coat.
There was round him the smell of evening and
of spring. There was no light visible on the
front side of the house. There was no wind,
and only the far-off sound of the sea broke the
deadly silence. AVhen he reached the house,
he found the door ^ open, and Lily Carew
standing in the doorway, hatless, and holding
a fur tippet round her neck.

Oh, I am so glad ! I thought you were
never coming." And she laughed in a weak
kind of way, and drew him into the hall.

*'I came by the first train I could catch.
How is she ? "

Oh, I don't know ! She says she is
much the same, and a little better, perhaps.
The doctor says it is difficult to say how long

she may last. You see lie doesn't know that
she has nothing to last for, and that everything
has acted together to kill her. I'm in
an awfully funny state, what with sitting up,
and getting meals anyhow, one thing and
another, my fingers tremble, and I don't know
whether to laugh or cry." This in a pitiful
little voice that certainly had not made up its
mind, and allowed itself finally to settle down
into silence, while the owner wiped her
eyes surreptitiously, and Caspar took off his
coat.

*'By the way," said he, *' did anyone
authorise you to send that telegram ? "

No ; I did it of my own accord. I told
nobody. If any of the servants see you, I
shall say it's a doctor from London."

Does she know ? "

She does now. I took care not to consult
her till after I had sent it."

Well done, Lily ! If you do all this for

your friends, what will you do for the man
you will one day love ? "

"Lead him an awful life, I daresay. But
don't chaff now."

Fm not. You deserve to be loved by a
good and happy man, and I think you have
got your deserts. Why are you the only person
here ? "

Because I am the only person she cares to
have with her, and because lie is away in
London or somewhere, I suppose with that
woman. Mr. Kosenfeld, if I were a man, I
would shoot George Farringdon."

Brave little nineteenth-century Beatrice !
But tell me, as you seem to know, who is the
woman for whose sake Farringdon is miles
away from a sick wife, who never did him
wrong, and apparently ignorant that she is ill?"

Oh, don't you know ? I thought everybody
knew. It is that Mrs. Brandon that
used to be here."

'^ God of Heaven ! cliilcl — you are not
certain of that ? It is only some gossip you
have heard ? Try back in your recollection,
whether you have any certain knowledge."

''I know it. I know people who could
tell you all about it — some of those fellows
he knows in London. They will tell you. But
there is no doubt about it. "What's the matter
with you ? "

Nothing particular. I was only thinking
how like we all are to those forefathers of mine
in a dry land, who saw a river before them
after a three days' thirst, and they could not
drink of it, for it was bitter. And our life is
the river we must drink from, whether it be
bitter or not, and there is no tree now to take
away the bitterness. Take me to where Dick
is, will you ? "

Come this way, then. She is in her own
sitting-room, on the sofa."

This was a small room on the ground floor.

which looked westward, and, from her position
by the still red coal fire, Dick could see the
distant darkening woods, and the golden sky
behind them, with a little glimpse of sea far
round to the left and southward. The room
was full of her favourite books, and contained
a selected few of the strange and antique pieces
of furniture and porcelain collected by the late
Claudius Farringdon. George had given her
perfect freedom as to such things, having lost
even the pretence of an interest in them himself
Lily opened the door and left them,
saying :

Don't be long. The clergyman comes in
an hour," in a low voice.

Caspar looked once at Dick's face and
hands. They alone where the pale witnesses
of her state, her body being covered with a
long furred jacket spread over her by Lily.

Then he went to her side, and knelt there,
and taking both her wan little blue-veined

hands in his, and looking up into her face,
said — for a long time it seemed, nothing.
Then she smiled a faint glad smile, because
she saw him there, and said :

I suppose this is very wrong, isn't it ? "
with a kind of attempt to take her hands
away.

What do I care, now ? I have loved you
ever since I saw you, and you have begun to
love me, haven't you?" He held her hands
still;

'eyes," she said, gently, "I love you,
Caspar. It was stupid of me not to find it
out sooner, wasn't it ? "

"But now I know it, and you know it,
and well or ill it shall be known to both of
us for ever — if there is any for ever. You
will try and get well ? "

I am getting better. I feel better now
than I have for some time before. I think
it is because you are here."

Caspar lifted his head and looked round.
The sky above outside was one glowing mass
of rosy flecks now, and it almost brought
back the complexion which had once been
such a component of Dick's delicate beauty.

Then Dick disengaged one hand and looked
through it at the evening glow. *' Not much
flesh there, is there, for Shylock ? "

Caspar only replied by taking the hand
back again and kissing it. Then Dick lay
still, watching the sky, and they were both
silent. She shivered a little, and the roseate
clouds had time to wane and grow first brown
and then purple, while one or two tiny stars
grew out of the deepening blue before they
spoke again. Dick pointed them out.

'* I wonder if people live in them ? Whether
I am going to one, and whether they will let
you come too ? "

Where we would have a home of our
own, managed our own way, on the strictly

VOL. III. P

exclusive system, with plenty of books and
flowers, and trespassers always prosecuted ? "

I think we would have a castle to live
in, one that looked red in the evening and
morning with the sunlight, where we could
stand on the balconies, and look far away
down the river-valley, and over the plain, and
see the villages begin to light their lamps in
the evening, when the bats come out, and the
fireflies among the ivy leaves and in the woods
below, and the mists would come, and one
would hear a long way ofi" below — all the way
from the earth to our star — some music and
singing. They would sing — I don't know — I
think they are doing it now, only the songs
seem mixed together, and yet not out of tune :
some are the old Scotch tunes ; then are those
songs they sung when the students came floating
down the river at Schlangenberg with
their coloured lanterns — I can almost hear the
words. Oh, what nonsense I'm talking! I

believe I was getting sleepy. I do get sleepy
often, but I don't sleep properly."

Caspar kept bis eyes always fixed on
ber face, marking each change. Then sbe
began to talk rather disconnectedly :

^'You know George is losing money terribly
? They say be will bave to sell this
place. I like the place now, tbougb I was
once afraid of it. What colour do you call
that, over the sea, far ofi'? Is it green or
yellow ? "

'something of both, I think."

"Mr. Merewetber is coming soon. You
mustn't let bim find you. You must forget
all about me, you know, if I get well —
and I am getting well. Do you want to
say anything particular before you go ? "

I will go directly. I bave nothing to
say. I bave made a horrible mistake. I
bave loved you and longed for you all my
life — at least I think it must be all my

p 2

life, it was long enough — and now-was

talking to your poor little nurse about
the waters they called March ; never mind.
You make up your mind to get well. I can't
talk to-day, I can only drivel ; I'd better go'*

Yes. Good-bye ! Oh, Caspar, I am
not so sure I shall get well. Do you think,
if I don't, I shall see you again — ever —
anywhere ? I shall believe what you believe,
you know."

"Darling, if all our love is wasted, if
all our sorrow and sacrifice to honour is
fruitless, and there is no help for it anywhere,
for ever, then indeed have we drunk
and drenched ourselves, and drowned in
those bitter waters, and the devils may
laugh at us for ever ! "

Caspar ! "

My darling."

"You — had better — kiss me — once. For
good-bye — you know."

Caspar took her in his arms, and gently-put
her hands round his neck, where they
dung; and the whole room swam round
with him, and the tears blinded his eyes as he
kissed Dick on the mouth for the first time.

At last he stood up, trembling. The
fire had burned low, and more stars were
shining, and the hills and quivering woods
were dim and dark : and Dick's hand sought
his, and gently drew him down. She spoke
no word, and he kissed her again for the
last time. He could not have said how
long it lasted ; but she had been dead some
seconds when he gently released her and
laid her back on the couch. He almost
reeled from the room, seized his hat, and
went out into the avenue. There he found
himself in that strange starlight which
remains when the sun is long ago gone and
the little tongues of rosy smoke and golden
flame faded away into filmy streaks of brown

and lead-colour, making the near trees darker
than ever, and the distant ones misty and
vaguely visible. Just such a light had first
shown him Dick's face, one far-off summer
evening, on the bank of a German river.

There appeared in this latter gloaming
a quite other vision. A small, grizzly, dim
apparition in a long coat and a tall hat
approached, saying :

^^Mr. Farringdon? No?"
Caspar absently replied : " No ; he is
away. Are you the clergyman?"
'^No. I am come on business."
It was an old man with a beard. Caspar
started. Something familiar and yet horrible
there was in this obscure little bent figure
the shadow of the tall trees. He seemed
like some malevolent earth-gnome, who only
emerged on such a weird night as this on
upper earth, perhaps only on such awful occasions
and in such mystic scenes as can only

be produced as was this one — by trees and
summer starlight. Then Caspar recollected
himself a little, and said in a short stern
voice :

*you cannot go in now."

Sorry, but I must. I am only an agent.
My orders are very strict." Caspar plunged
forward, exclaiming, " You here ! " and made
a wild grasp at the beard of the venerable
writ-bearer, who escaped him, and disappeared
in the darkness. Caspar looked up and saw
the stars whirl in fantastic dances round the
deep clear blue, heard the crash of swords, and
the thundering trample of horse-hoofs develop
from the distant hollow murmur of the sea
growing louder, and reeling against a tree,
dropped in an unconscious, helpless-looking
heap among its roots. His nervous system
could no longer sustain the strong emotional
strain which had been cumulative imposed
on it, and he fainted.

Mr. Mere wether, with the sacrament,
arrived too late to administer it, and found
Lily crying convulsively, with her face on
a dead girl's breast, in one room, while in
the hall there sat a small old man in a long
great-coat, with a black American cloth bag
at his feet. When asked to go, he declined.
When the clergyman so far forgot his office
as to threaten to kick him out, he replied :
This house is mine. I don't wish to disturb
anyone, but this house is mine."

"Do you know that there is one dead
in this house?"

'eyes. That makes this house mine."

'who and what are you?"

"Nathan Eosenfeld. This house is mine.
I request you, civilly, to leave it. Perhaps
Jessie will be satisfied now," he muttered.
The servants, in the meantime, were placidly
beginning a hot supper.

MRS. Brandon's VISITORS.

'' Mrs. Brandon in ? "

I'll see, sir. Will you step inside,
please ? "

'thanks, Tell Mrs. Brandon I want to
see her. Here's my card."

*^ I don't know whether you can see her
now, sir."

"Give her my card. Mr. Rosenfeld, say,
wants her."

Mrs. Brandon was lying on the sofa, on
a red and white Algerine carpet-rug, with
a novel in her hand and a glass of brandy

and soda on a little table. To support lier
in her exertions, and to enable her to endure
her troubles and anxieties, she had
found doses of brandy and soda between
meals, an excellent specific.

She had but recently [breakfasted, and
looked a little untidy and 'dishevelled, having
omitted to brush her hair or adorn herself
with a collar or cuffs, but in spite of these
facts, even in that cruellest of times, the
morning, she remained a young and beautiful
woman to all intents and purposes. Yet
hers was not the kind of beauty which lasts,
plus a little stoutness, till five and forty. It
depended largely on shape and colour of
face and body, and [on preservation of due
proportion between the various dimensions.

To have grown fat, as is the unhappy
destiny of too many a pretty Jewish woman,
would have been fatal to her. That tall
and slender body, those rather square

shoulders and perfect hands and feet, looked
as though they never could change. And
the dead-black rippling hair crowning the
straight thin black brows, gave no promise
of turning grey, and the uniform clear tawny
pallor of the firm flesh, showed not any
*' map of days outworn''

And yet she knew that her beauty, which
was her power and her curse, could not last
much longer. Also that her gently aquiline
nose and firm chin would co-operate to make
a crone's profile one day before long ; when
she would be nothing and have nothing, unless
she took to some one of the many unsavoury
trades that indigence forces on old wasted
women ; a destiny no art could long fore-slow.
She was now dependent on her father
who only regarded outlay on her as bread
cast on the waters — and to some extent on
George, who, however, had only been unconsciously
wasting on Peter the money he owed

to Paul. AVhen she ceased to be useful asa
decoy to the venerable recluse of Castle
Street, who could deny the probability of his
dropping her with rather less hesitation than
that with which he would give away a bad
shilling in ostentatious charity ?

And then ? " And then more brandy and
soda, my child ; more brandy and less soda.
And then gin. It is cheaper and nastier, but
I believe old women learn to adore it." And
the black cat blinked assenting at the blazing
fire, and waited for further information from
her companion and fellow-creature.

It is a picturesque prospect, Kitty, isn't
it ? Perhaps the housetops of Whitechapel
will suit you better than its interiors will me.
You have equality, for you have no dresses to
buy. You have quite human fraternity, for I
hear you swear and see you scratch at one
another here as much as you once did there.
I think I can be a little younger yet, though.

by an artistic touch, or two." And she proceeded
to let down her long hair before the
chimney-glass, and to plait it into a single
tail, with a piece of dull red ribbon at the
end.

It makes all the difference between a
girl and a woman, Kitty. It looks innocent
and playful, too. So do you."

A knock came at the door, and the maid
entered, saying :

'*A party wishes to see you, mum."

What sort of a party ? "

Gentleman."

Old or young ? "

I should say he was young, mum ; but
he don't look it exactly. I never seen him
before."

What does he want ? "

He wants to see you, mum."

*' Tell him I'm only just up, and he can
send a message or call later."

''I did, mum. He said : *Tell her I want
to see her'"

'^ My goodness, he's got cheek. Did he
give a name ? "

"Yes'm. Mr. Eosenfeld, he told me to
tell you. Mr. Caspar Eosenfeld," repeated she,
reading a card.

*' Why on earth couldn't you say that before
? Show him in."

Caspar came into the room, very pale, his
eyes flashing out of black caverns, his mouth
set in grim style in which satire and savagery
lurked together. Jessica rose to meet him,
saying :

Caspar, this is an unexpected pleasure ! "

Very likely."

'' I haven't seen you for Oh, I don't

know how long — not to speak to you. I have
seen you once or twice when you didn't seeme,
though. Won't you sit down ? "

Caspar remained standing. Through long

habit, he automatically took up his position
in front of the fire. Jessica re-assumed her
previous position on the red and white lounge.
He'said :

*' Don't talk so much, and listen. I have
several things to say to you, and I have not
much time."

Talk away. I have plenty of time. Sit
down, do. You look so very much — too much
like something between the statue of the
Commendator and Mephistopheles, when you
stand there. I expect to see you go through
strap, with red fire."

*' No wonder you would rather I sat down.
Now I am going to tell you a short story.
Once on a time, in the darkest of ages, there
lived an old man who had never been young
And the old man prayed in the darkness to
his idol that he might live long and prosper
well. And the answer came to him in a vision,
where he saw steps leading up to a great

palace of glittering twenty-four carat gold.
And he saw himself, a small, grey, hateful,
unclean, claw-handed kobold, walking up the
steps. Each step, on close inspection, proved
to be a human being in a horizontal position.
So he walked on, treading sometimes on a
head, and sometimes on a heart. And the
voice of his god, some old Ionian devil-god,
never driven away or exorcised yet, any more
than Ashtoroth has been, was all round him,
and over and under, like muffled bells, saying :
You shall live and you shall prosper ; you
shall reach the golden paradise. But you shall
make a sacrifice to me for this. You shall
give me the body of your daughter and the
heart of your son to make the first and the
last steps.' The old man accepted cheerfully,
and tramped along. At last he came to the
splendid temple where he was to dwell with
his god for ever, and he stepped in. Looking
behind him, he saw the steps fall away, out of

reach, out of sight, into the darkness he and
they sprang from. And he found that the
brilliancy of the gold temple was not due to
reflection of external light, but to the fact
that it was white-hot. The voice of the god
was again heard echoing through the empty
aisles, saying, this time in a humorous tone :
You have what you asked for ; I hope you
like it.' And the miserable old man was soon
a miserable heap of gray ashes. And the
priestesses came with dustpans and brushes,
and removed him, and threw the dust of him
over the earth glowing far down in the
darkness''

Is that the end ? "

There is a sequel, but it is less allegorical.
The daughter was sacrificed to the hungry-eyed
Syrian goddess, and the happy childish
days she once knew were turned to bitterness
and vileness, and sorrow and anger. And
part of her fate was to help to spoil the life

VOL. III. Q

of her brother, and take from him the one
thing that made it for a little while worth
living. And now neither of them know what
to do or where to turn, to fly from the endless
weariness, which is the worst of all. And it
is all they have to look for."

*' Look here ! drop all allegory, and tell
me what you mean exactly."

"Why need you try to help to kill the
poor, pretty, little girl who never hurt you
in her life ? Why need you select her and me
of all people if you wanted victims ? Do you
know what you have done ? You have made
it difficult for me to find bread to eat : that
is nothing, though I have always felt nothing
but love and sorrow for you. You have made
her life shorter, by making yourself the cause
of half the misery of her unhappy marriage.
You have taken away the last trace of a chance
of a happy life for her, by gradually changing
her husband from an ordinary young man into

a Circe swine. I suppose it is rather waste
of time to ask why you have done all this ?
What good do you imagine you have done to
yourself ? I can't suppose you would consider
anyone else much."

** Did anyone ever consider me ? Why
should I care for anyone ? Are the people I
have any chance of seeing or speaking to so
particularly attractive ? Can you point out
a single acquaintance I ever had who was
worth taking any trouble about — except to
get something out of ? "

Jessie — you are my sister. You have
led the life that has been made for you, you
have done all that a foolish, passionate woman,
a child first bullied and then spoilt could be
expected to do. But you are my sister. Your
lines have been hard, I know — like mine, like
mine. But why let your worst vengeance fall
on the wrong people ? I loved you always,
and looked for you all over the world for

Q 2

months, till I thought I had lost you for ever.
I find you here — now. Can I be very agreeable,
and very calm, when you have ruined
and made desolate the home of the one human
being who ever found me worth loving. And
why ? I don't know. Do you ? ''
'' Have you seen her lately then ? ''
I saw her yesterday."
*' In her husband's absence, eh ? "
You know he was from home. Of course,
I suppose you were amusing him here. How
do you do it ? Is it his mental or physical
charms which attract you ? Did you have a
jolly evening ? Did you play nap and drink
champagne ? Is that why you are taking
brandy and soda now ? When you see him
attain you can communicate the intelligence
to him that Dick died last night."

Died ! I didn't know it was as bad as
that, Caspar, really."

Yes. The announcement will come very

well from jour mouth. You can go and
advise him as to the selection of a becoming
pattern for mourning suits."

"Don't, Caspar!"

Why do you cry ? What is the use of
repenting ? Never repent. It is weak and
unbecoming. It spoils the perfection of
vengeance. It will never make you better,
only more uncomfortable. Go and console
George Farringdon for his widowhood, and
when you want a lasting memorial of your
successful ambition, go and look for it in
Sokebridge churchyard. Jessie, my only
sister, I wish you good-morning." Caspar
went out into the mist of the London morning.
The world within him seemed darker than the
world outside, but lightning — streaked with
maddest thoughts.

In the course of the day Jessica received
a visit from George Farringdon. He had
heard of his wife's death.

''I am just going down by train, you
know. But I wanted to see you a moment
before I went. She was an awfully dear little
woman."

So you seemed to find''

'rand I don't know what I'll do without
her. And, Jessie, there is a man in
possession in my house. What on earth I
am to do I don't know. Do you ? "

"Pay him."

I can't. He is a beastly old Jew called
Eosenfeld. Wonder if he's any relation to
a man I know of that name ? Jessie, I meant
to have asked you to be my wife."

Did you ? You are very kind." (Drily.)

'* Hullo ? 1 say, w^iat is the matter

with you?"

I am pretty well, thanks. Poor old boy,"
she added caressingly, "did he want comforting
in his misfortunes, eh ? " and she
stroked his head tenderly. George seized her

hand and waist. '' Jessie ! " lie exclaimed
hoarsely, " Fve been an awful fool all my
life "

*' Don't say that — George," (tenderly.)

"But I've had some awful warnings. I
believe you are about the only human being
in the world that cares for me "

Do you, George ? " (very tenderly — and
not releasing herself from his arms.) '' Well ? "

'Tve no wife, no home, no money, and no
friends — the chaps I know, and even lent
rivers to sometimes — they cut me now."

*' You used to say it was good form to
know the right people, didn't you ? "

'' Yell, I suppose I'm not the right people
now. I'm beginning to learn human nature a
little. I mean to begin again, straighter.
Jessie, I — I like you more than anyone I ever
saw, I believe. Will you help me to fight the
world ? Damn the world ! I'm not good at
fighting it. Will you take me for a

husband ? You know me pretty well by this
time." '

I think I do," she replied, looking up
softly into bis face. " Listen, George. Do
you remember writing a letter once to your
father, just before your marriage, in which you
said "

'^ Oh, I say ! I didn't mean all that you
know — at least "

At least you didn't know I should read
it. And do you remember the time when you
and your father thought and talked of me as
you might of a horse you wanted to sell, ora
slave you had bought, and were a little
ashamed of? Supposing I were to forgive
you all that — all the wreck of my life he made
all the contempt you expressed "

Oh, if you would ! It's all so long ago,
and we are so different now — at least I am,
and I suppose he is."

"Exactly, and I am much the same."

Will you forgive me, Jessie ? '' George
clasped her still tightly in his arms, and
breathed hard — breathed brandy.

*' No ! " exclaimed she, suddenly extricating
herself, and standing before him, flashing
lightnings of defiance. " AYe do not
forgive. An eye for an eye, a tooth for a
tooth for us. The 'beastly old Jew, called
Rosenfeld,' is my father, who sold me to yours.
Caspar Rosenfeld, his son, your friend and
adviser, and your wife's lover, is my brother.
You have paid us our vengeance. Go and weep
now on your ' dear little woman's ' grave ! "

George went out. On the threshold he
met Dr. Van Westerdijk.

*' Are you in this plot too ? " asked George,
in a quiet, savage voice.

"I to not understand. You seem distressed.
It is natural You 'ave lost a wife,
a charming wife whom you valued so much.
I go to win one. Mrs. Brandon is vot you

cal engaged to me," remarked the little doctor
smilingly.

Congratulate you both." And George
walked forth into outer darkness.

At this date Dr. Van Westerdijk and his
very fascinating wife are occupying themselves
in various continental towns in relieving of their
superfluous cash, by various safe and ingenious
methods, young and foolish English gentlemen
who stray across their path, and are much
looked up to and sought after in the circles
they adorn. They are known as the Baron
and Baroness Van Westerdijk. Their existence
is like that of the swallows — migratory.
And they usually leave no trace behind them,
except a bitter memory in the minds of many
creditors. The Baron will no doubt make a
fortune, retire, and take to honesty at the
eleventh hour, not from any sentimental
attachment to that state or quality, but
because he will then find it, as he does its
opposite at present, the best policy.

he's not safe ! "

Und die bist tout, mein toutes Kitchen . . .
. . Klaglieder die Nachtigallen sangen
Die Sterne sind mit sur Leiche gegangen.

The town, or village, of Sokebridge stands,
as has been said, over the sea, on a cliff.
Not a stern and majestic stone cliff, are
perennial, but a brown, land-slipping, out-interchanging,
mutable, and muddy cliff.
Inland, behind the town, rises a green
wooded dawn, gashed by quarrymen into
great grey wounds here and there. Near
the foot of this down a spur projects seaward
— an abrupt and blunt promontory,
ending in a red earthy precipice some fifty

feet above the nearest buildings ; and on
this promontory is a level plateau large
enough to carry groups of sombre fir-trees,
surrounding the churchyard and old parish
church of Sokebridge, whose square grey
tower rises from amid the dark tree tops.

You cannot see much of the churchyard
until you have climbed the combination of
zigzag path and paved stone stairs once
scaled by the weekly worshippers. When
you get there, you find an ancient Norman
church, rich with ivy and lichen outside ;
bare, damp, and unadorned, save by its own
antiquity, inside. Old helmets hang on its
whitewashed walls, and old flags are heaped
in corners. The ladders leading to the
leaden platform of the tower are rotten, and
rungs are missing. The windows are of
plain transparent glass, which gives the interior
the damp pallor of a dead church.
The high old pews are worm-eaten, and

some have fallen together helplessly. The
organ is dumb. No one worships here now.
A few old residents have the right of burial,
but public worship is carried on in the new
church on the cliff below, with all modern
accessories and comforts. The only sacred
words the old church has re-echoed to for
years back are these : '' Man that is born of
a woman hath but a short time to live, and
is full of misery. He cometh up, and is cut
down like a flower ; he fleet as it were a
shadow, and never continued in one stay''
Tourists come and stare at it. Young shop-girls
with their lovers occasionally visit it
on Sunday afternoons, but the fir-trees give
them an eerie chill, and they go down again.
And the church stands there alone.

Old inhabitants remember weddings to
have been held in it, and 'prayers for those
at sea." Legends tell how in

The dark backward and abyss of time

attempts lead been made to build the church
on the lower level, where it would have
been obviously more convenient, and how the
stones were miraculously translated nightly
to the higher, until the builders gave in,
saying it was the saints or the devil that
decreed the change. Posterity are under
obligations to whichever power it was which
placed the old pile in its present admirable
position — as an object of contemplation. It
dominates the town, and overseers from its
solemn and dignified solitude among the trees
the upstart villas and cottages of yesterday,
and remains the grey incarnation of many
centuries, in which men have been baptized,
married, and buried, cycle after cycle, ever
since Christian men have been dwelling under
it. And the fir-wood is fitted to surround
it. There is a sad, bleak, and solemn beauty
about these fir-trees, which makes them a
fit setting for the ancient and deserted

church. And in this churchyard, one still
summer day, Dick Farringdon was buried.
And in the silent summer night that
followed, Caspar Kosenfeld walked through
that fir-wood, in the deep darkness, under
black branches that allowed some stray star-shine
to pass at rare intervals, until he
came to the low stone churchyard wall, over
which he climbed, and made for the new-made
mound of clay which covered all that
was left of his lost love. And he was alone
with her, and the stars above them both.
And he knelt down and kissed that clay
mound, and muttered through it to the
dead ears below : " My dead darling, the
fight was too long for you, and you have
left me to fight alone. And I shall be alone
always now : I wish I were with you, therein
the warm earth, out of the way of all
men for all time, for I shall never see your
dear true eyes again, or live the life I

might have lived, with you to make it
beautiful ; I could have lived for you, and
worked for you, and died for you ; and
you — you have died instead. You have
chosen well. I am tired, I want to rest
with you, I am weary of the sky and sea.
Good night, my darling ! " And he stayed
there motionless and silent. And what he
thought, lying on that damp clay heap, no
man shall dare to say. At last he rose and
strode down the steps and zig-zag path, with
a strange, wild light in his eyes, as they
looked out of his tangled black hair ; he
had forgotten his hat, and left it above near
the grave. And on the steps he met an
upturned face, that the starlight revealed to
be George Farringdon. " Ah ! I have been
looking for you," observed Caspar.

'what for?"

"To kill you. And I couldn't do it
better than here and now."

Farringdon laughed uneasily and replied :

Risky thing to do, eh, in this nineteenth
century. Coroner, you know, jury,
Manhood, and all that."

Man ! Don't prattle to me about
danger. Do you think I, here, at this
moment, would not welcome the worst death
man could die by ? Look here, you killed
her! The death of my dead love up there,"
he shouted, pointing with one arm, and
shaking Farringdon like a rag with the other,
*ris on your soul to all eternity, and you
dare pour out your half-drunk drivel about
Manhood to me, who will throw you down
that steep there whether I go with you
or not ! "

*•' You are mad ! " said the other, still more
uncomfortable.

Mad ? Of course. What of that ?
What is the use of arguing then with a
madman ? "

VOL. III. B

I say, I won't stand this ! I'll have you
arrested ! I'll have you hung ! I'll have you

black-balled! I'll Oh Eosenfeld, I'm

talking rot. I wish to H — 11 you would kill
me, or that I had the courage to do it myself.
I thought myself superior to her, and it
maddened and degraded me to find I was
inferior. You don't know how fond of her
I was ! "

He nearly said " How I loved her," but
his customary shyness of using expressions
he considered peculiar to romances and plays,
prevented his words breaking their pitiful
bonds of convention. Even at this supreme
moment oscillating on the verge of probable
annihilation, he was afraid of seeming ridiculous
to his antagonist by the use of a romantic
phrase, as he considered the best word in any
language to be. Caspar relaxed his hold.
I shall miss her now, awfully," added
Farringdon.

Will you ? Poor devil ! I suppose you
did once love her as much as animals like
you can love anything. George Farringdon,
shake hands."

Farringdon held out a cold perspiring hand.
One may perspire, when in the power of an
apparent lunatic on the edge of a precipice'
especially if one has been indulging in hot
whisky and water, which under certain circumstances,
becomes a sudorific.

Now go, and never let me see your face
again'*

And Caspar went down the steps once
for all.

By Jove !'* exclaimed Farringdon. " He's
not safe ! "

And this man went and deposited an
expensive and dexterously woven wreath of
white camellias on his wife's grave, and returned,
of course not forgetting his hat.

When Caspar passed through the bar of

B 2

his hotel, they were just closing. He was

muttering to himself some line, and the

flippant barmaid, who admired him, said :
'' Did you speak, sir ? "
Caspar looked up.
I ? Yes, my dear. I said this life

would be a Dance of Fools, were it not a

Dance of Death."

'^ Whatever do you mean, sir ? "

'* I don't know. I beg your pardons

He's had as much as he can carry, I

think," said a facetious bagman, who admired

the barmaid. ? cj

Caspar overheard the remark and said :
More, my friend, more ! Good-night."

SCHLANGENBERG.

For a year or two after taking his degree and
license to kill and cure, Charlie Deane resided
at home to study, keep his relatives company,
and wait for an available practice to come into
the market. He and Lily railed on each other
as usual, but with intervals of more serious
conversation at times, showing that each was
older and had seen more of the strange and
solemn realities of life and death, than in the
now distant days when they used to dress up
and murder Hamlet. Mrs. Deane was very
old now, but gave every indication of becoming
a good deal older before they lost the kindness

of her old grey eyes, and the majesty of her
white hair for ever. Miss Deane was energetic
as usual.

And one summer afternoon, in a secluded
part of the garden this conversation took
place.

*' LHy," said Charlie.

'swell!"

''I haven't heard from Caspar for a
sear. I suppose he is circumambulating the
terraqueous globe by himself."

Poor fellow ! "

** What an awful mess he has made of his
life!"

Perhaps he will get all right again, by-and-by."


If you mean by all right the same as we
first knew him, he never will. I have not
known him these years for nothing. He will
work, no doubt, and perhaps do better work
than ever. He will joke and laugh too,

perhaps. Men do, I believe, sometimes — that
sort of men — when all the joy has been rent
out of their life for always; a kind of
lightening before death. And I think he will
be kinder than ever to some, and fiercer than
ever to others. But nothing will make him
forget."

Charlie, shall we go and see Dick's grave
again h

^^ Eight. We will. Come along." And
they walked to the old churchyard on the hill.
Lily was silent and subdued. There were no
tears in her eyes when she stood by that
grave, only a kind of ferocity. At last she
said: "I should think they had angels enough,
without wanting her."

Angels ? Bosh. She joined them of her
own accord if anyone ever did''

Long pause.

"Lily."

Yes ! "

Come here. Come closer. Let me look
at you." And his eyes asked a question as
they looked down into his. And hers appeared
to answer his in the affirmative, for as they
left the churchyard, Lily said :

"But what on earth will they say at
home?"

Oh, we have both had our own way with
them too long to think of giving it up now."

By the time they got to the front door
they were indulging in conversational sparring
as usual.

I can't think," said Miss Deane, " how it
is you two never manage to be in proper time
for tea."

Later in that summer they two deserted
the homely tea-table altogether, and the breakfast
and dinner table as well ; and might have
been seen one day breakfasting, chattering,
looking at fir-crowned crags and ruined Burgs,
and making derisive remarks on their fellow-creatures

on board the Rhine steamer Kaiser
Wilhelm. Charlie explained things, inventing
where authentic information gave way, and
smoked German cigars lazily and continuously,
with a soft felt hat pulled over his eyes in the
direction in which the sun blazed in under the
deck-awning. Lily stood up excited and delighted,
with a small opera-glass, and called
attention to the various phenomena on the
banks.

The next day they travelled in a train.
Charlie had taken their tickets and kept the
destination a secret. All Lily saw was a
series of stations, each provided with a Herr
Balinhofs-InspeUor in a scarlet flat cap, who
stood on the platform apparently to greet the
train and dismiss it with a pastoral benediction
; a benevolent old guard, who looked
hot and cindery as to the forehead, and wore
his coat unbuttoned and his cap on the back
of his head, and came and made kind but unintelligible

remarks to them suddenly through
the window, while the train was in mid career.

I feel rather like Alice in the train in the
Looking-glass country' said Lily, "but I
suppose you and he know where the train is
going."

I think they've lost the way. He came
to ask me if I remembered it."

I regret with tears, how in earlier years
I wholly neglected my geography. I have no
idea of distance and direction. I shouldn't
be the least surprised this afternoon to find
myself in Berlin, or Vienna, or Paris, or
Eotterdam. Eotterdam is on the Rhine somewhere,
isn't it ? "

More or less."

What is that stuff growing in the fields
with large shiny leaves ? "

That is the stuff they make German
cigars of. Some call it tobacco, but opinions
differ."

"We are getting into mountains again,
and woods — look ! '^

Yes ; so we are." Charlie looked at his
watch. "We shall stop soon." They did
stop soon, in a station which was not very
unlike other stations, except that it was pale
red. " We get out here," said Charlie.

As they got on to the platform and walked
about, waiting for the disentanglement of
their modest luggage, Lily exclaimed : " Look,
Charlie ! Aren't those students ? "

Four or five stalwart young men, with
plump, square, scarred faces, and small green
caps, were walking up and down the platform?
with a certain lordly air of owning the neighbourhood
generally.

"Yes; they are some of the Australia.
You will see plenty more. There is a university
here. Ah ! there are our things." And
Charlie sought a porter, whom he shortly
started off with a truck. " That's all right.

Now we will walk." And they walked across
the dusty and dazzling Bahnhofs Plats into
a tall, narrow, and shady street, gay with
coloured awnings over shop windows, painted
outer shutters, and warm-coloured, fantastic
roofs. After about five minutes' walk, they
came to a large open square, with an antique
and highly decorative metal pump in it.

"Now look up," said Charlie, as he got
dexterously out of the way of two scarlet-capped
youths who appeared to be too shortsighted
to observe that anybody else was in
the path of their proud promenade, who nevertheless
favoured the pair with a calm, superior,
and pensive stare. Above the town was a
dark green mountain, now visible through the
break in the streets' continuity. On the side
side of it stood the tall facade of a magnificent
ruin, round which the hot, sun-lit air quivered.
Do you know where you are now ? "

"It is beautiful. Know where we are?

My dear boy, I knew from the moment we
started this morning, but I thought you
expected me to remain plunged in mystery
and wonder."

'* Ah, well, it wasn't such a difficult thing
to guess. This is the Eoss-Platz ; that is the
Grand Ducal and Imperial Town Pump ; there
is our hotel, the old Kron-Prinz ; and yonder
is our Dienstmann unloading. 1"! go and
pay him."

Couldn't we go up there this afternoon ?"

"It would be boiling hot, and full of

Baedeker. We'll go at sunset. In the meantime

we will have some grub somewhere, and

rest."

'' I suppose they will give us food in the
hotel?"

Of course they will, if you like. But I
know a trick worth two of that. You just
wait."

Then Charlie secured rooms and paid the

Dienstmann, " Now look here, let's get into
this carriage. Jump in ; I'll tell him whereto
go," observed Charlie, lighting his tenth
ten-penning cigar. They drove across a bridge
over a brown river, which gave Lily a sudden
and delighting first impression of the green
Schlangenthal, curving away into purple
space, and the yellow village and steeple-dotted
plain into which it opened. The cab
stayed and was dismissed at the entrance of
a shady garden over whose entrance, on a
white curving board, was the title, in Gothic
capitals : Gardens Wirthschaft. There were
only a few elderly women and children there.
*let us take this table," said Charlie,
'* and we can see the view. So. There now,
Fraulein, kindly give us some calf-cutlets and
a couple of viertels of red wine, and we will
bless you. Now, Lily, you can see it all.
There is the town, and here are we. You can
take it all in without my doing guide-book."

After a long pause, Lily said, '' I think it
is the most beautiful place I ever saw."

So people say who have seen more places
than either of us'*

"Look, there are three students just coming
in. What sort are they ? Oh, look, I
didn't see that before ; there is a coloured
shield on the tree they are sitting down
under."

That is their table, and the shield bears
their colours. They belong to a club, you
know. This is the garden where they take
their Friihschoppen — that's beer before
lunch, with a band playing, on Sunday
mornings."

'* But that must be awfully unwholesome."

Its awfully nice, and I don't care who
gainsays it. Did you ever hesitate between
what was nice and what was wholesome ? Did
anybody ever, when they had youth, strength,
and spirits ? "

Look at them drinking the beer. Are
they always ceremonious like that ? ''

'' Rather. They may be livelier and noisier,
but they always treat beer-drinking with due
respect, as the most serious thing as well as
the highest privilege in life."

They were close to the table where the
valiant youths in dark blue muffin caps and
tricolour breast bands were seated, one of
whom Charlie overheard remarking: ^'Lauter
Englander."

''Ja. Die list cochin hubsches Made, so
htibsch habit noah nit liver gesehe.''

"Du first 'ner verliebter Fuchs, Flick.
Bist mir such bier schuldig."

'^ Kommt dir mein Kestnach ! "

"Prose, Flick. Das Made list wirklich
colossal."

Do you understand what they are talking
about ? " said Lily, observing that the three
students were eyeing them furtively.

They are making complimentary remarks
about you'

"I only caught a few words. Was it me
they were saying was colossal ? "

It was."

I don't call that complimentary. And
the German girls I've seen are not so very
small."

'colossal, in the mouth of a German
student is complimentary to whatever noun-substantive
he applies it to. I just know that
much. You are the noun-substantive. Now
I will tell you a story. Some years ago two
travellers might have been seen seated one
summer evening at this very table, if it hadn't
been nearly too dark under the trees to see
anything. The younger and shorter of the two
had finely chiselled features, and a form which
might have been the model of the original
Anxious, plus a glass of Schlangenberger
beer and an eye-glass. His name was Charles

YOL. ni. s

Deane, and he was a wandering medical
student."

*' He is wandering a little now, I think."
'don't interrupt. The elder and taller
was sallow, sun-tanned by many a clime,
and plenteously swart-haired. He was called
Caspar Kosenfeld, and his profession a little
mixed. Just then it consisted of being philosophic
guide to anyone's erring footsteps but
his own. And along that dusty road below
you there came in a carriage in the cool of
the twilight — well, I cant joke about that —
one whom he saw then for the first time. One
whom — you knew. I only wanted to tell you
how we are sitting in the place where the
pitiful old story we all know began. He was
sitting where you are, and I where I am.
These are very likely the same chairs. It is
certainly the same table, for here is the
commencement of an attempt to carve my
name."

"Oh! Where? Let me look? Poor
Caspar, I wonder where he is 1 "

'rand in the Kron-Prinz, where we will
dine by-and-by, we two were introduced to
Dick Menteith. Done your cutlet ? Ah !
well, ril smoke again, and we will rest. Look
here, Lily, we'll astonish those Burthen if
you'll attend to my simple instructions. You
say, audibly and distinctly, ' Prosit ! ' and
drink when I make a remark to you in
German, and keep your eye on them."

"All right!"

And Charlie took up his wine and said :

"Du steigt dir Was!"

Prosit ! " replied Lily, with decision,
emptying her glass and smiling.

The process had the desired effect. The
students started and stared, began a low
and guttural gabble among themselves as
to how much of their previous criticism
might or might not have been understood.

and finally ordered three more half-liters of
beer.

"They have had four glasses each," said
Lily, with some slight anxiety.

Oh, that's nothing ! I've had eleven in
the course of an evening, and argued metaphysics
with Caspar afterwards."

Well, you were a pig, and you shan't doit
now you're with me,"

Oh, you'll find it's very good. I will be
several pigs if I like."

After a long rest and desultory chatter,
of which the above is a fair specimen, they
left the garden and strolled back to the
town, roaming from shop to shop, inspecting
the old church, with the little stalls for
small wares round its base, outside, lounging
in the shady promenade where the chestnut-trees
were, and making an excellent dinner
later at "The Kron-Prinz." After dinner,
when Lily had quite lost count of the cigars

her lord and master had smoked, that gentleman
lit his n*^ and they started for the
Castle. From its terrace they saw the day
die gloriously, and the lights begin to
glimmer down below, while Charlie told of
many things we know already; and they
walked up and down, watching the night
come on and listening to the band playing
selections from " Siegfried " in the neighbouring
garden. Suddenly Lily said :

"Look — at the other end, leaning
on the parapet, reading — there's someone
else."

"Daresay."

"Let's go and look."

"All right, if it amuses you. Hullo —
why, ah ! — after all, we might have known
this was the place to find him."

The stranger turned and looked at them.
It was Caspar — Caspar, with little streaks
of iron-grey about his temples and a little

corrugation between his brows. That was
all the difference they saw. He shook
hands, saying;

"I thought I should see this some day.
Bless you, my children ! "

'what the devil do you mean by
ignoring our existence so long ? " said Charlie
with husky ferocity.

I beg your pardon. I will not so err
again.

Those friends thou hast, and their adoption tried, etc.

It is a beautiful place, Mrs. Charlie, isn't
it?"

"Awfully. Weren't you reading just
now ? "

Yes. An old friend of mine, this book.
Don't you recognize it ? "

Yes — Oh, listen ! What a beautiful thing
they are playing now — what is it ? "

"A Volkslied. The music is, however, by

Mendelssohn. They often play Volks-Ueder-
pot-pourra here. Hear the people applauding
! "

They have begun it again — oh I seem to
know it somehow. Do you know what it
is about, Mr. Eosenfeld ? "

"Yes. Do you want the words? I can
write them out and the tune for you if you
like. It is : —

Eg list bestir in Gotten Hath
Days man von listen was man hat

Muss scheiden.

And so on. It's common enough."

'' I should like to have it very much, please.
I wonder why we like melancholy music so
much, even when we have no reason to be
more melancholy than usual ourselves ? I
wonder in the same way why one takes
pleasure in reading a sad poem, or seeing
a tragedy?"

"What pleasure or other profit some people

find in seeing tragedies I never could imagine,
unless it be to decide a bet whether an actress's
hair is her own, or her lace real. But I think
the answer to your question is this : Some of
us have what I may call an hereditary memory.
One which is not only full of our own experience,
but has filmy traces of everyone's, like the
useless anatomical appendages, long ago worn
out and left behind among the mastodons and
monkeys, as far as any practical meaning in them
goes. But they tell a tale. There they are — how
got they there ? So we may have rudimentary
recollections. There is the sensitiveness to
influences which just fail in putting you in
mind of the sorrow people have suffered ages
before you were born. You don't really recollect
anything of your own to be sorry about,
perhaps, but you feel vaguely that you share
the heritage of sorrow of all the ' children of
the world,' simply because you are one of them.
And as the edge of sorrow is blunted by time

and the torturing fiend of recollection becomes
at last a tender nursling of the mind even
in one human life, how much more tender
and soothing can that sadness become
which is only the echo borne or the dream
seen of the sorrow of the far-off long-dead
men and women ? "

'isn't that rather like what we call
sympathy ? "

If you prefer it to the philosophers' dictum
that sympathy is the fear of like suffering
in ourselves. You see, I've been so long in
Germany now that I have got into the region
of dream-speculation."

'' What are you doing now, old fellow ? "
said Charlie.

'' Well, I've taken to writing poetry, or
what I call such. Verses, as Heine held, are
perhaps as good an urn to put the ashes of
one's life into as another — if it would only-hold
them."

VOL. III. T

And do you mean to devote your life to
that now ? "

My life ? I do not know at all what todo
with that. I wish somebody would take
the article off my hands at a valuation, as a
second-hand commodity largely damaged by
the owner, so as to be of very little further
pleasure or profit to him. But I don't suppose
anybody wants it, and I am very much of
anybody's opinion."

Poor desolate old wandering Jew ! " said
Charlie, laying his hand on Caspar's shoulder,
*^ come away down with us."

Not now, thanks. There is going
to be a thunderstorm up here to-night, I
think, and I want to be in it. I'll see you
tomorrow."

Excuse us half a minute, Lily. Come to
the other end of the platform, Caspar, I want
to speak to you."

They walked along, while Lily stood looking

at the many twinkling lights of the town
below.

Look here," said Charlie, " will
you give a straightforward answer to a
question ? "

'' I'll make an effort."

We will suppose, as is very likely, that
there will be a thunderstorm by and by. Do
you mean to walk about in the woods here till
you get struck ? I know a storm here in
summer generally wipes out about six large
trees."

"No, I don't. I don't hanker after a
picturesque suicide. I'll take whatever comes
now. It can't be worse than what is e^one.
I may as well live on as not. My own affairs
are nothing to the countless misery of millions
through all time to now. They bore it, and
they bear it still. Why not I too ? Poor
old humanity is like Ixion, and as his wheel
the daft world spins."

Won't you come down with us, old
man ? '^

Not now. Go now, take your wife
away. I'm very glad to see you both, but
I can't yet talk wholesomely. When I can,
I'll come and see you."

Lily," said Charlie afterwards, " We
must look after that fellow. He is an awfully
friendless man. You see he has so many
corners for people to hit themselves against,
and get hurt. Work will do him good, but
friends more."

Leave him alone now. Some day he will
find a girl who will understand him, and then
he will be better."

*' Can any girl ever stop his ears to the
echo of old times ? "

"Perhaps."

FINIS.

Charles Dickens AND EVANS, Crystal PALACE Press.
