OF THE

U N I Verity

Of ILLINOIS


H 6 762c

V. I

COULD HE DO BETTER?

VOL. I.

AT ALL THE LIBRARIES

THE SON OF HIS FATHER. By Mrs. Oliphant,

author of ' It was a Lover and his Lass,' &c. 3 vols.

Fac OBI'S WIFE. By Adeline Sergeant, author of

No Saint,' ' An Open Foe,' ' Beyond Recall,' &c. 3 vols

ON THE SCENT. By Lady Margaret Majestie,

author of ' Dita,' ' Once More,' ' Sisters in Law,' &c, 1 vol.

A GREAT PLATONIC FRIENDSHIP. ByW.DuTTON

BURKAKD. 3 vols.

Catherine. By the author of ' Lauderdale.' 3 vols.

HURST & BLACKETT, 13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

BY

ARTHUR A. Hoffman.

Wait, and Love himself will bring
The drooping flower of knowledge changed to fruit
Of wisdom. Wait : my faith is large in Time,
And that which shapes it to some perfect end.'

Tennyson.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

LONDON:

HURST AND BLACKETT, LIMITED,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1887.

All rights reserved.

CONTENTS

OF

THE FIRST VOLUME.

CHAPTER L

THE T P H A M S.

Mr. Peter Topham, with a delicate wife,
two daughters to find husbands for, and a
small income, doubtless had a right to
grumble now and then, and to talk of
hard times. But he rarely availed himself
of this privilege, or allowed anybody to
suppose him discontented with his lot.
Cheerfulness, on the contrary, was one of
Mr. Topham's strong points, and he had a
good many strong points . in his own

VOL. I. B

opinion. There was an inviting air of
prosperity about him. His alert appearance,
his brisk rubbing of hands, his knack
of ready assertion, were such as mark a
successful man. Peter Topham was not
successful. Quite the reverse, his career
had hitherto been a dead failure. But,
though he lost his friends, he betrayed no
regret ; though he saw his argosies go
down one after the other, he made no
lamentation.

This cheerfulness, which grieved people
of depth and feeling, sprang from various
causes. Health and comfort must go for
something to begin with, and Peter was as
sound as a bell, and (thanks to his wife)
always had a glass of good beeswing port
and a choice cigar. Besides, he never laid
hold of a difficulty, but he cheerfully passed
it on to his wife or to his elder daughter
Judith, and considered the matter disposed

of as far as he Alas concerned . . . except
that he took credit for its ultimate settlement,
or found fault if anything chanced
to go wrong. This was, naturally, a
bracing process.

Sometimes, indeed, there would come a
disaster which he could not succeed in
shuffling entirely on to other people's
shoulders. Then the mainstay for his
good-humour was the consideration that,
whatever happened, he had taken the most
rational course. He was accustomed to
say that he could only do his best, and
that circumstances where beyond his control
. . . and they certainly where.

In person Peter Topham was short and
stout, and he had so little neck that his
stand-up collars pressed his forked whiskers
against his smoothly-shaven double chin.
His hair was reddish and rather scanty,
but he had always called it auburn, and

B 2

now made the most of it by distributing
the long strands with jealous care across
his shining crown. His voice was sharp and
thin. But he was proud of his conversational
powers, and would demand attention
for his happier efforts by gently
sawing the air with his forefinger, and by
an appropriate attitude.

He Alas now on the shady side of fifty,
but no experience could wrest from him
the comfortable conviction that everyone
who differed from him was all in the
wrong. He showed such offenders no
mercy. They must be wanting either in
sense or in candour, perhaps in both. Say
what they might, Peter was sure they
found his arguments unanswerable. Yet
nothing in his affairs proved him to be
much wiser than . his fellow creatures.
Though he began his married life with a
large fortune, he had been obliged to sell

the estate in Devonshire and to retire vdth
a few hundreds a year to the little country
town of Baybridge. It was a quiet, gossiping
place, important only in this, that
it returned one member, a Conservative.
Here, true to his convictions, incurably
cheerful and dogmatic, lived Peter Top-ham
with his wife and the girls.

In choosing a wife who was not only
rich, but beautiful, and in every other way
admirable, Mr. Topham brought to light
such an appearance of good sense that
those best qualified to form an opinion put
the match down to chance. A few ventured
the suggestion that possibly Peter
had something in him after all. Everybody
agreed in prophesying that he would
waste the money first, and neglect the wife
to whom he owed it afterwards.

He set about wasting the money at once,
but, fortunately, Mrs. Topham neversuffered

much from neglect. She was almost as
blind to Peter's ingrained selfishness as he
himself could be ; she observed only the
hundred little personal attentions that he
daily paid her, and shared his curious
belief that he was an unusually devoted
husband. Her affection was nourished by
trifles so genially offered that she never
allowed any suspicion that they could be
cheap and hollow to gain ground in her
mind . . . mercifully her mind was not as
large as her heart. She was moulded out
of charitable stuff, and loved to dwell on
kindness. And Peter was kind . . . and
clever ! Of course he was always right !
He had been unfortunate, she thought,
and so wanted more love and sympathy,
that was all. And Maria Toj^ham determined
that, as long as she lived, such
things should never be wanting to the man
who had cheerfully married her (and her

money) five-and-twenty years ago, and,
through evil report and good report, cheerfully
tended her still, now that the money
was almost gone.

Yet Maria Topham had one grievance.

About one thing the gentle woman permitted
herself to think that Peter might
have been less imprudent. She cared
nothing for her own privations, delicate
in health though she was. But she did
care for the poverty that pressed upon her
children. No doubt anyone would be
eager to marry Judith or Annie. Of
course there were young men in and about
Baybridge. But who, worthy of either of
the girls, would find his way to the little
town. Maria, in moments of extreme depression,
had it almost in her heart to feel
that the various speculations of her lord
and master had deprived her daughters of
the chance of rich and handsome husbands.

She wished, too, that they could be better
dressed, and show off to greater advantage.
The mother sometimes took an independent
step for the sake of the two bright,
fresh young girls to whom her beauty had
been bequeathed.

Judith, her elder daughter, had inherited
the larger share. She was twenty-three.
A dark, graceful beauty, rather
tall, well proportioned. She was obliged
to be her own dressmaker ; but whatever
she wore was certain to be becoming and
in good taste. Her face was lovable, and
her hazel eyes met yours fearlessly. Her
hair, which she kept tidy, but which had a
will of its own to curl and frizzle, was
brushed well off an open forehead that
curved, delicately white, above the fine,
arched eyebrows. Her nose with two little
bends in it, her red lips and dimpled
cheeks, and a faint, puckered crease under

her full clin . . . softened without hiding
an expression of firmness that gave dignity
to the whole. Her nose and chin afforded
besides the slightest hint of meeting, and
this peculiarity lent an odd, sweet look of
premature wisdom to the face. Her sister
Annie would sometimes call her ' Nutcrackers,'
a pleasantry taken in good
part.

At eighteen Judith had passed through
a love affair. In those days when, though
she had ceased to be a child, she] urged everybody
by the standard of her own honesty
a favourite trick of hers still . . . she
had been cruelly deceived. A proposal
had been made. Judith accepted the man,
and worshipped the ground he trod on.
And then came the question of dower :
Judith had none but her true heart and
her loveliness ; and so the marriage was
put off, and put off, and everyone feared

to tell her the truth. When at last it had
to be hinted that perhaps a poor Avise was
not looked for, Judith fired up and defended
the object of her choice. He was
totally unworthy of her confidence, and he
went his way, and for many months all
her life seemed a blank.

She rallied : youth, pride, her mother's
and her sister's tenderness, time . all
these exerted healing influence. At length
her deserter married far beneath him, and
soon afterwards left the country. So, at
the end of five years, the wrong that had
been done to Judith had entirely lost its
power to pain. This epoch of her life has
been glanced at only because of its abiding
stress upon her character. She was not
likely to fall a victim to selfishness a second
time.

Judith had spent one season in London
before poverty deprived her of any further

opportunity of studying that great kaleidoscope,
Society. Being quick, sympathetic,
and a lady at heart, she had profited
by this brief experience. But she had not
had time to slide into a groove, and so,
while recognising what was due to her
dignity, remained unconventional, and
regarded more the spirit than the letter of
the social laws.

And now she had responsibilities which
rendered her rather unlike other girls of
her own age. To her all family difficulties
ultimately found their way ; for her father
was too cheerful to attend to them, and
her mother was not often equal to the task
of making both ends meet. Judith was-financier,
housekeeper, general manager.
To curb her father's extravagance so that
her mother might now and then have some
of the little comforts that ill-health demanded,
to look after the servants, to write

letters and to return calls . . . these were
some of Judith's many employments.

Peter Topham's elder daughter was a
standing protest against the assumption
that most women are more or less unreasonable.
Judith was reasonable. She
was a standing protest also against the
further assumption that, if by any chance
a reasonable woman could be found, that
woman was necessarily strong-minded, disagreeable,
and a bigot. She was liked by
those whose good opinion was of value,
because in her, sound, clear sense and warm
feelings were held in even balance. Judith's
character hadw^eight; when she spoke, people
listened. Now and then a strangers
at these qualities, which he hardly
found in her parents, would be told that
they perhaps descended from Peter's mother,
who had been a woman of vigorous
conduct and lofty aims.

Annie was four years younger than her
sister, whom, on a much smaller scale, she
somewhat resembled in form and in feature.
Yet her face was a pretty face, nothing
more. It had none of the individuality of
Judith's, nothing that bore witness to the
habit of reflection or of self-communion.
Annie had little employment and few
resources ; she usually depended upon
others for help and amusement. The
idle, spoilt pet of the family, she expected
everything to be done for her, and no
cloud had hitherto dimmed her young
life. Sorrow had not yet opened her mind
to arose and tolerant views. So she was
subject to a host of petty failings, with a
touch at least of her father's selfishness ;;
and she was as wholly unreasonable as any
detractor of her sex could desire. She had
a merry heart, and would poke fun at
everybody, including her father, enjoying

a jest at him all the more because he never
suspected such a liberty could be taken.
Altogether, Annie Topham was a bright,
feather-headed, and improvable little person
. . . and a chatterton into the
bargain.

Such is a brief but faithful account of
the Topham family. Peter was the most
disagreeable, Maria the most meek, while
Annie was the most frivolous.

Stately Judith had the clearest head
among them all, and the warmest heart.
That was admitted even in Baybridge.

CHAPTER II.

A FAMILY JAR.

The town-hall clock had just struck nine,
and, in the darkness of a last September
night, the wind, which had been gathering
force all the afternoon, rushed up the river
and down the broad High Street, and
through the narrow lanes and alleys of
Baybridge. It was not long in reaching
the outskirts, and soon moaned under the
Tophams' windows, and tossed the laurel
tops in the garden to and fro, and played
helter-skelter with the fallen leaves. Then
it died away gradually. After a pause
came a steady downpour of rain.

A pleasant contrast to the drip, drip,
drip outside was the genial glow from the
fire in Mr. Topham's dining-room grate, as
it threw its ruddy beams and warm comfort
on the family grouped around the
hearth.

Dinner was over, but dessert was still
on the table; from which, after the old
fashion, the cloth had been taken away, so
as to show the dark, rich brown of the
mahogany.

Before the fire, then, sat Mr. Topham,
his wife, and his daughters. Peter, displaying
a broad surface of dazzling shirt-front,
was very much at his ease in a soft
arm-chair, with one foot on the shining
fender-rail, and the other bent over and
lazily extended towards the glow. By his
knees was a dessert-plate with some walnuts
which Annie had peeled for him, and
a little pyramid of salt beside them. His

chubby fingers could just reach his glass
of port wine on the edge of the table.

His wife was in a dark-brown silk, slightly
open at the throat ; for her delicate chest
prevented her from wearing a low dress.
She held a fan between her face and the
fire, and her mild eyes were fixed upon her
husband opposite as she tried to absorb the
wisdom which flowed from his lips. She
appeared, notwithstanding, to be rather
anxious, and nervously handled the only
ornament she wore . a small, gold locket.

Judith's beautiful neck and arms were
seen to advantage in a well-fitting but
plain black dress, the sober effect of which
she had relieved by a rose in her hair and
another at her bosom. She sat between
her parents, and was also evidently turning
something over in her mind ; while one of
her hands, rather red from household occupations,
if the truth must be told, merchant

I. c

ically played nth a rebellious lock of
Annie's hair. For Annie was on a footstool,
with her head on her sister's lap,
peeling some more walnuts for papa, and
munching one herself whenever the supply
exceeded the demand.

On the rug, indifferent to any worldly
cares now that bones and tit-bits had gone
kitchen wards, lay stretched in luxurious
repose a small Dachshund, called Jumper.
Not that he jumped or that any such
activity was to be expected ; but his predecessor
had been a poodle and had jumped,
and Annie wouldn't have the name altered.
So the non-jumping Jumper lay at peace,
though one of his hanging ears twitched
now and then, showing that he belonged
to the family, and had a right to listen
to the conversation, if not actually so
employed.

What a comfort,' said Mr. Topham,

drawing a red-grey whisker across his
smooth chin, ' to think of all that is done
for the suffering poor now-a-days. On a
night like this, for example, with the rain
drenching the fields and the roads, what a
comfort to think of retreats, poor-houses,
soup-kitchens, hospitals, and other charitable
institutions.'

Mr. Topham, sure that he had spoken
with feelings and o'ood sense, released his
whisker, took a sip of his '63, and waited
for approval. It came at once.

Certainly, Peter,' said his wife. ' Very
consoling indeed. I have no doubt the
poor people are grateful.'

They ought to be,' said Mr. Topham.'

I'm afraid,' interposed Judith, ' that
there will be many homeless wanderers
to-night. It's sad to think of them,
especially of the scantily clad children.
Just listen to the rain !'

c2

^ Cats and dogs,' said Annie. ' Papa,
another walnut ?'

Homeless said her father, in answer to
Judith, ^ of course there will. You complain
because the system doesn't include
everybody. It doesn't pretend to. Quite
possibly, within our immediate neighbourhood,
at this very moment, some tramp
finds himself unequal to the conditions for
prolonging his existence. — Annie, my love,
a couple more. — Consider, Judith, that no
system can be perfect. Evils exist, and
must be faced. I'm sure I for one have
borne that fact in mind.'

A smile came to Judith's lips, but it
vanished as she looked at her mother, and
noted the streaks of white above her
temples, and heard her say,

Yes, Peter, you have done your best.
We are all contented and hap^^y.'

We are happy,' answered Mr. Topham.

^ I should be astonished to find it otherwise.
What have I got to complain of?
Nothing. I had a large fortune, which, it
is true, has been reduced by adverse circumstances
that neither foresight, nor, I
may add, a fair degree of ability, has been
able to control. Yet enough remains for
ease, if not for luxury. Take us now as
we gather round the fire. We have had a
good dinner, we are well clothed . . . that
silk becomes you as much as ever, Maria
. . and the young ladies have, I think,
no cause for anxiety of any kind. I
question, my dear,' concluded Mr, Topham,
addressing his wife, ' whether a cheque fora
thousand pounds, payable to P. Topham,
Esquire, and handed to me at this moment,
could make me more thoroughly happy, or
more grateful for the blessings I enjoy.'

He leaned back with his eyes half-closed.
But this time there was no echo, and its

absence was so unusual as to partly rouse
Mr. Topham from his complacency. He
turned to his wife, and saw every sign of
distress in her thin, weary face.

It's nothing,' said she, hesitatingly,
in reply to his eager inquiry. And
then, plucking up courage, she said to
Judith, ' Perhaps you had better tell your
father.'

I can make a guess beforehand,' cried
Mr. Topham, playfully. 'Whenever my
pretty Chancellor of the Exchequer is
called upon, I know that advice is wanted
about the next budget. Well, my child ?'

Judith and her mother had been in perplexity
all day, and the former was hurt
at her father's ill-timed banter. She
answered, rather tartly, that Davis had
that morning sent in his account for fifty-three
pound odd, with a peremptory
demand for payment.

Davis was not a grasping attorney with
unlimited opportunities for mischief; he
was simply Mr. Topham's tailor, and his
bill had been owing many a long day.
His letter had naturally been addressed to
Mr. Topham. But that gentleman, who
had become familiar with the handwriting,
had left the unwelcome document to be
opened by his wife or daughter. From
the deliberate manner in which he now
stroked his unpaid-for trousers, and from
the load, long-drawn whistle with which he
accompanied that operation, it may be
inferred that he was giving the matter his
most profound consideration ; a long pause
ensued.

Davis once more !' he said at length.
Fifty-three pound odd. Well, we were
bound to hear from him sooner or later.
What's distressing in the occurrence,
Judith?'

smother has had to sell her diamond
ring to make up the amount said Judith,
struggling for patience.

Indeed, Peter, I couldn't help it,' said
his wife, with tears in her eyes. ' You
mustn't be vexed. I loved the ring, and
let it go with a hard pang. It was the
first thing you gave me after Judith Alas
borUj and lately, when my finger got too
thin for it, I kept it in its place with the
signet-ring. Don't be vexed, Peter. Davis
wouldn't wait ; he wrote something about
proceedings. Judith thought there was no
time io be lost.'

I understand, then, that the bill is
paid,' said Mr. Topham. ' Now let's forget
all about it. That's the only true
philosophy. Some people mope about
bad luck that's coming, and others about
bad luck that's going. Let us be wiser.
Maria, I'll give you another ring some

day. Judith shall have diamonds of her
own, too. We must find you a husband,
Judith, with good looks and a good
income to boot. Matrimony,' added he.
with a gallant look at Maria, ' is a compensation
for the ills of life.'

Judith made no remark. But Annie,
who had been unusually quiet during the
foregoing conversation, now struck in.

No, no, papa, you must get me a husband
first. Jue knows very well how to
take care of herself. Everybody runs
after Jue. I'm not going to be overlooked,
I can tell you. Jue is to tell all her
suitors that my wedding-day is to come
before hers, and then they'll send their
younger brothers to me. I had made up
my mind to fall in love with Cris Parry.
He's been very attentive lately. But I've
had to resign him, for I don't think he'll
ever make up his mind.'

Annie, with more rattle than sense, was
nevertheless often of use in driving away
any little gloom that gathered on the family
horizon. Everybody now laughed as she
mentioned the name of Oris Parry, whose
acquaintance is to be made later on.

^ You might do worse than marry the
young fellow, Annie,' said her father, who
was never contradicted by Oris.

Young, papa !' replied Annie. ' He's
as old as the hills.'

'His languid manner makes him seem
older than he is,' said Mrs. Topham.

'He's not thirty yet,' added Judith.
And a more amiable fellow never lived ;
though one can't help wishing he had at
least some energy.'

I like him,' said Mr. Topham, judicially,
because he's open to conviction. I was
talking to him on Thursday about Ireland,
and he expressed himself with much sound

sense ; agreed with me on every point.
Not that I set up for being a politicians
but some value has now and then been
attached to my opinions by competent
judges. Yes, Parry is sensible ; an agreeable
contrast to that arrogant ass, Ambrose
Jackson. If you'll believe such a thing,
Maria, he took upon himself to contradict
me flatly about the best opposition policy,
and actually brought forward reasons to
support his extravagant ideas. I shan't
encourage him to call at my house.'

Judith had flushed on hearing Ambrose
Jackson spoken of, and she flushed still
more at her father's vehement injustice.
Though she knew Mrs. Jackson well, she
had met Ambrose, her son, only twice.
Nothing had passed between them but the
most common civilities that follow a formal
introduction. Yet she had thought a
good deal about Ambrose. She resembled

him in having a strong individuality and
definite aims, and was conscious that in
some way she had fellowship with him.
This feeling urged her to exclaim,

Compare Oris Parry with Mr. Jackson !
I wonder it could be thought of! Mr.
Jackson may be wrong in politics, father ;
of course you have more experience than
is possible at his age. But at least you
will own that he has convictions, and acts
up to them. His can never be called
an idle, unmeaning existence, like Oris
Parry's. I, for my part, would sooner
have to do with a man who goes wrong
than with a poor creature who doesn't goat
all. I have sympathy for failure, none
for indolence. And I think, father, that
Mr. Jackson, whatever faults he may have,
is sincere and thorough.'

Mr. Topham, being always in the right,
had seldom any reason for losing his temper

; nor did he lose it now at this display
of insubordination in the bosom of his-family.
He roused his eyebrows in mild,
amused surprise, and nodded to Judith
almost encouragingly, as much as to say,,
Go on, my dear, go on, I will show
clearly that you are in the wrong when
the proper time comes.'

But Judith had done for the present.
Her mother tried to stave off any discussion
by saying that her father was ready
for his cigar. Up jumped Annie, and
soon brought the cigars, matches, and
little bronze ash-pan to his side. He
caught up his elder daughter's last words,
and said,

Sincere ? Thorough ? Not a bit of
it. You are easily imposed on. Ambrose
Jackson is a humbug, almost a hypocrite.
I saw in every line of his face while
he was contradicting me . . . me, old

enough to be his father . . . that he knows
he hasn't a leg to stand on. He thinks
push is everything. He has caught up
some new-fangled unformed notions which
he tries to pass oiF as wisdom by the help
of bold assertion. Sincere, indeed ! You'll
give him talent next ! Ambrose Jackson
has ambition without intellect, and is
equally wanting in common sense, and in
common honesty.'

This was Johnsonian, and Peter was
satisfied. Judith retorted quickly,

^ Father, how can you be so unkind and
so unjust! Just because he's not of your
opinion !'

Judith was all the more angry because,
although it was palpable enough that her
father had grossly misrepresented Ambrose,
there was a slight leaven of truth in
his censure; and, once and for all, she
had that fellow-feeling already alluded to.

She would have said more in his defence
now, but a lump rose in her throat, and
prevented her from uttering another
word.

Her father replied, with undisturbed
equanimity,

What's this, Judith ? Have you fallen
in love with the young gentleman that
you champion him with so much spirit ?
I warn you that he is the last person I
should admit within my doors as a future
son-in-law.'

This was beyond endurance. Judith
rose from her seat.

I haven't fallen in love with Mr. Jackson,
or with anyone else. I have seen
him only twice, and I'm far from supposing
that he has, or ever mil have,
any partiality for me. I have plenty of
fault to find with him, but where's the
necessity for injustice ? It will, I think,

be time enough to refuse him admittance
here under the circumstances you suggest
when he has asked for that honour.'

'Judith!' cried her mother, ' How can
you forget yourself so ? Your father was
only in jest. You owe him more respect.
Beg his pardon at once.'

There was a pause, and a sharp struggle
in Judith's breast. Then she went to her
father, kissed his forehead, and begged
his pardon for having spoken hastily and
rudely.

He returned her caress, saying,

You have a good heart, ; but you
must be more reasonable. Really you
must. Break yourself of the fatal habit '
of supposing that you can't make a
mistake. That's very odious in anybody.
And, rely upon it, my estimate of young
Jackson is correct ; I have an eye for
character. — There, child, no tears. 1

forgive you. Let's hear no more about

it;

And now,' cried Annie, ' we'll leave
papa to wrap himself up in clouds of
smoke. Come along, mother, before the
puffing begins, and sets you coughing.
Come along, Jue. Come along, lazy old
Jumper. And, papa, I shall be back in
precisely twenty minutes, and woe be unto
you if I find you asleep as I did y ester-day.'


Never fear, Annie, you'll find me reading
the Times.'

Mrs. Topham, after she had been carefully
enveloped in a shawl by her attentive
and thoughtful husband, led the way into
the drawing-room. She was soon busy consoling
Judith, who had still a few tears to
shed : then they became engrossed in a
settlement of certain household affairs.

Annie tried a new gavotte. Then,

VOL. I. D

going into the dining-room again, she
found her prophecy fulfilled, and her father
sound asleep, with an expression of indescribable
contentment upon his features.

Later on, Judith, who was in a very
penitent mood, challenged her father to
play draughts, and let him win every game.
Mrs. Topham looked on, admiring her
husband's skill. Annie romped on the
hearth-rug with Jumper. And the rest of
the evening was spent in perfect harmony,
without any further allusion to Ambrose
Jackson and his supposed shortcomings.

CHAPTER III.

.Airs. TWEEDY AND HER HUSBAND.

On our way to the Jacksons, who lived
more than a mile from Judith's home, we
must peep into a trim detached villa which
stood about half-way between these two
establishments. For it would never do to
overlook such an important personage as
Mrs. Tweedy, of Llewelyn House.

A Mr. Tweedy did exist ; there were
also five little Tweedys, all young ladies,
who ranged from four months to seven
years old. The father never seemed
anxious to impress the fact of his existence
on society, but his offspring took after

d2

their mother, and proclaimed theirs in
every key at all hours of the day.

On the morning after the discussion,
just recorded, between Judith and Mr.
Topham, Mr. Tweedy sat alone in his wife's
drawing-room, close to the open door. He
was busily perusing a volume on the law of
trespass and kindred subjects, for he had
once thought of adopting the law as a
profession ; and had lately, through his
wife's influence, been made a magistrate.
But he was studying under difficulties.
A new nurse had just been engaged for
Nora, Dora, Augusta, and Co., and Mr.
Tweedy was instructed to see that she
was up to her business, and that none of
the children got burnt or swallowed anything
irretrievably during their mother's
absence. In fact, it was with them that
his wife had left him, and, though he had
escaped from their boisterous caresses, he

intended to be found in their company
when she returned. As soon as he heard
his wife's quick tread on the gravel walk
outside, he would stroll leisurely upstairs.
Poor Mr. Tweedy !

He used to have more spirit; but a series
of misfortunes had weighed him down. His
misfortunes were five in number. He was
fond of them, from Nora down to the latest
arrival, and amused them by the hour :
still they cere disappointments.

Mr. Tweedy was disheartened : he had
so longed for a boy. And people laughingly
said, that, if a son was born at Llewelyn
House, Mrs. Tweedy would no longer
rule the roast there. Others agreed, adding,
that, meek as he seemed, James
could be jealous on occasion, and that his
wife was fond of gadding, and had better
mind what she was about. A libel ! Mrs.
Tweedy was as good as gold.

That plump, brisk little woman, her
face aglow with health, and spirits, and
eagerness, came in sight, and pushed open
the garden o-ate. She had an umbrella
and a collection of small parcels in one
hand, and her purse in the other : and
without these accompaniments she wa
seldom to be seen abroad. Gossip, good-natured
gossip, was Mrs. Tweedy's great
resource. She had the peculiarity of
leaving the purse, or the umbrella, or a
parcel, or something else belonging to herat
her friends' houses. She was always
coming back for her property, so that you
never knew when Mrs. Tweedy was really
gone. She never wasted her conversation
on inattentive listeners. She chose a
victim, and for that victim, until she pleased,
there was no escape. All attempts at
rescue she bravely repulsed. She drove
away any interposing party with resistless

energy and charming good-humour. There
was no being angry with Mrs. Tweedy ;
even when she cooped you up in a corner,
and bobbed up and down mirthfully, and
gave point to her remarks by slight digs,
prods, and stabs with the crook of the
favourite umbrella, or familiar taps with the
purse and parcels. Whenever other subjects
were exhausted: her children . . . their
teething, ailments, nurses, accidents, clever
sayings, affectionate dispositions ; together
with James's devoted behaviour to them
and her own anxieties . . . provided material,
which, with the usual amount of repetition,
had all the qualities of the widow's cruse.

She panted upstairs, and took her husband
by surprise. He had just come
upon a nice distinction in law, and had
forgotten all about his charge.

James,' said his wife, ' didn't I leave
you ^viih the children ?'

Well, yes, Kitty ; I was with them till
just this moment . I mean, I came down
a short time ago. Reading was impossible
with Nora and her sisters clinging to me.'

Sweet things all of them !' cried Mrs.
Tweedy, '■ such affection, even in the baby,
it's quite remarkable at her age. Listen,
now, James, I've had the most busy morning.
First of all, I called at the Jacksons,
found the mother less nervous than usual,
and had a long talk with Ambrose. How
agreeable and intelligent he is, James.
Then I went on to Pickersgill's, and told
him that last Sunday's beef was a shame
and a scandal.'

So it was, Kitty : tough, stringy, bad
every way.'

that's what I told him. "Another
joint like that, Mr. Pickersgill," said I, 'rand
you've seen your last order from Llewelyn
House." I told him that even Nora (she is

sharp beyond her years, James said it
could be eaten only by savages.'

We ate it, my dear,' suggested Mr,
Tweedy, whose gentle melancholy caught
at the faintest indication of a joke.

Next,' said his wife, paying him no
attention, ' I went . . . where did I go next ?
yes, to the Tophams. I'm thankful to
say Mr. Topham was out, giving a lesson
in horticulture to his gardener. Those are
the best and dearest of girls : Judith and
Annie, Judith's my favourite. I shall say
a good word for her whenever I get the
chance, you may depend upon it. I
shouldn't wonder if she married well.
And she need, for I fancy, James, that
money's very scarce in her home. The
women are thrifty enough, but Peter !
Their washerwoman (I met her coming
from Pickersgill's) told me that Mr. Top-ham
still wore two shirts a day regularly,

and gave more trouble with his linen than
any other man in the parish. And then
the expense, James, just think of the
expense.'

James was decidedly of opinion that the
expense was unjustifiable.

As I came up the hill,' continued Mrs.
Tweedy, ' whom do you think I met ?'

My brother magistrate, Mr. Tucker,'
guessed her husband. ' He probably put
you to the torture, after his fashion.'

No, not Mr. Tucker,' replied the little
woman, ' I had better luck than that. I
met Captain Hancock.'

And accepted his escort home, I daresay
?' said Mr. Tweedy.

His wife stared ; but she made no answer.
She took off her gloves. She was astonished
that James should address her in
that tone : and silence seemed the most
becoming.

Captain Handcock, formerly of the Bengal
Army, had lived some time in Baybridge,
where he was well known both in the
drawing-rooms and at the club. He was
a big-limbed, swaggering man of iive-and-
fifty or more, who, after spending his youth
and middle-age in, it was rumoured, no
very creditable manner, was at present in
search of a wife to take care of him in his
declining years. He was willing to dispense
with beauty or youth, or even good-nature
; but not with a few snug hundreds
in the funds. Until he could find a lady
with this qualification, and willingness to
bestow it upon him, he amused himself
by paying civilities to any pretty woman
who came in his way. He had thus honoured
]airs. Tweedy, and dropped a few
seeds of jealousy into the mind of her
husband.

Mr. Tweedy now repeated his question :

had Captain Handcock walked part of the
way home with Kate.

Kate said, yes ; and that he had been
most entertaining, as he always was.

I wish,' persisted her husband, ' you
would keep him at a distance. I strongly
object to the man.'

Why ?' asked she, with her must provoking
air.

He's bad style, and I don't choose to
have your name associated with his.'

There is no saying how Mrs. Tweedy
would have faced this new attitude of her
husband's. For, at that moment, a piercing
scream came from the nursery.

The mother, who had gathered up her
parcels, now dropped them, gave a corresponding
shriek, and rushed upstairs to the
:scene of woe. Here she found that Dora,
who had seen a conjuror lately, had succeeded
in convincing Augusta that she

(augusta) had swallowed a packet of
needles, and might expect them to come
out at different parts of her body as soon
as she began to walk. Mrs. Tweedy's
practical suggestion that her darling should
walk up and down and try, was carried outwith
a soothing effect ; and, as her voice
could be heard all over the house, her
husband learned to his delight that the
noisy crew were to be washed, and taken
out for a walk before luncheon.

I declare,' said he, taking up his book
again, ' if it wasn't for Kitty, I'd run away,,
and cut the whole thing, hang me if I
wouldn't. There they go again ! Washing
has begun, and they can't be whipped
properly, because they're girls !'

And, with profound disgust, the long-suffering
man shut the Babel out, and
hoped for, rather than expected, a quiet
quarter-of-an-hour. But he could not

study. He might have been heard muttering
hancock,' and banging the table
with his book as if it were the gallant
captain's head. In this occupation, we
must leave him, and pay the intended
visit to Mrs. Jackson and her son Ambrose.

CHAPTER IV.

YOUR COUNTRY MAID WOULDn't DO.'

sirs. JxVCKson was a thin, fragile woman
with firmly marked and yet delicate
features. For many years she had been a
widow. Her marriage had been an unfortunate
event in several respects. It
had given mortal offence to her own
family and to her husband's : to her own,
because the man she had chosen was as
unprincipled and thriftless as he was handsome
and charming ; to his, because she
drove a richer rival from the field. But
Mrs. Jackson did not care whose favour
she forfeited, as long as she kept her

husband's love. Scapegrace though he
was, he loved her well and truly ; until, a
year after their marriage, he died suddenly,
leaving her and their infant son slenderly
provided for.

Helen Jackson, hitherto accounted a
weak, dependent creature, displayed
courage and resource under these trying
circumstances. She determined to give
little Ambrose a good education. She
neglected no steps to secure his prosperity
in the future ; and applied to his father's
relations and to her own with penitent
humility. She was rudely repulsed. But
the longing to earn something, to put
something by for her boy, led to the discovery
that her taste for drawing and
painting could become profitable. At first
she had to undergo much disappointment
and weariness. But necessity quickened
and enlarged her powers, while experience

taught her the conditions of the market.
A demand arose for her pictures : Ambrose
was sent to a first-rate schooL

As the son grew up, he gave proofs of
considerable ability, and so obtained what
had been refused to his mother's prayers :
the goodwill of old Mr. Jackson, his
grandfather. Mr. Jackson liked the lad
none the less for the fearless way in which
he resented any slight offered to his
mother, and at the squire's death a sum often
thousand pounds was placed in trust
for his grandchild.

Ambrose inherited not only some of the
old man's money, but much of his decision
and energy of character. These qualities
were strengthened by the influences shed
on him from early boyhood. He could
not be on good terms with the world that
neglected his mother's goodness and worth.
He aspired to make himself and her in-vol.

I. E

dependent of it by some solid success, and
at sixteen he entered a City office with a
firmer determination to push his way, and
a more just appreciation of the difficulties
that would beset his path, than is
often seen in one so young.

When he came of age, the first use he
made of his fortune was to extract as much
of a promise as he could from his mother
that she would never again resort to her
brush except for amusement. By that
time he had become almost indispensable
to his employers ; while the same
thoughtful activity that pleased them procured
him many friends for his leisure
hours. He loved to be king of his company,
and, though sometimes overbearing,
found not a few subjects obedient to his
rule.

A year later, an event took place which,
though not so profitable, promised a der

sway to his ambition ; and he eagerly
availed himself of the opportunity, for he
coveted influence and position rather than
money. The event was this. A bill, for
the better payment of a certain class of
public servants, had been brought forward
b}^ a rising politician of the day, and supported
by the whole weight of the opposition.
Ambrose Jackson, who had perhaps
more decided views upon politics than his
information warranted, was especially interested
in this case, as he had several
friends concerned. He drew up their
claims in a letter addressed to one of the
evening papers. The letter was not only
published, but pronounced extremely able.
Further contributions followed ; and their
author eventually made the acquaintance
of more than one politician of note. When
he was twenty-three he was offered a
private secretaryship, accepted, and threw

b2

himself heart and soul into his new
vocation.

He throve as men of his stamp will always
thrive. Though supported by neither
wealth nor family, he fixed on a seat in
Parliament as the object of his ambition.
His capacity for labour was great, and he
possessed the useful talent of making himself
useful. But, though he thus throve
by dint of youth, vigour, and cleverness,
here and there a keen-sighted observer
would point out the rock upon which
would split the fortunes of the young
workman, namely, his disregard, not for the
interest or rights, but for the feelings of
other people. Ambrose was honourable,
just, true as steel to those among Avhom he
had cast his lot. But the bond of union
was interest, not affection. As for his
enemies, he neither gave nor expected
quarter. Let the weak fall, and the

coward sink, and victory be to the wise and
to the strong !

His mother alone shared his confidence,
lived in his ambition, and kept the lamp of
love alive in his heart. And she deserved
all the sweetness that he could lavish upon
her. Her state of health prevented her
from remaining in London where her son's
home must necessarily be. The discovery
was a blow to many a fond hope, but she
bore the trial bravely and judiciously.
The next best thing was to serve his interests
in Baybridge, where his political
friends had a firm footing, and where (but
this was still a dead secret) he hoped to
succeed the present member, now very old.
So Mrs. Jackson took a little house here,
made friends with all the neighbours, occupied
her leisure in the pursuit of her art,
and consoled herself with her son's frequent
visits.

Mother and son had not, however, met
for a week, a longer interval than usual.
Ambrose arrived with his travelling bag
shortly before luncheon, and kissed his
mother with the utmost affection. He was
tender in his inquiries about her health:
the sorrow and over-exertion of former
days had given rise to a nervous disorder
that seemed incurable. As Mrs.
Tweedy had already found out that morning,
Mrs. Jackson was stronger than she
had been for some time, and Ambrose was
in high spirits to see how much better
she looked.

Only get strong, mother,' he said,,
as they sat down to luncheon. ' I will
answer for the rest.'

To see you successful and happy,.
Ambrose, is all I want.'

Everything goes well,' answered he
with a smile. ' Just before leaving town

I had an offer . . . rather a o^ood things, I
fancy. I am to supply some local reports
for a new paper. The pay will be good
the work nothing to an industrious man.
And my colleagues will be creditable
acquaintance.'

Careful as ever, Ambrose, as to whom
you know !'

Yes, mother, You understand what I
think about that. Years ago I made up
my mind to touch nothing that was not
excellent in its kind. You hear it said of
somebody, " He has not over many wits,
but he's a harmless good fellow." In other
words, the man's a fool, and nothing for my
market. I was asked to a dinner the other
day, and the wine was shocking bad. Now,
no one has any business to set bad wine
before me. He's not obliged to invite me,
but, if he does, I expect the same consideration
that I show to my own guests.'

^ And your little suppers, Ambrose?'

Are as good as money and care can
make them, mother. Of course a single
man [is not expected to entertain. But,
when I do ask a few friends, I give them
the best of everything. And I ask only
those who have got something to say ; I
won't have a dull table. But there, I
mustn't prose about myself the whole
afternoon. It's your fault, mother; for
you will know everything that concerns
me. How's old Sir Hugh ?'

Sir Hugh Danvers was the member for
the borough.

Mrs. Jackson was sometimes distressed
at the coolness with which her son regarded
the possibility of the old Conservative
being removed to a world where even
whips cease from troubling. Ambrose sav
what was passing in her mind now.

Don't think, mother,' said he, ' I want

anything to happen to the worthy gentleman.
But he ought, for mere decency's
sake, to retire and make room for a younger
and more active man. I hope you keep
in with everybody, mother ? What visitors
have you had lately ?'

Mrs. Tweedy was here this morning.'

Ah, she's not likely to be of much use
to me. But she talks so much, and is so
well known, that it's as well to be on good
terms with her. And then her husband
(such as he is) has a sort of a standing.'

Such subjects occupied them during
luncheon, and then Ambrose led his
mother into the drawing-room, and drew
an arm-chair for her up to the fire.

The Tophams came yesterday ; the
girls,' said Mrs. Jackson.

Provincial rather !' said Ambrose.
'• Don't know how to dress, make their own
clothes, and all that sort of thing. I must

say I like a fine, distinguislied-looking, well-dressed
woman.'

The Toj)liaras are a very good family,
dear boy.'

Yes, mother, I've no doubt. What's
become of Oris Parry? I haven't seen
him for ages.'

'He was here on Thursday, inquiring
after you, in his dear listless way,' said
Mrs. Jackson. ' Don't you agree with me,
Ambrose dear, that Judith Topham is a
remarkably handsome girl ?'

A smile flitted over the young man's
pleasant features, for his habit of close
attention often enabled him to guess what
others had in their thoughts, and this was
especially the case with his mother. He
now took her by the hand, and, looking her
fondly in the face, shook his head, and replied,
in a tone of gentle raillery,

'Mother, mother, conspiracy has no

chance with me. Don't forget that I live
in an atmosphere of plot and intrigue.'

^ And who is plotting now?' said his
mother, blushing a little though, as she
spoke.

*You are, mother; for my welfare of
course, as usual ; but still a dangerous
plotter. I foresee a far-reaching, well-concocted
scheme for uniting your dutiful son
Ambrose in the bonds of holy matrimony
to Miss Judith Topham. I aren't confess
her handsome for fearing of compromising
myself.'

How quick you are, Ambrose,' protested
Mrs. Jackson, admiringly. 'But I'm
not as guilty as you suppose. I was not
thinking of Judith Topham exactly in
that way. But I should like to see yoa
married, and married to a good woman.
Who knows how long I maybe spared you.'

It was not want of heart that prevented

Ambrose from being duly impressed by
this reflection. It was custom. His
mother often chose to take this desponding
view of the future ; and he had learned to
treat it cheerfully for her sake.

Now, mother, what an idea ! You have
chosen Judith Topham because she's the
only young lady in the place (except her
sister) who doesn't look like a sack tied
across the middle.'

No, Ambrose, not altogether that. She
has a fine character.'

Agreed,' replied Ambrose, ' from the
little I've seen of her. But allowing her
to be handsome and everything else doesn't
prove her set apart to be Mrs. Jackson
junior. Really, mother, you look far
ahead. I have barely spoken to her. Perhaps
we should hate each other like poison.
Perhaps, probably, she would have nothing
to say to me.'

This possibility had evidently never
occurred to Mrs. Jackson ; she naturally
thought anyone would be proud to receive
a proposal from Ambrose.

You treat the matter too seriously,
Ambrose,' she said, and tried to turn the
conversation.

'And yet you were serious enough,
mother ; I saw it in your face.'

I am anxious, Ambrose.'

An anxiety, mother, and you have not
yet given me my share of it ?' said the
young man, with a caress.

I haven't liked to say much hitherto
Ambrose, for fear of vexing you. Very
well, I'll speak out now . I have had more
than one hint lately from some of your
friends and supporters . . . no, no, I must
not mention names. They say that you
have energy and talent, and will push your
way ; but at too great a cost. They complain

that, though you could be charming
if you chose, you understand nothing of
the • arts of conciliation, and make an
enemy for every step you climb.'

Mrs. Jackson, though of a fault-finding
nature, very rarely ventured to find fault
even in this indirect manner with her son ;
and she waited nervously to see how he
would meet the implied rebuke. He replied,
somewhat hastily,

they are right, I do make enemies.
But I can hold my own against them all.
A fig for the man who bows to the fickle
opinions of chatterers and dullards. I hate
the bear-and-forbear, the give-and-take
system ; it's poor, it's weak, and it doesn't'
pay. I can do better. After all, I'm the
best judge of the means to gain my own
ends.' And then he added, more softly, for
his mother looked hurt: *But what has
all this got to do with marrying, and giving
in marriage, dearest mother?'

Everything, Ambrose. You are engaged
in a hard, unforgiving struggle. Even I,
who see so little of your doings, know . . .
forgive me, my child . . . how ready you
sometimes are to use an instrument, and
then to fling it aside. I'm not clever like
you; but I have ripe experience. To
pursue such a policy is to buy present
success with future unhappiness. Now if
you had a wife, a loving, sensible, clever
woman, who could heal the wounds you
inflict, your progress would be safer and
less arduous.'

Ambrose was struck with his mother's
earnestness. He remained for a few
moments in thought, with his chin on his
hand ; and then answered,

Yes, mother, you are right. I've often
thought it would be advisable for me to
marry. A woman could do so much to
further my plans.'

Besides loving you, and taking care of

you, Ambrose,' said his mother, with a suppressed
sigh.

Of course,' replied he. ' But the thing
has its drawbacks. Above all, your
country maid wouldn't do, mother : even
supposing I had time to fall desperately in
love with her. I can imagine no greater
humiliation to a man wbo has risen perhaps
beyond expectation than to have a
wife unable to keep pace with him. No,
mother, I'll belong to you for some years
longer. — What time is Andrew coming for
you this afternoon ?'

Andrew was an old pensioner, whose
business it was to push Mrs. Jackson about
in her bath-chair. For the invalid was unequal
to much walking.

I must stay in, dear; Andrew has
sprained his ankle.'

Never mind, mother. Get your things
on. I can manage as well as Andrew, I

daresay. Fresh air is the one thing needful
for you.'

Mrs. Jackson objected ; what would
people think ?

What they please,' answered Ambrose,
lauo'hinor.

And so mother and son soon started :
the latter quite indifferent to public
opinion ; and Mrs. Jackson a little nervous,
and fondly proud of her escort. Only
once was she really wanting in courage,
and that was when an old-fashioned closed
carriage came in sight.

It's Mrs. Robertson,' exclaimed she.

Mrs. Robertson was a very old lady,
conscientious, good-natured, wealthy, and
much given to hospitality.

Mrs. Robertson won't eat us, mother,'
laughed Ambrose.

When the lumbering vehicle reached
Mrs. Jackson's bath-chair, its occupant

VOL. I. F

tugged energetically at the check-string :
the footman scrambled down, and opened
the window. A pinched eager face, softened
by a bunch of white curls on each side,
was thrust out, and a voice shrill but
sweet exclaimed,

Mrs. Jackson, Mrs. Jackson . is that
Mrs. Jackson ?'

^ Yes, i'm,' prompted the footman, in a
low voice, before the lady addressed had
time to answer.

'How d'ye do, Mrs. Jackson?' continued
the shrill voice. ' Who's that young man
pushing your chair ?'

'My son Ambrose,' replied Mrs. Jackson.
' Ambrose — Mrs. Robertson.'

How d'ye do, Mr. Jackson ?' came from
the little bobbing head. ' Why don't you
ever come to see me ? I'm an old woman,
I suppose.'

Ambrose replied that he had never
before had the honour of an invitation.

^I shall expect you,' replied old Mrs.
Robertson. ' I shall expect to see him,
Mrs. Jackson. Good-bye, Mrs. Jackson.
Good-bye, young gentleman.'

Back went the head, up went the
window, and the carriage lumbered on as
before.

Curious old lady,' said Ambrose.

But kind,' answered his mother. ' She
has a great deal of influence here among
the electors.'

I shall certainly call upon her,' said
Ambrose.

F 2

CHAPTER V.

TWO CREEDS.

Although lie knew that Ambrose was
only in fun when he called her a conspirator,
Mrs. Jackson had her reasons for
feeling rather guilty. Without his knowledge
she had become intimate with Judith
Topham, the intimacy having sprung up
in the following manner. Mrs. Jackson
tried to avoid living altogether on her
son's bounty, and she did at least some
work for the picture-dealers every day,
and concealed the fact from Ambrose.
Now, she happened to mention to Judith,
(who shared her taste for painting), the

difficulty of finding a model. Judith wondered
if she could be of any use. Mrs.
Jackson accepted the offer thankfully, and
took Judith into her confidence. And
whenever time could be spared (Ambrose
being absent) her young friend came to
pose, and the pictures made rapid progress.
Notwithstanding the difference of age, a
firm friendship sprang up between the two
women. Mrs. Jackson looked forward to
these short but frequent visits, for on
many points, which her son, being a man,
could not understand, she received sympathy
from Judith. Judith, too, gained
much advantage from the intercourse ; she
had many difficulties to contend with, and
often needed advice which neither her
parents nor her sister was capable of giving.
Mrs. Jackson made up for the want.
Ambrose was naturally often the subject
of Mrs. Jackson's conversation, and, as she

grew familiar with Judith's many good
qualities, she had day-dreams in which
their future flowed together. Judith was
impressed not so much by the mother's
praise of her son, as by the great care and
attention which he showed for her happiness.
So that, taking all together, Mrs.
Jackson, as we have said, had her reasons
for being rather guilty.

*" You have got quite a colour, mother,'
said Ambrose, as they finished their afternoon
tea. ' You must go out every day.'

I will, dear, it Alas so good of you . . .'

^ No, no, I wasn't fishing for thanks.
And I don't deserve any ; for I'm going to
desert you now, for at least an hour, to
take a brisk walk. Without lots of exercise,
I'm never up to the mark.'

So saying, Ambrose brought his mother
some books which he had chosen for her
in London, and set out on a constitutional.

It was dusk. He passed the Tweedys,
and smiled to see on the blind the shadow
of Mrs. Tweedy, who was gesticulating on
the other side. He passed Judith's home,
and wondered what strange fancy his
mother had taken into her head. And
walking on briskly, he came to the Common,
and soon found himself in the open
country.

His quick firm step showed off his well-built
figure to perfection. It was in action
that Ambrose was always seen at his best.
In repose his dark face was somewhat
stern, especially when his hair fell, as it
often did, in loose black curls over his
forehead. But when animated, his eyes
were so bright and pleasing, and his lips
so suggestive of his mother's in their winning
smile, that you forgot any disagreeable
first impression.

Ambrose was so busy thinking about

his various schemes that he went further
than he intended; and then suddenly
stopped, and looked at his watch.

^ Six o'clock !' said he. ' This will never
do. I must race home.'

The roads were muddy ; so he tucked
the ends of his trowsers up, and started
for home at double-time. He ran
faster and faster, so much so that when
he came to the edge of the Common,
where the lane took a sharp turn, he was
unable to check himself, and ran into
somebody who was hurrying towards the
open.

It was Judith Topham. She had a
paper 'parcel in her hand, and the shock
sent it flying into the mud.

Ambrose picked it up, and, as Judith
stretched out her hand for it, he recognized
her.

Miss Topham !' he said. ' I hardly

know how to apologise for my awkwardness.
I beg a thousand pardons. I made
sure the road was deserted, and didn't look
where I was running to.'

It doesn't matter a bit,' said Judith,
with a pleasant smile which her companion
could just note in the uncertain light. ' I
wasn't paying attention either. There's
really no harm done.'

You're very indulgent,' said Ambrose,
as they shook hands. ' I hope your parcel
hasn't got wet ?'

Judith gave a little cry of alarm ; and
Ambrose took the parcel again, and began
pulling off the wet paper.

'How lucky I wrapped it up in two
folds,' said Judith. ' Thank you, it is all
right. It's Aunt Robby's table-cloth.'

Aunt Robby's ?' said Ambrose.

I thought only we poor women were
curious. Yes, Mrs. Robertson's ; and I can

assure you, though I oughtn't to be the
person to say so, that it's quite worth
seeing.'

That means it's your work.' said
Ambrose. ' My curiosity is quite uncontrolable
now.'

There's no light,' said Judith. But
he pointed to a lamp some yards oiF, and
by its rays she showed him the corner of
the cloth, worked in silk.

Beautiful,' said Ambrose. ' You have
reason to be proud of it. What a bold
design. Rather like my mother's style.'

It was Mrs. Jackson's. But Judith held
her tongue about that, and wished him
good-night.

• Are you going to Mrs. Robertson's
now ?' said he. ' Then I must see you
safely there.'

But you were in such a hurry,' replied
Judith.

Circumstances alter cases,' answered
Ambrose. ' There may be other wild
fellows running about the roads, for all
I know. You must be protected.' And,
Judith gladly consenting, they walked on
together.

I hope Mrs. Robertson will appreciate
the present in store for her,' said Ambrose,
What makes you so good-natured ?'

Judith was all the more pleased because
of his matter-of-fact tone, and a flush
which her companion could not see rose on
her cheek. She tried to say something
kind in return.

You are busy, too, Mr. Jackson, on a
larger and more important scale. I think
you may have many opportunities for
making others happy, and advancing a
cause you think good. But isn't the profession
of politics difficult and hazardous T

Ambrose, too, was pleased. So seldom

did any woman (except his mother) seem
able to enter into his ambition. He saw that
Judith differed from him in not regarding
poetics merely as a personal advantage ;
but her few words made him feel that,
unlike, as he believed, most of her sex, she
had definite opinions. He therefore answered
with less reserve than he could have
thought possible when he had spoken of
^ your country maid ' to his mother that
afternoon.

Difficult and hazardous. Miss Topham ?
Yes, to the waverers and the fickle-minded;
but not to the patient, the strong,
and the thoughtful. Let a man find out
exactly what he wants to do, let him
determine that the thing shall be done,
that every day shall bring him nearer . . .
if it be but an inch nearer . to his aim :
and hazard and difficulty are but empty
names '

I quite see,' said Judith. ' And then
you make friends, bound up in the same
cause, whose affection you can rely upon !'

No,' said the young politician, hastily.
I have no such friends. They would encumber
me. I rely upon the only person of
whom I can say, " He will not fail" . . .
upon myself Of course I don't journey
alone : but my fellow-travellers only give
me their company because it's their interest
to do so.'

Judith gave a start, looked up with
vague distrust and alarm at the dark
strong features of the speaker beside her,
and unconsciously moved a step away from
him. So she had made a mistake, after all.
Ambrose never had existed as she had
pictured him in her mind. The mistake
was only to be expected;, for she had seen
little of him, and she had never heard of
his faults from Mrs. Jackson. The mother

was too loyal to speak of her son's shortcomings
to anyone, and she naturally exaggerated
his virtues. Judith had hitherto
considered Ambrose a generous man, whose
enthusiasm was held in check by a keen
intelligence. The intelligence was there ;
but the enthusiasm was deplorably onesided,
and the generosity, alas ! with his
own lips he had disavowed its possession.
Interest the sole guide of his life ! What
could be more hopeless and more dreary ?
Judith positively shivered. Then she
began to excuse him. Perhaps Ambrose
knew the world better than she did ; perhaps
in his particular path self-seeking was
a necessity. No ! something within her
forbade the supposition that all she had
heard and read of devotion in Public Life
was a mere fable ; and she said, eagerly,

I altogether reject your creed, Mr.
Jackson. Never will I believe that any

cause can prosper unless its promoters forget
themselves to carry it through.'

Ambrose shed to explain that he
did not care a straw for any cause, unless
it could become a ladder for his own ambition.
He wished to explain to this terribly
out-spoken young lady that for him
'• politics ' was only a trade . . . like bookbinding
or boot-making . . . sweetened by
the love for power and by its exercise. He
thought her very quixotic to talk about
causes, abstractions he cared little about,
xlndyet, though accustomed to treat others'
opinions with something like disdain, he
dared not invite the censure of the young
girl walking at his elbow. So he kept
silence.

You are fond of history, of course,' said
Judith. 'My stock is likely to be poor
and scanty, I knoAV. But doesn't history
prove your creed to be false? Aren't

there any examples of self-sacrificing
brotherhoods in it? For instance, the
Abolitionists ?'

Ambrose tried to smile at this little display
of feminine erudition ; but he was nonplussed.
The case, if trite, was apt. He had
studied history, to be sure ; and had found
in it all that he had sought, and deserved to
find : facts that might be useful to him in
the career he had mapped out. He knew
the arguments for and against the Slave
Trade, and the position of parties, but had
not noticed over-much the self-sacrificing
spirit of which Judith spoke. He could
not meet her on the higher ground she
had chosen ; and would not acknowledge
defeat. So he glossed over his failure by
saying that many personal motives were
lost to history, and that, on the other
hand, a great deal of false sentiment crept
into its pages. A poor evasion ! and he

felt that Judith detected its barrenness as
she answered,

Granting your system to be the best
in the field you have chosen, aren't you
afraid of not being able to get rid of it in
every-day life, of its clinging to you, and
dragging you down ?'

Private life is quite a separate affair,'
said Ambrose ; feeling that he was still
losing ground, and wishing that he had
run against anybody else but this provincial
Miss Topham.

Are you sure it can be kept separate T
persisted Judith. She was excited herself,
and had no idea how far she went.

I never thought much of that confessed
Ambrose. ' I don't think there's any danger.'

'And I think there must be,' replied
Judith, more quietly, turning her eyes full
upon him ; ' but please forgive me for saying
so.'

YOL. T. G

As she finished speaking, they reached
Mrs. Robertson's gate. Judith, who was
abbacy seriously taking herself to task for
having spoken so freely, thanked him for
coming so far out of his way to oblige her,
but did not offer to shake hands. Ambrose
was no less formal ; for he was vexed with
himself for having defended his theories
to Judith Topham, whose existence he had
not hitherto thought of importance. He
was puzzled, and, when he had lost sight of
her, shrugged his broad shoulders with an
air of discomfort, and strode down the
lane.

j^o wonder Ambrose was puzzled, for he
knew next to nothing of women. Ever since
he could remember, he had been too busy to
think about them. A time would come, he
never doubted, when he might look down
from the high position he had won, upon
such matters. Yes, beauty and love were

very good things . . . after working hours.
He wondered how people could waste their
time among women when there was so
much else to do ; and he was punished by
a want of some of the easy graces other
young men had. This loss, however, was
fully balanced by his ignorance of fashionable
vice. He would have scorned fiercely
the assertion that ' wild oats ' were excusable,
fashionable . . . even laudable.
And to this healthy tone of mind he unquestionably
owed a large share of his
decision and energy. It made his bearing
manly ; and his voice had the true, clear
ring of a pure and fearless gentleman.

While he is hurrying home, we will
follow Judith into the cheery presence of
old Aunt Robby, where a surprise awaits
her.

CHAPTER VI.

AT yiEST SIGHT.

Mrs. Robertson's clock struck the half-hour
: half-past six. Blind-man's holiday,
which she observed regularly every evening,
was over some time ago ; and the
curtains were drawn in front of the closed
shutters ; and the lamps were lit, and a
blazing and a crackling came from the
thick logs piled across the iron dragons on
the hearth. A little on one side of the
rug, so as not to shut the warmth out from
Aunt Robby in her easy chair, stood a tall
man of about forty-five. He had a long
chestnut beard, chestnut hair just turning

grey, and, in spite of every care to hide the
truth, somewhat thin on the crown. He
was dressed rather smartly, especially for
Baybridge, as if he preferred to pass for
thirty, and had no desire to be mistaken
for a married man. He was, in truth, a
bachelor, named William Sutton; and he
had come on a visit to Mrs. Robertson, at
the Elms.

Will Sutton was an orphan, and had
been a ward in Chancery. When he became
his own master, he plunged headlong,
first into pleasure, then into extravagance,
and then into riotous living. This
lasted for a few golden years. Then trouble
and ill-health came on wings, while at a
foot's pace followed repentance.

There is perhaps no greater martyrdom
on earth, than to start from the dream of
lawless pleasure . . . say at thirty-five . . .
and to find the heart empty and callous,

and that most precious gift, health, vilely
cast away. Repair is possible in other
things. Will, by dint of rigid economy
(and some timber felling), saved the estate
of his fathers. But the glow, the ardour,
the rejoicing in one's strength . . . could
these return ?

Friends went, too, as they so often will ;
for a sick man is out of sight, and . . .
the proverb holds good. The reformed
spendthrift sought consolation, not altogether
in vain, from books and from art ;
and strength from milder climates. Years
passed. The fruits of restraint ripened;
health returned. But Will Sutton had no
ties. Clever, amiable, and affectionate, he
was almost alone in the world, without an
aim, feeling, except on rare occasions when
old flames would burst forth, that his
day had gone, that his sun had set in
clouds.

He Alas one of the ' unclasped ;' too

numerous among us.

"Will, I hope you are comfortable, and
have everything you want,' said his hostess.
I shall expect you to stay a long time ; because
I must learn to be as fond of you as
I was of your father. He knew how to pay
a compliment ; no one danced the minuet
like your father. What a handsome lad
he was, well, well-a-day! Do you hear,
Will, I shall expect you to stay a very longtime.'


You quite spoil me. Aunt Robby, and
you'll never get rid of me,' said Will.

I shall make some one else spoil you,'
was the answer. For the kindly gentlewoman
was not tired of match-making,
even after the practice of nearly half-century.


too late! Aunt Robby,' murmured
Will Sutton, as, perhaps, chances he had

recklessly tossed aside rose in his memory.
The words gave the key-note of his existence.
He had always been too late.

Tut, tut, a good-looking man in the
prime of life,' piped Aunt Robby, ' I'll not
listen to such croaking. Fiddlestick, Will.
Now I've got you at the Elms, I shall
show you to all the young ladies in Bay-bridge.
Oh, I shall. I have a tea-party tomorrow
on purpose. The Tophams will
be here. You've not forgotten Judith and
Annie, Will ?'

Forgotten my old friends ? I should
think not,' said Mr. Sutton. ' What a time
it is since we've met. They were mere
slips of children, then ; fresh and joyous
creatures, that used to play me a thousand
tricks. Judith has grown handsome, I
daresay ?'

You shall judge for yourself,' exclaimed
the old lady, hearing the hall-door bell ring.

That's Judith ; I forgot (in the excitement
of your coming, Will) that she hadn't been
here to-day. She seldom lets a day pass
without a visit to old Aunt Robby, and so
that must be Judith. No, no, she wouldn't
disappoint the old woman. Quick, quick,
Will ! hide behind that screen. Can I
look as if you weren't there I wonder.'

Sutton smiled at her garrulous delight,
and went into hiding as she bade him.
Not a moment too soon ; for in ran Judith
exclaiming,

Here I am, Aunt Robby.'

Mrs. Robertson had no relations in the
world ; but in Baybridge she was everywhere
known as ' Aunt ' Robby, a title she
deserved by the affectionate interest she
took in everybody's welfare.

'Here I am,' said Judith, ' after all sorts
of adventures.' And, holding the tablecloth
behind her back, she added, ' I've a

surprise for you, Aunt Robby. Guess?'

A surprise !' tittered the venerable
dame, chuckling at the thought of the
bearded man so cunningly hid behind the
screen, ' a surprise, have you ? He, he ! so
have I, Jue. We'll see who's the best
hand at surprises.'

Mine,' said Judith, ' is this table-cloth
for your birthday ; there it is, ready for
your tea-party tomorrow.'

And she unpacked her treasure, and let
the gay border fall invitingly over the edge
of the table.

Oh, the dear, thoughtful child,' said
Aunt Robby. ' Let me see. Roses and
forget-me-nots ! Oh, dear, oh, dear. My
old favourites too. None of the newfangled
things that don't mean anything.
Kiss me, child, for the beau-ti-ful present.
Where are ray spectacles ? Now ! Beautiful,
Judith ! How evenly you've worked

it, pet. With my glasses, I thank goodness
my sight's as clear as ever it was,
though I'm getting an old woman now.
My birthday ! ah, Jue, I remember your first
birthday ; what a fine baby you were, and
the gentlest of them all, to be sure.'

Aunt Robby was so taken up with the
birthday present that she forgot all about
Will Sutton. The old dame had a lively
imagination (which was to play havoc
later on), and she was shrewd enough
when she could bring her mind to bear
upon any one matter. The time had long
gone by when she could think (as one
says) of two things at once. She was now
thinking that the table-cloth must have
cost much more than Judith could afford,
and wondering how, without offence, she
could prevent the girl from being a loser
by the generosity. So Will Sutton was
altogether forgotten, and there is no saying

how long he must have stayed where he
was, but for Judith's question,

Now, Aunt Robby, what surprise have
you T

Gracious !' said the ancient lady, ' I had
forgotten all about him. Well, well, I'm
getting to be an old woman now. Jue,
my child, just pull the screen a little
forward.'

Judith obeyed. The bearded man came
forth with outstretched hand.

Don't you recognise me, Judith ?' he
asked.

Miss Topham was rather startled at this
sudden apparition. She raised her eyes
gravely, and shook her head. Evidently
she had no idea who he was.

'Not know Will Sutton?' cried Aunt
Lobby, who had expected things would
take quite a different turn.

^ Will !' exclaimed Judith. ' Of course

it is. Please forgive me she went on,
taking' his hand, ' but you are so . I
mean it is so long ago, we are both so
changed.'

Are you going only to shake hands ?
After thirteen years' separation ! Kiss herat
once, Will,' said Mrs. Robertson.

It would be hard to say who looked the
most embarrassed, the elderly man with
his grave air, or the blushing girl he had
formerly known so well. But Judith had
no nonsense about her ; Will was a very
old friend, and Aunt Robby would never
let , them off. So she held her cheek to
Will, and he touched it reverently with
his lips. The mistress of the Elms laughed,
well pleased, and made them sit down, one
on each side of her easy-chair.

'Where have you been all this time;
and why have you so seldom written ?'
asked Judith.

I ought to have written more often,' he answered,
' you were all often in my thoughts.
I've been a great deal abroad ; for my home's
the loneliest place for me without kith or
kin. In fact, I've only just come from
Dresden. I stayed a week at Radalls to
see that everything was in order, and then
came to Aunt Hobby's.'

'After staying away from the Elms for eve
long years,' complained old Mrs. Robertson.

And we have been four years at Bay-bridge,'
said Judith ; ' how time flies ! And
now. Will, you must tell me all about
Higher oft.'

Highcroft was the country-house where
Judith had been born and brought up.
It has been already mentioned that her
one disappointment, of which Highcroft
had been the scene, was forgotten. Nothing
but sweet memories clung to those
haunts of her childhood. Nothing of the

worry and anxiety that were now her
clail}^ lot had reached her in those sunny
days. She and Annie had wandered arm-in-arm
along the river bank, listened with
awe to the dull boom of the Salmon Leap,
and stopped for the cool spray to beat on
their cheeks and hair. Little Annie had
gone to sleep in her lap in the silence of
the woods. The children knew every
green lane, every sparkling brook, every
favoured spot for the primrose and violet.
Judith's thoughts Event a long way back
to when Will himself was brilliant and
gay, and patronisingly gracious to a small
mite like her, and she repeated :
Tell me all about Highcroft, Will'
He first asked after her parents and her
sister, and then answered,

Highcroft is sadly changed, Judith. In
the first place . . . dare I tell you ? . . .
they have slain Goliath.'

Goliath was the name given to a giant
beech, the pride of Highcroft, which had
stood between the study windows and the
river, at the foot of the hill.

The wretches !' exclaimed Judith.

Perhaps nothing better could be expected
from the new owner,' said Will, who
had some pride of birth. 'He was "in
tallow," I believe. He has pulled down
the old boat-house, too, and built another
with a spire and a gilt weather-cock.'

Aunt Robby shook her head at this
enumeration of the tallow-merchant's enormities.
Judith said, impatiently,

Stop, Will. I had a longing to see
Hiofhcroft once ao^ain. but I'm cured now.
For the future I shall be content in quiet
Baybridge.'

Is it so quiet ?' said Will, smiling.
You spoke of all sorts of adventures on
your way to the Elms this evening.'

So she did,' cried Aunt Robby, ^ so she
did. She is beginning to have secrets, Will,
you see. We shall have her marrying one
o^ these days.'

Judith blushed ; but she parried the old
lady's attack by saying, merrily,

I shall marry no one but Will.'

To be told this by an uncommonly
pretty woman ought to be pleasant enough.
Not always. Mr. William Sutton by no
means relished Judith's innocent sally, because
it seemed to imply that he was so
much her senior that the jest could be
made without any hazard or possibility
of misunderstanding. His head drooped.
Judith, after a great pretence of mystery
to amuse Aunt Robby, described her chance
meeting with Ambrose Jackson.

Jackson,' said the old lady, ^ Ambrose
Jackson ; so you met him ? I did too,
Judith. He's coming to see me.'

VOL. I. H

I thought you didn't like him,' said
Judith. For Mrs. Robertson, usually so
kind, had spoken severely about Ambrose
in her hearing;.

No more I did, Jue,' replied Aunt
Robby, ' but I've asked him to come now.
He's attentive to his mother, I see, and
perhaps I have done him a wrong. A man
may have faults, but, if you can get at his
heart at all, there's hope, my dear. Mr.
Jackson will be civil enough to me, maybe.'

Oh, I'm sure he will,' said Judith.

I mean, child, he knows I can be of use
to him. Ho, ho, I see what he'll want by-and-by.'


A wife ?' suggested Will, with a smile. '

You mustn't make fun of an old woman,
sir,' said Aunt Robby. ' A wife ! No. Mr.
Jackson doesn't care about women, I promise
you.'

Mrs. Robertson evidently had an inkling

of Ambrose's intention to contest Bay-bridge,
and indeed the news was generally
known next day. While the old lady's
friends were coaxing her to tell what Ambrose
would want, it struck seven. Up
jumped Judith.

I must be off or I shall be late for
dinner, and father will be vexed,' said she.
'Good-night, Aunt Robby.'

Must you go, child ? Very well ; Will
shall see you home.'

Will went for his hat. The friends
started.

Judith was in great spirits. She took
her companion's arm, and, noticing that
he was rather solemn, asked him many
questions about himself, and his travels,
and his home in Surrey . . . till she chased
away his gloom. Of his past life she knew
much, and pitied him j and so her tone was
unusually cordial.

h2

I wish I could ask you to come in,' she
said, as they reached her home. ' It seems
unkind not to do so, but father . . .'

Judith stopped short. It was so hard
to explain, and yet it had so often to
be acknowledged, how seldom her father
cared for anybody's convenience but his
own. Her companion understood, and put
her at her ease by saying,

Who could think of taking you by storm
at this hour of the night, Judith ? Not I.
But before you go I have a favour to ask.'

Yes, Will, anything.'

We are such old friends,' he began.
You mustn't be angry, but Aunt Robby
has told me something of your father's
misfortunes. Don't turn away like that,
Judith. I know what poverty is. If I
can ever be of use. There, there, old
friend, we understand each other. You're
not going to be offended.'

'OiFencled? No, Will; do you think
kindness is so plentiful that I can afford
to throw it away?'

And, if you are in need, you promise ?'

I promise to ask for your help, and will
love you for it.'

In another moment Will was standing
alone in the dark.

He was grieved by Judith's artless words.
They made him look, with a shudder, down
the chasm that severed him, not only from
her, but from all that was still young and
beautiful. To see Judith, whom he had parted
from in short frock and crimson sash, now
transformed into a woman, forced him to
realize more vividly than he had yet done
how these years, while moulding her grace
and beauty, had left their sterner mark upon
him . . . with his wasted life, and unsatisfied
hungering after happiness. Judith had
i not recognised him, and he dared not think

that strange. He had grown a beard, his
hair had turned grey, his complexion had
lost its bloom ; his forehead was lined, not
honourably with thought, but with care.
If salutary, what more painful than to look
back like this, and dimly see, in blurred
outlines, a picture of what might have
been. Will's heart ached. He bitterly
cursed the sins of his youth. Some bright
young fellow would come one morning
and carry off Judith ; he was once such an
one. As Will walked back to the Elms,
his head sank lower and lower on his
breast. Judith's last words rang in his
ears, ' I will love you for it.' He felt
that his life was changed.

CHAPTER Iii.

UNWELCOME Visitors.

It was not known for a certainty how
Nicholas Tucker had raked a fortune together.
He had followed so many occupations
in so many parts of the world that
it was difficult to class him. Baybridge,
after many years, had given up the attempt,
and took him as he was. And he
was unquestionably a wealthy man, though
he chose to live simply, in spite of the
repeated protests of his two middle-aged
daughters, Elizabeth and Clementina.

Nicholas was a tall, thin old man. He
wore a beard as long as Will Sutton's, and

nearly white. His head was smooth and
shining to a degree. His face was weather-stained,
and disfigured by scars, creases,
and wrinkles on the loose, hanging skin,
his half-open eyes, which saw everything,
being darkened by shaggy eyebrows. He
wore good clothes, but they hung all awry
on his shrunken limbs. Not a prepossessing
appearance by any means.

He had been almost everywhere, and had
done almost everything. He had tried his
hand at sheep-farming and gold-digging.
He had tried the wine trade at the Cape.
Versatile Nicholas had tried finance too ;
he had promoted companies on both sides
of the water, with varying success. Eventually,
it was from the Brazils that he returned
with his pile. Here he was, the
rough, ill-mannered fellow, settled down
into respectability with his ponderous
wealth, and with his Spartan tastes.

Mr. Tucker never entertained ; but he
was charitably disposed (or it suited him to
appear so) and had built some schools and
a church, and in other ways made use of
his opportunities. Though not a general
favourite, he got on pretty well with his
neighbours. His chief failing in their eyes
was an incurable habit of asking questions,
he must know everybody else's affairs, even
to the most trifling details. But Nicholas
could be good-natured, and, as on rare
occasions he showed feeling, he passed fora
rough diamond. He was pitied, besides,
for being the father of the Misses Tucker.
It was supposed that no worldly prosperity
could prove a set-off against this misfortune.
Why did not he give the spinsters a
heavy nugget a-piece, and see the last of
their sour, spiteful faces ?

Elizabeth and Clementina Tucker knew
perfectly well why, and the knowledge

caused their cup of bitterness to run over.
These ladies, answering to Ambrose Jackson's
description of most of the women in
Baybridge, had been born in some outlandish
place, and sent home for their education.
They grew up, and nothing was heard
of their father, but he had given each of them
five thousand pounds that nobody else could
lay a finger on. One happy day came news of
Nicholas Tucker's prosperous return. The
dear girls hurried to Plymouth with open
arms. But they were met by a shabbily-dressed
man imploring charity . Miss Tucker
wondered what her father ' had been about.'
He murmured the words ' unfortunate
speculation.' Miss Tucker believed in
Consols, and went home. Her sister followed;
but relented so far as to send a
cheque for ten pounds, hoping that her
dear Papa would retrieve his losses, and
come back to his loving child Clementina.'

Mr. Tucker then threw off the mask, and behold,
a Dives ! Imagine the dismay and the
repentance of his affectionate daughters !

A reconciliation took place more easily
than they could have hoped ; but it was
totally unattended with profit to themselves.
The old man's revenge was cruel.
Fabulous wealth, and nothing but a dull
life in Baybridge ! Prospects held out
Tantalus-like, and never grasped ! Interested
suitors, and not a single lover !
Their father still transacted a great deal of
business, by correspondence and by frequent
visits to London ; but he actually
suspected his children, and deprived them
of any opportunity of becoming acquainted
with his affairs. It was hard to bear, and
sometimes they railed even at him.

A rapid sketch has been given of this
respectable family, because, when Ambrose

-Jackson reached home after his unexpected
walk with Judith Topham, he heard, to his
infinite disgust, the disagreeable voices of
Miss Tucker and her sister in full concert.
Ambrose knew what his mother must be
putting up with, and entering, found
Nicholas and his two daughters in possession.


Mrs. Jackson welcomed her son with a
look that said, ' It isn't my fault they're
here.' And Ambrose smiled as though he
would answer, ' A bad lot, but I'll do my
best to be civil.'

This Avould be difficult; for between
Ambrose and the Misses Tucker there was
no love lost. They had spread their nets
for him in vain. They had thrown out
hints of the convenience of a large dower
to an ambitious man. Of course each had
acted without the connivance of the other,
and with the greatest delicacy. But, when

Ambrose had taken hardly any pains to
veil his contempt, a partial confession took
place between Elizabeth and Clementina,
and they agreed to hate Ambrose with a
mortal hatred, and to find out his vulnerable
point, and to wound him there. They
smiled on him now, and Miss Tucker
exclaimed,

I'm afraid you find us here at a very
unseasonable hour, Mr. Jackson ?'

Mr. Jackson said ' Not at all,' and tried
to look as if he meant it.

I'm sure we feel like intruders,' said
Miss Clementina, who often acted as echo
to her sister.

*We are very pleased to see you all,*
said Mrs. Jackson, rather sharply, for she
had been obliged to say the same thing
several times already.

this is how we come to be here, Mr.
Jackson,' continued Miss Tucker. 'AYe

were passing the house without a thought
of venturing in, when dearest Clementina
saw . . . for the blind had not been pulled
down . . . Mrs. Jackson sitting over the fire,
leaning her head upon her hand. She
looked so lonely that we felt we must go
in ; didn't we, Clem ?'

'Yes, Mrs. Jackson looked so lonely,'
said the echo.

How unfortunate that your son's business
should take him so often from you,
Mrs. Jackson,' said Miss Tucker.

I am never lonely,' protested Mrs. Jackson.
' Ambrose offered to give up politics
and to settle down into country life to be
near me. I was proud to receive the offer,
but can you suppose I would allow the
sacrifice ? No.'

Ambrose's heart smote him when he remembered
how feebly the sacrifice had
been insisted on, and he bent forward and

kissed her forehead. He saw Miss Tucker
sneer, but he would have done so in the
presence of a dozen Miss Tuckers.

Nicholas prevented any further remarks
from his daughters for the present by rapping
on the floor with his stick, a signal
they dared not disobey.

Where have you come from, Mr. Jackson
?' said he.

I've been for a constitutional,' said
Ambrose, determining to answer every
question, as the shortest way of escape.
Which road did you take?'
The road to the Common.'
'And how far did you get?'
To the group of pines on the left.'
Roads empty? Did you meet anyone ?'
Ambrose paused. There was no particular
reason to prevent him from saying that
he had met Judith Topham. But he did
not want to throw her name down for

these hawks to peck at. He said that he
had met somebody, and tried to turn the
conversation. He ought to have known
Mr. Tucker better.

Who was it you met ?' persisted that
gentleman.

Miss Topham,' said Ambrose.

Indeed !' said Miss Tucker.

Indeed !' said Miss Clementina.

Had a talk with her, eh ?' was Mr.
Tucker s next inquiry.

Yes,' said Ambrose, not knowing
whether to laugh or to be angry.

And a Avalk?' said Mr. Tucker.

Miss Topham was going to Mrs. Robertson's,'
said Ambrose. ' I met her at the
cross-roads and accompanied her as far as
the Elms. And now you know all about
that important occurrence.'

Nicholas was going to ask what the subject
of their conversation had been, but the

expression on Ambrose's face clieckecl even
him, and he kept silence. Not so his
daughters . . . while there was a young and
pretty woman for their tongues to pull to
pieces. Their attack on poor Judith was
commenced in a manner so masterly as
to suggest great experience in similar
operations.

Some people,' said Elizabeth, smiling,
find fault with Miss Topham's manners,
and call them provincial ' (here Ambrose
winced slightly), ' but for my part I think
Judith a sweet-mannered girl, and very
refined for one in her circumstances of life.
Of course her surroundings must be taken
into consideration. One has no right to
expect too much. She passes muster very
well in a country drawing-room.'

'I think Miss Topham would be welcome
anywhere,' interposed Mrs. Jackson.

Of course she would,' said Clementina.

VOL. I. I

^ I think she's very attractive, and when I
heard somebody say the other afternoon
that her looks were going, I contradicted
him immediately. Everybody may not admire
her so much as I do, but, still, no one
can call Judith Topham common-looking.'

Certainly not,' said Ambrose, with
emphasis.

*I even think she has quite a distinguished
air; but then Judith's a great
favourite with me. I always say, what a
pity she should be so poor.'

Wretchedly poor, I'm afraid,' said Miss
Tucker, ' perhaps that accounts for her
pride. Not that I blame her on that account
: pride is sometimes very becoming
in people who have little else.'

I often think you're quite proud yourself,
Lizzie,' said Nicholas. ' You're not
good-looking, girls, either of you ; but
you're good-natured or nothing. Been

painting anything lately, Mrs. Jackson ?'

And a rigorous cross-examination followed
; and Mrs. Jackson had to prevaricate
sadly to keep her secret from Ambrose
about the big picture on which she was
eno^ao'ed.

It was half-past seven by this time, and
the parlour-maid, who had kept in the
background in hopes that the unwelcome
visitors would take their departure, felt
herself obliged to announce that supper
was ready.

Nicholas did not stir. But the Misses
Tucker rose, and exclaimed in chorus,
Could it be so late, how very thoughtless
of them ; but the time had passed so agreeably'
Mrs. Jackson had no choice but to
regret not being able to ask them to stay,
as she and her son never dined late, but
contented themselves with supper.

Anything will do for us,' said Nicholas,

i2

'You're not particular, are you, girls?
We don't have many delicacies at home,
Mrs. Jackson.'

Oh, dear no,' said Clementina, ' papa is
quite an anchorite.'

Mrs. Jackson hoped they would stay . . .
at least she said so.

If you're sure we're not putting you
to any inconvenience,' said Elizabeth.

'■ Please, don't let us be in the way,' said
Clementina. ' Elizabeth dearest, perhaps
Mrs. Jackson would rather not.'

As Mrs. Jackson has been so kind as to
ask us, Clem, perhaps '

Please say no more about it,' said Mrs.
Jackson. ' You are heartily welcome.'

And so they stayed ; and the Misses
Tucker found fault with everything that
was set before them. Notwithstanding,
they showed excellent appetites, and consequently
talked less. Their father began

to cross-examine Ambrose about his occupation
and prospects.

Ambrose could be firm enough when he
pleased ; and on these points proved quite
a match for Nicholas. But he had no objection
to ventilate some of his theories on
the science of life, and he met With an
unexpected and powerful rebuke from his
listener.

It won't do, Jackson, it won't do. Now
look 'ee. I'm an old flint maybe, but I'd
like to do you a good turn. Listen to this
story. I had a pal once, about your age,
plenty of brains, and as honest as you are
now. Well, he started in life with this
motto — " Take care of Number One." Well,
he took care of Number One. He had
many promising schemes afoot, and followed
them up with industry and intelligence
no end; but somehow, just when he should
have grasped the prize, another man came,

sayings, " It's mine. I've been taking care
of Number One as well." However, he
didn't lose heart, and one day (it was on
the other side of the water) he turned up
trumps. That was the beginning of a fortune.
At last, when he had heaped up a
fairish pile, he said, " I've got money, and
now I want love." As he'd always been
taking care of Number One, and neglecting
all the other numbers, he had no right to
ask for love : he bought it. He married.
The woman got all she could out of him
and went off with a younger and handsomer
man : she had taken care of Number
One. But she left him two children, and
he determined they shouldn't go the same
road, so he sent them home to be brought
up fitly. Then he got into trouble and
was detained for some years ; but he kept
his money, and the moment he was set at
liberty hastened to England. He put his

children to the test. They loved Number
One ; it was in the very blood. My pal
had wealth then, but no love ; success, but
no happiness. And be sure, Jackson, the
same fate, in some form or other, is in keeping
for you or anyone else who thinks
only of Juniper One.'

Nicholas half rose from his seat, and
spoke with more feeling than could be
expected from such a cynical old man.
His daughters trembled, knowing the truth
of his story. Ambrose was struck, but not
convinced.

Mrs. Jackson at last got rid of the trio,
after having had to assure Elizabeth several
times that the visit was welcome and
opportune.

Ambrose,' she said, ' I'm rather sorry
you told them that you had met Judith
Topham.'

How could I help it, mother ? Is it

treason to meet a young lady in Baybridge?'
Those women will say anything,' answered
Mrs. Jackson, nervously.

'What does it matter what they say?'
replied the independent Ambrose.

CHAPTER VIII.

HANG JUMPER

Christopher Parry was, we have heard,
the laziest and slowest of men, and so there
is a propriety in his being the last person
of note, belonging to society at Baybridge,
whose acquaintance is yet to be made.
Everybody knew Cris ; everybody took him
into confidence, even Ambrose, but then,
to be sure, they had been at the same
school together. Cris, with his lanky
figure, and his languid manners, hardly did
anything else but read the papers, pay
visits, and listen to gossip, and drawl out a
word now and then . . . and dress.

Strictly speaking, though a man can
exist without an aim, he must have something
to give a centre to his daily life.
Will Sutton, for example, had no aim, but
his thoughts grouped themselves morbidly
around one poignant regret. Oris had no
aim either, and as the harmless fellow had
nothing very serious to repent of, and
rivalled Mr. Topham in offering the cold
shoulder to responsibility and care, he had
leisure to bestow his almost undivided
attention on the study of personal adornment,
a process which, with the assistance
of Lloyd his valet, he had elevated to the
dignity of a fine art. He dressed well, not
so much to attract notice (for who was
there in Baybridge ?) as to feel that he was
well-dressed. A well-dressed man, he
opined, was his own reward. Lloyd, who
had perquisites whenever the fashion
changed, and who contrived that the

fashion should change pretty often, had
adopted precisely the same views.

Oris, who was a faithful patron of the
Baybridge Club, where he betted on rubbers
that he was too indolent to plays,
seldom went to bed before the small hours.
His instructions to Lloyd were to look in
at nine in the morning, with a cup of
chocolate, and to read aloud the summary
of news and the fashionable marriages from
the Morning Post during which time the
chocolate imparted strength for the labours
of the toilette. Some minutes before ten,
wrapped up in his Turkish dressing-gown,
he would surrender his chin to his valet,
and consider that the duties of the day
had fairly begun with the first lather of
the scented cream.

On the day following the Tuckers' visit
to Mrs. Jackson, Lloyd had safely brought
his master to an advanced stage, having

parted the golden perfumed hair with the
necessary exactness. He now paused a
moment, and still with uplifted comb, as if
to show that he was not forgetting his
office, hazarded this remark,

^ If you please, sir, pointed toes is agen
going out

This may be translated to mean that
Cris, if he meant to be fashionable, must
have new shoes ; and that Lloyd, unless
his interests were to suffer neglect, must
have the old ones.

Very well — I shan't have to be
measured.'

Oh, no occasion, sir.' And the comb
was at work again.

At about eleven Cris was nearly ready
for his morning walk ; he was helped into
his great-coat ; gloves, hat, and walking-stick
were respectfully handed ; and Lloyd
delivered himself of the usual formula :

Anything more for the present, sir?'

Yes. — The cheroots.'

The obsequious attendant brought one
upon a plate.

The box,' said his master. And the
box Alas brought and its contents examined
with unusual interest, so it seemed to
Lloyd, with his guilty conscience.

These cheroots are choice — and rare,'
said Mr. Parry ; adding, ' I think it well
to remind you, that I can smoke the rest
myself, without inconvenience.'

Oh, I shouldn't presume, sir '

Don't lie, Lloyd. Lying bores me. You
have smoked some of these. I expect you
to pilfer. But if you will confine your
operations to any articles of clothing I am
not likely, in your opinion, to miss ; to any
expensive trifles that strike your fancy; or,
possibly, in moderation, to any loose coin
lying about — I shall be obliged. Don't

touch my cigars again. Understand?
That will be all now.'

Mr. Lloyd retired with some confusion.

Confound that 'ere scoffing way of his,'
he muttered. ' I can't bear it ; makes me
think somehow he ain't the fool I take him
for. Expects me to pilfer ! Fancy addressing'
in that style a gentleman of my
standing' and morals. Dash it, if he hasn't
made me feel almost ashamed of myself;
go on at this rate, and I should lose all my
self-respect in a fortnight. Just for the
sake of a weed or two !'

Whenever Oris Parry glanced in the
long pier-glass at his carefully-arrayed
figure and his pleasant face, he thought of
marriage. The thought came naturally,
for, though he liked the freedom of a
bachelor's life now, he had no intention of
always living in single blessedness. An
old bachelor, crabbed, gouty, and homeless,

was his pet aversion. Surely the true
Wisdom was to remain single as long as one
dared, and then, with the first symptom of
coming age, to marry.

Cris was in love. Sweet, winning Annie
Topham had crept snugly into a corner of
the indolent but kindly heart. He felt
almost sure that she would never ' bore a
fellow ' and more than once he had been
on the brink of a proposal. But he had
shrunk back from the responsibility of the
new relation, and from its risks. Suppose,
like James Tweedy, he should come to own
five such awful children, with their nurses,
squalls, accidents, and racket. The bare
idea of this possibility was more than
enough to make Cris carry that spirit of
procrastination which ruled all his other
doings into the matter of courtship).

Time enough when we both get older,'
he would say.

But this morning, while giving a last
touch to his glossy hair, he saw, or imagined
he saw, something that filled him with
direst alarm.

Lloyd,' he cried, ' Lloyd.'

Sir,' answered that functionary, appearing
with the magical speed which was one
of his most valuable qualities.

Oris had partly recovered from the shock,
and he said, almost calmly, as he sat down.

Lloyd, just look, will you. I almost
fancied — ah ! — turning grey.'

Lloyd obeyed; examined the curling,
golden locks with the air of a connoisseur,
and delivered his verdict.

'Just a beetle grey — might he recommend
a preparation — not a dye — now in
general use among the 'high nobility,
including his late master. Lord George
Rolfe?'

Oris assented, and then strolled out of

the house. The road was frozen hard.
The sunbeams danced on the frost in the
hedges. The air was keen and delightfuL
Cris felt his spirits rise.

I'll put it off no longer,' was his reflection.
' If I got grey, gad ! she might refuse
me. Little coax ! I'll ask her this very day.'

And, having thus valiantly made up his
mind, (a thing that seldom happened to
Cris, and might even now prove delusive),
he directed his steps to Annie's home. He
had not gone far before he met a diminutive
man muffled up to the chin, looking
very cross. Cris extended a finger.

How do, Tweedy ? Bored ?'

Bored !' cried Mrs. Tweedy's husband,
thrusting his clenched fist into the palm
of his other hand, ' I'm a desperate man.'

Cris remembered that great soother
tobacco, and held out his cigar-case ; hooked
his arm in his friend's, and said :

VOL. I. K

Come my way. Tell me all about it.'

It's a gloomy subject,' replied James
Tweedy. ' All, Parry, you young fellows
never know when you're well oiF. You're
single, listen to experience ; take my
advice, never marry.'

Oris kept silence, thinking all the time
of the question he was going to ask
iVnnie.

Because,' continued the other, ' the
moment your wife walks in at the door,
peace, comfort, freedom fly out at the
window.'

A puff of smoke, followed by a long-drawn
^Ah!' was the protest of Christopher
Parry against this abominable heresy.

You can't believe me,' said Harry,
'you haven't made the experiment. Before
1 married I was comfortable. I could
choose my own hours, friends, occupations,
amusement. I could go to the

club when I liked, and come back when I
liked;

'■ Of course,' drawled Oris, ' I should be
very fond of my wife and that, but I should
have my own Away, you know

You. Wouldn't,' retorted Tweedy. ' Not
if you were ever so amiable. Take my
case, for example. Now, I'm not a very
severe man.'

Not very,' was the answer, with the
faintest possible smile.

I don't expect much — luckily. From
morning (five o'clock, when the baby
awakes) till night, when the whole crew are
being washed . . . never was so much soaping
with so little to show for it . . . my
house is a terrific Tower of Babel. If we
all spoke different languages the confusion
couldn't be more deplorable. I never know
what time breakfast is, or what time luncheon
is, or what time anything else is. If I

k2

light a pipe in my study (which belongs
to everybody else) down comes a maid,
"Please, sir, missus says hould you. mind,"
and out goes the pipe ! Or, if I slip into
into the garden, my wife calls, " James,
James, whei^e are you ! Would you mind
listening at the foot of the staircase in case
baby cries ?" Oh, it's no laughing matter.
Parry. It's tragedy !'

Oris was on the point of saying that
perhaps his friend was rather soft, but did
not like to hurt his feelings. So he turned
to the bright side of the picture, saying,

One must be bored sometimes. Tweedy.
But, then, if you love your wife . . . now,
really love her . . . and she loves you?'

James Tweedy's face grew dark, and
he thrust his hands far down into his
pockets.

If she does love you,' he said. ' Oris,
you're a good chap, and I'll speak to you

of what I wouldn't breathe to another
mortal. Captain Hancock '

That idiot,' interrupted Mr. Parry,
^ took no notice of his partner's Blue Peter
last night, and I betted a fiver on his hand
nothing but trumps.'

That swaggering cad,' said Tweedy,
nth increasing earnestness, ' is perpetually
at my house, dancing attendance on my
wife. I stood it for a long time, and then
I spoke to her '

Wrong,' said Oris, knocking the ash
off his cheroot. ' Do it again, and the
captain will be with her all day.'

Oris was right ; Mrs. Tweedy 's apparent
partiality for Captain Handcock had partly
sprung from her husband's opposition. She
did not care a straw for Captain Handcock,
but he was a good listener, and then Mrs.
Tweedy had a woman's liking for homage,
Without reference to the person by whom
it was offered.

But what is to be done ?' insisted James
Tweedy.

Say nothing, see nothing. Be civil.
Your wife will drop him sooner than you
think.'

'And if ' . . . the little man's voice trembled
. . . ' there should be anything serious ?'

Come, come,' said Cris.

I am putting a case,' said Tweedy, quite
angrily.

Cris flushed.

I should buy a stout ash-plant. Tweedy.
But there'll be no occasion. And our conversation
goes no further.'

I knew that,' said Tweedy, grasping hi
hand warmly.

Off?' asked Cris. ' Come with me to
the Tophams.'

For Annie's lover was beginning: to feel
nervous, and would have been thankful
even for Tweedy's company.

No, thanked,' answered James, ' I fancy
my wife has gone there — with the children.
I have enough of them at Llewelyn House.'

Heartless parent,' laughed Oris.

Happy bachelor,' was the reply.

Oris, as he walked on alone, wondered
whether, after all, he was going to do a
wise thing.

I'll talk to Annie first,' said he, ' and
find out her views of marriage in general,
ask her what she thinks about regular
hours, smoking indoors, clubs, and that
sort of thing. Yes, I'll do nothing rash.'

When he reached his destination, he
could at first find nobody. Mr. Topham
had insisted upon taking Judith out with
him, though she would much sooner have
stayed with her mother, to help in the
housekeeper's room. Mrs. Tweedy was
with Mrs. Topham. Annie was nowhere
to be seen. At last, however, Cris heard

laughter issuing from the dining-room, and
cautiously peeped in.

Nora, Dora, and Augusta Tweedy were
trying to stand on their heads on the seat
of Mr. Topham's favourite arm-chair. The
youngest Tweedy but one, whom her father,
prone to slenderest witticisms, called ' the
penultimate,' was nestling in Annie's lap.
Annie had on her fur-edged cloak and a
boa round her neck, and was evidently just
going out.

On the hearth, unconscious of what fate
had in store for him, slumbered the dachs-
hind Jumper.

Cris's golden head vanished like lightning.


Come in, Mr. Parry,' called Annie.
^ Don't be frightened.'

Frightened, Miss Annie, not by you'
said Oris, shaking hands, and looking into
the girl's happy face.

Mr. Pa-wy,' said Dora, ' do you like
children — lots of us, I mean ?'

Oris saw Annie's eyes fixed roguishly on
him, and answered that he did like children
in moderation, if they were good and did
not tell fibs.

What's mod-er-wation mean ?' piped
Augusta, always in search of information.

Silly,' retorted the elder sister, ' it
means plenty, lots. I say, Annie, why
did you get quite red when Mr. Parry
came in.'

Perhaps,' said Oris to Annie, ' as you've
got your things on, shall we . . . er . . . take
. . er . . . turn in the garden T

Do let's — ' choruses the infant tribe.

'Xo, you children must stay here. You
must promise to be very good,' said Annie.
I shall leave you under Nora's care. — Yes,
Mr. Parry, I should like to very much ; ita
lovely morning.'

^ Why do you say very much ?' asked
Dora. 'D'you mean very, very much, ever
so much ?'

Mr. Parry is my guest, and I must
amuse him,' said blushing Annie.

I know what'd amuse him,' said Dora.

'• What ?' choruses her sisters.

Kiss him — in mod-er-wation,' said Dora.

That means plenty, lots,' insisted Nora,
proud of her powers of definition.

Miss Annie,' said Cris, ' there's nothing
left for us but a masterly retreat.'

What's ree-treat mean ?' inquired Augusta
; but her seniors were already out of
hearing.

I say, you girls,' said Nora, who ought
to have set a better example, ' I can't, because
I've got to hold Willy (the penultimate's
name was Wilhelmina), but you
tease Jumper.'

This motion, being so put, was carried

by acclamation, and preparations were
made for a grand assault on the unsuspecting
victim.

Annie, as she led the way down the
gravel walk, could not help feeling fluttered
; her heart would go pit-a-pat. There
was nothing unusual in Cris suggesting
that they should take a turn in the garden,
they had often walked together up and
down the terraces. But in her companion's
voice, as he made the request, there
had been eagerness. Did this eagerness,
so unlike him, come merely from his wish
to escape from the chattering children, or
had he really something important to say
to Annie, something that she dearly wished
to hear ? She glanced at him and saw a
languid but good-natured smile on his lips.

Dreadful children !' said Annie.

'•■ All children aren't like that ' said Cris.

Not if they're properly brought up, in a
regular home, and so on.'

I wonder how Mrs. Tweedy can neglect
them so ; yet no, she doesn't neglect them,
she manages badly,' said Annie.

Miss Annie,' said Oris, ' don't you think
now that it's a woman's duty to prevent the
children from . er . in fact . . . boring
her husband by . . . er . . . sprawling about
the place all day long ?'

This was a leading question, judiciously
framed, and drawled out by the young man
with the most nonchalant air. Annie was
not clever like Judith, but she was sharp
and wide-awake. She understood, and,
like the sly puss she was, began to play to
the gallery.

There ought to be fixed hours,' she
said, ' for the children to be dressed and
taken out, the mother ought to have all the
worry and hurry, and the father should

see them neat and clean in the evening ;
perhaps before he goes to his club.'

Oris laughed.

I thought all women hated clubs, Miss-annie
?'

Dear no,' said the girl, opening her
large eyes in pretty wonder. ' Hate clubs !
Of course, if people stayed out ever so
late ' .

Occasionally ?' said Oris.

Xow and then, say twice a Aveek, I
shouldn't mind,' said Annie, unconsciously
betraying what was in her thoughts.

Cris 'hemmed' and 'hawed,' and exclaimed
:

'Miss Annie!'

The moment that she had read of in a
hundred romances had come. Annie
blushed up to her eyes, closed them
gently, and held her breath. Happy
happy Annie !

Y-e-Sj' she answered, with demure hesitation.


May I, you don't object to smoke, may
I light a cheroot ?'

She said yes again, but in a very different
tone, with a quaver. She remembered,
however, having heard (or read) that men
smoked energetically whenever a crisis
came. He was puffing — therefore this was
a crisis. Her face brightened.

How long . . . er . . . have we known
one another, Miss Annie ?'

She thought three years.

Seems much longer,' said he.

Oh, much,' answered Annie.

Oris rarely walked quickly, but now he
stopped altogether. Annie's heart was in
her mouth almost, when an angry yelp,
followed by piercing cries, came from the
dining-room ; Cris made a step or two ; the
.spell was broken.

The children !' exclaimed Annie, running
to the house.

Oris hurried after her, (for the cries
increased), and they soon reached Mrs.
Tweedy's young family.

The dining-room, whither Mrs. Topham
and Mrs. Tweedy had abbacy hastened,
was the scene of indescribable havoc and
lamentation. Jumper, roused from his
slumbers, had endured much ; but at
length he had turned on his persecutors,
and this was the result. He was master
of the situation as he stood on the
middle of the table yelping, snapping, and
showing his teeth. Augusta, in a terrified
attempt to escape, had knocked against the
dumb-waiter, which had overthrown her,
and there she sat among the ruins of all
Mr. Topham's choice relishes, a brown
sauce dripping down her face, and her
tangled hair full of churned. She was un-hurl,

but frightened out of her wits, and
screaming like one possessed. Dora, as
she clung to her elder sister's skirts, and
listened to the revengeful growls from
Jumper, was screaming too. Willy made
all the noise she could. Mrs. Tweedy
scolded like a fishwife. Annie and Oris
held their sides and laughed till the tears
ran down their cheeks.

Be quiet, hold your tongues,' shouted
Mrs. Tweedy, giving her second girl a good
shake. ' How did this happen, Nora ?'

After many threats and promises, Nora
gave her version with historic brevity.

Dora and Gussie tried to pull Jumper's
hind legs apart, and he didn't like it.'

Repairs began. Jumper came to terms,
and consented, on receiving a chicken-bone,
to suspend hostilities, at least for the
present. The children stopped yelling, and
were combed and washed. The carpet was

-sviped, and the broken bottles removed.
Mrs. Tweedy then made a long apology,
related how Augusta always had the most
marvellous escapes, until one could not
help thinking her quite a clever child ; and
finally, to Mrs. Topham's relief, departed
with her offspring.

Will Oris come into the garden again T
thought Annie.

iso. He was looking serious, and, after
exchanging a few remarks with Mrs. Top-ham,
he shook hands in his gentle, leisurely
manner, and went to his club.

Annie returned to the terrace, in very
low spirits. ' Just when he was getting so
interesting,' she whimpered; just when he
was going to . . . to . . . Hang Jumper !'

She stamped her little foot, and down
the fair cheek stole a tear — a silent witness
to the impression made in a certain quarter
by Mr. Christopher Parry.

VOL. T. L

CHAPTER IX.

AUNT Lobby's TEA-party.

We have lately seen a young gentleman
bestowing much care upon his personal
appearance, and must now reverently contemplate
an old lady bestowing equal care
upon hers. Mrs. Robertson, of the Elms,
was to receive all Baybridge at five o'clock,
and was bent upon looking her best. How
different from Cris's yellow curls were
those old-fashioned, snow-white ' corkscrew
' ones that were to hang two on each
side of Aunt Robby's venerable countenance.
Her maid Bridget, though getting
blind and deaf, was still equal to the important

task ; with what infinite care did
she lay-those ' locked in press,' and draw
them down round her shrivelled forefinger.
Then the ancient black, watered silk, full
in the flounces, had to be donned ; and the
peaked, cap, a masterpiece of softness and
crispness and delicate frilling, to be tied ina
becoming bow under the pointed chin.
Lower down were pinned some moss-roses
that Judith had sent. A last touch of the
powder-puff, a drop of lavender water on
the lace handkerchief, a word of praise to
the admiring Bridget, and Aunt Robby
sailed downstairs.

There, the screen behind which Will
Sutton had hidden from Judith had been
taken away, and the folding doors near it
opened, so that both drawing-rooms were
ready for the guests. Aunt Robby's entertainments
were no ordinary ' tea-fights,' to
use her own expression, they were more

l2

substantial.' Muffins and crumpets, white
bread and brown bread, cakes of all sorts
and sizes ; with sherry and sandwiches for
the gentlemen, and cocoa-nut-rock and
butter-scotch for the children to take
away ; and a hearty welcome all round —
this was Aunt Hobby's liberal programme.
No half measures. She expected everyone
to appear, like herself, in gala uniform.
No hurried visits ; hats, coats, and mantles
to be surrendered in the hall.

Will led the aged dame to the arm-chair ;
so posted that its occupant could see round
both rooms.

I hope you're contented, Aunt Robby,'
said he. ' Without partiality, I can assure
you the rooms look grand. Haven't those
pots of heather a good effect ?'

Quite wonderful. Are you sure there'll
be enough for everybody to eat and drink ?'

Will smiled.

Enough for a colony of men, women,
and children.'

Nicholas Tucker and his daughters were
the first arrivals.

My dear lady said the former, ' this is
a pleasure, to see you looking so well and
handsome. No return of the rheumatism,
I hope ?'

Nothing to speak of, thank you, Mr.
Tucker.'

Were the pine oils of any use?'

I think so. It was so kind '

And how is Sophia ' (a carriage horse)
^ after her accident ?'

Rather shaken, I fear. Like myself,
she's getting old.'

'How old?' asked Mr. Tucker.

Mrs. Robertson drew herself up. Clementina
explained that Papa had not alluded
to dear Mrs. Robertson's age . . . would not
take such a liberty under the circumstances
. . . but to Sophia.

Fortunately, at that moment, the Top-hams
made their appearance. Mr. Top-ham
inquired after the health of his
hostess, wished her medical attendant, Dr.
Stevens, Avould take a hint now and then
from people who had ideas, meaning himself;
settled the weather beyond dispute
for the next week ; and took up his station
by the folding doors, from where he laid
down the law to everyone on every subject
during the rest of the evening. Will talked
to Judith, and Annie broke a pointless
lance with Mr. Tucker.

A big man, in shooting jacket and knickerbockers,
now swaggered down the room.
It was Captain Handcock.

'Dee-lighted, Mrs. Robertson, dee-lighted

In spite of his dress, which, all things considered,
was nearly an insult to Aunt Robby,
she received him graciously. He sat
down by the Misses Tucker. They were

yellow and spiteful, but they had money,
and Captain Handcock was again 'delighted.'


This gentleman (if the term can by courtesy
be applied to him) prided himself upon
being an old hand. He might amuse himself
with Kate Tweedy, but it was one of
these uninviting spinsters that he was
going to marry. He had ferreted out as
much about their father's affairs as he
could ; much was obscure, the fortune had
been exaggerated, some of it seemed precariously
invested — still a good lump was
left. Which daughter would, in the future,
have the largest share ? This was a question
still unanswered, and so the captain
devoted himself to both. Time would
show him what card to play.

He made some civil speeches, and his
attention was then drawn away by Mrs.
Tweedy and her children, who had just

entered. The children were kissed all
round by Aunt Robby, and sent upstairs.
Mrs. Tweedy fastened upon Mr. Tucker,
and tried to tell him of Augusta's wonderful
escape that morning, but he hurried
into the other room, and she fastened on
another victim.

Mrs. Jackson, followed by Ambrose and
Oris Parry arm-in-arm, came next. And
the party was completed (the member
being in town) by a gaunt, melancholy
man, Dr. Stevens.

^ How do, Miss Annie ?' said Oris. ' Ah
. . er . . . quite forgot we were to meet
again this afternoon.'

So did I, Mr. Parry replied she, with
a toss of the head. ' And I think it kind
to say so.'

I meant no offence,' said Cris.

Annie's face melted into smiles, and she
began chattering like a magpie. Would

Mr. Parry forgive her . . . her . . . Avant of
manners ; and get her some tea ? And so
the simple people patched up their little
squabble.

Judith.' said Will, at the other end of
the room, ' who is that dark man with the
stern features, standing near your sister
and her friend ?'

Ambrose Jackson,' said Judith, ' the
son of the quiet-looking woman talking to
mamma. He's a politician — a Liberal.'

I don't care for politicians,' said "Will,
sand I'm sure 1 should object to that one.
He looks as hard as nails.'

As Will spoke, a sally from Oris amused
Ambrose, and a smile flashed on his stern
face and gave it a moment's sunshine.

I was wrong,' confessed Will ; ' he has
2:0 1 a heart.'

Oh, yes, when you come to know him,'
said Judith.

Do you know him so well?' asked Will
Sutton, with meaning.

Judith coloured.

No. We have met only a few times.
But I know Mrs. Jackson.'

And accept her version of his character ?'
said Will, drily.

The person they were speaking of now
saw Mrs. Robertson beckoning to him. He
obeyed the summons.

Mr. Jackson,' said the old lady, ' come
here, please, Mr. Jackson. Why aren't
you laughing and talking, and taking a
glass of wine and amusing yourself?'

Thank you,' said Ambrose, with a
respect in his tone that flattered his hostess.
' I'm amusing myself very much.
And so is everybody else also.'

You're not talking,' said the old lady,
Rattle, rattle, is now and then good for
us all, even if we say nothing wise. Sit

down, do. I take a great interest in all
young men, if they're handsome — there,
there, I'm an old woman, and have my say.
I'm going to ask all sorts of inquisitive
questions.'

You are very kind,' said Ambrose.

Aren't you secretary to Mr. Macintosh ?
Is the work interesting ?'

Fairly so,' said Ambrose. ' There is
drudgery, of course, but that's indispensable
for success and distinction.'

'And you covet these?'

I work for them, and expect the reward
of my labour. I don't believe in circumstances
ever making a man fail. Failure is
guilt, in nine cases out of ten traceable to
folly or to idleness.'

Something like pity shone in Aunt Robby's
eyes. 'A hard standard, Mr. Jackson.'

'By which I hope to be judged myself,'
was the quiet answer.

And what do you have to do ? I warned
you to expect cross-examination.'

Not at all,' said Ambrose. ' My work
is to answer letters on political matters
addressed to my employer; to watch, day
by day, public opinion on subjects that
interest him ; to interview his constituents ;
and to keep myself in touch with all sorts
and conditions of men. Besides, there's a
good deal of desk work — statistics, reports,
and so on.'

'And you are on friendly terms with
Mr. Macintosh?'

We pull fairly well together. We're of
use to one another.'

Ah !' said Mrs. Robertson ; and she
changed the subject at once, and asked
him what he thought of society in Bay-bridge.


^I shouldn't like to live here always,'
said Ambrose, frankly.

If you did, you'd have to choose a wife
laughed Aunt R,obby. ' Perhaps you don't
know that I'm an incurable match-maker ?
oh, yes, I am. Make your choice at once,'
she added, glancing round the room, ' and
count upon my support.'

Ambrose fixed his eyes on Elizabeth
Tucker.

Mrs. Robertson positively crowed with
delight.

I thought you'd do better, Mr. Jackson.
I thought you'd choose one of my
favourites, Judith or Annie Topham. But
you're too sharp for me. I'll introduce
you to somebody with more brains —
though I was counted sharp in my day.'

'That I can well understand,' said
Ambrose.

The old lady called Will Sutton, and
said,

Mr. Jackson, this is a very old friend

of mine. He has travelled much, and, in
his youth' (here Sutton frowned), 'knew
most people worth knowing. I hope you
may have some tastes in common.'

There Alas no attempt at shaking hands ;
the men bowed stiffly. Will was jealous
of the other's youth and good looks. Ambrose
scrutinised him calmly — had the man
anything in him ? Aunt Robby, divining
that something was amiss, urged Will to
show his portfolio of sketches to his new
acquaintance.

Ambrose hated amateurs, but would not
vex his hostess. To his surprise, the
sketches, both in choice of subject and
breadth of treatment, showed marked
ability. Intolerant of pretence, Ambrose
loved talent, which he seldom failed to
recognize ; and his admiration was warmly
expressed. Will was so gratified that he
forgave Ambrose when, a moment later,

lie pointed out an error in perspective.

*You are right,' he said, marking the
sketch for alteration. ^ I'm afraid I work
with more impulse than exactness.*

Have you ever exhibited ?' asked
Ambrose.

Exhibited ? No. Why should I ?'

To make a name,' said Ambrose. ' Surely
such talent as yours must have ambition.'

My ambitions are dead,' answered Will,
shutting the portfolio. ' Can I introduce
you to anyone ? Do you know the Top-hams
?' he asked, though well aware that
Jackson did.

I have the pleasure,' replied Ambrose,
shortly.

I know them very intimately,' volunteered
AVill. ' I remember Judith and
Annie Topham as mere children.'

My memory would not go back so far,'
smiled Ambrose. ' Excuse me, my mother

is looking for some place to put clown her
cup.'

He crossed the room, rather abruptly
closing the conversation.

'What do you think of him, Will?' inquired
Mrs. Robertson.

Selfish,' said Will.

Oris put a similar question to Ambrose.

Brains. But no go. Wishy-washy,'
was the answer.

These unfavourable impressions were
only natural, the characters and the circumstances
of Will Sutton and of Ambrose
Jackson affording as striking a contrast
as could well be imagined. Will, a
disappointed man, with his opportunities
behind him ; much of his bright faith inhuman
goodness destroyed ; his aspirations
blunted, his sensibilities increased ; a man
with no leading idea to shed a ray of light
upon the future ; somewhat embittered by

sorrow and illness, yet much softened
by both ; always dreaming, never acting ;
always yearning for sympathy. Such was
William Sutton. The young politician, how
different ! Sanguine of success, the world
opening at his feet ; with a fixed standard by
which to judge his fellow-creatures — and
himself; allowing no clouds to dull his vision,
no trifles to wound his pride ; driven onward
by one central force that seemed hitherto
to pilot him safely past the shoals and
rocks ; indifferent to censure ; robust as a
mountaineer ; never thinking but to act ;
seeking no sympathy and offering none.
Such was Ambrose Jackson. Such he was
to remain until experience should either
confirm his opinions or prove them to be
unsound.

Judith, who had watched their meeting
with some curiosity, wished to be friends
with both of them; in each case for a

VOL. I. M

different reason. She pitied Will, and
valued their early intimacy. She was
fascinated by Ambrose. She tried to deny
the fact to herself, but she could not.
There was no love as yet ; the fascination
was sometimes even painful. What would
he do or say next ? she could not help this
expectant attitude. It resulted from the
conviction that the power lying under that
calm must leave its stamp even on trifling
actions and in ordinary conversation.

Will talked to her nearly the whole
evening, and would have amused her well
enough in the absence of Ambrose. Beyond
a salutation, Ambrose paid her no
attention till the party was going to breakup,
and then he sat down beside her.

Mr. Jackson had almost resolved not to
pursue the acquaintance which had been
virtually begun on the way to the Elms
the evening before. But he never liked

being worsted, and he felt that he had
been worsted on that occasion. So he joined
Judith in a very haughty frame of mind.
She understood his formality, and determined
to force him to be agreeable and
talkative. She was unsuccessful, partly
because his mood affected hers, and made
her formal too. The conversation went on
stilts, became stiff and jerky, and stood
still. Impulsive Judith cried :

You're very reserved, Mr. Jackson.'

So are you. Miss Topham.'

Neither of them could help laughing.

We accuse each other of reserve,' said
Ambrose, won over by her frankness ;
^ that's a proof that Ave both object to it.
Shall we make a league and covenant that
between us, at least, there shall in future
be no reserve ?'

Ambrose had still to learn the weight of
a woman's influence. He would have

M 2

smiled had anyone prophesied, two days
ago, that he would ever so unbend to
Judith Topham.

Willingly,' was her answer. ' I mil
behave better when we meet again. So
must you. Good-bye for the present. I
see my father is going to take us home.'

They shook hands and parted, on the
whole very well pleased with one another.
The tea-party was at an end.

Ambrose, with his mother and Oris, were
among the last to leave. The three stopped
in the hall for a moment, watching
Mrs. Tweedy and Mr. Tucker, who stood
under the porch waging a battle royal.

Mrs. Tweedy had not yet succeeded in
getting Nicholas to listen to her narrative
of the Augusta incident, and of the really
quite remarkable way in which a special
providence seemed to watch over that
darling child. Several times she had made

the attempt, and been repulsed by the
capitalist. She now placed herself in the
doorway, umbrella in one hand, purse in
the other, and by rapid to and fro manoeuvres
had hitherto prevented the enemy's
escape. Nicholas, on his part, was gruffly
determined not to listen to a word, and
was losing patience.

Oris,' whispered Jackson, ' bet you a
sov. on the lady.'

Don't mind if I do,' was the answer.
Tucker has no more manners than a hog.
He'll walk over the poor little woman.'

This seemed to be his intention. Mrs.
Tweedy lost ground; but retrieved her
fortunes by a brilliant stratagem. She
held out her purse to Nicholas, he involuntarily
took it ; she then put her hands
behind her back, and, as he could not well
run away with her property, triumphantly
obliged him to hear her story from beginning
to end.

'A sovereign in my pocket,' laughed Ambrose.
' Mother, Mrs. Tweedy is a strategist
of the first order. No wonder she proves
more than a match for poor James.'

Next morning Ambrose went back to his-duties
in London.

CHAPTER X.

THE PORTRAIT,

The winter was very severe, the March
winds more biting than ever, it seemed ;
and so everybody hailed with gratitude the
coming of the month of the poets with its
promise and its bloom, the merry month
of May.

Annie Topham and Oris Parry did not
care whether it was March or May. They
were quite taken up with each other just
now. Cris had proposed. Through what
mental struggles he went before performing
this great feat, can be matter only of conjecture.
The care and time bestowed upon

his toilette on that eventful morning can
be known only to Mr. Lloyd. His master
resembled (so the valet said downstairs) a
resplendent Adonis.' Oris, when the
critical moment came, proposed in the
simplest way. A word for him, a happy
sob from Annie ; and that was all ; no, not
quite all !

Oris, for once in his life, would hear of
no delay. If they were to be married,
what reason could there be for putting it
off? Annie found none. But, when Oris
supposed he had better go through the
time-honoured process of ' asking Mamma,'
Annie demurred; it might be better to
speak in the first instance to her father.
Mrs. Topham was fond of Oris. He was
well-to-do. As sleeping partner he drew
about fifteen hundred a year from a London
house, and appeared in this respect a
good match for portionless Annie. But

Mrs. Topham lamented his total want of
energy, and had always urged him to take an
active part in the business. Annie thought
this might possibly be made the condition
of her mother's consent. On the other
hand, she was her father's favourite, and
imagined that, if his support was once promised,
all difficulties would be overcome.
The lover's conspiracy came to grief speedily
: Mr. Topham did indeed fix a day with
cheerful alacrity ; but his wife declared that
Annie should never marry an idle man,
and in spite of her husband's ill-humour
and her daughter's tears, adhered to this
determination. Judith scolded Oris soundly
; if he really loved Annie, would he do
nothing to win her ? He promised to do
his best ; but day after day passed without
any exertion. Meanwhile Baybridge was
given to understand that there was a two
years' engagement.

While Oris was thus shrinking from all
useful employment, his friend, Ambrose
Jackson, pursued with unfaltering step the
objects of his ambition.

Jackson surprised even those of his
colleagues who knew him best, by the influence
he was beginning to acquire in
political circles. Men of twice his age and
experience found themselves harassed at
every turn, and often thwarted, by Mr.
Mackintosh's young secretary. As Ambrose,
though at present in Liberal pay,
took care to have it well known that he
had not committed himself irretrievably,
several attempts were made to detach him
from Mr. Mackintosh. Ambrose accepted
none of these offers ; but he used them as a
lever to obtain more advantageous terms
from his chief. Mr. Mackintosh had no
choice but to submit, hoping for the day
when he could dispense with the services

which he was now forced to purchase at
such a high figure, and to secure with
more confidence in his subordinate than
was altogether pleasant. To Ambrose the
increase of salary thus obtained was all
the more welcome because he wished to
improve his bachelor's establishment, and
to keep pace with his rising importance.

Notwithstanding his advancement, and
busier life that it entailed, Ambrose found
time for frequent visits to his mother. He
spent every Sunday with her; and whenever
there was a lull in public affairs he
hastened down to enjoy a few days of her
company. On these occasions Ambrose
was seen at his best. His worldliness disappeared;
he devoted himself wholly to
his mother, and with exemplary patience
took her to visit all Baybridge. As a
reward for this good behaviour he frequently
met Mr. Topham's eldest daughter.

A reward it was ; Ambrose acknowledged
that by now. This girl, with her transparent
goodness, her direct outspoken
fidelity, was a contrast to many of his
friends in town. The compact made on
the day of Mrs. Robertson's tea-party, by
virtue of which there was to be no more
reserve between them, had been playfully
entered into, but by degrees was observed
with all gravity. In this way Ambrose
learned much about Judith's past ; and
soon drew from her a partial confession of
her present anxieties. By questioning his
mother, too, Ambrose discovered how
difficult it had become for the Tophams,
not so much to keep up appearances, but
even to pay the weekly bills ; how Judith,
to whose lot that task chiefly fell, had no
one to help her in the bitter struggle against
poverty, nay, how her father, in his reckless
optimism, opposed her from day today.

When Mrs. Jackson told this to her
son he was forcibly struck, and remained
standing; for some moments in earnest meditation.
The difference between his own
motives and Judith's rebuked him. The
next time they met he astonished her by
the deep tone of respect ^vith. which he
spoke, and yet more by his look of admiration.
He wished that Judith had been
differently situated. Why had circumstances
raised an impassable barrier between
them, seeing that Ambrose could offer
his hand only to a woman of ' position ' ?
Mrs. Jackson watched him closely, and had
reason to be satisfied with the progress of
her favourite scheme.

Many people who never wilfully deceive
others have an unfortunate knack of deceiving
themselves when any really important
question arises in which their feelings
are deeply engaged. Judith Topham,

though falling far short of perfection in
other respects, had not this fault. Nearly
two months ago she had begun to examine
herself strictly as to whether or not she
were in love with Ambrose Jackson.
Hitherto she had arrived at no decision ;
hut when a woman reaches this stage of
deliberate inquiry, it may, in nine cases
out of ten, be safely predicted that (in
hope, at least) the journey will lead to an
open church door. Judith had been once
deceived by specious appearances ; but she
had profited by the lesson, and determined
that first impressions should not again
lead her astray. She admired Ambrose.
She thought him every inch a man. His
very step had a language of its own ; and
his voice had such a powerful effect upon
Judith that she felt that if ever he stooped
to entreaty she could not possibly say
no. Yet she knew and grieved over much

in him ; and her heart sank as she considered
how likely he was to sacrifice love to
ambition, and to find out his mistake when
too late. He stoop to entreaty ? To her ?
What a fool I am ; he will never ask me
to marry him sighed poor Judith.

She kept her own counsel, even towards
Annie. Those ' chats ' before bed-time in
which they, like so many other sisters, indulged,
were devoted almost solely to discussing
the virtues of Mr. Christopher
Parry. Only now and then did Judith
yield to temptation, and throw in a good
word or so for Ambrose.

Her intercourse with him had been free
from any approach to embarrassment, but
that sudden change in his manner already
mentioned caused her much confusion.
To what could it be ascribed? Judith
was not conceited, but, as she knew nothing
of the conversation between mother

and son respecting her, it was natural to
suppose that Ambrose took more interest
in her than formerly. So he did. Henceforth
his coming was always heralded by a
blush on Judith's cheek.

There was a much less pleasant reason
for shyness. The Misses Tucker had amply
justified Mrs. Jackson's opinion that they
would say anything, and they had industriously
circulated reports in which the
names of Judith and Ambrose were joined.
These reports reached Judith eventually,
and gave her as much pain as the spiteful
spinsters hoped. No hint reached Ambrose,
even Mrs. Tweedy hesitated to pass the
whisper on to him But Judith lived in
hourly fear of such a catastrophe. Meanwhile
a handle for the gossip was being
shaped by the indiscretion of one of her
best friends.

Will Sutton had settled down in Bay-bridge,

close to the Elms, and announced
his intention of staying in the neighbourhood
for the next two years. He gave
several cogent reasons for not living on his
estate in Surrey. The house was too large
and rambling for a single man to be comfortable
in it, and he had no friends whom
he cared to invite for a long stay. Besides,
he shed to lay down plantations,
and to decorate parts of his home, and
for this outlay economy was necessary.
But the one reason which outweighed all
others never passed Will Sutton's lips.
Lazy Cris might wonder whether Annie's
hand was worth working for ; Ambrose
mio;ht regret what he considered the
exigencies of his position ; Judith might
alternate between hopes and fears ; —
but he, Will, had a different spirit.
With every fibre of his nature he loved
Judith. He hardly knew when his love

VOL. I. N

had begun, enough for him that it was
there.

It supplied him with what had been long
wanting to him, an ambition. His ambition
was to win Judith, and if possible, to
be worthy of her. To this point all his
energy tended. He forsook the morbid
atmosphere in which he had long bewailed
his errors, and walked into the sunlight.
He would not admit the possibility of
failure ; such devotion as his must be returned.
Aunt Robby said that the air of
Baybridge agreed with him, that he looked
ten years younger. Judith, who happened
to be present, assented, little thinking how
her words sent his heart throbbing. Could
this man with the elastic step and bright
looks be the same to whom Ambrose had
been introduced at the Elms ?

He was jealous of Ambrose, of course.
But he had no grave apprehensions in that

quarter. Will had several times met men
of his stamp, and knew how self-absorbed
they were apt to become. Ambrose might
fall in love with Judith, — but propose to
her ? Will did not fear that. Fortunately
for his present peace of mind he rather misunderstood
Ambrose.

Will, though he Alas never happy out of
Judith's sight, was too wise to risk his
prospects by any precipitation. As yet,
Judith had evidently no suspicion of his
intentions. She distressed him by her
very kindness, for it was that sort of
kindness which is paid to an uncle or to a
guardian. Will, after a cautious attempt to
break the ground, resolved to bide his time.
It was a sore trial to his patience, and he
consoled himself with the trifling follies in
use among lovers. He had quite a collection
of treasures, common things which

had become treasures from the touch of

N 2

Judith's fingers : a programme of a ball, a
bunch of faded primroses, a couple of
three-cornered notes beginning Dear Will,
and ending Your affectionate Judith, and
last, but not least, a photograph. The
photograph had been taken two years before,
and this circumstance, besides being
a matter of regret to Will, led him into a
little plot, which was to have an unpleasant
ending.

One May morning, with the plot in his
head, he directed his steps to Mrs. Jackson's
house. He convinced himself first
that Ambrose was in town ; for, though
civil to one another, they were not on cordial
terms. And the plot required secrecy
for its execution.

Mrs. Jackson was at home. Though the
quiet life to which she was condemned
had its drawbacks, it enabled her to devote
herself to the pursuit of her art, which,

after Ambrose, was her chief delight. This
occupation prevented her from inviting any
other woman similarly situated to share her
home, an arrangement for which Ambrose
had at first pleaded. Her son made a studio
by taking down the partition wall between
taro rooms at the back of the house ; and,
though the light could have been better,
the new studio fairly answered the purpose.
Here Mrs. Jackson stood by the
hour, Working and dreaming ; and here she
was standing before her easel when Will
Sutton called.

Mrs. Jackson had only two servants, and
they were both absent, the cook on duty,
the housemaid on pleasure. Will, after
ringing several times in vain, walked in,
and knocked at the studio door.

The artist hated publicity, and Bay-bridge
was so inquisitive that she was
compelled to work in a state of siege, With

closed doors; and she seldom received
anyone except in her drawing-room. Will
was an exception. He was not meddlesome,
and he knew more than most
amateurs know about painting. Mrs.
Jackson liked him, too, for his own sake.
Will, then, was admitted, and after discussing
for some time the unfinished picture
on the easel, began to lead up to the
object of his visit. He had already disposed
of several pictures for Mrs. Jackson,
who had told him what she so studiously
concealed from Ambrose, that she worked
for something more than pin-money. This-made
the beginning easier.

Have any more orders come in, Mrs.
Jackson ?' asked he.

Only one,' was the reply. ' I have
refused it, the pay would have been so
wretchedly small.'

^ In that case, if you would not be
offended '

Offended ! No, Mr. Sutton. You have
some work for me? You looked like
business when you came in. I should be
grateful for any order only — only — let it
be some subject that I could treat con
ariiore — something better than splashbacks
and sunsets.'

A portrait?' asked Will.

A portrait,' exclaimed Mrs. Jackson.
My favourite work. But who in Bay-bridge
wants a portrait painted ?'

'I do,' said Will.

'I understand,' replied Mrs. Jackson.
You want to hang it among the other
family portraits at Radalls ; and you kindly
think I might be equal to the task. No,
no, I cannot run the risk of having my
poor handiwork placed in the same hall
with the masterpieces you own.'

Like most people who can do good work
you are very humble, Mrs. Jackson,' said
Will, sincerely. * No, mine shall never hang

in the hall at Radalls. I want a lady's
portrait painted.'

Mrs. Jackson looked up quickly.

Whose T

Let me explain,' said Will. ' You know
what an old friend I am of the Tophams,
especially of Mrs. Topham.'

And of the girls,' said the lady.

Of course,' said Will. ' But Mrs. Top-ham
is an older friend than they are ; and
I have taken it into my head to surprise
her with a present. All I want is your
aid in the conspiracy. I intend to make
her a present of Judith's portrait.'

Why of Judith's any more than of
Annie's ?'

Because Judith is her favourite daughter,'
said Will.

And because,' said Mrs. Jackson, with
a smile, ' nothing would persuade Annie to
sit, I am sure.'

Neither mast Judith sit,' said Will,
hastily. 'The ay hole thing is to be a surprise.
You see her frequently, you will
overcome the difficulty ; you will have
opportunities for making observations and
studies.'

Mrs. Jackson laughed.

I am not so clever as that, Mr. Sutton.
But, as it happens, I could undertake the
picture. Wait a moment.'

And, unlocking a cupboard in the wall,
she produced several water-colour sketches
of Judith : and explained that Will's young
friend had already sat for a model to a
picture since sold.

Will examined the sketches attentively.

You can help me, Mrs. Jackson ; will
you ? Of course I know the value of your
time and skill.'

This delicate way of hinting that she
was to be well paid for her work settled

the matter ; for Mrs. Jackson knew that
Ambrose was in want of money, and could
not really afford all that he allowed her.
Had Will asked her to paint Judith's portrait
for liim^ no matter how plausibly he
might have stated his case, Mrs. Jackson
would have discovered his real motive at
once. But Mrs. Topham was to have the
picture. Sly Will intended, after the
present had been gratefully accepted, to
ask for a copy, a request that could not
well be refused, and would not arouse
suspicion. This manoeuvre, far too subtle
for anyone but a lover, quite imposed upon
Mrs. Jackson. The conspirators shook
hands, and the artist, pointing to her cupboard,
said that the secret should be kept
safe from prying eyes.

Will departed, well satisfied with the
result of his visit.

That afternoon, Mrs. Jackson had just

-finished ordering the materials for the portrait,
when, to her disgust, she heard at
her elbow the sharp voice of Elizabeth
Tucker.

Ah, there you are, dear Mrs. Jackson,'
said Elizabeth. ' Ordering something fora
new picture ? I heard you giving most
particular orders. Don't, now, please don't
think me impertinent if I ask '

Please don't ask anything,' said Helen,
quietly.

Dearest Clementina,' cried Elizabeth to
her sister, ' do persuade Mrs. Jackson.
Now, we are bent upon knowing, dear
Mrs. Jackson.'

'- And I am equally bent upon the contrary,'
said Mrs. Jackson, with a half-smile,,
as she went on her Away.

Clementina, my love,' said Elizabeth, as
the sisters stood in High Street, ' what's-this
? Didn't you notice her confusion ?'

Quite marked !' was the answer.

I'm not inquisitive, but I hate underhand
people.' said Miss Tucker. * We must
find this out, Clem, my love.'

Yes, Lizzie, my love,' echoed Clementina.


CHAPTER XI.

PETER TOPHAM ON FINANCE.

Probably those who ' come down ' in the
world, if they stop short of actual privation,
suffer less from the want of accustomed
luxuries than from the necessity of
keeping up appearances. There are certain
well-defined stages which mark the
descent from affluence to poverty, and
there is, moreover, in the opinion of the
head of the family, a certain point at which
the line has to be drawn. One man, no
longer able to fill a country house, thinks
himself bound to entertain on a smaller
scale. Another, reflecting that many well-to-do
people seldom entertain, and that he

never can, would shrink from the idea of
his wife having no carriage. Some go
through these and other stages, reluctantly
lowering their standard as their income
decreases. Mr. Peter Topham had passed
through them, cheerfully, according to his
wont, and had now drawn a hard and fast
line at late dinner.

Of course ' late ' dinner is incomprehensible
to those favoured beings who ignore
or disregard the fact that there is, in some
social depth far beneath them, such a
thing as early dining. Peter Topham
thrust this fact, as something that could in
no wise concern him, resolutely out of his
consciousness. Come what might, he
would never dine at half-past one. Never
would he endure that abomination, suggestive
of cheap sea-side lodging-houses
and fading ' gentility,' — that hybrid meal,
known as high tea.

Mr. Topham enforced every decision he
arrived at with so much emphasis that it
must have been difficult for him to lay
additional stress on any particular command.
He had, however, been led to do
so in this question of to dine or not to
dine, by several attempts of Judith to introduce
a new order of things, and had
desired that the subject should not
be again broached — with a threat of his
extreme displeasure in case of rebellion.
Yet who will believe that in spite of all he
had done for his family, and all the self-denial
he had gone through on their
behalf, Judith (for the sake of a few tradespeople's
paltry bills) was going to attack
him once more in his most vulnerable
point ?

Judith had put off the evil day as long
as she dared, and she now went carefully
through the accounts again to see if by

any means her father could still be indulged.
But every expense had been
pared down as finely as possible already.
She went upstairs to her mother.

Mrs. Topham, who was always ailing,
had been obliged by a bad headache to lie
down ; and the room was darkened.

'Is that you, Judith?' asked her meek
voice.

Yes, mother ; how is your head now?'

Better, dear. Will you pull up the
blinds. Better, Judith. If there could
be less worry I'm sure I should get strong.'

I can't help it,' replied Judith, almost
in tears. ' I've brought some more worry
with me now. I've been looking over the
bills. We can't get into debt. We must
dismiss one servant at once, and to do
that we must have tea in the evening.'

Your father, Judith.'

It must be done,' was the firm answer.

^ I have written down exactly how we stand.
My father must know we can't coin money.'

He has had so many troubles, Jue/
pleaded her mother.

Judith smiled bitterly.

^ What have they been compared with
yours?' she said.

My, dear, women are made to suffer.
That's their position. Well, you explain
to your father, and I'll say what I can.'

No, mother, you must explain, and insist.
If you won't, I don't see what I can do.'

Don't desert me, Jue,' cried Mrs. Top-ham,
piteously.

Desert you, mother !'

Eventually it was arranged that Judith
should begin, and receive support from her
mother. This had been the plan of previous
campaigns ; but Mrs. Topham had invariably
gone over to the enemy. She now
promised staunch assistance.

VOL. I.

After dinner that night Annie, at a sign
from her sister, withdrew ; and Judith
began with,

Father, mother has something important
to say to you.'

Mr. Topham had been holding up a
biscuit to attract the dachshund who stood
in the dusk outside the closed window.
He now mechanically transferred the morsel
to his own mouth, to the great disappointment
of his four-footed dependant; and said,
with the utmost good-humour,

'Something important? Maria, my dear,
I am all attention.'

Mrs. Topham's courage, never very pronounced,
failed.

I understand,' said her husband. ' Ways
and means, is it not ? Where is my pretty
Chancellor of the Exchequer ? Whew !
Judith, what a long face. We are poor ;
that is, I think, what our French neighbours

call an accomplished fact. But is
poverty synonymous with misery ? Decidedly
not. Let us be contented and
happy.'

We are not discontented, Peter. Don't
think that,' said wavering Mrs. Topham.

But struck in Judith, ' we must face
facts. We are spending more, far more
than our income. Father, we do our best.
Mother would do anything for you, so
would I. But we can only do Avhat we
can do. A sacrifice must be made. We
can't afford to keep three servants.'

Then why keep them, in the name of
goodness ?' said Mr. Topham. ' I am not
aware that we are compelled to support
servants we do not require. Eh, Maria,
that seems sensible enough ? AVant 'em,
keep 'em ; don't Avant 'em, don't keep 'em.
Very plain sailing that.'

At present we can't do with less than



three said Judith. ^ We must send away
Barbara, and have tea in the evening.'

'■ Dear Peter, don't be put out about it,*^
said Mrs. Topham, disregarding quite a
fierce frown from Judith. 'We're only
suggesting what we think for the best.'

Mr. Topham gave no immediate answer.
Being rather proud of his powers of conversation,
he sometimes paused for fitting
words in which to clothe his valuable
ideas.

He sipped his port awhile, and said :

I thought we had decided this question
long ago. Why go over the same ground
again ? That's a most fatal habit ; possibly
a very large share of the failures in life
arise from reconsidering a decision arrived
at with deliberation.'

Circumstances alter cases,' said Judith.

'Eh, what do I hear?' said her father.
^ Circumstances — cases. Take care, my

dear girl, don't be a pedant. There's nothing
more unbecoming in a young woman,
or indeed in anybody. Dinner,' continued
Mr. Topham, dictatorially, ' is not only an
effect, but a cause of civilisation. A man
who can order one with judgment, or partake
of one with appreciation — is a gentleman,
par excellence. The mere detail of
putting on evening clothes has an untold
significance for the observant. Do you suppose
I could respect myself if of an evening
I sat down in the clothes I have worn
all day, to tea and stale bread and butter ?
Let us hear no more of this, I should lose
my self-respect if I lost my dinner. There's
a great deal in what I say, Maria ?'

A great deal,' murmured Mrs. Topham,
beginning to think that Judith might be
wrong.

'You are quite right, father,' said
Judith, ' and you shall have everything

you want, if you'll only give me the
money.'

^ Judith,' said her mother, reproachfully.

Young ladies,' smiled Mr. Topham, ' are
prone to exaggeration. What's the cost
of our humble meal? Quite a trifle, I
wager.'

Everything adds up,' said Judith,
there's the fish, and the soup.'

A little fish ; a little soup of boiled down
odds and ends ! Why, Judith, one would
think they cost their weight in gold.'

The soup to-night was not very expensive,
Jue,' ventured Mrs. Topham, passing
into flat rebellion.

And the kitchen fire,' persisted Judith.

A few coals !' was Mr. Topham's bland
reply. ' They must be very cheap at this
time of the year. Come, come, Jue, you're
laughing at me.'

At this Judith broke down. Had her

father stormed, or even abused her, she
could have borne it, and waited quietly
before again insisting on the necessary
economy. But the terrible levity that
came smiling from his lips, outmatched
her. She had learnt to control her temper,
poor child, but her voice shook as she
answered, in a Ioav tone :

Father, I see you will not understand.
This is my last attempt. In future, somebody
else must order what's wanted : I
cannot, knowing that the shopkeepers must
lose their money.'

Mrs. Topham started up trembling, and
held out her hands in eager entreaty.
But her husband showed no sign of anger.

'A deadlock,' he said, jauntily, 'a crisis,
threatened resignation of a Minister !
Now, Judith, be reasonable.'

Judith handed him the account she had
prepared, and, unable to restrain her feelings

any longer, left the room abruptly.

She is excited and overwrought, Peter,
you must not mind,' said the mother.
Judith is a good girl.'

Rather overbearing now and then,' said
Mr. Topham. ' She weill learn wisdom
after a bit. These passing difficulties are
excellent discipline for the girl ; she'll knoAv
how to manage a house of her own.'

I sometimes think, Peter, that she and
Mr. Jackson '

I won't hear of it, Maria. Once and for
all. No!'

Mrs. Topham sighed. She had not been
taken into Judith's confidence, but she
had, notwithstanding, detected her growing
fondness for Ambrose. Mrs. Topham
liked the young politician : it was true he
contradicted Peter as often as not, but then
he treated her with unvarying courtesy.
For some time she had been waiting for an

opportunity to prepare her husband for
such an event as a proposal from Ambrose,
and it showed her utter want of tact that
she chose the present moment. But Peter
was not unprepared ; the rumours which
had failed to reach Ambrose had reached
him, and his answer to his wife's hint was
the result of a previous resolve. Mrs.
Topham, however, though she had no
courage for herself, had some for her children,
and so she protested.

What objection would you have to Mr.
Jackson, Peter dear ? He is a clever
young man ; agreeable, I am sure, though
sometimes dogmatic; and fairly well off.
We must not look too high for Judith —
remember, she will not have a farthing of
her own.'

Don't be too sure of that, Maria,' said
Mr. Topham. * Fortunes have been realized
in a very few years before to-day by intelligent

and far-seeing men. Now, my dear,
may I beg your careful attention for a very
few moments ?'

So saying, Mr. Topham lighted the gas,
and pulled a bundle of papers out of his
pocket.

His wife knew what was coming, and
turned pale as ashes.

I can't do it, Peter. I can't, for the
children's sake.'

He paid no heed to this appeal, but,
spreading out his papers and pointing to a
plan, said,

A fortune lies here, if we have only the
sense and pluck to grasp it.'

'I aren't,' murmured Mrs. Topham.
'Don't let us add to our misfortunes,
Peter. I promise you that you shall never
be worried again. Only, no more risks — '

Risks,' said Mr. Topham, jovially. ' I
should be obliged to anyone who could

point out a risk in this undertaking. Mind,
Maria, I have done nothing by deputy, I
have gone into the whole thing myself.
Surely that sets your mind at ease?'

'- Yes, Peter, I know how clever you are.
But, still, last time '

I did all that was possible. If a
scoundrel ran away with the money, am I
to blame?'

Who blames you, Peter ?'

I thought, my dear, something in your
voice — no? Well, so much the better.
You are a loving, good woman, Maria, and
I can't bear to see you without your carriage
and pair. Now these brick-works —
they can't run away, eh, Maria? To buy
and work them — only four thousand
pounds !'

It's nearly all we have. Think of the
girls, Peter. I aren't.'

It's chiefly on their account,' said Mr.

Topham, contradicting himself, ' that I
am so anxious to profit by this splendid
opportunity. A word from you to Mr.
Slade, and the brick works become mine —
at least yours.'

Mr. Slade was the family lawyer.

He'll never let me touch a farthing,
Peter ; he said so last time.'

Of course he'll scold and pretend he
knows better than anyone else. These
lawyers oppose anything that brings more
than four per cent., on principle. But the
money is not tied up, it's yours, you can
dispose of it as you please.'

'Are you sure, quite sure, there is no
risk ?' asked his wife.

I give you my word of honour there is
none,' said Peter ; and he dilated so eloquently
upon its advantages that the feeble
woman wavered.

At least let us consult Judith,' said she,
clinging to the last straw.

Certainly, Maria — that is, if you think
Judith has more sense than I have. You
have perhaps a right to distrust me. I
never forget that when I married you I
was penniless. If you don't think I've
acted throughout for the best '

His poor wife interrupted him with a
burst of tears. She was powerless against
the weapons he used with such heartless
want of scruple. She promised to write
to the lawyer and state her wishes ; and to
say nothing to Judith. Her husband kissed
her nth every appearance of affection ;
he spoke in glowing terms of the future,
with its bountiful harvest, and she believed
in him still, and thought him perhaps the
most unfortunate, but still the cleverest
and wisest of mankind.

Time alone could prove the worth of
Peter Topham's last experiment in finance.

CHAPTER XII.

BY THE RIVER.

Judith, on leaving her parents, felt quite
unable to join Annie. She was going upto
her own room, when, as she passed
through the hall, the cool night air played
upon her cheek. She was in that disturbed
state of mind to which any bodily exertion
comes as a relief; and no sooner was
a walk suggested to her in this way than
she took down her hood and cloak, and
hurried out of doors. Afraid of being recalled,
and perhaps having in her present
mood to play or to sing to her father, she
did not pause till at some distance from

the house. Then she walked more slowly,
submitting; to the influence of the calm
summer night.

Very calm and peaceful it was ; and
Judith stood still at length, looking at
the villas on the hillside, the straggling
town beyond them, and the river flowing
in a silver curve beneath the stone bridge.
Judith lingered. The breeze was just
strong enough to set the green boughs
around her swinging, and to waft the perfumes
over from the nearest gardens. No
sound broke the silence, nature seemed to
hold communion with God.

Suddenly two women emerged from a
side path in front of Judith, and strolled
down the hill. She could not distinguish
their figures, but the shrill, discordant
voices could belong only to the Misses
Tucker.

The sight of these women, whom Judith

cordially detested, robbed lier of her returning
peace of mind. Her anger bad
gone, the sense of weakness remained. Her
father, for what sympathy could she or
anyone else hope from him ; her mother
was worse than useless in time of need ;
Annie was altogether taken up with her
lover. Judith was weary of her lot with
its struggles and. mortifications. She longed
for some one to stretch out a helping
hand. There was Will Sutton, but he had
not the self-reliance of such value in a
woman's eyes. There was Ambrose ! But
Judith dared not indulge a hope in that
direction.

She drew the hood closer round her face,
and hurried along without paying much
attention to where she was going.

Under such circumstances we often find
ourselves following some familiar path, and
so it was nth Judith. On the near bank

of the river, not much below the bridge,
was a favourite haunt of hers, a plot of
hilly ground enclosed on three sides by a
dense thicket. It was quiet, and Judith
had one day laughingly pointed it out to
Ambrose as they stood on the bridge, as
one of the few places in Baybridge safe
from the tongue of the gossip. She was
rather surprised to find how far she had
strayed so late ; but sat down on a grassy
mound with her chin on her hand, and gazed
upon the river flowing in the moonlight.
The rushes swayed to and fro, the waters
moaned incessantly, some old houses
opposite threw gloomy shadows on the
stream. It was melancholy enough even
for fancied sadness, and Judith, unlike
many young ladies, had real grievances
with which to contend.

So there she sat till the tears trickled
through her fingers.

VOL. I. p

It happened that Ambrose Jackson, who
had come from London for a couple of days,
sauntered down High Street, with no other
company than that afforded by his own
thoughts, and by a cigar. He had been
very hard at work lately, and the quiet
town was a pleasant change after the
grinding and rattling of the London
thoroughfares. As Ambrose had nowhere
in particular to go to, he stopped on coming
to the bridge, and as he leant against the
parapet watched the river beneath the
arches. Here he became, for him, unpractical
and dreamy. He began to review,
not the events of the past week, not that
pet scheme upon the realization of which
his heart was set, to become the next
member for the borough ; but every word
that had passed between him and Judith
Topham. He liked Judith ; he almost
loved her. Loneliness came to him, too,

sometimes, and she was so companionable,
and so fair to look upon. What sense,
what goodness she had. It occurred to
Ambrose that his cigar would be as enjoyable,
perhaps more enjoyable, if he smoked
it on that very spot, quite near at hand,
which Judith often brightened with her
presence.

He sauntered down to the bank of the
river.

Ambrose had decided once and for all
that he could never ask Judith to be his
wife without resigning that social success
for Which he panted. But why not think
of her, even with fondness ? He might not
speak of love ; but thoughts, they at least
were free !

He reached a thick patch of underwood

that answered Judith's description ; bat

had to walk all round it before he could

find an opening.

p2

I wonder they don't clear the place and
build upon it,' was his reflection. 'Ah,
there's not much enterprise in this part of
the world.'

He stopped short, in sheer astonishment,
to see, lying almost at his feet, the figure
of a woman. The face was turned away ;
but the convulsive movement of the
shoulders proved that she was sobbing
hysterically.

Jackson was touched. He bent towards
her saying,

Come, come, this won't do. You
mustn't give way like that. You've a
friend at your elbow.'

Roused by the deep, kindly tones,
which she recognised immediately, Judith
rose to her feet in confusion.

Ambrose could hardly believe his eyes ;
and he was far too much amazed to utter
a syllable.

^ I feel so — so much ashamed of myself,'
stammered Judith.

You have no cause,' replied Ambrose.
Sorrow is a sacred thin, and, unknowingly,
I have broken in upon yours. I told
you I was a friend before I knew who you
were, and, now that you turn out to be an
old friend, I'm not going away emptyhanded.
Confide in me, dear Miss Topham.
I have an idea of what your troubles are
about, and, remember, I'm a man of business.
Will you tell me all that worries you
from beginning to end, if only because two
heads are better than one?'

Would she ? Here was the very thing for
which she had been yearning, somebody to
listen who could counsel also, some mind
not only sympathetic but strong. Forgetting
where they had met, and how late it
was, and speaking with an eloquence that
Ambrose had never supposed she could

possess, she told the whole story of how
they had come down in the world, and
how all the efforts to act for the best
were thwarted by her father. And then,
feeling that he listened kindly and reverentially,
she opened her heart more and more,
and spoke of the loneliness of her life, with
no one to guide or support her.

Ambrose listened, with admiring pity.
When she had finished speaking, he remained
so long silent that Judith, though
she saw that he was weighing her words, at
length asked,

What am I to do ?'
Nothing,' was the unexpected answer.
nothing?' said Judith.
Your troubles,' replied Ambrose, ' don't
come so much from want of money as from
. . forgive me, I mean no disrespect . . .
as from the peculiar dispositions of those
you have to deal with. That being so, your

only resource is patience. But, though you
can't mend matters you can prevent them
from getting worse. Your father has some
new speculation in his head.'

'Heaven forbid!' exclaimed Judith.
How do you know ?'

Because,' answered Ambrose, ' as long
as he can raise a penny, it's as necessary
for him to speculate as to live.
The disease is incurable. Try to prevent
further loss. I understand that
before anything else could be risked
Mrs. Topham's consent would be necessary?'


Yes, the money is mother's,' said
Judith.

'And will Mrs. Topham take you into
her confidence ?'

At once said Judith. ' Mother does
nothing without me now.'

Not even if your father insisted?'

Mother would tell me,' said Judith
confidently.

Then,' said Ambrose, ' be prepared for
that moment ; and oppose any scheme, no
matter how plausible, with all your might.
That will save you from misfortune in the
future. I wish 1 could do anything to help
you in the present.'

You have done a great deal,' said his
companion. " You have given me strength
and courage. I've had my say, and must,
I'm afraid, have appeared weak to you.'

Ambrose protested.

My only excuse,' continued she smiling,
is that you would find most women the
same. It's something to be envied, Mr.
Jackson, the independence you enjoy.'

It has drawbacks,' replied he. ' A man
must always be fighting, and holding his
own against encroachment, and that's not
always pleasant. Didn't you yourself tell

lue that in the lonsr run one iniofht aet
hardened? Don't you remember when you
said something of the kind the night we
met, on the way to Aunt Robby's ? I hope
you observe that your lessons aren't altogether
thrown away.'

Judith blushed deeply.

I remember it well,' she said. ' I was
very rude then, and I've been sorry ever
since. I spoke without thought, and without
kindness, and I've often wished, and
never dared, to say once more, I beg your
pardon for it.'

She held out her hand ; he took it, and
their eyes met.

A sudden longing assailed Ambrose, a
longing to throw all his prudence and calculation,
and worldly-minded policy to the
winds, to follow the generous impulse of
his heart, to kneel at Judith's feet and
claim her for his own. His eye shone

bright, his grasp tightened upon her fingers,
and for a moment the happiness of
two lives hung in the balance.

Before a word could pass his lips, well-known
voices were heard only a few yards
oiF.

Clementina, my love.'

Here I am, Lizzie dearest, quite close
to you.'

Ambrose stifled a malediction, and realizing
the full extent of the danger that threatened
them, if Judith was discovered in his
company by these bitter women, drew her
into the darkest corner he could find. There
they stood side by side, and Ambrose felt
his companion trembling violently.

Courage,' he whispered, ' they shall not
see you whatever happens.'

In a minute or so the watchers saw the
capitalist's lean and ugly daughters just in
front of them.

You must be mistaken, Lizzie,' continued
the younger. ' What could he be
doing here ?'

Mistaken !' snapped Elizabeth Tucker.
D'ye think I'm a fool. I'd know young
Jackson's voice anywhere. I bet a crown
he's come to this place to meet some ionian
or other.'

Oh, Lizzie, I thought he was the most
proper young man.'

More stupid you,' was the sharp retort.
Surely you don't believe him immaculate.
I know better.'

Ambrose, in his anger, pressed Judith's
hand, which he had retained in his, so
tightly that she nearly cried out ; then,
recollecting himself, he raised it to his lips,
and whispered an apology.

I wonder who she can be,' said Clementina.


We'll find out,' said the other. ' She'll

have to leave the town, I promise you.
The hussy ! Look about, Clem, my love.
They must be somewhere neai\'

Hush, or wee shall be overheard,' was
the answer ; and the sisters pursued their
search in silence.

'Hyaenas,' muttered Ambrose, 'they'll
search every inch of the ground.'

Judith was crying piteously.

Cheer up, my dear Miss Topham,' said
Ambrose ; ' I promised they should not see
you, and I'll keep my word. Have you
presence of mind enough to obey orders ?'

Yes,' answered Judith, plucking up
courage at his confident tone.

Sooner or later,' said he, ' these old
hags will find us here. The moment they
do I'll hold them fast, and you run home
with all your might. Luckily the moon is
clouded ; and if you will let me pull your
hood close over your face you won't be
known.'

'I'm terrified; said Judith, 'but I'll
do what you tell me. Thanks, a thousand
thanks.'

For what?' asked he ; ' for getting you
into this fine scrape ? Now, here they
come again. Courage ! This will be something
o- to lauo'h at tomorrow '

'They must be here,' said Elizabeth
Tucker.

She and her sister stood with their backs
Ambrose.

Now !' he whispered to Judith.

Judith fled.

There goes somebody,' cried Elizabeth
starting in pursuit.

But Ambrose advanced, and laid his
hand upon her arm, at the same time
standing before Clementina and barring
the passage.

Good-evening, Miss Tucker,' he said.

The sisters' rage proved that they had
failed to identify the fugitive.

*Let me go, Mr. Jackson,' cried Elizabeth.
' Stand aside at once.'

I'm sorry,' replied he, gravely, ' to detain
a lady. Miss Clementina, I really
can't allow you to pass either. You must
yield to the fortune of war.'

We'll find out,' hissed Elizabeth, pale
with fury.

I doubt that,' replied Jackson, quietly.

How long are you going to keep us herein
this cowardly manner, sir?' demanded
Elizabeth.

'Only a minute or two,' said he, politely.
'■ I'm sorry to proceed to such extremes.'

The sisters deigned no reply. Before
long, Ambrose, sure that Judith was beyond
pursuit, ironically Ravished his enemies
good-night, raised his hat, and went to the
club.

How 1 hate that man,' gasped Elizabeth.
* We'll be even with him some day.'

^ We'll be even with him,' echoed Clementina.
' Lizzie, my love, what is this on
the grass ?'

It was a pocket-handkerchief, with the
initials, J. T. in the corner. Elizabeth's
triumph knew no bounds.

I shall like to see the expression of
Miss Judith's face when I return her this,'
she said.

It will be a treat indeed,' said Clem.
Fancy it's being Judith. Do you suppose
there was really any harm, Lizzie ?'

Harm !' sneered the moral Miss Tucker,
not a bit. The girl's too great a simpleton.
But that's only my private belief.
Others might think differently if the story
of this meeting should happen to spread.
If we islay our cards well, Clem, young-jackson,
with all his high and mighty
notions, will have to marry Judith, who
hasn't got a penny.'

But they might be happy, together
Lizzie. If he loves her '

Don't be a fool, sister,' replied Elizabeth.
' Jackson looks for a wife with
money and position ; but, before the
month's end, he shall propose to Judith
Topham, who has neither, and she'll jump
at the offer. Now let us be going home,
Clem.'

And the amiable couple directed their
steps to the toAvn.

Meanwhile, Judith had reached her
home safely, and found that everybody
had gone to bed except her mother. Mrs.
Topham was awaiting her anxiously, but
asked no question as to the reason of such
a late return, Which she put down to a
most excusable fit of temper. She felt
guilty at having taken part with her husband
against Judith. Besides, her heart
smote her for keeping secret Peter's new

scheme, and she was almost afraid to speak
for fear of letting fall what weighed so
heavily on her mind. Judith was only too
glad to avoid inquiry, and, as soon as possible,
escaped to her room. Here, before
long, she discovered the loss of her handkerchief,
and, guessing where she had
dropped it, spent a sleepless night inconsequence.


VOL. I.

CHAPTER XIII.

A DIPLOMATIC VISIT.

Little Mr. James Tweedy had slept badly
too, and when lie came down to breakfast
was as cross as a bear. His wife, who
knew to a nicety when it was safe to find
fault with him, decided that there would
be a risk in doing so just now ; but determined
to give him a piece of her mind
when he had had some tea. So she filled
his cup with a weak, yellow-looking beverage,
and handed him the toast. But James
was not softened by these petits soins ; on the
contrary, he began to complain.

Lift tea is half cold, and altogether undrinkable.
And the toast is burnt as black
as my hat.' And he rang the bell violently,
and much to the maid's astonishment,
for she generally received her orders from
Mrs. Tweedy, peremptorily demanded a
fresh supply of both.

'- You're very irritable this morning,
James,' said his wife, thinking that after
all it was high time for her to exert her
authority.

Irritable ! who could be anything else ?
Since two o'clock that child has been
screaming. Bawl! bawl! bawl! I shall
cut the whole thing one of these days.'

At this unmanly threat of desertion Mrs.
Tweedy changed colour, and gulped down
a rising sob. What had upset James ?
Certainly not the children, or he would be
always upset.

I'm sorry you were disturbed,' she said,

q2

the child is ailing. I suffered the same
inconvenience as yourself.'

'• You didn't,' retorted James. ^ You
slept through it all ; though I nudged you
with my elbow, you still went on snoring.'

1 don't snore,' said Mrs. Tweedy. ' It's
rude and unkind of you to say so. I wish
we had never met, I wish we had never
been married.'

'Amen,' said her husband. — 'Ah, here's
the tea, thank goodness.'

Mrs. Tweedy had now no resource but
tears.

I don't want to be cross,' said James,
somewhat mollified, and perhaps a little
afraid, 'but this life is unendurable. One
never gets anything fit to eat, and the
house is like a pigsty.'

I do — my — best,' sobbed his wife.

You haven't any time to do anything
it seems, Mrs. Tweedy, except to receive

visits from that fellow Captain Handcock.'

The murder Alas out. It was not squalling,
and bad tea and toast, that ailed the
little gentleman ; he was suffering from a
sharp attack of jealousy.

His wife sprang to arms.

Perhaps you'd like to forbid him the
house, and publish your folly to the town,'
said she.

I'll thrash him,' said Tweedy, thinking
of the ash plant which Oris Parry had
recommended under certain circumstances.

You aren't,' said his wife. But he
looked so fierce that she almost disbelieved
her own words.

It was singularly unfortunate that James
Tweedy 's explosion was not deferred fora
few days, when the irritating cause
would have ceased to exist. Captain
Handcock, who could not yet satisfy himself
of the wisdom of securing one of

Nicholas Tucker's slaughters, had lately
been devoting himself a good deal to Mrs.
Tweedy. His fancy was taken by the
lively, pretty woman, and he visited her
so often that at length she herself became
not so much alarmed as bored. The captain's
fine phrases and set compliments
grew wearisome by repetition. She had
decided to say ' not at home ' to his next
visit, and to let herself be seen at
the window, a hint which the gallant
soldier would perhaps be intelligent
enough to understand. But her husband's
ill-timed jealousy altered the position
of affairs. Kate determined she would
not be dictated to, it pained her to think
she could be suspected, and, without reflecting
how natural suspicion was, she
resolved to punish James for his cruelty.
And when about eleven o'clock the visitor's
bell rang, she made sure it was Captain

Handcock, and went down to receive him.

But her visitor proved to be Ambrose
Jackson.

Mrs. Tweedy welcomed him cordially,
but could not help appearing rather surprised.
Ambrose had several times visited
her in his mother's company, but had never
before paid her the compliment on his
own account. Mrs. Tweedy, though she
thought him inclined to be exclusive and
to give himself airs, liked the young
politician. He was handsome, and a
manly fellow. He had already achieved
that portion of success Which is such a
recommendation, especially with women ;
and gave promise of still higher things.
It had lately transpired (not without his
connivance) that he looked forward to representing
the borough some day, and Mrs.
Tweedy felt sure that a man of his stamp
would end by carrying his point. It would

be quite a feather in her cap if she could
ally herself with such an important personage,
and Mrs. Tweedy settled that he should
have James's vote when the proper time
came. She could not help suspecting, however,
that Ambrose had some special object
in this visit ; nor was she mistaken. But
she was made to serve his purpose without
finding out what it was.

The object Ambrose had in view was
this.

On the previous night several circumstances
had conspired to throw the cautious
young man off his guard. He was
fagged with his work in hot, dusty London
; and the quiet streets of the little
country town, and the calm of the summer
twilight, had cast their spell over him.
Then he had been an involuntary witness
of Judith's distress, and it had softened him
towards her. This was by no means all.

Her beauty, lier flattering reliance on him,
his admiration for her character ; had
nearly led him to the commission of what
he regarded half-an-hour later as an act of
sheer insanity. He had been on the verge
of proposing to 'provincial' Judith Top-ham.
He almost shuddered to think that
at this moment, but for a chance interruption,
he would be under a life-long obligation
— the death-blow to his future. The
peril escaped had, however, done one
good thing for him, it had opened his eyes
to the real state of his feeling for Judith.
He now frankly owned to himself that he
loved her well. But Ambrose never
doubted that he would be able to overcome
this weakness. The foes he had
hitherto mastered had been foes from
without ; he had never been a man of
divided counsels, and had yet to discover
how dangerous can be the foe from within.

Ambrose, as he walked to the club
after leaving Judith, blessed his good luck,
and resolved to strictly avoid all further
intimacy. Luckily Judith had not been
recognised by those termagants, the Tucker
women, and so no great mischief had been
done.

Mischief had been done, for all that, and
Ambrose, on entering the club, felt that
he was the subject of conversation, and
caught the name of Topham. He was intensely
vexed, and, refusing to ' make up a
fourth,' went off in high dudgeon.

Clearly something must be undertaken
to check the spread of this report, which
would mortify Judith ; and perhaps even
cause her to think him in earnest. Ambrose
decided to circulate a contradictory
statement, and could find no better means
of communication between himself and
Baybridge than that good-natured chatter-box,
Kate Tweedy.

He called in the morning so as to see lier
alone.

Mrs. Tweedy would, if he only allowed
her to talk, sooner or later mention the
Tophams. Then he would leave no doubt
as to his intentions, or rather his want of
intentions, regarding Judith. He enquired
after Mrs. Tweedy's children. This was
like opening a sluice, and a torrent poured
forth immediately.

Thank you, Mr. Jackson,' she replied,
on the whole, I have reason to be thankful.
But there are ups and downs in a large
family, as you can guess. Only yesterday
I came home to find that Nora and Dora
were holding Augusta . . . my third child,
Mr. Jackson . . . under the pump; mere
frolic, but it shows what children are. I gave
them both a sound whipping, and resigned
myself to the certainty that Gussie would
have a fearful cold and sore throat this

morning. Not a bit of it. Quite a remarkable
child! Mr. Jackson. Such a constitution
! Really, she has had some wonderful
escapes.'

Ah, indeed,' said Ambrose, seeing that
some expression of sympathy was expected.


Of course such things shouldn't happen,'
continued Mrs. Tweedy, ' but they are
happening constantly. The servants are so
careless, you can't imagine. There's not a
trustworthy servant to be had ; you may
give them any wages, and find them in caps
and aprons, and treat them almost as if they
belonged to the family, and yet they — will
not — work.'

Mrs. Tweedy accompanied each of her
last words with a separate tap on the table,
as if to give weight to this deplorable
truth in social science. Had anyone else
been sitting beside her, she would probably

have tapped him with her pretty fingertips
; but she was rather afraid of Ambrose.

'Servants,' she went on, ' are the great
problem of housekeeping. I often think,
when I see a young girl so bent upon
having an establishment of her own, " Ah,
if you but knew, my dear." That's precisely
what I said the day before yesterday
to Judith, that's Mr. Topham's elder
daughter, you know.'

It was not by chance that Mrs. Tweedy
spoke of Judith. She drank in every
rumour that was afloat, and was dying
with curiosity to know whether Ambrose
was going to take any important step.
Nothing would please her better than to
receive the confidences of both parties, and
to smooth down the course of true love —
for she knew Mr. Topham's objection to
Ambrose. In case the latter wanted somebody
sympathetic to confide in . . . unlikely

enough, were it not that love works
wonders . . . she afforded him this opportunity,
and as she spoke watched his face
with attention.

Ambrose understood her, and saw that no
direct denial of interest in Judith would
hold. So he said,

The elder Miss Topham, yes ; perhaps
you know that I'm a great admirer of
hers ?'

1 have heard of something of the kind,'
murmured Mrs. Tweedy in an inviting
whisper.

So shrewd and sensible,' said Ambrose.
Wasn't there some talk of an engagement
between her and Mr. Sutton ?'

This remark was the result of a sudden
inspiration. Ambrose never dreamed of
any such possibility, or for Judith's sake
he would have held his tongue. But the
question would prove his indifference, he

imagined. His words certainly surprised
Mrs. Tweedy.

Mr. Sutton,' lie exclaimed, ' I never
caught a syllable about that. He's much
too old.'

Then please don't quote me,' insisted
Ambrose, feeling that it was much more
difficult to deal with women than with
men, and that he had got out of his depth
in making any allusion to AVill Sutton at
all.

Oh, dear, no,' said Mrs. Tweedy. ' I'm
discretion itself. I never heard Mr. Sutton's
name mentioned. Would you be very
much offended if I told you my version,
that is, the version which has reached
me ?'

Offended, Mrs. Tweedy ? Why should
I be offended ? How can it concern me ?'

It does concern you ; but you'd be
vexed if I . . .'

please?' requested Ambrose.

You were said to be as good as engaged
to Miss Topham/

I!' answered Ambrose. ' I ought to feel
uncommonly flattered.'

'And so there's really nothing in it?'
inquired Mrs. Tweedy, with a touch of disappointment
in her voice.

Nothing whatever, I assure you. Miss
Topham and I are friends, that is all. As
for me, I'm far too busy a man '

The lady shook her head.

Forgive me, Mr. Jackson, but I have
too much experience to believe that a man
can't find time to give his heart away. I
confess that I myself thought you were
struck with Judith, of whom I have the
very highest opinion. But I see that it's
the old story, the luxury cannot be afforded;
you look for more than she, poor child, can
offer '

Ambrose was half tempted to say he did.
It was important that Mrs. Tweedy should
contradict the gossip of the place. If he
let her suppose that he did look higher,
she would be in the position of a prophet
who knows what is going to happen, and,
on the strength of his assurance, would
pooh-pooh the idea of the match wherever
she went. In an evil moment he replied :

I didn't quite say that, Mrs. Tweedy.'

This was enough. She had sot her cue.
That she looked upon the affair in the
light he wished was evident from the manner
in which she praised Judith, much as
if she were pleading her cause. Ambrose
listened gravely, directed the conversation
into another channel, and, as soon as
possible, took leave.

He had gained his object, and yet could
not be altogether satisfied with his visit.
He knew that he might long seek for as

VOL. I. R

good a woman as Judith. But in the matter
of worldly advantages . . . not necessarily
of money, for Ambrose was not mercenary,
but of birth and distinguished connections
. . Ambrose thought her below his standard.
He had thought so many a time. To have
said so, however, was a deep humiliation
to him, and he felt that he had spoken of
his relations to Judith to a third person in
an unwarrantable manner. It never occurred
to him that Mrs. Tweedy, in her most
careless moment, would repeat that part of
their conversation. Still he was filled with
a vague misgiving, which, even after he
had gone back to London, haunted him
for some days.

CHAPTER XIV.

A QUIET DINNER.

Mr. Topham had overcome his wife's opposition
to his new undertaking with less
difficulty than he had expected ; and his
spirits were higher even than usual. The
family lawyer, Mr. Slade, might make himself
as disagreeable as he chose, and there
was every probability of his doing so ; lout
Mr. Topham knew from experience that in
the long run Mr. Slade would have to give
in. Maria had a right to dispose of the
money, and with protestation and delay
the lawyer's power to prevent its i-e-invest-
ment ended.

R 2

It was Judith of whom her father stood
most in awe. Her influence over her
mother, exerted in the cause of prudence,
would be more than equal to his, exerted
in the cause of speculation. Let her once
obtain a hint of what was going on, and
farewell to his El Dorado. Yet, in spite of
his dread, he could not help now and then
a covert allusion to the good times coming,
and Judith would to a certainty have
fathomed his designs, had she not been
engrossed with her own troubles and
prospects.

Until lately, Judith had never allowed
herself to hope about Ambrose. She
understood thoroughly his opinions on
getting on in the world. That he liked
her she had never doubted ; but, until their
meeting by the river, she never thought a
proposal from him possible. Now she saw
that such a possibility did exist, but with

the thrill of delight which this discovery
caused was mingled a dim foreboding that
he might ask her to be his wife, and yet
consider himself making a sacrifice for her
sake. Judith loved him passionately. Butin
the depths of a heart which seemed
incapable of a single selfish desire she
firmly resolved that she Avould never stand
in his way, that she would, no matter at
what cost to herself, refuse love on such
terms. Pride gave strength to this resolve.
She was not going to accept a man who
should come implying, ' I might have
married a woman wealthy and nobly born,
but, for love's sake, be mine.' No, Judith
had too much self-respect for that.

Her distress was increased by the malice
of the Baybridge busy-bodies, foremost in
whose ranks stood those lean, unsavoury
spinsters, the Misses Tucker. Elizabeth
had promised herself a rare triumph on

returning Judith's handkerchief found by
the river. Judith, who had had time to
prepare for the attack, shook off the poisonous
arrow with disdainful ease. When
Elizabeth, after much parade and mystery,
produced her piece of evidence, the young
girl laughingly thanked her, supposed she
must have ' dropped the handkerchief the
night before while talking to Mr. Jackson,'
and was ' so glad to get back her lost
property — so kind of Miss Tucker.' Worsted
in this encounter, Elizabeth, more bitter
than ever, went about letting fall half-veiled
hints, some of which were brought
by kind friends to Judith. Judith pretended
to ignore them, and suffered in
silence.

One morning, towards the end of August,
her father surprised her by announcing
that he intended to entertain a few friends
at a quiet dinner, and told her to write

the invitations from a list which he had
drawn out. He explained that he wished
to make at least some return for the hospitality
he and his family enjoyed.

Judith's suspicions were at once aroused;
for her father's Utopian schemes usually
began in this fashion ; ' First catch your
hare and then cook it,' was a proverb
neglected by Peter. She hurried to her
mother, who (Heaven forgive the poor
woman !) solemnly denied that anything
unusual was going to happen. Judith
then raised an objection on the score of
expense, but, when she observed that Ambrose
Jackson's name was on the list, she
began to think that the affair might be
managed, and, secretly resolving to sell
her last good ornament, set to Avork. Ambrose
was, she had heard from his mother,
the most particular diner-out ; he should
have no cause to grumble with her entertainment.

A day was fixed, the invitations
were sent, and in due course accepted.

The day came ; the resources of the
establishment were taxed to the uttermost,
and, when at last the family was assembled
in the drawing-room, Judith was justified
in hoping that everything would pass off
smoothly.

Mrs. Robertson soon appeared, attended
by Will Sutton. Nicholas Tucker, quite
unaffected by the absence of his daughters,
followed, in company with the melancholy
Dr. Stevens.

My dear Mrs. Topham,' said Aunt Robby,
' here I am, a model of punctuality,
and looking forward to thorough enjoyment.
Mr. Parry, how do you do, sir ?
you never come near me now. Well, we
must excuse you, you have better employment,
I daresay. Annie, you must spare
me a kiss. Judith, you too, you're looking
very handsome, child.'

Please don't make lier vain,' said Mr
Tophani, from the hearth-rug.

Mrs. Robertson,' said Nicholas, ' this is
a pleasure. No return of the rheumatism,
I hope ?'

Thank you. Not this weather, Mr.
Tucker.'

It won't last,' said Dr. Stevens, alluding
to the weather. Dr. Stevens was a
prophet of evil.

Doctor,' said Mr. Topham, ' I don't go
with you there. The weather Avill remain
in statu quo for the next fortnight. Not
that I understand these matters, but some

of my predictions have been fortunate

Ah, here come Mrs. and Mr. Tweedy.'

Mrs. Tweedy strutted up the room, and
her husband trod softly in her footsteps.

Doctor,' said Nicholas ' how is Mrs.
Yonge ?'

Dying,' said the doctor.

You don't say so. Sad, indeed. How
is lier son-in law ?'

Nasty fracture,' said the doctor. ' I
expect serious complications.'

When shall I g^i rid of my sciatica, I
wonder ?' asked the capitalist, not above
saving a fee.

Don't be too sanguine,' replied Dr.
Stevens. ' I've known men in your case
. . well, I won't say exactly crippled . . /

Do you think. Tucker, that Dan vers is
at last going to give up his seat?' said
James Tweedy.

James,' said his wife, ' no politics before
dinner, I beg.'

My dear ' protested the little man,

in great confusion.

Mr. Tweedy,' said Judith, leaving Will
Sutton to come to the rescue, ' I hope
you've kept your word, and brought a song
or two. We are not going to let you off.'

'• Whom are we Awaiting for, Maria ?'
asked Peter Topliam, in a stage whisper.

The Jacksons,' whispered his Avise in
return. ' They will be here in one moment,
Peter.'

Hope the young fellow won't be late,'
said he ; ' I don't like people who give
themselves airs.'

The Jackson s were announced.

Ambrose had not met Judith since their
adventure by the river. As he shook her
hand she blushed deeply, a fact noticed
by several observant pairs of eyes, especially
by Will Sutton's. There was even
an answering flush on Ambrose's dark
cheek, and his rival noticed that his lips
were firmly pressed together. Ambrose
had thought of not coming, and he had a
previous engagement in London which he
could have pleaded in excuse, but he yielded
to his mother's entreaty. Besides, to

stay away might, under the circumstances,
have occasioned more remark than his appearance.
He could show by his behaviour
during the evening that there was nothing
between him and Judith. It pained him,
it went against him, to be cold and unbending
to the girl. But it was necessary.
With a suppressed sigh he began to carry
out his programme.

Ambrose took Judith in to dinner. She
knew by instinct that the reports which
had long tormented her had reached him
at last, and looked up in his face with an
almost piteous appeal.

The host, with a genial smile, crooked
his arm for Aunt Robby ; his wife tried to
bear up against Nicholas and his batteries
of questions. Cris and Annie paired off
demurely, and indulged in sly little jokes
between themselves. Will Sutton found a
lively companion in Mrs. Tweedy, and did

not mind how much she chattered as long
as he coukl look at Judith opposite.
James, in the absence of a certain Miss
Plumstead who had sent an excuse the
last thing, wished himself at home, no, at
the club. Mrs. Jackson fell to the lot of
Dr. Stevens.

Conversation was not likely to flag with
such good talkers as Mrs. Tweedy and
Nicholas, and such good listeners as their
hostess and Will Sutton. Even the doctor
was infected by the almost general spirit
of good-humour, and told an anecdote
about a glass eye. The anecdote, delivered
in a tone almost sepulchral, and redolent
of the shop, was not brought forth
without many pauses and jerks, and did
not, when evolved, appear to have any
particular bearing. But the melancholy
man's virtuous intention was appreciated,
and a tribute of laughter and thanks waited

on the conclusion of his unwonted
labours.

Judith and her neighbour alone Averse
uncomfortable and ill at ease. Ambrose
refused to be light-hearted and gay.
Judith began, civilly,

It was so good of you to come all the
way from town, Mr. Jackson.'

'Not at all. It has given me great
pleasure,' was the formal answer.

It must be very hot in London,' was
Judith's next attempt.

Very,' said Ambrose.

Is there much going on ?' asked Judith.

'Is'ot much. Hardly anything, in fact.'

But Mr. Jackson, though he forced himself
to be formal, was not going to be ill-mannered.
So he told Judith what little
news there was, and kept the ball rolling
after a fashion. Then he mentioned that
he was to have a holiday, and proposed

taking this mother to one of the watering-places.


Judith divined his meaning : that they
were not to meet so often. She was disheartened.
Trouble loomed at least for
her in the future, but to-night she had
meant to enjoy herself and to please him
. . though it should be for the last time.
She Avould not be put down ; she laughed,
talked, listened, smiled, and practised all
the harmless arts of an untutored and unconventional
girl. He remained adamant.
Bending towards him at length, she
ventured,

I was found out the other night, Mr.
Jackson.'

He was busy with his plate.

'I hope you suffered no inconvenience.
Miss Topham. I owe you an apology for
what happened on that occasion.'

Judith tried to answer ; but faltered,

and almost broke down. She felt herself
rebuked for this last bold attempt, and in
her turn kept silence till her mother
gave the signal for the ladies to withdraw.

Mr. Jackson,' she then said, lowering
her voice, ' you have taken such pains to
amuse me that I presume to ask a favour.'

He bit his lip, and bowed gravely.

Please don't talk polities with my
father.'

I will avoid the subject if possible,'
said Ambrose.

Judith,' said Aunt Robby, confidentially,
as they reached the drawing-room, ' I
never sat down to a better dinner. The
most exacting man couldn't find a fault.
Come, child, devote yourself to me. I've
the most important business in hand. I'm
going to be extravagant in my old age,
and order two new gowns, and I want your
advice.'

Judith willingly consented.

Her mother and Mrs. Jackson were
seated on a sofa at the other end of the
room, out of hearing of their companions.

How handsome your elder daughter
does look to-night,' said the latter. ' I
always admired her; but just now she
seems more attractive than ever, — though
a little sad, perhaps. What goodness is
written on her face.'

Yes, I'm very proud of Jue,' answered
Mrs. Topham, gently. ' And you, Mrs.
Jackson, must be proud of your son. He
is so strong and clever ; and so good to
you — ah, I see that in a thousand ways.'

He is,' replied the other, well pleased.
Ambrose has his failings ; but with them
all he has a tender heart. He loves me,
who can say how well. But I can't hope
to keep that love always; some day I must
be contented to share it with another.

VOL. I. S

Who will she be ? My dear Mrs. Topham,
I wish that I might choose.'

Perhaps our choice ' began Judith's

mother timidly.

There was no need to say more. A
quick pressure of the hand did better than
words. From that moment the matchmaking
mothers became ardent conspirators
for the welfare of their children ;
though, later on, circumstances interfered
with their sympathy.

A long time passed, and the gentlemen,
selfish creatures, did not appear. Mrs.
Tweedy had given her husband instructions
on the subject, and, by way of reminding
him of them, smartly struck two or three
chords on the piano. The sound penetrated
to the dining-room, and had the
desired effect.

But, when the gentlemen did appear, it
was at once evident, at least to Judith,

that tidings had not gone on well in their
absence. Her father, whose face was rarely
seen without a smile, was positively scowling.
Ambrose Jackson looked very grave.
I say, Oris,' whispered Annie, ' what Aa.9
happened ?'

Happened,' drawled Oris, in an undertone.
' Your father and Jackson have had
a stand-up light about our glorious Constitution.
I've been bored, horribly bored.
Let's come and sit on the lawn, Annie.'

If you wa\ap me up very nicely,' said
Annie ; ' who knows, I may.'

Meanwhile, Aunt Rob by beckoned to
Ambrose.

Mr. Jackson,' she said, ' I want some
information.'

With pleasure,' was the reply.

I take a great interest in Baybridge, as
you know. Please explain to me how

s2

parties in the borough will be affected if
Sir Hugh retires.'

That can be done in a few words, Mrs.
Robertson. Conservatives and Liberals
will be fairly balanced, and the decision of
the constituency will be undoubtedly in
the hands of a small Third Party.'

Made up of?' asked the old lady.

Small proprietors and shop-keepers.'

'And it is their votes that you hope
to win when the time comes ?'

He bowed.

• Hoar ?' said Aunt Robby.

Pardon me,' answered Ambrose, ' if for
the present I keep my own counsel.'

Ah ! you young men think yourselves
so clever now-a-days. Take care. A great
many of this party are my friends. I
have lived many years and sjDcnt my money
among them. I have been a friend in need,
and a friend indeed. I have employed local

people exclusively. They would do much
to oblige me.'

Doubtless,' said Ambrose, ' they are
personally attached to you. But they will
probably look more to the future than to
the past, and support that candidate who
would be able and willing to serve them
best. — But,' continued Ambrose, who never
threw a chance away, ' I hope for jour
good offices, Mrs. Robertson ?'

[ shall see, sir, how you behave,'
answered the old dame, in an irritable voice.
I'm not altogether satisfied with you.
Go and talk to Miss Topham now ; don't
you see she's quite alone ?'

Judith was sitting alone on the ottoman ;
Will Sutton, who would otherwise have
been at her side, being monopolized by
Mrs. Tweedy, from whom he in vain tried
to escape. Judith looked so dejected, and
at the same time so beautiful, that Ambrose,

conscious of having sinned against her
wishes in the after-dinner affray, was for
making amends. Nor was she proof against
the voice and the manner that she loved,
and soon they were enjoying each other's
society as if there had never been a cloud
between them.

He had an eye to business notwithstanding.


Please do something for me, Miss
Topham,' he said. ^ Mrs. Robertson may be
of some slight service to me later on in
connection with the borough. You are a
favourite of hers. Remember to say something
in my favour.'

I will see how you behave,' said Judith,
archly ; holding up her finger, and curiously
enough using Aunt Robby's words.

Ambrose was taken aback by the answer;
but a call for some music relieved him from-his
embarrassment.

James Tweedy was the first performer ;
as he sang well, his wife was for once
content to let him do as he pleased. Next,
Annie was led in from the lawn by her
father, and, looking very shy and pretty,
warbled a ditty, while Oris turned over the
leaves. Mrs. Tweedy played some rattling
dance music.

Then Judith sang ' Barbara Allen.'

She had practised a more difficult song,
so that Ambrose might hear her at her
best. But, fortunately, her courage failed
at the last moment; she took up the familiar
ballad, and sang it with simplicity and
genuine feeling.

A long silence ensued. Nobody asked
for any more music. Her audience seemed
unwilling to break the charm she had
thrown over them.

Thank you, my dear,' said Aunt Robby,
at leno-th. ' I could listen for ever. But

it has quite spoilt my spirits for all that.
Mr. Tucker, will you revive them by taking
me for a turn out of doors ?'

Nicholas fetched a warm shawl, and the
active old lady's example was followed by
everyone else.

Ambrose wrapped Judith up, too, almost
tenderly, she thought ; and led her down
the garden.

I can never listen to a good song unmoved,'
he said. ' Nothing has such a
power over me as that.'

But then you expect perfection,' said
Judith.

^ No ; I like a trained voice, I allow.
But a natural manner is the chief thing.'

Do I sing naturally ?' asked Judith.

He laughed.

As a bird. And you do something else
very naturally too, — ask leading questions.'

It's all very well for you to scold me,'

said Judith ; ' but what do you deserve for
quarrelling with my father? Oh, Mr.
Jackson, didn't you promise?'

Not absolutely,' he pleaded. ' Honestly,
I am not to blame. I tried hard to
avoid the subject. You've no idea how
patient 1 was, to obey you. Your father
persisted, and in the end advocated such
extraordinary measures that I — really —
Well, well, I'm very sorry if I quarrelled
with him. There's one person I'll never
quarrel with.'

Is her name Judith ?' asked the girl.

Another leading question,' said Ambrose.
^ Her name is Judith. I'll never
quarrel with her '

Again,' said Judith, finishing the sentence
for him . * What a lovely night it
is,' she added, after a pause. ' Look, from
here we can see the river winding round
the foot of the hill. How delightful the

air is. I never knew a more pleasant
nis^ht/

Nor I,' murmured Ambrose, stooping
to look into her eyes.

So they talked on, and Mrs. Topham
came to tell her daughter that their guests
were going.

As he went home, Ambrose reflected
that he had not altogether succeeded in
carrying out his programme.

CHAPTER XV.

More DIPLOMACY

There is something very painful to the
elderly man in the tacit understanding by
virtue of which he is doomed to exclusion
not from the society but from the fellowship
of the younger people. On the night
of Peter Topham's dinner-party Will Sutton
had suffered from this cause. He was,
as far as his company went, neither one
thing nor the other. He was not yet old
enough (certainly not in his manner of
thinking and feeling) to consort willingly
With the staid married folk. On the other
hand, he had no longer that elastic faith

in all the good things of life, that freedom
from disappointment and dead enthusiasm
which pours into young and untried hearts
so much of the spirit of brotherhood.

Will felt aggrieved. He had been
obliged to ' take a back seat ' during the
whole of the proceedings, and not even
Mrs. T weedy 's confidential disclosures
about her household affairs could reconcile
him to misfortune. Discontented and
moody, he had increased the evil of which
he complained. He had meant, for Judith's
sake, to be bright and talkative, and
had signally failed. This he attributed to
the unwelcome presence of Ambrose Jackson,
of whom he was at last excessively
jealous. Will had lost his temper on seeing
the attention his rival received from
Judith.

Will decided that he must do something.
He had patience ; he could wait for the day

when it would be safe for him to ask
for Judith's love. But he was not o^o-
ing to let the grass grow under his
feet. He had no intention of resiOT.ino:
without a struggle that dear prize on
which his heart had so long been
set. There was danger. He had changed
his opinion regarding Ambrose ; he still
thought that the young politician, if he
ever married Judith, would later on
bitterly regret taking the step ; but he
now believed it possible that Ambrose, in
spite of his prudence, and caution, and
selfishness, might be hurried by Judith's
beauty and grace into some position from
which he could not in honour recede.
What could he do at this crisis ?'
It struck him that he was not seen at
his best in Baybridge. He was quite
another man on his estate. Why not propose
a day's excursion into Surrey, and let

Judith see him in this new character?

Property has always been a veritable
salvation to the middle-aged man, often a
broad and smooth highway leading to the
altar. After all, Will had the pull here ;
why not take advantage of it?

Not for one moment did loyal Will
Sutton do the woman he loved the injustice
of supposing that she would of her own
free will yield to the influence of position
and affluence. But he knew that in such
cases the mind often receives a bias unconsciously,
and he foresaw many advantages
which might spring from Judith's visit to
Eadalls. Judith's present straitened circumstances
at Baybridge would make
Will's well-appointed establishment doubly
impressive. She could not help hearing,
too, that he was respected in the county,
and much liked by his dependants. And,
if Will's hopes should at last dawn upon

her, the thought of the comforts her
mother might enjoy in her old age through
such a union would, to one of Judith's
disposition, be a powerful argument. This
last consideration was certainly rather
infra dig. from the romantic point of view ;
but a middle-aged lover catches thankfully
at every straw. The plan, on the whole,
promised so much that Will naturally
wondered he had not thought of it before.

An excuse for the excursion Alas hardly
necessary.

One afternoon, the sisters were sitting
in their garden, when Will joined them,
and threw himself down on the grass near
Judith, saying : —

Judith, I've a proposal to make to you.'

The girls burst out laughing.

0, take care, Will !' said Annie. ' The
first time Oris said that, I answered, " Yes,
please," and the poor boy was done for. —
Wasn't he. Jumper dear?'

Jumper, dozing in his mistress's lap
waged his tail as if he understood all
about it.

Will felt as though somebody had
given him a stab. Never mind, — a day
would come when a proposal from him to
Judith, should not seem altogether so
absurd. Judith, though she had no idea
of what was in his mind, saw that he was
vexed ; and asked what new treat he had
in store for them. Thus encouraged,
Will suggested that they should make a
day's excursion to Radalls. The invitation
of course included their parents ; but, as
Will had forseen, the party eventually consisted
only of Judith and himself, Annie
and Oris Parry.

They started very early next day, and
took the train to Croydon. On arriving
there, they had about two miles to drive
before reaching Radalls.

'Now then, Will,' said Annie, 'I don't
see your carriage and pair.'

Will had understood that parade would
not serve him with Judith.

Carriage and pair, Annie ?' he said,
you forget that we're excursionists, and
can expect only a hot walk and sandwiches
at the end of it.'

Walk !' exclaimed Mr. Parry ; ' walk
two miles in August ! Hang it all, Sutton,
you surely can't mean a fellow to drag up
these hills of yours with the thermometer
at I don't know where ?'

Cheer up, Parry,' laughed Will, ' I see
a pony-chaise over there that looks as if it
had come from Radalls. It will just hold
four, and 111 drive.'

Mr. Parry did cheer up, and the little
party was soon jogging on merrily towards
Will's home.

Here's the pond,' cried Judith soon,

YOL. I. T

'just as it used to be, Annie. Here are
the cross-roads. I hope the old cottages
half-way up the hill haven't been pulled
down ?'

No,' replied Will, ' I set my face against
such Vandalism. They are still there, the
picturesque, tumble-down places, with their
bee-hives and tall hollyhocks.'

They passed the cottages, the inmates
came out as a matter of course, and everyone
had a ' Good-day ' for Will. Never
had Judith seen him looking so bright and
happy. One woman thanked him for this,
another for that, and a sturdy, golden-haired
urchin inquired when the promised
rocking-horse was coming. Even lazy Oris
was roused into saying,

Nice to have a lot of people attached to
you, and so on, eh, Sutton ? Wish I was
a landowner myself

After a steep climb the ponies reached

the lodge, which was covered with ivy,
and while the gardener's wife, after a
low curtsey, was opening the gates, there
was time to admire the view towards
Sydenham. Over the hills, green and
brown with their coats of heather, dotted
here and there with a patch of gravel or a
Scotch fir, the girls saw in the distance,
flashing in the midsummer sun, the high
towers and domes of the Crystal Palace.

Do you remember. Will,' said Judith,
the last night we watched the rockets
bursting over there, and saw the gardens
tilled with red and purple light ? What a
tiny thing I was then, and you, how grand
and condescending you were as you lifted
me on your arm.'

Yes, yes,' said Will, rather hastily, for
retrospection marked the disparity of years
between him and Judith. ' Mrs. Warden
has let us in at last,' he added. ' The avenue

tis

as rough as ever it was, so please lookout
for jolting everybody. I'm thinking
of cutting a new road, this one is so out of
repair.'

The avenue (it hardly deserved the
name) ought by rights to have been ugly,
for it was very straight and very narrow
but the trees which clustered up high,
broken banks on each side, in their
freshness and beauty made one forget
the want of taste on the part of the
road-maker long ago. When the end of
this straight bit was reached came an open
glade, with several fine oaks. Then the
road grew so narrow that there was not
too much room even for the pony-chaise,
and the driver's whip was brushed by the
hanging branches of a thicket of moss-roses.
The ponies quickened their pace,
the scene widened suddenly, and they drew
up at the hall-door.

Radalls was by common consent a dear
old house ; but not even Will himself could
say to what order of architecture it belonged.
It had a central porch supported
by four pillars, and a wing on each side.
It was furnished soberly, with more regard
to comfort than to modern ideas of appearance,
and contained some valuable portraits
and other pictures. Its grounds
were charming. The lodge side presented
a wall of green boughs, the opening of the
avenue being hardly visible ; and behind
the house rose a dense wood of firs. In
front, a magnificent cedar filled one corner
of the sloping lawn, which was adorned
with three great rhododendron clumps,
and shut in by a well-kept laurel hedge.
On the far side also a sloping lawn
with quaint wooden flower-stands, rustic
arm-chairs and benches, and a summerhouse.
Then one of the old-fashioned

kitchen-gardens — with a particular damson,
a famous fruit-bearer, which Judith
still recollected. A few hundred yards
from the house, on a lower level, was the
Cottage, a roomy, two-storied building,
built originally for the steward, but furnished
(before Will's time) for an impoverished
couple of the Sutton family — who
had since been gathered to their fathers.

At the door Judith and her sister were
welcomed by the housekeeper, Mrs. Edwards,
an ancient servant in cap and
spectacles, who led them to the Red-room
to wash off the dust of the journey.

Will then showed his friends all over the
house. When they came to the drawing-room,
he said, * This is going to be redecorated,
Judith. What colour would
you like the walls to be ?'

I ?' said Judith. • I'm no judge, Will

But he insisted.

Light-blue, then said Judith.

Light-blue it shall be,' said Will, with
much decision.

Something in his tone struck Judith,
but she was puzzled as to what that something
might be. Not so Annie, who now
quite saw that Will hoped Judith would
one day sit in that drawing-room as its
mistress. After luncheon, as they were
strolling in the woods, she pointed to Will
and Judith, saying to Oris,

It's a case, Oris.'

Knew that long ago, little wiseacre,'
replied Oris, in a very superior manner.

Then why didn't you take me into your
confidence, sir?'

Be — cause ' began Oris.

You're thinking of an excuse,' said
Annie.

No, honour bright,' drawled Oris. ^ I
wanted you to remain neutral.'

'That means to do nothing, doesn't it?'
asked Annie. ' I can't consent. Will is
an old friend, and must be made happy.'

'How about the other fellow? Bore
him dreadfully,' suggested Mr. Parry 'Ambrose
Jackson is an old friend of mine '

You mustn't take his part against me,'
said Annie, with a pout.

Just what I mean. We must both be
neutral.'

And say nothing to Judith ?'

Not a word,' answered Oris.

Very well,' assented Annie. ' It shall
be as you please. Only remember, Oris,
once we're married I'm always to have my
own way. Let's sit down in the shade
here, and you make a fan of ferns, and
keep the flies off, as a punishment for not
having taken me into your confidence.'

Meanwhile Judith and Will went on
alone.

What a difference between the air here
and at Bay bridge said the former. 'How
mother would enjoy this ! Haven't you
thought her looking worn lately ?'

eyes, I'm afraid I have,' said Will.
^ Your father isn't speculating again, I
hope ?'

Oh, no,' said Judith. ' There's not
much left to speculate nth, and besides
mother would warn me in time.'

A change would do your mother good,'
said Will. ' Do you think that she and
all of you could spend the next few months
here? The house is empty, and the servants
are idle, so it would make no difference in
any way. As for me, I'm thinking of a
trip abroad.'

No, Will, you're not,' answered his companion.
' You're thinking how to do us a
kindness, and to pretend it isn't a kindness.
Thanks, many thanks ! But it couldn't be

managed. How happy you ought to be at
Radalls, Will ; I never thought the place
was half so nice ; or that its master was
such an important local magnate — though
I always knew he had a heart of gold. I
wonder you don't live here more ?'

His face grew sad.

'The rose is not without a thorn, Judith.
I am lonely.'

Of course you are,' replied the girl
kindly. ' Why don't you settle down. I
know a certain somebody who would suit
you admirably, Will.'

Though she did not dare to say so, Judith
meant Mrs. Jackson. Will, who was
anxiously watching the progress of Judith's
portrait, had paid many visits to Helen for
that reason. Judith had heard the widow
speak kindly of him, and drew her own
conclusions.

William Sutton groaned inwardly, to

think how utterly Judith misunderstood
him. Why should it be so altogether out
of the question, his love for her? He
asked, as calmly as he could, who had put
such ideas into her head.

This time no gossip is responsible. I
know quite well that my old friend is in
love.'

How?' asked Will, feeling sick at heart.

Oh, Will, Will !' cried the girl, ' what's
the use of trying to keep a secret from your
old favourite. Do you suppose I haven't
noticed your little guilty fits and starts,
and your awkwardness, even when you talk
to me ? Ah, Ave women can tell.'

Will turned his head away.

Silence is consent, in this case conviction,'
said Judith, gaily. ' Don't despair,
Will. Tm sure, whoever she may be, she
won't be able to resist anyone as kind a&
you are.'

I suppose you ought to know,' said Will.

I beg pardon ?' faltered Judith. She
had never before heard him speak in that
tone, and she thought his behaviour to-day
unaccountable.

'You say, " Ave women can tell," ' pursued
Will, speaking in the. same hurried, choked
tone; 'you can't! I don't believe all we
hear about the intuition of women. They
are said to know a lover the moment his
heart burns. Nonsense ! I verily believe,
Judith, a man might be dying for love of
you, spending and wasting his life in vain
hopes, and you would never as much as
know it.'

Judith burst into a merry peal of laughter.
The considerate, tender-hearted girl
had no idea of the pangs she Alas inflicting.

'Will, Will,' she said, 'this isn't fair.
You are trying to turn the tables on me.
Well, perhaps I've deserved it. You have

seen the world, you understand men, and
know what they are worth. Do you think '
. . and she blushed deeply and her head
drooped . . . ' that I could make him happy?*

Him ?' asked Will. ^ Do you mean
Ambrose Jackson ? Of course you do.
We're playing at cross questions and
crooked answers, Judith. Where are your
sister and Cris ?'

It was a relief to Will to call for them
aloud ; but to Judith his voice sounded
harsh and almost angry.

She stole up close to his side, and took
his hand between both of hers.

Will, I've offended you in some way I
don't understand, hurt you, perhaps. Oh,
forgive me. To-day I meant to make so
much of you, and you were so kind about
mother.'

He raised her fingers to his lips.

You cannot offend me, Jue. — Here

comes the servant with cups and sauce's,
and everything else for tea-making. Judith,
you're mistress of the ceremonies, and Oris
and I will light a fire for the kettle.'

Will feared that he had said too much,
and tried to make Judith forget their conversation
by laughter and good-humour.
But Judith's suspicion was not aroused.
Will's outburst simply confirmed her
opinion that he was thinking of Mrs.
Jackson — a lover's denial must not betaken
too strictly. She wished, however,
that she had not spoken on the subject,
and her tact would have saved her from
the error if she had had any reason to believe
Will was at all touchy. She did her
best too to dispel the cloud that had so
suddenly gathered. So the rest of the
day passed to all appearance very pleasantly.
The party reached Baybridge at a late
hour.

Not till he was alone could Will give
way to his despair. What bitter results,
he thought, from the day which had promised
so much. But, as the future was to
prove, the visit to his home was, iu some
respects, not such bad diplomacy after all.

CHAPTER XVI.

COMPROMISED.

One morning Nicholas did not appear at
breakfast. As a rule his health was good
and, even when unwell, he rarely allowed
any change in his usual hours. It must
have been comforting for him to reflect on
the genuine affection which sprang up in
his children's breasts at any prospect of
his being seriously ill. Elizabeth went upto
his room more than once. ' Was dear
papa's tea quite to his liking ?' Clementina
followed suit. ' Would her Father
fancy anything, would he send for Dr.
Stevens, or at least tell his dearest Clementina

what ailed him ?' Nicholas was out
of sorts, and wanted to be left alone, and
clearly signified his wishes on that point.

Clem, my love,' said Elizabeth, as they
sat down to their breakfast, ' poor papa is
failing, I fear.'

I fear so, Lizzie dearest,' echoed Clem.

I wish,' said Elizabeth, ' he would
not be so close about his — er — future
arrangements.'

You mean about his will, Lizzie ?'

'What else could 1 be speaking of!'
snapped Elizabeth. ' I sometimes think
you've no sense. Yes, about the will. Of
course the bulk of the property Avill come
to me.'

I don't see why.'

'Naturally, I'm the oldest.'

Much,' said Clem.

Elizabeth got as red as a poppy.

You're very spiteful this morning,

VOL. I. u

Clementina. Naturally, most of the money
will be mine. Arthur and I mil have a
position to maintain. He is allied with
the best families — so distingue''

I never paid much attention to that,'
said Clem. ' He began by being civil tome,
but I kept him at a distance. If I
know Captain Handcock, he'll not marry
till he sees money down. Cash with order,
he, he !'

Dare you say that !' shrieked Elizabeth.
He never so much as looked at you, and
that's why you suggest that he loves my
money, and not me. You're envious, Clem,
my love, because you haven't got a man of
your own.'

'I've had as many offers as I have
fingers,' exclaimed Clementina, with some
poetical license. ' I shall have a husband
one of these days — and children. You'll
never have a child, you're too old.'

Elizabeth turned livid, and caught her
sister by the sleeve.

Let me go,' cried Clem. ' I dare you
to touch me ! Do you hear, I dare you !'

The spinsters stood facing each other,
and panted ; then sat down to breakfast
again.

There's no good fighting,' said Elizabeth,
sullenly, after a long pause. ' We're
alone in the world, Clem.'

I don't want to fight,' said Clementina.

I never meant that about your lovers,
Clem. Few girls have refused such offers
as you. I shall never forget John Mickle-dale,
at Bath, and the way you finished
him off.'

Didn't I,' said the other. ' I was only
joking about the children, Lizzie dearest;
you will have a large family, I'm sure. As
to dear Arthur, he fell in love with you
from the first.'

u2

Such generous mutual confessions could
have but one result. The sisters embraced
tearfully, and vowed to stand by each other
as long as they lived.

Clementina had not spoken at random
about having a husband some day. Unknown
to her sister, and, as she imagined,
to the old man upstairs also, she had lately
been granting stolen interviews to a suitor
not more disinterested than Captain Hand-cock.
His name was Mr. Lloyd. This
accomplished gentleman was getting on in
life, and on the look-out, as he would have
put it, 'for a gal with something of her
OAvn.' He knew that Cris would have no
further need for his services when the
marriage nth Annie took place, and intended,
if he could, to keep a lodging-house
in London, where he could earn a
comfortable living, and see his friends — his
wife doing most of the work. He saw no

difficulty in the social gulf between himself
and Clementina; in her eagerness fora
husband, she would doubtless consent to
cross it. Perhaps Mr. Tucker might vnnk
at an elopement for the sake of getting rid
of Clementina on reasonable terms. That
she had five thousand pounds already was
well known to Mr. Lloyd, and, though he
shrewdly guessed that Nicholas's wealth
was vastly over-rated, he counted upon a
few thousands more — perhaps he might
do without the lodging-house, and retire
into the elegance of private life. All
things considered, Mr. Lloyd thought a
little sentiment could do no harm. For
him, Clementina had no biting words; even
his niggardly display of affection seemed
to quicken that infinitesimal germ of goodness
which had led her, many years ago,
to send ten pounds to the father she
imagined a beggar.

Clementina breathed not a word to her
dearest Lizzie on this subject. After breakfast
they went out, and before long they
saw Mrs. Jackson turning down High
Street.

^ There she goes, into Drake's,' said
Elizabeth, ' to buy some more paint, I
suppose. She thinks of nothing but of
her daubing. By-the-by, Clem, we never
found out what that picture was she made
such a mystery of. As she's out, suppose
we call '

'And see if there happens to be anything
lying about. But she's sure to have
locked the studio door as usual.'

We'll have another try,' decided Elizabeth.


Fortune favoured them. They passed
quickly through the house, and the studio
door stood ajar.

But to their great disappointment there

was no picture to be seen. There was the
easel, the palette with the wet colours, and
the mail-stick evidently just laid down.
Mrs. Jackson had been putting some finishing
touches to Judith's portrait, and had
suddenly found herself in want of a colour.
In her hurry she had left the door open,
but had not neglected to lock up the portrait
in the cupboard in the wall.

I hate suspicious people,' said Elizabeth,
on making this discovery. ' If we could
only light upon the key.'

Clementina had already found a key in
one of the vases on the stove. She fitted
it impatiently to the lock, and the cupboard
door opened.

Why !' exclaimed Elizabeth, recoiling
at the sight of Mrs. Jackson's masterpiece,
it's Judith !'

It's Judith,' echoed Clementina.

A pretty thing,' sneered Elizabeth, triumphantly,

' to pretend lie's not fond of
the chit, and then to get his mother to
paint her. Clem, my love, I shall like to
see young Jackson's face when he hears
that we know this. By the time all Bay-bridge
is aware of it, too, I don't well see
how he can avoid proposing.'
^ He can't,' agreed Clementina.
x\nd it will break his pride nicely,'
said Miss Tucker. * He'll live to repent
the day when he struck a woman, as he
did me, down by the river. He'll find out,
when he pushes his way ahead, what it is
to be tacked on to a penniless girl, without
any savoir-faire too.'

Not a morsel,' said Clem. ' What can
he see in that face?' she added, pointing to
the portrait.

Quite common-looking,' said Elizabeth.
Such a high, vulgar complexion,' said
Clementina.

She has no manners, that's certain,'
said Miss Tucker.

And she dresses vilely. — Who's that
coming?'

It was a false alarm ; but the sisters
locked up the cupboard, and stole out of
the house again, unseen by the servants.
It was lucky for them they did so, for ina
moment they saw Ambrose coming along
the road.

Ambrose had been sorely perplexed of
late. There was nothing doing in empty
London, and he could not be happy in
Baybridge, where love and ambition wrestled
together in his heart all the day long.
He had a holiday, but his mother Avould
not listen to his proposal for a trip to the
seaside. Mrs. Jackson did not intend, at
this critical juncture, to separate him from
Judith ; and Ambrose, who could not bear
to refuse her anything, gave up the project.

He was angry with himself for giving it up
almost readily ; for not being able to leave
oiF thinking of Judith. If only there had.
been hard work for him just now, when
work was essential to his peace of mind, all
had been well. As it was instead of
breasting the current, he . . . the man of inflexible
purpose . . . allowed himself to float
down it, and hardly resisted his mother's
many schemes for throwing him and Judith
together. Thanks to the Tuckers and
other busybodies, they were now so much
spoken of as destined for one another . in
spite of Mrs. Tweedy 's busy tongue asserting
the contrary . . . that Ambrose plainly,
perceived, that, unless he was to take that
step which he had decided not to take, he
must resolutely break off all connection
with Baybridge. It had come to this : he
could not trust himself alone with Judith,
a glance from her shook his firmness to its

foundation. The certainty that she too
must be suffering from the miserable tittletattle
of the town, positively kept him
awake at night. He could not marry her,
that was impossible ; but he could and he
Avould save her from this annoyance. Ashe
now came along, he thought of consulting
his mother as to the necessity of her
seeking a home elsewhere. Here again
was a rub — was it not cruel of him to take
her among strangers ? Ambrose was sure
he could not be so heartless ; and the
problem remained unsolved.

With such perplexities tormenting him,
he was not gratified to see their chief promoters,
the Misses Tucker, waiting at the
corner of the road with the evident intention
of speaking to him. He had not exchanged
a word with either of them since
the passage of arms on the river bank;
and he now tried to pass with a formal

salutation. The attempt was unsuccessful.

Hoar do you do, Mr. Jackson ?' said
Elizabeth, in her gentlest manner ; advancing
with outstretched hand, which she
obliged him to take. ' We have just been
to call upon dear Mrs. Jackson, and unfortunately
found her gone out. Clem and I
were so sorry.'

Mr. Jackson bowed his acknowledgments
stiffly.

You have come down for a holiday,
haven't you?' asked Clementina.

Yes,' said Ambrose.

You aren't going to the seaside, after
all?' inquired Elizabeth.

No,' answered he.

why will you be so short with us?'
complained Miss Tucker. ' Why will you
persist in regarding us as your enemies ?'

I have not thought much about the
subject,' said Ambrose.

We would like to gain your friendship,
Mr. Jackson,' persisted Elizabeth.

I am afraid I could not be worthy of
yours,' returned the young man, wondering
to what new act of spite this civility was a
prelude.

Oh, how can you say so,' replied Miss
Tucker. ' We really take such an interest
in you, Mr. Jackson ; we think you so very
clever. We are sure that you will rise.'

Chiefly owing to the good-nature of my
acquaintances,' said Ambrose. ' I am sure
Miss Tucker would help me if it lay in her
power.'

I would indeed,' said Elizabeth, keeping
her temper. * Clem and I are so glad
to think you will be in Baybridge for a
couple of weeks at least, aren't we, Clem ?'

Of course Mr. Jackson knows that,' said
Clementina. ' Somebody else will be glad
too!'

You mean Miss Topham, Clem !' said
Elizabeth, with what was intended to be anarch
look. ' 0, how can you be so wicked.
You have quite vexed Mr. Jackson.'

I don't think it worth while to be vexed,'
said Ambrose. ' But as you have not
scrupled to connect Miss Topham's name
with mine, and as you charge yourselves
with the pleasant duty of circulating the
parish news, I take the liberty of contradicting
this particular report.'

It's in everybody's mouth,' said Elizabeth,
maliciously.

Maybe,' replied Ambrose ; ' but it all
bears the sign-manual of Miss Tucker.'

And you deny that there's an engagement
coming on between you and Judith
Topham?' said Elizabeth.

I deny,' retorted Ambrose, warmly,
that you have a right to pry into my affairs
or into hers ; but as you have asked the
question, please remember the answer, No !'

We can't take Mr. Jackson seriously,
Clem dearest, can we ?' said Miss Tucker.
Not after the portrait !'

'No, not after the portrait,' echoed
Clementina.

I don't understand you,' said Ambrose,
and I hope you'll allow me to go indoors.'

But Miss Tucker planted herself well in
the way. She saw at once that Ambrose
had spoken the truth, that he knew nothing
of the portrait. Vaguely but deliciously
the idea came to her that she might
cause a breach between mother and son ;
something in Ambrose's startled uneasy
expression favoured this charitable hope.

Ask Mrs. Jackson,' she said, ' why she
has painted such a beautiful portrait of
Judith Topham, ask ! Perhaps as a pleasant
surprise for you. Perhaps she has
been doing a little match-making for you.'

My mother has painted no such portrait
' stammered Ambrose.

'■ 0, indeed ! We know better Clem, my
love, don't we?'

^ 0, yes, we know much better,' said
Clem.

• G^6>(i-morning, Mr. Jackson,' said
Elizabeth.

(T6>^(i-morning, Mr. Jackson,' echoed
Clementina.

And the sisters, satisfied with their
victory, walked away arm-in-arm.

She-devils !' muttered Ambrose. ' Surely
my mother can't '

And he went indoors hurriedly, expecting
to find Mrs. Jackson shut up in the
studio.

The studio was empty. Ambrose strode
up and down it, awaiting his mother's
return with impatience. Already he had
no doubt that she had been guilty of this
imprudence.

That settles the matter,' he exclaimed.

Those lia«;s will tell their tale everywhere,
and Judith will be fatally compromised.
In honour bound I must marry her now,
and sink into hum-drum mediocrity.'

Mrs. Jackson, who expected her son by
a later train, returned, and hurrying into
the studio, was much surprised to find him
there.

What's the matter, dear boy?' she asked,
for, though he kissed her with his usual
affection, he looked very stern.

What have you done, mother ?' he
replied.

1, Ambrose !'

'The portrait?'

Is that all ?' said she. * You're going
to scold me for keeping a secret from you.
However did you find me out? Vexed,
dear? Say no. I couldn't tell you Mr.
Sutton's secret, could I ?'

'Sutton's?'

VOL. I. X

His mother explained.

'It's a most unfortunate business,' he
said, when she had done telling her story.
What was the good of my publishing the
fact that I had " no intentions," if you were
working like this against me ?'

I meant no harm, Ambrose.'

I'm sure you didn't,' he answered,
gently. ' I suppose, though, in my absence,
the young lady has come here frequently
to "sit?'

Judith ? No. The portrait was to bea
surprise for her mother, as I told you,
and to be kept a secret from everybody.
So Mr. Sutton wished. I worked from
memory, and from a small sketch I had
taken previously.'

A secret from everybody?' asked Ambrose,
quickly. ' Why from Judith herself ?
As if she couldn't be discreet ! Didn't
that strike you as peculiar ?'

It didn't at the time ; it does now,' admitted
the widow.

And you can't find an explanation ?'
said Ambrose. ' Sutton is in love with her.'

The widow changed colour, and gasped
rather than said,

Impossible !'

So one would think,' said Ambrose ;
^ he's twenty years older and more. A
useless, unpractical dreamer, with absolutely
nothing to show for his five-and-forty
years of life.'

I like Will Sutton,' protested the widow.
He is a — a — favourite with me. I hope
you'll change your verdict some day. In
the meantime, don't be vexed about my
harmless little plot. I've been less imprudent
than you think, for I always lock
up my work. You haven't yet said how
you found me out ?'

The Tucker women told me. They were

x2

in here half-an-hour ago, and turned
everything upside down, I suppose. By
now, thanks to them, half Baybridge is
convinced that you have painted Judith —
for me. The matter has gone too far. I
must marry her.'

His mother's face was radiant.

You couldn't make a wiser choice,
Ambrose,' she said. ' No one else could
suit you like Judith. This has been the
wish of my heart, to see you well married
before I am taken away from you.'

Let me see the ill-fated picture,' was
all that Ambrose could reply.

She placed it on the easel, and pulled
up a blind. Ambrose gazed long and
earnestly, and his eyes softened.

You've painted well before, mother, but
you've never done anything equal to this.'

The artist smiled.

It was a labour of love, dear boy. Perhaps,

too, it is being judged by love?'

Yes, mother,' said Ambrose, in his deep,
quiet tone, ' I do love Judith. Such
worth, such gentleness, such high and
pure motives, where else should I hind
them ? She is too good for me, a thousand
times too good — but '

Let there be no "but," Ambrose,' said
his mother, softly. 'You will find happiness
in Judith's love which you will never find
in your own ambition.'

It was an unfortunate speech. Ambrose
began to pace up and down the room in
great agitation.

Mother, mother,' he exclaimed at
length, ' you meant well, but you have
placed a stumbling-block in my path that
I can never leap over. You talk of my
ambition : I marry Judith — farewell to my
ambition !'

You're angry With me, Ambrose ?'

Angry with you, mother — never ! May
I suffer from every ill that ingratitude
deserves if ever I forget your devotion.
Who was it slaved to give me the education
of a gentleman, long before I could
understand such love ? You ! Who trod
the path of self-sacrifice daily, hourly for
my sake ? You, darling mother ! And, if
to call Judith your daughter would make
you happy, at your feet I lay the sacrifice
down. — Wait here till I can bring the news.'

He folded her in his arms, the one he
tried to love without a taint of selfishness.
She wanted to warn him against approaching
Judith too proudly, but he laid his
fingers upon her lips.

Another moment and he strode out of
the house, on the way to claim Judith
Topham for his wife.

CHAPTER Evil

A PROPOSAL.

We have seen how Ambrose had been employed
during the morning, and with what
intention he set out in search of Judith.
We must now go back a few hours and see
how they had been spent by that young
lady, so as to form as correct an opinion as
possible of the state of mind she was in
when she received his important visit.

Judith had to be an early riser if she
hoped to get through the duties of the
day, and she was in the habit of leaving
her bed-room curtains undrawn so that the
light might awaken her. This morning it
was not five o'clock when she opened her

eyes, and knowing from experience the
danger of closing them again, and possessing,
besides, that active energy which is
never so thoroughly tested as in the simple
matter of ' getting up,' jumped out of bed.
She sat on the edge for a moment, rubbing
her eyes and twining one slender foot
about the other, and then decided that it
was a lovely morning. After a long look
down into the garden with the cool hush
of dawn upon it, she began her toilette.
Perhaps the vigorous way in which she
splashed and scrubbed in her cold tub had
something to do with that clear, vivid complexion
of hers, which roused such envy
in the breasts of the pasty-faced Misses
Tucker. Then she knelt down and prayed
at her bed-side, little dreaming how eventful
the day was to prove, and how sore
would be her need of comfort. Then followed
a brushing and plaiting of her soft

brown hair, with a pardonable roguish
little glance of vanity in the looking-glass.
Lastly came the neat, clean print dress.
She stole into Annie's room, and kissed the
sleeping girl, who smiled at her touch.

Then the energetic housekeeper crept
upstairs in her stocking feet, and shook
the servants, and ' cold-pigged ' them, so as
to be sure that they would follow her good
example. Downstairs, shej)ut on her boots,
and ran out into the garden. The flowers
were hung with dew. The birds sang.
Judith sang too, because her heart was
light and happy on this glorious summer
morning.

But as it was ever so long ago since
Ambrose had become the centre-figure of
any picture of happiness which she drew,
she naturally thought of Ambrose. Alas !
to think of him was not only to love but
to doubt. Judith reminded herself that

there was work to be done indoors, and
that she had better go indoors and do it.
She went in accordingly, and her appearance
caused a great increase of activity in
the sweeping and dusting line, though the
servants admired and liked Miss Judith,
and seldom shirked their work. Judith
had a maxim that everything must be
clean, and if nobody else would work she
would. This method shamed Barbara and
Jane into good behaviour.

Mrs. Topham, who rarely came down
before breakfast, surprised Judith to-day
by appearing at half-past eight.

Come into the dining-room, Jue, I
want to say a few words before your father
speaks to you.'

He doesn't want any money ?' asked
Judith, seeing that her mother looked very
anxious.

'No,' replied Mrs. Topham, nervously.

She had succeeded in keeping her husband's
new investment a secret even from
Judith. ' It's about you and Ambrose.
You haven't taken me into your confidence,
Jue, and I'm sure you have had
some good reason for not doing so.'

I thought it was better not to talk
about it, mother, aimless anything happened.
I didn't want to add to your anxieties.'

I understand all you mean, my dear
child. But, as your father is going to
speak to you this morning on the subject, I
wish to set my doubts at rest, and to give
you a word of warning. You love him,.
Jue?'

Yes, mother.'

Very much ?'

Better than the whole world,' answered
Judith, without hesitation.

^ If he proposes, you'll consent to be his-wife?'


I don't know, mother, what T shall do.
I shall do what I think to be right when
the time comes, if ever it does come. I
love Ambrose, I will never love anyone
else. But I sometimes think . . . even when
my love is greatest . . . that he is hard and
selfish, and might want to marry me, and
then repent. If he comes simply and
frankly, saying, "I give you my heart and
want yours in return," then, mother, your
Judith won't know what to do with all her
happiness. But if his love is a prudent,
calculating love, then, mother, though my
heart should break, I hope, I pray, I maybe
firm and answer No. — But what is father
going to say about it?'

Mrs. Topham lowered her voice, as she
always did when circumstances forced her
for the moment to entertain the idea that
Peter was not absolutely perfect, and
replied,

^ He is going to ask for a promise from
you that you will refuse Ambrose '

Never,' interrupted Judith, ' as I alone
would have to bear the consequences of ray
choice, it's only fair that my choice should
be free.'

Yes, Jue, you're quite right,' answered
Mrs. Topham, looking as if in thus opposing
her husband she had committed a
felony at the least. 'But don't vex your
father, treat him with proper respect,
Judith ; remember all he has gone through.'

Judith promised gently ; if there was
one thing on this earth sacred to her it washer
mother's devotion for the head of the
family. Mrs. Topham had still something
more to say — about Will Sutton. But
Peter and Annie joined them, and the opportunity
was lost.

It was evident that Peter Toj)ham had
thoroughly made up his mind that Ambrose

Jackson should never have the
honour of being his son-in-law, and it was
equally evident that he expected resistance
on the part of Judith. He received
her dutiful kiss more coldly than usual,
and soon showed himself to be in a perverse
humour. He did not grumble or
growl. He maintained his reputation for
cheerfulness. But his light bitter tongue
complained of everything that was set
before him — because Judith did the housekeeping.
The butter was bad. The bacon
was bad. The eggs were not fresh. Judith
listened patiently ; she would bear anything,
but she would not make that promise
which was going to be demanded of her.

Don't promise anything,' whispered
Annie to her, as they rose from breakfast.

Mr. Topham turned to Judith.

Please come to my study in half-an-hour,
Judith.' His tone implied, 'And
when you do come, be tractable''

Shut the door, Judith,' he said, when
she reached the study. ' I want to talk
to you seriously. Reports have been flying
about Baybridge of a very distressing nature.
They have reached your ears, of course ?'

Judith was not going to admit that any
report connecting her name and Ambrose
Jackson's was in itself distressing.

I suppose you must mean about Mr.
Jackson, father?' she said.

^ Don't be such a hypocrite, Judith.
"Who else could I mean except the young
place-hunter? I'm afraid you've been imprudent,
child. His pushing, vulgar manner
has imposed upon you. Kindly don't
interrupt me ; that's ill-bred, as you ought
to know. I say you have been imprudent,
and I fear that the fellow will propose —
not a distinction that I was at all anxious
for. However, you may still be able to
prevent it by letting him see unmistakeably
that you don't covet the honour.'

^

But if I do, father ?'

^ I will not have you maidenly, Judith,
I won't have you throw yourself at any
man's head.'

I've never so disgraced myself, and
never will,' said Judith, struggling hard to
keep from crying.

You will keep him at arm's length,'
said her father.

But, father, if he will propose, what
can I do ?'

If you didn't care for him, you'd prevent
him from opening his lips fast enough.'

But I do care for him — very much,"
ventured Judith.

Come, come, Jue,' said Peter Topham,
if it pleases your vanity to have an offer,
do as you please. But I expect you to
refuse him unconditionally.'

Judith spoke up.

I've loved you, and done everything I

could for you, father. But I'll never make
that promise.'

He is a selfish, pompous young fellow,'
said Mr. Topham. ' 111 never admit him
into my family. You must give him up.'

If ever I give him up, it will be of my
own free will and not from compulsion,'
said Judith. ' Father, can't you understand
that I love him very dearly ? Why
have you taken such a dislike to him ?'

I asked him to dinner at your mother's
request,' said Peter, ' and at my own table
he flatly contradicted me. He has no
manners.'

He was sorry about that afterwards,'
pleaded Judith. ' He told me so the same
night.'

If he was sorry, he should have apologised
to 9?i6%' said Mr. Topham. ' That
would have been the manly course.'

He's every inch a man,' said Judith,

VOL. 1. Y

obstinately. And the tears rolled down her
cheeks.

Her father mistook this sign of distress
for submission.

Now be a good girl, Jue, and don't cry
about it. Be cheerful. Follow my example.
I'm not allowing this little matter
to make me gloomy. Promise you'll refuse
him.'

I'll obey you in anything else.'

'Except where obedience is wanted, you'll
be obedient, doubtless. — Now what do you
think of Radalls?'

Radalls, it will be remembered, was the
name of Will Sutton's estate. Judith could
not follow her father's train of thought, or
understand the sudden change of subject.
She answered, mechanically,

'Of Radalls, father?'

'Yes, it's a fine estate, isn't it? Will has
improved it very much of late years. Now,

be reasonable, Judith. Wouldn't it be
better for you, instead of giving yourself
away to this selfish young place-hunter, to
be mistress of Radalls ?'

'I don't understand,' replied Judith,
bluntly

be affected, child,' said Peter,
vexed because he saw that she really did
not understand. ' Everybody knows that
Will Sutton is longing to marry you.'

Will !' exclaimed Judith.

Her father's words were a revelation.
She knew at once that it was true, that
Will did love her. She marvelled how she
could have been so blind, and yet her want
of perception in this instance was perfectly
natural. It had never struck her that a
man twenty years older than she was, who
had kissed her in such a fatherly manner,
who was so near and dear a friend — could
look upon their intimacy in any other

y2

light. Besides, she had been so taken up
with Ambrose ; she was so repeatedly asking
herself whether he in truth cared for
her, that affection from any other quarter
came as a total surprise. But her father
was right. She understood now, with a
pang of remorse, all that Will had suffered
on the day of their ^dsit to Radalls, and
resolved instantly to show him some
kindness, to make him some amends.
His silent fidelity, his patience, touched
her, and her father saw her lips trembling.


It's a fine property, Jue. You'd have
a position in the county. He'd give you
plenty of pin-money.'

Judith's face hardened.

'And then your mother — think of the
many comforts such a marriage would
secure to her.'

I'm fond of Will, father; but I could
never marry him.'

'No, you've got some silly school-girl
notions into your leach. You'll go your
own way, of course. My advice is not
worth considering. I know nothing of the
world. I am no judge of character. Go,
Judith, I thought you had some affection
for me, or at least for your mother.'

Judith obeyed and left the room. She
knew her father too well to make any
attempt to soften him. She tried hard not
to despise the parent to whom she owed
reverence. She bore from him . . . chiefly
for her mother's sake . . . what was well-nigh
unendurable. But she had to own that
her father was beyond all things selfish.
A dread took possession of her that perhaps
Ambrose, when he grew old, might belike
this. And so it happened, that when
she and Ambrose met to-day, she was
peculiarly sensitive to any exhibition of
this spirit. Ambrose had chosen an unfortunate
day for his attempt.

Ambrose was not far from the house
now ; but his usually quick, firm step was
slow and undecided. He never doubted
that Judith would accept him, for he was
accustomed to gain other points for which
he strove, and Judith was too artless not
to have betrayed her feelings for him.
Ambrose knew that he had won her heart,
and that such a heart was well worth the
winning. But there was no concealing
the truth that when she became his wife he
would have to close his account with the
old life, and begin a new life involving
much sacrifice. That he looked upon the
union as a sacrifice was clear from his
parting words to his mother.

Ambrose, as secretary to Mr. Mackintosh,
one of the political lights of the day, enjoyed
a good many social privileges which
he had not valued aright until now, when
he seemed on the point of forfeiting them

The path he had climbed hitherto had
been rough, but not without flowers by
the way. Half-confidences from handsome,
fashionable women desirous of finding out
Mr. Mackintosh's views for their husbands ;
dinners where celebrities jogged your elbow
and even condescended to approve of your
goings on ; these things so very pleasant
for Mr. Jackson unattached, would
they not become memories after marriage ?
There was also a certain young widow,
Alice Murray by name, who lived in Park
Lane, and had wealth and a certain style
of beauty, and was very civil to the young
politician of promise. Would she honour
him with those little scented notes, naming
an hour when she could receive her
especial friends, or scolding him for playing
truant ? Ambrose was quite sure that
Mrs Murray would do nothing of the sort.
What remarks were to be expected from

this troops of friends, who lead prophesied so
great things for him, if he married a girl
from Baybridge ? A man may be indifferent
to criticism in other matters, but about
a wife he is apt to be sensitive ; and so it
fared with Ambrose.

A sacrifice the marriage would be without
a doubt. But Ambrose, though blinded
by ambition and pride, and by that self-assertion
which is so often the bosom sin of
a successful young man . . . was at heart
a gentleman. Judith should never suspect
that he was making a sacrifice. Such was
his firm resolve when he entered the house.
But how difficult it often proves to hide
our real thoughts on such occasions ; the
more important the interview, the greater
the stake, the more likely are they to come
to the surface, and work havoc among our
best intentions.

Ambrose was shown into the drawing-room,

where he Alas soon joined by the
sisters and by Oris Parry. Cris guessed
his friend's errand, and so strolled through
the open window on to the terrace to
smoke a cigarette. Annie followed him.

Judith and Ambrose were left alone.
Judith hardly dared to look up ; there was
something in the manner in which Ambrose
shook hands with her which implied
what was coming. A few words, whatever
effect they might have upon him,
would lay a firm foundation for her own
happiness or else for ever utterly destroy
it. Ambrose, usually so much at his ease,
was obviously nervous and had nothing
to say for himself. The silence grew so
painful that Judith, though she was trembling
all over, broke it by an inquiry after
Mrs. Jackson's health. Ambrose thanked
her, his mother was fairly well. Then
Judith, by way of leading to some sort of

conversation, asked what Mrs. Jackson had
been painting lately.

Nothing, could she hut have known it,
could have been more ill-timed than this
question. It recalled to Ambrose that unfortunate
portrait, without which he would
not have been sitting by Judith now with
the full intention of asking her to be his
Avise. He told her about the portrait, and
about the Tuckers, and went on to deplore
that so few people could mind their own
business. Judith's suspicions were confirmed
; she read the truth in every word
and gesture — that he had been driven to
her side, and felt himself aggrieved. She
grew pale, and prepared her answer.

I can't tell you. Miss Topham,' said he,
how cut up I have been at the thought of
all you must have suffered from this tittletattle.
I certainly did my best to contradict
and put it down. That your names

for which I've learnt so deep a respect,,
should be bandied about by these chattering,
ill-natured women has been — has been
very hard for me to bear.'

He paused, but if he expected any
answer he was disappointed, for Judith did
not say a word.

Fortunately,' said Ambrose, ' there's a
way to silence these contemptible people.
Miss Topham — Judith, I'm going to ask
you a very important question. Please be
indulgent. You know that I'm a hardworking,
earnest man, and that if I undertake
to help and guide you, I will do so to
the utmost of my ability. I'm not well off,
and it's hard to get on in these days of
competition, unless one has more connections
than I can ever boast of. But you
are too good, too true for such considerations.
Will you marry me, Judith ?'

Judith's head had been bowed while he

spoke. She now raised it and her face was
deadly pale. There was great pain written
on it, love not to be uttered, and resolution
not to be overcome.

Do you love me, Mr. Jackson ?' she asked.

He started up.

Love you ? Why, Judith ! Don't you
understand that's just what I've been
saying?'

You said nothing about that,' murmured
she ; ' you forgot that.'

But surely you know all I mean '

he began.

I fear, Mr. Jackson,' she answered, in a
low, sad tone, ' that I know more of your
thoughts than you suppose or wish. You
have asked me to be your wife — I cannot
fill the position. I thank you — and — and
that is all.'

You refuse !' cried Ambrose.

She bowed her head again.

I refuse.'

But, Judith . . .no, don't turn your head
away like that . . . listen to me. I spoke
awkwardly, but you must feel, I am sure
how much I do love you — how greatly in
earnest I am.'

No, Mr. Jackson, you are not in earnest.
You think I have been compromised. You
think yourself bound to make me this proposal.
You have acted, not from Avhat
you felt, but from what you thought it
your duty to do. Don't speak, please, for
one moment. If you had really loved me,
you would not have sat there and offered
me your love as if it were a dead, cold
thing, instead of being precious '

Judith !'

No, no, have pity on me and say no
more. If you had been in earnest, you
would have thrown yourself at my feet
half-an-hour ago — in the most critical action

of your life, you at least would not
have been half-hearted. You have fulfilled
what you supposed to be an obligation,
you have saved me from the busybodies :
in proposing you have done your duty, in
refusing I have done mine.'

Ambrose knew that she spoke the truth,
but her attitude was so totally unexpected
that he was filled with consternation.
This country girl, whom he had not
thought good enough for him, had in plain
terms rejected his offer. It was the first
serious check in his life, it was the first
blow that taught him that even he could
be weak. He saw that Judith loved him.
Her beauty, her distress, her courage
thrilled him. He threw self to the winds,
he trampled the demon down, — but it was
too late.

Judith !' he cried, ' don't treat me cruelly.
I know that you love me. I know
that I'm full of faults, that I'm hard,

proud, selfish — but how can I get rid of
these faults unless I have somebody to
correct me? Be my teacher, dear, dear
Judith. I am at your feet now, Judith.'

She trembled violently. If he had
only spoken like this at first. There he
was, as he said, at her feet, and she half
believed that she was dearer to him than
his ambition.

I'm not cruel,' she said, piteously. ' I
want to do you justice. But I won't yield
to what is a joy now if in the future it is
to turn to bitterness. I won't become
your wife, and drag you down.'

You drag me down ! Pardon, pardon,
Judith !'

Will you answer one question, most
truly ?' she said.

Yes.'

Did you or did you not lead Mrs.
TAvecdy to believe that in marrying me
you would be marrying beneath you ?'

Ambrose turned as white as a sheet.

Judith walked towards the door.

Stop !' he cried, following her and
taking her hand, ' I've been a fool, a vain
empty-headed fool. Forgive me, don't let
this be your answer.'

It is my answer. I'm doing what is
right,' whispered Judith.

Then she was gone.

The young man walked quickly up and
down the room once or twice, crushed his
hat over his brows, and strode out of the
house.

Judith lay in her mother's arms, moaning
over and over again between her sobs-that
she had done right, and that her heart
Alas broken.

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

LONLiON ; PRINTED BY DUNCAN MACDONALD, BLENHEIM HOUSE.

VOL. II.

BY

ARTHUR A. Hoffman.

Wait, and Love himself will bring
The drooping flower of knowledge changed to fruit
Of wisdom. Wait : my faith is large in Time,
And that which shapes it to some perfect end.'

Tennyson.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. II.

LONDON:

HURST AND BLACKETT, LIMITED,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1887.

All rights reserved.

CONTENTS

OF

THE SECOND VOLUME.

CHAPTER I.

peter's last venture.

The news that Miss Topham had refused
Ambrose Jackson spread quickly through
Baybridge. Judith did not want a word
said. But that was far from suiting her
father's views, and Mr. Topham walked
to the club, and mentioned there quite
casually that young Jackson had done his
daughter an honour, really, most unexpected.
He whispered to Captain Handcock
that the fellow's impudence was astounding.
He called upon Mrs. Tweedy, and

VOL. II. b

patted Nora and Augusta on the head, and
told their mother that he did not know
what the world was coining to, when
young men with nothing . . . absolutely nothing
. to recommend them, aspired to
marry into the good old families. Mrs.
Tweedy belonged to a good old Welsh
family, and could not help being gratified.

Between you and me, my dear Mrs.
Tweedy,' said Peter, c I do know a gentleman
when I see one.'

Isn't Mr. Jackson a gentleman then V
asked Augusta.

Nonsense, nonsense,' laughed Mr. Top-ham.
■ How sharp she is, Mrs. Tweedy.'

Quite unusual for her age,' said the
fond mother. And Peter Topham went
home satisfied that his version of the
affair had got the start of all other versions
Whatsoever.

Nobody (except his wife) supposed that
Peter had much heart. But he must have

had something to represent that organ,
and that something was not altogether so
stony as to enable him to look upon his
elder daughter's face without compassion.
He was rather surprised, though he allowed
Judith to be plucky, to see her at
luncheon — which he kept waiting for exactly
one hour. But Judith, after the first
sharp agony had passed away, had decided
that it would never do to give in, and there
she sat, resolute, but pale and still. Her
father had not taken the trouble to acquaint
himself with the details of that trying interview
with Ambrose ; he was of opinion
that the arguments which he had that
morning used had sunk into Judith's mind,
and that she had refused Ambrose simply
because she had been ordered so to do.
Peter thought himself therefore in some
measure responsible for her present sufferings
— which were of course all for her own
advantage. He saw that she was suffering

b 2

acutely. So he whispered into her ear that
she was a dear girl, and kissed her forehead,
and poured her out half a glass of his port
wine, and told her to follow his example,
and look at the bright side of everything.
He reminded the sufferer that there was a
silver lining to every cloud, and that good
fortune always came to those who had
learned the art of waiting. Judith did
not seem to hear him.

Even Peter at length felt that under the
circumstances gaiety was out of place today
; but it was hard for him to act up to
the feeling. He had just received a letter
about the investment in the brickwork, to
which his wife had given such a reluctant
consent, and the letter contained welcome
news. He had waited long enough surely,
and now at last success laden with moneybags
knocked at his door. Directly after
luncheon, he called Maria into his study,
and pointed out to her with exultation the

result of his financial wisdom and foresight.
Peter Topham had apparently triumphed.
The coveted brick works had been
acquired by him on behalf of his wife,
though the difficulties to be surmounted
before that state could be reached had
been many and great. As Maria had foretold,
her lawyer, Mr. Shale, had at. once
very clearly signified his intention of
preventing any further appropriation of
his client's money. He emphatically declared
that not one penny should be
touched. He pointed out kindly and
gravely to Mrs. Topham that the money
she was attempting to put to the hazard
was nearly all that she and her daughters
had to live upon. He mercilessly reviewed
Peter's past enterprises, and showed that
one after another had been followed by a
reduction of her income. But Mr. Slade's
arguments had not that effect which they
undoubtedly deserved to have. Annie

was engaged to be married to a man without
a profession, certainly, but well able
to maintain her. While this business was
pending, Judith was, her mother thought,
almost engaged to Ambrose. With her
daughters thus provided for, Mr. Slade's
remonstrances fell on a deaf ear. She
believed thoroughly in Peter. Mr. Topham
had been unfortunate, that was the statement
to which, in spite of all that Mr.
Slade could advance, she clung tenaciously.
In vain the lawyer asserted that when
a man is always unfortunate the soundness
of his method may fairly be called in
question. Maria had believed in her husband
for five-and-twenty years. No, Mr.
Slade might be clever, but obviously he
did not understand Peter.

Some decision, however, had to be arrived
at quickly; for husband and wife-could
not stay in London for more than a
few days without arousing Judith's suspicions.

As it was, a visit to some distant
relations of her father's had been made a
pretext for their absence from Baybriclge.
Mr. Topham's main object was to get Mr.
Slade to ' go into ' the brick works. Mr.
Slade, though he had no doubt that he
could easily show the project to be unsound,
judged that to commence any investigation
would be to yield a point, and
Mr. Slade had been brought up in a school
where even unimportant points were not
readily yielded. At last two promises
were made. The lawyer promised to examine
the concern. Maria promised faithfully
to abide by his decision. Peter was
now sure of success.

Mr. Slade had more respect for Judith
than for any other young lady with whom
he was acquainted. She had proved herself
to be shrewd and sensible, and had
several times co-operated with him in
checking her father's visionary projects.

The lawyer quickly divined that she had
been kept in ignorance as to what was
opine; on now, and wrote her a cautiously
worded letter. Had this letter reached
Judith all might have been well. But it
so happened that her father, instead of
returning to Baybridge on Thursday morning,
returned on Wednesday evening, and
received that identical letter from the
postman's hand at his own door. Mr.
Topham kept his own counsel, and put the
lawyer's communication into his pocket,
where it remained.

Mr. Slade, receiving no answer from
Judith, had no choice but to ' go into ' the
brick-works. To his surprise, the speculation
seemed bond-fide. No extravagant
profits were held out as an inducement.
Satisfactory reasons were given for the
proposed transfer of the business. Mr.
Slade was almost vexed ; but he consoled
himself with the reflection that even a

fool like Peter Topliam must, if only he
dabble long enough, hit upon a good
thing. The lawyer reluctantly withdrew
his opposition, and consented ; but made
himself safe from blame by a formal protest
against the whole proceeding. Maria's
money, nearly all of it, was taken out of
the securities and put into the brick-works.

The letter which Peter Topliam now
showed in triumph to his wife was from his
new manager at the brickwork, and contained
a glowing account of the prospects
of the concern.

1 Now, Maria?' said her husband.

It certainly looks very promising, Peter.'

6 You shall have your carriage and pair,
yet,' said the sanguine financier.

I want nothing,' replied Mrs. Topham,
meekly, c except to see you and the girls
happy and comfortable.'

What a fuss Slade made about nothing
?'

1 I suppose he thought he was doing his
duty, Peter. But I never doubted that, as
you went into the whole thing yourself, you
would succeed. May I tell Judith now T

4 Just as you please, Maria.'

No, dear, it's as you think.'

Well, suppose I tell her and Annie after
dinner ?'

This was agreed to, and Maria left her
husband busily examining his papers.
Mr. Tophani had spent perhaps half an -
hour in this manner, when he heard a slight
noise at his elbow, looked up, and found
himself no longer alone.

The new coiner was a tall man, carefully
but quietly dressed. He had walked into
the house without ceremony, and without
being seen by any of its other inmates.
He sat down opposite Peter, and took
his gloves off deliberately. The newcomer
was Mr. Slade, of Slade Dutton &
Co.

Mr. Slade ?' said Peter, jumping up
actively. 'This is an unexpected pleasure.
How are you, sir? How is Mrs. Slade;
how are the young ladies? — Is there anything
the matter with you ?'

This last question so abruptly put was
called forth by the lawyer's severe attitude.
He looked at Peter with undisguised contempt,
and replied,

c There is nothing the matter with me, Mr.
Topham. I have just a few questions to ask?'

Certainly, Mr. Slade.'

You remember the name of the vendor
of this '

The brickwork ? Oh, yes,' said Peter,
Johnson. A name not so easily forgotten,
eh ? Mr. Slade. You have read the inimitable
Boswell, of course ?'

Mr. Slade was not a man given to violent
passions; but he had been badly treated all
round, and he said something severe about
the inimitable Boswell under his breath.

1 don't think there is any need for jesting
at present, Mr. Topham. Johnson's
title to the property is challenged.'

'Ah, indeed?' said Peter, nervously.

Had you any suspicions in this direction,
Mr. Topham?'

The title is good enough,' said Peter,
evasively. c It has been in Johnson's
hands for years. The fields would have
been worked out Ions; ago but for want of
railway communication. Possession nine
points of the law, you know. Come confess,
Mr. Slade, to have gone into that
question would have caused endless expense
and delay.'

It would have cost delay,' said Mr.
Slade, bitterly, ' and of course you were
anxious to get rid of your wife's money as
soon as possible. I found no flaw in the
title. It seems, however, that there is an
ancient and peculiar claim; that the vendor,
now safe abroad with your wife's money,

informed your wife of this claim ; and that
your wife actually wrote to him, at your
dictation, begging that the matter might
not be mentioned to me, or to the other
solicitors.'

4 The claim can never be proved,' said
Peter.

1 Never,' assented Mr. Slade, grimly.

Then, my dear sir, why these gloomy
views ? Cheer up, Mr. Slade. I see what
it is, you are, after all, a little nettled at
my success.'

1 The claim can never be proved,' said
Mr. slade, icily; 'but an injunction will
be granted, restraining you from digging
a single brick out of that property while
the claim is being urged, that is, until
almost every penny that your wife has got
is swallowed up in litigation. I'm not to
blame, Mr. Topham, I protested against
the whole transaction. But your behaviour
has been scandalous. You have taken the

very bread from a woman you are utterly
incapable of appreciating, and from her
children.'

The lawyer departed from his professional
attitude in this tirade. But then he
was alone with his victim, and could speak
without reserve. He was simply an angry
man. The Tophams had always been a
thorn in his flesh, and now he had been
outwitted by Peter, whose stupidity he
despised. He had spoken out, however,
and subsided into his professional calm.

Peter paid no attention to his hard
words. The money gone ! Work at the
fields stopped ! His El Dorado a barren
waste !

For the moment at least, Peter's levity
was crushed. He had quite expected the
claim to be made, but the obvious consideration
that, while that claim was being
discussed, he Avould not be permitted to
draw any money's worth from the property

had escaped him. Any practical man
would have pointed this out at once, but
then Mr. Tophani never relied on anyone's
wits but his own. He struggled hard to
put a bold face on the matter.

Well, Mr. Slade,' said he, c this is rather
serious. What have you to suggest ?'

I don't know whether your friends could
getyou any appointment,' said Mr. Slade, c or
whether you'd be fit to undertake any work.'

c Do you mean that I'm to ivory V cried
Mr. Topham, aghast.

4 Unless you mean that your wife and
children are to starve,' said Mr. Slade.
And the lawyer buttoned up his gloves
and rose to go.

Stop, stop cried Peter. i It would
perhaps be better if you were to explain to
my wife.'

c I would not meet the reproach in your
good wife's eyes to be made Lord Chancellor,'
said Mr. Slade.

Peter sat clown and covered his face
with his hands. The other walked slowly
out of the room, and in the hall met Judith.

c Mr. Shale !' cried Judith, ' there's something
wrong ?'

He took her hand and pressed it affectionately,
saying,

c Ah, my dear young lady, why did you
desert me this time ?'

1 Desert you, Mr. Slade ?'

'Why didn't you answer my letter?'

I never received it. Another misfortune
? No, no, clear Mr. Shade, for my
mother's sake, say no.'

The lawyer pointed to the study door.

c Ask him. Goal bless you, Judith.' And,
after this unusual display of tenderness, he
pressed Judith's fingers again, and took
his departure.

Judith flew upstairs, and in five minutes
learnt the whole history of the investment
from her mother. They hurried down to

the study, and found Peter standing to all
appearance undaunted on the hearthrug.

'You assured me there was no risk,
Peter,' cried his wife. ' You gave me your
word of honour there was no risk.'

'My dear Maria,' protested he, in a
soothing tone, c Mr. Slade has been frightening
you. Come, come, there's no harm
done.'

1 If I could believe that,' said the poor
woman, almost comforted by his manner.

c How can you be so cruel, father,' said
Judith. ' You had far better let her
know the truth at once. What news did
Mr. Slade bring ?'

Peter gave an account of their interview.
He began in a very rambling fashion ; but
Judith seized upon the facts.

c The property which you've bought
doesn't belong to you ?'

Xot exactly that, my child.'

Can you draw an income from it?'

vol. ir. c

1 Soon, very soon, Judith,' said her father.

'How soon?'

The case will come on soon, my dear.'

And how long will it last ?' insisted
Judith.

Years, and years, and years,' wailed
Mrs. Topham ; c these cases always do.'

And nothing can be touched till then ?'
continued Judith. c What is mother to
live on in the meantime?'

4 1 have acted for the best,' said Peter.
c Even Mr. Slade admitted that the investment
was thoroughly sound. These little
difficulties will soon be got over, Maria.
Judith, instead of making yourself so . so
. . objectionable, you might take a less
gloomy view '

1 What's the good of talking to me,' replied
Judith, in a husky tone. c Don't you
see that she's fainted. Mamma, mamma !'

Poor Mrs. Topham had fainted, but she
was-soon brought back to consciousness

and to misery. The loss of the money did
not afflict her ; had a fortune been poured
into her lap, the affliction would have remained.
But the only strong, passionate
belief that the weak woman had was rooted
out of her life. She had believed in Peter,
and now her belief in Peter was gone, and
she did not seem to care if life went too.

The burden of this calamity fell upon
Judith. Her mother was soon ill in bed.
Her father showed that he felt the increased
responsibilities of his position only by
more vigorous fault-finding than ever.
Judith behaved decorously, but despised
him in her heart, and that she had so to
despise him was one of the aggravations of
her distress.

Something might still be saved out of
the brick-works, but Judith would rely
only on their fixed income. Did it still
deserve the name of an income ? It was a
hundred and twenty pounds all told. She

c2

was deeply thankful that nothing was
owing to the small tradespeople in Bay-bridge
— but for how long could she hope
to live without falling into debt ? Judith
took perhaps the wisest course when she
consulted that amiable old lady, Mrs. Robertson.
She could not go to Will Sutton ;
she shrank from being under any obligation
to him after she had discovered his
feelings towards her.

Aunt Robby gave both advice and help.
She advised that Cris and Annie should be
married at once. But Mrs. Topham, who
had always set her face against the match
until Cris got some employment, would
not hear of it, and the poor lady could not
be contradicted in her present state. Cris
himself declared that, whether married or
not, he was one of the family, and had a
right to help with his means ; but Aunt
Robby advised Judith, for Annie's sake,
not to accept any help from Cris. Mrs.

Robertson further advised that the Top-hams
should let the house they now lived
in and take a small cottage about three
miles from Baybb ridge. But what Aunt
Robby chiefly insisted upon was that Peter
should at once apply to his own relations,
and this Peter eventually had to do. And
the old lady ended by promising to be
Judith's banker until some arrangements
for the future were completed.

The house was let without much difficulty
and the cottage secured. The Top-hams
moved to their new home late in
October. There was a great deal of work
to be done ; but Judith worked like a slave,
and seemed incapable of fatigue. Indeed,
she was thankful for the necessity for
exertion, which prevented her thoughts
from dwelling unduly upon her own fate.
Like her mother, she had one sorrow that
overwhelmed all others. She had lost
Ambrose, and he had been all the world to

her. Day after day she had hoped that he
would come back, or write and ask her to
reconsider her decision. But could she reconsider
it ? Did not the reasons for her
conduct still exist? She was not called
upon to answer these questions : no sign of
any sort came from Ambrose.

CHAPTER II.

REACTION.

The foregoing necessary account of Peter
Topham's last experiment in finance lias
brought us to the end of October. But we
must noah go back to that summer morning
when Mrs. Jackson was anxiously awaiting
her son's return with the news that Judith
had promised to be his wife.

From the very first, Helen Jackson had
earnestly longed for this marriage. Not
only did she admire and love Judith, but
she was firmly convinced that nobody else
could as well understand or manage
Ambrose. Helen idolized him; but she
had that rarest gift among mothers of seeing

the faults of an only son. The more
Ambrose prospered, the more uneasy did
she become ; not from any want of faith in
his ability, but because it was sadly
evident to her that he pursued success and
happiness on a system utterly false. She
could not make him see this, other love
than a mother's was needed. The affectionate
influence of a wife like Judith,
exerted with the gentleness and tact she
would know so well how to exert, might
gradually open his mind to admit other
views, and erect his future upon a firmer
foundation.

Lately another reason for desiring this
union had powerfully asserted itself.
Helen Jackson had been a widow since her
son's earliest childhood, and the blow
which had fallen upon her soon after his
birth was so crushing that she had firmly
rejected the possibility of a second marriage.
But since then many years had passed, —

and where is the sorrow that Time cannot
heal ? While her son was growing, Helen
never felt lonely, every hour was devoted
to his service. But of late she had felt
lonely. Ambrose was dear to her as ever,
but he had many tastes and occupations in
which she could have no share. Proud as
she was of his ability, Helen often caught
herself wishing that he was a little less
clever, a little more dependant upon her.
Such thoughts were harassing her when
she made the acquaintance of Will Sutton.
She at once recognized his good qualities,
and before long she granted her new friend
a solid esteem which almost imperceptibly
ripened into affection. And then came the
discovery that Will loved Judith. But, if
Judith were to marry Ambrose, Will might
learn to forget her, and he might, the widow
thought, turn to some one more of his own
age. Helen guarded her secret jealously,
considering that at her time of life the least

demonstration would be unpardonable.

Thus Mrs. Jackson had more than one
reason for awaiting her son's return with
anxiety. At last she saw him striding down
the road ; and gathered in a moment from
his manner that a misfortune had happened.

Ambrose tramped into the room, and
flung his hat down on the table.

Here I am, mother,' said he. L I have
done my duty manfully, offered my hand
and heart, and received my dismissal.'

His mother clasped her hands together.

c Dismissal, Ambrose ? Impossible ! Judith
hasn't refused you ?'

Even so, mother mine.'

Oh ! Ambrose, don't look like that ;
don't look so hard and bitter. There's
some misunderstanding. You didn't make
due allowance for Judith. She loves you,
I know she does. But she is very sensitive.
You have been too domineering,
dear boy ; you have wounded her pride.'

1 Of course I made a mess of it,' said
Ambrose. ' I'm not up in the language of
adulation and gallantry, it seems. I own
that at first I was stiff and awkward.'

'You are always so masterful, dear Ambrose.
A woman, especially a woman with
fine feelings like Judith, expects some
tenderness.'

Oh, we had plenty of tenderness,' replied
Ambrose. ' I threw myself at her
feet, I clasped her hands. I declared that
she was everything to me, and that I
would make any sacrifice, etc., etc. And
she answered with a plain No, a good,
round, plain Xo.'

She must have been out of her senses
gasped Mrs. Jackson. ' Did she give no
reason ?'

She declared that I wasn't in earnest.
I believe,' flashed out Ambrose, suddenly,
4 it's all that fellow Sutton !'

This was not fair of Ambrose, nor did

lie speak with his usual candour. He knew
perfectly well that Judith cared more for
him than for Will Sutton. But he thought
that Judith had behaved very badly, that
his last appeal ought to have atoned for
that unfortunate suggestion to Mrs. Tweedy
which had constituted his chief offence.
He was hard hit, and angry with Judith,
with himself, and with everybody else, and
Will Sutton served for a scapegoat.

c Mr. Sutton has nothing to do with the
matter, I'm sure,' said the widow. ' And I
won't have you speak of him in that way.'

Ambrose stared.

He's a friend of mine,' stammered she,
4 and you are always abusing him.'

c I beg pardon, then,' said Ambrose,
penitently. ' Dear old mother, I'm sorry.
Don't be down on me to-day, though, if
I'm ill-mannered ; for I feel hipped.'

1 Naturally, Ambrose. I didn't mean to
scold. But I am so disappointed in Judith.'

So am I,' said Ambrose ; c but I shall
soon get over that. The truth is, I quite
deserve what I got. Judith Topham is a
good girl, no doubt. But still she is not
well, she's not in any sort of society.
You know my old maxim, mother — touch
nothing that isn't the best of its kind. I
allowed myself to be captivated by a country
maid, and this is the result. I've come
off cheaply on the whole, and can now
make a fresh start. What does vex me is
the inconvenience to which you will be
put.'

1 Oh, Ambrose cried his mother, ' don't
ask me to leave Baybridge. I can't.'

But, mother '

c You can keep out of Judith's way
when you come down to see me V

Without the slightest difficulty.'

1 Then why should I go 7

c I'm afraid you have set your heart on
the match, and might not be resolute

enough in proving to everybody that it's
quite out of the question.'
Is it, Ambrose ?'

1 Quite, mother. You would hardly
wish me, I think, to try my luck again.'

c I'm sure she's sorry by this time,'
pleaded his mother.

Ambrose made a gesture of impatience.
His mother, seeing that she could do nothing,
promised to acquiesce in his wishes,
and it was settled that she should remain
in Bay bridge.

That evening Ambrose went back to his
rooms in Jermyn Street.

As his train rolled out of the little
station at Baybriclge, the young man was
in a calmer frame of mind, and disposed
to regard the event of the day not asa
failure but as an escape. Formerly
he had entertained a practical man's horror
of sentiment ; for the last few months
he had had much to do with sentiment,

and now came the reaction. What business
had a man with the world at his feet,
with brains and pluck to command success,
to thunder in the easy-going paths of
sentiment? Sentiment, thought Ambrose,
as he now puffed at his cigar, is but another
name for weakness. He concluded
that he had been guilty of folly, and that
the reaction was both healthy and wise.

Never was there a more complete delusion.
Ambrose had long been breathing
the poisonous atmosphere of a strictly
selfish and personal ambition. Suddenly
his mind was brought into contact with
Judith's. In his better moments, and more
especially in her presence, he caught a
glimpse of the superiority of her motives
and daily aspirations. Ambrose had cultivated
his mind at the expense of his
heart. He was by no means an exceptional
or solitary creature in the great world of
character ; on the contrary, he belonged to

a class growing more numerous daily, and
leaving its imprint on the history of to-day,
to that class whose aim seems to be to
develop individuality, no matter at what
cost to itself or to society. Only one
thing could save Ambrose, the influence
of some one capable of quickening the
heart which had become withered because
almost every avenue of feeling to it had
been closed. The precious means of safety
had been offered, offered in its sweetest,
purest form — a woman's love. And now
Ambrose, poor, purblind wretch, rejoiced
that this love had been withdrawn, yes, he
positively rejoiced that he had not been
allowed to ' throw himself away.'

He now appeared to realise for the first
time fully what a sacrifice he had endeavoured
to make that morning. Fancy having
to own that self-opinionated ass Peter
Topham for a father-in-law. Fancy having
to confess to all his friends and acquaintances

. . . for a confession it would be, no
matter what paraphrase he might employ . . ,
that Judith, his future wife, was a nobody.
Fancy having to allow to his fashionable
lady friends . . . when they asked, as women
will ask, what dressmaker Judith patronized
. . . that Judith stitched her own
frocks.

c By Jove,' murmured Ambrose, ' I'm
well out of it.' Then, as Judith's sad eyes
came to his memory, he added, ' It washer
own doing. I actually went on my
knees to her.'

As Ambrose was stepping out of his
railway-carriage at Euston, he heard his
name called.

Halloa, Jackson.'

Halloa, Bob.'

Bob Pinkerton was a spruce little man
with fiery red hair. He and Ambrose met
often, and were on good terms. Everybody
who knew Bob knew that he was as

VOL. II. d

poor as a church mouse, and as impudent
as anything could be born.

Heard the news ?' said Bob.

4 What? about the Cornish election. Of
course I have.'

Oh, hang the Cornish election,' said
Bob. ' All London isn't talking about that.'

Perhaps all London is talking about
Robert Pinkerton ?'

1 Yes,' said the little man, ' that's about
it. I'm going to marry Blanche Inglis.'

'You! the ugliest man in the three
kingdoms. Congratulate you, Bob. But
how on earth did you manage it.'

'Impudence, fluency, and perseverance,'
said the red-headed gentleman. ' I'm looking-for
a best man. Feel inclined, Jackson ?'

As Blanche Inglis was well connected,
and the wedding likely to be an affair,
Jackson did feel inclined, and accepted.

No end of money, isn't there ?' he asked.

I suppose so,' replied Bob, as they

walked side by side up the platform, c a
man must marry money now-a-days if he
wants to get on. None of your portionless
rural beauties. Eh, Jackson ? You've
been spending your holiday among 'em —
oh, yes, all that has leaked out.'

Ambrose felt that it was useless getting
angry with a man endowed with so much
impudence as was Mr. Robert Pinkerton.

Tell you what,' said Bob, — c a cigar ? —
tell you what, why don't you go in for the
widow ?'

There are so many widows,' said Ambrose,
' which do you recommend ?'

It won't do,' said Bob. : The widow in
Park Lane, — Alice Murray.'

'You forget, Bob, that I haven't got your
impudence.'

c Ah, I forgot that,' replied Mr. Pinkerton.
Mackintosh will be glad to have you back
again, Jackson, — hands full of work, and

d 2

looking intensely bored. Don't think he
can do without you.'

Perhaps I'm of use,' said Ambrose, quietly.

e 1 may count on my best man then ? T
said Mr. Pinkerton.

Certainly,' said Ambrose. And the
friends parted.

Ambrose hailed a hansom, and told the
driver to take him to Jermyn Street.
Bob Pinkerton hasn't done badly for himself,'
he said, half-aloud, as he leaned back
in his seat. c A fellow with hardly any
brains too ! What would he have thought
of a wife from Baybridge?' And then
Ambrose reflected that had Judith taken
him at his word he would not have been
driving comfortably in a hansom. It would
have been an omnibus — smelling of dirty
straw and cheap millinery. ' Bob's quite
right,' he murmured again, 'a man must
marry money now-allays, if he wants to
get on.'

His rooms had been furnished under his
own direction, and the furniture was very
characteristic of its owner. Everything
was large, solid, useful. The carpet was
deliciously soft to the foot. The armchairs
appeared just to fit one's back, and
their cushions to afford just the proper
degree of resistance. The sitting-room,
which Jackson now entered, looked, for all
that, somewhat bare and austere. There
were none of the trifles which are scattered
about some men's rooms, and give a suggestion
of comfort and of home ; but a beautiful
portrait of his mother stood in a costly
velvet frame on his desk, and there was a
smaller picture in water-colours of himself,
which his mother had painted. There
were a few periodicals and pamphlets on the
table in the middle of the room. There
was a volume of Shakespeare — the Comedies
well-thumbed. Also one of Montaigne
in the same condition. A handsome Bible,

his mother's gift, lay beside them, but it
did not seem much the worse for wear.

In the frame of the looking-glass above
the mantelpiece were stuck the invitations
of last season, and some of later date.
Ambrose allowed them all to remain there.
He did not worship title and wealth, but
he did worship power and success, and
to let all comers notice, (if they had the
misfortune not to be aware of the fact), that
you had the run of the best houses, was
one way of showing that you had a certain
standing, and could hardly with propriety
be asked to meet Brown at dinner somewhere
beyond Clapham Junction.

Ambrose rang for his lamp.

'Anyone called, Thorpe?' he asked.

Several people had called, and Thorpe
gave their names in a sing-song tone ; concluding
with :

c Mr. Mackintosh was here half-an-hour
ago, sir, and finding you was out left a

note. A telegram came, too, and is on the
desk with the other letters, sir.' And so
saying Thorpe, who was never encouraged
to make an unnecessary remark, went
about his business.

Ambrose opened the telegram : ' Can I
do anything ? — Parry.' Cris had hurried to
Mrs. Jackson's house the moment he heard
what had happened between Ambrose and
Judith ; but Ambrose was already gone.
Cris had consulted nobody, but, thinking it
possible there might be some misunderstanding
which he could smoothe away,
sent off his message. Ambrose, as he now
fingered it, well understood his friend's
meaning. He did not suppose that Judith
had relented, for he rightly gave her credit
for great strength of character. His
mother had promised to be neutral, and
so Ambrose knew that Cris had not acted
under her influence. But he thought it
more than likely that Mrs. Topham, knowing

that Judith was fond of him, had
given Oris a hint. He felt as if one last
chance was offered to him. No, he had
made his choice. Judith's face swam before
his eyes for a moment ; he seemed to
feel the touch of her hand. Then he
pressed his lips together and wrote on a
telegram form : ' No, thanks — Jackson ' —
and sent Thorpe with it to the post-office.

He turned to his correspondence.

First, came a letter from the editor of
one of the Weeklies. Would Mr. Jackson
be disposed to undertake for the winter
months a series of letters . . . effective, well-informed,
aristocratic . . . addressed to celebrities
of the day ? Ambrose settled that
it would be quite worth his while to undertake
the letters ; apart from the guineas to
be earned, the transaction would secure
him the good word of the Weekly later on.

His chief's communication, which he
opened next, contained only a few words,

requesting the secretary to return to his
post as soon as possible. Ambrose glanced
over the stiff formal handwriting with a
smile. He was satisfied to have made himself
indispensable to Mr. Macintosh. He
was prepared to put his shoulder to the
wheel, and to work faithfully to serve the
interests of that gentleman — because in
so doing he would be serving his own.
Sooner or later a vacancy must occur in
the representation of Baybridge, and Ambrose
knew that Mr. Mackintosh, if he
so pleased, could nominate his secretary on
behalf of the Liberal party in the borough.
13 ut his chief would want managing.

Ambrose opened several other envelopes;
the last was from a woman, who wrote as
follows : —

Penryd, W m.

Thursday.

Dear Ambrose,

I suppose there is little good

hoping that Penrycl will be honoured this
autumn by the presence of such a busy and
important personage as you. I'm sure nobody
but you and Mr. M. could find anything
to do in London at this time of the
year. In any case I write to remind you
of our existence (I say our, because Aunt
Sophy is here doing propriety). Come if
you can, if only for a few days.

'It was, you remember, settled between
us that I was to scold you whenever I
pleased, and that you were to take the
scolding in good part. I hear (from whom
no matter) that you have been devoting
yourself to a young lady in Baybridge,
who has no dower except a pretty face, and
simple manners, and, of course, goodness.
I won't believe the report till I hear from
you. Surely we agreed long ago that sentiment
was fit only for boys and girls?
Write and tell me all about it. You shall
not sacrifice your splendid future to a passing

fancy for want of a friendly warning
from

1 Yours affectionately,

Alice Murray.'

The letter was vulgar, heartless, and
rather flattering. Ambrose's first thought
was how impossible it would be for Judith
to write such a letter. Judith was countrified
and unconventional, but she was a
lady. Ambrose was not at all sure that such
a title could be given to his correspondent.

But his correspondent was a beautiful
woman, and Ambrose sat thinking for sometime
of the rich young widow with whom
he had formed an attachment strictly
Platonic.

CHAPTER III.

HARD TIMES.

The beginning of the next year, which
found Ambrose pursuing his career with
undiminished ardour and success, brought
nothing but trial upon trial to the Top-hams,
or rather to that member of the
family who had to bear the burden,
patient, reasonable Judith.

Judith had struggled bravely during the
winter to make both ends meet, and had
succeeded not only in doing that, but in
paying back the money lent by Mrs. Robertson.
Not a farthing had come from the
brick-works. Peter's relations had not
behaved liberally, but they had settled a

small sum upon Mrs. Topham for her lifetime,
which, economically managed, would
help the family to keep up their present
humble establishment.

It was humble enough to punish even
such an offender against common-sense as
Peter Topham. The little, two-storied
house stood on the very edge of the highroad,
about three miles from Baybriclge,
and there was no sort of privacy to be
hoped for, every passer-by being able to
look straight into the rooms. They were
so few and so small that, at first, Judith
almost despaired. One was both drawing-room
and dining-room, an arrangement
which Peter would have waged war against
had it not been obviously inevitable. In
another Judith and Annie slept together.
Only one servant was kept. Judith herself
helped to make the beds, and to wash
up, and to do the cooking, and many other
things besides. She wondered often and

often what Ambrose would think if he
could see her daily work.

The last five months had wrought a
great change in Judith. Her face had
that patient, weary look which betrays a
sorrow never absent, yet always quietly
suppressed. Yet the change was not
striking as far as appearance went, her
cheeks were rather pale, she looked rather
thin, and to the outside world (except to
Will Sutton's constant, loving eye) that
was all. People knew that the Tophams
had been unfortunate, and it was natural
that Judith should not be seen at her
best. Mrs. Tweedy would say, ' Poor child,
she has so much to put up with ; I wish
she wasn't so proud about taking things.'
Elizabeth Tucker said, ' Dear Judith is a
little discontented with her new position
naturally.' ' Naturally,' echoed Clementina.
So everyone had a remark to make, kind
or otherwise, according to the nature of

the speaker. But everyone thought only
of ' money troubles.' It could not be supposed
that Judith was mourning for Ambrose
; for had she not refused him ? Had
she not, by refusing him, been the originator
of a nine days' wonder in Baybridge ?
Yes, she had refused him, not because
of any whim or girlish fancy ; but because
of a stern sense of duty which pointed to
the future and forced her to dash the cup
of happiness from her lips. She had obeyed
her conscience, at what cost to herself
its Keeper alone knew. She obeyed, but
she could not help mourning. She mourned
for her lost one secretly, without complaint,
and without hope. Once or twice
since their interview she had seen him,
and he had saluted her gravely but kindly,
and passed on with his mother. It was
better so. Forget him she never could,
and it was wise that she should not hear
his voice or look into his earnest eyes. How

Judith missed these joys ! Oh, the long
weary nights when, with sleeping Annie's
arms around her, she was tempted to wish
that when sleep came to her it might
never again be broken. Alas ! the morning
broke hath its round of duties, and the
girl kissed her bed-fellow, whom she seldom
had the heart to awaken, and applied herself
to her task with new courage and devotion.

Her mother's state of health was one of
Judith's chief anxieties. And her father's
unabated cheerfulness and misplaced gaiety
was galling beyond description. On the
other hand, Annie, though averse to early
rising, began to help her sister in many
little ways, and to show herself capable of
more self-denial than Judith had supposed
possible.

Mrs. Topham had always been subject
to neuralgia in the head, and, ever since
the failure of Peter's last scheme, she had
suffered at short intervals from acute

attacks. These were followed by such
despondency that it became very difficult
to manage the invalid. Though Judith
over and over again proved to her that
they had plenty to live upon, and were not
getting into debt, she persisted in believing
that sooner or later another crisis must
come, and that ruin would be the consequence.
There was a time when Maria
Topham would have looked confidently to
her husband for aid, but that time was
past. Judith privately consulted Dr.
Stevens. He recommended a change of
scene and surroundings. This Judith
hoped to manage later on ; meanwhile she
fell back upon her favourite plan of doing
one's best, and not looking too far ahead.

Peter had been stripped of several creature
comforts ; and he could not help
noticing that he no longer enjoyed his
wife's confidence. But he never lost heart.
He believed in his own wisdom still. He

VOL. II. M

was convinced that the little difficulties
connected with his last investment would
be overcome, and that he would show to
everybody's satisfaction that Mr. Slade
did not know what he was talking about.
He said no more about the carriage and
pair, it is true, but evidently he had visions
of better days, for now and then he might
be heard singing gently, ' Hard times, hard
times, come again no more.'

sone day in the middle of January, the
family were seated at luncheon, and Peter
began to be very amusing (in his own
estimation) about a certain shoulder of
mutton which appeared, not for the first
time, as the piece de resistance.

Ah, here is our old friend,' he exclaimed,
tapping the bone with the carving knife,
c and a very good friend he has been to us
too. I, for one, am much obliged to him.
Maria, my dear, let me carve you a slice
or two, from the knuckle end.'

I really have no appetite, Peter. I
never feel hungry now,' said his wife.

Come, come, Maria, don't be down-hearted.
It's a poor heart that never
rejoices.'

c There's a little bit of fish coming up
for you in a moment, mother,' said Judith.

4 How can you be so extravagant, Jue ?'
protested the invalid. c We can't afford
luxuries. They are not intended for people
in our position. You mean well, Jue, but
do be careful. I live in a perpetual fear
of what may happen.'

What can happen, Maria? Cheer up,'
said her husband. ' Our position might
be worse, a great deal worse. Many people
are much poorer than we are. We have
a snug little house in an open situation.
We have plenty to eat and to drink. We
have comfortable beds to sleep in '

c Ours has some very comfortable hollows
in it,' said Annie, with a sly look at Judith.

e 2

Mr. Topham spent some time in cutting
up a dinner for Jumper, whom Judith, at
her sister's entreaty, had not sold ; then he
started another subject.

By-the-by, Judith,' said he, ' I have
news about a certain friend of yours.'

Nobody understood the art of letting
well alone less than Peter. Hardly a day
passed without his making some allusion to
Ambrose Jackson. Judith had once begged
him not to do so, and had then submitted.
She received her father's remark in silence.

Do you remember Colonel Murray, my
dear?' said Peter, addressing his wife.

Didn't he marry an heiress from Wales,
and spend all her money?' replied Mrs.
Topham. ' Yes, I remember.'

'He would have wasted every farthing,'
said her husband, 'but he fortunately died.
His widow, Alice Murray, is still very
wealthy, and has a tine house in Wales,
near Wrexham, I think ; and lives in Park

Lane. They had a child ; but it died after
the father, and now its mother is going to
be married again — to whom do you think,
Judith?'

She, with vague foreboding, answered :

'Not ?'

Yes,' said her father, ' to Mr. Ambrose
Jackson. It seems they have been friends
for a long time, and the young man is not
likely to lose a chance of feathering his
nest. Mrs. Tweedy says she is beautiful
into the bargain.'

'Did Mrs. Tweedy tell you?' asked
Judith, who had turned very pale.

'Yes,' said Peter, 'she comes from Wales,
you know.'

I don't believe he's engaged to her fora
moment,' replied Judith, hastily. ' Of
course they may be friends. But Mrs.
Tweedy makes a mountain out of every
mole-hill.' And Judith rose from the
table, and left the room.

Peter,' said his wife. c Can this be
true ? Why didn't you break it more
gently to the poor child ?'

c I've no doubt it is true said Peter.
'Judith must learn to forget the fellow.
Whatever she saw in him I can never make
out. Ugh, I hate a self-opinionated man !'

Judith was quite right in doubting any
news which came from talkative Mrs.
Tweedy. That excellent lady would have
been justly indignant had anyone hinted
that she was a story-teller, and yet it is
certain that every report which entered her
busy little head assumed a very different
meaning by the time she began to convertit
into the small coin of conversation. She
had heard during a stay in London that
Ambrose was a constant visitor at Mrs.
Murray's house. She knew that the widow
had wealth and beauty, and was looked
upon as a catch. A friend of Mrs. Tweedy's
wondered if anything would ' come of it

Xo doubt something would come of it, and
Mrs. Tweed', in saying next day that something
had ' come of it,' believed herself to
be discussing the matter in perfect good
faith. Wherever she went, Mrs. Tweedy
chattered about Ambrose and the beautiful
widow. In the ordinary process of circulation
the reports in time came back to
their utterers bearing current interest.
Before she returned to Baybridge, Mrs.
Tweedy was sure that a positive engagement
had been spoken of; but, to render a
mistake impossible, she asked several well-informed
persons whether they had heard
anything to the contrary. They had not T
and, on meeting Peter Topham, Kate Tweedy
found herself in a position to give a precise
account of the whole affair, and fix,
within a week or so, the date of the
marriage. Judith, who knew pretty well
upon what principles Mrs. Tweedy's mental
operations were conducted, might well

be somewhat sceptical in this instance.

It was now nearly six months since
Ambrose had knelt at Judith's feet, but
she did not believe that he could have altogether
forgotten her. She had no doubt
that he was still free. How long he would
remain free was another question, which
she did not dare to look in the face. She
realised with painful clearness that her
rival could offer advantages which it would
be hard for an ambitious man to refuse.
Judith was sure that the widow had set
her cap at Ambrose. ' If only I could feel
that she could love him half as well as I do,
I would try to bear it more patiently,'
thought poor Judith.

Soon after luncheon, Mr. Topham and
Annie went out. Mrs. Topham retired
with a headache. Judith took down a
volume of essays — which had been given
her by Ambrose ; but she was not left long
undisturbed.

1 She is in, Clem, my love,' said a shrill
voice outside. ' I can see her plainly
through the window.'

c I'm glad we haven't had our walk for
nothing,' echoed another voice.

The Misses Tucker, owing to the distance
from the town, were not able to drop in so
often as formerly ; they were not familiar
with the Tophams' new abode, and did not
know that every word spoken in the road
could be heard plainly inside the house.

Judith put down her book as the spinsters
entered, and advanced to welcome them
with the best grace she could assume.

Dear Judith,' said Clementina, c how are
you ? How is dear Mrs. Topham ?'

Thanks,' replied Judith, ' mother is a
little better to-day, I think. But she has
ups and downs.'

Naturally,' said Elizabeth Tucker, ' she
has had a shock, and will take some time
getting over it. What a blessing Mr. Top-ham

keeps so well under the circumstances.
We met him on the way, and he was so
delightfully entertaining, you can't think.'

Mr. Topham has such high spirits,' corroborated
Clementina.

Yes, father sets us all a good example,'
said Judith. She suffered cruelly from her
father's disposition, but she was not going
to own that to anyone, certainly not to the
Tuckers.

c How pretty you have made your
drawing-room, Judith,' was Miss Tucker's
next remark. c Really it looks quite ladylike.'


Quite ladylike,' assented Clementina.

I'm glad it meets with your approval,'
said Judith.

And now,' continued Elizabeth, ' you'll
not guess what has brought us hereto-day.
Clem, my love, where is that parcel?'

Clementina placed a bulky parcel, which
she had brought with her, on the corner of

the table, and through the broken newspaper
wrapper might be seen part of some
article of clothing;.

Judith's cheeks grew fiery red.

Miss Tucker explained. ' You won't be
offended with us, Judith ? No, of course
you won't, you are so sensible. Clem has
brought you a present of an astrakhan
jacket for dear Mrs. Topham — in the cold
spring winds that are coming. It isn't
quite new ; but you are so sensible, Judith:
you won't mind that.'

c Of course not, Lizzie dearest,' said
Clementina, looking doubtfully at Judith's
hot cheeks.

Judith paused a moment or two before
replying. The Tuckers had several times
brought her similar offerings for herself, and
she had firmly rejected them. She knew
the jacket well, having often seen it on
Clementina ; it was rather shabby but still
serviceable, and her mother wanted such a

thing badly. Judith bit her lip, put her
pride into her pocket, and answered,

You are very kind, Clementina, but I
hardly like taking it from you.'

c Oh, that's nothing,' said Clem. ' I don't
mind parting with it in the least. I have
my cloth jacket, which is nearly as warm.
Dear Mrs. Topham is very welcome to the
astrakhan, I'm sure. It's not worth much,
after all. I mean ' . . . she added, quickly
correcting herself . . . c I'm afraid it didn't
most much originally.'

c Don't talk so much about it, Clem,' said
Elizabeth. c Judith is going to take it, I
can see.'

Judith determined that she would, if
only to punish the pair.

Thanks very much, Clementina,' she
said, quietly. ' I accept.'

And she unpacked the jacket and set to
examining it with an evident air of proprietorship.


Now Clementina had promised herself
much Gratification from offering a cast-off
garment to Judith, but she had not in the
least expected that the girl would take it,
and began to repent of her generosity.

I'm afraid the cut is rather young for
dear Mrs. Topham,' she said. 'And I remember
now how particular she is about that

'That doesn't matter,' said Judith, who
had stooped to pick up the spoil, and was
not going to resign it.

Clementina was about to make a last
attempt to recover what had been her property
; but she was smartly put down by
her sister.

It's all very well ; you re not giving anything,'
snapped Clementina.

And the subject dropped ; but the Miss
Tuckers were not at a loss for conversation.

Have you heard the news about Mr.
Jackson ?' asked Elizabeth.

Yes,' said Judith.

This direct answer took Elizabeth aback ;
but she recovered herself, and went on,

1 We never could make out why you refused
him, Judith.'

i It always puzzled us,' said Clementina.

c Clem, my love, please don't interrupt
me,' retorted Elizabeth, sharply. 'We
never could make out why you refused
him, Judith ; but now we know. You
discovered his real character, and very
properly sent him about his business. No
wonder Mr. Topham disliked him. He is
after the widow's money 7, ; anyone can see
that with half an eye. A grasping fellow.
Mrs. Murray is a beautiful woman, though,
they say '

Who says so?' asked Judith.

Oh ! why everybody,' answered Elizabeth.
' You're not jealous, Judith ?'

Jealous ?' replied Miss Topham, icily.

Oh, I forgot you had refused him '

Yes, you forgot that, Lizzie dearest,'

said Clementina. — c Good-bye, Judith ; I
hope dear Mrs. Topham will like the jacket.'

c We do so feel for you in your changed
circumstances, dear child said Elizabeth
Tucker. ' Good-bye ; we'll come again before
long.'

And the sisters took their departure.

Judith had borne up bravely in their
presence ; but she now broke down,
exclaiming,

c The wretches ; the mean, miserable
wretches ! — Oh, Ambrose, Ambrose, I had
no right to say a word in your defence.
Into what sin and folly are you drifting?
God help both you and me !'

CHAPTER IV.

HARD LINES.

Everybody wondered when, to use Miss
Tucker's expression, Judith sent Ambrose
about his business, but nobody received
such a shock of astonishment as Will Sutton.
He had feared that a proposal was
coming; but he had not expected it so
soon ; and on hearing the result his first
emotion was bewildering joy that his dangerous
rival was driven off the field. Had
Judith read his secret after all ? Could it befor
his sake that she had refused Ambrose ?
In a few days he became only too well
aware that it was not so, and that he had
gained nothing by the younger man's repulse.

Judith clung to Ambrose in spite
of all that had occurred, of this Will
was convinced, and he soon discovered
what motive had prompted, nay, forced
Judith to sacrifice her happiness. He
alone appreciated the worth of that sacrifice.
But he knew that the suffering
it involved would make Ambrose still
dearer to Judith ; and he resolved to tear
himself away from the presence of the
woman he loved so dearly. It was a hard
struggle for a man like Sutton, who had
none of his rival's iron will, and he kept
putting off his departure, and allowing
himself another day, and yet another day,
until he grew ashamed of his want of purpose,
and left Bay bridge.

As it happened, no other course he
could have taken would have gained him
such favour in Judith's eyes. She was no
longer blind to his feelings, but had he
even alluded to them at this critical period

VOL. II. F

of her life, she could hardly have listened
with patience. His gentle forbearance,
his departure, which could not be misunderstood,
had quite a different effect.
He impressed Judith with the idea that he
thoroughly understood her, and sympathised
with her sorrow. She was far too
unselfish not to be touched with his
delicacy and self-denial. Her heart melted
at the simple ' God bless you, Judith,' with
which he bade her farewell for some months
to come.

He travelled, but to travel is not to forget.
First he spent some weeks in Paris,
hoping that the stirring life of the pleasure-loving
capital would give his thoughts
another turn. Crowds jostled his elbow,
faces swept past him by the hundred every
hour, each with its owner's history graven
on it which all might read, and Will,
usually fond of such studies, read not a
word. One face was present with him

always, and only one — Judith's. No other
had any interest for him, except in so far
as it might resemble hers. He left Paris,
and after many wanderings sought peace at
Hyeres-the-Palms, the sunniest spot along
the sunny Riviera, and there, too, he
found no peace. And so he returned to
Baybridge before the new year had seen
many clays, and saw Judith again ; and
marked with pitying eye the change in
her, and loved her more and mores ambrose
could not be worthy of that high-minded
woman, since he could weigh his
interests against her affection. So thought
Will. He at least was prepared to win herat
any price, lie had no other ambition but
to call her his wife. He came back, and
was received with great civility by Peter
Topham, and found many opportunities of
serving Judith.

He was not permitted to assist her with
his wealth, and he forbore to press that

f2

point. But lie was of the greatest use in
helping her to bear the hard and thankless
task of managing her home. He would
often come and take her out for a walk ora
drive, and dispel her gloom and her
doubts. But one subject was never touched
upon — her relations with Ambrose.
And Will never spoke of his own hopes —
his eyes might be eloquent sometimes, but
his tongue was faithful and mute.

A time came when he could no longer
bear this silence. He longed to hear
whether other people thought he had any
chance of success in the end. He had to
make the experiment upon somebody, and 7
as fate willed, chose Mrs. Jackson.

The choice was natural enough. Mrs.
Jackson was a great friend of his ; she was
about his own age, and they had many
tastes in common. Will did not care much
for her son ; but then they seldom met. On
returning from abroad he had visited Mrs.

Jackson without delay, thinking that she
would like to hear about several picture-galleries
he had roamed through. It never
struck him that the interest she took in
what he had to say was of a personal nature ;
if she was enthusiastic now and then, it
seemed accounted for by her love for art.
Will never imagin ed she could be fond of him.
Mrs. Jackson now lived with Aunt Robby
at the Elms. At one time she had been
afraid that she would have to leave the
neighbourhood, so severely had she been
tormented by the busy-bodies after the failure
of her cherished project to find a suitable
wife for Ambrose. Mrs. Robertson,
always on the look-out to do some kind
thing, saw how matters stood, appeared one
morning in her carriage at Mrs. Jackson's
door, and then and there carried the distressed
artist off to the Elms. The visit
was nominally for a fortnight, but the ladies
had grown so fond of one another that the

arrangement became permanent. There
had been a stand-up battle between Ambrose
and old Mrs. Robertson about the expense
of this change, and Ambrose, though he
behaved with the utmost gentleness to the
venerable lady, carried his point, and paid
for his mother's keep. Mrs. Robertson knew
that Ambrose had not too much money to
spend, and in her heart (for she scolded
him soundly) approved of his behaviour.

While Will was on his way to the Elms
with the intention of sounding Mrs. Jackson
about Judith — the two ladies sat in
the drawing-room, talking by the fireside.

'And so, Helen,' said Mrs. Robertson,
wiping her spectacles, c it's all a story about
Mrs. Murray. I thought so. Kate Tweedy
is a chatterton. She's a good little soul as
ever was, but she's a sad chatterton. I
shall scold her for this. Oh, I shall.'

I'm sure there's no engagement, Aunt
Robby — as yet. Ambrose tells me everything.

He says it's a Platonic attachment.'

Aunt Robby shook her head energetically.

Whenever I hear the word Platonic
said the old lady, ' I think of wedding-rings.
For instance, I remember Dick
Purcell, who married — let me see, who
was it ? Ah !' said the ancient lady, checking
herself, 'Dick Purcell was before your
time. — Ambrose is quite sincere, I'm sure,
in writing that he doesn't care for Mrs.
Murray in that way as yet. But it will bea
match. She is beautiful, young, and '

Has money,' said Mrs. Jackson, filling
up the pause. c I know Ambrose will be
tempted — sorely tempted ; but he'll never
marry a woman he doesn't love, or couldn't
respect.'

Perhaps he can both love and respect
Mrs. Murray,' said Aunt Robby. ' What
would become of poor Judith then ? I
suppose she would fret a good deal, poor
thing, and then have Will.'

They'd never suit one another,' said
Helen Jackson. ' Remember, Aunt Robby,
he's at least twenty years older than she is.'

c They seem to be very good friends,'
said Aunt Robby.

c Just so,' replied the other. ' As friends
they are well suited, but anything else
would be a deplorable mistake. Twenty
years ! Why, it's nearly half a lifetime.
What sympathy could there be between a
young girl for whom the world is still
bright and generous, and an elderly man
who knows how seldom a genuine joy is
to be found ? She would be fond of roving.
He would prefer to sit, as we are sitting
now, by the fireside. Their tastes must be
different. They would not delight in the
same friends. They might fancy themselves
in love with one another ; but how
long do you think it would last ? No, no,
Will would never find true lasting happiness
with Judith Topham.'

It was not often that Mrs. Jackson spoke
so much or with such energy. Aunt Robby
listened with surprise ; and she came to
the conclusion that she must be getting
very old, not to have noticed long ago what
she noticed now. She had far too much experience
to say a word, but she determined
never again to be in the way when Will
came to the Elms, and thought it might
after all be a good thing if Will Sutton
took a fancy to Mrs. Jackson. Aunt Robby
saw distant possibilities. Her matchmaking
propensities were aroused. Judith
and Ambrose, Will and Helen Jackson,
that was how it should be managed. ' I'll
see what I can do,' thought Aunt Robby.
She left the beautiful widow in London
out of the calculation, although a moment
before she was certain it would be a match :
but then Aunt Robby was getting old.

One would hardly have guessed how old
she was from the active way in which

she rose from her seat when she heard Will
Sutton's voice in the hall ; and before the
visitor could make his appearance the
white cap and the kind face under it had
vanished through the back drawing-room
door.

Mrs. Jackson, wondering a little at her
aged friend's sudden retreat, received Will
with a slight embarrassment, and cast a
glance into the looking-glass to see if there
was an' tell-tale blush upon her cheek.
If there was, Will noticed nothing, and 7
after a civil inquiry about Ambrose, he
sat down and began to talk in his quiet
manner. It was not long before he led upto
the subject which he had come with the
express purpose of discussing. Now Mrs.
Jackson, although, out of respect for her
son's wishes, she had not relinquished her
designs upon Judith, had let it be generally
understood in Baybridge that Ambrose
had quite got over his partiality for Peter

Topham's eldest daughter. Otherwise of
course Will would not have thought of
alluding to the past.

L You won't mind, Mrs. Jackson,' said
Will. ' if I speak to you about something
closely connected with my happiness.'

Will was often serious ; but his voice ashe
spoke had a deeper meaning in it.
which forcibly struck Mrs. Jackson. By
one of those half-finished sentences which
women manage to make so expressive, she
gave him to understand that she would not
mind at all. And as she answered him her
colour deepened.

I think Ave have much in common, Mrs.
Jackson,' said Will, nervously.

She again assented.

• Ah,' continued Will, earnestly, ' if I
could only be sure of your sympathy on one
subject, the subject nearest to my heart.

He clasped his hands over one knee,
after the fashion of a shy, awkward man.

and looked steadfastly at bis companion.
He was anxious to learn all that he could
from the way in which she received his
confidence.

The widow, naturally timid, held her
breath. What would Ambrose think about
it ? Should she say yes at once, or ask for
time to consult her son ?

4 I'm rather old,' pursued Will, quite unconscious
of what was passing in his
friend's head and heart.

1 You are still in the prime of life,' said
Mrs. Jackson.

'Forty-six,' said Will.

A pause.

We are contemporaries, then,' said the
lady, meaning that she too was forty-six,
and speaking only because silence had
grown irksome.

Indeed,' said Will, ' I shouldn't have
thought you were forty-five, Mrs. Jackson.'

Oh said the mistaken widow.

Perhaps you know,' said Will, ' that I
well — came to grief in my early clays ?'

1 That belongs only to the past,' said she,
very gently. ' You have fully atoned for
those errors. Isn't it unnecessary to dwell
upon them still, isn't it almost wrong ?'

You don't think then that a woman
would hesitate to give herself into my
keeping on that account ?'

1 Not if — she loved him,' whispered Mrs.
Jackson.

1 Then if you were asked whether it
were possible,' said Will, smiling, ' what
would be your answer ?'

Mrs. Jackson misinterpreted his smile.
There is no knowing into what pitfall the
poor woman might have fallen, had Will
paused a moment longer. She was on the
point of giving an answer that would have
come like a thunderbolt upon Will, when
he added. ' Do you think Judith will ever
forget him?'

c Him ! Judith V gasped Mrs. Jackson,
wildly, recalling now only too vividly
what her son had said about Will and
Judith.

Yes, do you suppose Judith could ever
look upon me as something dearer than a
friend — as a husband?'

It was all that Mrs. Jackson could do to
suppress a cry of mingled shame and disappointment.
As it was, she rose from her
seat, saying hurriedly,

4 How can I tell? How can you ask
me ? I never thought . I quite misunderstood
. . .'

She stopped short, and then, with a
strong effort at self-control, sat down again,
and said lightly,

Really, Mr. Sutton, I ought to feel myself
very much honoured at being taken sofar
into your confidence, but how am I to
judge of a young girl's heart?' And then,
in her humiliation and pique she could not

help adding, ' Is there not a striking disparity
of age, Mr. Sutton ?'

There was something in her tone that
Will could not make out at first. He
turned, and looking her through and
through, saw the precipice upon the brink
of which the' had both been standing.

In the height of his dismay, that chivalrous
feeling which lies at the bottom of
every true gentleman's nature took the
lead of all other emotions, and he adroitly
hid his discovery of her secret by saying, in
an apparently careless tone,

You are right, Mrs. Jackson. It wasn't
fair to suppose that such things could interest
you ; for I'm sure you must be indifferent
to such human frailties.'

Under other circumstances the words
might not have been altogether kind ; but
the' fully answered Will's purpose now.
Mrs. Jackson's deep sigh of relief told him
that she supposed that she had not betrayed

herself. She changed the conversation, and y
when at last Aunt Robby appeared, the
friends were found discussing the abstruse
question whether a man could have a genuine
admiration for the beauties of Art without
being a lover of the beauties of Nature.
Mrs. Jackson strenuously denied the possibility.
Will took the other side, and
quoted Lessing as an example.

Aunt Robby was very well satisfied with
herself for having left Will and Helen
Jackson alone for at least half-an-hour, but
was disappointed to find them engaged
with a topic so little personal. But then
Aunt Robby had not put on her spectacles,
and did not see the bright reel spots on
Helen's cheeks.

When Will was gone, Helen escaped to
her room, and relieved her pent-up feelings
with a o;ood cry. She acknowledged that
this proceeding was very foolish in a woman
of her age; but then it did her good, and

there was nobody to see her distress, and
she was so fond of Will. She was devoutly
thankful in the belief that her confusion
had done no harm ; she tried to put all
uncharitable thoughts about Judith out of
her mind, and she made a thousand resolutions
that never, never should Will surprise
the secret which to-day had hovered
on her lips.

Will was thankful also, as he walked pensively
home, that his tongue had been so
ready at the critical juncture. He did not
dare even to think of what the sensitive
widow would have suffered had she been
led, by an unfortunate misunderstanding,
to offer him a love for which he had never
asked. Will was sure that, if this disaster
had come to pass, he would never have had
the heart to undeceive her, and that Helen
Jackson would by mere fate have become
Helen Sutton. Will was convinced that
she was a loving woman, and would make

VOL. II. G

a good wife ; but to have won her in this
way — the idea tickled his fancy even in his
serious mood. Then he took himself to
task ; Helen Jackson was suffering for him
exactly what he was suffering for Judith,
and in neither case was there reason for
merriment. By his unhappiness he could
measure Helen's. On the whole, though
the incident had been rather hard lines
upon Mrs. Jackson, it was far from damaging
her cause.

CHAPTER V.

annie's independence.

Some men seem unable to get on in the
world without the use of a certain quantity
of what is mildly called : strong language.'
Possibly, when a heedless fellow-creature
turns his heel with agonizing deliberation
on a foot tender from rheumatism or from
gout, or misbehaves in any similar way,
one is justified to some extent in consigning
him to perdition. The feelings are
relieved, there is a comfortable assurance
that one has, so to speak, had something
for one's outlay of pain, and no positive harm
is done to the offender. Cris Parry held
some such views as these concerning strong

g 2

language. He thought it c bad form ' to
swear without considerable provocation,
like Captain Handcock, for instance, who
garnished every third or fourth sentence
with an oath. Cris thought that bad form,
and it bored him exceedingly. But when
Lloyd, one morning, while shaving his
master, cut a gash, certainly very painful,
in his delicate chin, Cris felt that his everyday
vocabulary was inadequate, and expressed
himself as follows,

it, Lloyd, it all ! can't you

be more careful. I don't pay you to

make such a fool of yourself, do

I!'

Mr. Lloyd made no reply to this inviting
inquiry. He felt hurt, and drew himself
up with not a little dignity. Mr.
Lloyd (except in the matter of perquisites)
had a high moral code ; but in this case he
was aggrieved not by the profanity but by
the injustice of his master's rebuke. Instead

of deserving blame for the accident,
he was entitled to the highest credit for
not having already inflicted half-a-dozen
two-inch gashes upon Cris. Cris, usually
so languid, would not or could not sit still.
He had gone to bed in a bad temper, he
fancied that he had spent a sleepless night,
and, when he got up, even Lloyd could not
succeed in pleasing him. All this, because
he was unutterably bored about the Top-hams
in general, and about Annie in
particular.

Things had gone from bad to worse with
him ever since the collapse of Peter Top-ham's
last venture. Cris, to begin with,
was very much vexed when his liberal
offer of money . an offer made frankly yet
delicately . . . had been refused. There was
from that time a hitch in his intercourse
with the Tophams. His daily visits to
their former home had been very pleasant
in spite of occasional 'nagging' about idleness

and want of energy, in which Annie
would indulge. But now, when Cris went
to visit his fiancee, he appeared to be
almost in a false position. He would come
perfumed and exquisitely dressed, and find
Annie in the kitchen with her sleeves
tucked up, helping Judith. To see hi
future wife working like this while he was
living on the fat of the land was a standing
reproach to him. He might marry
her, and take her from this drudgery if
he would only set his hand to anything.
Then there was no more delightful gossip
with Annie, because there was only one
sitting-room for everybody. There was no
dining-room where he could smoke and
chat. Annie would not often go out walking
with him. Cris thought her affection
must be getting less, and, though he was a
lazybones, he loved the little woman clearly,
and was bored, and altogether miserable.
However, there are compensations for

the ills of life, and to know oneself well-dressed
is one — at least, it was to Cris
Parry. His spirits rose as he surveyed
his face and form in the long mirror, and
he remembered that he had something to
say to Lloyd rather out of the usual routine.
To make up for his unusual severity, he
treated the affair more lightly than he had
intended.

'Lloyd,' he said, 'in taking a short cut
home by the river bank last night, I saw
two figures in the dark in front of me — you
and Miss Clementina Tucker. Is that
correct V

4 Yes, sir,' said Lloyd.

c Kindly leave my service before you
elope, Lloyd, that's all, and — er — give mea
cigar.'

Lloyd obeyed in silence, and his master
added,

1 Perhaps it's almost my duty to tell Mr.
Tucker. What do you think, Lloyd ?'

Mr. Tucker is perfectly aware of the circumstance,
sir, but doesn't want it publicly
spoke of, sir, just now,' said the valet.

Cris whistled, and thought his man a
clever fellow. He remarked, as he turned
to go,

c She has got no end of a tongue, Lloyd.
I'd bear that in mind, if I were you.'

Much obliged, sir ; I will,' said the valet.

Mr. Tucker's future is exaggerated, I
believe,' said Cris.

1 There'll be something, I suppose, sir?'
asked Lloyd, with interest.

Oh, yes, there'll be something,' answered
Cris. ' Wish you luck, Lloyd.'

Thank you, sir, kindly,' replied that
functionary. And, as his master went
downstairs, Mr. Lloyd soliloquised, c A soft,
good fellow, to be sure. But blest if I
don't think he's going to get the sack from
Miss Annie, though.'

Annie had for some time been very unhappy

about Oris. She was bitterly disappointed
in him. He professed to love
her, but what could such love be worth if
he would do nothing to prove its reality ?
Annie did so Ion 2: to have a home of her
own. Oris had been plainly told that, when
they were once married, there would be no
further objection to his helping her parents.
All that was asked was that he should
satisfy Mrs. Topham by undertaking some
work — c Why not become,' suggested Annie,
an active partner in the firm in which his
money was invested ? I sometimes wish
you were as poor as Job, Cris, then you
might become worth something,' she said,
petulantly at last. ' I suppose you enjoy
seeing me scrubbing the floors ' . . . that
was Annie's last appeal. Cris groaned in
the spirit, and promised amends. Nothing
came of his promise. Annie resolved to end
their engagement, and told Judith about it,
as they lay side by side at about one a.m.

4 Nut-crackers,' said she, L are you awake V

c I've been awake ever so long,' replied
Judith. ' You've given me two or three
good kicks.'

c I'm awfully sorry, Jue,' said the other.
c Why didn't you pinch me. How dear of
you not to mind.'

Oh, it didn't matter,' said Judith. c I
couldn't have slept in any case.'

I wish I was dead,' whimpered Annie.
I am so — so — miserable.'

1 Hush, you mustn't talk like that, Annie.
It's about Cris, isn't it?' asked her sister,
somewhat unnecessarily.

'Yes, things can't go on like this any
longer.'

I don't think they can,' assented Judith,
gravely.

To think of all the love I have thrown
away on him, Jue, and he doesn't feel one
little bit of gratitude ;' and Annie wept
copiously.

c Poor child, don't fret so,' said Judith,
drawing her sister's head to her bosom. c It
will be all well in the end if you can makeup
your mind to be firm, very firm, now.'

6 When he comes tomorrow I'm going to
tell him that the engagement is broken off,
until he has actually got something to do.
Then, if he cares to come back '

1 Of course he'll come back,' said Judith.
This is what I wanted you to do long ago,
only I never thought you would have the
courage.'

c But suppose he went — and — and then
fell in love with anyone else, oh, what
should I do,' whimpered Annie again.

You needn't be afraid of that,' said Judith.
c All that I fear is that he may prefer
his idle, useless life to the responsibility of
working for you, and taking care of you.'

c And then ?' whispered Annie.

'Then, dear,' answered Judith, 'you'd
have to consider if it would be wise or

right to trust your future to a man who
preferred his own ease to your happiness.'

I never could give him up,' said Annie,
4 not really, when it came to the point.
But I'll pretend I can. I'll send him away
tomorrow. Oh, Jue, how I wish tomorrow
was over.'

There was so long a pause that Judith
thought her sister had fallen asleep, but at
last Annie again broke the silence, and said,
nestling closely to Judith,

'You have your own trouble, Jue, though
you so seldom speak of it. What about Ambrose
? Do you still think of him always ?'

'Always,' answered Judith. 'He may
forget me, but I'll never forget him as long
as I live. I could bear my own loss,
Annie, but what tortures me is the thought
that his ambition may blind him, and
that he may tie himself for a lifetime to
some woman, rich, beautiful perhaps, and
yet not able to understand him in the

same way. I seemed to know his thoughts,
I seemed to have in him the most faithful
friend, the truest companion, the dearest
lover that a woman ever could have.'

i And yet you refused him, Judith ?'

I couldn't have made him happy on his
own terms, Annie, and it's just the same
with you and Oris. Have you quite settled
about that ?'

c Yes,' said Annie.

And the sisters slept in one another's
arms till daybreak.

At about eleven o'clock, then, Cris Parry,
rather uneasy, but quite unconscious of
what was in store for him, drove over to
the Tophams. It would never have occurred
to him to walk three miles, and so
he hired a small pony-trap. He had driven
about half-a-mile when he overtook Captain
Handcock, and pulled up to give him a lift.

Thanks, Parry,' said the gallant gentleman,
who was a martyr to rheumatism,

and found walking difficult. ' If you'll
drop me at the cross-roads, I shall be
obliged, — smart little trap ! — You weren't
at the club last night, I was devilish unlucky
there, I can tell you ! Not a

trump all the evening. I lost a lump of
money to Tweedy.'

'He plays a fair hand,' said Cris.

1 me, sir, who can't, when he holds

all the cards ? Cleaned me out, give you
my word, cleaned me out ! But I'll have
my revenge.'

And the captain grew very eloquent on
his losses. He even thought of hazarding
an appeal to Cris for a loan ; but the
younger man's face was not encouraging.
They reached the cross-roads, and Cris
reined in, saying,

1 By-the-by, Handcock, I'm not fond of
meddling with other people's affairs, but
I should like to give you a hint.'

4 Let's have it,' said the captain, as he
climbed down cautiously.

4 About Kate Tweedy, eh ? You're a
deal at the house, and so on. Cuts up
Tweedy and that, eh, Handcock?'

4 fine little woman,' swore the captain.
4 Tweedy must look after her better,
that's all.'

4 Take care he doesn't look after you,'
said Cris.

4 Is that your hint ?'

Cris said it was his hint ; and that
Tweedy was not quite so feeble as he
looked.

4 Ta, ta,' said the captain. 4 He'll not

break my bones. these screws of

mine !'

When Cris arrived, and drove into
the yard to put up his pony-trap, he
was rather surprised not to see Annie's
bright face peeping out of one of the

windows — that being the vision often
produced by the rattling of his wheels.
Instead, the maid-of-all-work appeared.

c If you please, sir, would you step into
the sitting-room, and Miss Annie will speak
to you in a few minutes.'

Oris did as he was invited, wondering
what had happened to account for this
unusual formality. The room was empty,
and he waited there for nearly a 
alone, kicking his heels, and
whistling, and wondering.

The time had been spent by Annie in
plucking up courage for the coming interview.
She joined Cris at last, and, motioning
him back as he drew near to kiss her,
sat down quietly opposite him, looking
determined and wretched.

'Why, Annie, what's the matter?
What's up ? Are you unwell ?' asked
Cris, startled for once out of his habitual
drawl.

1 Nothing's happened,' said she, in a low
tone, c and, thank you, I am quite well.'

Oris opened his eyes wide.

1 Then may I ask,' said he, half in jest,
half in earnest, ' why, instead of being an
affectionate good little girl, you have suddenly
changed into — into something I
can't say I care about ?'

Annie's lip quivered. Oh, if only she
might forget everything else, and perch
herself as of old, beside him, and be merry
and glad. But her waking thoughts had
not been fruitless, and she had decided as
we have seen, what she ought to do. She
was so sure that if, once she gave way at
all, she would never have strength to carry
out her intention that she forced herself to
look strong, and to ask sharply,

c Have you got anything to do yet ?'

Oris rose, and walked to the window.
Oh, that's it, is it ?' he said, in a voice
of profound disgust. Then, in a kinder

VOL. II. H

tone, he went on, ' Dash it all, Annie,
couldn't you let me have some peace?
Morning, noon, and night the same weary
story. Really, it's too bad. I promised
I'd get some employment when I found an
opportunity. These things can't be done
in a moment.'

In a moment, Oris,' said Annie, bitterly.
1 How many months have gone since your
promise ! If you really cared for me, you
would have settled the matter ever so long
ago.'

If I cared,' said Cris — ' how can you be
so cruel, Annie. I'm a duffer at fine
speeches and that, Annie, but you ought
to know by this time that I never could
care a straw for anyone but you.'

— h — h dear, dear Cris,' said

Annie.

Look here,' said he, ' this is a little
fad of yours. Why are you so anxious
to see me with my nose chained down

to a desk ? There's plenty of money without
that. Come, darling girl,' and he tried
to take her hand, 'let me see one of your
bright smiles again.'

But Annie, though her heart was overflowing,
kept him at a distance.

I can't smile, Cris, when you have nothing
for me but empty pretences — yes, pretences
! If you don't love me well enough
to work for me, then you don't love me
well enough to marry me.'

'Annie !'

'That's what it comes to,' said the girl.
You don't want me to be miserable, Cris ?
Oh, if you only knew how miserable I've
been for months and months about this !
Do I ask so much ? Wouldn't your own
life be happier if you had some interest in
it? What good are you to anyone the
live-long day? Cris, I've been very foolish ;
I loved you, and I wasn't ashamed to say
so ; but it seems now that I made my love

ii 2

cheap by not withholding it. I ought to
have been more reserved ; but I trusted —
in your honour.'

I've never deceived you,' protested he 7
indignantly.

Not wilfully ; but you have let things
slide,' was the answer. ' You talk of living
on your money, Cris. I wish to Heaven it
was at the bottom of the sea.'

'Much obliged,' replied he.

1 I'd never marry a man who lived upon
what others had left him, as long as he
could work,' said Annie. ' I couldn't respect
such a man. Dear Cris, I'm saying
hard and unkind things, but they have to
be said. I want you to make a solemn
promise.'

Cris Parry (as every weak man does)
grasped at anything that did not require
immediate action.

'Well, Annie,' he said, 'you've been
pitching into me right and left. I couldn't

have stood it from anyone else. What am
I to promise ?'

That within a fortnight you will be at
work.'

1 A fortnight !' eriecl Cris. ' Impossible !
What you want to rush a fellow for I can't
for the life of me make out. I'm beginning
to think you want to get rid of me.'

Annie turned white.

Yes, or no ?' she said.

c It's not possible,' began he.

'Then said Annie, sadly but firmly,
our engagement is at an end.'

So saying, she drew off a ring which he
had given her in happier days, and laid it
on the table.

Annie, Annie, you're not in earnest ?
Oh, very well ; it's as I thought. You're
tired of me.'

He took up his hat.

I shan't come back,' said he.

Poor Annie's heart gave a wild leap, but

she answered, c As for that, you do as you
please.'

c I'd work for you,' said Cris, with sudden
energy, c as hard as any man. But I'll
not be bullied into it. You have no right
to put pressure upon me like this. I take
you at your word, though we shall both
be miserable, of course.'

And he hurried out of the room. Soon
after Annie heard him drive away, and
sought what poor comfort could be had in
Judith's arms.

CHAPTER VI.

cis.

Cris was in a very savage mood as lie
clambered into his pony-trap. The pony
must have known . if he had any sense at
all . . . that something out of the way had
happened, for instead of being allowed his
own pace, his jaws were violently twitched,
and his back unmercifully lashed, and he
escaped further infliction only by breaking
into a galop.

Cris reached home, and on the stairs met
Lloyd.

c Anything I can clo for you now, sir V
said the latter, observing that his master
looked disturbed.

■ Oh, go to the devil,' snarled Oris — under
his breath. But Lloyd heard him, and
descended to the lower regions of the house
with the mental ejaculation, 'Throned over,
by gum !'

Christopher Parry entered his comfortable
room, and the first thing that caught
his eye was Annie's portrait on the wall.
It had been painted by Mrs. Jackson as a
pendant to that unlucky one of Judith ;
and had been given to his future mother-in-law
by Cris, in whose keeping, however,
it remained for the present. The young
man bowed his head in sorrow before the
laughing eyes which shone out upon him
from the canvas. There was no reproach
in her now, only simplicity and love of
which he seemed unworthy. Should he go
back at once, and dry her tears? He
could not. He was deeply hurt and mortified
at Annie's outspoken rebukes. She
had declared that she could not respect a

man who lived as he was now living. Like

'&•

many who shirk the responsibilities of life
little knowing the price they are to pay,
Oris could not yet understand that there is
something contemptible in the attitude.

4 She's grown tired of me,' said he,
trying to deceive himself. ' I'll not go
near her till she writes, hang me if I
do.'

The lovers' quarrels (there had been
several) were usually brought to an end
rather promptly by a little timid note from
Annie. Cris, on this occasion, after lunching
at the club, came back, and stayed in
all the evening, expecting the note ; but it
did not come either then or by the early
post next day. He waited till about ten
o'clock the following morning, and drove to
the Tophams. He found the head of the
family smoking outside his hall door, and
received a cordial greeting.

Ah, Cris, my boy, glad to see you,' said

the ex-financier. ' Cheery morning ' isn't
it ? Very bracing and delightful.'

Where's Annie?' said Cris.

fc Annie ?' replied the other, lightly.
She has gone to visit her Aunt Dorothea
in Shropshire.'

c Has she left no message for me ?' asked
Cris, in amazement.

Message ? none that I heard of,' said
Peter.

Can I see Judith?' was the next inquiry
Judith being a sort of beacon in all
domestic storms.

What would be the use of seeing Judith ?'
was the placid answer.

Cris considered himself the victim of a
conspiracy, and was furious.

I have been badly, very badly, treated
said he.

c Who has not, my dear boy, who has
not?' responded the other. 'Who has
passed through the world without hard

knocks ? Xot I, for one. But I've clone
my best, and I haven't allowed misfortunes
to depress me.'

When is she coming back?' interrupted
Cris.

4 Ah, when?' repeated Mr. Topham.
Possibly not while you remain in Bay-bridge.
You couldn't find it convenient to
travel, could you ? Now, Cris, don't
grumble. It's vexatious of course, but
follow my example, and show a reverse of
fortune a bold front. Go into the world.
Put your shoulder to the wheel. Cris,'
continued the old gentleman, pathetically,
1 if I was your age, and had your opportunities
' (by opportunities Peter meant
capital) 'I could coin money, literally coin
it.'

But Cris paid no attention to him.

u Please write to your daughter,' he said,
1 that I'm not going to keep her in exile,
that I go up to town this afternoon. I've

been abominably treated,' said Cris, finally.
L Good-bye, Mr. Topham.'

c Good-bye, my dear boy, don't let
your spirits go down. If you should
decide upon embarking in any commercial
enterprises, let me know. I could teach
you how to make a fortune, sir, a fortune.'

Cris was already out of hearing, and
drove home rapidly. Lloyd received his
orders, and packed up at once. At about
one they arrived in London, Lloyd brought
their luggage to the Bingham, and his
master drove direct from the terminus to
Jenny n Street.

"When Cris opened Ambrose Jackson's
door, he saw that his friend was in, and
had a visitor.

There was a change in Jackson's face,
the firm expression was still there, but to a
close observer a touch of pain rested on
the lips of the man Judith had rejected.

The visitor was lounging in an arm-chair

in front of the fire, altogether at his ease.
When Oris came in he could at first see
nothing of him but half a head of bright,
upright red hair, and a foot in dapper shoe
and gay clocked sock, supported on the
edge of the table. Mr. Pinkerton (for it
Alas he) made no sign of moving as Oris
advanced.

Cris,' said Ambrose, ' I thought I was
never going to see you again. I thought
you had taken root in dreamy Baybridge,
and were going to vegetate there for evermore
! Right glad to see you. I don't
think you know my friend. — Pinkerton —
Parry.'

'By Jove,' said Bob Pinkerton, lifting
his saucy eyes to the new-comer's woebegone
face, 'you been jilted. Don't deny
it. I know the look among a thousand.'

Cris flushed, and Ambrose, laughing
heartily, said,

'My introduction was incomplete, Cris,

1 ought to have told you that Mr. Robert
Pinkerton enjoys and ably maintains the
reputation of being the most impudent
man in London.'

In the world,' corrected Bob. ' I challenge
competition. No offence, I hope?'
he said to Oris. ' Nobody's offended with
me.'

1 Then I won't set the fashion,' laughed
Parry.

Right you are,' said the little man.
I'm off, if you had cut up rough I'd have
sat here for ever. 'Pon my soul I would.
You're good-natured, though, and I hope
you'll come to the wedding.'

'The wedding? What wedding?'

In what outlandish place could you
have been living to ask the question ? Why,
the wedding. All London's talking about
it. Jackson, see your friend turns up.'

With this remark Mr. Pinkerton made
a snatch at his hat, clapped Ambrose on

the back . . . an appalling familiarity . . .
nodded to Oris, and vanished.

c There goes an eccentric fellow,' said
Ambrose. ' He has got on, though, and
has no end of connections. Sit down, Oris,
and tell me about my mother, will you ?
Does she seem well and happy ? I think,'
he added, after he had been satisfied on
these points, l that she likes living at the
Elms.'

She and Aunt Robby hit it off,' said Cris.

I wouldn't confess to anyone else,' said
Ambrose, c how often my mother is in my
thoughts. I wish I could be with her more
often. — Xow, Cris, what's your news ; what
great event has persuaded you to undertake
the fatigue and boredom of a journey?'

'You've heard already,' said Cris ; 'jilted.'

I'm sorry for that,' said Ambrose, in his
grave, kind tone. ' Why ?'

1 Because I won't work like a galley-slave,
and sell my mind, body, and freedom to

earn what wouldn't keep me in wine and
cigars. The Tophams have behaved execrably,
shabbily '

I'm sure Judith wouldn't do anything
shabby,' was the unexpected reply.

Deuce take it, Jack,' exclaimed Cris,
you're not fretting about her ?'

1 Fretting about her ? My dear Parry,
what on earth do you mean?'

'Nothing, nothing,' said Cris, hastily.
c You look bored, though. Been out-running
the constable?'

1 Not exactly that,' answered the politician.
c But I live in a set — well — in a set
where much money is spent '

4 If you're hard up ' began Cris.

'Not a word.' interrupted Ambrose,
rather haughtily. ' Did you ever know me
cadge upon my friends ? Let's talk about
your own affairs. What are you going todo
? — to submit, or to reform and look
after the pounds, shillings, and pence ?'

It is the privilege and the use of a friend
to put a question to us more directly than
we can put it to ourselves. Cris had not
faced the plain alternative while he sat in
the railway-carriage. It was brought home
to him now.

c I'm fond of the — er — little wretch
answered he. ' Nice girl, isn't she.
Jackson ?'

c Not got so much in her as her sister
has,' replied Ambrose.

No, no, I can't allow that,' urged Cris.
1 Judith Topham is rather stuck-up, you
know.'

The colour deepened on Jackson's temples,
but he checked the retort that rose to
his lips, and said :

After all, you've plenty of coin, Cris — ■
for the quiet sort of way you'd live in.
Peter Topham expects a millionaire though,
I suppose.'

w It's not the father,' grumbled Cris, ' it's

VOL. II. I

the little dickens herself; says she won't
have a man who won't work. Nonsense !'

c And her sister did me the honour to
say that I ran into the other extreme
answered Ambrose, reporting Judith's conduct
not quite fairly. ' There's no pleasing
these women. Judith is busy enough now,
I daresay, with all these money troubles.'

Looking worried to death,' said Oris.
So is Annie ; told me she had lost a stone
in the last three months.'

I'm sorry for the girl,' murmured Ambrose,
thinking of Judith.

It's her own fault,' said Oris, speaking
of Annie. c I've made up my mind what todo,'
he continued, a moment later. ' I'm
sleeping partner in a city firing as you know,
Jackson. I'll take an active share in the
business. There's no reason I shouldn't ;
I'm good at figures, and so on.'

1 Yes, you've plenty of wits, if you'd only
use them,' said his friend, with a smile. ' But

tell me, is all your money in that firm ?'

In Parry and Parry? Every penny !'

1 Isn't that rather risky ?' asked Ambrose.

Safe as the Bank of England,' answered
Oris. ' But why do you ask ? Surely you've
not heard anything against the credit of
the firm ?'

I would have told you long ago if
I had. No, what I mean is, can it
be safe to have all one's eggs in one
basket ?'

If it's a good basket,' said Cris.

Well, you know your own affairs best.
Don't you inspect the books from time to
time, though ?'

c I've the right to send an accountant, of
course. But I've never done soc

Take my advice and do so now,' said
Ambrose. ' Your partners may be perfectly
honest, I've no doubt they are. But
such carelessness as yours is a positive
temptation.'

i2

I'll see about it,' drawled Cris. And
nothing more was said on the subject just
then. Later on, Cris Parry had reason to
regret that he had not immediately followed
his friend's advice.

The conversation turned upon Jackson's
political activity, and the secretary gave
Cris more of his confidence than he would
have given to anybody else. Cris was
simply amazed to hear of the amount of
work and of amusement that his friend got
through during the clay. Ambrose at
length happening to mention Mrs. Murray's
name, his companion asked,

Do you know what Baybridge is saying
about her ?'

'I don't know,' replied Ambrose, c but I
can very well guess. Baybridge, with its
usual consideration, has doubtless made
me a present of the widow and all her
belongings ?'

L I can assure you, the story is not

only spoken of, but believed,' replied Oris.

4 What does Annie say to it?' smiled
Ambrose, right in supposing that Judith's
view would be included in the answer.

'Neither she nor her sister believe a
word of it,' said Oris. ' The father '

4 Who cares what he believes,' answered
Ambrose.

Cris thought of directly questioning
Ambrose about his relations to Mrs. Murray,
but gathered from his manner that questions
would not be welcome.

You'll dine with me to-nights said
Ambrose, as they gave each other the formal
English nod. Cris consented ; and
then started for the city.

Mr. Parry looked upon the Strand (on
account of its theatres) as still within the
precincts of the endurable ; but London
east of Chancery Lane bored him to desperation.
Everything jarred on his nerves.
The thoroughfares choked with the great

swinging, pounding, glaring omnibuses ; the
shops ablaze in the winter afternoon with a
thousand gas jets above their thriving industry
; the ceaseless tread of the hurrying
multitudes along the pavements ; the ebb
and flow throbbing through the arteries of
the great city; the sense of worth and
manhood in all this stir and toil ; — these
things depressed and reproached Cris.
He was thankful when at length his hansom
drew up before a house in Great Tower
Street. Another minute and he was seated
in the private office of Parry and Parry.

Parry and Parry carried on rather a
large business as Forwarding Agents, and
they had an extensive connection with the
north of Germany, by way of Hamburg.
The firm had been built up on small beginnings,
and for many years did work on
commission only. This course had been
adhered to as long as Cris's father lived,
and Cris had left his money in the concern

-with the express stipulation that no change
should be made in this respect. What
Ambrose had feared had, however, taken
palace ; as Cris exercised no sort of supervision,
the partners had gradually drifted
into a system of conducting operations for
own account and risk, and Mr. Williams,
the junior active partner, was by no means
gratified when Cris announced an intention
of taking henceforth a personal interest in
the business. There had been losses lately,
and Cris, whose capital was not strictly
tied up, would withdraw it if these losses
came to his knowledge. Mr. Williams, a
shrewd ingenious man, knew with whom
he had to deal, and, determining to divert
Cris from his purpose, declared himself delighted
with his young friend's proposal.

c So you have decided to take your share
of the work, Parry,' said he. 'So much
the better for us all ; George and I have
been sadly overworked lately.'

4 Ten to five is the sort of thing, isn't
it?' said Cris.

'Ten to five,' ejaculated Williams, 'no
such luck — at least, for me. I'm here at
nine every morning of my life, except Sundays,
and I shouldn't like to say what time
I get home at night.'

Night ?' said Cris, horrified, and feeling
that after all it might be as well to reconsider
his decision.

Unfortunately, yes,' replied the elder
man. ' You see a shipping business has its
disadvantages in that respect. It's a continual
hurry-scurry, and as to putting off
anything till next day just because the
bills of lading come in late, it's not to bethought
of; we'd lose half our customers.
Yes, I shall be glad of a helping hand. Are
you coming into harness at once ?'

Cris did not at all relish the prospect. To
sit till eight o'clock or so, perhaps longer,
in this dingy office did not seem a delight

to him. He availed himself of the weak
man's usual escape, procrastination.

No, I shall take a trip abroad first. I've
been horribly bored lately, and want a
change of air.'

You're not looking your best,' assented
the other, ' and perhaps it is as well to come
fresh to one's work.'

Oris stayed some time longer, and just
before leaving, said,

4 By-the-by, Williams, I shall be sending
an accountant to you one of these days ; a
mere form, of course.'

It's quite natural you should do so,'
was the civil reply. ' The books will be
ready for him at any moment.'

Christopher Parry took his departure,
satisfied that the business was as sound as
could be, and altogether disinclined to
devote eight or nine hours a day to desk
drudgery. He had intended to write to
Annie ; but this change in his plans prevented

that. Before a week was over he
was pottering about in Rouen, and gradually
working his way southwards with the
faithful Lloyd in attendance. He thought
of Annie a great deal, but his natural
indolence prevented him from taking the
only step that could lead to a reconciliation.
Weeks, months slipped by, and he still remained
abroad.

CHAPTER VII.

THE SHADOW ON THE HOME.

It was in the beginning of February that
Annie lost her lover, and not even the consciousness
of having followed Judith's
example in doing what was good and true r
could help her to endure with patience the
self-inflicted pain. Judith's sympathy,
however, was like balm poured into an
open wound. Annie had never yet thoroughly
understood how great her sister's
suffering was, now she did understand, and
was at one with her companion in misfortune.


The sisters, then, freely unbosomed their

secret thoughts, and drew consolation from
the prophecies they made of each other's
happiness. Judith was sure that Oris
would come back penitent to Annie. Annie
could not admit even a faint probability
of such bliss ; but she had no doubt that
Ambrose would return to Judith.

He's not weak and fickle, like my
poor, dear Cris,' Annie would say. ' With
Ambrose, to love once is to love always.'


And at such words Judith's eye would
brighten, and her cheek would glow.
There was a harder struggle in store for
her than any she had yet gone through,
but of what was to come she was in mercy
ignorant. Many a prayer did the patient
woman lift up as she devoted herself to her
daily cares.

Her mother's condition had long been
a source of much anxiety. Mrs. Top-ham
was passing through a crisis of mental

distress, a crisis which comes to many
of us at some time in our life. She distinguished
no ray of light through the
darkness that surrounded her. The troubles
in her mind were all the more distressing
because she was unable to explain
even to her own satisfaction from what
cause they sprang.

She would sit for hours brooding, and
seldom allow herself to be drawn into conversation.
At first, when she did speak,
it was to make some allusion to the
change in their circumstances, and to urge
upon Judith the necessity for stringent
economy. After a little, to her daughter's
surprise, she laid aside these topics, and
dwelt exclusively upon her early married
life, and upon the childhood of Judith and
Annie. Sometimes she would recall the
most trifling details with an apparent accuracy
that astonished Judith, who had never
given her mother credit for a good memory.

One day Judith, pondering over these
and other symptoms, took alarm, and went
to consult Dr. Stevens. She was so fortunate
as to find the melancholy practitioner
in, and at leisure, and was shown upto
his study without delay. The room
was large, but badly lighted ; and it was
embellished with an anatomical drawing of
4 The Wrestlers,' and a framed diploma, and
with two book-cases full of bulky volumes
on the art of healing. But the doctor,
who put a book by as Judith entered, was
evidently not studying science just then
for the benefit of his fellow creatures : the
red cover with the gilt-lettered autograph
set his visitor wondering how he could
come to be reading Dickens. Possibly
Dr. Stevens appreciated fun as much as
anyone, but was of opinion that to be seen
enjoying a joke would be sadly beneath
his professional dignity. He liked Judith,

because she could be relied upon in illness,
and he received her with a lengthening of
the lips that might almost have been taken
for a smile.

Judith told him how anxious she was,
and gave her reasons. The doctor paused
a few moments, as he always did, before
speaking — whether to find something
to say, or to lower his remarks to the
capacity of his hearers has never been
ascertained.

1 A very grave case,' he said at length.

'We haven't been able to persuade mother
to see you yet,' said Judith. c It's so hard
to manage.'

Quite so,' replied he. ' Grave, very
grave ' — And the doctor murmured something
about ' cerebral disturbance.'

1 Does that mean — brain ?' whispered
Judith.

T fear so,' said Dr. Stevens. ' Mrs.

Topham ought to be attended to at once.
I shall call — as a friend, yon understand.
And now, dear Miss Topham. tell me how
the invalid is affected by these unfortunate
money matters ?'

She doesn't seem to be fretting so much
now,' said Judith. c The first shock is over.'

Then I suppose there was a shock, a
considerable shock ?' asked the doctor.
Please hide nothing from me,' he added,
seeing Judith hesitate.

She wasn't grieved about the money so
much,' said Judith — 'but — but — she always
believed so in my father's cleverness
and now '

6 1 understand,' replied the doctor, kindly.

Is it too early in the year for a change ;
for the seaside,' said Judith, resolving to
beg or borrow the necessary money if the
doctor said yes.

A change is wanted,' admitted Dr.
Stevens. c No, not the sea-side. Let me

see, ) 7 ou are great friends with Mr. Sutton,
aren't you ?'

He has known us for man)' years.'

'Then get him to invite you all to Radalls.
The air would suit Mrs. Topham admirably.'

'When ought we to start?' asked Judith,
thinking how she must screw up her
courage to speak to Will.

1 1 should lose no time, Miss Topham. —
I will write you a prescription, please get
it made up and see it is taken before bedtime,
without any fuss, in your quiet way.
Early tomorrow I will make a pretence
for calling. If I'm wanted sooner, send.'

'Do you think there's any — any — danger,'
asked Judith in tears. ' If anything were
to happen. — Oh, Dr. Stevens, you don't
know what an angel my mother has been,
and how much she has borne. Her whole
life has been one long sacrifice for others,
and now, where is her reward?'

Perhaps part of her reward may be to

VOL. II. k

find that her example of self-denial is not
thrown away on her daughter,' said the
doctor. i You must take care of yourself
too, Miss Topham. Have you anything,
besides what you told me of, upon your
mind r

Judith grew pale and murmured something
inaudibly. The doctor did not press
his question; and soon afterwards his
visitor went home.

Next morning, Dr. Stevens came, according
to promise, ostensibly to bring Mrs.
Topham some flowers. He found the poor
woman complaining of her head, and at last
willing to submit to any treatment that
might bring her relief. The doctor looked
at Judith significantly, as much as to say
that it was too late now to think of moving
the invalid. It was some time before
Peter Topham could be brought to understand
how serious his wife's condition was ;

but when lie did perceive the truth his
distress was extreme, and pitiable in its
helplessness.

Maria Topham had hardly been put to
bed before she became unconscious. There
she lay, her meek white face upturned,
and her eyes wide open. Meanwhile the
doctor had sent his coachman off posthaste
to Baybridge for ice, which was
applied with some benefit when it
came.

A touch of brain fever,' said the doctor
to Judith, when after staying some hours
he was obliged to go.

1 Is there any, any danger?' was all she
could ask.

I have seen worse cases recover,' said
Dr. Stevens. 'The results of this malady
are very uncertain and capricious, particularly
when it is not the result
of a blow or an accident. — There, there,

K 2

don't cry, my poor child, you are too
sensible for me to pretend there's no
danger at all. We must do. our best and
hope.'

c I'll try,' said she, bravely. c I'll follow
your instructions carefully. When will
you come again ?'

To-night, — though I expect no change
for some days.'

And if — if she gets better,' stammered
Judith, 'will the illness affect — will it leave
any traces?'

I hope not, I pray not,' answered the
doctor. c Much will depend upon whether
she can enjoy perfect peace of mind during
her convalescence. But don't trouble
yourself about the future.' And with this
suggestion Judith was forced to be content
; the cares of the present were indeed
enough.

Mrs. Top ham remained in the same
state for several days, and then began

to be restless, and to talk a good deal ina
rambling, incoherent fashion. Dr.
Stevens had not foreseen this, but he
did not say so, he merely repeated his
remark on the capricious nature of the
malady, and took the prudent course of
declining to give a decided opinion.
Judith and Annie could not bear to think
that their mother should be heard in her
delirium by a stranger, and so, refusing
the help of a nurse Dr. Stevens recommended,
took the watching upon themselves.


Peter Topham came to their aid, and
spent many hours by his wife's bedside.
He rarely smiled now, and when habit was
too strong for him, checked himself immediately.
The broken sentences from the
white lips near him cut the careless selfish
man to the heart. Many women endure
much, but reward themselves as it were
by perpetual complaint : they do not mind

being martyrs, so that their cross is lifted
up for everyone to gaze on. Maria Topham
was not one of these ; her grief had been
too genuine and too sacred for display.
But now, when illness took from her the
power of self-control, the pent-up sorrow of
years was set free. Peter learnt how unfalteringly
she had loved him through even-reverse.
It appeared that she had tried to
deceive herself, and to imagine that his
pretence of affection was a reality. Peter
had never before found any difficulty in contradiction,
but he could not contradict the
accusing voice within him now, which whispered
that he had done wrong, that he had
been callous. Twice or three times he spoke
to the sick woman in a low tone. He said
that he had not quite understood her, and
promised to do better if she would only get
well. But she did not know him, and he
fell to musing again in the darkened room.
It was not to her husband alone that the

invalid's aimless talk brought fresh light.
Judith made the startling discovery that
her mother secretly hoped her to become
Will Sutton's wife. Unlike Helen
Jackson, Mrs. Topham had long ago given
up the idea of a union between their children.
She had been fond of Ambrose, it is
true, but, once Judith thought nt to reject
him, she considered the matter settled.
Maria, though an excellent woman, was
narrow-minded ; Ambrose Jackson's errors
lay on the surface, his good points beneath
it, and she failed to do him justice. But
there was no fault to be found with Will
Sutton, except his age. Peter could spend
the rest of his days in comfort if only Judith
could forgive that single fault in Will.

Judith, c putting two and two together,'
so spelt out her mother's hopes. It set
her thinking. An idea that lay half formed
in her mind took definite shape. Could she
ever reward Will's constancy? It had been

her duty to refuse one man whom she loved ;
might it not, under certain circumstances,
become her duty to accept another man,
for whom, after all, she had more than a
passing regard? Ah, how often was this
question to be put, how it was to clamour
for an answer. Judith would not give it a
hearing now. She would not meet trouble
half-way.

Some weary, anxious days passed, and
then the illness took another unexpected
turn. Dr. Stevens allowed this time that
the change was for the better, but the improvement
was scarcely perceptible. He
was unflagging in his attendance, and set
Judith's mind at ease by refusing any payment
for his services. All Baybridge seemed
anxious to follow the example of his
kindness, and there were constant inquiries
from all sides. Aunt Robby only waited
to hear what she might send from her kitchen.
Mrs. Tweedy kept firing off little

tender-hearted, erratic notes, full of inquiries
which she begged might on no account
cause trouble in the answering. Nicholas
Tucker did not allow a day to pass without
calling in person ; he did even a greater
service by strictly forbidding his amiable
daughters to go near the Tophams. Even
Captain Handcock swaggered up and assured
Peter, with an oath, that he was sorry,

4 him, if he wasn't.' Mrs. Jackson came

too, and kissed Judith and Annie nervously,
and said that Ambrose wished to be
told day by day of the progress made by
the invalid. Will Sutton was constantly
at the house.

Then there followed a relapse ; the inflammation
and fever had subsided, but
Dr. Stevens feared everything from exhaustion.
For a day and a night Maria
Topham hung on the brink of the grave,
and neither her husband nor her daughters
dared to leave her side, fearing each breath

might be her last. Peter Topham hardly
spoke or stirred. Was his wife to betaken
from him before she could hear of
his penitence ? Judith and Annie clung
to one another, wishing that they had
loved her more.

At length, about three in the morning,
she looked round and said, feebly,
Peter !'

L She knows me !' sobbed the man. c Marin \
Maria !'

She made no answer. Her head sank on
the pillow.

L Asleep,' said the doctor, after a long
pause. l Thank God,'

She slept for nearly four hours ;
awoke, and recognized them all, as they
crowded weeping round her. But the
doctor soon put an end to the interview,
and sent father and daughters out
of the room.

I said that her constitution would see

her through it,' exclaimed Peter. ' It's
always best to look at the bright side '

And he burst into tears.

Judith and Annie flung their arms round
him, and from that moment the bond between
them all was stronger. Hitherto
Peter, in his icy selfishness, had seemed
altogether unapproachable ; but now they
felt themselves to be bone of his bone and
flesh of his flesh. He received their caresses
with gratitude, almost with shame. But he
soon recovered his spirits, and said,

c Children, let us from this moment enter
into a conspiracy to make your mother
happy. I hope that none of us will shrink
from any sacrifice for her sake. I am sure
you won't, Judith?'

I will do all I can, papa,' said Judith,
wondering if this special appeal to her
could have any allusion to Will Sutton's
hopes.

As she spoke, a messenger came with

a basket of roses and a note addressed in a
strong upright hand to P. Topham, Esq. It
was from Ambrose Jackson, and contained
a few words of sympathy and kindness.

Really,' said Peter, much gratified, c I
will confess that I did not expect this.
Though I don't covet the young man fora
son-in-law, I must say this is very becoming
— this little attention. The flowers,'
said Peter, inspecting the basket, ' are of
the very best. They cost anything.'

c It isn't that,' said Judith. ' It's that he
thought of sending them. I'm afraid they
won't do much good to poor mother ; but
he meant well. He's not so bad, after allis
he, papa?'

In due time the flowers were shown to
Mrs. Topham. Judith stole a blossom or
two, and put one between the leaves of
her Bible, where it remains to this day.
Would it not be well if every faded hope
of ours could be there enshrined?

CHAPTER VIII.

EXILED.

Mrs Topham gained ground, but very
slowly. Her irritability and dejection disappeared,
and, though she suffered much
from weakness, her mind seemed to be at
rest. She seldom complained of her head,
and so Judith's anxiety on that score
passed away. The recovery of the invalid
must be put down in a great measure to
her husband's behaviour. She felt that he
now treated her with something more than
mere conventional politeness, with genuine
affection. She took herself to task for having
ever entertained a doubt of his sincerity.
Peter had not been demonstrative, that

was all. She was sure that he had been
misjudged, that his love had always been
equal to hers. Maria Topham determined
that the injustice she had done him in
her thoughts should, when she grew
stronger, be made up for by more attention
to his comfort and happiness. She
loved to recall the tone in his voice at that
critical moment when, after struggling on
the borders of death, her senses had returned
to her. On this little memory the
good woman feasted her imagination till
she acquitted Peter triumphantly.

Peter was reforming. He had not suddenly
changed from a selfish, empty-headed
creature into a devoted and thoughtful
husband. He had not lost the trick of
being exasperatingly cheerful out of season,
nor is there any probability of his ever being
rational in this respect ; the zebra cannot
change his stripes. But, for all that, Peter
was reforming. His heart had not only

been touched, it had been positively wrung
in agony, sincere if brief, for another.
This can happen to nobody without grand
results. Sympathy had come as a holy
joy to Peter, and he was henceforward to
know of the hunger and thirst of the soul.
He might be aggressive, tyrannical, and
absurd, ten times a day, but he could not
be altogether worthless any longer. His
neighbours might hardly notice the change,
but it was evident to both his wife and his
daughters.

By the time the primroses and the
cowslips were brightening wood and field
with the promise of summer days, it was
possible to think about moving the invalid.
Judith had already decided upon going
to Radalls, as being the only place where
her mother could enjoy two or three quiet
months surrounded by the luxury which
would do her more good than all the doctors
in the world. Will had once before

invited them, and was only waiting for a
hint to renew his invitation. Yet Judith
was very shy and uncomfortable when the
day came for the hint to be given. Mrs.
Topham would not go without husband
and both children, and so many was a tax
even on an old friend's hospitality. Judith
was well aware, however, that Will Sutton
was as open-handed as he was kind hearted,
and under ordinary circumstances would
have felt no scruples.

But Judith knew how faithfully Will
loved her, and that he cherished hopes of
the future. His patient, earnest manner
would have been a proof of this, had a
proof still been needed. She hesitated,
though she knew him to be incapable of
snatching advantage from her presence in
his house. But, as usual, the girl put self
aside. She might be embarrassed and distressed
at Radalls, however carefully Will
concealed his feelings ; but she had no

choice. To live under Will's roof appeared
to her almost like a treason to her love
to Ambrose ; but go she must. So one
morning when she saw Will coming down
the road she went out to meet him, and to
ask him.

He saved her the confusion ; for after
his usual inquiry about Mrs. Topham, he
said,

When will your mother be able to start
for Radalls, Judith?'

1 I was going to speak to you of that,'
she replied. ' I'm sure you must be a
magician, Will, you so often guess my
thoughts.'

He looked pleased ; but answered gravely
enough,

I'm glad, at any rate, that I've guessed
them in this instance. Radalls is ready
for you whenever the move is safe. We
must give your mother every opportunity
of getting strong.'

VOL. II. L

If we might have the cottage ?' began
Judith.

Certainly not,' laughed Will. ! You
wouldn't be so comfortable there.'

c I think it would be best,' said Judith.

c If so, of course have your own way,
Judith. Whatever you decide on, will
delight me. Only I thought of the beds
not being so comfortable as in the big
house. But we can change the beds and
chairs.'

1 No, we mustn't upset you said Judith.

Will's cheeks flushed with pleasure.
Judith, to her dismay, saw that it had not
been his intention to do more than install
them in the country house, and that it was
she who had put this possibility of his remaining
with them into his head.

You would like me to be there ?' said
he.

What could she do but assent. And soit

was settled that the Tophams were to
go to Radalls next week, and take possession
of the cottage ; while Will was
to live in solitary grandeur at the big
house. But this arrangement was disapproved
of by Peter Topham, who turned
up his nose at the cottage, and so in the
end the whole party assembled at Radalls
House itself.

Mrs. Topham bore the move well, and
good effects of the change soon began to
be apparent. Radalls suited her. The fine
old country place was seen at its best in
early May. The woods were gay and fragrant
with spring flowers. The oaks had
just unfolded their leaves, while the leaves
of the chestnuts still hung umbrella-fashion
over their stems. The ferns were springing
up at the foot of the pines, and of the
low thickets. The great cedar close to the
house swept the corner of the front lawn

l2

with its branches of tender green, and r
on the far side, the quaintly-cut beds were
ablaze with patches of hyacinth and of
tulip.

These things were very pleasant after the
bare and ugly house near Baybridge, with
its dismal high-road under the windows ;
and with its gloomy associations of loss and
illness. The complete freedom from anxiety
which Mrs. Topham now enjoyed was not
disturbed by any misgivings about the
future. She was in that transition state
from weakness to health in which the future
seems so far off as not to need taking into
account. Besides, her hopes of a marriage
between Will and Judith increased day by
day, and whenever she did look forward it
was to picture her child happy in Will's
care, and Peter and herself settled for life
in the cottage close at hand.

It may be as well to mention here that

Annie had been set at ease by a letter from
Cris. It contained nothing definite about
the arrangements of Mr. Parry, and held
out no prospect of his immediate return.
But it was brimming over with love and
kindness and fidelity towards Annie, and
she, after shedding a good many tears, with
Judith as consoler-inches, pronounced
herself supremely happy.

Judith too, though Ambrose Jackson's
face would haunt her when she was alone,
was happier than she had been for many a
long day.

This was natural enough. The strain
laid upon her at Baybridge, the grinding
poverty against which she had to fight, the
weariness and responsibility of her mother's
long illness, — had been almost beyond her
power. But for this change she must have
broken down under her burden. It had
almost crushed all healthy joy out of her

youth. She had accepted the drudgery in
the right spirit, and hallowed it by duty
and affection ; but oh, the relief of being a
drudge no longer. To be able in the
morning to lie a-bed if she pleased, or to
roam about in the woods without a single
anxious thought ; to have everything done
for her ; to be as indifferent to butcher and
baker and grocer, as if they had no existence
— this was a relief indeed. Surely
she may be pardoned if her thoughts
wandered from Ambrose now and then, and
if she had a smile for Will Sutton, to whom
she owed her present happiness, and to
whom, what she valued much more, her
mother was to owe a return to health and
strength.

Will saw that her heart warmed towards
him ; but he did not deceive himself as to
the cause. He watched the colour returning
to Judith's cheeks; she grew, he thought,
more beautiful every hour. Her voice was-like

an anthem to her lover ; he trembled
when, as she greeted him morning and
evening, her hand rested a moment in his.
He had resolved to be so brave and true,
not to let her know, certainly not while
she was his guest. But he had not counted
upon the terrible temptation of being
continually at her side, and sometimes it
was as much as he could do to prevent
himself from falling at her feet with a
passionate avowal of his love.

And yet, all the time Will's heart was so
burning, he could not but be conscious of
a certain incompatibility between him and
Judith, not as dearest friends, but as lovers.
He trampled on the thought ; but it was
present even when he suffered most. It
was simply this, that he was twenty years
older than Judith and unable to look at
the world from the same standpoint.

How this struggle in the man's breast

no

would have ended can only be surmised ;

for, when the Tophams had been about a
month at Radalls, an event occurred which
drove poor Will into exile.

He and Judith were walking in the
kitchen garden, and happened to stroll past
the old tool-house. This was a small low
building, roofed with red tiles, to be
festooned later on in the year with the
abundant foliage of a wild vine. The
housekeeper, Mrs. Edwards, was in the
tool-house consulting Ben Purdey, the
gardener, on sundry kitchen-garden matters.
But it always took the talkative
matron some time to come to the point,
and she would begin by retailing what
news she had to Ben. He was old and
rather deaf, and the housekeeper raised
her voice as Will and Judith came within
hearing.

Believe it or not, Ben,' said she, c there'll
be a wedding before this day six months.'

Ben did not believe it.

You're like to know, aren't you ?' said
the housekeeper, loftily. ' Some folks never
use their wits. Why, man alive, what do
you suppose master's brought them all here
for? Yes, they'll be married, and a good
match it'll be too, though one could wish
they was more of an age.'

c He's sweet on her, may be,' admitted
Ben, c but marry her ? Not he ! she ain't
got a farthing.'

c As if master cared for that !' cried Mrs.
Edwards, indignantly.

Will and Judith heard every word.

Will hurried on. His companion quaked
; but, dreading nothing so much as
silence, asked leave to gather some ,
which were to be found in a
long bed at the bottom of the garden. Will
led the way eagerly, and the friends were
soon picking busily as if nothing unusual
had happened.

Weill made no allusion to this mishap ;

but was evidently thinking about it all the
day. Judith was not surprised when at
breakfast next morning he pretended that
he was obliged to go up to London at once
on important business.

I hope there's nothing the matter, "Will
said Mrs. Topham, as he made the announcement.
' You look quite grave.'

c Nothing serious,' he answered ; i but it
wouldn't be wise of me to put off going.'

His eye fell on Judith as he finished
speaking, and Mrs. Topham half guessed
the truth.

6 We shall be very sorry to lose you,
Will,' she said. ' But you are the best
judge, of course.'

Lose him,' said her husband. c One
would think he was going to Australia at
the least. — It will be only for a day or two,
eh, Sutton?'

4 I'm afraid much longer,' replied he.

Peter Topham was vexed at the news.

He imagined that everything was going on
as smoothly as possible between Will and
Judith, and felt that it would be a pity for
them to be separated just now.

1 You must tell your man of business in
London to see to it, Sutton,' he said. ' We
can't get on here without you — eh,
Judith?'

This pointed appeal made Judith shrink
as from a blow. Her father was continually
letting fall hints that he was very partial
to Will. He was always trying to convey
to the owner of Recalls that he entirely
approved of him as a son-in-law, and his
indiscretion kept Judith in a perfect fever
of apprehension. On this occasion she
escaped from the breakfast-room as soon as
possible, and strolled on to the lawn. Here,
as she expected, she was soon joined by
Will.

They Walked along side by side for a
few moments, and then Judith cried

impulsively, ' Will, Will, it is I who am
driving you away !'

He answered, with a tremor in his voice,
that set her heart aching,

Better that I should go now, Judith.'

c It seems hard,' said she. c We are to
stay in your house with the sunshine and
flowers, and you are to go among strangers.
It hurts me to think that I am sending
you into exile, Will. We have been so
happy here during the past weeks, haven't
we ? You have taught me to love Radalls,
the woods, and the old garden, and the
cottages. The poor people will lose a
friend when you go. How should they
not, when you pass among them, giving
away kindness with both hands. You will
alter your mind, won't you, Will ? Stay,
and make us happy. Promise to stay.'

She spoke with affection, and put her
arm in his. A great sadness shone
in the lonely man's eyes, and he drew

her gently to his side, and answered,.

Would it make you happy if I did stay,
Judith ? Ah, you, who know what it is
to obey the call of duty, know well that
I ought to go — unless, Judith, unless — ?'

He turned his gaze upon her as if to read
every thought that was passing in her
mind. A question that might have decided
both their fates hovered upon his lips.
But even now he was true to himself, Judith
was his guest, the question remained
unasked. When he stopped short, she
saw the mute, patient longing in his face,
and would not add to his pain ; she gently
withdrew her arm.

He understood, and bowed his head in
submission. Then, after a long silence, his
grief found words.

c Look around you, Judith,' he cried r
stretching out his hand. ' See how gay
and glad everything is. All through the
dark winter months the trees have been

frost-bound, see how they break into leaf
and blossom ; and the birds have been
silent, hark, how they are singing now.
Oh, Judith, Judith, in my heart alone it
is still winter — all is cold and silent.'

Judith's eye grew dim, and she could
not say a word.

He picked up his hat which had fallen
among the ferns.

1 And now, Judith,' said he, ' you know
what a poor weak creature I am. You shall
decide for me. Ought I to stay ?'

She made no answer.

c Ought I to stay, Judith?' he repeated.

She burst out crying.

'Forgive me, Will, forgive me all the
pain I've caused you.'

There is nothing to forgive, dear friend.
God bless you, Judith.' And he wrung
her hand and went his way.

Judith was glad to be alone. Her heart
was full of the tenderest, purest compassion.

Had Will in plain words asked her
to be his wife, could she have refused ?
She did not know. While the bitter trouble
of parting was still throbbing in her, she
acknowledged that he had been generous
and forbearing almost beyond belief. There
was nobody to see her, and she knelt down
and prayed that the wanderer might have
peace. She prayed, too, that whatever the
future might bring, a sense of right doing
might not be taken away from her. Whenever
she was most deeply moved her love
for self-seeking, worldly Ambrose revived,
as if it was rooted in her very nature. She
thought of this ruling passion now. Would
she ever belong to Ambrose ? It seemed
hardly possible. Could she let Will suffer
when he loved her so ? She dared not guess.
Judith sometimes wondered what she had
done that she should be placed in a dilemma
so cruel. She opened her heart to her
mother and to Annie, and sought counsel

from them. But in some of the most
important acts of our life a time comes
when advice is of little use, and we are
called upon to act alone. Judith foresaw
that this matter must be so decided.
Her respect for William Sutton, her
affection for his amiable and disinterested
character, had taken a firmer hold
upon her than she could have believed possible.
But, on the other hand, she was
convinced that Ambrose too had noble
qualities, if they could once be brought
into play. Alas ! while she cherished this
belief, Ambrose was apparently on the eve
of taking a step which she had long dreaded,
the sacrifice of his love to his ambition.
And yet even for this step there was
some excuse, as will soon appear.

CHAPTER IX.

A PLATONIC ATTACHMENT.

When Bob Pinkerton laughingly recommended
his friend Jackson to ' q- in for
the Park Lane widow,' he could not,
from Society's point of view, be said to be
giving advice altogether bad. Alice Murray
was rich, and her own mistress. She was
beautiful — though her beauty was of the
chilling type. Society (her world) had not
yet made up its great mind whether the
man who should lead the widow to the
altar was to be envied or to be pitied. It
was a moot question. Some people said
the widow was ' a catch.' Others, of the
better sort maybe, declared that she was

VOL. II. m

an ' undertaking.' Bob Pinkerton, supposed
to be a judge of such matters, said it
would want a bold man to ' tackle ' Alice
Murray. c I shouldn't have the impudence
to attempt it myself said Bob, and hardly
any statement could be stronger than that.

Alice Murray (nee Smithson) was an heiress,
and she had made a runaway match the
day after she came of age, a match she repented
of before the honeymoon was half
spent. The penalty for her rashness had
been comparatively slight ; within the
year her husband died. The widow
never had much heart ; this one man she
had loved and trusted, he had proved
worthless, and she now started afresh, and
took it for granted that all men were like
what he had been. And she intended to
carry her wealth and beauty into the best
market. 9

Alice Murray was now twenty-six. She
was tall, with a good figure, long pale hands,

and a complexion little short of marvellous.
Her hair was bright gold, crimped stiffly
in regular curls above a high, narrow forehead.
Her features were sharply chiselled ;
the eyes, steel-grey and piercing, the nostril
insignificant, the under lip thin, very thin
and mobile. She had no taste, but went
to the best dressmakers, and was sensible
enough to let them have their own way : a
wonderfully good plan in similar cases.
Her foot was perfection, and her exhibition
of it, from being rare, was very effective.

In manner, the widow, as a rule, was
reserved to a degree. She did not speak
much, partly because she had not much to
say for herself, and partly — because she
had bad teeth. Mrs. Murray was tolerated
; but not popular. Everybody calledon
the widow, and the widow called on
everybody ; she had acquaintances, she
had toadies; but she had few intimate
friends.

m 2

As Miss Smithson, her education had
been neglected, — she had been a c nobody
and she was still sometimes at fault in the
ways of those circles to which her marriage
and her money had given her access. But
she was not without mother-wit, and a
large share of feminine astuteness, and she
possessed the power of choosing a course
of action and of adhering to it denied to
many gifted and highly-educated women.

When the term of mourning was over,
she left the estate in Wales and took a
house in Park Lane. Here she passed
three seasons, first of all enjoying the
liberty of her position (she had no child),
and then discovering that her position was
insecure. She had a better complexion
than her neighbours. She could wear as
expensive dresses as they. What she
wanted was a husband, a husband who
should be a credit to her. And, as she
never dreamed of allowing her affections

to be engaged, she was influenced in her
choice solely by prudential motives.

Such a woman thinks of title to begin
with. But title for her was sure to be
handicapped in one way or another. There
was Lord Mount-Chapel, for example. He
was young, good-looking enough, and
could make Alice Murray a peeress. But he
was shamefully poor, and would be dear at
the price, as he had no personal distinction.
Alice permitted him to propose, for that
gave her standing, and then declined the
honour. There was also Lord Hobanob.
He was rich, but old and vile. Mrs. Murray
was not squeamish ; but she did not feel
disposed to accept Lord Hobanob. She let
him dangle, however, for if the worst came
to the worst (and the settlements were
handsome) she might be prevailed upon
to alter her mind.

She met Ambrose Jackson just at that
period when he began to be intimate with

Judith Topham ; she recognised in him the
man she sought, studied him in his
strength and in his weakness, and resolved
to make him her husband.

To marry a title had proved impracticable.
She had money enough of her own,
and. if she could be sure it would not be
wasted, would overlook want of affluence
in a man in every other respect desirable.
Such a man was Ambrose Jackson. He
was honest : he would manage her property
with discretion, and perhaps in time make
a fortune by his own exertions. In him
she could take pride. As she told herself,
with a remnant of the Smithsonian vulgarity,
he was ' tip-top.' He was not to be
snubbed or intimidated into obscurity.
She had seen him shake hands with a duke
in an easy fashion never to be forgotten.
He could give her social stability, who
would dare to ' tolerate ' his wife ? Success,
fame, were in that firm grasp, and she

longed to be associated with his future
triumph.

Mrs. Murray was shrewd enough to perceive
that her self-imposed task was difficult.
She had more than an idea that she was
not c tip-top ' herself. There was no disguising
the fact (her friends were fond of
repeating it) that she had been a Smithson.
Substantial advantages would be necessary
to atone for these defects, and they were
forthcoming. Her fortune was worth the
while of an ambitious man. Her appearance
was faultless. Her reputation unblemished.
After fairly weighing the pros and
cons, she decided that the chances were
evenly balanced. She could never, she
felt, retain Ambrose Jackson's affection
after marriage, but once he belonged to
her, once their interests were identical,
she would not care. She spread her net
accordingly.

To make advances (however discreetly)

to her intended victim, would spoil her
chance at the outset. Jackson was not
the sort of man to have a yoke imposed
upon him even by the fairest fingers. The
idea of a marriage must seem to originate
with him. She must not appear to seek
his society, and yet they must meet often.
The veil which the widow adroitly drew
over her designs was a Platonic attachment.
It was a long time before even this stage
was reached. For many weeks she met or
received Ambrose with the utmost reserve.
As he was not used to this treatment, it
vexed him, and he tried to break through
the barrier. She yielded; but only to
complain of the selfish and sordid nature
of men. She declared herself to be a
mark for every needy fortune-hunter. She
wished it could be her lot to meet with at
least one man whose friendship would be
worth cultivating, who could associate with
her on equal terms without any senseless

pretences of affection. There would have
been no charm in such utterances for a
woman poor, old, and ugly ; but they came
with a certain piquancy from the rich young
widow with the faultless figure and the
perfect complexion. Ambrose was amused,
almost touched. He thought he could point
out a friend for Mrs. Murray. She pretended
not to understand him. He had to explain
that he alluded to himself. She acknowledged
the compliment with a cold distracted
air that put Ambrose on his mettle.
i Does the woman fancy I want her and
her money ?' thought he. The widow congratulated
herself when she went to bed
that night ; the first step had been successfully
taken.

Things were soon going on as smoothly
as she could wish. The friendship grew,
and took an attractive form. There was
to be a comradeship between them. They
were to banish all formality, to be not

lovers, not brother and sister, but something
rarer and better — friends. It was
Ambrose who gaily suggested this scheme
for their future intercourse, and the widow,
under whose influence he acted, smiled assent.
Alice Murray was reserved no longer ;
but let Ambrose believe that once she was
sure there would be no love-passages, she
could give him a confidence worth having.
Her tactics were noted by several men
about town, and they would have warned
Ambrose had they not been afraid of his
taking offence.

It was a severe strain upon Mrs. Murray
to keep up the easy, confidential tone in
which Ambrose was obviously beginning
to find pleasure. She was naturally stiff
in manner and wanting in fluency, and
only the end in view reconciled her to the
irksome necessity of always playing a part.
Ambrose did not know what a patient
effort her pleasant banter was. He never

suspected how long she spent in the laboured
composition of those three-cornered notes
that found their way to his rooms.

About six o'clock one evening in the
early summer, Ambrose directed his steps
to the house in Park Lane. He had
been bothered and driven all day, and
he was sure of a welcome there. He liked
going to the widow's because he could say
and do what he pleased, and was not
obliged to be on his guard. Mrs. Murray
had succeeded in winning his confidence,
and, when Ambrose trusted, he trusted
implicitly.

She had been very anxious lately, for he
had not been so regular in his attendance.
Her face was by no means a pleasing study
when she heard his step upon the stairs,
for she had expected him an hour ago.
She sometimes trembled to think that
perhaps, after all her pain and trouble,
and mad, suppressed longing, this handsome

young fellow might escape her. She
was tired of being patient, and especially
of being Platonic. Patient, however, she
must be, till he was in the toils, and then
' let him escape me if he can !' cried the
widow.

She greeted him with a smile, and a
warm grasp of the hand.

I thought you had deserted me, Ambrose.
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday,
three whole days without a glimpse of
you.'

c The thought was unkind, Alice,' said
he, a little seriously. ' I should be the
loser.'

She fell in with his mood at once.

You have been overworking yourself.
Take care, or even your strength will be
overtaxed.'

1 It's not the actual work,' he answered.
L It's the worry. It's the indolence and
folly of so many one has to do with.'

c Granted,' said the widow, 'but if
the' were all wise and industrious how
much harder would it be for you to get to
the top of the tree.'

Agreed,' said her friend, ' there's comfort
in that. But I sometimes wonder,
Alice, whether after all it's not possible to
pay too high a price for influence and
power.'

Even the most self-confident man has his
moments of despondency. But that Ambrose
should allow Alice Murray to know
his doubts was a proof of the strong hold
she had already acquired.

i Too high a price, Ambrose,' she exclaimed.
' I never heard you talk like that before.
Can any price be too high for your
ambition ?'

No, 1 cried he, c you are right. It's impossible.
The truth is I am fagged and
nervous, and not myself. — What have you
been doing since.'

Lord Hobanob has been making love tome.'


All the time ?' said Ambrose, laughing.
1 A distinction indeed ! I wonder you sees
much of the old man, Alice. He's not a
creditable acquaintance exactly.'

c Quite aware of that, sir,' replied Mrs.
Murray, readily. ' But what am I to do
show him the door, or give him a hint ?'

Ambrose was amused at the notion of
giving his lordship a hint.

I can't afford to be rude to him,' continued
the lady, ' he would attack my —
he would tell all sorts of stories about
mec

Not improbable,' agreed Ambrose.

A propos of love-making, Ambrose,' said
Mrs. Murray, ' tell me, have you quite forgotten
all about that country affair?'

'Which country affair?'

Gotham, no, Topham,' said the widow.

Forgotten, no. A man doesn't forget a

snub so easily. But the recollection doesn't
keep me awake, if you mean that.'

Mrs. Murray eyed him keenly, and read
the secret of his weary, haggard look. He
had not forgotten Judith. The recollection
did keep him awake.

I look upon it as a Providence,' she said,
that the girl had wit enough to see she
was not your equal.'

4 My equal? No !' said Ambrose.

She did not like the tone of this last remark,
but for once was not wise enough to
hold her tongue.

c Fancy if you had thrown yourself away
on a muslin frock and a country complexion.
Harsh red, like a Gibson pippin,
wasn't it, Ambrose?'

No ! it could vie with yours.'

Indeed !' cried Alice.

For a moment she lost command of her
features, and they became almost ghastly
in their distortion. Had Ambrose caught

sight of that expression, he would have
been saved much pain and humiliation.
But the lamp had not been brought, and
the summer evening was drawing in. Ambrose
detected nothing, and broke the short
silence by saying,

'Forgive me, Alice; I'm crotchety to-days

'You shall come to the play,' she answered.
' I am going with the Clements, and
there will be room in our box.'

But Ambrose did not care to be seen
with the Clements ; they were not in his
set. So he made an excuse.

1 Good-bye, Alice, for the present,' said
he. ' A pleasant evening to you.'

She gave him both hands, and looked
him full in the face.

4 Who was angry with me about a little
country maid?'

c I wasn't angry,' said Ambrose.

Not a bit. Tell that to anyone but me.
You wounded my vanity.'

'* You have no vanity,' said Ambrose.

1 Haven't I ? — Seriously speaking,' added
the widow, in a lower tone, ' can you be
astonished to think that I, who know
something of your worth, covet a rich and
distinguished marriage for you. What,
would you be tied down to a silly sentimental
Miss who could not even understand
your aspirations? Your wife must have
money, position, and if possible beauty.
She must know how to dress, to sit at the
head of your table . in short, she must
be presentable.'

All this time she was detaining him with
her soft touch.

'Where is this paragon to be found?'
asked Ambrose — c except of course in Park
Lane?'

She dropped his fingers instantly, and
then repented doing so ; for she saw he
had meant nothing.

VOL. II. n

1 Where ?' she answered — ' certainly not
in Baybridge.'

'Dear friend, you have got Baybridge
on the brain to-night,' he answered, rather
coldly. — • I say, Alice, would you mind
pinning my tie at the back, it has come unfastened.'


She managed to perform the simple service,
but her fingers trembled. When he
was gone she stole to the window, and
peered out furtively while he stood underneath
lighting a cigar. Was he thinking of
her ? If so, he would look up. But Ambrose
walked away slowly with his eyes bent
down. His step did not seem so firm and
decided as usual.

He's thinking of that ,' hissed the

watcher.

She consulted the clock on the mantelpiece.
A quarter to seven ! He had not
stayed more than half-an-hour.

She turned to the glass, and surveyed

her face in it deliberately. Yes, she was
"beautiful, but it was the beauty of marble.
Nothing of the dark passion that now consumed
her days and nights was to be seen in
those straight fine features, or on that white
brow. She flung herself down, but there
was nothing sacred in her sorrow. She
wept, but her tears washed no stains aw a) 7 .
She rose, pale, dishevelled ; and more than
ever determined to bring Ambrose Jackson
to her feet.

N A

CHAPTER X.

LOST FAITH.

It will be remembered that Kate Tweedy
was an enthusiastic stopper. Baybridge
was long since accustomed to see her encumbered
with little parcels, and it was a
matter of course for her to drop some of
these at her friends' houses, and to pop in
at all hours for the recovery of her property.
But to do her justice it must be
allowed that she did not spend much money
in Baybridge ; and what she bought was
sure to come in handy for her home. This
mania of hers was harmless enough in its
chronic form ; but now and then came an
acute attack, and nothing would serve

her purpose but a clay in London, when
her expenses were wont to be considerable.
This happened once a year. Formerly
James had accompanied her, but as he at
length narrowly escaped being run over by
an omnibus, his wife ordained that in
future he should stay at home, and mind
the children.

On the whole he preferred this new arrangement.
He promised Kate not to lose
sight of the children all day long, and
especially to keep his eyes upon that remarkable
child Augusta. His responsibilities
were not slight. The children had
grown in size, but not in wisdom. They
would tear their clothes, over-eat themselves,
slide head first down the bannisters,
turn the water on in the bath-room, pull
up the plants in the garden, and insist upon
making toffee and jam rolls in the kitchen.
Their devoted father would have to bear
the brunt of their iniquities. But even

this was better than being dragged, and
hustled, and rushed about London. James
was in low spirits. What is known as a
happy event was to be expected at no distant
date, and Mr. Tweedy was sure that
he would be presented with another daughter.
Everything else was trifling compared
with this infliction. What lesser ills
could really matter to the father of half-a-dozen
girls !

Mrs. Tweedy awoke her husband at
about five o'clock, and the unfortunate
person had to get up without delay. Yet
it was only by wonderful activity at the
last moment that Kate happened to catch
the nine train.

1 Go back to the children, and do mind
Augusta,' were her parting words.

I wish the dear fellow had more spirit,'
she murmured, as she lost sight of her
husband. She little suspected how much

spirit the long-suffering man would soon
display.

If it should be a boy, he would be different
she said, again.

Mrs. Tweedy reached London at ten,
and drove straight to Bond Street, always
the centre of her operations during these
visits. For about two hours she revelled
in her favourite occupation, and then it
was that fate led her wandering steps towards
the select premises occupied by
the fashionable lady-milliner, the rage of
the season, Madame Melusine. To find
herself at the open door was to be convinced
that she had not a thing fit to put
on her head, and that she must have a new-bonnet.
Up she went, and to her surprise
was waited on by a tall, aristocratic-looking
woman in her prime.

4 Madame Melusine' was a well-known
unmarried lady who had lost her considerable

fortune in the Glasgow bank. She
had too much pride to play the role of the
poor relation. So she turned lady-milliner,
and here she was, courteous, with an exquisite
taste, and, as she deserved to be,
completely successful.

Kate thought she had never seen such
ducks of bonnets. She longed to try them
all on, and was only at a loss which to
begin with. While she was lavishing her
praises on these works of art, she heard
behind her a softly-modulated voice saying,

c How do you do, Madame Melusine V

Kate turned round, and was at once addressed
by the new-comer.

c Mrs. Tweedy ! This is a treat. It is
ages since we met.'

Mrs. Murray,' answered Kate. ' I did
not think you would know me again.'

Alice Murray would have known the
countrified little woman anywhere, for she
never forgot a face. But she would certainly

not have recognised Mrs. Tweedy
under ordinary circumstances. As it was,
it flashed across her that Kate came from
Bay bridge, and that here was a golden
opportunity to glean something about
Judith Topham, whom she so utterly
detested. This was the reason why Mrs.
Murray's smile was so suave and engaging.

'Are you staying in London for long?'
she asked.

4 I'm up only for the day,' replied the
other, with a rueful glance at her own
dusty travelling dress, and at her grand
friend's splendour.

c Then you must come home with me,
and have some luncheon,' said the widow.

Kate wondered, but she accepted the
invitation gladly, asking permission to
choose her bonnet first.

c Take my advice, and leave that to
Madame Melusine,' said Mrs. Murray. I
always do.'

Madame was pleased, and gave one of
her rare smiles. She inwardly wished that
all her customers were equally reasonable.
It was useless having pretty things if
people came and chose what did not become
them, and departed and then looked nothing
short of frights in madame's best productions.
She produced a bonnet which Kate
Tweedy at once pronounced to be 'just the
thing ' and i ravishing,' and received directions
for it to be sent to Llewelyn House,
Baybridge.

Kate felt very proud as she drove side
by side with the beautiful widow, and more
than ever ashamed of her blue serge and
of her freckles.

But Mrs. Murray could be charming when
she chose, and, so far from appearing conscious
of Mrs. Tweedy's inferiority, overwhelmed
her visitor with polite attentions.
What a fortunate meeting ! Dear Mrs.
Tweedy did not look a day older. Dear

Mrs. Tweedy must pay a visit to Wales in
the autumn, she must indeed ! Dear Mrs,
Tweedy must fix a date, and suit her own convenience
— Kate was enchanted, and could
scarcely answer for pleasure and excitement.

After luncheon, the widow asked, carelessly,
'You are still fond of living at Bay-bridge,
Mrs. Tweedy ?'

1 It suits us,' said she, humbly, as if the
fact were a crime. ' You see, I have five
children. Nora -'

'What sort of society is there in the
place ?' interrupted Alice Murray, sharply.

Kate was hurt that the mention of her
children should excite no interest. She
was not sure that she liked Mrs. Murray
after all. But she obediently gave the
names of several families in Baybridgc.
When she spoke of the Tophams, her companion
said, languidly,

Topham ? Topham ? I fancy I have
heard of them.'

It must have been of Judith.'
'Of Judith? And may I ask who is
Judith, and what should make her known?'

I She is the elder daughter, and is the
most beautiful girl in our part of the
country.'

Ah, devoted swains, and so on ?' said
the widow.

What ?' said Kate.

I I mean, she is a flirt.'

J edith ? No. You have been misinformed.
Of course she has had admirers
with her looks.'

Mrs. Murray laughed, not very pleasantly.


'Now I am curious,' she said, 'to hear
what a rural beauty may be like. An idle
curiosity, dear Mrs. Tweedy, but please
indulge it. Begin with her appearance, goon
with her manners, and end with her
lovers. It will be quite like reading an
idyll, and so very amusing.'

There was something quick and nervous
about the fair woman's gaiety which Kate
Tweedy must have noticed had she not
been so eager to sing the praises of her
favourite Judith.

'I wish I could do justice to her, Mrs.
Murray,' she began. ' Let me see. Judith
is about your height, and has much the
same figure.'

Really !' said the widow. ' Naturally
she doesn't know how to dress.'

She doesn't wear such expensive clothes
as you do,' said Kate, innocently. c The
Tophams have lost all their money ; but
everything Judith puts on, I don't know
how or why, seems to become her. There's
a sort of refinement and easy grace in
Judith that wins one's heart at once. She
is not demonstrative, perhaps, but so sympathetic.
She has brown hair and hazel
eyes — such eyes, Mrs. Murray — and the
most lovely mouth imaginable.

I don't like small mouths,' said Mrs.
Murray ; c they have no character. 1

1 Oh ! but she has character. I can
assure you she has firmness and determination
in any good cause. For all that, she
is the most gentle, unselfish creature. Oh,
Mrs. Murray, I wish you knew Judith !'

I am hardly likely to have that honour,'
■ answered the widow, softly, with a quiver
of her upper lip. c She would scarcely be
received in my set.'

c You mean because she's so poor?' said
Mrs. Tweedy. i It will be different when
she's married, though.'

You don't say that — that — the girl is,
in fact, presentable ?'

It struck her listener all of a sudden that
Mrs. Murray must be jealous. Kate remembered,
what had been driven out of her
head by the novelty of her position, the
reports concerning Ambrose and the widow,

which had been flying about Baybridge.
She could not resist saying,

I believe you know Mr. Jackson. He is
particular, is he not? And yet even he
has no fault to find with Judith Topham.
He proposed to her, you may have heard?'

The widow saw that she was detected.

1 Yes,' said she, smiling, ' and to be candid
. . . for I have taken a great liking for
you, dear Mrs. Tweedy . it was because I
had heard of this fancy of young Jackson's
that I wanted to know something about
the girl. Ambrose Jackson is a protege of
mine, you must understand, and I don't
mean him to spoil his future by falling a
victim '

c Judith is not that sort,' interrupted
Kate, hotly. c Hasn't she refused him ?
She is frank and good.'

4 I've nothing to say against her, I'm
sure, — especially if she has your good

opinion,' murmured the widow. ' But the
truth is — I intend to marry Mr. Jackson.'

1 You !' cried Kate, aghast.

4 To somebody worth while,' hastily put
in Mrs. Murray, cursing the awkwardness
of her last sentence. ' He will be a somebody,
and this country intrigue would
drag him down. I should be relieved to
hear that this — what's her name — Miss
Topham was to be married to — - — '

c To Mr. Sutton ?' cried Kate.

Mrs. Murray had never heard the name %
but she answered, aptly enough, c Yes, to
Mr. Sutton,' and waited for what her companion
would say further.

Now Mrs. Tweedy had long been exercised
in her mind about Will and Judith.
She did not like being puzzled, and
puzzled she had been ever since Ambrose
Jackson's dismissal. Why had Judith not
accepted him? This question was the
plague of Mrs. Tweedy 's existence for

many a month. At last she saw her way
to answering it. Judith had all alone;
loved Will Sutton — that was her solution.
To take a theory into her head, and to
consider it established beyond dispute was
one and the same thing to Kate Tweedy.
And, when the Topsails went to Kadalls,
she considered their departure an additional
and positive proof of her new theory.
Judith would not have gone to Will's
place unless she meant to marry Will. So
reasoned Kate, and, as she did not realize
how indispensable the change was for Mrs.
Topham, the reasoning was not so bad in
itself. Kate hungered for more information
on the subject. When she began to
talk to her companion, she felt at a disadvantage
; but, after detecting the widow
in a want of uprightness, she was more at
her ease. Perhaps Mrs. Murray, however
little she pretended to know of Judith's
affairs, knew something definite about Will

VOL. II. o

Sutton's chances. Hence Kate's allusion
to them.

Judith can hardly refuse him after
going to Radalls ?'

I must say it looks very much like
taking a peep at one's future home,' hazarded
the widow, and waited again. It might
be possible for her to play a grand coup.

Kate was convinced that Mrs. Murray
knew all about it, and said as much. Alice
smiled, and half shook her head.

I'm dying to find out whether there is
any positive engagement,' said the visitor.

My dear Mrs. Tweedy,' was the answer,
- 1 should like to oblige you ; but confidences
are confidences.'

This was quite enough for Kate. She
had fallen in a trap like this before. There
was an engagement. The widow knew
with whom she had to deal, and calculated
that the lie she had so cunningly set afloat

would not be long in reaching Ambrose.
She had gained her object, and set about
getting rid of her visitor.

i You will excuse me if I go and dress ?'
she said, rising. ' I have an appointment
at three.'

One moment,' said Kate. ; 1 must tell

you about my children. Nora '

Children don't interest me,' said the
other, coldly.

Kate absolutely gasped.
c Mine would,' she protested. L They are
not like other people's. Every] >ocly says so.

Augusta is one of the most remarkable '

1 Mrs. Tweedy,' interrupted the widow,
icily, ' I have told you that I hate children.
Good-bye.' And, with the stiffest
of bows to Mrs. Tweedy, she just touched
the bell, and sailed out of the room.

Kate was well-nigh choking, not at the
insolence, but at the want of heart. Hates

o 2

children ! What a wretch ! And Mrs.
Tweedy grasped her umbrella, and her
purse, and a parcel of gloves, and a
parcel of cheap lace, and a parcel of odds
and ends, and stalked downstairs and out
of the house, and shook the dust off
her feet. Nor did she recover her
composure until she had sat panting
for a quarter-of-an-hour on a seat in the
park.

Mrs. Murray, besides being favoured by
fortune, had played her cards well. She
had, it is true, given Kate Tweedy an insight
into her real character ; but for that
she did not care a fig. She rather enjoyed
it, much in the same way as a tiger cat
enjoys exhibiting its claws and fangs.
But she gained two important objects.
She successfully upheld the pretence of
the platonic attachment ; in this respect
Mrs. Tweedy was completely hoodwinked.
And she had sent a message (her action

amounted to that) to Ambrose which
would make him lose faith in Judith. He
would find out that he had been duped,
but only when it was too late. Ambrose
was hers. He would recoil from shattered
hopes, and give full rein to his ambition.
Mrs. Murray stepped into her victoria in a
very contented frame of mind. She saw
Kate Tweedy sitting in the park, and enjoyed
the satisfaction of ignoring her
existence.

As for Kate, when her indignation had
somewhat subsided, she was incapable of
keeping to herself the news she had gathered.
Conversation was the only safety-valve
for her present condition. Was there any
chance of finding the busy Ambrose in ?
Would she ever dare to tell him of Judith's
engagement ?

Kate gave a jump of astonishment
which amused the passers-by. She had altogether
forgotten that a visit to Ambrose

was one of the duties of the day. She had
no more head than a hairpin, but she now
remembered having promised Mrs. Jackson
to pay Ambrose a visit, and to see how
he looked, Mrs. Jackson had noticed that
her son's letters had lately been less
cheerful ; he had not been to Baybridge
for some time, and she feared he was overworking
himself. Mrs. Tweedy gladly
undertook the commission. And, now when
the news in her was crying for utterance,
she felt that her having done so was a
most fortunate circumstance.

Drive me to Jermyn Street,' she said to-the
cabman. ' What is the fare ?'

The man looked at. his customer and
answered two shillings. She raised no
objection, she imagined that, by always
asking beforehand, she could not be imposed
on.

Ambrose Jackson sat in his room, alone.
Energetic, self-helpful though he was,,

the young secretary had not succeeded in
treading care underfoot. It sprang up and
met him at every corner. He was living
far beyond his means and his earnings.
He did not waste his resources ; but he
moved among men who had large incomes,
and who, in some cases, did not hesitate to
pit the influence that money will always
command against one immeasurably
superior in ability. Bills poured in ;
tradesmen heard that his credit was
shaken, and swooped down upon him without
mercy. He had been forced to ask
Mr. Mackintosh for an advance, on his
salary — the step appeared to him a deep
humiliation. He could turn to no one for
aid. His were all fair-weather friends ; and
if a storm came he must face it alone. This
was his own doing ; the weak to the Avail
was the motto he had held aloft throughout.


And, while his pride was thus mortified,

lie suffered even more in his affections.
Judith was still empress of his restless,
striving heart. He might have gone back
to her, and thrown himself at her feet, and
confessed that his creed was false, — hers,
divine. But he had not enough generosity
for this, not as yet. He loved her, he
idolized her ; but he could not forgive her
refusal, or risk its repetition. Yet she shed
an influence over his darkest hours. She
stood between him and self, pointing to the
nobler path ending in across — a bright and
guardian angel.

But for this vision which haunted him
with sweetness, he would long ago have
asked Alice Murray to be his wife. Not
that he supposed she was fond of him or
that he was fond of her, but because the
marriage would be, in many ways, convenient.
Ambrose knew that Mrs. Murray's
income would be an invaluable help to him
just at this crisis, but he tried to have no

scruples about marrying for that help. He
argued that it would be by no means a onesided
bargain. He could offer Mrs. Murray
a position she could not easily obtain without
him. He could put up with the Smithsonian
taint. He could provide what is not
always to be bought, a strong, protecting
arm and sound counsel. Plausible arguments
! But when were such wanting to
one willing to justify himself. 'Plainly
stated,' murmured Ambrose now, ' I sell myself
and services for my share in seven thousand
a-year. Xo, no, I have not sunk to
that yet. As long as Judith remains unmarried
I will be true, not only to her, but
to my own heart and conscience.'

Ambrose started up and shook himself
with the air of a man who has made up his
mind. Seeing Mrs. Tweedy alight outside,
lie went to the hall-door and ushered her
into his room, and relieved her of her various
encumbrances.

c This is very kind of you, Mrs. Tweedy
he said, cordially. And after asking about
his mother, and receiving a satisfactory
account, he added : c And how is Mr.
Tweedy, and how are the children ? What
has my favourite, Miss Augusta, been doing
lately?'

Mrs. Tweedy took off her mantle, and
then poured forth an eulogy on Augusta
until obliged to pause for breath. At last
it occurred to Kate that her important
news wanted telling. She hoped Ambrose
might assist her by asking after the Top-hams.
Disappointed in this expectation,
she flung herself in medias res, exclaiming,

Have you heard about Judith ?'

Is she in town?' asked he, hastily.

Oh, no ; they are all at Radalls.'

Radalls ? Where is that ?'

Why, Mr. Sutton's place.'

'Sutton's. Is he with them?'

If I thought it would have distressed
you ' said Mrs. Tweedy.

c I am not distressed,' replied Ambrose.
w Please answer my question. Is he with
her now ?'

Haven't you heard of their engagement?'
stuttered Mrs. Tweedy, quite alarmed at
his deep tone and earnest manner.

Engagement ? No ! Who told you they
were engaged ?'

Mrs. Tweedy for once tried to be prudent,
and said nothing about Mrs. Murray.
Her answer took a more dangerous form.

L Everybody is talking about it,' said she.

'A pity,' said Ambrose, softly. 'He is
too old by twenty years. Twenty years is
a long time, Mrs. Tweedy. Engaged to
Will Sutton. A pity ! look at it which
way you will, it is a pity indeed.' And his
head sank on his breast.

Kate was not prepared to see Ambrose so

moved. She had always thought him worldly
and wanting in feeling. But she now
saw that Judith had been much to him.

I am so sorry, Mr. Jackson.'

c Not at all. You have done me a kindness.
My eyes are opened now. She loved
Sutton from the first.'

I think so,' said Mrs. Tweedy. And
she thought it best to make preparations
for departure.

L Will you do me a favour ?' said Ambrose,
as he shook hands. c Say nothing of
what has passed between us, not even to
my mother.'

I promise,' said Kate, with eyes full of
sympathy.

c Kiss the children for me,' said Ambrose.
6 And again, many thanks for your visit.'

As Mrs. Tweedy drove away she could
not get over a certain uneasiness — as if
she had done some harm for which there
was no remedy.

1 wish I hadn't met that woman at
Madame Melusine's,' said she. ' Hates
children ! Oh, may I never set eyes on
the wretch again.'

An hour later Ambrose, with a smiling
face, and dressed with the greatest care,
hailed a hansom, and said to the driver,

Number — Park Lane.'

CHAPTER XL

IN THE TOILS.

The clock on Mrs. Murray's mantelpiece
struck half-last five.

i.

The widow hastily entered, tore off her
gloves, dragged off her bonnet, and sat
down in gloomy dejection with a hand on
each knee, and her elbows out. It was
wonderful what ungainly attitudes she
would fall into when she lost her temper,
and was not under observation.

Mrs. Murray had been to call upon Lady
Danvers (whose husband, as already stated,
represented Baybridge in the Conservative
interest). The room was full, and
Mrs. Murray found herself sitting close to

Jane, Countess of Dartrey. Mrs Murray

adored countesses, and hankered for an introduction.
Her hostess had only one
fault, a wish to oblige everybody, and most
imprudently, in reply to the widow's meaning
smile, began, ' Dear Lady Dartrey, may
I ' — and the formula died away as usual
until the speaker ended with — ' Mrs. Murray.'
The introduction had taken place.

Lady Dartrey cast a reproachful look
at her friend Margaret Dan vers, who
felt she had behaved badly. Lady Darted
was a gentlewoman both by birth
and by instinct, and she exchanged a few
civilities with Mrs. Murray. But she let
it be clearly understood that between them
there Alas a great gulf fixed. A lady knows
how to repel an impertinence without
ceasing to be a lady.

The widow came home, and, after the
fashion of a little mind, brooded over this
treatment. More than ever she needed

Ambrose. He would soon ' bring that
stuck-up woman to her senses.' But Alice
was no longer so sanguine about the result
of her manoeuvre with Kate Tweedy. It
had struck her since that Ambrose was not
likely to take any important step on
account of mere gossip. He would find
out the truth of it first. There was much
in this, but it was not gossip which had
convinced Ambrose, it was that fact which
even Mrs. Tweedy could not have fabricated,
that all the Tophams were at
Recalls.

The widow's sharp ear caught a step in
the hall. She had barely time to arrange
her hair in the glass before Ambrose stood
beside her.

L Well, Alice,' exclaimed he ; but there
was something forced and unnatural in his
manner, and his voice, usually so firm and
ringing, was unsteady now.

That little fool of a woman told him at

once, thought Alice. Yes, he knows ; he is
desperate

I've just come from Lady Dan vers,' said
she, by way of beginning the conversation;
for he did not seem inclined to talk.

Ah, indeed. Sir Hugh there ?'

'No, he's at Baybridge.'

When is the old fogey going to give up
the game ?'

c Parliament ? Not while he lives, I
expect. Never mind that, Ambrose. Your
friends will find a seat for you somewhere
else.'

I have interest in Baybridge,' said he ;
but he spoke very wearily, and there was
another long pause.

'I met the Countess of Dartrey,' continued
Alice ; ' charming woman.'

1 So you met Lady Dartrey,' said he,
unable to resist the temptation of correcting
the little impropriety.

She flushed, but smiled for all that.

VOL. II. P

c Charming woman,' she repeated.

I'm glad she was civil to you,' answered
he. ' It is good to have friends in high
places. Alice, I think there's nothing in
the world worth living for but power. All
else plays one false. Dearest hopes crumble
to dust. A lie is written on the fairest,
most honoured brows. Where our hope
rested on the broadest foundations, it is
shaken down.'

My friend,' said Alice, as she passed
her cold fingers over his burning forehead,
' something has vexed you. You
are not yourself. Your head is on
fire. There — sit down, and shut your
eyes.'

He obeyed mechanically. The widow
took up a scent spray, and, kneeling down
beside him, cooled his temples. Then she
rang the bell for tea ; and pretended not to
notice his distress. He felt the necessity

for calmness, and at last lifted up his eyes
to hers, and said,

Alice, grant me a favour ?'

4 Willingly.'

'Listen to a dream that I have had, more
than once.'

c Yes?' replied his platonic admirer.

1 You have often rallied me about Judith
Topham, and I have put you off lightly. I
loved her, I loved her ! She was like a
fresh sea-breeze to me ; I forgot no word
she spoke, her voice echoed in my ears long-after
she was gone. There was a time
when I did not realise her full worth.
Lately, I knew her to be incomparable.
And, Alice, to come to my dream ; my
dream was that I might be hers and she
mine, and that no one should come between
us. The dream will visit me no more,
my friend.'

'No?' said Mrs. Murray. 'Has she proved
faithless ?'

i>2

1 Yes, faithless, not to any promise between
us, but to the love she bore me.'

Forget her, dear Ambrose.'

L From this moment I do,' he answered.
I would not have spoken of her now, except
that I might be just to you.'

'To me ?'

1 Yes, to you. Before I came here this
evening, I made up my mind to ask you a
question. But I could not do that without
confessing what my love for Judith has
been. You know now that I have loved —
and forgotten her. — Alice, will you be my
wife ?'

To bear defeat well is a common quality,
but to be moderate in success marks the
superior mind. Alice Murray, in her contemptible
line of intrigue, had that superiority.
Yet it was all she could do now to
prevent herself from springing up with a
cry of exultation. She had expected this
result. But it had come with overwhelming

suddenness. She kept silence, and held
her head down ; she had done so when her
first husband proposed. And she was quietly
deciding what to say and do while Ambrose,
who supposed her still struck dumb
with surprise, continued :

c Forgive me, Alice, if I have startled
you. Of course you must be astonished. I
know that this subject was not to be mentioned
between us. But, though I have
broken the letter of our agreement, I am
not going to break its spirit. You have
told me a hundred times over that you
hate sentiment. So do I. Sentiment is for
children, not for us. I offer you my hand
and energy to make our interests identical,
and, if you consent, I will ensure you a
position and notoriety for which other
women have longed in vain. We are
young, we are strong. We have the world
before us. Beauty, wealth, ambition —
what can be withheld from these ?'

Alice Murray was worldly, intriguing,
heartless. Such an emotion as could glow
in Judith's breast could not be hers, even
in imagination. But the woman in her
was not altogether quenched. She had a
woman's longing for worship of some sort
or other from a man. She had been willing
to win Ambrose on any terms, but
now, when it came to the push, she was
appalled at the cold, business-like manner
in which he proposed their union. She
had not the charity to perceive that the
Ambrose now speaking to her was a mere
counterfeit, a mere distortion produced by
disappointment. She thought him sordid
when, in reality, he was despairingly
wretched.

She put her arms round his neck, and
sobbed hysterically. For a moment all her
arts forsook her Then she caught her cue,
and began once more to act.

i How did you find out my secret ?' she
murmured.

Ambrose felt as if the floor was rocking
beneath him. The soft, clinging fingers of
this woman paralysed his very thoughts.
He had expected a mild, cold surprise, and
found the most passionate abandonment.

'Your secret?' he asked, almost inaudibly.

Yes, that I loved you. I didn't know
it myself at first, fancy that. It dawned
upon me suddenly, and ever since — oh,
Ambrose, don't turn away, let me hide my
face. I had made such fun of love and
lovers, and protested so often that nothing
could move my heart, that my secret was
a despair to me. I feared you would find
it out, and laugh at your poor Alice. — Yes,
Ambrose, I will marry you ; I give you
hand for hand, heart for heart, life for
life. Say once more that you do so love
me.'

The actress was lost in the woman, reality
left pretence far behind. Her voice
shook, her tears fell like rain, her arms
closed round Ambrose with all the ardour
of possession.

He shuddered as if a corpse had risen to
life and embraced him. A horrible giddiness
and nausea overtook him. A sense of
utter, eternal poverty thronged on him, as
if he had lost his soul. He had not dreamed
that Alice would ever claim love. He
might say that he would forget Judith,
never speak of her, never allow a thought
of her to linger in his brain. But he would
never love another ; he would like, when he
was an old man, bowed with such honours
as his strength could win, to say to himself
that, in this lame, halting way, he had still
been true to Judith.

Yet he could not fling off these fetters
of flesh and blood that were linked round
him. He had to answer his bride's question,

'Did he so love her?' What Ambrose
suffered in that moment — may it
not be taken as a drop in the cup of expiation
?

I will do my duty to you, Alice.'

You will love me, darling?'

Yes.'

It was not gracious '; but Alice was
content, perforce. She had the wit not to
prolong the scene, and released him.

She even sat at the other end of the
sofa ; and again looked down. She twined
her hands together with the pretty embarrassment
of seventeen. She might not
care for modesty, but she did care for its
appearance. She regretted now the vehement
outburst in which she had indulged.
She believed that Ambrose was the soul of
honour in spite of his hardness, and that
his word would be to him a binding law ;
but she judged it wise not to try him too
severely, till after they were married. He

was sure to make some generous remark
about their future money arrangements,
and Alice determined to snatch the full
advantage from his generosity. She would
hold on to every penny. A day might
come when Ambrose writhed under her
yoke, and it would be useful for her to
have command of the purse. Yes, once
they were married, even this man's strength
should be subject to her. But for the
present his chains must seem like garlands.

'Now that I have got over the first
shock of joy, Ambrose,' said she, c I'm not
going to bother you with any woman's
nonsense. My nerves were to blame just
now. Let us talk about the future, and
what we can gain from it. I am going to
make all sorts of plans and suggestions,
and you are to play monitor.'

She intended to say mentor, and the slip
won a smile from Ambrose. Her new attitude
was an unspeakable relief to him.

• You're laughing at me ; I Ye said
something not wise. Never mind, I'm
ready to be corrected, as you will find
out. I promise you shall be the only one
to see my weak points. You shall never
be ashamed of your wife, Ambrose.'

Nor you of your husband,' replied he,
laughing almost. 'Let me hear some of
those plans ?'

She held up her finger prettily, and said,

1 First of all, then, the head offices of the
Company are in London. We must buy
or take on lease a good house where we
can entertain people likely to be creditable
and useful. Our place in Wales will be
only for the dull part of the year. What
do you say to that?'

Ambrose winced. It was unbearable
that this woman was treating him with
delicacy. He would much sooner she had
said, 'must buy a house,' and ' My place
in Wales.'

Alice, 1 said lie, c let us understand each
other. Your property remains your own
now and in the future in every sense of the
words. I will buy a house for you, I will
see you are not cheated. Your property
shall yield every farthing that it can be
made to yield. Your wealth shall advance
our common cause, but shall not enrich
me personally.'

This was a fine distinction, and Ambrose
inwardly despised his own sophistry.

c As you please,' said the widow. ' But
I think you unkind and disagreeable.'

He thought her sincere. She looked
very beautiful as she spoke. Ambrose
bent down and kissed her, and, while
her heart beat tumultuously, she protested,


6 Not bad, for unsentimental people,' said
she.

The young politician's spirits rose ; his
qualms of conscience and of feeling passed

away ; and he began to enjoy in prospect
the advantages of his new position. One
thing only had hitherto checked him in his
onward path : poverty. He was no longer
poor. The last barrier to his ambition
had gone down. He could with prudent
management hold his own now, and, while
glad of the aid of money, easily pass by
those who relied upon that aid alone.

True, as far as his companion for life
went, Ambrose had not realised his heart's
desire. Such communion as he might
have enjoyed with Judith was lost. Never
never again could the charm of her
presence bring him peace. But for this he
was not to blame ; as long as Judith had
remained free, all the advantages of a
marriage with Alice Murray had been
powerless to seduce him.
Ambrose never dreamed of comparing
her to Judith. Still, the widow's
worst points were unknown to him. The

gravest charge that he brought against her
was, that she was second-rate. The man,
in spite of all his shortcomings, had a
certain nobility of mind which could not
descend to grasp her meanness. He was
comparatively poor, she was rich and had
accepted him, and therefore Ambrose . . .
who did not understand how firm a grasp
she intended to lay upon her own money,
and what a price she was prepared to pay
for her passion's sake . . . thought her disinterested.
Straightforward himself (except
when warped by her influence), he
did not look for deceit in her. Besides,
after all said and done, Ambrose was still
very young, and older and wiser men than
he have been beguiled by women such as
Alice Murray. She was second-rate, he
admitted, but she had wits, and if she
could do nothing else, could dress well,
hold her tongue, and look pretty and
engaging,

Ambrose had an import ant dinner engagement,
and rose to go.

Alice,' he said, ' you have placed yourself
in my keeping, and I will try to be
worthy of the trust. I will be here early
tomorrow, and, by-the-by, if in the meantime
Lord Hobanob should put in an appearance,
I should say not at home if I
were you.'

Of course, if you wish it, dear Ambrose.
But I thought the old fellow might be
useful to you. He has some property near
Baybridge, as you know.'

'Yes, he has some influence there,' said
Ambrose ; ' but I think he is too indifferent
to exert it. In any case, I would sooner
forfeit every chance I may have in that
direction than allow Lord Hobanob to pay
one visit to the woman to whom I am
going to give my name.'

Alice checked a frown, saying,

4 Why do you think so very badly of

him ? But, of course, I won't see him
again. It will be one bore the less ; I
only thought he might be useful.'

Ambrose accepted her promise, and said
nothing farther. He kissed her on the
forehead.

4 Good-bye, Alice.'

Till tomorrow. I will be a good wife
to you, Ambrose.'

He had no choice but to kiss her again.
Then he took a hurried departure.

4 Mine !' cried the widow, when she was
alone. ' How 1 have had to scheme and
fawn to win him. Fancy him dictating
who my friends are to be. Well, I must
have patience, I suppose — just for the
present. He will not find me easy to manage
in a few months' time.'

The widow was extremely vexed at the
promise about Lord Hobanob that she
had been obliged to give Ambrose. She
did not see how Ambrose could well escape,

but, in case of accidents, she was not going
to offend the old rake of a peer who wanted
to marry her. He did call, and she did
see him, and told him of the engagement,
and hoped they would always remain
friends Lord Hobanob used some very
strong language, but in the end patched
up a peace with the widow.

When she came home that night she
spent several hours in writing to her
friends with the news that she was to be
married to Ambrose Jackson. She took
this step not because she was at all anxious
to receive congratulations, but because
she wanted to have the match talked about.

I have put a spoke in your wheel, Miss
Judith,' she said, complacently, as she laid
her false head upon her pillow.

VOL. II.

CHAPTER XII.

OUT OP HIS RECKONING.

Ambrose Jackson's visit had lasted just an
hour, and he had no time to waste if he
intended to appear punctually at Mrs.
Pinkerton's in Grosvenor Gardens. But
he did not hurry himself. He walked instead
of drove, and chose, too, the longer
way to his rooms, by Park Lane and
Piccadilly.

The evening air was deliciously cool.
There was a lull in the traffic. On the
pavement footsteps could be heard, coming
lightly, and passing, and then dying away.
Close by Thorneycroft's three poets the
young aspirant to a less noble fame stood
still. The gentle Shakespeare, though he

was only in stone, might have a message
for the worldling at his feet. At all events
sweet, good thoughts found their way into
poor Jackson's heard. Remorse for what
he had just done overtook him. In one
respect Ambrose stood far above most of
his contemporaries : he had the courage to
maintain, and the character to prove, that
a man's person may be as sacred as a
woman's. He paid no heed to the scoffers,
and kept himself pure. So it was that
marriage was to him a sacrament indeed.
And now he had bound himself to a woman
whom he did not love. And his remorse
had in it something that most other
men could not feel. He had lost Judith,
that was much. He had lost his self-respect,
and to him that was far more.

I have sold myself,' he murmured, bitterly.
'I can never be the same man
again. If only to-day's work could be
undone !'

Q2

As Ambrose reached the corner of the
street, he came face to face with the last
man he could expect to meet — William
Sutton. He grasped his stick firmly, and
for a moment his hand trembled. But he
controlled himself quickly, and said, in an
apparently careless tone,

L How are you, Sutton ? I thought you
were in the country.'

I'm on my way to Normandy,' said
Will. ' How has the world been treating
you since we last met ?'

To Normandy ?' said Ambrose. c Aren't
the Tophams at your place ?'

■ I have j must left them,' said Will. c Yes,
they are all at Radalls.'

And when is your marriage to come off,

Sutton r

1 What marriage ?'
'With Judith Topham !'
L I'm not engaged to marry her. Who
could have told you that, Jackson ?'

Ambrose bore the blow Avell though his
knees shook, and the dew gathered on his
forehead. A short pause before speaking
again was the only other sign of his
dismay.

c I beg your pardon,' he said. c There
has evidently been some mistake. — If you
would care to look me up, Sutton, when
you come to England again, I shall be glad
to see you. Jermyn Street, you know.'

'Thanks very much,' said Will. c Goodnight.'


The men shook hands, and respected
each other from that moment. Will walked
on in sad, quiet meditation. Ambrose
hurried home, and dressed for dinner.

When Ambrose arrived at Bob Pinkerton's,
he found that the news cf his engagement
with Alice Murray had actually
preceded him — Bob having passed her
house, and spoken to her for a moment as
she got into her brougham. He received

the congratulations of his friends without
exciting any suspicion of the pain he suffered,
though the readiness with which Alice
had spread the news made him feel his
position still more keenly. He foresaw that
any appeal to her for release would be
fruitless.

The resolute, clear-headed man had
already decided upon his course. Under
no circumstances that he could now imagine
would he be justified in deserting Alice.
He might be selfish, he might be stuck full
of faults, but he had given his word, and
his word must be his bond.

CHAPTER XIII.

THE END OF ALL HOPE.

The Tophams had just finished breakfast.
It was three clays after Will's departure
from Radalls.

The back part of the dining-room was
cool and sombre, and the quiet half-light
there seemed to suit the two ancient family
portraits which hung one on each hand of
the old oak side-board. But through the
open window streamed the hot sun of a
morning in early June. Beyond, the green
slope of the lawn, the spreading cedar, the
rhododendron clumps. On a trellis work
outside the house a white rose-tree had
been trained, and a long stem had broken

away from its fastening and hung its fragrant
snowy burden across the window.
Now and then a gaudy butterfly might be
seen sailing over the lawn. At intervals
might be heard the rustling of doves' wings,
as they circled overhead. And all the
birds sang God's praises, as if they had
nothing else to do.

Maria Topham sat by the window.

She was paler, and looked much older
than before her illness. Her hair, which
had been cut short, had now grown long
enough again to be held behind her ears
by a comb. But, though she looked older,
her face was peaceful. She believed that
good times were coming for her husband
and her children. Peter was quite tender
in his behaviour. He had everything he
wanted, and was not going to begin at his
time of life to bother himself with the
future. Maria never heard her elder
daughter complain, or speak of Ambrose

Jackson. She was convinced that Judith
had forgotten him, and would, when the
proper time came, reward Will for his constancy
and his goodness by becoming his
wife. She understood that Will would
not like to propose while they were at
Radalls, and so was not disheartened at
his departure. They would have to go
back to Baybriclge at the end of the summer,
but it would not be for long. Will
would marry Judith, and then triumphantly
bring her parents to the cottage at
Radalls. Mrs. Topham believed all this
because she wished it, and because it was
not possible to have spent a 
with Peter without learning how
to hope for the best.

Annie was sitting at her mother's feet,
but, instead of chattering as usual, appeared
sad and thoughtful. It could not be
about Oris Parry, for she had a dear letter
from that young gentleman in her pocket.

Even Jumper, as he lay dozing in the sunshine
on the broad window-sill, snapping
in a comical manner at the flies as they
walked over his nose, could not win a
smile from her. From time to time she
stole a glance at Judith, who evidently
had something to do with her sadness.

Judith sat apart, stitching at some doll's
clothes for the lodge-keeper's children.

She had on one of those plain print
dresses in which she delighted, and
wore no ornament except a plain gold
locket, a birthday present from Will. Her
fingers were busy with their little labour
of love, and she paid as much attention to
her work as if it were a matter of supreme
importance. A smile hovered on her lips :
she was thinking of the rejoicing the
c dollies ' would cause in the ivy-covered
lodge.

Never had Judith been so beautiful. In
spite of her sorrow, the rest and ease she

had enjoyed during the last few weeks had
renewed her youth. Her cheek glowed,
her eye shone, her step was light and free.
This morning especially . . . though she was
sorry for "Will in his exile . . . her face wore
an expression of quiet happiness. She had
come to a decision which had brought her
comfort.

Judith had long been struggling with
herself about Ambrose and Will. She had
tried to find out where her duty lay. The
fact that Ambrose had shown no sign of
returning to her did not settle the question.
He had once declared his love. If
she truly loved him, did she not owe
fidelity to that love until he showed unmistakeably
that he did not value or
regard it ?

On the other hand, Will Sutton had
claims. If he had been without a rival,
Judith might in time have given him her
whole heart — and it was in the nature of

the woman to give no less. As it was, she
had wavered till this very morning. The
wish to save her mother from a poverty-stricken
old age was very powerful ; Judith
was prone to sacrifice herself, and she was
exposed to the peril of persuading herself
that she did really love Will for his own
sake and not for the sake of what he could
offer her mother. This peril was increased
by the fascination it had for a young and
ardent spirit.

So Judith had wavered, but at length
she had made up her mind. She still
loved Ambrose, and to him she would be
true. If he should marry — then Judith
knew what she ought to do. But she did
not believe that Ambrose would marry
another, certainly not without a last appeal
to her. And if he came again it would be
with a different motive, and Judith, by
God's blessing, could make him happy.
She had read Ambrose aright ; his heart

was not easily won and not easily forfeited.
She was perfectly right in supposing that
he could not yet be indifferent to her.
And thus she decided to love on and to
wait on. If Ambrose and she were to be
parted for ever, it should not be from any
fault of hers. And so she stitched away
now with quiet contentment in her eyes.

Her father, after an excellent breakfast,
had seated himself in the most comfortable
arm-chair in the room, and was filling his
cigar-case from a box which Will had
especially recommended to his notice.

1 A good brand,' said he, with an approving
sniff at a cigar held between his fore-linger
and thumb. 'Sutton is a judge. In
fact, Sutton is a remarkably sensible fellow.
Isn't he, Maria? Isn't he, girls ?'

Everybody agreed.

c What a lovely day it is, to be sure,' said
Peter, next. c Surely we have a great deal
to be thankful for. By-the-by, I forgot to

tell Sutton how much the view would be
improved by taking away those rhododendrons
on the left. Look, Judith, and you
can see for yourself what an improvement
it would be. If I had my way, I could
make Radalls into a pretty place. But
Will's gardeners have no taste, and what's
more, they will never own themselves in
the wrong. Remind me, Judith, to write
to Sutton about those rhododendrons.'

Yes, father.'

'And now, my dears,' continued Peter,
what is the programme for to-day ? Will
you drive in the morning or in the afternoon,
Maria? Which carriage shall I order ?'

Perhaps we had better take out only
one horse to-day,' suggested Judith.

1 Let's drive after luncheon said Annie.
4 Judith and I are going for a ramble in
the woods now. Come on out, Jue.'

We must make mother comfortable before
we desert her,' said Judith.

Oil, of course,' said feather-headed
Annie, penitently.

A cane sofa was accordingly carried out
on to the lawn, and placed in the shade of
the cedar-tree. Here Maria Topham was
'made comfortable' with pillows and a rug,
and Peter promised to stays with her till
the girls came back.

They strolled on and for some time neither
of them spoke.

Judith was thinking about Ambrose.

Annie was thinking about the fatal news
which she had in her pocket, and which
her sister must now learn.

c Judith, aren't you very sorry that Will
has gone?'

c Yes,' replied the elder sister, absently.

He felt going very much, Jue.'

I'm afraid he did.'

'He's a downright o;ood creature ' said
Annie next,

Yes,' said the other.

c He loves you, oh, awfully, Jue,' urged
Annie.

Judith stopped and looked her sister in
the face.

c What's all this about?' she said. ' Do
you think I did Avrong to let Will go?
Could I, knowing what he feels, and what
I feel, have encouraged him to stay with
us ? It would have been cruel, and have
given him more pain in the end.'

'I do wish you could make up your mind
to have him,' said Annie, very earnestly.

'I can't understand you,' said Judith, in
astonishment, ' yesterday you were all for
Ambrose '

c Ah, yesterday,' sighed Annie.

'What has happened since?' cried Judith.
6 You have some bad news that you are
hiding from me, that you are trying to
break gently. If it's anything about
Ambrose '

i Forget him,' answered Annie. ' He is

not worth another thought. Oh, Judith,
Judith, if I could only bear it for you. If
only you did not love him so '

And Annie clun to her sister and began
to cry. Then she took the Morning Post
of the day before from her pocket, and put
it into Judith's hands without another
word.

What the unhappy girl read was this :

A marriage is arranged and will shortly
take place between Mr. Jackson, Secretary
to Mr. Mackintosh, and Mrs. Murray (of
Hyfrydd).'

The newspaper dropped from Judith's
fingers ; and her voice sounded harsh and
unnatural as she cried,

c It's impossible. It can't be true, Annie.
There is some misunderstanding, some mistake.
Jackson is a common name, isn't it,
Annie ?'

c Alas, Jue,' said her weeping sister, ' don't
you see it says, Secretary to Mr. Making

II. R

tosh ? And can you have forgotten how we
heard, long ago, that he and this woman
were always together. Dear Judith, don't
stare in front of you like that.'

And Annie clasped her sister in her arms,
and kissed her white cheeks over and over
again. The soft touch did more than any
words she could have spoken. Judith
broke into an agony of passionate sobbing.
A moment ago the world had been
so fair, and now it stood in ruins. Her
hope lay dead. Yet even now, while her
wound was fresh and smarting, it was
not of herself that the desolate woman
thought.

He will be wretched,' she cried. ' Annie,
he cannot love her. He has sold himself
to his ambition. I knew that he would be
tempted to do this. I knew that, for one
situated as he was, the temptation would
be terribly strong ; but I was sure that he
would overcome it. Annie, darling, if you

love me, do not judge him harshly. These
strong clever men have temptations of
which we know nothing. Besides, lie was
not bound to me in any way, he asked me
to marry him, I refused, he was free.'

c Yon told me yesterday that he was not
free,' said Annie, c that every man is bound
where he loves by a sense of honour
stronger than a promise. But you would
make excuses for him all day long, Judith.
He is not worth that!' and Annie snapped
her lingers with contempt. c He has simply
been tempted as a thousand other men
have been, and has not had the manhood to
resist. He is mean and heartless. There
now, I've had my say, and I won't abuse
him again. And you, Judith, like the
good brave girl that you are, will leave off
thinking about him, won't you. You're
worth a dozen Jacksons !'

There was a long silence. A shaft of
sunlight burst through the oak above

r 2

Judith's head, and wrapped her as in a
halo. The soft wind lifted the hair from
her temples as if there was sympathy in its
mute caress. There she stood saint-like,
her hands clasped in front of her, her head
bowed upon her breast. Ah, if Ambrose
could have seen her now ! Would he not
have broken every bond, have cast aside
every ambition unhallowed by principle,
and lost the world to gain it in her devotion !
Judith had refused Ambrose from a
motive high and sincere. The benefit of
her self-denial had grown into her, and
could not be taken away, it was as immortal
as her soul. Whatever the future
might have in store, that good deed would
grow, and bring flowers in the winter. It
is so with everything worthy. But the
devil will not allow this ; he tugs at our
memories and regrets, and whispers that
we have denied ourselves in vain, and had
better be wise next time. So now, he

whispered to Judith that she had been
over-virtuous, that her conduct had been
childish and Quixotic. Ambrose was lost
to her ! By whose fault ? Her own !

I might have married him first, and
reformed him afterwards,' murmured poor
Judith.

i No,' answered Annie, c the attempt
would have been madness. I thought that
about Cris once, but I am wiser now. You
acted for the best, Judith ; you've been a
brick ; don't repent of that ever.'

L I did do what I thought right,' replied
Judith, taking comfort from her sister's
words. And then for the first time since
she had known the news, she spoke of her
own sorrow, as they walked slowly homewards.
c

I never met anyone, Annie, who affected
me in the least like Ambrose. With
my eyes shut I could tell that he was in
the room. No matter how many people

were speaking at once, his was the only
voice that I could attend to. He was a
hue man, wasn't he, Annie ? I never saw
such eyes, or such a forehead ! I shall remember
his step on the stairs as long as I
live, and if I hear one the least like it (but
that's not likely) its owner shall be my
friend. Oh, Annie, Annie, he and I were
born for one another. No other woman
can make him happy, no other man can so
touch my heart.'

You think so now,' said Annie, ' but ina
few months time you will learn to forget
him.'

c Could you forget Cris ?' said Judith,
with a melancholy smile.

Forget Cris ! Oh, never ! How can
you ask?'

1 Then don't expect me to forget Ambrose.
But we won't speak about hin r
Annie, that is, not often . . . And we

won't say anything to mother of what has
happened, it would only make her ill again.'

Fortunately I got hold of the Morning
Post first, and hid it before either she or
father saw the paragraph. But they are
sure to hear of it before Ions.'

I shall have learnt to bear it better by
then,' said Judith. ' Let us come in and
bathe our eyes before mother sees us.'

c How brave you are, Jue !'

Judith shook her head. ' I have not-realised
all it means yet, Annie. I feel as
if I were walking in my sleep. I have not
yet dared to ask myself what sort of a
woman this Mrs. Murray can be.'

A horrid creature, of course,' said
Annie. And the sisters went indoors.

Judith managed to keep up appearances
during the rest of the morning and at
luncheon. But when the carriage came
round she excused herself, pleading with

truth a racking headache. She lingered a
moment in the hall, listening to the sound
of the wheels, almost as if afraid to be alone
with her new trouble. Then she went upstairs,
and locked herself into her room.

Here, after a fresh outburst of grief had
subsided, she began to realise her loss in
its full meaning. Ambrose belonged to
another. Another would have the right
to love him, to minister to his needs, to receive
his kisses, to be the mother of his
children. Judith had longed to be a mother
and saw nothing to be ashamed of in the
longing — because to the pure all things are
pure. But now — another would have this
blessed privilege, and might not see' anything
very sacred in it. Another might
usurp the place of the consoler, and yet
withhold her consolation. Judith knew
that she would never have despised or rebuked
Ambrose if his dreams of fame
proved to be nothing else but dreams. His

disappointment would have been hers.
But she could in no wise answer for this
stranger who had come between her and
the man she loved. Who was Mrs. Murray ?
Had she a heart ? Or was her wealth her
only recommendation to Ambrose ?

As Judith could know nothing of the
manner in which Ambrose had been duped,
she was sorely tempted, in spite of her love
for him, to take a very harsh view of his
conduct.

To find him unworthy was almost worse
than her actual loss. She knew that he
had many faults. But she remembered that
the best men are said to be moulded out
of these. She believed that in a crisis he
would act well and fearlessly. A crisis had
c >me — and (Annie's words seemed too true)
he had not had the manhood to resist
temptation.

And yet, because she loved him by faith,
and not by reason, Judith's instinct gave hera

glimmering of the truth. She was so
convinced that Ambrose was better than
he seemed to be, this conviction so overmastered
her even when she was prompted
to condemn him — that she guessed that
some influence, hidden from her just now,
had been brought to bear upon Ambrose.
He had not fallen easily, and such a man
could not sin against light without compunction.
Perhaps he was hopelessly in debt, and
had yielded to a panic, and would still free
himself, and bear the brunt of his imprudence
like a man. Perhaps he would yet
find out that Judith was all in all to him,
and, at whatever cost, be true to his better
self. Perhaps some quarrel, some accident,
some unlooked-for complication would rise
like a God, and forbid the unholy contract.

c I will be true to him till he denies meat
the very altar,' said Judith.

There was something like hope in the
words, and yet was she not foolish to

cherish such a thing, was there not once
and forever an end of all hope? Well
might she imagine that rescue would come
from one quarter or another, but hard facts
remained.

CHAPTER XIV.

ASSAULT WITH VIOLENCE.

At length Mrs. Tweedy presented her husband
with a son and heir, and, some days
before the return of the Tophams in the
middle of August, a drama was enacted at
Llewelyn House in which James Tweedy
took a leading part, and proved himself to
be a hero after all. The villain of the
piece was undertaken at short notice by
Captain Handcock, and he came to grief
like other villains of his kind.

James Tweedy had not been cheered at
the prospect of an addition to his family.
It was perhaps unreasonable to suppose
that he could take any interest in a sixth

girl; and he had ceased even to hope
for a boy.

A boy came, nevertheless, and from that
moment James Tweedy was changed. He
asserted himself as the head of his family.
He took the law into his own hands. It
would never do for the boy to grow up
and find his father under petticoat government.
James enforced a system of economy,
the boy would want money by-and-by. He
gave Augusta a whipping because she
would not keep quiet in the boy's nursery.
He found out all about vaccination. He
concerned himself with the christening,
invited a wealthy relation to be one of the
godfathers, and moved heaven and earth
to procure an eligible godmother. In a
word, he took the highest view possible of
his new duties.

The change was not confined to his
family circle. He no longer stepped
timidly across the road to avoid meeting

people. He had an opinion of his own, if
only about the weather. He defended
his lead of whist at the club, quoted
Cavendish against Captain Handcock, and
accused him of knowing nothing whatever
of the game. In his magisterial capacity
he showed the same energy, and refused
to be led by his brother magistrates as
hitherto. Nicholas Tucker, the head of the
bench, could hardly manage his colleague. .

Lucky Tweedy hasn't a boy every year,'
said Nicholas.

Captain Handcock had been touched on
a sore spot. He used to say that there
was one thing in the world he did understand
— whist. And, considering that he
sat down to a rubber nearly every night of
his life, the boast ought not to have been
idle. But whist-playing can easily become
the most mechanical of exercises. It so
happened in this case. When not afraid
of his company, the captain discussed every

hand between the deals. He could pick a
fault in his partner or shrug a shoulder at
an opponent as well as any man. But he
lacked the genius of the jjame. And now
he had been put in the wrong by little
James Tweedy — whom he had been wont
to instruct with a good-natured air of superiority.
He was furious, and looked
about for some means of annoying Tweedy.
He remembered with satisfaction that
James, too, was vulnerable — through his
wife.

Captain Handcock had relaxed in his attentions
to Mrs. Tweedy of late months.
He had been on terms of growing intimacy
with Elizabeth Tucker, who artfully drew
him on with hints of her father's liberality.
Elizabeth could not be amiable, but she
could be jealous, and she took umbrage at
the captain's visits to Mrs. Tweedy. He
had been obliged to put a stop to them,
and this was vexatious : for he relished the

lively woman's society. He determined to
risk Elizabeth's displeasure, and to vex
James by appearing now and then at Llewellyn
House. So one afternoon, little suspecting
what the fates had in store, he set
out to pay Kate a visit.

Kate, a simple, good soul, had always
rather liked the captain, though sometimes
his compliments bored her. His conversation
was not original or refined, but he
was a good listener, and this quality covered
the multitude of sins. Not that Kate
saw any harm in the weather-stained old
soldier. She had always thought James
nonsensical about him. She missed the
captain when he let weeks pass without
coming. There was a great deal to tell
him about Nora and Augusta, if he would
but appear. He came this afternoon, and
Kate welcomed him with her brightest
smile.

But she found herself hoping that James

would not come home till her visitor was
gone. Her husband was so transformed,,
he might say something disagreeable to
the captain.

c Dee-lighted ! Mrs. Tweedy. delighted
!' said that gentleman, as he was shown
into the drawing-room.

He then asked after the children byname,
pausing in an interesting manner
when he came to the latest arrival. Mrs.
Tweedy did not seem to think little James
as remarkable as his sisters, still he was
remarkable, and the mother spent sometime
very pleasantly in enlarging upon the
many signs of wisdom he had shown since
coming into the world. The little fellow
did not seem to have so much hair as
might be expected, and the announcement
of this fact made a proper impression on
the captain — who was in the same predicament
at the other end of the scale. He
listened quite gracefully to this revelation,

VOL. II. s

and then excused himself for not calling
for so long.

I Ah,' said Mrs. Tweedy, 4 you had something
better to do, I daresay.' And Kate
looked very knowing — she was simply dying
to find out whether there was anything
4 positive ' in that affair between her visitor
and Elizabeth Tucker.

Captain Handcock, with a half-swallowed
oath by way of affirmation, protested that
no pleasure could be greater than to see
Mrs. Tweedy looking so well and handsome.
The conversation, as if by some
natural law, veered round again to the
children, and gave Mrs. Tweedy's admirer
an opportunity of indulging in a hit at her
husband.

I I am afraid the young ladies will count
for very little now,' said he, in a tone of
the sincerest sympathy.

This was Kate's great worry at present.

Captain Handcock was right. James was
wrapped up in his son, and took no more
heed of his other children than if they had
not existed. Really, James was sincerely
fond of all the noisy crew, and was not
likely to do them much injustice in the
end. But Kate was anxious, and, hearing
her fear put into words by another,
caught alarm.

I am so wretched about that,' she confessed.


'You have not deserved such treatment,
d — n me if you have,' said the captain,
enthusiastically. 'Tweedy doesn't know
what a lucky fellow he is.'

Is he not ?' said Kate. ' Who would
not be proud of five such girls. It would
break my heart if he ever loved them less.
There's Nora — Monsieur Reynard says her
singing will be quite wonderful. But
James is not musical.'

s2

Kate leaned her head upon her hand.
Her affectionate heart was full of trouble
for her unappreciated darlings.

1 I wish James was different she sail r
forgetting her visitor.

She looked very pretty in her distress.
The captain took advantage of it at once.

c Tweedy does not appreciate you,' he
said.

Up jumped Kate.

I beg your pardon ?' said she.

But the other was too dense or too infatuated
to stop.

He does not know what a treasure he
possesses. In fact — er — Mrs. Tweedy ! —
Kate ! !'

She flashed out.

4 How dare you address me like that !
Have I ever given you reason to take such
a liberty? You wicked, old, ugly man, leave
the room, or I'll ring the bell, and get the
maids to turn you out of the house.'

Suiting the action to the word, Kate
rushed forward. The captain instinctively
stood in her way. At that moment the
door was flung open and James Tweedy
hurried in and found his wife to all appearances
in Captain Handcock's arms.

Kate flung herself sobbing on to the sofa.

Captain Handcock tried to escape by the
open door, and, in doing so, brought on his
punishment. For James had in his hand
a Walking-stick, which in the first moment
of his indignant surprise he had lifted
up ; and when his wife's visitor ran against
him, somehow or other the stick came down
.and alighted on the captain's shoulders.

This was the spark to the magazine.
"Whether that accidental blow inspired
James with the grand idea of inflicting
thorough chastisement on his enemy, or
whether the captain, shrinking cowardly
from it, betrayed his weakness, is uncertain.
But there is no doubt that after a

short struggle James got his hand in,
and laid blow after blow on the captain's
legs. Handcock stamped, swore, cried for
mercy, and at last, after being chased up
and clown the room, made his escape with
ignominious haste.

He would not have escaped even then but
for Kate. She was terribly frightened when
the struggle began, but by the time that
James was pummelling, and that the captain
was dancing like a big, angry bear, the
ludicrous side of the matter burst upon her
so irresistibly that laugh she must, and
laugh she did, until fresh tears rolled
down her cheeks, and James stopped his
violent assault in amazement. Even then
Kate could not stop, and her husband divined
that there was some gigantic misunderstanding,
and began to laugh too.

Halloa, Kitty !' he exclaimed, ■ have I
been pitching into that fellow for nothing
after all?'

Kate grew serious immediately.

c Ugh ! the old wretch ! I wish I had
never seen him. He called me Kate, I ran
to the bell, he stopped me, and then you
came in. I would have boxed his ears in
another minute.'

Called you Kate, did he ?' cried the little
man.

c James dear, it wasn't my fault. I never
gave him any encouragement. It all happened
because I was too fond of talking and
hearing the news. I'll never gossip again,
never! I haven't done anything wrong, indeed,
James ; you might forgive me.'

Mr. Tweedy began to feel that it was he
who needed forgiveness, that he had been a
jealous, unreasonable fool, and he accordingly
put his arms round Kate, and she
had another good cry ; and they agreed
never to misunderstand one another again.
c I wonder what the captain will do ? Promise,
promise, James, that you won't fight.'

1 Don't be afraid, Kitty. He hasn't got
the pluck to call me out. Besides, people
don't fight now-a-days. I hit him pretty
hard, though, didn't I?'

'You were splendid,' cried Kate, 'splendid
! I never thought you could be like that.'

Her husband laughed.

Remember, Kitty,' said he, ' this
mustn't be talked about, or Baybridge
will make a regular scandal out of it. The
captain will hold his tongue for his own
sake, and so must we for ours.'

I'll not say a word,' cried Kate. ' I've
had a lesson in that way. — And, oh,
James, have you heard that the Tophams
are coming back on Wednesday, and that
Judith is only waiting for Will to propose
to accept him. I always said it would bea
match. What are you laughing at,
James ?'

Her husband would not explain what
made him merry ; but he suggested they

should go upstairs, and see the boy. This
important little pink and white person sat
on his nurse's knee, submitting composedly
to a gentle sponging.

Look at his chest,' cried the delighted
father. ' He'll be a bigger man than I
am.'

Yes, clear,' said his wife.

I wonder what he'll be when he grows
up ? Shall we send him to Oxford or to
Cambridge, Kate?'

'My grandfather was at Oxford,' said
she.

c And my uncle at Cambridge,' said
James. ' Well, we must see what's best
when the time comes. Take care you dry
him carefully, nurse ; under his arms, and
so on.'

James,' said his wife, as they went
downstairs, ' you never think of the girls
now. And yet they are such re — remarkable
children.'

'Why, Kitty, what's up? You're
crying !'

1 Because you don't love the girls.'

c Not love them ! They're the best and
brightest children in the parish. And
when they're old enough I'll find a husband
for everyone of them.'

4 I'm sure you can do anything you like,'
said the wife, proudly.

The man who could thrash a captain
twice his weight had a right to his wife's
respect and admiration.

CHAPTER XV.

JUDITH IN PERPLEXITY.

Judith foresaw that her father would do
all in his power to prolong their stay
at Radalls, and was from the first firmness
itself in the matter. There was nobody
like Peter for sticking to creature
comforts ; but he had to be detached from
them ; groan as he might, Judith fixed
a date, and would not remain an hour
beyond it. It was high time for them to
be gone. The compliment they were under
to Will was already too great. Judith felt
that she was keeping him out of his own
home. She knew that he had made them
hospitably welcome, mainly for her sake,

and she was troubled at the awkwardness
of her position. It was late in the summer ;
they must leave the quiet country house,
and the sunny walks, and the shady woods.
But Judith's purpose had been answered ;
her mother's health was restored. She
must go back to Baybridge, and poverty,
and drudgery. She did not mind much.
Ambrose was lost to her, irretrievably lost,
and except at times every other ill dwindled
away in the presence of such a calamity.
She managed to collect from some of
her correspondents a meagre account of
Mrs. Murray, and what she learnt was
by no means reassuring. She wondered
more and more how such a woman could
have captivated Ambrose. What spell
had she cast over him ? c I'll never believe
it was only her money,' said Judith, over
and over again. Ambrose would be unhappy,
that was the burden of her complaint,
Radalls or Baybridge, comfort

or poverty, would be all one to Judith.

So she imagined, at least. But when
she came face to face with their little
house, with its bare walls, and stuffy rooms ;
and with the blinding dust and glare of
the hideous high-road, she was far from
indifferent. Judith had never been given
to fretfulness, but now trifles vexed her,
and made her speak many a bitter word
that should have remained unspoken.

In these dark days, Judith nearly lost
sight of the goodness of her life. She
asked herself what profit there could be in
this round of sacrifice. Every good thing
seemed to be denied to her. She loved
beautiful houses, dresses, ornaments, flowers,
and all the graces of existence. Other
girls enjoyed these, or some of these, and
she, who had been faithful to her trust,.
was surrounded by all that was barren and
ugly. She saw no prospect of anything
better, and she became sullen, and cranky,

and desponding. Annie bore with her and
soothed her ; but her parents did nothing
to lighten her burden,

Mrs. Topham was again ailing and querulous,
and apparently incapable of realising
how impossible it was for Judith to supply
her with even a tenth part of the luxuries
she had enjoyed at Radalls. She complained
that such a quick return to Bay-bridge
had been unnecessary. She made
Judith feel that perhaps after all said and
done the visit to Will's home had been a
failure, since it brought their poverty into
stronger contrast. And she kept on pointing
out (much as if poor Judith were to
blame) that Peter could not get this or
that for breakfast or luncheon.

It was upon her father that Judith,
goaded to desperation, discharged most of
her ill-temper. He was absolutely unbearable.
He declared himself perfectly satisfied
with everything in a manner that

made his daughters blood boil with indignation.
He damned everything with his
exasperating, misplaced cheerfulness. The
shock caused by his wife's illness had partly
lost its effect, and his selfishness closed
round him again almost like a shell.
Judith in a burst of passion threw down
the week's accounts and washed her hands
of housekeeping ; Peter only smilingly reminded
her that if she pleased she might
do housekeeping on a larger and a more
pleasant scale at Radalls.

She was at the end of her wits and
her patience, when, as if to complete her
perplexity, and at the same time offer a
tempting means of escape from it, Will reappeared
in Baybridge.

He had started for Normandy, carrying
with him the sad assurance that
Judith could never give her love to
anyone but Ambrose. Had he waited a
day longer he must have heard of the

engagement with Mrs. Murray ; as it was ?
he was struck by something in Ambrose
Jackson's behaviour at their sudden
meeting. He had failed to understand
this something, and several months passed
before he obtained the clue. He had not
seen the announcement in the papers.
But when a friend he met in Paris
mentioned casually that Mrs. Murray
was going to be married, and to Ambrose
Jackson, Will's hopes rose. He
could hardly believe the good news. He
lost no time in repairing to Radalls, and,
arriving there a day too late, hastened
after Judith to Baybridge. Here he was
determined and eager to stake his happiness
on a word from her lips.

He arrived late at night, and sent to
inquire after Mrs. Topham, and to say
that he would call next morning. Judith
knew only too well that his visit would be
to her.

They were just going to bed when Will's
note arrived.

Judith, my child,' said Peter Topham,
c I want to talk to you. Put a shawl
round your shoulders, and come into the
garden. The air is lovely — I always said
it was fresher here than in Baybridge itself.
Ah, a suburban home is the thing —
unless indeed one can afford a fine country
place — eh, Judith ?'

She made no direct answer. She knew
what was coining, and that resistance
would be out of the question. So she
fetched a shawl, and meekly followed her
father into the garden.

Now, my dear girl,' said Peter, ' I want
to talk to you about your future. It lies
in your own hands. We have been very
content in our little home here ; but now
and then there is a drawback — no pocket
money, Judith, no pretty things.'

1 1 can do without pretty things, father.'

VOL. II. T

Just so,' replied he, c but why do without
them ? There's nothing wrong in
marrying a rich man, you funny child.
Will adores you, and if I were in your
position I should be proud, yes, pro ad
of his affection.'

c I value his friendship, father.'

That won't get us into Radalls — I
mean,' said he, quickly correcting himself,
'Will is a kind good fellow, and after
all he has been to us, and his patience
in waiting your time, he deserves some
consideration. Now I put it fairly to you,
Judith, doesn't he deserve some consideration?'


4 Father, I don't know what to do or
say. Sometimes I think Will would break
his heart if I said no. At others, I feel that
he might live to repent the marriage.'

1 Repent? not he !'

1 am not so sure,' said Judith. ( Now
and then I have felt, and I know he has

too — a certain, what shall I call it ? unsuitableness
in any love between us.'

c Fancy, Judith, fancy. The man has
no such thought. He worships you.'

'He thinks he does now, father. — I don't
believe I could become his wife,' added she,
clasping her hands.

Peter Topham frowned very unpleasantly,
and began, L Now, Judith, I tell you
what it is,' and then checked himself and
said,

It's no good wasting your thoughts on
that man Jackson. He has sold himself
to a woman with money. I know something
of character, and I saw from the first he
would turn out badly.'

1 Is that all you have to say to me,
father?' answered Judith, 'if so, I will go
indoors.'

Her father understood that he could gain

nothing by abusing Ambrose, and tried

another course.

t 2

'Think of your mother, child.'

This appeal cut Judith to the quick.
She knew that her mother could be happy
only if Peter had everything he wanted,
and that he could not be contented unless
she married Will. And she trembled to
think of her mother's future with its
poverty embittered by her father's selfishness.


He saw that he had made an impression,
and went on to say,

c Don't you owe your mother something,
Judith ? Is it fair that you should think
of nobody but yourself ? Your mother has
always done her best for you and for
Annie. Her life has not been so happy as
it might have been. We have been unlucky,
Jue. I have done my best, of course,
and need reproach myself with nothing.
But circumstances have arisen beyond my
control. Yet I am not despondent. I see
you are considering what I say carefully.

You will marry Sutton, and a capital husband
he'll make too. And your mother
and I (and Annie, till that rogue Cris
comes to fetch her) can settle down in the
cottage close by you. It will be small, of
course, but comfortable. And I shall soon
make some friends in the neighbourhood,
and existence will be quite pleasant.
A happy way out of my difficulties,
Jue, and an easy one. Now do be reasonable,
and when Sutton comes tomorrow
let the thing be settled and the
day fixed.'

Judith listened in silence, and, when her
father had finished speaking, held up her
cheek.

Good-night, father.'

'Eh ! Good-night, my dearest girl. Keep
a brave heart, and think over our conversation.
I'll smoke a cigar before coming
in. Good-night — Mrs. Sutton.'

Judith crept upstairs with a bleeding

heart. She had been driven to own long
ago that her father did not love her very
much. But to discover that he valued her
only as a means for procuring what he
could not otherwise hope for, appalled Judith.
The shock seemed to numb all her
faculties for a moment, as she paused on
the landing, and a few seconds passed before
she remembered that her mother would
be expecting her. She went in, and, according
to her custom, quietly set about combing
and brushing her mother's hair.

Father will be in when he has had a
smoke, mother dear.'

1 I'm glad he has his cigar, at least,' said
Maria Topham, with a deep sigh. 'He has
few other comforts. Judith ?'

1 Yes, mother.'

t Do you know what I am going to say ?'

c As well, darling mother, as if you had
been speaking for an hour. Oh, ask for
something for yourself, not for him. 7

1 Don't speak disrespectfully of your
father.'

Judith was silent. She begged pardon
with a kiss.

Jue,' said her mother, ' don't be hard
upon him. He lost a great deal. And if
I want to see him comfortable for the rest
of his days, can you blame mec

Blame you ! Oh, no, indeed !'

1 I wouldn't ask you to think about anyone
not nice. But Will is nice. He is a
gentleman. He would make your dear
father happy without grudge or afterthought.
I know, Judith, that Will could
never be to you what another might have
been. Though you've not complained, I
have sorrowed for your sorrow ; I know
how you loved Ambrose. But that is over
now. You are not indifferent to Will's
goodness — and your father, the marriage
would make him so happy : and remember
all he has lost, and how good and

kind and cheerful lie is through it all.'

1 Mother, you must have loved my father
very much when you were both young.
Was he at all different then ?'

'Never!' said Mrs. Topham, with glistening
eye. ' He was always as he is now,
cheerful and devoted. And for five-and-twenty
years he has not said a harsh word
to me. Can you wonder that I long for
him to be shielded from poverty now that
he's getting old. — And Will is a good man,
Judith. Promise me, no, no, do not
promise ; but think well over what I've
said. Will is sure to come early tomorrow
morning.'

1 To-morrow,' cried Judith. ' Not so
soon ! I can't see him tomorrow.'

And she stood by her mother's side pale
and trembling.

Mrs. Topham rose, and fixed her eyes
upon her child.

I asked too much, darling. I see it is

beyond your strength. You shall not
sacrifice yourself. I will never speak again
on this '

Her voice died away. Peter was heard
coming up the stairs, whistling a popular
air.

'It is my father,' cried Judith. 'I can't
wait. I can't see him again now. Goodnight,
darling mother.'

c God bless you, Judith.'

With this benediction in her ears, Judith
hastened up the narrow flight of stairs leading
to the little room which she shared
with Annie. It was a relief to her to find
Annie in bed and already asleep. She
undressed slowly and painfully as if each
garment she laid aside were made of lead.
She untied her hair at last, and it fell in
brown masses upon her white neck and
shoulders. Annie had forgotten to blow
the candle out, and it had burnt down in
its socket, so Judith opened the shutters

softly, and the moonlight flooded the room r
and lent a strange unearthly beauty to the
white-robed figure, and to the pale face of
the watcher. Judith sat down, and her
attention was stolen for a while by the
clouds, now light, now dark, which sailed
over the moon. And then, as with a sharp
pang, the sense of her misery returned.

Will would come next morning and ask
her to be his wife. There could be no
doubt of his intention. He might not be
truly consulting either her happiness or his
own in making the proposal, but the proposal
would be made. Judith was sure
that any mute appeal she could venture on
would be disregarded. He loved her, or
thought he did, and had a right to an
answer. And surely it would be altogether
foolish in her to wait till the last moment
before coming to a decision. ' I must
decide now,' murmured Judith, and she
half resolved not to go to bed till she had

settled the matter as far as she was concerned.


Would she be justified in marrying
William Sutton, when there existed another
man whom she could, nay, must love ten
times better ? Even if she confessed to
Will how she felt, would the marriage be a
righteous one ? Each question seemed to
demand a simple No ! But immediately
other thoughts and doubts thronged on
her. She could perhaps make Will happy.
Ambrose was lost as much as if he were laid
in the grave. Her mother might be saved
through her, saved from a life-long wretchedness.


Judith had heard of other women, who had
loved strongly, but who had been obliged
to forego a first hope, and to be content
with a more moderate share of happiness.
She had inwardly despised them. She had
supposed love of the right kind eternal.
Yet now she was almost about to take

that very step she had condemned. No !
Ambrose had not been loyal to her; but
she could not accept release. She had before
resolved to be true to him to the very
altar, and now she wrote upon her soul,
1 Faithful until death.'

And so with this thought the struggle
might have ended but for her mother's
quiet face with its lines of sadness. Judith
could not shut the face out. It came to
her again and again all night long with
beseeching earnestness. And when the
day dawned, the day on which she should
have risen with a firm purpose, Judith still
hesitated, and did not know whether ' I
will,' or ' I will not,' was on her lips when
she saw Will coming up the road.

CHAPTER XVI.

BROKEN Letters.

Ambrose Jackson had been on the rack
ever since he had found out his mistake
about Judith and Will Sutton.

He still thought he had made a mistake.
There was as yet no link to connect Kate
Tweedy 's gossip with the woman he had
promised to marry. Ambrose may have
known that Alice Murray and Kate came
from the same neighbourhood in Wales,
and that they had met once or twice
formerly. But he never suspected that
Kate had visited the widow before coming
to him. He had no idea that he had been
duped. He simply supposed himself the
victim of a false rumour — and, forgetting

how plausible that rumour had been rendered
by the unfortunate circumstance of
Judith's presence in Will's home, reproached
himself bitterly for his easy-going
credulity. He was still as jealous of Will
Sutton as any man could well be. He
still thought it quite possible that Will
might marry Judith. And he could not
interfere, he had bound his own hands.
Judith might have become his wife, after
all, except for his own cursed folly. What
malignant spirit had possessed him to
make such haste to Mrs. Murray's on that
fatal evening. He had missed his chance
by one wretched hour. For, had he met
Will an hour earlier, he would never have
struck that bargain with the beautiful
widow.

As far as the actual bargain went, he
had already reaped several advantages.
Some small creditors who had kept buzzing
in and out of his rooms in Jermyn Street

not only ceased their importunity, but
gave the rising man reason to believe
that his further orders would be welcome
— bills after marriage. Ambrose had
been dreadfully annoyed by these visitors,
and their absence was an untold
relief. Then came a good many congratulations,
and they were pleasant enough to
hear, even for a man who affected to
despise public opinion. Some nasty things
were said about him, of course ; and even
some elderly men of the charitable type
shook their heads. But of this Ambrose
heard nothing — nobody cared to pass the
condemnation on to a man who could hit
so hard as Ambrose Jackson. If ever he
had a fall he might hear something further.
But at present the widow's money was a
tower of strength. A politician with brains
is an admirable thing in its way, but a
politician with brains and money — hats off,
please !

Ambrose was fully alive to these advantages,
and realised that now he might look
with certainty to what had a grand fascination
for him — a seat in Parliament. But
he could not rest. His conscience pricked
him. ' You have sold yourself it cried,
c you have sold yourself,' it repeated.
Like the beating of a clock in wakeful
nights, it forced him to pay attention. It
swept away all his sophistry, all his self-excuses
with the supreme assertion, ' You
are wrong, and you know it ; you are sinning
against light and warning ; you are
vowing to love a woman whom you never
can love.' Ambrose could not sleep for
these accusing voices. He awoke pale,
haggard, and heavy. c You are overworking
yourself' said his friends. ' You are
doing wrong,' corrected that horrible
conscience.

He had other warnings, his mother's.
He had brought Alice down to Baybridge

to see her, (the Tophams being absent),
and Mrs. Jackson, contrary to her usual
mood, had been cold and unsympathetic.
Alice had dressed plainly, taken
off a few rings, looked very modest,
and said some dutiful words. But Mrs.
Jackson could not play the hypocrite.
She divined, doubtless, what was the woman's
real feeling for her son, and she
resented it as an outrage. Ever since that
first and only interview Helen Jackson had
not forborne by word, by letter, by entreaty,
by a weak and loving mother's
threats, to turn Ambrose from his purpose.
He loved his mother unselfishly, and he
felt her warning more than she thought,
and mourned as grievously as she did over
the quarrel that arose between them. She
had said, ' I am ashamed of you, Ambrose.
Your father would be ashamed of you if he
were alive.' And the rebuke had sunk
deeply into her son's mind.

vol. II. u

It was not Mrs. Jackson alone who tried
the widow's temper : Ambrose himself was
not easy for her to manage. Alice intended
to pay them both off in the future ;
but meanwhile it was not prudent to show
how disagreeable she could be on occasion.

She was quick to detect the change in
Ambrose Jackson's manner when he learnt
that Judith was still free. She felt often
and often when she was sitting by his side
that he was thinking not of her, but of
Judith. She became more and more fixed
in her design to hold him fast. He might
despise her, he might hate her, but he
must marry her. She knew that sooner or
later he would try to break off their engagement.
She read the wish in his face
more than once, she felt it in his quick,
unwilling kiss ; but she met him always
with the same kind smile.

Yet her power over him lay less than
before in her fascination, and more in his

promise. She had unwittingly given him
a hint of her real nature. She had promised
not to receive Lord Hobanob, and
she had seen him before Ambrose had been
ten minutes gone. Next day, casually, he
asked if the old man had called. Alice
said he had not. And then, by a slip of
the tongue, she had quoted Lord Hobanob
a quarter-of-an-hour afterwards. Ambrose
stared to find that his future wife had deliberately
lied. And from that moment he
had been more than ever anxious to sever
the connection.

Mrs. Murray was not altogether sorry
that his visits were perhaps less frequent
than might be expected from a lover.
Conversation was getting rather difficult.
During the days of the Platonic
Attachment, Ambrose had done nearly all
the talking, and was never weary of holding
forth. Nothing had come amiss. He
could always fall back upon politics. But,

u2

since the widow had made that faux pas
about Lord Hobanob, Ambrose had lost his
fluency ; and Alice Murray found out how
barren she herself was of any ideas worth
uttering. Every tete-astute was a torture
to her now that she had to furnish her
share of the conversation. The worst of it
was that Ambrose did not even seem to
know that there was any awkwardness.
The widow rejoiced that the marriage was
to take place in less than a month. ' He
shan't sulk like this in five weeks' time,'
Alice would exclaim, ' or else I'll know the
reason why.'

As the days passed swiftly by, Ambrose
felt that he could not complete his contract.
Alice, whatever her views, could hardly
force on the marriage if he plainly told
her that, with his present feelings, it
would be a mockery and a sin. Nothing
could well be more painful than,
after asking a woman to marry him, to

appear and say, ' I was mistaken, let the
past be unsaid, undone.' It would be
doubly hard for a proud man like Ambrose,
whose boast it was never to ask a
favour. But he had been imprudent, and
must put up with the consequences. He
would do anything to gain his end. If
need be, he would ask for his freedom upon
his knees. Surely she, too, had some pride,
and would dismiss him scornfully, and let
him feel that his departure would be no
loss.

In any case, Ambrose, not without some
misgivings as to the result of his attempt,
decided that he could put off the evil hour
no longer, and so, one morning, he made his
way to the widow's house. She happened
to be standing in front of the looking-glass
as he came in at the door, and caught a
glimpse of his face — a glimpse that told
her instantly on what errand he had come.
But she had long ago decided what to do

in such an emergency. She ran up to him,
and, throwing her arms affectionately round
his neck, exclaimed,

'You have come earlier than usual,
dearest Ambrose. How good of you ! You
did notice, then, how anxious I was
yesterday. 1

Ambrose had never before seen her look
so beautiful. But he could not get rid of
the idea that she looked dangerous also.
He longed to repulse her caresses, to fling
off her arms. There was no doing that,
and he had to make a pretence of returning
her kisses. He was obliged, too, to ask,
1 What made you anxious yesterday,
Alice ?'

She drew him to her side on the sofa.
Perhaps I had better confess my silliness,'
she said. c I feel as if I ought to
share every thought with you, Ambrose.
Are we not all in all to one another !
Well then — I fancied that you were cold

lately, and loved me less. It was all nonsense,
I know, but even the fancy grieved
me. And I gave myself ever such a
scolding because I did you wrong. Who
would have thought, Ambrose, when you
and I played at being friends, that we
should one day be man and wife.'

Ambrose almost groaned aloud. He was
tempted to put off what he had to say
till a more favourable opportunity. He
nevertheless fought against his weakness ;
delay would make the step still harder to
take. With Alice talking to him in this
strain, it wanted a great deal of pluck for
the first plunge. He shrank from hurting
or mortifying this woman. He did not
think she loved him overmuch ; but Ambrose
was not sure, he was beginning to
find out that women are hard to understand.
Perhaps he could never have
carried out his intention if that lie about
old Lord Hobanob had not come back to

his memory. Perhaps the smiling woman
beside him was a sham altogether.

Alice,' said he, fc I have something to
tell you which will be rather a surprise.'

His tone was grave in the extreme. But
she chose not to notice that, and clapped
her hands like a child, saying,

c A surprise ! I know. You are going
to take me out on the river. I can steer
beautifully, though you mayn't believe it.
Just the treat I longed for. And I think
I deserve it, sir, staying in London in this
hot weather for your sake.'

No, Alice, I mean something a great
deal more serious than boating. It's about
our future arrangements.'

Our honeymoon !' laughed she. c Please
don't call that serious. I know what's
bothering you. ; dearest. You repent promising
to take me abroad. You don't want to
be away from your work too long. Anything
you like, Ambrose dearest ! To be

with ) 7 ou is all I ask. Only promise that
you will never think less of me because I
love you so.'

Her voice sank to a whisper, there was a
gentle rustling of her silk dress, and she
was kneeling beside him, her face upturned,
her bosom heaving, her eyes cast down.

Ambrose could not help suspecting that
there was something artificial about this
exhibition ; and yet he was moved. The
young Liberal fell far short of perfection ;
but he had a tender heart. Strangely
enough, Alice, in convincing him for a
moment of her affection, gave him another
motive for wishing to be released. As
long as he supposed her indifferent, or
nearly so, he had no fear of doing the
woman a wrong — but if he was really dear
to her, and if he knew that he could never
love her even a little, would it not be
simply iniquitous in him to lead her to
the altar ?

Speak he must ; she would not take a
hint, and in his downright way he went
straight to the mark.

c Alice, I cannot get you to understand
what I mean. I must speak plainly. I
want you to forgive me for having made a
great fool of myself, and perhaps given
you much unnecessary pain. I want to
break off our engagement.'

She smiled.

'You are very naughty, Ambrose, to
make fun of me like that.'

Fun ? I am in sad, sober earnest.'

You're not. You dare not be in
earnest.'

She stood erect now, her hands clenched,
her features working convulsively.

Listen to me, Alice,' he said, almost
tenderly ; but she interrupted him.

What have I done to deserve this ?'

c Nothing. I was to blame. I confess
my fault humbly. I cannot marry you.'

1 And was it for this,' she cried, ' that
you came and stole away my heart ?
I was wrong to have anything to do
with you ; but that can't be helped now,
the mischief is done. We belong to one
another.'

But, Alice . . .'

1 When I discovered what my husband
really was,' she continued, almost piteously,
' I determined to have no thought of
love again. After his death, although I
was young, rich, and some said beautiful,
I refused my confidence to every man. I
had learnt distrust. My widowhood had
no great blessings, but at least I was at
peace. You became known to me. I felt
at once that with you I could be friends.
Day by day I knew you better and loved
you more. But I was afraid to own my
weakness. At last you owned that you
too loved me. I did not hesitate a moment.
I placed myself in your keeping. I trusted

in your honour. I was foolish and fond.
And now for some crotchet, or because you
have simply got tired of me, you cast me
aside like a broken plaything. No, Ambrose
Jackson, no ! The man does not
live who could treat me after that
fashion.'

Though he was totally unprepared for
such violence, Ambrose did not lose his
head.

I have already admitted,' said he, 'that
I am behaving badly.'

c There can be no doubt about that.'

c But you have not stated the case fairly.
You misled me by talking so much of
friendship, and, when I proposed to you, it
was more as a matter of '

Go on — business.'

1 That's a cruel way of putting it,' said
Ambrose, ' but it does describe the position.
So much for one point. You say
that I have taken some crotchet into my

head ; that is not the fact, I would not
wound you for a trifle.'

c I'm glad that you have at least the
grace to own that.'

4 But when I tell you (and you don't
know what it costs my pride to speak the
words) that I love another woman, you
will say go. Won't you, Alice ? You
will release me from my promise.'

c You gave me your word of honour to
marry me. I love you ; I will never set
you free.'

Ambrose was thunderstruck.

You don't mean to say '

I have told you my decision, Ambrose.'

In spite of my assurance that I do not,
cannot love you ?'

In spite of that.'

And you would begin married life on
that understanding?'

'You have just reminded me how you
made the same suggestion to me sometime

back. Yes — I would do anything
but lose you.'

In her impatience she seized his arm.
He shrank back as if from an infection.

As she stood looking at him, a great
sense of dread came over Alice Murray.
There was a look in those stern, dark
features which made her sure that, even if
she bound this strong man hand and foot
now, a day would come when he would be
amply avenged. She had over-rated her
strength in this deadly duel. If she married
Ambrose, his indifference would kill
her by inches ; she could have borne hatred,
but his contempt would freeze the very
blood in her veins. She could not bear
his shrinking away from her like that, as if
she were deformed and loathsome, and she
fell down before him, wailing,

Have mercy on me, Ambrose. I cannot
give you up. It would wreck my life.
It would kill me. Am I so ugly, then, or

unkind? I will be true and loyal to you,
and to your interests. You asked for my
love, I gave it ; I cannot, cannot take it
back again.'

Ambrose raised her gently, and there
was a long silence.

She knew perfectly well what he was
thinking about — Judith Topham. For a
change had come over him, and the whole
man seemed transformed. It is said that
lovers grow to resemble one another, and
into Ambrose's defiant attitude and rugged
brow stole something womanly and meek.
The widow saw the last thing she would
have expected, a tear rolling down his
cheek. At last he said, quietly,

'Very well, I will keep my promise.'

c And you will not think unkindly of
me?'

1 1 will keep my promise,' he repeated.
c And if your love is genuine and sincere — '

c Oh, Ambrose.'

I will try to do my duty, and to make
amend for the pain I have caused.'

Alice had triumphed; but unluckily for
her she could not leave well alone.

c You will forget this Judith, dear
Ambrose ?'

He was too honest to assure her that he
would.

Then the jealousy which had been
smouldering in her heart broke into a
flame, and she cried,

'A plain, ill-mannered country girl. I
wonder what attraction she can have for
you.'

He received the remark in grim silence.

That fussy little woman was right,' she
continued. ' Your Judith, as you thought
her, has all along been making sheepish
at a richer lover, — William Sutton.'

What fussy little woman?' said Ambrose.

The widow had made a slip, and her
face grew ghastly.

i Oh, nothing,' said she.

It must be Mrs. Tweedy,' continued
Ambrose, fixing his keen glance upon her.

So it was,' she admitted, as carelessly
as she could.

'Little Kate Tweedy has been here,
then ?'

The widow dared not deny for fear of
being found out.

i And how came you and she to be talking
about Judith and William Sutton ?'

The woman was dumb. But Ambrose
still kept his eyes on her, as if he were
reading every thought in her brain.

I see it all now,' he exclaimed. 'Yes,
that's how you managed. Admirably
done, Mrs. Murray! You had that good
foolish creature here, and stuffed your
falsehood into her and then sent her on tome.
You have betrayed yourself. You
have been too clever. I have no longer anything
to beg of you, and from this moment

VOL. II. x

we are strangers. Judith ! Judith ! I am
free !'

Alice Murray threw herself between him
and the door, and grasped his coat desperately.


You are mistaken ! you wrong me.'

1 I will ask Mrs. Tweedy about that,'
said Ambrose, quietly. 4 Please let me go.'

She was beside herself with rage and
mortification.

1 will be revenged upon you, Ambrose
Jackson. My time will come.'

Perhaps you will allow me to go now,'
said Ambrose politely. And in another
moment he was gone.

CHAPTER XVII.

TRUE !

William Sutton had always been a man
of divided counsels. Even when he imagined
himself to have unalterably fixed
upon a certain line of conduct, there would
come a doubt that would set him puzzling
again to find out what he ought to do.

Xow if there was one thing in the world
to which Will supposed he had irretrievably
committed himself, it was to his resolve to
make Judith Tophani his wife, if she could
by any means be persuaded to accept him.
His love was not of yesterday. The elderly
bachelor had fallen in love with Judith

x 2

at first sight, and ever since had cherished
this hope. He had shown more patience
in biding his time than could have been
prophesied of a man with such an unstable
character as his. He thought that, in this
important matter at least, he knew his own
mind. And he was troubled beyond
measure to recognise the truth that his
doubts were growing instead of perishing
as he stood on the threshold of what might
prove to be a new existence.

There was that difference of twenty
years in their age to begin with. In this
case it was fatal. Although Judith and
Will had much in common, there was
wanting to their intercourse that perfect
freedom which is the very breath of perfect
love. Will could always adapt himself
to Judith ; she always knew how to
please and charm him. But some adjustment
was necessary. And is not all calculation

the death-blow to love ? Is not
love a thing of course, like the fragrance of
a rose ?

Then there was Helen Jackson.

He had seen Helen several times since
that interview, during which he had become
aware of her feelings towards him.
The discovery had been vexatious at the
moment ; but could not fail to flatter him
in the long run. He and Helen got on
well together. Before Will quite knew
Iioav it happened, he found himself growing
fond of the quiet woman who had betrayed
her fondness for him. She was not bad-looking;
but a comparison between her
and Judith could not be thought of. Yet
Will enjoyed with her that unrestrained
companionship which was denied to him
with Judith. He and Helen were of the
same age. Perhaps Judith might marry
him only for her parents' sake. Altogether,

Will began to waver ; and then was very
angry with himself for such deplorable
weakness.

In any case I'll go and see Judith,'
said he.

So it chanced that Will was actually
doubting whether he would put the great
question while Judith was painfully considering
what ought to be her answer.

It was half-past ten. Mrs. Topham was
still in bed, complaining of a headache.
Peter was smoking a cigar in the garden,
with Annie in attendance, and he was congratulating
himself upon Will's coming
visit and its probable result. Judith had
just finished helping to wash up the break-fastenings,
and was now alone in the little
sitting-room.

She sat in front of a small table by the
window, which she had opened wide. The
day was intensely hot, and she wore a

light dress with sleeves rather short, and
lace cuffs reaching nearly to the wrist.
She leaned her head on her hand, and the
elbow on the table ; while the fingers of
the other hand just touched an account-book
before her. Her head was bent forward,
but though her lips were closed, and
her eyes intent, she was evidently not
adding up the figures in the money column,
for when the breeze turned over one leaf
and then another, she took no notice. She
was thinking, thinking, thinking. Her
colour came and went. The big clock in
the passage seemed to run after her
thoughts and to echo them with weary
monotony, Yes or No ? Yes or No V

As the minutes slipped by, Judith
thought less and less of Will, till he faded
away in her memory. She wondered what
Ambrose was doing now. Where was he ?
Perhaps with Mr. Mackintosh, his chief,

or with that hateful woman, Alice Murray,
or perhaps in his own rooms sad and alone.
Why is he not here ? asked Judith's heart.
If he could only open the door now and
come to her. What rapture there would
be in such a meeting. He should never
leave her again, never ! The door did
open suddenly; Judith started up, and
beside her stood William Sutton.

'Ah, it's only Will!' cried she.

L Yes, only Will,' was the answer.

She stammered out,

c I mean, I didn't expect . . .' She
checked herself, saying, ' Forgive me, Will,
but I was in a brown study, and didn't
hear you coming. Of course I expected
you. I want to thank you heartily,' she
said, taking his hand, ' for all your goodness
to us. Our stay at dear old Radalls
has literally saved mother's life. I don't
know what we should have done without
your help.'

Don't thank me, Judith,' said he,
smiling, as he sat down beside her. And
so she pressed his hand once again, and
dropped the subject.

Whatever misgivings Will might have
when he was away from Judith, her presence
dispelled them all. She was so fresh
and beautiful, and the light shone so kindly
in her brown eyes, — who could help
loving her ? Not Will. The untaught
grace of every movement, the few simple
words of gratitude, the cordial touch of
her fingers, the nameless charm that seemed
to belong to her alone, conjured up
visions of bright happiness that Will could
not withstand.

Could you ever love me, Judith ?' said he.

Not like Ambrose,' she answered.

Is it wise to think of him now?'

No,' said the girl.

c I confess, Judith, that, if he were still
free, I wouldn't ask you, as I ask you

now, to be my wife. I knew from the
first that I hadn't a ghost of a chance
against him. But he belongs to another,
J ue.'

■ I have a better opinion of Jackson than
I once had,' continued Will. 'There's something
fine about that man. I'll never
believe that he cares a jot for Mrs. Murray's
money.'

4 Thanks, Will, for saying that.'
He sighed to see the deep earnestness
with which she identified herself with
Ambrose.

But, Judith,' he went on, c if it was
not for the money, what made him enter
into the engagement ?'

c You mean, he cares for her?'
Yes,' said Will, with a gentleness that
touched his companion. — And then he
pleaded his own cause, saying, c I
don't ask for such love as you could
have given to him, not yet. You are so

dear to me that I would be content with
less. And I wouldn't be* for your consent
unless I knew that I could make you
happy. I have waited long and patiently
for this moment, Judith, but till now I
didn't know how utterly unworthy I was.'

4 No, Will, any woman must be proud of
a love like yours. But don't say anything
more. It's impossible.'

'You can't mean that, Judith. Think
again. Come to Radalls ; be mistress overall
I am and have. Fill the old lonely
house with rejoicing and love. I am not
so very much older, Jue.'

It isn't that, Will. But some day you'll
be glad that I say no now.'

4 Never, Jue !'

Yes, Will. We are not suited to each
other in various ways. I feel that sometimes,
and so must you. Don't let us
deceive one another. I long to save
you from pain, and it's best and kindest

to say at once, " I will never forget your
goodness to my dying day ; but I cannot
love you." '

Judith had struggled in perplexity and
darkness, and had not known which way
to turn. But now in the moment of her
need she saw the right path along which
she must go as plainly as if it were traced
in fire. She marvelled that she could
ever have been in doubt. She was grieved
by Will's distress, but not overcome.
It had always been her prayer that she
might have strength given her to act for
the best, and now the prayer was answered
in a burst of light. The fault she had
found with Ambrose was that he had sold
himself to his ambition. And had not she
too been on the brink of selling herself for
her mother's sake ! What if her motive
were high and his low? — wrong was wrong.

'Will,' she continued, drawing close to
his side, ' you suffer now, but trust me for

having done right. Ambrose has not been
true to me, not in the sense that I understand
truth ; and what I think a fault in
him, I will not be guilty of myself. He
may forget me, but I will not forget him.
He may desert me, but I will not desert
him, so help me God.'

And Judith hid her face in her hands.
When she again looked up, she was alone.
Before she had time to recall what had
passed, Annie ran, breathless, into the
room, exclaiming,

c Has "Will been here, Jue ?'

Yes.'

You have not accepted him ?'

1 Xo, Annie.'

Mr. Tucker has just come from London.
He says the match is off.'

c What match ?'

4 Why, Mrs. Murray and Ambrose '

Judith looked at her sister, and trembled
from head to foot. Ambrose free I

The shock was too great and too sudden.
Judith's arms fell to her sides ; she turned
deadly pale, and fainted away.

END OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

LONDON : PRINTED BY DUNCAN MACDONALD, BLENHEIM HOUSE.

LI B Really

OF Thun

Diversity

Of ILLINOIS



H<Z>752c
v.3

VOL. III.

BY

ARTHUR A. Hoffman.

Wait, and Love himself-will bring
The drooping flower of knowledge changed to fruit
Of wisdom. Wait : my faith is large in Time,
And that which shapes it to some perfect end.'

Tennyson.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. III.

LONDON:

HURST AND BLACKETT, LIMITED,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1887.

All rights reserved.

v.3

CONTENTS

OF

THE THIRD VOLUME.

CHAPTER I.

SELF.

Why had Ambrose left it to Nicholas
Tucker to take the welcome news to Bay-bridge
? Why had not he himself hastened
to lay his newly-won freedom at Judith's
feet?

At first, Ambrose fully intended to be
true to himself and to Judith.

As he stood outside the widow's house,
he seemed, for a few moments, dazed by
the sudden change in his circumstances.

VOL. III. B

Just when his liberty appeared to be hopelessly
lost, just when he was giving up the
struggle and about to enter into a life-long
bondage — a chance word spoken by Alice
Murray herself had provided him with an
honourable means of escape. He paid no
attention to her threats of revenge. He
was no longer bound to admit the woman's
claim upon him, and that was all he cared
about for the present.

Like a man unexpectedly summoned
from a stifling dungeon to fresh air and to
wide prospect, Ambrose fell a prey to an
intoxication of the senses. Everything
around him looked unreal, as if existing
only by some freak of his fancy, to
vanish when sober reason awoke. But he
quickly shook off this mood. And, after
consulting his watch and muttering something
about catching the 1.10 train, he
drove rapidly home.

'Thorpe,' said he, as his man answered
the bell, ' put up some things for me. I'm
going to Baybridge for a few days. Any
letters or telegrams ?'

A few letters, sir,' said Thorpe, in an
even tone.

Ambrose understood ; they were only
bills.

You will forward anything that comes,
Thorpe. Be careful and accurate. Now
look alive with those things, and call a
hansom.'

Thorpe did what he was told in the swift,
stealthy way that good servants have.

By-the-by,' said his master, before
going, ' you have been up late this last week

or two, and ' The pause was filled up

by a sovereign which Ambrose pressed into
his dependant's palm, with a smile (as Mr.
Thorpe afterwards remarked) worth ten
times the money. 'He's a good chap,'

b 2

added Mr. Thorpe, judicially, on the same
occasion, l if he wasn't that stuck up with
his own devices.'

When Ambrose reached Euston, he found
that he had ten minutes to spare; and
before long saw Nicholas Tucker walking
up and down the platform.

Nicholas had lately become more of a
puzzle than ever to his daughters. He
went to London more often and stayed
there longer. Clementina thought dear
papa was getting quite queer. Elizabeth
savagely declared that there was a woman
in the case. Possibly there was, for Nicholas
was much improved in his personal appearance.
His white beard was trimmed with
care; his hat was spick and span; his
clothes fitted better on his shrunken limbs.
He wore a button-hole, and a gay tie.
Clementina, pondering over these things,
and her sister's words, said

1 You're right, Lizzie, my love, papa is
going to marry again.'

1 He shall never hear the last of it if he
does,' said Lizzie.

c Never !' echoed Clementina.

Whatever Nicholas had in hand, he was
in a very good humour when he met
Ambrose.

i How d'ye do, Jackson ? Coming to
Baybridge ?'

'Yes.'

How has your mother been lately ?'

4 Pretty well, thanks

When are you going to tack an M.P.
on to your name ?'

c As soon as I can.'

Nicholas looked knowing ; but gave his
inquiries another direction.

How is Mrs. Murray ?'

4 Oh, she's all right,'

When's she going to sport the orange
blossoms, eh?'

I don't know, I'm sure.'

Don't know ? Is the match off?'

1 \ r es.'

'Why?'

Incompatibility?'

In what way ? '

Generally,' said Ambrose, laughing.
And then he determined to try if Nicholas's
disease of asking questions could not be
treated homoeopathically.

How is Miss Tucker?' he asked.

Nothing likely to be the matter with
her,' grunted Nicholas. \ Is ?'

'And Miss Clementina, how is she getting
on ?' persisted Ambrose.

1 My daughters are both well,' said
Nicholas. c Have you ?'

'And yourself,' continued Ambrose. 'No
return of the sciatica, I hope ?'

No,' growled Nicholas. And, retreating
abruptly, he settled down in a corner of a
railway carriage, and pulled a crumpled-up
Times out of his pocket.

4 What the deuce is the young fellow
pestering me for ?' thought he. 4 I gave him
credit for more sense.'

8 Now then, sir, if you please,' cried the
guard, hurrying along.

Ambrose was just going to get in when
he saw his servant running towards him.
The servant had an envelope in his hand,
and was quite out of breath.

4 Telegram, sir. I thought it might be
of importance.'

Jackson opened the envelope hastily,
and read the two words the telegram contained.
It came from Baybridge, and ran :

1 Danvers dead''

Ambrose gave a violent start. His opportunity
had come at last. Now or never !

He must not lose a moment in gaining the
support of Mr. Mackintosh. But then there
was Judith.'

Get in, sir, if you're going,' cried the
guard.

Ambrose looked at the train, and at the
telegram, made a few eager steps forward,
and then stopped as suddenly.

1 Coming, Jackson ?' cried Nicholas.

But Ambrose . . . who as a rule hardly
knew what hesitation was . . . had made his
choice. He thrust the envelope into his
pocket, and nodded to Nicholas, saying,

I shall be down to-night. Look after
my bag, will you ?'

The train rolled out of the station.

c It was best to stop,' said Ambrose, as
if to chase away a lingering doubt.

4 Shall you sleep at home to-night, sir?'
said Thorpe, touching his hat.

'No,' said Ambrose.

In another moment he was again spinning
along the streets on his way to Mr.
Mackintosh's.

His chief was at home. He sat in
his study with his coat off and his shirt-sleeves
tucked up, suffering a great deal
from the heat, and studying a passage from
Dante by the aid of Carey's translation,
with all the enthusiasm of eighteen.

Mr. Mackintosh was about fifty. A man
tall, stout, and w r ell-made ; but disfigured
by a stoop, the result of much desk work
when young. He was looked up to by a
section of the moderate Liberals of the
day, and his influence was perhaps all the
more powerful from being quietly exerted.
Mr. Mackintosh was a clever man, without
any extraordinary gift. But he possessed
unfaltering industry and a will of iron. It
was these two qualities which he valued in
his young secretary ; but Ambrose could

not deal with men and things in the same
quiet persuasive way. Mr. Mackintosh
never made an enemy if he could help
it, and never dealt a blow that needed
repeating. He was by no means easy to
outwit, and it speaks much for Jackson's
ability that he had been able to render
himself so indispensable to this careful
wire-puller.

Mr. Mackintosh expected Ambrose, although
there was no work to be done that
day, and he welcomed him cordially.

c Come in, Jackson, and sit down. Almost
the first time you've done me the
honour of an unofficial visit, isn't it ? Well,
you see how I'm spending my time. What
English this Carey writes ! Have you read
your Dante, Jackson ?'

1 No, sir,' said Ambrose, sitting down, c I
can't say I have. Dante isn't likely to get
me on in the world.'

'Pardon me, I think that's a mistake,'
replied the other. ' To have a fine thought
is a kind of power.'

4 To the originator, possibly,' said Ambrose.


'Yes, and to everyone he takes into
partnership. This pale Dante has to me
the air of a prince, standing in a high
place, and giving away a kingdom to every
willing comer.'

I can't follow you,' laughed Ambrose,
'You are above a practical man's view
already.'

c Ah !' said Mr. Mackintosh, closing his
volume, ' when shall we greet that superior
man who shall join speculation and action
in even measure ? Let us be practical
then. Let us sink below the sublime
Dante even to the fit and proper person to
represent the important constituency of
Baybridge.'

Ambrose was much taken aback, and
lie now felt the sting in the older man's
remark about an unofficial visit.

'You want to stand?' said Mr. Mackintosh.
' Take my advice, don't !'

I prefer to go my own way.'

My friends want me to put forward
Maundy.'

Maundy can't open his mouth without
making a fool of himself.'

'These hasty judgments !' protested Mr.
Mackintosh. ' Maundy is not eloquent, I
allow ; but he is well connected and has
money.'

Ambrose winced.

I have not these advantages,' said he ;
but for all that I would carry the election
while Maundy stuck in the mud.'

You speak confidently, Jackson. Have

you any specific for gaining votes in

■v
Baybridge ?'

c Yes, I shall promise attention to some
local interests which have hitherto been
neglected.'

And in the event of success V

c I'll do the best I can for them.'

4 But the Baybridgeites are personally
attached to Maundy, or, at least, to his
family.'

Personal attachment doesn't go for
much,' answered Ambrose. ' Once I can
convince Baybb ridge that I can serve its
interests, that is, its pocket, it will vote
for me.'

Who are the Conservatives o; in to
bring forward ?' asked Mr. Mackintosh.

I can't make out.'

'Is it possible? You, who know, or
ought to know, everything that goes on in
that humdrum community !'

c The secret has been kept very close.
Have you any idea, sir ?'

Mr. Mackintosh made no answer. He
sat scrutinising Ambrose in a complacent
and half-compassionate way which was
rather hard to bear.

At last he said,

1 You are determined to see this matter
out, Jackson ?'

Yes.'

You shall have your chance.'

1 Thank ' Ambrose was beginning.

But the other stopped him by a wave of
the hand.

Don't thank me, Jackson. In giving
you my consent, I act solely with a view
to my own convenience. If you carry the
election '

c I don't doubt that for an instant.'

'If,' repeated the lover of Dante, ' you
carry the election, you can be useful tome.
That's my only motive for helping
you.'

Ambrose could not conceal an expression
of surprise.

I am taking you,' said Mr. Mackintosh,
c at your own valuation. When first you
entered my service, I held out to you the
right hand of fellowship. I frankly tell
you that I did so because there was something
in you that I admired. You repulsed
me. You declined to be under any obligation.
You required from me your pay,
and my approval as long as you did your
duty.'

c Have you any fault to find with me,
sir?'

1 No, you have been diligent and faithful.
My money has been well expended

Ambrose bowed.

c I am recalling your view of the situation,'
said Mr. Mackintosh, 'so that you
may thoroughly understand your position.
You shall contest this seat. If you are

successful, and as long as you are successful,
I will push you forward. If you fail —
remember! I will not know a man who fails.
Neglect no means to attain your end ; use
every grain of interest you possess ; make
your future wife '

4 The engagement is broken off,' said
Ambrose, hastily.

I am sorry to hear that. Your chances
are fewer. It's wonderful what a beautiful
woman can do in an election.'

1 I have no fear as to the result,' said
Ambrose ; feeling, however, that Mrs.
Murray's presence and means might have
been very useful.

1 So much the better,' said Mr. Mackintosh.
c And now perhaps you won't think
me wanting in courtesy if I go back to
Dante. Of course I shan't expect your
attendance while this matter is pending.
Any information you want I will gladly
send by letter.'

And the politician quickly returned to
his reading.

c Good-bye, sir,' said Ambrose. ' Won't
you wish me good luck ?'

c I wish you,' said the other, without
raising his eyes — ' all the good luck that
you can win by your own exertions.'

Ambrose lingered and glanced at Mr.
Mackintosh. The face of the big man in
the shirt-sleeves did not look severe ; perhaps
he had come across one of the fine
thoughts which he had compared to a kingdom
in value ; perhaps he was waiting for
something further to be said by his subordinate.
Ambrose knew that he owed a
great deal to Mr. Mackintosh, that he had
been treated more than once with greater
forbearance than he deserved. The young
fellow was not ungrateful ; but he was
proud and obstinate. Should he confess
that he had been wrong in the past, and

vol. in. c

ask Mr. Mackintosh to treat him differently,
as one wanting help in a critical hour ?
Had he done so, how different everything
might have been. But to speak the words
needed some sacrifice of self, and as such
sacrifices cannot come down from Heaven
suddenly, but need some previous practice
here on earth, Ambrose, poor boy, was not
capable of following his better instinct.

He left Mr. Mackintosh's without another
word. And he came home, and
sat down with a thoughtful brow, to decide
what was to be done in the coming
campaign.

One thing had been thoroughly impressed
upon him by his conversation with
Mr. Mackintosh. If he lost this election, he
lost everything — all the result of his past
industry and energy would drop from his
hand. If he succeeded, there need be no
limit to his prospects ; if he fell, not

one single arm would be stretched out to
save him.

Ambrose had many supporters in Bay-bridge,
because he had promised local reforms,
and also because, if he had little skill
in winning men, he had a way of making
his weight felt among a certain class.

6 Want of money is the only thing that
can break me,' mused Ambrose. And he
took out abook^containing some information
he had collected about election expenses ;
and ran over his accounts. Hitherto he
had debts ; but they were such as he could
pay off in time : he had not yet touched
his capital. Now he found that he must
sell out of some securities, pay off what was
owing, and have money in hand. It was
close upon four o'clock ; he hastened
to the City, found his solicitor still in his
office, and, much against the advice of that
gentleman, set the necessary arrangements

r 2

on foot. When he got back to his rooms,
Thorpe said,

Beg pardon, sir ; but if you intend to
catch the last train to Baybridge '

'A glass of sherry and some biscuits,"
said Ambrose, who had touched nothings
nee breakfast.

He had forgotten, in the hurry of his new
plans, all about Judith. In fact, it was not
till he was in the train that he thoroughly
realized what he had intended to do early
that morning. If the telegram had not
reached him, he would by this time be with
Judith, enjoying her fullest confidence,
sunning himself in her patient, unselfish
love. But how different Alas everything
now. He could not afford to marry a
nobody. He could not afford to marry at
all just now. He had not time for sentiment.
Between him and the girl-woman
in Baybridge with the soft voice, and willing

lingers, and loving heart, stood in
clearer outline than ever the giant form of
the dark angel Self.

m ' I'm not good enough for her,' was the
true but paltry excuse with which he
strove to justify his new apostasy. ' I
remember well,' he continued, after a pause,
'how in the first days of our friendship
Ave held different creeds. Judith would go
in for universal brotherhood. I held that
the only rational course was for every man
to look well to his own going. When I'm
member for Baybridge, and have shown
Judith how well my creed answers when
it's translated into action — then, perhaps,
well, I wish Judith had more of the
franche dame about her.'

And he remembered with relief that the
Tophams lived several miles from the
town, and that he was hardly likely to
meet the busy Judith in the streets.

He arrived at the station, and walked
down the High Street to the ' Bay bridge
Arms,' where his agent had already retained
the best rooms. It was late, but the
evening was fine, and a good many citizens
were lounging about outside the old-fashioned
inn. A buzz as of approval
greeted Ambrose Jackson's appearance,
and many and various were the remarks it
occasioned.

■ That's the new member,' said a girl.

c Noa, he ain't, but he's a-going to stand
corrected her brother. ' He ain't lost no
time a-coming ; he knows what he's about,
he does.'

1 Wish you luck, sir,' said Mr. Piper, the
tobacconist.

c Thank you heartily,' said Ambrose.
And he shook hands with the speaker ; an
unusual condescension which showed that
he had taken Mr. Mackintosh's advice and

was not going to lose a move. Outside

the ' Arms ' he met Fisk, his agent, with

a very long face.

m 'How are you, Fisk? What's the

matter?'

Matter, sir ? We've been shamefully
treated. I took the first floor of the
Arms " for you (our committee-rooms are
above the basket-maker's) and now the old
woman has thrown us over.'

1 Some misunderstanding,' said Ambrose,
I'll soon arrange that. Where is Mrs.
Jennings?'

The landlady pressed forward, and denied
any engagement.

The rooms was took some time ago for
the Earl of Hobanob and party,' said she.

Ambrose bit his lip. Alice Murray had
struck the first blow.

No matter, Fisk,' said he. c I must put
up at the " Hind and Panther'"

CHAPTER II.

ON ONE CONDITION.

It must be shown how Lord Hobanob, on
Alice Murray's behalf, came to make the
first move in opposition to Ambrose Jackson's
candidature. Lord Hobanob stood
on the steps of the ' Carlton,' while Ambrose
was with Mrs. Murray and on the point of
escaping from her clutches.

If I don't have my own way in this,'
mused the aged peer, c I don't know that'll
become of me.'

4 This ' was nothing more nor less than
his lordship's infatuation for the beautiful

widow. The old gentleman was surprised
to find so deep a feeling in his battered
heart, but the feeling was there, and had
,to be taken into account.

Those who judged Lord Hobanob most
harshly, allowed that he had good points.
He was a generous landlord, an indulgent
master. He was courteous to all men, of
high or low degree. He was strictly honourable
in all his dealings, as far as money
went, and always willing to adjust a quarrel.
Needy young men, deserving and undeserving,
knocked at his door — not in
vain. He had been known to go out of
his way to help on many a hard-working
man, and conferred benefits as if he were
receiving them. He did not gamble overmuch
nor drink overmuch (to be sure his
head could stand more than others') and yet
he was, well, what all London knew him to
be.

He treated every woman as if she were
a duchess ; but his want of any real respect
for any woman whatsoever was a fault nothing
could atone for. He had no virtue,
no compunction, nothing to prevent him
from ruining another man's domestic happiness.
Where a woman crossed his path,
he was absolutely without a conscience.
He had been in some ugly affairs and
weathered them all. His heart appeared
never to have been so much as touched by
any genuine affection. And now, as if for
retribution, he could not rid himself of this
feeling for Alice Murray.

He was getting very old. So well-known
did he feel himself to be, that he could
hardly hope that any young girl, worth
anything at all, would marry him now, in
spite of his title and enormous wealth.
Fortune-hunters he could have by the
score, but he hated their amiable ways and

insatiable greed. He had drunk life to the
dregs, and began to taste how bitter they
were. Nobody expected he would marry ;
but Alice Murray found out that she had
struck a chord in the old man's heart, and
that all his arts, all his experience, failed
before her smile.

Alice had played her cards astutely, and
had managed in a wonderful way to keep
her aged admirer in a good humour.
She would have married him long ago (for
he could not live much longer) if it had
not been for Ambrose. Alice could not
make up her mind to give up Ambrose,
and now Ambrose had given her up, in, as
she was pleased to think, a manner both
dishonourable and heartless.

When the widow was left alone after
that memorable interview with Ambrose,
she was more like a tigress baulked of her
prey than a woman. She raged, and stamped,

and wound her fingers in her hair.
What galled her most was that she herself
had afforded the means of his release. And
those threats of revenge which she had
hissed out between her set teeth, should
not end in air ! She would, somehow, have
a complete revenge on the man who dared
to despise her. She worked herself up into
a fit of passion in which she repeated, over
and over again, that Ambrose had villainously
ill-treated her, and should smart for
it. And then she thought of his handsome
face and his kisses, and sank down sobbing
and wailing like a beaten child.

Was there any possibility of her recovering
Ambrose ! She saw none. His tone
as he exclaimed, 'Judith, Judith, I am free,'
still rang in her ears. She hated this
Judith ; she longed to stand face to face
with her, and to say something so bitter
and unforgiving that it should pierce the

girl like a stab with a knife. She determined
in any ease to go down to Baybridge,
and see what sort of a woman this was who
had supplanted her. In a few hours, at
latest, Judith would be clinging to him,
laughing and crying, and blushing by turns.
The widow at this thought renewed her
lamentations.

Fool, fool, that I was,' she cried, ' not
to hold my tongue about that little fool
Kate Tweedy ! What perverse fate made
me meet her at Melusine's ?'

Mrs. Murray was bemoaning her lot in
this manner when Lord Hobanob came in.

'What's the matter now, Alice?' said he.

The widow looked up, and was not sorry
to have been really surprised in her distress.
The speaker was old, bloated, and
altogether unprepossessing in appearance.
But his voice was kind, and a gleam of
sympathy shone from between his shrivelled

eyelids. Mrs. Murray resolved to accept
him. Alone she was weak, unprotected,
and, above all, without any means of revenging
herself on Ambrose Jackson. But
through Lord Hobanob she could, she felt,
deal a blow at her deserter.

1 1 have had such a scene, Henry,' she
said, 'wiping her eyes. I might have
known from the first that he wanted only
my money.'

'You're speaking of young Jackson?' said
the other.

I Yes. I am thankful to say all is over
between us. I have withdrawn from the
engagement.'

The old man's face lit up with pleasure.
'Tell me all about it,' he said, soothingly.

I I was mistaken in supposing I ever
really cared for him,' said the widow, l but
he behaved in the most unmanly way, and
that made me be foolish, an (Tory, you know.

He came to me wanting some more money
to carry out his schemes. I refused,
though I was sorry to do so. I said that
he had come so often on the same errand
already, and that I thought the whole thing
rather undignified. Oh, and then he used
such cruel language, said that there was
no good in my loving him if I would not
help him, and that he would come back
this evening to know my decision, and must
have five hundred pounds. I'm not a brave
woman, Henry, and hate putting myself
forward, but I have some spirit, and I told
him straight out that there should be no
marriage. He was humble enough then,
I can tell you. But I felt that I no longer
loved him, that I had never really loved
him; and I was firm. Was I wrong, Henry?
You won't desert me, will you ? I haven't

behaved well to you, I know, but, but '

And she filled up the pause with tears.

Lord Hobanob had not lived seventy-five
years for nothing. The widow might
fascinate him, but she could not deceive
him. He had not the shade of a doubt
that she was lying. He knew much about
Ambrose, and, until the young man became
his rival, was on friendly terms with him.
He was quite certain that Ambrose would
no more take money from any woman than
commit a felony. He saw clearly enough
that there had been a row royal between
the lovers, that Alice had got the worst of
it, and that she was covering her retreat as
best she could. And he forgave her the
lies for the sake of her cleverness and her
beauty.

Very beautiful she looked, too, as she
sat close beside him, and glanced up half-shyly,
half-confidently, and touched his
arm in a pretty, appealing way. She
might not be sincere ; but the pretence

was very pleasant. The old gentleman
positively trembled, and whispered, in a
hoarse voice,

4 Have me, Alice, have me !'

1 Oh ! Henry, why didn't I listen to you
at the first ?'

1 You consent, then ?'

Yes ; that is, on one condition. You
will help me to punish this insolent fellow

1 Young Jackson. I thought you had
read him a lesson already. No, no, let
him go his way, and let us go ours. Besides,
how could I punish him. He is a
rising, capable man, who is not so easily
kept down. I met young Danvers as I
was coming here. His uncle is dead, and
Jackson will probably step into his shoes
as member for Baybridge.'

c No,' cried Alice, with sudden energy,
1 never !' And she hung caressingly about
the old man, saying, c You have interest in

VOL. III. D

Bay bridge ; you must make him lose the
election.'

I haven't touched politics these twenty
years,' pleaded he, c and I can't do so now.'

'You won't refuse my first request,
Henry?'

Lord Hobanob did refuse, and held out
as long as he could and dared. He thought
it would be a mean and pitiful thing in
him to spoil Ambrose's chance, merely to
gratify a spiteful woman's malice. He
tried to bribe Alice ; he promised that she
might have everything she wanted, and do
everything she pleased, if only she would
yield this one point. But Alice was firm.
She might not, perhaps, have valued her
revenge higher than her opportunity of
becoming Lady Hobanob ; but she saw
that, if she persisted, she would not be refused
in the end. Henry had to give in.
She threatened, implored, coaxed, and

finally made the loss of the election to
Ambrose the condition of her marriage to
Lord Hobanob. This was taking high
ground ; but she had not miscalculated
her power. And, when at last she wrung
an unwilling consent from her friend, she
was, whether rightly or wrongly, convinced
that Ambrose had no chance whatever
of succeeding in his darling project.

Lord Hobanob had surrendered, but
sorely against his will. He knew far better
than Alice what an important bearing
this election would have on Ambrose's
future. Scenes and events of fifty years
ago revived in the memory of the old peer.
He remembered contesting a seat (long before
there was any probability of his coming
into the title he now bore) in days
when elections were conducted on different
principles, and by very different means.
How handsome, how popular he was then ;

D 2

full of life and strength. With what fearless
hope he had mounted the hustings —
and how bitter had been his disappointment
when he lost the seat by only a few
votes. Looking back now, Lord Hobanob
saw in that disappointment the cause of
his first downward step. He remembered
the scorn of the victorious partisans, and
the lukewarm sympathy of his friends after
his defeat. Since then, Lord Hobanob had
done more harm in the world than he
would care to own. Yet he was preparing
for another that very anguish which had
left its mark and its stain upon his own
withered heart and wasted life. And his
first proceeding was to telegraph to the
1 Bay bridge Arms,' with what result has
been already shown.

Alice, having gained her object, exerted
all her powers of pleasing, and was soon able
to make her companion forget the victory

she had gained over his reluctance. She
was far more at her ease with him than she
had ever been with Ambrose, and listened,
demurely protesting, to several of his little
stories. He was soon in the best of humours,
and pressed upon her acceptance some diamonds
which she had formerly refused.
His lordship parted from Alice with much
affection, and, what was more agreeable to
her, the diamonds arrived that same night.
When her maid had gone she put them on,
and slept in them — and dreamed not of
the giver, but of Ambrose Jackson and of
her rival Judith.

She had accepted Lord Hobanob, and
would gladly take the position and the
o'ood things he brought her — if Ambrose
proved to be really lost. But her passion
for Ambrose was unabated ; when she
thought that day after day must pass without
his sympathy, she gave free course to

her despair. She would find some means
of again separating Judith from her lover.
And she would, without a pang of remorse,
throw over Lord Hobanob if she could be
sure — quite sure of Ambrose.

The election was to take place without
any unnecessary delay. Mrs. Murray made
up a party, Lord Hobanob invited some
friends, and they were soon installed in
the ' Baybridge Arms The appearance of
such a distinguished body, pledged, it was
soon understood, to support a Conservative
candidate with its influence and means,
created a profound sensation in Baybridge.

The little town was already gaily decorated
with large yellow posters containing
Ambrose Jackson's appeal to the free and
independent electors, and promising a due
regard to local interests and reforms.

Ambrose himself was winning golden
opinions by his activity and intelligence,.

and his supporters entertained the most
favourable hopes that they could carry him
against any opponent.

But who his opponent was to be had not
yet transpired. Measures had long been
set oroing; to secure the return of a Conservative
candidate, and at length to the
surprise of most of the community the
party put forward as their representative
Nicholas Tucker, Esq., of Fireside.

CHAPTER III.

TAKEN AND REFUSED.

Yes, Nicholas Tucker ! who had long been
nursing the constituency with many public
and private acts of generosity, which were
now to be remembered and quoted in his
favour. Nicholas might not allow any of
his neighbours to keep their own affairs
secret, but he had certainly been very discreet
about his own intentions.

He told his daughters the news only a
couple of hours before it was in everyone
else's mouth ; and at the same time made
another important announcement.

c Come upstairs, girls,' said he. c I have
some business with both of you.'

Yes, dearest papa,' said Elizabeth.

Oh, yes, papa dearest,' said Clementina,

The Misses Tucker had their reasons
for being amiable. Their father, except
that he had, as usual, been mysterious
in his visits to London, and in his
correspondence, had of late treated them
almost kindly. He had given Lizzie a
shawl, and Clem a brooch. What did this
mean but that he was beginning to repent
of his hardness, and intended to do something
in the way of purchasing a husband
for each of his daughters ?

He's cfoino; to make some settlement or
allowance,' said Clem, as they went upstairs.

It's time he came to his senses,' retorted
Elizabeth.

In they went, their arms twined round
each other's waist.

Quite a loving pair,' said Nicholas,
grimly, as he sat clown and signed to
them to do likewise. ' Girls,' said he,
addressing the middle-aged, sour-visaged
women, ' I have two things to tell you. I
daresay they will both surprise you. I
am going to stand for Baybridge in opposition
to young Jackson.'

c You !' cried Elizabeth, aghast, ' at your
age !'

c Don't forget, Lizzie,' said her father,
that the older I am the older you must be.'

'Nobody will vote for you,' said Elizabeth.
The election will cost you a lot of money,
which will be clean thrown away.'

Really, papa,' said Clem, ' I don't think
you'll get very many votes.'

'Your congratulations,' said Nicholas,
4 are as sincere and candid as I expected.'

4 1 didn't mean anything unkind,' said
Clem.

1 1 can't make out what put such an idea
into your head. All that money T !' exclaimed
Elizabeth.

c I can explain,' said Nicholas, with
meaning. ' My future wife's ambition is
that I should sit in Parliament.'

Your future wife's !' shrieked Elizabeth.

I knew it !' echoed Clementina.

What's her name ?' asked the first.

Her name is Martha Daily,' replied
Nicholas.

What's she got ?' asked Elizabeth.

A clear head, a warm heart — and four
grown-up children.'

1 There we have it !' exclaimed Elizabeth.
She has been the cause of your visits
to London, then. An adventuress ! I'll
never speak a word to her. I'll never
countenance such folly. I won't even
meet her. Will you, Clem ?'

1 Certainly not,' said Clementina.

Neither of you will have the chance,'
said Nicholas, quite unmoved. c I thought
it possible you oughtn't get on with Martha
and her family, and have made my arrangements
accordingly. The marriage will take
place the day after the election. And by
this time tomorrow you will both have
left Baybridge for good and all.'

You are going to turn us out into the
streets without a penny !' said Elizabeth —
'we, who have cared for you all these years !'

You never loved us,' wailed Clementina.

Nicholas looked at his children for some
moments without speaking, and then said,
almost gently,

c Girls, there's no use denying the fact
that we haven't hit it off together somehow.
There has been a gulf between us
that couldn't be bridged over. With all
my efforts, I haven't been able to forget
or forgive the past. I can't help remembering

how, when I came to England, as
you thought, a poor man, you treated the
father to whom you owed every bit of bread
you put into your mouth as if he had been
a beggar.'

I was sorry enough afterwards,' said
Clem. Elizabeth said nothing.

I tried indeed to forget it, and to do
my duty to you both. I hoped year after
year to see some proof that you were growing
fond of me. But I found only spite
and wishes for inheritance

1 I never wished you dead, papa,' said
Clementina. 'And don't you think that
if you had been less rough, and treated us
with more confidence, we would have been
better too? I should.'

c There's no good raking up the past,'
said Elizabeth. 'We shall have enough
to think of in the present if we're to be
turned away, like strangers, from a parent's
door.'

Nicholas Tucker's eye had grown dim
while his younger daughter was speaking.
He felt that there was much truth in
Clementina's reproach. He had some
feeling, this rough and ready builder of
his own fortunes. He acknowledged, at
least to himself, that he had pushed his
resentment too far, and that his conduct
had aggravated the faults, already gross
enough, in his daughters. He repented.
He had been quick to notice their errors, and
to make caustic and mocking remarks. He
was rich, and had not allowed them to profit
by his riches. He had found fault with
their tongues, and had not controlled his
own. It seems strange that a father could
be glad to hear his child sa r that she had
had never wished him dead ; and yet he was
glad. He saw that Clementina in her
niggardly way had wanted to say something
kind. And, had he been alone with

her, there might have been a real reconciliation
at last. — But Elizabeth's
remark drove away the tenderness that
was knocking at his heart, and he
said,

c I shouldn't go in for being a martyr,
Lizzie, if I were you. I am going to propose
an arrangement for our mutual
advantage. There's no reason why you
and your sister shouldn't be married and
settled.'

i How can you talk like that, papa ?' exclaimed
Elizabeth. 'No reason indeed!
Who would think of marrying us with only
five thousand each, and that bringing in
only three per cent. ? It isn't that men are
mercenary, or wouldn't be glad to have us
for our own sakes ; but, but it does cost so
much to live nowadays. Arthur adores
me, though of course we're not demonstrative
and foolish. But I can't go into such

a family as the Hancock without a farthing.
A man in his position is accustomed
to ease and refinement ; and I suppose
even you would like your daughter to keep
up her standing as a lady. When I think
of the many years I've kept house for you,
and seen after your comfort . . . it's not for
the sake of the money . . . but it just breaks
one's heart to be so treated.'

It isn't fair,' said Clementina, 'certainly
not for me. Elizabeth isn't so badly off, for
she has saved every penny.'

I haven't put by a farthing,' cried
Elizabeth.

c You have.'

c It's a falsehood,' cried Elizabeth. ' I
don't fling my money about in the reckless
manner you do ; but how is one to save on
such a pitiful allowance as mine ?'

Miss Tucker was not altogether candid ;
for she had not only saved most of her income,

but had year by year made quite a
good tiling out of the household accounts
a fact of which her father was perfectly
well aware.

If you'd only hold your tongues he
said, l I'll tell you what I'm going to do.
I will give each of you another five thousand
pounds. You can marry or not, if
you please ; but I withdraw my offer, if
you're in the house by this time tomorrow.'

It's a wretched pittance,' groaned Elizabeth.
' Beggarly !'

Will you have it or not ?'

I suppose I must, if I can't get anymore,'
said Elizabeth, sullenly.

And you, Clementina ?'

Yes, papa, I'll take it.'

'Then that's settled,' said Nicholas
Tucker. 'Now, about your young men.
Lizzie, you will see Captain Handcock this
morning, I daresay. Convey to him, with

VOL. III. E

your usual delicacy, how matters stand.
And, take my advice, be civil, or you'll
lose him.'

Elizabeth felt that Arthur would jump
ant her with her ten thousand pounds.

You're quite mistaken in Captain Hand-cock,'
she replied. c He is fonder of me
than you care to allow. And I do hope,
dearest papa,' she added, with a sudden
change of tone, ' that you will give us a
cheque for the wedding.'

Yes, five thousand pounds.'

c That's not what I mean,' explained
Lizzie. £ I mean, something besides, for
the wedding expenses

Not a dollar,' said Nicholas, vehemently.
And his child did not think fit to push the
question just then.

4 And, Clem, about your orange blossoms?'
said he. ' I asked Mr. Lloyd to step round
at about ten ; and there's the hour striking.'

Lloyd f shrieked Elizabeth. c Not Mr.
Parry's servant?'

1 Yes, Lizzie, my love,' said Clementina,
deprecatingly, c it is Mervyn. But we must
forget about his being in service. He
comes of a really good family.'

1 Bosh !' said Elizabeth. ' Marry a groom !
Ugh, how can you be such a fool ?'

c How dare you speak like that ! Mervyn
has a better figure than your captain, and
is ten years younger — there !'

Elizabeth turned, pale with fury, upon
her sister. But Nicholas stood between
his charming daughters, and, as soon as
they had passed from the furious into
the disdainful mood, sent them both
from the room. They had another set-to
downstairs, and, between Lizzie's
venomous attack and Clem's venomous rejoinder,
there was not a hair to choose.
At last the elder sister, by a frequent use

e 2

of the word ' groom,' reduced Clementina
to tears, and then started in search of
Captain Hand cock.

Meanwhile, Mr. Mervyn Lloyd was shown
into Nicholas Tucker's room.

Lloyd had left his master's service about
three months ago, under circumstances to
be soon related. He had since been out
of work ; and idleness proved as destructive
to him as it has proved to better men.
His extensive knowledge in the perquisite
line had stood him in good stead ; but, unfortunately,
he had a fancy that he was wise
in horseflesh, and in all matters connected
with the turf. He had attended a few of
the summer meetings, and had not been so
successful as a gentleman of his talent undoubtedly
deserved to be. His fortunes
were soon at a very low ebb, and this fact
made him again turn his attention to Miss
Clementina Tucker. He had no difficulty

in reinstating himself in the spinsters
favour, and he was not surprised to receive
a summons from the Conservative candidate
for Baybridge. He knew that Nicholas
had once been a working man himself, and,
as long as appearances could be saved,
cared not a jot if a working man married
his daughter.

Sit down, Lloyd,' said Mr. Tucker, with
a twinkle in his eye. ' So there is something
between you and Clementina ?'

With your permission, sir — yes,' replied
Mr. Lloyd, trying to look at his ease.

i She has a sharp tongue, but isn't so
bad if properly treated. You will be
patient and kind?'

c In course, sir. We've took weary kindly
to one another already'

She will have ten thousand pounds,
Lloyd. The sum will be tied up in the
Threes, and pass to you if you survive her.'

This was not exactly what the ex valet
expected, but he was not in a position to
hesitate.

I'm agreeable, sir,' said he.

c And if I'm satisfied with you, and you're
kind to Clementina, and keep off the turf
well, I may do a little more for you as
time goes on.'

Very liberal, I'm sure, sir,' said Lloyd.

I have no prejudices myself,' continued
Nicholas, ' but as I'm standing for Bay-bridge
'

c We'd better go off quietly?' interrogated
Mr. Lloyd.

And soon,' said Nicholas, drily. c If
we are now agreed on all points, I'll call
her.'

c If you please,' said the other.

And Clementina was called and came
blushing.

Clem,' said her father, l your Mervyn

wants you to be ready about three o'clock.'

1 Oh, papa, how sudden, how unexpected.
I couldn't really. Now, Mervyn, could I?'

c If you tried hard, my dear,' suggested
Mervyn.

And so the matter was arranged without
any fuss. Mr. Lloyd gave his bride a kiss,
and hurried away to take the necessary
steps.

Clementina hung her head after that
kiss. She was no longer old, crabbed, and
sour. She was no longer alone in the
world ; but had somebody to care for, and
to think of as her own. Yet she could not
help remembering how many years had
flown since she first thought of wedding
garments. Like many women, she had had
her chance long, long ago, and had rejected
it. Once more it had come round after
weary hoping and longing, and she would
take a lesson from the past. Might it not

even now be possible to be a little unselfish,
a little thoughtful of other people's wants
and loves ? As the sunlight pours upon
some weed that all men counted ugly, and
shows in its despised life hidden beauties,
so that kiss fell upon poor, misguided
Clementina's thin lips like a touch of
enchantment.

Papa,' she said, stammering with long-forgotten
kindness, c I hope, when you're
married, your — your wife won't be a bother
to you.'

Nicholas answered, in a low voice,

c Thanks, my girl, thanks.'

4 If you won't tell Lizzie, papa, when
you're married, I'll come and see — my new
mother.'

Nicholas rose, and drew the lean figure
to his side, saying,

'You were right, Clem, I, didn't take you
in the proper way.'

We'll begin again, now, papa.'

Nicholas sighed and pushed her away
almost roughly. But he unlocked a drawer
and took out a bundle of bank-notes.

c For heaven's sake don't tell your sister,
Clem. Here's a wedding-present for you.
You sent me ten pounds when I came to
England, you know; it's been out at
interest.'

Clem said nothing ; but made a step
forward. And for a moment father and
daughter remained clasped in one another's
arms.

Elizabeth Tucker was not long in finding
the captain.

At last, dear Arthur,' said she, with an upward
glance. ' Papa has become reasonable.'

D it,' swore the captain, ' has the

old man come down with something handsome
?'

c He lias been liberal, most liberal,' said
Elizabeth. * I am to have ten thousand
pounds.'

1 Not so d d bad,' replied the big

fellow. c Ten thousand quid ? Well, with
the five you've got, that'll be fifteen ; add
that to my property and we shan't do sod
d badly.'

And the gallant captain took the yellow-faced
spinster's arm with real affection.

Dear, dear Arthur !' said she. ' But
you didn't quite understand. You don't
care only for my money, do you ?'

C D it no, Elizabeth, curse me if I do.

You're an infernal good-looking woman for
your time of life.'

c Leave my time of life alone,' snapped
Lizzie. 'I mean, Arthur love, that I counted
my eve in the ten thousand.'

Captain Handcock dropped her arm.

1 D d poor joke of yours, d d

poor ! No, we can't keep house on nothing
a-year.'

But ten thousand goes a long way with
careful management, indeed it does, Arthur.
Besides, what's the money to fond hearts ;
and you said you loved me, Arthur.'

1 Stingy old d 1, your father,' said the

captain.

He had quite made up his mind that the
game was not worth the candle. With
fifteen thousand he might have risked it.
But he had been rather afraid of Elizabeth
lately. She had heard about his visit to
Mrs. Tweedy (though neither she nor anyone
else knew what had then taken place)
and she had reproached Captain Handcock
in no measured terms. It would take a
good deal to reconcile a man to such a
companion ; and the figure offered was not
high enough. He and Elizabeth had now
reached a shady part of the road, and as

no one was in sight he thought he had

better get the inevitable row over at once.
It's no go, Elizabeth,' said he.
< What !'

1 D me if it isn't no go.'

4 Do you mean you won't marry me ?'

'Humph,' said the captain, affirmatively.

After all your promises?'

c Conditional on a good round sum.'

You wretch !' shrieked Elizabeth. ' I

hate you ! I wouldn't marry you now if

you went on your knees. — Don't leave me,

Arthur !'

He turned to go home.

4 Arthur!' cried the wretched woman,

4 Arthur !' And she clung to his coat.

But he shook her off without ceremony,

saying,

c Look here, Elizabeth, I might manage

.as far as the money goes, but 1 can't stand

your tongue. It would drive me mad ina

fortnight, d me if it wouldn't'"

And he strode away without paying any
further attention to the miserable creature
as she lay moaning on the grass.

That evening the news spread through
Bay bridge that Clementina Tucker had
eloped, and that Elizabeth, after a fierce
quarrel with her father, had taken her
departure. At any other time these topics
would have been perfect godsend to the
community, now all interest was absorbed
by the approaching election.

But before we enter upon this subject,
and show what effect it is to have upon
the future of Ambrose and Judith, we must
devote a short space to Miss Annie and her
lover.

CHAPTER IV.

Annie Love.

Annie never allowed even Judith to see
her love-letters from Cris. She reconciled
her sister to this great hardship by telling
her what Cris wrote about, and even by
reading aloud select passages — the only
difficulty in this last operation being to
make any choice, so important and precious
was every line from Cris. The letters were
neatly tied up in blue ribbon, and kept
safe under lock and key in Annie's desk.
Often and often the girl would steal upstairs,
and read the closely-written sheets

by the hour. Oh, never had a lover
written such letters before, so clever, so
kind, so true ! Annie was quite sure of
this. She loved every stroke in them, and
as her faithful eyes read between the lines,
and as she knew exactly what Cris meant,
and perhaps imagined a good deal that he
never meant at all, each sheet took as
much reading as a small volume. Often
Judith . . . though sad enough on her own
account . . . would smile to see Annie go upstairs,
and come down at last with a little
guilty look as if she hoped nobody had
noticed her absence, or at least guessed its
cause.

Annie felt that it was very generous
and forgiving of Cris to write to her so
often and so fondly. She quite forgot how
long and how patiently she had waited for
him to get some work before she broke off
their engagement. She easily forgave Cris

his idleness now that he was far away from
her. When he wrote to her at Radalls, he
declared that he considered himself bound
to her, and that he would never even think
of anyone else. Annie replied that it was
no good her pretending that he was not all
in all to her ; but that she would not consent
to see him again until he was doing
some manly work. How tenderly Annie
insisted upon this point need not be told.
She had written the letter over and over
again till sure that every word in it was
gentle. Still she had prevented him from
coming to see her except upon her own
terms. And so she was certain that she
had behaved unmercifully, and that Cris
was a brick to send her such dear, dear
letters.

Naturally she longed for Cris to be at
her side. But she did not despair because
that was impossible as yet. She inherited

a large stock of cheerfulness from her father,
and took the brightest view of the future
she was to share with her Cris. One of
these days he would return with some
good appointment, and then how she
would welcome the dear fellow. And in
the meantime surely it would be ungrateful
to complain, seeing that she had that
little packet tied up in blue ribbon upstairs.
One of the priceless documents
began, c My sweet little pet,' another c My
bright little pet,' and a third ' Dear Annie
The girl loved this last beginning the most,
because she knew what a wicked, playful,
mocking mood Cris had been in when he
wrote it. And whenever the postman
brought her a fresh treat she dawdled with
the envelope a moment, thinking, ' How
will he begin this time, I wonder !' And
the postman, who would sooner have lost
a finger than one of those letters, always

VOL. III. f

lingered to watch the happy girl toying
with her treasure as if to prolong the
delight.

But suddenly the weekly letter failed.
A weary month crept by, and still the postman
shook his head sadly. Annie did not
know what to think. Cris could not be ill,
or he would let her know. Where was he ?
What was he doing? Why did he not
write? Annie put these questions to Judith
twenty times a day, and was quite
aggrieved that her sister was puzzled too.
Judith recommended the virtue . . . which
so shone in her own" life . . . patience. But
Annie could no more be patient than her
father could be desponding. Up and down,
in and out, backwards and forwards ! till
poor Mrs. Topham begged and implored of
her to keep quiet if only for half-an-hour.
- x

'I can't help it, mamma,' said Annie,

piteously. c "Why doesn't he write ? Why
doesn't he write ?'

At last !' cried Annie, one morning, tearing
open a letter with the London postmark.
Only a few lines to say he was
well, in the City, that he would send further
details soon, and that he loved her
twenty times more than ever. Details
of what ? Cris did not say. And Annie
was nearly going wild with excitement,
and could not do anything rationally
for the next two days.

She hurried to the door for the fifth
time at least to see if the postman was
coming, and felt arms thrown round her
neck, and kisses showered upon her cheek
and lips.

« Cris! Cris!'

Here he was back again ! Without a
moment's thought, she returned his kisses
energetically, till, remembering how rep



served young ladies ought to be, she hid
her face on his shoulder, and trembled
with pride and joy.

She crowded as much news as she could
into one breath, and then, looking up, saw
that a great change had taken place in Mr.
Christopher Parry.

He seemed to Annie rather pale, and his
golden hair was cut so short that she
could no longer twine it round her fingers.
His features had still a lack-a-daisical expression,
his voice was still apt to die away
in a drawl ; but his movements were more
quick and decided. Annie saw that something
had happened ; Crispus have come
to grief. He had cheap boots on, a plain
tie, and a coat getting quite shiny at the
elbows. He was not a dandy now, and
Annie, after the first surprise, thought she
liked him better as he was. She led him
into the sitting-room, where Judith was

discussing the eternal ways and means
with her mother.

Cris, my dear fellow, how are you ?'
cried Peter, who was there too. c Very
glad to have you back again, aren't we,
Annie ? And right well you're looking,
isn't he. Maria ?'

Yes, dear ; unless he's a little thin,'
ventured Mrs. Topham.

Maria understood that Cris was in
trouble, and welcomed him kindly, though
she did wonder how he came to be with
Annie under the circumstances.

Judith had already learnt the truth ina
whisper, and, full of sympathy and sorrow
for Cris in his misfortunes, drew her
parents from the room so as to leave him
alone with Annie.

c Now, Cris ?' said that young lady.

I've been horribly bored since, Annie,'
began the lanky man. ' Not that that

would matter, only I'm afraid you'll be
cut up too.'

What about, Oris ?'

You know when we parted '

L l didn't mean to be cruel,' whispered
Annie. ' How I did cry when you were
gone.'

4 You sweet little girl,' he answered, with
a caress. c You always treated me much
better than I deserved. Oh, yes, you did.
When I left you I went abroad, and travelled
about, and lolled, and tried to persuade
myself that I was happy; but I
wasn't. You spoke very plainly to me
before I went, and 'pon my soul I soon
found out how right you were, and that
no man can be happy . or escape being
bored . . . who lives for himself alone. I
acknowledged this ; but it's a very hard
thing to break old habits, and I let day
after day pass, and month after month

pass, and was no better — except that after
what you said I had no peace.'

c I'll never forgive myself,' said Annie.
But he continued,

You know Parry and Parry in Great
Tower Street. All my money was invested
in that firm, although Ambrose Jackson
warned me not to keep too many eggs in
one basket. Where was I? — oh, yes,
Parry and Parry. Well, I had a right to
send an accountant to look into the books
from time to time ; but I always hated
trouble, and kept running away from it
till it overtook me. I was in Switzerland
when I got a telegram saying that Parry
was broken.'

1 Poor man,' said Annie.

You don't understand, Silly-billy,' said
Cris. c I almost wish the man's neck had
been broken. No, the firm failed, and out
of the wreck your poor Cris saved about a

hundred and fifty a-year. Come, come,
don't cry like that. I'll get it back every
penny.'

6 How !' cried Annie.

Cris started up with sudden animation.

Earn it !' said he, slapping himself on
the waistcoat in a manner that caused
Annie to open her eyes in amazement.

You can do anything if you try. Ambrose
always said you had a good head.
And I, Cris, always knew that you had a
good heart. Tell me what happened
next?'

c I hunted about for work, and had the
luck to meet an old schoolfellow of mine
who has taken out a patent for making
carriage varnish. He wanted somebody to
work the patent with him, and we came to
an arrangement. My first few pounds of
profit, notwithstanding the state of the
funds, were devoted to buying a brooch,

not a very magnificent article, for my dear
Annie.'

And, with these words, he took out a
little box, and soon put the brooch on
her neck.

I love it more than if it had cost hundreds,
and hundreds, and hundreds,' sobbed
Annie.

l The work was stiff at first,' said
Cris ; c getting up early, and all that.
But one soon slides into the groove. And
Mansellll confesses that I'm a nailer at
correspondence.'

Your letters are beautiful,' said Annie.

'I don't write to everybody quite in
that style,' said Cris. And then his face
grew very serious, and he said, * We must
talk about the future now, pet, I'm
afraid.'

'Afraid!'

A chill seized Annie. He was with her ;

he loved her. She had not looked beyond
that.

'Hang it!' said Crispin extreme distress.
6 How am I to begin ? Annie, when I was
fairly well off . . . had fifteen hundred amy ear,
you know . . . Asked you tomarryme. You
consented; and all your mother insisted
on was, that I should not be altogether
idle. We might have been married by
now, except for my want of pluck. And
now things are very different. Two hundred
a-year is not much to live on. I ama
poor man, a very poor man, Annie. And
I've no right to take you from your home,
and ask you to share my poverty. I — I
shall always love you, and — and I give you
back your promise; and, there, the murder's
out at last.'

And Cris covered his face with his hands.

Annie's heart almost stopped beating.
She misunderstood him. She never doubted

his love. But she saw, although she
was not wise about money, that he was
poor, and must remain poor for many
years. She had not a penny to bring him,
and she reasoned that he was not wrong
to shrink from the responsibility of marrying
her now. She knew that Cris would
never leave her, unless she set him free,
and she determined not to be a weight
upon him, not to add a penniless wife to
his new troubles. And so, with a heart
nearly breaking, she answered,

Be it so, Cris. But we shall always befriends,
Cris.'

In his turn, Christopher Parry misunderstood
her. He had thought it only just
to give her back the promise she had made
him. The future he could offer now was
not attractive for a young girl who had
looked forward to comparative affluence
with him. So he released her as a bounden

duty. But he never supposed she would
accept this sacrifice, and he did not see
how she was thinking of his comfort
alone.

1 We might have been so happy,' he said,
with a deep sigh. 4 I thought of a tiny
house in one of the cheap suburbs. I
could have come up and down third-class,
you know ; and we might have had a bit
of a garden, and have kept some poultry
for eggs and things, and got the place
furnished bit by bit as the money came in.
And then in the summer evenings we
might have allowed ourselves a treat now
and then '

'And in the winter,' said Annie, 'when
you came home fagged, there would be a
blazing fire and your slippers all ready on
the rug, and a kettle boiling on the hob,
and the tea-cloth laid ; and I should tell you
what I had been doing all day, and you

would tell me how the varnish was fretting
on. Oh ! do let's, Oris.'

Eh ?' said Cris. ' You said you wouldn't.'

'Wouldn't what?'

1 Marry me, Annie.'

What !' cried she, with wide-open eyes.
It was you said you wouldn't marry me ! f

Look here,' said Cris, after relieving
his feelings by a long low whistle, and
snapping his fingers, ' we're getting muddled.
Do I understand you to say that
you are not afraid of marrying a poor chap
like me ?'

I say,' replied Annie, with her hands
on his shoulders, ' that I'd marry you if
you had nothing in the world but this
shiny old coat. I was thinking only of
you, dear, just now.'

And I of you,' replied Cris, vehemently.

The foolish, happy couple embraced, and
Annie cried a little ; and then Cris began

to chaff her, and she poked fun at him,
and ran away from him, and would not be
caught till he chased her round and round
the room, and at last they sat down side
by side on the sofa, and laughed so immoderately
that Judith and her father and
mother came running in to know what had
happened.

When everything had been explained,
Peter Topham would not allow that Oris
had any reason for being down-hearted.
He pointed out that, after all, two hundred
a-year was better than nothing, that many
people had begun life with a few half-crowns,
and had died rich men, and that,
if Oris would listen to him, he could realise
a fortune in a very few years' time. Cris
winked at Annie, and told Peter he would
be very grateful for any suggestions.

Maria Topham, when she, heard that Cris
was actually earning something, and giving

proof that he intended to work for Annie,
kissed her future son-in-law affectionately,
and, after a few whispered words of sympathy
on his losses, promised that he should
marry Annie as soon as ever it was prudent.
As for Judith, her large heart had long
ago valued many good qualities in Cris,
and, though she said little, he read a
world of kindness in her eyes. Judith
was convinced that this misfortune which
had come upon Cris would in the end
make a man of him, and she was no longer
afraid to trust Annie to his care. She
almost broke down when Cris hoped that
a day was not far distant when she too
could be made happy in her love.

Annie and Cris took a long walk that
afternoon, and Judith's prospects were fully
discussed.

c Poor Judith !' said Annie, ' she has had
a hard time of it ever since she refused

Will. At first father bullied her all day
long, until mother and I took her part
and bullied him. When she heard that
Ambrose and Mrs. Murray had quarrelled,
she was happy, but only for a few
hours. She thought Ambrose would come
to her at once. But, although he appeared
in Baybridge the same evening, he never
came near us. I think it will simply kill
Judith if he marries anyone else. What
do you think he'll do, Cris ?'

It's just this,' replied Cris, ' if he wins
this election, he'll be so high and mighty
that I fear Judith will see nothing of him ;
but if he loses '

'Well?' said Annie.

c Then the failure will teach him that
true happiness does not lie in mere worldly
success ; he will feel himself weak, and then
Judith may have her chance. I like Ambrose,
though I don't know why I like him.

And, though it seems a cruel thing to say,
I almost hope that old Tucker will be
returned.'

Annie said nothing more, but the conversation
made a deep impression upon her.

Judith was not going to allow her own
misery to interfere with other people's happiness,
and she announced a great festivity
in honour of Cris's return. She provided
an entertainment quite regardless of expense,
put on her finest dress so that Annie
might have an excuse for doing the same,
and sent round to old Aunt Robby's, begging
for a couple of bottles of wine.

It was under the influence of several
glasses of this generous fluid that Peter
Topham rose with the utmost good-humour
to propose the health of the future bride.
He could not have chosen his words or his
attitude with more care if he had been
actually at the wedding-breakfast. He

vol. in.

began by a few happy allusions to the
married state, and assured the lovers that
it was the only reasonable mode of existence.
He spoke of Annie with a father's
pride. He praised Cris unwittingly, and
made some very jocular remarks on varnish,
which would, he never doubted, c lend
a lustre to' and 'put a polish on' the name
of Parry. He added that he placed his
knowledge of business unreservedly at the
disposal of the bridegroom, and concluded
by calling for cheers, three times three.

Everybody (including Peter Topham)
was very well satisfied with this eloquence,
and, after a short pause, Mr. Parry rose to
make his grateful acknowledgments. After
floundering about for some time, he said
that he had tried idleness, and that he had
tried work, and that of the two he preferred
work. This bringing forth a hearty
4 Hear, hear ' from Judith, Cris announced

his intention of devoting his life to making
Annie's happy, and wound up by wishing
health, long life, and prosperity to a
lady for whom he had always had the most
profound veneration and affection — Mrs.
Topham.

This brought Peter Topham to his feet
again, and he found so many nice things to
say of Maria that the good woman was
made happy for many a month to come.

G 2

CHAPTER V.

AUNT HOBBY S TEST.

It was the day before that fixed for the
election.

Mrs. Robertson, looking very little older
than when we made her acquaintance sometime
ago, sat in her morning-room at the
Elms. Helen Jackson was downstairs,
interviewing the cook. Ambrose was not
staying in the house, but had put up at
the ' Hind and Panther,' as that temperance
inn was central, and suitable in other
respects for his present purpose.

The old lady was as charming as ever in

her white cap and her neat frills, but there
was a puzzled expression in her face. She
was thinking hard. And, though it had
become very difficult for her to keep to
one subject, she tried to help herself by all
sorts of fidgety ways. She took off her
spectacles, and polished the glasses. She
drew her long, thin fingers down her cheeks
and brought them together at the end of
her chin. And then the corkscrew curls
on each side of her forehead shook disconsolately,
as if she despaired of ever arriving
at any conclusion worth having.

She was much exercised in her mind
about Judith.

Aunt Robby loved Judith dearly, and
had always been ready to help her, in her
many trials. But a trial had come for which
there seemed no help possible. Judith
was unable to be happy without Ambrose,
and Ambrose gave no sign. The ancient

lady had at one time decided that Ambrose
was not worth his salt, and had tried
(though in vain) to make Judith forget
him. Of late, however, Aunt Robby was
not so sure that Ambrose was a failure.
She liked him, as Oris did, without knowing
exactly why. She thought that he had
taken the wrong turning, and wanted, both
for Judith's sake and for his own, to guide
him back into the right path. Mrs. Robertson
had a maxim that if a man, whatever
his faults, treated his mother well, he was
worth redeeming. And Ambrose had
always behaved well in this respect, and
had been forbearing beyond belief at
Helen's abuse of the woman to whom he
had been engaged. Aunt Robby remembered
too that, though Ambrose was pinched
for money, he would not hear of sending
less than usual to his mother.

c There must be a way of bringing him

to his senses,' said Aunt Robby, ' if only I
bad younger brains and could follow it
out.'

A rap-tap-tap at the door ; and a broad-brimmed
straw hat, with a laughing face
under it, appeared.

'Aunt Robby, it's me, Annie Topham.
May I come in ? Oh, you're alone, that's
famous.'

And Annie tripped across the room, and
kissed the old dame, and made anxious inquiries
after her pet ailments. Aunt Robby
liked these inquiries, because they gave
her an opportunity of declaring how strong
and hale she was for her age.

c Bless the child,' said she, ' what spirits
she has, to be sure. You're as merry asa
grig, Annie, and as much of a little coax
as ever. Oh, you are. I shall tell Master
Cris how happy you can be without him.
Oh, I shall.'

Annie's eyes danced with laughter.

• He came back yesterday, and that's
why I'm so happy this morning. Fancy,
aunt, he lost nearly all his money in that
horrid firm.'

'Lost his money!' said the old dame.
c Oh dear, oh dear, oh dear.'

It doesn't matter a bit,' cried Annie.
It's made a man of him. He's working
awfully hard now, and earns lots of money,
and we are to be married, mamma says,
as soon as ever possible. And Cris sees his
way to making a fortune in varnish. And
he is such a dear, and I am so happy I
don't know what to do with myself.'

And how about my poor Judith?' said
Mrs. Robertson.

Annie wasjwaltzing round the room with
her arms akimbo, and her hat dangling by
the strings. - N

1 How wicked I am to be so happy.' she

exclaimed, c only I can't help it. It was
about Judith that I wanted to talk to you,
Aunt Robby ; but I had to tell you about
Cris first. Mamma says he is so improved.'


And Annie rattled on for another five
minutes in praise of her lover, and then
became reasonable again.

c Aunt Robby,' said she, 'I really don't
know what will become of Judith if this
goes on much longer. She is not the sort
to complain, as you know, but she does
grieve terribly. Seeing me so happy with
Cris yesterday . . . and I couldn't help being-happy
. . . made her think particularly of
him — of Ambrose ; and she cried all night
long.'

'Poor thing, poor thing!' said Aunt
Robby.

c It's wonderful, quite wonderful,' said
Annie, 'how wrapped up in him she is. It

wasn't as if she was at all like other girls,
and didn't see his faults ; she does see his
faults, and loves him in spite of them. I was
always rather afraid of Ambrose myself,
and yet he's been awfully nice to me
sometimes.'

He wants the stick,' exclaimed Aunt
Robby, almost peevishly. ' Pride will have
a fall. I was thinking before you came
in what could be done, and how he could
be got at. If he was anyone else, his mother
could let him know on the sly how
fond poor Judith is of him. But there's
no leading him that way — it wouldn't
answer.'

Mrs. Robertson's face was a picture of
distress as she dwelt upon the impossibility
of managing the young politician, and she
again had recourse to polishing her glasses,
as if this operation must in the end suggest
some fruitful expedient.

c I say,' cried Annie, suddenly, ' do you
know what Cris thinks about it ?'

What, my dear?'

c He was at school with Ambrose, remember,
and understands him pretty well.
And he told me that if Ambrose won this
election Judith would never set eyes on
him again, because he would get so high

and mighty ; but if he lost the election

Why, Aunt Robby, what's the matter ?'

Aunt Robby had let her spectacles fall,
and sat before Annie trembling with excitement
and eagerness.

It was not only this morning that she
had cudgelled her old brains to find out
some method of serving Judith. She was
the only one outside the family circle who
knew that Will Sutton had been refused,,
and this refusal had convinced Aunt Robby
more than anything else how firmly
Judith's hopes were fixed upon Ambrose.

She was not distressed on Will's account.
She had already noticed that Will was
not indifferent to Helen Jackson, and
was content to leave the adjustment of
this matter to time. With Judith's fate
it was far otherwise. Often and often
Aunt Robby, with that tender solicitude
for the welfare of the young which y^e so
repeatedly notice in the aged, had pondered,
What could she do for Judith ? And
now Annie had furnished an answer. The
only way to bring Ambrose to Judith's
feet was to make him lose this election.

The first step is proverbially said to bethe
only one that costs, and Mrs. Robertson's
imagination at once took a bolder
stride. She had no sooner hit upon this
plan for bringing Ambrose to Judith than
the old question cropped up again, Is he
worthy of her love ? Other people might
disregard or undervalue Judith's daily

round of sacrifice, because there was nothing
startling in that patient self-denying
life. Aunt Robby had too much experience,
and she had too much heart, to fall
into this vulgar error. She knew that
Judith was one in a thousand, and deserved
a husband worthy of goodness so unaffected
and so exceptional. Was Ambrose such
a man? Would he set the true value upon
this woman, or would he, as he had done
when he first proposed, hold her cheaply
still ? In a word, was he capable of any
real sacrifice to win her love? Mrs.
Robertson saw how she could apply a
test. Not only should Ambrose lose this
election, but he should lose it through
Judith. If he could then, smarting with
his loss, be magnanimous enough to sacrifice
his resentment to his love for Judith,
then he would have proved himself worthy
of her; if not, then at any price of

suffering she would be well rid of him. —
This was the bold stride which Mrs.
Robertson's imagination took, and she proceeded
to unfold her plan to the wondering
Annie.

Annie was simply dumb foundered. The
idea of energetic, stirring Ambrose being
thwarted in all his calculations by this
weak old woman seemed very strange.

Aunt Robby read the girl's thoughts.

Oh, I was counted clever in my day
said she.

But,' cried Annie, • I don't see how you
can make him lose the election. I heard
Mr. Tweedy say that the voting would be
very close indeed, and that every vote was
being hunted for as if it were a diamond.'

Just for that reason,' said Aunt Robby,
'anybody commanding seven or eight votes
may throw them into the scales, and decide
the event.'

But how can you persuade so many
people to vote which way you like, Aunt
Robby ? They have their own opinions,
and Ambrose has made a great hit in promising
to look after the local interests with
more care than Sir Hugh did.'

Aunt Robby 's cheek flushed.

Against Mr. Jackson's narrow creed, I
appeal to affection and gratitude such as
no mere interest can buy. Listen, Annie,
and I'll explain how such an old woman as
I am comes to have so much influence in
the borough. You know old Snell, the
grocer, who does the largest trade in Bay-bridge,
and owns a good bit of land, too.
"Well, he came to the town . . . it's many a
year ago now . a poor striving man, and I
found him honest and helped him, and in a
few years he paid me back my money and
we've been firm friends ever since. Time
went on, his three daughters married and

their husbands helped in the business, which
throve through their honesty and industry.
And sometimes when I meet old Snell now
he touches his forelock and says that the
money has been paid back this many a
year, but that gratitude remains. And,
Annie, Snell and his people are worth half-a-dozen
votes at least ; and others would
follow their lead. I've only got to say the
word. And I shall do whatever Judith
bids me.'

Annie began to think that perhaps Mrs.
Robertson had not exasperated her influence
; but she was certain Judith would
have nothing to do with the matter.

4 Judith would never interfere,' she said.
Why, Aunt Robby, it would be asking
her to win Ambrose by destroying his dearest
hopes. Is she likely to do that ?'

4 Not if she supposed that there was any
chance of Ambrose being anything to her

once she had so humiliated him. She will,
on the contrary, see in this opportunity a
means of doing the man she loves lasting
good, though at the sacrifice of his present
comfort and of her own happiness. If she
makes up her mind to deal him this blow,
she will never suppose it possible for him
to forgive her. Oh, no, she won't.'

And you, Aunt Robby, are you sure
that he would forgive her? Wouldn't it
want more self-denial than he is capable
of? Isn't the plan a desperate one ? Isn't
it a forlorn hope ?'

c Yes, but it is a hope,' cried Aunt Robby,
energetically. ' If we let him win the
election, your Cris is right, he will be
hopelessly lost to Judith.'

Oh, I'm sure Cris is right,' said Annie.
'But why should Judith meddle at all?
If Ambrose's pride must be broken, why
ask the woman who loves him to break

VOL. III. h

it ? Surely the same purpose would
be answered if you got old Snell and
his friends to vote for Mr. Tucker. Ambrose
would then find out where his true
peace lay, and turn again to my poor
sister.'

He has not deserved her,' cried Mrs.
Robertson. e He has thought of himself,
and of himself alone throughout. Oh, it
won't do ; we must give and take in this
world. Ambrose can take ; but can he
give ? The truth is, Annie, my dear, weare
rather in the dark about this man's
real nature. I've seen many curious
people in my time, and know something
of the world ; but he puzzles me, oh, he
does.'

1 So he does me,' confessed Annie, ' somehow
one doesn't seem to be able to get
quite near to find out what he's like.'

'What I want to know,' said the old

gentlewoman, ' is whether he is selfish
through and through, or whether his selfishness
is only a crust — with something
real and true underneath. Mine is an unusual
plan, but then Ambrose is no ordinary
man. Yes, it will work, you'll see
it will work,' added Aunt Robby, rubbing
her hands. ' Now do you, Annie, like a
good child, keep your own counsel ; and tell
Judith when you 2fet home to be on the
look-out for me at four o'clock, when I'll
come to take her for a drive. Oh, it will
work, this plan of mine, you'll see it will
work.'

Faithful to her promise, Aunt Robby
called that afternoon for Judith, and very
artfully did the old lady manage in putting
Ambrose's fate into Judith's hands.

First of all she reviewed what they knew
of young Jackson's past career. She pointed
out how that career, so honourable if

h2

followed in the right spirit, had been dragged
in the mire by Ambrose for his own
personal ambition. She showed how Ambrose
had grown accustomed to look upon
the world as a mere battle-field, as a place
where the strong triumphed, and the weak,
because they were weak, had to suffer
wrong. She insisted that this view of life
and action, which had in the beginning:

7 o o

influenced only his public conduct, was
now by a sure and natural law passing
into his character and becoming part and
parcel of the man himself. She asked,
Where was this to end? Judging from
the past, would not it end in crippling his
mind, searing his conscience, hardening
his heart. Only one thing, she argued,
could save Ambrose, and bring out his
better qualities, if better qualities he had
failure.

Judith shrank from the picture which

her companion drew of Ambrose, and was
yet compelled to allow that it was not
much overdrawn. She wondered, not unnaturally,
why Aunt Robby was placing all
this before her. The old lady quickly explained
the closeness with which the election
would be contested, her command of
votes, and her full assurance that the result
lay in her own hands ; and ended by placing
her influence at Judith's disposal, and
making her the sole arbiter of Ambrose
Jackson's fate.

Judith's dismay was extreme.

She asked the very question which her
sister had asked that morning.

'If he must fail, why should he fail
through me ? Oh, Aunt Robby, what have
you done? What terrible responsibility
have you laid upon my shoulders ?'

Mrs. Robertson had to play the hypocrite.

My child, what else could I have done ?

Ambrose is so dear to you, that I could
hardly take such a step without consulting
you. I felt that you had a right to
decide.'

There was a long silence. The carriage
drove down a shady lane, then it emerged
into the open ; and the summer evening
was serene and grandi

If I decide against him,' said Judith,
at last, ' I kill the last fond hope that I
have treasured up these many days. No r
no, I can't do it.'

Aunt Robby replied,

If it is in your power, by giving Ambrose
pain and disappointment now, to
make a good man of him hereafter, I know,
Judith, that you would not hesitate to pay
even so grave a price as his loss.'

He is lost to me already,' said poor
Judith. c And yet, as long as I do not
take part against him, some shadow of a

hope is left. But once I deal that blow —
oh, Aunt Robby, Aunt Robby, why have
you put me in such straits ?'

The old lady, notwithstanding her effort
to be staunch, and to think on the high
end she had in view, could not prevent a
tear or so trickling down her sunken
cheeks. She managed, however, to tell
Judith to send her a note containing her
decision on the following morning ; the
conversation came to a close : Judith
begged to be driven home.

CHAPTER VI.

HESITATION.

Judith was almost angry with old Mrs.
Robertson. The unfortunate girl found
herself face to face with a more difficult problem
than any other which she had hitherto
had to solve. She could not know all that
was going on in Aunt Robby's head, and she
thought that needless pain had been inflicted.
What right, she asked, had anyone
to place Ambrose's fate in her hands ? Had
Mrs. Robertson but held her peace, Judith
might have been comparatively happy ; she
could at least have always derived comfort
from the thought that she had not in anyway
acted against Ambrose.

At the same time she was forced to confess
that it would never have contented
her if Mrs. Robertson had taken a line of
her own. Judith supposed that, after all,
there was some justice in her position.
Who was so fit to decide for Ambrose as
the woman who loved him beyond anything
that the world could give. Judith
was quite sure that no one could enter into
his feelings as truly as she could. She
knew better than anyone else how great
was his ambition, and how terribly an
overthrow would wound his pride.

Twice before Judith Topham had been
in sore perplexity. Although she had loved
Ambrose, she had refused him. Since then
she had often been tempted to repent of
her decision ; but this was only in her
weak moments : she never seriously judged
that she had been unwise. It was right,
it was modest, to have refused Ambrose.

He had held her cheap, because he imagined
she could not serve his interests.
Judith's conduct on that occasion had
caused her much suffering, and might in
the end rob her for ever of the man she
loved. But Judith was conscientious, and
would not allow herself to wish that she
had done otherwise.

Again, she had been almost induced to
accept Will Sutton, and for her clearly-loved
mother's sake to marry a man whom
she might have learned to love, but whom
she could never have loved with her whole
heart and strength. She had escaped this
peril. Her character had come to her aid.
She had endured not a little from her
selfish father, because she had decided
against Will. What grieved her more, she
had been obliged to give Will pain. But
these difficulties, too, had been lived down.
And now, when her heart was well-nigh

broken with weary hoping, and waiting,
and longing for Ambrose, she was called
upon to make another momentous decision
and this time it was not her fate which
hung in the balance, but it was his.

Judith felt that she was so called upon.
To say that she had no responsibility in
the matter would be the merest of pretences.
Not for one moment did Judith
deceive herself. Her responsibility was as
great in refusing to act as in acting.

She remembered now that long ago,
with this very election in view, Ambrose
had asked her to exert her influence with
Mrs. Robertson on his behalf; and that
she had answered, ' I will see how you behave.'
She was not bound by any promise,
but his request made her present
position all the more difficult. She feared
lest her deep yearning to save Ambrose
might lead her into doing anything unreasonable

or Quixotic. It was all very
well to urge her love, and to say that she
had a right to influence his future for
good ; — he would take a very different
view, and demand to know why she meddled
with his affairs. Though Judith was
certain that he still loved her, she had to
admit that, since she rejected him, he had
given no proof that his love remained.
She was very anxious so to manage that,
however much he might hate her when he
learned what she had done, he might not
have any excuse for despising her.

As Aunt Lobby had intended, Judith
was thoroughly persuaded that, if she once
took part against Ambrose, their union
would be impossible under any circumstances.
But Judith did not choose to
think of her own happiness. Let Ambrose
be saved from himself, and she would bear
whatever had to be borne. Her lot would

be hard in any case. Even supposing that
Ambrose, disappointed in his dearly-cherished
project, should seek solace from her
in his hour of trial, she would have to say,
c You owe your defeat to me !' — And he
would go away, hating her for always.
She would try not to mind, not to think
of this too much when the time came.

So Judith was gradually drifting into
the conviction that it was her duty not to
stay her hand.

Good-bye to her pleasant thoughts of
Ambrose ! Good-bye to her love and
service ! Good-bye to her hopes of children,
his children, upon her knees ! Goodbye
to it all !

She had no misgivings as to the result
this check would have upon Ambrose Jackson's
future. She knew it could bring-him
nothing but good in the long run.
Unexpected and bitter disappointment had

soured and blighted many a man's life,
but these were the weaklings, the underlings
; whereas Ambrose was strong and
brave.

Did success mean ruin to Ambrose ?
Did this danger really exist, or was it only
a thing of Judith's imagination ? She
put these questions to herself over andover
again, jealously examining the motives
which were at work in her mind, and
she decided that success did mean ruin,
and that the danger . . . though not to be
appreciated by the dull and thoughtless
. . was real arid palpable.

Judith went to the writing-table and
took out pen and paper. All that was
needed was a few lines to Mrs. Robertson.
The girl was quite incapable of writing
them. She tried more than once, and tore
xip the sheet, and began again.

As long as the note remained unwritten,
she still had hope. The hope was slender,
but it existed, and its very frailty made it
the more precious. Well might she hesitate.
Well might those sweet and tender
memories which thronged upon her make
her pause before signing the death-warrant
of her true and unselfish affection.

The evening wore on. She went to the
kitchen to see that their 'high tea' was
cooked properly, and without waste. She
went to the drawing-room, and turned the
neel of a stocking her mother was trying
to knit.

You look sadly anxious, Judith ?' said
Mrs. Topham.

Cheer up, there's a good girl,' said
Peter. ' We have still a great many things
to be thankful for. I have got a treat for
you : Tucker has promised to send one of

his carriages tomorrow to take me to the
poll, and there will be room for us all.'

1 You're not going to vote against Amb —
Mr. Jackson, father?' cried Judith.

1 What a question to ask !' retorted
Peter, c I thought you knew by this time
that I was a Conservative. And by-the-by,
as we have had something to do with
this young Jackson, it will be just as well
to define our position by appearing tomorrow.
You girls will wear blue and
white, of course.'

1 Mr. Tucker's colours !' said Judith.
'No. I am not going to the election.'

We shall see about that when the time
comes,' replied Peter. ' You have a sneaking
fondness for that fellow, Judith, which
you ought to get rid of if you have any
self-respect.'

Judith was about to make an indignant
reply, and stopped only because of the

piteous look of appeal in her mother's eyes.
And with the hard words ringing in her
ears she bade her parents good-night and
went up to bed.

VOL. III.

CHAPTER VII.

A MIDNIGHT VISIT.

Both the Conservatives and the Liberals
in Baybridge were very desirous to secure
purity of election. But this creditable
wish did not prevent Mrs. Murray and
Lord Hobanob from inviting a few personal
friends to dine with them at the
4 Baybridge Arms' to meet Nicholas Tucker.
Ambrose Jackson issued a similar invitation,
and his prosperity was drunk vociferously
at the 4 Hind and Panther.'

Mr. Snell was invited to both parties, it
being suddenly discovered x that he was
a man of unblemished patriotism and of

superior intelligence, besides being a personal
friend of both candidates. Mr. Snell declined.
He was not quite sure which board
he ought to grace, so he graced neither. The
truth was, Mrs. Robertson had called upon
him on her way home, and asked him to
abstain from pledging himself. Mr. Snell
told his benefactress without ado that his
votes and his sons' votes were at her
disposal. He did not pretend to have
any political convictions : one conviction
he did hold, that it behoved him to
oblige the open-handed lady to whom
he owed his present prosperity. A
few minutes after Mrs. Robertson had
gone, Mrs. Murray came to the grocer's
shop, and bought some expensive French
bonbons. Mr. Snell was pleased to take
the order, but did not think he cared
much about politics, he was getting too old
for that now. Yes, Mr. Tucker was a rei



spectacle and a conscientious man, there
was nothing to be said against Mr. Tucker.
Alice Murray left the shop feeling that she
had spent her sovereigns without making
the desired impression.

Ambrose, too, had tried hard to get a
promise from Mr. Snell, whose importance
in the borough he would have been the
last man to undervalue. He too had called
upon the prosperous old tradesman, and
had pointed out the advantages which must
result from the return of a candidate
zealous in the cause of local reforms. But
old Snell said something about election
promises and pie-crusts. c It will be your
interest to support me, Mr. Snell,' said
Ambrose. c Maybe,' said the other. And
that was all he could be got to say ; nor
would he come to dinner, though, as Ambrose
was careful to insist,, the accepting
of a friendly invitation would tie him

down to nothing. ' Maybe,' said old Snell
again.

Notwithstanding the absence of this
obstinate elector, the dinner at the ' Hind
and Panther' was a pronounced success,
and Ambrose was partly consoled by hearing
that, as far as Mr. Snell's company
went, the other side had been equally unfortunate.
Perhaps, suggested Mr. Fisk,
Ambrose Jackson's indefatigable and careful
agent, it was just as well that the influential
tradesman should be absent. So the
dinner went off to the satisfaction of all
concerned, including the landlord of the
'Hind and Panther,' who had instructions to
produce the best of everything, regardless
of expense. The landlord quite understood
what that meant, and promised his
wife a new silk dress. His wife was of
opinion that Ambrose Jackson was a most
fit and proper person to represent Bay-bridge,

and took every opportunity of saying
so.

The young candidate's guests left the
old-fashioned inn at about eleven. They
had done justice to everything which had
been set before them, especially to the
wine. And they sauntered and staggered
to their respective homes prophesying
victory on the morrow.

Ambrose was not perhaps quite steady on
his feet as he climbed up the narrow,
crooked staircase. He reached his bedroom,
and, after spunging his hot face with
cold water, felt more himself again, and
took out his note-books and eagerly counted
and revised his list, and wondered what
further steps could still be taken to influence
the waverers.

The house was quite still. — It struck
midnight. - N

As the last stroke died away, he heard

the grating of a key in the lock, and knew
that the country inn had been closed.

Ambrose could not go on with his calculations,
he was too restless. The night
was extremely sultry, as if there was
thunder in the air. He threw open the
window, and saw a black band of cloud
creeping along the horizon. He tossed
aside his coat and waistcoat, and, half
drowsy, half inflamed with the wine of
which, contrary to his custom, he had so
liberally partaken — he became the prey of
unhallowed thoughts and fancies.

Ambrose was a stranger to indulgence,
but not to temptation. Usually, he overcame
temptation by a powerful effort of
his will. But to-night intemperance had
half paralysed his energy, and only opportunity
seemed to be wanting to prepare
his fall. The candle burnt low and died.
There he sat, and the room grew darker

and darker as the clouds spread on the
midnight sky and put out the stars.

Then a strange thing happened to the
young man. He imagined that the door
opened slowly, and that the figure of a
woman appeared, standing on the threshold
in an attitude of supplication. At first the
figure seemed dim and shadowy, then it
grew clearer, as if his thoughts were growing
substantial and life-like. He retreated
a few steps in astonishment and dread, and
heard a voice.

Ambrose !'

'Alice!' he cried, reading the riddle.
What are you doing here and now V

Alice Murray made no answer ; but she
loosened a dark plaid which she had thrown
over her head and shoulders, and let it fall.

Ambrose was dazed by this exhibition of
her fatal beauty.

She wore a dinner dress of white velvet,

and a diamond butterfly flashed upon her
bosom.

Ambrose held his breath.

Her hair had come unfastened and a lock
fell upon her neck — gold upon veined marble.
The dress fitted perfectly, hiding and
revealing a figure of exquisite symmetry
and grace. And her hands were stretched
towards Ambrose, and her eyes bent upon
him with passion mingled with despair.

How did you get in ?' said Ambrose, at
last, with an effort.

I bribed the ostler for the key.'

The ostler ! What do you want ?' said
he.

She was at his feet in a moment, saying,

Don't be unkind, don't speak harshly
to me, Ambrose. I'm utterly, inconceivably
wretched.'

c We are all what we make ourselves,'
said Ambrose.

'No, what I am you have made me r
you !' retorted the woman. 'I did not ask
for your love, I did not seek it. I was
content with your friendship. When I
was with you, I was happy. One day you
came and asked, Would I love you? I gave
myself to you fully, freely. And then you
came again, saying, " I have changed my
mind, love me no longer." Ah, Ambrose,
Ambrose !'

There have been faults on both sides
he said, gently. And he vainly endeavoured
to raise her from her knees.

Was it a fault in me that I tried to
keep your affection? I did deceive Kate
Tweedy. I did hope that she would lead
you to suppose the country girl engaged to
another. But were not such means excusable
to keep steadfast to his promise the
man who had asked me to be his wife?'

You forget,' said Ambrose, 'that nothing

passed between us until after your stratagem.
You have a bad memory, Mrs.
Murray.'

1 And you delight to torture with arguments
and reasons a woman whose life you
have trampled upon, whose heart you have
broken. Have you no feeling, Ambrose ?
Am I nothing, absolutely nothing to you,
when you are so much to mec

There's no good talking about the past,
which cannot be altered or redeemed,' said
Ambrose. 'This is no fit place for you.
Get up and go. If you won't go, I must.'
But she rose quickly, and stood between
him and the door.

Ambrose, listen. Ever since we parted
in anger, I have not had an hour's rest.
There are things some women cannot forget,
and I must always remember that you
have kissed me, and pressed me to your
heart, You cannot desert me now. I will

not be deserted, I am not a tame woman.
You are bound to me in honour.'

No,' said Ambrose. c Even if I had not
any other reason, your engagement with
Lord Hobanob — whether you intend to
marry him or not — sets me free.'

I am not engaged to Lord Hobanob.'

Everybody says '

I am not engaged to him,' repeated
Alice.

Ambrose began to grow very uneasy.
There was luckily no one else in that part
of the house to overhear their conversation
; but he failed to see how he was to
get rid of his importunate visitor. Nor
could he say truly that she had no claim
whatever upon him. Though he well knew
that she would not stick at a falsehood, he
thought she had told the truth about Lord
Hobanob. He felt now that Alice, in her
way, still cared for him, and was not likely

to bind herself to anyone else as long as he
remained unmarried.

How devoutly he wished she would go.
He distrusted himself as he realized that in
his present, mood he was not altogether
insensible to the dangerous beauty of the
woman pleading for his favour. He made
a great mistake. Instead of insisting upon
her immediate departure, he took the unhappy
course of discussing the matter with
her.

'As you wont go, Mrs. Murray,' said he,
1 sit down, and we will talk over this affair
like reasonable people.'

Alice sat down, and prevented her companion
from lighting another candle. She
had come to the ' Hind and Panther ' with
a definite aim. She had resolved by any
means to win Ambrose. Her only fear had
been that she might be deprived of a hearing,
and now her opportunity had come.

It had puzzled her beyond measure to
find out that Ambrose had not been near
Judith. At first she was quite at a loss to
understand this conduct, but in the end
she rightly attributed it to his ambition.
Perhaps he was not so fond of Judith after
all. This idea gave her hope, and she
waited patiently for what Ambrose had to
say.

'You are deceiving yourself,' he began.
k You imagine that I am indispensable to
your happiness, and that I have a firm hold
on your affections. And yet, what has
brought you to Baybridge ? Have you not
spent the last few days in doing your utmost
to defeat my fondest hopes, by making
me lose this election ? Could a woman
who loved me behave like that ?'

'You little understand,' replied she,
what forms love will sometimes assume.
True, I have worked against your interests,

but I have done so with an aching heart.
I came to Baybridge almost mad with
anger and despair. I vowed to be revenged
upon you for deserting me. Ambrose,
a loving woman's anger is short-lived. I
come to you to-night, risking my reputation,
risking even your contempt, to make
amends. Without my help, your election
is lost.'

4 My majority won't be as large as I
thought,' owned Ambrose. ' But I shall
win.'

Not without me,' said Alice Murray.

c You are very confident.'

'And you,' said the widow, 'are in fear
and trembling of the result of tomorrow's
struggle, though you are too brave to
own it. I offer you the seat, on the sole
condition that you fulfil the contract you
entered into. T will repay you with the
devotion of a life.'

c You have turned the tide against me, r
said Ambrose, gloomily, c and you cannot
undo the mischief. It is too late. If I
cannot win without your aid, I cannot win
with it

L Hobanob opposed you against his will
said Alice. c He did that at my suggestion.
Only this evening he regretted having
done my bidding. Let him retire at the
eleventh hour, and you will be returned.
Think, Ambrose,' she continued, seeing that
her words impressed him, c think of all
that you have gone through, of all your
industry, your perseverance, your patience.
Don't throw away the fruit of your labours.
To-morrow is a crisis. Win, and you will
go on from victory to victory ; lose, and
how the world will shrug its shoulders. Is
the price so high, Ambrose ? Am I poor,
ugly, hard-hearted? I live for only one
thing, your success, your happiness.'

In the distance was heard the dull roll
of the thunder, and Alice came a little
nearer to Ambrose, and took him by the
hand. There was a long silence, and he
did not repulse her.

I feel myself to be unworthy of you
she whispered, in her softest tones. : I
know that, handsome, gifted as you are,
you might look much higher without fear
of disappointment. But, by stooping tome
once, you have raised me to your level.
Let us face the world hand in hand. This
is what we agreed to do not so very long
ago ; and what has happened to make us
change our minds ? Promise, Ambrose.
And, as the first part of your reward, be
Member for Bay bridge.'

She leaned her head upon his shoulder,
and brushed his forehead with her perfumed
hair.

1 It is impossible, Alice. I do believe

VOL. III. K

that you love me. But it is impossible
now. Let us go back to the old friendship.'

Friendship !' she whispered back. ' I
have forgotten what the word means. I
have forgotten that there is anything else
worth living for but love.'

The young man's blood ran through his
veins like liquid fire. He trembled on the
verge of an abyss. The temptation was
present, black and terrible ; and in the
darkened chamber there seemed to be no
guardian angel.

Go, Alice !' he cried. c I entreat, I implore
you, go ! It is not right or wise for
you to stay.'

c And tomorrow's defeat ?' she saidi

I take my chance. — Here is your shawl ;
you ought never to have come hereto-night.'

He wrapped the shawl round her shoulders
with feverish haste, and pushed her
gently towards the door.

She took a sudden resolution.

I accept the old friendship,' she said.
• I will take a little, even though it be a
very little, rather than lose all. And asa
first privilege of our friendship I bring
an offering. I give up my revenge.'

He thought that she was in earnest.

1 Alice,' he cried, ' you unman me. I
have caused you sorrow and pain, I deserve
all the harm you can do me, and
now you make me your debtor. Go in
peace. Never will I forget that perhaps
it is to you I owe my first step in public
life. Good night, I am powerless to thank
you as I ought.'

An answer rose to the crafty woman's
lips, but it was checked by a peal of
thunder, which crashed above their heads
and shook the house to its foundation.
She gave a shriek, which w T as lost in the

K 2

noise of the storm, and clung to her companion,
crying,

Save me, Ambrose, save me.'

Peal followed peal in quick succession,
and then the interval between lightning
and thunder showed that the worst was
over. The rain poured down in torrents,
and still Alice lay in Ambrose's arms,
as if unable to tear herself from his
embrace.

c Don't send me away. I cannot go out in
the rain. Let me stay a little longer. My
maid thinks I am in bed, and asleep, and I
locked the door before leaving. Ambrose,
I cannot, will not go.'

She crept closer and closer, pale and
trembling, till he felt her heart throbbing
upon his own. And in the pauses of the
rain the wind sobbed like a living creature.

Who could love you as I do ?' she whispered,
hoarsely. ' Not Judith !'

Ambrose started up and flung her off as
if she were an adder.

'Judith!' he cried. — ' Leave the room,
Mrs. Murray. Do not lay a finger upon
me. I will not listen to a word.'

And he pushed her out, and shot the
bolt.

The rain ceased. The air was cool and
delightful. A dark cloud glided from the
face of the moon, and its light flooded the
Hind and Panther,' and shone like a
crown on Ambrose Jackson's innocent
forehead.

CHAPTER VIII.

THE MISSION OF JAMES TWEEDY.

Kate Tweedy was woefully afraid of
thunder, and nothing would persuade her
to go to bed or even to undress if there
was any probability of a storm. She was
the veriest little coward. In the event of
the house being set on fire . a catastrophe
which Kate, though she had lived through
many thunderstorms unscathed, still confidently
anticipated . it was just as well to
be prepared for flight. She extended this
precaution to her maids. They were
obliged to watch, though they would have
infinitely preferred going to rest in couples

and putting their heads under the bedclothes
— means of safety the' could not
adopt as they sat quaking in the nursery
with their mistress. On this eventful
night the children slept like tops, with the
exception of Augusta, who sat up in bed
and howled.

I'll whip you if you don't stop,' cried
Kate. But Augusta was growing too tall
to be whipped ; besides, she knew that her
mother was just as much frightened.

I wonder what can have become of Mr.
Tweedy?' said Kate, for about the tenth
time.

'It's long past twelve, i'm,' volunteered
the head-nurse, in whose lap the hopes
of the Tweedys was peacefully slumbering.

This remark as to the hour had an
especial meaning. Ever since the birth of
little James, his mother had lost ground
at Llewellyn House. She could no longer

bully her husband, and she had been
obliged to forfeit many of her numerous
pretensions. But on two or three points
she had been very firm. One of these was
that James should not keep late hours, and
while allowing him a nightly rubber at the
club, she fixed twelve o'clock as the limit
for his return. It was now half-past
twelve, and still no James.

c I hope your master hasn't been caught
in the storm, Norris,' said Mrs. Tweedy.

I hope not, i'm, I'm sure, m'm/ replied
Norris. c I hope he'll keep out of the way
of the lightning, leastways. It seems only
the other day that old Billy Riley was
taken by a streak, and brought home black
as a piece of coal. I remember it very
well, i'm.'

This reminiscence was not soothing
for Kate Tweedy's nerves. She was
comforted, however, when the lightning

became less frequent, and the rain poured
down. When the rain had stopped, and
a quarter of an-hour had passed, Kate
made up her mind that her husband had
used the weather as an excuse for an extra
rubber, and she was not prepared to see
him enter drenched to the skin.

He was so absolutely wet from tip to toe
that it was quite evident he had not merely
run the gauntlet through the downpour.
Kate w r as certain he had been actually
standing in the rain.

c Where have you been ? What have
you been doing ?' she asked, rather sharply.

c My dear, I can't answer your question
now. I'm shivering as if I had got the
ague. I'll run upstairs and take off my
wet things, and do you, Kate, brew me a
glass of stiff toddy, and bring it up as
soon as you can.' And, so saying, the little
man hurried away.

1 Gone,' said Norris, ' without as much
as a look at sweet Master James. Something
has happened, i'm.'

Mrs. Tweedy shared this opinion, and,
being not a little curious to find out what
had given her husband such a wetting and
such a serious face, soon appeared in his
dressing-room with a tumbler of steaming
brandy-ands water.

The little man, who had dragged off his
wet garments and wrapped himself up in
his dressing-gown, thoughtfully sipped his
beverage and showed no wish for conversation.


Now, James dear, what is it ? I've
hardly ever seen you look so vexed.'

I have had rather an adventure. Yes,
I am vexed, very much vexed and disappointed.
But I mustn't talk about it, Kate

Not talk about it !' cried his wife.
L How mysterious you are. Positively you

have something serious on your mind. Oh,
I don't want to know, I'm sure. Only I
thought to tell me would relieve you.'

1 It wouldn't relieve me at all said
James. ' I have a mission which no one
can share with me.'

'Admission !' exclaimed Kate.

But she could not get her husband to
utter another syllable on the subject. She
was very wroth, but decided that he was
tired and cross, and that she would find
out everything in the morning. But, when
she woke at an early hour, her husband
was neither in the room nor in the house.

He was already on his way to the
Tophams.

In his hand he hekVa note addressed to
Judith begging for a few moments' private
interview on a matter of the greatest importance.
He had no need to deliver the
note. Although it was barely eight

o'clock, Judith was walking in the wood
behind the house. Mr. Tweedy caught
sight of her broad-brimmed hat, and joined
her without delay.

Judith had spent a very restless night,
though her sister had slept through the
storm. She could not sleep a few hours
before the Baybridge election. She was
haunted with a thousand hopes and fears.
Upon that event, she was convinced,
her whole future depended. The sun was
high in the heavens ; before it set again,
what might not happen. Ambrose might
return to her and lay his honours at her
feet. How well the strong handsome man
deserved them !

From such musings Judith was roused
by James Tweedy's voice. He had often
come for help when something went wrong
in his family, and this suggested her
question.

You here ! Mr. Tweedy. I hope none
of the children are ill.'

Thank you, it isn't that,' said James.
And the girl noticed that he pressed the
hand she offered him in a peculiar, embarrassed
manner.

I am so glad to have found you alone,'
said he. ' I have to talk to you, unfortunately.'


Unfortunately?' said Judith. ' Is it anything
serious ?'

Yes, it is very serious,' said the little
man, nervously. And then he plucked up
courage and made some sort of a beginning.

c You know, dear Judith,' (he usually
called her dear Miss Topham) ' how fond
Kate and I are of you, and how willingly we
would do anything to save you pain. I'm
not very good at speaking, and so on ; but,
but I have always admired the way in
which — in fact, your generous and unselfish

life ; and I want to do yon a kindness.'

Judith was puzzled ; she blushed at his
praise, and thanked him for his good intentions.


6 1 haven't told Kate I was coming to
see you; that's why I came so early, or
else she would have found out '

What have you got to tell me ?' said
Judith, trying to keep him steady by a
direct question.

That depends ; perhaps I need tell }^ou
nothing,' was the curious reply. c Be sure
that I'm not going to ask you about your
private affairs without a very good reason.'

c Please ask anything,' said Judith.

Do you still love Ambrose Jackson T

Judith was taken completely by surprise
; but in a moment she recovered her
composure, and said, without hesitation,

1 Yes, I love him, so dearly that except
by his side nothing seems to me worth

having. Every thought I have is centred
in him. I covet the praise, and dread the
blame of no one else. Whatever I set my
hand to, I ask, Would he approve of the
action ? No face, no manner interests me,
which does not remind me of his. If he
should return to me, there would be no
measure for my happiness. If not, I
should, I hope, bear the loss as of God's
sending ; but the sense of that loss would
follow me for years and years, and leave
me only when I came to die. Don't think
less of me, Mr. Tweedy, because I answer
you so frankly ; because I confess that I
belong so little to myself, so much to him,
to have or to leave as he thinks best

The tears sprang to James Tweedy's eyes
as he realised how he was going to torture
Judith.

1 am sorry to hear this,' he said, in
earnest tones — 'very, very sorry.'

'Why?'

4 My dear child,' answered James, paternally,
c try to forget this man. Do not
force me to speak, but believe me when I
assure you upon my word of honour that
he is totally unworthy of such an affection
as yours.'

He has done nothing mean !' exclaimed
Judith. ' You must speak. I will hear
whatever charge you have to bring against
him.'

'You will judge me by the intention
that I have of serving you, and forgive me
the pain I cause.'

I know you are kindness itself,' said
Judith, with a gesture of impatience.

There was no help for it — James Tweedy
had to fulfil his mission.

1 1 was going home from the club a few
minutes before twelve last night,' he said,
and had reached the " Baybriclge Arms'

when I saw one of the small side-doors
open. A woman in a white dress, with
something dark thrown over her head and
shoulders, appeared. She looked around
her cautiously, but she did not see me, for
I stood in the shadow of the house. But
I recognised Mrs. Murray.'

I haven't seen her,' said Judith. i Is
it true that she is so very beautiful ?'

Some people think so,' replied the other.
I shouldn't have thought of following
her if the way to my house had not been
the same she was pursuing. But my interest
was awakened when I saw her cross
the road swiftly and stop before the " Hind
and Panther." '

c I am beginning to understand,' gasped
Judith. 'Go on ; do not spare me ;
tell me the whole truth, I entreat you.
Ambrose is staying at that inn, I
know.'

VOL. III. l

Yes,' said James, 'and a light was
burning in his room.'

'Well,' cried Judith, 'what happened
next ? Why do you hesitate ?'

Mrs. Murray took a key out of her
pocket, unlocked the door, and passed indoors.
Another moment, and the light
upstairs went out.'

Tweedy might have toned down his account,
but he judged it better that Judith
should know the worst, and, if possible,
be cured of her love. He himself put
the only construction upon Mrs. Murray's
visit, that was natural to one with his
ignorance of the case.

'What else?' said Judith, in a quiet
tone, which frightened him.

I thought of you,' said James, ' and
watched to see if there was any possibility
of a mistake. It rained very hard, but I
stayed at my post for nearly an hour.

Then Mrs. Murray again appeared, locked
the door carefully, and hurried away. I
didn't know what to do at first. I was
sure you ought to know, but I imagined
you might not like any third person to
learn the secret. And so I came myself
to tell you, and never, dear Judith, have I
undertaken any duty which has given me
so much distress. Poor, poor girl !'

For Judith was leaning upon his shoulder,
sobbing violently. He was wise enough
not to check her grief. He almost repented
having come at all, and perhaps he
might not have had the courage could he
have known what he knew now, how Judith
worshipped Ambrose. He was rather
shallow, and slow at understanding the
thoughts of other people. But suffering is
a language which most of us are only too
familiar with. James would never have
guessed that Judith's usual manner, so

l2

quiet, so undemonstrative, spoke of a hidden
grief. But now her broken sobs and
her white lips touched him to the heart's
core.

I wish I had not told you.'

c Do not wish that,' said Judith, looking
up quickly. c It has been a great shock tome,
but it is better — far better that my
eyes should be opened. I knew that he
had his faults, that he was hard and selfish,
but I was sure that, to himself at least, he
was loyal and true. We must not speak
any more about him now, please. Till this
moment it was some poor consolation tome
to think that, though he might never
come back, there would be no harm in loving
him. Even in secret I may not love
him now.'

And, overcome by her feelings, Judith
left her companion, and disappeared among
the trees.

James knew that she wanted to be alone
for a few minutes, and did not attempt to
follow her. He worked himself into a passion
against Ambrose. ' I'll vote against
him, and party be hanged,' cried the little
man, who was a moderate Liberal. He
remembered his exploit with Captain Hand-cock,
and half wondered whether it would
be feasible to cane the young candidate for
Baybridge. ' I wish I hadn't told the girl,'
he said again, ' she would have been none
the wiser. Perhaps it would have been
well if I had asked Kate's advice. But no,
she is such a chatterton, it would never
have donec

How could he ! how could he !' was
poor Judith's unspoken lamentation, as
she crouched down on a grassy bank in
utter misery.

Her bright, handsome Ambrose, how he
had fallen in her esteem ! How she had

tried to gild her idol, and what sorry clay
it was made of, after all ! He might be
successful, but how could she, henceforth,
take any sort of pride in him ? Judith's
sorrow changed to bitterness and anger.

She had not seen Mrs. Murray. She had
longed to catch a glimpse of her rival, but
was afraid of going into Baybridge lest she
should meet Ambrose. She had heard
from her father that Mrs. Murray was
canvassing for Nicholas Tucker, but she
now disbelieved the report. Obviously
the woman was working for, not against,
Ambrose, though they chose, for some
reason which Judith confessed herself unable
to fathom, to appear as opponents in
public.

6 He shan't owe his seat to her,' cried
Judith, in an outburst of jealousy.

She hurried indoors, and wrote,

Dear Aunt Robby,

c I have decided. Vote against.
1 Your loving

Judith.'

Then she sought James Tweedy, who by
this time was wondering what account he
should give Kate of his absence.

c Mr. Tweedy,' said Judith, coming towards
him with the letter in her hand, c I
have not thanked you properly yet for your
very great kindness.'

c I wish I had come on a more pleasant
errand,' said James. ' I shouldn't judge
him too severely, if I were you. After
all '

Judith checked him with a quiet look.
Her visitor saw that any attempt to excuse
Ambrose would be fruitless. Still, he had
a horror of making mischief, and there was

something in Judith's face which convinced
him that she had either already taken an
important step in consequence of his revelation,
or was on the point of doing soc

Remember,' he protested, 'that although
appearances are strongly against him '

Judith would not allow him to go on.

You mean kindly, Mr. Tweedy ; but
there is no good disregarding plain facts.
Will you do me another service ?'

'Willingly.'

c Please take this letter to Mrs. Robertson,
and see that it reaches her hands at
once.'

c May I ask,' said James, as he held the
envelope, ' if this is anything very important
? Your face alarms me.'

Yes, it is important.'

You have taken no sudden, rash
decision?'

1 No,' said Judith.

■ Must the letter go at once? Can't you
think over it for an hour or so, and then
send a messenger ?'

1 Xo, it is important and immediate.'

James had no further objection to raise.
He put the letter into his pocket, murmured
a few more words of sympathy and
consolation, and set out towards Baybriclge.

It was nearly nine o'clock. Judith, with
a feeling of dreary discomfort, went in to
breakfast. Were not she and Ambrose
parted for ever !

CHAPTER IX.

judith's handiwork.

The polling began.

Baybridge was not going to return a
member without a great fuss about it. The
little town, so quiet and humdrum as a
rule, was in a fever of excitement. All
tittle-tattle and tea-room gossip was at a
discount. The betting in the club and in
the ale-houses was prodigious. There had,
it is true, been an election at Baybridge
not so very long ago, but then the seat
had been barely contested, whereas to-day,
the very children knew how keen the contest
was sure to prove.

The weather was magnificent ; the sun
was blazing overhead, the heavy rain
during the night had laid the dust.

Ambrose was up betimes, and paid more
attention to his dress than usual. It was
part of his campaign to look his best. But
Alice Murray was not mistaken, in his
inmost heart he was racked with doubts
and fears. He was one of those clear-headed
men of action who love to stand
upon certainty, and nothing could be more
precarious than this present position.
He still thought he might win. But the
margin would be so very narrow that
the result lay in the-hands of those few
who still wavered, and who, when the
critical moment came, might vote more
from impulse than from anything else.

The canvass had been very active on
both sides.

For many years Baybridge had returned

a Conservative, and the late member had
-sat in two successive Parliaments. But a
reaction had been gradually setting in, and
many, partly from conviction, partly from
the love of novelty, had passed over to the
Liberal ranks. There was, besides, a pretty
general feeling that a new man was wanted
; the deceased baronet had grown old in
service, and had been absent from several
important divisions. Many preferred a
younger man such as Ambrose Jackson.
Thus it happened that when the baronet
died, parties were nearly equal in Bay-bridge,
the slight deficiency on the Liberal
side being balanced by superior organization.


Nicholas Tucker was prepared to find
in Ambrose a capable and energetic opponent.
He lost no time in making the
most of his position and opportunities. He
posed as the representative of respectability.

He gathered round him the old
steady-going people who were not in such
a hurry for a change. He asked if it was
to young men totally without experience
that the government of the country was
to be entrusted. Personally, he had the
greatest respect for Mr. Jackson. But who
would be so foolish as to put faith in that
gentleman's much vaunted local reforms.
How many of these promises would be
kept or even remembered if Mr. Jackson
ever reached Westminster. Nicholas hoped
that none of the intelligent electors (with
whom he was proud to be associated)
would be led astray by such a will-o'-the-wisp,
but that they would support the
man who promised less only to perform
more. Altogether Nicholas, though he
was not very fluent, and cut rather a poor
figure on a platform, made out a very
good case for himself, and justified the

confidence of his committee, and the unsparing
efforts made on his behalf.

Lord Hobanob brought him welcome
aid. The peer had no establishment in
or near Baybb ridge, but he owned a good
deal of land in the neighbourhood, and
though he had not exerted his influence
for a long time, it was considerable. Some
people went so far as to say that, once
Lord Hobanob appeared as Nicholas
Tucker's supporter, the other candidate
had no chance. Not that Lord Hobanob
actually did very much ; but his presence
in the Conservative camp worked miracles.

Mrs. Murray's passion for Ambrose had
not prevented her from doing her utmost
to be revenged on him should he reject
her final appeal. She ingratiated herself
successfully with not a few of the Bay-bridge
electors, who, like electors in other
places, found it hard to refuse a beautiful

and amiable woman. Alice Murray had
appealed to Ambrose and failed. She
had gone farther, and when on the.
morning of the election she realised all
that had taken place, and thought that
Ambrose must despise her weakness, she
rejoiced to think also how much harm she
had done him in the constituency.

But several causes reduced the influence
of the party at the ' Baybridge Arms,' and
those who had given long odds against
Jackson now began to hedge prudently.

Ambrose himself was the soul of his
cause. His opponent was an insignificant-looking
old man with a squeaky voice, and
a jerky, uncertain way of speaking . . . where
it was not an amusement, it was quite a
penance to listen to Nicholas . . . though his
opinions were sound enough when at last
he managed to get them spoken. With
Ambrose it was very different. He was

every inch a man. He was a deep-chested,
whole-voiced orator, standing firmly on
his legs, with a ready, good-natured answer
for every objector. He poked fun at
old Nicholas, and pulled his best arguments
to pieces, and if his criticisms
would not quite bear investigation, that
mattered little ; he advanced them so confidently
in that ringing tone of his that
few paused to examine them. Fisk was a
staunch and invaluable ally, versed in all
electioneering arts, and sure (so he said)
that he would bring his man to the head
of the poll.

It will be remembered that a certain
Maundy had been spoken of by Mr. Mackintosh
as anxious to stand instead of Ambrose
Jackson. This Maundy, and those
who went with him, mortified at the preference
given to Ambrose, proposed to
abstain from voting ; but no sooner did

Lord Hobanob appear in Baybridge than
they placed themselves at the disposal of
the Liberal candidate. No explanation of
this sudden change of attitude was forthcoming
at the time, but it was afterwards
whispered that a deadly feud existed between
the Mounds and the Hobanobs
about one Barbara Maundy, who had died
many years ago under distressing circumstances.
This incident went far to neutralise
the magnate's influence, and to reestablish
the balance of parties.

Under these circumstances, the importance
of Snell and his contingent could
scarcely be exaggerated.

Now Mr. Mackintosh, though he pretended
that he would allow Ambrose to
fight his own battle, was not going to have
a Conservative returned for Baybridge, if
he could possibly help it. So, unknown
to Ambrose, he had been helping him

VOL. III. M

might and main. Mr. Mackintosh was in
league with Fisk, who kept him continually
informed of the state of affairs, and
he soon learnt that, in all human probability,
the result lay with the man who
could command some seven votes — Mr.
Snell. But neither persuasion nor promise
could prevail with the old tradesman.

Who could have any idea that Judith
Topham held the strings ?

The polling went on merrily. The voting
seemed to be even.

The streets were gaily decorated with
bunting. Carriages drove up and down.
The pavements were thronged.

Nicholas Tucker, with his bride (a lively-looking
woman) and two members of his
committee, drove down the High Street.

Lord Hobanob, Mrs. Murray, and party
appeared in three carriages, and wore the
Conservative colours.

Mrs. Robertson and Mrs. Jackson came
next. The former wore no colours, and,
in answer to her companion's protest, had
replied,

I am too old for badges, dear Helen.'

'Here he comes!' cried Helen. 'Look
how confident and happy he seems.'

As the mother spoke, Ambrose, who had
been riding quickly from point to point,
drew rein beside her, and cheerily saluted
her and Mrs. Robertson.

I came to tell you, mother, all is going
on well. There's no doubt we shall carry
the day.'

God bless you, dear boy,' said Mrs.
Jackson, gazing with pride on the strong,
handsome young fellow.

'Amen,' said Aunt Robby, in a low tone.

And, as they drove on, the old lady felt
miserably guilty.

Ambrose heard laughter and cheering

M 2

among the crowd, and rode forward to see
what caused it. He was met by cries of
Tucker ! Tucker ! Vote for Tucker,' and
saw .that the arrival of a carriages of
Tweedys had created a momentary diversion
in favour of Nicholas.

James Tweedy had felt himself bound to
keep the secret which he shared with Judith
from his wife. But he had given Kate to
understand that in some way or another
Ambrose Jackson had behaved abominably,
and announced his intention of voting
against the young Liberal. At first Kate
was very angry, for Ambrose was a favourite
of hers ; but, as she could not make her
husband change his mind, she ended by
wearing a red and white rosette herself, and
decking her numerous family with glaring
sashes of the same colours. There they
were, the important little man, and his
bustling little wife, and Nora and Dora,

and Augusta, while James held his infant
son in his lap ; and the nurse with
the other child sat on the coach box.
The children, delighted at being able for
once to shriek without reprimand, kept
on shrieking, 'Tucker, Tucker,' to the
amusement of the bystanders, and to the
secret vexation of Ambrose. He had
relied upon Tweedy's vote, and just now
every vote was precious. What could
have made the little man change his intention
?

Ambrose rode on, and before long caught
sight of a meek suffering face which for the
moment drove even the Baybb ridge election
out of his mind.

It was Judith's.

There had been high words at the
Tophams that morning, after James Tweedy
had taken his departure. Judith was not
in the best of moods to undergo persecution.

She knew that she had turned the
scale against Ambrose, and she no longer
had the comfort of being assured of the
purity of her motives. Her father, when
he came down to breakfast, had not the
wit to see that just now she were best left
alone. She was assailed at once with the
command that she should not only drive
with her father and mother to the election,
but should openly show her independence
of Ambrose by wearing his opponent's
colours. This last Judith flatly refused todo,
she would not wear any badge. Peter
had said some of his biting things about
Ambrose. His daughter had retorted hotly.
Poor Mrs. Topham in vain attempted
to mediate ; she only got into disgrace with
both parties. Annie backed up her sister
bravely. And, matters going from bad to
worse, Judith at last refused even to go to
the polling.

But when the carriage came to the door
she had not the strength to remain at home.
She thirsted for one glance at Ambrose.
She had not seen him for so long. Only a
few hours ago, she had dealt him a secret,
cruel blow, and she longed to look once
more into his loved features, and to judge
from them whether he could ever forgive
her sin against him. For she had already
decided that he must know of it later on.
She would write to him. She could never
live under the consciousness of having
opposed him in an underhand manner.
She would give her reasons as best she
could when the time came. Meanwhile
she must see him, though it should be for
the last time.

They started, and drove rapidly into
Baybridge.

No one could possibly have looked more
satisfied with his fellow-creatures and

with, himself than Peter Topham. One
would have thought that the crowds had
turned out especially to do him honour, so
jubilant and cheerful was he in his salutations.
Maria Topham, on the contrary,
paid little attention to what was going on
around her ; she kept her eyes fixed upon
Judith with affectionate tenderness.

Judith looked pale and haggard, the
last few days had made an astonishing
change in her. When her father rallied
her, and bade her be of good cheer, she endeavoured
to smile, but the smile was so
painful to see that even Peter did not
renew the experiment. She was at great
pains to hide her distress, but it could not
escape observation. ' How peaked the girl
looks,' said one motherly woman. l Who'd
wonder, — with such a father,' said another
at her elbow. ' She's never got over that
love-affair with Jackson,' volunteered the

banker's junior clerk. 'I said it was so
all along.' c Poor thing, poor thing !' came
from a sympathetic chorus.

As Ambrose was on horseback, Judith
saw him a long way off, and she was thankful
that she had a short time to prepare
herself for the inevitable recognition. How
many months was it since they had met ?
"Would he only take off his hat, or would
he come and speak to her? She hardly
knew which she would have chosen had
the choice been in her power.

One thing she was sure of, that she
loved him more than ever, and would so
love him, through all chances and changes.
Involuntarily she glanced around to see if
there was anyone else worthy of being compared
with him. Ah, no ! who could be in
the least like her Ambrose ?

She dared not watch him coming, but
she felt him approach nearer and nearer,

and at last she could not bear the suspense
any longer, and she raised her head, and
their eyes met.

Ambrose had intended to make a civil
greeting, to inquire after Mrs. Topham's
health, to indulge in a commonplace or
two, and then to let fall a word or so to
Judith, showing that there need be at least
no ill-will between them. But when he
caught Judith's eye he lost his nerve, and
failed signally to carry out his little programme.
He dropped his riding-switch,
pulled off his hat quite awkwardly, and
murmured something about ' the pleasure
of meeting you all again.'

This embarrassment, so unusual in Ambrose,
sent a thrill through Judith. She
interpreted it with a woman's lightning
instinct. He was not indifferent to her,
after all. Judith feared that his ambition
had made him incurably selfish. She

knew (or thought in all honesty that she
knew) of a graver charge which could be
brought against him. James T weedy 's
account of that dark transaction was too
obviously sincere to allow of reasonable
doubt. Yet, reason or no reason, Judith
did doubt ; he looked so noble and true
that she could not believe his life was
base. And there was love in that awkwardness.
Judith wondered if he could
do anything which she could not readily
forgive.

He might come back — and then? c Oh,
what had she done ! What had she done !'

Her white cheeks, her dim eyes, her lips
that would quiver with pain, do what she
would, filled Ambrose with unspeakable
self-reproach and with pity. Was he so
much to her then ? Was he not grasping
the shadow of happiness, and letting the
substance fall?

Ambrose felt the necessity for composure,
for a good many people watched this
meeting between him and Judith with
curiosity, though perhaps few suspected
the existence of the deep under-currents
of feeling which sprang from it. He said,
x How do you do ?' to Peter Topham,
bowed to Maria with a hope that she was
growing stronger, and told Annie with a
smile that Cris Parry had got hold of a
really good thing in that carriage varnish,
and was on the high-road to making a
fortune.

Peter replied in a very cheery tone that
he was glad to see Mr. Jackson again, but
wondered how he supposed he had any
chance whatever against Nicholas Tucker.

4 But that's like you young men,' said
Peter, ' you think the whole world belongs
to you.'

Mrs. Topham had no patience with the

good-looking man who had preferred his
own schemes to her daughters happiness,
and answered sharply that she
had never been in better health. Annie
said, c Yes, Cris was a good fellow, and
thought of other people as well as of
himself.'

From Judith alone came no word or
look of reproach. Ambrose could not resist
holding out his hand, and as she
touched it, from sheer nervousness her
fingers closed convulsively on his. Another
moment and she had drawn back her
hand hastily.

Though I'm not to have your father's
vote, I hope for your good wishes,' he said,
in an undertone.

Some cordial rejoinder rose to Judith's
lips, but just then a carriage passed bearing
a beautiful woman, and she heard one
among the crowd say, ' That's Mrs. Murray,'

and she shrank back from Ambrose,
saying, in a hard, cold tone,

1 1 wish you all the success and happiness
that you deserve, Mr. Jackson ; but
he doesn't deserve success who hasn't a
clear conscience.'

Now, there was a reproach in her voice
and still more in the words, which he did
not understand, and his look of astonishment
showed that he did not understand
it. He raised his hat slowly, and obeyed
a summons to another quarter of the
scene.

Judith,' said Peter Topham, 'what prevailed
upon you to shake hands ? It's
positively indecent, the way you set your
cap at him.'

If you persecute me any more,' replied
Judith, boiling over with indignation, i I'll
get out of the carriage and walk straight
home.' And she looked so determined that

her father thought it wise to say nothing
further.

The Tophams followed the example of
other people, and drove up and down the
broad High Street, and stopped now and
then as the traffic thickened.

Never had Judith felt so sick at heart.
She was as certain now of Ambrose's innocence
as she had previously been of his
guilt. No answering flush of shame had
followed her veiled accusation, an accusation
she would never have hazarded had
not Mrs. Murray's sudden appearance
driven her nearly mad with jealousy.
Ambrose had simply not understood the
allusion.

Because she had been wrong in one
respect, Judith forgave him everything
else. She forgave him his hardiness and
neglect. She forgave him his treachery to
that love which possessed him now as completely

as when lie first declared it on his
knees. And she longed to undo the mischief
of that morning. She would find
Aunt Robby, and now, in the eleventh
hour, get Snell to vote for Ambrose
Jackson. She looked round, and, to her
intense relief, saw the old lady sitting in
her carriage at no great distance. If Mr.
Snell and his friends had not already voted,
all might yet be well.

i Where are you going, Judith?' said her
father, seeing her get up.

I want to speak to Aunt Robby. Something
very important ! Please let me out.
I must make haste.'

4 You had better wait for a minute or
two, my dear,' said Mrs. Topham. ' There
is quite a noisy crowd coming.'

c It's old Snell,' cried Annie. c What a
fuss they're making about him.'

Judith's hope died. It was too late !

A compact little body of men marched
down the middle of the street, accompanied
by a cheering jostling crowd. First
of all Daniel Snell, then his three sons-in-law,
and lastly two men known to c hold
with ' Daniel. Six precious votes in all.
They had been Judith's. They were about
to vote according to her own fatal order.
She shook like a leaf.

If those men hold together, they decide
the election,' said Peter Topham, wisely
publishing a fact of which Baybridge was
pretty well aware by this time. ' Trust old
Dan ! Hell not vote for a school-boy.'

Daniel knew better than to say how he
was going to use his influence. The uncertainty
made him all the more important,
and he was not above a little pardonable
vanity.

Strenuous efforts were made to secure
his support till the last moment.

VOL. III. N

e Jackson's the card !' whispered the
ubiquitous Mr. Fisk into the tradesman's
ear. i Jackson has it !'

Maybe,' said old Snell.

Think of the advantage to your trade,
man,' whispered Fisk.

Snell stuck to his formula as he strode
along.

c Maybe, Mr. Fisk, maybe.'

L Any tiling F offered Mr. Fisk, in the most
careful of undertones.

This desperate measure showed what the
electioneering agent thought of his employer's
chance. The old man pretended
not to hear — perhaps the wisest course,
certainly the most charitable.

Mrs. Murray ventured on an act possible
in the first instance only to a beautiful and
daring woman. She stood in the elector's
path, and, laying a dazzling white hand on
his arm, pinned on to his coat a red and white

rosette. The crowd laughed and cheered,
but it was not long before the opposition
had pinned on their colours too, and, so
doubly decorated, Daniel Snell, with his
following, inarched on to his destination,
and did his duty like any other conscientious
electors.

The Tophams lunched at Llewelyn
House.

Judith clung to the last hope that either
the Shells might be induced not to vote
according to Mrs. Robertson's wishes, or
else that their votes might not be numerous
enough to decide the event.

Meanwhile the most various and contradictory
reports were in circulation. Tucker
had a majority of ten for a certainty.
Tucker could not hold his own against this
dashing young Liberal. Mr. Fisk was absolutely
sure of a favourable result. So
the ball of speculation was kicked to and

x 2

fro, and the time drew near for the declaration
of the numbers.

At about four o'clock (the constituency
being but a small one) the result was
forthcoming. The news spread through
Baybridge like wildfire. Nicholas Tucker
had been returned by a majority of four.
It was immediately announced that Ambrose
Jackson would say a few words from
the balcony of the ' Hind and Panther.'

Let us die game, sir,' had whispered
Mr. Fisk.

c I have no other intention,' Ambrose
had replied.

Ambrose was hard hit. To lose an
election is a serious matter to any man ;
to him, situated as he was, poor, isolated
by his excess of self-reliance, it was the
ruin of a career. How could he ever hold
up his head in London again. Young ashe
was, unlearned as he was in the great

arena of public life — lie was well-known
in certain circles. He had gone up like

a rocket, and Well, at least, he was

not going to let Baybridge guess the depth
of his despair.

Both supporters and opponents assembled
in front of the balcony. Carriages
drove up. Ambrose recognised Mrs. Murray,
but the expression of insolent triumph
in her features did not dismay him. It
was different when he caught sight of
Judith's face, and noticed its deadly paleness
; he faltered only for a moment, and
then began :

c Ladies and Gentlemen, — I am obliged
to you for allowing me to say a few parting
words. They shall be as few and
simple as 1 know how to make them. It
is my duty . . . my very pleasant duty . . .
to thank those who have so zealously supported

me in the performance of a difficult
task. Gentlemen, we have had an uphill
battle to fight, and 1 venture to say that . . .
on our part, at least . it has been fought
not without honour. I think I may, perhaps,
go as far as that, (* Hear ! hear T) —
We have not won the seat, more's the
pity ' (' No, no !' cheers, and laughter), 'but
we have proved that Baybridge is no longer
a stronghold of Conservatism' (cheers).
It is a great deal to have lost by only
four votes in a constituency which has for
many years been represented by a Conservative.
The Conservatives cannot afford
many such victories as this. I am confident
that the verdict of to-day will be
speedily reversed.' (Cheers and counter-cheers.)


Meanwhile, gentlemen, accept my heartfelt
thanks, both for your personal kindness
to me, and for your patriotic exertions

in the cause of progress, in the cause of
the people, in the cause of Liberalism —
thanks to you — Good will to those who —
fairly or unfairly — have fought against us
good-bye to all.'

And, with the cheers of both friend and
foe ringing in his ears, Ambrose drove to
the railway-station.

The fine young fellow was not going to
lose time in facing what had to be faced
in London.

CHAPTER X.

THE ROD AND THE CHILD.

Ambrose was vexed that he had to wait
nearly twenty minutes for the train to
Euston. He lit a cigar, and pretended
that he enjoyed it as he strolled up and
down. Though his bearing was as proud
as ever, his sensitiveness was extreme, and
he fancied that the porters touched their
caps with less respect than they had been
wont to display, and that they were furtively
scrutinizing him, to see how he bore
his defeat. In truth, the men were sorry
for him ; he had always had half-a-crown
to spare, and gave it graciously ; besides,

he was popular for his own sake. But
Ambrose detected nothing of their sympathy.
He was prepared to find every
man's hand against horn, now that he had
gone down.

Don't take on much, do he ?' said old
Differs the porter to Maggie Parker, the
fruit-girl.

Not he, a handsome gentleman like
that,' replied Maggie. 'I clunno what it
all means, but I be sorry he's worsted, that
I be. He shall have his pick of my basket,
Mr. Differs, you make no doubt.'

And, so saying, she tripped up to Ambrose,
and cried,

Fine pears, sir ; sweet pears, sir.'

'Not to-day, Maggie,' said Ambrose,
kindly. ' I have spent all my money.'

It isn't for the money, sir.'

Do you mean that, after all my hardwork,
I'm to help myself, Maggie ?' And,

when the girl dropped a curtsey in answer,
he thanked her and took some of the fruit.
The little proof of kindness touched him ;
but it made him feel his weakness.

He do take on,' whispered Maggie, returning
to her friend, ' only he have too
much stomach to show it, that's what

Lord Hobanob, Mrs. Murray, and their
friends arrived at the station, and passed
Ambrose.

Lord Hobanob was very discontented
with the part he had played at the Bay-bridge
election. He was angry that Ambrose
had lost his chance, and ashamed
of having — as he imagined — served a
woman's spite. He was no longer so infatuated
with Mrs. Murray ; he had seen
much of her during the last few days, and
had found out that, though she was crafty
and even clever in a low kind of way, she

had not much else in her. He was half
inclined to wish for some excuse for receding
from the engagement. When he saw
the pain in young Jackson's lips, he was
truly sorry. He would have stopped and
shaken hands with the defeated candidate,
but guessed that the truest kindness was
to leave him alone just for the present.
He resolved to do him a good turn some
day. Barring women, he had a conscience,
which pricked him now, as he bowed good-naturedly
to Ambrose.

Mrs. Murray addressed the young man.

She had not one spark of generosity in her
nature. She was not willing to forego one
morsel of the sweets of revenge. She
little guessed that Ambrose would have
gained the election in spite of her, except
for Judith. Hard, shameless, implacable,
she thought she had wrecked his career, and

gloried in the deed. Let his country girl,
his Judith, whose name had been a power,
help him now !

4 So, Mr. Jackson, you are not an M.P.,
after all.'

Ambrose acknowledged, by a change in
his attitude, that a lady . or some one
purporting to be a lady . . . was talking to
bim, but made no other answer than that
contained in a grave smile.

6 So very disappointing for all your
friends, who prophesied such great things
for you. — You were a little over confident,
were you not ? Shall you stand
again ? No ? Ah, I forgot the expenses
would be probably too heavy for you.
How disappointed dear Miss, — what's her
name ? — Gotham, no, Topham must be in
you. Perhaps you'll make it up with her
now, — charming, charming F

Ambrose was not to be drawn into speaking

one word, and his smile nearly maddened
the vindictive woman beside him. She
shuddered with fury, and turned away,
and never again did Ambrose have anything
to do with Alice Murray.

He entered a smoking carriage : the
train started.

Ambrose had not seen his mother since
his defeat. He had purposely avoided
meeting her. Helen Jackson loved her
son very much, and admired him very
much. But she had seen something of the
world, and knew what are the true conditions
for obtaining and retaining success
in it. Long ago she had foretold a catastrophe,
saying that it was not enough
to educate the head, but that the heart
too needed a schoolmaster. And, like
many other excellent women, Mrs. Jackson,
when she was right, liked dwelling upon
the fact. She belonged to the I-told-you-

so class. And Ambrose had felt that he
could not listen to a lecture with patience
yet. And, as he shrank from impatience
with his mother, he avoided an interview
before leaving.

There is nothing like a sharp chastisement
for awakening the conscience. It is with
us as with children, we do not know how
wrong we have been until we feel the rod.
The smart and the shame have voices that
we never thought to hear. Ambrose
imagined hitherto that he had always done
his duty to his mother. She had made
little of him sometimes, and tried to keep
him down ; she had assumed him to be in
the wrong in many cases where he was
obviously in the right — and he had bowed
his head dutifully. Without loving him
less (or being less afraid of him) she had
resented his independence and his possession
of experimental gifts, and the resentment,

though seldom expressed, was there all the
same, a stumbling-block to their intercourse.
Ambrose had never allowed himself
to take offence. Surely he had done
his duty?

And yet no — he had been selfish. His
mother could not live in London, and he
had let her live alone, or, at least, without
the company of her only son. He had
greatly undervalued the holy tie between
them. Sacred duties had been almost nothing
to him. He had given her his money,
but he had not given her himself. These
faults weighed upon him now. Well, well,
he was sorry, at least he had repentance
still. The future was not so hopeless as it
had seemed an hour ago ; he w T as still a
debtor to life and love.

He began to think of Judith, when the
train glided into Euston.

As he stepped on to the platform, a hand

was laid upon his shoulder, and a ringing
voice exclaimed in the unmistakable Saxon
fashion,

Halloa, Jackson.'

The speaker, a sturdy, big-browed man
of florid complexion, was Lord Frederick
Filter, a prominent young Liberal, the
hope and the friend of the artisan.

1 Halloa, Jackson,' repeated he, ' election
over? I congratulate you with all my
heart. No, no,' he added, as Jackson attempted
to explain, ' don't protest. You
deserve every bit of your success. We
shall hear of you later on. — Don't forget
the shooting, will you ? But we shall meet
before then.' And, with an affectionate
nod, Lord Frederick departed.

Ambrose felt that for once he had been
a coward. Was all the courage gone from
him that he had not made himself heard ?
He felt that he was going to have a rough

time of it. He had inoculated everyone
with whom he was thrown in contact with
the belief that he could not fail. Everyone
would be proportionately angry with
him on finding how easily, how suddenly,
he had failed. Before leaving the station,
he had a glass of brandy. Poor Ambrose !

Everything appeared strange to him ashe
drove along. The rattle and groaning
of the traffic, the hum and buzz of the
pavement, the news-criers, the church
towers and the peals that floated from
them, the smoke ascending in the sunlight,
everything was fantastically crowded
together with a hideous, oppressive
reality that might yet fade away any moment
like the visions of a dream. Had not
his ambition, that seemed equally real, so
faded away ? Poor Ambrose !

It was not in such a mood as this that
he could enter the precincts where his

VOL. III. o

name had hitherto commanded respect,
even from men much older than himself.
Let the cynics say what they will, Club-land
is usually full of strong kindness to
the man who has had a nasty fall. Usually,
but Ambrose was an exception. What had
he to do with kindness ? He had sown no
such seed, he must look for no such harvest.
He had insisted upon his own standard
. . success the infallible test of merit . . .
and by his own standard he was now to
be judged. He would not approach with
fear and trembling, for all that. He drew
himself up, and walked into the club as if
the whole place belonged to him.

The first thing he saw was a knot of men
gathered in front of the telegram board.
Ambrose groaned. Of course they were
discussing that cursed Baybriclge election.
They did not appear to notice him, and he
walked towards the group.

It happened to be composed of several
men whom Ambrose had been rather hard
upon in his palmy days. There was the
most impudent man in London, little Bob
Pinkerton. Ambrose had once pointed
out to him that gaining a position by marriage
with an heiress was not quite the
same as going ahead by force of intellect.
There was Neddy Leigh ; Ambrose had
supped with him not a fortnight ago, and
turned up his nose at the champagne.
The dark elderly man was Berry, whom
Ambrose did not think good enough to
play whist with. In fact, there was hardly
a man in the passage who had not some
real or fancied grievance against the unsuccessful
candidate.

'Bad luck, mine, eh, Bob?' said he.

Oh, you're there !' cried Bob. ' Bad
luck !' continued the little bantam-like
man — ' that won't go down here. You've

o 2

made a muddle of the whole affair, that's
about it. Too much talkee-talkee, and not
enough going ahead by force of intellect.'

A general laugh followed, in which Ambrose
pretended to join.

c Everyone knows you are the most
impudent ' began Ambrose.

Won't do either,' retorted Bob. c I did
pride myself on my impudence, I allow ;
but I find I'm only second in the field.'

1 What do you mean ?' stammered the
other, pale with anger.

No one cared much for his anger now.

Mean !' replied Pinkerton — ' that no
impudence was ever equal to yours. To
pretend that no one had sense except
yourself . to find fault with every man's
work except your own . to behave as if
you were a duke instead of a place-hunter
if that's not impudent, I don't know
what is.'

You couldn't always expect to be in
the right. Jackson,' said Berry. 'The
taste of the stick will do you good, see if
it doesn't'

You're a nice set of men,' said Ambrose,
wrathfully. ' As long as I held my own,
and could be of any use, you were ready
and willing to pat me on the back and be
civil. Now, because in fighting a hard
uphill battle against odds not one of you
would have had the manhood to face, you
turn against me. I never believed till
now that "hit a man when he's down"
could be an Englishman's creed. My misfortune
has had at least this advantage,
that it has taught me what kind of men
you are. Nothing but fair-weather friends.
A pretty crew !'

Friends !' said Neddy Leigh — c you forget,
Jackson, that you have no friends,
that you have never wished to have any

friends. Even if one did you a kindness,
you didn't appreciate it.'

1 Another matter,' said Berry, c it is notus
you're learning to know. We don't
trample on the unfortunate, and that kind
of thing, though we dearly love to knock
the conceit out of a man. No, you now
learn what sort of an individual you yourself
are ; you now learn something of the
inconvenience and pain to which you have
put other people ; you now learn '

Hear, hear,' cried Bob Pinkerton. ' But
that'll do, Berry. Don't analyse the fallen
champion any more. And, Berry, my wife
wants you to dine — quite a small party.
Neddy, come too.'

Ambrose was left to his own reflections.
He was fond of ' holding forth,' as he called
it, on all sorts of subjects, and was often
the centre of an attentive group. No one
took any more notice of him now than if

he were dead. His prestige was gone ; he
had never had any sort of popularity.

Perhaps Mackintosh may set me on my
legs again,' thought he ; and, as he passed
through St. James's Square, he saw Mr.
Mackintosh himself coming out of the
London Library.

Mr. Mackintosh had of course heard the
news. He had never expected a Liberal to
win the seat, and, when he knew by how
small a majority Ambrose had been defeated,
he was forced to confess that neither
Maundy nor anyone else could have done
better. Mr. Mackintosh hesitated a moment
after receiving the telegram from
Baybridge. What course should he pursue ?
Should he greet Ambrose with an affable
smile and a warm grasp of the hand, heal
the poor fellow's heartache, and win a
devoted servant ? Or should he take it
for granted that Ambrose had mismanaged

the affair, thrown away his own chance,
and damaged the cause, and crush him
with silent contempt?

That Ambrose had his head screwed on
in the right way, Mr. Mackintosh never
doubted. What he did doubt was, that
Ambrose would ever be tractable enough
to be really useful. Mr. Mackintosh had
not forgotten that Ambrose had in a manner
bullied even him. And yet, to do the
elder man justice, he put aside interest
and pique. And, if he determined to ' drop '
Ambrose, it was because he felt that by so
doing he would in the end be best serving
this exceptional young gentleman, whom,
in spite of many faults, he could not help
respecting. It was a proof of Ambrose
Jackson's quality, that the better kind of
men and women always thought him
worth improving.

Mr. Mackintosh, who had an essay on

his beloved Dante in his hand, was for
passing Ambrose without recognition.

Ambrose had been taken down a peg or
two, but he was not going to stand that.

Mr. Mackintosh, sir ! Good evening.'

The statesman looked up with civil attention,
as if he had once or twice before
bowed to Mr. Jackson, and answered,

Good-evening.'

c Have you heard of the result of the
Baybridge election ?'

I know the party has lost a seat.'

The seat never belonged to the party,
sir !'

Mr. Mackintosh showed no inclination
to argue the point ; or, indeed, to carry on
the conversation.

Ambrose exclaimed, indignantly,

I do not deserve this reception from
you, Mr. Mackintosh. All that could be
done by anyone in this matter has been

done by me. You yourself are, I know,
perfectly well aware of this. I realised
from the first that I owed a duty not only
to myself but to my party. I neglected
nothing to carry the seat. I took your
advice, and let my own theories go ; I
tried conciliation. I have lost this election,
be it so. You, Mr. Mackintosh,
since you began public life, have lost
four elections. Is failure, then, such
an unpardonable crime. I have failed
to-day. Am I less of a man now than
when I got up this morning ? Is my intellect
less clear and strong, my life less
pure? Mr. Mackintosh, all my friends
have turned against me, because I am unfortunate,
and because they have neither
heart nor sense. You won't follow their
example. You are too strong to veer to
every wind that blows.'

1 On the contrary, I find veering necessary,'

said the other. ' We conquer opinion
by obeying it.'

Ambrose felt how heartless a general
reflection was in the presence of such an
appeal for sympathy as his.

You would have received me very
differently,' he cried, 'if I had stood at the
head of the poll.'

'Ah, then ,' acknowledged Mr. Mackintosh.


He spoke carelessly, and belied his real
feelings. In Jackson's protest there was
such a strange mixture of argument, of
manliness, and of dignified entreaty that
Mr. Mackintosh was touched. But, at the
same time, he saw that a good work had
been begun in Ambrose, and he was not
going to interrupt its course. And so he

said, ' Ah, then ' and made a move as

if to put an end to the interview.

Ambrose saw that his doom was sealed.

I presume that you won't have any
further need of my services,' he said.

c As secretary ? No. I will send the
salary due.'

the salary,' growled Ambrose.

The other could hardly conceal his
amusement.

i I will send it, nevertheless. It may be
useful when your bill comes in.'

Ambrose watched him walk across the
square.

c Heartless brute,' said he.

Poor fellow,' Mr. Mackintosh was saying
to himself. ' He has been a naughty
boy, but after this touch of the rod he will
become an admirable man.'

CHAPTER XL

THE FRIENDS.

Christopher Parry was, to speak figuratively,
up to his ears in varnish. For sometime
past he had looked at everything from
the c Viking Varnish ' point of view. His
attitude had become manly. The change
in his fortunes had certainly been productive
of nothing but good. But he was
altered more in character than in appearance
and manner. Lack-a-daisical as ever,
he yawned as if he did not know what todo
with himself, and still talked of being
bored. Notwithstanding, the amount of
work he got through was astonishing. He

had a steadfast faith in his speciality ; it
did not bubble, it did not crack, it did not
cost anything worth mentioning, and Cris
was certain that the world had only to be
made acquainted with its many excellencies
to set up a clamorous demand for the
c Viking Varnish.' He already longed to
buy out Mansellll, his partner, who had, in
Master Parry's opinion, no push, no commercial
enterprise. Fancy Cris finding
fault with anyone on this account — it
would seem miraculous, unless we knew
how natural powers are wont to expand
when artificial props are knocked away by
a beneficent and far-seeing Providence.

On the day of the Baybridge election,
Cris had been out of town on business,
and had not heard of Ambrose Jackson's
calamity. Had Cris looked upon the
result as at all doubtful, he would have expected
a telegram. But he was so accustomed

to see his friend carry out whatever
he intended as to resolve to make time fora
visit of congratulation to Jenny n Street
next day. So Oris entered his dingy office
in the morning without a suspicion of the
great trouble Ambrose was in, and made
the triflingly elaborate preparations for
work in which he now delighted.

Cris was very anxious to prove to his
own satisfaction that he was by no means
a beginner in weighty affairs. Anything
that smacked of routine had its charm.
This was why he looked so pleased when
he put on his office-jacket, and noticed
on its sleeves a certain shine caused by
friction on the desk. He stretched a small
india-rubber band round each sleeve to
keep it back. He glanced at the clock and
remembered that time was money. He
drew ' the post ' to him with the air of a
maker of fortunes. 'The post' was not

large ; by spreading the envelopes and
circulars out on the desk, and opening them
with deliberation, he made it seem quite
respectable.

In came Mr. Mansellll.

■ Morning,' said he.

Morning,' replied Cris.

So your friend's out of it. Lost his
election.'

What !'

Cris flung down an important document
as if the 'Viking Varnish' were all one with
the dust of the earth, scrambled into his
best coat, — and disappeared downstairs.

He paused on the threshold, and was
about to hail a hansom, but here prudence
and the commercial instinct intervened,
and he started on the look-out for an
omnibus.

Meanwhile Ambrose sat in his room in
profound dejection.

He had not dared to spend the evening
before alone, though he was thankful to be
without an engagement. He went to the
play. But, as he had never considered the
drama likely to be of any use to him, he
felt almost a stranger in the crowded house :
he would have given much had he been
able to enter into the mimic joys and woes
like most of the audience, only he had
neglected to cultivate this resource, and
paid the penalty here too. Why should he
take plentifully who had given nothing?

He was almost mortified to find next
morning how soundly he had slept through
it all. Only one phantom visitor had
glided through the dark hours — Judith.
He tried, with a sleeping man's maimed
will, to hold that vision fast. Like his
other joys, it had melted into air.

He awoke with a racking headache.

Cris hurried in just when he had clone

VOL. III. p

breakfast, and saw at once how deep and
how real was his friend's distress.

The friendship between these two men
dated from their school-days, and was of
that fine sort which is above insisting on,
and which implies total mutual confidence.
They thoroughly understood one another.
It was not necessary for Oris to explain
that he had been out of town, and had
hastened with consolation at the first
opportunity. Ambrose knew well enough
that his friend would have left princes to
meet him now. It was not necessary that
Cris should say anything of regret, but
something of the kind he did say.

4 Hang it all, Jack, hang it all !'

Ambrose, unshaven, in a dressing-gown
and slippers, smiled at this beginning ; but
it brought him comfort.

I shouldn't have felt as much bored,
Jack, if anyone had turned up and said

the " Viking " was no better than penny
nam.' drawled Oris next.

Why ever did you all it the " Viking
Varnish " ?' asked Ambrose.

No reason in particular,' said Cris,
munching a roll. ' The name seemed taking
; it has a sound of royalty and first-lateness.'


Let me never hear the word first-rate
again,' cried Ambrose starting up. c I have
worshipped the first-rate, and my worship
has led me to the feet of the devil. Give
me wholesome mediocrity, Cris.'

Tell me all about the fight, Jack.'

Ambrose wished for nothing better.
Hitherto he had been obliged to bottle up
his wrath. He had found no one to whom
he would or could impart his grievances.
He had chewed the cud of his vexation till
his mouth was full of bitterness. But here
was an old chum who would understand all

about it. Ambrose poured out bis indignation.
Nothing seemed bad enough for Mr.
Mackintosh, no terms were glaring enough
to saint his iniquity. But Mrs. Murray
was an even greater criminal.

'False, poisonous woman!' exclaimed the
angry man. c Fancy losing an election
through a woman, Cris.'

Not a rare case, Jack.'

c No, but a woman who once said she
loved you. I'll never forgive her, never !'

If it does you good, I'd go on hating
her till the end of time,' said Cris, ignoring
all the charities. ' Perhaps, though, she's
hardly worth thinking about.'

1 You're right,' said Ambrose. ' Dear
old chap, if this had been done to me by a
woman I had ever cared about, well, I
think it would kill me outright.'

There was a pause ; and Cris thought he
would have a pipe.

'Why the deuce have I come such a
smash ?' said Ambrose at last, impatiently.

4 Because,' replied Cris, ' you wanted to
make politics a trade, and that's possible
only for riff-raff. The gods take care of
their own, you know,' added Cris, who, in
skimming over life, sometimes accidentally
dipped below the surface. ' Gad ! how
politics bore me, Jack.'

1 That's all very well,' cried Ambrose ;
4 you're not dependent on them. As forme,
what else am I to turn my hand to ?'

Varnish !' cried Cris, triumphantly.
1 Buy Man sell out. Mansellll is an ass, and
has no business habits, and bores me. I
tell you, Jack, there's a fortune to be
made out of the "Viking." Jackson and
Parry, sole proprietors ; sounds first-rate,
sounds well, I mean ; doesn't it ?'

1 Not bad,' said Ambrose, mechanically,
wondering at the change in Cris.

L You know how it is the " Viking" beats
any other preparation to fits? You've
forgotten ; confound it ! I explained only
the other day. Carriage-makers lose a
mint of money, when not able to sell
their goods at once ; nothing ruins a carriage
like being out of use. Why ? Because
of the bad varnish — now the " Viking " '

He stopped. Ambrose was obviously not
attending. A quiet, dreamy look shone in
his face.

What are you thinking of?' said Oris.

c Judith.'

1 Then I forgive you for wool-gathering
while I explained what will become of one of
the grandest concerns ever floated. Yes,
Judith is worth thinking about ; she's the
best woman in the world — except, of course
Annie,' added Oris.

c Except nobody,' said Ambrose, earnestly.

Cris thought a while, and answered,

Well, Jack, I don't mind if I cave in
about that. Judith bores me, of course.
I wasn't made for perfection. Judith's
infallible ; and yet, somehow, it doesn't
take the sweetness out of her. All the
same, I like a woman who trips now and
then ; it's more companionable. Judith's
not human enough,' said shallow Cris.

Come, come,' protested Ambrose.

I should like to see Judith fly into a
temper, or have a sharp attack of jealousy.
It would make her good qualities rise in
the market,'

Rise in the market ! Why, Cris, you're
sold to jargon already. What times we
live in, that for every new craft a man
must needs have a new language. I admire
who ever has nothing especial in his
conversation that you can catch hold of.
It's a poor thing to go about crying, I'm a
painter, I play sonatas, I dabble in burlesque,

and to strike this attitude and that
attitude, instead of proclaiming by catholic
language and behaviour, I'm not a fraction
of a man, I'm a man.'

Cris gave a desperate yawn, and thought
that Ambrose was indulging in a jargon of
his own. Ambrose had a similar suspicion
himself.

Let's be serious, Cris,' said he. • Where
did our wisdom start from ? Yes, I had
been thinking of Judith. Cris, when I
saw her yesterday, my heart smote me.'

High time it did,' said Cris. ' How
often haven't I tried to convince you that
the girl loves you ten thousand times
better than you deserve.'

4 Ju — with,' said Ambrose a moment
later, dwelling on each syllable. c There's
something soothing in the very name.'

An — nie,' mimicked Cris. c Yes, it does
me a lot of good.'

Ambrose gave a ringing laugh for the
first time since his overthrow. But he
soon grew sober again, and said,

1 1 exchanged a few words with Judith
yesterday. I couldn't help it. I had
treated her badly, for, though there was no
promise between us, there was an affinity
against which 1 had sinned grievously. I
wanted her sympathy before the fight began.
I asked her for it, and guess what
she said ?'

Go on. She behaved with propriety,
did Ju — with.'

Xot so much as usual,' said Ambrose.
c She answered, " He doesn't deserve success
who hasn't a clear conscience."

'Whew cried Oris. ' Queer! undeniably
queer — for Judith.'

What can she have alluded to ?'

Stumped,' said Cris. ' Don't understand
the article.'

She can't have meant that, in keeping
away from her, I have been acting against
my conscience.'

She may have thought that, Jack —
but say it to you ! She would sooner have
died.'

What was she driving at then ? that's
what I'd like to know. She had a look in
her eyes as if I had done something low
and mean.'

Her creed has always been very different
from yours, old boy.'

That's not the explanation, Cris. Her
look was almost abhorrence.'

Cris whistled.

c All questions are fair among friends,'
said he. c Had you during canvassing time
been philandering with Mrs. Murray? eh?
Take it easy, old boy,' — For Ambrose had
turned purple.

The question made Ambrose give up his

intention of concealing Alice Murray's
midnight visit from everyone. He let Cris
into his secret now, though with characteristic
generosity he spared his enemy's
reputation.

1 That accounts for the milk in the
cocoa-nut,' said Cris. ' Judith has heard of
this touching episode, and is just about
mad.'

4 Impossible she should have heard in so
few hours.'

What's impossible no a-days?' said the
other. c Besides, scandal has long legs.'

Ambrose was silent. He felt as if he
would have sooner lost a kingdom than
have fallen in Judith's good opinion for such
a cause. There must be an explanation.
He must go to Baybridge without delay.

Had he no other reason for his journey ?
He had been carefully, laboriously building
up a future, and it had fallen about his ears

like a child's house of wooden bricks.
Everything he had touched lay in ruins.
Everything? No ! His love for Judith remained
unshaken, a beacon in the storm.
Only now, when so much unworthy rubbish
that had occupied his attention was
swept away, did he realise that the world
without her would be a world of darkness.
Her beauty, her grace, her depth and breadth
of mind and character, what a picture did
they now present ! What possibilities of
happiness were enshrined in the holy
temple of that woman's heart ! Could that
happiness still be his? Oh, God! Oh,
God!

Ambrose brushed his sleeve over his
eyes.

Dreaming about Ju — with again, Jack ?'
said Oris, this time very gently.

I must go to her.'

'And marry her,' interrupted Oris.

c I should be afraid to ask her.'

You afraid ? Fiddlestick.'

1 1 can hardly believe,' replied Ambrose,
1 that there was once a time when I thought
her not good enough for me. Not good
enough for me! doesn't it sound strange?
Not that I would ever have let her know
this of my free will, but I thought it, and
the penalty for hoarding a base thought is
that it oozes out sooner or later. Judith
knows what was in my mind. And now,
when I have failed, when all my professions
of strength and ability have proved
to be nothing but professions ; when I'm
weak as ditch-water, Cris, with all the
pluck knocked out of me, and not one
little, little bit of mercy from those that
I've worked with — now I'm afraid to go to
Judith in case — no, no, she would not
reproach me of the past.'

You may be sure she wouldn't, Jack.

Take heart. You imagine misfortunes that
can never come to pass. Look at my case ;
I dropped all my money it seems only yesterday,
and yet here I am with the 'Viking,'
in other words with a fortune at my fingers'
ends. You're touchy at first, naturally.
You are like a sick man who comes into
the streets once more, and thinks every
passer-by is going to bruise him.'

I'm not usually given to superstition,'
said Ambrose, ' but I can't shake off a foreboding
of coming sorrow. You may laugh
at me, but the feeling remains. Nothing
would seem simpler than to go to Judith
at once, confess my faults, and trust to her
worth and love for forgiveness. But '

Hang buts,' said Oris. ^

'But, my dear chap, Judith is rather out
of the common. She won't move a step
unless she sees her way clearly. Though

she would be the last person to reproach
me with what has happened, she would, I
feel, have to discuss the matter unreservedly.
There would have to be a lengthened
explanation.'

c Well,' said Cris, c and what then ? I've
had lots of explanation with Annie after a
shindy, and the sequel has always been
pleasing in the extreme.'

Ah, but,' exclaimed Ambrose, ' things
won't go on smoothly with us. I positively
know that. Something will crop up, some
fatal misunderstanding will arise. I saw
it written in Judith's face. I saw her lip
quiver as if I had stabbed her, or she had
stabbed me. Oh, Cris, it's unbearable !'

Cris dropped the flippant, rallying tone
which he had assumed to keep his friend's
spirits up. He was forcibly struck by his
companion's earnestness, all the more so

because lie had never known Ambrose to
be morbid before. He was partly infected
by this strange mood, but he fought against
the impression, saying,

c Away with these fears, old friend, you'll
laugh at them in a few hours' time — in her
arms. She loves you. You love her.
There'll be no difficulties, no explanations.
You will simply meet, clasp hands, and
belong to one another as if no cloud had
ever come between you. There's no good
haranguing and masquerading ; when heart
speaks to heart, then we poor mortals understand.
Now Annie's a first-rate little
lively gossip, and a regular Turk with her
tongue, but, Jack, it's when she stops to
take breath, and so leaves her hand in
mine, that I understand Annie.'

1 In any case,' said Ambrose, after a pause,
whatever my fate is, I must meet it. —
Here's Vanity Fair, and here's Punch Cris.

Just amuse yourself while I dress. You'll
see me through this, old fellow ? You'll
come down to Baybridge?'

Are you mad?' exclaimed Cris. ' Read
Vanity Fair ! Come down to Baybridge !
when half London or thereabouts is thronging
into the "Viking" office. I've stopped
too long already. Not that I wouldn't
go with you, but you'll be better alone.
Every man in the long-run must fight his
own battle, friendship can only buckle on
his armour, and say God speed you ! — I'm
off. Think seriously what I said about
buying Mansellll out. No business habits ;
I can't stand that ; said the other day that
there was no good counting the postage
stamps, and was eight minutes behind time
this morning. He'll never get on ! Business
is business P

Varnish has made a man of you, Cris.
Perhaps I will put myself under the same

VOL. III. Q

treatment. But just now I can think of
nothing but of Judith.'

Cris had a cheery remark still left, and
after that took his departure.

The visit had not been in vain. Ambrose
determined to go to Judith immediately.
He scolded himself for indulging
in presentiments. He knew that whatever
happened Judith would treat him generously.
Her will should be his will. He
would beg her to sustain his weakness by
her strength. All his sorrow, all his bitterness,
all his lost faith in the world, he
would bring to her feet. He would obey
her like a child.

His face was steadfast and calm as he
set out on this eventful journey. Smoky,
tumultuous London lay far distant. Peace
stole into the tired heart. Ambrose remembered
the picture of the * Muck-Rake,'

which he had seen some time before, and
thanked God that he was no longer grasping
at bubbles.

Q2

CHAPTER XII.

A FORSAKEN CREED.

Judith had listened to Ambrose Jackson's
speech from the ' Hind and Panther ' with
indescribable dismay. For in that speech
he had twice implied that he owed his
defeat to unfair dealing. Of course Ambrose
had no suspicion that his words
could apply to Judith. In the humiliation
of failure that agony had been spared him.
But she did not know this ; she had seen
him look at her before beginning to speak,
and falter; and she wondered whether
Aunt Robby had been imprudent enough

to let fall a word to Helen Jackson, and so
betray the secret. No, there had not been
time for that ; besides, Mrs. Jackson would
have acted upon the precious information
at once. Judith was puzzled. The real
state of the case, however, can be easily
understood. In attributing crooked doings
to his opponents, Ambrose had merely
followed (in the first instance) the usual
steps of a mortified candidate. At the
close of his speech, he had repeated the
accusation in a tone full of meaning, and
Mrs. Murray, who sat close by in her carriage
enjoying her triumph, knew that the
words were especially intended for her
ears. Judith had not this clue ; she thought
that, in some inexplicable manner, she had
already been found out. She was in a
wretched plight, and her mother was
shocked at the drawn expression in her
face, as they drove homewards.

1 You look seriously ill, Jue,' she said.
1 This has been too much for you, my poor
child. You oughtn't to have come, or to
have seen him again ; but your father
would insist. Let's drive on quickly,
Peter, and she can go to her room and lie
down.'

It's all right, Maria,' said Peter. c It's
all right, Judith, isn't it ?'

c I am perfectly well,' answered the girl,
with desperation.

'Poor old Nutcrackers,' whispered Annie,
pressing her sister's fingers affectionately,
c don't grieve so. He loves you still. He'll
come back, you'll see.'

This was well meant, but not comforting.
Whether Ambrose came back or not,
Judith feared nothing awaited her but
sorrow upon sorrow.

How bitterly she repented the use she

had made of old Mrs. Robertson's influence
with the electors. What a hideous
mistake it seemed to be, when the excitement
and the hot fit of jealousy were
overcast.

How diligently we should cherish in
easy hours the habit of self-examination
and restraint, which alone can fit us for the
shocks of emergency. Judith had moral
courage of the highest order. She had
never been afraid to look into her inner
life, and this rendered the fact doubly distressing
that she had not been proof against
a painful surprise.

Xow that the deed had gone from her,
and had left its mark upon the man she
loved, she despaired on finding that none
of her motives would bear scrutiny. It
was as if she had suddenly been given the
opportunity of looking at her conduct from

another aspect, with the impartial gaze of
a bystander. She saw clearly, and wondered
at, her former blindness.

All her ideas about the necessity for improving
Ambrose seemed to have been not
only impracticable, but childish. Childish !
and she had always been called the reasonable
Judith. She was, at this moment, not
even certain that the danger which she had
feared for Ambrose had ever existed. Who
would be such a simpleton as to blight a
man's career for the sake of experimenting
upon his character ? Childish ? oh, it was
heartless to a degree. Judith pressed her
lips together in pain.

Yet she had not been altogether wrong
rather, she would not have been wrong
had she overthrown Ambrose solely for the
sake of teaching him that hard lesson, with
its immortal benefits.

Alas, alas ! no such motive had inspired
her.

When the crisis came, burning jealousy
had written that letter to Mrs. Robertson.
So there was nothing high or noble about
the affair. It was poor and mean. It was
the spiteful act of an angry woman. Must
not Ambrose take this view, when she
herself could take no other ?

Her sharpest regret was that she would
never have a chance of making amends for
the suffering she had caused. Sooner or
later, he must know the truth. If he had
not found it out already, she must tell him,
or write to him. And he would never forgive
her. How could he ? It was a dangerous
matter to thwart even a commonplace
man in anything on which his mind
was set — but to thwart a man of such tenacity
and ripe plans as Ambrose, what

danger could be like that ? Though all
his past bore witness against him, Judith
believed Ambrose capable of a great sacrifice.
Her love nourished this faith. But
she thought it impossible that he could
sacrifice his resentment, when he heard that
she had lifted her hand against him in this
thing. Had aught else been possible, could
he have forgiven her — then, in the course
of years, faithfully devoted to his welfare,
she might have made some amends. Now
that w r as out of the question. She had
flung her happiness to the winds.

And his happiness? Judith was convinced
that Ambrose, when he knew what
he must know, would never let her see his
face again. But she had read him aright,
at least in this, that she knew also he
would never cease to love her now. He
would love and leave her. He would
undergo for her sake the pain she now

endured for his. Judith prayed that she
alone might bear the burden of her folly ;
but she felt it could not be. She was very
sure of that. Ambrose, obliged to start ina
new career, or painfully to retrace his
steps in the old one, would begin the battle
wounded by her and for her. To what
extremities might he not be driven ? He
might even return to that temptress, Alice
Murray. Judith tried to put away this
thought as one that would madden her if
she were forced to entertain it. Others of
the same kind took its place. If not to
Mrs. Murray, he might seek in the arms of
some other woman not that pure communion
and worship which Judith could
give him, but a hollow gilded substitute
that would only weary and defile, deaden
and destroy.

No wonder Judith looked haggard when
possessed by such presentiments as these.

She spent the rest of the day in mending
her father's socks, and in washing the
delicate articles of feminine attire, lace,
and frills, and best handkerchiefs that
never went to the laundry-woman ; and
she was glad to find these occupations
ready to her hand, — anything was better
than moping. She expected a visit from
Aunt Robby, and was prepared to load
her with reproaches. But the old dame
was tired with the excitement of the
morning, and, besides, had enough to do
to comfort Helen Jackson in her son's absence,
so she did not appear ; perhaps she
was content to have these excuses, she had
made sure that Ambrose would go to Judith
at once, and there he was in London.
'Oh, dear! oh, dear! oh, dear!' said the
ancient lady, l I'm too old for matchmaking
now. Why didn't I let the young
folk alone ?' So Judith had no visitor.

Next morning, at about half-past eleven,
a telegram came addressed to Miss Annie
Topham. Luckily no one saw Annie receive
it. It ran :

i Expect Ambrose immediately. Prepare
Judith. All ivill be well. — Viking.'

Annie gave a little grin at the signature,
for, although she confidently expected a
fortune from the varnish, she could not
help poking fun at her dear Cris about it.
Then she j jumped for j oy . Ambrose coming !
This was all Annie had longed for. She
had no misgivings that a meeting could
have anything else but a happy ending.
Her only fear had been that Ambrose
might stay away, and be too high and
mighty even in defeat to come near Judith.
Annie was ever so certain that, once Ambrose
found himself face to face with that
lovable creature Jue, he could never again

tear himself away. It was bound to be a
case; just the same as with her and Cris,
and that was a pleasant case, Annie
thought. How joyfully surprised she had
been when Cris suddenly turned up. Prepare
Judith, indeed, and take away that
quick joy from her ? Annie resolved todo
nothing of the sort. ' Bothered if I do,'
said Annie.

Peter Topham just then coming in with
his jaunty step, it struck Annie that the
very best service she could render her
sister would be to get their father well off
the premises. A collision between him
and Ambrose, before some understanding
had been arrived at, might spoil everything.
Annie prepared to march her father
off to somewhere, to anywhere — yes, she
would take him to tea with the Tuckers.

c Father,' she said, ' I'm for a walk, aren't
you?'

1 No, Annie, it's too hot. I'm going to
read the papers.'

4 Yes, it's hot,' said Annie. ' But why
shouldn't we call on the Tuckers ? I
fancy Mr. Tucker values your opinion,
and might like to talk over the — the
election.'

4 Well,' said Peter, much gratified, 4 1
fancy, too, that I can give him a hint or so.
Of course I don't devote my life to politics,
still, one has a head on one's shoulders, I
hope. Yes, we might do worse, Annie.'

So they started, the girl well pleased at
her finesse. Her triumph was short-lived.
She had forgotten that Ambrose was coming
from Bay bridge, that they were going
to Baybridge, and that the very thing she
had schemed against, a meeting, must take
place on the road.

Oh, I am an idiot!' gasped Annie, under
her breath.

There was one hope left — speed. Annie
quickened her pace bit by bit till her father
stood still, panting and complaining.

c I'm so thirsty. I want some tea explained
Annie. ' Father, you walk very
badly. How old are you now ?'

Peter Topham was vexed, and stepped
briskly forward. As they reached the top
of the town, Annie saw Ambrose hurrying
towards them. Luckily, Peter's head was
turned the other way. Father and daughter
turned down a side street ; Annie drew
a deep breath, the danger was over.

Over only because Ambrose had thought
it right to go and see his mother before
pleading his cause with Judith.

Helen Jackson threw herself into her
son's arms, exclaiming, ' My poor, poor,
misguided boy, I told you soc

Yes, mother,' he answered, softly, * I
was wrong.'

Helen looked up in alarm.

'Darling boy, how changed you look,
how changed you are.'

Yes, mother, I am changed. I've made
a great mistake, and want to do better in
the future. 1 couldn't come yesterday, I
was too hard hit ; and I can stay only a
moment now, for I'm on my way to Judith

To Judith,' said Aunt Robby ; and her
old face twitched nervously. She, too, was
no longer sure that her experiment on
Ambrose was justifiable.

To see you and Judith married would
make me happy beyond anything, ' began
Helen.

With one exception,' smiled Ambrose.
Have you heard from Will lately, best of
mothers ?'

'Ah, you know that,' said the widow,
blushing.

4 Will is a good man,' replied he. 'We'll

VOL. III. R

talk about that some day, dearest mother.
Good-bye, just for now. I have wronged
not only myself but dear, dear Judith, and
I can't rest until I have her forgiveness."

'And if,' said Aunt Robby, suddenly,
with tremulous eagerness, ' Judith forgives
you, and you should find out . oh, strange
things happen . . . that she has been to blame
as well, then — then, Ambrose, be true to
yourself, and think of an old woman's advice,
and be merciful.'

Merciful, Aunt Robby ? Why, Judith
wouldn't harm me by thought, word, or
deed. Kiss me, mother, I go to win or to
lose all. Good-bye.'

And so he hurried away, fortunately just
missing Peter Topham, as we have said.

In spite of all anxious looking forward,
how often our fate comes upon us like a
thunderclap. Judith had allowed the possibility
of Ambrose's sudden appearance,

she had longed and feared to hear his step
on the stairs. Once she had said that, with
shut eyes, she would know when Ambrose
was in the room. Now, she supposed he
could not approach without some thrill in
her bosom announcing his advent. Yet he
came unheard. He took her by surprise,
and overpowered her intended reserve ashe
dashed into the room impetuously, and
stood before her.

In that moment, and for a moment, soul
met soul. Love, that could not be wholly
expressed or fathomed, shone in Judith's
eyes, and Ambrose knew himself beloved.
He remembered his friend's words : No
explanation ! Heart should speak to heart
when they stood face to face.

He reached Judith in a stride, threw his
arms around her with tender roughness,
and kissed again and again the pale, unresisting
lips. She quivered and trembled in

the throes of an ecstasy, to live through
which she would have willingly died. Fora
second only was she weak ; then, realising
that Ambrose was hopelessly lost to her,
she drew back. But she stretched out her
arms as if she could not bear to release
him, and yet had to bid him go.

1 Don't come near me, please, please V
she cried. ' I cannot bear it. No, no, I
am not angry. But if you knew — you
would not touch me so, and break my
heart. We must forget that this — this
meeting ever took place, at least you must.
There is no harm done — not much.'

Ambrose saw that her distress was extreme,
but he could not understand the
reason for it. He was sorry now that he
had kissed her, and given her such evident
pain. And it occurred to him that he had
no manner of right to come back and take
it for granted that she still loved him.

Nor would he have clone so but for that
look, more eloquent than words. She loved
him, and shrank from him. What could
be the reason for this contradictory behaviour
? Her pride ? Ambrose thought
that her pride had been wounded by his
long neglect and absence. He owed it to
her to acknowledge that he had been in
the wrong throughout. There must bean
explanation, then. Without suspecting
the peril, he sat down quietly beside her
and said,

Judith, I want to have a talk. But
first I beg your pardon for obeying an
impulse just now.'

It was my fault,' whispered plain spoken
Judith. ' You have nothing to reproach
yourself with — indeed you have not. Forget
it quickly, or else think I was your
sister just now.'

Judith choked down a sob bravely.

Whatever he might do, she would carry
those kisses on her lips to the grave. But
she would bear her punishment patiently.

I forgot,' said Ambrose, c that my
apology for what is past ought to have
come before any appeal.'

Judith shook her head ; she wanted to
say that from him no apology was due r
but she could not speak.

He went on.

'You remember, Judith, the first time
you and I knew one another. I ran by
you in the dusk, and knocked Aunt Robby's
embroidered table-cloth out of your hand.
You had wrapped it up twice, and it was
not soiled ; and you were so good-natured
about the little accident, and so pleasing
in the half-darkness, that I turned back
with you. That might have been the
turning-point in my life if I had listened
to your words.'

Judith longed to look up, but did not
do so.

1 We drifted somehow,' said Ambrose,
c into a serious conversation. Perhaps we
felt so intimate already as to be above
mere commonplace ; so we confided in
each other, and each of us had a creed.'

4 Ah, how well I remember — how it all
comes back to me !' murmured Judith.

c Your creed, Judith, was made up of
pity and patience for the dreary mistakes
of us all. Only in one sense did you believe
in independence. You did not look
upon anyone as capable of always standing
by his own strength ; you believed in
an universal claim on sympathy and active
help ; you scouted the idea that weak men's
shoulders were the stepping-stones for
energy and talent. Renunciation was your
creed — your creed was sacrifice.'

Yes, Ambrose,' said the girl, ' it was

something like that, only not nearly as
good. It is all I have or can have now,
leave it to me, don't break my shrine in
pieces now.'

'Don't be afraid of that,' replied he.
I will commit no such sacrilege. — My
creed was very different from yours. Success
was the god I worshipped, success at
almost any price — though of course I never
knew how far the system would lead me.
You warned me, though, that I could not
apply it to my life with impunity. But I
didn't listen to your warning ; I was strong,
I was confident. What am I now? Weak,
poor, friendless !'

'No, no,' cried Judith, 'not friendless.'

There was something in her manner
which Ambrose could not penetrate ; but
he knew she drank in every syllable from
his lips, and he continued,

I will let you into a secret about the

election, Judith. It was supposed that I
didn't win the seat because the Conservative
party was too strong in the borough.
That wasn't the reason. I owe my loss to
a woman's spite.'

Judith uttered a cry, and pressed her
hands upon her heart.

He misunderstood her emotion.

I see that you feel for me,' he said,
that you share the indescribable contempt
I have for this cowardly trick.'

You don't despise her, Ambrose ?'

Of course I do. If she had been influenced
by political motives, well and good,
that would have been fair play, I would
find no fault. But to act out of jealousy,
in such a matter, is not that contemptible !
Thank Heaven, I have done with Alice
Murray.'

Judith breathed again more freely. She
now knew that Ambrose had been alluding

to Alice Murray. Aunt Robby had not betrayed
the secret. Yet would it not
have been better if the old lady had done
so ? However should Judith undeceive
Ambrose ?

He, quite unconscious of his companion's
feelings, went on, as he drew a little nearer
to her side,

c Judith, I might make Mrs. Murray's
conduct an excuse for my failure ; I might
say that owing to her interference my
system had not had a fair trial. I will
endeavour to be more honest than that.
My plan was to be strong, successful, admitting
no scruples, providing against
every emergency. I put my opinions to
the test under the most favourable conditions.
I had more than ordinary ability,
I had perfect health, I had sufficient means,
I was in contact with men of position and
influence, I had an unconquerable faith in

my own genius. Given these conditions,
I failed.'

4 Oh ! Ambrose,' said the girl, c every
failure is not a defeat.'

c No, thank God !' replied he, ' you are
right. My failure is my victory, because
even among ruins I have found the truth.
I have proved, not by words, but by experiment,
that self is not a match for those
difficulties the world gives us to contend
with, and I part with the useless encumbrance.
At your dear feet, Judith, I lay
self down — I forsake my creed.'

Joy and sorrow struggled in poor Judith's
breast. He was worth winning now ; he
was what she had once fancied he might
be ; he was saved — but at what a price !

He had knelt down beside her, and drawn
her arms around his neck. And she could
do nothing — she could not make him hate
her — just yet.

c My darling.' lie said, gently, ' this is
not the same Ambrose that knelt to you
long ago. That Ambrose you will never
see again. The past is like a dream to me,
darling. It's like a dream to me that I
could ever be so madly foolish as to think
myself worthy of your love. It's like a
dream to me that I've stayed away these
many, many months, when I feel that every
moment I spend with you is unspeakably
precious. Forgive me, Judith. Through
all my folly, I have loved no one but you.
And I wouldn't come now, and ask you to
be my wife, without knowing that in
sadness and in sorrow you will love me
most.'

She turned very pale, and gave no
answer.

1 1 have made a mistake, then,' he whispered
; ' I was wrong in supposing that
you did love me, Judith ?'

She raised her eyes ; and he saw that he
had not been wrong.

'Judith,' he cried, 'there is something
between us. You love me, and yet you
look at me like that ! What is it ? — You
can't believe that I — and — Mrs. Murray — ?'

With an effort, Judith rose and spoke.

'I wronged you, Ambrose,' she said.
1 For a few hours, I did believe harm of
you — only for a few hours — the moment I
saw your face, I trusted you — and now, my
punishment is almost more than I can bear.'

I don't resent your suspicion, Judith ;
though I'm sorry for it. I've sinned too
deeply against you not to forgive you more
than that. Forget it, darling, and give
me your hand over again, and promise to
be mine till death shall part us.'

A terrible temptation assailed Judith.
Why need he know? Unless she spoke,
he never would know. Could it make any

difference if, just for once, just in this one
thing, she had a thought that Ambrose
could not share ? And, oh ! the difference
that silence would make to her. His love,
for which she had yearned as only a woman
can yearn, night and day, through weariness
and despair, — his love was offered,
pressed upon her, and she could take it,
and he would never know ! This deed of
hers would be forgotten, like a dead man.
A voice within her whispered, What good
have your scruples done you hitherto ? It
is only a little secret ; be silent, and wisely
grasp the prize.

She shuddered, and thrust the temptation
back ; though all hope and love should
go with it. She would not begin married
life with a lie — with a lie that would poison
every hour. She would not rest upon her
husband's bosom with a lie burning upon
her lips. Her children should not be the

children of a lie. She would not enter
this earthly paradise under false pretences.
No, she would go straight on to the end ;
and God would comfort her in her loneliness.


So she drew back, and said,

Ambrose — Ambrose — it's impossible ! I
can never be your wife.'

'Judith?'

If you knew all, you would curse me,
and leave me.'

Darling !'

'Ambrose, I thank you for your great,
great kindness, and, because we must part,
I may confess that I love you too, far beyond
what words can say. No, no, do not
come near me. It is hopeless. — I entreat
you, Ambrose, by every kind feeling you
ever had for me, let us part now — in kindness
— without one word of explanation.
Do what I ask. I am not acting without

good reason. I know all that I am losing.
Let us part in kindness.'

'Judith,' replied he, c you have confessed
that you love me, and I have a right to
look after your happiness. You are troubling
yourself about some wretched misunderstanding,
which a few words will
clear away. Be yourself, be reasonable,
Judith. You cannot have done anything — '

I have '

Ambrose shook his head incredulously.

c Whatever you have done, Judith, I will
But come, come, speak out. Surely, you
can't be afraid of me.'

Pale as ashes, Judith stammered,

You know old Snell ?'

L Old Snell. Why, what on earth have
we to do with old Snell?'

He voted against you, Ambrose.'

All the more shame for him, pet. But
how do you know?'

Because Aunt Robby made him promise
'

c Judith ! No, you can't mean that

And I prompted Aunt Robby. — Miserable
woman that I am !' broke out Judith.
It was through me that you lost your
election.'

She held out her hands, and fixed her
eyes upon him with agonised entreaty.

Ambrose turned away.

vol. in.

CHAPTER XIII.

JUDITH AND AMBROSE.

Ambrose turned away, and in that movement
Judith read her doom. Yet strangely
she felt a certain sense of relief, as if
she had drawn an arrow from her breast,
and had now less of pain, though the very
life-blood flowed from the wound.

If anything could make her state endurable
it would be the sustaining thought
that did not desert her in this extremity,
the thought that she had placed it out of
her power to deceive. She had fought the
good fight. With the exception of that one
moment of jealous anger . . . when she had

allowed her passion to triumph over her
high motives . . . she had been true to
herself throughout.

As she sat down, pale and quiet, after
stammering forth that hard confession,
Judith wondered whether any thing or any
length of time could cure the heartache
that racked her now — since Ambrose was
going to leave her.

Yes, to leave her. The girl knew that
it must be so. He would go away, and
find solace among other scenes and with
other companions ; and she would have to
make-believe that the world was still the
same world that it had once been to her,
that the air was fresh, and the sky beautiful,
and that birds and flowers were things
to care for, and that human kindness was
worth winning, and human sorrow worth
comforting. What a mockery it would be,

when he was gone.

s 2

Judith had heard of broken lives from
which all hope had fled. Nay, more, in
her early days, she had fancied that such a
fate was to be hers. Looking back now to
that episode in her past . . . her desertion long
ago . . . she marvelled how so slight a cause,
as it seemed, could have given her an hours
pain. Yet she could not but remember
that her loss at that time had appeared to
be a loss for ever. Would it be the same
now ? Would she learn to forget Ambrose,
or not to think of him from one end of the
year to the other? Judith shook her head,
and almost smiled.

Already she had formed an idea of what
her future must be. Her sister would soon
marry Cris, and have a house and ways of
her own, and drink the deep blessed cup of
domestic joys. For her, there was no such
possibility. Judith would mind the old
folk, she would never marry now. The

woman who had loved such a man as
Ambrose could belong to no one else. She
would perform such duties as fell to her
lot, and Ambrose must never be spoken of,
and the rest must be left to time and
patience.

In the midst of her despair, Judith had
dared to hope. When she heard Ambrose
renounce the creed which had hitherto
fettered all the best qualities of a fine and
generous nature ; when she heard him
pouring out his heart in those deep earnest
tones that she loved so well ; when she
felt his arms round her, and his hair touching
her forehead — then she had hoped.
Surely such love as his would stand the
test ; surely, if he meant all he said, and if
he was as noble as she took him to be, he
would sacrifice his resentment now.

She confessed, and Ambrose turned away.

He stood with his back to the silent,

suffering woman, and his vacant eye
roamed over the fields rich with harvest.
The sun was still high in the heavens. But
it was slowly descending to its rest on a
couch of grey golden clouds, and bathing
the corn and the trees and the houses in
floods of ebbing glory. It was a fair
sight ; but Ambrose paid no heed. Passion
and wounded pride distorted the dark
features which had just shone with the
purest, the most unselfish devotion. Judith's
words had pierced him like a death-thrust.
The faces of men who die by cold
steel have an expression of peculiar, long-drawn
anguish, and such an expression
Ambrose Jackson's face wore for some
minutes. Well for Judith that it was
hidden from her ; or she might not have
forgotten it to her dying day.

It is not in nature for a man to better
his course suddenly without danger of a

relapse ; there is peril in a shock before
new habits of strength have been acquired.
Now Ambrose had painfully struggled out
of his old narrowness, and planted his feet
firmly, and taken the first difficult stride.
But, before he could pause for breath, misfortune
had come upon him. He could
not be expected to consider in his present
state that well-doing does not necessarily
root out the consequences of former misconduct.
He was startled into feeling that
his fate was unjust. Slumbering regrets
and ambitions stirred and awoke.

His confidence in Judith had been shattered
to pieces, and he felt keenly the
losses which her presence had caused him
to disregard.

It galled him to think that a man of his
talents and of his capacity for usefulness
had been thrown aside like a broken tool
by those whom he had served (he ignored

the fact that he had in truth served only
himself) and all because he had given
offence to a girl. But for her, his name
would be a power now, if she had not
thought it proper to meddle in his affairs
he would be advancing to new dignities day
by day. All was changed now. No more
half-confidences with Mr. Mackintosh ; and
gracious nods from people in high places.
No more shooting invitations from Lord
Filter. No more choice dinners where you
were sure to sit next somebody who was
somebody. No more ' holding forth ' at the
club. No more smiles from the Duchess
or from Lady Susan. All these good
things had taken flight. And why ? Because
Miss Topham of Baybridge had
chosen to vent her spite upon him. Ambrose
gave a half-suppressed malediction
which reached Judith's ears, and made her
tingle from head to foot.

Ambrose understood at once how Judith
had been enabled to carry out her design ;
but the exact reason of her conduct was
hidden from him ; and he condemned it
with much more severity than it deserved.
He supposed Judith to have resented his
long neglect, and to have deliberately
offered up his dearest hopes to a pitiful revenge.
He was not only furious, but bitterly
disappointed in the woman he had
thought nearly perfect. He saw no remedy.
As between well-loved friends a word is
spoken that can be forgiven but can never
be forgotten, so this blow that Judith had
dealt him appeared fatal to the confidence
between them. Hitherto he had trusted
her implicitly; he could trust her no longer.
She had been guilty of absolute meanness.
She had forfeited not his love (that should
be hers always) but his respect. There
was only one thing possible now — parting.

He struggled for calmness as he approached
her, and said,

Judith, I'll try to keep back every word
that could sound unkind. But what has
to be said had better be said quickly. Our
parting would be only more painful if it
were more prolonged. I don't go of my
own free will. Your hand has severed the
bond between us.'

Judith bowed her head. And, after
waiting a moment for an answer, he cried,
impatiently,

You must have known how great the
stake was, how my whole future depended
upon that success. You did know, Judith.
We haven't been much together, but it's
not by time that people understand one
another ; and you realised perfectly how I
was situated, and how I strained every
nerve to reach that position from which
you have hurled me down. Others saw

how I strove, you alone knew how I longed.
Granted my ambition made me false to our
unspoken promise of love — had you no
compunction, no forgiveness, no pity?
Was there no other way in which you could
punish and torture me? Must the hand I
kissed be the hand to wound me ?'

Ambrose,' she moaned, ' don't be too
hard upon me. I have suffered too.'

c Ah, Judith,' he cried, with tears starting
to his eyes, ' what have you done ?
Why have you killed my trust ? In the
hour of need you have failed utterly, and
brought misery upon yourself and upon
me. Give me back, if you can, the belief
I had in your goodness. I thought I had
never met anyone the least like you. I
have known many other women, some more
beautiful perhaps than you, some more
highly gifted by nature, or more distinguished
by position. Yours, Judith, was

the distinguished mind, yours the feeling
heart, yours the only influence that made
me turn my looks inward, and long to be
better and holier that I might rise to your
level. Such was the picture I had drawn
of you, such was the idol that I fondly,
vainly worshipped.'

c Don't think too little of me now, Ambrose,
because you thought too highly of
me then.'

Ambrose was too angry and bitter to
have any idea of what hard things he was
saying, and he continued,

c I try not to think little of you, Judith,
but I can't help seeing how terribly I have
been mistaken. I don't want to blame you,
but I want to justify myself for the course
I am taking.'

Judith was in arms at once, and drew
herself up to her full height and answered.


Please don't mind justifying yourself in
that way.'

Dearly as she loved Ambrose, Judith
was distinctly conscious that she owed
something to her own dignity. She felt
that, whatever she had done, he was treating
her unworthily. Almost every sentence
he spoke had something in it that
burned her like a hot iron. Judith had
plenty of spirit and a great deal of pride.
Life would be nothing to her without Ambrose.
But she would not consent to win
him by any humiliating entreaty. She
would simply beg his pardon for what she
had done as any woman might express her
sorrow for a serious offence, and if he chose
to leave her then, well, she could not detain
him. He might break her heart, he
should wound her pride no more. It was
not a woman's part to ask for love, and Judith
would be a true woman in this. — And

so, after she had told Ambrose rather
haughtily that he need not j justify his departure,
she dropped her voice a little, and
said,

c Ambrose, I don't think you'd treat me
so unkindly, and say such cruel, cruel
things if you knew how deeply penitent I
am, and how great is the price which I
am going to pay.' — And then she paused,
finding that she could hardly speak without,
in spite of herself, declaring her love
anew. — ' I am sorry, so, so sorry,' she continued.
' Oh yes, I know very well saying
that, can't undo the mischief; but it's
all the amends I can make, and for the rest
I look to your mercy, dear Ambrose.
Have I been altogether to blame ?' she
added, again afraid of being too suppliant.
6 You own that month after month you kept
on denying the love in your own heart,
while I was thirsting for a word of kindness.

If you were wrong in that, have
you no forbearance for your friend ?'

At any other time the submission and
gentleness in this appeal would have
struck the right chord in Ambrose Jackson's
breast ; for he could not bear that
any woman should suffer, least of all this
woman he still so fondly loved. But just
now he was blind with passion. He hardly
heard what she said, but he felt in her
tone some pride and some reproach, which
irritated him beyond endurance, and he
exclaimed,

L Oh, Judith, that you could be so
mean ;' and walked back to his place at
the window. Again the beauty of the
summer evening rested before his eyes, and
again he paid no heed but to the angry
thoughts within.

Judith sank on the sofa, and pressed her
face into the cushions, feeling that she

would sooner die than that Ambrose
should hear one of the sobs that burst
from her lips. So mean ! ! Had it come
to this? She had been prepared, as far
as she ever could be prepared, to lose her
lover ; but she had determined that whatever
happened they were not to part as
enemies. She could not let such memory
as that weigh on the dreary years which
were coming. And yet it was better that
he should hate than despise her. She had
been jealous, but she had not been mean ■
and this she must prove to him at any
risk. — So she choked down her sobs, and
without approaching Ambrose, said, as
gently as she could,

Will you listen to me, please, Ambrose?
I wish you to understand exactly what my
fault has been ; and you yourself are too
generous not to make every possible
excuse for my weakness. You say that

I have acted meanly, and you seem to
think that I deliberately watched my
opportunity for thwarting your plans. It
wasn't so, Ambrose. It's true that I did
for a short time consider whether I should
be doing you a service by defeating your
ends '

1 What service?' said Ambrose.

1 Please never mind that,' faltered
Judith, ' because it didn't decide me in the
end. Ambrose, on the morning of the
election I had still taken no part against
you. But somebody came to see me who
had followed Mrs. Murray the night
before — '

Though Ambrose was not looking at
her, Judith blushed deeply, and then forced
herself to go onc

I've already told you of how I then
lost faith in you. I sent off a note to Mrs.
Robertson that decided everything. When

VOL. III. T

you spoke to me while the polling was taking
place, I saw how wrong and how mad
I had been. I was on the point of making
Aunt Robby undo my handiwork, when
the voters passed our carriage. It was
too late. I would have given worlds to
help you ; and I could do nothing

She waited, hoping Ambrose must surely
say something kindly now ; but, as he kept
silence, she added, proudly,

1 And now, Ambrose, you know what happened.
If, after what I've said, you still
think little of me, the time has indeed
come for us to part.'

Ambrose, though he had not spoken, had
been listening attentively. When Judith
explained how she had acted from passion,
and not from any petty calculations of
spite, his heart went out to her for a moment,
and, if she had said no more, all
might have been well. But, when she

added that perhaps they had better part,
Ambrose began to ask himself whether,
after all, that might not be the best.

He was in that unhappy, resentful frame
of mind in which self-denial is almost impossible.
Why should he, who had been
so deeply injured, give up all those aspirations
which had hitherto guided his career ?
Was not there, after all, something in his
old objection to a union with Judith Top-ham
? She was an excellent woman, doubtless
; but Ambrose was half willing to persuade
himself that they were not suited to
one another. He had been too hasty, he
argued, in concluding that his political
career was necessarily at an end because
he could not call himself Member for Bay-bridge.
Many another man got such a
knock-down blow, and sprang to his feet
again notwithstanding. Why should not he?
He had intelligence, he had industry; if het

2

left Baybridge, and shook himself free from
its associations, and buckled to in earnest,
he could soon push himself to the front
again. So reasoned Ambrose, fighting
against his better self, falling back into
the slough of intellectual pride and of
selfishness.

Of course he loved Judith ; but, alas,
love for such a one could not throb in the
sluggish current of a selfish heart. Sincerity,
the very blood of love, was poisoned
at its source. Ambrose endeavoured to
persuade himself that the world had other
things to take the place of this tender-souled
girl beside him. And she — oh, she
could never have felt for him truly, or she
would not have crushed him like this.
With such poor shifts did Ambrose try to
deceive himself in the very presence of her
pale face and weeping eyes.

But Ambrose was quite sincere in one

respect. He feared lest, if he and Judith
became man and wife, this memory might
keep cropping up to destroy their peace.
He was not sure that he could ever forget
what had occurred, or prevent himself from
making reproachful allusions to Judith's
conduct in the past. And such a chronic
misunderstanding would be the death of
true confidence. Agreed that they thought
alike on all other subjects, or as nearly
alike as possible for two people with strong
individuality — discord on this one point
would be fatal.

Under the influence, then, of these
mingled feelings, he caught up Judith's
last words, and said,

'Best for us to part, Judith? Well,
perhaps it will be best.'

Judith was seized by the pangs of a
nameless, unutterable longing.

But she knew something of what was

passing in Ambrose's mind. He wished to
be set free. She had confessed her love,
she had confessed her penitence, she could
do no more. She must remember to be
modest and sober. So she bowed her head,
and by that slight movement acquiesced, in
appearance at least, in his wish.

He felt guilty at once, and began to
justify himself again.

6 You see, Judith, we have made a sad
mistake. You judge me severely for what
I am doing now ; but some clay you will dome
justice and own that I was right. We
have loved each other, Judith, and there's
no reason why that affection shouldn't live
on. Love is much, but for happiness we
want something more. We want perfect
sympathy, and I can't feel like that now.
I've done wrong, and you've forgiven me,
and there's an end of that. But you have
done wrong too, and I'm not as good as you

are, and so, Goal help us, I can't say from
my heart C 'I forgive you, Judith." Some
men and women marry, and are content,
where there's no true sympathy, with form
and ceremony. That wouldn't do for us,
Judith. And I wouldn't do one I respect
so much as you the injustice to forgive
without forgetting. If you and I were to
marry, Judith, we would have to be one

mind, one heart, one soul '

Judith answered, in a low voice,
Thanks, Ambrose. Perhaps we understand
one another better than you think.
But I heartily agree with you in this that
it would be a sin and a mockery to begin
life together without that feeling of which
you speak, and of which you are not capable
now. Let us part.'

c Let us part,' repeated Judith, firmly,
but as friends. You do not hate me now,
Ambrose ?'

Hate you ! Judith !'
4 You do not despise me now?'
Despise you !' cried Ambrose. ' God
forbid that I should ever be so unfortunate,
or sink so low, as to despise a womanlike
you.'

There was a pause, and one of those little
awkwardness that attend crises even the
most momentous. Ambrose wanted to go,
but did not quite know how to set about
leaving. What was he to do ? To shake
hands, that seemed a poor ending after
what had passed between them. To kiss
her ? No, he dared not ; her superiority
rebuked horn. Judith, delicate and kind
even in this extremity, rescued him from
his dilemma, by holding out her hand
frankly. He took it. She fixed her eyes
sorrowfully upon his face; but his he could
not raise.

Good-bye, Ambrose. I shall always think

kindly of you, and I hope you will always
think kindly of me. And, when happier
days come for you, then remember that you
owe me at least something. I claim your
chief virtues as mine ! For remember,
Ambrose, that, before you found out who it
was dealt you this hard blow, you allowed
that the event had brought you to a right
way of thinking — and to peace.'

Ambrose did not answer.

She withdrew her hand softly and turned
aside. For a moment the heroic woman
thought that her reward had come, that he
was about to sacrifice his resentment, to
throw his arms around her, to press his lips
to hers in perfect forgiveness and perfect
love. Then she heard a slight sound, and
a chill settled in her veins ; she lifted up her
eyes at last, and found that he was gone.

Judith stifled a cry of passionate despair
that rose to her lips. She could bear

to tell no one of what had happened.
She had lost everything; but she felt
already that her sorrow was too sacred
for anyone else to share just .now. She
was jealous lest anyone should tread on
the grave of her beautiful hopes, which
had never seemed so beautiful as in the
hour when they passed away. Her parents
and Annie would have to learn that she
had lost Ambrose. But the full meaning
of that loss was buried in her breast beneath
a weight of pain that could be lifted nevermore.


And yet that Ambrose would never
return was not the chief cause of that
silent, tearless mourning. The sad part of
it all was that he had proved himself unworthy.
Aunt Robby had foreseen that
these events would test Ambrose Jackson's
character to the very foundation, and
clearly bring to light what manner of man

he was. Judith had not thought of this.
But now, when this painful scene of parting
was over, she did see that Ambrose
had been weighed in the balance and found
wanting. She had always been convinced,
in spite of more than one contrary sign,
that Ambrose was deep down in his heart
one of Nature's gentlemen. After the
fashion of women, she had clung to this
faith not with her mind, but with her
love.

In leaving her, after such an appeal as
she had made, he had proved himself unable
to rise to that level where alone Judith
could place her hand in his. Her love
was wasted ; her hope was dead.

Ambrose ! Ambrose !' cried the wretched
girl, ' come back, come back, not for my
sake, but for yours !'

As she spoke her feet carried her to the
window, and her gaze fell on the far western

skies that gleamed like the opening
gates of Paradise. The sun's waning ray,
like the finger of God, touched the desolate
mourner, the fountains of her grief
were unsealed, and her throbbing brain was
saved by tears.

CHAPTER XIV.

SACRIFICE.

Bright Annie Topham was in the highest
spirits at the success of her stratagem. It
had been, oh, such a shave ! But no
matter, her father, instead of meeting and
quarrelling with Ambrose Jackson, was
now cheerfully and blandly instructing
Nicholas Tucker, M.P., how to perform
his new duties. Meanwhile dear Jue (her
sister fondly hoped) was having quite a
good time of it with Ambrose.

1 Of course,' mused Annie, ' he doesn't
deserve her, but perhaps he'll improve.
What are they doing now, I wonder !'

Annie was not a very patient little soul
under the most favourable circumstances,
and she fidgeted to such a degree that her
father was at last glad to let her go home
while he stayed behind educating the new
member. As Mrs. Topham was lying down
in her room with a bad head-ache, her
younger daughter made this an excuse forgoing
back, and she had no sooner left the
Tuckers than she hired a fly, and drove
away as quickly as possible.

She reached home a few minutes after
Ambrose had left Judith, and, hurrying
into the sitting-room, guessed at once what
had taken place.

Judith was standing in the middle of
the room, sobbing hysterically. Annie ran
to her, and clasped her in her arms without
saying a word, and pressed her rosy cheeks
against poor Judith's pallid lips. It was

the best thing she could have done, and,
though for the moment it only increased
Judith's distress, in the end it brought her
some slight comfort.

The dream is over, Annie,' she saidi

Doesn't he love you then, Jue?' gasped
the other, who had not yet been let into
the secret of Aunt Robby's operations.

Love me ! alas, yes, poor boy,' moaned
Judith. c But he loves himself the best.'
And she explained her offence against
Ambrose, and his resentment.

He's abominably selfish,' said Annie,
when she had got over the shock of the
news.

Don't abuse him,' flashed out Judith.
4 I can't stand that.'

I meant no harm,' protested Annie.

• I can't believe,' cried Judith, ' that
such love as mine can have been given to

a worthless man. I know that one often
thinks wrong, but can one feel wrong too,
Annie? No, no; if he's not good, he shall
be good for me till I die. He must be
what he has been to me always. Oh, never
mind ; don't look startled if I can't put
two and two together, for I hardly know
what I'm talking about now. I am dazed ;
everything seems so strange and blank.'

But Annie was startled ; she had never
heard her sister speak incoherently before,
and she was relieved when Judith said,
quietly,

You must promise me, Annie dear,
never to mention his name again. All of
you will have to promise me that. And I
perhaps I shall speak of him now and
then, once or twice, till I get used to my
new life.' And in another tone she added,
Run up to mother, will you, Annie, and see
if she wants anything. I aren't go near

her now. Oh, don't be afraid to leave me ;
the worst is over.'

Annie found her mother asleep. As she
came down again, what should she see out
of the staircase window but a man pacing
to and fro in the wood behind the house.
It was Ambrose. The girl's first impulse
was to rush down and tell Judith ; but
she checked herself, saying,

1 He's hesitating, but I shan't tell Jue,
in case it should come to nothing after all.
But I'll go out and give him a bit of my
mind, see if I don't.'

Ambrose had fled from Judith's presence,
but a power which he could not
withstand turned his steps, and, instead
of keeping along the high-road, he plunged
into the wood. But, go which way he
might, escape was impossible, because his
breast was racked by an accusing con-vol.

in. u

science ; so he stood still by chance on
the very spot where Judith had listened
to James T weedy 's revelation. Here he
paused, and knew that his feet were planted
on a battle-ground.

The hour was decisive. Either self or
sacrifice must prevail. There could be no
compromise. He was not a man to blunder
on with a divided mind. Either he
must take up his old belief, shaken and
mutilated as it was, and build up his future
under the old conditions with the strength
of a giant, or he must forgive Judith from
the bottom of his heart.

Could he possibly hesitate ?

Ah, it is not the blow, it is the hand
that brings the smart, and Ambrose Jackson's
resentment was nothing less than the
ill-gotten child of love. If the offender
had been anyone — anyone in the wide
world except Judith, he would have winced

and then passed on ; or if it had been
Judith, and he had not loved her so, it
would not have mattered much. So long
as he suspected Alice Murray, he had
hardly given the injury a second thought.
But Judith — his Judith — that thought was
maddening still.

If Aunt Robby could have seen the look
of strangled pain in this man's face now,
she would have shuddered to hold herself
responsible for the struggle going on in
this heart of flesh and blood. But the
venerable dame dozed in easy forgetfulness
in her accustomed place near the chimney
corner, while her experiment was being
carried out to the bitter end.

Annie felt her pluck oozing away as she
hurried to Ambrose, whom she had always
been more or less frightened of. But when
she came up to him, and saw that look in
his face, she was afraid no longer — she was

u2

angry no longer. He was startled by her
appearance, but he understood her sympathy
at once, and stepped forward to meet
her. Annie clung to his coat like a child,
forgot all she had intended to say, and
sobbed,

Oh, Jack, she does love you so !'

Ambrose was softened to hear the nickname
coming so plaintively from her lips,
and he folded the girl in his arms. She
looked up and said,

You're not going to leave her ? Oh,
you're a good fellow ; I'm not a bit afraid
of you now. Cris always said you were a
brick.'

c And I suppose Master Cris is always
right,' said Ambrose, smiling gravely. ' Do
you know what he told me yesterday,
Annie ? — that every man, when it comes to
the death-grapple, must fight his enemy
alone. I'm in the thick of the fight now,

and even you can't help me, Annie.'

c But — if you love her,' began the girl.

1 If I love her, child ! It is because I
love her so dearly that I have torn myself
away from her.'

Oh,' said Annie, ' when Oris loves me
most, he doesn't tear himself away. I'd
forgive him anything, you know, and he'd
forgive me anything. Now, don't be hardhearted
. . . .'

Annie paused, suddenly checked by a
vague idea that it did not become her to
intercede for Judith. Judith would not
like it. — Annie saw besides that he was
right, that she could not help him now.
So she pressed his hands affectionately,
gazed into his eyes with wistful earnestness,
and stole back to the house. But she
stepped behind the laurel hedge, and, unseen
herself, watched with awe the man
wrestling with his thoughts.

A change had come over Ambrose. He
now realised, for the first time, the depth
and solemnity of Judith's appeal. His
passion ebbed away ; better thoughts flowed
into his troubled mind. He owned "that
Judith was not only earnest, self-denying,
lovable — she was right. He had no just
complaint to bring against her. She had
thwarted him in the letter, she had nobly
rescued him in the spirit. Was such loss
as his, loss at all ? Is it a loss when the
shell of the chrysalis is rent, and the new
creature rises to a purer height ? No. And
Ambrose felt that he, too, had risen with
liberty and strength. For truth is enlargement,
truth is power.

If this were so, in what other light must
he not regard the woman who had wrought
this change. It was true that her action
had been hasty, but it received her full
approval even when she knew what would

he its cost. Ambrose became conscious
that, in a woman's frail body, there can
dawn a moral force stronger than that of
intellect itself. Judith grew, as it were,
on his mind's eye, till she seemed to fill the
horizon with her meek grandeur.

He could not reject her love without
madness. If such a woman had been pointed
out in the throng, and her goodness explained
to him, he would surely have sought
her, and made himself known, and given all
for her smile. And now she was his, his
now and ever, if he could only bring her
this last sacrifice of self.

Evil thoughts thronged again upon him,
but their hour was passed ; with them he
had now neither part nor lot. Judith, divinely
taught, was tugging at his heartstrings.
A last struggle — the enemy lay
dead, and the victor rose to obey the
call.

Judith, meanwhile, in her sisters absence,
had again given full course to her
grief. She had told Ambrose that she
could hardly bear what was to come upon
her. And now that it had come, she felt
it to be unendurable altogether. If she
had not submitted to that kiss she might,
after long years of mourning, have lived
down her bereavement. Now . . .

Oh, God,' she cried, wringing her hands,
1 have mercy on me in my great loneliness.'

The prayer was answered — by the sound
of approaching footsteps. Judith had sown
in tears ; she was to reap in joy.

It was a quick, firm step, and Judith's
heart stood almost still, and the room went
round and round.

He was coming back true to himself, true
to her. Judith's faith was not wasted, her
love was not lost.

And the wish flashed through her heart

that he should not be received as a suppliant.
It should be her study to make
him forget that he had ever been wrong.
She would meet him half way. — But she
could not move a step for the trembling of
her knees.

And at that moment the door was
thrown open with the old eagerness, and
there was her Ambrose, calling,

'Judith! Judith!'

Annie, who had kept her eyes open, was
quite sure that everything was going on
all right at last. She furtively wiped away
a tear with her sleeve, and gave the lovers
what she considered a reasonable time to
get over the first shock. Then she crept
to the door, opened it an inch, and, peeping,
gave a long chirp, which ended suddenly
in a suspicious little gurgle. Her future 
heard it, and called aloud, cheerily,

she was to come in ; for he wanted a
kiss, and could not leave Judith just at
present. Sly Annie knew much better than
to make a third. She whispered back, as
if she were in a church, that she had some
affairs of her own to look after ; and so
stole, blushing, up to her bed-room, and
looked out the neat packets of Cris Parry's
beautiful, beautiful letters, and untied the
dainty ribbons, and read choice bits with
tears and laughter. Ambrose might turnout
to be a fine fellow, she allowed. But
as to ever comparing him with dear Cris —
why, Cris had been in business only a few
months, and was already making a fortune.
No wonder ! Who could help buying the
1 Viking Varnish,' when he wrote such beautiful
letters. So mused the little maid,
and forgot all about the happy people
downstairs.

There, the minutes slipped by unheeded
first the lovers said little. But Ambrose
liked to sit close to Judith, and Judith
liked to sit quite close to Ambrose. She
hardly dared to believe in her good fortune.
But this feeling was to die away
quickly, and she could face the future
smiling ; for it was not imperilled by
one false step, or dimmed by one regret.
She could freely enjoy the happiness she
deserved.

Ambrose had, perhaps, still to prove his
merits, and he seemed to know this, for he
said,

Judith, does " Parry and Jackson" sound
well?'

Her face lit up. c Can you mean that
you're going into business ? Going to give
up politics ?'

'Yes, darling.'

'And your ambition, clearest Ambrose?'

1 My only ambition,' he answered, gravely,
is to become worthy of a good woman's
love.'

The sun went down all at once. A sweet,
warm breeze floated in at the window, and
caressed Judith's forehead as she lay upon
her lover's breast.

Close by a child was singing.

Then there was a long silence.

'A great many angels have been passing,'
said Judith at last, with a smile.

Perhaps we too may hear the rustling of
angels' wings, if we strike our hand into
our brother's, and listen quietly.

THE END.

LONDON : PRINTED BY DUNCAN Macdonald, BLENHEIM HOUSE.

MESSRS. HURST AM) BLACKETT'S

LIST OF NEW WORKS.

RECORDS OF SERVICE AND CAMPAIGNING

IN MANY LANDS. By Surgeon-general Munro, M.D., Cab.,

Author of ' Reminiscences of Military Service with the 93rd
Sutherland Highlanders,' &c. Dedicated by Permission to
H. R. H. the PRINCESS LOUISE. 2 vols, crown 8vo. 21s.

THROUGH CYPRUS. By Agnes Smith, Author

of " Glimpses of Greek Life and Scenery," &c 1 vol. demy 8vo.
With Illustrations and Map of the Author's Route. 15s.

The cheerful and observant authoress has much that is new to tell us." — Daily
Telegraph.

REMINISCENCES OF THE COURT AND

TIMES OF KING ERNEST OF HANOVER. By the Rev. C.

A. 'Wilkinson, Mea., His Majesty's Resident Domestic Chaplain.

Second and Cheaper Edition. 1 vol. crown 8vo. With portrait of

the King. 6s.
An interesting book, entitled ' Reminiscences of the Court and Times of King
Ernest of Hanover,' has just been published by Messrs. Hurst and Blackett. The
two volumes in which these reminiscences of a septuagenarian are comprised
abound in characteristic stories of the old king, in anecdotes of many celebrities
English and foreign, of the early part of this century, and, indeed, of all kinds and
conditions of men and women with whom the author was brought in contact by
his courtly or pastoral office." — St. James's Gazette.

THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF PEG

Washington : With Pictures of the Period in which She
Lived. By J. Fitzgerald Mollot, Author of " Court Life
Below Stairs," &c. Third and Cheaper Edition. 1 vol. crown 8vo.
With Portrait. 6s.

Shinar SKETCHES: With Notes on Indian

Field Sports. By J. Moray Brown, late 79th Cameron Highlanders.
With Eight Illustrations, by J. C. Dolman, Rei. 1 vol.
small 4to. 10s. 6d.

"A glorious book. It is palpably the work of a true sportsman." — Horse and Hour d.

"The Sketches are delightfully written, models of clear, bright, racy narrative,

and containing just those particulars that a sportsman wishes to know.' — Scotsman.

EIGHTEENTH CENTURY WAIFS. By John

Ashton, Author of ' Social Life in the Reign of Queen Anne,' &c.
1 vol. small 4to. 12s.

The matter contained in this book is always pleasing and instructive. There
is certainly not a dull page in the volume"— Globe.

CHAPTERS FROM FAMILY CHESTS. By

Edward Walford, Mea., Author of ' The County Families,' &c.
2 vols, crown 8vo. 21s.
' Chapters from Family Chests ' are a great deal more exciting and absorbing
than one half the professedly sensational novels." — Daily Telegraph

"Mr. Walford's volumes abound in what is known as the romance of real life,
and are extremely interesting reading." — Daily News.

THE EGYPTIAN CAMPAIGNS, 1882 to 1885,

and the Events which led to them. By Charles Boyle,

Barrister at-Law, of Alexandria. 2 vols, demy 8vo. Illustrated
by Maps and Plans. sos.

"Mr. Eoylehas done well in the interests of historical completeness to describe
not only the entire military drama, but also the political events connected with
it, and whoever reads the book with care has gone a considerable way towards
mastering the difficult Egyptian question." — Athenaeum.

"The Egyptian fiasco has found in Mr. Boyle a most painstaking, accurate, and
judicious historian. From a literary point of view his volumes may be thought to
contain too many unimportant incidents, yet their presence was necessary perhaps,
in a complete record, and the most fastidious reader will acquit Mr. Boyle
of filling his pages with anything that can be called padding"— St. James's Gazette.

FOOTSTEPS OF JEANNE D'ARC. A Pilgrimage.

By Mrs. Florence Cadet. 1 vol.demy8vo. With. Map of Route. 15s.
"The reader, whatever his preconceived notions of the maid may have been,
will soon find himself in sympathy with a writer who, by the charm of her descriptive
style, at once arrests his attention and sustains the interest of her
subject"— Morning Post.

THE FRIENDSHIPS OF MARY RUSSELL

Milford : As Recorded in Letters from her Literary
Correspondents. Edited by the Rev. A. G. Estrange,

Editor of " The Life of Mary Russell Milford," &c. 2 vols. 21s.
These letters are all written as to one whom the writers love and revere. Miss
Barrett is one of Miss Milford's correspondents, all of whom seem to be inspired
with a sense of excellence in the mind they are invoking. Their letters are extremely
interesting, and they strike out recollections, opinions, criticisms, which
will hold the reader's delighted and serious attention." — Daily Telegraph.

THE Bronze FAMILY, With Special Reference

to Patrick Branwell Bronze. By Francis A. Let land. 2
vols. 21s.
"This book is so full of interesting information that as a contribution to literary
biography it may be considered a real success." — Academy.

Mr. Leland's book is earnest and accurate, and he has spared no pains to
master his subject and present it with clearness; the book is valuable, and should
be read by all who are familiar with the previous works on the family." — Graphic.

MEMOIRS OF A CAMBRIDGE CHORISTER.

By William Glover. 2 vols, crown 8vo. 21s.

"In these amusing volumes Mr. Glover provides us with the means of spending
a pleasant hour or two in his company." — Times.

"These volumes contain a miscellaneous set of reminiscences, comments, and
anecdotes, written in a light and jocular style. Mr. Glover is always cheerful
and never didactic-athenaeum.

WITHOUT GOD: Negative Science and Natural

Ethics. By Percy Greg, Author of "The Devil's Advocate,"

"Across the Zodiac," &c. 1 vol. demy 8vo. 12s.

Mr. Greg has condensed much profound thought into his book, and has fully

succeeded in maintaining the interest of the discussion throughout." — Morning Post.

This work is ably written; there are in it many passages of no ordinary power

and brilliancy. It is eminently suggestive and stimulating"— Scotsman,



THE REAL SHELLEY: New Views of the Poet's

Life. By John Cord Jefferson, Author of " The Real Lord

Byron," " A Book about Doctors," "A Book about Lawyers," &c.

2 vols, demy 8vo. sos.

"Those who have read Mr. Jefferson's account of Byron will be prepared to

find that impartiality is the distinguishing feature of his endeavour to clear away

the fancies and misconceptions which have been given to the world in some of

the biographies of Shelley, and they will not be disappointed. The author has

striven to ascertain, fairly and fully, the truth concerning a poet whose influence,

while it has been greatly exaggerated by his most enthusiastic admirers, is still a

living factor in the life of many"— Morning Post.

WOMEN OF EUROPE IN THE FIFTEENTH

AND SIXTEENTH CENTURIES. By Mrs. Napier Higgins.

Vols. 1 and 2 demy 8vo. sos.
The work is likely to be of permanent value to the students of history"—
Morning Post.

ON THE TRACK OF THE CRESCENT: Erratic

Notes from the Piraeus to Perth. By Major E. C. Johnson,
M.A.I., F. R. Hist. S., etc. With Map and Upwards of 50 Illustrations
by the Author. 1 vol. demy 8vo. 15s.
The author of this bright, pleasant volume possesses keen power of observation
and vivid appreciation of animate and inanimate beauty. It will brighten
hours for many readers who will only follow the track of the Crescent through ita
pages and its numerous illustrations." — Morning Post.

MEMOIRS OF MARSHAL Bureau, From

His Private Correspondence and Original Documents, 1784 —
1819. By the Count H. dTdeville. Edited, from the French,
by Charlotte M. Yonge. 2 vols, demy 8vo. sos.
This is a work of great value to the student of French history. A perusal of
the book will convince any reader of Bureau's energy, his patriotism, his unselfishness,
and his philanthropy and humanity"— A athenaeum.

GLIMPSES OF GREEK LIFE AND SCENERY.

By Agnes Smith, Author of " Eastern Pilgrims," &c. Demy 8vo.

"With Illustrations and Map of the Author's Route. 15s.
A truthful picture of the country through which the author travelled. It is
naturally and simply told, in an agreeable and animated style. Miss Smith displays
an ample acquaintance and sympathy with all the scenes of historic interest."
St. James's Gazette.

MONSIEUR GUIZOT in Private Life (1787-

1874). By His Daughter, Madame de Witt. Translated by Mrs.

Simpson. 1 vol. demy 8vo. 15s.
"Madame de Witt has done justice to her father's memory in an admirable record
of his life. Mrs. Simpson's translation of this singularly interesting book is
in accuracy and grace worthy of the original and of the subject." — Saturday Review.

PLAIN SPEAKING. By Author of " John Halifax,

Gentleman." 1 vol. crown 8vo. 10s. 6d.
"We recommend 'Plain Speaking' to all who like amusing, wholesome, arid
instructive reading. The contents of Mrs. Crank's volume are of the most multifarious
kind, but all the papers are good t and readable, and one at least of them
of real importance." — St. James's Gazette.

WORDS OF HOPE AND COMFORT TO

THOSE IN SORROW. Dedicated by Permission to The Queen
Fourth Edition. 1 vol. small 4tn, fia,

LODGE'S PEERAGE

AND BARONETAGE,

CORRECTED BY THE NOBILITY.

Fifty-six TH Edition N FOR 1887.

Lodge's Peerage and Baronetage is acknowledged to be the most
complete, as well as the most elegant, work of the kind. As an established
and authentic authority on all questions respecting the family
histories, honours, and connections of the titled aristocracy, no work has
ever stood so high. It is published under the especial patronage of Her
Majesty, and is annually corrected throughout, from the personal communications
of the Nobility. It is the only work of its class in which, the
type being kept constantly standing, every correction is made in its proper
place to the date of publication, an advantage which gives it supremacy
over all its competitors. Independently of its full and authentic information
respecting the existing Peers and Baronets of the realm, the most
sedulous attention is given in its pages to the collateral branches of the
various noble families, and the names of many thousand individuals are
introduced, which do not appear in other records of the titled classes. For
its authority, correctness, and facility of arrangement, and the beauty of
its typography and binding, the work is justly entitled to the place it
occupies on the tables of Her Majesty and the Nobility.

LIST OF THE PRINCIPAL CONTENTS.

Historical View of the Peerage.
Parliamentary Roll of the House of Lords.
English, Scotch, and Irish Peers, in their

orders of Precedence.
Alphabetical List of Peers of Great Britain

and the United Kingdom, holding superior
rank in the Scotch or Irish Peerage.
Alphabetical list of Scotch and Irish Peers,

holding superior titles in the Peerage of

Great Britain and the United Kingdom.
A Collective list of Peers, in their order of

Precedence.
Table of Precedency among Men.
Table of Precedency among Women.
The Queen and the Royal Family.
Peers of the Blood Royal.
The Peerage, alphabetically arranged.
Families of such Extinct Peers as have left

Widows or Issue.
Alphabetical List of the Surnames of all the

Peers.

The Archbishops and Bishops of England
and Ireland.

The Baronetage alphabetically arranged.

Alphabetical List of Surnames assumed by
members of Noble Families.

Alphabetical List of the Second Titles of
Peers, usually borne by their Eldest
Sons.

Alphabetical Index to the Daughters of
Dukes, Marquises, and Earls, who, having
married Commoners, retain the title
of Lady before their own Christian and
their Husband's Surnames.

Alphabetical Index to the Daughters of
Viscounts and Barons, who, having
married Commoners, are styled Honourable
Mrs. ; and, in case of the husband
being a Baronet or Knight. Hon. Lady.

A List of the Orders of Knighthood.

Mottoes alphabetically arranged and translated.


"This work is the most perfect and elaborate record of the living and recently deceased
members of the Peerage of the Three Kingdoms as it stands at this day. It is
a most useful publication. We are happy to bear testimony to the fact that scrupulous
accuracy is a distinguishing feature of this book"— Times.

"Lodge's Peerage must supersede all other works of the kind, for two reasons: first, it
is on a better plan ; and secondly, it is better executed. We can safely pronounce it to bethe
readiest, the most useful, and exactness of modern works on the subject"— Spectator:

A work of great value. It is the most faithful record we possess of the aristocracy
of the day"— Post.



Novo ready, in one vol. small Mo, thrice 10s. 6d.
With Eight Illustrations by J. C. Dolman, R.L

Shinar SKETCHES

WITH NOTES ON INDIAN FIELD SPORTS.
By J. MORAY BROWN,

Late 79th Cameron Highlanders.

Opinions of % ^xzzs.

The author goes through the round of Indian sport, and writes in
such a pleasant fashion as to make his pages agreeable reading to all for
whom the subject itself has attractions ; the book has the additional
advantage of some spirited illustrations.' — The Field.

A glorious book ; it is palpably the work of a true sportsman, and
whilst firing the young to emulate glorious deeds of sport in our Indian
Empire, it will make the blood flow faster in the veins of many old
sportsmen, and recall scenes of excitement such as must have been participated
in to be thoroughly appreciated.' — Horse and Hound.

The book is vivacious throughout, and is well worthy of a place on
the table and in the library.' — Publishers' Circular.

'The sketches are delightfully written, models of clear, bright, racy
narrative, and containing just those particulars which a sportsman
desires to know.' — Scotsman.

1 Captain Moray Brown tells his story well, and is so genuine an
enthusiast himself that he very quickly makes his reader one too.' —
Land and Water.

1 This book contains records of some exceedingly interesting incidents
of Indian sport.' — St. James's Gazette.

A work of singular interest and weight, and one which should find a
place in the library of all true sportsmen.' — Morning Post.

1 Every Englishman who has been to India, or hopes to go there,
should possess and value this delightful book.' — Daily Telegraph.

This is a most interesting account of hunting expeditions in India,
told with evident avoidance of exaggeration or embellishment.' — Literary
World.

1 Mr. Moray Brown writes in an animated and sprightly style, not
without occasional dashes of fancy and humour, which greatly add to
the charm of his book.' — Home News.

Nearly every kind of Indian sport is described, and with a liveliness,
vigour, and dash that carry the reader along ; we can heartily praise the
.accompanying illustrations. — Graphic.

LONDON : HURST AND BLACKETT, LIMITED.

JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN.

Each in One Volume, Frontispiece, and Uniformly Bound, price 5s,

JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN.

•• This is a very good and a very interesting work. It is designed to trace the career
from boyhood to age of a perfect man — a Christian gentleman, and it abounds in incident
both well and highly wrought. Throughout it is conceived in a high spirit, and written
with great ability. This cheap and handsome new edition is worthy to pass freely from
hand to hand as a gift-book in many households." — Examiner.

The story is very interesting The attachment between John Halifax and his wife is
beautifully painted, as are the pictures of their domestic life, and the growing up of their
children, and the conclusion of the book is beautiful and touching." — Athenaeum.

"The new and cheaper edition of this interesting work will doubtless meet with great
success. John Halifax, the hero of this most beautiful story, is no ordinary hero, and this
his history is no ordinary book. It is a full-length portrait of a true gentleman, one of
nature's own nobility. It is also the history of a home, and a thoroughly English one.
The work abounds in incident, and is full of graphic power and true pathos. It is a book
that few will read without becoming wiser and better." — Scotsman.

A WOMAN'S THOUGHTS ABOUT WOMEN.

"A book of sound counsel. It is one of the most sensible works of its kind, well written,
true-hearted, and altogether practical. Whoever wishes to give advice to a young lady
may thank the author for means of doing so"— Examiner.

These thoughts are worthy of the earnest and enlightened mind, the all-embracing
charity, and the well-earned reputation of the author of ' John Halifax.' " — Standard.

This excellent book is characterised by good sense, good taste, and feeling, and is
written in an earnest, philanthropic, as well as practical spirit"— Post.

A LIFE FOR A LIFE.

We are always glad to welcome this author. She writes from her own convictions,
and she has the power not only to conceive clearly what it is that she wishes to say. but
to express it in language effective and vigorous. In ' A Life for a Life ' she is fortunate
in a good subject, and she has produced a work of strong effect. The reader, having read
the book through for the story, will be apt (if he be of our persuasion) to return and reid
again many pages and passages with greater pleasure than on a first perusal. The whole
book is replete with a graceful, tender delicacy ; and, in addition to its other merits, it is
written in good careful English." — Athenaeum.

NOTHING NEW.

"nothing New' displays all those superior merits which have made 'John Halifax '
one of the most popular works of the day"— Post.

The reader will find these narratives calculated to remind him of that truth and
energy of human portraiture, that spell over human affections and emotions, which have
stamped this author as one of the first novelists of our day"— John Bull.

THE WOMAN'S KINGDOM.

• The Woman's Kingdom ' sustains the author's reputation as a writer of the purest
and noblest kind of domestic stories. The novelist's lesson is given with admirable force
and sweetness." — Athenaeum.

• The Woman's Kingdom ' is remarkable for its romantic interest. The characters
are masterpieces. Edna is worthy of the hand that drew John Halifax"— Post.

STUDIES FROM LIFE.

"These studies are truthful and vivid pictures of life, often earnest, always full of right
feeling, and occasionally lightened by touches of quiet genial humour. The volume is remarkable
for thought, sound sense, shrewd observation, and kind and sympathetic feeling
for all things good and beautiful"— Post.

JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN.

(CONTINUED.)

CHRISTIAN'S MISTAKE.

"A more charming story, to our taste, has rarely been written. "Within the compass
of a single volume the writer has hit off a circle of varied characters, all true to nature —
some true to the highest nature — and she has entangled them in a story which keeps us
in suspense till the knot is happily and gracefully resolved ; while, at the same time, a
pathetic interest is sustained by an art of which it would be difficult to analyse the secret.
It is a choice gift to be able thus to render human nature so truly, to penetrate its depths
with such a searching sagacity, and to illuminate them with a radiance so eminently the
writer's own. Even if tried by the standard of the Archbishop of York, we should expect
that even he would pronounce 'Christian's Mistake' a novel without a fault." — The Times.

This is a story good to have from the circulating library, but better to have from one's
bookseller, for it deserves a place in that little collection of clever and wholesome stories
which forms one of the comforts of a well-appointed home." — Examiner.

MISTRESS AND MAID.

"A good, wholesome book, as pleasant to read as it is instructive." — Athenaeum.
"This book is written with the same true-hearted earnestness as ' John Halifax.' The
spirit of the whole work is excellent." — Examiner.
"A charming tale charmingly told" — Standard.

A NOBLE LIFE.

"This is one of those pleasant tales in which the author of 'John Halifax ' speaks out
of a generous heart the purest truths of life.' — Examiner.

Few men, and no women, will read 'A Noble Life 'without finding themselves the
better." — Spectator.

A story of powerful and pathetic interest"— Daily News.

A BRAVE LADY.

"A very good novel, showing a tender sympathy with human nature, and permeated
by a pure and noble spirit"— Examiner.

A most charming Story." — Standard.

We earnestly recommend this novel. It is a special and worthy specimen of the
author's remarkable powers. The reader's attention never for a moment flags." — Post.

HANNAH.

A powerful novel of social and domestic life. One of the most successful efforts of a
successful novelist"— Daily News.

- A very pleasant, healthy story, well and artistically told. The book is sure of a wide
circle of readers. The character of Hannah is one of rare beauty." — Standard.

THE UNKIND WORD.

The author of 'John Halifax' has written many fascinating stories, but we can call to
mind nothing from her pen that has a more enduring charm than the graceful sketches in
this work. Such a character as Jessie stands out from a crowd of heroines as the type of
all that is truly noble, pure, and womanly'— United Service Magazine.

YOUNG MRS. JARDINE.

"' Young Mrs. Jardine ' is a pretty story, written in pure English"— The Times.

"There is much good feeling in this book. It is pleasant and wholesome"— Athenaeum.

"A book that all should read Whilst it is quite the equal of any of its predecessors
in elevation of thought and style, it is perhaps their superior in interest of plot and
dramatic intensity. The characters are admirably delineated, and the dialogue is natural
and clear"— Morning Post. „

LONDON : Hues AND BLACKETT, LIMITED.

EACH IN ONE VOLUME CROWN 8vo, 6s.

DONOVAN:

A MODERN ENGLISHMAN.

"This is a very admirable work. The reader is from the first carried away by the
gallant unconventionality of its author. ' Donovan ' is a very excellent novel ; but it is
something more and better. It should do as much good as the best sermon ever written
or delivered extempore. The story is told with a grand simplicity, an unconscious poetry
of eloquence which stirs the very depths of the heart. One of the main excellencies of
this novel is the delicacy of touch with which the author shows her most delightful characters
to be after all human beings, and not angels before their time." — Standard.

' Donovan ' is told with the power of truth, experience, and moral insight. The tone
of the novel is excellent and very high." — Daily News.

WE r Two.

This book is well written and full of interest. The story abounds with a good many
light touches, and is certainly far from lacking in incident." — Times.

"' We Two ' contains many very exciting passages and a great deal of information.
Miss Lyall is a capable writer and a clear-headed thinker." — Athenaeum.

A work of deep thought and much power. Serious as it is, it is now and then brightened
by rays of genuine humour. Altogether this story is more and better than a novel."
Morning Post.

There is artistic realism both in the conception and the delineation of the personages;
the action and interest are unflagging sustained from first to last, and the book is pervaded
by an atmosphere of elevated, earnest thought." — Scotsman.

IN THE GKXLE-EN DAYS.

"Miss Lyall has given us a vigorous study of such life and character as are really worth
reading about. The central figure of her story is Algerian Sydney ; and this figure she
invests with a singular dignity and power. He always appears with effect, but no liberties
are taken with the facts of his life. The plot is adapted with great felicity to them.
His part in it, absolutely consistent as it is with historical truth, gives it reality as well as
dignity. Some of the scenes are remarkably vivid The escape is an admirable narrative,
which almost makes one hold one's breath as one reads." — Spectator.

' In the Golden Days ' is an excellent novel of a kind we are always particularly glad
to recommend. It has a good foundation of plot and incident, a thoroughly noble and
wholesome motive, a hero who really acts and suffers heroically, and two very nice
heroines. The historical background is very carefully indicated, but is never allowed to
become more than background." — Guardian.

WON BY WAITING.

The Dean's daughters are perfectly real characters — the learned Cornelia especially ;
—the little impulsive French heroine, who endures their cold hospitality and at last wins
their affection, is thoroughly charming; while throughout the book there runs a golden
thread of pure brotherly and sisterly love, which pleasantly reminds us that the making
and marring of marriage is not, after all, the sum total of real life." — Academy.

' Won by Waiting ' is a very pleasing and well-written tale ; full of graphic descriptions
of French and English life, with incidents and characters well sustained. A hook
with such pleasant reading, and with such a healthy tone and influence, is a great boon
to the young people in our families." — Freeman.

LONDON : HURST AND BLACKETT, LIMITED.

Now Ready, at all Libraries, in 3 vols, crown Svo,

Knight-errant.

By EDNA Lyell,

Author of " Donovan," "We Two," 'ein the Golden Days."

Opinions of % |)r£ss.

" Knight-errant " is marked by the author's best qualities as a
writer of fiction, and displays on every page the grace and quiet power
of her former works.' — Athenaeum.

The plot, and, indeed, the whole story, is gracefully fresh and very
charming ; there is a wide humanity in the book that cannot fail to
accomplish its author's purpose.' — Literary World.

Since the days of Mrs. Gaskell, we remember no story that we have
read with greater pleasure.' — Publishers' Circular.

1 A charming story, related with the dainty grace of an admirable
style.' — Bookseller.

1 Among all the stories, real or fictitious, of Italian brigandage which
we have read, there is none more striking, picturesque, and terrible
than this.' — Spectator.

The novel is imbued with deep spiritual and religious feeling ; it
teaches the best lessons of Christianity in the best spirit — the spirit
most allied to charity and most removed from sect.' — Scotsman.

1 Certainly a pretty and touching tale.' — Illustrated News.

• This novel is distinctly helpful and inspiring from its high tone, its
intense human feeling, and its elevated morality. It forms an additional
proof, if such were needed, that Miss Lyall has a mandate to write.' —
Academy.

1 In this excellent novel every character is well drawn, every scene
well painted, and every incident well told.' — Murray's Magazine.

This is the story of a lofty ideal, and very gracefully and sympathetically
worked out.' — Queen.

LONDON : HURST AND Blackett, LIMITED.

EACH IN ONE VOLUME CROWN 8vo.

HIS LITTLE MOTHER.
By the Author of " John Halifax, Gentleman."

' His Little Mother ' is one of those pathetic stories which the author tells better
than anybody else." — John Bull.

This book is written with all Mrs. Crank's grace of style, the chief charm of which,
after all, is its simplicity"— Glasgow Herald.

MY Lori J±NJO> MY LADY.

By Mrs. Forrester.

"A very capital novel. The great charm about it is that Mrs. Forrester is quite at home
in the society which she describes. It is a book to read." — Standard.

Mrs. Forrester's style is so fresh and graphic that the reader is kept under its spell
from first to last." — Morning Post.

S O 3? H Y.

By Violet Fane.

' Sophy ' is the clever and original work of a clever woman. Its merits are of a strikingly
unusual kind. It is charged throughout with the strongest human interest. It is,
in a word, a novel that will make its mark." — World.

.A. HOUSE EA.RTY.

By Ouida.

"'A House Party' will be read, firstly, because it is Ouida's, and, secondly, because of
the brightness of the conversations and descriptions. It is indeed more like a comedy
than any other of the writer's books"— Globe.

OMNIA VAMTAS.
By Mrs. Forrester.

This book is pleasant and well meant. Here and there are some good touches. Sir
Ralph is a man worth reading about"— Academy.

This tale is well and cleverly written ; the characters are drawn and sustained with
considerable power, and the conversation is always bright and lively." — Glasgow Herald.

BETRAYAL OE REUBEN HOLT.

By Barbara Lake.

This novel shows considerable power of writing. There are some striking scenes and
in cents. ' 'scotsman.

"This tale displays elevation of thought and feeling, united to no little grace of
expression." — Post.

THE Brandies.
By the Eight Hon. A. J. B. Beresford Hope, M.P.

The great attraction of this novel is the easy, conversational, knowledgeable tone of
it ; the sketching from the life, and yet not so close to the Ifs e as to be malicious, men,
women, periods, and events, to all of which intelligent readers can fit a name. The
political and social sketches will naturally excite the chief interest among readers who
will be attracted by the author's name and experience"— Spectator.

LONDON : HURST AND BLACKETT, LIMITED.

PUBLISHED BY HURST & BLACKETT.

TILL MY WEDDING DAY. By a French Lady.

2 vols.

There is a good deal of characteristic and life-like description, and the variety
of incident through which the several personages of tho story are carried is remarkable"
— Athenaeum.

THE GREEN HILLS BY THE SEA: A Manx

Story. By Hugh Coleman Davidson. 3 vols.

"Some of the characters are real human beings, some of the situations are
powerfully conceived, and many of the descriptions are admirable." — Academy.

Mr. Davidson's imagination is fantastic, as well as original at times, and he
writes a great deal that is pleasant to read and remember"— Daily Telegraph.

MURIEL'S MARRIAGE. ByEsME Stuart, Author

of " A Faire Dalzell," &c. 3 vols.
"Much of the interest and charm of the story, and both are considerable, are
due to the delineations, not merely of the two principal personages, but of the
minor characters." — Scotsman.

ONCE AGAIN. By Mrs. Forrester, Author of

"Viva," " Mignon," " My Lord and My Lady," &c. (Second Edition)

3 vols.

A really fascinating story. Bright and often original as is Mrs. Forrester, her
peculiar gifts have never been seen to better advantage than in 'Once Again.'
An undercurrent of tragedy runs through this startling tale, and this, together
with its graphically drawn characters, sets it completely apart from the ordinary
society story." — Morning Post.

A WILFUL YOUNG WOMAN. By A. Price,

Author of " A Rustic Maid," " Who is Sylvia ?" &c. 3 vols.
'• A very readable story. Mrs. Price has drawn her dramatis personal with some
power and vigour." — Academy.
'• The story is throughout both sound and high-principled"— Literary World.

THE SURVIVORS. By Henry Cresswell, Author

of " A Modern Greek Heroine," " Incognita," &c. 3 vols.
There is cleverness in this book, and occasional brilliancy and wit"— Academy.
'An amusing comedy of modern life; there are some good situations and
striking episodes in the book." — Athenaeum.

A WICKED GIRL. By Mary Cecil Hay, Author

of " Old Myddelton's Money," &c. 3 vols.
"The author of 'Old Myddelton's Money' always manages to write interesting
stories'' — Academy.

THE WOOING OF CATHERINE. By E. Frances

Pointer, Author of "My Little Lady,"&c. 2 vols.
'The figures are drawn with clear, bold strokes, each individual standing
before us with marked personality, while the backgrounds are effective and
Striking. 'literary World.

ST. Travels. By Mary Deane, Author of

Quatrefoil," &c. 3 vols.

The authoress throughout writes with moderation and consistency, and her
three ample volumes well repay perusal." — Daily Telegraph.

•' ' St. Travels ' is a story replete with variety, and in all developments of her
plot the author skilfully maintains an unabated interest"— Morning Post.

PUBLISHED BY HURST & BLACKETT.

A GREAT PLATONIC FRIENDSHIP. By W.

Dalton Bernard. 3 vols.

ON THE SCENT. By Lady Margaret Majestie,

Author of 'Dita,' 'Once More,' ' Sisters-in-law,' &c. 1 vol.
crown 8vo. 6s.

Jacob's WIFE. By Adeline Sergeant, Author

of 'No Saint,' 'An Open Foe,' &c. 3 vols.

THE GOLDEN HOPE : A Romance of the Deep.

By W. Clark Russell, Author of ' The Wreck of the Grosvenor,'
&c. 3 vols.
"Mr. Clark Russell's new novel has a mystical or spiritualistic foundation, on
which he has constructed a tale of great dramatic power." — Morning Post.

FROM HEATHER HILLS. By Mrs. J. Hartley

Perks. 2 vols.
'From Heather Hills' is very pleasant reading indeed. It is healthy without
being violent, subtle without being affected. Mrs. Perks has a grace and delicacy
of touch that is quite charming"— Saturday Review.

Knight-errant. By Edna Lyall, Author of

Donovan," " We Two," " In the Golden Days," &c. Second
Edition. 3 vols.
' Knight-errant ' is marked by the author's best qualities as a writer of fiction,
and displays on every page the grace and quiet power of her former works.' —
A thence.

A DATELESS BARGAIN. By C. L. Pirkis,

Author of "Lady Lovelace," " Judith Wynne," &c. 3 vols.
'A Dateless Bargain ' has supplied a fresh proof of the author's skill in turning
out very good and workmanlike fiction." — Academy.
"A clever and interesting novel." — Literary World.

DRIVEN BEFORE THE STORM. By Gertrude

Force, Author of "In the Old Palazzo," &c. 3 vols.
The authoress stamps her individuality upon what she writes, entering with
a pleasant warm-heartiness into the mimic joys and sorrows of her fancy, and
dwelling upon them with a ready pen and much native eloquence"— Daily
Telegraph.

PASSAGES IN THE LIFE OF A LADY in 1814,

1815, 1816. By Hamilton Aide, Author of "Rite," "Penrud-
locke," " Poet and Peer," &c. Second Edition. 3 vols.
"Mr. Aide's new novel shows an accomplished and agreeable writer at his best.
The characters are not numerous, but the individuality of each is sustained all
through, both in speech and action." — Athenaeum.

Courtiers. By Anne Beale, Author of "Fay

Arlington," &c. 3 vols.
There is always a good tone in the novels of Miss Beale. ' Courtesy ' is no
exception to the rule"— Academy.
This is a really agreeable and wholesome story." — Literary World.

VICTIMS. By The Gift, Author of « Pretty Miss

Belle," " Il Lorimer," &c. 3 vols.
'victims' is probably the best of its author's works : there is not a weak or
ill-drawn character in the book"— Academy.
