OF THE

UN IVLR.SITY

Of ILLINOIS



AT ALL THE LIBRARIES.

THE SENIOR Hangman. By the Author of 'St.

Olave's,' 'Janita's Cross,' 'Annette,' &c. 3 vols.

A MAID CALLED BARBARA. By Catharine Child,

author of ' The Future Marquis,' &c. 3 vols.

SAM'S SWEETHEART. By Helen Mathers, author of

'Coming' thro' the Rye,' 'Cherry Ripe !' &c. 3 vols.

HER SAILOR LOVE. By Katharine S. Macquoid,

author of ' Patty,' ' Diane,' &c. 3 vols.

MONGRELS. By T. Wilton. 3 vols.

HURST & BLACKETT, 13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

BY

George HOLMES

Luke vp on hie and thank thy god of all
Wayne thy lust and lat thy geste the led
And truth the shall deliver, this is no dree."

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

LONDON:
HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1883.

All rights reserved.

\

CONTENTS

OF

THE FIRST VOLUME.

^3

CHAPT1

vl

I.
1 II.

III.

IV.

V.

VI.

VII.

VIII.

>> IX.

X.

^ XI.



CHAPTER I.

Ajyplecombe.

N the days when the wise bad
learned to believe in nothing,

and it was the fashion for the foolish
to do the same, it may perhaps seem
strange that the parishioners of Apple-combe
should be as ignorant as they
were of these changes in the world's
convictions and opinions. That they were
VOL. i. b

village people, inhabiting an out-of-the-way
district, where the name of London
had quite a foreign sound, conjuring upto
their imaginations some very marvellous
pictures, does not entirely account
for this singular fact.

Yet they must have been wilfully blind,
for they had possessed as their spiritual
guide a drinking and dissolute parson,
who might, or might not, be capable of
reading the prayers intelligibly six Sundays
out of the seven. It had been the
custom of this respected Vicar to make
practical use of the damnatory Psalms, by
reading them in a very marked manner
towards the pink-silk curtains of the
Squire's pew, with whose occupant he was

perpetually engaged in warfare. These
skirmishes generally ended in his signing
certain elaborate apologies, which the injured
knight showed much art in drawing
up for that purpose.

But, in spite of all this, the parishioners
were none the less loyal to the
church of which their Yicar formed so
distinguished a member. They generously
accepted his friendly invitations to
enjoy a glass ' with him at the Vicarage ;
nor did they feel less respect for him
personally if he took at such times more
than was, perhaps, good for him. ' He
were a kind, free-handed gentleman as
ever walked was their charitable judgment
of him. If he was the more ready

to allow himself to be cheated and robbed
by them (for he was the only son of a
wealthy London pawnbroker, and had
plenty of money), ' Why, he were always
cheerful-like, and kind wi' all was again
the generous verdict, pronounced in pitying
tones.

The Church was none the less empty
because the Yicar might, or might not, be
able to stand. The Squire, whom malicious
persons declared to be the cause of
poor Toutell's bad habits, did not sleep
the less sweetly because the sermon happened
to be of a more than usually personal
character. To be sure, the valiant
knight earned a great deal of pity from
his tireless neighbours, of which pity the

hardest-hearted can often command the
richest store. But, as if to prove that
his objection was to the class, not to the
individual, no sooner was poor Mr. Toutell
suspended by the Bishop, than he fell to
quarrelling with the curate-in-charge with
as great alacrity as ever.

The curate-in-charge was the corrected
of mortals, which Sir Howard Miller found
to be a great mistake, if not an insult.
Moreover, the curate-in-charge's wife was
a well-born Welsh lady, who took precedence
of Lady Miller, a Frenchwoman of
doubtful descent, at the rare dinner-parties
of the neighbourhood. Though the two
ladies were both brave and warlike, the
ecclesiastical dame was the most skilful in

the use of that feminine weapon known as
the tongue. She invariably came off victor
in these tournaments, winning at the same
time her husband's respect, which should
be the object of every loyal wife.

But Mrs. Fortescue's triumphs were
short-lived. Mr. Toutell died, and a
new Vicar came to Applecombe. He was
a scholar ; one of the most refined and cultured
of his college, said society. Why
he should bury himself in a country village
surprised many, to whom the secrets
of his life were unknown. To forget and
to be forgotten are not qualities usually
cultivated by the high-soaring clerical
mind. But this must have been all Mr.
Wentworth desired when he took up his

abode in Applecombe. Fortunately for
bis peace abroad, the Squire and bis wife
made the alarming discovery that they
were living beyond their means, and that
therefore economy and a smaller establishment
were necessary. As this was impossible
at Applecombe Towers — where it
behoved the noble knight, as the local
paper delighted to style him, to keep open
house — the worthy couple retired for a time
to the Continent, where plenty of needy
noblemen are to be met with, whose
mansions can always be had at the
lowest rents.

In the sweet spring-time, when the
culver cooed all day, and the blackbird's
whistle came merrily from the wych-elm in

the Vicarage garden, Mrs. Cosens, the
Vicar's housekeeper, or, more properly,
factotum, was making the Vicar a
cake.

Mrs. Cosens was the gardener's wife,
and a native of a neighbouring village. In
person she resembled a mole, being small
and dark. In character she perhaps resembled
one too, although she was, to use
her own words, 'the honestest cummin
alive When we add, that for cleanliness
and neatness there was not her match in
all Applecombe, and that she was queen of
the art of jam-making, you will understand
why Herbert Cosens considered himself
particularly fortunate in having secured
such a wife. Herbert was a clever ,

and a smart fellow in his livery
a little mad, as so many countrymen
are, but for this very reason guided with
the greater ease by Amelia, his wife.

A bonnet, ornamented with the smartest
flowers, sat about half an hour later
on Mrs. Cosens' small head. The hair
beneath was scanty, for she was a martyr
to * the air'sip'las, caught from exposure
to the air,' as she would tell you. But
the coldest wind could not have kept herat
home to-day ; for she was going to
have a chat with Mrs. Travers. And no
bonnet but her Sunday one could she
wear, for Mrs. Travers was a connoisseur
in dress.

She had not far to walk. Two or three

steps brought her to a little gate leading
into a small green, where romped some
half-dozen pretty children, picturesquely
dirty. The main-road to the market town
ran just outside the green, so that Mrs.
Travers, if she were so minded, could
enjoy an excellent view of all that passed
from her front windows.

Mrs. Cosens' respectful rap was answered
by a pleasant 'come in,' and the
hostess rose to greet her with a hearty
handshake.

1 Lor , Mrs. Cosens, how late ye be !
There, Mrs. Tolley an I did think ye
were never coming'. Dear 'art, do loose
yer bonnet-strings, an take a dish a tay.
Never mind the little chiltern; they be

always in the way, bless their little 'arts ! 1
As she spoke, Mrs. Travers' quick eye
took a rapid survey of her visitor's attire.
The flowers were certainly new — the bonnet
not. Mrs. Travers ' never could
abode ' an old bonnet made to look
new. It was a ' cart a lying,' she thought.

CHAPTER II.

The Gentility of Apjolecombe.

RS. TRAVERS, as she sat pouring
out tea into delicate old china
cups, was indeed a pleasant picture. She
was short and stout, with that air
of conscious gentility and superiority
which not being a native of the village
gave her a right to claim. Her eyes
were the handsomest and darkest for
miles round, and hers were the brightest

and readiest smiles. When it is
added, that she owned a tongue mighty
for friend or foe, there can be no wonder
that ever since, sixteen years ago,
Annie Travers had come to the village
as the pretty young bride of one of the
principal farmers' sons, she should have
held her own with men and women. Indeed,
she had contributed not a little to
the tone of village society.

For the men she had always her bright
smiles and ready wit. The women respected
her manners and good looks, not
to speak of the garments which her ingenuity
fashioned on an exact pattern of
those of Lady Miller. To be sure, her
house was hopelessly dirty and untidy.

But to her visitors' eyes she was eminently
'genteel seated, pouring out tea, on
the faded chintz-covered sofa (manufactured
by herself) in the window-corner
commanding the best view of the road,
with two or three small children clambering
about her, with the cat on his stool
at her feet, and a thin puppy or two
sniffing at the girdle-cake baking in front
of the fire.

Mrs. Tolley, the clerk's wife, who had
walked to Flaxen and back, a distance of
four miles, and who, to use her own expression,
was ' like to drap,' sat sipping
her tea in the most comfortable chair in
the house.

She was a faded-looking little woman,

with a complaining voice, ' genteel ' manners,
and an ever-ready list of diseases at
her command. She had had twelve children,
whom she had found it impossible to
manage. Her house was uncomfortable,
and it was said that quarrelling and fighting
never ceased there. But Mrs. Tolley
had known better days, and the sunlight
of these still lingered about her often-turned
black-silk dress, in which she
delighted slowly, and with much dignity,
to rustle up the aisle during the Litany.
She was very religious, as became the
wife of the parish clerk ; and if he went
oftener to the public-house than was good
for his pocket— 4 Why, there, 'warden her
fault !' This, her diseases, and the remembrance

of better days were the great
consolations of her life.

A dish of hot tea had always the desirable
effect of unloosing Mrs. Tolley's
tongue. So, after taking in the pattern
of Mrs. Travers' sleeves, which were
puffed, and the flowers in Mrs. Cosens'
bonnet, she began —

4 Dear 'art, Mrs. Treviss, 'ow do ye
manage all yer zewin' wi' all they chiltern ?
If I do sa much as mend one o' John's
shares, I've a-got to lie down for a hour
after on me bed. Lor', 'ow me legs do
ache now! They be that swelled when
I do walk. I 'ad to 'ave me boots cut gaff
me vit last week, gain to Flax'on. Jus'
you look yere !' Here she displayed an

ample, if not elegant, ankle, and, sighing
deeply, sipped her tea ; while Mrs. Travers,
who, amongst other natural gifts, possessed
that of doctoring, felt the wounded
member, and, shaking her head, recent
mended an immediate application of her
4 elderblooth ointment.'

1 You shoulder walk to Flax'on, Mrs.
Tolley ; 'tis too far for you. And you're
not so young as you was,' she said.

Mrs. Tolley sighed again.

1 I've a-rhidden in my day,' she said,
in a melancholy tone. ' I always was sa
bad after a rhode. Me back and legs
that staff, you could ha' ironed your
han'cheker upon me. I was always zoo
from a girl, I was.'

vol. I. c

Meanwhile Mrs. Cosens had produced
from a paper parcel a savoury cake,
which, with a toss of conscious pride, she
placed on the table.

Oi was a-bakin' for the Vicar to-day,'
she said, ; and some little bits over made
up 'andy into this yere little c'ak' ; for Oi
never was boone to waste. There be a-
many vo'ks as Oi knows on what would
ha' crowed it to the pigs, or gi'ed it to
the cat ; but Oi says, says Oi, " Waste not,
want not." 'Tis what my dear mother
did always say to we, when we les our
fettles. Says she, " Be sure you'll want,
'Millier," which Oi never 'ave, an' I
know it be true. Jus' you try it, Mrs.
Tolley.'

Mrs. Tolley, after protesting that she
was sure it was too good for her, consented
to try a morsel, which, in justice to
the excellent flavour of the cake, it must
be confessed soon expanded into a large
slice.

1 Law, Mrs. Treviss,' said she, pausing
between her mouthfuls to press her hand
to her side, ' if you did know the pain I
do suffer ! The cactus, 'e 've a-changed
me battles dirty times an' moore this
twelvemonth'. And, says 'e, " Mrs. Tolley,"
says 'e, "you'll never be noo better. I
shoulder like to say where you'd eat
your Christmas dinner. Your life ain't
worth a sixpence, Mrs. Tolley," says 'e.'

Mrs. Travers was so accustomed to these

c 2

strange threats of the parish doctor that
she forbore a comment on this last most
terrible prediction. Mrs. Cosens, however,
ejaculated, 4 There !' in an agitated
and admiring tone.

1 Oi wish our Yicar 'good zee a dactur/
she said, looking at the cake in a mournful
manner, as though it suggested sad
visions. ' Oi don't believe 'e 've enjoyed
a day's 'earth since 'e corned to the
parish.'

At the delicious vista of news thus
temptingly opened by the gardener's wife,
Mrs. Tolley drew her chair closer, and
Mrs. Travers promptly ' dared the chiltern
to come in t' 'ouse till she called 'em.'

Mrs. Cosens' small eyes twinkled. She

drank a long gulp of tea, and coughed
impressively. Mrs. Tolley's remnant of
good manners prevented her pressing the
point, but Mrs. Travers' curiosity burst
forth in —

i Law, Mrs. Cosens, what a work you
do make 'bout nothing' ! I always did say
to my 'urban', "Jimmy," says I, u depend
on't, that man's a-got summit on's mind.
I seed it the very must time as I ever
set eyes on 'en." But Jimmy, says 'e,
M Him's a scotland. They be all mighty
quare to look on, they collars." '

Ridden the scollarden',' interrupted
Mrs. Cosens, who in her inmost soul resented
Mrs. Travers bearing-off the palm
of discovery in this unexpected manner.

1 Though OiVe a-heerd as W collared'
do give vo'ks that quare look in the oyes.
But there, Oi've a-heerd tell a-many things.
Law, Mrs. Treviss, we mussel believe
'ars what us years, mus' us ? There, Oi
gnawed you was gain' to say that, Mrs.
Treviss.'

'We mus' judge, and make the best
o' 't,' said Mrs. Travers, who had her
own code of morality. l But we can'
judge unless we years. Can us, Mrs.
Tolley ?'

Lor, no, Mrs. Treviso said Mrs. Tolley,
and took a fresh slice of the Vicarage
cake.

Oi've a-heerd tell ; but then boone can'
believe 'ars boone years,' continued the

gardener's wife. ' ' Tis all carts, sure
enough.' She paused, and applied her
handkerchief to her nose.

Mrs. Tolley's curiosity had obliged her
to bend forward eagerly in her chair.
Mrs. Travers held her breath, and felt that
her last hour might be near.

1 Oi've a-heerd tell as 'ow 'e do wear a
good thing on's little finger. Oi've a-
heard it, mind,' said Mrs. Cosens. ' A
good thing, a wedding-ring, for certain.
And we know 'e's got ne'er a wife to
look on. Not but what 'e med 'ave boone,
or two, for aught Oi knows or cares.
Taint nothing' t' Oi, Mrs. Treviss, concluded
the wily Amelia, enjoying as she
spoke the excitement which sparkled in

Mrs. Travers' bright eyes, and was even
reflected in darker shade on Mrs. Tolley's
sallow countenance.

I do say as 'ow it do look uncommon
quare, Mrs. Cosens,' remarked Mrs. Travers,
in a low voice. 'Now be there
ne'er a books, nor claws, nor picture, what
could tell 'ee moore ?'

1 Ne'er a cummin's claws in all t' 'ouse
that Oi do know on, 'cepten' it be moine,
what's always neat and lane, though poor
vo'ks madden complain when all hidden
new.'

Mrs. Travers glanced at the flowers in
her visitor's bonnet. It was clear her
thoughts had been read by ' this knawen'
Millier '; and her visitor sank proportionately

in her good esteem from that
moment.

As for picture,' continued Mrs. Cosens,
what Oi sees, Oi sees, and what Oi years,
Oi years ; and that saint for e'er a vo'k as
minds t' ask Oi. Leases said, soonest
mended 's my way, Mrs. Treviss. But Oi
do wish the poor gentleman hidden enjoy's
'earth sa bad.'

'Donee take noo medicine?' inquired
Mrs. Tolley, as she carefully wiped the
crumbs from her black-silk dress with a
handkerchief, always a mark of extreme
1 gentility ' in Applecombe.

4 There, the Squoire did worry 'en. I've
a-heerd a-many speak ov it,' said Mrs.
Travers, half interrogatively.

1 There be other vo'ks nor the Squoire,'
replied the gardener's wife, shaking her
head ominously. 'And you'll never convince
Oi but what hidden all straight,
when gentlefolks good walk, walked' up
rend down when other vo'ks be a-bed and
asnep. Which Oi've a-heerd tell 'e do.
And a-rheaden' ov books what's printed
topzoide down ; and a-getten' ov letters
what's sealed wi' things moore like
devils nor Christians a-painted outside.
Not but what some on 'em be party
enough.'

1 Law a-mussy me !' cried Mrs. Tolley,
throwing up her hands.

Oi assen thinks 'pon it,' continued Mrs.
Cosens. 'But we shall zee boom-buoy.

And, if we don't, there, I'm a liar, Oi be ;
and that's what Oi've a-niver bin, nor 'good,
though you gi'ed me all the good you
got.'

1 That wouldn't be much, I'm afeared,'
put in a shrill voice from behind.

The door opened to admit a bony, rosy-cheeked
woman, age uncertain, with a
pair of prominent, bright blue eyes that
looked you constantly in the face when
she spoke.

1 Dear, dear Miss 'Ahker, I be glad to
zee you' cried Mrs. Travers, as she
pressed the visitor's thin, sharp-knuckled,
hand in hers. "Ave 'ee brought this
there white-silk dress wi' ye, eh ? Lawks,
Mrs. Tolley, you don' know 'bout my

white-silk dress. Dear 'art, I be almost
tired wi' waiting' for 't.'

You'll be toireder yet, Til warrant,'
remarked Miss Hawker, removing a rusty
black crape bonnet, and revealing a small
head, whose scanty black hair was divided
down the back, and arranged in four
curls reaching to the neck. These, on
being delivered from the bondage of the
bonnet, stuck out from all four corners,
like the branches of a tree. Her sharp,
red face was rendered even redder by
her walk; and as she spoke she opened
very wide a mouth which, as the front
teeth were absent, was not remarkable
for its beauty.

1 Come, Annie, give 's a dish a tay,

and sharp,' she said, in a high, imperious
key. ' I've a-got to goo to Flax'on tonight
; and Jahn'll be rhagen' like a mad
bull, if I saint 't whom to give 'en's
supper at zeb'n 'clack. Well, my dear,
when I gives you yer white-silk dress,
ses' you bake I a little cake like this
there boone; for it be the beautifully
cake as ever I did taste. And that be
zayen' a good deal.'

But when be 'ee again' to 'ave the
white-silk dress?' inquired Mrs. Tolley,
whose curiosity had been aroused.

'Why, when Miss 'Ahker be a-marr'd,
in course. She 've appraised I that
when she do take zumwoone— what shall
be nameless — I shall 'ave a white-silk

dress ; and very party it'll be too. I
shall make 'en like this yere boone ; to
fasten up the side — double like, so I
can let 'en out when I gets bigger. And
you shall 'ave a cake, Miss 'Ahker, as sure
as I were christened Annie !'

1 ' Christened fiddlestick !' retorted Miss
Hawker, who was an old-fashioned Wesleyan,
and regarded the Parish Church and
its new Yicar with the most profound
contempt. ' I was called 'Lizer, I was,
and Lizzy for short ; and I'd like to know
what christened's a-got to do wi' it ?'

Mrs. Tolley, as clerk's wife, here felt it
her duty to interpose.

1 The parish church be good enough for
Oi,' she cried, in her weak voice, ' and forme

whither and mother and all. And
they always said, " We be bound to goo
to church to be barr'd, zoo we may's well
goo now." And I say it's true.'

Miss Hawker fixed her assailant with
her bright, keen eyes, as she slowly
ejaculated,

'Well, now, Mrs. Tolley, I wouldn't
ha' believed it ! You've a-got yer own
spirit, too; for all you do look sa meek's
a mouse. There, I be surprise', I be !'

"Ow's Mr. Jahn?' inquired Mrs. Travers,
hurriedly changing a conversation
which she foresaw might not end amicably.


Miss Hawker shook her curls.

c They men-vo'k, wi' their tempers and

their tantrums, there's no beaten' wi' 'em.
If it's not the toties, 'tis the earn, and, if
it's not the fettles, 'tis the vols. I be
almost wore out wi' 'en ; and if you should
'happen to git yer white silk-dress, Annie,
well, ye may thank Jahn for 't. Though
a 'urban' med be fusser nor a brother, I
essay. They be quare vo'k, they ,
more fidgety-like nor the cummin.
'Tis their eaten' so much, T say, Annie ;
that's where 'tis.'

Lor', Miss 'Ahker, what nonsense ye
do talk ! I do think there be no company
wi'out the men-vo'k. They do want so
much looked' after, and boone thing and
the other, boone can never weel dill-like.
They do will up rouse like, and make six

where six cummin 'good only make boone.
Naw, naw, I takes their parts, 1 do ;
though for an ache or pain they do make
quailed enough to frighten a' boone out
o' 's wits, where the cummin 'good say
ne'er a word. They be terrible fussy, for
certain.'

1 And terrible sour,' remarked Miss
Hawker. 'Why, Jahn be sa sharp, 'e
won't take a word. Why, you knows ray
cummin, Em'ly Gill, our carter's wife, the
sprackest, pleasantness-spoken cummin,
though I says it, in all the parish.
Well, yesterday she did turn out Jessie
that's boone o' the tags — out o' the
kitchen, where the girt baste wor a-
clambered' 'bout wi's muddy paws. And

VOL. I. D

Jahn did zee she give 'en a pat on the 'eat
'wouldn't 'a hunted a fly — and 'e did
fly in such a passion, and call 'er but
iverythen'. There, I was 'shamed o' 'en,
I was. I told 'en zoo. And Em'ly, her
did too. And 'e did speak that dreadful
o' cummin ! Well, I never heard 'en sa
bad.'

'Well, well, Miss 'Ahker,' said Mrs.
Travers, ' it may be, and it mayn't. Mr.
Jahn were always a favour wi' I — always
come and. 'ave's joke wi' I. u , There,
Annie," 'e 've a-zaid a-many times ('e
always called me Annie), " when you do
void me a wife, I'll marr', and not before."
"And," says I, " Mr. 'Ahker,"
says T, "ye be sa 'ard to please." "Lor',

Annie," says 'e, " there's no knawen'."
And that were always 'is waj*', to joke wi'
I and kiss the little chiltern. There, they
do doat on 'en. Little Beatty, she do zit
on's lap all the time 'e do stay yere
sometimes, and call 'en Oncle, and all
carts.'

'He'll never marr,' said Miss Hawker,
in an assured tone. ' 'Eve a-made a cart
a praise, a vow or summit — I don't
know what 'e do call it — never to shave,
never to touch a drap o' liquor, and never
to marr'. I've a-heerd 'en say it this party
times. Em'ly do say as 'ow 'tis the civil's
praise. She's a wonderful speaker, is
Em'ly Gill.'

Mrs. Cosens, who, being a comparative

t)2

stranger in the village, was as yet but
little noticed by the leaders of Apple-combe
society, though by securing Mrs.
Travers as her friend she had acted
wisely, now rose to go.

1 The Vicar 'good want 's tea, and she
were never boone to be garden' in t'
street.' And so she took her departure.


Directly the door had closed on her,
Miss Hawker, who had never ceased to
examine the person of the gardener's
wife since she had entered the cottage,
inquired,

1 Who be this gepsey-looken' cummin 7

6 The gardener's wife down t' Vicarage
replied Mrs. Tolley, quickly, interrupting

Mrs. Travers, who had begun to speak.
1 Comes from Melton

Ah !' remarked Miss Hawker, glancing
at Mrs. Travers interrogatively.

There was a good deal in Miss Hawker's
utterance of the little syllable ' Ah !' and
the expression of her eyes told that, in
spite of her respectful demeanour, the
gardener's wife had not found favour with
her.

4 A sprack little cummin,' said Mrs.
Travers, folding her smooth fat hands,
which no amount of hard work could
render anything but white and comely,
c but fearful sly. This there cake the
Vicar's paid for. I hidden like to say it
adore she, but, Lor', Miss 'Ahker, for

chiz'len' and stephen' give me 'Erb' Covenant
's wife. A well-matched couple. I've
a-heerd my sister-la' speak on 'em, what
lives up to Melton Warm. But there,
the Vicar's such an easy -g wain' gentleman,
lied never void 'en out. Smart feller
too, 'Erb' is, but awful sly ; and she's the
same. There, I always did think pink
raises was the frightfully flowers for
'at or bonnet, and what should this there
cummin put in 'er bonnet but the pinkest
o' raises !'

1 If you thought less upon dress, and
moore on yer Bible, Annie, we'd be a
better cummin. It's what I do tell Jahn
when 'e flies out at the cummin. Says
I, " They sell church-vo'k do only goo

Sundays to look at each other's claws."
But for aught I do know on, Annie, you
never good to church at all.'

Mrs. Travers certainly did not go very
often, but the little children were her
excuse.

1 If you had 'half-a-dozen little chiltern,
Miss 'Ahker — which I fervently true' for
their sakes ye madden — you'd know what
a drive it was, wi' boone thing and t'
other. I 'ope ye'll git to yer chapel or
meeten' as affixed as I do to the parish
church when you be marr'd. There, I
petty your 'urban', I do !'

Ye may ses' petty 'en then, for certain
I've a-got ne'er a one,' laughed Miss
Hawker, as she tied her bonnet-strings,

and, taking up her basket, bestowed a
friendly nod on Mrs. Tolley, who was by
this time getting a little sleepy ; and then
shook Mrs. Travers by the hand. ' Lor',
Annie, we've always a-bin friend's. There,
good-boy to ye, and for sure ye shall
'ave the white-silk dress adore Mi'lmas.'

Mrs. Travers' eyes followed the upright,
angular figure of her visitor to the small
green gate, where the playing children
shrank out of her way, and hushed their
noisy laughter at sight of the black crape
bonnet.

I do petty Mr. Jahn,' were Mrs. Travers'
words, as soon as she was out of
sight. ' This cummin wi' 'er scolded'
voice 'good drive me would. And such a

mess as 'er kitchen be in's almost awful to
zee. They sheep-tags all over t' place.
And this there Eni'ly Gill! Well, Mr.
Jahn were aVays a kind friend' to I and
me 'urban' and chiltern.' Then, looking
out of the window, she added : ' Lor,
there's this girt strapped' maid, Polly
Ma'sh, a-beaten' into Flax'on wi' 'er nets.
I wish I'd a-got 'er pair o' legs ! And as
lazy a maid as ever walked the road, zoo
I've a-heerd. Eh, Mrs. Tolley ?'

They be all good for notion', they
Marshes,' sighed the clerk's wife, as she
rose in her turn to go. ' But there, I
wish 1 could goo sa vast. Me legs be vit
to drap, Mrs. Treviss. I be afeard 't is
this fraction agen, what I 'ad when I

broke me lig tel' year and uiwoore
ago.'

Dear, dear,' said Mrs. Travers, in a
sympathising tone. ' Do 'ee try the elder-booth
ointment now. It'll bring out the
'damnation beautiful, it will. Good-boy,
Mrs. Tolley. Come raoul agen, and 'ave
another dish a tay, when ye can.'

As her visitor swung the little gate
feebly after her, she remarked, in an undertone,


There never was such a cummin for
marm'len' — always marm'len she be. Water
hidden wit enough for she !'

CHAPTER III.

The Vicar's First Vestry.

F some of the parishioners of the
Rev. Mr. Wentworth had not that

respect for him which his office should
have obtained, it was with very different
feelings that they regarded the Church in
which he officiated. There was not one of
the older inhabitants of the district who
would have ventured within the great iron
gate leading into the churchyard after

twelve o'clock at night. Nor could any of
the younger ones have been induced to
enter it for any consideration.

And yet the story was universally believed,
that whosoever should be bold
enough to do so at midnight on New
Year's Eve, would have a vision of all
the inhabitants of the parish passing before
his eyes, down the long laurel walk,
and over the flagged path, on each side
of which the graves of friends and relatives
lay, till the procession reached the
chief entrance of the Church. Then those
who were to die that year would pass into
the building, to be seen no more; aud
those who were to marry would come
out again in couples.

Who knew what strange beings might
not hover round the empty pile, when the
faint glimmer of moonlight fell on the
old yew-tree just outside, and cast the
weirdest shadows from the grey-stone
ivied tower, that rose, grim and ghostlike,
against the dark sky ? How eerie
the footsteps of the silent procession must
sound, in the overpowering stillness of
the night ! And if any should dare to
follow the doomed into the damp, creeping
darkness of the echoing Church, what
figures might he find there also ? Might
not the whole place be peopled? For
the windows outside seemed ablaze with
a flickering light. And might not some
phantom choir be murmuring in the

rickety gallery, while the fingers of the
departed Mr. Crow moved over the wailing
instrument, which his ingenuity had
fashioned out of a barrel-organ, i to the
glory of God ' ?

And the pulpit ! There, in the highest
story — for it was a magnificent three-decker
— old Mr. Mulvaney, an Irishman
of uncertain temper, whom some of the
old folk remembered as a * terrible voice
speaker,' had raged, and fumed, and
banged the dust out of the faded blue
cushion and hangings of yellow fringe.
Which pious work, with modern, quiet-spoken
Mr. Wentworth, was not likely
to be performed for many years again.
There also Mr. Butler, who, as he said,

'shook off the dust from his feet' (this
time figuratively) when he left the parish,
had bitterly complained of the worldly
spirit of some, the fleshly spirit of others,
and the devilish spirit of all. And there,
lastly, had poor Mr. Toutell wept, and
hiccoughed, and mumbled, till his surplice
had been torn from his back, and a succession
of fat-faced, and more or less friendly,
curates-in-charge had presided over the
blue cushion and yellow fringes, and been
listened to with the most encouraging

inattention

by the clerk, upon whose flat,
upturned countenance, two stories below,
the discourse fell like rain on a well-worn
pavement.

But who can guess what strange pictures

the unwitting preacher s words painted
on the mind of his hearer ? ' Treasures
' too fleeting to rust, ' ground so good '
that potatoes therefrom must fetch fifteen
shillings the sack, gladdened the clerk's
imagination, while outwardly he listened,
with unmoved attention, as the parson
divided his sermons into heads which
materially — we fear not spiritually — assisted
Mr. Tolley in his calculations. And
all the while the preacher, striving to
dilute his shilling packet of discourses
with genuinely agricultural spring-water,
specially suited to the rustic mind, would
only unwittingly succeed in suggesting to
his simple hearers how excellently well

their pockets might be filled at the learned
parson's expense.

There, just opposite the three-decker,
was Mr. Sydney Liddell's pew. Mr.
Euddell but rarely occupied it. For, in
his opinion, the Church might as well be
turned into a barn, for aught he cared.
Mr. Ruddell was the man of all others
whom the Squire delighted to honour.
By the noble knight's help he had risen
from being a horse-dealer, keen to his own
interests, to the possession of one of the
principal farms in the parish. The Squire
had, so to speak, bequeathed him his
power and position during his absence
from his property ; and Mr. Sydney Rude

I. E

dell was in consequence held in no
small esteem by his neighbours. The
pew was usually occupied by his wife
and some half-dozen sons, grown or
growing up.

Mrs, Ruddell was a small, fox-eyed
woman, principally remarkable for the
splendour of her head-gear. For the
rest, she had, during the greater part of
her married-life, been looked upon with
much respect, on account of certain rich
elderly relations in a neighbouring parish.
These had lately expired, leaving to Mrs.
Euddell so excellent an assortment of
chairs, tables, ornaments, books, wool-worked
pictures, and tea-sets, not to
speak of an unknown — and therefore no

doubt substantial — balance at the banker's,
that her position in the eyes of
her neighbours became quite impregnable,
in spite of the malicious assaults
of certain ill-treated, but high-spirited,
maid-servants. Even her husband now
regarded her with eyes of respectful
affection.

Perhaps the ghostly character with
which the villagers invested their Church
may have owed its origin to the wretched
state into which, from neglect and unusually
rainy seasons, it had fallen. As
Mr. Wentworth entered it one bleak April
morning, soon after that brilliant spring
afternoon on which Mrs. Travers had
entertained her visitors with ' a dish a

e 2

LIBRARY " ; -

M ,uc^iTY Of nnwo!*-

tav,' he was painfully conscious of the
air of creeping ruin which seemed to
hang over the building.

The chancel, the only modern portion
of the Church, was discoloured from damp.
One massive pillar was the sole support of
the roof of the nave. Owing to the architectural
turn of mind of some former
Squire, the oaken beams of the roof had
been cut away, and both it and the walls
covered with hideous whitewash, deformed
angels, and ecclesiastical symbols suggestive
of the fashions in ladies' dress. The pillar,
in consequence, leaned alarmingly, and
was a constant terror to the short-sighted
eyes of the Yicar, every Sunday from the
pulpit opposite. The royal arms hung

from the centre of the gallery, whose
creaking boards and gaping holes were
enough to put a nervous person in anything
but a spiritual frame of mind.

And Mr. Wentworth's was a nervous
face, whatever his mind may have been.
As he looked up at the quaint, old three-decker,
with its ludicrous hangings, and
from it to the Squire's huge, square pew,
whose pink-silk curtains had gained for it
from poor Mr. Toutell the nickname of
1 Sir Howard's drawing-room,' thoughts
sad and comical made a curious light creep
into his pale-grey eyes, and shine through
his large spectacles.

From the Squire's pew, and that of his
servants, which occupied half the chancel,

his eyes wandered to the grotesque representation
of certain scenes in the life
of the Saviour, which filled the window
above the Communion-table. Mr. Wentworth
was a scholar, so he may be forgiven
by his village friends for the smile
which passed swiftly over his thin face
as he looked at it.

The long Vicarage pews bore the same
deserted look as those of the Squire, which
were only occupied by strangers at rare
intervals. Mr. Wentworth's glance passed
them over, and he may have sighed as he
turned through a small passage between
the rotting square pews in the nave, and
ascended a narrow staircase, covered with
ragged carpet, leading into the vestry.

The vestry was a small, damp-smelling
room, built over the porch. It had evidently
been, in former ages, the muniment-room.
But now a table, well-besprinkled
with ink, and covered by a mouse-nibbled
leather cover, a large sheet-almanac, a
huge, black, oaken chair, an inkstand,
some rough benches, and about a dozen
broken quill pens, formed the sole furniture
of the apartment.

The Yicar had ordered a fire to be
lighted. But so long was it since anything
of the kind had been attempted, that
the unfriendly wind had extinguished the
flickering faggots, and the place felt
smoky, as well as chilly, to the visitor.
He knelt down, and attempted to blow

one tiny red spark into a blaze.
It was Easter week ; and this was Mr.
Wentworth's first vestry-meeting. Perhaps
he fancied the reluctant fire might
be a gloomy presage of the spirit of his
parishioners. Kneeling there on the bare
boards, with his short-sighted eyes peering
into the stubborn fire, the incongruity of
his situation must have made itself felt
even to himself. The delicately white and
beautifully-shaped hands fingered the fuel
as though it had been a bunch of full-blown
roses, too fragile to be roughly
treated. The very attitude was unnatural
to his spare and stooping figure. Finally,
he relinquished his attempt, and sat down
in the huge chair at the head of the dirty

table, and, drawing a pamphlet from his
pocket, read and waited.

Mr. Wentworth's was, in every sense of
the word, a highly sensitive face. His
lips and eyebrows twitched perpetually ;
his sallow cheek quivered nervously ; his
very eyelids fluttered, as they were bent
downwards on his book. His complexion
was sallow and unhealthy ; his figure insignificant.
His wonderfully beautiful hands
alone distinguished him from hundreds of
other, so-called, insignificant men. Yet
these, save in their quick, hurried movements,
seemed scarcely a part of him, but
as though lent by some fair woman, to be
prized and cherished. From his scant
sprinkling of grey-brown hair you would

have judged him a man of upwards of
fifty. His broad, overhanging forehead,
that would have been slightly receding, but
for the immense development of those
parts commonly ascribed to the intellect,
was as deeply furrowed as an old man's.
But when the large, deep-sunk, grey eyes
looked out at you, a strange picture of
their owner would flash unbidden across
the mind. A picture of a few years back,
when the scant hair curled in locks of the
richest brown ; and when round the large,
full-lipped mouth there played a ceaseless
and radiant smile. His nose was large,
hooked, and high-nostrils ; the chin was
very short and dimpled. For the rest, he
had good teeth, discoloured by constant

smoking ; long, thin whiskers, almost grey ;
a decided stoop of the shoulders, and a
general appearance which, thanks to indifferent
tailors, had always earned him
through life the qualifying adjective of
insignificant.'

The Yicar evidently enjoyed his pamphlet,
for he stopped two or three times to
score the margin with his pencil. So
interested indeed was he, that he started
with a gesture almost of impatience when
he perceived the room filled with men,
dressed in their best for the occasion, the
scent of whose well-loaded heads did not
particularly gratify the Vicar's sensitive
nostrils.

They had arrived by twos and threes,

and were standing, elbowing each other,
near the door. To Mr. Wentworth's eyes
they looked very much like those flocks of
sheep, over whose ways, so ridiculously
human-like, he had often philosophised
in his country walks. Mr. Wentworth
was a philosopher, and looked at everything
and everybody through the spectacles
of his mind. Whether these had a
magnifying or diminishing effect on the
objects viewed, we are scarcely prepared to
say.

After deciding that the farmers and
ratepayers before him were uncommonly
like their own stock — for in his rapid
survey of their countenances he had found
several specimens of the ox, calf, and pig

genus — Mr, Wentworth made them a low
bow, and begged them to be seated at the
table.

The object of the vestry, as a paper
posted in the Church porch the Sunday
before had duly informed the parishioners,
was to elect two churchwardens, one for
the parish, the other for the Yicar, and to
discuss the best means for raising money
to pay the officers of the Church. These —
viz., the sexton, clerk, and organist — had
not received a shilling for more than two
years, a natural consequence of the church-rate
being a voluntary one.

Now, the Yicar would willingly have
paid every one of them out of his own
pocket, if he could only have had peace

by such means. But he was unfortunately
the possessor of certain rules of conduct,
framed by himself, which, together with
his philosophy of human life, tended to
make his own existence anything but
peaceable. He could not see the cloud
which rested on the stolid faces of the
half-dozen men, who were awkwardly
taking their places as far away from him
as was possible. But he was painfully
conscious of what duty would oblige him
to say to them.

He had already decided to re-elect Mr.
Sydney Ruddell, who had, indeed, held
the office of Vicar's churchwarden through
a long succession of incumbents. As the
Squire was always elected by the parishioners,

Mr. Wentworth already foresaw
the business despatched, and himself
once more revelling in his beloved
pamphlet.

But Mr. Sydney Ruddell had not yet
arrived, though the bell summoning the
ratepayers had long ceased ringing.

Dead silence reigned in the little
assembly.

1 We will wait for Mr. Euddell,' remarked
Mr. "Wentworth, breaking the silence.
Did any of you meet him ?'

Mr. Wentworth's well-clipped periods
were scarcely intelligible to some of the
ratepayers assembled. They looked before
them stolidly, as though unconscious of
his very presence. They had not come

to discuss ' Mr. Rhoddell,' but to elect their
churchwarden.

John Tolley, the parish clerk, by right
of an intimate acquaintance with parsons
of all kinds, ventured a reply. He had
the peculiar voice of one who suffers a
good deal from bronchitis, which, coupled
with his too great affection for the ' Jolly
Labourers' half-way down the village
street, and, unfortunately, just opposite
his own door, and his strong provincial
accent, rendered his speech totally unintelligible
to the Vicar.

'Sees, Oi seed 'en up t' street 'ars an
hour 'goo wi' Mr. Benjamin Chenny, Oi
did. 'Ell be yere Vor lang.'

Quite right, my friend,' murmured Mr.

Wentworth, as be hopelessly asked himself
whether he should ever understand
the dialect of his parishioners.

Silence once more ensued, and Mr.
Wentworth, looking round, made another
attempt to speak. On his left hand sat a
burly, red faced man, reported to be enormously
rich, and cordially hated in consequence
by his neighbours. Farmer
Malachi Warden had risen, by some
unknown means, from being a hawker
and l eggler,' little better than a tramp,
to the ownership of half the land in the
parish. Sir Howard had been the founder
of his fortunes, ever since he had sworn
all down the village street after one of
the curates-in-charge ; and now he was

vol. I. F

rich enough to buy on his own account,
and to laugh at his adversaries. He had
never employed a labourer, obliging his
sons and his daughters to work like slaves
for him in the fields ; but now he could
afford to give the sons farms of their own,
and his daughters were considered worth
the marrying. But the Applecombe folk
had their prejudices, and one of them
was that 'Brimstone Mai' (as he was
popularly called) was a swindler, who
knew nothing about farming, and whose
prosperity was owing, undoubtedly, to
the devil himself, whose faithful servant
he had been for many years, and with
whom he must be on the friendliest terms.
The Applecombe folk were superstitious,

and unacquainted with the modern doctrines
of society ; so they believed in the
personality of the devil as firmly as the
apostle of the Reformation did, or as the
wise in our days believe that happiness
or misery are in proportion to the possession,
or the want, of money.

Farmer Malachi Warden had a fat face,
as red and smooth as the l Sir Johns ' for
which his orchards were famous. His
figure had not been improved by hard
living, and his large double chin slid as
imperceptibly into his huge bull-neck as
ever artist could desire. There were no
angles about his face. Even his nose was
but a cork in the enormous barrel of his
cheeks, and his small, twinkling eyes reft



minded one irresistibly of those of certain
large, fatted pigs he occasionally drove in
his market-cart to Flaxen. He had but
few teeth, and, as he scarcely opened his
lips in speaking, his answers to the
Vicar's polite inquiries concerning his
crops resembled the short snarls of a
rough terrier protecting its bone. Mr.
Wentworth decided he could make nothing
of him, and was relieved when
voices below proclaimed the approach of
Mr. Euddell and his friends. Now perhaps
the proceedings might begin and end
as speedily as he hoped.

Mr. Sydney Ruddell, a tall, powerfully-built
man, with thick, iron-grey hair, a
shrewd, hard face, and keen eyes, swaggered

to his seat at the bottom of the
table, which, out of respect to him, had
been hitherto left vacant. He was immediately
opposite the Vicar, whose shortsighted
eyes rested tranquilly upon him
and the half-dozen men who had accompanied
him. They were not all ratepayers,
he knew, and therefore by law had no
right to be present. But Mr. Wentworth
was, in his dreamy way, anxious to be
popular, and forbore to make any remark
upon their presence.

Some dozen or more were now assembled
round the vestry-table. The more
stolid continued gazing steadily before
them, while the keener spirits watched
anxiously the expression of the last

comer, who fixed the Vicar with the bold
stare of his prominent, yellowish-green

CHAPTER IV.
A new Churchwarden,

R. WENTWORTH had, and felt
that he had, a difficult task before
him. He was unaccustomed to country
people ; he had no knowledge of them ; and
he felt instinctively that they had no cadence
in him. He had no idea that this,
with many of those present, was simply because
he was an utter stranger to them and
their ways. He only knew his own wishes

were entirely for their good and improvement,
and that the wretched condition of
their Church filled his heart with sorrow
and indignation. He told them so in the
short speech with which, as chairman, he
opened the meeting.

And as he went on to remark on the
smallness of the collections and of the
congregations, on the distressed condition
of many of the parishioners, visions of
possible changes unfolded themselves before
his imaginative mind. Old theories,
almost forgotten, which belonged to his
early college days, came flooding back
over his memory, and as he warmed with
his subject his very words glowed. He
could have planned a crusade against the

enemies of improvement — damp, dust, dirt,
ill-health, crowded cottages, bad ventilation,
and immorality. He could have
planned — but what of the execution ?

Of those who listened, some understood
two words out of a dozen ; some
were determined to oppose whatever he
uttered ; while the rest resolved to support
Mr. Liddell in whatever he said ;
and all suspected each proposal as it was
offered.

What did the parson mean ? A new
Church ?

1 This would Church were good enough
for Oi, and me whither; and what's good
enough for we 's good enough for all !'

Farmer Malachi Warden delivered himself

of this comprehensive speech midst
universal applause.

Oi be o' your mind, Mr. Walden,'
cried a chorus of voices.

That sort of plain-speaking everyone
could understand. In their fancy, the
blue cushions and yellow hangings were
already sacrificed on the altar of improvement.
The gallery, where the men loved
to congregate, and snooze away the Sunday
afternoons, peacefully dreaming of
real sheep, and the lovely green pastures
of Westmead and Fairies' Knowles, as they
leaned their heavy heads on their elbows,
was that to go also ? And what if he did
offer to pay half the cost? Had folks
nothing else to do with their hardly-earned

money than to squander it on
spoiling churches, good enough for their
fathers and forefathers to snooze in ? The
man must be mad ! He did look 'coor'us-
like. They collars were always crazy
What a mercy Mr. Sydney was there,
who had a tongue in his head, which all
poor folks had not, whatever they might
think !

Mr. Sydney rose to speak. At his first
words the Vicar looked up astonished.
He had evidently been drinking, or perhaps
had not quite recovered from the
effects of a cattle-fair at Flaxen, where
he had made a good deal of money the
day before. His voice was thick, and the
expression of his eyes almost savage, ashe

glared upon the Vicar from under his
shaggy, dark eyebrows.

You spoke of collections, passion —
where be the collections? / saint seed a
penny o' 'em, or has anybody else, I
reckon. What's the need of collections ?
There saint no poor vo'k in Applecombe.
They be a parcel o' whining' old vermin,
they squalid' poor vo'k. Poor ! I wish 1
had their bankers' books ! Collections ! I
take my oath ne'er a jardin' 'full 1 put into
the plate to goo into your pocket afterwards,
passion.'

A tremor passed through the listeners.
Even Farmer Warden was amazed at Mr.
Sydney's daring.

'E be wonderful when 'e's ad a drap,'

he murmured admiringly to himself.

Mr. Ruddell still stood glaring at the
Vicar. There was a long silence, broken
only by the heavy breathing of the
men.

At last Mr. Wentworth rose, and,
slightly waving one of his beautiful hands,
seemed to demand attention. All eyes
were fixed on his face and his spare, insignificant
figure. There was not one of
those before him who could not have
knocked him down, almost with a touch of
their little finger.

My friends,' he began. His voice,
naturally a low, feeble one, quivered
slightly. ' I will not stoop to argue with
my accuser. God Almighty be my judge,

if by word or deed I have harmed or
defrauded one of His poor. But I have
something to say. Mr. Euddell has provoked
it. He knows that I told him
only last week that, as he had held the
office for so many years, I intended to
elect him my churchwarden. I had so
intended. I am not angry with Mr.
Euddell. I do not resent his conduct.
He is not in a fit condition to have his
conduct resented. He is evidently not
responsible. But, though I am not angry
with him, I will not appoint him as my
churchwarden. For a man who indulges,
as I fear he has done, in such manner as
to render him forgetful of the respect he
owes to God's House and to God's minister,

is, in my opinion, unfit to hold any
office which particularly requires respect
and honour to those who have the authority
of appointing to it. I must add that,
as I was so totally unprepared for any
such event, I have not even thought of a
substitute. While T consider, will you
kindly give the votes for your own
churchwarden f

Mr. Went worth sat down, and covered
his twitching face with his hand. He
could not see the look that flashed for one
instant into the countenance opposite him.
It might have furnished him food for some
of his favourite speculations. For his
speech had completely sobered Mr. Sydney
Euddell.

The discussion amongst the farmers
themselves was not long, the Squire being,
as a matter of course (no doubt at his own
command, the Vicar thought), proposed,
and unanimously accepted. There was
only one dissentient voice, which rang loud
and powerful through the little room. But
the voice could be drowned, though not
silenced, by numbers ; and it uttered no
further word.

There was another pause, and the Vicar
was once more the object of interest. He
must speak again, and he had evidently nothing
to say. He glanced quickly at the
various faces before him, and then looked,
with an absent expression in his eyes,
over his spectacles, a habit of his when

he desired to think without interruption.


Whom should he select ? It was a
difficult, an impossible task. There was
old Farmer Warden, usually tipsy, a
cheat, and universally hated. He had
never been seen in Church since his marriage,
on the night of which, according
to the good old Applecombe custom, he
had been carried drunk to bed. His
Sunday harvesting was notorious in the
annals of the district. Next him leaned
the builder, Benjamin Chenny, a handsome
old man, whose snow-white hair,
laughing blue eyes, and rosy cheeks had
won him the nickname of "Handsome Ben.'
But Mr. Benjamin had his failing too,

vol. I. G

and even now he was scarcely recovered
from a violent attack of gout, which had
been brought on by hard drinking during
Christmas week. The badly-built addition
to the Vicarage, which had cost poor
Mr. Toutell so much money, was a constant
and unpleasant reminder of Mr.
Chenny. The Yicar felt he was also
utterly unworthy of an office which his
high-soaring imagination had idealised in
so fair a manner.

Further down, on the other side, sat
old Farmer Travers, the father of Travers
the younger, the poacher, the friend of
all sick birds and animals, the friend of
everyone in the parish, but particularly
of Mr. Euddell, one of the most intelligent

fellows in all Applecombe, and
husband to Mrs. Annie.

The elder Travers was a complete contrast
to his handsome, witty son. He
usually uttered but one sentence a week,
and he was known to have no interest
beyond his flowers, of which he had a fine
collection in his little old-fashioned garden.
His cold blue eyes looked straight
before him, perhaps into some world
unknown to his relatives ; and upon his
well-cut features, which sun and time had
browned and reddened to the colour of
autumn leaves, there sat no intelligible
expression whatever. His long, curly
white hair and beard gave him a comical
likeness to the pictures of Old Father

g2

Christmas. How he had ever got through
his part in the marriage service was
always a mystery to the wags of his
acquaintance. He had never been seen
in Church, but was usually to be met with
on Sunday evenings, dressed in his light
grey hat and clothes, walking by the river
with his dog Spot, a short black pipe in
his mouth, and a stout oaken stick in his
hand, apparently unconscious of anything
around him.

He would not do, thought Mr. Wentworth,
and passed to the next, Farmer
Weeks, who came from the other end of
the parish. He was a stout, pompous-looking
personage, who had always plenty
to say for himself, and was intensely

respectable. There was nothing against
him, for the Vicar's objection that he
ludicrously resembled an ox is no objection
at all, considering that, had it not
been for oxen, where would the Vicar
himself have been ? But prejudices are
strong, and Mr. Wentworth had an unaccountable
prejudice against the worthy
Weeks, who, to tell the truth, attended
Church most regularly, both morning and
afternoon, sat down stolidly during the
collection, staring dignifiedly as the clerk
placed the silver plate under his nose, and
did not ' get tonight,' as his wife asserted,
1 moore nor dree times in the twelvemonth
There was no one in the whole
parish who was fit to be Mr. Wentworth's

churchwarden. No wonder his parishioners
thought him proud.

But there might be some one who was
better than nobody, and in Mr. Wentworth's
ears there still rang the loud,
deep voice which had negatived the
Squire's election. To whom did it belong
? The voice was clear and reed-like,
though harsh in its tone ; and it
was so peculiar and strong, and so unlike
the other voices in its accent, that it
had, perhaps foolishly, tickled his hearing.
It rang out again now like a trumpet
calling to battle, or, more truly, like
the great tenor bell for which the Apple-combe
peal was so celebrated in the
district round.

Mr. Wentworth glanced at its owner,
and through his mind flashed all that he
had heard concerning him. He had never
seen him before. He was the only remaining
yeoman of the district, the son
of a wretched drunkard, at whose deathbed
he had taken the strange oath never
to touch liquor, nor to marry, nor to shave.
He was reported to be eccentric and bad-tempered,
and was detested as superior in
education and birth — as a c scotland,' in
short. There was not one man in the whole
parish whom he could call his friend. Of
his honesty there had never been a question.
He was, indeed, honourable and conscientious
to the detriment of his interests,
and he had lost his friends, if he ever had

possessed any, by this uncompromising
quality. He was, so the Yicar had gathered,
a person to be both feared and hated
as independent spirits are always feared
and hated, mused Mr. Wentworth.

Almost as he gazed at him, the words,
4 This is the man for me dropped from
the Vicar's lips. Rising, he added,

I beg to nominate as my churchwarden
Mr. John Hawker, and trust he will accept
the office.'

There was not a word, and Mr. Wentworth,
deeply mortified at a silence which,
judging by himself, he thought must be
terribly wounding to his nominee, uttered
an irresistible exclamation of impatience.


But in a moment, springing from his
seat — he was at a little distance from the
others in the doorway — Farmer John
Hawker advanced to the table, and,
drawing himself up to his full height,
fixed the assembled company with his
glittering, deep-blue eyes.

He was near enough now for Mr. Wentworth
to get a perfect view of him. He
saw the well-knit limbs of a man about
eight and thirty years of age, scarcely
above the middle height, but whose broad
chest and immense shoulders conveyed
the impression of a far greater stature.
His dark auburn hair grew thick and low
on his high, narrow forehead, and was
cropped close to the long, well-shaped

head. His beard was of a brighter and
decidedly red colour, short, curly, and
untrimmed — electric, we should have
added, but we fear Mr. Wentworth did
not believe in such things. He carried
himself well, and in speaking threw back
his head and shoulders, which added to
the idea of great personal strength that
his presence had at first conveyed. His
features were marked and intelligent ; the
mouth large, the teeth white, even, and
brilliant. But it was in the strangely
sparkling, deep-set eyes that the man's
whole character lay plainly revealed. To
Mr. Wentworth they looked like the deep
waters of an open well, upon which the
hot summer's light gleams and plays

steadily far below your feet ; cold, yet
warmly-glowing ; unchangeable, yet never
still ; restlessly wild and ungovernable,
yet impressionable as the rippling surface
upon which each passing object is reflected.
He spoke without any provincial
accent, in a very loud, high key, as
though bent on doing justice to himself
and to all. Not a muscle of his face or
form moved the while.

1 To the Vicar and you farmers I speak,
John Hawker, of Rummerwoods Farm.
You all know me, and I know you. The
Vicar is new ; he does not. But he shall.
Sir, I will serve you faithfully to the
utmost of my power. I will do more than
the utmost, if I can do you anything

good. And you, farmers, and labourers,
and carpenters, you know that I don't
care a brass farthing for the whole lot
of you put together. I ask the Vicar for
his trust and his confidence. I have nothing
more to say. But, so you should
understand, I will say it again, if the
chairman permits, in the language they
understand.'

Mr. Wentworth nodded, and, with still
immovably earnest countenance, Farmer
John Hawker went through the whole
speech again, word for word, in the dialect
of the district.

The Yicar did not comprehend a syllable
this time, but he observed passing
gleams of intelligence on the faces around

him. After this the speaker returned
to his chair without uttering another
word, and Mr. Wentworth thought it
best to bring the proceedings to a
close.

The meeting had lasted two hours in
all ; but the Yicar had forgotten all about
his pamphlet. The men rose to go ina
sulky manner. It was evident their
sympathies were with the wronged Mr.
Sydney, and, as they filed out, murmurs,
such as, ' Him reeked 's wurrd ;' ' This
there Mr. Jahn forsooth ;' ' Church restoration
be bio wed ;' ' The girt d d

vooul,' fell on Mr. Wentworth's already
smarting ears.

They were all gone at last, and Ernest

Wentworth stood alone in the little vestry
with his strange new friend.

His only friend, he feared, in this his
first charge, upon which he had entered
with such mingled feelings of joy and
sorrow, such enthusiastic plans for the
future, and whose beauty of scenery had
seemed to offer so lovely a prospect of
success. He had known troubles, such as
had shaken his soul in very pieces; he
had known bereavement, such as a man
of his nature never wholly recovers from ;
but failure he had never known. Praise,
honours, and esteem had flowed freely
into his cup, from his schooldays to his
well-earned fellowship at Oxbridge. It
seemed that now he was to taste failure

in the most despicable form. He would
not flee from it. The presence of this
new, strange, strong friend was already
infusing into his being a fresh, unknown
strength.

Ernest Wentworth held out his hand.
His fingers ache to this hour, he believes,
with the grip they received in
return.

Farmer John did not, however, utter a
word, as he followed the Vicar out of the
vestry, and patiently waited while the door
was locked. Then, still following silently,
the iron gates of the Church were swung to,
and they emerged into the churchyard. He
looked straight before him, his countenance
now as lacking in expression as a

few minutes before it had been all light
and energy.

Mr. Wentworth glanced curiously at
him. He was certainly unlike his former
experience of the so-called lower orders,
especially those with whom he had had
the most intercourse — the chatty Herbert
Cosens and his worthy spouse. We have
hinted that Ernest Wentworth was a
student of human nature. He would fain
have drawn out Farmer Hawker now.

1 And your farm is the one called Eum-
merwoods, is it not ?' he inquired.

They tell me so answered his companion,
in the same curiously-strained,
loud key.

The Yicar laughed.

That is a curious stone for a grave,' he
remarked, pointing to a small, flat slab,
without inscription of any kind, which lay
amidst the tall, rank grass near the steps
leading to the gallery door. * Should
you like to lie unrecorded under such ?'

They may lay me under a thorn-tree
for aught I care,' replied Farmer
John. ' That is Black Bess's grave, the
queen of the gipsies. Queer folk, those
gipsies.'

1 You farmers cannot be very fond of
them,' hazarded the Yicar.

1 There's room for all sorts in this world,'
was the reply.

And what of the other ?' demanded Mr.
Wentworth, in his musing tone.

VOL. I. H

Farmer John gave him a look of mingled
surprise and amusement.

4 1 reckon it's about the same,' he
said.

By this time they had passed down
a side path and into the Vicarage
grounds, through the little green gate
the cross on whose summit had so often
afforded Mr. Wentworth subject of speculation
concerning the late Vicar. Before
them lay an old-fashioned flower and fruit-garden,
in which the still blooming primroses,
cowslips, and violets were scenting
the air. The Vicar, whose love of the
beautiful might have seemed to the wise
somewhat exaggerated, stopped to gather
some of them, and held one dainty cowslip

before his new friend's eyes. What remark
would this draw from Farmer John ?
Not a word. Only by the changing light
in his eyes could Mr. Wentworth detect
an impression of some kind — what, it would
be difficult to guess.

4 You love flowers ?' questioned the
Yicar.

Farmer John smiled. For one moment
only he relapsed into his native
dialect.

Them be proper cools, them be. Like
'em? Ay, sure. Believe I do, terrible
well.' Then he laughed at himself till the
garden rang.

They were now close to the Vicarage,
which poor Mr. Toutell had done much to

h2

make strictly ecclesiastical by surmounting
each gable with, a cross. There were
plenty of gaily-painted windows to be
seen, and an ecclesiastical door of dark
oak, studded with iron knobs, above which
a brass lion rampant held the inscription :

In Cosh Quies.

Whether this was the Toutell coat-of-arms
had oft-times been a favourite question
with the Squire ; but the villagers, headed
by Mrs. Tolley, firmly believed it to be a
text of Scripture, which the excellent
gentleman had put up for his own consolation
and their edification. The lion was
popularly reported to be ' one of the 'holy
celestial.'

The kitchen, where Mrs. Cosens baked
so many of her far-famed cakes, had been
part of a much older building, as was
evident from its curiously mullions windows
and oak-beamed ceiling, black with
age. It was the only remaining part of
the monastery, from which, in bygone
ages, a passage was said to have led underground
to the Church. To Mr. Wentworth
this was an unspeakable comfort and
source of meditation, and he never tired
of mentally condemning poor Toutell for
pulling down a great part of the old house,
and building his ecclesiastical-looking, but
very rickety, addition.

c I am so vexed, Mr. Hawker, that you
should have been annoyed by the rudeness

of the farmers,' he said, as he opened the
heavy oak door, and the scent of Mrs.
Cosens' cooking came temptingly down
the long narrow passage. ' Won't you
come in and rest ? You have a long way
to go, I fear. I trust you do not mind
the farmers,' he repeated, a little anxiously.


Mind ?' retorted his companion, in his
curiously pitched tone — ' it's their ignorance,
Vicar, that's where it is. They don't
know better. They're no better than the
pigs or cows they mind.'

Mr. Wentworth laughed heartily to
hear his pet theory thus rehearsed.

1 But we must have patience,' he said.
Patience, Mr. Hawker, is the secret of a

clergyman's existence. In your patience
possess ye your souls,' he added, in his
musing undertone.

Farmer John gave him a searching
glance.

There are some folk,' he said, shortly,
that only possess their bodies.'

CHAPTER V.

Miss Hawker speaks her Mind.

Egbert COSENS, the Vicar's
gardener and factotum, had just
received a commission from his master
after his own heart, and he set out on it
with energy sufficient for three men. Ashe
went along, he cut various capers, to
the delight of the village children whom
he passed, and with whom he had made
himself a great favourite.

Always up to some lark or other,' was
the character he bore with the elders of
the place — a character which, to tell the
truth, he was not sorry to possess.

The soft spring sunshine was still falling
on the thatched roofs of the cottages,
standing close together on each side of the
village street. Verdant as a rich pasture
looked the roof of the ' Jolly Labourers,'
where the thatch, unlike the mouse-coloured
coverings of the other houses,
shone green and smooth as the Vicarage
lawn. It was a quaint old inn, with
its square courtyard, round two thirds of
which the buildings clustered. To the
right the open door of the host's stables ;
in the centre a house occupied by some

old women, whose deafness made then
impervious to the din of the bar next
door. The windows of this quaint old inn
were nullified, aud from an iron pole
swung a sign, representing haymakers ina
field, which sun and rain had rendered
delightfully obscure.

A few minutes later a group might be
expected to assemble, on foot or on horseback,
outside the ever-open door; for it
was market-day. But, fortunately for the
Vicar's message, only a few idlers were
now hanging about in their dirty smocks,
their listless hands highly suggestive of
some lines of Watts's hymns.

Herbert Cosens had lately taken the
pledge, in order to please his new master,

whose projected reforms were, of course,
to go hand in had with temperance ; so
he merely nodded to certain of his acquaintance,
and, remarking that they appeared
somewhat fatigued by their present
laborious occupation, passed on.

A greater temptation, however, presented
itself further down the street,
where, next to a very dilapidated-looking
old house, the carpenter's shop, belonging
to John Tolley, was situated. The Squire
could never be induced to repair any of
his tenants' dwellings, but, when appealed
to by the boldest, would blandly refer them
to his steward, who again would silence
them with the polite assurance that he
had 'received no orders.' So John Tolley

was fain to rest content with his
crumbling walls and broken windows.
For it must be confessed that, if Sir
Howard had consigned him (as mentally
he very often did) to the lower
regions, the worthy carpenter would have
summoned up all his philosophy to endure
the flames, comforting himself the
while with the reflection that he ' supposed
it was to be.'

Immense logs of wood lay outside the
carpenter's shop, forming a favourite 
for the men on sunny Sunday
mornings. Upon and near them to-day
was gathered a small group, consisting
of the wags of the village, whom, by a
natural and undefinable sympathy, Herbert

Cosens felt himself obliged to join. From
the windows of the shop, which were unglazed,
came every now and then a remark
from Angel Tolley, the clerk's firstborn,
a youth celebrated for having several
times knocked down his father, and also
for the untold quantity of cider he was
warranted to imbibe at harvest-time.

1 Halloa, 'Erb, my dear, where be 'ee
gain' to, eh ?' greeted the ears of the
Vicar's gardener as he slowly approached
the group.

The question was greeted with universal
applause, and Herbert was counselled to
be quick and answer.

To the place what's only known to
two,' was the emphatic rejoinder.

The laugh was turned against the questioner,
and Herbert cut his matchless caper
midst fresh peals of laughter.

Angel, who was at work on a spring-cart
inside the shop, now thrust his huge,
tangled head through the window, and,
noting the appearance of a new-comer
in the group, acknowledged his presence
by a not very attractive smile.

'row's the old gentleman?' he inquired,
with a sneer.

1 'Bout as merry as you be when you
sees the tails o' Bobby Davis's coat,'
replied the gallant Herbert ; and the roars
of laughter became even louder.

Angel Tolley growled out some unintelligible

rejoinder as his rough head
disappeared through the window.

'What do 'ee then o' this, 'Erb ?'
inquired "Walter Fitz, the wag who had
been the leader in the merriment, a smart-looking
lad about twenty years of age,
rioted for his bird-like whistle, his daring
feats on horseback, and his affection for
the c Jolly Labourers.'

He produced from his pocket a tattered
sheet, and held it triumphantly before his
companion's eyes, carefully guarding it
the while from rough treatment with his
other hand.

1 wound it on the road to Flax'on 's
marne,' he continued; 'and the town

be full o' 'em. Now, 'Erb, you be a
passion's chap — jus' you stud' he, and
tell us the meauen'.'

Herbert was not a scholar, and it was a
very long time before even the large red
and blue capitals, which stared at him
from the advertisement, became anything
like words to his aching eyes. At length
he slowly spelt out the words one by one,
and found that it was an intimation of a
meeting to be held on Wednesday evening,
at eight o'clock, in the Town Hall,
Flaxen, at which there would be f a grand
Railway Company dinner,' of which ■ all
were invited to partake,' and where a
number of persons ' would describe their
experiences.'

The wording of this curious advertisement
was both startling and grotesque,
and its bright blue and scarlet letters
attracted the eyes of those who unhappily
could not have read them.

The group had pressed closely round
the decipherer of the strange sheet,
and now they all glanced anxiously at
him, as though he alone could explain
its meaning. Their looks bespoke admiration
and respect, for not even the
clerk's son, whose ears had drunk in the
contents of the advertisement through
the open window, could have mastered
the small print ; and there were some
present to whom each letter was a
mystery.

VOL. I. I

'Well, 'Erb, what do it mane ?' inquired
the gay Walter Fitz.

The gardener shook his head.

'No good he said, significantly. 'I've
a-niver seed the like o't adore. Tis
some pedlar vo'k. They do talk uncommon
crazy sometimes.'

But even as he delivered this explanation
he eyed the bright blue and red
letters wistfully, and made a mental note
of the hour and place of this strange
meeting.

If only my missus were yere,' he muttered.


Each person in the little group had his
suggestion to offer, but Herbert paid them

no heed. 'Millier' was not there, and
without her opinion he found it impossible
fully to state his. That he had his own
on the matter he conveyed to the others
by sundry very expressive nods. But,
seeing that he might be uncomfortably
pressed to deliver himself of it, the worthy
gardener wisely resolved to leave the
tempting discussion which had commenced
to the direction of Walter Fitz
and the clerk's son, and departed on his
way.

He had by this time wasted half an
hour and more, so, quickening his steps,
he determined not to bestow more than a
nod on any friend or acquaintance who

i 2

should chance to cross his path. Herbert
Cosens, however, had evidently but small
respect for his master's errand, for, when
he found himself climbing the white hilly
road which led up to his destination, he
commented on his message aloud, as was
his wont when alone, in this contemptuous
manner :

< Vetch 'en? What vor?'

Then there was a pause, as he stopped
to take breath, where a glance round
showed him the roofs of the village shining
brightly in the spring sunset below.

Behind him a huge green hill rose
gradually from the sloping pasture-ground.
He was two miles and more from the

Vicarage, whose chimneys he could just
see in the distance, thrown out by the
dark background of trees, which seemed to
enclose them and the Church behind in a
verdant frame. The sound of sheep-bells
tinkling on the hill above him, and the
whistle, miles away, of some farm lad driving
cows to the milking, came clearly on
the fresh, buoyant air, and he could even
hear the voice of some one in the village
below summoning, in a shrill, feminine
key, a child from its play. But
Herbert heeded not these sounds, nor
the beauty of the scene which lay before
him like a ready-painted picture. His
eyes were fixed upon a flock of fine sheep

peacefully nibbling the scanty pasture,
which, as being a little richer than the
hill above, had been hedged in for cattle
to graze on.

1 Yoine sheep for this there ground,' was
his comment. ' Them be bursting' wi' vat,
for sure. I wish 1 had 'em.'

A voice from the hedge responded
sharply,

1 You med jus' wish, then and the top
of Miss Hawker's not very brilliant sun-bonnet
and two of her curls emerged into
view. She was just returning from milking,
and eyed the stranger with but little
favour.

Good day, ma'am,' remarked the gardener,
in his most conciliatory tones. ' I

was jus' thence' what a lucky weller the
maister o' they sheep med be.'

1 1 yeerd you,' she responded. f Walls
'ave ears, they says, and zoo med 'edges.
Naw, thanked, I can carry 'em myself,' as
the gallant Herbert, springing up the bank
and through a gap in the hedge, would
have relieved her of her milk-pails.

I was a-comin'' to your place he said,
presently, as he followed her through a
large farmyard where, amongst mud and
straw, Dorking and barn-door fowls were
loudly cackling. A large sheep-dog greeted
their arrival with a surly growl from a
barrel placed near the open door of the
house.

1 'Ole your noise, will 'ee, Jessie !' cried

Miss Hawker, picking her way through
the mud and refuse on her loud-sounding
clogs. ' If you wants anything Mr.
Cosens, come this way. There, Jessie,
quoit, I say P

Jessie did not, however, take very
kindly to the stranger, but, sniffing unceremoniously
at his legs, bestowed on
him another growl, and then crouched in
her barrel again.

c Tis Mr. 'Ahker I wants to zee,' said
Herbert, promptly. ' But I can wait if 'e
ain't whom.'

"Ars-past your 'clack's the time most
Christians do take their tay,' she replied,
sharply, as she led the way into the house,
passing the open door of the dark fragrant

dairy, where she deposited her
milk-pails. This done, she marshalled her
companion into the kitchen, where Mr.
Hawker was impatiently waiting for his
tea.

Always late, Lizzy,' he said, as she
moved quickly about, opening cupboards,
and shutting them with a clatter that
made a rough grey sheep-dog snoozing
in the chimney-corner rise slowly, and,
stretching himself, move out of her
way.

1 I've bin waited' here ten minutes and
moore,' continued her brother, as Miss
Hawker proceeded to fill the teapot with
boiling water from the huge kettle, which
hung from a great iron chain over a

rough stone hearth, on which a fire of
gorse and faggots was blazing, the flames
rushing up the wide chimney with a
roaring sound. ' What made you sa
late ?'

1 Taken' wi' this there man, repose,'
muttered Miss Hawker, whom the heat
had flashed, and whose temper was beginning
to rise. c There, come in, Mr.
Cosens ; do 'ee now. Don' 'ee stan'
there garden' to the dour lik' a girt
booby.'

Herbert, who had remained modestly at
a distance, now entered the kitchen, and
was motioned by John to a place beside
himself on the oaken settle in the chime
Close by on his stool sat the

favourite black cat of the farm, Peter
by name, reported to be a marvellous
judge of character. Peter resented the
approach of a stranger, and, arching his
back, rolled his yellow eyes defiantly at
Herbert.

Mr. Hawker laughed, and stroked the
cat soothingly, as he bade the gardener
never mind the cat, 'twas always Peter's
way wi' strangers.'

Meanwhile Miss Hawker was pouring
out tea into mugs, which she had placed
on the table. These, together with huge
slices of home-made bread aud butter,
she handed to her brother and to his
companion, not forgetting a saucer of
tea for Peter.

The kitchen in which the three were
assembled was a low, dark room, with
blackened rafters and a large black oak
dresser, well covered with curious old
cups and plates. The best tea-service,
however, which Miss Hawker only-produced
on grand occasions, was not
there, but locked away in one of the
corner cupboards. On the high mantelshelf
which ran right across the
archway formed by the chimney, and
from which hung a flounce of some
bright red stuff, was a row of foreign-looking
octagonal plates, which would
have rejoiced the heart of a connoisseur
in china. A long oak chest, curiously
carved, occupied the space to the right

of the door, together with a side-table,
covered with baskets, boxes, dirty dishes,
and half-mended clothing of all descriptions.
At this table, with her back to
the company, was seated the thin figure
of a woman, whose face, bidden by her
sun-bonnet, was bent downwards on the
coarse blue worsted stocking she was
darning.

Miss Hawker, after enjoying three
moguls of tea, and having supplied her
companions in the chimney-corner with
the same, fetched her work-basket from
the table, and glanced at her brother.
Her looks foretold to the gardener's eye,
practised in the ways of women, a coming
storm.

'Jahn,' she began, in her shrill voice,
1 this there man Jobie 'full be the ruin
o' this place. I med's will spake to a
dog as 'e. Sure, Peter 'ud 'bey me
sooner. And the scarce 'e gi'ed me 's
marner' almost drum' me would. Seemed'
I should drap, to year rich wurrds from
a man. 'Sees, Em'ly, though 'tis your
'urban', we mus' tell the truth, and
notion' but the truth.'

Tbe woman addressed as 'Em'ly' now
turned her face towards the company.

Lor', Miss 'Ahker, ma'am, that's very
true, my dear ma'am,' she said in reply.
c But there, 'e's so ignorant-like, is Jobie ;
^e don' know noo bitter, 'e don't.'

She spoke in a low, soothing voice,

which, however, had only the effect of
rousing her listener s wrath. Miss Hawker
burst forth once more, and this time in
loader tones :

1 Don' know noo bitter ? I'll learn 'en
bitter, I will ! But that's jus' where 'tis,
'e won't be learned. To think ov ellen'
me 1 hidden know his work, and 'e should
do what him thought right, and you,
Jahn, a-stannen' boy 'en wi' all yer might
and main !'

There, there, ma'am,' interposed the
wife of the offending carter, f 'tis 'is
ign'rance, and Mr. Jahn's too. They be
all ignorant, they men-vo'k,' she added,
glancing contemptuously at the two on
the oaken settle.

Mrs. Gill, or Em'ly Gill, as she was
called in the parish, had not a sufficient
share of good looks to afford to assume
a contemptuous expression of countenance.
She was a sharp-faced woman,
rather under the middle height, with thin
grey hair hanging over her ears. Her
coarse, rough skin was reddened by fieldwork,
and over her short, turned-up nose
there nearly met a pair of sharp small
grey eyes, warranted to overflow with
tears at a moment's notice. Her mouth
was, however, her most expressive feature.
It was large and thin-lipped, and from
various causes Nature had left her but
one long tooth in her under-jaw, which
tooth, projecting, when she spoke, over

her sunken-in upper lip, by no means
increased the charm of her personal appearance.
Her narrow, wasp-like form
was clothed in an old dress of Miss
Hawker's, of that golden-brown colour so
much patronised by villagers, and her
apron and sun-bonnet were not as fresh
as they might have been.

But, in spite of these seeming deficiencies,
Em'ly Gill had been twice married,
and had for many years enjoyed the
favour of Miss Hawker. Indeed, it was
the presence of his wife alone which
prevented the captious farmer's sister
from insisting on the dismissal of Job
Gill, the carter. He was, unfortunately,
a particular favourite of Farmer John's,

VOL. I. K

for whom, in return, he entertained the
liveliest affection. He would listen attentively
to all his injunctions, and to the
strange ideas John would sometimes let
fall, when the two were far away from
the womenkind of the establishment. And
he would only shake his head dubiously,
not venturing to contradict him, when his
master would exclaim, as he not unfrequently
did,

'You were a wool. Jobie, to marr',
and 'tic'larly a girt wool to marr' this
there Em'ly.'

Em'ly was much older than her present
'ignorant' husband or e maister,' as by a
seeming irony the worse half was designated,
in the parish of Applecombe. Inconsideration

of the wisdom which her
superior age might be 'supposed to give
her, she exercised a strict surveillance over
her husband's actions, although by his
very stupidity he often managed to get
the upper hand. On such occasions she
would comfort herself with the reflection
that it was only his ' ign'rance ' which
could have caused him to act without her
advice.

Mrs. Gill had her trials, as most of us
have, in some form or another. One of
these was the difficulties into which her
love for her mistress and the respect due
to her husband continually threw her.
But in all classes of life, and in all ranks
of society, there exist the natural, if not

k2

trained politicians, and Emily Gill could
deservedly have claimed kinship with
these. It was vain, however, for her
to reason with honest Job concerning
his resentment of Miss Hawker's interference.


'Mr. Jahn were his maister,' he would
repeat, stubbornly, ' and cummin vo'k
knew nowt 'bout the beasts. 'E hidden
want noo words, but 'e coulter put up wi'
Miss 'Ahker's meddle.'

Miss Hawker, in her turn, would descant
by the hour to the patient Emily upon the
folly, stupidity, and pig-headdress of her
lord and master. Nor could the consoling
reflection of Jobie's ignorance in any way
convince her that he was anything but a

4 girt inherent chap.' Job, sure of Farmer
John's support, continued as obstinate as
ever, and had even lately thrown out some
hints, which had by no means added to the
esteem in which Mrs. Gill held her mistress's
brother.

1 Never mind the ign'rance, Em'ly,'
went on Miss Hawker. ■ What I wants
to know is, whether Job Gill 's to 'bey
me or not. Answer me that, Jahn 'Ahker,
and I'll say noo moore.'

Here Herbert Cosens, always anxious to
conciliate the women, of whom as a race
he was somewhat in awe, interposed
with —

There, there, Miss 'Ahker, ma'am, 'tis
all for the bes.'

In return she bade him ' mind his own
concerns, and not meddle wi' other vo'k/
and Mrs. Gill added that she ' never was
boone for meddle' wi' strangers.'

Farmer John, who had occupied himself
during this storm with feeding Peter and
his dogs, now rose, and bade Herbert, if he
were ready, 'go 'long wi' him.'

Miss Hawker suffered the offending
men vo'k ' to cross the kitchen in silence.
But, as her brother prepared to leave the
house, she threw after him a parting piece
of her mind, as she termed it.

'I jus' tell thee, Jahn, thee's a wool.
There ! Gain' to the Vic'rage ? I
essay. Much good may ye git
there !'

Farmer John may have been afflicted
with temporary deafness, for he uttered
not a word in reply. Nor did he vouchsafe
any answer to the worthy Herbert's
comments on his sister's conduct when
they got outside.

Did the Vicar wish me to come particular
?' he asked, as, after half-an-hour's
walk, they passed through a gate leading
into some fields running parallel with a
railway line. This they presently crossed,
and then turned, over a little rustic
bridge spanning the shallow Flax, into a
long, narrow lane leading up into the village
street at one corner of the Vicarage
garden.

'E said any time you could spare

answered Herbert ; and held open the iron
gate, which his busy hands had changed
from blue to green, and from green to
blue in a month's time.

Mrs. Cosens was dusting in the passage
with a preoccupied air, and appeared surprised
at the arrival of her husband and
Farmer John.

The Vicar's down below,' she explained,
as she ushered the visitor upstairs, 'but
I'll tell 'en you be yere, Mr. 'Ahker. 'E
said, if you corned, I was to put you in
the study.'

CHAPTER VI.

In the Vicar's Study.

T was the study in which Farmer
John now found himself. His
eyes opened even wider than was their
wont at the sight of four long walls
entirely covered with books from floor to
ceiling. He had never seen so many
before, not even at Squire Marston's sale,
where he had bid for several lots. But
not only the walls ; the very floor was

piled with huge folios. The close atmosphere
was full of the smell and the dust
of ancient tomes, mingling with that of
stale tobacco. The little latticed window,
through which looked the ivy that clambered
over the older part of the house, was
shut, and on the wide window-sill lay a
white Pomeranian dog, which growled at
the approach of Mrs. Cosens, but quietly
subsided into slumber again directly she
had disappeared.

Everywhere, it seemed to Farmer John,
there were still books. The oaken writ-unstable
was covered with them, and so
were two or three arm-chairs. There was
a side-table strewn with them, and a revolving
bookcase filled to overflowing.

Near the window was a great oaken
lectern, upon which two huge folios were
placed. A small fire burned in the grate,
and a second door led into a little .
Farmer John fancied he saw
books there also.

Over the mantelpiece was hung a collection
of pictures and photographs, in
old, dingy-looking frames. In the centre
oue, the dingiest of all, was displayed
a motto, ' Christ Ecclesiae Studies,' painted
in emblematical colours. A cane
arm-chair was pushed back from the
writing-table, as though the owner had
just quitted it. A sheet, half-filled with
scrawling, illegible handwriting, near
which a pair of spectacles were thrown,

lay on the blotting-paper, which again
was almost hidden by a pile of letters,
catalogues, pamphlets, and manuscripts
of all sizes and shapes.

Farmer John was gazing absorbed at
the books, when a step behind, and the
wagging of the white dog's tail, although
it did not open its eyes, proclaimed the
entrance of the Yicar. He held out his
hand, with one of his radiant smiles, and
begged his visitor to be seated.

How are you, Mr. Hawker ?' he asked.

Nicely, thank you, sir,' answered
Farmer John.

It was good of you to come directly,'
said the Yicar, sinking into the arm-chair,
and drawing it near the fire. ' I had

something I wished particularly to consult
you about

Farmer John looked stolidly at him,
and said nothing.

Mr. Wentworth rose and peered, in his
short-sighted way, through the mass of
papers on the writing-table. After a
few moments' search, he found what he
wanted, and returned to the cane armchair.


1 You see, Mr. Hawker,' he began,
smoothing the crumpled sheet with his
delicate hands — 'you see, the parish is
not what it should be. And I am anxious
I cannot convey to your mind any idea
of my great anxiety — to see the place
different. It is so beautiful, so wicked.

Every time I look out on that lovely
scene, the lines occur to me :

Where every prospect pleases,
And only man is vile." '

He stopped and pointed to the window.
Below them, the wide Vicarage lawn ran
down to steps leading into the kitchen-gardens
and field, bordered by the little
Flax which Farmer John had crossed with
Herbert Cosens half an hour ago. Beyond
the Flax to the railway line stretched a
rich pasture, known as Broadened, where
the Vicar's cows had been grazing peacefully
through the sunny afternoon. Beyond
this again stretched fields and
orchards, above which towered Firsbarrow,
or Fusburree, as the villagers called it — a

steep, smooth green hill, with a group of
firs sticking up at the top like a feather in
its cap. Many a time had Farmer John
seen it blazing with bonfires and tar-barrels
on Guy Fawkes night, the flaming
torches, and the shouts of the lads as they
waved them aloft, making the hill on a
dark night seem all on fire, and peopled
by the witches themselves, in whom nota
few of the villagers firmly believed.

Mr. Wentworth repeated the lines again
slowly.

1 A stupid stanza in many respects,' he
went on ; ' but those lines are very apt
here. I have thought of many things, but
well, Mr. Hawker, I think the people
don't understand me. Perhaps I don't

understand them. Ah, me, Mr. Hawker,
one learns at last, after years of study,
only this one fact — one's own ignorance.'


As he spoke, he noted with pleasure the
frank sympathy that shone in the expressive
eyes opposite him.

So, as I don't perhaps make plain to
them all I could wish to do, I have been
very desirous of finding some one who
might. The very person I sought turned
up by chance, as people call it.'

Mr. Wentworth opened the sheet he
held, and handed it to Farmer John.

f This strange announcement caught my
eye in Flaxen yesterday ; I could make
nothing of it, but brought it back with meas

a curious study. Last evening I was
told a strange man wished to see me ; I
desired him to be brought up here, and I
then became acquainted with one of the
most singular specimens of humanity
it has ever been my good fortune to
meet. You see mention on that sheet
of a Station-master Bush who will
address "the people of the night."
The man who wished to see me was
the same. He reported himself to be a
leader in the Evangelising Company
known as the Heavenly Railway, who
are at present preaching in every town
in England to the lowest of our nation,
people whom the clergy find it impossible
to get hold of. He is the leader of the

VOL. I. L

mission that has just been started in
Flaxen. But the clergy there — excuse
a little violence in my language, it makes
me a little indignant — are such narrow-minded,
ignorant — ' he paused for a word,
and, looking over his spectacles, added —
asses, that they will lend no support
whatever to the evangelists. They would
have found some of the apostles vulgar,
and unrefined, and unorthodox, I expect.
And, in consequence, they are letting
slip through their fingers a greater opportunity
of usefulness than, perhaps,
has ever been given them before, or will
be again. Mr. Bush is anxious to extend
the mission through the surrounding
villages, as the work in Flaxen has

been attended with marvellous success.
But he said, and truly, that, without
the support of the clergy of the country
parishes, nothing can really be effected.
He came to beg for my assistance and
support in the matter, and for the loan
of my little school-room in the far-end
of the parish. Of course Sir Howard
would not permit him to enter the day-school,
which, unfortunately, he has entirely
in his own hands. After much
conversation with him concerning his
opinions and plans — in short, when I
found him to be a sincerely good and
earnest man, a rough diamond, to be
sure, very rough — well, after a good
deal of talk with him, I gave him my

l2

permission, and said the school-room
should be at his command one day next
week, on condition of my having it in
my power to be present, if I chose, and
stop anything I might disapprove of.'

The Yicar came to a sudden stand-still,
and looked at his companion. There was
no expression of any kind on Farmer
John's countenance.

Bush agreed to the condition he
continued, presently. c He wishes to act
with the clergy, if they will only allow it.
Of course he is not a churchman, although
he is a most earnest man. I should be
worse than the old bigots of our Church
if I refused him the room. Indeed, I
feel it to be my duty to render him every

assistance, and to give him all the sympathy
and encouragement I can. Who
knows, but that he may be the means of
lighting the fuel, which I have laid together,
but could not kindle ? The people
are impressionable • the spiritual life is not
quite dead in them. There are some,
indeed, who '

He paused, and looked dreamily into
the fire. Some vision there seemed to
sadden him. He sighed deeply, and
glanced again, this time anxiously, at
Farmer John.

1 If, through infirmity of speech, I cannot
reach them, for the will is with me,
perhaps this scarcely educated, unrefined
evangelist may. St. Peter and his companions

were but fishermen, yet the whole
world has resounded with their teaching.
What strange sermons to civilise a thousand
nations ! St. Paul was sent unto
the Gentiles. But I am not St. Paul.
The spirit of the early Church is no more
with us. Who knows but it may have
descended, and rightly, to the humblest
? It is the heirloom of the poor inspirit.'


Farmer John had listened attentively
to each word. But he could not gather
from this confused utterance what his
part in the matter might be.

What do you want me to do, Vicar ?'
he asked, in his strained high key.

Ah, what do I want ?' responded Mr.

Wentworth. ' That's it. It's you I want.
You are my representative in the parish. If
you looked at that sheet, you would see —
But perhaps you can scarcely view it in
the same light that I do. These people —
this railway — what do they call it? —
Heavenly Railway Company, are uneducated,
unrefined, simple-minded Christians.
They do not speak to the educated — they
leave them to the clergy. They attack
those whom we find utterly inaccessible.
And, in order to reach the fallen and low,
they employ — certainly rather extraord in a ry
means. Their advertisements are, to my
eyes, unaccustomed to such things, almost
profane. The mysteries of our holy faith
are mixed up in the strangest manner with

words, expressions, and ideas ludicrous,
almost low and obscene. They must do it,
Bush told me. It is the only way to draw
the people, as he expressed it. But I — well,
I am loth to mix personally in it as yet,
though I trust, if all goes well on Thursday,
to attend these meetings myself. They
might, indeed, feel themselves constrained
before me. It might prevent the people's
getting the good they might otherwise get.
So I think it is best I should not go myself
till I see what occurs, how it goes off.
What do you think, Mr. Hawker ?'

Farmer John had few opinions, and
those he had he was unaccustomed to
translate into words. With him an
opinion was an action. He could not yet

quite see what the Vicar wanted him
to do.

Mr. Wentworth had studied his churchwarden
apparently with success during the
few weeks that had elapsed since his election.
He went on now, with a slightly
nervous hurry of manner, that made his
words sound as though he uttered them
with difficulty.

1 1 want you, as my churchwarden — that
is, if you don't object — to attend this
meeting. I think it would be necessary todo
so for a short time, just to see what
they do. You might go in at eight
o'clock — the meeting begins at half-past
seven — to keep order among the people,
not to let the meeting be entirely unrepresented

by the spiritual head of the
parish. Then I shall know what to make
of the evangelists in the future, and I
shall be able to judge of the expediency of
letting them hold a future course of
meetings in my school-room. You see, Mr.
Hawker?'

Farmer John rose.

You want me to be at the little schoolroom
near the u Star Inn " on Thursday
evening, to look on for awhile at the folk
there, and to tell you what they do
He threw the crumpled sheet on the
writing-table without glancing at it. c I
will be there he said.

The Vicar rose in his turn.

1 Many thanks. That is just it. I don't

expect anything will go wrong. Only I
should be easier, feel it to be safer, if you
were there, just to look in, as you say, and
tell me what they do. Good evening, Mr.
Hawker.'

As Farmer John grasped the Vicar's
hand, he could not resist casting one wistful
glance round the room at the rows of
books which lined its walls. There was a
kind of reverence mingling with admiration
in his glance. Mr. Wentworth perceived
it in a moment.

You are fond of books,' he said, and
another of his rare smiles almost beautified
his sallow, furrowed face. ' So
am I. There are plenty here, are there
not?'

They were Mr. Wentworth's old and
tried friends, those rows of volumes.
Each one had its place in his affections,
and their titles looked through his spectacles
like the faces of dearly-loved
beings.

There are a-many here,' said Farmer
John, as though he were repeating a
prayer. ' Have you read them all ?'

4 Pretty well all answered the Yicar.
But there are thousands more to be
read — and life is short he added,
sadly.

Life is long, I think said Farmer
John.

'Yes, it is long too — sometimes,' assented
the Yicar, in so startling a tone

of anguish that it aroused the sympathy
of his companion. The sympathy, like
every other emotion, shone out of his
true, speaking eyes. He did not, however,
look at Mr. Wentworth, but turned
his face abruptly away from him.

Should you like some of my books to
study? Perhaps you have a little spare
time in the evening. They will repay
you, I think.'

The Vicar spoke again in his natural
tones.

Farmer John exclaimed, eagerly,

1 Indeed I should. I'm very fond of
reading. But books are scarce here, and
I've read ours a hundred times.'

4 They must be worthy ones,' said the

Vicar. ' Choose,' he added, pointing to
the shelf near which they stood.

'Did you write this one?' asked Farmer
John, indicating a cumbrous-looking
volume, which bore the inscription, Essays
on Psychology, by Ernest Went worth.

'Years ago,' answered the Yicar, half
laughingly, 'when I was an enthusiastic
youth at college. It bears the stamp of
youth. We modify our opinions as we get
older,' he added, musingly, as he turned
over the dusty leaves. ' I don't suppose
it has been touched since.'

His eyes were bent on the first page,
on which a name and date were scrawled
in pencil, and below the sketch of a face.
For one instant a convulsion seemed to

alter his whole countenance. The sensitive
mouth twitched with conflicting feelings.
The very chin quivered, and the strained
gaze of the short-sighted eyes seemed
fixed on some object floating in the air
before him. The hand that held the
volume trembled. Then, mastering himself
suddenly, he handed the book to his
companion, and said, quite naturally,

I hope it may interest you ; but I fear
you will find it very dry

Farmer John felt he should like to say
something, but the words were wanting.
Language is not always the best mode of
expression ; it is sometimes unequal to
the demands made upon it. The affection
that beams in the dog's eyes, as it feeds

upon the countenance of its newly-recovered
master, could not shape itself in
words. The sympathy that speaks in a
look, in a handshake, in the tremor of a
voice, is speechless. What can be written
remains ; but what often vanishes unrecorded
lives, like a picture, unexpressed
by words, yet bright and glowing in the
heart.

Farmer John read the volume many
times through, but he never glanced at
the first page. Miss Hawker, as belonging
to the inquiring, though frail, sex, was
more curious. But the pencil scrawl, all
but the date, remained unintelligible to
her. It was evidently a strange name
and place.

1 Frederica.

Roma, Dec, 18 — .

Nessun maggiore colore
Che recorders del tempo felice
Bella misery — '

The face was the hasty sketch of a fair
young woman.

vol. i. m

CHAPTER VII.

In the School-room.

ARMER JOHN felt little curiosity
as to what he might be going to
witness in the Vicars little school-room on
the Thursday evening following. He had,
indeed, already some idea what the proceedings
of the evangelists would probably
be, as upon several occasions he had
escorted his sister to the Wesleyan revival
meetings in Flaxen. These had made,

however, but little impression on his mind,
accustomed as he was to shut up within
himself every imagination, or idea, which
might differ from the old prejudices of
those amongst whom he lived. Indeed, he
was so little used to announcing his own
opinions, that it is probable he had formulated
but few. But to these he ardently
clung, and, indeed, they had become a part
of his being.

If Mr. Wentworth had demanded of
him a service in which there was a question
of his breaking that vow, which we
have heard discussed by his neighbours,
he would unhesitatingly, though sorrowfully,
have refused it. Sorrowfully — because
for the first time Farmer John was

m 2

experiencing the strange fascination caused
by a superior intellect stooping to hold
intercourse with his — an intellect with
which, in an indefinable manner, he had
secret sympathy. Of the sermons which
the Yicar vainly sought to bring down to
the level of his listeners, he felt that
Farmer John understood the whole ; and,
in their few brief conversations, the two,
differing so utterly in birth, position, and
education, met as equals. Nor is it certain
which derived the most benefit from
the other.

When the light of the lengthening May
evening was beginning to fade away
slowly into darkness, and below in the
village the cottages were twinkling with

kindling lamps and candles, Farmer John
took his stout oaken stick, and left his
favourite chimney-corner to the sole occupation
of Peter and the dogs. Jessie
would fain have followed him, but he sent
her back to Miss Hawker, who sat reading
to Mrs. Em'ly the ' Happy Circle,' a
magazine principally remarkable for its
highly sensational stories, illustrated after
a very imaginative fashion.

Miss Hawker did not venture to inquire
whither her brother was bound. But she
threw such an amount of severity into the
proposal of ' Lord Ferdinand,' whom she
was personating at that moment, that it is
doubtful whether that artless and vapid
young nobleman would have recognized

himself, thus transformed. Farmer John was
given to long, solitary evening rambles ;
but he had never started at so late an
hour as this. Miss Hawker glanced at
the old-fashioned clock on the wall, and
saw the hands pointed to eight.

As he approached the little school-room,
which was only separated by a low wall
from the ' Star,' a public-house notorious
for selling drink during canonical hours,
Farmer John could see that the building
was ablaze with light. Through the
closed doors came the sound of voices,
mingling in some melody. Higher and
louder they rose, and he could distinguish
the words of the chorus, prolonged by
harsh female notes :

The blood, the blood, the flowing blood,
I love the flowing, saving blood !
It makes my tears fall all in a flood,
Glory to the flowing blood !'

Then there was a sudden silence ; and he
softly opened the little wicket, and stole
on tiptoe to the door.

He could now hear a single voice, pleading,
as it seemed, in heart-rending accents
for relief, with which, every now and then,
mingled the groans and exclamations of
the listeners. He could not catch more
than a word or two, but it was sufficient to
arouse his curiosity. As the door was not
tightly fastened, he gently pushed it
open with his foot, and entered the
building.

It had formerly been used as a potato
store ; and the floor of rough stones was
still discoloured, and strewn with earth.
A damp steam, the result of its having
been so long unoccupied, rose and mingled
with the breath of the crowd gathered
there. The place was entirely filled with
persons of all ages, from old men to babies
clinging to their mothers' shoulders. Some
were sitting bolt upright on the benches
that filled the room, staring straight before
them with wide-opened, bewildered eyes ;
others had prostrated themselves on the
ground, their faces buried in their
hands.

No one perceived the entrance of Farmer
John ; for all eyes were fixed upon the

speaker, whose voice came clearly from
the top of the room. Even as he now
spoke, the number of those sitting or
standing was diminished, for they suddenly
fell upon their knees, as though impelled
by some hidden force.

The voice was low and insinuating, and
penetrating in its tone. To Farmer John
it seemed like magic, which held each
one bound or entranced. He noticed
amongst the crowd several persons, who
he knew were utterly opposed to auy
such religious feelings as they now
evinced, swaying to and fro like mighty
oaks before a storm. All around he
heard groans and sobs. The heat of
the atmosphere was almost unendurable.

The people assembled seemed like those ina
dream, unable to move or act. Had it
riot been for his promise to the Yicar,
Farmer John would have escaped at once
to the fresh breeze outside. As it
was, he waited, and listened for what
might happen.

Something in the voice arrested him
too, though he scarcely realised it ; and,
raising himself to look over the mass of
kneelers before him, he saw its owner at
no great distance facing him.

He was kneeling on the ground, like so
many of his audience ; and his clasped
hands were stretched imploringly upwards.
His bare head was bent reverently,
but every now and then he threw

it up with a sudden, despairing action. It
was a fat, common-place face, deeply
pitted by small-pox ; and it belonged
to the fat, common-place figure of a
little man, in a greasy black coat with
a velvet collar. He spoke with a broad
guttural accent, that proclaimed him to
be a stranger ; and his words had a certain
rough eloquence, which the earnestness
of his manner heightened to a
marvellous degree. At one moment they
sounded like the storm that shakes
the trees of the forest, at another they
whispered like the gentle western wind.

1 Oh, great, good Lord V he said, ' Thou
knowest we are come here for a little
mating. We are going to have a little

mating, and Thy sarvant is going to
speak. Thou knowest he is but a poor
speaker, Lord, but Thou canst make him
like hot burning coals upon the heads of
this people. Oh, save them, Lord ! They
are vile, and wicked, and miserable. They
are miserable, because they are vile and
wicked, and they are vile and wicked, because
they are miserable. And why are
they miserable, Lord ? Thou knowest,
because they don't know Thee. They
have lived all their lives without knowing
Thee, and they will die without knowing
Thee. They must die. Thou knowest,
O Lord, that each of us must wither like
a leaf, and fall to the ground, and die.
We may put it off, and think we shan't,

but death will lay his icy finger upon us,
and we shall die. Lord, to think of
eternal death, everlasting death — for this
people, because they do not know Thee —
everlasting fire in hell, with Satan laughing
at them, and making it hotter for
them ! Lord, Thou didst die that they
might live. Save them from that fire !
They have all got precious souls. Save
them now — this moment — from eternal
damnation. Lord, save them !'

The speaker's voice was choked for an
instant. The crowd dropped with one
accord on their knees, and filled the room
with their groans and lamentations. Tears
streamed down the cheeks of both men
and women, as they listened to the description

of their state. The speaker went
on :

Lord, we don't want ib so. There's
none here that wants to perish in that
burning hell. They've had enough of it
on the earth in their lives. They've been
wicked, many of them. Thou knowest
what their past lives have been. They
can't get them back — they are gone, and
all their crying won't give them a day oran
hour back. Thou hast got it all down
in Tby big book, that this one stole, and
this one killed, and this one was vile and
wicked. Thou safest them do it. They
thought no one saw, and no one knew,
but Thine eye was looking, looking, always
at them, even in the dark. It never

left off watching them. Lord, do their
sins make them happy? Thou knowest
it doesn't. Thou knowest they are wretched
and unhappy, and that the man who
stole never enjoyed it a bit, but had
always to be hiding, biding away from
everyone, and himself too, what he had
done. Who was he trying to hide it
from, too ? It was from Thee. But
Thou safest. Lord, canst thou forgive
— canst thou pardon ? Thou art quite
holy. Who can stand in Thy sight? Oh,
Thy blood, Thy blood, sprinkle them allover
with it, and make them fresh and
white again.'

He sprang to his feet, and leaping on a
bench, commenced in a loud, high voice to

sing a strange, new hymn, which he repeated
several times, till the audience could
join in the chorus :

We've strayed away, we've strayed away,
Miles away from Thee ;
Oh, take us back, we humbly pray,
And make us thine for aye, for aye,
To Thee, to Thee we flee !'

The speaker then drew from his pocket
a little soiled brown book, which he held
up before the now silent audience.

f Dear brothers and sisters he said,
with his queer guttural accent, while a
light seemed to flood ever and to beautify
his little, fat, marked countenance, and
beamed in his small sparkling eyes.
1 You see this book. In it is written all

we wants to know. Nothing' else matters
but what's written in this little book. I
comes from the Earth countrey, that's
miles away from here. And I used to bea
pawnbroker ; and I 'armed my three and
four pounds a week. I don't tell you that
to make you think what a great fellow I
am, but only to 'lustrate what I'm going to
say. When the Lord calls one of His
people to follow Him, if there's anything'
that makes 'em stand back, why, they must
roost give it op. The Lord said to me,
like He did to Elijah, as plain as could be :
Willy Bush, I wants thee to go and tell
the people 'bout Me down in the South."
So I went, and I've never wanted nothing',
because it was the Lord that called me,
VOL. l n

and not the devil. The devil calls a-
many. He says : " Come thee with me,
and I'll make thee rich, and learned, and
like a gentleman." So lie 'times you. And
he shows you all the kingdoms of the
world, and the riches of them, like he did
to the Lord. And what did the Lord say ?
Get thee behind Me, Satan." But there's
a-many of you haven't said that. You've
said: " Thank 'ee kindly, Mr. Satan"—
you've spoke so civil to him — "you're very
good to take me with you. I'll come sure
enough." So you've sold yourselves to
Satan in this world for what he can give
you. You've sold your precious souls to
him, and he's bought you. He's paid you
well ; it wouldn't be fair if he didn't have

you afterwards. You've got jour pleasures
in this world. But oh, what have you
lost in the other ? Ah, my brothers, my
sisters, you've lost the many mansions,
what the Lord prepares for them as loves
Him. I heard tell a story once, of a
soldier chap, a great, strong fellow of
six foot high and more in his socks
(he's a saint in glory now). He w r asa
soldier, he was, and fearful given to the
drink, that cursed drink, that makes os all
poor and miserable. It fills the publicans'
pockets, and it fills the rich gentry folk's
pockets what lets the pooblics to 'em.
But it ruins your bodies ; and what's
worse, it ruins your soul for evermore.
Well, this soldier Pat, as they called him,

n 2

was boone night a-reelin' 'lang the streets
crook, when he meets his officer. He's
sober enough to see it's the officer, and he
feels sure he shall get dreadful punished
for it. So he slinks in under the shadow of
the wall, and thinks he ain't seen. He
gets quite sober, he's so frightened. But
the officer comes op to him, and calls
out, " I see you, Pat, it's not a bit o'
use your hiding' 'way there. Come 'lang
wi' me," he says. Then soldier Pat begins
to tremble all over and shake like a leaf;
and he cries, " Oh, sir, let me off this
time, roost this once, and I'll never,
never do it again." But the officer says,
I've a-heerd that so many times, and it's
all hoomboog." Then Pat begins to beg

again, and he says, " Roost this once,
and if I ever does it again you may shoot
me, I won't care." So the officer says
he'll let him off roost this once, if he'll
promise never to do it again ; and if he
does, he'll shoot him. And soldier Pat
goes 'way. But what does he do the very
next month, but gets crook again ! Ah,
my brothers, we thinks we can get free
from sin in our own strength. But we
can't. It's like a great lang, oogly serpent,
it twists its great scaly body all round of
os, and we can't shake it off. So soldier
Pat got crook again ; and he met the
officer again ; and he knew he was caught
this time. And the officer says, "Pat,
come thee 'lang wi' me." And he takes

soldier Pat by the arm, and drags him
back to his house, and he takes him into
his room, and brings out his goon, and
pins soldier Pat to the wall, and takes his
aim. And soldier Pat knows it's his last
moment, and all his sins comes back to
him, as if he'd done 'em yesterday. And
he remembers how he's broken all the ten
commandments ; and how he isn't fit to go
and stand before his Maker. And he cries
out in his great agony, that he isn't fit to
die. And the officers jocst going' to shoot,
when the door opens wide, and the officer's
only little soon, a beautiful little child,
rooms in, wi' golden hair, and big blue
eyes, like bits o' the sky in the sometime.
And the child rooms op to soldier

Pat, and throws his little arms round him,
and cries out, " Oh, father, don't thee
shoot him. He's wicked, he ain't fit to die.
Let me die instead. Oh, father, don't let
him die !" But he's too late. The ball's
been shot. It flies 'way 'cross the room
like lightning'. But instead of striking
down poor, sinful soldier Pat, it buries
itself in the breast of the lovely, innocent
child ; and, wi' a smile, he falls down, and
dies. Now what should you think of that
man, if he was to fall into sin again ?
Don't you think he would love and serve
that father, and be ready to lay down Lis
life for him, and be to him more than the
soon he'd lost by his fault ?'

The preacher was silent for a moment,

while a strange tremor seemed to run
through his listeners. Farmer John had
been leaning unmoved against the door,
next a group composed chiefly of women.
They were all sobbing now, and their
emotion seemed, almost unconsciously, to
enter his frame. It was a momentary
and electric thrill, that reached into some
deep and hitherto unknown place in his
heart. The hand, that so firmly grasped
his stout oaken stick, trembled for one
instant ; and a cloud blurred the mass
of people that swayed before his vision.
He scarcely heard the preacher as, in a
brief and fanciful speech, he applied the
impossible story, which lie had told of
Soldier Pat,' to the case of his hearers,

making it serve as an illustration of
the gospel message which, in his own
language, was to ' save them from
death

The heat had by this time become overpowering
; but no one present seemed to
feel it. They were completely at the
mercy of the little North-country pawnbroker,
and, if he had commanded them
to part with their lives to obtain the
eternal life he described, it is probable
that not one would have been able to
refuse.

But the evangelist evidently did not
wish this. He seemed to Farmer John's
confused consciousness to be urging a
new request upon his hearers, in an appeal

as impassioned as words and gestures
could make it.

Come,' he repeated, ' to-night. Accept
the salvation offered to your souls, this
very moment. Don't delay, dear brothers
and sisters. You may die to-night. The
Lord only knows how long He will spare
you.'

He pointed with one hand to two long
empty benches, which were placed on
either side of him at the top of the
room.

See, there's the penitent-form,' he
cried, waving his book above his head,
his voice hoarse and grating with his
efforts and emotion. ' It's meant for you
what means to give op your sins, and

join the company what's bound for 'ev'n.
'Ev'n's the terminus, the Bible's the
engine. It's a sure line, and there ain't
never no accident's on it. The carriages
never takes fire, nor ain't there no collisions.
It's a long, narrow line, but the
terminus is 'ev'n. Come, then, to the
penitent-form. Fall down on your knees,
and confess your sins out loud to the
Lord. He will pardon and save you. And
while you're coin' so, we, what's found
joy and peace, will pray 'ard and 'earnest,
that you may be saved too, to serve
Him.'

He stopped, and fell on his knees, as,
one by one, there stole up to his sidemen,
women, and young children, who,

falling down, burst into loud and passionate
utterances, broken only by the rejoicing
exclamations of the evangelist, who
seemed to be giving devout thanks for
their deliverance.

After a few moments had passed in
this manner, he rose, and commenced
another hymn of a quick and lively character,
in which the assembly joined with one
accord.

The sweet voice of a young girl close
behind him fell on Farmer John's ear,
uttering the words so distinctly that, before
he was aware, he heard, or fancied he
heard, his own mingling with hers in the
great chorus. He fancied he heard — as
though he were another distinct person,

who was calmly watching the movements
of a being, exactly like himself, from
a distance, — watching, too, with some
anxiety.

The chorus died away in a broken, disjointed
manner ; and then the preacher
sprang again on his bench, and demanded
in clear tones if any ' brother or sister
would step forward, and give his or her
experience ?'

What this meant, Farmer John could not
imagine. Something new and wonderful,
he had no doubt. He had a dim feeling
still that he was doing some sort of duty,
for the benefit of some one else, in being
present at these strange proceedings. At
the same time, he had the curious and

novel sensation of watching, as though
in a dream, the actions of his double.

What would happen next ? There was
a slight stir in the group of women near
him ; and one of them pushed eagerly to
the front of the room, and mounted the
bench from which the preacher had
addressed the crowd.

She was a spare, sallow, little creature,
with a faded dress, and a sun-bonnet
drawn down over her eyes, which shone
brightly out of her pale, thin face. Her
voice, when she began to speak, was so
feeble and shrill, that it provoked a hysterical
laugh from some of her audience. But
they were quieted when, looking up,
they perceived the self-possession which

was unmistakably expressed in her countenance.


She gazed composedly before her,
and spoke slowly, and almost with
emphasis.

'1 thanks my 'evenly Either, and I
thanks the 'Evenly Rhailway, that they've
a-brought me to know the Lard ; and I
pray 'E will keep me for ever, Amen. I'm
a mell-maiden, I be. I weren't a good un.
For long years I led a wicked life. I
'acted everyone ; and they 'acted me. But
now I do know there be summit else, and
that ne'er a one o' we be too bad for the
Lard. 'E wants us all, 'E do, and it don't
matter if we hasn't a-got noo characters.
'Ell give us boone. 'Eve arrived I

moine ; and it 'full git I the testes
situation ever I shall git. Oh, when
I do think 'pon what I use' to be, I
can almost laugh wi' jay. I be sa 'happy,
sometimes I do weel, seemed' I should
fly away !'

She raised her voice slightly as she
uttered the last words, and uplifted her
eyes, as though she saw some vision
above her, while a strange light, like that
which had beautified the little preacher,
flooded her pale countenance with an unnatural
brilliancy. Then she came quietly
down from the bench, and returned to
the group she had quitted.

Another and another took her place,
and detailed their various ' experiences.'

With each the whole narrative did not
occupy more than five minutes ; and a
verse of a hymn was sung between each
account.

A young man of not very prepossessing
appearance had just addressed the people,
and the preacher had once more commenced
a shrill, high-soaring hymn, when
Farmer John, still in the same dream-like
manner, felt a stir somewhere behind
him. Several persons were disputing
together, or rather, were urging a third
to do something against that third's
will.

Do 'ee now, Polly said one voice.

Thee's 'afraid, after all the Lard 'ave
a-done for thee said a second.

vol. i. o

I Oh, thee o' little faith !' said the first,
in reproving accents.

I I don' know what to say,' said a third
voice, in trembling tones. i I be afeard,
sure.'

1 Thee muses said the second again.
*Look, they're waited

Immediately after, a figure was pushed
forward from behind, and shot past Farmer
John. As the crowd gave way before
a new speaker, he could see that a young
girl, whose strength seemed to be failing
her, was being assisted to mount the
unsteady bench by the little preacher,
who whispered words of encouragement
in her ear. From whatever cause, it
seemed a difficult matter to restore the

poor maiden's composure ; and as she
stood up before them, speechless, trembling,
and trying to hide her blushing
face in her two dimpled hands, a murmur
of applause half-rose from the audience.
Farmer John felt himself eagerly bending
forward to catch her first words ;
but they did not come. It appeared to
be a matter of impossibility for her to
open her little rosy mouth, or to do anything
but stare before her, in a terrified
manner, with wide-open, grey eyes.

She was of a robust and healthy build,
with the roundest shoulders and arms ;
and her short blue cotton dress, and ample
white apron set off to advantage her
young, active figure. Her clean sun

2

bonnet had half fallen from her head in
the contest, which had ended in her being
pushed to the ' experience ' bench, so
that the soft folds of her neatly-braided,
mouse-brown hair were exposed to full
view. Her cheeks, round and rosy as
apples, were flushed with excitement, and
wet with the tears that trickled slowly
down them ; and her bosom heaved with
her quickening breathing, till Farmer John
almost fancied he could hear the loud
beating of her heart. She looked like
some fawn, that had been suddenly surprised
and driven to bay by savage
hounds, in the heart of some dark forest.
Two or three times her lips parted, as
though she were trying to speak. But no

words issued from thei, only a low sob,
followed by a burst of tears, whose flow
she vainly tried to stop with the corner of
the white apron. At last, by a great
effort, she ejaculated the kind of prayer,
with which all the speakers commenced
the story of their ' experiences,' and then,
in broken syllables, half choked by sobs,
she continued :

'I be Polly Ma'sh, I be . . You
knows me I wants to be good, and
goo to 'Eb'n when I does. I don' want to
done for ever, neither. I do lave they
Railway vo'k. They've a-1'arned I the
way. I hasn't got noo moore to say . . .
The Lard do know all what I do mane.'

As she spoke, Farmer John fancied he

recognised the same silvery voice which,
by some unknown power, had compelled
him to mingle his with it. The wide, grey
eyes were fixed vacantly on space; but
they seemed to Farmer John to be peering
down into the great hidden depths of his
soul. What did they see there ? Surely
nothing but sin and misery. What the
preacher had said was true. It was not
learning, nor wisdom, that would do ; it
must be a simple love. Had he got it, or
would he not, most probably, at the last
find himself condemned to pass a horrible
eternity with those to whom, in his pride
and reserve, he had fancied himself so
superior ? And where, and for how long ?
Oh ! how dreary, how dreary, how misty it

all was ! Could these people really tell him
the means of escape? "Where was he; and
what strange fire was it that seemed to be
consuming him within ? Who was that
fair, inspired creature, who had read his
soul with her bright, shining eyes ? They
were like lamps revealing his every
thought. Was it a temptation of the
devil ? He had never experienced it before.
It seemed to him as if he longed to dart
forward before them all, and fold her in
his arms. He might die ; what would it
matter, since he must die sooner or later.
And after that

Here his musings must have suddenly
ended. Without conscious thought, he
suddenly acted. He could not have said

how it came about, but in another instant
he had pushed his way to the ' penitent-form,'
and had fallen on his knees, and
buried his aching head in his hands.
Even then he was conscious of two things :
the preacher praying for his soul in loud
and entreating accents, and by his side
the kneeling form of the young girl, who
had just spoken, her clasped hands
stretched out, and her tearful eyes still
gazing before her.

There was a long blank in his consciousness
; and then he was standing with
the crowd, which had now burst into
another hymn of rejoicing, and the clear
silvery voice was piercing him through
again. But he did not join in it ; and

there were some who noted with what a
wild, hungry look his glittering blue eyes
seemed almost to devour the face of the
unconscious maiden beside him.

CHAPTER VIII.

Errity Gill is Dismissed.

FEW days after the meeting of the
Heavenly Railway Company, Miss
Hawker was seated, darning her brother's
socks, in the kitchen of Rummerwoods
Earn. A look of resignation had taken
the place of the usually rather tempestuous
expression, which characterised her
countenance. Every now and then she
hummed a line of some Methodist hymn

in a sharp, cracked voice ; and as she
hummed, she glanced out of the window
that faced the steep white road.

Peter and two puppies, principally remarkable
for the length of their legs,
occupied the chimney-corner ; for the
master had not yet returned, although it
was nearly five o'clock, and the kettle
was on the boil.

A step sounded in the passage, and the
kitchen door was slowly opened, revealing
Mrs. Em'ly Gill's dilapidated sun-bonnet,
and the golden-brown dress in which she
invariably appeared.

Maister's not in,' she said, in her low,
quick voice. t There, I gnawed it 'ud be
zoo, once 'e got down t' Vic'rage. Yoive

'clack ! dear 'art, you must be almost
varnished, Miss 'Ahker, my dear ma'am.'

Miss Hawker vouchsafed do reply, but
continued her darning in the same resigned
manner.

c I don' know what's ever again' to
'happen,' exclaimed the carter's wife, loosening
the strings of her bonnet, and sinking
into a chair opposite her mistress. ' As I
were abdomen' back from t' yields, I seed
Mr. Jahn a-wahlken' down t' road wi'
such a quare little man. A stranger, I've
warrant, and not so sprack neither.'

Miss Hawker looked up.

'Tis this Rhailway weller, Em'ly, you
may depend on't. Well, what moore?'

I hidden wish to anger you, ma'am,'

began the wary Early, folding her coarse
red hands meekly in her lap. ' But they
was a-zayen' such things. I were t'other
zoide o' the 'edge, and coulter 'help a-
heaven' o' every word. There, 'warden
vit for people to say.'

Then 'warden vit for you to year,
Em'ly,' interrupted the sharp Miss Lizzy.
1 They do say as 'ow listeners do never
year noo good o' themselves.'

Law, ma'am,' retorted Mrs. Gill.
What further information she was prepared
to deliver cannot be accurately
surmised, for an unmistakable whistle
was heard in the yard outside, and in
another instant Farmer John stood before
them.

His face was slightly flushed, and his
eyes looked unnaturally bright. His step
was' more hurried than usual, and his
voice, when he spoke, had a husky
sound, quite strange to those who were
accustomed to its loud, almost harsh,
tones.

Be the tay ready, Lizzy ?' he asked,
looking at her attentively, as though he
had not noticed the presence of Mrs. Gill.
1 1 be ready for it, I be.'

He seated himself on the settle in the
chimney-corner, and stroked Peter's back,
which that faithful animal arched with
delight, as he rubbed himself against
his master's legs, purring loudly the
while.

1 Poor Peter said Farmer John, in the
same low voice. ' Thee's a good cat, thee
is.'

Mrs. Gill exchanged significant glances
with her mistress, and ejaculated suddenly
and emphatically —

There ! Law 'a-mussy me, ma'am, I
told you zoo, I ded.'

Farmer John started at the sound of the
rasping voice, which somehow always
seemed to possess the power of inflicting
torment on him. Apparently unconscious
of the look on her brother's face, Miss
Hawker replied :

'What did you tell me, Em'ly,
pray ?'

1 Law, ma'am, jus' look at maister,

do ; he do look that dreadful', I shall vail,
I know I shall. There, I do trimble vit
to burst !'

'What is the matter?' asked Farmer
John, rising, and approaching the table.
He did look formidable now, and Mrs. Gill
had to thank her own tongue for having
roused the sleeping lion in him. But now
Miss Hawker's resignation gave way, and
she burst forth in her highest and sharpest
key.

1 Matter, Jahn ? Ay, a-plenty's the
matter ! What do you mane, pray, by
a-leaven' of me allan' all the evenen' till
ten 'clack and moore at night, while you're
a-beaten' 'bout wi' bad vo'k. Ay, bad they
be, and noo mistake' ; and a-zetten' up ov

Jobie, what was always set up enough
adore, zoo that he tells me in me own 'ouse
that I be a meddle', mischief-maker' wool.
Them's 'is words, as true as I stan' were.
There, it took 'way me breath ! I coulter
speak. An' to think of you patten' such
things into's 'eat, almost make 1 done wi'
shame. Em'ly yere can tell you 'ow I've
a-croied, vit to break me 'art. And Jobie,
Vve a-toold 'er jus' the same, this party
time, and all 'long o' you, Jahn !'

Here the ill-used Miss Lizzy burst into
tears. In this Mrs. Gill, who possessed
the admirable quality of being able to do
the same at a moment's notice, at once
joined her, and, as her crying was of a
particularly loud and aggressive character,

vol. i. r

the duet was riot of the most musical
description.

Farmer John was at his wits' end. He
had returned excited, and with nerves
strung up, from a long and interesting
conversation with the Yicar, and a walk
with his new friend, the evangelist, and
some of his converts and companions in
the mission. His head ached, and strange
thoughts seemed chasing each other, in
the maddest helter-skelter, through his
brain. The loud lamentations of the women
made it impossible for him to fix his
thoughts, or to recover his composure.

But even in the midst of such distracting
influences two facts were tangible ; and
he grasped them. Jobie was a good,

honest man, and a faithful servant. He
had often quarrelled with Miss Hawker
before, and they had made it up as often.
This was the first fact — the consequence
being that on no account should his sister
succeed in driving him to part with Jobie.
The second was— that Em'ly Gill was the
cause of all the mischief. She was a firebrand
in the household, and perpetually
rekindled the dying flames of enmity and
strife in the hearts of those with whom
she was thrown. To make mischief
was her delight ; and her influence over
Miss Hawker did not produce the best
results. That Farmer John was, moreover,
prejudiced against her, is scarcely to
the point in the enumeration of her 



deeds. But it is certain that, in his rapid
survey of the field of battle as now-presented
to his view, Farmer John saw
the antagonistic forces there assembled
meeting amicably under one white flag of
peace, if only this dangerous general were
removed from the scene of action.

He struck the table with his heavy,
clenched fist. This, as he knew it would,
had the desired effect of causing a cessation
in the duet. Farmer John's loud
voice then made itself heard for a few
moments.

1 Lizzy,' he said, ' don't you be a wool
now, or I shall be thinker' Jobie be
thought. He be a girt stooped, he be. But
'is 'art's thought 'enough, it always were,

and will be zoo. You needed mind 'is
though talk. Ridden but talk after all.
He's bin a good chap ever since he corned
to our whither, years ago, a little bit of a
buoy, wi' the same stooped, though ways
and good 'enough 'art. You did like 'en
well 'enough then. But since this Em'ly
took and marr'd 'en, you've a-niver looked
'en the same.'

He paused, not perceiving the furious
glance that Miss Hawker shot at
him.

'Yes, it's this Em'ly. And, as I'm
master yere, I says : " You goo, Em'ly, and
you void another woman, Lizzy." There's
a-plenty to be wound.'

He returned to his settle without another

word, and there was that in his look,
which stayed the speech that trembled on
his sister's lips. The injured Em'ly was
bolder. She rose, and, facing him, kicked
the dusty floor, till a cloud almost hid her
from view.

1 There !' she cried, triumphantly. * I
kicks you aff as I does this yere dus'.
You're noo bitter, you saint, for all your
learned' and your voice rien's, for sure.
Your books and your men's, for sure. T
likes you, Miss 'Ahker, ma'am, and Lard
knows I trembles when I thinks to what I
leaves you all allan' and unprotected. I
be averred for your life, I be. "Well,
there, God bless yer, ma'am, you've a-
never done I noo 'arm. And as for I, I

never had noo quarrel wi' ne'er a one, and
would neither, though you paid me. I
'ope, Jahn 'Ahker, wi' all your learned and
your rien's, you med void's good a servant
as Em'ly Gill's a-bin, and 'ave never
seed the worth o' the claws as I've a-used
in your service, there ! I would mention
it, Miss 'Ahker, ma'am, but 'e did
look sa straight at I. There, good day
to 'ee, Jahn 'Ahker, and I wish 'ee all the
'happiness you do deserve.'

She dropped a mock curtsey, aud
departed, slamming the door behind
her.

Directly she was gone, her devoted
mistress burst into tears and lamentations.


my Blessed, my Blessed !' she cried,
wringing her hands. ' What ever shall I
do? The testes cummin ever I 'ad;
and such a beautiful summer ! She'd
a-get moore crame aff nor six others putt
together. Jahn, Jahn, whatever shall I
do?'

The figure in the chimney-corner remained
motionless, as though unconscious
of her presence. It was in vain for her to
continue her doleful list of losses accruing
from the departure of the useful and
perfect Em'ly Gill.

When the deepening twilight threw its
black shadows over the chimney-corner,
she raised her eyes to see if, even now, her
lamentations could have no effect. But it

was impossible that they should ; for the
settle was empty, and Farmer John had
long since escaped to the solitude and
peaceful calm of the hill behind the house.
Peter left his stool near the dying embers,
and came mournfully towards her to be
stroked ; and the puppies whined sympathizing
; while the old clock on the wall
opposite seemed stolidly to repeat : ' Em'ly's
gone ! Em'ly's gone !'

CHAPTER IX.

By the Fields to Flaxen.

T would indeed be a difficult, nay,
almost impossible task to attempt
a description of the state of mind into
which, either by circumstances, or his own
curiously-formed character, Farmer John
at present found himself drifting. He had
baffled even the Vicar's penetration and
experience when, on their first encounter
after the meeting in the school-room, he

had endeavoured to question him as to the
proceedings of the evangelistic company.
There was a hesitation in his manner, and
at the same time a defiance in his eyes,
that seemed unaccountable. And yet he
was not changed ; and it could not in the
least be affirmed that the person before
Mr. Wentworth was any other than the
Farmer John Hawker, whom he had considered
himself so fortunate in securing as
his churchwarden. A rumour, it is true,
had reached the Vicar's ears, through
Herbert Cosens, the gardener, that ' Mr.
'Ahker had been terrible took' on the
night of the meeting ; and the leader
of the evangelists himself had signified
something to that effect, during a

conversation, which had been peculiarly
interesting to Mr. Wentworth.

As for the Vicar, all his scruples concerning
the strange preachers had been
hushed to sleep ; and he was prepared to
give the mission every assistance in his
power. Indeed, he had exhorted the
people all through the district to attend
the meetings, and had spoken of them with
thankfulness even from the pulpit.

The dainty primroses were nearly over
in the lanes, and ferns of every kind were
springing up in their place, while the gay
summer flowers had begun to peep from
the high, mossy banks, where the great
elm-trees met overhead. The air was full
of the music of blackbirds, whistling the

same sharp notes over and over again, and
of wood-pigeons, cooing all clay long in the
Towers Close, when Farmer John set out
for an evening walk to Flaxen. He had
not quite made up his mind where he was
going.

But the soft western breeze was soothing,
and he walked on with an appreciation
of all the beauties around him,
which is rare in those not accustomed to
make such remarks to sympathising hearers.
His solitary life, shut in and bounded
as it was by himself only, had made
him observant of the heavens, and of the
beautiful country through which he had
to pass in his everyday work. There was
not a bird, nor a flower, which he could

not have named, and lie knew their habits
besides.

He had turned from the main road into
the fields, through which a shortcut led to
the town, and, leaning against a smile,
noted with interest the movements of a
flock of rooks returning to their nests in
the Towers Close trees. Outside and
around everything looked peaceful and
contented ; but within he was dimly conscious
of a raging fire, which seemed ever
slowly mounting to his brain. What
thoughts chased themselves through his
mind it would be difficult to state ; but at
that moment they were interrupted by
approaching voices, one of which demanded

from behind a passage over the
stile.

Farmer John turned quickly round, for
he knew the voice. He met the half-mocking
glance of a pair of wide, grey
eyes, which looked out from under a rather
smart hat.

4 Law! 'Tis Mr. 'Ahker !' exclaimed
the maiden, addressing her companions behind,
two mild and vapid-looking women
in dingy garments. * Can us crass, please,
Mr. 'Ahker?' she continued, mounting the
little flight of stones, and looking down on
Farmer John from her superior height
with eyes now sparkling with laughter.

He held out his hand to her.

Can thee pomp, or shall I left thee,
maiden ?' he asked.

In reply she landed lightly on the greensward
at his side, without touching the
proffered hand ; and then turned to assist
the two strangers, to whom the stile
seemed a profound mystery.

At last, after some not very elegant
scrambling, they rejoined their companion,
and, ascertaining that Farmer John
was bound for Flaxen, they advised
him to ' come 'long to the meeten with
them.'

They were, as he had guessed, female
evangelists belonging to Mr. Bush's company.
They were to give their ' experiences
' that evening, and these, as they

were Londoners, promised to be sufficiently
interesting.

Farmer John evasively replied, that i he
would see about it.'

Here the young girl, who had been
walking somewhat in advance, turned
round, and looked him firmly in the
face.

You ought to come, Mr. 'Ahker, sir
she said. 'tis for your good, it is.'

1 Ah, Polly,' said one of the women,
you should have remembered that t'other
night when you was so scared. We
mustn't be afraid to speak the truth, lor
we shan't get to 'even.'

They had now come to a gate, which,

being fastened by a chain, they were
vol. i. Q.

obliged to climb over. In the delay,
Farmer John could see by Polly's
blushes how heartily ashamed she was
of her part in the meeting on Thursday
night.

k Never thee mind, lass,' he said,
kindly. ' They'll do better next time.
Thee's got a-plenty o' time to learn in, I'll
warrant.'

Ah, but she might die any time. We
'heard what the station-master said about
it,' cried the second dingy female, in a
harsh and melancholy tone. * And then
'twill be too late when we're calling' for a
drop of water to cold our tongues, and
the rocks to cover hus — 'twill be too late
then to speak for the Lord.'

1 Ay, ay, ma'am,' said Farmer John.
1 But belike 'E don' require so much
talker.'

6 The Lard do know what I manes,'
said Polly, encouraged by this powerful
support.

The two strangers were unable to argue
the point now, as Polly had the advantage
of them in agility.

While they were struggling with their
long petticoats and the gate, Farmer John,
without waiting for them as he had done
before, followed Polly, and left them to
come behind.

Be thee gain' to the meeten', lass ?'
he asked, when they were out of hearing.


Q2

1 'Sees, that I be,' said Polly. c I wants
to git good 's vast 's ever I can.'

Be theirs the way to git good, lass ?'
he inquired.

Polly opened her eyes even wider at so
strange a question.

4 Why, in course,' she replied, and then
stood still for the two panting women to
come up to them.

1 Don 'ee 'hurry, ma'am,' said Farmer
John, who would fain have prolonged the
conversation.

1 Oh, dear, what dreadful gates you
country people 'ave !' they both cried in
one breath. ' I couldn't stand living' 'ere,
I'm sure.'

c The stiles be bad for town vo'ks' legs,

I reckon remarked Polly. At which Farmer
John laughed till they fancied he
would never leave off.

They now emerged into the main road
again, and passed the house of a certain
real railway guard, known to be devoted
to the Heavenly Company's service.
Here they were joined by a group of persons,
who had been waiting for the return
of their fellow-labourers to adjourn to the
place of assembly in Flaxen.

The party consisted of some three or
four men, of ill-favoured appearance,
dressed in the uniform of the mission —
a parti-coloured coat, and bright crimson
cap, emblazoned with the initials
H. R. C. in huge gold letters. They

accosted Farmer John familiarly, as a brother
in the faith ; but, as his friend Bush
was not of their number, their advances
were but coldly received. Polly, looking
a little frightened, still kept by his
side.

1 I'll look to thee, lass,' he said, reassuringly,
in an undertone. ' Never thee
wear ; they be all strangers to the maid
too,' he added, in a low voice, to himself.


They be terrible good vo'k,' whispered
Polly. ' But I be a little 'shamed wi' 'em
still. I be nervous-like when I be wi'
strangers.'

She had never spoken two words to
Farmer John before. But they came

from the same village, and that made the
difference.

Who's again' to zee thee whom,
lass ?' inquired Farmer John presently, as
they lagged a little behind the evangelistic
party.

Some o' 'em, repose,' answered Polly,
looking at him in her simple, innocent
manner. ' Belike some from the village
'full be there. I can goo wi' they. Ridden
vur, and I promised Grammer, if
'twere lang, I would step to the en'.
Grammer wanted I to bride whom,' she
volunteered, after a short pause. ' She
don' 'old wi' vo'ks gain' 'bout zengen'
in t' street. But there, 'tis beautiful, I
thinks, and the hymns be like 'evenly

music almost. I be sa glad I knows 'em.
Ain't you, Mr.'Ahker?'

Ay, ay, lass,' said Farmer John, and
smiled as he looked at the eager rosy
face.

Be your sister abdomen' in too ?' asked
Polly presently. ' I've a-niver spoke to
she ; but my aunt — that's Em'ly Gill —
'ave a-toold I a-many times 'bout
she.'

Be 'er thy aunt, lass ?' asked Farmer
John, musingly. There was not much
resemblance, he thought, between the aunt
and niece.

Polly chattered on about her numerous
relations till they reached the town, and
could see the sun setting, like a great

round blazing eye, over the old clock-tower
of the market-place.

Flaxen was the model of an old sleepy
country town, with that air of stillness,
which a rapidly decreasing population and
trade seems to give to a district. The
same drowsy-looking men were always to
be seen walking at the same slow, listless
pace down the wide main street. It was
difficult, indeed, to believe that at anytime
the town could have been sufficiently
alive, and in the world, to harbour a flying
prince, as an inscription above a draper's
shop certified in dingy gold letters. History,
or rather historians are not always
just in the causes to which they assign
certain events. It is probable that the

Merry Monarch owed his escape to the
fact that, even in those stirring times,
Flaxen had claims to the title belonging
to a region, that has always baffled the
devoted geographer, viz., the ' .'
It was, however, remarkable
for an excellent inn, known as the ' White
Hart,' round whose hospitable portal the
choice spirits of the place were wont to
pass the greater part of their lives.

A short time before, the inn had harboured
an excellent gentleman, who had
consented to represent the interests of the
borough. The townspeople were unanimous
in voting for one, who knew how to
treat ' everyone all round — a more powerful
argument in his favour than the ready

eloquence which sought to convince his
hearers, that Flaxen should yet figure in
Parliamentary debates as one of the most
powerful Radical constituencies in all
England.

The excellent gentleman belonged to
the learned profession so skilled in the
use of the most powerful weapon of
our modern civilization. He might have
succeeded as admirably in the Church, for
which his enthusiastic mother, a Bishop's
daughter, had destined him, for he was
the kind of man who is pronounced good
at anything. So the loyal borough of
Flaxen was counted peculiarly fortunate
in having secured him as their
representative, although it was at the

expense of abandoning all their ancient
principles.

To be sure, in spite of his promises, he
had not succeeded in reviving the slowly
dying embers of trade. Work had become
scantier every week, and Polly, who, like
many of the village girls, was engaged in
1 breeders'* was often obliged to start very
early in the morning to secure her share of
twine before the numbers of applicants,
vainly seeking employment, should arrive.
1 Breeder' ' was not a lucrative employment,
for with all her hard work she could
not succeed in earning more than sixpence
a day. This small sum, as Polly was fond
of smart hats, did not go very far. She
Making nets.

was, moreover, a delicate maiden, for all
her robust appearance, and she came of a
rickety stock. Fortunately for her, she
was her old grandmother's favourite, and
had been early removed from the doubtful
care of a high-spirited, drunken father, and
sadly improvident mother.

Old ' Granny Ma'sh,' as she was popularly
called, was a noble-looking, rather
strong-minded personage, over seventy
years of age. She was reported in the
village to have a little nest-egg hidden
away somewhere ; and it was even rumoured
that she was related to the i gentry ' on
her father's side. She had watched
tenderly over Polly from her babyhood,
and many were the old-world sayings, with

which she had edified her mind, on long
winter evenings, when the little maid was
still too young to do more than wind the
twine round the i swifts and fill the
1 riddles which granny's nimble fingers
emptied so quickly. By-and-by Polly
could take her place at the table, and at
last shared the honour, with only a few
others, of being able to do the f smallest
miss ' in the whole district round.

CHAPTER X.

Farmer John Speaks.

N her hurried walks into the town
in search of work, or when she
had slowly carried the great heavy fishing-nets
back to the factory, Polly had had but
little time to note the grandeur of the
place. This evening, when all thoughts
of everyday toil were banished, and only
the pleasures of a meeting were to be

anticipated, it struck her with great force
what a beautiful town it was. She was
entirely devoted to her own people and
to her village, and, unlike so many ardent
young spirits, whom circumstances and a
higher education have combined to elevate
suddenly into a fancied better sphere,
Polly had no wish for change. She desired
nothing better than to live and die
in Applecombe, and to be buried in the
haunted churchyard, near ' old GranT er
Ma'sh,' so celebrated in the annals of the
parish for the capacities of his throat at
hay making and harvest times.

This evening the long, silent, echoing
street was like a heavenly pathway to
Polly. For did it not lead to the

Town Hall, where ' Refreshment-room
Sally ' was to ' speak for the Lord ' ?

A crowd had already assembled outside
the hall, which they reached by a backstreet
leading off from the market-place,
and some witticisms were being levelled
at the heads of the evangelists assembled
within the building. Two or three wags
had attired themselves in mock evangelistic
costume, and were brandishing sticks
in a menacing, though still playful, manner.
But they slunk away at the sight
of a policeman, who sauntered up to see
what was going on.

Farmer John pushed his way through
the crowd, with Polly now clinging to his
arm. She was a little frightened still,

VOL. I. R

but much strengthened by the excitement
caused bj the heat and possible dangers
around.

I ain't afeard 't all she repeated
several times breathlessly, in reply to his
frequent inquiries as to how she did.
And when he found two seats, for himself
and her, where they could see and
hear everything that went on at the top
of the room, she thanked him in the
simplest manner ' for been' sa good to
her.'

Refreshment-room Sally,' in a very
smart costume, with a wreath of
flowers in her tumbled hair, would
have been particularly uninteresting to
the generality of persons who frequent

stations, but to Polly everything she
uttered was ' beautiful.' And Farmer
John watched Polly, and perhaps thought
the same, though of a different person.
He felt very much like a keen-sighted
person who had been suddenly blindfolded,
and sent out into the world, without
the power to remove the terrible bandage
— conscious of the faculty of sight,
yet unable to make use of it, with the dim
presentiment of a dangerous slip before
long, which may precipitate him into fatal
and overwhelming waters. He heard and
saw everything, indeed, but his eyes had
been touched by a cunning fairy, who,
although she had left him their use, had
given them the doubtful gift of metamor-

r2

prosing every object on which they gazed.
So 'Refreshment-room Sally' passed to
her place without unfriendly criticism
from Farmer John ; nor did he view the
low and degraded company in which he
found himself in a more uncharitable
manner. ,

The time passed swiftly, and without
apparent consciousness of its flight by the
evangelists and their audience. Indeed, it
was their custom to continue their meetings
through a great part of the night,
since the closing of the public-houses
usually filled the hall with a concourse of
person in the best condition for reproof
and admonition.

The heat and glare of the gas had flushed

Polly's face, and her eyes sparkled as,
sharing her hymn-book with Farmer John,
she poured out her sweet, fresh notes into
his attentive ear. He could not have
joined his voice with hers that night, for
the inclination was, somehow, lacking.
But he felt the same strange inspiration
creeping like a glowing fire through his
frame, and mounting to his brain. Her
eyes read his soul again, and a breeze,
laden with the fragrance of early spring
flowers, seemed to fan the cheek upon
which her breath moved. Perhaps she
noticed something unusual in his look, for,
as the singing ended, her eyes grew even
brighter, and she whispered, drawing
closer, till her lips almost touched his ear,

1 Do 'ee now, Mr. Jahn, do 'ee now. I
knows you could. You'd speak jus' beautiful,
you 'good !'

She wished him to address the people.
She had divided with her marvellous insight
that he could.

Without appearing to notice the crowd
that pressed round them, he suddenly
took the flushed, dimpled face in both his
hands, and, turning it towards him, slowly
and steadily gazed into the liquid eyes
that met his with such an artless look
of mingled shyness and surprise. He
took a long, deep draught from those
seemingly intoxicating waters, and then
sprang from his seat, and dived through

the throng to the platform erected for the
speakers.

There was a profound silence directly
his loud voice rang through the hall, and
his words had the effect of sobering not a
few who were in need of such a remedy.
What he said he scarcely knew. He spoke,
staring straight before him at some object
that seemed to appear to him alone. That
object was his inspiration. As he gazed,
it supplied the ideas and the words. It
was the figure of Polly, standing up now,
timidly yet admiringly, to catch each
syllable. Her brightly shining eyes seemed
to speak his thoughts, ere he uttered
them. When she sank down on the bench

again, overcome by fatigue, the object and
the inspiration vanished. Farmer John
returned to his place, amid a murmur of
applause.

Were thee tired, lass ?' he whispered,
as he rejoined her, and noticed the drooping
attitude of her figure.

She roused herself to exclaim,

1 Oh, 'twas beautiful, it was, Mr. 'Ahker !
You can speak, oh, sa beautiful ! 'Twere
jus' like the Bible. And I heard a-many
say zoo too, I ded.'

Farmer John drew out his cumbrous,
old-fashioned silver watch. It was nearly
twelve o'clock, and it would be a good
hour before they could reach the village.

1 Thee mus' come now, maiden,' he said.

4 It be nigh upon midnight. "What will
tli j Grammer say ?'

Polly was so terrified at the thought of
her strong-minded relative's displeasure

that she could scarcely follow her 



panton through the crowd to the door.
Having almost lost sight of her once,
Farmer John became alarmed, more especially
as the assembly was composed of not
the most select members of society.
When she was therefore once more at
his side, he took her haud gently in his,
and so led her safely into the dark street
outside.

1 "We mus' mak' 'aste,' said Polly, attempting
to run. But she was worn out with
excitement, and the terror of a lecture

from ' Grahame ' in the near future, combined
with her desire to reach home, made
her steps uncertain. If it had not been
for Farmer John's supporting hand, she
must have frequently fallen.

At last they turned into the road leading
past the Towers into the village.
Here the oaks and elms of the Copse on
the one side, and the Close on the other,
met overhead. No ray of starlight penetrated
the darkness before them. The
road was said to be haunted by the ghost
of a wicked farmer, who was wont to ride
that way at the same hour every day. One
evening a mysterious-looking stranger,
believed by the villagers to be the devil,
was seen riding by his side ; and the next

morning his dead body was found hanging
from a scorched and blasted elm-tree,
which the day before had been as green as
the grass around it. Headless horsemen,
and dogs with fiery eyes, chained together,
were also believed to haunt the old ilex-tree
at one corner of the Copse. Now it
seemed as if the tale were to be proved
true ; for, as the two turned the fatal
corner, the clatter of horses' hoofs came
echoing up the hill behind them. A
lantern, carried by a rider, was flashed for
one instant upon Polly's face, while it left
her companion hidden by the surrounding
darkness. A voice exclaimed :

Good night, pretty Poll, and a less to-marre.'


Farmer John felt the little cold hand
that rested in his become suddenly very
warm, but she made no reply to the rider's
salutation.

Who be this ?' he asked, when the
sound of the horse's hoofs had died away
in the distance.

'Tis Mr. Frank Khoddell, Mr. Sidney's
oldest,' answered Polly, and removed
her hand from his, as they entered the
slumbering village, where a light burning
in one of the first cottages showed Polly
that * Grammer ' had not yet gone to
bed.

CHAPTER XL

At the ' Jolly Labourers'

HERE were no busier days in
Applecombe than Wednesdays

and Saturdays, when the market was
held in Flaxen, and no busier road than
that which ran past the ' Jolly Labourers r
to the town. Very early in the morning
the rattle of carts, laden with meat, poultry,
and live animals of all kinds, would
waken the still sleeping villagers. The

usually quiet street would be alive with
hurrying figures, all anxious to be off in
good time. The air would echo with
the squealing of many little pigs, the
clucking and quacking of fowls and ducks,
and the shouts of farmers, butchers, and
their men urging on their soft-eyed, sleek
horses.

If any young maiden were anxious fora
lift to the town, she must don her
finery when the first rays of daylight
began to streak the sky, for the market
people, like the proverbial ' time and tide
waited for no man, much less for a gay
bunch of blue ribbons.

Inside the cottages the same preparations
were going on. The good mother,

who never failed to have the early breakfast
ready, summer or winter, fine or wet,
for the ' men-vo'k ' of the establishment,
might perhaps have some choice rolls of
butter, churned but yesterday, and waiting
in yellow richness in cool white muslin
wrappers to be disposed of. Or, if the
eggler had not called for the supply with
which the tame, creamy-looking Workings
always provided her, she might pack
another basket carefully with hay, and
lay the large, almost transparent, pinkish-white
eggs in it, and hope to add something
to the funds oP the family by selling:
them in the town. Then came the
loading of the great spring-cart, and the
harnessing of gentle ' Meary,' the huge-legged,

well-fed horse, whose intelligent
eyes seemed plainly to announce an understanding
of all that was going on. At
last it was time for the ' little chiltern
too small to be trusted alone at home,
to be hoisted up by their father to the
front seat above patient ' Meary ;' and then
the good mother would mount nimbly
herself to the place beside the driver, and
the cart would rattle merrily down the
street in the grey morning dawn.

The day had worn away, and evening
once more come. It might have been
an unusually lucky one, and the ' little
chiltern,' tired and crying, yet soothed by
many unwholesome but attractive ' cushions'*
have fallen fast asleep on the floor
Sweetmeats.

of the empty cart, as it rattled home
again. But, like as a tenth is by the
strictly-decorous reserved for charitable
purposes, so in his own stupid way the
maister driving gentle ' Meary ' slowly
back to her stable, and an extra feed
of oats, had the conviction that charity
doth most properly begin at home, and
that that home can be none other than
the ' Jolly Labourers.' It is the happy
duty of everyone in this mad world to
endeavour to render others comfortable.
As this can only be accomplished by
first being comfortable and happy yourself,
who can blame the simple villager
if he acts out his own ideas of comfort,
though the means he may employ to
vol. i. s

accomplish his end may not be precisely
the same as those of his superiors ?

It will not, therefore, be a matter for
surprise if, on a certain bright afternoon
towards the end of June, when the more
correct of clocks in the cottages near were
loudly striking five, a group, on foot
and horseback, was assembled within and
without the hospitable bar presided over
hy Mr. Timothy Thick.

The stiff, upright figure of Mr. Sydney
Euddell leaned from his sturdy chestnut
pony to receive a foaming tankard from
the little maid who assisted Mrs. Thick in
her labours. Behind him was drawn up
Farmer Malachi Warden's cart, and the
rubicund countenance of its owner was at

that moment buried in his mug, a signal
for universal silence on the part of those
who felt amicably towards him. In the
doorway of the bar, and leaning against
the wall, were some half-dozen or more,
exchanging the news of the day, discussing
the crops, and the chances of the
harvest, and the price of potatoes and
bread. Here the handsome white head of
Mr. Benjamin Chenny reared itself above
the others. His son Harry, who inherited
his father's good looks and commercial
talents, was engaged in arguing
with his cousin, John Tolley, over
the ' cheese ' of certain pieces of
timber, which both were desirous of
purchasing.

s2

Within the bar, and so busily engaged
in emptying their bumpers that they had
no eyes or mouths for anything else, were
two of Mr. Sydney's hopeful young sons.
The elder was a round-faced, bearded
fellow, with a cast in his eye. The
younger had apparently not yet, to speak
figuratively, awakened from the sleep
which oppresses so many young men, in
all stations of life, from the ages of sixteen
to three and twenty. He stared now
and then at the group outside, but he had
not even a spark of envy for the high-soaring
blackbird whistle, which Walter Fitz
was pouring out for the benefit of the
assembled company.

Angel Tolley, the clerk's son, followed

closely on the heels of his friend. He
was lucky enough to be * treated ' by Mr.
Ruddell, with whom he was an especial
favourite. So he took up his position
near him, intending to show his devotion
to his benefactor in some practical manner,
should occasion arise.

The lithe figure of a man in a brown
velveteen coat, followed by two or three
dogs, passing on the other side of the
road, was greeted by a shout from Mr.
Ruddell.

Halloa there, Jimmy Treviss, where be
gain to ?' asked another voice, and the
man was beckoned on all sides to join the
group.

He came slowly across, whistling to his

dogs, and saluted the company by a
wave of his hand. He wore a rough
tweed cap and yellow riding-gaiters, very
much the worse for wear ; his coarse,
blue shirt was collarless, and his beard
uncombed. But, in spite of all these
drawbacks, there was a look of remarkable
intelligence, and superiority to those around,
on his straight, well-cut features, and a
smile, at once shrewd, sarcastic, and
humorous, played about his thin-lipped
mouth, as he approached the group outside
the bar.

Although a notorious poacher, and one
of the pet aversions of the Squire, young
Jimmy Travers, as he was called indistinction
from his father, was a great

favourite in the village. The friendship
of Mr. Sydney Ruddell may, to the village
mind, have appeared the cause of this
popularity. But, to carry our investigations
further, the very fact of the poacher
having secured the friendship of this
powerful ally showed a discrimination and
careful course of action, which, together
with his almost unbounded influence over
'Handsome Ben ' and his son, declared
him to be the possessor of some rare and
valuable qualities. Added to these, he
was not a native of the village, and had
received a good education enough for a
farmer's son. It is, of course, to be
understood, that his clever little wife
Annie by no means detracted from the

respect in which his character was
held.

1 Grown' weather, Mr. Treviss,' said
the clerk, as the new arrival joined the
little group.

What's the best o' your news, Jimmy ?'
asked Mr. Sydney, offering his hand with
a grin. ' What 'full 'ee take, eh?'

In reply, the younger Travers waved
his arms violently above his head, and
ejaculated, in a loud and theatrical
manner,

4 Flee, flee from the wrath to come !
Don't you see the burning pit yawning
before your eyes ? Oh, my dear brothers,
will you sport upon the brink of destruction
? Oh ! flee while there is yet time —

tomorrow you may all be corpses !' His
voice sank to a whisper as he ended,
and he pressed his hand to his eyes, as
though overcome with the excess of his
emotion.

The quotation and the imitation were
fully understood and appreciated. A
roar of laughter, in which those within
the bar joined, rang through the
street.

1 Hooray, Mr. Treviss !' remarked a
voice from behind. * It be as like 'en
as two peas, and I've a-year 'en, I
'ave.'

It was Herbert Cosens, the Vicar's gardener,
who now emerged from behind
the open stable, which formed one side

of the square courtyard round which the
1 Jolly Labourers ' was built. His shirt-sleeves
were rolled up, displaying a
brawny pair of arms, well browned by
the sun, and he carried a huge rake ;
for he was fresh from the Vicar's hay-field,
where he had been performing
prodigies of labour, to the admiration
and emulation of his companions there.

IVe a-bin worked' almost all day
down in t' mead a rouen' the 'ay. We
shall put 'en up in pours, an' 'paul 'en
marr' marner', please God it kip voices
he continued, wiping the perspiration
from his brow, and laughing at the remembrance
of his feats. ' The Yicar's
a-bin there 'missals, and looked a shake.'

Much 'e made o't, I reckon,' muttered
Mr. Sydney, who had not forgotten the
Easter vestry. ' Well, 'Erb, 'ow be the
'ay?'

Ain't much wrong wi' 'en answered
Herbert. ' It 'full be a better lat this
yur nor they've ever a 'ad down there.
I be all in a het, I be.'

1 Try summit, me buoy,' here interposed
Walter Fitz. ' That 'full cool 'ee,
noo mistake.'

4 My brothers, my sisters,' exclaimed
the younger Travers once more, in his
mocking tones, ' don't you know that
every drop of that poison which you pour
down your throats is a fresh bit of wood
thrown into the burning pit ? Before

very long you will find you are all inflames.
Ah, what a frizzling that will
be ! Pause, brother, and beware, before
it is too late he added, laying his hand
on Herbert's shoulder.

This wit was received with a still
heartier burst of applause, and the Yicar's
gardener, cutting his best caper, laughingly
rejoined,

1 I've adjoined the pledge, I 'ave, for
dree mont' come the must o' July ; zoo I
curse touch the prison, as this vo'k calls
'en. 'Tis voice vun their talk, almost
makes I done wi' laughed'. They 'full
be gain' on 'bout it marr', I reckon.
Lawks, 'ow I shall laugh wi' metals when
they says it agen !'

They be gain' to 'ave 'other meeten'
in t' wold school-rouse, ain't 'er?' put
in here the croaking voice of John
Tolley.

I seed the Advertisement 's marne,'
added Handsome Ben. 'twere uncommon
quare.'

They 'full be zengen' trough t' street,
I've a-year tell,' remarked Walter Fitz.
'Tis vit to make e'er a one's ears almost
crack, they do 'oiler zoo. They've a-
crowed sticks and stones and all carts at
'em, to Flax'on. 'Twere a proper fought,
'twere. But the police stopped 'en at last.
I wish I'd a-bin there to give 'em a black
oiye or two, I do !'

'They be peaceable 'enough vo'k,' said

the clerk. 'Ne'er a one needed mind
'era. Speak civil wi' all, and pass on's
my way. Ridden noo 'arm to you nor
they.'

They be a d d dirty lat !' here

interrupted the harsh voice of Mr. Sydney,
as he ordered another bumper for his
favourite Angel. 'If I fetched 'em
a-zengen' outside o' my dour, I'd make
'em know who's 'twere, I 'good, sure's I
be a leven' man. The whine' quailed'
tags ! They should know, them should.'

It has ever been my object,' interposed
the younger Travers, ' to convince you, my
friends, that in the sight of Heaven you are
all the same. Therefore, I fear, my excellent
Mr. Sydney, that if these poor people

are whining dogs, you must be one also.
It grieves me much to say so, but I
feel it is my duty to proclaim the
truth.'

This time the measured, well-clipped
periods were so ridiculously like the
Vicars, that, had he wished it, the
clever mimic might have been t treated
' by each of his listeners in turn.

1 1 think vo'k should kip quiet, and not
disturb other vo'k when they be a-bed
and asleep,' announced Harry Chenny,
Handsome Ben's son and heir. ' There
ain't no religion in that, zoo vur as I do
zee.'

Thought ye be, 'Army F cried honest
Angel Tolley, who for the moment was

quite as much the advocate of decency and
order as the rest.

1 Be thee gain, 'Erb?' asked Walter
Fitz.

1 'Sees, that I be was the answer. ' I've
a-got to look after t' cheer. The Vicar's
again, and I've a-got to whale 'en up.
'E saint a 'easy load o' earn,' he added,
laughing.

1 The Vicar again ?' exclaimed a chorus
of voices, in tones of mingled amazement
and contempt.

'Well, my brethren remarked the
younger Travers, sarcastically. ' No doubt
we shall have Refreshment-room Sal, or
whatever her name is, in the pulpit before
long.'

I'll kick her out, then, the fallen'
.- !' cried Mr. Sydney, who by this
time was beginning to feel within him
the strength to do and dare anything.
Zoo the Vicar be again' too, be 'er ?
An this voice churchwarden, Johnny
'Ahker wi' 'en too, I reckon ?'

Mr. Hawker is my valued friend,' put
in Travers, in a reproving tone.

i Ain't moine, then !' cried a chorus of
voices.

'Nor moine,' added the two young
hopeful, who now emerged from the
bar, a little unsteady in the legs, but with
manly daring beaming in their eyes.

1 1 can' bride yere langer,' sighed the
gardener, taking leave of the group, ' or

VOL. I. t

I shall ketch it from my missus. I've
a-got to goo to Strickland Bar wi' this
shake. I borrowed 'en from your whither,
Mr. Treviss. Good day to ye, gentlemen,'
and, cutting his caper once more,
the worthy Herbert departed on his
way.

A little shaky in 's upper storey,'
remarked Mr. Sydney, as he disappeared
from sight.

Sharp chap, though,' said the clerk,
who had reason to know this, having
already been frequently outwitted by the
ingenious gardener.

1 I've 'ars a mind to goo to the meeten'
too,' said Mr. Sydney, with a knowing
wink at his favourite Angel. ' Be thee

minded to come 'lang wi' I, me lad ?'
he asked, leaning towards him from his
saddle.

Ay, sure,' answered Angel and Walter
in one breath.

1 'T'ood be voice vun to year that Eh ail-way
weller,' went on the leader, with many
suggestive gestures — i 'oodn't it, me lads ?
And then there be our Vicar. Ah, 'e's
the chap what do know 'ow to preach.'
He attempted a feeble imitation of the
younger Travers, which was not, however,
so successful.

While this conversation was going on
amongst those near the open door, a
woman in a dirty sun-bonnet, with her
dingy brown dress looped up above her

t2

great rough boots, had come quietly along
the road. She stopped to say a word
or two to old Farmer Warden, who
was standing apart from the rest, his
face once more buried in his foaming
tankard.

Now old Farmer Malachi could in nowise
suffer with patience an interruption
of any kind, when his countenance was
thus hidden from admiring spectators. He
let other folks alone when they were
drinking, and why should they not let
him alone ? So he gruffly mumbled
out something from the depths of his
mug, accompanied by as terrible a scowl
as the visible portion of his face was
capable of assuming, and turned away

from her. Upon this the woman, pressing
her apron to her eyes, burst into
tears. Her sobs and exclamations were
so loud that she attracted Mr. Sydney's
attention. Glancing over his shoulder, he
perceived the well-known form of Em'ly
Gill, the wife of his enemy's carter,
and demanded sharply what it was she
wanted.

1 Oh, sir !' cried Em'ly, managing to
make her words tolerably distinct, in spite
of the vehement character of her grief. ' I
were only awaken' o' Mr. Walden if so be
as 'e wanted a cummin what can seem
beautiful, and do weeded', or turnip hon',
or coaches', or spread' dong, or 'iiy-
make', and turn 'er 'an' to another'.

And 'e don', and whafaW shall I do?'
'Why, what be the matter, Em'ly?'
asked several voices, and the interest of
the little group was at once centred
round the crumpled sun-bonnet and faded
dress.

At this question, the ill-used Em'ly
once more burst into tears, declaring
you med knack her over wi' your little
venger.' She was forthwith ' treated ' by
the generous Mr. Sydney, and when,
through his kind favour, she was a little
restored, she commenced the story of her
wrongs.

Oh ! sir ; oh, Mr. Sedney !' she cried,
pulling her thin wisps of grey hair to show
the distraction of her mind. ' I've a-bin

treated that shameful, you 'wooden believe
it. After years o' 'ard work, which I've
a-done almost for notion', I've a-bin turned
af£, and 'bused vit to kill a poor cummin !
There, 'oliver I've a-stood it all sa lang, I
can' think. 'Twere only this there blessed
Miss 'Ahker what kep me up 't all. And
'er, poor zool, sleeve a-zaid to I this
many times : " Oh ! Em'ly," sleeve a-zaid,
"if 'warden for you, I'd ha' died lang
goo, I should." For, Mr. Sedney, sir, 'good
you believe it? This girt weller 'ave a-
stopped me fettles this party times an"
moore, if I'd annexed 'en, as 'e 'good say.
And I, what never 'urged a fly, nor 'e
neither, but 'ave worked me venders tot'
bone to will 'is packets. There, I were

noo bitter nor a convict', I weren't ! I've
a-t'iled an' shaved vur 'e, what waken vit
to lane me class !'

A murmur of applause encouraged the
weeping Em'ly to a further rehearsal of her
wrongs.

*'E be a scotland, I've a-year,' she
went on, in tones of sublime contempt.
*'E be churchwarden, too, in t' place o'
the testes gentleman what ever putt on
black coat.'

Here Mr. Sydney became consciously
pink, and slapped his broad chest approvingly.


They've assailed 'en, that's where 'tis
she continued, with the air of one who
generously strives to give even the devil

his due. ' 'Twere 'is poor dear mother
as done it. " Em'ly," sleeve a-zaid to I
a-many times, " 'tis the spaces' chief'
in t' whole village. But 'e 've a-got 'is
temper too, 's well as the res." " There,
I then 'e 'ave, ma'am," I did say, <e and
zoo 'as us all." '

This unexpected generosity on the part
of the person he had so wronged, by no
means served to lessen the hatred which
Mr. Hawker's conduct had provoked.

"Tis a shame, Em'ly,' said Mr. Sydney.

"E be a d d dirty weller— always was,'

he added.

Even Handsome Ben and his son, who
had been disposed to follow the example
of the younger Travers, who had long

since called his dogs and departed, with
a little laugh at Em'ly's expense, now
joined in the chorus of indignation.
Mrs. Gill was again ' treated ' by general
consent.

I've a-got to goo to Flax'on t'-noight,'
said she, c zoo I mus' make 'aste, and be
back to zee to Jobie's supper. Poor
Jobie, 'e do say as 'ow 'tis my fault. But
there, he's sa ignorant, 's Jobie. Good
day, sirs. God Almighty bless 'ee, Mr.
Sedney, an' I gives 'ee many 'humble thanks
for all you've a-zaid and done.'

She dropped a curtsey to the company
in general, and walked on. If so disposed,
the group might have congratulated themselves
on having performed the highest

duty of man — that of refreshing and
strengthening a fellow-sufferer.

They continued to discuss Mrs. Gill
and her wrongs, and Mr. Hawker's disgraceful
conduct, for a little time longer.
Nor was the Vicar deprived of his share
of blame in the matter,. Indeed, Mr.
Sydney showed some ingenuity in attributing
the whole affair to him. For it was
agreed, that ever since Mr. Wentworth had
come, and especially since he had appointed
Mr. Hawker in the room of Mr. Sydney,
the airs and the behaviour of Farmer
John had been simply insupportable. On
the other hand, no doubt it was Mr.
Hawker who had proposed and arranged
this wretched Ranting meeting, which

was to keep so many honest folks awake
on the following evening. There was a
Church for those that wanted preaching,
and a whole day in the week for them to
go there, if they were so mighty religious.
Mr. Sydney had not known Applecombe to
be celebrated for much piety in former
days. But we all lived to learn. And, for
his part, Mr. Sydney assured his companions
that he would not put up with it,
and that, if the Vicar chose to give the
parish over to the Ranters, why, he must
take the consequences. Having been
churchwarden for so many years, Mr.
Sydney felt it his duty to oppose all ranting,
and to see that things were properly
looked after. He would not give his countenance

to such proceedings, not he, for
anything.

1 'Tis at zeb'n 'clack they beggars begins
their roaring,' he said, gathering up his
reins, and taking his long riding-whip
from the hand of the faithful Angel.
1 Well, me lads, we'll 'ave a little meeten'
too. Why shouldn't us 's well 's them ?
Jus' sa many o' you as likes, be raoul' to
my barton 'ars an 'your later. We'll 'ave
a proper meeten' too, I reckon, an' noo
mistake' ; and two meeting ain't what they
d s 'ave a-bargained for !'

He cracked his whip till the startled
chestnut reared, almost dislodging his
master from the saddle. With an oath,
and a knowing nod to the attentive company,

he galloped down the street,

while the little group, deprived of

its leader, soon dispersed in various
directions.

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME,

LONDON : PRINTED BY DUNCAN MACDONALD, BLENHEIM HOUSE.

vol. n.

CONTENTS

OF

THE SECOND VOLUME.

CHAPTER i.

A Stormy Meeting.

R. WENTWORTH had put down a
most interesting brochure, and had
wrapped himself in a warm coat, in preparation
for the evangelistic meeting
over which he was to preside in the little
school-room.

Although it was near the end of June,
it had been a raw, sunless day, and the
vol. ir. B

bitter east wind had swept down the
valley, and hurried over the Vicarage
garden, making sad havoc with the gay
flowers that adorned the beds. It was
not an inviting evening on which to set
out for a long walk, but the Vicar had
ordered his wheel-chair to be brought
round, and he had no doubt in his own
mind that the atmosphere of the schoolroom
would be sufficiently warm.

Bush, the leader of the mission, had
been much with him since the first trial
meeting. During their intercourse, Mr.
Wentworth had been more and more confirmed
in his own strange, and certainly
uncommon, ideas about Christianity and
the Church. It was, therefore, with much

interest that he anticipated the evening's
proceedings.

That peculiar smile of his, which was
the only visible token of the deep
fund of humour lying hidden away
within him, illumined his face as he recalled
former passages in his experience.
He wondered what would have been his
rejoinder, had any of his then acquaintances
pictured to him the thoughtful Oxbridge
student leading a revival meeting
in an out-of-the-way village. But that
more extraordinary things than this were
daily occurring, Mr. Wentworth knew full
well. And, after all, what was this life,
if not a widening of one's naturally narrow
mind, and what was experience, if we were

b 2

not ready to sympathise with the lowest
and poorest — our brethren, too, without
doubt?

Mr.Wentworth was, perhaps fortunately,
placed amongst those who would have misunderstood
him at any rate. He might have
fared worse, had he sought to impress his
peculiar views upon his worthy brethren
in a higher station. It is an unpleasant
thing to realise at all times that fact of
our universal brotherhood. One does not
want it constantly proclaimed from pulpit
and platform. It is a better plan — and it
would show more tact in the clergy, of all
people — to hide it away with other disagreeable
questions, absurd when you
come to practicality, and better written

than spoken about. Of course, we must
do what we can for the lower orders, and
all that, but we cannot do more than we
can.

Mr. Wentworth, in whose ears these
and such-like common-places had often
rung, abhorred them, perhaps in an exaggerated
manner. Nevertheless, he had
humour enough to feel how intensely
ludicrous it was, that he and the Heavenly
Railway Company should be acting
together, and that nothing, not even the
universal brotherhood of man, could do
away with this absurdity.

As he entered the wheel-chair, that
vehicle seemed to creak reproachfully,

and thus to plead how very out of place
it also, vehicle though it might be, was
in Applecombe parish. But we are all the
creatures of blind prejudice, and it is the
duty of every larger-minded man to contribute
to the general good by rooting
the same out of his personality. Such
may have been Mr. Wentworth's reflections,
as Herbert Cosens, with an expression
half laughing, half grave, as befitted
a person about to attend so unwonted a religious
meeting, closed the window on the
Vicar, and started at a quick pace down
the village street.

It was as still as a deserted churchyard.
Not even outside the ' Jolly Labourers '
was a single loiterer to be seen. Mr.

Wentworth, peering out, could not, however,
have observed much ; for, though
most penetrating when very near an object,
or where books were concerned, the
soft, short-sighted eyes were otherwise
powerless.

Although Herbert Cosens was strong
and active as a Dartmoor pony, it took
him a long time to get over the mile and
more which separated the Vicarage from
the school-room. It was 9 however, only
just seven when the wheel-chair drew up
at the little wicket. For punctuality was
one of Mr. Wentworth's unstudentlike
habits, and he had started in good
time.

The building was already full, and the

audience rose respectfully at sight of the
spare figure, making way for him to pass
to the top of the room, where Bush and
two or three of his companions were seated
in close converse. They were whispering
together in an agitated manner, and,
as the Yicar approached, a murmur
of ' perhaps 'twould be better reached his
ears.

In a moment he had read their countenances
as though they had been open books,
and, bending over the mission-leader, carelessly
asked :

What is the matter ?'

The 'Railway' officials exchanged glances
as they rose and bowed respectfully. One
of them, a sallow-checked, very young lad,

with, the strange inspired light in his
eyes which seemed to distinguish all the
evangelists, shook his head and turned
away.

'You had better tell me, Mr. Bush,'
said the Yicar, adjusting his spectacles, as
though he had no thought but for them.
1 Perhaps the evil might be prevented,
or remedied.'

Upon this, Bush brought his round, fat
face quite close to the Vicar's, and, looking
at him keenly, replied :

Well, sir, it's not much o' a devil. "Pis
only that we've just been told some of 'em
in the village, whose 'arts is still 'ard, and
who doesn't know the Lord, is going to
kick up a shindy, and try to drown the

precious seed we're a-going' to sow among
they poor darkened souls. An' we thought
well, you oughtn't just like it. You're
not used to active service the way we is.
We're 'customer to fight for the Lord.
But you might wish to prevent it, by
putting off the meeting till another
time. It would do for os next week.'

So really, in this nineteenth century,
this era of civilization, refinement, and
cynicism, there was to be once more, as
this ignorant Christian termed it, ' a fight
for the Lord.' And it was proposed, and
thought to be likely, that the successor of
the Apostles, he, who had received the
special and Divine grace of ordination,
should turn his back on these humbler

disciples, who were used to it, and knew
that he was not. A feeling, half exultation,
half humiliation and sadness, came
over Mr. Wentworth. Perhaps it was
another of his splendid day-dreams — and
it was also very ludicrous, when one
thought of the Oxbridge life, and Lady St.
Legers musical parties, and a service in
dim religious light, with melody bewitching
and elevating, at St. Cecilia's. But
that was not life, only floating with the
smooth summer tide, past lovely cultivated
banks, with sweet-voiced spirits at
the helm. With a start he returned to
the present, and looked round at the
eager, excited faces near him. And was
this, then, life ?

If nothing else could have buoyed up
the Vicar with an apparently new power,
a power he had not been conscious of
possessing before, the glance of one pair
of eyes, brilliant and questioning as they
looked at him, would have decided his
course of action. Farmer John was leaning
against the wall not far off. His
speaking face seemed to Mr. Wentworth's
mind to intimate that he understood the
whole situation, and was suspending his
judgment till he saw the issue.

We will certainly go on said the
Vicar, in a voice strangely calm. And
again there shone in his face that radiance
and that appealing smile, whose

influence was so subtle yet full of
power.

By his order, the door was closed, and
as many as were afraid of a disturbance
requested to leave their seats, and to
return quietly to their homes. But few
obeyed ; perhaps because they also desired
to suffer for their faith, perhaps because
the stifling school-room was preferable to
a dismal walk through the now rising
tempest.

The elements, indeed, seemed to have
determined to show their objection to
the meeting. For, as the first hymn
swelled through the room, a violent gust
of wind swept howling and shrieking

round the building, making the glass in
the windows resound and clatter, as
though it were pelted with stones. The
school-house was in an exposed position ;
and it was a terrible night. The rain
fell in sheets, rattling on the stones outside.
Then a still more awful stillness
prevailed, to be broken by the howling
of the wind as it swept round the schoolhouse,
and seemed loudly to demand an
entrance. The door, and the outside
shutters which protected the windows,
shook as though they must give way.
The voices singing had the wildest orchestral
accompaniment ever heard.

Mr. Wentworth had one of those sensitive
temperaments which are powerfully

affected by the elements, and a storm
had, strangely enough, the most depressing
influence upon him. Thoughts black
with misery, disappointment, doubt, and
despair invariably visited him, while others
would be admiring the raging storm, and
feasting their eyes upon Nature's mad
and reckless fury. He had not striven
against this, perhaps physical, weakness.
It may not have been in his power to
control it. The expected onset of his
enemies — the enemies of religion — in the
village had no terror, no sadness for him.
Before the ungovernable tempest, he recoiled
and gave way. Not even the
rough eloquence of the evangelist, who
was making ample use of the angry

f>zf::j :: i-:-:r;.:r. in ;. J- ~ .::-;,-

n; .:;; i".:::: is zirrf : ;.i ■.: ?■.:.-//. j

:•: : n:: eves

the audience seemed able to arc


for which he had been noted in




- ■ . - Z I SS£SS3

Bosh had ceased, and : ;

rm mam to speak. He rose and looked

Jatat Item . : a wild beast

- - i 7 -

storm outside the building. It came from
behind him, and was followed by another
and another from every corner. An infernal
din succeeded, and a shower of stones
hurled against the shutters made them
give way, shattering the glass in every
window-pane, and scattering the thousand
fragments amongst the terrified audience.
Coming so suddenly and unexpectedly, for
the meeting was drawing to a close, it
seemed as though the spirits of the
storm, tired out with demanding an entrance,
were using all their might to
put a stop to proceedings in which they
might not share. It was indeed to the
Vicar's ears as though the imprisoned
demons of ancient myth had burst their

VOL. II. C

chains, and were rushing, eager for vengeance,
on those whose doctrines had
condemned them to everlasting punishment.
It was impossible to discover
what caused the deafening noise, for
the raging tempest filled up all pauses
with its mocking screams and doleful
wailing.

The Yicar's spirit rose with this outspoken
opposition to himself and his
cause. The black thoughts disappeared,
and his words, could he have been heard,
would have been as burning coals on the
heads of his listeners. But he could not
be heard, nor could the piercing voice
of the evangelist, who endeavoured, at
the Yicar's desire, to reassure the terrified

people. Who was outside, and what
awaited them when the door should be
opened ?

But just then the door flew open,
and the shouting and hallooing burst
still more demoniacally upon the hearing
of those within the building. Herbert
Cosens entered, and stepped up to his
master, his face aglow with triumph and
delight.

1 'Tis this Rhoddell, sir, and 'bout a
dozen moore like 'e. I seed 'en's plain
as can be. They've a-got all the would
trays and kittles in t' parish, and be
a-beaten' ov 'em wi' all their might and
main. They be tonight, they be.'

The anti-evangelists did not, however,

c 2

attempt to enter the building. After
their strength and zeal had been a little
exhausted, some of their number set up
a mimic hymn, the blasphemy of which
struck like a blow on Mr. Wentworth's
ears. During the temporary lull which
this caused in the universal uproar, the
Yicar's voice was heard, recommending
the people to depart at once, and exhorting
the men of the company to look
after the women and children.

His advice was followed, and the
bravest — perhaps because they instinctively
knew that an assault would not be attempted
by the cautious Mr. Sydney
made a dash through the doorway,

calling upon their companions to follow
them.

Farmer John, who had conducted a
great number safely through the crowd
outside, now returned to where the Yicar
stood, surrounded by some of the evangelists,
and a few women, who were crying
and trembling as they assured each other
they ' knew they should be killed, and t'
Yicar too.'

1 If you will come now, sir he said, ' I
think 'twould be best. They're nearly
tired out, and you can get home without
their knowing you're here. It's so
dark.'

There was danger then — perhaps his

life was in danger. The Vicar took off
his spectacles, and put them in his pocket.
He had had them smashed into his eye
by a stone in his early youth, and had
suffered much from the injury. This,
certainly, was more like life. The green
banks were gone, and the angry waves
rose and swelled around him ; cool and
refreshing the spray dashed itself upon his
brow. He turned to speak a reassuring word
to the trembling women, and bade them
follow him. Then the lamps were extinguished
; and they went out into the noise,
the still raging tempest, and the presence
of their enemies.

The Vicar, deprived of his spectacles,
was as good as blind. He did not notice

the sign which Farmer John exchanged
with the gardener; nor that he walked
between the two, protected by the other
evangelists, who surrounded him and the
women like a little body-guard. As they
got outside, the pelting rain struck
their faces like a shower of stones.
It was so pitchy dark that, but for Farmer
John's arm, the Vicar might have made
many false steps. He could see nothing;
but upon his sensitive hearing there struck
the fiendish and hideous shouting of the
crowd outside, in which he fancied he
could detect the shrill shrieking of women
also. The lowest of the village had
evidently assembled, well-primed with
drink from the public-house close at hand.

From this building a deafening noise
also proceeded, and its lights, gleaming
through the open door and in the
window, made it look like a house on
fire in the dark night around.

CHAPTER II.

The Walk Home.

ARMER JOHN had helped the
Yicar into his chair, which Herbert
Cosens had placed in safety at a little
distance. He now turned to rejoin his
companions, whom he had lost sight of
soon after quitting the school-room.

Suddenly his ear caught the sound of
suppressed sobbing, and the words, c "What

shall I do ?' were uttered in well-known
tones.

1 Where be thou, lass ?' he asked, endeavouring
to pierce the surrounding
gloom.

Immediately after, a hand clutched his
arm, and a girl's voice responded, joyfully,


Be it you, Mr. Jahn ? Oh, I be sa
glad ! I've a-lost the others, and it be
sa dark like. I thought I should never
void me way whom. But you be yere.'

4 And zoo 'tis all thought, maiden,' he
said; and took the cold, trembling hand
in his, and held it tightly there.

A figure reeled past them, almost
knocking Polly down. A little cry

escaped her, and she stood still, unable
to go on.

Oh, Mr. 'Ahker, I be sa feared. Oh,
Mr. 'Ahker, perhaps 'tis true what they
cummin said, as 'ow they was again
to well us, Mr. Rhoddell and 'is men.
Oh dear, oh dear, whatever shall I do ?
I do trimble zoo, seemed' I shall vail !'

The rain drifted in their faces as they
stood. But it scarcely cooled Farmer
John's burning brow. The old, strange
fire leaped up afresh in him, and he was
powerless to suppress it. It was indeed
marvellous how this maiden's presence
changed and moved him.

4 Thee 'ave no libeller,' he said.
1 Poor little maid, thee be almost soaked

trough. Come under my cloak, it be big
enough for thee and me.'

He opened the huge, ancient garment,
which had sheltered him in its ample
folds so completely from the storm, and
drew it over the trembling figure that now
clung helplessly to him.

Oh, Mr. Jahn, Mr. Jahn,' was all the
poor maiden could gasp between her
sobs and her terror at the storm and
darkness.

1 Be thee still averred, me little maid ?'
he asked, presently, as they struggled on
down the dark village street. ' I'll zee
thee to thy dour, lass, and never leave
thee till thy Grammer has thee safe and
troy at whom by the voier-zoide. Never

cry, my dear he added, by way of
soothing her.

Oh, Mr. Jahn, Mr. Jahn !' sobbed
Polly ; and her utterance of his name
was to him like the soft caress of some
loved one. ' I be sa feared. I be sell,
ain't I, Mr. 'Ahker ? You'll 'souse me,
sir.'

'Sees, I'll 'souse thee, lass,' he said, ina
low, tender tone. ' An' I'll lave thee
too, me little maid, if thee 'full '

He stopped suddenly, as footsteps came
sounding cautiously, yet distinctly behind.

What was he saying, and would it be
well to have it heard ? He glanced over
his shoulder, but the darkness shrouded
every object like a thick mantle. The

footsteps must have been the imagining
of his own excited brain, for they ceased
that moment.

He drew the still trembling figure
closer to himself under the old cloak.

Polly,' he said, ' thee be as dear tome
as mine loan life. So never cry,
my dear, Jahn 'Ahker 'full kip thee safe
for evermore.'

'Sees, Mr. Jahn,' said a muffled voice,
still rather unsteady. ' I'll troy not to
be averred.'

Thee muse wear when Jahn be boy
thee, me little maid,' he continued, his
voice sounding unnaturally low and soft
even to himself. ' An' Jahn 'full always
take care o' thee, if thee be sa minded,

Polly. So don' 'ee cry thy sweet, party
oiyes out, but kip 'em brought like stars,
which they be almost like to my mind.'

'Do 'ee then we shall zee the voir
tags and the 'arsenal wi'out 'is 'eat ?'
she asked, as they turned into a portion
of the road which, like that running
past the Towers Close, was supposed to
be haunted. ' They do say as 'ow your
Grammer do 'aunt this clem-tree yonder,
near Mr. Treviss's warm.'

Farmer John laughed till he woke the
echoes of the haunted road.

She do, do she ?' he said, in an amused,
kindly tone. l Poor would zool !'

'Her were terrible would when her
died, were'n 'er ?' asked Polly.

t Believe she were,' assented Farmer
John, and repeated, musingly, ' Poor
would zool !'

Here be Grammer's,' cried Polly, as
they approached a cottage distinguishable
in the darkened row of which it
formed the centre by a light shining in
the downstairs room. ' Won' 'ee come
in, Mr. 'Ahker ? She'll be proper proud
to zee 'ee.'

Ay, ay, me little maid, I be willing,'
he answered, and followed her through
the open door.

CHAPTER III.

What Merrily Gill Said.

Effect silence reigned in the
kitchen of Rummerwoods Farm,

broken only by the loud ticking of the
clock on the wall and the snoring of
Farmer John's dogs, who occupied the
chimney-corner in company with Peter,
the cat.

Miss Hawker herself was seated at the

VOL. II. d

table, with her beloved magazine before
her. But even Lord Ferdinand had apparently
but little interest for her tonight.
She had not turned over the
first page, which described that unfortunate
nobleman's adventures in Siberia,
whither a despotic and bigoted government
had banished him for an unknown
term of years. The clock struck eleven
with mocking precision at that moment,
and Peter stretched himself lazily, while
the younger of the two dogs half opened
his sleepy eyes and pricked up his ears,
as though he heard something unusual.


Miss Hawker started to her feet.
Eleven o'clock, and John still out !

Where could be be ? Had he broken
his vow, and taken to bad company ?
But no, that was impossible. It could
only be the fault of those strange evangelists,
who were turning the village
upside down, and destroying the peace
of honest folks.

What could have happened to him tonight
? She had heard rumours of a projected
assault by some of the opponents of
the mission. Supposing some one should
break into the farm while John was away ?
More unlikely things had happened ; and
a gang of thieves, the Flaxen Courier
reported, had broken into several houses
in this part of the country. And as she
listened, fancying even now she could

d2

hear footsteps, a rap came outside, and a
voice called for admittance.

Miss Hawker's first impulse was to
make for her brother's pistols, which hung
over the chimney-piece. But a repetition
of the knocking outside, and a fresh demand
for entrance ' 'cause it's I, Miss
'Ahker, my dear ma'am,' made her turn
back, as she recognised the welcome tones
of Eru'ly Gill's voice.

Oh, Miss 'Ahker, my dear ma'am, I be
almost wit trough, I be ! 'Tis such a
terrible though night,' was Em'ly's exclamation,
as she followed her former
mistress into the comfortable kitchen, and
cast an eager eye upon the table,
which, however, Miss Hawker had been

too agitated to prepare for her brother's
supper.

Well, Em'ly,' cried Miss Hawker,
placing a chair for her visitor near the
glowing fire, and removing her dripping
shawl to another part of the room.
'Where be Jahn, I should like to
know?'

In reply Em'ly cast upon her a look so
portentous and terrifying that the worthy
sister sank down on the settle opposite,
and begged her, if she knew anything, to
look sharp.'

Em'ly Gill's expression plainly said :
1 Wouldn't you like to know ? and couldn't
I tell you?' But no words escaped her
lips. She only sat gazing at her companion,

while a smile of the deepest and
most heavenly compassion played around
the solitary tooth which adorned her
expressive mouth.

1 Ah, my dear,' she said at last, f this bea
wool', and noo mistake' !'

'I knows that's well's you, Em'ly. For
gracious sake spake plain !' cried the tortured
Miss Lizzy. ' Oh, dear 'art, Em'ly,
do you know where Jahn med be ? And
'tis such a lawful night, as you've a-zaid.
Not set for a peg to be out in, 'ain't, vur
certain.'

"Tis a dreadful woorl',' repeated her
tormentor, gloomily. c But we mus'
put up wi' it, vur certain we mus'.
There ! we mus' make the bes' o' it,

Miss 'Abler, my dear ma'am, as I've a-
told your blessed mother this many
times.'

1 For gracious sake, Em'ly, tell I what
you manes,' repeated the now uneasy Miss
Lizzy. "Ave you a-bin to the school-ouse,
and 'ave you a-zeed Jahn there ?'

In reply, Mrs. Gill folded her hands
calmly in her lap, a very favourite attitude
of hers, and, slowly and ominously
shaking her head two or three times,
ejaculated :

'I've a-zeed two people, I 'ave. And
I've a-bin where two people was. And
boone of them, Miss 'Alxker, ma'am, was
your brother /'

There was a long silence, while the

old clock on the wall ticked out, 'Your
brother, your brother,' till Miss Hawker
felt her brain must give way. As she
expressed it, when describing the scene
to a neighbour not long after, she ' felt
summit give way in 'er 'eat all on a
sudden, and seemed', she should vail like.'

Boone o' 'em was your brother,' repeated
Mrs. Gill, with emphasis. ' And
'oo t'other were ain't convenient like
vur I to say ; but twere a maiden, vur
certain.'

I don' believe 'ee !' cried the victim,
suddenly, in a tone of infinite relief.
'Twere zum'oone else ! Whatever Jahn
'ud do, Vd never wilkie wi' maidens be
night. Never was boone vur maidens,

moore's the fusser vur I. Belike, 'ed
be at whom now, and conf able, ife
'ad a-marr'd and settled down. But
there, 'tis 'is praise, and I'll never
believe 'eve a-bin an' reeked 'en !'

We mus' make the bes' o this wool',
and put up wi' 'en,' replied the resigned
Em'ly. ' But, if 'twas me hastes word
on this yere earth, I'd swear — which I
never said ne'er a bad word in me life —
that 'twere Mr. Jahn a-wahlken' wi' my
niece, Polly Ma'sh, and under his cloak
too, a-tucked away in's arm, like as
though they med be a marr'd and wedded
couple. Which I would a-niver 'ave
atwood to a leven' ritter, if so be as
you hidden doubted me word, Miss ',

ma'am. Which I never thought
as you 'good, though I says it !'

4 Polly Ma'sh !' exclaimed the startled
sister. ' Oh, Em'ly, it mus' be a mistake'.
'Twas sa cork you coulter zee. Belike,
'twere boone o' the village chaps what
be after the girl. But Jahn, wi' this
girt, strapped' maid — aud 'er whither the
writes' chap in all Applecombe parish !
Oh, Em'ly, Em'ly !'

'Sees, ma'am. No doubt but what 'e
be a terrible drink chap, Drink Fred.
But there, she be a sprack enough maid,
Polly, vur all 'er be but a poor girl.
Her's got 'er own mind too, I reckon.
All they Marshes ave.'

Her words were like fuel on the flames
of Miss Hawker's wrath.

A girt, good-for-nothin', clambered'
maid 1' she cried. ' An' you to take 'er
part ! But there, I don' believe 'ee, Em'ly,
I don'. Jahn were never boone vur the
cummin.'

1 Well, 'eve a-pound out now 'e's a-
lotted, like all the res'. There, marries
be all lotted in 'ev'n, we know, uncertain
Repose 'twas to be, Miss 'Ahker,
ma'am.'

It shan' be !' cried Miss Lizzy, fiercely.
An' if she comes yere, I'll turn 'er out o*
tours, sure's me name's 'Ahker ! The girt,
daring' '

1 There, there, Miss 'Ahker, my dear
ma'am, we mussel spake zoo. 'Tis a-
tempted' ov Providence, 'tis, my dear !
Never you mind. The blessed Lard 'ave
a-lotted it, and there, we mus' make thebes'
o' it.'

This philosophical reasoning failed to
bring any comfort to the wounded spirit
of the ill-used sister. "What visions crossed
her mind, it would be difficult to say.
But she sat, staring wildly at the fire with
her prominent blue eyes, her bony fingers
working with the strings of her apron, till
she quite frightened Em'ly Gill.

Why, lawks, ma'am,' she said, soothingly.
c It med be as you said, only my mistake'

after all. I were jus' again down
t' road to me sister's, when I years
voices on affront. 'Twere near the c< Star,"
zoo I could jus' zee 'twas Mr. Jahn, wi' a
girl hanged' on's harm. I heard 'er voice
too, that miners, and 'twas — there, I was
seemed' I should vail like — 'twas our
Polly, me 'urban's sister's choice. She be
about ov a- twenty-dree, always was a party
enough maid, but terrible slow wi' 'er
books. Never lamed to head in all 'er
life, and 'er sisters be terrible good
collars. They be all out t'serviee,
'cepten' Polly, and sleeve bin 'obliged to
come back whom, 'cause 'er legs did
swell sa terrible bad. Always was zoo

vrorn a infant, was Polly. She be wi'
'er Grammer almost always. There, she
do spile 'er, she do ! Bring 'er up like a
lady. Do all 'er washed', and this girl do
never put middle to tread but what she be
sa minded like. "lis ridiculous, 'tis, for
sure !'

An' they was a-wahlken' ?' interrupted
Miss Hawker, who seemed only to have
followed Mrs. Em'ly so far.

Ay, a-wahlken'. Her was a-hangen'
ons arm, and 'e had's arm raoul' 'er
waist. I seed 'em close to t' public. An'
then 'e gives 'er a squeeze, and says :
Come, Polly, my dear, it be cold vur
thee. Come under me cloak, it 'full wrap

us beautiful and nice together." An' then
'e did Ian , and fetched 'er raoul' the
neck wi's arms, and did less 'er sa loud, I
thought they'd a-year 'en. An' then them
good on down t' street, instit ov 'en a-
gain whom t'other way up trill. An'
him wi's arm raoul' 'er all the time. An'
I corned back yere sharp, jus 5 to tell 'ee,
my dear ma'am, as I gnawed you'd a-wish
to year.'

1 Ay, Em'ly, I do,' said Miss Hawker,
her anger beginning to rise and swell
as the truth of her companion's story
began to force itself upon her with overwhelming
conviction. ' An' I do say
as 'ow 'tis shameful' ! An', if our poor

mother gnawed it, 'twould almost make
'er turn raoul' in 'er cahffen, 'twould.
But there, 'tis like 'im, the bad, wicked
weller! I'll never spake to 'en agen,
and ne'er a bit o' supper shall 'e tas' ov
me to-night !'

She stamped her foot violently as she
spoke, and the dogs, startled from their
sleep, growled in low tones, as though
they suspected that treason was being
uttered against their master during his
absence.

c Oh, ma'am,' cried Em'ly, seeing the
turn affairs were taking, 'you wouldden
be the boone to step 'is fettles — you,
ma'am, adore all the res' ! Oh, dear

ma'am, jus' you give 'en's supper and less
peaceable-like. 'Tis our duty to forgive
and vurgit — forgive and vurgit, they do
zay^-ma'am. An' I'll a-'elp you, Miss
'Ahker, though I ain't your cummin
noo langer, which I don' bear noo malice
nor 'hatred in my 'art 'gainst ne'er a
one.'

Mrs. Gill rose, and bestowed a forgiving
smile on the cupboard, which she
knew contained the bread and cheese
destined for the master's supper. But
Miss Hawker was resolute, and refused
to stir from her chair.

There, good night, Em'ly, and God
bless 'ee,' she said, in a plaintive tone.

vol. u. R

'I be vet to drap, I be, wi' what you've
a-bin an' toT me.'

Oh, hawk, ma'am,' cried Mrs. Gill, in
great alarm, ' don' 'ee tell I said it, vur
all the wool' ! Oh, hawk, ma'am, I'll be
summoned vur 'formation o' character,
which I never were but once, an' that
were on account ov called' ov Mrs. Treviss
a thief. Which she were, an' noo bitter,
zoo 'help me God ! There, you'll praise,
Miss 'Ahker, ma'am.'

1 Ay, ay,' murmured Miss Lizzy.

1 Good night, Miss 'Ahker, ma'am, good
night,' said Mrs. Em'ly, donning her still
dripping shawl.

Her footsteps died away down the

barton, and Miss Hawker, after securely
fastening the outer door, returned to the
chimney-corner, and to her distressing
thoughts.

e 2

IS^OM****

UNlVfcRSVTf

CHAPTER IV.

Old Granny Marsh

HEN Farmer John entered Granny
Marsh's cottage, he was not surprised
to find the room almost filled with
her relatives. For it was well known in
the parish, that the worthy woman was
constantly beset by her needy sons and
daughters, and that the nest-egg, for
which she was so famous, was only preserved

at the cost of a good deal of
worry, and many unpleasant visits from
those supposed to be her nearest and
dearest.

Seated at the table, engaged in making
a long fishing-net, whose coils lay thick
underneath, was another little granddaughter.
She had been rescued by the
good grandmother from a drunken father,
who no doubt owed his empty pockets
and fuddled brain to the excellence of his
art in playing the fiddle at the village
feast once a year. He himself, clad in a
blue smock — for by profession he was a
butcher — was lounging in a corner of the
room, discussing the crops and a jug
of beer with his brother-in-law, Polly's

father. That estimable personage was
seated on the floor, whither the unsteadiness
of his legs had compelled him to
resign his person. Three or four young
lads in dirty smocks, sons of the two men,
were playing in a corner at pitch-andros.


Polly was so accustomed to such scenes,
that the idea of apologising to Farmer
John never occurred to her mind. She
only glanced cautiously at her father, to
see if he were very far gone. Judging
by his attitude that he must be l tonight ' —
for a villager is never pronounced e tonight '
while he can stand — she deftly placed
Farmer John's chair in such a manner that
his back was turned towards the two men.

Old Granny Marsh looked certainly
proud, if not ( proud to see him,' as Polly
had declared she would be. She made
him a low curtsey, in which simplicity
was blended with a dignity which her
tall stature and handsome features made
almost majestic. She wore a cap, manufactured
by Polly, in which some bright
colour threw out the deep blue of her
piercing eyes. Her nose, mouth, and chin
were perfectly chiselled, and the thick,
wavy, iron-grey hair rippled over her low,
broad forehead, almost touching the arching
eyebrows. She had a sweet, firm
voice, and her small, shapely hands and
feet proclaimed her gentle breeding.
She looked at Farmer John with a smile

at once humorous and self-satisfied. He
gave himself up to its charm without
resistance.

Perhaps she reminded him of his mother
; and deep down in Farmer John's
heart there still lived the remembrance
of what she had been to him, and he to
her, during the long, sad years of his
father's life, and after that, too, for many,
many days. He had given up a good
deal for that cherished mother — the dream
of his early youth, emigration to the
colonies, where he had often and often
longed to go, leaving behind him the
narrow prejudices of village-life, and
embarking on a new existence, amid
adventures such as only youth imagines.

But these dreams had all been buried
deep down in his heart. Instead had come
real life, which was miserable, unsatisfying,
and resultless. And his mother
had died, and been buried in the haunted
churchyard. And to Farmer John had
been only left a few parting words, some
wonderfully ingenious specimens of handiwork
in the shape of tapestry and carpets,
and that picture which memory
would bring up at unexpected times, still
fresh and living, to his mind. He saw it
now, while old Granny Marsh was thanking
him for looking after Polly.

Ridden my wished that she do goo,
Mr. 'Anger,' she said, in her low, firm
tones. ' Oi hidden wish for her to goo

't all. But they maidens be always for
their own ways. Not but what Oi likes
anyone to 'ave a mind o' their loan, 'tis
praeter like when they be would enough.
But there, Polly, thee be young enough
yit to 'bey — and they'll then upon
my words, when Oi be dead and
gave.'

1 Ay, ay, Grammer,' said Polly, lightly.
But they be proper good people. Ain't
'em, Mr. 'Ahker ?'

'Ay, lass, ay,' he answered, laughing.
'But thee sudden disobey thy
Grammer.'

1 Thee years,' put in a thick voice from
behind his chair. ' 'Wish wish Oi do tells
'ee too.'

Thee 'ole thy tongue !' cried one of the
lads from the corner. ' Thee be always
gittin' in t' way

An oath followed, and a savage grunt
from the worthy Marsh senior.

The old grandmother continued to
lecture Polly, as though there were
no one else in the cottage save herself
and Farmer John, Then, rising, she
offered him some refreshment.

'You don' never touch noo secrets,
sir she said. ' But you med like a
dish o' tay-kittle breath. 'Tis good to
take summit warm on such a cold
night.'

Farmer John was delighted, and Polly
having provided him with a bowl, the

grandmother filled it with boiling water
from the kettle that sang on the little
stove. When an onion, a little piece of
butter, and some pepper and salt had been
added, the 4 tay-kittle breath,' a favourite
repast in Applecombe parish, was ready.
Farmer John was himself rather partial toit,
and when his portion had been assigned
to him he thanked Polly, and asked her if
she could make it also.

Law, 'sees, Mr. 'Ahker,' she said,
laughing. ' 'Tis easy make', is tay-kittle
breath.'

1 Thee little impudent maid !' he cried,
a-laughing at I. Be I sa quare, Miss
Poll?'

She laughed at this still louder, and,

putting her soft head on one side, looked
at him slyly out of the corners of her eyes.

i You be sa quare,' she said, with the
little lisp peculiar to all her family. ' But
there, God 'ave made you, and we ain't
all on us alike.'

That we ain't,' assented the grandmother.
' But why 'aven' thee gi'ed Mr.
'Ahker the testes cop, Polly, my dear?
Thee be a earless maiden, to be sure.
You'll 'souse 'er, Mr. 'Ahker, Oi 'ope.'

1 Ay, ma'am,' said Farmer John, f she
be a little 'endless, perhaps, but all they
young vo'k be.'

"Tis a sweet, party set, Mr. 'Ahker,
sir,' said the grandmother, pointing to a
corner cupboard of oak, black with age.

in which a collection of strange, 
china animals were stored,
and some teacups, adorned with a very
sloping shepherdess tending some human-faced
sheep. ' It be well-fashioned,' she
went on, 'but Oi do choice it terrible well.
'Twere my Grammer's mothers, 'twere.
My mother gi'ed it to Oi. Oi don' insult
you, sir, by a-speaking' ov it ?'

I be please' to year 'ee, ma'am,' answered
Farmer John. 'It be a proper
well-fashioned set. There, the new
china ain't 'ars so party, t' moi mind.'

'More they be, Mr. 'Ahker,' assented
the grandmother. { Oi likes 'en, Oi do.
But there, Oi be a well-fashioned cummin
metals, Oi be.'

Will 'ee 'ave zoome moore, Mr. '
?' asked Polly, perceiving that he had
emptied his mug. ' You've a lang, cold
walk adore you,' she added, smiling at
him, till he caught the enchantment, and
answered in as gay a tone as hers.

Ay, ay, me little maid, I'll take zoome
moore. 'Tis the testes tay-kittle breath
ever I did taste.'

The grandmother looked pleased.

I'm feared we do insult you in our
plain fettles. But there, poor vo'k, Mr.
'Ahker, mus' put up wi' what they can
git, and be glad they've a-got it, sir. But
I be terrible pleas' you do 'jay it zoo.'

1 Donee like it, now ?' inquired Polly,
incredulously. ' Donee, Mr. Jahn ?'

He laughed again, and patted her hand.

1 'Sees, saw !' he cried. ' I do like
it's much 's I do like this little hand !'

While the grandmother busied herself
with refilling his bowl, he patted the hand
again, to Polly's evident amusement. She
scarcely knew what to make of him, whether
to take all he said in earnest, or
whether to regard it as the natural utterance
of one whom all the village pronounced
to be insane. There was that
curious look in his eyes, too, which his
sister shared. Polly determined not to
think about it, or anything else, which
is, indeed, under such circumstances, the
wisest thought of which a person is capable.
So, as Mr. John rose to go, she gave him

her sweetest smile to carry home as a
pleasant remembrance of her.

1 Good night, sir,' said the grandmother,
with a respectful curtsey.

The two men — they were both on the
floor now — howled out some unintelligible
farewell. The little girl at the fishing
net had not once looked up, but had
worked diligently and quietly all the time
on her rough stool. For the net must
be ready to carry into the factory the
next morning, even if she had to sit up
all night to finish it.

The rain had ceased, and the tempest
had well-nigh spent itself, when Farmer
John got outside. He looked up at the
still lowering heavens, where a few stars

VOL. II. F

were struggling out of the blackness
around.

1 It be dark he exclaimed aloud, ' an'
it be stormy. But there be the stars
there too.'

The thought appeared to give him
comfort.

CHAPTER V.

Visions by the Fireside.

HERE was no supper for Farmer
John, returning home cold, hungry,

and excited with the events of the
last few hours. But there was the angry
countenance of Miss Hawker, an unpleasant
welcome to his own hearth, to
say the least of it.

She did not utter a word in reply to

f2

his hasty demand as to what she meant
by having nothing ready, but sat still on
her chair, staring into the fire, in the
same attitude in which she had remained
ever since Mrs. Em'ly Gill's departure not
long before.

Ain't thee again' to spake, Lizzy ?'
asked her brother, who, if she had her
temper sometimes, as she expressed it,
may certainly be allowed to have had
his also. 'Because I wants to know
what thee manes by a-dreamen' over t'
voter, 'stead o' gotten' I me supper?'

A long silence succeeded, which was
broken by an impatient stamp of Farmer
John's foot, as he rose from the settle to
wait upon himself. Upon this she ejaculated

slowly, and in measured tones,

1 I don' wish to 'ave notion' to say to
you, Jahn.'

8 Nor 1 don' wish 'en neither,' he answered,
angrily, helping himself to some
bread and cheese from the cupboard.
'You'll be good enough to kip your
tongue to yourself, if it can't be
civil.'

His head was already in a whirl, and
he was scarcely conscious of what he
said, so provoking was Miss Hawker's
stolid attitude at that moment.

I med 'ave a-many uncivil words to
say to you yit, adore I've a-done,' began
Miss Lizzy presently, as though his admonition
gave her the strength of which

her secret indignation had till then robbed
her. ' Belike, hidden quite convenient
as you should year all I've a-got to
say. I'll warrant hidden, anyhow. But
belike you med 'ave to year it adore
lang.'

She smiled to the fire, which appeared
to have a subtle sympathy with her
wrongs.

1 What do you mane, cummin ?' cried
Farmer John, his naturally loud voice
almost overwhelming, as it rang through
the low-ceiled room, and made queer
echoes in the great chimney.

1 What I do say, in course !' cried his
sister, in return ; and she could speak
as loudly as he. ' Does you think you

can goo beaten' 'bout t' street be nights,
wi' maidens a-hangin' raoul' your nick,
wi' out I a-knawen' ov it ? Vur shame,
Jahn 'Ahker, vur shame ! If our poor
mother did know it (which for certain
she do), she'd almost come down from
'Eb'n wi' anger to year o' such a thing
in our namely. An' you, what 'ave made
a praise, or some such rubbing, never
to marr', leas' ov all to goo beaten' 'bout
wi' girls, what hidden vet to eat wi' this
there dag !'

She had wounded him in his deepest,
most sacred feelings. For his dead mother
was a sacred memory, which might not
be touched with coarse or profane hands.
He scarcely knew how tender a spot it

was till he felt the rough clogs trampling
over the fair flowers. She had stung his
pride also, till the wound smarted and
rankled. And she had stabbed his religious
feelings, which were so bound up with
his vow. His very hair bristled with
fury.

But that reference to the maiden, the
pure, innocent maiden ! He had just
seen her waiting on her grandmother and
himself, with a smiling, happy face. Did
his sisters tongue possess the power to
drive that bright look away ? What
could she mean ? What had she heard ?
He himself had nothing to tell ; what
could others have to tell ?

'Now tell me 'what thee' ve a-year,

'Lizer,' be cried, calling her for the first
time by the name their father had always
used when, in her wilful, younger days,
she had been compelled to obey.

His utterance of her name, so strangely
like the dead father's, made her start.
She too was wearied and agitated, and
she almost quailed before the burning
light in his eyes.

1 Oh, Jahn, Jahn, to think o' thee an'
this girt beastly '

Stop ! stop !' he cried, seizing both
her hands, and pressing them so tightly
in his that she nearly screamed. ' Goo
an,' he said, presently, in a calmer tone,
releasing her, but with the same ungovernable
fury in his flushed face.

1 What moore 'ave thee a-year ?'
4 As 'ow you and this — this Polly
Ma'sh ' — he winced as she uttered the
name in tones of unmingled contempt.
This drunkard's darter were a-wahlken'
'bout together at ten 'clack be night.
An' you a-kessen' ov she, an' she a-hangen'
raoul' your nick. An' you wi' your arm
raoul' ov she ; an' she tucked up under
your coat. An' oh, hawk 'a-mussy me !
I don' know what all beside.'

To her surprise he only answered by a
mocking laugh, whose echoes up the great
chimney were so ghostly that they made
her tremble.

An' who've atwood thee all that?' he

asked, fixing her with his burning eyes.

'twere Em'ly Gill,' she answered.
1 She were a-folleren' behind, an' yeerd an'
seed it all. An' 'oo knows 'oo med ha' bin
a-folleren' too ? Oh ! hawk 'a-mussy me !
our poor mother in 'Eb'n !'

She bid her face in her hands, and
burst into loud sobbing. Farmer John,
without appearing to hear her, took
two or three turns up and down the
room.

The old clock on the wall struck
twelve. A new day had dawned upon the
two, but they did not know it. At last he
came quite quietly to the table, and stood
musing beside it.

Miss Hawker turned round, and eyed
him fearfully. Her glance seemed to
furnish him with words in which to frame
his thoughts. He struck the table violently
with his clenched fist.

An now, Lizzy, I do tell thee what I've
atwood thee this many times. I don'
care what they says, and what they don'
say. Thee years it. An' now thee can
goo t' bed.'

Miss Hawker rose. But the thought of
how the story would sound, when she
repeated it to Mrs. Em'ly, gave her the
courage to cast him a furious look as she
passed. Then she slammed the door behind
her, much in the same manner as her
excellent but misunderstood servant had

done not long before. And Farmer John
was left alone to battle with himself,
while the early shadows of the coming
morning crept up the wall, and the firelight
danced merrily on the old-fashioned
clock, as it slowly ticked out the passing
night.

That it would be a battle was evident ;
and for a time it appeared as though he
must give himself over to the raging spirit
that seemed to rend his inner man in
pieces. His sister and her wrongs faded
from his mind directly the door closed
upon her. Instead, another image rose,
and filled his imagination with pictures inexpressibly
beautiful, yet tormenting. It
was a torment and a delight at the same

time, as he paced up and down the long
kitchen, his footsteps making strange
echoes in the quiet house, and his figure
casting the weirdest shadows upon the
walls, where the firelight played. He heard
aud saw nothing around him ; and yet all
the place was peopled, and even crowded,
with faces and forms. They were surely
familiar too. He must have seen
them before, and have forgotten how
fair and enchanting they were. When
had he seen them ?

As these thoughts forced themselves
upon him, he stood still and pondered.
The grey light of early morning crept up
and up the wall, and the faggots, burnt-out

and hollow, fell with a sudden crash
that roused the sleeping dogs. He was
standing near the window that looked out
on the hill behind the house ; but he did
not notice it, only thought, and thought,
and wondered. And then he walked up
and down again, and, as he wondered still,
the faces and figures passed again before
his eyes.

Formerly they had been voiceless, but
now they spoke. In low silvery tones,
to be sure, but he heard them, and he
stopped to listen. This time it was beside
the dying fire, and the voices came whispering
down the great chimney like the
summer breezes. He threw himself on

the settle, and leaned towards the embers,
his face buried in his hands.

What the message was he scarcely
understood. But the words were familiar,
like the faces. It seemed to him it
was a message from his dead mother, but
it was not her face that he saw.

Suddenly the visions seemed to vanish
in the ascending smoke. He started to
his feet, and this time he was conscious
of his surroundings — of the dying fire,
the dogs, and the creeping daylight — conscious,
too, of what he had just seen, and
curious as to what it might be. He knew
now how it was that the faces were so
familiar. He had, indeed, seen them
before, but years and years ago, when he

was a boy, a dreamy, strange boy. And
he had told his mother about them, and
she had kissed him, and prayed for him.
That was all he recollected, it was so
very long ago. And how strange it
was

As he pondered, a sudden realization
of the present, and of himself, rolled over
his soul like a great overwhelming wave.
Where was he, and what had he been
doing ? What had he drifted into ? He
drew his chair to the table, and tried to
think. But his brain refused to act. He
could see only one thing, one picture,
beautiful as the blooming rose that peeped
through the lattice. He got up, and
walked up and down again. He saw it

VOL. II. G

still. It walked with him ; its head leaned
on his shoulder; the eyes — oh, how soft
and trusting ! — looked into his. He might
gaze into them as long as he liked now.

He returned to the fire, and sank on
the settle again. But the face lay on his
bosom, and his hand was stroking the
silken hair. It was a fairer vision than
those haunting faces. How its trusting
look sank into his heart, like refreshing
rain into a thirsty soil ! It had a hand,
too, a cold, trembling hand. But he
knew that his was chafing it, tenderly and
lovingly, and he felt it glow and nestle
trustfully in his strong grasp.

Then the face shone at him from the

fire, and the eyes were full of tears. Then
it sank in the falling embers, and peeped
at him again through the ascending smoke.
It was vanishing again, and he held out
both his arms to stay it, with the passionate
exclamation of a name. The name
echoed drearily up the huge chimney. Did
it mock him ? How sweet, how fair a face !
What loving, trusting eyes ! How the
little hand seemed to fit into his, as
though his were its natural resting-place
!

'Oh! Polly, Polly, Polly!' he cried
again, and the echoes repeated, ' Polly,
Polly, Polly P

I do lave thee, lass — I do lave thee

g2

moore nor I do lave mine loan life.
Oh ! come, Polly, come !'

His head sank again on his hands. It
seemed to him that he slept there by the
dying fire, with his eyes widely open,
gazing at the haunting face of Polly. Perhaps
he dreamed too. And his dream
took possession of him with a power not
to be withstood.

It was, and must be so. What was life,
what was work ? What meaning would it
have years after ? And death must come,
as the preacher had said. And love was
eternal ; it could never die. It had taken
possession of his being. He would die,
when it died within him. God had sentit.

God was his Father; He had made
him as he was. And God was love.

And Polly ? She was . .

How dear he scarcely knew, till the remembrance
of his vow flashed upon him
like a ray of lightning across a black
sky.

His vow ? He could not break it ! It
was sacred as that love. But he would
not break it. Why should he ? Could he
not love, and still not break it? He
would not break it. Never. And he
would love. He would give himself over
entirely from that moment to that overwhelming
force, against which he had
vainly tried to struggle these long, dreary

weeks. They had not been altogether
dreary. He remembered some sunshine.
How brightly it had shone ! And again
the face smiled at him, with an enchantment
that overcame him altogether. And
the little hand took his, and led him away,
away, far away, he knew not whither,
over meadows green and golden. And
the Father in heaven looked down, and
smiled upon them, and on and on they
wandered, it might be for evermore . . .

The first rosy streaks of dawn were
tinting the cold, night sky. The King of
the Morning was awake ; soon he would
arise, and with his ' ray-brush ' daub the
earth with freshly-glistening colours. The
dew lay thick upon the ground. It would

be a glorious day after the tempest of last
night.

Farmer John watched the brilliant
colours spreading, and spreading, and
softening over the green hill. The day
had, perhaps, also dawned for him.

CHAPTER VI

'Millier is drum to spake.

HE vanishing crimson of sunset
still painted the little Apple-combe
valley, and the sweet scent of the
clambering roses came in through the
open study-window. The Vicar leaned
on the wide sill, and looked out on the
green hill opposite.

The air was full of mingled country

sounds, but to him it seemed quiet and
very peaceful. For he had just returned
from a two months' tour abroad,
and he now felt the calm repose and
stillness of his surroundings particularly
soothing and inviting, after the noise
and busy traffic of cities. It was also
conducive to thought and study, and the
Vicar had come back to the quiet country
parish with many thoughts stirring
in his mind. Ambition had once more
mastered him, and, with a large box of
German books, he had brought back the
determination to embark another little
ship on the wide ocean of literature,
and see if, after some storms and much
perilous sailing among the critics, he

could not land it in the desired haven,
and there deposit his cargo of precepts
for the elevation and good of his fellow -
creatures.

His mind dwelt much on his new venture
this evening. And the sweet air,
that ever and again made bold to kiss
his brow, was as helpful to him now, as
the absence of noise and hurry would
be, when he had begun his projected
work.

It was a great venture, if a new one,
and he would risk much in it. Even
the sure prospect of being attacked as
unorthodox by his fellow-labourers in
the Church should not deter him ; nor,
what he still more dreaded, the chance

of being praised and recommended to
others, still more ignorant, as the disciple
of some of those pullers-down of all he
held most sacred. And to these pullers-down,
in Mr. Wentworth's opinion,
there remained nothing wherewith to
build up.

It was long past seven o'clock, and
the voices and laughter of the reapers
came in subdued murmurs from the
cornfields near. They were making
merry over unlimited cider, for the harvest
was pronounced to be a good one,
even by the richest farmers. The voices
roused the Vicar from his reverie.

They were the voices of those few
sheep of his, alone in the wilderness, he

thought. His mind at once filled with
ideas concerning them. Poor, blind,
ignorant people ! How strange that
there should exist in this enlightened
age beings so miserable and down-trodden
! Could it be possible that there
was a district inhabited bj some thousand
and more people, all of whom were
at the mercy of one man, and he an
absentee landlord, who governed by deputies
as low and ignorant as his tenants ?
Poor, wretched creatures !

What would not Mr. Wentworth have
done for them ? He would have willingly
laid down his life, if he could have benefitted
them by the sacrifice. But he found
it so difficult to impress this upon their

minds. It was, indeed, so difficult to impress
anything at all. And yet they had
all immortal souls ; they had as much claim
to immortality as he had. A difficult
doctrine this for many to believe. But
not for Mr. Wentworth. The only question
was, how to make them grasp this
fact, and how to awaken a desire for the
higher and the better in a herd of uncultured
rustics, who rose before the sun,
and worked till it set, and whose only
fear was the law, as represented by a
few hard-drinking, disreputable quibblers
in Flaxen, who purchased the command
of their victims' consciences by threatening
the contents of their pockets.

They really had not time for religion.

And the religion that Mr. Wentworth
had doled out to them on Sundays had
been like the uncomfortable respectability,
which oppresses a villager, when he
squeezes himself into his shining and
ill-fitting black suit, and sits miserable
during the long hours of service, only
comforted by the thought that tomorrow
must come, and the suit and respectability
be restored once more by his wife to the
huge oaken chest.

Mr. Wentworth had not been slow to
recognise how entirely he had failed in
reaching his hearers' hearts, spite of their
apparently absorbed attention to his discourses.
He had tried these strange

evangelists, who clothed the truths they
uttered in such extraordinary garments.
He had heard of many so-called ' awakenings
and conversions And he had returned
after an absence of two months
to study the results of his experiment,
and to reflect upon them at his
leisure.

In going away, he had entrusted the
superintendence of the meetings to the
evangelist Bush. Nor had he failed to
report to the Vicar ever and anon the
success of the mission at Applecombe.
Perhaps it was a pity that the Vicar
should have felt himself obliged to go
and study Hebrew with a Rabbi in Germany

for two months, just as the people
in his parish were being moved, apparently
for the first time in their lives. But
no doubt the world would ultimately benefit
by the Yicar's researches in the language
of the ancients. And he had left,
during his absence, an excellent young
Low-church curate, worn out with town
work, to read prayers and preach pseudo-rural
sermons, chiefly on the subject of
Ruth.

There was one man besides, the Vicar
had mused, whom he could implicitly
trust — the only man, indeed, whom he
could trust. This was Farmer John
Hawker, his own churchwarden, whom
he had begged to attend the meetings,

and write him an accurate report of the
proceedings of the evangelists every now
and then. Mr. Wentworth had received
but one short letter soon after his departure
for Bonn. But he judged, and
rightly, that writing of any description
was not the favourite occupation of Farmer
John. He accordingly made himself
very happy in studying these few and
eminently characteristic lines, received
one hot summer's day, when he was surrounded
by utter strangers, and when
Farmer John's hand was almost like that
of a welcome friend.

He drew out the thin sheet now, and
glanced at the firm, copper-plate hand
which covered it.

VOL. II. H

4 Rummerwoods, August 4th.

Reverend Sir,

In answer to your kind
letter, T beg to say all well as when you
left. Mr. Cassel is generally liked, a
crowded Church and very attentive congregation
yesterday morning — subject :
Ruth and Boaz.

1 The meetings are going on as usual.

'With regard to the Feast, it is the
quietest ever I knew. I hear the Publicans
are crying out because the Mission
is about.

c The Mission Lasses have had a letter
to hold themselves in readiness to leave
on the 5th, but they know not where their
next station will be, or who is coming to

Flaxen. A man is expected. I am glad
to hear you are progressing, if slowly,
very sure ; the people are glad to hear
from you, and hope you will return much
stronger. A dreadful night of thunder
and lightning on Saturday, but a beautiful
day this. The parish unites in sending
their best wishes to you.
I beg to remain,
1 Reverend Sir,

1 Yours faithfully,

John Hawker.

1 To the Eev. E. Wentworth.'

Mr. Wentworth had kept the letter in
his coat pocket, along with some dozen
and more. For one of his peculiarities

h 2

was a scruple about tearing up any written
communication whatever.

Farmer John spoke of 'a crowded
church and very attentive congregation
The parish, then, was doing well, perhaps
even better than he had expected.
He had only returned home that afternoon,
and, beyond a few kind words to
Mrs. Cosens and the faithful Herbert, he
had asked no questions. As the thought
of the parish and his people drove away
every other consideration from his mind,
he rose, and shutting the window, for
the air felfc chilly to him, he rang the
bell, and resolved to glean some intelligence
from his obliging housekeeper.

She entered soon after with a respectful

curtsey, and retired with some reluctance
when he desired her to fetch
her husband also. She had been hoping
for an interview of the kind now in prospect,
and 'herb were sure to say the
wrong thing.' However, she ' thanked
the Lard she had always enough strength
to contradict' 'e.'

When the Vicar saw the two before
him, a hundred questions sprang to his
lips. But the desire of communicating
his new plans for the good of the parish
made him resolve to keep these for
another time. So, after receiving an
excellent report of the cows, pigs, pony,
and other animals, about whom Mr. Wentworth
was known to speak so learnedly

to his town friends — although shrewd
Herbert and his wife suspected he knew
1 nowt 'bout the bastes,' — Mr. Wentworth
began to describe to his wondering listeners
the charms and attractions of a
model Moravian settlement, which it had
been his good-fortune to visit during his
travels abroad.

I wish I saw our parish like that one,'
he said, his grey eyes kindling, and the
radiant smile illuminating his sallow countenance.
' I assure you it was a perfect
delight to be amongst such people.
There was not one public-house in the
district, and they were all like brothers.
There were no rich and no poor. When
one of their number died, they all put

on white to go to the funeral, in token
of rejoicing that one of them had left
this sorrowful world for the everlasting
rest

The Yicar looked out on the peaceful
green hill opposite, and involuntarily
exclaimed,

1 Why should not this beautiful valley
of ours be also an abode of peace and
joy, like Friedensort, which is not half
so lovely a spot ? To think of living
amongst those whose only desire is to
help each other in doing good ! Why, in
that settlement of nearly five hundred
people there is not one who would be
heard to utter a profane word ; and so
honest are they, that there are no

bolts on the doors. Nor lias there ever
been known to be a robbery.'

Herbert Cosens, the Vicar's honest
gardener, had continued to stare his
master incredulously in the face while
he spoke. He had not quite understood
all Mr. Wentworth had said, but the
latter part of his speech appealed to his
imagination most powerfully.

1 'T mus' be a quare place, sir,' he said,
with a short, incredulous laugh.

But Amelia, fearing the imprudence of
her lord's tongue, hastily interposed. She
had been apparently listening also, with
an absorbed air. But in reality her
thoughts were far away. Had she not
many, and far stranger, things to communicate

? and what had honest folk
what worked for their liven' to do wi'
vo'k what wore white 'stead o' black,
which they ought to ha' bin ashamed on ?'

'You 'ol' your tongue, 'Erb,' she said,
imperiously. 'What be you awaken' questions
vur ? What do you know ?'

Now Herbert had asked no questions till
now, when he seized the opportunity of
demanding of the Vicar whether, ' the
leven' was chape in this there place ?'

Oh very,' answered Mr. Wentworth,
delighted at the question. ' But the poor
people don't fare as well as you. Their
food is very coarse, and they eat black
bread. Which, I daresay, you have never
seen.'

The idea of black bread presented so
many questions to the mind of Herbert,
that his brain was in danger of giving way
with them. Visions of niggers being chastised,
such as he had seen on penny illustrated
tracts, flashed across his memory.

1 Black bread, sir !' he cried, in spite
of his wife's frowns. ' An' be it that as
turns 'em black ?'

The Vicar enjoyed a hearty laugh, and,
leaning back in his cane arm-chair, proceeded
to describe Friedensort and its
inhabitants with such eloquence that, had
it not been for the black bread, Herbert
Cosens would have offered to accompany
his master thither whenever he should be
so inclined.

I have always had great leanings towards
the Moravians,' continued the Vicar,
a thoughtful expression coming over his
face. He sighed at some, perhaps painfully
tender, recollection. c How sweet,
and gentle, and holy the sisters are ! Like
a band of Madonnas. Ah well ! We have
to give in sooner or later. Well, Mrs.
Cosens,' suddenly noticing the curious
smile, which played round Amelia's mouth,
how has the parish been going on since
I went away ? I wonder if any of you
have missed me, except this dear little
creature.'

He bestowed a tender smile on the
sleeping dog on the window-sill, which, as

if by instinct, wagged its tail without
opening its eyes.

Oi do say as 'ow it be 'high time you
be corned back whom, sir,' answered the
gardener's wife, in the determined tones
of one who will speak out, though she
might die for it the next moment. ' There,
Oi did tell 'Erb the very same las' night,
Oi did. Hidden Oi, 'Erb ?'

She turned upon her husband a fiercely
glittering eye, whose glance defied contradiction.
Herbert meekly said,

1 'Sees, 'Millier, you ded.'

Ay, 'Erb do know, 'e do,' continued
Mrs. Cosens, speaking fast, and with
great emphasis. ' 'E 've a-year, too,
what Oi've a-year. There, 'tis awful, 'tis,

what some v'oks do tell on. An' where
it be true or not, God Almighty do know,
'E do.'

The Yicar moved uneasily in his chair.
But the remembrance of the gentle Moravian
sisters still shed a soothing light
over the darkening path, and he murmured
:

1 Ah, well ! this place might be different.
We want example, that's what we
want — example to live what we preach.'

Mrs. Cosens had only caught the last
word of this murmured speech, but it
served her purpose excellently well. She
also was determined to have her say
out. And what match were even twenty
Vicars against Amelia when, to use her

own words, she ' were drum to spake ' ?
1 Preach ?' she demanded, with lofty
scorn. ' Ay, preach — that's where 'tis.
Some vo'k do preach what ain't vit
to 'old a Common Prayer-book. The
screeched' an' the 'olleren' what Oi've a-
yeerd do goo on up t' school-rouse be
moore like the quailed' o' pegs t' Fair
nor e'er a preacher'. Not that Oi've a-got
another' 'gainst they as preaches papers
But oh, Mr. Wentworth, sir, if you
did know what 'ave a-gone on there till
boone 'clack in t' marner', since you've
a-bin gave, wi' this there Warmer Jahn,
as they do call 'en, an' they Rha'ilwa}^
vo'k, almost make me stummick turn to
year the people in the parish tell on it.

But there, poor man, 'e don' know what
'e da do, Oi've a-year tell. 'Tis awful
work, 't is.'

Who? What?' cried the bewildered
Vicar. He pointed to a chair, into which
Mrs. Cosens sank, warning her husband
at the same time by a glance of her eye
to remain where he was, and to stand by
her, should she require it.

1 Why, there, sir,' she began, ' it be 'is
loan sister as 'ave atwood Oi, zoo what
can Oi say moore nor Oi years? 'Twere
boone day, a Zunday ev'nen', Oi believe, sa
vur's Oi do remember, which Oi would
tell a love for all the good you could give
me. Miss 'Ahker, she comes in for a res'
like. She were tired wi' walked' from

Flax'on. She da goo to the Wisley-vo'ks,
meeten'. There, Oi don know what they
do call 'en. An' she were vit to drap.
An' she says, says she, " May Oi zit down
vur a miners, Mrs. Cosens ; Oi be sa tired,"
an' she looked terrible plain. Zoo Oi says,
says Oi, "Miss 'Ahker, ma'am, you do
look that plain, Oi be averred you do enjoy
your 'earth bad, ma'am." An' then
she a-gits up an' shakes 'er 'eat, an' then
she sits down agen, an' begins to cry
like, vit to break your 'art. An' then
she tells Oi 'ow 'er brother, that's Mister
Jahn — Warmer Jahn, as they do call 'en
in the parish — do goo on that shameful,
vit to break 'er 'art, what always laved
'en from a choice. There, 'e do beat the

roads all day wi' they Rhailway vo'k,
a-zingen' an' a-bolleren' wi' maidens, an*
all carts, 'bout the street be night. 'E
do never look near the warm, an' what
wi' ship-riot, an' 'arves'-toime, it be all
gain' to rack and ruin. Which everyone
do know. An' ne'er a sullen's
a-gane into 'er packet vur six mont'
come the seventeenth o' September ; vur
iverythen' what 'e do 'arn, an' that be
precious little, da goo to this there girt,
strapped' maid, Polly Ma'sh, an' 'er
Grammer.'

Mrs. Cosens paused an instant for
breath, and then continued, still faster,
but in a lower tone,

'Sees, an' they do say as 'ow it be all

VOL. II. I

lang o' this there girl, 'Evenly Polly,
they do call 'er. She what do bride
down wi' 'er Grammer, nex' dour but
wooue to Mrs. Tolley, the clerk's wife.
An' she do say as 'ow 'e be always there,
awaken' o' presents to the Grammer,
an' a-boiden there be nights. Oh, 'tis
dreadful, 'tis. An' 'e what did use to
walk sa sinsible-loike wi' you after Church
in t' garden, which 'ave a-hurted 'Erb
terrible — believe it 'ave. An' this there
girl be always a-hangen' 'bout wi' 'en,
an' never do a stitch o' work. There,
sleeve a-got noo shame, she 'aven', the
girt, beastly then, noo moore nor a
regular bad boone. Ain't vit vur hones'
cummin to go wi' 'er, they do say. She

do come to Church wi' 'eD, she do, an'
the vo'k do lass an' print at 'em as they
do goo arm-in-arm trough t' village.
This would Vicar's churchwarden anis
lass," I've a-jeerd 'en say many times,
an' print at 'en an' lass dreadful. But
there, poor man, it be the Divil for certain
what ha' a-done it. For some vo'k
do say as 'ow 'e an' the Divil, that's
Satan, be would friend's, what use' to
be took dreadful when a hinfan', an' 'is
mother an' 'is whither what coulclen 'olden,
an' 'e a babe. You tell, 'Erb, what
'happened las' Zunday to Church — almost
make me stummick vail down wi' thence'
on't. 'Erb were there, I waddeu, but I
yeerd a-many tell on't.'



What would come next? the Vicar
thought. Each word had been like a
fresh stab. He would not believe it.
And yet an impression, which he found
it impossible to resist, was being slowly
forced upon his mind.

Why, there said Herbert, nothing
loth to join in the conversation, and
speaking with the impartiality of an eyewitness.
' I've a-got notion' 'gainst 'en.
A good 'enough chap vur I. Did
always answer civil when 1 spoke wi' 'en.
'Twere to Church. The create were
jus' wheaten' o' the zecon lesson
when '

No, 'weren't,' interrupted Amelia,
who had recovered herself at the first

sound of her husband's voice. ' 'Twere
in the Creed, Oi yeerd Mrs. Tolley tell on
it.'

1 No, 'warden,' retorted Herbert, ' Mrs.
Tolley warden there.'

'there, Oi would' ha' believed it!'
cried Mrs. Cosens, determined to drown
her lord's voice this time. ' As 'ow you'd
ha' told a love, 'Erb. But you'll 'souse
'en, sir, as 'weren't meant. 'Twere in the
Creed, 'twere, they was all a-zayen' o' 't,
the choir up in t' gallery. An' Mr. Jan
were a-zitten' be the gallery dour, a-kippeu'
o' the lads in order, when all on a sudden
there were a girt screamed-like yeerd.
An' Mr. Jahn did vail down, a-voamen' at
the mouth, like as 'e med bin a mad dag.

'Twere a cart o' vit, some did say. An'
your men coulter a-'old 'en, 'e wore sa
Strong. An' then 'e did goo quite white
and staff-like, wi' 'is 'an's a-clasped, anis
oiyes a-staren' that would, 'twere vit
to frighten a'-woone out o' 's wits, it
were, an' a-tahlken' all the time. An'
'eve a-bin like that ever since, Oi did
year.'

She stopped, and drew a little closer
to the Vicar, as though she had some
soothing balm to administer to his wounded
mind.

But there, where it be a vit, the same
as what 'e did 'ave as a hinfan', or where
it be lave, Oi don' know. But Oi've
a-year as 'ow this there Polly, as they

do call 'er, be wi' 'en be day an' be night.
An' 'e can't a-bear 'er out o' 'is sight.
'E do love on 's bed, an' call 'er if she da
goo 'way. Oi've a-year 'en metals . Oi ded
goo up jus' to zee 'en boone day this wik.
An' there were Miss 'Ahker a-croyen' an'
a-zobben', an' this Polly there be the bed,
wi' Mr. Jahn's 'eat a-lyen' on 'er shoulder,
an' 'e a-staren' zoo, an' a-tahlken sa quare-like,
oh, 'twere all carts 1 There, Oi did
year 'en a-zayen' : " Poll, Poll, Poll, my
dear. Where be 'ee, Poll? Poll, Polly,
Polly, me lave." Zoo 'e did goo an all
the time. There, 'tis this there girl,
boone do say, an' 'other do say as 'ow 'tis
the vits, an' some the Divil, what's Satan.
There, I don' know which it be ! But

Miss 'Abler, sir, sleeve a-took on terrible.
An' she be abdomen' down to zee you
this very night. She told Oi she mus'
come an' zee you 'bout it, 'cause you did
know Mr. Jahn bitter nor ne'er a 'one
else.'

CHAPTER VII.

Miss Hawker consults the Vicar.

SlF* WENTWORTH had at first
sfiflsial scarcely realised what he was
hearing. It was something about Farmer
John, he knew; and that it was against
Farmer John he had suspected the instant
Mrs. Cosens opened the subject. He
had during the course of his life experienced
so many severe disappointments

with regard to dearly-loved friends, that
his feelings were unusually sensitive on
this point. So the instant Farmer John's
name was mentioned, the conviction
that this new, strange, and delightful
friendship was about to crumble away
before him, was forced upon his
mind.

The man, whom he had thought so upright
and trustworthy, such a hero of
moral, as well as of physical, strength,
was, after all, just like the rest. He
could not keep himself from arriving at a
conclusion by which Farmer John's character
must suffer, directly the breath of suspicion
moved upon it, though he scarcely
realised this himself at the time. For

Mr. Wentworth's experience of life bad
been such that he was, to an almost painful
degree, ready to believe the very
worst of everyone, and even a hint
was enough to prejudice him forever.


A sensation of almost physical pain
made every feature of his face quiver.
The mouth twitched, the pale eyes blinked,
his very foot and hand seemed unable
to be still. Did he know the worst even
now ? Mrs. Cosens had not spared words,
nor would she, were there occasion. She
had told everything she knew ; but
the Vicar's heart misgave him that
there might be more. It was almost
a relief when a rap at the

back-door proclaimed the arrival of Miss
Hawker.

Miss Lizzy was ushered into the
Vicar's presence by the gardener's wife,
who wore an expression of envious
respect for the troubles which now distinguished
that ill-used woman. On Miss
Hawker's face resignation struggled with
the deepest affliction. Her four short
curls had each a separate story of woe to
relate, as they stuck out in melancholy
grandeur from a sealskin hat which covered
them. She was dressed in her best
garments ; and, directly she entered the
apartment, the Vicar's nose was sensible
of the pomade which had aided in the arrangement
of her hair. But there was a

gleam of wrath in her eyes, red and

swollen though they were with crying.

She sighed deeply, as the Vicar begged

her to be seated, and not to speak till she

had recovered from the fatigues of her

long walk.

Mrs. Cosens could scarcely refrain

from an exclamation of commiseration,

in which triumph was also discernible

at Miss Hawker's apparently-exhausted

»
state. She glanced sympathetically at

the sealskin hat and the four curls,
which, be it here disclosed, she greatly
admired.

The Yicar was by this time so absorbed
with Miss Hawker, and her possible
communication, that he had entirely forgotten

the presence of the gardener and
his wife. For, although Herbert had attempted
to leave the room on the arrival
of the visitor, Mrs. Cosens had warned
him by a glance of her expressive eye that
she was determined to remain.

At the sound of the exclamation which
Amelia could not restrain, Mr. Went worth
became aware that there would be listeners
to the coming conversation. Upon
his sensitive mind this lack of delicacy, ashe
considered it, grated in the harshest
manner. Turning, with a sternness in his
voice that Amelia had believed it to be incapable
of assuming, he ordered the
couple abruptly from the room. Whether
the keyhole supplied the necessary information,

is matter of historical doubt.

Miss Hawker, thus left alone with the
Vicar, proceeded to the business of the
hour with a spirited defiance of the emotion
she could scarcely control.

Mr. Wentworth, who had at first regarded
her with a critical eye, could plainly
detect how strongly-agitated was the poor
woman's mind. She spoke in a very
loud and harsh key, and without provincial
accent, as her brother had done so many
times before in the same room. The resemblance
was so striking, that Mr.
Wentworth felt himself ready to give
way to emotion, as he listened to
the story Miss Lizzy was pouring
forth.

She spoke in high-flown language, of
course, and used very long words. But
her account was clear and circumstantial ;
and Mrs. Cosens' broken and disjointed
threads of information were gradually
twisted into a very firm cable. She went
back to the very beginning, even pouring
into her listener's sympathetic ears an account
of the dismissal of Em'ly Gill, which
she declared to be the cause of all the
mischief. In describing her feelings on
first learning of her brother's attachment
to Polly Marsh, her voice became choked,
and tears rolled down her cheeks, although
she continued her story bravely, and without
a pause. From her the Vicar gathered
that Farmer John had long before

suffered from these strange attacks, and
that, as he had always refused to see a
doctor, it was impossible to discover what
was the cause of them. He had an unaccountable
abhorrence of the doctors of
the district, and it was one of his whims
that he never would see one. The very
suggestion had made him so angry,
that she had not dared to mention it
again.

It appeared that Farmer John had
gradually withdrawn himself from the
farm and his work ever since the arrival
of the evangelists, and that, during the
Vicar's absence, he had entirely devoted
himself to them. He was always in their
company, and, of course, in the company

VOL. II. K

of this girl, who had joined the band of
Railway Lasses, as the female evangelists
were called, and was now known amongst
them as ' Heavenly Polly.' His passion
for the girl was the talk of the place. It
was plain he was entirely devoted to her,
and, to borrow one of Miss Hawker's expressions,
she had ' so got him under her
foot, that he could not breathe without
Polly.' She had been always in the house
since his illness, and he could not bear
her out of his sight. He would lie, and
talk of her by the hour, as though unaware
of her presence. His voice calling
her name perpetually wakened the
echoes of the silent house at dead of

night.

Mr. Wentworth begged for more particulars
concerning Farmer John's illness, and
Miss Hawker proceeded to give a detailed
account of the events of the previous
Sunday. During her narration she became
violently excited, so great had been
her terror at her brother's conduct. He
had gone quietly to Church, and had been
suddenly seized with a fit in the middle
of the service. He had rushed out, and
had fallen down in the churchyard, livid,
with wildly-staring eyes, his face rigid as
death. There were some who said he was
foaming at the mouth before he fell
down.

The people had brought him home
insensible, in a cart. He had lain

k2

speechless on his bed for an hour and
more. Then he had suddenly awakened,
and, as though he suspected a doctor
would be sent for, had loudly and distinctly
announced that he would not
see one, and that they had better not
attempt to force him to do so. Then
he had called for Polly, so piteously,
that Miss Hawker had not had the heart
to resist him. Indeed, he had struggled
to get up, and go to her, but had fallen
back again, powerless and rigid. His
appearance was terrifying ; and Miss
Hawker was 'frightened out of her life *
to be alone with him, in case he should
kill her. It was almost a comfort
to her to have Polly there ; and the

grandmother had also arrived at the farm,
refusing to permit the maiden to stay-there
by herself.

The strangest part of Miss Hawker's
story was her account of what she called
her brother's visions. It appeared that,
after lying for some time motionless, as
though dead, he would suddenly begin
to speak to himself, relating strange
things which he evidently saw, and repeating
long conversations between the
most extraordinary persons. At one time
he imagined himself to be in heaven,
overhearing a conversation between the
Creator and his dead grandmother.
Then he would recite whole passages,
which Miss Hawker inferred to be

from the Vicar's sermons. And then he
would relate the proceedings of saints and
martyrs, who had won their eternal reward,
and what they were saying at that
moment ; and in the middle of these relations
he would begin to pray fervently,
in the most beautiful language. His
wanderings were all so intelligible, in
spite of the long pauses that occurred between
every two or three words, that
Miss Hawker had written them down as
they were uttered, imagining that the
Vicar would never believe her if she
merely repeated them.

She handed him an envelope containing
a copy of some of these strange

wanderings, and begged him to read
them.

1 These are all about you,' she said.
1 That's why I brought them. Whatever
he could mean, poor Jahn, I cannot
imagine.'

But the Vicar understood, as he
handled the scrawled sheets. His eye,
glancing over the lines, rested on the
words :

Vicar — reproach — laughing-stock —
worst they could put on him Vestry.
Devil there. Thou there — a thief — a
robber — get a sixpence — robber-thief.
Bless and sustain him in those wrongful
accusations. Save them his accusers.

That man a message to the people that
will never be obliterated by all the hosts
of hell. Too nice for the people, but
not for Thee — open their worse than
blind eyes to see. On what grounds
has he had that amount of tribulation —
on what score? Crucifixion — that

sentence. " His blood be on " Thou

hast sent him here Invitations
elsewhere — visits — closeted in that room —
not for money — he came. Took a view
what a valley ! Confidence placed on
me — not on me, but on Thy strength,
never to be broken. Power comes — trials
come to show me I am worse
than nothing arouse the people's
ire '

What did it? mean ? The Yicar could
not now indulge in vague speculations,
though the paper before him gave him
the amplest scope for them. Miss Hawker
was asking him to come the next day,
and see poor Farmer John, assuring him
that she was certain he would do him
good.

'Tis all this girl !' she cried, relapsing
into her ordinary accent. l The
shameless thing. But oh ! what I've a-
gave trough !'

Her voice gave way, and she broke into
violent sobbing.

To say that a woman's tears completely
unmanned Mr. Wentworth were, of
course, a gross exaggeration. But he

was most deeply moved, and, addressing
poor Miss Lizzy in the most soothing and
gentle tones, he assured her he would
most gladly do anything and everything
for her that lay in his power, if she
would only make use of him at anytime.


His kind words could scarcely console
the poor creature. Her pride, of which
she had as large a share as her brother,
had been deeply wounded, and it was
difficult to conjecture whether she would
ever recover from the shock the events of
the last few weeks had given to her mind.

At last she rose to go, and returned
Mr. Wentworth's kindly pressure with a
squeeze that made his delicate fingers

almost numb. He ushered her himself
to the door, having first offered her his
carriage, even at that late hour, as she
had a three-mile walk before her. Miss
Hawker made him her best curtsey, and
it was not till she perceived some of the
late Mr. Toutell's crosses on the Vicarage
gables that she realised she had been
pouring her troubles into the sympathising
ears of a priest of the ' bloated
establishment.'

And Mr. Wentworth returned to his
study, where Amelia had lighted the
reading-lamp and drawn the curtains.
He sat down in the cane arm-chair, and
leaned his head on his hand, in the old
meditative attitude.

He sighed so deeply that the white dog,
who had been lying, as usual, peacefully
snoozing on the window-sill, jumped suddenly
down, and came slowly sliding upto
its master, and, leaning its soft head
on his knee, gazed up into his face with
wistful, speaking eyes. The dog's sympathy,
so real and tender, appealed to
the troubled Yicar. He gently stroked
the soft white head with his delicate hand,
and murmured endearing names.

But the dog knew its master too well
to be satisfied with this. Mr. Wentworth
was wounded in spirit, and must be comforted,
and this could only be done by
distracting his thoughts. So the dog
continued to demand attention, till, finding

its master was too far gone, it lay
down placidly at his feet, and philosophically
fell asleep again, giving up the unreasonable
immortal in despair.

Mr. Wentworth was troubled. His
friendship with Farmer John was at an
end. Who knew what painful scene he
might have to witness on the morrow ?
He must go. How could he have refused
Miss Hawker?

And he would go unprejudiced. He
did not realise that his powers of fair
judgment were already gone.

He looked over his spectacles, and
thought. Was the man mad, or intensely
sane ? Was it marvellously clever playacting,
to get out of keeping his vow, and

to have his own way with regard to the
attachment his sister so strenuously opposed
? Were the celestial visions another
phase of village cant, even more revolting
to Mr. Wentworth's mind than those
imagined foretastes of heaven, which had
so often glorified the death-bed of his
drunken parishioners, to be related with
awe and triumph by admiring relatives,
who also looked forward, in the course of
nature, to the same ? Yet it might be
catalepsy. He had often been struck in
their conversations by the man's strange
look. Mr. Wentworth had dipped into
medicine, amongst other things, and Farmer
John had been a physical, as well

as moral, study to him from the beginning.


And yet he had been conscious enough
to refuse a doctor. He seemed also to
know Polly. His words were coherent
and intelligible. What did it mean ? It
was indeed a new study for the Vicar.
But it was a terribly painful side of human
nature which he feared would be revealed
to him.

And yet the man had seemed sincere I
How many times had they not talked together,
and how many times had he not
laughed at Mr. Wentworth's suggestion
that he should marry, repeating his vow
in his grave, loud tones ? The vow was

as sacred in the man's eyes as his religion.
Mr. Wentworth felt certain he would not
break it. And this passion for this girl,
how would it, must it end ? Something
must be done. It was a painful, dreadful
task. And Farmer John had been his
only friend in the whole parish. How the
enemies of religion must be rejoicing at
his favourite's fall ! He was ' no better
than any of the rest,' would greet the
Vicar's ears in every house he entered.
The ' old Vicar,' they had said — a term of
opprobrium with these people. His self-love
smarted under the sting. And, all
the time, Farmer John had not been
worthy ; and he had trusted him so
utterly, had even leaned on him !

The pillar bad fallen ; the mighty had
fallen. There was a great gap where the
noble oak-tree had stood and sheltered
him from the wind. Why had he not
expected it? But he had not, and had
only rejoiced at the thought of returning
to enjoy that pleasant shelter and
shade in the storms and heat of his parish
work.

Ah, well !' exclaimed the Vicar, unconsciously,
and the dog opened its
eyes, and licked his hand. ' I ought

to be used to disappointment by this
time.'

VOL. II.

CHAPTER VIII.

Duty and Inclination.

S Mr. Wentworth drove through
the parish in his little pony-carriage,
he could riot help observing that
the feeling of the inhabitants was anything
but a right or a friendly one towards the
Church and its representative.

It has been maintained by some students
of human character that the face is, after
all, the best index of its owners mind.

And further, though the eyes have been
pronounced capable of the greatest deception,
it has been observed, that it is impossible
to control the mouth, and that,
when wearing a false or assumed expression,
this is plainly to be detected.
But the educated are educated also in
the command they exercise over their
emotions. It is only to the acute observer
that his neighbour's countenance is like
an open book. To others in society the
library is often beautiful, and the gay
bindings of the volumes ranged round the
room both novel and attractive. But their
contents remain a mystery — for the language
is a strange one, and must be learnt
to be understood.

l2

Mr. Went worth, in spite of his very
defective eyesight, was a keen reader of
the human countenance. It would be
difficult to enumerate all the impressions
by which he gradually formed his estimate.
But, although he sometimes erred on the
side adverse to himself personally, he was
rarely mistaken. Nor could his parishioners,
who were not educated to school
their emotions, and therefore their manifestation
of them, have succeeded in
baffling his penetration.

It would, however, have required a
much duller personage than Mr. "Wentworth
to mistake the expression of those
persons past whom the little pony-carriage
drove. On each one's face enmity, if not

contempt, was plainly to be read. None
of the men saluted him, and the women
had lost their wonted smiles. Even the
little children, for whom he had such a
passionate love, and for whom he would so
often provide treats of all kinds 3 stared at
him rudely, and nudged each other as they
paused in their play. One, more daring,
even ventured to whip his top under
the pony's legs, to that animal's infinite
disgust. But Herbert Cosens took care
to chastise the offender, and left the wailing
urchin as a warning to the rest.

It was a brilliant September morning,
and the long slopes of the valley were
glowing in the sunshine of the dying
summer. The sweet scenery around

would have had as peaceful an effect as
usual on the Vicar, had not his spirit
been wounded by the cold looks of the
passers-by, and agitated at the prospect
his visit presented to him. He had not
slept at all the preceding night ; for
worry of any kind was wont to assume
gigantic proportions when night came — a
silent and solitary guest. It is a dreary
guest at best — the sleepless night ; but
when it brings other guests, gloomy, self-reproachful,
hopeless, it would be a relief
to work for ever, and to have no night
at all. The morning wakens with a gladness
provokingly indifferent to our cares.
The world must go on eating, drinking,
and working, though one individual is

bowed down under a burden, that alters
the very aspect of the trees and sky to
his view.

The Vicar's honest gardener perhaps
divined his master's mood by his drawn
and more than usually sallow countenance.
He wisely refrained from beginning
a conversation — though the effort
this must have cost him is worthy of
commendation.

It was a long drive, and, when they
arrived at the dirty 'barton the Vicar
was more exhausted than he cared to
own. Here he got out, desiring Herbert
to drive up and down, as he should
not be long.

To Mr. Wentworth's eyes, the farm had

also an expressive countenance. It spoke
plainly of neglect, if not of ruin. Lounging
in the back entrance, was the rough
figure of a man, clad in a dirty smock and
torn hat. He turned upon hearing footsteps,
and displayed a countenance strongly
resembling that of an animal. The
loss of one eye, however, may have greatly
increased the singularity of his appearance.
His rosy cheeks were unwashed,
as were his huge, powerful hands. He
owned an immense frame, of which fact
Mr. Wentworth was conscious directly he
approached him. Something in the man's
attitude — a faint indication of dejection,
perhaps — struck the Yicar. He asked
kindly who he was.

I be Jobie Gill, Mr. Jahn's carter.
You be come to zee 'en ?' was the answer,
while a wistful look made the one eye
almost moist, as it was fixed upon the
Vicar's countenance.

1 1 have come to see him,' Mr. Wentworth
said ; ' and I hope he is better, my
friend. Will you let me pass ?'

4 Ay,' answered the carter. ' 'E be bad,
though, uncommon bad.'

As Mr. Wentworth entered the kitchen,
he glanced back over his shoulder, and
saw that Jobie remained in the same
attitude, shaking his head slowly, as he
appeared ever and again to mutter something
to himself.

The first person whom the Vicar encountered

was a young girl, who stood
looking out of the window, with her back
towards him. She had the corner of
her apron to her eyes ; but she turned
at the sound of footsteps, and made Mr.
Wentworth a low curtsey.

It was Polly Marsh, with her clean
white sun-bonnet pushed over her face,
all her happy smiles apparently fled forever
from the little dimpled mouth.
In spite of Mr. Wentworth's resolution
to keep his mind and his judgment unprejudiced,
he involuntarily started back
as the young girl approached him, inquiring
if he were going to see ' Mr.
Jahn.'

She could not utter the name without

a tremor in her voice, and her whole
attitude and expression were, in their way,
as touching as Jobie's had been. And
yet the Vicar hardened his heart, and
reflected how he could best administer a
reproof to the maiden, without offending
her feelings and modesty.

It was a difficult task, especially as
Polly's large grey eyes, overflowing with
tears, were fixed imploringly upon his
face, and he could see how her little hand
played nervously with the corner of her
apron. She felt her heart beating as
violently as it had done at the ' experience
' meeting. For Polly stood in mortal
dread of a clergyman of any description,
and trembled still more before the grim

glance of Mr. Went worth's spectacles.

My child,' he said, gently and almost
compassionately, ' is this the right place
for you ? Duty should be a young girl's
first consideration, inclination her last.
Which, I wonder, comes first with
you?'

Polly, who had at the beginning of
the Yicar's speech looked steadily on the
ground, now raised her eyes, and for
reply fixed them, with the unconscious
gaze of a fawn, upon his face.

1 She is evidently hardened,' thought
Mr. Wentworth, and he turned away.

Polly was wondering what the Vicar
had meant, and decided at length, from
the tone of his voice, that he was a very

kind, nice-spoken gentleman. The poor
child felt more miserable than she had
ever done in her life before. For Granny
persisted in declaring that Mr. John
would die ; and she herself was half
frightened at the strange fervour of his
manner towards herself, and particularly
of the wild look in his eyes.

Mr. Wentworth went upstairs, without
asking Polly to direct him. He thought
he would spare himself the pain of witnessing
a scene between her and Farmer
John. Indeed, his whole soul sickened
at the prospect before him. The maiden
was a modest-looking creature. There
was nothing specially striking about her
appearance, he thought, though there was

a certain charm in the expression of her
eyes. All the villagers had the same
ideas of morality ; and why had he expected
Farmer John, one of their number,
to be different from the rest ? He had
expected impossibilities.

And it might, after all, be catalepsy.
As the thought recurred to his mind, he
found himself in the presence of the sick
man.

A feeling of compassion, and of tender
regret for the past that could never return,
made his eyes fill as he approached
the bed upon which Farmer John was
lying. He was so changed that the Yicar
scarcely knew him. Mr. Wentworth
could hardly refrain from a low cry of

pain at the sight of the white, wasted face
lying on the pillow, with that grim, rigid
expression disfiguring its features. The
widely-opened blue eyes were fixed on the
ceiling, but Mr. Wentworth noticed that
the lids slightly quivered as he entered
the room. He was certain Farmer John
was aware of his presence. But he uttered
no word of recognition or greeting, only
lay still, staring above him with a cold,
expressionless dulness in his once brilliant
eyes.

It was not catalepsy, then. What
was it ? mused the Vicar.

A slight rustle at the other side of the
bed showed him Miss Hawker, seated ina
dejected attitude by her brother's side,

ever and anon wringing her hands, as she
broke forth into disjointed exclamations
of grief.

1 Lard, Lard !' she cried, pointing
to the bed. c Would you believe 'twere
'e ? Oh, Mr. Wentworth, sir, whatever
mus' I do ?'

The Vicar fell on his knees. It might
be true, after all, what they had said
about the devil having taken possession
of Farmer John. Many instances, in
present and past history, seemed to establish
the possibility of such a thing.
He would pray for his deliverance. He
did so silently, his head buried in his
hands.

As he continued kneeling, his face thus

hidden, a strange voice broke in upon his
meditations and Miss Hawker's exclamations.


It was low and sweet, and the Yicar
started to his feet at the sound of it.
There was the subtlest sympathy in the
tones with some echoes that still lingered
in his heart, even after long years of
silence. He looked towards the bed, and
saw that Farmer John was speaking, his
eyes still gazing upwards, and his hands
grasping the bedclothes, as the disjointed
words dropped slowly from his lips.

Everything praise God . . . insects
. . animals rejoice Man
the only ungrateful thing . on
the earth . . . often down-hearted

VOL. II. M

Farmer John.

when called upon .

unto God . . .

pie's attention . .

. . sing .

keep poor sinners . .

. . Calvary blood . .

the sins of the people

Cross, Cross, Cross .

that Cross, Cross . .

bear on that Cross . .

the people . . . and not

sink . . . Man would .

thousand . . . times as much . . .

Thou couldst have borne it .

Forgive those people . we ten

times . . . worse High

over all.'

to give praise

Devil takes peo-

from what they

Forbid he should

. Hills skip

. sweat . . .

. that

oh, yes,

Thou didst

the sins often



He made an uneasy movement.

Where will they . . . fly . . .
anywhere •

The voice stopped, and there was silence
in the room. Then it began again, in
lower, fuller tones.

Bacchus . . . tree
Devil greased it . . . fire-lit angel
brought . . . sand . he ran
up . . Sinner no more, but
. . saint.'

The next few sentences escaped the

Yicar, though he strained his ears to

hear them. Farmer John had got upon

another subject when the next words

reached him.

1 Baal four hundred men

m 2

This day see who is the . . . Lord
of Hosts . . . Baal made by the
Devil . in his own image . . .
Fire of prayer . . . Just as well set
the river . on fire
Thy word in him Forgive
them whilst Thou art in Thy love and
mercy . . . before judgment . . .
righteous judgment.'

The voice had again sunk so low that
Mr. Wentworth was obliged to bend
forward to catch the words that followed.


1 Calm that troubled sea . of
soul The motion of the
stream . . . keeps pure
Place stumbling-blocks in the way . . .

in the water . . . Purify it . . .
yet unused to it . . . Work hard
. . one has not learnt . . .
clumsy . . . who has not learnt
. . in Thy school Tools
. . heavenly tools . . . heaven
. . made Who are to
use . . . them No flaw
. . no . . . sword . . . how
bright . . . double . . . hilt
arm . . . sleeve as well
three edges . . . Triune
Deity . . . Trinity . . . Trinity
. . Trinity . . . three on that
cross . . . Peter three . . . believe
in three . . . Triune sword
to cleave the soul .

through hell and damnation
Sheep-dog . . . well-trained . . .
train thy souls Dost not
forget . . . the poor . . . palace
. . . dost not mind the case.'

The voice rose, as though moved by
some inward terror.

Soul that sinner . all have
sinned No pollution enter
. . . Blood . . . see it flowing
from . . . side Take
my poor Washing all who
are coming to . . . .
Great white throne— — '

The voice died away in broken murmuring,
and then again broke forthwith
so startling a return of its old

power that Mr. Wentworth looked for
some change in the rigid face. But there
was none.

A martyr !' he cried, waving his hand
above his head, ' martyr . to die
for Him . He died . . . glorious
death . no shrinking . . .
come quickly.'

Miss Hawker, who had sat rocking
herself to and fro, now looked up, with
streaming eyes.

That's the way 'e do always goo an —
marner', noon, an' night. No peace vur
'is poor lady or soul !'

She rose, and put a cup to the parched
lips of the sufferer. There was not a
sound in the house, and only the far-off

singing of birds came faintly through the
closed windows. It was intensely hot,
for Miss Hawker understood but little of
ventilation. The Yicar, already exhausted,
sank upon a chair, utterly unable to think
or judge, with all his attention painfully
fixed upon that rigid, white face on the
pillow before him.

CHAPTER IX.

Was he Mad?

OULD it be Farmer John who lay-there
? and was he mad ? Yet,

what a strange coherence there was in his
utterances ! While they presented a mixture
of Heavenly Railway theology, Mr.
Wentworth's own sermons, quotations
from, and reasonings on, some of the
books the Yicar had lent him to read

before leaving England, the whole revealed
far more of original thought and
natural cultivation than he had ever
imagined possible in so scantily educated
a person as Farmer John.

Mechanically the sufferer swallowed
some of the contents of the cup his
sister offered him, half-raising himself
upon his elbow to do so, but without
looking at her. As he drank, the fixed
gaze of his eyes on the ceiling was relaxed,
and he appeared to be listening
intently to some sound, which they could
not hear.

Suddenly, dashing the cup from Miss
Hawker's hand, he started up in his bed,
his hair bristling, and an expression of

ungovernable fury on his countenance.
He pointed to the door, and tried to
speak, but the words only sounded like
a low, terrible gurgling in his throat.
He had evidently heard something below
that disturbed him, and from which he
seemed to demand deliverance. At last
the words came out, disjointed as before,
but uttered in such loud and furious tones
that they startled his hearers.

1 She is there . . . she is there he
gasped, and repeated it a hundred times.
'Send her off I can't bear
. . her off . . . her off . . .
send her off !'

He fell back, his gleaming eyes staring
wildly at the door. The Yicar and Miss

Hawker, with one accord, rushed downstairs.


As they entered the kitchen, which
communicated directly with the staircase,
the Vicar perceived the figure of a woman
stealing silently across the floor. She was
clad in a dirty brown dress, and a soiled
sun-bonnet concealed her profile, which
was turned towards him. In one hand
she carried a large dish of cream, the
other held her apron, which was turned
up to form a receptacle for some remarkably
fine potatoes, on the top of which lay
a rasher of bacon.

Directly she saw Miss Hawker she advanced
cautiously to meet her, and said, ina

whisper so loud that it could be heard
all over the house :

Oh, my dear Miss 'Ahker, my dear
ma'am, I've bin awaited' vur 'ee this
'ars aour'n moore. 'Ow be Mr. Jahn,
ma'am, poor Mr. Jahn ?'

Miss Hawker had no eyes but for the
dish of cream, the potatoes, and the rasher
of bacon, at all of which she glanced
severely. Her look revealed her question
as to where these came from.

Oh, Miss 'Ahker, my dear ma'am,' whispered
the former servant, in still louder
tones, while a forgiving smile played
round her expressive tooth. ' I 'ope you
won' then as 'ow I insults you. But

'twere a little prisent vur Mr. Jahn, ma'am,
him as is so ill. Which I never bore noo
malice nor 'hatred in my 'art, naw, not vur
all the good on earth.'

Miss Hawker was loth to believe anything
discreditable to her favourite, but it
did just strike her that the potatoes were
the facsimile of the winter crop of
white roses ' that lay in a huge heap
on the kitchen floor, and that the rasher
very much resembled some bacon of her
own curing which hung from the rafters
above, not to speak of the cream having
that delicate primrose tint peculiar to
the milk of ' Nancy,' the Alderney. But
friendship, as well as charity, believeth
all things, and, though Miss Hawker

shook her head, she nevertheless whispered
in return that ' Em'ly were always a
good ritter, an' she med put 'em
down.'

What Mrs. Gill would have replied cannot
be conjectured, for at that moment
the loud tones were heard once more
from above, pronouncing the * good ritter's
' name in anything but loving accents,
and demanding furiously why she
was not sent away.

1 Ah, poor man,' whispered the forgiving
Em'ly. ' It be all this praise, it be.
'Tis the devil's work vur certain. There,
I'll goo and pray vur 'e, I will.'

She departed hastily, and as the Vicar
was just then taking his leave, Miss Hawker

did not observe that the ' prisent vur
Mr. Jahn' departed likewise with its
donor.

If I can do anything,' murmured Mr.
Wentworth, pressing Miss Hawker's hand
in his. ' You will be sure to send for me.
I wish he would see a doctor. But you
would not risk that ?'

Miss Hawker answered, ' No,' in tears.
The Vicar got into his little carriage
again with a heavy heart, scarcely noticing
as he passed the figure of the maiden
Polly, who was leaning against the barton
gate, talking in low tones to Jobie, who
still stood there in the same dejected
attitude.

It could not be catalepsy, mused the

Vicar, as he leaned out of the study
window later on in the day, and the
peaceful stillness of the green hill opposite
came to soothe his troubled soul, as the
gentle breeze fanned his brow.

Mrs. Cosens, lighting the reading-lamp
a few hours later, made bold to refer to
the subject, and poured out some not very
edifying particulars with regard to the
maiden Polly's share in the matter.
Words, which brought the colour into
Mr. Wentworth's sensitive face, fell from
her lips like the pearls and diamonds
of fairy lore. For Mrs. Cosens shared
with her educated sisters of the upper
class a hearty contempt for her own sex.

When she had, in two or three graphic

VOL. II. N

sentences, entirely destroyed her neighbour's
character, she proceeded to pity
her in language still more scornful, if
possible — for some people's pity is akin
to contempt. At length, having performed
the duty of every honest and
Christian woman, she left the room to
Mr. "Wentworth and his melancholy reflections,
and repaired below to enjoy an
excellent supper, which, as her tastes were
remarkably simple, was not composed of
greater delicacies than she had provided
for the Yicar.

His reflections were certainly as melancholy
as they had been the previous evening.
There were others who had spoken
of the affair during the day, and public

feeling had invariably gone against Polly
Marsh. There seemed to be no doubt
that she had laid herself out to entrap
Farmer John ; and the religious meetings
had given her ample opportunities for so
doing. Sbe had never left him alone
since she had first met him at the little
school-house.

As the Yicar mused upon the circumstances,
a feeling of regret for the first
time mingled with his sensations regarding
his experiment of the evangelistic
meetings. They had done some good, he
was certain; but what incalculable harm
and strife had they not stirred up ! Sydney
Ruddell was reported to be more than
ever set against the mission. His house

n2

was adorned with profane parodies of the
Heavenly Railway advertisements, composed
by some sharper, if not wittier,
northern heads. On every meeting night
he entertained a select band of c antipater,'
as they styled themselves, in
his large barn near the road, and supplied
them with unlimited cider and spirits.
When all were well inspired, these crusaders
of a refined and enlightened age
would sally forth to the little school-house,
to keep up the same hideous din that
they had begun on the night the Vicar
attended the evangelistic meeting.

On the other hand, there were plenty of
complaints with regard to the proceedings
of the Heavenly Railway Company itself.

For they continued to keep up the objectionable
practice of singing hymns on their
way to and from the meeting, to the great
discomfort of the honest country folk, many
of whom still observed the good old curfew
hours.

In these circumstances, the Yicar determined
that it would be best to close the
mission in the parish for the present.
So, after due consultation with Bush the
leader, and with others of the opposition,
the little school-room was again consigned
to potatoes, dust, and damp.

The Yicar himself, to whom parish work
had not presented the most encouraging
aspect, retired more than ever into his
study. Nor did he find that his two

months with the learned Rabbi had been
wasted, or were likely to result in disappointment
and failure. His books had
their old friendly smiles for him, and his
study became as much his world as if the
towers and steeples of Oxbridge surrounded
him, instead of the green hills and quiet
churchyard, now glowing in the brilliant
colours of the fast-approaching autumn.

CHAPTER X.

On Ship Barrow.

HAT a strange companion is memory
— how many mooted, how-saddening
or cheering ! Memory can
people the dullest surroundings with gay
and pleasing objects. On the other hand,
it is memory which causes that sensation of
loneliness in the midst of many and happy
persons. And memory has a will of its

own, too. It will retain often in its locked
coffers what we most wish destroyed ; and
that which we would fain keep fresh
and bright, as in its first beauty, it rejects,
and passes on to its dark-eyed,
silent-voiced comrade — oblivion.

To Farmer John, as some weeks after he
walked through his fields, and noted this
and that particular view, and this and that
particular spot, where such and such
thoughts were wont invariably to present
themselves, memory was but a wayward
and unfriendly companion. There was a
blank, a stone wall, beyond which stretched
a vague and unknown country. But
through this country Farmer John knew
he had travelled, and that storms and

sunshine had visited him on his journey.
He strained his memory to recall some passing
object that might yet linger there; but,
though he was conscious that, during the
last few weeks, he had been alive, he knew
nothing more than that. There only lingered
with him that consciousness of something
that has been, which we retain when
we awake in the morning after a very
vivid but now-forgotten dream.

His thin, bent frame showed that he
had suffered in body and mind. His
once ruddy countenance was pale and
wasted. In his eyes there shone a curious
gleam, like that of sunshine on some
already bright substance. He leaned
on his stout oaken stick as he went,

and his steps were slow and uncertain.

At a respectful distance followed the
faithful Jobie, his eyes never losing
sight of Farmer John ; for though the
strange fits had become less and less
frequent, until now there seemed little
danger of their returning, yet Miss Hawker
had desired him to watch his master
closely, in case ' he should be took, and
want to be held.'

It was the first day since his illness
that Farmer John had been out for a
walk through his land. He felt like one
who, having lain long in a deep and heavy
slumber, suddenly awakens, to find the
world has been going on all the same,

though he has been lying still. It was
mid-autumn, and the leaves had well-nigh
ceased falling. The last of the harvest
had been gathered in, and the Yicar had
preached an eloquent sermon on the firstfruits
at the Harvest Thanksgiving. Farmer
John had not seen him for a long,
long time. As he walked on, up the
green hill, noting each flower, and 
their sweet scent, he wondered
when he should see Mr. Wentworth
again.

He had a different feeling for Mr.
Wentworth than he had for anybody else
in the parish, or rather, in the whole
world. Farmer John's was a small world.

But it was a world, and it had its rulers,
and leaders, and representative men,
although to others it might have seemed
a very small part of the actual earth.
Mr. Wentworth had surely come to see
him during his illness. But he could
get nothing but tears out of his sister
whenever he referred to that subject.
And Farmer John, having a greater
horror and dislike of women's tears in
general than is common to the stern
sex, had, ever since the first attempt,
instinctively avoided that topic of conversation.


He had now climbed the almost perpendicular
barrow, which gave its name
to the hill — Ship Barrow. As though he

were really in a ship, there was suddenly
spread before his gaze a wide expanse
of waters, where the sea lay glittering,
like a sheet of gold, in the early morning
sunshine. The air blew freshly off
it, though it was five miles and more
distant. Down below the hill nestled
villages, churches, and groups of trees,
all bathed in the warm sunlight. He
crossed the stile against which he had
been leaning, and walked to the end
of the barrow. The cool, strengthening
breeze dashed against his face, until new
vigour seemed to enter his frame, and he
ceased to lean heavily upon his stick.
Faithful Jobie, following afar off, noted

the change, and, shaking his head, muttered
something intelligible only to himself
as he scrambled over the stile, and
watched his master pause on the brink
of the hill, straining his gaze towards
the sparkling sea.

The cliffs of the harbour shone out
like golden peaks, and the far distant
coast stretched, like a silver wall, into
an endless vista of light. The scene was
as beautiful as the sunshine that shed its
glory over it. Though so sparkling, there
was a soft shimmer over all, that did not
dazzle his eye as he looked and looked.
To Farmer John it seemed as though
life were opening once more before him,

like that wide and brilliant prospect. The
storms that had shaken the troubled sea of
his soul had been stilled. Instead, there
was the smile of sunshine, straight from
heaven, kissing the waves into the gentlest
rippling. The silver coast, guarded by the
golden peaks of hope, stretched far away
into the radiance of heaven itself.

A little hand touched his arm, and he
turned quickly. The old hidden, but
consuming, fire no more leaped up in
him, seeming to devour his very soul, ashe
looked on the maiden beside him, or
heard her voice. It was gone, and it
would not return. Instead, though he
could not have analysed it, he was conscious

of a deep repose, a soothing calm,
which her very presence brought him,
like the sound of falling waters in the
midst of glare and heat.

He looked at her, and drew her hand
through his arm, and, pointing to the
glittering sea before them, was silent fora
time.

In Polly's large, soft eyes there was an
expression of the greatest composure and
happiness. She had lost her fears of l Mr.
Jahn ' since she had seen him so ill and
helpless. During his recovery, when he
would take his food from no other hand
but hers, and when her arm had seemed
to give him the only support he required,
she had forgotten all that the village

had said about his being mad, and a ' scotland.'


On the contrary, she had decided that
Mr. Jahn ' was something — quite impossible
to describe, certainly — but something
that she understood very well. The old
fierceness in his manner, which had almost
frightened her at first, had disappeared.
Instead had come a strange gentleness,
which, she could not have explained why,
drew her daily nearer to his heart,
whence, indeed, she was herself bringing
forth all the stores of tenderness which,
for long years, had been hoarded up, unused
and forgotten.

Farmer John had, since his mother's
death, known only the shrill-tongued, hard-vol.

II. o

working women of his own household.
Her memory was to him so distinct from
anything else, that he had ceased to think
of her as a woman at all. Now into his
life there had come a new influence,
gentle, confiding, lovable. The passion
and the frenzy were gone. But in their
place a delicate plant had taken firm root
in the rich soil of his heart, and it would
grow up into the fairest and most fragrant
flower. He watched it, and tended it ; for
it was his only flower. It had grown into
his life, and could never be removed from
his being. Whether Farmer John realised
all this, it would be difficult to affirm.
Whether Polly divined the influence she
possessed over him, would perhaps be

easier to declare. She might even develop
into a beautiful and beautifying plant, in
that tender and careful shelter of a strongman's
heart.

o2

CHAPTER XI.

Polly and Mr. John.

J^aiARMER JOHN would have stood
iLaaal looking at the sea much longer
than Polly could have done. She had run
up to the Farm to see how he was that
bright, fine day, and had been directed to
Ship Barrow by Miss Hawker, who was in
anything but a good humour. There she
had come suddenly upon Farmer John,

and had laid her little hand softly upon
his arm, wondering what he would say
when he felt it there.

And he had said nothing ; and was so
silent, though he looked as if he had had
a good night, Polly thought. And though
the wind was only very fresh, she found
it very cold, since c men-vo'k always had
warmer things than the cummin.' His
thoughts seemed to be so far away, that
she was afraid to bring them back to herself
by speaking.

What did * Mr. Jahn ' see in the great
wide sea before them ? Or was he looking
down into Ship Barrow Cross, at the little
red church amongst the trees ? She took
a side-peep at his face, and noted that he

could not be cross, since its expression
was very kind. And 'Mr. Jahn' certainly
did always ' stand and stare at everything
Polly was not sure that she herself
had not been gazed at also, and
tenderly too, before now. But she had
to go back to Grainger's. And there was
a net to be finished before five o'clock,
when one of the lads had promised to
carry it into Flaxen j and it was such
a small mesh that, if she did not have
plenty of light, she could not possibly see
to do it. And the afternoons closed in
so fast now, and ' Mr. Jahn ' would stand
staring, and would not open his lips, nor
say a word !

A very little sigh escaped the clean

blue bodice which Polly wore over a dark
stuff skirt. Another and another followed,
till at last Farmer John felt a soft, warm
little hand, that had been resting on his
arm, steal suddenly away from its shelter.
He turned round and faced the maiden.
What did she want ? he wondered.

Polly's grey eyes were a trifle severe,
and her dimpled mouth was a little pouting,
as he pushed back her sun-bonnet,
and took a good look at her.

'Why, Poll, me lass,' he said, with a
smile, ' thee be tired o' me and the sea
too, saint 'er?'

Polly's eyes were bent on the ground,
and she blushed.

4 Thee bad maid,' repeated Farmer John,

in tones that were meant to be very
grave.

1 1 sudden stay began Polly, ' or
Grammer 'full scold. IVe a-got to finish
a net, and the miss be terrible small.'

She would have added that he was very
provoking, but her courage failed her
when she felt his eyes were looking at
her ' sa straight

1 And you be tired o' me repeated
Farmer John, as though he enjoyed the
thought. ' Well, I essay 'tis nat'ral after
all you've a-gane trough wi' such a foolish
would weller.'

'Ay,' laughed Polly. * Such a girt, crass
man, that won' talk to e'er a-one when
they runs up the 'ill almost 's fas' nor

the win*. There be some vo'ks like that,
Mr. Jahn. I've heard tell on 'em ; and
I've a-zeed 'em too !'

Her tones, half coaxing, half mischievous,
and her little silvery laugh, were an
intense enjoyment to Farmer John. He
laughed, and held out both his hands to
her.

'Ah, thee bad maid!' he said, 'give
I thy 'aii's. I'll beat thee, I will. Be
thee ne'er a bit glad, Poll, that I be 'bout
'gen now, and up yere wi' thee ? Donee
shake thy wicked 'eat, and say naw.
I be sure thee 's a little bit glad, Polly, my
dear.'

Naw, I ain't,' denied Polly, shaking
her head more violently, till the sun-bonnet

dangled down her back by its strings,
and the light, rejoicing to find a new
object to brighten with its rays, shed a
golden shower upon the mouse-brown hair
until it sparkled like the sea before them.

Lit goo my 'an's !' cried Polly, as the
wanton breeze made havoc with her neat
braids, and tossed them, and shook them
about her shoulders till she could scarcely
see.

But Farmer John held the two little
hands tightly, and laughed till the echoes
answered blithely from the valley below.

1 Thee ain't glad, maiden he said,
when he had recovered his breath. ' Well
then, I ain't again' to lit thee free till

thee says thee be. But there, I know
thee 's a wicked little liar, 'cause 'tis all
writ' in thine oiyes what thee thinks. An'
I can head thee trough an' trough, like
a beg-parent book

He released her hands ; and they began
to descend the hill, Polly endeavouring
to fasten her flying hair, and the wind
seemingly determined that it would have
another game with it first. It was difficult
scrambling, there being no path
save the sheep-tracks, where rabbit-holes
lurked treacherously between every step.
Polly was very flushed when they got
to the bottom of the barrow, and stood
still to watch the merry rabbits dart

swiftly in and out, and scamper rapidly
across the grass and disappear from
sight.

Farmer John observed the bright, rosy
face with delight. He would have remained
for hours without disturbing Polly in
her meditations. Suddenly, however, she
turned and cast upon him a glance, half
questioning, half determined. Then, ashe
waited patiently to hear what sage remark
was about to fall from her lips, she
as suddenly darted away, and, bounding
over the little mounds and hillocks which
led down from the barrow, soon left Farmer
John far behind.

What fine fun it was, especially as,
glancing back over her shoulder, she

could see that he was coming in full chase
after her, as fast as he could ! But long
behind, thought Polly, and danced on
down the slope, laughing to herself with
delight, while the sun-bonnet fell back
again, and the wavy hair floated out to
meet the breeze.

Farmer John did not feel how weak he
had been only a few days before. The
flying figure of the maiden seemed
to beckon him on, and the sea-air
had filled his frame with its old
strength.

But Polly's triumph was short. For
Farmer John, weak though he was, was still
ten times as strong as she. And, as she
bitterly mused afterwards, her dress was

sadly in the way, and her long, tangled
hair kept coming in her eyes, so that she
could scarcely see before her. None of
these disadvantages had Farmer John.
So at length, tripping, almost exhausted,
over a little hillock, she fell breathless and
quite helpless to the ground, just as Farmer
John came behind in time to pick her
up.

1 Ah, thee bad maid,' he scolded, shaking
her. ; Thee shall be well punished for
this. Thee can spake, poor lass, wi' all
this shunned'. Be there e'er a bones
a-broke, Polly?'

'Ay, ay, I be terrible 'urged,' pleaded
Polly, breathlessly, pretending to cry.

But there, you can' run a bit ! You
be sa steel If I hidden a-tumbled, I'd
a-rhuu right down in t' 'ouse wi'out
you're a-catchen , ov I.'

Farmer John laughed. He was a little
weary now, and leaned on his stick again.
Polly ventured to offer her shoulder, upon
which he placed one hand. It seemed to
her that she must not teaze him auy
more now, even if he said naughty things,
because the combat would not be quite
fair.

So reasoned Polly, as they went slowly
through the fields to the house, while
Farmer John told her may new things
about all they passed, the greater part

of which, perhaps, she did not understand.

As they came in sight of the white
road leading to the farm, a well-known
pony-carriage passed leisurely, and Polly
dropped a reverential curtsey. The
driver saluted them with a distant bow
that made Farmer John suddenly flush.
His hand fell from Polly's shoulder.

It surely could not be his friend, Mr.
Wentworth ? He had not seen rightly.
But he could not be mistaken in the
pale, high forehead, and the long, grey
whiskers. He knew the Vicar sometimes
drove himself, at which times the intelligent
pony was wont to choose his own
pace. It was Mr. Wentworth ; and was
not Mr. Wentworth his friend ? He was

so taken aback thatched could not have
reasoned why — he started at the sound
of Polly's voice.

'The passion do look plain,' she said.
'But 'e be such a nice-spoken gentleman.
'E be a terrible scotland, ain't 'e, Mr.
Jahn ?'

She fixed her eyes upon him, while an
expression that was a strange mixture
of awe and amusement came over the
sweet, fresh face. They had now arrived
at the barton gate, and Miss Lizzy's
voice came sharply from the house, where
she was trying, with what success is uncertain,
to initiate a trembling little dairymaid
into the mysteries so thoroughly
mastered by the wronged ' Em'ly Gill.'

VOL. II. p

Farmer John stood leaning against
the gate, staring hard at the maiden
before him. Did she indeed belong to
the same earth as his sister and other
women? As he looked at her, he forgot
all about Mr. Wentworth's strange
salute — indeed, he forgot where he
was.

1 1 mus' goo,' said Polly, holding out
her hand. ' Good-boy, Mr. Jahn.'

In reply he took her two hands in his,
and drew her tenderly nearer to him.
He looked down into the soft eyes, that he
had professed to read as easily as a
large-printed book, and searched their
liquid depths.

4 Do 'ee lave I, Poll, me little

maid ?' he asked, in a low, quivering voice.
His pulse beafc no quicker, though his
voice shook, and he felt somehow as
if he and the maiden were quite alone,
under a bright blue sky, with the
sparkling sea still rolling at their
feet.

And Polly, not withdrawing her eyes,
returned his look with confidence. What
had she to fear ?

'I can trusses to 'ee, Mr. Jahn,' she
said, with a happy smile. ' I do lave ee,
Mr. Jahn.'

p2

Farmer John.

CHAPTER XII.

A Lecture from Grammer

Fanny MARSH was wont to
speak out her mind, as she expressed
it, when, after a good morning's
washing, she would be wringing out the
clothes in the small back-room which led
out of the kitchen. From this apartment
she would discourse to Polly, talking
rather loud, so that the maiden might take

in what she said without leaving off her
netting. Whether the steam from the
large tub over which she bent possessed
the power of unloosing Granny's tongue,
cannot here be affirmed. But certain it
is, that if ever she had something particular
to say to Polly, she invariably
selected washing-day for the announcement
of the same.

At the table, then, sat Polly, busily plying
her needles, while the little cousin
stood by her side filling fresh ones for her
from the 'swift' on which the twine was
stretched.

Granny's voice could not be unpleasant,
even when she raised it. Nor could its
sweet, ringing tone suffer even by the

peculiar enunciation which she considered
necessary for enforcing the sentiments
she uttered. Yet, judging by the pout
of Polly's mouth, the subject of the
lecture was anything but a pleasant
one.

Why there, Grammer,' the maiden said,
without, however, pausing an instant in
her work, which, indeed, she seemed to do
mechanically, so rapidly did the needle
fly in and out of the lace ; ' people be
always a-tahlken' in Applecombe. An' I don'
care what they da say.'

1 Ah, Polly, Polly,' the voice of Granny
replied, in warning tones, from the back
kitchen, ' It be wicked to say 'ee don'

care. We ought to care, vur certain, an*
we urns' care. There, you maidens be all
like boone another. Notion' but the claws
or the chaps — if hidden boone 'tis t'other.'

Polly's needle flew faster, and a hot flush
spread itself over the low forehead and
bright cheeks. The little maiden at the
swift was apparently as unconscious of
what was going on as though she had been
alone in the cottage.

c 'Tis a shame, Grammer,' at last burst
forth Polly, ' an' you knows hidden true.'

1 Ah, Polly, ain't it true ?' answered the
grandmother. ' 'Tis my duty, 'tis, to tell
thee, lass, when thee be wrong. 'Ave thee
vurgatten when Mr. Frank were a-hangen'

'bout yere o' evenen's wi' 'is pope, and
thee by the dour ? An now 'tis Mr. Jahn
'Ahker, wi' 'is tags an' 'is crazy ways.'

There was a short pause, while the
scalding tears of wounded pride came very
quickly into Polly's eyes. She blushed,
too ; for Mr. Frank Ruddell, Farmer Sydney's
eldest son, had been till lately an
ardent admirer of hers. To be sure, it
had been only the first stage of village
wooing, commonly called by the maidens
1 walked' wi' a chap.' But in time it might
have ripened into the second stage of
1 keeping company,' to end in the third
and fourth developments of engagement
and marriage. But Mr. Frank was wild
and wayward, and of late she had received

but scornful salutes from him and
bis brothers. And Polly, being very
proud, had held her head all the higher inconsequence.


The truth in Granny's words was what
made them so hard to bear. ]Sever had
she resented a lecture so much before,
and she could not think why.

1 You be terrible unkind to-day, Grammer,'
she sobbed, ' which you never use' to
be. But there, you don' like Mr. Jahn,
that's where 'tis. An' 'e, what do give you
such beautiful hotter an' eggs — what Mr.
Frank never did !'

The butter and eggs had not been forgotten
by Granny. But her duty to Polly
weighed much more heavily in the balance,

and it was her duty that now made her
speak.

"E be kind enough, Polly, my dear
she said, in a softer tone. f But what be
kindness? It be only talk, after all.
They be all kind till they gits their own
way, me maid, believe they be. But there,
Polly, to kip company wi' thee this six mont'
an' moore, an ne'er a word o' marring'
thee ! Ridden thought, me maid, Oi tell 'ee.
hidden thought.'

Before Polly could answer there came a
rap at the door, and, as she opened it, Mrs.
Em'ly Gill's expressive mouth smiled upon
her niece.

'Ow be 'ee, my dear ?' inquired the

aunt. ' An' is Grammer at whom ? I
be terrible plain to-day, an' 'acl to goo to
Flax'on wi' the nets. "Which I never
thought to do agen at my age !'

She threw a meaning glance at Polly,
who, of course, blushed, and hung down
her head.

Not that I've a word to say agen those
as done it.' continued Mrs. Gill. f Yur
we've all our faults. But give me those as
speaks gentle and kind, says I. But
they be few in this yere woorlV

She threw herself into a chair, and took
a rapid survey of the contents of the room.
Espying on the dresser a basket, from
which certain rich yellow rolls of butter

peeped out, and whose print — a 
cow gazing into immensity —
she knew only too well, Mrs. Gill sighed,
and drawing out a pocket-hankerchief, to
render her emotion more striking in the
eyes of her niece, applied it with fervour
to her countenance.

To think I should 'a lived to zee this
there cow in this yere room !' she cried.
1 "Well, live and learn, they says. Ah,
Polly, my dear girl, it be good hotter, it
be. But I should jus' like to tas' this
there, an' zee if 'tis Miss Lizzy's make', or
this girl's they've a-got to Summers
now. It be the girl's, I then, by
the look o' V

Polly offered her a tiny piece of the
butter on the end of a knife, rather
reluctantly, be it confessed. For Aunt
Emily was by no means a favourite, and it
was ' jus' lik 'er to be wanted Grammer's
little bit o' hotter.'

Mrs. Gill paused, and regarded the
knife meditatively. Then, shaking her
head, she slowly placed the point on the
tip of her tongue. To Polly's discomfiture,
directly it touched her lips she rose, and,
spitting out the mouthful with a look of
infinite disgust, exclaimed :

1 'Tis the girl's, I dare swear ! Never
was Miss Lizzy's make'. 'Tis full o'
better-milk still, not 'ars pressed out.

Don' 'ee touch it, my dear, it 'full 'hurt your
inside, it will

"Twere very good better, Grammer
said, hidden 'ee, Grammer?' Polly ventured
to declare.

Mrs. Gill, still murmuring, and wiping
her face with her pocket-handkerchief,
returned to her chair.

Why, there's Mrs. Cosens, I do
believe!' she cried, as the gay bonnet
of the gardener's wife passed the window ;
and immediately after a rap proclaimed
that she also was bent on a visit to
Granny Marsh.

She had no sooner been accommodated
with a chair than Mrs. Travers and Mrs.

Tolley appeared. It was evident from
their faces that the object of their visit
was something more than a friendly chat.

CHAPTER XIII.

Polly Friendly Advisers.

OR those whose home duties were
not so onerous as those of
mothers of young families are generally
supposed to be, Granny's cottage was a
favourite resort. In consequence of this,
her room was usually occupied in the
afternoon by sundry old friends, who
would drop in for a chat. Granny herself

would, on these occasions, go about
her work as though no one were there.
To-day, however, the washing being satisfactorily
ended, and the voices of her
guests more than usually inviting, she let
down her sleeves, pulled her cap straight,
and entered the kitchen.

There sat Mrs. Tolley, the clerk's wife,
in the only comfortable chair in the cottage,
Granny's own, and a present from
her wildest son, who had his better moods.
Opposite sat Mrs. Gill, still discoursing
on the change in the flavour of the Eum-
merwoocls butter. As Granny entered,
Mrs. Travers seized her two hands, and
kissed her affectionately. The old woman
was a great favourite of Annie's, who

VOL. II. Q

entertained a secret admiration for her
reputed parentage, and for her manners,
which she was wont to affirm were, c jus*
like a lady's.'

A more than usually honest look sat
upon Mrs. Cosens' small, dark visage, and
in her tiny, twinkling eyes there beamed
a glance indicative of their owner's constant
sense of duty. She did not, however,
speak, but waited, looking before
her with an indifferent expression, till her
time should come.

To everyone's surprise, Mrs. Tolley was
the first to open the conversation upon
which each member of the little company
longed to enter. Glancing languidly at
Polly, who, at Granny's command, was

making tea for the visitors, she remarked :
"Why, 'oliver you can goo up sa assen
all this way to Rumraer'oods' Warm I
can' then. I wish I had your legs,
Polly, But there, I were always zoo from
a girl. If 'twere whiten' or walked' 'twere
all the same to I. Sa swelled, you
coulter know me vit from me legs. My
mother were jus' the same. You'll remember
'er, Mrs. Ma'sh, I nursed 'er six
year an' moore. An' all this time she
laid on 'er bed, an' never looked a drap o'
tay, nor yit touch a bit o' fettles, but what
she were feeded, an' ninety-boone on 'er
cahffen !'

1 Ah, she were a great age,' said Granny,
thoughtfully. ' We can' all 'spec' to live

Q 2

sa lang. An' Polly, she knows what Oi do
tell 'er 'bout gain' to Rummer'oods'
Yarn. There, she'll then upon my
words some day, when Oi be dead
an' gave !'

1 It be a lang walk, it be,' put in the
gardener's wife, quickly, fearing the conversation
might wander. ' An' it be lonesome
like, too, this time o' year. Well, in
my days the girls waken never 'lowed to
goo beaten' the roads from marner' till
night by themselves. Was 'er, Granny ?
My mother 'good 'ave flagged us, big girls
as we was, if we'd a-done it. She always
said, said she : " Bride whom, an' let
the lads come after 'ee ; if they wants 'ee
they'll come." That's what my dear mother

did say. But times be changed
now, an' noo mistake.'

Polly was standing with her back to the
visitors, filling the teapot with boiling
water. She did not turn. It was evident
that they had all come to give hera
' talking-to,' and her heart sank at the
prospect.

"Ow be Mr. Jahn to-day, Mrs. Gill?'
inquired Mrs. Tolley. e I've a-year say
as 'ow 'e would zee ne'er a cactus. 'Tis
madness, 'tis. But there, there be some
vo'ks what the cactus can' do notion' vor.
An' zoo 'tis with I. It be all to me stum-mick,'
she continued, tapping her spare
chest meditatively. ' I 'haven't 'ad ne'er a
bit o' stummick vur a mont' an' moore !

Never 'ave enjoyed me fettles like other
vo'k, I 'haven't. Why, when I jus' took
the leases' bit o' griddle cak' las' night tome
supper, I was took sa bad, all on a
sudden — there, I thought me stummick
'good burst, I ded ! The cactus 'a^e a-
said I shall never be noo bitter, I
shan't. 'EVe a-changed me battles your
times this wik', an' what moore could
'e do ?'

She turned upon the company, as she
pronounced these words, a solemnly questioning
look. Mrs. Gill would have been
much impressed at the doctor's un-heard
prodigality in the matter of medicine,
had not Mrs. Tolley's first question reminded
her of her wrongs, and that she

and Rummerwoods Farm could never be
connected again.

'Mrs. Gill's bin turned aff, Mrs. Tolley
; hidden 'ee year?' inquired Mrs.
Travers.

Why, to be sure, 'haven't you 'heard ?'
added Mrs. Cosens, who, since her first
appearance at Mrs. Travers' tea-party, bad,
thanks to that worthy's patronage, been
admitted to the upper circle, of which
the clerk's wife formed so distinguished a
member.

Turned aff !' cried Mrs. Tolley, in the
loudest tones of which her feeble voice
was capable. 'Dear 'art, was 'er then?
Whatever vur ? But there, Mr. Jahn
were always quare-like. 'Twere all along

of him not taken' noo medicine', depend
upon 't.'

1 E's all right now,' interrupted Annie
Travers, who, in spite of his late bad conduct,
had still a good word for her old
friend. ' I seed 'en yesterday, lookin
jus' like 'is old self. We was walking' in
the yields, Jimmy an' me an' the little
chiltern, an' 'e corned up and spoke to us,
and joked wi' I, the same's ever.'

She fixed her eyes on Polly as she spoke.
The maiden was at that moment serving
the guests with tea ; but Annie noted the
vivid blush.

An' when are you gain' to be marr'd,
Polly ?' she inquired, as she received her
cup from the girl's hand.

There was a short pause, and then
Polly murmured something, of which
I don' know ' was the only intelligible
part.

Don' know !' cried Mrs. Cosens, whose
deeply-wounded sense of propriety almost
made her spill her tea. ' Don' know !
That be voice talking', when everyone int'
village be a-saying' all carts 'bout you
an' Mr. Jahn ! Yur shame, Polly.'

1 Oh, there, Mr. Jahn be a dear, kind
maister,' put in Mrs. Em'ly, in tones of
unrivalled sweetness. ' I can tell 'ee all
1 bout that, Polly, for 'e were my maister
this ten year an' moore. There, 'e
would 'arm a poor cummin — not 'e —
vur all the wool' !'

1 There be some as says differen,' replied
the gardener's wife. ' An' Oi were
never boone to zaj black were white
when 'won't. An' Oi says to 'Erb — whiche
can tell 'ee if you asks 'en — " Oi mus'
void out where he manes to marr' the
girl or not." An' Oi says, says Oi, " I'll
ask she metals, I ain't averred what Oi
says, I'll ask she, Oi will." Tis dreadful
what people do say, 'tis. It quite hunted
Oi, it did, to year 'en spake.'

Well,' remarked Mrs. Gill, 'people will
talk, as the say in' is. An' I've a-year
many vo'k say as 'ow Mr. Jahn be gain'
'way to 'Stralier soon. Be you gain'
too, Polly, my dear? Ain't, be you?'

"ridden a vit plaice to take an honest

girl to, wi' they naked savages screamed'
an' a-staren', as Oi've a-zeed it on t'
paper remarked the gardener's wife.

'Ave 'ee now ?' inquired Mrs. Tolley,
looking up from the bread and butter
she was placidly devouring. ' Well, they
med 'ave awful colds an' gaffs wi' notion'
on. But there, some vo'k do wear nigh
'pon notion'. I da goo wi' such a power
o' petticoats on, an' a flannel shiny, too,
nex' me skin. An', if I was to leave boone
aff, 'twould be as much as me life be
worth, the cactus do tell me. Summer or
winter, 'tis all the same to me.'

1 You ain't sa young as you was, Mrs.
Tolley,' said Mrs. Travers, by way of
consolation. 'An' we ought all to take

care of our 'earth, vur the sake of our
'usbans an' the little chiltern. But come,
Polly, I be dien' to year. What's the
wedded' dress to be ? An' be I to make
the claws?'

''Ur'll want noo claws yet awhile, I'll
warrant, 5 said Mrs. Cosens. ' An' 'oliver
your Grammer do 'low you to be always
with the man, Oi can' then. There, it's
what my dear mother 'good never 'ave
'lowed, not if we'd a-croied all day an'
all night. " There, it be all for the
bes," she did say; "an' the Lard 'full
provide." She were a terrible good
mother, she were !'

Poor sell maid !' cried Mrs. Gill, appealing
with, her eyes to the angry heavens,

as represented by the blackened
ceiling. ' There's boone abawve as knows
'ow I do mane 'ee well. To then,' she
continued, shaking her head till her solitary
tooth quivered sympathetically, ' of
my dear sister-law's choice a-bein' the talk
ov the 'ole parish. An' such a boone
too ! Why, Polly, my dear, you don know
'en like I — what 'ave a-bin served worse
nor 'is dag for ten year come nex' Fair.
An' never could 'a stood 'en, if 't hidden
bin for Miss Lizzy — bless 'er dear 'art !'

1 "Well, we mus' take the men vo'k as
we void 'em,' here interrupted Mrs.
Travers, throwing back the strings of
her bonnet, and fanning herself with the
little pinafore of her last born, which she

drew from her pocket in lieu of a handkerchief.
' They ain't all alike, that's
certain. An' there's not every cummin as
'as got as good a pardner as I. An' there
never were no words adore agen' Mr. Jahn,
that ever I yeerd on. Always 'ad 'is joke
wi' I an' the chiltern, an' did always like a
bit o' vun.'

'But hidden they say 'ed never kip
company wi' e'er a cummin ?' inquired Mrs.
Cosens, anxious to keep the conversation
in the right channel.

1 'Sees, sure,' chimed in Mrs. Gill, with
the air of one who can supply boundless
information. ' 'Eve a-made a praise, 'e
'ave, never to touch a drap o' drink, never
ta shave, nor never to marr' wi' e'er a cummin.

I've a-year 'en say zoo this party
times.'

i They be quare, they promises remarked
Mrs. Travers. 'I've a-year me
whither spake ov another man what made a
praise, down to Woakbourne, where I
was barnet — Mr. Hampton, what was
called. 'Twere long ov a gypsy girl. 'E
wanted to marr' 'er. She were a very
'handsome girl, they do say, Black Bess's
darter, 'er what's barrel out in t' churchyard,
near t' gallery dour. An' this young
chap — my whither 'ave assen told I 'bout it
were terrible set upon the girl. An they
did talk to 'e, an' persuade 'e, an' there,
they did tell 'e the gypsy vo'k 'good be always
'pon 'em, boone thing an' t'other. An' they

did persuade 'en to give 'er up. An' 'e did
make a praise like, that ? e 'good never 'ave
ne'er a church-wife but she. My whither
gnawed 'en well ; 'e were a terrible nice chape
were. An' 'e 've a-year 'en say this
many times : " No other cummin shall be
my church-wife." An' there never was.'

There !' cried her listeners in
chorus.

"Twere a quare thing, weren't it?'
continued Mrs. Travers. ' An' 'e never'
did. I've a-year my whither tell us 'ow
Black Bess, that was the gypsy girl's
mother, did take a 'ars peck measure, an'
put 'en on the table, an' will 'en full o'
guineas, an' say, " That be yours, me lad,
when you marr's my darter." An' my

waiter did say as 'ow won't so bad neither,
to 'ave the good vor barren' 'er.
An' the girl were terrible 'handsome. My
whither made the cahffen vor Bess ;
'twere work, an' they gi'ed 'en four
guineas — not sovereigns, 'twere guineas —
to make it proper. They be terrible rich,
some of they gypsy vo'k. 'Er died up to
Gypsy's Knap, what's called, raoul' by
Fusburree.'

Polly's large grey eyes had been fixed
upon the countenance of Mrs. Travers as
she spoke. The story of the gipsy maiden
and the promise had appealed powerfully
to her imagination, as no fairy tale could
have done, not even her favourite one of
the ' Glasses Slipper.'

VOL. II. K

1 What corned o' the girl ?' she
asked.

1 Her went wi' 'er own people,' answered
Mrs. Travers. 'An' before a year were
out she were in 'er grave, laying 'long
zoide ov 'er mother. "Black Bess's
darter" was what they always called
'er.'

The tears stood in Polly's eyes. But
Granny, only too glad to have this opportunity
of pointing a moral, broke in upon
her thoughts.

1 Ah, Polly,' she said, sadly, ' then upon
that. An' there ain't many vo'ks to give
good vor thee, depend upon't. This
praise be a bad thing, it be. An'
they'll think upon my words, Polly,

some day, when Oi be dead and gave.'
1 It ain't true what they says !' cried
Polly, now forced to speak, while the hot
tears rained down upon a sock of ' Mr.
Jahn's ' which she was darning, ' an' you be
all wicked to say it !'

She could not explain anything further ;
but the meaning glances which she saw
exchanged between the visitors almost
maddened her. She could not bear to see
them sitting there, shaking their heads,
as they triumphantly threw out their hints
and insinuations.

l Oh, fie, Polly!' exclaimed Mrs. Gill,
holding up her finger, ' what a temper you
be in ! 'Tis wicked you be. An' your
Grammer, what means it only for your

k2

good ! You've a-got noo pride, you
haven't, or you would let this girt,
crazy weller be a-hangin' 'bout you all
day, an' river a word about marring'
you. But,' dropping her voice to a
gentle whisper, 'perhaps us be wrong.
Now tell we, Polly, my dear, why
shoulder you : 'ave 'e a-asked you to
marr' 'im? Never mind to tell your
aunt Em'ly, my dear, what laved you
from a infant

He had asked her if she loved him,
and she had said she did. Before Polly's
eyes rose a vision of the barton-gate, and
Mr. John leaning against it, talking
to her in that soft, tender voice, while
his kind eyes read her face, as he said,

like a big-printed book. He had asked
her if she loved him — but there had been
nothing more. She had not thought of
anything more then. Why had she not?
And there they all sat condemning her
and him ; and he had not asked her. And,
if he had made this promise they spoke of,
perhaps he never would. Perhaps he
could not.

The thought, slowly forcing itself upon
her mind, entirely banished the pleasant
picture of the barton-gate, and the murmur
of Mr. John's voice became fainter in
her ears. Perhaps it all meant nothing,
and they were right, and she might have
to pine away and die like the gipsy girl.
And he would never care, because of that

promise. Oh, if she could only smile to
herself, knowing he did wish to marry
her, and that it did not matter what they
said ! And then she would not care a bit
about all being against her, Grammer too,
as bad as the rest.

But he had not asked her; and, with a
passionate exclamation of anger, grief, and
wounded pride, Polly put the sock up to
hide her streaming tears, and rushed out
of the room and upstairs. There, at least,
she could be away from those prying, pitying,
and reproving eyes.

But even up there she could hear their
voices distinctly, through the thin floor.
They were discussing Mr. John and her,
and they were telling Granny all that the village

people said about them. Even Mrs.
Travers bad an evil word about ber ; and
Mrs. Cosens was recounting, in loud and
impressive tones, what the Vicar had said
also. The Vicar, who used to speak so
kindly to her, and call her ' my child. 7
And he was Farmer John's friend too, and
had made him Churchwarden instead of
Sydney Ruddell.

The thought of Mr. Sydney Ruddell recalled
another memory. Polly blushed asa
picture of Mr. Frank rose up before her.
She could not banish it; nor could she
even now quite forget all the nice things
he used to say to her. How sometimes,
when she was toiling into Flaxen with her
nets, he would come cantering by, and

stop to sling the heavy load across his
grey mare, and make the horse walk slowly
by her side all the way into the town,
and say so many nice things as they went.
She started almost guiltily, as she found
herself deep in the remembrance of what
those nice things had been. They had
come much nearer an offer of marriage
than ever Mr. John's talk, certainly.

But Mr. John could say nice things also.
And he had such an irresistible way with
people, she mused. Polly could not move
him, she felt, as she could have moved
wild Mr. Frank. And Mr. John had a
nice horse too, and looked much better on
it than Mr. Frank, for that matter. And
a comparison of the two suitors' looks

might have followed, had not her attention
been again riveted by the voices
below.

Mrs. Gill, who still kept up an intimacy
with Miss Hawker, was relating that injured
sister's views on the matter. Her
aunt's words, not of the most refined
nature, made the poor maiden's cheeks
tingle, and the room seemed to swim
before her eyes. Her brain was in a
whirl, and she leaned against the 
to cool her burning forehead,
and looked out on the village street, and
the copse behind, with eyes to which
the view had never worn so dismal an
aspect.

At last the voices below became fewer,

as one by one the visitors dropped off.
Polly sat a little longer, thinking and
planning. For the first time in her life
she must make a definite plan. Her pale
face and set lips showed that her mind
was made up to do something when, feeling
sure that they were all gone, she came
slowly downstairs again.

Her swollen lids appealed to Granny's
sympathy, as she entered the room in an
unusually listless fashion. For Polly was
the favourite, and, though sadly vexed with
her for what the grandmother judged
to be want of proper pride, she could
not look at the gentle, white face without
feeling that, perhaps, she had been ' hard
to the maid.' She could see by her face

that Polly's mind was made up about
something — what, it was difficult to guess.
Could she be going to give up Farmer
John, and refuse to have anything more
to say to him ? It might be so.

A pardonable regret at the remembrance
of many kind presents filled the
good grandmother's mind, as her glance
fell on the basket on the dresser, in whose
contents the visitors, including Mrs. Gill,
had made such a hole.

But Mr. John would very likely call
that evening, and she would soon see then
what Polly meant to do. Granny watched
her now return quickly to her netting
without uttering a word, as she slowly
filled a needle for herself.

There was evidently something in the
wind, mused Granny, but she wished the
1 maid hidden look sa strange.'

END OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

LONDON : PRINTED BY DUNCAN MACDONALD, BLENHEIM House.

OF THE

UNIVERSITY

OF ILLINOIS

H735-P
v.3

VOL. III.

BY

GEORGE HOLMES

"Luke vp on hie and thank thy god of all
Wayne thy lust and lat thy geste the led
And truth the shall deliver, this is no dree.'

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. III.

LONDON:
Hues AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1883.

All rights reserved.

H735C

v.3

CONTENTS

OF

THE THIRD VOLUME,

I. Miss Hawker carries out her Resolve . 1

II. An Unequal Contest 29

III. The Vicar's Thoughts 58

IV. « Poor Humanity !' 78

V. Deeply Wounded 94

VI. A New Promise . . . . .117

VII. The Rent-Dinner 139

VIII. Under the Elm-tree . . . .171

IX. ' Into the Silent Land ' . . .198

CHAPTER I.

Miss Hawker carries out her Resolve.

%sl

HE short winter afternoon had
thrown the long folds of its dusky
mantle round Ship Barrow, and Miss Hawker,
feeling somewhat chilly, drew a shawl
over her shoulders as she sat in the
kitchen of Rummerwoods Farm, reading
her favourite magazine by the dim light of
a small lamp which hung from the oaken
rafters.

VOL. III. B

Farmer John had not yet come in ; but
she did not trouble herself much about
that. She had long ago taken her dish of
tea, feeling confident that he would behaving
his elsewhere. She had grown
accustomed to his long absences by this
time, and, though the cause of them was
as bitter to her as ever, Miss Hawker had
informed her neighbours that it was
1 no business of theirs.' Nor would she
hear any opinion from them on the
subject.

Not that she refrained from expressing
her own very decided views on the
matter. These were forthcoming on the
slightest provocation, and, if somewhat
modified since her interview with the

Vicar, the modification was perhaps rather
with regard to the young girl than concerning
her brother. He, Miss Hawker
rightly judged, should know better at his
age than to make himself the talk of the
whole parish. To Mrs. Em'ly Gill alone,
as an old and tried friend, the injured
sister was never tired of pouring out the
history of her wrongs.

We cannot, in justice, be accused of departing
from the strict truth, when we
affirm that the sympathies of this worthy,
though unappreciated servant were entirely
on the side of Miss Lizzy. Though
it was her own niece, the excellent Mrs.
Em'ly did not waver from her sense of
right; and, if her enmity to her unjust

b2

former master weighed perhaps somewhat
unfairly in the balance of her judgment,
Miss Hawker was none the less ready to
listen to her.

She were a good 'enough girl, were
Polly, my dear sister-law's choice, till Mr.
Jahn took up wi' 'er,' Mrs. Em'ly would
remark, caressing her solitary tooth with
her netting needle. ' But there, 'er 'eat's
almost turned be this, that's where 'tis,
my dear ma'am !'

To which Miss Hawker would emphatically
reply, that the sooner the girl's head
revolved once more to its proper position
on her person, the better for everyone.
With which sentiment, in her turn, Mrs.
Em'ly would entirely agree. And thus the

friendship, which had subsisted for several
years between the mistress and servant,
did not diminish by this constant comparison
of their mutual wrongs.

One day the faithful Mrs. Em'ly had
been, with a little judicious rubbing,
Well-nigh moved to tears by Miss Hawker's
description of the state of ruin into
which the farm was falling, since her
brother had got into * bad company,' as
she invariably termed the Heavenly Railway.
The former servant then, wiping
her eyes with her dirty apron, assured
Miss Lizzy that, if ever she 'did want a
friend', to be sure she corned to 'er,' and if
she ' hidden insult 'er, she 'good be 'happy
to take 'er in antoine,' should Mr. John

prove too unbearable. And ' she 'good kip
'er wi' the greatest of pleasure, till a certain
gentleman, what should be nameless,
did come in a carrie to vetch
er.

Miss Hawker had accepted the offer
gladly, protesting that the gentleman would
soon be sent about his business, should
the carriage appear; and further, she had
declared that no happier resting-place
could she find for the sole of her foot,
than Mrs. Em'ly's hospitable abode.

She had, indeed, secretly determined to
leave her brother to the consequences of
his folly, should he adhere to his resolution
of ' not giving up this girl.' That
he intended to marry Polly Marsh, had

never entered Miss Hawker's mind. For
she rightly judged, that it would require
nothing short of a miracle to make
Farmer John break his vow. But the
constant sight of Polly with him was
becoming daily more insupportable to her.
And, if ever she should be brought to lookin
a more kindly manner upon Mr. Absalom
Goodrich's land and sheep, Farmer
John would have to thank his own ways
for it.

Mr. Absalom Goodrich, whether from
admiration of the four short curls, or on
account of the rumoured fortune of Miss
Lizzy, had long been a suitor for her
hand. He only waited patiently for the time
when, all other supplies having been cutoff

from the obstinately resisting fortress,
it should surrender to him without uncomfortable
conditions. He came of a
sensible Wesleyan family, much respected
in the village ; and, though much younger
than the lady of his affections, and encumbered
by a doting mother, who had
perhaps contributed not a little to the
excellent opinion he had formed of "his
own merits, he had for more than three
years regarded, from the singing-gallery
in the little chapel, Miss Lizzy's sealskin
hat and curls with feelings of a mingled
nature.

But our motives, though they may all
tend to the best actions, are generally
as mixed as the colours that together

make up the purest white. And perhaps
Mr. Absalom Goodrich's were the
same. The whole village knew of his
attachment to Miss Lizzy, and as, at her
age and with her peculiar temper, she
was not likely to have many more suitors,
it was generally thought that he had a
right to be sanguine, and that, no doubt,
the fortress would yield to time and constancy.
Patience, that rare gift by which
Mr. Wentworth set so great store, had,
together with an impudent-looking nose
and light whiskers, been part of the excellent
young Wesleyan's heritage. That
it was a valuable possession, the good
opinion in which his neighbours held him
is sufficient evidence.

At present, however, Miss Lizzy professed
that she ' couldn't abide him.' Nor
did Mrs. Travers' white-silk dress seem
to be approaching any nearer to the possession
of that friend of the ' men vo'k.'

But necessity, if not adversity, is the
step-mother of good luck, as it is the true
parent of invention. Miss Hawker may
have recognised this fact as, straining her
eyes over the melancholy story of Lady
Isabel's wrongs, she portrayed to herself
the handsome but penurious Sir Ugh t red,
that damsel's lover, with the flat features
of her own Wesleyan suitor. Who knew
what might happen, she mused, with that
blind belief in an immovable Fate which
characterises persons, who invariably

shape their actions according to their
own will. And, if it came to that, why,
she might do worse than consent to
become the mistress of Mr. Absalom's
establishment. Indeed, a bright vision of
dairy, kitchen, and well-dusted parlour,
gleamed in fair beauty in the distance,
while a little servant-maid — perhaps even
the forgiving Em'ly Gill — would do her
bidding, and John learn her value when
she was gone for-ever.

The doting mother was no obstacle in
Miss Hawker's far-seeing eye. For, had
not Mr. Absalom a neat cottage, 'very
handy to the chapel ' at which the excellent
old lady was so regular an attendant,
and where she was wont to listen, with

misty spectacles, to the local preacher's
powerful addresses, as he thundered on
about the world, and its inhabitants —
worms, and food for worms ?

It might not be long, also, mused the
future daughter-in-law, before the good
mother might seek those regions, so
graphically described by the eloquent Mr.
Sober, where, to the unending enjoyment
of chapel frequenters,

Congregations ne'er break up,
And Sabbaths never cease.'

For her part, Miss Hawker was certain
that the pious old lady would prefer so
convenient a dwelling-place.

The tale she was reading was, however,

so interesting to Miss Lizzy, that she did
not hear the swing of the outside door,
and it was not 'still Farmer John's voice
roused her that she returned to the
remembrance of her own griefs, so much
more interesting than even those of the
Lady Isabel.

Farmer John's face was perhaps a little
thinner than it had been before his
illness ; and his hair was streaked with
grey. He took oh his hat, and, whistling
to his dogs, threw himself listlessly on the
settle.

He did not seems inclined to eat anything,
but no doubt he had been already
entertained by ' this Granny and the gurl/
mused Miss Lizzy, bitterly. But he was

evidently cold ; for he stretched out his
large hands to the blaze, and rubbed them
slowly against each other. He did not
look, either, as though he meant to talk.
But since his illness he had become more
silent than ever, though, in her own mind,
she had no doubt he would find something
to say to Satan, who, she thought, was his
familiar friend.

But, if he did not speak, she must — for,
if there was one thing Miss Lizzy could
not endure, it was * sitting' wi' a man
what never breathed a word, no, not
though you died on the floor at 'is
vit !'

1 Will 'ee 'ave some tay, Jahn V she
inquired, in her snappish tones. It was a

concession on her part. But in Farmer
John's ears there had been ringing that
very moment the remembrance of another
voice. He would soon be hearing it
again ; and it struck him, more forcibly
than ever, that it was a very different one
from his sisters — perhaps different from
that of anyone else. The thought suggested
other differences, and, scarcely noticing
what Miss Lizzy had said, he sat gazing
into the fire, dreamily picturing fair
things, that might possibly never come to
pass.

Did he mean to insult her ? mused
Miss Hawker, as she watched his absent
face. Controlling, however, her rising
wrath, she repeated her former question,

with a forced calmness in her rasping
tones.

Farmer John turned, and looked at her
now. For the first time since his entrance
into the kitchen he was fully aware of her
presence. She had interrupted his visions,
of course, but that was only to be expected.


But the question suggested others, and
he answered, gently :

1 All thought, Lizzy, I be gain' out soon
agen

He was going out again — to her, no
doubt — and at this hour. It was too
much. It was, indeed, high time things
should be placed on their right footing
between them. For her part, Miss Lizzy

was not the least afraid of Mr. John, for
all his lion looks. She had learned not
to be astonished at anything during that
illness of his ; and she felt certain she
would not have been the least afraid, if
the enemy himself had entered the kitchen
that moment to interpose on behalf
of her brother.

She must speak out now, or, as she
afterwards told Mrs. Em'ly Gill, she
'knew she 'good bust.' So good an
opportunity might never present itself
again.

She threw back her curls with an indignant
toss, and exclaimed :

'Fur shame, Jahn ! out agen at this
hour. And pray, where ? "lis this girt,

VOL. III. c

shameless 'hussy you're after, I'll be bound.
An' much good med she bring you, Jahn,
wi' 'er false ways and airs !'

At her first words Farmer John had
glanced contemptuously at her, and, as
she finished with a tragic wave of her
hand, he laughed outright. His laugh wakened
the merry echoes, as it always did,
in the old house. He might have been
a great, firm rock, against which the
waves incessantly beat and splash. The
salt spray of his sister's words had an
almost refreshing touch, and he rose out
of the water again great and firm as
ever.

'Why, Lizzy, thee's vexed wi' summit
to-night,' he said, kindly. ' Never mind

vur me. I ain't again' to trouble thee
much langer.'

He rose, still rubbing his hands, and
picked up his hat from the floor.

The younger dog opened his eyes lazily,
and watched his master's proceedings with
looks indicative of a struggle between a
sense of comfort and of duty.

1 Come on, Jessie he called, whistling
to her softly.

Jessie stretched her great fore-paws,
arched her back, and seemed to suggest
to the shrewd cat Peter that it was rather
a shame to take her out again.

But another intellect, more subtle than
faithful Jessie's, had also determined that
he should not go without a protest. Miss

c2

Hawker, again tossing back the front
curls, which had evidently no elective
affinity to the back ones, addressed her
brother in tones which waxed louder every
moment.

'An' perhaps 1 shan' trouble you much
langer neither, Jahn !' she cried, her
prominent blue eyes flashing. ' Not that
you'll care, I essay. But I ain't gain'
to stan' your conduct' noo langer. Zoo
either you premises me to give up this
girl, from this time forth and vur evermore,'
cried Miss Lizzy, inadvertently
adopting ecclesiastical phraseology, 'or
you'll 'ave to give me up. Not that you'll
care, I essay, neither. But I do care to
be made the talk ov the 'ole parish. An'

people a-p'inten' at I, and a-zayen' :
There good this mad Jahn's sister,
what plays the wool wi' drunken Mash's
darter." Fie on thee, Jahn — girt-wool,
that's all thee's vit to be called !'

Farmer John had his hand on the dog's
great ears, which he was gently pulling
and stroking, as he stood waiting to hear
his sister out. Had she anything more to
say? he now inquired, as she paused for
lack of breath, looking at him with a smile
that was perhaps more expressive than the
most violent speeches.

1 Moore to say ? 'Ear 'en !' cried Miss
Hawker, addressing Peter, who, wise cat
as he was, coiled himself round on his
stool, and slept the sweet sleep of unconsciousness.

'Ear en! Moore to say ?
Ay, that I 'ave, cartloads moore, Jahn,
which you madden barking vur ! Gain'
down to ol' Granny Mash's, be 'ee, wi'
baskets o' better, our bes' churned, as
I've a-year from those as eat it. Shall I
pack 'ee up some moore, Jahn?' she demanded,
relapsing into a sort of playful
falsetto, much affected by the inhabitants
of Applecombe parish when they were
moved by anger or any other overpowering
emotion. ' No eggs, Jahn, or crame,
the must skein' ? Fie upon thee, Jahn,
and thee sa relegious-loike too.'

She paused again. He uttered no
word, only stood there, and smiled at her
till she could gladly have thrown the

>
magazine, with which her fingers worked

so nervously, at the white, even row of

teeth.

'What be you grinned' vur ?' she demanded,
more loudly. ' They be terrible
'arty down there, baiu't 'em, wi' my
better and eggs. But they shan't 'ave 'em
noo moore, or moy name ain't 'Lizer.
For either, Jahn 'Ahker, as I said adore,
you be done wi' the girl, or you be done
wi' I. My words be plain ; zoo 'darken,
and don' 'ee say as 'ow thee coulter
understand'. I good, or she good — 'tis
boone or t'other.'

There was a long pause ; and Jessie,
lying down, tired of waiting, at her master's
feet, began to snore steadily once

more. The shrewd Peter, evidently
uneasy at the family dispute, turned
again, and this time with a restless motion,
on his stool, and rolled his eye
upon the brother and sister with a glance
expressive of many conflicting sentiments.
The old-fashioned clock on the wall had
stopped, for the master had forgotten to
wind it up. Outside, the bleak winter
blast threw the ivy-trails against the
lattice with a strange, tapping sound, as
it howled round the corners of the house,
and went wailing up the great chimney,
like voices in the ascending columns of
smoke.

'Er or me,' repeated Miss Lizzy, as
Farmer John still vouchsafed no reply.

±

f You've a-got to choose. But you don'
care,' she added, scornfully. 'You don'
care, I essay. Whoever thought as 'ow
you 'good ?'

Then he spoke ; so quietly, that she had
to bend to catch the words, which the
tapping ivy and the wailing wind almost
drowned.

No, I don' care,' he answered, slowly.
1 1 only cares for '

He could not even now utter the name
to her for whom it had no meaning. But
Miss Lizzy knew only too well what was
the unspoken word.

1 You only cares for this girl, I knows !'
she cried. ' Well, 'tis a good job too, for
ne'er a one else do. The 'ole parish be

taken' 'bout she and 'er garden' ways.
'Twere Mr. Frank Rhoddell lang adore
'twere ever you. Zoo there ! 'Er'll be a-
walked' wi' the gentry nex', I essay. An
you'll not care perhaps then. Ah, you'll
mind what I've a-zaid some day, Jahn,
for all you're sa rhis'lute now. But it'll
be too late then. But my mind be made
up, it be, and I'll not change — no, sure.
My claws be all a-pack.' I be aff: to Em'ly
Gill's, what you've a-treated sa bad, I be.
An' you'll be good 'enough to let I 'ave
my traps when I sends a cart for 'em.
An' we'll 'ave a-settlen' ov the money, too,
boom-buoy.'

She threw on the sealskin hat, which
lay, apparently ready to hand, on the

table, and then paused a moment to seethe
effect of her words on Farmer John.
He evidently doubted the strength of her
resolution. But the smile, that still shed
its radiance over his thin face in the
uncertain light, exasperated her to such
an extent that, losing all self-control, she
snatched off her hat, suddenly darted upto
him, and struck him two or three
times on the cheek with it, as though
his had been the rosy countenance of
the much-enduring little dairy-maid.

It was an immense relief to her feelings.
But her pleasure in the prospect
of Mrs. Em'ly's delight at this revenge
was somewhat damped by her victim's
reception of this mark of her wrath. He

laughed, till the echoes, becoming bolder,
crept in and out of the very corners of
the kitchen, and Peter, stretching out his
long thin tail, testified his approval by a
lengthened purr.

'Gain' to Mrs. Em'ly's, be you, Lizzy?'
cried Farmer John, putting on his hat.
c Well, good-boy, me lass. You be gain'
to Mrs. Em'ly, and I be gain' to my
Poll.'

The door swung behind him and
Jessie. This was the, perhaps unromantic,
parting between the brother and
sister.

CHAPTER II.

An unequal Contest.

JlgiARMER JOHN had never been
ssaSlal accustomed to reason with himself.
When he made a determination,
it was a simple one, that might have been
expressed in few words — an effect, in
short, whose relation to its cause he could
not have explained.

So, striding on, through the dark, down

to Polly's cottage, he did not trouble his
mind with many reflections upon the extraordinary
decision at which his sister
had just arrived. In fact, before he had
gone many steps, the remembrance of
Miss Lizzy and her wrongs had completely
faded from his memory.

He was, however, perfectly conscious
of his surroundings, and of the object of
his walk. His brain seemed unusually
active, and the present, with its strange
medley of joy and fear, walked with him,
a many-mooted and entertaining companion.
The prospect of seeing and
talking with Polly was as delightful as
the cold evening air after his sister's angry
and excited talk. But a sensation, that

was a mixture of shyness and awe, came
over him as he approached the cottage —
a feeling new to Farmer John, which had
sprung up in the place of the old strange
fire.

Not that he would feel in the least
awkward, or that his speech ever
faltered in presence of the maiden.
Far from it. Never would so many new
thoughts awaken within him, as when
she would be sitting opposite him at
the table, lazily pretending to be busy
with her netting, while her large grey
eyes, on which the dim lamplight threw
so soft a sheen, would be fixed upon his
face, until he felt that their gaze penetrated
into his very soul. But whether

it was the reverential devotion with which
he had learned to regard her, or whether
it was the grace and charm of her person,
her sweet smile, and her gentle manners,
it is certain that to Farmer John it
seemed often as though he were gazing
upon a being much nearer heaven than
himself, when he looked upon the countenance
of Polly.

All the summer he had learned to know
her so well, that he now looked upon her
as a part of himself. Even when he
was alone, she still seemed to walk beside
him, and her voice, ringing in his ears,
was like the sound of his own village
church bells to a poor wanderer ; and
when actually sitting, walking, or talking

with her, what he felt was something
scarcely more satisfying. Perhaps Farmer
John did not require much ; or it maybe
that a kindly fairy had passed over
his life one day, and left the radiance
of her sunshiny garments behind her on
every object they had touched.

There had been a storm somewhere in
the neighbourhood, as the almost breathless
stillness of the air indicated ; and
the sky was sympathetically lowering.
The clouds trailed their long mantles
swiftly across the heavens, and the dark
trees of the copse seemed, in the dim
light, to be silently walking up the side
of the hill they covered, like an army of
invaders. Firsbarrow, like a condemning

VOL. III. D

judge, had put on a black cap ; and
even the green, smooth surface below
looked misty and unreal as a morning
cloud.

If there were any little people
dressing for their dance, on Fairies'
Knowles, they would soon be frightened
away by the unfriendly aspect of the
heavens to-night. And what a merry
time the spirits of the departed, whose
lives had not been of the best, must behaving
in the old churchyard ! Perhaps
an old parson, whose character had been
a shade darker than that of the deceased
Mr. Toutell, had been privileged to address
a strange and new congregation
from the top-story of the three-decker.

The old yellow owl, who had his nest in
the remotest corner of the ivied tower, had
left it and gone to the "Vicarage garden,
where he was flying about, hooting dismally
round the house, and making Mr.
Went worth, in his study, start up every
now and then from the huge tome in
which he had been buried.

But the bird did not trouble Farmer
John, though he was so near. The light
in Granny's cottage, and the shadow of
Polly across the blind was the picture he
studied just now. He rapped at the door,
and bade Jessie lie down outside till he
returned.

In a minute or two the door was slowly
opened, but not by Polly. The grand



mother herself let him in, and he reflected
that it must, after all, have been his
mistake about the shadow. For the
maiden was not in the room below.

He stood for a few moments near the
deserted table, on which was stretched the
fishing-net at which she had evidently
been working. Mechanically he played
with her needle which, half emptied, had
been thrown carelessly near it.

The little, loud-ticking clock on the
mantelshelf struck nine, and Granny sat
down in her arm-chair without saying
anything, as was her wont. And Farmer
John stood still, wondering if Polly could
have heard his step, and when she would
come.

But she did not come ; and silence
reigned till, wondering still more, he
turned and asked the grandmother ' Where
the maid was ?'

1 'Er be gave upstairs, Mr. 'Ahker,' she
answered, and there was once more
silence.

Did she know 1 were yere ?' demanded
Farmer John.

He still wondered what it meant, but he
did not even then begin to suspect anything.


1 Ay, she yeerd you,' returned Granny,
shortly. < An' 'er said : " 'Tis Mr. 'Ahker,
Grammer ;" an' then 'er went straight upstairs
wi'out another word.'

Call her,' he said.

His voice was a little unsteady ; and
into his mind there flashed the remembrance
of certain words which his sister
had used in their frequent disputes concerning
Polly. Was it possible she had
done something — he could not tell what —
to cause this strange conduct to-night ?
His fingers worked nervously with the
needle, and, as Granny rose slowly to
obey him, the slender woodwork fell from
his grasp and was shattered on the
floor.

Farmer John stooped unconsciously to
gather the fragments, and heard a voice
above answer the old woman's summons.
He went forward to the staircase, which
led through a door in the kitchen straight

up to the bed-room above, and listened
eagerly.

4 Tell 'e I saint come' down,' the voice
said, and Granny returned with the message.


What do it mane ?' asked Farmer John,
confronting her. Something of the old
fire blazed up within him again, as he
looked at the provokingly calm features
of the grandmother. 4 Zumwoone's bin a
tampered' wi' the maid !' he exclaimed,
striking his fist on the table. ' An' I'll
know who.'

The grandmother shook her head, and
secretly ' praised the Lard it warden unconcern
o' 'hers.'

1 Goo an' call she yourself, Mr 'Anger,'

she said. 'Perhaps 'er med come vur
you.'

Farmer John opened the door of the
staircase, and gently called ' Polly.' He
had meant to pronounce the word severely,
but he could not manage it. It was a
name connected in his mind with gentle
thoughts ; and it would not bear rough
handling.

There was no answer.

1 Polly,' lie repeated, ' come thee down,
there's a good maid. I be waited' yere
for thee, an' I've got a power o' things in
me packets to show thee.'

He remembered a few little presents he
had bought for her at a fair he had attended
the day before, and it suddenly

struck him that this might move her. It
had some effect, for, a few minutes after
a figure appeared at the top of the steep
flight of stairs, and a voice out of the dusk
above pronounced his name.

The difference in the tone struck him
like a sharp blow. He leaned against the
door below and breathed hard for an
instant. Then he repeated, ' Polly.'

His wounded feelings struggling with
his love made his husky utterance of her
name irresistibly touching. Polly, secretly
despising her own weakness, came
slowly down the stairs, and walked in a
dignified manner past him into the
kitchen.

The wise grandmother had discovered

some pressing affairs which required her
instant departure to the back room,
whither she also conveyed the lamp.

In the flickering light which the small
fire cast on the maiden's features, Farmer
John was puzzled to ascertain what washer
expression. For her part Polly,
uttering a silent prayer for strength to
resist what she felt certain was coming,
stood mute by the table, her eyes bent on
the ground, and the corners of her rosy
mouth drawn down, with a look in which
obstinacy and injured dignity seemed
straggling with some other emotion, difficult
to control.

He had not attempted to take her
hand ; nor did he speak. In the short

silence that succeeded her entrance to the
kitchen, the heart that still felt very keenly
under the bright blue bodice and white
bib began to beat so loudly, that Polly
feared Mr. John would hear it, and take
advantage in consequence. Not that the
loud beating meant anything in particular,
for her heart always did so when she was
excited. And it was shameful of him to
come so often, and it all to be only playing
on his part. She would send him
about his business, and he should learn
he could not treat a poor honest maidenlike
that.

She would tell him she meant to
have nothing more to say to him. But
no doubt he would not care, as the women

had said that afternoon. His might
be only playing ; but she was in earnest,
although he stood there staring, and felt
nothing. She glanced furtively out of
the corners of her eyes at Farmer John,
and then as quickly looked away again,
this time not on the ground, but
anywhere — out of the window, if there
had not been the blind in the
way.

For he was looking at her, she found ;
and with such a look too ! His face was
quite white, and his great eyes flashed
out, sparkling like the stars at night. He
was much taller than she had thought him
too, Polly mused, and certainly much
taller than she was. She fancied also, in

her brief survey, that Mr. Frank Euddell
would not have a chance, were it to come
to a hand-to-hand struggle between him
and ' Mr. Jan.' What immense shoulders
he had! No wonder old Mrs. Goodman
complained so bitterly of the waste
of stuff unavoidable in the cutting of his
shirts.

And Farmer John saw in the dancing
firelight — a sulky, injured-looking countenance,
and two small hands that did not
fly to nestle in their home in his big ones,
like the dainty birds to which he had so
often likened them. He saw a soft, brown
head bent downwards, and a heaving
bosom, whose trouble he might not bear.
And then the true, bright eyes looked up

suddenly into his, and Farmer John knew
he could still read them like a big-printed
book.

Without asking for any explanation, heled
her gently to Granny's chair near the
fire, and, drawing up another for himself,
bent forward, till his face almost touched
hers. Then he said, in a low, tender
tone :

'Now, me little maid, what be up wi'
thee ? Tell thy Jahn all the trouble.'


Was it true what they said of him in the
village, or was he indeed the good angel that
he now seemed to be, when his eyes, kind
again, generously forgiving, and reading
her every thought, were looking at her,

sulky, wicked that she was ? Why had it
seemed so different when she was alone
upstairs, pressing her burning brow
against the window pane, that became so
soon hot, and when the dark trees outside
seemed to be pointing their branches at
her with the scornful gestures of the afternoon's
guests ? She could not understand
why Mr. John's face said so many, things.
For he spoke no other word ; but looked
away from her into the fire.

Perhaps he would not speak again at
all, but go right away there and then, and
never come back again. Could she bear
that ? He might go away to Australia, as
Aunt Em'ly had said. And had he not
himself sometimes told her about his boyish

wishes and plans ? It was a beautiful
country, and he might see some one
there, some one who would not run away-upstairs
at his footstep, and refuse to
answer him when he called. She looked
at the white, suffering face. Could she
speak ?

He turned, and caught her glance ; and
then held out his hand. Involuntarily
hers sought it, and at the first fond pressure
of that firm grasp her tears began to
flow. With her head leaning upon his
shoulder, and his kind words to soothe
and encourage her, gently, bit by bit, he
drew from her the story of the afternoon,
who had spoken, and what each had said.

Before she was aware of it, Polly had told
him everything. And, as if to make matters
worse than they were, she then felt
an indescribable relief at what she had
done. That she was ' bound to spake,' and
could not have helped it, was also a consolation.
And Farmer John's hand, slowly
stroking her face as she spoke, made it
next to impossible to reason out anything
further.

For his part, Farmer John felt, as his
fingers passed slowly over the maiden's
soft cheeks, that he was touching some
fragile flower that wanted gentler handling
than most plants, and that must not
be shaken by rough winds, or crushed by

VOL. III. E

hurrying feet. The little flower had been
entrusted to him, and just then it was his
duty to shelter it from the keen winter
blast, and not to mind if it had not rewarded
him by opening its pure eye to the
sunshine of his love. Polly was a tender

maiden, after all, and the women Well,

he ought, judging by that evening's experience,
to have anticipated nothing else
from them.

Never thee mind what they do say,
me little maid,' he said. { Jus' thee tell
'em, nex' time they says another' 'bout
thee, it pleases thee, it do, to yere 'em
talk. An' tell 'em to talk 'way to their
'arts' content ; it don' 'hurt them, an' it

does thee good to year 'em. Tell 'em it
do please thee, it do, to think they do
take so much notice of what thee dado.'


Thus he continued to soothe and counsel
her. And when all was right again,
and every shadow removed, he began to
unfold a new plan, which had, indeed,
been the object of his visit, and to which
his little purchases were to form an
introduction.

When Polly had admired herself in a
brilliant necktie in a fragment of looking-glass
which hung on the dresser, and had
thanked the provider of this undeserved
pleasure to her heart's content — although

e2

that was not nearly enough, she said —
Farmer John drew a gaily-bound volume
from another pocket, and held it out to
her.

But now Polly pouted and blushed, for
she was ( noo scotland,' as Mr. John also
knew full well. She could not read a
word, far less write one.

1 Dear 'art, Mr. 'Ahker,' she said, looking
sideways at the bright little book,
with an expression of mingled awe and
disgust. ' Whatever did you git this vur ?
I ain't noo scotland, Mr. Jahn. But
perhaps 'tis for Grammer. She's a beautiful
reader, is Grammer, an' zoo's Hester,
that's my little cousin.'

1 An' shoulder thee like to head too ?'
asked Farmer John, smiling at her. l I'll
learn 'ee, Poll, me little maid, an' thee 'full
pick it up adore thee knows it.'

But them letters do swim adore me
oiyes — an' they be all the same, sa vur as
1 do zee,' protested Polly, holding the
volume upside down, and regarding the
page with much aversion. ; An you'd bea
terrible bad learner, you 'good, Mr. Jahn,
I do know. An' you'd scold I dreadful,
I do know you 'good, if I warden quick
'enough. An' I know I shoulder never
know 'ow,' she added, throwing the book,
in despair at the very thought, on the
table.

There suddenly she perceived the
broken needle which Mr. John had, very
deceitfully, hidden under the net.

Oh, Mr. Jahn Y she cried, between
pretended anger and laughter. ' What
'ave you a-bin an' done ? The testes
middle ever I 'ad ! An' you to break 'en.
There, I do know 'tis you as done it, zoo
there ain't noo good your a-zayen' you
hidden. Oh, the bad, wicked weller that
you be ! You'll be broken' me 'eat
nex', when you do come to learn I to
head.'

To which Farmer John replied that he
certainly should, if she called him naughty
names.

Zoo good night, Polly my dear,' he
said, patting her hand. ' An' noo moore
goss'pen' wi' the cummin. Jus' thee tell
'em nex' time they says another', Jahn
don' care what they says, nor what they
don' say. That be my way, me little
lass.'

He looked as if he rather gloried in
the folks' bad opinion, Polly thought.
Her pride in him rose tenfold as she saw
him draw himself up, and throw back his
head, and look ' sa praoud-loike.'

I be abdomen' soon agen to learn thee
thy letters, maiden. They'll be ready turtle
meeten' when I calls to-marre vur
thee. Take care o' the book,' he continued.

'pis a sweet, party tale, an'
'full make thine oijes sa full o' tears as
they was 'bout summit else jus' now.
Good night, me little lass, an' God bless
'ee for evermore.'

Polly, still pouting at the prospect of
the lesson, took up the small volume between
her finger and thumb, as though
it might bite her if she used it badly.
Reflecting, however, that she would soon
make l Mr. Jahn ' talk ' 'bout summit
nicer when the time did come,' she
placed it in a drawer in the old secretary
that stood in the corner of the room,
which was devoted to certain Heavenly
Railway pictures, much prized by her.

For, though the contents of the book

were an eyesore, the ' for'l * were well
enough.'

Cover.

CHAPTER III.

The Vicars Thoughts.

T was Christmas week. The festival
had just passed, bringing
to some sad remembrances ; to others
the outlook on life, opening fresh
and glittering as a dews morning landscape;
to others unlimited jollification,
and, perhaps, a ' drink fit that would
empty the cupboard, if not the house,

for a long time after. To all the semblance,
at least, of a holiday.

To be sure, this holiday was not in
reality particularly welcome to all in
Applecombe. For there were many mothers
of rising families in the parish
whose complaints were loud and bitter,
directly the school-house was closed upon
their unruly children. For, whatever of
science, in the form of the unpronounceable
names of mountains in South America,
and of art, in the shape of crochet
antimacassars of marvellous and intricate
pattern, they there learned, at any rate
they were safe and out of mischief as soon
as the bell began to tinkle in the little
turret, like a hard ball bumping along
the ground.

Although the rudiments of our English
grammar, so diligently drummed into the
rough heads of the children by the preceptor
of youth just before the Government
Inspector came to examine the
school, were but little used in their daily
talk, or in the composition of those
letters which are rightly considered,
by thoughtful villagers, to be part of
every Christian's education, yet the mothers
were thankful that their children
should learn anything. And why ? For
the very excellent reason that it kept
them safely out of their way. If an
improving and large-minded Government
had announced that a child one-year-old
was capable of receiving instruction,

the mothers of Applecombe would most
heartily have agreed to so admirable a
system of education.

Mr. Wentworth — it was a matter of
the deepest regret to him — had nothing
whatever to do with the education of the
rising generation, the school being supported
by a Government grant, the weekly
pay of the scholars, and the generosity of
the Squire. All he could do for the children
was to provide a treat for them in
the summer-time, when the quantity of
cake and tea consumed by the innocents
there assembled furnished him with
food for some new and quaint speculations.


It was Christmas time. The winter had

been so mild that, but for the superstition
which, in the English mind, connects
comfort with a fire (the greater part of
whose heat is enjoyed by the chimney
alone), Mr. Wentworth might have dispensed
with one altogether. But 7 sitting
there beside it, his head leaning on his
hand, with his cane arm-chair turned
away from the writing-table, at which he
had been busily employed with his pen,
there was something very companionable
in the flickering firelight. His surroundings
were the same as ever ; the green-shaded
reading-lamp, the piles of dusty
volumes, the revolving book-case, the
lectern with its ponderous burden, aud
the white dog asleep ; with this exception

that, as ifc was winter-time, that sagacious
animal had sought a warmer resting-place
than the window-sill. It was now coiled
round in a red leather arm-chair near its
master, its soft, fluffy head resting contentedly
on a huge volume of the
Mishnah.

The Vicar himself had, since his return
from the Continent, been deeply engaged
in his new work, which had special reference
to the ancient Jews, a race for whom
he had always, from his earliest youth,
entertained the greatest admiration and
respect. "With this subject — to him fascinating
— he had been wont at times to
weary some of his most ardent followers
at Oxbridge. But he had now promised

himself, and not without reason, their
attention, if not applause, when his present
work should place the ancient Israelites
once more before their mind, though in a
totally new light.'

When preparing his manuscript, Mr.
Wentworth was wont to adopt a system
of his own, without which, indeed, he
would have found it impossible to write
at all. Having decided upon the subject
of his work, he would first consult every
authority, whether orthodox or unorthodox,
who had expressed any opinion upon
it. Then, seating himself by the fire, he
would proceed to reason out the pros and
cons of these opinions, from which he
would, in time, evolve a perfectly original

opinion of his own. This was his custom
when the point in question was unusually
knotty.

At other times he would sit and write,
and, as his pen flew across the page, as
though by a sudden ray of inspiration, the
true state of the doubtful matter would
flash upon his mind. With a little more
reflection the idea would shape itself in
words — simple, outwardly, but, when examined,
full of rare and new meaning.
His style was peculiar ; the word-painting
beautiful and glowing, coming in fresh
and brilliant colours from a fund of
imagination naturally rich, and cultivated
through long years entirely devoted to
study. He could have been a poet, a

VOL. III. F

statesman, a philosopher, an enthusiast, a
dreamer, an agitator — or orator — a leader
of men always. As it was, he was all
these, hidden by the black cassock of the
theologian.

His extreme sensitiveness, arising perhaps
from excessive pride, perhaps from a
weak vanity, perhaps from a self-consciousness
almost overwhelming in its power,
made it a matter of surprise to his friends
that he had ever dared to face the critic?.
The poetry in which his sublimest
thoughts naturally clothed themselves,
made his writings the consolation and
edification of women. His erudition and
originality made them the delight and
favourite companions of students and

thinkers in every profession and walk
of life.

Yet, sitting there, endeavouring to solve
some more than usually difficult problem,
with the inspiring dance of the firelight,
and the placid snore of practicality from
the white dog near him, Mr. Wentworth
was not thinking of these triumphs. Upon
his lips trembled the maddening Cui bono ?
What did it all tend to ? Life could not
be prolonged by study. Solomon was right
if it were Solomon who wrote it, which
might be considered doubtful — study, and
the making of books, was a weariness to
the flesh — and to the spirit too. Yet why
seek to prolong life? And all the time
he was conscious that he clung to life,

f2

with a tenacity that seemed rather to increase
than diminish, as it waned away
before him, like a dying moon in the dark
heavens its light had once made glorious.

He was wandering from his problem ;
and he stroked the dog's silky head gently,
and tried to recall his chain of argument.
All the authorities were wordy and
worthless. Some had not even sparkle,
but were dull as a turbid stream. The
commentators were daring plagiarists, not
having the grace even to acknowledge the
sources of their information. And, when
you had traced them back to what seemed
the fountain head, or first cause, it was truly
nothing more than itself a tiny atom, perhaps

not entirely original — and, if so, intensely
fanciful. A naturally keen intellect,
to which long years of study had given an
extraordinary facility for detecting falsehood
or plagiarism in an author, had made
his judgment of what was spurious unerring,
and it never failed him. He had
been rejoicing in revelations of this kind
that evening. They were one of the few
brightening of a, perhaps uniquely, lonely
life. And, as he thought of them now,
the rare humorous smile, which had been
so frequent long years ago, came over his
face, and illumined his pale, short-sighted
eyes.

He stroked the dog meditatively, which
caress the animal returned by slowly opening

one eye, with a very contemptuous
expression in that far-seeing optic.

'Eh, Saida/ the Yicar said, musing
aloud, ' you're a wise dog, and don't
trouble your head with such vain matters.
You have no responsibility, except the
burying of your bones. And you can
sleep at will — which is forgets fulness, which
is happiness. You don't trouble. And
yet there are some, and many, that trouble
their heads about you, my little Said,'
he continued, pulling back the silky ears,
and then letting them go, a trick Said
very much resented.

The great mystery of Nature,' he went
on, in a low tone, ' as Nature abhors a

vacuum, so self-consciousness shrinks from
extinction.'

There was a short silence, and the
dog stretched itself uneasily at sound of
the long words.

1 Ah, some day the mystery will be
settled,' the Yicar added, rising and returning
to his manuscript. ' And it maybe
simpler than we fancy. And now to
work.'

He took up his pen ; but somehow he
could not write that night. The long,
grey whiskers drooped once more on
the delicate hand, and the Vicar's thoughts
went wandering on in the most unaccountable
way.

Why he knew not, his whole life
rose up before him, like a long roll
of connected pictures. Each part unfolded
itself in the startling brilliancy of
reality. Now he was at Oxbridge. And
now the drear stillness of the Campagna
closed round his soul; and then the melancholy
song of the gondoliers floated to him
over the deep blue of the Lagune.

Ed ella a me : Nessun maggiore colore,
Che recorders del tempo felice,
Bella misery.'

It rang in his hearing again. And
then the towers and steeples of Oxbridge
once more rose before him, but his eyes
had been changed. Perhaps some rose-coloured

spectacles had been suddenly
shattered before them, and, ever since, the
earth and every object had appeared quite
different. Perhaps the eyes had shed many
bitter tears for what could not — would
that it could ! — remain for ever. And so
he lived again through the past; till the
quiet, deceitfully quiet — as all quietness
now seemed to him — ivied Vicarage was
his home, and the green hill opposite,
with its cap of dusky firs, shut him out
from the living, acting world he had
learned to hate and despise.

And here ! He had developed, no
doubt. His mind had enlarged, in spite
of green Firsbarrow's intervention. And
he had made one friend, besides his

books and his favourite dog. And the
friend had disappointed him. Mr. Wentworth
reflected, as he went over this
little experience, bit by bit, that though
he had been wrong at the first in not anticipating
that the disappointment must,
sooner or later, come, he had borne it,
and lived it down, as one well accustomed
to such events should do.

Yet the man had seemed sincere. Mr.
Went worth could easily recall him sitting
there, where the dog now lay, his
strange, brilliant eyes seeming to devour
the Vicar's countenance, as he hung upon
his every word. It had been an interesting
experience, for the man was above his
kind and his circumstances. The Vicar

wondered how he would have appeared indifferent
circumstances, and amongst different
minds.

An interesting study ! There was something
incongruous, even to him, in the
words. They became terrible, as he
reflected that he had been placed in the
position, at any rate, of guide of this
man's soul. Like some precious, but uncut
jewel, it had been placed in his hand to
polish, until, deprived of what diminished
its lustre, it should shine brilliant — and
making brilliant — to the world.

Had he done his duty by Farmer John ?
Had he even endeavoured to show the
man where he judged him to have fallen
into error ? Should he let him go on from

bad to worse, without any remonstrance?
Would he have done so had he been a
layman, and not a priest?

The thought stung him. Was he not
following in the steps of those priests who
call evil, good, and good, evil ; in whose
sermons sins appear scarcely sins — certainly
not hateful and revolting? If he
had been Farmer John's personal friend
who would not be deterred by the fear
of offending him, who had his welfare and
not his own popularity at heart — instead
of his clergyman, would he have permitted
him to be the scoff and jeer of the
lowest of this morally-low place without
protest ? Was it not his duty, even as his
priest, to speak? The Vicar thus questioned

himself till bis nervous mouth
twitched with self-condemnation and self-reproach.


His resolve was made instantaneously.
He rose, rang the bell, and desired the
eager 'Millier to call her lord.

Herbert appeared grinning, but his joke
expired at its birth when he perceived the
grave demeanour of his master. He received
a note for Farmer John in silence.
At which 'Millier, hiding in the shadow of
the open door, marvelled greatly.

CHAPTER IV.

1 Poor Humanity /'

I

N the following evening, a well-known
step announced that a
visitor, who had not entered Mr. Wentworth's
study for many days, was
approaching.

The Vicar's pulse quickened suddenly,
as he asked himself : What should he say
to Farmer John ?

This visitor was standing before him
now, his immense shoulders leaning
against the door, and his huge hands
grasping his hat. Mr. Wentworth, in
spite of all his prejudices, was conscious
of that old feeling of reliance, which had
been his first sensation on meeting Farmer
John.

Involuntarily, memory recalled the
Easter vestry, and that figure confronting
the surly assembly. The very words of
his speech, short, defiant, and frank, rang
in the Vicar's ears. Had it been play-acting
then ? Had the man changed entirely
since ? Had he become mad ? Was
he, after all, frank, fearless as of old ?
Was that low, commonplace story concerning

him all a mistake — a fact, of
course, but one open to explanation ?

Yet why would he not marry the girl ?
He was there to justify his conduct ; and
Mr. Wentworth resolved he would discover,
there and then, if this could be
done.

Pray be seated, Mr. Hawker,' he said,
courteously, offering him his delicate hand.
He was at once sensible, by its succeeding
numbness, that it had received the old,
vigorous pressure.

The Yicar pointed to the leather armchair,
which the white dog instantly vacated,
without growling at the visitor, to
whom, at the beginning of its master's sojourn
in the parish, it had become accustomed.

Said even acknowledged the visitor's
presence by sniffing at his legs, in a
manner that was at once dignified
and friendly. Farmer John sat down
stiffly, and patted the dog's head. The
last action was easy and natural, the
Yicar observed.

Well, Mr. Hawker,' he began, tipping
up the cane arm-chair, a habit of his when
particularly nervous, and playing with a
pair of spectacles that lay on the manuscript
before him. ' I have asked you to
come, because I wish — I wish — I have
something very particular I wish to talk
to you about.'

'Mr. Hawker,' he went on, suddenly
landing the chair on the floor again, and

VOL. III. G

turning on his visitor with a quick, penetrating
look, ' I will be perfectly frank
with you, as a private personal friend, and
not as a clergyman. Will you, may I ask
you, be equally frank with me ?'

In the deep blue of the eyes that met
his without a quiver, Mr. Wentworth read
his answer. In words there was
none.

1 1 am speaking as a personal friend
repeated the Vicar, and his courage suddenly
rose, ' not as a clergyman. I am
speaking as if you and I were two
friends, two weak, suffering, sinning
men, who were placed together in
some drifting bark on the wide, cruel
ocean, where the tempest drove us on,

pitilessly, to our death. Farmer John,
there would be no shamming between
us then, no play-acting, nothing but
Truth — awful, yet overpowering, as the
God Who was still reigning above, though
you and I were there alone and seemingly
forsaken.'

There was a short silence. The Yicar
rose, and took two or three hasty strides
up and down the room.

His own words had moved him, and
he forgot all the reserve of conventionality.
Custom and class faded from his
consciousness as the words fell from his
lips.

He stopped short in his walk at the
door, and looked round at the white face

G 2

leaning forward in the leather arm-chair
to catch each syllable.

The deep eyes were brilliant still, and
their expression was unchanged. He had
made no impression, he felt. His penetration
had not been baffled; the countenance
of Farmer John continued
immovable.

As the Vicar looked he noticed, though
he was scarcely aware of the fact till
he recalled the scene afterwards, that
Farmer John's dark hair, which had been
of a deep auburn, was sprinkled with
grey. The beard retained its bright red
colour, and the face, a little thin and
drawn perhaps, was otherwise unchanged,
save that it was of a pallor that

seemed to intensify as the interview proceeded.


Mr. Wentworth could generally read
the human countenance without erring.
But he scarcely knew what was to be
read in that impenetrable whiteness.
The letters were wanting.

Mr. Hawker,' he began again, ' you
may urge, and rightly, that it is no business
of mine. Remember, I am not
pressing my duty as a clergyman upon
you, but am speaking as your personal
friend. You may resent my interference,
yet I will speak.'

He drew nearer to the leather armchair,
and looked again into Farmer
John's face.

Yet I will speak,' he repeated. 'Mr.
Hawker, were you a gentleman, your conduct
would be stigmatised in words I will
not describe. I desire to speak to you
as a man to a man, not as a gentleman
to a gentleman ; and I can do so. Yet,
even so, your conduct admits of no other
interpretation than one I shrink from
expressing. Mind you, I am not judging
you as I would a foolish, headstrong
youth, whose only idea of life is to
heap as much enjoyment together as is
possible in each hour of his worthless existence.
You are a man, and you are not
in the heat and folly of your early youth
if you have ever known what that
is.

He paused. The music of the gondoliers
seemed to sweeten the air, as
though they again swiftly glided past
him. Still Farmer John uttered no
word.

"What he felt, it would be difficult to
describe. Yet it was scarcely a sensation,
rather an impulse, and that, strangely
enough, to spring to his feet. But he
controlled it, also without a regular process
of reasoning with himself. He only
testified that he had understood the
Yicar's words by a slight quiver of his
wide-opened eyelids. Mr. Wentworth
went on :

1 "What your neighbours say of you r

Farmer John's lips opened, but he
seemed quite incapable of uttering a
sound.

1 You may think lightly of that. But
there again you are wrong. No man
liveth unto himself ; and the extent of
our influence over and from others is incalculable.
The true independence is
not '

Once more Mr. Wentworth stopped.

Farmer John, the impulse becoming
irresistible, had risen to his feet. His
huge fist struck the table, till the metal
reading-lamp rang again. The words
springing, apparently from old habit, to
his lips, could not be repressed. Yet they
trickled out slowly and disjointed, as

though they required some effort in their
utterance.

1 1 don't care what they say, and what
they don't say,' he repeated twice over, ina
low voice.

4 You are wrong !' cried the Vicar,
whose spirit rose as he felt it strong to
combat with Farmer John's.

He felt nothing but the necessity, the
determination to speak. For one moment
of his life, he utterly forgot himself and
his own personality. He became self-unconscious,
as his beautiful hands were
clasped together.

1 You are wrong,' he repeated — ' all
wrong from beginning to end. Have you
no thought for this poor girl you are

exposing to the scorn and contempt of
the whole parish by your unreasonable
conduct ? Even her own relations are
pointing at her. And all this she must
suffer for your folly, or madness — I don't
know which it is. And yet you stand
there and brave it out. I cannot
believe it is you, whom I once esteemed
to be the possessor of the
honestest heart that ever beat in man's
breast ! What do you mean by such conduct,
and how do you account for it?
And she, poor, foolish girl ! Yet they
are all the same. Whether she has sinned,'
he added to himself, in tones of the tenderest
compassion, ' Thou wilt judge —

Thou wilt have pity. The heart knoweth
its own bitterness. Poor humanity, poor
humanity !'

His eyes were bent on the floor, and
he seemed to be in profound meditation.
Then suddenly he looked up, and once
more fixed Farmer John with his piercing
glance.

Why don't you marry the girl ?' he
asked, laying his hand on the immense
shoulder.

What force might not there be controlled !
This man could fell him with the mere
weight of his arm ; yet his speech had
faltered — indeed, Mr. Wentworth perceived
that he could not have uttered a

word, although in his strangely speaking
eyes there was something to be
read.

1 You should marry her repeated the
Vicar, ' as you honour and respect yourself,
and as you fear God. Be just, be
pure, be true, and God will be your
friend. You have broken your vow.
What binds you now ? Something much
higher — your hope of eternal life. Be
brave, and fear nothing.'

Farmer John's lips opened again, and
his eyes met Mr. Wentworth's with a
straight, full look that he never forgot.
Yet he did not speak, only lifted his hat
from the floor, bent his great frame with
a gesture that no lack of polish could

render undignified, and quietly closed the
study-door behind him.

And the Vicar, returning to his cane
arm-chair, leaned his elbow on the manuscript
before him. His face sank on his
two quivering hands, his features twitched
till their appearance was almost painful.
But there were only the calmly judging
faces of his books, and the sympathising
Said, who crept sorrowfully near, and
laid its cold nose on its master's knee,
to notice the few tears that, for perhaps
only the second time in his life, had
been wrung from the pale, short-sighted
eyes.

CHAPTER Y.
Deeply Wounded.

Scarcely aware of what he was
doing, only conscious of the
feelings of mingled anger, wounded pride,
and bitterness, which his interview with
the Yicar had stirred within him,
Farmer John struggled on through the
dark, tempestuous night, back to the
empty hearth of Rummerwoods Farm.

It was the first night of the new moon,
and she had come with the east wind asher
outsider, a sure prediction of stormy
weather in the valley, down which every
gale swept with double force.

Seated once more on the settle in the
huge chimney-corner, by the dying"embers,
Farmer John relieved his mind a little by
piling on the great faggots with which
faithful Jobie had filled a basket close by.
Then, leaning his elbows on his knees, he
gazed dreamily into the flames that curled
slowly round the dry, crisp wood, and fell
a-thinking.

He was wounded, deeply wounded in
mind, more wounded than angry. He
could not have felt much anger at Mr.

Wentworth's words. They had come, he
knew, from the Vicar's heart, and they
bore the stamp of sincerity. Secretly he
admired and respected him for his courage
in speaking them. Truth was apparently
upon his side, and not on Farmer John's
for what could he have urged in his own
defence ? The very words failed him in
thinking, far more in speaking.

And yet why should he defend himself?
He cared for no one, and desired that no
one should care for him. He wanted
neither their approbation nor their condemnation,
much less their interference.
He resented Mr. Wentworth's interference.
And his pride had been all the
more deeply wounded by the fact that the

Yicar seemed to regard him — Farmer John
in the same light in which he, with
justice, regarded all the rest. And Farmer
John felt that he was not like the rest.
Yet why should his pride be wounded
by anything any man said, or thought, of
him ?

Yet he did care. The very bitterness
with which his mind dwelt upon the
scene in the study showed Farmer John
that he still felt the force of this one man's
good or bad opinion, and still looked upto
him as a being very far removed
above his fellows in greatness and
worth.

And what had Mr. Wentworth. urged ?
The thought suggested many others, and,

VOL. III. H

bending still nearer to the glow, Farmer
John considered.

He was to — he ought to — marry, then.
The idea of the necessity for doing so
had not been, in the first instance, suggested
by the Yicar. Although he had
been scarcely aware of it at the time, it
had sprung up in his mind some days
before, when, her soft brown head leaning
confidingly on his shoulder, Polly had
poured her troubles into his attentive
ear.

The idea had sprung up then, and had
not since vanished. Rather had it increased
in growth, till that evening's
interview with the Vicar had seemed to
give it a new start in its existence.

Unwittingly, it had really given the idea
a settled position in Farmer John's mind.
Yet, even as he thus sat, puzzling, and
considering, and questioning himself, the
man's mind, never accustomed to such
exercise, returned once more, as though
by a natural revulsion, to its former convictions
and prejudices.

He could not marry. He could not
marry the maiden. He loved her — so
well that he was quite content without
that. He wished nothing more. Why
could not things remain as they were ?
He could not marry. The very thought
made him spring from the settle with a
short, incredulous laugh. His foot struck
sleeping Jessie, and she whined and turned

h 2

restlessly. Farmer John stooped, and
laid his huge hand on the dog's
head.

A wife, ' he repeated aloud, and the
word went echoing up the chimney.
Thee be my wife, would Jessie. I
ain't gain' to 'ave ne'er a boone
beside.'

He sat down again, and his eyes wandered
over the desolate kitchen. Miss
Lizzy's absence had deprived it of the
homely look it had been wont to wear.
All her particular little properties were
gone, the untidy work-basket, the familiar
magazines. Even the cat Peter had deserted
him, and he and his stool had vanished
from their place in the chimney-corner.

Farmer John sighed, for the cat's loss
struck him as a very grievous one
indeed.

Peter were as sensible-like as a
Christian,' he reflected, with regret.

But Peter had gone with Peter's mistress,
and Farmer John might grieve ashe
liked. Neither would return again.
Perhaps it was high time he went also,
he thought ; for, strangely enough, it
never entered his head that Rummer-woods
Farm could have a new mistress.
No, if he married Polly, it must be to go
away somewhere, far from the hated society
to which she belonged. He would
take her away, far away, from them all,

where no sound of them could ever reach
him again.

As he mused thus, his old boyish ideas
of emigration came back to his mind,
with all their old charm. Before he had
realised it, he was wandering in imagination
through the wild bush, or tearing on
a fiery, mountain-bred horse over plains
and through forests which had never
echoed a human voice. And Polly was by
his side. Somehow he could better imagine
her being always with him in that new
country than in the midst of the public
life of the little village. Her soft hand
again nestled in his. Involuntarily he
exclaimed : ' Ay, maiden, for evermore !'

For evermore ! The words rang in his

ears like a warning. Familiar words they
were, that had crossed his lips often enough
before. Yes, he would marry her. Not
for what the people said, he told himself,
nor for what the Vicar had said. What
did he care for them all ? He had borne
their jeers, and scorn, and cold looks for
well-nigh a year without notice or anger.
Such conduct was below notice, he had
thought. But for the maiden's sake, yes,
for Polly's sake, that no evil breath should
sully her fair name any longer. And ashe
recalled her faltering tones repeating
the neighbours' speeches, the idea became
a determination, and his mind was made
up.

He would sell Rummerwoods, and divide

the money with his sister. He would consult
his friend the Mayor of Flax ton, who
had relatives in Australia; he would no
doubt give horn information and advice
as to what his proceedings should be when
he left England. His heart leaped at the
thought, as it would have done years ago,
had he then been as near the realisation of
his dream as now.

To one who had never even entered a
rowing-boat the prospect of a ]long sea-voyage
and of a new country presented
the most gorgeous pictures, as of a promised
land, an El Dorado. His joy at the
prospect was childish in its intensity, and
revealed how much it had cost him to
give up this darling wish and plan, long

years ago. There are many who, when
they see near its fulfilment a cherished
hope, which has formerly been disappointed,
are wont to find the delight they had
expected is gone, in the interval of denial,
never to return. But Farmer John's
dream was as delightful to him now as
though it were only opening on him for
the first time.

And it would be realised. It was in
his own power to accomplish the desire.
There are some who shrink away from the
longed-for object when at last ifc approaches
them. The phrase ' too good to
be true,' is often but the expression of
their fear to take that final step, which
lies between them and the fulfilment of

their desires. Farmer John, perhaps because
he knew nothing of self-questionings
and reasonings, experienced naught of
this. His reflections were simple enough.
He loved Polly. It was necessary for the
proving of his love that he should marry
her; and he would do so. The farm had
not prospered of late. Sheep-rot had
robbed him of the greater part of his
flocks. His luck at Eummerwoods had
entirely forsaken him during the last year.
His sister had left his house, and their interests,
now separated, required the
speedy division of their possessions, for
doubtless she would marry. The result
ol these reflections was as simple. It was
merely a resolve.

He would sell the farm, and the household
furniture, and go out with Polly
to another land, to a new life.

His mind thus made up, he left the fire,
which seemed somehow to suggest restless
and unsatisfactory thoughts, and
going to a shelf, which contained some old
and treasured books, handed down from
father to son through many generations,
and which bore the marks of constant
reading, he selected one from the pile, and
returned with it to his seat. He would
go over some of those old expositions of
pious Churchmen, which had before comforted
and edified him, and see if they
would bring again that calm to his mind,
which his interview with the Vicar, and

his succeeding cogitations, had disturbed
in so unusual a manner.

Mechanically he turned over the stained,
yellow leaves, his thoughts still busy with
his new plans. He would so arrange
matters, that the villagers should not have
the gratification of discussing his affairs
before he was actually gone, nor be able
to say that any opinion or word of theirs
had had the power to move him. The
marriage should not be known to anyone,
till it was already over ; and they
would sail for their new home, while gossip
and surprise were still busy with the first
unexpected news of his union with Polly.

The letters swam before his eyes. He
would find it difficult to understand the

excellent discourse before him, on the
Whole Duty of Man,' which, the title-page
added, was ' Laid down In a plain
and Familiar way for the Use of all, but
especially the Meanest Reader,' and was
Necessary for all Families.' The volume,
bound in a strong, dark leather cover,
testified to being ' the Last Edition, corrected
and Amended,' and was further enriched
by 'a Letter from Dr. Hammond
instead of a Preface.' It bore the name of
the publisher ' at the Sign of the King's-head
in St. Paul's Churchyard,' with the
date 1663.

Farmer John was well acquainted with
the maxims it contained. A large part of
the book he had learnt by heart, in the days

when he repeated his Sunday task at his
mother's knee. The words, and her looks,
came back to him again now, as his eye
fell upon one well-thumbed page :

Having now thus briefly explained to
you this Yow made at your Baptism, all I
shall adde concerning it, is only to remember
you how nearly you are concern'd in
the keeping it, and that first in respect of
justice, secondly, in respect of advantage
and benefit. That you are injustice bound
to it, I need say no more, but that it is a
promise, and you know justice requires of
every man the keeping of his promise.
But then this is of all other promises the
most solemn and binding, for it is a vow ;
that is, a promise made to God; and

therefore we are not only unjust, but forsworn,
whenever we break any part of
it.'

1 Forsworn, whenever toe break any part
of it! This, then, was what he would
be. The remembrance of his vow rushed
suddenly again over his soul, like the
great water floods that had nearly overwhelmed
David.

Dare he break it ? Was it not indeed
as solemn in the sight of Heaven as those
words declared the vow of Baptism to be?
His had been a vow more solemn, more
binding, for no ' surety ' had pledged himself
to it for him. It had been an act of
his deliberate choice, when he had a mind
capable of judging for itself. The vow

had been the great force of his life. When
it was gone, what would remain ? Was
there anything that could remain again
with him ?

Torn bj a hundred conflicting emotions,
with thoughts that maddened him with
their whispers of love, duty, and faith, he
rose from the settle, and paced the kitchen
with long and agitated strides. The
echoes crept in and out again of the old
chimney, and the dogs, roused from their
slumber, pricked up their ears, and blinked
uneasily. In Farmer Johns soul was
a sense of desolation as overpowering as
that of the old, silent farmhouse. And
round it were the spirits of passion,
religion, and duty, each striving for an

entrance, like the wild winds that bowled
outside.

To which should he yield ? Would God
forsake him for ever, if he obeyed that
other voice, which had whispered that the
Vicar was right, and that he should break
his vow and marry Polly? He had not
wished to obey it at first. He had
striven against that voice, till he had
found he must obey it.

And the vow ? It was there for evermore
also. Though he might break it,
it would still exist, and walk beside him
through his new life beyond the seas, a
maddening, torment-giving spirit, a visitor
whom no one, and no thing, could expel.
Not death, nor what came after.

VOL. III. I

He stood still ; and his head drooped on
his breast. A low moan escaped his parted
lips ; his hands clutched each other
nervously. Would God forsake him, if he
broke his vow ? He had made it to Him,
and, as the book said, he would be not
only ' unjust, but forsworn,' whenever he
broke ' any part of it.'

Yet he must break it. The resolution todo
so had grown so strong since it had first
taken form in his mind, that its commanding
voice seemed to cry in his ears, and demand
obedience. He sank upon his knees,
and, as the sweet face of his dead mother,
seemed to his excited brain to look down
upon him from heaven, banishing that
other earthly loveliness, he prayed in loud

and entreating tones that God would show
him the right way, and that, if he ought
not to break the vow, he ' might be
saved from doing so.'

He remained for some time kneeling
there. The tempest outside made the
branches of the trees sway and creak with
a moaning, dirge-like sound, aud there
was no star to illumine the black heavens
above. The night wore on. and the morning
rose, weeping for the ruin the past
hours had wrought, in a thick shower of
small, sparkling rain.

The grey light of dawn crept in through
the lattice, and spread itself across the
kitchen with au ever-widening radiance.
It fell on the figure of a man, who seemed

i 2

to have been in an attitude of supplication.
His frame had sunk backwards, and
his head was leaning against the wall.
Farmer John slept.

CHAPTER VI.

A New Promise.

I'g^lOLLY looked forward with some
LBU1 trepidation to her first reading-lesson.
She spent the whole of the days
following Farmer John's promise to teach
her, in making her little cousin Hester
explain the alphabet to her, while they
worked at the nets, in order that those
puzzling letters might walk properly across
the pages of the pretty book, instead of

swimming and dancing before her eyes in
such an unaccountable fashion.

Hester, proud of her superior knowledge,
was, in consequence, the worst of
preceptors. So, when a well-known rap
was heard one cold, bright evening soon
after, Polly, her heart beating very loud
and fast, stood in one corner of the room,
repeating A B C, as though she were still
a Sunday-school child learning her Catechism
just before she should have to face
1 teacher.'

Farmer John's face, grave, though at
the same time very kind, broke out allover
into smiles when he saw her thus
engaged.

'Well, Polly, my dear,' he said, putting

a chair for her near the fast-fading
light, ' do thee know thy letters
yit, me maid ? An' when be thee gain'
to 'ave thine 'eat a-broke ? Thee be ex-pecten'
it to-night, I'll warrant, by thy
looks. Never mind, little 'art, thy Jahn
saint sa 'ard 's all that.'

Very patiently he bore with the
stupidity which, combined with neglect
of education, and her efforts not to appear
a dunce, made poor Folly so slow
a pupil. At last, when a beginning had
been made, and he could see that the
soft grey eyes were aching, and that the
letters had again commenced their unaccountable
waltz, Farmer John, administering
a little praise by way of encouragement,

inquired why ' the lass baden
Tarried when the other maidens did

Polly's brown head sank quickly below
the level of Farmer John's shoulder, so
that he could not see the expression of
her face. But he was not to be baffled
in this manner, so, placing one huge hand
under the little chin, soft as a silken
cushion to his touch, he lifted up a very
rosy countenance, of which the eyes were
still obstinately bent downwards.

'Ah, thee bad maid!' he scolded, retaining
his hold on the chin. ' Thee be
'shamed still wi' I, be thee? Speak it
all out, or I'll make thee, I will. What !
be thee 'afraid o' Jahn, lass? Jahn, what
do lave thee moore nor 'is loan life,

an' mebbe moore nor thee 'full never
know. Speak out, lass, an' never thee
be averred.'

At this assurance, Polly's grey eyes
were slowly lifted to his face, with a look
half humorous, half timid.

I did goo to school once,' she said,
hanging her head, which Farmer John's
hand now released. ' But the maister
did beat I the must day as ever I went
wi' a girt big stick. I were a little bit
o' a maid then. Zoo I shunned 'way
whom sa vast 's me legs could carr' mean'
never went there noo moore.'

Farmer John laughed, till old Grammer
came running downstairs from the bedroom
above to know whatever the matter

could be. She found Polly pulling vigorously
with one hand at her new teacher's
beard, to force him to leave off ' make*
this noises while with the other she rapped
him on the back, in case he should
choke. "Which proceeding, as may be
conjectured, did not tend to make the
laughter cease.

Need I to do any moore to-night V
pleaded Polly, when, Farmer John having
become at length grave, she saw his eye
go wandering round the kitchen in search
of the little book, which she had, meanwhile,
hidden in the old secretary.

c Thee laity maid !' he said, patting her
hand. 'Well, thee 'full 'ave to Tarn all
the moore nex' time. Thee 'full 'ave

to Tarn party quick, Polly lass. Fordo
thee know, I be gain' thought 'way,
'crass the seas, to 'Stralier, me maid, an
what 'full thee do when thee gits Jahn's
letters, if thee can' head 'em thought
trough?'

He could not trust himself to look into
the eyes, which he felt were fixed upon
his face. For, had he done so, he must
then and there have betrayed his secret.
So, glancing with assumed carelessness
out of the window, he awaited her
reply.

And it was, after all, true what Aunt
Em'ly had said. He was going away to
Australia, that country which lay so
very far beyond Polly's limited horizon.

He would go, she felt certain he would,
and leave her behind to pine alone, and
die, like the poor gipsy maiden had done.
She realised perfectly what it all implied.
The empty life, which he had
filled ; the lonely heart, which had been
his home.

What use were letters ? She would not
learn to read ; she would not, just for the
very reason that she must learn because
he was going, never to return. Polly felt
quite sure, in that brief interval of anguish,
that she would never see Mr. John
again.

Learn to read, indeed ! To read his
letters ! And who knew whether even
these would come ? She could not bear to

return to those old bitter thoughts, which
she had trusted would never come again,
and which had made her so miserable
not long ago. Those thoughts, into which
that some one came — some one out in
the far, beautiful country which she would
never see, who would be a new f Polly '
to Farmer John, and whom he would call
his ' little maid,' and his f sweet, party
bird,' and his ( dear,' but who, she felt
equally certain, could never love him half
so well as the old Polly at Applecombe
had done.

The future looked so dismal and so
changed ; it had such a cold, cruel, hard
face that she could not bear to look
at it. She shivered, as it was turned

upon her. Already its icy hand was
outstretched to seize her.

A little smothered sob reached Farmer
John's ears. For, although he kept his
eyes steadily fixed on the window, he
was straining every nerve to catch the
first sound of the maiden's answering
voice. The little sob went pricking into
his heart like a fine needle. Unable to
speak quite yet, he turned and looked at
Polly, with all his tender, devoted heart
shining in his eyes.

Her face was buried in her two little
hands. But these were not large enough
to hold the many scalding tears, and they
trickled down, through her fingers, into
the clean white apron below. That he

was already gone, Polly felt convinced.
He was not even now in the cottage with
her. And the boat that carried him faraway
from her was dancing over the blue,
sunny waters, and disappearing from her
view, like the fishing-smacks she had
watched at Flaxen Harbour, vanishing
in the great sea of blinding golden light
that bounded the horizon.

And Polly, standing on the shore, with
the tears blotting out every object from
her eyes, could not follow him, for the
waters came rolling in between Mr. John
and her. She could only stretch out her
arms, and listen to the mocking song of:
the waves, as they rudely splashed her
feet with their spray. And the boat was

becoming a tiny black speck, swallowed
up in the dazzling golden light even as
she strained her gaze after it.

And worse than all was the thought,
that he did not care. She was certain
now he did not ; for, if he did, how could
he have the heart to go away like that,
and leave her ? He was tired of her.
And she ? Well, she had her own pride,
'proper pride,' as Grammar always
called it, and why should she mind
either?

But by this time Farmer John had
found his voice. Could it be the old ,
familiar one, that she heard once more
uttering the old familiar pet names ? Perhaps,
after all, he did not want the new

Polly, and could put up a little longer
with the old one.

i Maiden,' he said, in a strange, husky
tone, ' maiden, be thee sa minded, I
wonders ? Do thee lave I, maiden, wi'
all thine 'art? Do thee lave I so well
that thee can give I thine loan self to
kip, an' harsh, an' work for, till death us
do part ?'

The familiar words brought a blush
into Polly's fresh cheek. Familiar words,
but which, somehow, had a new sense by
his repetition of them.

Polly,' he went on, his voice rising
clearer and stronger as he spoke, ' Polly,
let I head thy sweet face agen. I can
head thee trough an' trough. Ah,

VOL. III. K

Polly, how I lawes thee, lass ! I can'
void the words to say it all in. For
evermore, me little maid — can thee say
it too, I wonders ?'

He bent forward, and his eyes searched
the depths of hers.

1 Can thee put thy two little 'an's in
moine, maiden, an' leave 'em there, an*
be 'happy wi' it? Will thee marr' I, lass,
an* be me wedded wife ? An will thee
give up thy whither, an' thy mother, an'
thy Grammer too — give 'em all up to marr'
thy Jahn, an' goo 'way wi' 'e 'crass the
seas ?'

To marry Farmer John ! She did not
hear the last part of his sentence, for
that one question of his filled her whole

mind with new and wonderful thoughts.
He had asked her to be his wife, and
she knew he was even at that moment
reading her answer without her uttering
it.

Ay, sure.' It was a very brief answer,
certainly. But it quite contented him,
when, after it had been first uttered by her
downcast eyes and the sweet blush that
crept all over her face aud neck, the
words came slowly, in a whisper, from
her lips.

6 To marr' thee, Mr. Jahn ?' she said,
presently, as though the repetition of the
words brought her something infinitely and
delightfully new each time she uttered
them. ' To be tby wife, Mr. Jahn ? Oh,

k2

but I ain't 'ars good 'enough ! I be sa
shell-like, an' I — Mr. Jahn, thee knows
whither, an' mother, an' I — I ain't noo
scotland.'

And then she laughed, because the
happy face opposite her wore such a
radiantly satisfied expression.

She listened with demure looks, while
he proceeded to unfold his plans. All
his proposals of secrecy and mystery received
her hearty approval. She would
find it difficult to keep so very much
all to herself. But, upon the concession
that Grammer might be made an exception,
Polly's face, which had begun to
cloud a little at the prospect of the
important burden to be concealed behind

it, brightened wonderfully, and her sweet
smile came again, gladdening Farmer
John's heart.

But there was still one consideration
a very great one in Polly's eyes — which
had filled her mind as a future pleasure
at the first mention of the marriage.
It was now changed into a very serious
difficulty. Her clothes ! Her ' wed-den'
claws.' How were those marvels of
beauty and art to be prepared, if none
were to know that she was going to be
married ? And Polly reflected, not without
a pang of mingled fear and regret,
that Miss Stumpwell was a ' terrible
talker, though she did vet sa voices


Farmer John perceived the cloud instantly.


What be the matter, lass ?' he inquired.


The claws,' murmured Polly, half
ashamed of letting him see how much
the thought of these occupied her imagination,
and feeling confident, at the
same time, that he would never understand.
' For the men vo'k were so stupid-like
'bout cummin's claws.'

Farmer John laughed as heartily ashe
had done before, and Polly, feeling a
little mortified, was beginning to plan
some future revenge on this incomprehensible
levity, when she saw his glance
fall on her dress. It was a very old

one, though scrupulously clean. Polly
was aware that, though she had endeavoured,
by piecing, and patching, and turning,
to render it fashionable, yet it would
not bear minute investigation, much
less criticism. Judging Farmer John by
herself and her keen-sighted female
friends, Polly felt certain he was noting
every deficiency in her attire, and her
face burned as she watched him.

Oh ! Mr. Jahn,' she cried, ' don' 'ee
look at me grown sa straight. I be all ina
mess, I be, an' not vet to talk wi' 'ee.
There, I do know I be ! But I've a-got a
sweet-party summer parent, I 'ave, 'tis a
white graoun' wi' a little blue spot.
'Twas Grammer gi'ed it to I las' Yair,

an' it 'full look beautiful wi' the 
you give I las' wik.'

Farmer John's face wore a look of surprise.
He had just been admiring her
trim appearance, which somehow left so
different an impression on his mind from
the four stiff curls and seal-skin hat of
his sister.

Why, Polly,' he said, : thee be vet to
goo adore the Quae, to my thence.
Thee be the spaces' maid in all Apple-combe
parish, thee be. There, then, thee
sudden never care 'bout thy claws now.
This boone 'full do well 'enough for thy
wedden'- dress, I'll warrant. An' when
once thee be marr'd, me little maid,
thee shall 'ave sa many gowns as there

be days in the year, if thee be sa
moulded.'

He rose to go, and for the first time he
bent to kiss her. As his lips touched her
forehead, a great calm came over his spirit.
At the same time his hand trembled — why,
he could not have said. It was scarcely
an embrace ; but to Farmer John it was
like the seal to the new promise which
had taken the place of the old.

Only trusses to thy Jahn,' he said,
pressing her hand fondly, 'an' 'ell take
care o' thee, noo wear, an tell thee
to be ready when the thought time become.'


And I be to Tarn the wheaten', Mr.
Jahn ?' Polly questioned, roguishly, as he

opened the cottage door. At which
Farmer John only laughed again, and,
shaking his head at her, told her she
should Tarn heighten' too, for been'
such a bad, saucy maid !'

CHAPTER VII.

The Bent-Dinner.

HE Applecombe Feast had just
been kept, and the village-street

had been gay with merry-grounds, and
peep-shows, and glittered with gaudy
booths, in which the usual amount of
cheap toys were sold, together with sweetmeats,
ginger-bread, tarts, and cakes, not
very beneficial to the health of the children,

who begged for coppers wherewith
to buy them.

The Feast began on Saturday evening,
and was kept up over Sunday and Monday,
ending with a right royal bout of
drinking on the following Saturday night.
It was a great festival in the parish, and
at such times the village-street was
blocked with the show-people, buyers,
and holiday makers of all sorts, in
conditions varying from tipsiness to
that generally pronounced to be ' proper
tonight.'

The blessed Saint Elizabeth, to whom
the parish church was dedicated, and to
whose wake the Feast, no doubt, owed
its origin, would, had she been alive, have

regarded the manner in which her devotees
did her honour with anything but
approbation.

But although Mr. Wentworth preached
an elaborate sermon, explaining the
origin of the Feast, and the horror he
felt at the manner of keeping it in Apple-combe,
he made but little impression
upon his hearers. Some, indeed, were
offended at his plain-speaking, while
others, who chose to take his words as
personal, were bold enough to leave the
church in the middle of his eloquent
discourse, banging the door behind them.
Even John Tolley, the clerk, whose large
experience of clergymen should have
taught him leniency, if not charity, in

his criticism of sermons, could not conceal
his disapprobation. To his mind, it
was quite profane to introduce such a
subject as the Feast into] the sacred blue
and yellow domains of the top story of
the three-decker. It was this point which
was now under discussion at the rent-dinner
given by the Squire to the farmers
and larger tenants on his estate, at the
hospitable public-house owned by Mr.
Timothy Thick.

All day the ringers had been hard at
work in the belfry, all the more willingly
that their thirsty throats were moistened
at the generous Squire's expense. It maybe
generally imagined that the sensible
and thrifty villager is grieved at having

to part with his hardly-earned money to
any person save mine host, who gives
in return, to his thinking, more than he
takes. But in Applecombe, at the annual
payment of their rents, either because
it was an old custom, or because they
so rejoiced that Sir Howard's pockets
should be filled by the emptying of their
own, the rent-day was kept as a high
festival by the tenants.

Indeed, what with the Feast, when
drink fits ' were sure to be a well-nigh
universal complaint, and what with the
quart of beer which the liberal Squire
provided on rent-days for each inferior
tenant, on his presenting a ticket for the
same at the 'Jolly Labourers,' the publicans

had a busy time of it. Harvest
coming on, and hay-making not long past,
at which seasons, in addition to high
wages, cider, to the amount of one gallon
a day, at the very least, was the allowance
to each labourer, — gave evidence that
the second and happiest portion of the
average villager's year had arrived. The
first portion of his year was the winter,
when he was drunk at his own expense;
the second the summer, when he was
drunk at that of others. Both these
seasons combined rendered his life, were
he a lucky, 'sandy chap,' one continued
round of potations.

Much might be told of successful
drinking-bets in the harvest-field, and

of feats there accomplished by the
simple use of the flagon. Some of
these might have accounted for the
fact that, as good old Farmer Malachi
Warden sat, enjoying his well-earned
dinner at the Squire's expense, his person
closely resembled a typical cider-cask.


Long years of ever-recurring hay and
harvest-time had not passed over his rubicund
countenance without leaving their
traces behind. For, has not personal appearance
often proved itself as capable of
taking an impression as the mind of a
young maiden ? And, even as the action
of water will, in time, gradually wear away
the hardest rock, so will cider affect

VOL. III. L

the somewhat stone-like intellect of its
rustic consumers.

Nevertheless, Farmer Malachi Warden
continued to do his work, and to make his
money more quickly than anyone else in
the parish. Whether the cider, having
completely muddled his mind, had compensated
for this by enduing his body
with new and extraordinary powers, may
furnish matter for speculation to the lover
of such mysterious and difficult questions.


The atmosphere of the large, upper
apartment of the ' Jolly Labourers ' had
become so oppressively hot, that the windows
had been opened wide to the soft
western breeze. Gently it played with

royalty, as represented by a loyal wish
for the Queen, composed in red and blue
paper. Mrs. Thick had for the last week
been busily employed in polishing the
huge oak chairs and dark wainscot of
the room. Everything had been made
to look its best.

As the Squire was still unavoidably detained
on the Continent, the chair was
occupied by his steward, known as Timmy
Truepenny, whom each of the guests
were fully prepared to see fall under the
table before the dinner had progressed
very far. The arduous task of collecting
his masters rents had, no doubt, contributed
to it, so that, at that particular moment,
the excellent President of the Feast,

l2

sitting at the head of the table, his
mouth slightly opened, although he was
not conversing with anyone, his eyes a
little unsteady, looked as though the
chair-part of his labours would shortly
terminate. It was not without awe that
he was regarded by the tenants on
this particular day, when loyal hearts
had drunk to Her Gracious Majesty,
and to the longevity of Church and
State.

Mr. Truepenny did not discourage the turn
which the clerk's remarks as to the Vicar's
sermon had given to the conversation. He
was, perhaps, incapable of interfering at all,
although it has been asserted, that some
persons are known to possess unheard-of

faculties when * in liquor.' On the other
hand, he may have had his own motives
for remaining silent ; or he may only have
been obeying orders from the Squire when
he refrained from making any remark on,
or from preventing any unfavourable
criticisms of, the Vicar of Apple-combe.


Mr. Sydney Ruddell, who had been voted,
vice-chairman, and was seated opposite
the steward, was quite of John Tolley's
opinion. He even added a sentiment of
his own concerning the Vicar's sermon,
although it was well known that he had
not entered the Church doors for the
last year and more.

'It be jus' that, Jahnny, me man,' he

said, after taking a long pull at his tankard.
' It be jus' that. I've a- 1 wold the
znev'len' would ranter zoo metals, I 'ave.
I met 'en t'other day, up to Ship Barrier,
an' 'e comes up sa slow to I, an' begins
'bout the rain an' the crops. An' then 'e
says, says 'e : "Friend', why don' 'ee
never come to Church?" An' I says
to 'e, says I : " Why don' 'ee preach
the Gospel, and leave the drink alone ?
You'd 'ave ten, you 'good, where you 'as
boone now. What be 'ee always a-rhanten'
'gainst the drink vur ? We don' ask you
to pay for our drink, do us ? Jus' you
preach the Gospel, an' leave the drink
alone," says I.'

A murmur of applause greeted the
recital of this daring speech.

Ay,' muttered Handsome Ben, stroking
his white hair. ' Ay, that's where 'tis.
But there be some vo'k what never will
mind their own concerns.'

4 What 's 'e paid vur, I should like
to know ?' questioned Harry Chenny, a
true son of the last speaker, who combined
all the energy and knockdownism
of the young generation with the caution
and distrust of the old. ' That's what
I can' make out. Who wants a preacher
a-rhanten' every Zunday in the pulpit,
I'd like to know ? There's a-plenty what
'good be glad 'enough to do away wi' 'en.
A 'ouse, an' garden, an' lots o' money

for quailed' the prayers, an' preacher'
at people what won' listen neither !'

This remark gave food for thought ;
and there was a short silence. It was
broken by John Tolley, who, as clerk,
could not suffer the Church to be thus
openly attacked without a word of defence
from one of its officers ; although,
in this instance, he highly disapproved
of the Vicar's conduct.

What be they paid vur !' he demanded,
in his wheezy voice, glaring at the
would-be destroyer with his watery eye.
1 Why, to tell people of their vaults,
in course. Only people don' bargain for
that, I'll warrant.'

There was a general laugh at young

Harry's expense, and he was obliged
to bury his now sheepish head in his
tankard, trusting to fate to provide him
an opportunity of regaining popular
favour.

Mr. Sydney came to his relief.

I be o' your mind, 'Army,' he said,
laughing. 'An' the Church med be turned
into a barn, for aught I do care. It 'ud

be a d d good boone for the dresden*

an' winner', it 'good. I told the Yicar
zoo when 'im asked I fco come to Church.
You should ha' seed 'ow straight the
would feller looked at I !'

1 You won't get made churchwarden at
that rate, Mr. Euddel],' interrupted the
sarcastic tone of the younger Travers.

6 I'm afraid you've done for yourself forever
in our good Vicar's eyes by your
boldness of speech.'

'Ay, zoo I tried,' retorted Ruddell,
whose face became suffused with an
angry flush. 'Zoo I med. But I don'
care — not I. 'Twas for the good o'
the parish I cared. An' it vexed I,
believe it did, when this Passion's Jahnny,
d 'en, were 'printed.'

'Ah, but 'e hidden churchwarden noo
longer,' said Handsome Ben. "Eve bin
turned aff, or leases ways not 'printed
agen. Wonder why 'twas ?' he added,
looking round at his companions with a
sly expression in his blue eyes.

Ask Abs'lom there,' said his son, giving
the respectable young "Wesleyan a
dig in the ribs. ' 'E'ull give us the
news. Get it must 'and, don 'ee, Mr.
Abs'lom. ?'

6 When be you gain' to be called
whom ?' questioned Mr. Sydney, with a
laugh.

How much is the fair lady's fortune ?'
added the younger Travers.

Perhaps because his conscience was
somewhat tender upon the subject of
Miss Hawker's money, the excellent
young Wesleyan found himself no
match for his tormentors. He only
blushed crimson, and looked as if the

judgment so often predicted by the local
preachers would be a welcome release to
him just now.

1 Poor lad, Vs foolish wi' all o' you
a-plaguen' o' en. I'll be o' your zoide,
me lad. Gnawed en from a little bit o' a
chap,' said Handsome Ben, frowning on
his son to command silence. ' Well, my
buoy he added, with a re-assuring smile
across the table at the still blushing
Absalom, 'Lizzy 'Ahker hidden another'
to be 'shamed on, I do know. Now tellus
what your sweetheart do say, me
lad

1 Oh, Vve a-treated she shameful,' replied
Mr. Absalom, thus encouraged. And,
recovering his presence of mind as he felt

his voice was listened to with universal
attention, he continued,

'Eve put up iverythen' for sale, 'e 'ave,
down to the very cat-stools. There was
a voice voight 'bout them cat-stools,
there were, boone night. I yeerd it
metals.'

Were there now ?' asked a chorus of
voices.

1 Goo an, Abs'lom,' put in the encouraging
voice of Handsome Ben.

c I were a-wahlken' wi' Miss ' continued
the young "Wesleyan, his cheeks becoming
very bright as he stumbled over
the name — ' Somebody. An' we went up to
the warm, 'cause she'd yeerd as 'ow 'e were
gain' to sell iverythen', an' she were

determine' to kip some o' 'er loan things
sep'rate like. Zoo she went in, an I
boiled outside. An' then I yeerd 'em
a ballyraggen' o' each other, an' some
boone a-drowen' o' the things 'bout,
furniture or summit. Zoo I popped into
the barton get, an' looked trough the
chink o' the back-dour, an' seed she withe
cat-stools in 'er arms. An' she were
a-beaten' ov 'er brother wi 7 'em 'crass the
'eat, an' then I went into the kitchen, an'
she were a-zajen' : " Where the cat da
bride, there the cat-stools da bride, them
do belong to the cat, them do. 'Tis for 'e
to part wi' 'em, an' ne'er a-one else, an'
hidden it vair an'rheason'ble-loike, Abs'lom ?"
'er said when 'er seed I were there.'

Beaten o' 'en 'bout the 'eat, were 'er ?'
laughed Mr. Sydney. ' 'Er be proper she-civil,
'er be ! Look 'ee out vur thine loan
'eat, Abs'lom. Ah, 'er 'full 'old 'er loan,
noo wear ! But what were Jahnny a-doen'
all the time ?'

'Laffen',' Absalom Goodrich answered,
the corners of his mouth going up at the
thought. ' Lassen' vit to burst 'is sides,
an' croyen' out : " That's thought, Lizzy, 'it
'order, 'it 'order, it 'full do thine arms good,
me maid, it will." Which made she whack
'en all the moore, in course, an' 'er arm
ain't a weather, I'll warrant.'

1 And be the place to be sold, sure an*
marten ?' demanded Handsome Ben, to
whom these details were uninteresting,

when the laugh which greeted Mr. Absalom's
account had somewhat subsided.
1 1 yeerd the 'advertisements was out for a
sale o' summit 'bout the place a wik ago
an' moore, but I hidden know what
'twas.'

c Out, sure 'enough !' cried Absalom
Goodrich, who, having once obtained the
rank of leader in the conversation, would
not easily be induced to resign it. 'Ay,
sure 'enough, an' it be sold too, as I yeerd.
Squoire Marston 'ave a-bought 'en, an'
the cottages too ; Teetotal 'All what's
called, 'andy to the Chapel. Very good
house they be ; where Em'ly Gill da bride,
she what were turned off. The furniture
be up for sale nex' wik. An' 'e da bride

nex' dour to Granny Ma'sh, the 'ouse what's
stood empty sa long.'

'Nice and andy,' remarked Harry
Chenny, drily.

1 And 'e be gain' aff to 'Stralier zoon/
said Mr. Sydney. ' Zoo I did year. An'
good riddance o' a dirty baggage,
says I.'

Zoo do Oi growled Farmer Malachi
Warden, opening his lips to speak for the
first time. 'Zoo do Oi,' he repeated, with
the deep oath peculiar to himself.

Having thus exhausted his powers of
rhetoric, he relapsed into stately silence.

'E ought to leave us wi'out a remembrance,'
said Mr. Sydney, a very cunning
expression in his hard eye. ' Zum-

VOL. III. M

mat 'e can weel, and vo'ks can zee, out t'
'Stralier. A remembrance o' the Apple-combe
vo'k 'eve a les. They be terrible
good at remembrances, be the Applecombe
vo'k. "Applecombe vo'k, rummy vo'k," as
'tis said. They 'full be terrible sad an'
lonesome wi'out their Jahnny, won' 'er,
I'll warrant !'

There 'full likely be only boone to miss
'en, I be thinke,' remarked young Harry
Chenny, with a knowing look.

1 And how long will she grieve for him,
I wonder ?' added the younger Travers,
with a sneer.

'Not so very long, I reckon,' said
Harry. ( But some do say as 'ow they've a
bin marr'd long time 'goo, an' be gain'

out to 'Stralier together, when the money
be all settled.'

'Marr'd, be they?' said Mr. Sydney,
while a hideous smile illuminated his
shrewd countenance. * Noo wear they bean'
wi'out the minister, I reckon. That be
'Stralier fashion, I've a-year.'

This sally of the Applecombe wit, so
justly celebrated in the neighbourhood,
was greeted with due applause, Mr. Absalom's
shrill treble laugh rising high
above the deeper roar of his companions.

'You be all wring,' interrupted the
clerk, his words rendered still more unintelligible
by his late exertions in laughing.
1 I've a-year my missus talk 'bout it, and
the murrain da always know. 'E be gain'

m 2

'way to git out o' barren' ov 'er, 'er da
say 'er 'ave yeerd tell, for 'e da know 'ed
'ave to marr' 'er if 'e boiled yere.'

1 Hah, sure !' was the expressive comment
of all. Old Farmer Malachi "Warden
took another pull at his tankard, as though
he drank to the health of the departing
Farmer John.

1 'Twere 'high time the warm did git
into bettered 'an's nor 'is,' said Mr. Sydney.
f 'Twere all again' to rack an'
ruin, wi' 'e, an' 'is planters, an' 'is
maidens. I would ha' gi'ed a bad
sixpence for the ship, I would. Such
wretched, gaffer' beasts as they looked,
a-passen' o' my dour. Never seed the
like adore, I hidden.'

"E were always a crazy chap,' said the
clerk. * An' Church weren't good 'enough
for 'e. 'E med 'ave summit bettered, I
repose. Every Wednesday an' Saturday
evenen' 'e da beat int' Flax'on wi' the
girl. They be still to the town, them
Rhailway vo'k, I've a-year ; a-zingen' an'
a-holleren' 'bout the street wi' all carts.'

1 They ain't 'lowed to the school-rouse
now,' said Harry Chenny, with a
chuckle. 'An' we Ve a-got to thank
you, Mr. Sedney, for that, believe weave.


Mr. Sydney, much gratified, expressed
his feelings towards the evangelists and
the Vicar in language so simple and forcible,
that it is best left to the imagination.

His remarks were hailed with shouts of
applause from all present, and a profound
' Ann from the clerk, who was
evidently beginning to mistake the day
and the locality.

I've a-bin to year 'em wi' 'er,' remarked
Mr. Absalom, when the succeeding
silence gave him an opportunity of
making himself once more heard. ' She
always says, says she, she 'full goo an'
judge o' things 'er loan calf, 'er will, an'
not take e'er a-one's word, she won'.
Zoo we went; an' what wi' the prayer',
an' the singer', an' the dance' — they do
dance, too, the men an' the cummin',
wi' weathers, an' all carts in their 'airs
'twere 'enough to burst a-'woone's 'eat,

it were. An' she, she said : " We 'full
never goo agen," says she.'

That do jus' do for Jahnny, though,'
said Mr. Sydney. ' What 's too good to
come to dinner wi' 'is betters, to a honest
public. We hasn't got noo dance' Polly
yere, an' such like rhubbely riot, we
hasn't. Too voice for I, be Passion's
Jahnny, 'e be.'

1 Too voice for Applecombe, 'e be, I
reckon,' added young Harry Chenny.

1 I'd like to give 'en a good dresden',
I 'good,' proclaimed the surly voice of
old Farmer Malachi Warden, his ideas
becoming clearer as they were washed
by much liquor.

The younger Travers, who had listened

to the conversation with a sneer, now*
rose, entreating the company to dismiss
from their learned minds so worthless a
subject, and proposed music.

The vice-chairman, acting for Mr. Truepenny,
who by this time was beyond even
Sir Howard's control (had he been there),
seconded the motion ; for although, ashe
intimated, young Mr. Truepenny,
whose banjo and nigger songs in native
costume had been so much appreciated
at former rent-dinners, was not there to
lead the way, there were yet some in the
circle who could c pope up,' if occasion
required.

Songs, some of a highly pictorial and
humorous, if not too refined, character,

followed, interspersed by recitations
and speeches, of which the most elegant
and appreciated were delivered by the
younger Travers. The jollification was
prolonged to a very late hour, and, when
at length the party broke up, Jimmy
Travers alone was in a condition to propose
the health of Her Gracious Majesty,
of the beloved knight and his lady, and
of all the farmers. Mr. Sydney's health
in particular was indicated by expressive
gesticulations from his otherwise helpless
admirers. The healths were drunk by
the whole company with ' musical honours,'
of a hearty, if fragmentary character.


The chairman alone remained silent ;

for, having come simply to drink as much
as possible at his generous employer's
expense, he had now faithfully fulfilled
his mission. He was assisted, speechless
but grateful, to his dog-cart by the only
members of the company who could
stand. These were the worthy publican
himself, well known to be drink-proof,
and Jimmy Travers, who had taken nothing.
They deposited Mr. Truepenny,
now sleeping peacefully, on the floor of
his dog-cart, where he was greeted by
envious and admiring looks from his comparatively
sober groom.

CHAPTER VIII.

Under the Elm-tree.

HE evangelists, who still kept up
their mission in the neighbouring

town of Flaxen, had just received orders
from the Directors of the Heavenly
Railway Company to leave that town,
and to seek a more promising neighbourhood.


Before departing, it was deemed advisable

to deliver farewell addresses in
such of the neighbouring villages as had
been visited by detachments of evangelists.
Applecombe was, of course, included
; and it was agreed that the converts
from that village should meet the
departing evangelists at the hall which
they had hired in the town, and there take
solemn farewell of each other. To render
this farewell productive of good to
the benighted inhabitants of Applecombe
parish, it was further proposed that
the band of converts, headed by the
evangelists, should march from Flaxen,
through the intervening villages, to ,
singing hymns specially composed
for the occasion. Addresses and

prayers would then be given in the
village street ; the fine weather promising
a large audience.

It was believed by the evangelists that,
though the devil could still count Apple-combe
as one of his strongest stations,
yet that there were many to be found
there whose hearts, though weak and
timid, were favourably inclined towards
the Heavenly Railway Company. Even
Mr. Sydney Ruddell, who was known to be
strongly opposed to the mission, might
yet, as the chief evangelist urged, be
turned from his evil ways by ' one touch
of the flaming sword

Polly Marsh and Mr. John were to
form one couple in this procession. And

at the present moment they were hurrying
into the town. For Granny's clock was
known to be slow, and the adjustment
of the spotted print-dress and gay neck-handkerchief,
Farmer John's gift, had
taken an unusually long time. Polly's
face was a little pale, perhaps in anticipation
of the excitement promised
by the opposition with which, no doubt,
the procession would be greeted. Perhaps
the excessive heat may have contributed
to the maiden's pallor; for by
this time a constant succession of religious
meetings ought to have accustomed
her to the excitement which invariably
accompanied them.

As the two issued from the cool shade

of the little garden at the back of
Granny's cottage, the fierce sun beat
upon their backs with heat like that of
a great furnace. But they could not
linger in the deep shadows which the
trees of the Towers Close and the copse
on the opposite side of the road threw
upon their path, though Farmer John
could not resist pointing out to his
companion the lovely contrasts in colour,
which the branches of oak, elm, copper-beech,
and dark cedar meeting overhead
presented.

From the hills around came the sound
of sheep-bells, birds, and human voices,
blended by distance into the sweetest
harmony. Close to them was the humming

of bees and of insects dancing merrily in
the sunshine, while gay butterflies skimmed
lazily past, spreading out their bright
wings to Polly's admiring gaze. It would
be difficult to imagine anything more
beautiful than the sights and sounds of
the valley.

And over all the silver mantle of peace
seemed to be folding And peace was also
in Farmer Johns heart, as he walked
silently by Polly's side.

The thoughts which such sights and
sounds always stirred in his mind were
reflected in the contented glance of his
eyes, which now sought Polly's. Perceiving
with alarm how pale she looked, he
proposed that they should rest a while,

even though they might be late for the
meeting.

'Thee be almost done vur, lass,' he
said, drawing her to his side. ' An I've
got zoo much to tell 'ee, there 'full never be
time enough to say it all in. Zoo let's
zit down under this clem's shade. Thy
legs be weary, maiden ; thee mus' rest a
bit.'

So they sat down together under a huge
elm-tree, whose branches, stretching far
up overhead, seemed to lose themselves
in the eternal blue above. There is something
in the neighbourhood of large and
noble trees which inspires some minds
with a feeling of awe, half-religious, half-fearful.
And we can thus understand

VOL. III. N

how those early architects, whose works
have been models to the world, translated
the dark, solemn depths of their
forests into the soaring arches and pillars
of their cathedrals.

The shadows of the huge elm threw
something of this awful feeling over
Farmer John's heart. Though he had so
much to tell Polly, he found it more than
usually difficult to shape his plans in
words. Everything had been finally settled,
and at that moment the papers, and
a little box, which contained what would
unite the destinies of two persons, was
in his pocket.

Having watched in silence Polly's
somewhat downcast looks, Farmer John

drew an envelope from his pocket, and
placed it on her lap.

1 Oh, Mr. Jahn,' she said, as she saw
the contents, for though she was not yet
a good enough ' scotland ' to read them,
her eyes told her quite as much as they
required to know. ' Oh, Mr. Jahn, it bethe
licence, hidden 'er ? When did you git
en ?

'Yesterday,' Farmer John answered,
half amused, half delighted to see how the
small fingers trembled in holding the
precious paper. ' It were terrible lang a
coming, too, for the Surrogate, or whatever
they calls 'en, hidden got ne'er a one,
an' I had to wait for 'en. Zoo thee won't
be called whom after all, Poll. Do 'ee

n 2

think it 'full be all thought wi' this paper
lass?'

Polly turned her grateful eyes upon
him. There was no doubt lurking in them
now.

4 Why, in course it be all thought, Mr.
Jahn,' she said, carefully folding the paper.
But hidden 'e cost a sight o' money ?'
she added, in an awestruck tone.

Farmer John laughed.

4 It 'good ha' bought thee some gowns,
maiden,' he said, restoring the envelope to
his pocket. ' But thee be worth some o't,
I reckon. Leastesway Jahn thinks zoo,
an' 'eve got a mind o's loan, I've yeerd
tell.'

Polly was too happy to object to this

very mild teasing. At the same time she
secretly comforted herself with the prospect
of revenge, when the right time
should come.

Do 'ee look at this now,' Farmer John
began again, producing another envelope.
1 Thee knows thy figures, lass ; what be
these ?'

He had drawn out a large yellow paper,
curiously folded, on which were a great
many words, with a number at the top.

1 It be eighteen,' said Polly, glancing up
inquisitively into his face.

An' what day o' the wik be this ?' he
asked, smiling at her eagerness.

Friday the fifteenth of August,' she
said, letting each word drop slowly from

her lips. Then, as the meaning of the
paper gradually dawned upon her, she
turned her wondering eyes upon her companion,
and, clasping her hands together,
tried to realise what it all implied.

To go right away from home, from
Applecombe, and Grammer, and them all,
and to embark, in one of those strange,
floating houses she had seen in pictures, on
the great wide sea. To go away alone
with Mr. John ! She could not have done
it by herself — oh no. And what if they
were drowned, and eaten by the fishes, as
father had said they were sure to be ?

The thought was dreadful ; and it was
so very near too, this horrible fate ! The
beauty and joy of the marriage faded

suddenly away from her vision. Must
they indeed go? — and, oh ! why could not
Mr. John stay and take another farm ?
They might all be happy together, after
all.

But there was the ticket, the seal
of her destiny. She knew he had paid a
c power of money ' for it, and for the
licence, and, perhaps, for something in that
little white box he was now placing in her
hand.

And all for her. Polly could not just
then have uttered the sad and misgiving-thoughts
which tormented her. Farmer
John watched her open the box with
eager, trembling fingers. Three surprises
seemed enough for one evening ; but

he had still another to communicate.

Placing his large hand over hers, so
that she could not see the contents of the
box, he asked,

Polly, lass, can thee guess, I wonder ?
Be thee ready, as thee said thee 'good be
when the thought time did come ? The
thought time be to-marry. Will thee
marr' I to-marry, lass, in this there
Church over yonder ?'

He pointed away, across the Close
and lawn, to the old ivied Church-tower
standing dark and upright against the
sunset sky.

I be again' in t' Vic'rage to ask the
Yicar if 'e 'full marr us at ten 'clack in the
marner'. An' then we'll be aff to Lunnon

adore the vo'ks knows we be gave. They'd
like to rhode in the train, would thee,
Poll, my dear?'

Polly, whose eyes had hung with bewildered
amazement on his face, noted
how radiant was the smile that now
illuminated it.

None ov 'em 'full know till we be gane/
he repeated, removing his hand from the
box, where a small gold ring shone out
on them like a tiny ray of sunshine.

1 We 'full goo trough the garden-git
into the churchyard, quite quiet-like, an
nobody 'full be there to zee, I know the
Vicar won't mind.'

But Polly's face had become suddenly
pale again, and the bright flush which his

words had brought into her cheeks faded
into a whiteness that struck Farmer John's
heart like a blow.

1 Polly, Polly, me little maid !' he cried,
seizing her hand, from which the little
ring had dropped into the long grass
among the elm shadows. ' Polly — speak,
lass. What be the trouble? Tell thy
Jahn what it be.'

He clasped her closer, and covered the
white face with kisses. Never had his
tone been so full of compassion, and love,
and tenderness.

1 The thing, the thing !' gasped Polly,
her eyes staring wildly before her, as
though they saw something which was
shut out from his vision. 'The thing!'

she repeated, piteously, ' the good band, it
be the very same.'

1 What thing? What be the same? 7
cried Farmer John. f 'Ave thee a-lost
thy wits, me little maid ? Never cry,
my dear,' he added, as he saw the tears,
which had been gathering in the large,
grey eyes, begin to roll slowly down
Polly's cheeks.

It were the very same,' she repeated,
between the sobs which shook her whole
frame. ' I dreamed about 'en las' night,
when I were a-bed. 'Twere jus' the same.
A good band it were, all brought an'
shine-like, an' jus' the same as this there
boone.'

Thee dreamed 'en, lass,' said Farmer

John, much relieved. ' Well, what if thee
did ? They've a-dreamed 'bout thy wed-den'
moore nor once, I reckon. Poor
little maid, thee be tired out now,
an' ain't vit vur walked' zoo var, beer
?

But Polly's look frightened him, in
spite of these rational observations. And
suddenly, as he spoke, the remembrance of
the vow he was about to break on the
morrow flashed across his mind like the
face of an injured friend.

"Twere las' night,' repeated Polly,
1 after you were gave. An I were this
tired, Grammer said : " You goo to bed,
you be this tired you don' know what ta
do wi' yersel." Zoo I went up to bed, an'

I veil asnep directly I laid me 'eat on the
piller. An' I dreamed, seemed' it were
true-like, 'twas sa clear. An' I were
walked' in a beautiful green reader, 'twere
that smooth an' brought, as though it med
bin jus' watered. An' there was flowers
all bloomen-loike 'round, an' I was walked'
there wi' the man what the reader
belonged to. An' I seed two beautiful
white lambs in the reader; they was
eden' there. An' they 'ad each a girt
shine' good band raoul' their foreheads,
shine' sa brought, like the sun. An' I
says to the man what walked with I :
What be they ship wi' the good bands
raoul' their 'eats ?" An says 'e : " Polly,"
says 'e, pointed' at 'en wi's crook, " this

boone be would Mrs. 'Ahker, an the other
boone, Polly Ma'sh, be your 'urban' I" An'
then I hidden' zee 'en noo moore.'

She dared not look into Farmer John's
face as she uttered these words, but busied
herself with searching for the ring in the
long grass. But it had rolled away, and
it was a long time before she found
it. Coming back to restore it to the
box, she noted a strange expression on
Farmer John's face. He was looking
towards the brilliant heavens, where the
sun was setting in such splendour. No
doubt he was thinking of his mother,
who lay buried in the churchyard, not
so very far away from them. His eyes
were raised, and a smile, unspeakably

beautiful, seemed to light up his face
for an instant. It lingered in his eyes
as they were turned on her. Polly never
forgot their look of love, and of something
besides, quite undefinable.

They walked on again in silence,
Polly's thoughts occupied with her approaching
marriage, so unexpectedly near
a thought which banished even the
horrible dream — and Farmer John scarcely
conscious of where he was, or of what
he was doing. His mother, whom Polly's
words had recalled so vividly to his mind,
seemed to be walking by his side once
more. They were going to Church, as
they used to do when he was a little boy.
For she had been a good Churchman,

though her husband had been, it is to be
feared, but a bad Wesleyan. He could
feel again the soft pressure of her hand on
his, a pressure at once firm and tender.
Her sweet voice once more whispered in his
ear the old injunctions to be f a good lad,
an' bride still in the sermon.'

He had often found it a hard enough
task, when, the singing in the gallery
ended, the clergyman, in his stately black-silk
gown, would mount the pulpit-steps,
and begin to thunder out his discourse,
till the arches resounded with the echoes
of his voice. But his mother, evidently
discerning that ' Jahnny's ' affection for
the preacher did not equal hers, would
always provide some help for him,

either in the shape of a little cake from
her bag, or the loan of her best Prayer-book,
with its gay markers and clasps.

And then, when service was over, they
would linger in the churchyard to speak
to the neighbours ; and everybody had
a kind word for little i Jahnny ' in those
days, perhaps for his gentle mother's sake.
And now there was only her grave in
the silent churchyard; and her son was
going away to a foreign country, to leave
it for ever.

Unbidden the tears came into his eyes.
An unspeakable longing to see that beloved
mother again, and bid her goodbye,
took possession of him. The old
memories could not be driven out by

vol. in. o

any new prospects, however fair these
might be. They would go with him to
his new home, and never leave him,
wherever he went.

Reflecting thus, they arrived at the
hall, very late for the meeting, as Polly,
to her dismay, perceived. She did not
know what had come to Mr. John, he
seemed so i far-away like.' It was she
who led him to an empty bench at the
back of the hall, where they could rest
till the procession formed. Her spirits
rose as the farewell addresses were delivered,
not without much weeping on
the part of the female evangelists, who,
in spite of many persecutions, had found
Flaxen a pleasant enough station, especially

as the time for starting on their
march drew nearer.

All sad thoughts now faded from Polly's
memory. She even forgot the dream,
and the marriage on the morrow, as, with
her heart beating very fast, and her little
hand clinging to Farmer Johns arm, she
took her place in the procession. Protection
having been granted the evangelists
by the magistrates of the little
borough, the crowd, which of course immediately
gathered in their rear, confined
their expressions of utter contempt
to cutting remarks. These were often
of a highly personal character. Of
course the rather comical appearance of

the little fat leader of the mission did

o2

not escape without some uncharitable
criticism.

"Eve a-talked till 'e be vit to burst
wi' it !' cried one, while another announced
he ' were glad he weren't the
would 'un's tailor.'

Oh, I 'good, though,' proclaimed a third.
'Cos thin I should get t' 'even vur nothing'.
They be terrible good at pain',
they Railways !'

The crowd scarcely diminished in numbers
as the town was left behind. For,
the evening being an unusually fine one,
the walk, with the prospect of fun at
the end of it, may have had its attractions
for some, while others would merely
follow their companions.

As the procession wended its way slowly
through the next village, whose Rector
was known to be very antagonistic to
the mission, the evangelists with one
accord struck up a hymn, which, mingling
with the shouts and hooting of the
crowd that followed, brought such of
the villagers as were still awake out into
the street to see what the matter might
be.

CHAPTER IX.

Into the Silent Land!

T was now a little past nine o'clock.
The moon, which was at its full,
hung like a golden lamp in the dark indigo
vault of the cloudless heavens.

Calm and peaceful and lovely was the
advent of the fair summer night. Like
the coming of some Eastern bride, Mr.
Wentworth thought, as he walked up and

down his garden, and looked up at the
gleaming sky. A rich carpet of silver
had been thrown across it, over the path
of the approaching queen-bride. Her feet
would tread upon star-flowers, and the
golden moon would light the entrance to
her palace. Radiant and beautiful, with
Hope and Love for her attendants, she was
coming, and the trees held their breath as
they listened for her footsteps. And the
flowers of earth drooped with expectancy,
while the stream went by, singing his
evening song, a welcome to the bride. The
birds leaned from the casements of their
nests, their sweet voices ascending to that
favoured realm which owned her as queen.
And the beauty and the fragrance of her

presence were felt even on earth below ;
and everything seemed to join in the
joyful cry : ' She is coming ! she is
coming !'

Immense shadows stretched across
the sloping lawn. The wych-elm stood
up, like a giant sentry guarding the
dark Vicarage behind. The graceful fir-tree
farther down the lawn was like another
guardian of the quiet spot, while
opposite, dark and shadowy, rose the
green hill. Mr. Wentworth may be forgiven,
if his lively imagination went on to
picture it this evening resounding to the
gay tread of the dancing fairies' feet.

As he walked up and down the lovely
garden, the delicious fragrance of the

roses in the beds near hin came to welcome
him. All the other flowers were
asleep, and not even the yellow owl ventured
to leave his nest in the Church-tower
to swoop, hooting, across the lawn,
and break in upon the peaceful silence of
the hour. To a day of unrivalled loveliness
had succeeded a night more lovely
still. The voice of man was hushed, his
noisy joys and many sorrows came not,
with saddening echo, to disturb the universal
calm. Mr. Wentworth, pacing up
and down, felt his being inspired by the
same soothing spirit which breathed on
everything around. Sto dismal nor despairing
thoughts spread their dark wings
over his mind. A sense of peace, mingling

with a kind of listless apathy, shed a
scarcely realised influence over him. He
did not think at all, but simply walked on,
conscious of the beauty and the stillness,
and of nothing besides.

As he turned in his walk and faced the
house again, he noticed Amelia's lamp
spreading a radiance on the gravel-path at
the side of the lawn. The sight brought
back thought, and he stopped and looked
up again at the brilliant sky.

It no longer suggested a vision, glorious
as the coming of a princess of the east.
The high arch above him, dark and awful,
stretching boundless far away beyond the
light, raised overwhelming thoughts of

Life, Death, and the Hereafter. To the
Vicar's lips sprang involuntarily the words :
This were a night to die and solve it
all!'

As he stood there, buried in meditation,
the air around him awakened suddenly,
and echoed to the cry of many distant
voices. Louder and louder the uproar
swelled, till it sounded to his ears like the
roar of a distant cataract. Immediately
afterwards the light in the kitchen was
moved quickly away, and the house became
perfectly dark.

Hastening across the lawn, the Vicar entered
the dining-room by the long French
window, through which he had stepped

into the garden not long before. He
called ; but there was no answer from the
impenetrable darkness, upon which the
moonlight shed so strange a radiance. He
called again; and this time his straining
gaze perceived the figure of a woman,
hurrying towards him with a lamp in her
hand.

It was Amelia, panting, removing as
she came the apron which covered her
disordered hair.

Whatever is the matter ?' Mr. Wentworth
asked. ' I can hear that shouting
still. Where have you been ? What is the
matter ?'

1 Oh, come, come V she answered.

1 Come quick, sa vast 's ever you can fly.
Oh, step eu, do ! "Pis dreadful, 'tis.
'Erb be there, 'twas 'e sent Oi for you.
Oi be almost done for wi' it all.'

She rushed out again, leaving the lamp
on the table. The Yicar followed her,
wondering, and full of vague apprehension.


She was so breathless, either from
excitement or haste, that he soon came
up to her, and, begging her to be calm,
asked again for an explanation of the
noise.

They were now in the village street,
and the sound of the shouting and hallooing
became clearer each step they took.

The night air was alive with voices,
while the brilliant moonlight shone
down, unmoved, upon the unquiet
earth.

'tis the Planters P gasped Mrs. Cosens,
pausing to give him a frightened glance.
'They've a-bin a-zingen' an a-prayen'
trough t' village, wi' all the Flax'on
people a-hooten' o' 'em behind. An'
when they corned to the public, they
all wailed down on their knees an'
screeched. Oi don' know, sure, what it all
were. An' then the Applecombe vo'k
corned shunned' up in benches, an' pelted
'en wi' sticks an' stoans. An' Mr. Rhode
were there, drunken', an' cussen' ov

'em awful. An' lots be killed, an hunted
dreadful, an' oh, there they be !'

She clutched his arm, and pointed.

Look ! look straight, there they all be !
Oh, hawk 'a-mussy me ! it be the en' o' the
wool', Oi know it be.'

The Vicar could not catch her last
words, for at that moment the shouting
drowned all other sounds. Before he could
realise it, he found himself being hustled
and thrown backwards and forwards in the
midst of a large crowd.

It was assembled outside the ' Jolly
Labourers.' His shortsightedness prevented
the Vicar from distinguishing
faces; but, during the brief pauses

which every now and then occurred
in the universal din, he fancied he could
recognise a familiar voice, which continued
speaking, from the front of the
crowd, in clear, ringing tones. The words
c Save this people . . . don't know Thee,'
convinced him that it must be one of the
evangelists who was praying. He pressed
on through the jostling mass with one fixed
determination in his mind : to reach the
door of the bar, and thence endeavour to
quiet the excited mob. Could he make
himself heard, he might bring them to
reason ; and the evangelists might then be
allowed to return quietly to the town
whence, no doubt, they had come.

It was evident that no one had observed
his arrival. All were too busily engaged
in shouting and endeavouring to drown the
speaker's voice. Mr. Wentworth, at the
imminent risk of having his spectacles
broken into his eyes, pressed bravely
onwards, until he found himself quite
close to the person whose voice he had
heard praying.

A lamp hung outside the door of the
bar, on the threshold of which a knot of
men stood drinking. Mr. Wentworth recognised
the burly form of old Farmer
Warden, and another well-known figure —
that of Mr. Sydney Euddell.

Just outside the door which belonged to

VOL. III. P

the cottage tenanted by the old women, and
close to the wall, stood a huge, empty
waggon, upon which the rays of the moonlight
fell, brightening the gay red and blue
with which it was painted. The rays fell
also upon the person Mr. Wentworth had
been seeking, who knelt at a short distance
from the cart, surrounded by a
band of followers, whose faces were buried
in their hands.

The light made the beard of the speaker
flash like fire. His widely-opened eyes
were fixed on the heavens, and his hands
rested on the shoulders of a girl who
knelt a little way before him. Mr.
Wentworth recognised him, and cautiously

stepped out of the shadow to his
side.

As he emerged into the light, his figure
came between the evangelists and the
watchers in the doorway of the bar. Ina
moment the Vicar was recognised, and
immediately, to his distress and amazement,
his name rang through the air, and
was repeated on all sides with a variety of
oaths and execrations.

Yere be the passion come to take care
o' 'is Jahnny !' cried a voice at his side.
4 We saint gain' to 'hurt thy baby,
passion, noo wear. Git out o' the way,
cuss 'eu, we wants to year 'en pray.'

Mr. Wentworth opened his lips to reply

pand

waved his hand as though to entreat
silence. But it was useless. His hat was
knocked off, while his feeble voice was
drowned in the renewed shouting of the
crowd.

"lis the passion, sure enough repeated
the voice which had before spoken. 'rave
a glass, my dear, do 'ee now. 'Tis
what thee's always preacher' at the poor
vo'k about. Let's give 'en a glass, me
lads.'

Ay, ay,' repeated a hundred voices, and
a roar of laughter pealed through the air
as, stepping up suddenly behind him, the
speaker emptied a glass of liquor over the
Vicar's bare head.

Mr. "Went worth did not turn, for he was
now close to the kneeling group ; and the
person he sought had just risen and faced
him. In the brilliant moonlight, and in
the presence of the now furious crowd, Mr.
Wentworth and Farmer John stood once
more side by side.

It was the second time they had faced
their enemies together. The Yicar held
out his hand, and, as his companion's firm
grasp closed on it, the past vanished, and
the present alone remained. Farmer
John's enemies and his were the same, the
enemies of religion, who hated the right
and the truth. Before that fact everything
else gave way.

1 Speak to them Mr. Wentworth whispered.
' They cannot hear me, they must
hear you. You can make them. Quiet
them, for God's sake. This noise is too
terrible. Tell them to go home quietly.
No one will hurt them if they do. Is
there no policeman anywhere whom we
can send for ?'

'None nearer than Flax'on,' answered
Farmer John. ' An' they're good for nothing.
Hush thee, Polly lave, they
curse 'arm thee, I tell 'ee.'

He tried to unclasp the fingers of a
terrified maiden, who clung to his
arm.

Mr. Wentworth looked round. Farmer

John must be above the crowd, if he was
to be heard.

1 Get on the waggon,' he whispered,
pointing to it. ' They must listen, if you
speak slowly and distinctly.'

Farmer John sprang upon the wheel,
and mounted to the side of the waggon
which faced the crowd. Standing up
there, with the radiance falling on his
fine erect figure and expressive face, he
looked to Mr. "Wentworth like those
pictures of the great martyrs near
which he had so often lingered in bygone
days.

1 Hark !'

There was a deep silence, all the more

awful that it fell so suddenly upon the
startled crowd. The thrilling tones repeated
the word again.

Leaning slightly forward, Farmer John
went on.

1 Goo quiet whom and '

A figure darted out of the black
shadows at the back of the crowd, and a
huge stone whistled through the air.
It struck the speaker. He fell backwards.


The shouting had begun again, and the
crowd was closing in once more, when,
with a sudden piercing cry which rang
above the noise of the mob and ascended
to the peaceful sky, a girl, with her arms

extended, flew towards the wall near
which the waggon stood. Her shrieks,
rising each moment more piteously, produced
even a greater silence on the
part of the crowd than had reigned
at the first word of the speaker.
Through the jostling multitude ran the
whisper that ' some boone were
hunted.'

The Yicar had hurried to the side of
the maiden directly he saw what had happened.
They bent together over the
figure of a man, lying on the ground, his
head crushed between the waggon and the
wall of the public house. His eyes were
widely opened, and he appeared to be quite

conscious of their presence, for he faintly
murmured something which they could not
catch.

Polly's cries rang out againe

Oh, they've killed 'en, they've killed 'en,
I knows they 'ave ! 'Twere the stan, I
seed it, I did. Oh, Mr. Jahn, my dear, my
dear.'

Soothe yourself, child,' said Mr. Wentworth,
in a low, tender tone. c We will
bring him into the public-house, and see
what can be done.'

As he spoke, the thought of how the
sufferer might resent such a resting-place
occurred to his sensitive mind, and he bent
down to whisper,

Do you mind, Farmer John ?'

Oh, no,' was the answer.

The crowd, now thoroughly frightened,
was hurriedly dispersing. The Vicar motioned
to two of the evangelists, who
stood near, to carry in the sufferer. He
was laid upon a sofa in the inner room of
the public-house, and Mr. Wentworth,
whose eyes had never left the white, calm
face, noted, with a sinking heart, that the
features neither twitched, nor showed any
sign of pain, as the bearers gently put
their burden down upon the horsehair
cushions.

He bent over him, and asked,

Do you suffer ? Do you feel anything,

my friend ? Are you in great
pain ?'

1 1 don't feel anything,' Farmer John
answered, in a low tone. ' "lis the life
I've a-lost. I've no pain. I be a deadman,
I be.'

It was as Mr. Wentworth had feared.
But he would not give up all hope.

'You would not like to see a doctor?'
he asked.

1 No, no,' answered Farmer John. ' No
doctors for me. They can't do notion'
for me. I've a-lived wi'out 'em, an' I'll
die wi'out 'em. I'll die wi'out 'em,' he
repeated, in the old ringing tones.

Will you let me try what I can do ?'

the Vicar bent down again to ask. ' I
have studied medicine. Will you let me
try?'

1 What you will,' said Farmer John.

Mr. Wentworth now signed that the
women, who had assembled in great
numbers in the room, should leave
it.

'Ay, turn 'em out,' said Farmer John.
I've a-lived wi'out 'em, an' I'll die wi'out
'em.'

1 Come when I call you again the
Vicar said, laying his hand kindly on
Polly's shoulder, as he motioned to her
to follow the others.

Still crying bitterly, she slowly closed

the door behind her, and came out into
the passage, where was a great concourse
of the neighbours, who had hurried to
the spot, like a flight of birds of prey,
all anxious to be present at the scene
of trouble. Upon the poor, bewildered
maiden's ears their harsh whispering
fell like a shower of stones ; and the
words,

''E be dead an gave this 'ars hour
an' moore,' were the first to greet
her.

'Naw, 'e ain't,' said another. "E be
screeched' vit to break the walls. Him
wanted your men to hold en, sure. Walt'
Fitz seed 'en, an' told Oi. 'Is face

were all covered in blood dreadful. Ob,
there, did give Oi a turn, it did, ses' to
zee 'en !'

'row did it come?' inquired a third,
who had evidently just tumbled out of
bed, and was fastening up her thin wisps
of hair, which hung down below her dirty
sun-bonnet, and covered her face.

'Tis singular-like,' she continued, apparently
unconscious of the presence of
Polly. "Tis uncommon quare — but Miss
'Ahker were marr'd 's marner' to Flax'on,
an' to-night 'e, what treated 'er sa bad,
au' a-many moore beside, be a corpse !
There, 'tis a judgment' from God almighty,
'tis !'

'Marr'd were 'er, now, Em'ly?' asked
the feeble voice of the clerk's wife. ' An'
do 'er know what 'ave 'happened ?'

Mrs. Tolley had sunk upon a bench in
the passage, and was applying a glass to
her mouth, whose fragrant odour showed
that the good publican's wife had rightly
divined what would be the most effective
tonic to her visitor's delicate nerves in that
most trying moment.

4 Well, I never!' she continued, sipping
the refreshing beverage with the air of
a martyr. ' What some vo'ks 'as a-got
to goo trough wi' ! An' wi' my 'earth
sa wake-like, no doubt but what I ain't
long for this yere wool' neither. Which

the cactus 'ave a-zaid this many times.
Took I all on a sudden now. I could
put a sixpence on the plaice. I be sa
wake an' nash as a choice, I be.'

'roo knocked 'en down?' demanded
Mrs. Em'ly again. ' I warden yere, but
Jobie yeerd tell on 'en, an' zoo I shunned
down to see if I coulter 'help.'

1 'E weren't knocked down,' said Mrs.
Cosens. l Oi seed it all. 'E were standing'
on the weggin a-tahlken, an' zomewoone
crowed a stan, an' 'e staggered like forward,
an' wailed down wi' 'is 'eat agen the
wall, like 'as 'e med bin dead.'

Ay, sure,' said the clerk's wife. ' Dead
an' gave, as the zayen' is.'

VOL. III. Q

1 An they looked 'en up, an' carried 'en
in,' continued Mrs. Cosens. 4 Anne never
spoked a word but " Oi be a dead man, Oi
be." Oi yeerd 'en say it over an' over
agen as they carried 'en in

Ay,' broke in a fresh voice, which
trembled a little as it spoke. ' Poor
weller, 'e be done vur, noo mistake
Oh, 'tis cruel work, 'tis, to 'it a poor
man down like that adore everyone.
What never did noo 'arm to e'er a one.
'Oo crowed the stan, Mrs. Cosens ? Did
ee zee r

'Naw, Oi hidden, Mrs. Treviss,' answered
the gardener's wife. "Twere so
dark at the back o' the people, Oi coulter

zee a then. But Oi yeerd tell she dropped
her voice to a whisper, and glanced
sideways at the unheeding face of the
clerk's wife ; ' Oi yeerd tell as 'ow 'twere
Angel Tolley, that be 'er son.'

1 'Twere Mr. Bhoddell, moore like,' retorted
Mrs. Travers. "E were cussen'
there, that awful, 'warden vit words for
vo'ks to year, nor yet to say. There, I
never yeerd the like adore !'

Mrs. Travers, now suddenly perceiving
Polly, hurried up to her, honest sympathy
shining in the tears that filled her dark
eyes.

1 Poor maiden she said, clasping both
her hands. l Poor maiden ! Let's 'ope for

Q2

the bes', Polly, my dear. Let's 'ope for the
bes.'

< Oh, but I knows 'e '11 done !' cried Polly,
freeing herself with a vehement movement
from the kindly grasp. c An' 'tis all o' you
as ha' done it. 'Ell done, 'e will, I do know
'ell done, an' 'tis the Applecombe vo'k as
'ave a-killed 'en.'

The group at a little distance from
the two still continued to discuss the
event.

1 'Tis the marre's bin a-scraped aff the
boone,' said Mrs. Em'ly, to a knot of eager
listeners. ' Jobie — that's my 'urban' — said
zoo, 'im did. An' 'e do know all 'bout the
bones, wi' killed' o' the pegs, an' such like.

u "Pis the marre at the back o' the neck,"
says 'e. The little boone be all broke, it
be. " An' the marre, that's the life, be
scraped an ," says 'e, an zoo 'e won' never
stand upright agen.'

1 There's Boone abawve as knows, '
put in the clerk's wife, emptying her
glass.

f 'Tis the marre, sure 'enough,' continued
Mrs. Em'ly, shaking her head.
'If the boone 'ad bin a-broke farder
down, 'ed ha' bin bedrid, like my poor
mother were sa many year ; an' never
les 'er bed till she died. An' the cactus
told she, 't warden a-bit o' use to troy ;
'twere all dead-like below 'er back.'

The door of the sitting-room opened,
and a voice called,

1 Polly.'

She ran forward with an eager exclamation,
but Mr. Wentworth's hand stopped
her. She looked up into his face. It
was very kind, but so grave and pale
that her heart sank, and a loud cry
escaped her lips. She sprang past him
to the sofa, and, throwing herself on her
knees beside it, woke the echoes of the
quiet room with her tears and lamentations.


Peace, maiden,' said Farmer John's
voice.

It was sterner than she had ever heard

it before, and it frightened her into
silence.

1 Peace he repeated, slowly. ' Don' 'ee
cry, Polly, don' 'ee cry.'

Her uncontrolled grief seemed to vex
and disturb him ; and Polly tried to
choke back her fast rising sobs. The
Yicar was standing a little further off,
his face turned towards the window.
The moments dragged wearily on, and
a clock in the passage outside struck
eleven.

Polly,' Farmer John said, suddenly,
1 come near, lass, very near, where I can
weel thee close. Put thy raft 'an's near
moine, me little maid, for I can't move

nor turn. Kiss me lips, maiden, put
thine loan to moine. 'Tis for the hastes
time.'

Awed and subdued by the strange,
far-away look in his eyes, Polly drew
nearer, and obeyed.

"Tis the hastes time on 'artis repeated
Farmer John, his eyes reading
hers with the old loving expression in
them. ' Thy Jahn be gain' to leave
thee, Polly. But thee sudden be lwone-
some-like, when 'e be gave. Thee hidden
to grieve, lass, though 'e can't come back
noo moore. There ain't noo steps 'pon
this river, lass, to bring 'en back to
thee. But thee sudden grieve 'cause o'

that. Do 'ee 'darken, lass, to what I says ?'
'Ay, Mr. Jahn,' said Polly, dreamily.
It was as if they two were sitting all
alone together again, and he was telling
her what they would do in that fair new
country across the seas to which they were
going very soon.

i Not to grieve,' said Farmer John.
But to be a good maid, an 'arn thy leven
honest an' independent' like. Don' 'ee
stay idle' yere to Applecombe, Polly.
Give I thy word thee won'. But goo way
somewheres, out to service, where thy
sisters be. An' never take a penny
from ne'er a one but what thee's 'armed
by thine loan honest work.'

Ay, sure, Mr. Jahn,' said Polly.

'Say good-boy to thy Grammer, an'
tny sister Lizzy, an' poor would Jobie,' he
went on, after a moment's pause. ' An*
that be all, lass, — 'cepten' as 'ow I've a-
laved thee dearly, an' I do lave thee
always, maiden'. Always dearer an' dearer
for evermore.'

Her lips were pressed to his as the
Yicar turned round, and came slowly towards
the sofa.

In the short examination which he had
made, his fears had proved to be only too
well founded. A sharp pen-knife drawn
across the sole of Farmer John's foot had
only been felt like the slight tingling of

a nettle sting. The limbs had sustained
no injury, nor was the skin even scratched
or broken. But life had gone for ever
from the splendid frame ; it was dead, and
could feel nothing again. To himself Mr.
Wentworth murmured, ' Spinal cord
fatally divided — most dangerous spot,' but
to Farmer John his lips had refused to
utter the words. It had been almost a
relief when the deep blue eyes had met
his with a trustful look, and Farmer John
had said,

'Tis all right, Vicar, no one can do
anything, I know

He had spoken in the old strained key,
and the familiar tones, more than anything

else, smote upon the listener's heart
with sharp agony. He had turned to the
window while Farmer John gave Polly
his parting directions. The overwhelming
thought of what must shortly come seemed
to have taken away from the Vicar the
command of his voice. Outside, the
public-house garden stretched down to the
little river, in which the now declining
moon was bathing her fair face. The
sky above looked deeper, and still more
impenetrably while to Mr. Wentworth's
mind recurred his thoughts of a few hours

ago.

To die on such a night ! And he ?

A voice was pronouncing his name.

He came slowly to the side of the
sofa.

1 Mr. Wentworth,' repeated Farmer
John, his eyes searching the Vicar's, l 'tis
all right and straight now between us
two.'

The Vicar sank on his knees, and a
deep groan escaped his lips as he buried
his face in his hands. The remembrance
that it was he who had bidden Farmer
John address the crowd forced itself suddenly
upon him. Had he, then, caused
Farmer John's death, after slighting and
wronging him during his lifetime ?

'Vicar,' repeated Farmer John's quiet
tones, ' 'tis near — 'tis very near. I feel

it a-comin' And I can't die easy-like till
I hear you say: "Jahn, I believes in you
again." '

1 Oh, Farmer John,' answered a muffled
voice, ' I do believe in you — I do, withall
my heart and soul. Noble, true heart
that I have wronged, brave servant, tonight
you shall enter into the joy of your
Lord.'

'tis all straight, then said Farmer
John, ' and I can die easy. Poll 'full tell
you all the rest when I be gone, won
'er ? I ain't averred, Poll ; don' 'ee trimble,
maiden. Ridden much odds atween
life and death ; they be party nigh
together always, I reckon, party nigh
together.'

The Vicar looked up. Farmer John's
brilliant eyes were raised, with the same
expression in them which he remembered
they had worn during his illness, when
he had appeared to see a vision hidden
from all others. A radiant smile lit up
his pale face, and the moonlight through
the lattice shone upon his hair like a
golden halo.

Some disjointed words dropped from
his parted lips.

1 Her grave . . . ah, mother . . .
no good-boy . . . Well done . . .
good and faithful . . . still unworthy
. . Thyself wilt stand by me . . .
Polly, Polly, Polly, for evermore.'

The clock in the passage struck twelve.

A new day had dawned, and with the
day the glad voices of life and hope awoke
once more. A few hours later, and labour
would toil, and weary idleness go forth
to seek fresh pleasures.

And to one had come the rest of the
Eternal Silence.

THE END.

LONDON : PRINTED BY DUNCAN MACDONALD, BLENHEIM houseless.

Elks & BLACKETT'S

LIST OF NEW WORKS

LONDON:
IS, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET W.

ff

Each in a Single Volume, with Frontispiece, price 5s.

JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN.
A WOMAN'S THOUGHTS

ABOUT WOMEN.
A LIFE FOR A LIFE.
NOTHING NEW.
MISTRESS AND MAID.
THE WOMAN'S KINGDOM.

CHRISTIAN S MISTAKE.

A NOBLE LIFE.

HANNAH.

THE UNKIND WORD.

A BRAVE LADY.

STUDIES FROM LIFE.

YOUNG MRS. JARDINE.

WORKS by GEORGE MAC DONALD, LL.D.

Each in a Single Volume, with Frontispiece, price 5s.

David ELGINBROD.
ROBERT FALCONER.

ALEC FORBES.
SIR GIBBIE.

WORKS by MRS. OLIPHANT.

Each in a Single Volume, with Frontispiece, price 5s.

THE LAIRD OF NORLAW.
ADAM Gramme OF MOSS-gray.


A ROSE IN JUNE.
Phoebe, JUNIOR.
AGNES.

THE LIFE OF THE REV. EDWARD IRVING.

WORKS by the AUTHOR of 'SAM SLICK'

Each in a Single Volume, with Frontispiece, price 5s.

NATURE AND HUMAN

NATURE.
WISE SAWS AND MODERN

INSTANCES.

THE OLD JUDGE ; OR, LIFE

IN A COLONY.
TRAITS OF AMERICAN

HUMOUR.

THE AMERICANS AT HOME.

HURST $ BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS.

LIST OF NEW WORKS.

THE REAL LORD BYRON : New Views op the

Poet's Life. By John Cord Jeaffreson, Author of " A Book
about Doctors," &c. 2 vols, demy 8vo. sos.

Contents :— Misconceptions about Byron — The Barons of Rochdale and New-stead—
Byron's near Ancestors— More of "Mad Jack Byron'' — Aberdeen
Nottingham and London — Harrow — Harrow Holidays — Lord Byron of
Trinity — Cambridge Vacations — Peer and Pilgrim — "Child Harold" — The
Rival Cousins-inlaw— The Turning of the Tide— Byron's Married Life— The
Separation — The Storm — Switzerland — Venice : Byron's Depravation — Teresa
Gamba Guiccioli — Ravenna — Pisa — Genoa — Cephalonia — Missolonghi — The
Destruction of " The Memoirs "— Byronic Womankind— A Parting Note.

"Mr. Jeaffreson comes forward with a narrative which must take a very important
place in Byronic literature. Almost every chapter contains material
which may be fairly called new, and the book differs from many biographies of
Byron in one very important point — it is scrupulously just to every person concerned,
the facts dealt with being placed before the reader in a judicial spirit. Mr.
Jeaffreson had a specific work to do, and he has done it fully, conclusively, and
well ; and it may reasonably be anticipated that these volumes will be regarded
with deep interest by all who are concerned in the works and the fame of this
great English poet." — The Times.

"No other book relating to the history of English literature in the nineteenth
century has appeared of recent years that can claim to contain so much novel
information as Mr. Jeaffreson's. He has had access to new sources of information,
and he may be congratulated on the use he has made of his good fortune. He has
produced a work that throws a flood of new light on the most critical periods of
Byron's life, and that every future critic of modern English poetry will have to
read and re-read." — Athenaeum.

"Everybody will read these volumes, many for the sake of the great poet,
whose biography forms the subject, and others simply on account of the extraordinary
amount of interesting gossip which it contains about the famous personages
who flourished in the days of our grandfathers. It is a very able book
admirably written, thoughtful, and evidently entirely unprejudiced." — Morning
Post.

"This is a masterly performance, and one of the most important contributions
to literary biography published for many years. Mr. Jeaffreson writes not only
like a student, but a man of the world, and his entire analysis of the relation between
Byron and his wife is admirable." — The World.

"Byronic literature receives an important accession in Mr. Jeaffreson's new
work, an ably-written review of the great poet's character and life. It abounds
with facts and new matter worthy of careful reflection. The author has had
access to valuable sources of information, and he has used his material with great
skill and judgment"— Daily Telegraph.

Mr. Jeaffreson may claim to have produced a work which establishes itself at
once as standard, and which, for grace of style and intrinsic value will retain a
permanent place in literature. It is not easy to imagine a narrative more dramatic,
more stirring, and at the same time more trustworthy, than this." — Notes
and Queries.

"The admirers of Byron will read these volumes with interest, and may flatter
themselves that they have got a version of his history which no future revelations
are likely to add much to or impugn"— Graphic.

WITH THE CONNAUGHT RANGERS in Quarters,

Camp, and on Leave. By General E. H. Maxwell, Cab.,
Author of " Griffin, Ahoy !" 1 vol. 8vo. With Illustrations. 15s.

General Maxwell has, in the course of his military career, seen much of the
world, taken part in a considerable amount of fighting, and experienced many-adventures.
He writes in a genial fashion." — Athenaeum.

"A warm welcome may be presaged for General Maxwell's new work. It is an
eminently readable book, quite apart from the special attraction it must possess for
all who are, or who have been, connected with the gallant seth." — Daily telegraph.

"When General Maxwell made his debut in that capital book, 'Griffin, Ahoy!'
we expressed a hope that we should soon meet him again. This expectation is
now fulfilled, and again we have to congratulate the author on a distinct success.
Scarcely a page in his volume but has its little anecdote, and these stories have a
real touch of humour in theme'— Globe.

GRIFFIN, AHOY ! A Yacht Cruise to the Levant.

and Wanderings in Egypt, Stria, The Holy Land, Greece, anu.
Italy in 1881. By General E H. Maxwell, Cab. One vol.
demy 8vo. With Illustrations. 15s.
The cruise of the Griffin affords bright and amusing reading from its beginning
to its end. General Maxwell writes in a frank and easy style — Morning Post.

CONVERSATIONS with M. Tiers, M. Guizot,

and other Distinguished Persons, during the Second Empire. By
the Late Nassau W. Senior. Edited by his Daughter, M. C. M.
Simpson. 2 vols, demy 8vo. sos.
"This book contains the opinions of eminent men given in the freedom of conversation,
and afterwards carefully revised. Of their value there cannot be a question.
The book is one of permanent historical interest. There is scarcely a page without
some memorable statement by some memorable man. Politics and society and
literature are all discussed in turn, and there is no discussion which is unproductive
of weighty thought or striking fact." — Athenaeum.

CONVERSATIONS with Distinguished Persons

during the Second Empire, from 1860 to 1863. By the Late
Nassau W. Senior. Edited by his Daughter, M. C. M. Simpson.
2 vols. 8vo. sos.
"It is impossible to do justice to these 'Conversations' in a brief notice, so we

must be content to refer our readers to volumes which, wherever they are opened,

will be found pregnant with interest," — The Times.

PRINCE CHARLES AND THE SPANISH

Marriage : A Chapter of English History, 1617 to 1623 ; from
Unpublished Documents in the Archives of Simancas, Venice, and
Brussels. By Samuel Rawson Gardener. 2 vols. 8vo. sos.
"For the first time in our literature the real history of the Spanish match, and

what took place when Charles and Buckingham were at Madrid, is here revealed.

Mr. Gardiner has brought to bear upon his subject an amount of historical reading

and consultation of authorities which we believe to be almost without a

parallel." — Notes and Queries.

CATHARINE OF ARAGON, and the Sources

of the English Reformation. Edited, from the French of Albert

du Bois, with Notes by Charlotte M. Yonge, Author of " The

Heir of Radcliffe," &c. 2 vols, crown 8vo. 21s.

This book is valuable as an able compendium of documents about Catharine.

and also as a statement of the causes which led to the English Reformation. It

should be read by all who want to take a comprehensive view of the period. Miss

Yonge work is thoroughly and conscientiously done"— Graphic.

REMINISCENCES OF MILITARY SERVICE

WITH THE 93rd SUTHERLAND HIGHLANDERS. By
Surgeon-general Munro, M.D., Cab., Formerly Surgeon of the
Regiment. 1 vol. demy 8vo. 15s.

"There is much in these interesting reminiscences that will gratify while it
pains the reader. A book like this, which portrays the horrors and not merely
the showy side of war, has distinct usefulness. Dr. Munro recounts many incidents
with pardonable pride." — Pall Mall Gazette.

Dr. Munro served thirteen years with the 93rd, during which time he took
part in the Crimean war, the Indian Mutiny, and the Sitana campaign. He saw
much, recorded much, and noted much, and the result is the book before us. It is
an interesting collection of reminiscences, and we advise our readers to buy tho
book and judge for themselves of its merits." — United Service Gazette.

"A very interesting record. There is not a tedious page in the book, while for
anybody who is or has been connected with the 93rd, it will have a deep and abiding
interest." — Scotsman.

SIBERIAN PICTURES. By Ludwig Niemojowski.

Edited, from the Polish, by Major Szulczewski. 2 vols. 21s.

THE FRIENDSHIPS OF MARY RUSSELL

Milford: As Recorded in Letters from her Literary
Correspondents. Edited by the Rev. A. G. Estrange
Editor of " The Life of Mary Russell Milford," 2 vols. 21s.
"These letters are all written as to one whom the writers love and revere. Miss
Barrett is one of Miss Milford's correspondents, all of whom seem to be inspired
with a sense of excellence in the mind they are invoking. Their letters are extremely
interesting, and they strike out recollections, opinions, criticisms, which
will hold the reader's delighted and serious attention"— Daily Telegraph.

LIFE OF MOSCHELES ; with Selections from

HIS DIARIES AND CORRESPONDENCE. By His Wife.

2 vols, large post 8vo. With Portrait. 24s.
"This life of Moscheles will be a valuable book of reference for the musical historian,
for the contents extend over a period of threescore years, commencing with
1794, and ending at 1870. Moscheles writes fairly of what is called tho ' Music of the
Future,' and his judgments on Herr Wagner, Dr. Liszt, Bernstein, Dr. von Billow,
Litolff, &c, whether as composers or executants, are in a liberal spirit. He recognizes
cheerfully the talents of oar native artists: Sir S. Bennett, Mr. Mac-barren,
Madame Goddard, Mr. J. Barnett, Mr. Hullah, Mr. A. Sullivan, &c. The
volumes are full of amusing anecdotes." — Athenaeum.

MONSIEUR GUIZOT in Private Life (1787-

1874). By His Daughter, Madame de Witt. Translated by Mrs.

Simpson. 1 vol. demy 8vo. 15s.
"Madame de "Witt has done justice to her father's memory in an admirable record
of his life. Mrs. Simpson's translation of this singularly interesting hook is
in accuracy and grace worthy of the original and of the subject"— Saturday Review.

A CHRISTIAN WOMAN ; Being the Life of Madame

Jules Mallet, nee Oberkampf. By Madame de Witt, nee
Guizot. Translated by Mrs. H. N. Goodhart. With a Preface
by the Author of " John Halifax." Foolscap 8vo. 5s.

MEMOIRS OF QUEEN HORTENSE, MOTHER

OF NAPOLEON III. Cheaper Edition, in 1 vol. 6s.
A biography of the beautiful and unhappy Queen, more satisfactory than any
we have yet met with"— Daily News.

OUR HOLIDAY IN THE EAST. By Mrs. George

Summer. Edited by the Rev. G. H. Sumner, Hon. Canon of "Winchester,
Rector of Old Beresford, Hands. Second and Cheaper Edition.
One vol. crown 8vo. With Illustrations. 6s.
"A most charming narrative of a tour in the East amongst scenes of the deepest
interest to the Christian. No one can rise from the perusal of this fascinating
volume without the pleasant conviction of having obtained much valuable aid for
the study of the inspired narrative of Our Blessed Lord's life"— Record.

LIFE IN WESTERN INDIA. By Mrs. Guthrie,

Author of " Through Russia," " My Year in an Indian Fort," &c.

2 vols, crown 8vo. With Illustrations. 21s.
This is a remarkable book, for the variety and brilliance of the pictures which
it sets before us. Mrs. Guthrie is no ordinary observer. She notes with a keen
interest the life and character of the native population. Altogether this is a
charming book, in which we can And no fault, except it be an embarrassing richness
of matter which makes us feel that we have given no idea of it to our
readers; we can only say, Let them judge for themselves." — Pall Mall Gazette.

MY OLD PLAYGROUND REVISITED ; A Tour

in Italy est the Spring of 1881. By Benjamin E. Kennedy.
Second Edition, with Appendix. 1 vol. crown 8vo. With Illustrations,
by the Author. 6s.
"It is no small merit of Mr. Kennedy that he has rendered an account of a
journey over such familiar ground as that lying between London and Naples remarkably
readable. These pages are full of really useful information, and travellers
' going South ' cannot do better than take Mr. Kennedy's experiences as
their rule of conduct." — Morning Post.

COURT LIFE BELOW STAIRS; or, London

under the First Georges, 1714 — 1760. By J. Fitzgerald
Molloy. Second Edition. 2 vols, crown 8vo. 21s.
"Mr. Molloy's pages contain abundance of amusing anecdote. He writes in a
brisk and fluent style'" — Athenaeum.

"Well written, full of anecdotes, and with its facts admirably grouped, this excellent
work will prove of the greatest value to all who desire to know what manner
of men the first Electors of Hanover who came here really were. Pictures of
Court life so drawn cannot fail to be very instructive. Some of the word pictures
are wonderfully well drawn'' — Daily Telegraph.

WORDS OF HOPE AND COMFORT TO

THOSE IN SORROW. Dedicated by Permission to The Queen.

Fourth Edition. 1 vol. small 4to. 5s.
"The writer of the tenderly-conceived letters in this volume was Mrs. Julius
Hare, a sister of Mr. Maurice. They are instinct with the devout submissiveness
and fine sympathy which we associate with the name of Maurice; but in her there
is added a winningness of tact, and sometimes, too, a directness of language, which
we hardly find even in the brother. The letters were privately printed and circulated,
and were found to be the source of much comfort, which they cannot fail
to afford now to a wide circle. A sweetly-conceived memorial poem, bearing
the well-known initials, 'E. H. P.', gives a very faithful outline of the life." — British
Quarterly Review.

PLAIN SPEAKING. By Author of " John Halifax,

Gentleman." I vol. crown 8vo. 10s. 6d.
"ewe recommend 'Plain Speaking' to all who like amusing, wholesome, and
instructive reading. The contents of Mrs. Craik's volume are of the most multifarious
kind, but all the papers are good and readable, and one at least of them
of real importance."—^. James's Gazette.

SIX-shillings NOVELS

By

THE Brandies.
the Eight Hon. A. J. B. Beresford Hope, M.P.,

Author of " Strictly Tied Up."

"In 'The Brandies ' we have a sequel to Mr. Beresford Hope's clever novel of

Strictly Tied Up,' and we may add that it is a decided improvement on his

maiden effort. Mr. Hope writes of political life and the vicissitudes of parties

with the knowledge and experience of a veteran politician. The novel is one

which will repay careful reading"' — Times.

'The Brandies ' has all the charm of its predecessor. The great attraction
of the novel is the easy, conversational, knowledgeable tone of it ; the sketching
from the life, and yet not so close to the life as to be malicious, men, women,
periods, and events, to all of which intelligent readers can fit a name. The political
and social sketches will naturally excite the chief interest among readers
who will be attracted by the author's name and experience." — Spectator.

SOPHY:

OR THE ADVENTURES OP A SAVAGE.

By Violet Fane,

Author of "Denzil Place," &c.

' Sophy ' is the clever and original work of a clever woman. Its merits are of
a strikingly unusual kind. It is charged throughout with the strongest human
interest. It is, in a word, a novel that will make its mark." — World.

"A clever, amusing, and interesting story, well worth reading." — Post.

This novel is as amusing, piquant, droll, and suggestive as it can be. It overflows
with humour, nor are there wanting touches of genuine feeling. To considerable
imaginative power, the writer joins keen observation." — Daily News.
>■ '" ' Sophy' throughout displays accurate knowledge of widely differing forms of
character, and remarkable breadth of view. It is one of the few current novels
that may not impossibly stand the test of time." — Graphic.

MY LORD AND MY LADY.

By Mrs. Forrester,

Author of "Viva," "Mignon," &c.

This novel will take a high place among the successes of the season. It is as

fresh a novel as it is interesting, as attractive as it is realistically true, as full of

novelty of presentment as it is of close study and observation of life"— World.

"A love story of considerable interest. The novel is full of surprises, and will
serve to while away a leisure hour most agreeably." — Daily Telegraph.

A very capital novel. The great charm about it is that Mrs. Forrester is quite
at home in the society which she describes. It is a book to read." — Standard.

Mrs. Forrester's style is so fresh and graphic that the reader is kept under its
spell from first to last." — Post.

HIS LITTLE MOTHER: and Other Tales.

By the Author of " John Halifax, Gentleman."

This is an interesting book, written in a pleasant manner, and full of shrewd
observation and kindly feeling. It is a book that will be read with interest, and
that cannot be lightly forgotten"— St. James's Gazette.

"The Author of 'John Halifax' always writes with grace and feeling, and
never more so than in the present volume." — Morning Post.

' His Little Mother ' is one of those pathetic stories which the author tells
better than anybody else." — John Bull.

"This book is written with all Mrs. Craik's grace of style, the chief charm or
which, after all, is its simplicity"— Glasgow Herald.

Published annually, in One Vol., royal Svo, with the Arms beautifully
engraved, handsomely bound, with gilt edges, price 31s. ct.

LODGE'S PEERAGE

AND BARONETAGE,

CORRECTED BY THE NOBILITY.

THE Fifty-second EDITION FOR 1883 IS NOW Ready.

Lodge's Peerage and Baronetage is acknowledged to be the most
complete, as well as the most elegant-work of the kind. As an established
and authentic authority on all questions respecting the family
histories, honours, and connections of the titled aristocracy, no work however
stood so high. It is published under the especial patronage of Her
Majesty, and is annually corrected throughout, from the personal communications
of the Nobility. It is the only work of its class in which, the
type being kept constantly standing, every correction is made in its proper
place to the date of publication, an advantage which gives it supremacy
over all its competitors. Independently of its full and authentic information
respecting the existing Peers and Baronets of the realm, the most
sedulous attention is given in its pages to the collateral branches of the
various noble families, and the names of many thousand individuals are
introduced, which do not appear in other records of the titled classes. For
its authority, correctness, and facility of arrangement, and the beauty of
its typography and binding, the work is justly entitled to the place it
occupies on the tables of Her Majesty and the Nobility.

LIST OF THE PRINCIPAL CONTENTS.

Historical View of the Peerage.
Parliamentary Roll of the House of Lords.
English, Scotch, and Irish Peers, in their

orders of Precedence.
Alphabetical List of Peers of Great Britain

and the United Kingdom, holding superior
rank in the Scotch or Irish Peerage.
A alphabetical list of Scotch and Irish Peers,

holding superior titles in the Peerage of

Great Britain and the United Kingdom.
A Collective list of Peers, in their order of

Precedence.
Table of Precedency among Men.
Table of Precedency among Women.
The Queen and the Royal Family.
Peers of the Blood Royal.
The Peerage, alphabetically arranged.
Families of such Extinct Peers as have left

Widows or Issue.
Alphabetical List of the Surnames of all the

Peers.

The Archbishops and Bishops of England
and Ireland.

The Baronetage alphabetically arranged.

Alphabetical List of Surnames assumed by
members of Noble Families.

Alphabetical List of the Second Titles of
Peers, usually borne by their Eldest
Sons.

Alphabetical Index to the Daughters of
Dukes, Marquises, and Earls, who, having
married Commoners, retain the title
of Lady before their own Christian and
their Husband's Surnames.

Alphabetical Index to the Daughters of
Viscounts and Barons, who, having
married Commoners, are styled Honourable
Mrs. ; and, in case of the husband
being a Baronet or Knight. Hon. Lady.

A List of the Orders of Knighthood.

Mottoes alphabetically arranged and translated.


"This work is the most perfect and elaborate record of the living and recently deceased
members of the Peerage of the Three Kingdoms as it stands at this day. It pisa
most useful publication. We are happy to bear testimony to the fact that scrupulous
accuracy is a distinguishing feature of this book." — Times.

Lodge's Peerage must supersede all other works of the kind, for two reasons: first, ife
is on a better plan ; and secondly, it is better executed. We can safely pronounce it to be
the readiest, the most useful, and exactness of modern works on the subject"— Spectator.

A work of great value. It is the most faithful record we possess of the aristocracy
of the day." — Post.

The best existing, and, we believe, the best possible Peerage. It is the standard
authority on the subject"— Standard.

OF CHEAP EDITIONS OF

POPULAR MODERN WORKS.

ILLUSTRATED BY SIR JOHN GILBERT, MILLAIS, HOLMAN HUNT, Barret
FOSTER, LEECH, Sands, TENNIEL, ETC.

Each in a Single Volume, with Frontispiece, price 5s.

I.— SAM SLICK'S NATURE AND HUMAN NATURE.

"The first volume of Messrs. Hurst and Blackett's Standard Library of Cheap Editions
forms a very good beginning to what will doubtless be a very successful undertaking.
'Nature and Human Nature ' is one of the best of Sam Slick's witty and humorous productions,
and well entitled to the large circulation which it cannot fail to obtain in its
present convenient and cheap shape. The volume combines with the great recommendations
of a clear, bold type and good paper, the lesser, but attractive merits of being well
illustrated and elegantly bound"— Morning Post

IL— JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN.

"The new and cheaper edition of this interesting work will doubtless meet with great
success. John Halifax, the hero of this most beautiful story, is no ordinary hero, and
this his history is no ordinary book. It is a full-length portrait of a true gentleman, one
of nature's own nobility. It is also the history of a home, and a thoroughly English one.
The work abounds in incident, and many of the scenes are full of graphic power and true
pathos. It is a book that few will read without becoming wiser and better"— Scotsman.

This story is very interesting. The attachment between John Halifax and his wife is
beautifully painted, as are the pictures of their domestic life, and the growing up of their
children ; and the conclusion of the book is beautiful and touching." — Athenaeum.

III.— THE CRESCENT AND THE CROSS.

BY ELIOT WARBURTON.

"Independent of its value as an original narrative, and its useful and interesting
information, this work is remarkable for the colouring power and play of fancy with
which its descriptions are enlivened. Among its greatest and most lasting charms is its
reverent and serious spirit." — Quarterly Review.

"Mr. Warburton has fulfilled the promise of his title-page. The 'Realities of Eastern
Travel ' are described with a vividness which invests them with deep and abiding interest;
while the 'Romantic' adventures which the enterprising tourist met with in his
course are narrated with a spirit which shows how much he enjoyed these reliefs from
the ennui of every-day life." — Globe.

IV.— Nathaniel

JULIA KAVANAGH.

'Nathalie ' is Miss Kavanagh's best imaginative effort. Its manner is gracious and
attractive. Its matter is good. A sentiment, a tenderness, are commanded by her which
are as individual as they are elegant. We should not soon come to an end were we to
specify all the delicate touches and attractive pictures which place ' Nathalie ' high among
books of its class." — At/tenwum.

V.— A WOMAN'S THOUGHTS ABOUT WOMEN.

BY THE AUTHOR OF "JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

"These thoughts are good and humane. They are thoughts we would wish women to
think : they are much more to the purpose than the treatises upon the women and daughters
of England, which were fashionable some years ago, and these thoughts mark the
progress of opinion, and indicate a higher tone of character, and a juster estimate of
woman's position"— A thenxum.

"This excellent book is characterised by good sense, good taste, and feeling, and is
written in an earnest, philanthropic, as well as practical spirit." — Morning Pest.

VI.— ADAM Gramme OF MOSSGRAY.

BY MRS. Oliphant.

' Adam Gramme ' is a story awakening genuine emotions of interest and delight by its
admirable pictures of Scottish life and scenery. The plot is cleverly complicated, and
there is great vitality in the dialogue, and remarkable brilliancy in the descriptive pas-ages,
as who that has read 'Margaret Maitland ' would not be prepared to expect?
But the story has a ' mightier magnet still,' in the healthy tone which pervades it, in its
feminine delicacy of thought and diction, and in the truly womanly tenderness of its
sentiments. The eloquent author sets before us the essential attributes of Christian
virtue, their deep and silent workings in the heart, and their beautiful manifestations in
the life, with a delicacy, a power, and a truth which can hardly be surpassed"— Morning
Post.

VII.— SAM SLICK'S WISE SAWS AND
MODERN INSTANCES.

"We have not the slightest intention to criticise this book. Its reputation is made, and
will stand as long as that of Scott's or Buller's novels. The remarkable originality of
its purpose, and the happy description it affords of American life and manners, still continue
the subject of universal admiration. To say thus much is to say enough, though we
must just mention that the new edition forms a part of the Publishers' Cheap Standard
Library, which has included some of the very best specimens of light literature that ever
have been written'" — Messenger.

VIII.— CARDINAL WISEMAN'S RECOLLECTIONS
OF THE LAST FOUR POPES.

A picturesque book on Borne and its ecclesiastical sovereigns, by an eloquent Roman
Catholic. Cardinal "Wiseman has here treated a special subject with so much generality
and geniality that his recollections will excite no ill-feeling in those who are most conscientiously
opposed to every idea of human infallibility represented in Papal domination."
Athenaeum.

IX.— A LIFE FOR A LIFE.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

"We are always glad to welcome Mrs. Craik. She writes from her own convictions,
and she has the power not only to conceive clearly what it is that she wishes to
say, but to express it in language effective and vigorous. In 'A Life for a Life' she is
fortunate in a good subject, and she has produced a work of strong effect. The
reader, having read the book through for the story, will be apt (if he be of our persuasion)
to return and read again many pages and passages with greater pleasure
than on a first perusal. The whole book is replete with a graceful, tender delicacy;
and, in addition to its other merits, it is written in good careful English." —
Athenaeum.

' A Life for a Life ' is a book of a high class. The characters are depicted with a
masterly hand ; the events are dramatically set forth ; the descriptions of scenery and
sketches of society are admirably penned ; moreover, the work has an object — a clearly
defined moral — most poetically, most beautifully drawn, and through all there is that
strong, reflective mind visible which lays bare the human heart and human mind to the
very core." — Morning Post.

X.— THE OLD COURT SUBURB.

BY LEIGH HUNT.

A book which has afforded us no slight gratification." — Athenaeum.

"From the mixture of description, anecdote, biography, and criticism, this book is very
pleasant readings"— Spectator.

A more agreeable and entertaining book has not been published since Boswell produced
his reminiscences of Johnson." — Observer.

XL— MARGARET AND HER BRIDESMAIDS.

•• "We recommend all who are in search of a fascinating novel to read this work for
themselves. They will find it well worth their while. There are a freshness and originality
agouti quite charming, and there is a certain nobleness in the treatment both of
sentiment and incident which is not often found." — Athenaeum.

XII.— THE OLD JUDGE ; OR, LIFE IN A COLONY.

BY SAM SLICK.

A peculiar interest attaches to sketches of colonial life, and readers could not have a
safer guide than the talented author of this work, who, by a residence of half a century,
has practically grasped the habits, manners, and social conditions of the colonists he describes.
All who wish to form a fair idea of the difficulties and pleasures of life in a new
country, unlike England in some respects, yet like it in many, should read this book." —
John Bull.

Xii— DARIEN; OR, THE MERCHANT PRINCE.

BY ELIOT WARBURTON.

This last production of the author of ' The Crescent and the Cross ' has the same
elements of a very wide popularity. It will please its thousands"— Globe.

Eliot Warburton's active and productive genius is amply exemplified in the present
book. We have seldom met with any work in which the realities of history and the
poetry of fiction were more happily interwoven." — Illustrated News.

XIV.— FAMILY ROMANCE ; OR, DOMESTIC ANNALS
OF THE ARISTOCRACY.

BY SIR BERNARD BURKE, ULSTER KING OF ARMS.

It were impossible to praise too highly this most interesting book, whether we should
have regard to its excellent plan or its not less excellent execution. It ought to be found
on every drawing-room table. Here you have nearly fifty captivating romances with the
pith of all their interest preserved in undiminished poignancy, and any one may be read
in half an hour. It is not the least of their merits that the romances are founded on factor
what, at least, has been handed down for truth by long tradition — and the romance
of reality far exceeds the romance of fiction." — Standard.

XV.— THE LAIRD OF NORLAW.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.

"We have had frequent opportunities of commending Messrs. Hurst and Blackett's
Standard Library. For neatness, elegance, and distinctness the volumes in this series
surpass anything with which we are familiar. ' The Laird of Norlaw ' will fully sustain
the author's high reputation. The reader is carried on from first to last with an energy
of sympathy that never flags." — Sunday Times.

' The Laird of Norlaw ' is worthy of the author's reputation. It is one of the most
exquisite of modern novels." — Observer.

XVI— THE ENGLISHWOMAN IN ITALY.

BY MRS. G. Bretton.

"Mrs. Bretton had opportunities which rarely fall to the lot of strangers of becoming
acquainted with the inner life and habits of a part of the Italian peninsula which is the
very centre of the national crisis. We can praise her performance as interesting, exaggerated,
and full of opportune instruction"— The Times.

"Mrs. Bretton's book is timely, life-like, and for every reason to be recommended. It
is impossible to close the book without liking the writer as well as the subject The work
is engaging, because reaL" — Athenaeum.

Evil— NOTHING NEW.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

'Nothing New' displays all those superior merits which have made 'John Halifax
oue of the most popular works of the day. There is a force and truthfulness about these
tales which mark them as the production of no ordinary mind, and we cordially recommend
them to the perusal of all lovers of fiction, - '— Morning Post.

XVIII.— LIFE OF JEANNE D'ALBEET, QUEEN OF
NAVARRE.

BY MISS FREER.

"We have read this book with great pleasure, and have no hesitation in recommending
it to general perusal. It reflects the highest credit on the industry and ability of Miss
Freer. Nothing can be more interesting than her story of the life of Jeanne D'Albret,
and the narrative is as trustworthy as it is attractive." — Horning Post.

XIX.— THE VALLEY OF A HUNDRED FIRES.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " MARGARET AND HER BRIDESMAIDS."

If asked to classify this work, we should give it a place between ' John Halifax ' and
'The Cantons.' " — Standard.
"The spirit in which the whole book is written is refined and good." — Athenaeum.
This is in every sense a charming novels

THE ROMANCE OF THE FORUM; OR, NARRATIVES,
SCENES, AND ANECDOTES FROM COURTS OF JUSTICE.

BY PETER BURKE, SERJEANT AT LAW.

"This attractive book will be perused with much interest. It contains a great variety
of singular aud highly romantic stories." — John Bull.

A work of singular interest, which can never fail to charm and absorb the reader's
attention. The present cheap and elegant edition includes the true story of the Colleen
Bawn."— Illustrated News.

XXL— ADELE.

BY JULIA KAVANAGH.

"raddle' is the best work we have read by Miss Kavanagh; it is a charming story,
full of delicate character-painting. The interest kindled in the first chapter burns brightly
to the close." — Athenaeum.

'• 'Addle' will fully sustain the reputation of Miss Kavanagh, high as it already ranks."
John Bull.

"raddle' is a love-story of very considerable pathos and power. It a a very clever
novel." — Daily News.

Xxii— STUDIES FROM LIFE.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

"These 'Studies ' are truthful and vivid pictures of life, often earnest, always full o* right
feeling, and occasionally lightened by touches of quiet, genial humour. The volume is remarkable
for thought, sound sense, shrewd observation, and kind and sympathetic feeling-for
all things good and beautiful." — Morning Post.

"These 'Studies from Life ' are remarkable for graphic power and observation. The
book will not diminish the reputation of the accomplished author"— Saturday Review.



Xxii— GRANDMOTHER'S MONEY.

BY F. W. ROBINSON.

*' We commend ' Grandmother's Money ' to readers in search of a good novel. Tho
characters are true to human nature, and the story is interesting." — Athenaeum.

XXIV.— A BOOK ABOUT DOCTORS.

BY JOHN Corny JEAFFRESOX.

A book to be read and re-read ; fit for the study as well as the drawing-room table and
the circulating library." — Lancet.

"This is a pleasant book for the fireside season, and for the seaside season. Mr. Jefferson
has, out of hundreds of volumes, collected thousands of good things, adding thereto
much that appears in print for the first time, and which, of course,[gives increased value
to this very readable book"— Athena urn.

XXV.— NO CHURCH.

BY F. W. ROBINSON.

"We advise all who have the opportunity to read this book It is well worth the
study. ' ' — Athenaeum.
"A work of great originality, merit, and power." — Standard.

Xxvi— MISTRESS AND MAID.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

A good wholesome book, gracefully written, and as pleasant to read as it is instructive.
' ' — A thenamm.

A charming tale, charmingly told"— Standard.

"All lovers of a good novel will hail with delight another of Mrs. Craik's charming
stories"— John Bull.

XXVII.— LOST AND SAVED.

BY THE HON. MRS. NORTON.

' Lost and Saved ' will be read with eager interest by those who love a touching story.
It is a vigorous novel." — Times.

"This story is animated, full of exciting situations and stirring incidents. The characters
are delineated with great power. Above and beyond these elements of a good novel,
there is that indefinable charm with which true genius invests all it touches." — Daily JVeics.

XXVIII.— LES Miserable.

BY VICTOR HUGO.

Authorised Copyright English Translation.

"The merits of 'Les Miserable ' do not merely consist in the conception of it as a
whole ; it abounds with details of unequalled beauty. M. Victor Hugo has stamped upon
every page the hall-mark of genius." — Quarterly Review.

XXIX.— BARBARA'S HISTORY

BY AMELIA B. EDWARDS.

It is not often that we light upon a novel of so much merit and interest as-barbara's
History.' It is a work conspicuous for taste and literary culture, It is a very
graceful and charming book, with a well-managed story, clearly-cut characters, and
sentiments expressed with an exquisite elocution. The dialogues especially sparkle with
repartee. It is a book which the world will like. This is high praise of a work of art,
and so we intend it." — Tie Times.



XXX.— LIFE OF THE REV. EDWARD IRVING.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.

"A good book on a most interesting theme." — Times.

A truly interesting and most affecting memoir. ' Irving's Life ' ought to have a niche
in every gallery of religious biography. There are few lives that will be fuller of instruction,
interest, and consolation"— Saturday Review.

Xxxi— ST. Slave's.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JANITA's CROSS."

"This novel is the work of one who possesses a great talent for writing, as well as
experience and knowledge of the world. The whole book is worth reading"— Athenaeum

' St. Olave's ' belongs to a lofty order of fiction. It is a good novel, but it is something
more. It is written with unflagging ability, and it is as even as it is clever. The author
has determined to do nothing short of the best, and has succeeded" — Morning Post.

XXXII.— SAM SLICK'S TRAITS OF AMERICAN HUMOUR.

Dip where you will into this lottery of fun, you are sure to draw out a prize. These
1 Traits ' exhibit most successfully the broad national features of American humour." — Post.

XXXIII.— CHRISTIAN'S MISTAKE.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

"A more charming story has rarely been written. It is a choice gift to be able thus to
render human nature so truly, to penetrate its depths with such a searching sagacity, and
to illuminate them with a radiance so eminently the writer's own." — Times.

XXXIV.— ALEC FORBES OF Howled.

BY GEORGE MAC DONALD, LL.D.

"No account of this story would give any idea of the profound interest that pervades
the work from the first page to the last"— Athenaeum.

A novel of uncommon merit. Sir Walter Scott said he would advise no man to try
to read ' Clarissa Harlowe ' out loud in company if he wished to keep his character for
manly superiority to tears. We fancy a good many hardened old novel-readers will feet
a rising in the throat as they follow the fortunes of Alec and Annie." — Pall Mall Gazette.

XXXV.— AGNES

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.

'Agnes ' is a novel superior to any of Mrs. Oliphant's former works"— Athenaeum.

"Mrs. Oliphant is one of the most admirable of our novelists. In her works there
are always to be found high principle, good taste, sense, and refinement. ' Agnes ' is
a story whose pathetic beauty will appeal irresistibly to all readers. "morning Post.

XXXVI.— A NOBLE LIFE.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

"Few men and no women will read 'A Noble Life' without feeling themselves the
better for the effort"— Spectator.

A beautifully written and touching tale. It is a noble book"— Morning Post.

' A Noble Life ' is remarkable for the high types of character it presents, and the
skill with which they are made to work out a story of powerful and pathetic interest."
—Daily News.

XXXVII— NEW AMERICA.

BY W. HEPWORTH DIXON.

"A very interesting book. Mr. Dixon has written thoughtfully and well'' — Times.
"We recommend everyone who feels any interest in human nature to read Mr
Dixon's very interesting book'' — Saturday Review.



XXXVIII.— ROBERT FALCONER.

BY GEORGE MAC DONALD, LL.D.

"robert Falconer' is a work brimful of life and humour and of the deepest human
interest. It is a book to be returned to again and again for the deep and searching
knowledge it evinces of human thoughts and feelings"— Athenaeum.

XXXIX.— THE WOMAN'S KINGDOM.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

"' The "Woman's Kingdom ' sustains the author's reputation as a writer of the purest
and noblest kind of domestic stories." — Athenaeum.

' The "Woman's Kingdom ' is remarkable for its romantic interest. The characters are
masterpieces. Edna is worthy of tho hand that drew John Halifax." — Morning Post.

XL.— ANNALS OF AN EVENTFUL LIFE.

BY GEORGE Webb DASENT, D.C.L.

"A racy, well-written, and original novel. The interest never flags. The whole work
sparkles with wit and humour"— Quarterly Review.

XLL— DAVID ELGINBROD.

BY GEORGE MAC DONALD, LL.D.

A novel which is the work of a man of genius. It will attract the highest class of
readers"— rime*.

Xlii— A BRAVE LADY.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

"We earnestly recommend this novel. It is a special and worthy specimen of the
author's remarkable powers. The reader's attention never for a moment flags." — Post.

"'A Brave Lady' thoroughly rivets the unmingled sympathy of the reader, and her
history deserves to stand foremost among the author's works. "daily Telegraph.

Xlii— HANNAH.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

A very pleasant, healthy story, well and artistically told. The book is Bure of a wide
circle of readers. The character of Hannah is one of rare beauty." — Standard.

"A powerful novel of social and domestic life. One of the most successful efforts of a
successful novelist"— Daily Never.

XLIV.— SAM SLICK'S AMERICANS AT HOME.

This is one of the most amusing books that wo ever read"— Standard.
' The Americans at Home ' will not be less popular than any of Judge Halliburton's
previous works"— Morning Post.

XLV.— THE UNKIND WORD.

BY THE AUTHOR OF "JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

These stories are gems of narrative. Indeed, some of them, in their touching grace
and simplicity, seem to us to possess a charm even beyond the authoress's most popular
novels. Of none of them can this be said more emphatically than of that which opens the
series, ' The Unkind Word.' It is wonderful to see the imaginative power displayed in
the few delicate touches by which this successful love-story is sketched out." — The Echo.



Xlvi— A ROSE IN JUNE.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.

"'A Rose in June' is as pretty as its title. The story is one of the best and most
vouching which we owe to the industry and talent of Mrs. Oliphant, and may hold its own
with even ' The Chronicles of Carlingford.' "times.

"In ' A Rose in June' Mrs. Oliphant is at her very best again. The book is full of
character, drawn with the most delicate of touches"— Athenaeum.

Xlvi— MY LITTLE LADY.

BY E. FRANCES Pointer.

There is a great deal of fascination about this book. The author writes in a clear,
unaffected style; she has a decided gift for depicting character, while the descriptions of
scenery convey a distinct pictorial impression to the reader." — Times.

"This story presents a number of vivid and vei'y charming pictures, Indeed, the whole
book is charming. It is interesting in both character and story, and thoroughly good of
its kind" — Saturday Review.

Xlvii— Phoebe, JUNIOR.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.

"This novel shows great knowledge of human nature. The interest goes on growing
to the end. Phoebe is excellently drawn"— Times.

"This last 'Chronicle of Carlingford' not merely takes rank fairly beside the first
which introduced us to 'Salem Chapel,' but surpasses all the intermediate records.
Phoebe, Junior, herself is admirably drawn"— Academy.

XLIX.— LIFE OF MARIE ANTOINETTE.

BY PROFESSOR CHARLES DUKE YONGE,

"A work of remarkable merit and interest, which will, we doubt not, become the most
popular English history of Marie Antoinette." — Spectator.

This book is well written, and of thrilling interest"— Academy.

L.— SIR GIBBIE.

BY GEORGE MAC DONALD, LL.D.

' Sir Gibbie ' is a book of genius." — Pall Mall Gazette.

"This book has power, pathos, and humour. There is not a character which is not
lifelike"— Athenaeum.

LI.— YOUNG MRS. JARDINE.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

"young Mrs. Jardine' is a pretty story, written in pure English"— The Times.
"There is much good feeling in this book. It is pleasant and wholesome." — Athenaeum.
"This story is charmingly told"— The "

Il— LORD Brandenburg.

BY AMELIA B. EDWARDS.

"A very readable story. The author has well conceived the purpose of high-class
novel-writing, and succeeded in no small measure in attaining it. There is plenty of
variety, cheerful dialogue, and general ' verve ' in the book"— Athenaeum.

'lord Brandenburg ' is pleasant reading fromJ>eginning to end." — Academy.

u

PUBLISHED BY HURST & BLACKETT.

IT WAS A LOVER AND HIS LASS. By Mrs.

Oliphant, Author of " Mrs. Margaret Maitland," " Agnes," &c.
Second Edition. 3 vols.
In ' It was a Lover and his Lass,' we admire Mrs. Oliphant exceedingly. Her
story is a very pretty one. It would be worth reading a second time, were it only
for the sake of one ancient Scottish spinster, who is-nearly the counterpart of the
admirable Mrs. Margaret Maitland. The reader is carried along very pleasantly
in following the simple fortunes of a pretty country girl and her lover"— Times.

I HAVE LIVED AND LOVED. By Mrs. Forrester,

Author of " Viva," " Mignon," "My Lord and my Lady,"

&c. Third Edition. 3 vols.
' I Have Lived and Loved ' is written with extreme cleverness, and the plot is
constructed with skill. It deals with certain phases of society in which the readers
of novels are very generally interested. It is a transcript of what actually goes
on in a good many drawing-rooms and country houses, and therefore it will come
with a pleasantly piquant familiarity to those who are of the smart world, and
with a sense of revelation to those who are not." — The World.

FETTERED YET FREE. By Alice King, Author

of " Queen of Herself," &c. 3 vols.

Miss King's new novel is brightly written." — Athenaeum.

A very readable story. Hope Ellwood, the heroine, is a charming type of
womanhood" — Morning Post.

Novel-readers whose beau-ideal is a sensational beginning and a happy ending
will find much to attract them in Miss King's new novel. The story is relieved
by some graceful passages and some attractive characters." — John Bull.

MISS CHEYNE OF ESSILMONT. By James

Grant, Author of " Romance of War," &c. 3 vols.

"A wholesome and entertaining romance of modern life. The plot is well-constructed
and exceedingly dramatic, and the characters are sketched with that
care and ability for which Mr. Grant is justly celebrated." — Morning Post.

"The author of 'Romance of War' shows in his last book no diminution of
vigour. His tale is much more readable than the ordinary run of love stories." —
Athenaeum.

A STORY OF CARNIVAL. By Mary A. M.

Hoppus, Author of " Five-Chimney Farm," &c. 3 vols.
Miss Hoppus has written a good story, which will raise her reputation as a
novelist. The descriptive parts are very fresh and spirited, and the characters
secure our interest at once ; they are lifelike and full of vigour." — Athenaeum.

WOODROFFE. By Mrs. Randolph, Author of

Gentianella," "Wild Hyacinth," &c. 3 vols.

Mrs. Randolph's ' Woodroffe ' is a clever description of a country house inhabited
by ladies and gentlewomen, and so far sustains her reputation for easy
and truthful writing. Constance Woodroffe and her sister are good specimens of
English girls, with sufficient difference of character to give them reality." —
Athenaeum.

' Woodroffe ' is a novel which mothers may safely put into their daughters'
hands, which is saying a great deal." — Whitehall Review.

SANGUELAC. By Percy Greg, Author of " Ivy :

Cousin and Bride," &c. 3 vols.
"A most enjoyable book to read. In many respects it will be accounted Mr.
Greg's best novel. On one side it is a story with a stirring plot and several very
interesting and admirably drawn characters; on another it is a novel with a
purpose." — Spectator.



PUBLISHED BY HURST & BLACKETT.

THE SENIOR Hangman. By the Author of

St. Olave's," " Janita's Cross," &c. 3 vols.

FARMER JOHN. By George Holmes. 3 vols.
A FALLEN FOE. By Katharine King, Author of

The Queen of the Regiment," &c. 3 vols. (In July.)

RED Riding-hood. By Fanny E. Millet

Notlet, Author of " Olive Varcoe," &c. 3 vols. (In July')

A MAID CALLED BARBARA. By Catharine

Chtldar, Author of " The Future Marquis," &c. 3 vols.

"This story is stronger and more romantic than the author's previous works.
She has drawn some good characters, and there is not a little pathos in the lives
of the hero and heroine." — Athenaeum.

"The history of Barbara "Warrington — a very unconventional and attractive
heroine — has many points of interest in it, and it is well written." — Academy.

SAM'S SWEETHEART. By Helen Mathers,

Author of " Coming' thro' the Rye," " Cherry Ripe !" " Land o' the
Leal," &c. Second Edition. 3 vols.

"A new novel by Miss Mathers is a great treat." — Athenaeum.

' Sam's Sweetheart ' is clever and amusing. It is superior to its predecessors
from the same pen : the plot is closer, more coherent, and better constructed." —
Graphic.

"A vigorous story. The author has power, and some of her descriptions of
bush-life are full of beauty"— Academy.

This pleasing novel is admirably told. There is originality in the plot, and
there is no lack of incident. It should commend itself to readers for freshness
of conception and of treatment." — Scotsman.

"Miss Helen Mathers has written a good and readable book. It is a charming
love-story. We beg to congratulate the author on having stepped well to the
front in the ranks of really good novelists." — Whitehall Review.

HER SAILOR LOVE. By Mrs. Macquoid, Author

of " Patty," " Diane," &c. 3 vols.

This is a good business-like novel of the homely sort. There is a great deal
in the story to awaken interest, and not a little to afford pleasure and entertainments''
— Illustrated London News.

Mrs. Macquoid has written her book well. The story is fairly constructed, and
the descriptions and general phrase also deserve commendation." — Academy.

MONGRELS. By T. Wilton. 3 vols.

A very clever novel. It shows much talent." — Post.

"A bright and diverting story, full of effective scenes and descriptions. There
is a good deal of cleverness in it. The author's narrative is entertaining: it is
told with point and spirit." — Athena urn.

"A novel of far more than average excellence. It is thoughtfully and consistently
wrought out, and the interest is sustained to the close." — Scotsman.

WHAT HAST THOU DONE I By J. Fitzgerald

Molloy, Author of " Court Life Below Stairs," &c. 3 vols.

This clever story is much above the average. The descriptions of Irish life
are especially good." — St. James's Gazette.

"A bright, pleasant, and interesting novel. It contains scenes in Bohemia,
scenes in high life in London, and scenes in Ireland." — County Gentleman.

Mr. Molloy's new story is a good example of his peculiar style, refined and
pointed in one, a combination not easy of achievement. The tale opens with a
lifelike description of an Irish town"— Sunday Times.


