V-

GHOST OF DUNBOY CASTLE

VOL. I

OF

DUNBOY CASTLE

BY

Hubert

IN TWO VOLUMES
VOL. I

LONDON :
Simpson, marshall & CO.


[All rights reserved]

I

*J TO THE FOND Memory OF

MY FATHER AND MY MOTHER.

<^ BY HIS UNREMITTING CARE,

I, THOUGH MOST UNWILLING, WAS CONSTRAINED TO LEARN

IN boyhood's foolish days.

WHILE,

BY HER GENUINE PIETY, EXAMPLE, AND PRECEPT,

WAS IMPRESSED ON MY YOUTHFUL MIND,

AN INDELIBLE REVERENCE FOR CHRISTIANITY.

.'^



Arcades Ambo." — Horace.
Two Blockheads.

'* Tel erlauhe mir von Hirer Oiite Debauch zu machin und die-selden
Ihrer heaondern Aufmerhsamheit zu empfehlen " —

HAUS>rANN.

I avail myself of your kindness to introduce these Gentlemen to
your particular consideration.

Author, I am about to lay before you in the
following pages, the narrative of a true
ghost-story.

Critic. Pooh, pooh.

Author, Your remark has the characteristic of
brevity more strikingly developed than
that of considerate politeness.

Critic, When your proem is absurd nonsense,
you surely cannot expect eulogy
or encouragement.

Author. Be so good as to explain yourself.

Critic. An explanation is unnecessary. A

'' true ghost-story " carries on its title its
own confutation, and announces its
innate — its intrinsic — absurdity.

Author, You do not believe in ghosts or
ghost-stories, and dogmatise when you
should remember that infallibility is not
your prerogative — forcing me to the
conclusion that you believe your individuality
and error are antipodes. I
presume your motto is Caesar sum, et
alter, nullo numero homo.

Critic, Sir, you court criticism when you
protrude your composition on the public,
and when the honest critique is not
eulogistic, instead of deriving profit and
returning thanks, your Billingsgate
propensity finds egress in impolite personalities.


Author, It would require a cargo of Christian
resignation, and a mental calibre singularly
susceptive of advantage, to enable
one to return thanks, or derive profit
from such expressions as 'pooh, pooh"
and 'absurd nonsense." Moreover, unsupported
assertions, advancing abstract
theories, which have the counterpoise of

high authorities, can hardly be considered
** honest criticism."

Critic, No man endued with common sense
would believe what you call '' a true
ghost-story." It would be as rational to
say '^ a true falsehood;" '* an honest
thief," — the expressions are antagonistic ;
the avowal a paradox.

Author, Excuse me. Have you ever read the
life of Wesley, and his experiences concerning
ghosts ?

Critic, No ; and never will. Methodism commends
itself neither to my sympathy nor
support.

Author, If your criticism on the title of my
story is only of equal value with your
opinion of Wesley's narrative, which you
have never read, I am quite satisfied both
are worthless, for prejudice, not careful
examination, must be the foundation of
your decision.

Critic. Then let us agree to differ.

Author, Is your opinion of Professor Huxley
as adverse as that of Wesley ?

Critic. Certainly not ; Huxley is a first-class
scientific man, who has too much sense

to believe in such unscientific nonsense
as " ghosts," or 'true ghost-stories."
Author, Then let me read from one of his
works a quotation which he makes from
Sir David Brewster :—** On the 17th of

March, Mrs. A was preparing for

bed. She had dismissed her maid. On
raising her eyes, she saw, seated in a
large easy chair before her, the figure of

a deceased friend, the sister of Mr. A .

The figure was dressed as had been usual
with her, with great neatness. Mrs.
A tried to speak to it, but experienced
a difficulty in doing so, and in
about three minutes the figure disappeared."


Again. *' Mrs. A was preparing

to go to bed, about eleven o'clock at
night, and, sitting before a looking-glass,
was occupied in arranging her hair, when
she was suddenly startled by seeing in
the mirror the figure of a near relative.
The apparition appeared over her left
shoulder, and its eyes met hers in the
glass. It was enveloped in grave clothes,
closely pinned round the head and under

the chin, as is usual with corpses ; and,
though the eyes were open, the features
were solemn and rigid. A feeling like
what we call fascination compelled her
for a while to gaze. After a few moments
she turned round to look for the reality
at her back. It was not visible. It had
also disappeared from the glass when
she looked again."

Critic, Does Huxley quote that nonsense ?

Author, Yes, most certainly he has made that
quotation, but it is not nonsense.

Critic, Then what does he say of it ?

Author. He clearly admits that the sights
were seen — that is, he acknowledges the
truth of the story — indeed, he does not
appear, for one moment, to question the
veracity of the lady who made these
circumstantial and minutely particular
details.

Critic, If he had questioned her sanity, I
should not have been surprised.

Author But he has not done so ; no, nor by the
smallest innuendo insinuated that he had
any ground for so doing.

Critic, Then I should like to read the whole

account for myself, meanwhile reserving
the right of remaining a sceptic so far
as the reality of the apparition is concerned.


Author. Well, if that does not convince you,
what are we to understand when we read :
"Samuel said unto Saul, Why hast thou
disquieted me to bring me to life ; " or
what is the meaning of : " And the graves
were opened, and many bodies of the
saints which slept arose, and came
out of the graves, and appeared unto
many?"

Critic. I don't profess to explain what you
call the '' Holy Scriptures," but if I did,
I would suggest, that a ghost is supposed
to be a spirit, and your quotation says
expressly, " the bodies arose," in one
instance, and implies it in the other, so
they will not aid you much, or advance
your argument.

Author. Yes, the quotation does say '* bodies,"
but please remember it also says, *the
bodies that came out of the graves."
That is a most particular addition. We
learn from it that the bodies of these

saints had lain in their graves. They
had been inmates of their tombs. The
Scripture narrative does not inform
us how long. The probability is, that
some of them had slept there for a considerable
time, for it is improbable that
all these saints had died and had been
buried together on the same day, or the
same week, or the same year. Hence,
the conclusion is irresistible that the
bodies which had been buried must also
have become decomposed. I suppose
you will admit this ?

Critic, Well, yes ; but what does this tend to ?
What do you conclude from it ?

Author, Simply this. As the work of decomposition
must have destroyed the buried
bodies, the bodies that arose must have
been new bodies, different bodies, resurrection
bodies.

Critic, If, for argument sake, I admit this,
what follows ?

Author. Then you must also admit that we
have no reason to suppose that resurrection
bodies were composed of flesh, and
bones, and blood. It is more probable

that they were immaterial, bearing, perhaps,
to mortal gaze the similitude of the
departed, but nothing more.

Critic, I know nothing of Necromancy, or
witchcraft, or resurrection bodies, and so
do not feel called on to make any concession,
or admission, or to give any
explanation concerning your statements,
whose foundations rest, in my opinion,
on no stronger basis than pure surmise.

Author, At all events, you will allow that man,
in all ages, has been possessed of an
intuitive knowledge, or, if that be too
strong ^n expression; an intuitive feeling,
of the existence of the supernatural ?

Critic, Well, perhaps he has ; but that is no
proof that his supposition, for it is only
a supposition, is founded on truth, or has
the stamp of truth impressed upon it.

Author. Then let us leave this line of proof and
take another. He '^ who spake as never
man spake," did not '' pooh, pooh " the
matter, when his affrighted disciples
mistook him for a spirit. He did not say
there was no such thing ; quite the
contrary, he spoke to them of the nature

of spiritual existences, informing them
that a spirit hath not flesh and bones
as He has."

Critic . I must repeat I do not feel called on to
give any explanation in this matter.
You are on your trial, not I.

Author. I will not seek further to influence you.
There is an old saying, " Convince a
woman against her will, She's of the
same opinion still," and as far as my
experience goes, the distich is as applicable
to many men as it is to women ;
however, this is a true ghost-story, and you
will credit it, when you ^-ead it, I stake
MY word for this.

Critic. You stake your word ! Who are you ?

Author. If you would ask our Grand First
Principal — our Grand Master — His Royal
Highness the Prince of Wales that question,
he could answer it with the greatest
ease ; but, on the contrary, it is the most
difficult question you could ask an
obscure individual. All I can say in
reply is, I shall be pleased to send you,
or any other reader of my Story, my
photo, as a means of identification, if you

send me a stamped envelope with your
address and twelve stamps enclosed.

Critic. Excuse me, but really I would not
give the twenty-fourth part of that
amount, that is, one halfpenny, for it.

Author, Well, I would give double what you
specify for yours, or that of any other
reader of my book. I would send it in
postage stamps, and pay the postage too,
provided the applicant informed me what
incident he or she considered most
interesting.

Critic, Agreed ; I shall read your book,
absurd as its title is, and if your ghost-story
be true, I will accept your offer, and
send you my photo., particularising at
the same time what I consider your best
hit. But are you a Freemason, as an
allusion you just now made leads me to
suspect ?

Author. When you read my book you may be
able to answer that question for yourself.

Critic. One question more. Would you consider
it unpardonable inquisitiveness or
presumption were I to ask the object you
have in view in writing ? It would pain

me to suppose that your sole intention
was to try to engraft on the minds of
your readers a belief in spiritual apparitions,
from which I cannot see what
possible good could result.

Author. So far from considering such an
enquiry presumptuous, or replete with
inquisitiveness, to answer it gives me
sincere satisfaction. My object is to
picture character; not as it ought to
be, but as it exists. Remembering
Shakspeare's direction : ** Nothing extenuate
nor ought set down in malice." It is
my desire to shew, as far as in my power
lies, that no one is altogether good ; ay,
and that no one is altogether bad.

Critic, And what is your corollary or grand
conclusion from this outline ?

Author. Simply this, that the undercurrent of
the story will suggest that we should
exercise charity when considering the
failings of others, and remember for ourselves,
that happiness lies in the path
of rectitude, honour, unselfishness and
truth, and that vice, selfishness and
crime, bring down a weight of woe.

Critic. If I find what you describe exemplified
in your book, then my wish will be
that it may have success, meanwhile,
good-bye — tanta — so-long.

Author. (Smiling f and hissing his hand), Goodbye,
tanta.

January 1st, 1889.

CHAPTER I.

PAGE

Lovely Mary 0' Sullivan 1

CHAPTER II.
The Murdered Man's Ghost 15

CHAPTER III.
Running the Blockade - - - - - - 25

CHAPTER IV.

Pretty Nora Harrington and her Old Admirer - 39

CHAPTER V.
A Handsome Young Soldier on the Tapis - - 59

CHAPTER VI.
The Infidel Doctor - - - - - 75

CHAPTER VII.
Poor Little Cattie 91

CHAPTER VIII.

PAGE

Mary, Gerald, and the Gipsy - - - - - 110

CHAPTER IX.
Rosa and the Doctor - - - - - - 129

CHAPTER X.
Unparalleled Villainy - - - - - - 148

CHAPTER XI.
Freemasonry 165

CHAPTER XII.
Captain Lovell and the Cook 184

CHAPTER XIII.
Mary 0' Sullivan takes the Poison - - - - 202

CHAPTER XIV.
Gerald and Lovell Fight with Swords - - - 220

CHAPTER XV.
In the Dark Passage with the Ghost

LOVELY MARY O'SULLIVAN.

Time, on whose arbitrary wing

The varying hours must flag or fly,
Whose tardy winter, fleeting spring,
But drag, or drive us on to die."

Thus Byron, contemplatively sad, commences
one of his occasional pieces, and his words are
adopted as the *' Maitre de la ceremonie " to
introduce this narrative. This aforesaid, as the
lawyers say, old Time, with his scythe and hourglass,
and other emblems of decay and symbols of
destruction, had closed the curtains on another
day. Another day, another daughter of Time,
had finished her ephemeral existence. The
world's business people, with closed windows,
testified their appreciation of her loss. Night, in
seeming sympathy, spread round her pall of
darkness, and all creation, in emblematic mourning,
assumed the sable vestment — the judiciously
selected garb which so well symbolises disfiguring
melancholy. Yes, another day had passed —
had passed away for aye — had died as mortals
die, to see this world no more, and solemn midnight

was now approaching. In one brief half
hour the clock on the stately castle tower would
commence to chime its twelve. As Shakspeare,
that master in knowledge of human nature, and
language, and prejudice, describes —

'Twas now, the very witching time of night
When church-yards yawn, and Hell herself breathes out
Contagion to the world."

This hour, which superstition invests with circumscribed
mysteriousness, was quickly drawing
on ; but, as yet, the three inmates of the
spacious old room — with its lofty vaulted ceiling,
its high and dark oak-wood wainscotting,
and its life-size pictures of passed-away proprietors,
with their heavy carved frames, from within
which the penetrating eyes seemed still to peer
and follow the observer round the apartment,
regardless how often he might change his position
— yes, the inmates of this room had not
dared to sleep. Though very much fatigued by
the uninterrupted travelling of the last three
days, and worried by broken rest and severe
exercise, anxiety had hitherto overcome drowsiness.
The alarm they anticipated, from what the
general rumour of the neighbourhood assured
them they were destined that night to see, preyed
on their minds. The forewarning they had
received, in ominous accents and with appalling
gestures, accompanied, too, with a detail of the
consequences likely to result from their foolhardiness

in the venture, had, up to this late period,
overcome the cravings of wearied nature, and
expelled the thoughts of genial balmy rest. The
hour for the advent of the apparition was drawing
near, and the conversation, which the three
college friends had kept up with much animation
in the earlier period of the evening, had
at length dwindled down to curt sentences, with
long intervening pauses, varied alone by loud,
though suppressed yawns.

"- How I wish," at length said one of the party,
*' how I wish, Marty, that ghost would come, and
let us see the worst of him, for I'm blessed if my
eyes will stay open any longer."

As the thread of the narrative has been taken
up in the middle, it will now be necessary to particularise
that the speaker's name was Richard
McSweeney, eldest son of an old and influential
family in the County Tipperary; that he
addressed thus familiarly Mortimer O'SuUivan,
whose guest he was, and of whom by and by
more particulars will be unfolded; while the third
party was Eugene Fitzgerald, whose early years
were spent in Valencia, an island on the western
coast, where now stands the stately residence of
the Knight of Kerry, who still rejoices in this
family name.

*eyes, Dick," rejoined Marty, "I wish if he
intended to come, he would make his appearance
; but you know," he added vauntingly, " I
do not believe in ghosts, for, if there be such

things at all, they are immaterial, and men of
science inform us that our eyes are so constituted
that they cannot see immaterial objects, and
therefore, come or not come, it will be to us all
the same, for it will be impossible for us to
behold them."

** And that is my opinion, too," chimed in
Eugene, having at first with difficulty opened his
eyes, while his mouth opened spontaneously to
give vent to his fiftieth yawn.

Scarcely had they spoken, when a low rumbling
in a distant corner of the room, made all three
hurry from their seats, and place themselves in
standing posture, closely side by side, while every
eye is directed anxiously towards the quarter
whence the noise had come.

Then was tested the strength of Mortimer's
philosophy, and the sincerity of McSweeney's
wish. The philosophy — the lately accredited
philosophy — shad yielded without a struggle to
the awakened impulse of early superstition, and
the wish, transformed by fear, chameleon-like,
had changed, and turned into its very opposite.
At that moment McSweeney longed for anything
rather than the accomplishment of the previous
moment's aspiration.

Soon they all breathed freely again. A few
moments' attentive listening convinced them that
the dreaded noise was but the gnawing of a
mouse, and with a general hearty laugh at their
common fear, and the trivial circumstance that

caused such agitation, they soon resumed their
places, and forthwith fatigued nature renewed
her cravings for repose.

Just then the old castle clock had struck its
portentous twelve, but yet no ghost appeared, and
though not one of the party was sufficiently
courageous to suggest that they should retire to
their different bedrooms, to enjoy the sleep they
so much needed, yet all were unanimous that it
would be very foolish indeed, even if possible, to
stay awake all night.

'•'■ Let us watch in turns," says Fitzgerald,
*' one hour each ; one awake to give the alarm,
the other two asleep, and let us cast lots to see
who must watch the first hour.

** Agreed," said the other two ; and soon the
lots prepared and drawn constituted Mortimer
0' Sullivan the first hour's watcher. Whereupon,
taking an old book, entitled Marx 0' Sullivan her
Friends and Influence, written in two volumes,
from a bracket in the room, he sat down to read.

And now, kind reader, do not forget this book,
and yet, dismissing it from thy thoughts awhile,
see in imagination, Mortimer, sitting in his chair,
alone awake. Close by, McSweeney, on the
hearth-rug, before the still blazing fire, at full
length, reposing his wearied limbs; and hear
Fitzgerald, on the sofa, with two great coats
spread over him, in lieu of blankets, rivalling his
sleeping friend, if not in comfort, most certainly
in the monotonous vigour of his snores.

But Mortimer is alone — alone awake — his
anxious ear listens for every noise. He has
promised willingly that he will call his companions
on the first signal of danger, and this
danger his excited feelings conjure up almost
from everything. He frequently turns in his chair,
and casts many a wistful glance on the dark
corner behind him, as though it were his firm
belief that thence would be the advent of the
expected, but unwelcome, visitor. And now, as
the replenished fire is sinking on the hearth,
and the supplied ash blocks have ceased to
emit their bright flames, the light becomes more
dim, more suppressed, till, to his fancy, as the
gifted American, Edgar Allan Poe, describes —

Each flickering dying ember wrought its ghost upon the floor,
Tien eagerly hs wished the morrow."

And, as if anxious to anticipate its approach, he
left his seat, and going to the window, cast his
eyes towards the east, along the unruffled billows
of spacious Bantry Bay.

The words '* unruffled billows " have not been
used unwittingly. The boisterous east winds
which prevailed the preceding days had violently
disturbed the sea, but the storm had for some
hours died away, and was followed by a breathless
calm. The only consequence of the previous fury
of the wind was what seafaring men denominate
a heavy ground swell," whose tops displayed no
curling surge or agitated foam, but which, unaffected

by external causes, were moved in their
swerving and pleadings by no other impulse
than their innate individual strength.

And as he looked along those billows, which
rolled from the Atlantic through the western
entrance, between Bere Island and the opposite
projecting headland, into the extensive bay, he
saw the reflection in a thousand different places
of the dichotomised moon, whose borrowed light
the earth had half obscured, apprehensive lest
the eventful issues of that mysterious night, if
seen in full effulgence, might prove dangerously
alarming to her excited offspring. He saw, too,
the unnumbered stars twinkling in their exalted
spheres. He heard the hoarse murmur of the
encroaching waves, as, restless of restraint, they
dashed against the rock-bound shore. To his
vision also, in the distance, rose the towering
cliffs, which, in the imperfect light of night,
appeared like murky mists. But while contemplating,
the grandeur of the scene thrilling his
romantic soul, another object suddenly arrests
his view, the first sight of which is accompanied
with a strange mysterious feeling of alarm. His
heart redoubles its beating. A cold sensation,
like a chill serpent's coiling, glides over his entire
frame, and his hair seems to rise on his temples
and stand erect in fixed rigidity.

Yet, why these symptoms of fear ? What
reasonable cause for their existence ? His eyes are
fixed upon a distant light, a pale dim light —

unlike a lamp or torch, but such as surrounds the
moon, the halo which the weather-wise inform us
is a signal premonitory of rain. It comes apparently
from the direction of the ocean. As he looks,
it approaches nearer and nearer, and his fears
magnify. Already it has come so near that his
straining eyes can distinguish a boat — a boat not
empty, but which contains several men, whose
garb bespeaks them men of arms, but whose
uniform is not of modern date. \

With intense anxiety he observes each movement,
and now the boat has neared the shore,
and the strange light gives our solitary watcher a
more perfect view. Ah ! now he can distinguish
accurately. They approach the landing underneath
the castle — his castle — the dwelling-place
of his forefathers. Are they pirates — robbers
of the sea, returning loaded with the pilfered
booty which they have rifled from some passing
merchantman, whose crew they have murdered,
and then sunk the vessel in the deep, that no
witness, no evidence, might remain to tell the
story of their enormity ? Have they made his
hereditary mansion their rendezvous — their
treasure-house — finding it untenanted, and now
in the lone stillness of midnight will they murder
him and his companions, that none other may
venture to encroach on their appropriated property,
and that henceforth the inheritance maybe
theirs ? Thus for a moment he thinks, and
concludes it is full time to awake his slumbering

companions, that all may devise together some
mode of defence : but then, again, the thought
arises that they may be smugglers in disguise who
have selected this late hour of night to land their
contraband goods, and so escape the vigilance
of the coastguard, and his friends roused from
repose before the allotted time, may deem him a
coward swayed by groundless fear, and may
reproach him with pusillanimity. No. Better
danger than this. He will not call them yet, but
will wait till peril comes more imminent and
definite.

It is time to describe the personages that
Mortimer observed, whose appearance so powerfully
aroused his apprehension, and this shall be
done as briefly as possible. In the stern of the
boat, and holding the tiller ropes, sat one whose
stately and majestic mien, as well as the difference
of his armour, pointed him out as the leader
of the party. He looked about twenty-five years of
age. His long, dark, and glossy hair, fell in
thick clustering curls on his shoulders. His well
developed chest and colossal frame evinced him
at once well fitted to take part in daring enterprises,
and a formidable foe for those who would
oppose his will. His forehead high and expanded,
his nose aquiline, his features regular,
all constituted a contour singularly handsome
and beaming with intelligence, but in the minute
expression the physiognomist might read a fixity
of purpose, and in the rapid glancing of the eye

an insatiate desire, mingled with what might be
attributed either to a present feeling of pain, oran
intense, unwavering longing to obliterate past
indignities by a signal vengeance and an atoning
retribution. There might also be deciphered the
traces of deep-felt melancholy in that countenance.
It was pale too — wonderfully wan — and
this paleness the long dark beard and drooping
moustache, by its contrast, made to look almost
the pallid wanness of death ; so Mortimer's fancy
thought. But then, death is not wont to shew
such signals of vitality. Limbs, too, encased in
panoply of steel, the huge dagger, the heavy
claymore, the helmet with its waving plume ;
these are not the accoutrements of the inhabitant
of the grave.

And now we may leave the description of this
person — whether a mortal or an unearthly visitant,
our narrative will presently unfold — and turn
to his companions, who were five in number, four
of them grim in appearance, powerful in form,
well armed too — but their armour shewed not
distinction and influence, but was such as ruffian
desperadoes would adopt, or dependent menials
would assume, when ordered to share in some
desperate exploit of their superior.

There is some one in recumbent position in
the bottom of the boat. A long white robe is
visible — of delicate texture too — more fitted for
the drawing room and its genial warmth than
the cold, rude sea and the freezing chillness of

that night. A shawl, also of costly fabric, may be
seen. It partly envelopes a head which leans
against the mail-clad warrior who guides the
rudder. Such clothing surely is not masculine,
nor is that little foot which just appears below
the robe, nor that tiny white hand which looks so
beautiful as it rests listlessly on the reclining
bosom. Thus Mortimer thought, as looking from
the window he beheld, and seemed entranced by
rapture as he gazed. That dress, that foot, that
hand, ay, and that face and form of beauty
unsurpassed, who can describe it ? A forehead
white as snow and perfect in its outline, each side
of which bright golden tresses decorate and fall
in luxuriant curls, extending far below the waist.
A nose which the Grecian or Italian sculptor
would long to constitute his model, and though
chiseling with exactness and elaborate care, yet
would vainly try to emulate. The eyes, which long
dark lashes fringe, are closed apparently in
sleep. The mouth, through whose slightly parted
lips the tips of pearl-like teeth, of form exact,
appear, wears a smile, the sweetness of whose
expression words are too feeble to portray, while
the chin, rounded in perfect proportion, completes
an attempt to describe those varied charms,
whose tout ensemble presented to young Mortimer's
fancy the very acme of loveliness, which to see
was to admire, and to observe closely was to
adore.

Who can she be ? Torn from a happy home,

perhaps, by these rude men. Oh ! has she been
subjected to indignities ? Has any man so vile
yet breathed the air, who would venture in the
blackness of a fiend heart to offer her an insult ?
No fear now for himself, no dread of ghosts
remains. One all-absorbing thought occupies his
mind. He burns to know the fair one's history,
and if enemies one so beautiful and so angelic
could have, his soul longs to free her from them,
or to pour out his life blood, drop by drop, in
the chivalrous attempt.

And now the approaching boat has reached the
land, and clustering evergreens obscure his perfect
view. '* Who can she be ? " again he cries. *' Oh !
doubt is terrible — is unbearable. I cannot brook
it longer. All, even at the risk of life, I shall, I
must know ; " but while he meditates, and is
preparing to suit the action to the word, suddenly
a balmy fragrance scents the genial air, and
music's most harmonious strain thrills his loud-throbbing
heart. It is far away, yet it is near.
It is low and soft, and yet it is distinct. It is
sad, aye, passing sad, and yet though so melancholy,
it is exquisite. He listens in attention most
profound, while a gentle voice, in tenderest pathos,
which the harp's sweetly reverberating tones
accompany, pours forth these stanzas to the air.

Oh ! weep for thy country, her glory has vanished,

Ye matrons of Erin, restrain not your tears.
The stranger, by numbers, thy brave sons has vanquished,

And doomed them in bondage to pine for long years.

Yet, weep not for those who by dying betoken

They valued not life, when sweet liberty fled,
But weep for the living, whose spirits are broken,

Who, grieving in thraldom, now envy the dead.

Bring lilies in handfuls, and short blooming roses,
To strew o'er the tombs of the fair and the brave ;

Tread softly ! here honor and virtue reposes,
Here tyranny's victims, find peace in the grave.

And thou, lovely maiden, now gently reposing,
The destitute poor ne'er besought thee in vain,

But when the afflicted ones' woes were disclosing,

You soothed their distress first, then wept o'er their pain.

Glad ! glad was thy heart e'er the stranger invaded,
To murder thy kindred and claim thy demesne,

While vain of his pomp and his power paraded.
He tried to dishonour thy fair virgin fame.

Thine aged widow'd mother, heartbroken with sorrow.
Then sought thee through castle and hall and dark room.

Till tidings most woful arrived on the morrow,
And brought her grey hairs down with grief to the tomb.

But weep not, kind mother, nor poor ones, when fainting
With hunger ; ye think how she gave you her bread ;

With honour unsullied — a base life disdaining.
Behold her ! she sleeps in the stillness of death.

The music ceases. The sweet voice dies on
the rising breeze, and the strange light concentrating
displays the beauteous form, no longer
breathing vital air, but now a pale, a rigid, a
lifeless corse.

Mortimer cannot bear the sight. His head
reels, his eyes swim, and with difficulty he
prevents himself from sinking to the ground ;
but vigor soon returns, then, with hands upraised
towards heaven, he prays for vengeance on the

guilty, and swears with solemn oath, his life-long
aim shall be to trace the villain out, and vent a
condign punishment on the murderer's head.
But, at this moment the door of the old room
opens, its lock has noiselessly given way, its bolts
have parted mysteriously, and the steel-clad
warrior, in colossal form and stately majesty,
stands full before his view ; while from outside
the window, the united wailing of several female
voices uttered most plaintively and distinctly the
following words : —

oil ! how we grieve for you, Mary O'Sullivan;
Kind to the poor, to jour mother so dutiful,
Lovely and virtuous, so good and beautiful;
Murdered while pure and young, Mary O'Sullivan."

THE MURDERED MAN's GHOST.

*' Cut off, ev'n iu the blossoms of my sin,
Unliousel'd, unappointed, unsealed.
No reck'ning made, but sent to my account
With all my imperfections on my head.
Oh, horrible ! oh, horrible ! most horrible ! " — Hamlet.

The news rapidly circulated round all the neighbourhood
that three young gentlemen had arrived
at Dunboy Castle, and had made preparations to
spend the night there. Their bravery, their foolhardiness,
as some called it, was the topic of
conversation in every house in the little village of
Castletown, and, presently, excited groups might
be seen in the most frequented parts of the
streets, discussing, with earnest volubility and
manifest excitement, the ominous particulars of
the situation.

'' Have ye been west, why?" said Mr. Pillory,
the leading grocer of the locality, to Mr. James
Doonan, who had acted as caretaker and resident
at the Castle since the family had ceased to reside
there, some fifteen years before.

''Yis," replied Mr. Doonan, *' and have lift
the three young gentleman in the ould oak room.

They seems lively and happy enough just now,
and full of their fun, and appears to think it fine
diversion to wait for the ghost, but, be me word,
they'll have another kind of look on their faces in
the moriens

Tell us what ye seen, Mr. Doonan, when ye
lived there, and tuck care of the place," asked
Mr. Pillory.

** Fails, Oi seen more than Oi'd care to see
again," responded Mr. Doonan, '* but Oi'll tell ye
how it was. Mesef and the wife, and the wife's
sister, wor all in the house, to keep the fires lit
regular, and the rooms and furniture dusted and
tidy. At first we all slept in the servants' apartments,
but after a while, just to keep the beds
aired like, we thought we'd sleep in the best bedrooms,
and so we did. And the first night,
notion at all, good or bad, happened, and the
second night just the same took place, but the
third, after we went to bed, Oi thought Oi heard
like a lame step on the stairs, every second one
coming heavy like, and every other light. And
with that Oi ups and says to the wife, ' sure it is'nt
anybody has got into the house ? '

'* ' Go asleep,' says she, ' 'tis dreaming ye are,
and don't be disturbed me with yer nonsense.'

*' But me mind silt uneasy like, so up Oi gets,
lights the candle, and goes down stairs, and never
cried stop until Oi looked over the entire place,
but the dickens a soul could mesef see. With
that Oi was coming back again to bed, and just as

Oi reached the must landed, something or another
made me lift me oyes and look up. Oh, bygones
! Oi shall never forget it if Oi lived a thousand
years. There stood, right foreninst me, an
ould gentleman, with a green cut off coat, knee
breeches and top boots, staring me into the two
oyes. His face was as pale as death, and fresh
blood seemed to be runner down won of his
cheeks. The big could drops began to trickle
from me forehead on to me oyes and nose and
whiskers, me knees shuck and knocked together,
so that I was hard set to stand, and Oi could hear
myself saying, ' A a a a a aa,' till me jaw fell and Oi
could utter no more. But as Oi looked, he moved
away towards the three marble figures that stand
on the slab on the left-hand side of the landed,
on the top of the stairs. He thin pointed to a
spot about twenty inches under their feet, just
above the wainscoted, steady as a rock for about
two mints, and thin he vanished through the
wall, just the same as if it was an open door."

The Lord be between us and all harm," said
an old woman, who stood listening on the outside
of the crowd.

'Tis ye may say so," continued Jim, 'but
Oi haven't finished me story yit. Well Oi never
opened me mouth to the wife about what Oi seen,
Oi kept it all to mesef ; but the next night we
were up rather late, and after we went to bed, the
wife forgot something in the kitchen and went
down for it, and no sooner was she gone than Oi

leered the same lame step on the landed. ' Och
murder,' says Oi to mesef, * Oi'm lost entirely,
sure and martin Oi am.' If he had to come into
the room Oi'd have died there and thin. So with
that, to tell no lie about it, Oi was that afeard
that Oi hid me head under the bed-clothes, and
there Oi stopped, nearly smothered as I was, until
Oi felt a hand come down heavily on me side.
The senses were just haven me whin Oi heard a
voice saying * Och, Jim, Jim, Oi'm kilt entirely.'

With that, Oi raised me head from out the
covered, and, not letter on that Oi was frightened,
says, * whatever is the father with ye, Biddy, ye
looks rale bad ? '

*' ' Och ! ' says she, * Oi've just seen, out on the
landed, a gentleman, in a green cut off coat, knee
breeches and top boots, and as Oi looked at him
he vanished right through the wall, close by the
three marble figures. The house is haunted,' says
she, * Oi wouldst stop another night in it for
the world''

Don't be talking yer nonsense,' says Oi,
letter on to be very brave, * 'tis drain ye were,'
though, to tell the truth, the fear was in me own
heart, and Oi could scarce keep me teeth from
chatterer, for 'twas the very same Oi mesef had
seen the night afore — and sure if Oi would her
what Oi seen she might have imagined she seen
the same, but the never a word Oi would her, and
yet she spake into me two ears the very sight Oi
seen mesef.

Why did'nt ye call me, says Oi.

*' *0i had'nt the power to spake,' says she, 'and
sure its ready to faint Oi am now with the dint of
the fright

** And thin Oi tuck to persuaded her that it was
all in her own mind it was, and would her not to
say a word to her sister, and she promised me she
wouldn't. And so two days went by, and mesef
was anxious to stay in the house if Oi could at
all, for ye know it saved me the expense of paying
every week for lodges or apartments, but still the
fear was in me heart and in Biddy's too, for whin
worst the night came Biddy would not go a step
be herself, and if Oi had to go to any part of the
house, she would not be left alone, but came along
with me, and, fakes, to tell the truth, the never a
step would mesef go only she did, though Oi did
not let on to her, but only laughed at what Oi
called her nonsense. But, meanwhile, the sister-in-law
went over the house without a bad thought
in her head or a fear in her mind. We could
hear her run down to the kitchen and come back
again, singing as she was used to do, been a fine
singer too, and this too in the late hours, when
we were in bed. So, at last, both the wife and
mesef began to think there was notion in it but
our own fancy, and with that our courage began
to git up again. Until one night, when we were
both asleep, Kitty, that's the sister-in-law, rushed
into our bedroom, and fell down dead as a corpse
on the flare. Oh ! she was awful to look at as

she come to. She trembled from head to fut,
and when we axed her what was the matter, she
up and would us of the same ould gentleman, with
the green cut off coat, and the knee breeches and
top boots.

** Well, ye know if only one of us seen it, it
might, perhaps, be a fancy, but when the three of
us, all at different times, without ever ellen won
another won word, seen the same speret, walked
disconsolate the house, in the dark hours of night.
Sure there's no goes bey ant that anyhow. The
next day Oi med a lane confession, and would
them how Oi had seen the same with me own two
oyes, and another night in that house we never
spent, though we light the fires and dust and tidy
the rooms as usual every day."

As Jim spoke, every eye was fixed on him, and
well nigh every mouth of all that surrounded him
was open too, taking in every word he said.

When he finished, one of his audience said,
'there must be a pot of gould or press stones
in that place to which the ghost pointed so
hard — did ye ever look for 'em, Jim ? "

"Is it want me to pull down the wall of the
house ye would," responded Jim, while an old
woman in the company exclaimed, " Wish, bad
luck from ye, its yer soul and not gould ye ought
to be thinker about, when ye hear of troubled
speret s wandered about like that."

That was the ould gentleman," said Mr.
Gillohy, "that was murdered in the castle over

eighty years ago. Oi remember learn the whole
account of it from me father."

"What was it, Mr. Gillohy," said several voices
together, *' tell ns about it."

'the family, at the time," said Mr. Gillohy,
consisted of the ould gentleman, who was about
sixty-five years of age, and always dressed just as
ye mentioned, with the green cut off coat, and the
top boots, his wife, two sons, and a daughter.
They all lived at the castle, but the sons were
much of their time away, pleasure and sporting.
About half way between Christmas and Easter,
they all went from home to spend some time on a
visit with relations of theirs in Tipperary ; and
after they were away about three weeks, the ould
gentleman came home the day afore the rest, to
see that everything was comfortable like and
ready for them. He never looked more hale
and hearty in his life, nor, as Oi was would, in
better spirits, but little he knew, poor man, what
was afore 'im.

The next day, when the wife and family
arrived, there they found him lye dead, on the
must landed, leaden from the bed room ; there
was also in the lobby an ould sou'wester, torn
and covered with blood; also a piece of a coat
with the button on it, that had, in the struggle,
been torn from the breast of one of his murderers,
showed that he fought hard for his life. It
was also evident that as he was struggle with
one, another struck him on the back of the head

with some heavy iron bar, most Hke, for his skull
was fractured and the brain was shown through
the deep wound that cut through the skin and
broke in the bone afore it."

*' And were the murderers discovered ? " said
several voices.

*'No," said Mr. Gillohy, 'rewards were offered,
but no trace or tidings could be got high or low.
He was a man that was much belied, and no
one thought that he had an inimy, and the
general belief was that the horrible murder was
committed by some Spanish sailors, whose ship
was lye in the bay that night, but salt away the
next mornen."

*' Perhaps it was for robbery they entered the
the house," suggested an old man.

'* No, that was not so, for no then was taken,
not a stick from the whole house — notion whatever
was missed. There was his watch and chain,
and there was his money, and there was the
jewels of the family, but not a thing was toucht ;
but till me, Mr. Doonan, did any one ever see the
ghost but herself and yer own family ? "

*' Sure it isn't come to Castletown ye did
yesterday," replied Mr. Doonan. *' Ye must have
heard often and often enough ourselves if any one
else seen him."

'* And so we did Jim, but ye would the story
so well, we wanted ye to tell us more — that's how
it is."

'Tis a good man that tells what happens

laisse, and lets other people's bisness alone, so ye
may tell the story verses, Mr. Gillohy."

*swell," said Mr. Gillohy, *sit was would me
that the place was lit to a family from the
County Kerry for twelve months, and that, after
they were there six weeks they lift it, and all
through the same speret with top boots."

And true it was too," said Mr. Doonan, '' for
their servants would me all about it, and how
he seen him, hisses, and how the housemaid seen
him too, and how they gave notice to lave, as
been afeard to stop in the house ; and how both
the master and missus, who at first said it was all
nonsense and superstition, both, at different times
met him on the landed, till they declared they
would not stay another day in the place — no, not
if they got it for notion — and lift it within six
weeks, though they had to pay the full year's
rent."

With that, they looked so steadfastly towards
Dunboy, as ever Neapolitan in Resin or Portico
gazed at the flames that burst from the dread
crater of Vesuvius, as if at that moment they were
doomed to see the pale old gentleman with the top
boots ; and as they looked they observed the light
still burning in the dark oak room. And some
continued their anxious watching until they heard
the solemn strokes of twelve, and some never
discontinued the lookout till one, when the lights
were still to be seen ; but watching and waiting
are weary work, and tired out nature needs

repose. So at last all retired to rest, but great
was the impatience which awaited the report of
the next day, and great was the longing to know
how it fared with the three young men in the
Castle.

And now, hush ! disturb not the sleepers in
Castletown; let not even the gentle footfall of
imagination awaken an echo to arouse one wearied
one from sweet repose ; but, as they sleep, hasten
with us to the old oak room, and, peeping over
the shoulder of Mortimer, let us peruse together
a page or two of the old volume, which absorbs
his attention, with the detail of the history of
his ancestor, — Maris 0' Sullivan : her Times, her
Acquaintances J and her Influence.

RUNNING THE BLOCKADE.

*' My fate cries out,
And males each petty artery in this body
As hardy as the Nemean lion's nerve." — Hamlet.

*sto the war! To the war'' This was the
shout that rose long and loud in that dismal year
of Ireland's trouble, 1651. It resounded in every
town in the south and west of Ireland, and found
its echo in every village and hamlet, aye, and in
every homestead, too. And the chapel bells in
every parish rang their peals, not summoning to
the solemn duty of public worship, but as the
tocsin announcing approaching calamity, and the
necessity of repelling the danger with armed
force. On every hill, too, the bonfires blazed,
summoning to joint council and united action the
inhabitants of the land. Convening them, that
together their bravest sons might join the standard
of defence, and hasten forward in their
strength and their numbers to protect the city of
Limerick, and drive back the invader who came
to desecrate their altars and desolate their homes.
In 1649, Henry Ireton, commander-in-chief of
Cromwell's forces, made all preparations for an

early campaign, and, having received some reinforcements
from England, resolved to commence
operations by besieging Limerick. The Parliamentary
army was ordered to rendezvous at
Castel, from which place Ireton marched, by way
of Nenagh, down by the silver mines, and across
the roads to that part of the Shannon which
flows opposite to Killaloe.

The Earl of Castlehaven, chief-in-command of
the province of Munster, marched with what
forces he could draw together, and encamped on
the other side of the river, to observe the movements
of his adversary. He had about two thousand
horse and foot, and arranged them in the
most suitable positions to prevent Ireton and his
soldiers crossing.

During a temporary absence of the Earl,
who was summoned on important business by
Ormond, money and bribes effected what
strength and courage could not do. So, to his
intense horror and surprise, on his return, he
found that Colonel Fennelll had sold the pass,
and that the English leader and his troops had
crossed in safety, and were pouring down on the
doomed city.

It was at this juncture that the cry to arms
was raised. Each locality sent its most daring
youth to beat off the assault of the enemy. Bear
was not unrepresented. A strong contingent of
hardy peasants threw away the implements of
agriculture, donned the soldier's dress, and unanimously

selected as their leader one whose fame
for courage, skill, energy, and daring, was widespread
through all the parishes around.

Their young captain, who was one of the
family from Dunboy Castle, marshalled his menin
the market square of Castletown ; appointed
from their number, as he found intelligence and
suitability, his corporals and sergeants ; and all,
full of hope, having bid those who were near and
dear to them at home good-bye, hastened by
forced marches to the help of the besieged.

To obtain information of the hardships, the
sufferings, and the trials of the succeeding
months, we must investigate the pages of Irish
history, and seek some borrowed rays of light
from the authentic annals of the past. The
November morning fog on the Thames, the
Mersey, or the Shannon, requires the incidental
activity of some atmospheric disturbance to dissipate
its density; to unravel the thread of this,
sad page, we, too, must requisition the breath of
history's muse. As we peruse that history, we
find that the wars of Ireland furnish a long catalogue,
in which cruelty and infatuation, treachery
and incompetence, obtrude with a frequency and a
similarity which, while calculated to generate the
contempt of the unprejudiced foreigner, must be
as heartrending to the feelings, as destructive to
the hopes of the enthusiastic nationalist; yet,
even in the dark detail, the proverbial silver
lining adorns the blackest clouds, for examples

are not wanting of bravery the most noble, of
virtue the most pure, of affection the most genuine,
and of honour the most unsullied. Such
instances may be found in the campaigns in
which Hugh O'Neile, Prince of Tyrone; Hugh
O'Donnell, Prince of Tyrconnel ; and Donald
O'Sulhvan, Chieftain of Bearaa, occupied the leading
positions, and achieved the principal notoriety.


In that tedious struggle, Spain was, to some
extent, the ally of the Irish chiefs ; and the
proximity of the Carbury and Bearaa headlands to
the Iberian peninsula, and the facilities afforded
by the deep bays and safe harbours for the landing
of expeditions, envoys, arms, and subsidies,
gave the district with which our story is connected
an importance which for many years it
retained.

Long was the fight maintained, great were the
sufferings endured. At the conclusion of the
wars, the lands of the conquered were seized on
and appropriated by the conquerors, and in many
cases were divided among the officers of the
victorious army. This was the case all through
Ireland, and will account for the Norman, French,
Dutch, and English names which still represent
the proprietors of estates in nearly every county.

Yet, oh ! the cruelties and the inflictions, the
hardships and the violence, the degradations and
the murders, consequent in many instances on
such a change ; when the fierce soldiery, inflated

by victory, thought unrestrained Licentiousness
a portion of their legitimate prerogative
; and when the slaughter or subjugation of
the father, or the husband, or the brother, was
deemed sufficient justification to break down
every moral rampart which guarded the virtue of
the wife, or the sister, or the daughter, of the
vanquished !

But leaving now the general detail, our history
must be more minute. During the famous siege
of Limerick, Fergus O'Brien, who led the contingent
from Bearaa, was one of its defenders. Of
the lineage of the Irish kings, by his valorous
actions and surpassing bravery, he did credit to
his noble pedigree. Over six feet in height,
and of uncommon muscular power, he was a
formidable antagonist. On several occasions, with
half a dozen comrades possessed with spirit and
prowess like his own, he had sallied from the
beleaguered walls and did not return till he had
dealt death and destruction among double the
number of besiegers ; but the starved-out garrison
had to succumb at last, and Fergus, knowing
that on the morrow the surrender would be made,
could not brook the idea of the captive's chain,
or, what he deemed as equally ignoble, to make a
compact with the invaders of his country — to
surrender to them his sword, and bind himself by
honour's word to fight no more against them.
** No ; a thousand times no ! " he exclaimed, " the
land that gave me birth I love too well to enter

into compromise with her enemies ; and if
through love of life I made so base a bargain,
oh ! what would mother say ? and what would
Mary say ? " Mary, the girl he loved, whom he
had left at home in Bearaa. Mary, who though
rent with grief at his departure, said not one
word to keep him back when Erin needed his
assistance to repel the advances of the alien. She
loved him too well to let him tarnish the fair
name of patriot ; and loved her country too well
to keep from its defence the arm her ardent love
had deemed invincible. And so, love of country,
love of Mary, and honour prompting him, he
formed his resolve to leave the beleaguered city
that last night of its freedom, and, if possible,
escape the surrounding foes, or, if discovered,
fight his way through their ranks, or die a
soldier's death in the attempt.

As that last day of Limerick's independence
passed over, the sun, which for some hours had
shone in unmanned splendour, became overcast
with clouds, a drizzling rain closed in the evening,
and heavy torrents poured down at night.
From the watch-towers on the walls Fergus with
keen eye observed the camp-fires of the enemy,
and how one by one they disappeared. He heard
the sounds of wakeful watchfulness grow less and
less, till at last, the sentry's step alone broke the
still monotony of the night. Lowering himself
from the rampart by a rope, the end of which he
had fastened to a beam of wood, he soon was

beyond recall, in the quarters of the enemy, with
no other friend but his sword, and no other
security but his courage. Taking prudent observation,
he cautiously advanced, guiding his way
where the darkness was deepest, and where he
knew the sentinels were stationed most apart.
In half an hour— a time which seemed an age to
thrilling anxiety — the first line was passed. Once,
to escape observation, he had to lay himself
prostrate on the soaking ground, when the feet of
the patrolling guard came within a few yards of
his head ; as soon as their retreating backs were
turned he quietly slipped away again, and so at
last reached the outermost line. If this were
passed, then he might proceed in safety and
unmolested. This he knew full well, and the very
thought of his success, acting on his naturally
daring and adventurous spirit, buoyed him with
increased courage and daring, and almost made
him regret the journey had been so uneventful.
He now no longer courted obscurity, but walked
with head erect and bold defying step, and even
dared to whistle as he walked. Yes ; but in his
want of circumspection, and in his fool-hardiness,
he all at once became cognizant of the fact that
he was walking into the very arms of a sentinel,
who, well armed himself, and with half a dozen
comrades well armed too, where close at hand,
standing under shelter from the rain, by a blazing
tire, in a temporary watch-house. And Fergus,
when too late to change his course, saw the fire,

and saw the armed men standing round it ; and
saw the sentry advancing towards him so directly
that it was evident his approach had not escaped
observation, though so dark and gloomy was that
tempestuous night.

A flood of thoughts at once besiege his mind.
To fly for his life ? No, never. To fall on the
sentinel and strike him to the ground, or be
struck down in the attempt ? The chances were
fairly equal, and he had confidence in his own
activity and strength. But then, the comrades,
close at hand too ! This was a consideration to be
discounted. To fight with them ? The odds were
too heavy. Then thoughts of death came. Death,
of which he had no fear, and which he much preferred
rather than be taken captive ; but death
away from a loving mother, and away from Mary,
who would never hear of his fate, and who would
pine in the purgatory of uncertainty, a condition
more full of grief and mental anguish than any
which the most harrowing definite intelligence
could produce ! Thus, thought after thought ran
with electric speed through his excited brain, while
still with seeming unconcern he walked, and still
he whistled. And now the sentry was within a
dozen yards distance, and Fergus each moment
expected to hear him challenge, when, to his
surprise, he saw him turn on his twelve yards'
beat, and march towards the guard-house, not
with hasty step, as though to summon his companions,
but with the measured stereotyped tramp

of one who tried to while away the time, the
slowly moving time, which must be spent on some
monotonous duty. '' He takes me for one of themselves,"
thought Fergus — *the worst compliment,
in my opinion, I ever yet was paid, and yet, perhaps,"
he reflected, *the most seasonable and the
most beneficial. I at least shall not undeceive
him," he determined, and whistling still, and
walking still with head erect, he passed out
unmolested, through the last line of the enemy.
'' Safe and unhurt — a wonderful escape," he muttered,
and as he spoke a secret impulse rose
within his heart to pay the tribute of thanksgiving.
Aye, and well he might, for a mother's
prayers were passing on the wings of faith and
hope to heaven that very moment, for the preservation
of her soldier boy; and Mary's voice of
supplication ascended with his mother's, for both
had the same longing for his safety, and both the
same fears, and both the same fond love. They
had met and offered up their joint orisons, and
as the prayer went up on angels' wings, with
lightning speed the answer downward flashed,
and rescued Fergus from the guns of the
sentries.

Saturated with rain, bespattered and begrimed
with mud, grieving at heart for the fate of the
city to be surrendered on the morrow, moaning
in spirit, too, that another struggle had been
made in vain for his country's freedom, he
hurried away to put as long a distance as he

could before the next clay's dawn between himself
and the army of his enemies. Nor were these his
only feelings. Within his breast he experienced
a radiant hope — that hope, which by nature's kind
provision, amid all reverses, is the unwearied
attendant of youth and bravery. Now that
Limerick has capitulated, he thought, the alien
dogs will be at liberty to commence their cruel
work of pillage, murder, plunder, and devastation.
A pang of unutterable woe seemed to grip his
heart and stop his breath, as imagination conjured
up the apparition of villain mercenaries
making onslaught on the fair home, where his
mother and his Mary were now unguarded
and defenceless. Homeward, homeward he must
hasten. "• I may have time to bring together a
a band of valiant men. In the wilds of the west
we may make another stand. Victory may crown
our efforts. We may drive the desolate back.
My loved ones may be saved. Our home may beheld
inviolate, and the news of our success will
spread, and others will take courage too, and
all Ireland may rise in proud resentment, nor lay
her armour down until we have driven back
the Sassenach from our shores." Thus in
wild reverie he gave unbridled liberty to his
thoughts, and as he thought, hurried on his
way with redoubled energy, forming all the
while his plans, gathering in crowds his comrades,
fighting in anticipation with his enemies,
scattering their hordes, and viewing with unrestrained

delight the defeated remnant of marauders
hurrying away in their boats from the shores
of Erin.

Oh ! ye castles in the air, ye need not even the
foundation masonry of probability. Story after
story, ye rise to a stately consummation, soaring
to height unlimited, on the unfettered wings
of sanguine imagination. This perhaps was
the framework in old Horace's mind when he
wrote

Exegi monumentum were perennial."
I have reared a monument more durable than brass,"

or this, perhaps, was the personified imagery of
Virgil, when he composed verses of her who
ascended higher, and higher, *still she hid her
head in heaven, and nestled in the clouds." But
lo ! how quickly does reason raze the edifice, and
reflection pull down the battlements, till in the
words of Shakspeare —

The baseless fabric of a vision
Leaves not a wreck behind."

Fergus suddenly remembered, that all the trusted
comrades of his youth had already joined the
wars ; that some were slain, some imprisoned,
some besieged in Limerick, from whence if they
escaped alive, it would be on honor's bond to leave
the country, or to fight no more against their
victors. His castle in the air, like yours — like
mine — like that of thousands before and since his

day, crumbled, as quickly as erected, into nothingness.
The rolling rivers of anticipated success were
but fantastical delusions, like the hope-inspiring
phantasmagoria of the visionary mirage. He
stays his urgent speed. He stands a moment in
deep thought. The unvarnished truth has broken
on his mind. He is discomfited but not vanquished.
"- Then I shall go alone," he soliloquises,
** this body shall form a barrier between my
dearest ties and their enemies; or, if God will
that I shall fall, then, and not till then, shall the
hireling plunderer enter the home of my progenitors."
Alas ! it was another castle in the
air. He knew not that a fever caught three days
before from cold, and worry, and hunger, and
exposure, was making fast inroads on his health.
Just then, as he stood, for the first time he felt
the cold wet clothes sticking to his burning body,
he felt the throbbing pulse, as with redoubled
emphases it seemed to repeat the every heart beat
in his aching brain, while alternate shive rings
and glows of unnatural heat fast sapped his
manly vigor and undermined his youthful endurance.
He had travelled in eight hours, nearly
fifty miles. Fatigue and sickness at length had
gained the mastery. He sank down by the side
of the hard high road, a delirious, raving, helpless,
friendless maniac.

From the prostrate soldier, we would invite one
short glance of kindly feeling, and tender interest,
towards the soldier's mother.

She grieves in silent solitude, and thinks upon the days
When first, to join his country's wars he went from her away,
The fame of martial glory seemed to fill his mind with joy,
While breaking is the mother's heart, to lose her darling boy.
The rumored battle fills her mind with dread suspense and pain.
Each new despatch may write of him, as numbered with the slain,
In dreams she hears the dying groan, she sees the slaughtered

heaps.
And waking from her restless sleep, she thinks of him, and weeps.

Nor deems she him unmindful of her fond maternal care.
Of when she nursed him tenderly, and breathed for him her prayer,
How o'er him sick she fondly watched, and with what gladness she
Marked his first steps and prattling voice, in tender infancy.
Yes ! though the war-like trumpet sound the son and mother part.
Still beats beneath the scarlet coat the fond and feeling heart,
For brave though be her soldier son, she heard him heave a sigh,
And viewed the big tear, when he turned, to say to her goodbye.

Between them now, the raging sea may spread its foaming wave,
And he may find, in distant lands, a lone unnoticed grave ;
No mother's hand to cool his brow, no mother's voice to cheer,
No mother near to shed o'er him affection's golden tear
But lo ! amid her sorrow's gloom, she finds a soothing peace,
Which quells her soul's disturbing fears, and gives her fond heart

ease.
She thinks of Him, whose guardian care preserved him to that day;
And feels the same Almighty arm can guard him when away.

Oh ! the unmeasurable magnitude of a mother's
love — how pure ! how deep ! how sincere ! how
unselfish ! how unalterable ! What but it could
bear the restless weary nights, and daily, hourly,
slavery of infancy, the waywardness of childhood,
the insolence of boyhood, the neglect of opening
manhood, and the transferred affection of after
years ? What but it could feel atoned by truant
glimpses of affection, when the heart service of

the live-long life would not be commensurate remuneration
? What like it can see perfection,
when the world sees only faults ? And what like
it can find excuses, when all others blame ? Oh !
sacred mother's love, unfading, unfaltering, un-withering,
till the cold earth closes over the last
remains ; and then — even then — not effaced ; for,
if the memory of prayers taught at a mother's
knee — if the recurrence to the mind of fond
pleadings to live for heaven, and anxious warnings
to avoid the snares of sin, returning with strong
emphasis in temptation's hour, be a signal of any
import — then, surely, we may recognise her as
not the least concerned in that '* great cloud of
witnesses," with which, the highest authority tells
us, ** we are surrounded."

Fergus's mother did not know that her son had
sunk down sick and exhausted on the cold wet
road, but her thoughts were hovering round him,
and her prayers, like incense, were ascending for
him, towards the Throne on high.

PRETTY NORA HARRINGTON AND HER OLD ADMIRER.

A

'* Otez Tumour de la vie, vous en otez les plaisirs." — Moliere.

'* No matter where in all the world j^ou rove,
There are no pleasures, if you banish love. '

Not far from the Bogra mountains, in the
north-west of the County Cork, away from the
high road, and in part obscured by trees, a
pretty Httle house was situated on the sloping
grounds which, by gentle gradient, descend from
the hill country to the banks of the Blackwater.
It was two stories high. The hall door or
front entrance was in the middle, and covered by
a portico, which, projecting about seven feet,
was supported by six stone pillars, which rested
on a stone platform rising about ten inches
from the well gravelled carriage-drive. The
jasmine and honeysuckle wound in graceful
wreaths round the pillars, and mantled the top,
suggesting the idea of taste and beauty, on the
visitor s first approach. This front door opened
into a square hall; on the right was the parlour
with the library leading off it ; on the left the
drawing-room, one window of which had a full

view of the well planted lawn in front of the
house, and the second window looked into the
garden, where violets and roses and stockgilly
fio^vers, in turns, by their exquisite perfumes,
sweetened the air and made the room redolent of
their fragrance. The fire-place was directly
opposite to this window, and the large mirror
which surmounted it, reflecting the flowers and
fruits of the garden, had a charming effect, leading
to the thought that nature poured her choicest
gifts in wasteful profuseness round this little
rural paradise. The clock, an unerring monitor
of quick passing time, nearly faced the hall door ;
to its left, a weather glass; to its right, a door
which opened into a passage leading to the
kitchen, the servants' apartments, and the back
of the house, and off this passage a stairs which
led to the second story. At the top of this
stairs there was a landing or lobby, from which
the bedrooms branched. Over the drawing-room
was the best bedroom, which, like the drawing-room,
had one window looking on the lawn, and a
second into the garden, while over the parlour
was one bedroom to the front, a second to the
back, and a passage leading to a third over the
library. The whole house was neatly and tastefully
furnished, the general appearance suggesting
the independence and comfort of the well-to-do
farmer, but not the affluence, the extravagance,
or the aesthetic taste, which characterises the
mansions of the nobility. A long and shady

avenue, whose sides were bordered by the well
trimmed privet hedge, led by a graceful tour from
the public road to the front door. This public
road conducted in one direction to Kanturk, and
in the other to Millstone, two little towns some
miles distant.

Generation after generation this quiet country
house had been the abode of the Harrington
family. They called it from the neighbouring
mountain, Bogra Vale. A valuable farm of about
eighty acres, bounded by an extensive bog, where
turf for fuel could be obtained in summer, and
which abounded with snipe in the winter, constituted
the inheritance. The land adjoining the
mountain was covered with forest trees — the
larch, the fir, the pine, the sycamore, and the
oak, — and from the mountain, fed by a hundred
rivulets, rushing down in foaming impetuosity atone
part of its course, and gently gliding at
another, flowed a tributary to the noble Blackwater,
which abounded in golden trout ; and
which, by the design and engineering skill of the
Harringtonss, formed an artificial lake of about
two acres extent, with a well planted island in the
middle, giving much romantic beauty to Bogra
Vale, while the tastefully arranged evergreens and
winding paths around almost favoured the idea of
a little fairyland.

Grandpa Harrington — for we need not trace
further back the pedigree — when a young man of
twenty-two, went on a visit to his brother, who

was a curate at Clonakilty, and was by him
introduced to a young lady three years his junior,
who, besides the adornment of a very pretty face
and elegant figure, was also the heiress to one
thousand pounds. Her natural charms and very
pleasing manner soon made captive the young
man's heart, and so enamoured of her did he
become, that he told his brother '* if she had not
the possession of a penny he would not hesitate
to make her his wife." After about six months
courtship, during which time Tim Harrington
paid frequent visits to his brother, the loving pair
came to the determination to take one another
*' better for worse " and were married, and having
spent a fortnight's honeymoon at Killarney,
quietly and happily settled down at Bogra Vale.
Two sons were the issue of this marriage, the
eldest, Tom, called after his uncle, and the
younger, Timothy, named after his father. The
second birth was followed by a sad misfortune.
The loving husband lost his much prized wife,
who only survived her confinement ten days.
The infection of puerperal fever was carried to
her healthy home by the monthly nurse, and
notwithstanding the consultation of two medical
men, one brought from Kanturk, and the other
from Cork, at an expense of thirty guineas, she
sank exhausted. Tim Harrington almost went
mad under the sorrow of his bereavement, and,
though but twenty-eight years of age, determined
no other wife should ever occupy her place ; a

resolution which he firmly kept, for he never
afterwards was known to pay the least attention
to another girl, and never even walked with one
as he returned from prayers on the Sunday.

As the boys grew up, the eldest, Tom, seemed
fond of the farm and the farm work, while Tim's
entire predilection was for books, so, his father,
favoring his wishes, had him educated for the
ministry, sending him to a French college,
whence he returned with a good education and
bigoted liberal views, and in due time became
curate to his uncle, who was now the parish
priest of Charleville.

Tom, after his father's death, which occurred
suddenly from inflammation of the lungs, paid
steady attention to his farm. He disliked low
company, and was never seen in a public house.
Pond of shooting and fishing, all his spare time
he spent after the snipe in the bog, the woodcock
on the hillside, or the trout in the stream.
When twenty six years of age, the daughter of a
neighbouring farmer captivated him ; he was
introduced to her by her brother, who was a
frequent companion, being as fond of shooting
and fishing as young Harrington himself. Indue
time they were married, and Nora Daly,
now Mrs. Harrington, took up her residence
at Bogra Vale. From this marriage there were
three sons and one daughter. The eldest son,
called after his father, Tom. The second entered
the ministry, was duly ordained, became curate

to his uncle, after whom he was called Tim ; and
the third, Richard. Richard joined the fortunes
of his country, and was one of the defenders of
Limerick, where he was killed by a musket-ball
from the enemy. Before this sad event there had
been trouble at Bogra Yale. The fever which
had been carrying off many victims at Kanturk,
was caught by the old man when attending one
of the fairs which was held there. A few days
after his return home he was compelled to take
to his bed. His wife, who with fond care attended
him, and his daughter, and his son, were all
seized by this most infectious epidemic. Dr.
Armstrong, of Kanturk, the family physician, was
sent for. He regularly paid his visits, bestowing
all the care and attention a medical man in large
practice could possibly accomplish. He knew
that it would go hard with the old people, and
his prognosis from the first was unfavourable.
Experience had taught him that up to twenty
years of age the constitution will, with few exceptions,
overcome the fever, but that the older the
patient the less the probability of surviving. Old
Mr. Harrington and his wife both succumbed to
the disease, there were but two days between
their deaths ; and as the young people, though
recovering, were unable to leave their beds,, the
doctor with much kindness arranged and superintended
the funeral. Yes, the funeral — there was
but one ; they were both carried away together,
and both laid in the same grave. In after years

a tombstone marked the spot, and bore the
inscription : —

** In life united, and separated not by death."

Our readers will perhaps be sufficiently interested
to allow a further introduction to the
brother and the sister. Tom was now twenty-five,
and Nora, who bore her mother's name,
was but seventeen.

Tom was, what might justly be called, a very
fine young man — tall, well-proportioned, and
exceedingly athletic. His was an honest, handsome
face — the sure and certain indication of a
good and kind heart. He always loved his sister
tenderly, but more so since his brothers had left
home, and since his parents' death. She was
with him in his walks; she accompanied him
went he went to fish ; they took joint counsel
about every domestic arrangement; and never
was Tom absent from home but Nora could tell
where he was, and when he would return. And
now a word about Nora. Her figure resembled
her brother's ; she was tall, elegant looking, and
graceful. Her waist did not require the constrictions
of a corset to squeeze it into shape,
it was symmetrically proportioned without it.
When the fierce fever attacked her, the doctor,
with his own hands, shaved her head, declaring
*' he never did anything before more against his
will;" for her beautiful, rich, glossy, blue black
hair, when combed out, nearly reached the

ground in a profusion of waves and ringlets. It
must have been fully five-ands a-half feet long.
Now it was growing again, and formed clusters of
curls, on her forehead and round her head, which
defied restraint, and were exceedingly becoming,
conferring an impression of vivacity and exuberance
of spirit, which appeared more subdued
when the hair lay close to her face by reason of
its length. Her eyes were large and deep blue,
with long dark lashes that swept her cheeks.
The outline of her features was exquisite. In a
word she possessed extraordinary loveliness, and
when she spoke that beauty was enhanced by the
display of pearly teeth which were perfectly
regular, and by the sweet expression which
flowed from her eyes, which were full of
vivacity, good humour, and kindness. Unlike
dark beauties of the French type, there was no
embryo moustache fringing her upper lip ; and,
instead of the foreign complexion of dark hue,
the delicate fair cheek displayed a rich damask
tint, which faded off from its centre invisibly,
until it blended in the matchless clearness of the
circumference.

At the time to which our narrative relates,
some three months had elapsed since the death of
her parents, yet the doctor never let a week pass
without a friendly visit. Much engaged as he
was, he always found time to get to Bogra Vale ;
and would, by some fortuity, so arrange his call
that it always occurred just when her brother was

from home. The truth began to dawn on him,
that his attendance, during the fever, was sufficiently
long to make a deep impression on his
heart. At first he could scarcely believe it himself,
but now he discovered the reality with all its
power, for he felt he was never contented, or
satisfied, or at rest, unless when thinking of Nora,
or pondering on the pleasure of his next visit.

There can be no wonder; it is only natural
that one so charming would captivate any
ordinary man, who was fortuitously so much in
her society, and on such intimate terms ; but
to do Nora justice, she had not the smallest
sympathy with such feelings, nor, in fact, the
slightest idea of their existence.

Doctor Robert Armstrong had just entered his
fortieth year. He was exactly five feet six inches
in height. An excessive pair of heels to his
boots, an arrangement he never neglected, made
him five feet seven, or exactly Nora's stature.
He was a broad-shouldered, strongly-built man,
who held his head well up, and threw his
shoulders well back; his complexion was clear,
and of that description which is generally called
"fresh." His hair was deep chesnut, and
inclined to curl. The frequent application of
the barber's scissors effectually prevented the
exhibition of this development, except on the
temples and top of the head, where some
luxuriant semi-rings were allowed to remain,
all the rest being cut closely off. His cheeks

and chin were cleanly shaven ; but his moustache,
which was heavy and very much lighter than his
hair, was permitted to assume full growth, with
the long ends turned upwards. His features were
very regular and rather small, except his eyes,
which were full and deep blue in colour. The
impression conveyed by a general survey of
the countenance suggested keenness, acuteness,
quick penetration, and unmistakable animal passions.
He was considered clever in his profession :
nothing wrong was ever proved against him, or
brought him into public unenviable notoriety ;
but the undercurrent of whispering about his
moral character was deep and extensive. When
on friendly terms, he had a certain amount of
fascination in his manner, and could make himself
very agreeable ; but when annoyed, could give
vent to a temper that few would like to encounter
a second time. The saying of the country people
was: "If you provoke the doctor, there's no
mistake at the first opportunity he will poison or
murder you, but if he takes to you, there's no
warmer friend."

It is not surprising that Nora, only seventeen,
should not be forthwith smitten by the attentions
of one old enough to be her father, moreover, one
whom she had known since a child ; but it must
also be remembered that there was no rival in the
field. It is true the doctor had not declared his
affection, and we must not even surmise what
would have been the result if he had. All the

country knew that he was rich, that his income
from his practice was considerable, and that he
was the owner of many of the best houses in
Kanturk. The wonder was that he remained an
old bachelor, for the general impression, in which
he entirely concurred, was, that no woman would
think of refusing so good an offer.

The attendance at Bogra Vale seemed gradually
to make a considerable difference in both his
appearance and habits. He used of late to be
rather slovenly, now he is almost an "exquisite."
He disregarded for some time the condition of his
house, now it is newly painted and set off to
the best advantage. Instead of his usually
employed gig, a beautiful new brougham, purchased
at Cork, is enlisted into his service. His
old gray mare is superannuated in favour of a
splendid young bay horse. His driver used to
wear a very dilapidated hat and a nondescript
coat, but now he is equipped in new and
becoming livery. True, such a metamorphosis
was not unprecedented ; a similar revolution had
characterised several previous occasions, so the
occurrence throughout the neighbourhood was
merely debited as an indication that the medical
gentleman had entered the initial stage of some
new courtship, but still, a courtship which betokened
more reality and earnestness than any
previous effort foreshadowed.

Tom and Nora spent their evenings happily
together. They did not want or wish for other

society ; both were musicians, who loved instrumental
and vocal harmony. His was a fine bass
voice, and hers such as would ensure the success
of a prima donna in an Italian opera. When
Nora played the piano, Tom would accompany
her on his violin ; and sometimes they would sing
duets together, and sometimes, alternately, solos.
Having finished a musical practice which both
thoroughly enjoyed, they were about sitting down
for a quiet game of. bezique, when Tom, who had
looked anxiously at his sister many times during
the evening, at last, drawing his arm round her
waist, said in gentle tones, which were not devoid
of emotion, "Nora, dear, I fear you have not
been very well for some time, and yet you have
never told me."

** Indeed, Tom, I would tell you if there was
anything the matter ; but what put such an idea
into your head, making you look so thoughtful ? "
"- The doctor comes to see you every week, and
has continued his visits regularly since you had
the fever."

Nora slightly coloured as she said '* Yes."
'does he ask to see your tongue, or does he
feel your pulse ? "

'' He never asks to see my tongue, but he
catches my hand in his, and puts the fingers of
his other hand on my wrist, and holds it, oh ! so
long ; but he talks all the time, and does not
seem to count."

*that is strange; but perhaps experience

enables him to count as he talks, just as you
can play the piano when you are speaking.
When will he come again ? "

*' Two clays ago, when he was here, I mentioned
to him that you had arranged a shooting
party for tomorrow, when he said, that was the
only day that he could find time to come again
this week."

Then, dear, we may expect him tomorrow,
and I shall put off my shooting, and will remain
at home to meet him."

And so the conversation about the doctor
ended, but Tom felt sad. He tried not to appear
so. He thought the glow of health on Nora's
cheek was never brighter, and that her spirits
were never better ; but he had a latent fear that
she was ill, and that this was the cause of the
doctor's continued attention, and he longed for
the next day and the expected visitor.

Next morning came, ushering in a day which
was dark but dry, calm but cold. During the
night, it had frozen hard. The fields looked
white, a hoary garment enveloping each blade of
grass. The pools of standing water and the lake
were fit for skating. It was just the day to find
the snipe at the springs and the woodcock in the
hillside cover ; but it mattered not. Tom had at
early morning sent messages to his friends
altering the arrangements to another day, and
wearied he now strolled about, anxiously and
fearfully awaiting an interview, which would

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS

either dispel his alarm, or fill his heart with a
heavy grief.

The doctor seldom left his surgery before twelve
o'clock, but this morning, not being very busy,
he commenced his round of visits at half-past
eleven, and was enabled to arrive at Bogra Vale
by half past twelve. Just as the big clock at the
stables was striking its half-hour, the wheels
rumbled on the avenue, the brougham soon after
stopped before the door, and the doctor, ushered
into the drawing room, started with surprise,
when he found awaiting him, not Nora, whom he
expected, but Tom, whom he thought was engaged
in a shooting expedition, and at that moment
probably miles away.

** Doctor," said Tom, after the first salutation,
your visits here, of late, have made me extremely
uneasy. Such discomfort have I experienced, that
I felt constrained to put off arrangements I had
made with friends for to-day, and have waited
here purposely to have this interview with you."

Tom's anxiety made him look stern and pale.
The doctor, whose conscience was not guiltless,
quailed before his penetrating glance. He knew
not what was coming next. The suspense was
not long. ''My sister's health," continued Tom,
** has been the subject of my apprehension. I
have concluded that there must be something
wrong as you continue to visit her, and that
your kindness of heart has kept it back from
me."

Reassured by these swords, and regaining his
composure, the doctor quickly replied, " My dear
Tom, there is no ground whatever for your alarm,
but," added he, with emphasis and well assumed
seriousness, 'you know your sister is very young,
she has grown wonderfully the last two years, she
has had a serious illness, and being an old friend
of the family — I hope I may consider myself in
that light," — he added with suppressed voice, '* I
thought I should like to watch her for awhile, lest
asthenia should favour the accession of consumption,
or lest any other of the not uncommon
baneful sequelae of fever, should sap her constitution,
and so undermine her health. Hitherto, I
am delighted to inform you, I have not diagnosed
any such results ; and, although my prognosis is
most favourable, I felt it my duty to look in
occasionally, just to be in time, if necessary to
guard against anything untoward."

Words could not embody honest Tom's gratitude
at this explanation. " My dear doctor," said he,
*' you have proved yourself an old friend, and a
good friend of the family. We are proud to look
on you as such. And oh, pray continue your
visits as long as you think any danger exists.
It will give me real satisfaction to discharge the
obligations which such a loss of your valuable
time will entail, for you know, Nora is very dear
to me." And then Tom, having rung the bell,
and told the servant to acquaint Miss Nora
of the doctor's arrival, and having warmly

shaken hands, and offered a second time profuse
thanks, left the room with a Hight and grateful
heart.

And now, as the weeks passed over, the visits
of the doctor were uninterrupted. He felt that
the words he had spoken to Tom were sufficient
to insure his welcome. He had become more
unreserved in his intercourse with Nora. He
chuckled with inward delight that he had obtained
her brother's sanction, nay more, his request to
come and see her. Sometimes, now, they would
walk out together, sauntering by the sides of the
lake, or through the shady walks towards the
wood. At one time he would present her with a
pretty silk handkerchief; at another, with some
yards of Limerick lace ; at another, with a beautiful
case of scent bottles, mounted in gold and filled
with choice perfumes ; at another, with a pretty
diamond ring ; and Nora thought him very kind,
and told him so, and, not having any other
gentleman acquaintance, longed for the time of
his visit, and felt impatient if that time was
surpassed by half an hour.

Oh, propinquity ! propinquity ! propinquity !
how potent are thy spells to thaw the frozen
iceberg of indifference, to fan the tiniest spark of
congenial sentiment into tenderest interest, or to
envenom the molecule of inherent dislike till it
culminates in positive aversion. It is often thy
prerogative to mould the destiny and to entrap
the heart.

The impression he had made did not escape
the observation of the cunning doctor, who, while
offering the most fierce love by all his attentions,
never breathed the most remote approximation,
by even one word uttered. He thought he saw
his way to accomplish his object, and this
satisfied him. 'eyes," said he, *'I shall marry
Nora, but not just yet ; " and then he muttered
between his teeth, 'show I wish 1 had never
known that woman" — that woman — yes, that
woman! Such, was now his contemptuous
description of one to whom he had told many
flattering tales, whom he had led to believe he
would make his wife, and of whom just then the
little town of Kanturk began to whisper unpleasant
remarks.

The evening after the doctor had presented the
diamond ring, Tom and Nora sat together, as
usual, in their cosy little drawing room. Nora
had played a new piece which both considered
very pretty, and then sung, so sweetly, an Irish
melody which was all about love. When it was
ended she came over to her brother, and laying
her hand on his shoulder said : —

* I wonder why the doctor gave me that scent
case and that valuable ring ? "

I think I know" said Tom. *' When I got his
bill it was so ridiculously small, for all the trouble
he has had coming from Kanturk here, I sent
him a ten pound note in addition, asking him to
accept it in token of our gratitude. He now

makes you these presents, to show us how pleased
he is at our recognition of his services."

'' I suppose that is the reason. Of course you
are always right, Tom," said Nora, with an
involuntary sigh which escaped the observation of
her brother.

*' Not always, dear, not always right," said
Tom, *rit is only your affection which thinks so.
Can I do anything for you in Kanturk tomorrow?
There will be a fair there, and I want to buy one
or two cows, so will start with the light. I shall
take Jim with me. (Jim was the out-of-door
servant of all work, who had been with the
family for ten years, and enjoyed their fullest
confidence.) He can bring the horse and cart,
for we want a load of sea coal ; and now tell me,
dear, what I can buy for you ? "

*' Except some few things from the grocers, of
which I will give you a list, I do not think
anything else is required."

'' What ! nothing for yourself? "

*'No, dear'' said Nora, *you have already,
with thoughtfulness, supplied all my wants and
all my wishes. I am sure no other girl ever had
such a darling brother. I want nothing more
but your good self safe home again."

And so the evening passed; and in the early
morning, just as the dawn was breaking, Tom
and his man set off, Tom walking, and the man
comfortably seated on an armful of fresh straw
which he had thrown into the cart. The morning

was wet, and cold, and foggy ; regular November
weather. Making what speed they could, they
proceeded on the four miles journey. The
horse when hurried went at a jog-trot, and Jim
gradually increased his lead until, when about
half the way, he was fully eighty yards ahead.

Tom was musing, as he walked, about his
intended purchase, and held his head stooped to
avoid the drizzling rain which was beating in his
face, when suddenly his reverie was broken by
the loud shouts of Jim.

*' Master Tom ! Master Tom ! hurry up, hurry
up, for yer life hurry up ! The Lord be between
us and all harm, but there is here a fine young
man lye dead on the side of the road. Sure
myself would not have seen him only the horse
shied."

And Tom ran at full speed. He was beside
the body before Jim could get out of the cart.
A man dressed in military uniform lay before
him. The emblematic green showed he belonged
to the army of the country. He was evidently a
gentleman, and held the rank of an officer. On
his finger was a diamond ring, worth at least
a hundred pounds, and through the embroidery,
on the breast of his tunic, the links of a massive
gold chain appeared.

Limerick is lost " were the first words that
burst from Tom's lips. '' This is some trusted
chief who has escaped with important messages,
and who has fainted from fatigue on the road.

Oh ! he is still warm," he exclaimed, as he
touched his forehead. '' The pulse still beats,
but so quickly and so weak," as he put his finger
on his wrist. *' Quick, Jim ! back over the cart,
take out the tailboard and give me a hand, we
must lift him in on the straw, and hasten back
with all speed home. He is drenched to the skin
with rain, poor fellow ! "

Almost as soon as spoken the work was done.
Then Tom sat in the body of the cart, supporting
the exhausted man, while Jim whipped the horse
as he never had done before, and in about twenty
minutes the cart, with its occupants, came to a
stand before the front door of Bogra Vale.

A HANDSOME YOUNG SOLDIER ON THE TAPIS.

Now, here's another discontented paper.
Found in his pocket, too, " — Othello.

Tom's explanation concerning the doctor's gifts
made a deep impression on Nora. She did not
entertain the smallest doubt as to its correctness,
but she felt disappointed. If he had only said,
** perhaps, dear, you have captivated him, and he
has adopted this mode of shewing his love and
affection," then she would have been completely
satisfied. When she returned to her bedroom,
the thought haunted her, as she brushed mechanically
her curly hair; as she knelt upon her knees,
it intruded on her devotions ; and when she lay
down to take her rest, it drove away her sleep.
She wondered at the feelings she experienced.
She could not understand them. The fact was,
that her young and susceptible heart had been
impressed by the studied and long practiced arts
of the wily old Lothario.

Although she was in bed by half-past ten, she
heard the chime for half-past two before she
dropped off into unconsciousness, and then, before

her excited fancy, rose diamond rings of various
shapes and forms, some as big as children's
rolling hoops, and some as small as a needle's
eye ; and sometimes she would see gold mounted
scent bottles, alternately, as small as thimbles and
as large as decanters; then she would hear the
kind expressions of polite attention, until, at last,
the strange impression of a kiss on her very lips —
a kiss from the doctor, too — started her from her
sleep just as the clock struck six, and convinced
her she had been dreaming. Unable to compose
herself again — for what girl could allay excitement
after such a stimulant ? — she heard her
brother's footsteps as he passed from his room
and quietly closed the hall door after him ; and,
no sooner had he left the house, than she jumped
from her bed and began to dress herself, though
she had to light the candle, so dark and gloomy
was, still, the early morning.

It was Nora's habit to make her own bed and
tidy her bedroom before she left it. This was
not a heavy task, for everything in that room was
always in its own place. It had a suite of furniture
that had been selected with exquisite taste.
The very dearest little French bedstead, with the
most becoming curtains lined with pink and
fringed with lace. A stand, for basin and jug,
surmounted with white marble, and quaintly
figured tiles at the back and sides. A dressing
table, a la duchesses with mirror in the middle
suspended between two sets of little drawers. A

magnificent wardrobe, lined with fragrant cedarwood,
containing unnumbered drawers of all
sizes and shapes, besides copious provision for
hanging up dresses, whose texture and beauty
forbad them to be crushed into a constricted place,
and marked with folds; and a carpet, which seemed
to rise at least two inches from the floor, and to
rebound, as though it were elastic, beneath each
gentle foot-tread.

The sound of wheels startled her, from the
torment of her one absorbing thought — *' these
presents, and why they were presented." She
hastened to the window, saw Jim hurrying the
horse, her brother sitting in the cart, which, in a
moment, filled her mind with a thousand fancies,
and made her turn pale with fright, until her
quick eye saw he was supporting someone in his
arms. In a second she was at the hall door, had
it open the moment they arrived, heard with
wonder and intense interest the adventure, and
at once decided that the apparently dying man
should be carried up to her room. " Yes," said
she. "It is the largest and best furnished in the
house, and is most fitted for one who has been
valiantly fighting for his country, and one who
looks so noble and so grand."

Tom suggested his room. In the generosity of
his heart, he would make any sacrifice for the
stranger, but did not like his sister to be inconvenienced
; but Nora overruled.

"You must keep your own room, Tom. No

one shall take your place. I will occupy the hack
room next yours."

The man appeared to he dying. The case was
urgent. No time was to he lost. Nora's arrangement
was quickly carried out. The powerful
Tom, with Jim's assistance, carried him up the
stairs as if he were a child. Nora kept the doors
open as they passed. Within ten minutes Jim
was despatched for Dr. Armstrong, with a hastily
written note from Tom, requesting him to come
immediately.

And now, with all the speed he could command,
Tom set to work. He removed the saturated
clothes, and having put one of his own nightshirts
on the unresisting sick man, he laid him
comfortably in bed, between the blankets. Next
he applied warmth to his hands and feet, which
were icy cold, and then, taking the wet clothes, he
examined the pockets carefully, with the hope of
finding some information to enable him to communicate
with his friends. In one was a purse,
containing some gold pieces ; in another, a sealed
letter, addressed " To my darling mother." All the
others, except the small one that held his watch,
were empty. There was no card, no envelope.
Nothing to tell his name, his home, or his
relations. Having called Nora, they discussed
the matter together, and both decided that they
should not break the seal, but await the arrival of
the doctor, and ask his counsel and advice.

Meanwhile, Jim was hurrying to perform his

errand. He left the note at the doctor's first,
and then proceeded to execute some little commissions.
Nora thoughtfully concluded that
beef-tea would be required, so she sent for a
supply of fresh meat ; she also ordered some pale
brandy. These she thought would be sufficient,
for she knew their own larder was well stocked,
and that their own cellar contained old and good
wines.

The note, as soon as it was delivered at the
house, was handed to the doctor. It was quite a
puzzle to him. He ran to the door to get some
clue from the messenger, but he was already out
of sight. '' Surely Nora is ill," said he, '' perhaps
taken dangerously bad. Tom would never send
me such a note without grave reason'' He
forthwith ordered his brougham, and drove withall
speed to the Harrington's.

Nora, with impatience, was watching for his
arrival, met him at the hall door, felt flattered
at his expressions of relief at seeing her so welland
at his detail of the anxiety and suspense
which he endured when he feared she was the
patient, and forthwith hurried him to the sick
man's room.

Tom, who was sitting by the bedside, quickly
rose when the doctor entered — told him briefly but
accurately the story of the morning's adventure ;
where they had found the man by the roadside,
and how he was drenched with rain, and insensible
; particularized that his clothing was the

uniform of an officer in the national army ;
pointed out the magnificent diamond on his
finger; shewed his handsome gold watch and
chain ; and, last of all, described the letter
he had taken from his pocket, and how it was
addressed.

The doctor, meanwhile, was pursuing his own
enquiry in connection with his new patient's
condition. He examined accurately his pulse;
listened with attentive care to his heart sounds ;
sought for evidences of pneumonia, as the Faculty
call inflammation of the lungs, and with difficulty
obtained a view of his tongue. His experienced
hand served him well, as applying it to the side
and chest, he quickly discovered the abnormal
increase in temperature ; and, at length, having
completed his various tests and trials, turning to
Tom, with a look of confidence, as though no
lingering doubt remained upon his mind, he told
him " The young man is suffering from typhus
fever, an epidemic disease, in many respects
similar to what you and your sister have just
gone through. I have good hopes," continued he,
*'to bring him round to convalescence, but at
present, it is utterly impossible for me to tell how
long the fever will last, whether in fourteen or
twenty-one days we may expect the crisis; neither
can I tell how soon the patient will be sufficiently
strong to continue his journey. Certainly he will
not be able to walk before six weeks, and this
being the case, don't you think I had better give

you an order for his removal to our county
hospital?"

'not for the world," said Tom. '' The best I
have he is most welcome to, and I am sure Nora
thinks the same. We would never send to the
hospital one who has been fighting for our
common country."

"Just as you please," said the doctor, who was
not at all indisposed to find a good excuse for a
daily visit, " but, I must send you a nurse, for, of
course, Nora will not come into this room."

'thank you," said Tom, "please send one as
soon as you can, and give her full directions, for
she will mind all you say, but no doubt, will treat
with dignified contempt anything I may suggest,
although I ought to know something about fever;
but, tell me doctor, are we likely to take it again,
for if so I would send Nora away from the
house."

Where would you send her ? "

"To our brother, the curate, of course. It
would only be a day's drive."

The doctor thought that would be a terrible
privation, for he would not see her again till the
patient had recovered, so he promptly replied —
*soh! it is not necessary, one attack of typhus
fever secures you, at least, for years, against the
recurrence of a second infection."

*show do you come to that conclusion, doctor?"
said Tom.

** It has been enforced on my mind by experience.

I have never known a patient who had a
second attack, unless a great number of years
intervened."

'' What do you consider the cause of fever,
doctor?"

'' Its etiology, Tom, is a difficult question.
There are many theories, but the conclusion at
which I have arrived is, that it is caused by the
introduction into the lungs — together with the
air inhaled by the nose or mouth — of sone
micro-organism, or very minute living animal,
which propagates its species with most prolific
development ; that this little animal, or rather
numbers of them, pass from the delicate air vesicles
of the lungs into the blood, permeate the
whole frame, and multiply, multiply, multiply
as long as the system contains pabulum or food
for their support. They do not feed on all parts
of the human body, but only on some particular
ingredient that enters into its composition. As
soon as this ingredient is consumed, the millions
of invaders die from starvation, and are cast off by
what we call the vis cicatrix naturc&j or, the inherent
power of nature to recruit herself, and then
the patient, if possessed of a good constitution
and a sound heart, recovers ; but if the patient
be advanced in years, or have a weak heart,
in either case his strength of constitution is
impaired, and he sinks before the invaders die.
It is because the food, on which these microbes
exist, has been abstracted from the system by

the first attack, that I think a second infection
is impossible."

**My best thanks, doctor, for your lucid explanation.
May I still further ask, Has our patient
a good constitution and a strong heart ? "

'* Yes, I examined him accurately and carefully.
He has a fine constitution and a strong
heart, but he has been subjected to much privation
and fatigue, and has lain, we know not how
long, soaked in wet, on the cold ground. This
last may not do him any harm. I look forward
to the time when the excessive heat of fever will
be kept down by cold ablutions, and probably by
the cold bath. It seems to me the reasonable
treatment."

'^ I am so delighted to hear your opinion," said
Tom. "- Kindly tell me, now, how are we to treat
him until we see you tomorrow, when I hope you
will be able to come again?"

'*I shall certainly come in the morning," said
the doctor. ''Of course, I feel now his life is to
some extent in my hands, and all in my power
shall be done to preserve it. You can understand,
Tom, from what I have already said, that
the race for life is between the constitution and
the invading hordes. The more the constitution
is let down, the less chance the patient has ; the
more the constitution is assisted, the better
chance. We must, therefore, give all the nourishment
we can, in small quantities, and often, but
must avoid those kinds which are stimulating, or

calculated to cause additional irritation to the
already burning brain, with this necessary proviso
— unless they are absolutely indispensable."

"I understand; plenty of beef-tea, and suchlike,
in frequent small doses, but no wine or
brandy, unless we see signs of sinking."

'you could not express my meaning better,
Tom. What a first-class medical student you
would make ; but, you will agree with me, that we
ought to communicate with his friends."

"We do not know where his friends are. He
had no card; no address whatever in his
pockets."

'did you not tell me he had a letter in his
pocket ? "

"Yes, but having only the direction 'To my
mother,' and, neither Nora nor I would dare to
pry into another's secrets."

"Oh, absurd ! " said the doctor. " For the sake
of a sentiment, a mere sentiment, you perhaps
deter that mother from seeing her son. Would
you like some strangers to act so, if you were in
this man's condition ? "

"Most certainly I would not. I should like
them to open the letter, and send word at once to
Nora; and to you, too, for I think no one else
could cure me."

"Where is this letter, then?" said the doctor,
having first, with a bow, acknowledged Tom's
compliment.

Nora has it, in the drawing-room."

** Then let us go to her at once," and both,
having cast a glance at the still raving, muttering,
sick man, went to the drawing-room to Nora.

Nora was sitting on an ottoman, and beside
her were different coloured balls of worsted and
skeins of silk. She was busily engaged working a
beautiful pair of gentleman's slippers, the pattern
of which was very recherche. The doctor concluded
they were for himself; in fact, he felt
quite sure, so made no enquiry. She immediately
put down her work, and, when asked for
the letter, unlocked a private drawer in her
escritoire, and, taking it out, handed it to Tom;
saying at the same time, '* What do you want
with it ? "

The doctor says we should open it," was his
reply. *' He thinks it may contain some particulars
about the poor fellow's friends, and that it
would be cruel to keep them in the dark, when
they may be pining in suspense to know something
about him. I must say," he continued,
on second consideration, I think he is quite
right."

This expression of Tom's removed all Nora's
scruples, and, wondering if their guest were a
nobleman, or perhaps a near relation of one of
the Irish kings, and fully expecting that the letter
would reveal the intelligence, she sat down, full of
interest, while the doctor, to whom Tom handed
the letter, opened it without further ceremony,
and read aloud its contents : —

Limerick, October 27tli, 1651.
My darling Mother,

Our dear Fergus has made up his mind to leave this
scene of misery and desolation tomorrow night. He has determined,
if possible, to escape through the serried lines of our
besiegers, and to make his way to you, his mother, and Mary,
with the intention, if possible, to get you all off safely to France.
The dangers before him almost make me shudder, accustomed
as I am to the terrors of war. Of this, however, I feel sure,
if any man can carry out this daring venture, it is Fergus.
Although he is my cousin, I must say a braver man, and a
more vacant warrior, never breathed the breath of life. Oh,
mother ! if you saw him, charging the crowds of the enemy, with
a few brave comrades, and dealing destruction right and left, you
would say his life was a charmed one, and that his valour had
no equal. If he remained within these walls for two days
longer, all hopes of seeing you would then be lost. He would
then be bound on honour to leave Ireland for ever, and would
have no course open but to go with the remnant of the National
Ai-my to France. This I have decided to do. Macmahon
and sister Edie are going, too, and, with the help of the
Almighty, we hope to meet you, and Mary, and Fergus' dear
mother, there, when we may yet be happy, though we lose our
much loved home here and see it transferred to the enemy. All
this misery and misfortune have been brought upon us, dear
mother, by that scoundrel, Colonel Fennelll. Before we admitted
him and his soldiers within Limerick's gates, without
our knowledge, he had sold the pass at Killaloe, and abandoned
it to the invader. Now, when our bravest and best generals,
ay, and our soldiers, too, are able and willing to carry on the
defence, he has sold us all to the enemy, and has told us he
would blow up St. John's gate, and give up the city to the
besiegers, unless the garrison would consent to capitulate. We
had no alternative — with shame and sorrow we had to submit ;
and let me here copy for you — word by word — some of the
terms of the surrender which were agreed to, and signed this
day:

"Articles, agreed to on the 27th day of October, 1651, between
Henry Ireton, the Deputy-governor, and Barth Blackpool,
Recorder of Limerick, Alderman Dominick White, Nicholas
Healy, Esq., Lieut-col. Pierce Lacy, Lieut-col. Enough
O'Brien, and John Faggot, Esq., Commissioners, on behalf of
the Mayor and Inhabitants.

I. — That the City, and Castle, and all places of strength,
be delivered to the Deputy-governor on the 29th instant, by
sunset, for the use of the Protector and Commonwealth of
England, for which performance the above-named be retained
as hostages.

11. — In consideration of which all persons now in the city
shall have their lives, and be allowed to go away, and all the
soldiers be allowed to leave the country, except the following
twenty."

Then, mother dear, comes the cruel list of those twenty who
must die the martyr's death, because, their bravery could not be
overcome, and they were too noble to yield. The first is our
gallant governor, Major-general O'Neil, who has done his duty
to his country with a courage and true nobility of soul which
brooked no compromise. Then in succession follow the other
names, among which — can you believe it, mother ? — are those
of Edward O'Dwyer, Bishop of Limerick, and Terence O'Brien,
Bishop of Emily.

It would be useless to trouble your kind heart with the
record of the other names, but this is not all. We have it on
good authority that every Catholic clergyman must quit the
kingdom, or be put to death, and that it is enacted against
those that remain, " that the' are deemed guilty of rebellion,
and are sentenced to be hung till half dead, then to be beheaded
; their bodies to be divided into four parts, their bowels
to be dragged out and burnt, and their heads to be fixed on
poles."

A cry — a piercing cry — from Nora, whose
thoughts these words carried away to the dangers

awaiting her brother Tim and her uncle, at this
point stopped the reading. She wept bitterly —
she sobbed, and almost went into hysterics. The
doctor and Tom flew to her assistance. After a
few minutes she became more composed, and
urgently entreated the doctor to read on, and, as
Tom seconded her application, being anxious to
hear the worst, the reading was resumed.

Mother, dear, we have had an awful time here. Not only
the bullets constantly flying, the shells bursting among us, and
the charges of the enemy, which we always repulsed, but
famine — the black death — and fever, have been mowing down
our brave men, killing the people by the hundred, and filing the
city with infection and horrors worse than death. Many of our
old men and women have gone outside our walls, and begged
the enemy to let them pass. Can you believe it ? — they whip
them back like dogs, and, having hung the leaders in our sight,
leave their bodies where all can view them from the walls. One
young woman, who led a company of twenty helpless ones, they
decided to hang. Her poor father, in agony of grief, rushing
from the company, prayed to be hanged in her stead. The
inhuman monsters raised the gibbet, and strangled her before
his eyes, and beat him back with ropes to the city.

But why should I continue this cheerless letter ? Mother

dearest, as soon as you receive it, make arrangements at

once, and fly with Mary and aunty to France. Edie, Mac, and

I will meet you there. In fondest hope that the parting will

not be long.

Your ever loving son,

Donald.

It would not be easy to describe the effects
produced by the reading of this letter. They
were still in the dark who their visitor might

be. Confused and bewildered, they knew not
what step to take, or what course to determine.

The doctor alone was cool and collected. Full
of thought, he remained silent for a while. Then,
turning to the brother and sister, he quietly
remarked, ** We are safe here. The letter contains
valuable information. We can send word of
its contents to your uncle and to Tim, and they
will have plenty of time to take measures to
avoid the threatening danger."

And so, on reflection, Tom thought, and, after
Nora's first burst of sorrow, she felt comforted
by the doctor's assurances, and looking in a new
light at the intelligence, took courage, knowing
that "to be forewarned is to be forearmed," and
that her uncle and brother would have time to
escape.

The doctor, who had spent at Bogra Yale more
of his morning than his many engagements
allowed, now took his leave, having first promised
to return early on the next day. Tom sat down,
forthwith to give a full account to his uncle and
brother ; and Nora, left to her own resources,
began, not unnaturally, to feel an interest in
the handsome young man who had shown so
much noble daring, bravery, fearlessness, and
energy.

It was not more than an hour after the doctor's
departure when the nurse arrived. As Tom
was busy writing, Nora conducted her to her
patient's room, where, well conversant with her

work, she commenced without delay her necessary
duties.

'* Eh, dear ! " she said to Nora, as soon as she
looked at her charge, *' what an elegant young
man it is ; any mother might be fairly proud of
him," and true it was that, as he lay there, regardless
of observation, and completely unaware of it,
he did look handsome. The bright blush of fever,
now that the warmth of the bed clothes began to
restore circulation to his frame, glowed in two
pink spots on his cheeks. His light brown hair,
full of curls, his silken beard and whiskers and
moustache, which never felt the razor's edge, his
manly form and aristocratic features, his broad
shoulders and expanded chest — Nora never saw
anyone so handsome before. She always thought
her brother could not be surpassed, but Tom was
dark, and Fergus, for now she knew his name,
was fair, and she preferred a light complexion,
for she was dark too, and women, as a rule,
admire their opposites.

If the doctor had only seen the expression,
that, quick as lightning, shot over her pretty
face, and observed the interest that she took, and
heard her whisper to herself, ''He is not much
more than my own age, and the doctor is getting
so old," we might pardon him if the feeling of
jealousy was awakened, and would feel surprised
if he did not conclude, that he had, already, a
formidable rival.

THE INFIDEL DOCTOR.

An absolute gentleman, full of most excellent differences,
Of very soft society, and great show ; indeed, to speak
Feelingly of him, he is the card or kalendar of gentry.

Hamlet.

On the outskirts of Kanturk, about thirty yards
from the high road, stood a pretty and detached
villa. It was approached from the road by a
gravelled walk, which went direct, without curve
to the front door. An iron paling, with an
elegantly devised heading, extending about forty
yards, separated the grounds on which the villa
was situated from the public highway. This
paling had a network of zinc-wire firmly attached
for its entire extent. The wire work was about
four feet high, to secure the exclusion of cats
and dogs. There was a little iron gate in the
centre, which swung between two square pillars
of fantastic pattern, surmounted by an elaborate
arch, which contained a handsome red glass
lamp. The little gate would have often rendered
the wire work precautions abortive, and would
have admitted, not only dogs and cats, but

likewise pigs and donkeys, so often would the
thoughtless visitors have left it open ; but that
it had attached a bar, which being acted on by
a strong spring, insisted on keeping it closed.

The villa had two stories, and an attic which,
in pentangular projections from the roof, contained
its windows, giving a Swiss cottage
appearance to the whole. At each end of the
paling which separated the grounds from the
road, there was a brick wall, about ten feet
high, which prevented intrusion from the side,
and whose appearance was by no means unsightly
since variegated ivy and what we call American
creepers, of scarlet hue, covered it in joint possession.
Beside these walls, and inside the railing,
were flower beds, about two yards wide,
planted with sweet peas, and roses, and dahlias,
and mignonette, in their season, and at equal
intervals all round, trees of sweetbrier, which
perfumed the air, and gave to the villa its name,
Sweet Brier Lodge."

In the grass, at each side of the gravel walk,
were three flower-beds, a circular in the middle,
and a diamond-shaped at each end ; and on the
iron gate, facing the public road, there was a large
brass plate, on which each passers might see
engraved —

Dr. Egbert Armstrong,
Surgeon, &c.,

while a similar plate, of smaller size, attached to

the door of the house, advertised to all interested,
the same intelligence.

The house was as nearly as possible in the
middle of the enclosure, which extended as far
behind as in front, and, like the boundary walls,
had creepers and ivy mantling it; around the
portico of the hall-door, circuiting the windows,
and almost reaching to the roof. On passing into
the house, on the right hand was the entrance to
the patients' waiting-room. It was a large, well-ventilated
apartment, eight yards wide by ten
yards deep, and most comfortably furnished, with
a profusion of books, periodicals, and illustrated
papers lying on a circular table in the centre of
the room. On the left was the consulting-room,
where the doctor regularly awaited his patients,
being never absent unless compelled by some
urgent call; and, off this consulting-room was
another, which we must minutely describe. In
the first place, it was an addition to the original
plan of the house, and was built specially after
the doctor's own directions and plans. Through
the side wall of the consulting-room — which,
unlike modern brick buildings, was just one
yard thick — a passage had been made. Short
as this passage was, it had at each side a door,
one opening into the consulting-room, and one
into the new structure which was called the
operating-room. When these two doors were
shut, no sound of voices in conversational pitch
could be heard in the consulting-room, and the

loudest cries, even of stentorian lungs, could not
reach the waiting-room. It was known that the
doctor performed many operations. His celebrity
as an able surgeon had permeated far and wide,
but no one ever heard even one groan from a
suffering patient. This circumstance secured
for him a high reputation for humanity and
tenderness of heart, in all the neighbourhood.

Well ! this operating-room, though fully eight
yards square, had no window in its walls, neither
had it a fire-place, and yet it was neither cold nor
dark. A cupola or dome, with large panes of
plate glass, flooded it with light from the top,
and pipes containing hot water, in double tier
circuiting the walls, secured a comfortable temperature
of 60° F., which, to the initiated,
means sixty degrees Fahrenheit.

Far from the road in front, far from the lane
that passed at the back, far from the reception-room,
without a window in its walls, its only
entrance guarded by double-doors ; every precaution
secured, that any sound uttered or made
within that room, would awake no chord of sympathy,
and cause no sorrow, or divulge no secret to
the outer world. It was a most remarkable
room ; remember tenaciously its characteristics,
you will hear more about it by and bye.

Take one peep more before you leave it. See,
it has a thick pile carpet completely covering it.
This carpet, in one part about six feet square,
is surmounted by an oilcloth. Along the side of

one wall, projecting about two feet, stands a
narrow mahogany table supporting numerous
instrument-cases. These are filled with knives of
various sizes and various shapes, saws, bone and
teeth and obstetric forceps, gouges, surgical
needles and appliances, tourniquets, bandages,
etc., etc., sufficient to give a fair start in life to a
commencing surgical instrument maker. Besides
this table, the only furniture was three chairs, all
constructed after the same pattern, and that the
doctor's own design. One chair of large proportions
was suited to an adult ; another, smaller,
fitted for a youth; the third, smaller still, and
adapted for a child.

The first appearance resembled the chair
usually found in a dentist's room, comfortably
padded, easy, luxurious. A handle turning like a
windlass could elevate the patient's position to
any height, or lower it to any desirable standard.
Another application of the handle to another
part made the chair gradually unfold, so that it
might form a comfortable bed. Another turning
pivot made the foot of the bed separate into two
parts, and for a third of its length divide to
about three feet apart, so that the doctor could
have full room, and power for any manipulation
he might require, during an operation on a
patient's foot, or ankle, or knee.

One arrangement must not escape notice ; but,
it must be pointed out to you, and you must look
closely, and accurately, before you can observe it.

It has been so contrived, that strong leather
straps, perforated with holes to fasten on buttons,
can, almost imperceptibly, be drawn from their
receptacles. To the uninitiated these straps do
not appear, but pull one of those buttons, which
in serried ranks seem intended for mere ornamental
decoration, and out the strap will issue.

There are several of these covert appliances,
one to bind each arm, one to encircle the waist,
one to confine each leg above the knee, and one
each ankle ; so that each harmless looking easy
chair, by a little quiet manoeuvring, becomes an
operating table to which, without his knowledge
or consent, or even his suspicion, the patient
could be bound so fast that he could not move his
body, or stir his hand or foot.

It was a wonderful contrivance, but not just
the place you would like to find yourself helplessly
attached to, when there was no connection
with the outer world ; where no screams could be
heard, no cries for assistance answered, and
where some of those dreadful looking knives,
or saws, or forceps, could, without any power of
restraint on your part, be freely used upon your
flesh, and bones, and sinews.

Robert Armstrong, the proprietor of this
charming establishment, and the patentee of this
versatile invention, was the youngest child and
only son of Joan and Michael Armstrong. They
were well-to-do farming people in the County
Tipperary. He had nine sisters ; all of them fine,

healthy, fresh-looking girls, with blue eyes, white
eyelashes, and red heads Yes, unequivocally red
heads. Auburn hair, sandy, carrots, reddish ; not
one of these qualifications would do. The accurate
description was red. The Tipperary boys called
it *'foxy." This style of beauty, accompanied as
it generally is with a bright transparent skin,
being much admired in that part of the country,
they all, in succession, became comfortably
married ; and, in due course, the respective proprietors
of large families, ranging in numbers
from nine to twelve. As most of the offspring
inherited the complexion of their maternal progenitors,
the supply of little foxes in the
neighbourhood seemed likely to last — in prayer-book
phraseology — '' world without end. Amen."
Nevertheless, with their future history, our
narrative has no further connection.

Eobert was the pet, and this was not unnatural,
being the only boy amid such a profusion
of girls. Sometimes, indeed, he was the spoiled
pet of his mother, who, with maternal affection in
the ascendant, thought him the prettiest baby first,
and, subsequently, the most intelligent boy inexistence.
He was well educated ; brought
up carefully in Christian principles ; and manifested
for some time such a tone of piety, that
his parents almost decided to devote him to the
ministry. About this time, however, his father
met with an accident. He fell from a haycock,
which, at the end of the season, he was rearing

in an inclosure near his farmyard, and sustained
a compound fracture of the tiber and fibula, or
the bones of the lower part of the leg.

Eobert evinced such interest, such skill in
bandaging, and such an aptitude in following the
directions of the medical man who attended, that
he became quite interested in the lad, and
strongly advised his father to bring him up to the
profession for which nature seemed to fit him so
admirably. The boy ardently seconded the
doctor's advice. The parents consented, and the
church was abandoned in favour of the pill and
the lancet.

Being endowed with good abilities, in a short
time he passed his preliminary examination, and
was sent by his father to Dublin, to study in the
Medical School.

He soon distinguished himself among his
class-fellows, became protector to the lecturer in
anatomy, passed his primary professional with
honours, and in due course obtained the diplomas
of the Royal College of Surgeons, the Royal
College of Physicians, and the Apothecaries' Hall ;
and wrote to his father with no small pride,
adding to his name the portentous letters,
L.R.C.S.L, M.K.Q.C.P.I., L.M.R.H., L.S.A. The
last two respectively meaning Licentiate in Midwifery,
Rotunda Hospital, and Licentiate of the
Society of Apothecaries.

For the first two years of his study, he was
remarkable among his fellow students for his

steadiness and religious turn of mind. He never
joined with them in their Licentious debauches,
always kept good hours, and on Sundays regularly
attended church. The jeers and laughter
and ridicule of his class-mates were not sufficiently
potent to turn the bent of his strong
mind ; but, alas ! and alas ! this firmness
did not last. *devil communications corrupt
good manners," says the proverb. Time and
example, and worst of all, what the professors
in the medical school taught, at first unhinged
his mind and made him absolutely miserable,
and subsequently made havoc of his early inculcation
— the teachings of his father, and the
impressive, deeply rooted, early lessons learned at
his fond mother's knee.

It is interesting to observe how this moral
ruin was brought about, and the detail is not a
long one. When a student learning the bones of
the human skeleton, he saw at the base of the
skull a deep indenture, called from its resemblance
to a Turkish saddle, ^' the Sella Turcica."
When in the dissecting room he formed acquaintance
with its stately occupant, a little figure
protruding from the brain, called the '* pituitary
body." He read that this little figure was by
the ancients supposed to be the residence of the
soul, and that modern investigation cannot define
its use or obligation.

He had learned also accurately the particulars
of the " OS sacrum," or sacred bone, concerning

which the Jewish rabbis entertained the notion
that this part of the skeleton, which they called
"luz/' would resist decay, and become the germ
from which the body would be raised

Smiling in contempt at these fantasies, he
could find no other part of the body dedicated,
even by fable, to the spiritual inheritor. Then he
heard often from his teachers of the 'unity of
type," which means, the similarity of man to
other animals ; not only to animals living on
the dry land like himself, but also to animals
living in the sea. For example, in all known
mammalia, with two exceptions, there are
exactly seven cervical vertebrae. In the whale,
which seems to have no neck, there are just the
same mystic seven as in the giraffe or in man.

Again, he saw the bones in the human foetus
ossifying from a certain number of " centres of
ossification," which is the anatomical term for
those little specks, where the cartilage or gristle
of infant life, first assumes the appearance and
constituents of bone ; and this occurring in every
child in exactly the same manner. Nor, as he
ponders, can he discover any object why a human
bone should have this number of centres ; and, ashe
enquires, he can get no satisfactory explanation
until he reverts again to the ' * unity of
type ; " and there he finds, that each separate
*' centre of ossification" in the skeleton of man,
represents a distinct bone in some of the lower
animals.

His mind too was led by examples, constantly
before bis eyes, to consider bow the body of a
man differs nothing from the body of a dog ; bow
both " ripe and ripe and rot and rot " alike ; bow
decomposition lets the gases off alike, and the
blue bottle lays its fly blows on each alike,
and the worm devours each alike, and evaporation
dries each alike; until the residue proves
both alike composed of the one original constituent
— dust. And then, in no unnatural
sequence, be reflected on the suffering lot of
some. Tbe exquisite agony endured for long
months, by the cancer patient, for no fault of bis ;
the lingering death and joyless life of the consumptive,
for no fault of bis ; and the cruel,
tortured death of others, by what the word calls
'' accident." Tons, by a chain of thought,
whose links seem reasonably united, be began
to drift on the dreary and shoreless sea of
incertitude, until the bark of bis religion was
foundered on the rocks of agnosticism and doubt,
materialism and hopelessness, chance and infidelity.


Still, being an accurate observer, be recognised
in the world evil and good, suffering and joy,
order and design. He recognised a power and a
regularity — infinite power, relentless regularity —
a power and a regularity steadfast in their
career, and, although replete with benefits to the
many, regardless — utterly regardless — what agonizing
throes, what unmitigated sufferings, what

broken hearts lie crushed beneath the revolutions
of its progress ; and thus, bewildered by his contemplation,
he owned, at last, necessity alone as
the presiding ruling power ; what we call nature,
as the sole minister of this unyielding autocrat ;
his own life as an accident, his soul as a myth,
and death as a word synonymous with extermination.


Joyless, hopeless, heaviness creed. The
necessary consequence, not of the investigations
of science, but of man, imagining that his mind
can measure the decrees of infinite wisdom, his
ignorance understand infinite knowledge, and
his experience estimate the results of infinite
intention.

The same course of study has made an impression
widely different on other students of nature.
Their surprise, as they dissect the ** fearfully
and wonderfully made " tabernacle, is, that a
mechanism so complete, and at the same time so
frail, can in any case last for twenty years, not to
think of the allotted seventy, and the sometimes
surpassed one hundred. Their conclusion is
that to speak of chance in connection with the
maintenance of such delicate workmanship, or
accident as the cause of its existence, bears the
impress of such absurdity that the contradiction
is a work of supererogation. Their littleness
leads them to consider the Creator's greatness,
their short life His eternity, their worthlessness
His goodness, their ignorance the necessity for

His revelation. In the varied lot of humanity,
and the absence of punishment following guilt,
they recognise the strongest argument in support
of a future assize. They do not acknowledge
casualty, believing that even *' the fall of a
sparrow is observed." In "unity of type" they
find an additional proof that the same power is
the great Creator of all, and instead of lapsing
into infidelity, and striving to lull the fears and
doubts of a tormenting conscience by the hopeless
theory of annihilation, they cherish the
plant of immortality which they find growing
spontaneously within them, and, full of hope,
look on death as nothing more formidable than a
dark passage that leads to the confines of eternal
life.

It is an insane effort, they think, for the
anatomist to attempt to identify the perishing
with the immortal, the dead with the living, the
dilapidated house with the departed tenant, the
casket with the jewel which has been removed
from its keeping to decorate an unfading crown.
When the student in the dissecting room pres
into the arcana of nature, as the disciples of old
into the ** tomb in the garden," the angel voice of
revelation still proclaims,

He is not here, he is risen from the dead."

It is hard to find words to pourtray the '' sea
of troubles " which tossed and buffeted the mind
of young Armstrong, as his Christianity gave way

to infidelity, and his early home inculcation to
the newly fledged theories of immature science.
Even still, one good companion could have
turned the scale in favour of religion, but such
was nowhere to be found. His boat was drifting
wildly in the surging rapids, there was no assistance
near to rescue him from the precipitate falls.

Anxious for improvement, and very desirous
to derive all the information that could be procured
in connection with his profession, he went
from Dublin to Paris. During the first part of
his sojourn there, he might sometimes be seen
wending his way by the banks of the meandering
Seine, until he crossed the bridge to the little
island in its course, whereon is built the imposing
structure known as the Archbishop's Cathedral of
Notre Dame, and there he would enter and join in
the devotions. Sometimes, too, he would wander
into a quiet little church, not far from where,
opposite the Eue Royale, now stands the " Madeleine
"; but, in a few weeks this was discontinued,
and, as ** Saul among the Prophets prophesied,"
so young Armstrong in the company of infidels,
became a practical and an avowed infidel

Swift the days and weeks passed on, and soon
his six months' course of study was ended, and his
six months' constant attendance at the hospitals
completed, and then, he left for home in dear old
Tipperary, at once a well-educated physician, a
fluent French scholar, and a decided unbeliever.
At this time, his mind was fully made up on two

points — the first, that he would not, by the
smallest hint, give his parents to understand
the mighty change that had passed over his
opinions; and the second, that as life was
short, and nothing but annihilation beyond it,
he would enjoy himself in every way in his
power, and gratify, as far as he could, his every
wish, his every instinct, and his every propensity.
Ay ! and steep his senses in sin and lust,
and all that a perverted mind calls pleasure ;
avoiding alone that publicity which might injure
his prospects, and assuming that cloak of hypocrisy,
and outer garb of religion, which was
necessary to conceal his real character, and prevent
the discovery and, as far as possible, the
suspicion of anything which society might
condemn.

With these principles fully established in his
mind, and this line of conduct accurately marked
out in the map of his intentions, he settled down
to practice at Sweet Brier Lodge, where his
ability secured considerable success in his profession,
and where his tact and talent made him
looked up to as a blunt, straightforward, honest,
moral man, and a highly respectable member of
the community.

We shall, by and bye, invite our readers to
take a peep behind the scenes, and, unobserved,
to enter even the " sanctum sanatorium " — that
operating room, with its windowless walls, its
security against intrusion, and its careful provisions

against the egress of sound— that operating
room, with its wonderful chairs, and their wonderful
arrangements to hold the human frame and
every separate limb in strait-waistcoat security, as
long as the operator might deem requisite, and
the necessity of the case demanded.

But, we must not forget to chronicle, how great
the ovation was when the doctor, on the completion
of his studies, returned to his parents' house.
His relations were all of the farming class. He
was the first professional man, the first gentleman
of the family. Mr. Armstrong, June., had a string
of letters after his name ; Mr. Armstrong, Sent.,
never had a letter after his name but once. It
was when an epistle came from a miller in Killarney,
directed to Mr. Michael Armstrong E,S,Q.

But, independent of all this, the welcome was
hearty, the delight was genuine. They all felt,
as the country people said, " that blood was
thicker than water." So, nothing was too good
for Robert, and the parents manifested true love
for their returned boy. In justice it must be
added, also, that Bob was as glad to see the old
folks as they were to see him. He was not devoid
of affection, and, as his father shook his hand, he
felt his heart grow full ; and when his mother
drew him to her bosom, and he felt her tear of joy
roll down his cheek as she kissed him ; his tear of
joy mingled with hers, and he clasped her in his
arms as lovingly as she clasped him.

POOR LITTLE Cattle.

Tutti gli domini sono fratelli, e quando si tratta d'assisterli
non bologna informers di cio che creon ma di cio che soaring.

Italian Proverb.

One common brotherhood unites mankind
In bonds, which suffering should more closely bind ;
Away all thought of envy, worth, or creed !
Compassion only asks, " What does he need ? "

What in the wide world, at all, at all, are we todo
? Oi've sould every stick out of the cabin,
and nothing' remains but the bed we sleep on, and
the metal pot to bile the parties. Och ! Biddy,
darling, whatever in the world are we to do ?
Whatever are we to do ? ''

Mesef don't know, Pat, no, the never a bit!
sure and martin, we never was so reduced afore.
'Isn't that we drink our share in the public-house,
or that we spend it careless; Isn't that
we're lazy and won't work, but not a scrap of work
can we git — and now, could, and raw, and wet as it
is, we have nothing' but a handful of parties in the
place to stay the chiltern's hunger, and not even
a sod of turf to bile them, and not a penny to buy
a bit of bread."

Threw enough for ye, Biddy, and mesef
would not mind it so much, for sure, 'tis used
to the hardship we are, only it kills me to think
of poor little Cattie, and she so wake and sick.
Och, Biddy, Biddy, Biddy ! 'twould break me
heart to lose her, the rather."

'' And so 'twould mine too, Pat. Many the
night Oi never closed me eyes, striven' to aise her
pains, rocking' her in me arms, and walked back
and forward to try and git her a wink of sheep ;
and well Oi knows how often ye portended ye had
no wish for food verses, and would not ate a
morsel, that the chiltern might have the more, and
thin, how ye went out with an empty stomach,
and tried to git a bit of work, or to run a message,
or to turn yer hand to anything, to strive to earn
an honest penny to buy a scrap of bread. Och,
Pat, Pat, Oi knows it all ! "'

'' Oi don't mind so much for the other chiltern
now, for they are strong and healthy — although
their crying for a bit to aise their hunger stabs me
to the heart — but this little rather is so anguish,
and so wake, Oi'm afeard of me life she'll die afore
the mornen, and thin, Biddy ashore, whatever
would Oi do ? Whatever would Oi do ? "

And, with these words, the poor, ill-clad, half-starved
looking man, with his gaunt, lean figure,
and his sunken eyes, and skin-drawn face, fairly
broke down, and sobbed bitterly.

And Biddy could not keep her heart up,
either. The tears ran down her pale, worn cheeks,

too, but she tried, in her distress, to be brave,
and support her despairing husband.

'' Oi'll tell you what it is, Pat, take me shoes ;
ye'll be able to get a couple of shillings on tim.
Ye remember, Oi gave five shillings for thin, last
summer, whin we got that bit of work, make
the turf, and they are as good as new, for Oi never
wore thin since, except whin we went to prayers.
Anyhow, ye'll git a couple of shillings for 'em, and
thin go straight to the tother ; till him we'll pay
him the rest, honest, as soon as we can git a bit
of work to do ; give him. there and thin, one
shilling, and pray and beg of him to come and see
our poor little Cattie. With the other shilling, ye
can buy a bit of white bread, and a taste of mate,
if the tother says she wants nourishment'

** Ah ! Biddy," said Pat, '' ye're a good wife tome
; ye always know the way out of trouble.
Oi'll take yer shoes, acushla, but sore against me
heart it is to see yer poor feet could and bare;
but what can we do ? "

'* That don't trouble me, Pat, but all Oi'm afield
of is, that the tother won't come a step for that,
but will want his half-crown. But ye can try
him, Pat, anyhow. Oi knows he refused Tom
Sexton the other day, and would not lave the
house till he got the money down."

'' Yis, Biddy, that's the truth, but he knew Tom
Sexton could pay if he liked, and people say the
tother is not a bad-hearted man to the poor.
So Oi'll try him, and if worst comes to worst,

Oi must give him the two shillings, and, meantime,
ye can gather a few sticks, and bile the parties
for the other chiltern afore Oi gits back."

"May the Lord send ye good luck," said
Biddy, as Pat took her shoes, and set off in the
rain, to try and raise the money, to bring the
doctor to his sinking child.

Pat and Biddy Brady were man and wife.
There is no question but they lived constant, and
true, and loving to each other, in sickness and in
health, in sorrow and in joy, when they had a bit
to eat, and when they had not. They rented a
little thatched hut— cottage would be too grand a
name for it — for which they paid two shillings a
month, and here they managed to subsist for the
past twelve years ; sometimes being able to have a
cup of tea and bread and butter, and a bit of meat
for the Sunday's dinner ; and sometimes having
nothing but potatoes and milk for every meal.
Twenty-one times a week for variety," as Pat
would say, while a suppressed smile played upon
his lip, and a twinkle just showed its existence in
his eye.

Whatever came, they were thankful for ; they
never murmured, never repined. They did not
know the requirements of those who have been
brought up in the lap of luxury, and their aspirations
never soared higher than to have the means
wherewithal *'to pay the rent, and enough to ate
for themselves and the chiltern."

Their eldest was a fine, strong, intelligent,

healthy lad, and was now nine and a half years
old. The second was also a boy, of just eight
years, and as healthy and rosy-cheeked as his
brother, and both were, as their mother said, '* the
best boys alive, and the liven image of their
father."

The youngest child was a little girl ; perhaps
owing to the privations which her father and
mother had to endure in hard times — when food
was scarce and dear, and neither had more to eat
than was just sufficient to keep body and soul
together — she was a pale-faced, puny, little,
delicate thing. She seemed to catch cold every
other day, and no sooner was one attack gone
than she got another. Her parents said she
took colds easily, but you or I would not wonder,
when we reflected that the little mud-built hut
had but one room, and that the curtailed bed
was opposite the door, under whose bottom, when
shut, a mouse might creep, and through whose
chinks the cold and frosty wind blew.

Little Cattie often had a cough ; sometimes she
could not eat the potatoes, especially when there
was no milk to wash them down, and not a bit of
butter to give them a taste ; but, worst of all, she
was born with her two little feet deformed, both
the heels were drawn up, and both the soles were
reversed inwardly, so that when she came to walk,
the instep was the part that came to the ground.
In common language, they were "club-feet."
They need no further description. Perhaps everyone

is familiar with the appearance, and has seen
more than one unsightly example.

The more delicate she was, by Natiire^s kind
decree, the more loving were her parents. Both of
them would deny themselves anything to give the
more to Cattie, and little Cattie had a loving
heart and an affectionate manner. She would
nestle on her mother's bosom, and cuddle up
close to her side. She would meet her father
every day on his return home, before he reached
the threshold, waiting for the hour of his
approach with anxious eyes, and then she would
lie satisfied and content in his strong arms, and
run her tiny fingers through his hair, or presently
fold her loving arms around his neck, and
whisper, in fond affection's soothing tones, " My
papa, my papa."

Oh ! how fond of her was that poor papa !
What tongue could tell it, what pen could write
it ? He loved her more than the eyes in his
head, and every time her little frame looked
weaker, and her little pale face looked thinner, his
heart seemed to enwrap itself closer and closer
round her. He seemed to love her more and
more, till he felt that heart would break if he
should lose her, and that he would die of grief if
God Almighty took her from him away.

At the time in which we introduce her to our
readers, poor little Cattie had been more than
usually unwell ; her little head was hot, her
eyes dim, appetite she had none — she could not

eat the boiled potatoes. She was just six years
old, but did not appear to be five, so far as stature
was a criterion, and yet her little worn, wrinkled
face looked more like ten or twelve,

Pappy, do not leave yer little Cattie, for Cattie
very sick ; papa kiss little Cattie, for Cattie
loves papa;" and papa's tears fell down like
rain, and papa felt as if the grief would burst
his soul.

** Anything, anything in the world, Oi will do
for me garland," he muttered, trying in vain
effort to steady his voice, and stooping down at
the same time to give the asked for kiss.

As he raised his head again, she too raised herself
slightly, as though she could not spare to
lose him, and having twined one little arm
around his neck, her eyes appeared to close and
her lips to move as if engaged in prayer. Then,
looking at him with a smile of unutterable affection,
she whispered :

'' Ye'll think of little Cattie sometimes, won't
ye, pappy ? Yis, Oi know ye will."

''Oh, me child," exclaimed her father, with a
groan of irrepressible anguish, ** don't spake tome
like that; Oi cannot bear it. Surely the good
God will be merciful, and not take ye from me

tithe

spoke the last words as if to himself, and
bowing his head beside her, hid his face against
the blanket.

Cattie seemed to feel his grief, and passing her

little thin hand softly over his hair, she said in
tenderest tones, *' Oh, don't cry, pappy dear, Cattie
did not mane to make ye unhappy ! Ye mustn't,
ye mustn't." And again she tried to raise herself
up, that she might kiss his tears away.

He clasped the child fervently in his arms for a
moment, then gently laid her down. She rested
for an instant, and was silent. Then, with an
anxious look, as if afraid to cause him pain again,
said : *' Let me give ye, pappy, one kiss more ? "

He gazed at her through his blinding tears,
and tried to choke them back ; then, said as calmly
as he could, " Ye must not leave me darling, Oi
could not live without ye. God is good, and with
his help, ye will soon be better."

"• Perhaps he will let me be yer little guardian
angel to watch over ye, and then Will be near
ye, although ye won't see me."

And as the child spoke, a far-away look
appeared to pass over her features, and her eyes
turned from the face and form she loved best on
earth, as if she almost caught a vision of the
angels' home.

The sorrowing man seemed lost in thought,
and sat with one hand clasped in Cattle's, the
other covering his face. Presently the blue eyes
turned to him again. *' Give me just won promise
to make me happy, papa ? "

*' Oi promise," said her father, but he added no
more ; his grief seemed greater than he could bear.

'' Promise me ye will not fret, papa dear ? ''

** There is notion Oi would not do for me
garland," he replied.

But Cattie saw a big tear trickle through his
fingers as he spoke, though he tried to be composed,
and determined for her sake not to give
way again.

*' Will me little garland try and take a sleep ?
She must not talk for a little bit, 'twill tire her
too much."

' Ye will stay with me a little longer, papa,
wont ye ? Oi like to feel ye near, all me own ! "
and, with hand locked in his, she closed her eyes,
and seemed to doze off quietly, but her father
sat and watched with a breaking heart, and then
by the side of that bed the strong man bowed his
rebellious head, and determined that if his child
was spared he would live a better life. After a
time she opened her eyes, — *' Dear papa, are
ye still there ? "

**Yis," he answered, '* and now it is time ye
had somethen to ate, and I have only a drink of
water for me starve child."

Their minds were fully made up, Cattie was so
ill ; comfortless, helpless, friendless, almost starving
as they were, they determined to sell poor
mamma's shoes, and try to get one visit from the
doctor.

Now let us turn back to where we commenced.
Poor Pat, with a sorry heart, went out to sell the
shoes ; and first he went to one neighbour, and
then to another ; for one they were too large, for

another too small ; one offered him one and
sixpence, another a shilling ; for nearly an hour
and a half he toiled at his painful errand, hut, at
last, to his delight, got the expected amount,
and, without a moment's further delay, he hurried
to the **docther."

It was not quite twelve o'clock, and the doors
of Sweet Brier Lodge were not yet closed against
the morning patients; the very last was just
departing when Pat arrived. In a few moments,
with bead uncovered to show respect, and hat in
hand, and full of fear least his petition should be
refused, he stood in the consulting room before
the doctor.

*'0h! tother, will ye come see me little
garland ? I'm afield of me life she's dien."
and as he spoke he could scarce keep in the tears
that floated within his eyelids.

The doctor, viewing him coldly, asked, " Where
do you live ? "

'* In Cooks' Lane, tother, the second cabin at
the far end."

Why ! that is best part of a mile from this ? "

"Indeed, it is, tother, but won't ye come ?"

Wont I come ? What can you pay ? That
visit would take quite an hour of my time, and
you don't look as if you were worth a penny
piece."

Other, yer honor, if Oi had the manes ye
should have yer full fee, and welcome. Oi know
Oi can't offer ye what ye ought to git, but Oi

have just sold the wife's shoes for two shins,
and, though Oi've not a bite of bread in the
house for the sick crater, ye shall have it all ;
for her mother and me would die wud the grief if
she should die, and no one see her."

Two shillings'* said the doctor, with a tone
of marked contempt." ** Two shillings ! well,
what insolence ! " Then, raising his voice, *' do
you think I'm going to waste my time for
nothing ? " and turning on his heel, he rang the
bell, and ordered his servant to '* show that man
out."

Not one word did Pat say. The tears that he
kept back, with difficulty, now dried up ; all his
hope was gone. He felt utterly crushed; the
doctor's words seemed to him the death sentence,
telling him his child must die. With dejection
and despair marked upon his countenance, he
turned towards the door, following the servant
that was showing him the way.

But the strong man's dejection, and the
heart stricken look that overspread his face, and
the tottering knees that betokened the broken
spirit — the spirit broken by poverty, sickness, and
grief — were more than the heart of Eobert
Armstrong could bear; so, rushing to the door, he
asked, in roughest accents, *' What's your
name ? "

And the man, with a stifled sob, replied, " Pat
Brady, tother."

** Then Pat," said he, 'just wait a minute till.

I pull on my coat, and order the carriage, and I
will give give you a seat, and we will both go
together to your house, to see your little patient."

Pat was struck dumb. He was so overcome
with gratitude that he could not speak, nor had he
time to collect his thoughts. The doctor quickly
completed his arrangements, took Pat beside him,
as he promised, and, having ordered his coachman
to drive fast, they soon drew up before the second
house in Cook's Lane.

"Biddy," said Pat, jumping from the carriage
and rushing into the little hut, " Biddy, here is
the tother, and he has not only comet hisses,
but has drum me with im, as if Oi was a gentleman."


*' May the Lord bless him," said Biddy, as she
hurried to the door to give her most genteel
courtesy, and to welcome the visitor.

The doctor put out his hand, and shook
warmly the cold thin fingers of the poor, hungry,
grieving woman. He could not have acted more
courteously if his patients had jC5,000 a year,
and were about to give him a fiver for a fee.

And soon poor Biddy felt more at home, and
answered, intelligently, each enquiry about the
little one's complaints, telling how easily she
caught cold, how little she could eat, and how
delicate she had been ever since her birth.

Having obtained as many particulars as he
deemed requisite from the mother, the doctor
turned to the occupant of the miserable looking

and uncomfortable bed, and, taking the little oneby
the hand, began to speak to her as lovingly
and as kindly as her loving father could.

*' Do you feel a pain anywhere, my little love ? "

*' Is; just here," putting her hand on the pit of
her stomach.

'' No pain in the little head ? "

•'No, never pain dare."

Could my little pet take some nice beef tea,"
said the doctor, as he looked, with surprise, at
the wonderful emaciation ? The little creature
seemed but skin and bone.

Is," said little Cattie, vividly.

** Could she take some nice little bits of beautiful
white bread in it ? "

'' Is," and her eyes opened wide, and seemed to
look for the dainties the doctor mentioned.

'does she feel cold? "

"Is," me little feet like ice," and the doctor,
putting down his hand, found that it was even so,
and that her little limbs were cold too, for she
had only one thin blanket over her, and the day
was chilly and damp, and there was no fire in the
wretched hut.

He felt her pulse, he listened to the puerile
breathing as, without the smallest crepitation, it
sounded both in the upper and lower lobes of the
lungs. He listened to the heartless too, and
almost expected an anaemic murmur, but it did
not exist, and, having made a careful examination
of his little patient, he concluded that

want and starvation were the only destroyers he
had to contend with. He therefore ordered the
child beef tea, and taught Biddy how to make it ;
told her the child required another blanket, and
where, using his name, she might most cheaply
purchase it ; and, promising to call again the next
day, he put half a sovereign into her hand,
instead of taking Pat's two shillings.

Day after day the doctor called, day after day
he brought little delicacies from his own house
for the child, and day after day left money with
Biddy. Soon little Cattie looked stronger and
better than she ever looked before, and Pat and
Biddy began to lose their starved looks, and the
two elder boys had again the red cheeks of health.
The doctor, when taking his leave, brought
Pat aside, and told him to go that evening to
Squire Barry's, for he had got a job of work for
him there as stableman, and that he was to get
fifteen shillings a week. A big fortune to one
who had never more than five shillings a week
before.

The doctor's connection with this poor family
had not yet terminated. During his attendance,
the deformity under which little Cattie suffered
had not escaped his observation, and he had
arranged with her father, that she should be
brought to his house, as soon as her health was
quite re-established. He told him not to be afraid,
that he wished to examine the child to see if anything
could be done, and that he promised him,

that no one should hear the smallest cry from
her.

And Pat and Biddy joyfully consented. They
had proof enough of the doctor's kindness of
heart to trust their loved child to him, and so at
nine o'clock one fine morning, Biddy and little
Cattie appeared at Sweet Brier Lodge, and,
being the first patients, the little one was at once
admitted by the servant to the doctor's consulting
room.

The child was glad to see him. He took heron
his knee and kissed her, and then presented
her with a whole paper of sweets. Having fully
gained her confidence, he led her by the hand
into the ** sanctum sanatorium," and closely
fastened both its doors.

Come, Cattie," said he, '* see this pretty
little chair, it is just big enough for you, come
and sit down on it."

** Ta, ta, tother," said Cattie, as with her little
club feet she toddled over, and took her seat in
the pretty little chair.

*' Now'' said the doctor, '' tell me how many
you have there," putting, at the same time, a
small basket filled with rosy little apples into her
lap.

And Cattie began to count, and as she counted
one strap was drawn from its secret repository,
and one arm was fixed immovably to the chair,
and a second arm was bound, and the strap was
drawn round the waist, and the chair was lowered

to a bed, and the legs were bound above the knee
and above the ankles, and the foot of the bed
dividing drew the legs wide apart.

"Now, Cattie, since you cannot count the
apples, you may go to sleep," said the doctor,
throwing a red silk handkerchief over the child's
face. " Sing for me now," said he, "one of the
songs mammy sings for you when she is putting
you to sleep ? "

And little Cattie was quite amused, she thought
a great game was being played, and, to do her
part, began her little warbling; but soon her
little song was ended.

"Oh, tother ! there is a pin goes into me
ankle," and the child gave a shriek with the pain ;
and soon she cried again, "Oh, tother! there is
another pin."

But the doctor was deaf, and heard not, he
was too much engaged about his work. The
cries of the child became loud, and sharp, and
piercing. But they awaked no cord of sympathy
even with her mother, for nobody heard them.

At first glance the doctor understood the
nature of the case. " It is a compound variety of
club foot," said he to himself. "In medical,
or rather surgical language, we would call it
talipes equinox varus,' and it is perfectly capable
of cure. The tendons must be cut, the tendons
of the muscles that, by unnatural contraction,
distort the joint."

Then, remembering his experience in Paris, he

muttered : " L^ premier effet de la section clu tendon
d'un muscle retract est Department de ses deux
bouts, mais la continuity se retahlit,*' The first
effect of cutting through a tendon is the separation
of its parts, but they will unite again,
and," continued he, *' in this case, I must divide
the tendo Achilles at the back, and the tendons
of the flexor longus digitorum, and of the tibial
porticos at the inner side, and that of the tibial
anticus in front. True ! there is a big posterior
tibial artery close to the tendon of the flexor
longus digitorum, but that is about the only
danger, and if I don't know how to avoid it, my
name is not Bob Armstrong."

Again, remembering his Parisian practice,
he muttered to himself: '^ Quelques chirurgeon
passent le tenotome au.dessus du tendon; autres
entre le tendon et le peau'' Some surgeons pass
the knife beneath the tendon, others between
the tendon and the skin. He added " I believe
in the first ; put the tenotomy knife under the
tendon, entering the skin at the side of the artery,
and cutting in the direction of the toes ; by this
means you easily avoid the artery ; but if you
pass your knife between the tendons and the
skin, and then cut down, I do not see how the
artery can escape."

And thus he mused and muttered, as tendon
after tendon gave way under his wells directed
knife. With one sweep he severed the flexor
longus and tibialis porticos ; with another the

anticus, and with a third the tendo Achilles ; and
then, taking firmly the foot in both his hands,
with powerful strain he turned it to its natural
position; and having braced on a splint of his
own contrivance, to keep it in shape, he went
through the very same course on the second
foot.

Only three little pin-holes were visible on each
foot, so beautifully and carefully did he perform
the operation; not two tablespoonful of blood
were lost, and instead of taking half-an-hour at
each foot — like some slow coaches, who, in their
vanity think themselves good operators — the
whole was completed in less than twenty-five
minutes.

As soon as all was finished, he drew the handkerchief
from over little Cattle's face, having first
let loose and returned to their places all the
straps. He then restored the chair to its original
shape, and having, by kind words, tried to make
friends again with his patient, he pointed to her
feet, saying :

See, dear, your feet are as straight as your
brother's now."

*' Oh, doctor, it did pain," said the little
sufferer, whose face was still wet with tears.

*' Yes, Cattie, but no naughty boys can laugh
at you now, and you will soon be able to run
about and play as well as any of them."

*' Ah ! will Oi tother," said the child, wiping ?
off her tears.

But the doctor had more sweets in store, and a
pretty doll, for which he paid a whole shilling,
and when little Cattie got possession, she never
felt so happy before in her life. All the tears
were dried. You would not know she had
shed one. And then, after not many more than
thirty minutes' absence, the doctor carried her
back to her mother, who, having never heard one
cry from her child, and seeing her little feet
straight, and the child laughing and playing with
the doll, thought a miracle had been wrought,
and that an angel had touched the parts and
made them whole.

It was a happy home at the Brady's that night.
Their little darling was no longer to be a cripple
doomed to pity or insult for her live-long life ; and
there were tears of gratitude, and heartfelt thanks
for the kind and clever man who had, like his
heavenly exemplar, *' done such great things for
them without money and without price." And
they remembered it was somewhere written,

*' Blessed is the man that provided for the sick and needy ; the
Lord will deliver him iu the time of trouble."

MARY, GERALD AND THE GIPSY.

Cui talis fanti
Ante fores subito non vultus, non color unus,
Non comte manner come ; sed pectus anselm,
Et rabies fera corda tient.

Virgil.

As soon as e'er she speaks, her visage takes strange form,
Her hair dishevell'd grows, her color flees away ;
Out from her heaving breast, with passion's impulse warm,
Prophetic words demonstrate inspiration's raj-for

the first few days, Fergus lay in his comfortable
bed so still and listless, as to convey the
strong impression that his muscular strength was
reduced to a considerable extent. He was hot,
flushed, and thirsty. His position was supine, he
lay flat upon his back, and his characteristics
were indifference and stupor. The doctor said
his pulse was hard and frequent, and that his
symptoms were expressive of grave affection both
of the nervous and sanguineous systems.

But soon there appeared to be a great change.
Delirium was next the prominent and unmistakable
condition. At first, this was evidenced
by disturbed sleep, and by the strangeness of his
demeanour in awaking; then by a fixed determination

to leave his bed and wander from his
room, which at times, took all Tom's strength to
resist. This was subsequently succeeded by a
tranquil rambling state, with the most supreme
indifference to all that took place around ; muttering
disjointed words, or unintelligible sentences ;
as though his mind was far away, and busily
occupied with some cherished and absorbing
pursuit.

And so it was. The leading topic which
engrossed his thoughts, was the intellectual
struggle, in which he had contended at Oxford
some years before. It was his final examination.
He had come out in the first class. The conclusion
of the severe test proclaimed him the first
man in the classical tripos. Presently, with his
heart brimful of joy at his victory, he thought he
was returning home. His restless spirit then
endured all the fatigue of the long journey to
Milford Haven, and again went through, not in
panoramic view, but in interest, exertion, and
turmoil, all the changes of scene which had
accurately attended his actual travelling in the
past. When at Milford, he had examined with
much interest the magnificent harbour which
nature has provided, so spacious, so sheltered,
so well constructed that no artificial toil of
civilized man could venture a comparison. Then
he took ship to Ireland. Viewed the Tuscan rock
and lighthouse with much delight. Watched from
the deck the land, as he coasted along the

southern shores of Wexford ; and was struck with
the beauty of the scenery, when having steered
round the tower of Hook, he passed up to
Waterford, between the picturesque and villa-studded
banks of the noble river Sir. Then, in
imagination, he drove on by public conveyance to
Cork. Leaving the stately Commeragh mountains
on his right hand, and having taken a bird's-eye
view of the beautiful and expansive harbour,
he determined to pass on to Blarney, instead of
taking the straight course for home. Blarney
was too famous to deny a visit to it, when it lay so
near, for what young man could resist the advantages
that were guaranteed ? '•' When once your
lips have touched that famous stone," so says the
strong voice of tradition, ' ' for ever after, even
were you to live to the age of Methuselah, you
would never lose the power of being able to make
yourself agreeable. The sweetest and most
suitable compliments would never fail your
tongue. Instead of feeling ' short of an idea,'
and not knowing * what on earth to say next,'
you would henceforth almost require a double
curb chain to restrain the torrent of your
eloquence, and the effervescence of your witty,
graceful power of retort."

And then, his trembling and agitation in his
bed seemed great, as in imagination he felt himself
held by the heels on a sloping rock, with a
precipice before him. Knowing all the time, that if
a single finger slipped of those that held him, he

would be whirled over the edge and dashed to
pieces by the tremendous fall. He could only, ashe
kissed the famous stone, desire to be back
safely again ; although just before his attempt he
was forbidden to forget, 'that if another wish,
than that for eloquence and wit and powers of
fascination monopolised his thoughts, that wish,
and that alone, would be confirmed by the stone
of Blarney."

When at Blarney, he was not far from the
Bogra mountains, and the comfortable home of
the Harringtonss. Of this he knew nothing at
that time, neither had he ever heard of Sweet
Brier Lodge or of the doctor who was then attending
him, so, having no inducement in that direction
he passed on to Bantry. This old place he viewed
with interest, situate on the eastern extremity of
the spacious bay. A smile passed over his face,
as looking over the waste of waters, he knew that
at the western limit lay his home. Without delay
he passed on to Glengariffe, a place of exquisite
beauty and majestic scenery ; whose stupendous
heights are always green, and where the abundant
foliage spreads down the sloping sides, nor stays
its luxuriance until it reaches the very edge of the
water. Then taking a boat, and a man to gently
pull two oars, he went out on the lovely little
creek, and being an adept on the violin, played
a sweet Irish melody. When lo ! two ponderous
looking seals forsook their hidden haunts, and,
charmed with the music, forgot all thoughts of

danger, and swam in trustful confidence around
him.

Winding up the hills from beautiful Glengarilie,
the restless, muttering, raving, sick man turned
off, in imagination, to Killarney. Presently he
reaches the mountain top, passes through the
tiny tunnel that divides the Counties of Cork and
Kerry, when, like a fairy land, the far famed
lakes spread full before his view. Much did he
wish to linger there awhile, but love of home
prevailed, and backwards he turned his course to
Castletown. And as he stood there on the edge of
the coast, with the bright green sea water splashing
at his feet, waiting for a boat, he cast his eyes
to the land on the right, as, with graceful curve,
it branches out towards the ocean. A stately
castle soon absorbs his thoughts, for there are
those he loves, and there is his cherished home.
The hills are densely wooded at the back, and
slope with gentle undulation to the water. The
Castle is begirt with the foliage, yet its tower, in
defiant grandeur, peeps out through the leaves,
and extensive and elegantly constructed wings
projecting from each side of the stronghold,
appear above the evergreens that grow between
them and the water. Oh ! he knows every rose-tree
that blooms before the door ; every stone in
the little creek before the windows into which his
boat will soon enter ; and every room in that
grand edifice where his happy childhood, his
boyhood, and his early youth, were passed.

Who were the occupants of the Castle to which
Fergus, in the raving insanity of his fever, went,
traversing with the troubled accuracy of delirious
pertinacity, the very journey he had made three
years before ? To this our narrative will give a
prompt reply.

Mary and Kate were the two daughters of Donald
Fitzgerald. He was of noble family and considerable
wealth, moreover, the inheritor of a considerable
estate and spacious mansion in the County
Kerry.

Mary married Eugene 0' Sullivan, of Dunboy
Castle ; and Kitty, who was the younger, married
Miles O'Brien, of Galway.

Both Eugene 0' Sullivan and Miles O'Brien
were slain in their country's wars against the
invaders, but left their widows well provided for.

Mary had four children, but Kitty had only
one.

Mary's children were two sons and two
daughters, Donal and Eugene, Edie and Mary.

Kitty's only child was Fergus. He was her
darling, her pride, the subject of her thoughts
from morn to eve. When she lost her husband,
being much attached to her sister, Mrs. 0' Sullivan,
she left her own home, and went to live at
Dunboy.

Edie, who was several years older than Mary,
married Colonel Macmahon, and being of a
fearless disposition, and very fond of her husband,
would not quit his side, but accompanied him to

Limerick, never left him during the horrors of
the siege, and after the surrender of the garrison,
went with him to France.

Donal, Eugene, and Fergus also went to the
wars. Eugene was killed in a skirmish outside
the walls, when he joined in a daring sally with
his brave cousin, Fergus. Donal went with his
brother-in-law, Macmahon, to France, and Fergus,
you will remember, we traced from Limerick,
and left in raving fever at the House of the
Harringtonss.

When the boys departed, with patriotic impulse
and dauntless bravery, to defend their country
against the enemy, Mary had one child left — her
lovely youthful daughter, called, too, after her
own name — but Kitty was desolate.

Long months had past since they went away,
yet there was no intelligence. It was impossible
to send news from Limerick, so closely did the
besiegers hem them in. Yet day by day, and
hour by hour, the mothers thought upon their
sons continually. Mary knew not that Eugene
had fallen ; she knew not that Donal was unable
to leave the besieged city ; and Kitty knew not of
Fergus' daring escape, nor of the letter which he
carried, nor of his burning fever, nor of his lying
sick and raving at the house of Bogravale.

Mary's daughter was like a guardian angel to
her mother and her aunt. She encouraged them
by her cheerfulness, prayed with them for the
absent ones, and to all the poor of the neighbouring

Castletown and district, was a kind giver and
generous benefactor.

No poor one came to seek her help, and went
away with aching heart and disappointed hope
from the Castle. She gave her bread to the
hungry, and her clothes to the destitute, and far
and wide, her name was known for acts of kindness,
benevolence, and charity.

But Mary, whose beauty was surpassing, was
not without one who gave many evidences of his
love, and who found a chord responsive in her
heart. Her own brothers were by some years her
seniors. Absence from home at school, and, subsequently,
active service in the army, had debarred
them from the society of their younger sister.
Fergus, her cousin, was the playmate of her
youth, and one whom she loved as a brother.
But Gerald Fitzgerald, a distant relative on her
mother's side, became deeply smitten by her
charms, and being a fine, manly, handsome fellow,
and having wooed with the earnestness of sincerity,
he won the affection, which, of all the world, he
prized the most.

Mary was but seventeen, and Gerald twenty-two.
As they walked together through the main
street of Castletown, many were the prayers from
grateful hearts that followed Mary, and many
were the fervent wishes that '* the beautiful young
couple should soon be married, and that all happiness
should attend them."

In the course of true love there is always some

impediment that defers, if not debars, the consummation.
And so it was in this case. Urgent need
of help and assistance, both in men and the
ammunitions of war, was required from Spain,
and it had been arranged that Gerald should start
from Bantry Bay to Madrid, to obtain the timely
succour, before Limerick should be forced to
yield.

The day, before his departure, was ushered in by
one of those genial mornings, whose grateful,
balmy air resembled more the refreshing breezes
of May, than the usually cold, chilly blasts of
October. A warmth, like that of spring, poured
from the bright sun's rays the live-long day, and
before the evening closed, the mild zephyr played
so gently on the bay, that Gerald and Mary were
beguiled to saunter, on a romantic looking path,
that led from the Castle close by the water's
edge.

The conversation at first referred to the close
approaching voyage, and the probable length of his
absence, and many were the enquiries made, and
many were the hopes expressed. At length, when
every point was well discussed, Gerald leant against
a sturdy oak, and drawing his arm round Mary's
waist, pressed her with fond affection to his heart,
and she, with head turned back to rest against his
bosom, looked up to gaze into his much loved
face, and then he stooped and kissed her snow-white
forehead fervently, and said,

'* Mary ! I never asked thee to be mine, ne'er

in set needless phrase made such requisite
enquiry. My heart's devotion in the past ! when,
all my happiness on thy preference hung suspended
; the sun of joy that beamed when thou
wast nigh, the black condensing cloud that
spread around its panoply of woe, when rose a
thought of separation ; the longing to anticipate
thy propounded wish, to be the slave of thy
expressed desire, to kiss the ground whereon thy
footsteps pressed. All, all, had pleaded well my
suit to thy perception, and met such ample recognition
in thy smile, that left no doubt or dark
uncertainty of thy consent to their appeal.
Those eyes, long since vouchsafed to me reply,
in language far more eloquent than any form of
words. I heard in every sigh, I saw in every
blush, I felt in every gentle pressure of thy
hand, responsive to my own, all that my soul had
longed for. Ay ! and from a thousand tiny
things, which like the fabled straw that points
the river's course, there poured such rich corroboration
; that nothing but hypocrisy, or disingenuous
dissimulation, could dare to ask a
question, as still involved in doubt, which honesty
felt bound to own, was long since fully answered."
'* Thanks, dearest Gerald. Why ask the ivy
will it cling to this strong oak ? Why ask that
blue convolvulus will it embrace the close
approaching branches of that laburnum ? Why
ask yon evening star will it reflect the brilliant
beams of the retiring sun ? 'Twere needless

waste of words. So thou with needless words,
would not, for lack of conversation, lay such
reproof on my poor intelligence, as to suggest the
thought, that I could neither read thy heart nor
estimate its worth. Nor yet would'st thou infer
that most uncomplimentary alternative, that this
unworthy object of thy affection, so prudish was,
and so luxuriant in insincerity, that she, with
false pretence, would fain not to understand,
what all thy love had taught her so impressively''


'dearest, the thanks are due to thee, not me.
Just one kiss more, and then we must go back.
The dew already has commenced to fall, and this
most worthy recipient of all the love I have, is far
too precious to me, to allow the risk of catching a
bad cold."

'' Yes, dear, let us go, mother and aunty will
be looking for us."

Early next morning Gerald started for Madrid.
** Good bye, darling," were his last words, as the
white sails veered round to the wind, and wafted
his vessel from the harbour.

And Mary's heart felt a pang as she too,
in response, spoke these same saddest words ;
and the big tears filled her eye, and ran in quick
succession down her cheeks as she watched him
out of sight ; and then returned to Dunboy to pray
for his safe return.

Ah ! he was a noble looking man, stately and
majestic in his mien, and of colossal strength.

A high expanded forehead, aquiline nose, singularly
handsome expression of features, withal
beaming with intelligence. It was not his first
visit to Spain, and his appearance was somewhat
modelled by foreign habits. His long dark hair
fell in loose curls under his Spanish helmet, with
its waving plumes. His heavy black moustache
and beard displayed admirable suitability to his
pale sunburnt face. And she was fair as he was
dark. Bright golden tresses waved in luxuriant
folds, even below her waist. Long dark eyelashes
fringed her eyes, and, every feature perfect
in its place, setting off each other, gave to the
entire expression the sweetness of unsurpassed
beauty.

And so, Mary and her lover parted. In his
absence she continued her works of kindness, and
when unoccupied with affectionate attention to
her aged mother and aunt, spent her time in
supplying the wants, and consoling the sufferings
of the poor.

One morning, among the destitute ones who
came to seek her aid, appeared a woman of
strange looks. She was old, and wrinkled, and
small. The first impression suggested the
thought, that for years no blood had circulated
in her face ; so thin, so pale, so cadaverous washer
countenance. Her large black eye, alone,
retained the fire and rapid glance of youth. She
could fix it, as though the gaze would pierce one
through ; and, on whomsoever that glance would

rest, it seemed to enforce immediate recognition of
its power, in constrained attention to her person,
her glance, her thoughts, her words.

** Kind lady, may a stranger ask a charity at
your hands, a stranger, who has no claim, but her
want and her misery ? "

And Mary said : *' Come here, and sit beside
me, and tell me what you would like ? Can I
not get you something more delicate than I have
given to the others, for you seem weak and worn,
even more than they ? And if you be a stranger,
this is no demerit ; nay, rather should it remind
us, that somewhere it is written, that in extending
hospitality to strangers, ' some have even entertained
angels unawares " .

*' Kind lady ! you are good, and may a rich
reward be yours for ever."

Then taking from her hand the better fare
she offered, the old woman ate it with avidity.
Again Mary supplied her want; again the
hungry woman devoured. At length, being
satisfied, and having offered many thanks to
her benefactor, she seemed about to leave ;
but suddenly turning, as if some new thought
had struck her, she fixed those dark eyes on
Mary, who at once seemed rivetted by her gaze,
and asked in gentle tone, '' Kind lady, may
I tell your fortune ? "

Mary did not believe in fortune-tellers. The
name was always associated in her mind with
deception, credulity, and superstition ; but she

wished to gratify the poor creature's wish, and
therefore answered pleasantly, '* You may."

Then the old woman drew near, and took in
hers, the little white hand of Mary. The long,
cold, wiry fingers of the stranger seemed to chill
her as they touched. And long, in silent contemplation,
the old woman gazed, and marked with
deepest interest all the palmar lines.

For fifty years," said she, ** IVe roamed and
wandered up and down the world. I've felt the
heat of India's broiling sun, and the keen bitterness
of Siberia's cold. In Southern Asia, too,
I've passed long years ; and Egypt's far-famed
seers have taught me how to prophesy. I've
mixed in rank and wealth, and grovelled in the
mire of poverty and wretchedness. I've slept in
golden rooms on beds of down, and lain beneath
the hedgerows, with no covering but the canopy
of heaven. To stay in any country or in any
clime I cannot. The torturing spirit of unrest
has occupied my bosom, and drives me, ruthlessly,
a vagabond and a wanderer through the
earth."

Then a strange change passed over her countenance
; pale as she was before, a deathlike
pallor seemed to seize her now. Her sharp
piercing eyes seemed to lose all their fire, and to
look inward, with the absorbing, disregarding,
inattentive gaze of one whose thoughts are faraway,
and much too occupied to think of what is
going on around. It seemed as though she had

passed into a trance, and ceased to feel, or
breathe, or live. Fear fell on Mary, and she
thought she would disengage her hand, and hurry
the castle for some restorative ; but, at that
moment, the old woman's bloodless lips began to
move, and hollow, dismal accents broke upon the
ear. 'solemn! Solemn! Solemn!" Then,
with changed voice, as though she wept, and
some keen grief gnawed at her heart, *' Sorrow!
Sorrow ! Sorrow ! " Then, in a hurried scream
that thrilled the listener's ear, and seemed to
necessitate immediate action, 'danger ! Danger !
Danger ! "

Then, as though she was slowly coming back
to life, she drew deep sighs. The tears ran down
her withered cheeks, and, casting again that
penetrating look on Mary, she said in gentlest
accents : —

Kind lady, ask me what you will. I feel you
doubt my power, and, this being so, I cannot
speak. 'Tis well, perhaps ; for oh ! you are so
good, so kind, so generous. I do not wish to
utter one sad word, to throw a pall of sorrow over
thy fond heart."

"Oh, tell me all!" cried Mary anxiously, for
to her inmost soul these last words went direct.
*' Oh, tell me all the worst, the very worst ! I
long to know. Suspense is dreadful ; and now
I feel, even this moment, to believe that you have
power to tell me."

Nay, you are still in part incredulous. The

question rises in your mind, why should I be
alarmed, for what can this poor outcast know ?
Therefore, I cannot speak, but ask me of whom
you will, or secrets most concealed, or of events
not yet accomplished, and still looming in the
undeveloped future. Then will I speak and tell
thee — for lo ! as a mighty picture, they shine in
bright paintings, full before my view."

Then, raising her eyes, and looking into the
clear sky, she exclaimed, '^ I see it ; I see it all ! "

Mary felt the truth of her remark. The very
want of confidence, the old woman mentioned,
had just that moment risen in her mind, yet
still, she longed to hear, and, as though to test
the stranger's power, replied, *' Tell me of him
I love ! "

"- You love two," said the woman, altering not
the direction of her look, '' of which first ?

'Tis true — astonishing ! She knows by some
strange inspiration, but still I doubt. So, I will
test her still. '' Who are the two ? "

*your lover, kind lady, and he, whom as a
brother, you love."

'* 'Tis even so, I must admit, but can you tell
me their names ? Can you describe them ? "

'* Yes. One is dark, with flowing hair and black
moustache and beard. Oh, splendid looking
man ! The other is fair, and handsome too, with
soft, silken curly hair, and beard, and moustache."

Their names," said Mary, bewildered with
astonishment.

*' The dark one's name is. See, see it is written
there." Pointing to the vacant air, and wildly
staring into emptiness. 'eyes; see it written
there — there. The letters are as large as trees.
They are G— Er— A— Led— Gerald."

You are right, most right, strange woman.
What news have you of him ? "

To seek for help for his devoted country,
he has left thy side. The storm tosses his ship.
See, see, she reels — she sinks! He is not
drowned, but will come back to thee. He is
coming, he is coming. But will arrive — but will
arrive — one day too late ! "

Thank heaven, he's saved," said Mary, convulsively,
for the old woman's words had worked
her up to a pinnacle of excitement. *' Oh ! he
cannot come too late ! Whenever he comes my
heart shall bid him welcome. But who is the
other ? "

*' Cannot you see his name there, written
again, in letters as large as trees ? See, see,"
pointing into space.

I only see the bright blue skies, and not one
shade or shadow where you point."

Then let me read again— F-E-R-G-U-S—
Fergus."

"And what of him? Now, I can doubt no
longer ; nay, I am all belief."

Excitement seemed to thrill the clairvoyante,
as she replied. "He has tried a work of great
danger. He has won. He has escaped." Her

voice grew lower as she added *' He carries a
letter to his aunt. He comes — he comes — he
falls." xigain she speaks as though she wept.
'* He lies as dead upon the road. A stranger
takes him home, and, with great kindness,
nurses him. Oh, see him lying in that pretty
room, on that soft bed. Ah ! he too longs to
come, but is not able ; but he will come, he will
come, when all is over, and it is too late ! "

*' Your answers make me full of fear, and yet
they bring me comfort, for you tell me they will
come. I want to hear no more. It seems too
much for me."

Lady, 'tis well, 'tis well, for thou hast won
my heart, and it would rend that heart that thou
hast won, to tell thee. But, take this," handing
her a small vial filled with pink liquid, '' take
this, and, lose it not. Keep it beside thee day
and night, when thou art sitting in the house, and
when thou walked out, when thou art at thy
home, and, when thou fleet from home. Keep it
about thy person, where no eye can see it And,
for it must be spoken, when thou hast no other
help, no friend, no defender within reach, and
danger worse than death approaches, then drink
it, drink it all, and it will make you conqueror."

And Mary took the little vial, and placed it,
safely, in a secret pocket in the bosom of her
dress, where she always carried a gold locket, that
contained her father's, and her mother's hair.
And, when the old woman went away, full many a

thought passed through her mind of Gerald, and
his shipwreck, and how he would come one day
too late ; and of Fergus, and his illness, and how
he would come too late, also. Ay, and many a
time she thought of that bitter day, when she
would find herself in danger, and no other friend
to help her, but that mysterious little bottle.

ROSA AND THE DOCTOR.

Families descensus averno ;
Notes atque dies patent ari janus Dites ;
Sed revocare gradus supersede evaded ad auras,
Hoc opus, hie labor est. — Virgil (Aeneid.)

The downward road to sin no turmoil hath :
The gate of vice lies open night and day.
But to retrace the steps, re entering virtue's path,
Is often, more than mortals can essaj''.

As the doctor was driving, one forenoon, on his
mission of mercy to the family of the Brady's,
and to little Cattie in particular, he happened to
raise his eyes from a French work on surgery,
which he very much admired, and, looking out,
saw, passing at the moment, two ladies. The
elder appeared about fifty, and from the expensive,
well selected dress, and general contour, suggested
the idea that she moved in a higher circle than
the general class of his acquaintances. There
was, at once, the look of money about her, and
also the indications of refinement; yet, her
appearance did not detain his observation for
half a moment.

The second lady, who was young, and looked
about seventeen, at once caught his eyes, captivated

his fancy, and thrilled his heart. '' Oh !
she is lovely," he exclaimed to himself. 'what
a splendid girl, really magnificent. By Jove, I
never saw finer ; " and, looking out of the carriage
window after her, '' Oh ! what a beautiful figure,
and such a foot and ankle ! " The latter, with a
wee bit of the leg, he just caught a glimpse of,
as, raising her dress, she stepped over a little
pool of water, which lay in a rut on the road.
He forthwith pulled the stop string. His
servant drew up the carriage, and, leaving the
box seat, came to his master.

Do you know that old lady ? " said the doctor,
with inimitable sang froid, just as if he was
perfectly indifferent, and would be as well pleased
to hear, in reply, " no " as '' yes."

Mesef don't," replied Mat Dooley, *' but Oi
seen the young lady, two days ago, thriven in an
open carriage with Lady Johnson."

*' Is that all you know about them ? "

''Yis, doctor, except that they stopped the
carriage at Collier's, the plumber, and giv him
some others, and thin drum away."

Drive on," said the doctor, '* it is no matter."
He remembered that incident too. But, somehow,
he could not get that girl's face and figure,
and foot and ankle, out of his head. They
haunted him. ** I would nearly as soon have her
as Nora. She has more life, more vivacity, more
animation, more of the animal about her. Only
that I admire dark beauties more than fair, I

really would give her the preference. I must say,
she far surpasses any I ever saw before."

Only two days elapsed, and again, when going
on the same mission, for the second time, he
passed the same two ladies. On this occasion he
had a better opportunity of observing them, for
he too was walking. His heart seemed to jump
into his mouth as he advanced. It beat, without
exaggeration, at double its previous speed, and
he looked at the object of his admiration so
pointedly, as he stepped out on the road, to leave
them the full possession of the narrow footpath,
that the young lady's eye caught his, and he
almost fancied she smiled.

He was right ; but, if he had heard the conversation
that ensued, he would not have felt
particularly pleased or flattered.

'' Oh, mamma ! did you see how that horrid
man stared ? "

'* No, my dear, perhaps you only imagined it.
At all events, you would not have known it unless
you had been looking at him, so one is as bad as
the other."

*'No, indeed, mamma, I did not stare. I
merely raised my eyes, but, he looked so rudely, I
almost burst out laughing in his face. Was it
not awfully vulgar of him ? I am sure I shall tell
Simon, for I hate rude men to stare at me so."

'' Well, dear ! if you nearly burst out laughing
in a man's face, you cannot wonder if he stares
at you. You never see them staring at me."

*' No, mamma, not just now, but I dare say you
remember when they did ? "

*'I cannot say I do, Rosa, but then, I always
looked down when a stranger was passing, but
you raise those provokingly wicked eyes, and look
at them defiantly. I have often remarked it,
dear, so don't expect my sympathy, but learn a
useful lesson."

"It is not my fault if my eyes look wicked. I
always feel full of life and fun, but I don't think
that should make men rude, especially a man of
his age, who ought to have sense."

'^Ah! my dear, you have got to learn, that
age does not give men sense. Indeed, the older
they grow, the less they appear to possess of that
commodity. A pretty girl can make a fool of a
man of forty, fifty, sixty, or seventy, at any time
she pleases."

"Do you really think so, ma? Well! I
thought, that after thirty they became as sensible,
and as wise as Solomon."

Perhaps they do, dear ! but that does not say
much for them. I think you forget his history."

"No, ma, I don't forget, but am I to understand,
that, the wiser a man is in other respects,
the greater the fool he makes of himself when a
lady is in the question ? "

Mamma's experience, as well as her recollection
of Solomon's history, would have answered yes,
but she did not like to stamp such a lesson with
the impress of maternal authority, so, she wisely

turned the conversation, and passed into a shop
to make a purchase.

But where did these ladies come from, and
who were they ? Let us see. On the outskirts
of Kanturk, and about half a mile from it on the
north-west side, the undulating hills formed a
gracefully sloping ground, on various parts of
which, strong and comfortable villas of stone-masonry
had been erected, in succession, by an
enterprising builder. They were all built on the
same plan, and were considered to possess all the
comforts and advantages which a gentleman's
family could require. They had their library,
their bath-room with hot and cold water, besides
the usual parlour and drawing-room. The correct
square hall. The kitchen, well at the back, on the
ground floor, not down in an excavation like most
town houses. The wide staircase, with massive
turned oak balusters and polished mahogany
hand-rail, leading to a comfortable suite of bedrooms
in the second storey. When one was completed
and occupied, the builder immediately set
about the erection of another, intimating, as he
built, his willingness to part with the desirable
property ; for, a large board, attached to an
upright about eight feet high, with white letters
on a black ground, gave notice —

This excellent Family Residence to be Let or Sold."

As years passed on, there was quite a colony of
retired professional men and merchants, from

Cork and other adjacent places, who occupied
these houses. Some bought the fee simple, and
improved the property by adding, in some cases, a
greenhouse, and in one or two instances a billiard
room, to the original structure. Each house
stood, well back, from the road. Evergreens, and
flower-beds, and rockeries, artistically arranged,
according to the taste of the occupiers, made
them look not only comfortable, but so pretty,
that they attracted the admiration of every passer



one of the prettiest lived Mr. and Mrs.
Gibson and family. He had amassed a fortune of
some twenty thousand pounds, as a merchant in
Cork, and, becoming tired of the turmoil, and
care and anxiety of business, and wisely reflecting
that what he had gained by speculation
might be as easily lost, retired to the country
with his wife and two children ; a son and a
daughter.

Old Joe Gibson, as he was called, to distinguish
him from his son, young Joe, was now in his
sixty-fifth year ; his wife was twelve years his
junior, and, as he had not married when very
young, his son was now but twenty three ; and his
daughter, eighteen.

Young Mr. Gibson spent little time at home ;
he had been educated for the law, and now was
out of his time, and the junior partner of a
prosperous firm in Dublin.

Eosa, his daughter, had also been well educated.

She was not only carefully read in the
history of her own country, and in that of ancient
Greece and Some, but was also a good musician.
She could play the piano, guitar, and violin, and
accompany herself on the first and second. She
sung sweetly, and with unimpeachable taste.

Being a very pretty girl, she had many admirers
among the young men of the neighbourhood,
and it was reported, that more than one
whom she had met, during her stay in Cork, were
so sorely smitten by her charms, that thoughts of
business, or study, for some weeks, were totally
out of their heads.

Eosa was above medium height. She might be
described as in good condition, but was not one
bit too fat. The development of her bust was
splendid ; her waist small ; her hands and feet as
pretty as you could imagine ; and, her face, quite
attractive enough to alter the determination of
the most fastidious old bachelor, and make him
long for the sweet sociableness of married life.
Her very light brown hair fell in clusters on her
shoulders. Between its division in the middle,
appeared a forehead, as fair, as girl ever had. Her
eyes where large and hazel, and always seemed to
laugh, or to defy. Her nose was slightly — very
slightly, if at all — aquiline. Her complexion was
clear and bright. Her mouth, which was
rather large, possessed a magnificent set of teeth,
which were surrounded by the most perfectly
formed and pretty lips, which had neither crack,

nor roughness, nor dryness, nor contracted compression,
but were always shining, rosy, and moist.
This was due perhaps in part, to the school-girl
habit, of quickly drawing the tongue out and in,
when she looked particularly playful, or wished
thoroughly to defy her admirer's gaze and
compliments, or to provoke his further admiration.


Strange to say, the fortunate young man, who
seemed destined to obtain this prize, was her very
opposite.

He was rather tall, about five feet eleven, and
perfectly straight; indeed, he seemed incapable
of bending his back. While her temperament
was sanguine, warm, ardent, his was decidedly
and distinctly phlegmatic. His straight black
hair, which was always long, seemed to stick
to his head, and gave one half turn, not outwardly,
as curls generally do, but inwardly,
towards the collar of his coat, to which it closely
approached. He always wore a tall silk hat, and
never was seen without an umbrella, or a walking
stick, which he-always held by the middle, in his
left hand, which never adopted the usual pendulum
action, but remained as a fixture by his
side. His regular features well suited his very
sallow complexion, and from his blue eyes, which
were always one-third closed, as though their lids
were too heavy ; and from his thin, compressed
lips, you could not, however closely you scrutinised
him, come to the conclusion, whether he was

good or bad tempered, clever or dull, pleasant or
morose.

He was one of those good young men, who had
never sown any wild oats. Some ill-natured
people said ** he never had any wild oats to sow."
He was fond of reading — can you believe it ? —
novels, especially those of that mild type, which
help the circulation of some Sunday publications,
whose mental pabulum is deemed suitable for
Christian delectation on the Sabbath day. He
was also fond of chemistry ; was never known to
take a gun into his hand, or cast a line over a
trout stream, or to laugh loudly, or to speak fast;
and, to complete his description, his name was
Simon Goodman, which was, in general estimation,
as good an example of onomatopaeia, as it
was possible to conceive.

Simon was the only son of a retired solicitor,
who had made a large fortune. It was said of the
old gentleman that he never undertook a case in
Chancery, or Equity, or Common Law, but his
clients, whether successful or unsuccessful, were
always beggared. At all events, by a strange
coincidence, the suit always terminated by the
lawyer becoming the proprietor of everything
they had.

The young people had known each other
exactly ten years. It was at that time that Mr.
Goodman senior, became possessed of the fee
simple of one of the villas in the neighbourhood.
It had been the property of a former client, Mr.

Power, who instructed him to enter an action for
defamation of character against an old gentleman,
a retired grocer, whose wife had stated that '* Mr.
Power was an upstart, and no gentleman." The
action went on from term to term, and there were
short consultations, and long consultations, and
letters to lawyers, and from the lawyers, and conferences
with defendant's solicitors, and regular
fees to counsel for opinions, and retainers,
attendances on self, and witnesses, to no end.
Ultimately the case never came to trial. The
grocer gave a written apology which was published
in all the Cork papers. But, the bill of
costs ! oh ! it was a folio ! and the conclusion
was, that Mr. Power retained his character
unsullied, and Mr. Goodman got his house.

Young Goodman at this time was twelve, and
Rosa Gibson was nine. Mr. and Mrs. Gibson
duly called on Mr. and Mrs. Goodman, and an
intimacy became established. The families were
on visiting terms, and the young people who first
played together as children, afterwards became
attached ; and finally, Simon and Eosa were
engaged to be married as soon as she attained
her eighteenth year. Simon very wisely thought,
that no young man should be married before he
was twenty-one, otherwise, the nuptials might
have been celebrated sooner.

Mr. Goodman had purchased another house in
the neighbourhood for his son, and Mr. Gibson
had agreed to give his daughter a handsome portion,

SO all parties, both old and young, were
satisfied ; and, as Rosa was to see her eighteenth
birthday in a fortnight, all preparations were
being made for the happy event.

It has not been mentioned before, that there
was another doctor practising in Kanturk besides
Dr. Armstrong. He was now an old gentleman
in his sixty-sixth year. He had been in the
neighbor-hood before Dr. Armstrong 'invaded
it," as he expressed the occurrence ; and, not
unnaturally, felt anything but pleased that anyone
should trespass on his preserves. Accordingly
he never formed any acquaintance with the
intruder ; refused to meet him at consultations ;
and, while he shrugged his shoulders, and pronounced
a most expressive " Oh ! " when anyone
referred to Dr. Armstrong's treatment ; indicating
thereby, that nothing could be more stupid or
worthless, or more likely to be the means of
killing rather than curing ; the other plainly
spoke of him, as an "old woman," obsolete in
his ideas, and more fitted for a minister thana
medical man.

Dr. Otway was a married man with a large
family. Though of late years Dr. Armstrong
began to displace him with some of the county
families, yet he still retained most of the upper
classes ; indeed, in the neighbourhood of the
Gibson's and Goodman's Dr. Armstrong was
never called in. The feeling concerning the
two ran almost as high, and as deep, and as

bitter, as that which characterises the opposing
parties in political elections. The admirers of the
one would almost consent to die, rather than
solicit the advice of the individual admired by the
others.

It so happened that there was no dentist in the
neighbourhood ; and, while Dr. Otway refused to
pull out a tooth, considering it a degradation to
his profession, Dr. Armstrong had a high reputation
for his skill in dentistry. Not only could he
extract teeth carefully, but, being naturally a
mechanical genius, he could make and adapt
artificial ones; and, could stuff those that had
commenced to decay, so admirably, with an
amalgam he had invented, that the decay was
immediately arrested, and it became impossible
to detect that the tooth had ever suffered.

A lady friend, Mrs. Barry, when calling on the
Gibsons one day, showed Mrs. Gibson two teeth
in the front of her mouth that had recently
been stopped. They were really, beautifully
done.

'you know, my dear," said she, '* I always
consult Dr. Otway, but Lady Johnson showed mea
tooth, a Dr. Armstrong at the other side of
Kanturk, had stopped for her. Oh ! it was so
nicely done, and she advised me so strongly, that
I called two days afterwards and had mine done
too. I must add, the man was very polite and
attentive, and most reasonable in his charge. Not
that I would think of engaging him as my physician,

but, I can indeed recommend him as a
dentist."

*' Where you and Lady Johnson extend your
patronage, my scruples are entirely overcome. I
thought really, dear Mrs. Barry, that nothing
could induce me to accept the services of that
man ; but, I have two teeth that cause me much
annoyance, and besides it would be dreadful to
have a chasm in the front of one's mouth. It
would prevent me from speaking plainly, and it
would look so hideous."

*' You are quite right, dear, especially when you
can avoid it. I would advise you to go without
delay."

*' And I have quite made up my mind to take
your advice," said Mrs. Gibson. *' I shall go
tomorrow ; and, Eosa, you can come with me just
for company. I would not like to go alone. I am
so nervous. Is it very painful, Mrs. Barry ? "

Not at all, dear. The man was as gentle
as a child, and seemed to understand his work
thoroughly. He did not give me the slightest
pain."

'but you know," interposed Eosa, "I do not
like that man, mamma."

Why, my dear child ? " said Mrs. Barry.

I have passed him in the street three times,
and he always stared at me so rudely, that I told
Mr. Simon Goodman all about it."

"What did you tell him, dear?" said Mrs.
Barry.

' I told him I was driving in the carriage with
Lady Johnson, and how he stared at me'

*' And what did he say ? "

'' He only said, ' Y-e-e-s.' Then I told him
how I was walking with mamma, and how he
stared at me again."

And what did he say to that ? ''

** He only said * Y-e-e-e-s,' again. So I told him
how he we met on the footway, and how he
stepped out on the road to make room for mamma
and me, and, as he did so, how he stared so
rudely at me again."

*' And what did he say, then ? "

"He only said, ' Y-e-e-e-e-s,' again. I felt so
hurt, I could have shaken him. I know, if I saw
a young lady looking rudely at him, it is not
Y-e-e-e-e-e-s ' I should say, but I would call and
ask her what she meant ; or, maybe, would pull
her bonnet off."

'perhaps, dear," said Mrs. Barry, 'the man is
short-sighted, and fancied he had seen you before,
or had met you somewhere, and that he did not
at all mean to be rude. I assure you there was
not the slightest attempt at rudeness when I
called."

Eosa was about to suggest, that Mrs. Barry's
age, over fifty years, might have had something
to do with it, but thought it more prudent to
hold her tongue; when, Mrs. Gibson remarked,
*' Dear Mrs. Barry, I told Eosa that, if she had
not looked at Dr. Armstrong, she would not have

known that he looked at her, so that one was as
bad as the other."

And Mrs. Barry laughed heartily in acquiescence,
and presently the visit ended. But the
conversation had much interest for Mrs. Gibson.
The remembrance of the chasm in the front of
her mouth occupied her thoughts. It had been
a source of much anxiety to her for several
months. Even at her age she did not like to be
disfigured. Which of us would, gentle reader,
even if revolving years have totted up for us the
half century ? Accordingly, as soon as breakfast
was over, next morning, she ordered the carriage ;
and, taking Rosa with her, drove to Sweet Brier
Lodge.

They arrived soon after little Cattie had gone
with the doctor into the consulting room. They
heard from Mrs. Brady of the ** doctor's kindness
and goodness of heart." Indeed, they were
supplied with a full and embellished detail of all
he had done for her, her husband, and child.
They felt not the time passing, as they sat for
nearly half an hour, to see the result of the
surgeon's efforts for " the poor little cripple." So
the mother called her child, having first described
the unsightly shape of her little club feet. And,
they were quite favourably impressed with the
character of the doctor, before he came back to
the waiting room. They had listened, but, having
heard no cry, they concluded the operation was
abandoned. And, therefore, they were the more

astonished at his skill, when they saw him return
with the child in his arms, smiling and playing
with her doll, and her little feet perfectly and
completely restored to natural shape.

Dr. Armstrong did not take the slightest notice
of his new visitors, until he had dismissed Mrs.
Brady and her little girl. This he did in the most
kind manner ; as respectfully and courteously as if
it had been Lady Johnson herself. Then, ignoring
the presence of Rosa, he turned coldly, but most
politely, to Mrs. Gibson, and enquired, *' Madame,
is there anything that I can have the honour of
doing for you ? "

Mrs. Gibson presented her card.

Mrs. Gibson,

SiLVERLEA,

and, having expressed her admiration of the
wonderful triumph of his skill which she had just
seen ; to which compliment the doctor only coolly
bowed acknowledgment ; she told him the
information she had received from Lady Johnson
and Mrs. Barry. Then dilated on the trouble
caused by her front teeth, and how their loss
would prevent her from being able to utter her
words with sufficient distinctness to be understood
; but, did not make the slightest allusion to
the probable effect on her good looks.

The doctor listened with unlimited patience

and attention, acquiesced in each remark, and,
having heard all, asked, 'would the ladies
kindly accompany him to his surgery ? "

They entered with him the consulting room.
He opened, and left wide open, both doors of his
operating room, and, having gracefully pointed
the way, passed after them into it.

There was not the slightest trace visible of the
last operation. The servant had been there and
had removed every stain. The chairs were in
their usual upright form, looking as comfortable,
and enjoyable, and harmless, as though they were
incapable of being made beds of torture.

He asked Mrs. Gibson, ** would she be so good
as to take a seat?" Holding his open hand, at
the same time, in the direction of the largest
chair ; and then, with a bow, pointed Miss Eosa
to that of middle size.

He then quickly, but most carefully and gently,
examined his patient's mouth. Not holding his
face close to hers, and puffing out his breath, like
a grampus, into her face, as some ungentlemanly
dentists do now-a-days ; but keeping at a respectful
and convenient distance. He then, as
tenderly as if he were operating on the eye,
removed the caries or dead parts, and having put
in a plunge of cotton wool, which diffused a
fragrance, as though it had been soaked in sweet
smelling liquid, asked **if Mrs. Gibson would
kindly favour him with a call about the same
time, or a little later, if more convenient to her,

L

next day? When," he informed her, ''he hoped
to complete all that was necessary'

Mrs. Gibson, when leaving, was so pleased
that she extended to him her hand, which he
politely received. To Miss Gibson he bowed
most courteously, not giving her an opportunity to
offer her hand, even if she were disposed to
follow her mother's example; and, having rung
his bell, ordered his servant to see the ladies to
their carriage.

'how could you imagine that man rude?"
was the first enquiry made by Mrs. Gibson to her
daughter. " He really is quite a gentleman, and
certainly, no one could possibly be more polite and
attentive ; and, at the same time, so reserved and
deferential."

And Rosa began to think she had made a
mistake, or, if she had not, that Mrs. Barry's
explanation must have been the correct one, when
she suggested, that he must have imagined that
he had met her before, and had looked in expectation
of her recognition. " Surely," said she to
herself, *' he is quite as cool and cold and
reserved as Simon."

As for the doctor, he was perfectly charmed
with their visit. He preferred it to that of any
nobleman in the land. If he thought Rosa
lovely before, he considered her ten times more
so now. She completely charmed him. His every
act and seeming unconcern were to disarm suspicion,
and, a struggle to ingratiate himself with

her mamma. That they should call, too, when,
unfeignedly on his part, it fell to his lot to
exhibit a triumph of his surgery ; and that they
should have had a tete-astute with poor Mrs.
Brady, who was sure to herald his praises, he
considered most fortunate. He could only think
of the coming morning, and hope that Mrs.
Gibson would not come alone, but that, again,
she would bring Eosa with her.

Neb. — On mature reflection, he did not think
it necessary to visit Bogra Yale that day.

Unparalleled VILLAINY.

Oh, villain, villain, smiling damned villain !
My tables — meet it is, I set it down,
That one may smile, and smile, and be a villain ;
At least, I'm sure, it may be so in Denmark."

Hamlet.

Mrs. Gibson gave her husband a most glowing
account of her visit to Sweet Brier Lodge, detailing
both the attention she had received, and the
wonderful, painless cure of the little girl's club
feet. Soon after breakfast the next day, accompanied
by Rosa, she again went to the doctor's,
and, after a short delay in the waiting room, was
again ushered into the consulting room.

Immediately on entering she held out her hand
to the doctor, and cordially saluted him, and
Rosa, following her mamma's example, did the
same. It was the first time that hand had
touched his. He felt it like an electric current
flying through his entire frame. Carefully
concealing his emotion, he addressed no remark
to Rosa, but, turning towards her mamma, expressed
his pleasure at seeing them ; assured

them he would do his best to save them the
trouble of such another disagreeable visit at
such an inconvenient hour ; then, pointing the
way, he followed his visitors into the inner
room.

Mrs. Gibson was soon seated in the comfortable
chair. The temporary stuffing was removed, and
the amalgam was introduced so gently, that when,
looking up from his work, he told her all was
completed, and asked her to look in a mirror,
which he presented her, she was really delighted.
The tooth looked as well and as healthy as in her
most youthful days, and all was accomplished
without the slightest pain.

'* You have still," said Dr. Armstrong, " some
teeth at the back which require looking after, or
you will lose them. The loss will be great, for
you will, to a great extent, be unable to masticate
your food. Besides, when the nerves become
exposed, you will be subjected to toothache,
which is very annoying, and, perhaps, to swollen
face, which is anything but becoming."

''My time is rather busy just now," said Mrs.
Gibson, " for Rosa is to be married next Monday
week, her eighteenth birthday, and, as you may
suppose, I have many little arrangements to
make ; but, as this is only Tuesday, I shall try to
call again tomorrow, or on Thursday at the very
farthest."

Will you allow me to congratulate you on the
happy event," responded the doctor ; though the

announcement cut like a knife into his heart,
"and you, too, Miss Gibson? I sincerely hope
your happiness may be very great, and very long
continued."

Rosa blushed, as she gracefully tendered her
acknowledgments for his good wishes. As she
did so, she gave him one of those flashes of her
eyes, which came to her naturally, and which
could not be copied, thrilling him, by its effect, to
the very soul. At that moment he thought she
looked prettier than ever he had seen her before,
and felt he would give the world, if he had it, to
rush to where she was, to grasp her in his arms,
and to kiss her lovely lips; but, so far from
following this impulse, he dropped his eyes before
the glance, and affected not to feel an influence,
so powerful, that it created a throbbing over his
entire frame.

"And now, doctor," said Mrs. Gibson, "kindly
let me know what I am in your debt. * Short
accounts make long friends,' says the proverb.
Let me assure you, at the same time, I was nevermore
satisfied in all my life, and I feel that
money cannot adequately repay you, either for
your kind attention, or for your skill."

"My dear madam," rejoined the doctor, "I
never make charges for anything I can do in
dentistry. I am a physician. My college would
ignore me if I condescended to ally a trade with
my profession. Being of a mechanical turn of
mind, it is an amusement to me to do a little

occasionally in that way ; and, let me assure you,
it has been a source of great gratification to me,
to have it in my power to be even of the
slightest service to you."

Mrs.' Gibson, whose weak point was a love of
money, was delighted. She expected to be
charged a good heavy sum, and unexpectedly
found that she had got off scot free.

"Really, doctor, you are too kind. I cannot
find words to thank you ; but, of course, I cannot
think of victimizing you again, when you will not
allow me to show my appreciation, for your
considerable loss of time, and your great dexterity
and talent."

I shall conclude that my humble efforts have
not insured your satisfaction, and that you have
appraised me a clumsy botch, if you do not come
again. Besides, please remember, you have
arranged to come again tomorrow, or Thursday
at farthest, and I shall wait at home, especially
for you, on both days."

It need scarcely be added that the ladies parted
from the doctor, this second day of their visits,
not as new acquaintances, but as positive and
advanced friends; and, the doctor was moreover
assured, what pleasure it would give Mr. Gibson
to form his acquaintance.

And had you really no pain, mamma ? " said
Rosa, as they drove towards home.

Not the slightest, dear, I can assure you ! "

'' And won't you go and have the back teeth

preserved, and escape the swollen face and the
other etceteras ? "

*' Indeed, I shall, dear ! and very glad of the
opportunity ; but, you know, it is really too much
to so engross his time, and he a perfect stranger
to us."

** Yes, dearest ma, that is quite true, but don't
you think he would be offended, and consider you
ungrateful, if you kept him waiting for you, and,
you did not call ? *'

**I certainly shall not keep him waiting, for it
is a great chance, and a great piece of good luck
to get such an opportunity to save my teeth.
Only imagine, Eosa, not being able to eat my
food, and to see the cheeks falling in."

'* Do you know, mamma, I hurt one of my back
teeth the other day, cracking nuts and plum stones
with them. I fancy the stone got on the edge
and splintered a piece off. If anything happened
it, would my cheek fall in ? "

*' I suppose it would to some extent ; but why
did you not show it to the doctor ? "

'* I did not like to do so. I was afraid it would
pain if he touched it ; besides, he is so reserved
and distant with me ; he is twice as friendly with
you."

** You know, dear, I am more of his age, and,
no doubt, he is one of those sensible men who
never look at young girls."

*'He may keep his looks as far as I am concerned.
I am sure if he gave them I should not

feel either gratified or honored," said Eosa, with
a toss of her head. And so the conversation
ended.

Next morning, being anxious about her molars,
as the dentists call the back teeth, and not wishing
to keep the doctor waiting, Mrs. and Miss
Gibson again visited the Lodge. The friendship
was evidently cementing rapidly, and the cement
fixing as quickly as applied. The meeting was
very cordial— handshaking and complimentary
wishes were exchanged, and then that unfailing,
everlasting topic, the weather, was fully discussed.
After that, the molars were tenderly and carefully
prepared for the next day, Thursday ; and at her
mamma's request, Eosa submitted to an examination
of as pretty a mouth and teeth as any girl
ever possessed. The doctor's quick eye soon
detected where the mischief was supposed to be.
"- You must have squeezed a stone between your
teeth, and smashed it too, for it has splintered
one of your teeth in the effort. I can make it all
right," he added, '' and I am so glad it has been
shown to me, for it would have commenced to
decay, and then, by a strange coincidence, the
one opposite would decay also, and so by degrees
the others, and then the cheeks would fall in."

Oh ! don't say any more of such dismal and,
I trust, distant consequences," said Eosa, interrupting
him, " I shall willingly submit to any
pain, to escape such a gloomy catalogue."

"But you shall not be put to the smallest

pain," said the doctor coolly, and addressing
himself to Rosa; all the previous remarks being
addressed to her mother.

Having quickly applied to Eosa's tooth the
necessary preparation, and having informed
Mrs. Gibson that her daughter had better attend
with her next morning also, the visitors again
took leave of their friend, having first duly promised
to come about the same time next day.

Well," said Mrs. Gibson to her daughter, as
they drove towards home, "• did the doctor hurt
you ? "

Not in the least, mamma, he could not be
more gentle and kind."

*' I told you so, dear, so you see you have not
anything to be afraid of."

Oh no," said Eosa, ** I have not the slightest
fear now."

But the loss of time is something dreadful,"
said Mrs. Gibson, " especially when I have so
many things to do. Only think we have been
there Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday, and
must go again tomorrow. The week will begone
; and remember, child, you are to be
married next Monday week, and I have not yet
got my dress ordered, for the occasion."

Let us go about it now," said Eosa, '' there is
no time like the present."

With this idea Mrs. Gibson immediately
acquiesced. Accordingly, she directed her coachman
to drive to the silk mercers — the leading

shop in the little town — where, having described
what she required, the tradesman informed her,
that it would be necessary to send to Cork, as he
had not anything that would exactly suit in his
establishment. " But, if you will have the goodness
to call on Monday morning," he continued,
'' I shall have it quite ready. When you have
made your selection, the costume maker shall
have directions at once, and it will be finished, at
the farthest, by this day week ; but please,
madam," he added, " be particular to call early
on Monday, or it may not be completed in time."

For the last time, as they expected, they called
next morning at the doctor's. He was waiting to
receive them, and expressed much gratification at
their arrival. "I was afraid," said he, "you
had changed your mind, for, as you see," pointing
to his watch, " the time you were so good
as to appoint has passed. Indeed, if it were
anyone else I should have acted on my apprehension
and gone on my rounds, but, Mrs. Gibson, I
would not think of leaving, as long as any chance
remained of seeing you."

Ah ! inexperienced young man, you may learn a
lesson from the old one. If at any time you are
captivated by a young lady's charms, your surest
avenue to success lies through her mamma.
Secure her confidence and her favour by marked
attention, by politeness, and by compliments when
not out of place, and, when you are absent, she
will extol you, and sound your praises to the object

of your affections; but if you neglect her, the
game will soon be up, and you will be described
as a senseless creature, unworthy of any intelligent
girl's love.

Mrs. Q-ibson felt flattered by the doctor's compliment,
and thanked him warmly, adding : " I
trust this will be the last time we may have to
impose on your great kindness."

Again was the comfortable chair occupied ;
again the doctor set about his work with the skill
of an adept in his art. Soon he had the satisfaction
to inform Mrs. Gibson that ** all she
required was completed, that now she need
not fear decay or discomfort for years, and 'that
his only regret was, that he should not see again
one who was so patient, and paid such flattering
testimony to his poor efforts."

Mrs. Gibson, for years unaccustomed to compliments
from her husband, began to think him a
delightful man ; and assured him "' that all the
compliments were due to him ; that she considered
him a public benefactor; that his skill could
not be surpassed; and that really in all her
experience, she had never met any one so truly
generous and obliging, and so totally devoid of
mercenary motive."

They were about to leave, when Eosa quietly
suggested : *' He has not looked at mine yet,
mamma."

Quite true, dear ; the doctor's unequalled kindness
quite put your trouble out of my head."

Then turning to the doctor, she added, with one
of her blandest smiles : '' We must still impose on
you ; you were so good as to prepare Rosa's tooth
that she so incautiously injured, may we ask you
to see it again ? "

"- Most certainly," said the doctor, '' how rude
of me to forget it. Please, Miss Gibson, let me
look at it now. I hope you will forgive my most
culpable negligence."

Forgot it ! — not likely. It never escaped his
memory for a moment, but he artfully affected
the oblivion, to lead both mother and daughter to
suppose, that he never gave the beautiful Eosa a
thought. Indeed, if the truth were known, he had
never ceased to think of her, except on those
occasions when he was conversing with Nora.

Pray do not mention it," said Eosa. "- 1
have only too many reasons to be grateful to
you. Your many calls and many engagements will
naturally prevent you from remembering everything,
particularly a small matter like this. You
must indeed be very clever to recollect as well as
you do." She then occupied the chair lately
vacated by her mamma.

The doctor was soon by her side, and having
commenced his examination, said, with a well
timed sigh : '* Something has removed what I
put in your tooth. It is quite gone. Miss Gibson,
and it will be necessary to repeat what I did for
you yesterday."

** Oh ! how stupid of you, Eosa," said her

mamma, hastily, 'you really ought to have been
more careful. The doctor has never had to
repeat anything he did for me."

Good reason too ; mamma's teeth had large
excavations, but there was really nothing the
matter with Eosa's. The doctor had only gone
through the form, because he loved to touch that
pretty cheek, to catch the fragrant breath that
issued from between those lips, and to look into
that lovely face — so close, so near, so dear too ;
but soon to be with another, and to be another's,
far, far away, from his view.

"It is indeed of no consequences said the
doctor, not liking to hear the harsh words of
Mrs. Gibson, '' I shall not consider it a trouble
but a pleasure to prepare it again. Perhaps,"
turning to Mrs. Gibson, '' as I shall be very busy
both tomorrow and next day, you would kindly
bring Miss Gibson on Monday."

Oh, Rosa," said Mrs. Gibson, again petulantly,
"we shall be so busy on Monday morning."
Then regaining her equanimity, she turned to the
doctor with quite a different expression on her
countenance and said :

Most certainly, doctor, I shall bring her at
whatever time suits your convenience, and it is so
kind of you to make such allowance for her carelessness.
I am sure, if I were you, I should not
do it for her again."

'Tis but a few moments' work," replied the
doctor, " and be assured I do not consider anything

I can do for you or Miss Gibson a
trouble."

He then quickly went through the form of
preparing Rosa's beautiful tooth; and, thinking
within himself, ^' what shall I do when Monday is
over, and I shall not see her again' he heaved a
heavy sigh. Indeed, he could willingly have
spent an entire day at the task, so agreeable to
him was the occupation ; but, he knew that it was
necessary to guard against the smallest shadow of
suspicion. So, having assured Mrs. Gibson that
all was now in a state of satisfactory progress,
after the usual formal interchanges, he bid his
most interesting visitors good morning.

Friday was a dull day. There was no visit
from the Gibsons, and the doctor felt peevish and
dissatisfied. Saturday was worse. He strolled
through the town in the hope of casually meeting
them, but no such good fortune presented. It
would have been like balm to a wounded spirit if
even Mrs. Gibson, without Rosa, had crossed his
path, but even this was denied him. Sunday
was not so bad. It was lit up with a gleam of
hope, in anticipation of the next day ; and, at last,
as though it would never come, Monday morning
dawned.

All were at sixes and sevens that morning at
Silverlea. By some ill fate, every one had slept
it out. They were late in getting up, late at
breakfast, late in attending to the calls of several
tradespeople, who had come concerning orders

they had received in connection with the approaching
marriage ; and, when Mrs. and Miss Gibson
were fairly on the road to the doctor's, and only
just in time to fulfil their appointment with him ;
Mrs. Gibson recollected, that she had to call at the
silk mercer's about her dress, and that if she did
not do so early, she had been duly warned, it
could not possibly be ready in time.

There was nothing else for it. She must go.
The idea of appearing at her daughter's wedding
with an old dress — one which people had seen
her wear before — was out of the question. What
would Mrs. Barry think ? What would Mrs.
Goodman think ? What would Lady Johnson
think ? It did not trouble her to consider what
the gentlemen would think, for, judging by her
own husband, she concluded that they would not
know whether it was silk or satin, velvet or
velveteen, costly or inexpensive, old or new. *' I
shall not be long making the selection, Rosa, and
giving the directions. So, dear, you had better
set me down at the shop, and then drive on to
the doctor's, and when you have been dropped at
the gate, send the carriage back at once. Give the
coachman a strict direction not to delay anywhere,
and I shall be with you, perhaps before
you are called in."

Rosa demurred. She did not like to go to
the doctor's by herself. She did not think it
would be correct or proper, and she preferred to
wait until her mamma was ready to accompany

her; but Mrs. Gibson said, *rit would be very
wrong to keep him waiting, after his great
kindness, and the sacrifice of his time which he
had ah'^ady made." She reminded, too, of the
quiet hint he had given them, when they detained
him before; 'rand, besides," she added, 'rit is
not as if you were going to the house of a young
man. Pity knows, he is cool and reserved and
steady enough."

Quite true, mamma," said Rosa, " and, if he
has any penchant ^ it is not for me, but for you ; "
and so, as there appeared to be no alternative,
Mrs. Gibson was set down at the mercer's, and
Rosa drove to Sweet Brier Lodge.

As soon as she arrived at the gate, she told the
coachman to hasten back to the shop, as her
mamma would be waiting for him ; and then,
having passed up the neat, well-kept gravel walk,
was soon seated in the waiting room.

*' The doctor has been waiting for you,
madam," said the servant, "he ordered me to
show you and your mamma in as soon as you
arrived."

Rosa longed to delay until her mother's arrival,
but could not find words for an excuse, so, following
the servant, she was soon all alone ; sitting in
the easy chair ; in the sanctum sanatorium of her
admirer.

Having bid her good morning in his usual cool
way, the doctor asked for her mamma. Where
was she ? As though she monopolised all his

thoughts ; and, having been informed that she
had gone by appointment to the silk mercer's, and
that she would be with them in a very short
time ; he quietly left the room for a moment ;
clapped the hall door loudly ; and then, having
rung the bell for the servant, told him if Mrs.
Gibson called, he was to tell her, that Miss Gibson
had been, but had gone away some time ; and, that
if she asked for him, she was to be informed that
he had gone out too.

On this occasion, when returning to his
patient, he . locked the door of his consulting
room on the inside, and removed the key, putting
it into his coat pocket, then, passing into his
sanctum, he carefully closed both doors. True,
he felt his heart throbbing into his mouth, but
took a sedative, combined with sal volatile, to
steady his nerves.

Then, most gently, and with an air of indifference,
approaching his very beautiful patient, he
commenced to busy himself about her teeth.
'' Please hold your head well back, Miss Gibson,"
said he, " I shall then have more power,"

Then, as with one hand he continued to touch
with his instrument her tooth, with the other he
drew out one concealed strap ; and then, reversing
hands, he again touched with the instrument the
tooth, as he drew out the other strap ; and so,
before Miss Gibson had the slightest idea, for he
told her not to move, or she would spoil his work ;
he had both her arms safely and firmly confined.

Telling her again not to stir, as a movement
would interrupt his progress, he pretended to
drop some of his preparation. This enabled him,
without awakening any suspicion, to stoop ; when
he quickly released the lower straps, and securely
confined her feet. Rising again, by another
finesse, as though something dropped on her
knees, he was enabled to draw the encircling
binder round her waist, and make it fast.

His victim was now secured; safely in his
power ; without the possibility of her loudest cries
being heard, and far from all assistance, and
chance of escape ; neither was there a possibility
of any intrusion, or of any interruption.

**I want you a little lower, but you must not
yet stir," said he, as he applied his windlass
handle, and, turning it, changed the shape of the
chair into that of a most comfortable lounger orbed
; till, at last, Eosa, finding that she was being
lowered too much, made an effort to rise, and, to
her horror and surprise, found herself prostrate,
lying on her back, and incapable of moving hand
or limb. And, at the very same moment, she felt
the doctor's arms around her, and a succession of
warm kisses implanted on her lips, and, then, the
ardent words fell upon her ear.

"My darling, my dearest darling, I have
loved you so long, and so deeply, but dared not
tell you. Now you are mine, and no power on
earth can take you from me''

She screamed, and strained her every nerve

and muscle to get free ; but could not stir. She
expostulated next ; then she pleaded ; alternately,
she reviled and threatened — but — all in vain. She
reminded him that she was to be married to
another, whom she loved, that day week; and,
that she hated him. She wept, she prayed, she
screamed again at the top of her voice ; but, as
with the Priests of Baal, on Mount Carmel long
ago, '' There was neither voice, nor any to
answer, nor any that regarded."

Freemasonry.

•iny-i ■'•33 nm c'^i^i im brian ens

I" •• :-AT • :-AT iv : - : jv : -

Proverb xxvii, 17.

As iron addeth increase unto iron's power,

So brotherhood, to man, has proved a vantage-tower.

According to the articles of agreement, Limerick
was surrendered on the evening of October 29th,
1651. The Governor of the city, the brave Hugh
O'Neil, met General Harry Ireton, son-in-law of
Cromwell, and chief in command of the besieging
army, at the gate of the city, and handed to him
the keys. Two thousand five-hundred soldiers,
not townsmen, then marched out, several of
whom dropped from the ranks as they went, and
died of the plague.

The conditions of the treaty stipulated, that no
mercy was to be shewn to twenty of the most
daring, most dauntless, and uncompromising
defenders, who would not listen to the offers of
bribery, and whom no selfish considerations could
induce to act the traitor's part. This number
embraced Edward O'Dwyer, Bishop of Limerick,

and Terence Albert O'Brien, Bishop of Emily.
The latter had been offered 40,000 golden crowns,
and permission to retire wherever he liked, out of
the kingdom, if he would only cease to exhort the
people against surrender, but, his heroic soul
spurned the temptation.

When the besiegers entered, he was taken
captive in the pest-house, and with him, two men
of the devoted ones, namely, Francis Wolfe, a
friar; and Major-general Purcell. Another of the
number, Domenico Fanning, surnamed '' the
lion hearted," was taken in the churchyard of St*
Francis, concealed in the tomb of his forefathers.

Bishop O'Brien was hanged, he was then
decapitated, his head was fixed on a lofty stake,
and placed on the top of King's Fort. General
Purcell's head was also fixed on a stake, and set
over St. John's gate. Fennelll, who sold the pass,
did not escape, but met with the punishment he
so richly deserved. He was executed on the
scaffold. Strange to say, Lieut-general Hugh
O'Neil, though the first on the list of the twenty
doomed ones, was the only one of the number
who did not pay the penalty of death.

As he was led to execution, brave and undaunted,
without showing the smallest symptoms
of fear, some secret impulse induced him to give
tie Masonic signal of a brother in distress'
One of high standing in the company of his
captors saw it, and by representing to General
Ireton, that an officer of O'Neil's rank, should not

be punished with death without a trial, obtained
a respite until the tribunal should decide. A
court martial was then summoned; they met,
and he was condemned to die. A second time
they met, so powerful was this secret influence
employed by his brother Mason ; but, again was
he condemned. A third time they met, and so
energetically was the secret power exerted, that a
majority of the votes was secured in his favour,
and his life was saved.

What is life to a brave and true man, if it
entail bondage ? Nothing. Sent back to his
confinement in the dank, dark cell, he grieved
that he had not fallen as a soldier ; and filed with
despair and miserable forebodings, longed for
death. Wearied nature at last gave way, he
sank to sleep on his hard plank bed, where sweet
forgetfulness brought him for awhile a respite,
but it was not long. In the dark and quiet midnight
hour he was awaked. A stranger, one
whom he had never seen before, had gained
admission to his prison, and with a dark-lantern
turned fully on his face, shook him by the
shoulder, saying at the same time, "Awake,
awake."

Has the sentence been altered again," said
the General, lifting himself on one elbow, and
trying to get a view of his visitor's face, "and
has the death message come ? It is welcome.
It is good news. Anything, rather than the
confinement in this dungeon."

** Gently," said the stranger, '* raise not your
voice, it is worth my commission to be found
here. 'Twas I who saw your signal of distress ;
'twas I who obtained your trial ; 'twas I who got
the verdict, at last, in your favour; come now with
me, for I have all things ready and prepared for
your escape — don't speak one word."

Then taking him by the hand, he led him past
the warders, and conducted him by back and
quiet ways to the banks of the Shannon. A boat
lay there in readiness, a pair of oars, and plenty
of provisions.

*' Heaven speed thee now, my Brother," said
the stranger.

"And bless you for your noble act," responded
O'Neil, who feeling himself a free man once
again, gently paddled down the stream, away, faraway
from the hordes of his enemies. After
various troubles and dangers, vicissitudes, and
changes of fortune, he eventually in safety escaped
to France.

What is the teaching of Christianity but "universal
Brotherhood ? " And, what better word than
** universal Brotherhood" can we select to describe
** Freemasonry ?" Some who know not its details
may, in their ignorance, condemn it. Some may
anathematize it because it is a secret society, and
because its secrets are inviolate; but, many an
one has had reason — as he roamed a stranger in
foreign lands, or when the bitter hand of distress
was crushing: him at home — to be for ever thankful

that he entered the lodge ; passed the degrees;
and met in time of need the faithful Brother, who
rescued him from death ; or saved him from overwhelming
trouble ; or, who enabled him to feel ashe
passed away, that there was some one to take
care of his fatherless, unprotected, and unprovided
for children.

General Ireton took the plague at Limerick,
and fell a victim to it. General Lambert succeeded
him, but did not long hold the appointment.
He left to take possession of large grants
of confiscated land in Wexford, and General
Fleetwood, who married Cromwell's daughter,
who was also Ireton's widow, was appointed in
his place.

The levies on the City of Limerick, for the
exigencies of the Puritan army, and the requirements
of the new Governor, were enormous.
Oppressive taxation, fearful burdens, confiscation,
and savage executions, followed each other in
quick succession; nor did this terrible experience
soon pass away, for military government
continued in Limerick till 1656, nearly ^-^Oi
years.

Nor were the exactions and confiscations confined
to the city alone. Bands of marauders
scoured the country, far and near, in all directions.
It would be a work of history to follow all
the depredators through the various scenes of
their villainy and rapine, when the country
families and peasants were treated with equal

indignities and violence; yet, the course of one
company we may depict.

The soldiers of General Ludlow, before they
took part in the seige of Limerick, were noted
for their ferocity. They had taken and sacked
Gurtenshegore Castle, near Got, which belonged
to Sir Heriot O'Shaughnessy. Shortly afterwards
they attacked a fort in the middle of the
River Shannon, on the great Lax Weir, where
the ruins may still be seen. When taken, the
merciless soldiery, whose hearts were steeled
against humanity, put the defenders to the sword,
and perpetrated such cold-blooded slaughter that
Ireton was compelled to condemn, and even
ordered a court martial, when a colonel and a
captain were cashiered.

This cruel detachment, one hundred strong,
when relieved by the surrender from active
warfare, again turned their course, to glut their
immorality and love of pillage on the undefended
towns. From Limerick they went to Buff ; then
to Kilmarnock ; from there to Charleville, on the
borders of Cork ; then to Doneraile and Mallow.
Fortunately for the inhabitants, having passed
by the Bogra Mountains and Kanturk, and
having left them on the right, they proceeded to
Maroon, and from there to Dunmanway and
Bantry; from Bantry they advanced to Castletown,
leaving desolation and sorrow, and weeping
females, and breaking hearts, to mark their guilt-stained
course.

Having exacted contributions, to supply their
pampered tastes, from all who could, by any
means, meet their arbitrary demands ; some
settled down, comfortably located, in one town or
neighbourhood, and some in another, with the
consent of their captain ; so that, when they
arrived at Castletown, they did not number more
than fifty men.

These were under the command of Captain
Lovell, a man of powerful strength and great
military experience. He was in his twenty-seventh
year, and had left a pretty young wife
and three children at his home in Somersetshire,
when he started for the Irish campaign. He had
given free reins to his unbridled passions
wherever his successful army had given him the
mastery. The flower of the Irish youth having
been defeated in battle, and then forced to depart
for foreign shores ; the remnant, who remained
at home to till the ground or mind the shop, were
so depressed by the continued success of the
oppressor, that they had not heart or courage to
resist. And, consequently, the haughty commander,
unopposed, acted as a despot, with
unrestricted will, wherever he went.

Lovell was tall and handsome, with deep, heavy,
dark moustache ; the rest of his face close shaven ;
his whole bearing was like a soldier; his heart was
naturally kind, his passions were naturally hot ;
his military career of unvarying success, added
to his innate desire to do whatever he pleased.

When satisfied with the exactions he had made
at Castletown ; Dunboy Castle, with its majestic
beauty, attracted his attention, as he gazed listlessly
on the bay. So, taking half a dozen
men with him, he rowed over, with intent to take
from its inmates, anything that might attract his
fancy, or perhaps, be worth the trouble of carrying
back to his English home.

Having entered roughly through the castle
door ; which happened to be open, though the inmates
did not expect a visitor ; he walked, with the
air of one who was the proprietor of it all, from
room to room.

Mrs. O'SuUivan and Mrs. O'Brien, the two old
ladies, were sitting in the drawing-room, when
he, and his soldiery at his heels, entered, all with
helmeted heads. Seeing the ladies, like a gentleman
as he was, he took off his helmet, and holding
it in his hand, " begged pardon for the intrusion,
but would be glad to see the master of the house."

Perceiving that they were unexpectedly in the
power of their country's enemies, and conjecturing
the probable object of the visit, the ladies
were filled with fear. Then Mrs. O'Sullivan,
rising to her feet, said, '' Our sons are away.
We in our sorrow, know not where, nor have we
seen them for several months. Our anxious
hope is that they may return soon. We miss
them the more, because we both are widows."

With the gallantry of a soldier, he bowed;
assured the ladies they had no cause for apprehension,

again offered repeated apologies for encroaching,
and enquired, if not too great a liberty,
might he ask for a bowl of wine for his men before
his departure ?

Mrs. 0' Sullivan rang the bell, and ordered her
servant to supply anything in the house which the
officer and his men desired.

With well expressed thanks and multiplied
apologies, he retired ; but when he had reached
the Hall, Mary who had been out on a mission
of mercy to some sick and poor, just entered by
the still open door, and met the unexpected
visitors when on the eve of departure.

Captain Lovell was immediately captivated by
her uncommon beauty. He thought he had never
seen one so lovely before ; her pink and white wrap
and brigand's hat, which Gerald had brought her
from Spain, setting off admirably her exquisite
features; while her unrestrained hair flowed in
golden wealth around her. Again, with helmet
in hand, he lowly bowed ; again apologised for his
trespass, and sought by every means in his power
and he was an accomplished adept — to make a
favourable impression.

To make a favourable impression on Mary, who
already loved— deeply and truly loved — Gerald;
to make a favourable impression on Mary, who
would not keep back her much loved Fergus from
waging fiercest war against the invaders ; a favourable
impression on Mary, who loved her country
too well, to love her country's foes.

As he evinced no inclination to depart, Mars,
who recognised by the uniform some of the alien
army, without noticing Captain Lovell's remarks,
coldly asked :

*' May I enquire why we are honoured with
this unsolicited visit ?

** Fair lady," replied Captain Lovell, *^ candour
and truth have always been my motto, therefore
I must frankly tell you, though at the risk of
your displeasure ; the appearance of your castle
attracted me, and I came with the intention of
appropriating anything that might engage my
admiration. When I saw two old ladies upstairs,
I could not think of shewing them any
incivility, and was about to depart, as they told
me they were widows and their sons away, when
I had the great good-fortune to meet your
exquisitely pretty self."

''I am glad," said Mary, *sto find that those
who invade our homes, and appropriate our
property, are not so devoid of manly feeling as to
molest unprotected ladies; then let me congratulate
you on the possession of this feeling,
and prove the reality of its existence, by bidding
you, good morning."

I could never think of terminating, so
abruptly, such a desirable acquaintanceship.
May I have the pleasure of spending the
afternoon here, and, at the same time, of
enjoying the sweet pleasure of your company ? "

** Sir," replied Mary, '* the hunted hare has no

inclination for the society of the hounds, and
those who are, perhaps, bereaved and desolated
by the warfare of invaders, have no desire for the
familiarity of their bitterest enemies."

'* Never before'' rejoined Lovell, *did I
experience regret, that I did not belong to the
number of those whom you deem friends, but you
have altered all my cherished wishes and my
hopes; and, to win your favour, I would fain
become a deserter to your cause, did it not bring
a stain upon a soldier's honour ; but, can we not
be friends ? Cannot you allow me to be an
admirer ? Cannot you suffer me, on bended
knees, to plead my love before you ? for I must
confess I am captivated by your beauty."

'because I am unprotected," said Mary,
'does the vaunted honour of a soldier scruple
not to insult me ? "

Insult you, no ! but love you I cannot help."

Then keep your love for those that will
appreciate it — I'll have none of it. If you have
the feelings of a man of honour, leave me."

Then, as you spurn my love, my affection,
my adoration, and scornfully refuse my pleading
as your abject suitor, I have but one course
left."

To go, as I have asked you ? "

Nay ! to stay as I have power, and use that
power to subjugate your haughtiness, which so
pompously and heartlessly spurns me."

"Do my ears deceive me, or does my weak

intellect erroneously misconstrue your words, as
though some colourless brigand, and not a
soldier, spoke ? What do you mean, sir ? "

*' I mean to stay, fair lady. To take up my
abode here, instead of at the hotel in Castletown,
and to ask you for a kiss, which I hope you will
not refuse me now."

Mary, who was full of intelligence, from this
speech, fully appreciated the character of the man
she had to deal with. She knew resistance was
impossible, and that violence and indignities
awaited her, unless she could out-manoeuvre the
unscrupulous roue who stood before her ; so,
changing her frown to a smile, she gently said :

*' Good sir, you lack not effrontery. Do you
mean to insinuate that you would beard the lion
in his den ? "

"If you said the love bird in her cage, or the
angel in her bower, I could understand your
simile," said Lovell, who was determined to have
his wicked way ; but very much preferred wooing,
and conquering by love, than to have recourse to
overpowering violence.

Then, viewing him from head to foot, she said :
•'You look a gentleman — a noble face, too, and
manly figure. Can I trust your honour, if I ask
my mother to receive you as a guest ? Then
without impropriety we can walk together, and
hold conversation, and you may defend us also,
for I have heard the marauders are about."

Believing his point was gained, and that he

should be an inmate of the Castle, on terms of
dearest intimacy too; Lovell, with low bow and
hand on heart, replied :

'' Anything, dear lady, you suggest, will be my
greatest pleasure to perform. No stranger shall
molest you while I am here. I command the
mercenaries ; my word is law ; and disobedience
means death. This they know, and therefore, I
can rely on their subjection and compliance."

'' 'Tis well that you have come then, for half an
hour ago, when on my rounds visiting the poor,
the sad news reached me that foreign soldiery
had come to Castletown. I will go at once to
mother, and speak with her. She will comply
with my suggestion, seeing there is ground for
fear. And we shall have our protector in our
house, and his bedroom on the same floor with
ours, in case of sudden assault or molestation."

You are as good, and kind, and clever, as you
are pretty, and never did my eyes behold a
lovelier face. Oh ! to walk with you, and speak
with you, 'twill be heaven; 'twill be paradise
indeed ! "

'* You flatter me; I'm sure I merit not a tithe
of such high compliment," said Mary, as, passing
by the bowing Lovell, she gently walked upstairs
to confer with her mamma.

It was in the old oak-room that Mary found her
mother and her aunt. She told them of the
meeting in the hall, and in gentle accents, with
suppressed voice, gave her opinion of the visitor.

"He is a villain, mother, an unprincipled scoundrel,
who would pay no more regard to my entreaties
than the wolf would to the bleating of the lamb.
I am sure, if I stay beneath this roof to-night —
yes, this one night — he will, if not admitted, break
my door, enter my room, and offer me indignities.
I can see it all. It is the danger that the old
gipsy in dark phrases foreboded. Even now, had
I not beguiled him with fair words, he would
have assaulted me in the hall. However, my
decision is fully formed. As soon as all suspicion
is allayed, I shall feign weariness, as though I
longed for bed. Then, while he speaks with you, —
and, mind that you detain him with some story or
enquiry — I shall retire by the back stairs, and shall
hasten to the boat house. Old Tom will hear my
tapping at his cabin door, and will take me in his
little gig across the bay, to our Castle on the
island. No one will see me as I depart. That
man will not know where to follow me, and, when
Gerald comes, you can tell him where I am."

'Tis well, my child ! your plan is very good ;
meanwhile we shall shew him all hospitality.
Bring him up now, lest too long a conference
should awake his suspicion, and introduce him
to us."

And Mary left the room, her pretty face beaming
with smiles, and hastening to the stalwart
soldier, said : *' Sir, will you be so good as to
come upstairs, and let my mother have the
pleasure of forming your acquaintance; but,"

said she, pausing, " I have not the honour of
knowing your name or title, — of royal blood, I
presume ? "

** No, gentle lady, not of royal blood. We have
no royal blood in England now ; we are under a
Protector. My name is Lovell — Captain Lovell,
with my title attached, but, if you will condescend
to please me, call me ' Fred.' *'

*' Oh ! what a pretty name," said Mary, and as
she led the way, he followed her upstairs, and was
formally introduced.

Mary did all in her power to make him fancy
she enjoyed his society. She sung for him. She
played. She received with smiles his attentions,
and Lovell was happy — happy in the anticipation
of ruining, that very night, the fair fame of Mary,
and, of gaining admission to her room, as soon as
all were lulled in sleep. Meanwhile he told stories
of his adventures. He sang too, and his was a
splendid voice ; and, with the effrontery of an
adept, he persisted in calling her "Mary," and
used untiring solicitude to induce her to call him
Fred," and not Captain Lovell.

Begging to be excused for a moment, as he
wanted to give orders to his men, he left the
ladies. ** Why the devil," said he to himself ashe
went, *' should I prolong or postpone. Her
brothers are expected, and may be here at anytime
; I must, therefore, make my arrangements
now."

Then summoning two non-commissioned

officers, who were creatures of his will, he
directed them to dismiss the rest of the men to
their quarters at Castletown, where they were to
await his arrival the next day. '' Meanwhile,"
said he, 'have you here your implements to open
doors, and break locks, for I may want you to
break one to-night, at midnight ? Mark well my
words."

Yes, captain, we have all appliances, and shall
be ready at a moment's call. We will remain on
the benches in the kitchen, where there is good
fare and a good fire, until you want our aid."

** All right," said Lovell, " don't get drinking
too much, but, if I don't want you by twelve
o'clock, you may take your rest as best you can.
No doubt yours will be comfortable quarters."

'' Captain, you may depend on us," said both
together.

*' Then ten gold crowns each, shall be your
reward."

As the evening advanced, Mary's mother
pointed out to the captain, the room he was to
occupy ; and, on the same landing, about a dozen
yards away, she pointed out other rooms. " That
is mine," said she, " that is Mrs. O'Brien's, and
that is Mary's. How well, in these distracted
times, that one should have a protector ! "

The hours flew quickly, and when nine o'clock
was past, Mary pleaded fatigue, and said she would
retire; and then the old ladies, as arranged,
became most inquisitive, and asked him of his

dangers and escapes. Fully half an hour elapsed,
before Lovell was able to go to the blazing
fire, in the smoke-room, to enjoy his longed-for
cigar; and Mrs. O'Sullivan made him promise
he would return to the drawing-room, insisting
that he should have some wine or home-brewed
ale before he went to rest.

When Mary left the drawing-room, she
hastened to her bedroom, locked its door on the
inside, and left the key in the lock. There was
another door leading into a dressing-room, which
opened on a flight of stairs which conducted to
the kitchen. Through this she passed, locking it
after her, and taking the key. Then, in her
evening dress, but well muffled in cloak and
furs, she quietly glided down the back stairs, and
called for Mary.

Mary was an old servant of the family, in her
fifty-eighth year. She had been in the service
over forty years, and had married the butler, Mr.
Edmund Foley, whom she called Ted. They
had been married sixteen years, but had no family,
and both were highly esteemed by the O'Sullivans.
Mary was treated more like a relative than a
servant, particularly by her young mistress, whom
she had nursed when a baby, tended as a child,
and advised familiarly as she grew up.

Mary quickly attended to her call, and, seeing
the muffled face, the cloak and furs, said :

Faix, 'tis mesef, wouldn't have known a bit
of ye, only Oi lieerd yer voice."

** Mary," said her mistress, "I don't like to
remain in the house with that man, and have
therefore decided to go to the Castle on the
island."

*sand 'tis sure and martin Oi am, that 'tis
quite right ye are, Miss, and right, too, to go
anonst, without anyone at all knowing anything
about it."

** Mamma knows, of course. I told her all.
But, I may feel assured that captain will never
know where I have gone to, and, perhaps Mr.
Gerald will be back soon, and then I shall be
safe."

*' The Lord grant he may, Miss Mary. He
would soon sweep that villain off the face of the
earth."

** Well, Mary, I have locked my bedroom door,
and here is the key for you. I hope not to be
away more than three or four days, and be sure
to tell Mr. Gerald where I am. He will come
to me at once. Now, good-bye."

Good-bye, and heaven bless ye, me darling,
and bring ye safe," said Mary, taking the bedroom
key.

Miss O'Sullivan, after this conversation, passed
from the house by a door at the back, and,
hurrying on the path that she and Gerald
walked the evening before his departure, she
directed her steps towards the boat-house. As
she went, she came to the same ivy mantled
oak against which he leant, and kissed it lovingly.

Oh, that he were here now," said she, '* but,
as the old woman told me, * he may come, one
day, too late. ' " And soon she arrived at old
Tom's little house, and tapping gently at the door,
the old man quickly opened it.

'' Och, Miss Mary, what in the world brings
ye out this hour of night ? The Lord be praised,
Oi hope there is notion gone astray."

'' Tom, speak gently ; I want you at once to
get the oars, and row me to the island. I mean
to sleep at the castle there to-night, but you must
return here, lest any one should suspect you had
brought me over'*

** 'Tis mesef will bring ye anywhere, and
sure ye deserve that Oi should walk there on me
bare knees, if that same was possible at all at all."

Mary was soon on the water. It was as
smooth as glass. The old man, skilled in
handling his oar, made but the smallest noise,
and, had not the moon been shining brightly, no
one could tell what course was taken.

Ah ! She did not know that one of Lovell's
soldiers was close at hand, watching her departure.
True, he did not recognise her, and
fancied, from her disguise, she was an old countrywoman.
But as soon as the fact was known
that she was gone, and search and enquiry made,
he had sufficient information, to give his master
most valuable intelligence.

CAPTAIN LOVELL AND THE COOK.

If the beam of our lives had not one scale of reason to poise
another of sensuality, the blood and baseness of our natures would
conduct us to most preposterous conclusions." — Othello.

A FULL hour elapsed before Mary and her escort
arrived at Bere Island, and half an hour more
before she knocked at the castle door, when she
was soon admitted by the old caretaker, whose
wife quickly made ready an apartment, in the
strongest room, for her unexpected mistress.

The Castle was a fortress of the O'Sullivans.
It was old and strongly built, with walls of tremendous
thickness, and massive oaken doors with
inlaid iron. There were loop-holes through which
the defenders might fire, in any direction, on an
approaching enemy. It had been a safe retreat informer
troubled times, and Mary felt the confidence
of security as soon as she was safely within it.
Each apartment had its heavy oak door and
double locks, and iron bars inside. But she felt
safe, not because the place was strong, but because
she believed her retreat would not be discovered.
Meanwhile, let us return to Dunboy.

Having received her directions, the faithful

Mary returned to the kitchen, where her husband
Ted, and the two soldiers were fraternising most
cordially, drinking together the strong home-brewed
ale, smoking, and detailing narratives in connection
with their past experiences.

Ted was beginning to feel the effects of the beer.
Too great a love for it was his only failing.
Fondly attached to the family, strictly honest,
always attentive to his duties, and, besides, an
excellent servant, there never was a fault to be
found with him, except that he would sometimes,
as he expressed it himself, 'stake a drop too
much."

The soldiers, too, might be described by
some of those numerous phrases which are
employed to indicate approaching inebriation,
6.^., 'Pushed," ^^fuU," ** tight," ^'on their eye,"
*' half seas over," etc., and, the general effect on
the whole party, was to impart wonderful powers
of loquacity.

Ted had detailed the particulars of a voyage
which he once made from Cork to Liverpool, and
his adventures while in England ; and then, the
soldiers narrated, in turn, their exploits at the
siege of Limerick, and the hairbreadth escapes
they more than once experienced. '' Oh ! " said
Sergeant Cockayne, *' no mistake, but there were
some fine men within the walls — men with
fearless hearts, and with the strength of giants.
There was one young captain who would often
lead a company out, and attack whatever group

of our soldiers came in his way. He was tall, and
very fair ; we used to call him the * White Devil.'
To tell you the honest truth, he was the terror of
our whole army, for wherever he went he managed
to mow down our men, while his life seemed
charmed, our fellows being never able to wound
him. One night, we made a prisoner; he was
left for dead, but, when the bleeding from his
wound was stopped, he came to, and he told us his
leader was a Mr. O'Brien — Fergus O'Brien, I think
he called him. Our Captain Lovell, who is a first-class
swordsman and as brave as a lion, often
wished to meet him, but, as chance would have it,
they never had a tussle."

Fergus O'Brien ! " said Ted, his eyes lighting
up with joy. ** Why, that is our young master
here; his mother is one of the ould ladies upstairs,
and we don't know if he is dead or
alive — one word we haven't heard ov him the
last three months."

*'He was not killed at the siege," said the
Sergeant, ** and, when the surrender was made,
nearly every one of our men tried to catch a
glimpse of him among the departing soldiers, but
he was not with them. Perhaps he died of the
plague, or the fever which was raging in the city."

Mary's entrance put a stop to the conversation,
as she beckoned her husband, wishing to speak
something to him in private, and Ted, rather
unwillingly, attended to her appeal, for he was
intensely interested in the conversation.

When she had him apart, she said, *' Now, Ted,
ye are forgetting verses, and are takin too much
drink again. Oi'm ashamed of ye ; afore thin
fore somers, too. Howsomever, what Oi want to
tell ye is, that Miss Mary will not be in her bedroom
for the next three or four nights. Mind,
keep that to verses; and, next, that Oi'm goes to
sleep there, to prevent the clothes getting damp ;
ye can take yer choice, whether ye will stay in
yer own room, or go there, too."

"All right," said Ted, who was anxious to get
back to hear more about the siege and Master
Fergus.

Eut Mary did not revisit the kitchen, as it was
approaching ten o'clock, but forthwith duly
attended to the old ladies. The Captain had
returned from the smoke-room, and sat with
them, entertaining them with most interesting
conversation, until they begged to be excused,
and retired to their bedrooms. Then Mary,
released from further anxiety, entering from the
door at the back, went to her young mistress's
room, and, before going to bed, unlocked the front
door, in case Ted should decide to leave his usual
apartment.

Ted, however, and the soldiers continued their
stories, their pipes, and their drinks. Ten o'clock
passed, eleven o'clock, and twelve ; still they continued
their carouse, until they all became so
charmed with each other's society that they
vowed eternal friendship, and finally fell soundly

asleep in the easy chairs, in that warm kitchen,
with its good blazing fire.

Not so Captain Lovell. Having left the
drawing-room, he enjoyed a most delightful
smoke, in a room which was the picture of
comfort and luxury. There was the good fire,
the soft carpet, the little wooden spikes to
light the cigar or pipe, the spittoons in all
convenient places, the brightly shining candles,
the mirrors, before which he more than once
admired his figure and twirled the ends of
his moustache. *' By Jove ! there are good
quarters in this establishment " said he to
himself, ^' I mean to make myself at home here
for the next few weeks ; and will have my men on
the alert, to prevent the return of those young
soldiers they are expecting. Though, perhaps,
they are now dead of the plague, or slain in the
war. And all the better if so ; they won't trouble
me nor themselves either; for, they will know
nothing about it."

Then Mary occupied his thoughts. He felt
smitten. A love attack was not an uncommon
affliction with the brave Captain, but, in this case,
its severity could be only described by our modern
hyperboles, '* awfully awful," or "too too utterly
too too." Yes ! he felt awfully awful in love.
She was an exquisite creature, an angel ; only he
was married, he believed he would be sufficiently
foolish to select her for a wife.

Some of those brave captains, life-guardsmen.

etc — exquisite in their way, in all the pomposity
of self-conceit and vanity of good looks —
deem themselves so perfectly irresistible, that no
lady could withstand their overpowering fascinations.
And there are some weak-minded girls —
reminding one of moths that would flutter round
any light, no matter how dim and insignificant —
whose frivolous heads are so moved, even by commonplace
compliments, that they afford these
coxcombs a very reasonable foundation for their
opinionative pride, however extravagant. But it is
also true, that there are many girls whose minds
are as full of intelligence as their faces of beauty,
and who can accurately estimate all impersonations
of presumption, and can '* divide them
inventorially," arranging in proper places their
foibles, their follies, their foolishness, and their
fooleries, without the slightest risk to " dizzy the
arithmetic of memory."

Lovell, having thoroughly enjoyed his smoke,
returned to the drawing-room, and soon after, the
old ladies wishing to retire, he wished them a
good night, and, at their request, brought a
decanter of excellent port back to the smoking
room, where he intended, before bed-time, to
spend another hour.

And as he meditated on the consummation of
his villainous enterprise — his predetermined intent
to enter Mary's room — he smoked cigarette
after cigarette, and took glass after glass of wine;
until the heat, the smoke, and the wine accomplished

their customary effect, and he felt, what
in common parlance may be described as '' considerably
muddled," and his power of distinct
utterance considerably impaired.

It was now about half-past eleven. The house
had been quiet for more than an hour, when the
captain, with boots off, and candlestick in hand,
proceeded with cautious, noiseless steps to Mary's
bedroom door. He expected to find it locked, and
that he must then summon the assistance of his
henchmen ; but he saw little boots outside, and
this gave him hope ; then he quietly turned the
handle, and, to his delight, the door opened.
Fancying he heard a noise in the distance, he
quickly entered and quickly closed the door ; the
effect of the latter movement being, to blow his
candle out and leave him entirely in the dark.
However, he minded not this. He was at the
right side of the door, and, feeling for the key, he
locked it; then his heart beat with excitement
and joy, at finding himself so near the consummation
of his wishes.

*'Ah!" thought he to himself, 'the little
minx is just like the generality of her sex. She
only wants an opportunity, when a fellow happens
to be good looking. I really expected she would
have locked the door, and given me no end of
difficulty — another siege, in fact — but here it is, all
plain sailing; a surrender of the garrison, by Jove !"

And then he began, with arms outstretched, to
grope, just as children do when playing "■ blind

man's buff," to discover the object of his search ;
and as he groped, he knocked over a chair ; and
Mary, half aroused from her sleep, mechanically
muttered, 'ris that ye, Ted? Drinking too
much again, Oi suppose." And Lovell answered,
'* Yes, my dear, it is Fred," for, to his delight, he
thought his adored one had addressed him byname.
Then, guided by the voice, he quickly
reached the bed, and, divesting himself of his
habiliments, he was soon under the clothes,
close to Mary.

Putting his arm round her, he commenced to
embrace her affectionately.

What the Dickens are ye up to now ? " said •
Mary. *'Do ye want to squeeze the breath out
of me entirely, or do ye think it is a hould of one
of the somers ye have got ? "

"No, dearest," said he, rising on his elbow
and imprinting several warm kisses on her face,
which was now turned towards him.

*' Wish, bad luck from ye," said Mary. *' Is
it drunk all out ye are ? The civis in how fond
ye're got, all of a sudden."

''No, darling, I am not so drunk, though I
have imbibed a trifle too much, but the fact is, I
love you from my heart."

Oh ! bad scram to ye," said Mary, " how yeare
patten up the English already. Oi'm sure
and martin if those somers were here for two days
more, it's not able to understand ye Oi'd be, we'd
be so mightily Englified."

Lovell, half intoxicated, and somewhat perplexed
at what he considered Mary's Irishisms,
again commenced to kiss his beloved, till Mary,
with strong efforts, escaping his embrace,
exclaimed :

"Is it want to smother me ye do? Sure,
Oi never thought there was such life in the beer.
There's no mistake but it's well worth taking out
a recent for," and, so saying, she slipped quietly
from the bed, bringing a pillow and Eider-down
quilt with her.

Lovell for a while groped for her in the dark,
then, being overcome with wine and sleep, soon,
by his heavy breathing, showed the soundness of
his repose. When Mary, feeling all was safe,
gently crept back to bed, and quickly falling into a
deep and quiet sleep, ceased to remember what she
considered her husband's drunken absurdities.

Both slept soundly till the morning was well
advanced. Mary, with wise precaution, had not
drawn down the blinds of her mistress's bedroom
window, that the light might enter and awaken
her in good time ; yet, it so happened that she
slept longer that morning than usual. So, when
she awoke, the clear light was shining in. Then,
giving Ted, whose back was turned to her, a
couple of smart taps, just on that region where
naughty children are wont to receive maternal
correction, she said, '* Get up, get up, the milkman
is knocked at the door, and the ladies and
the captain will be wanted their breakfast."

Lovell, to whom this mode of awakening was
decidedly novel, started from his sleep, turned his
face towards Mary, and, rubbing his eyes, as if he
could not believe his senses — at last; after at least
a minute's pause ; during which poor Mary, like
one spell bound, was gazing into his face — exclaimed.


** "Who the devil are you ? "

Like your impudence," retorted Mary, *' It's
who the civil are you ? How dare ye come into
this bedroom ? Oi suppose if any one else had
been here it would have been all the same ; and
then to come to me in the dark of the night, and
to tell me, ye mane lying blackguard, that ye
were Ted. Lord, Lord, whatever shall I
do ? " And Mary burst out crying.

Lovell was thoroughly defeated by this torrent
of eloquence, which, however deficient inelegance,
lacked nothing in strength of diction
and energy of delivery. He was vanquished —
beaten on his own ground, so to speak. He had
no defence to make. He felt that he had either
been deceived by the old ladies, who told him
that was Mary's room, or that he had made a
mistake — had taken the wrong door — and had only
to blame himself for having indulged too freely the
night before. So, turning to Mary, he said :

*' I am exceedingly sorry, I can assure you. I
mistook this for another room. It was all a
misconception, owing to that beer of yours, I
suppose."

*' Yis, that's all very fine ; but what will me
husband say ? And then to tell me ye were
Ted. Was that all a mistake too ? "

*' Be assured, my good old lady, I shall not say
anything about it. But may I ask, if this is your
room, why was not your husband in it ? "

*roi expected him in it," said Mary, *but Oi
suppose thin somers made him drink too much,
and that he is still lye drunk in the kitchen."
> ** Is this then your bedroom ? "

**No. It is my young mistress's room; and,
as she was goes from home last night, Oi just
comet to sleep here to keep her bed aired. Oi
suppose ye are the captain ; if so, yer bedroom
is at the other side of the passage altogether."

'' Yes," said Lovell, who now understood all,
and how Mary had escaped him. *eyes, I am
the captain. It was a sad mistake. But where
has your mistress gone ?"

'' Oi'm sure Oi can't say, but she would me she
would only be away for a few days, and to tell
her mamma and auntie she would not be long,
and was quite safe. But Oi knew when she said
a few days, it might mean a week, so Oi thought
Oi'd come in here to sleep, to keep the damp
from the bed. Och ! alone ! a sorry day for mea
sorry day for me," and poor Mary wept again.

Lovell had by this time reassumed his
garments, and, taking a few gold coins from his
pocket, threw them on the bed to Mary, who as
quickly took them up and flung them after him

as he left the room ; for this insult, added to her
injury, made her boil with rage.

Lovell was in a rage, too. He felt the old ladies
had not deceived him; that it was the old
servant's desire to keep the bed aired, that led to
her being there ; that the absence of her husband
was, as she suggested, probably due to drink ;
and, that Mary had completely lulled his suspicions,
and then cleverly and artfully escaped his
hold. '' But I shall have her yet," muttered he,
between his clenched teeth. " Now, I must discover
where she has fled ; it could not be far, at
that late hour of night." So, calling for his men,
he told them that the young lady had quitted the
house, taking with her all the valuables, and that
discovery of her retreat must be made at once.

** Captain," said one of the men, *' about half-past
nine last night, being very heated with the
big fire in the kitchen, and the beer, I walked out
to cool myself, and saw what appeared to me to
be an old woman, departing from the house. She
went down a walk that runs close to the sea, and,
presently, I saw her out in a boat on the water,
with a man who plied skilfully two oars. As the
moon shone brightly, I could see that they went
straight across the bay, for the island."

'* Does anyone live on the island?" asked
Lovell, who now felt convinced he had the clue to
her discovery.

'' I went there a few days ago," replied the man,
** there is but one building ; it is a fortified castle ;

a strong place, too. If there were soldiers to
defend it, fifty men would not take it until the
garrison was starved out."

'' Indeed ! " said Lovell, "- get the boat ready,
and we will start for Castletown at once'

The men set off forthwith, and did as directed.
Lovell — who did not await breakfast with the two
old ladies, and had no particular fancy to see his
bedfellow again, and did not care for an introduction
to her husband ; having braced on his sword,
and donned his helmet, was off with them in less
than half an hour.

When he arrived at Castletown, he took his
breakfast hastily, at the hotel. Then, soon the
bugle-call brought together all his men. He
singled out six ; and, when all the necessary
appliances — to batter down doors, break locks, and
obtain admission to a closed castle, which had no
defenders — were prepared, he got a six-oared
boat, and his men plying a long, and a strong,
and a pull-together stroke, he was soon well off
for the island.

Under the guidance of the man who had visited
the Castle before, they did not attempt a landing
near it, but made for a little strand, far down the
bay, and more than a mile distant. The intention
was to escape observation, and thus, perhaps,
to gain admission without a struggle.

It was after two o'clock in the afternoon when
they were enabled to leave Castletown ; another
hour had elapsed before they landed on the

island ; and the darkness, which they desired and
awaited, had the assistance of a thick fog, to
screen them from view as they approached the
walls. However, the portly gates were closed.
Lovell, with gentle step, drew near ; for a moment
stood, in silent attention, listening for a sound ;
then tapped so gently that it was necessary to
knock a second time before there was any answer.
At length, the feeble voice, as of an aged man,
asked from inside, ** Who's there ? " and in reply,
a well-feigned voice made answer, "■ A poor
stranger who wants a lodging for the night'

*' Strangers cannot get on this island without
help," said the old man, ** so when they do, they
had better return as they came, for there is no
admission here."

Mary had given strict directions to keep the
place closed, although she did not apprehend that
anyone would guess her place of refuge, and this
put the old caretaker on his guard. But the answer
also brought conviction to Lovell's mind that here
was the object of his search ; and, therefore,
laying aside all further pleading, he, in commanding
voice, demanded admission at once, and
added, '* I herewith inform everyone within, that,
if the doors are not at once opened, I shall break
them in, and, as soon as I get possession, I shall
treat all as enemies, and put them to the sword or
any other punishment I may think fit to award."

The caretaker and his wife were filled with fear
for their own safety, and, without doubt, would

have immediately opened the doors, but Mary drew
them back, and succeeded in inducing them to
refrain from any reply, and to retire to the upper
part of the building,

But at the door, forthwith, operations were
commenced with the hatchet, the axe, and the
crowbar. The six men, in successive turns,
laboured with untiring energy and perseverance,
and, for two hours, the massive oaken doors
defied their utmost efforts.

Oh ! if there were two armed defenders inside,
they could have shot down the attacked with ease,
and fifty men would have had no chance of gaining
admission ; but there were only one old man and
one old woman, both over seventy years of age,
and the youthful, beautiful, and unarmed Mary.

And, as the last bars gave way, the old man
and woman, trembling for their safety, came down
and said 'they would open and admit, if their
lives were spared," and Lovell answered :

"Yes, your lives shall be spared, if you admit
us at once, and then shew us where your young
mistress is concealed ; " adding, *' we mean her
no harm, but must know."

The old people joyfully assented to the terms,
and having withdrawn some bolts, and pushed
back some bars, and turned the keys in two locks,
all of which would have given considerable trouble,
they admitted Lovell and his men.

'* Where is she ? " said Lovell, '' point her out
at once, or pay the penalty of your lives."

Then they led him up winding stairs till they
came to what was called the *' strong room " —
and strong it was. No fire could penetrate it;
to burrow through its walls would take at least
two days. Its oaken door, in all respects like that
at the entrance of the Castle, was its weakest point.

Then, Lovell sent all downstairs — the old man
and woman, and his own men — and, drawing
close to the door, said in tenderest accents :

*' Mary, darling, let me see that sweetest face
once again. I have pined for you — longed for you.
Oh ! why did you fly and leave me ? "

And Mary doubted in her mind what course
would be the better to pursue. Whether to defy
him, or to speak kindly, and so 'gain time. Somehow
she felt that Gerald was coming, and that his
strong arm would bring to her security. And as
these thoughts ran in quick succession through
her brain, and as Lovell still in most loving
accents pleaded, she replied :

"• Captain Lovell, I deem not myself worthy of
your great and continued attentions. Give me two
days to consider, and then having tested your
patience, and the sincerity and constancy of your
love, if still you ask me, I shall open the door. I
promise it, that is, if I am able."

Mary had determined, that if the allotted time
was granted and no Gerald came, to drink the
contents of the little bottle which the old woman
gave her, and which she had safely kept, and
therefore she added, " if I am able*'

But Lovell pleaded still, with all that prodigality
of avowal which the boiling blood lends
the subservient tongue, till finding it was of no
avail, he changed his manner and his voice and
said.

** I can see you wish to cajole me again, as you
did at Dunboy. I had you there in my power,
and was a fool to let you away ; but you shall not
befool me a second time, so if you do not open
the door quietly, 1 shall bring my men up, and
they shall commence to open a passage at once."

Mary to this appeal made no reply. Again he
threatened, but she vouchsafed no answer. So,
burning with rage, he shouted to his men, and
they forthwith came, bringing with them the
implements which they had used so successfully
at the other door. And then the hatchet, and
the axe, and the crowbar, were again employed in
quick succession, and without intermission, for as
one man grew weary a fresh man took his place,
and Lovell, by their side, encouraged them to
their work.

Two full hours they toiled before the broken
wood and distorted bars enabled them to look into
the room. It was all darkness, and there was not
the smallest sound.

Mary had sat on her bedside, in an agony of
suspense, with no one near to give her sympathy,
oi support in her tribulation. She listened to
hear the voice of Gerald on the stairs, till the very
listening became painful in its intensity ; and then

she uttered to herself the old woman's words,
One day too late ! One day too late ! " Yet still
she listened, and still she hoped ; but when the
panels of the door were broken away; and the
iron bars in part removed, enabled her to see,
by the light outside, the forms of the soldiers,
and Lovell's handsome but detested face among
the number ; she lost all heart, all hope, and
taking the little vial from its hiding place, she
recalled the old woman's words — '* When you
have no friend near, and ignominy worse than
death approaches you, it will make you conqueror."


MARY O'SULLIVAN TAKES THE POISON.

E meglio mori con snore, che vivere con Verona.

Italian Proverb.

Better to die with honour, chaste, and pure,
Than, steeped in shame, a wretched life endure.

When Gerald left Mary on the shore of Bantry
Bay, the favouring breezes filled the sails, and
soon bore his little vessel out of sight. Onward
on her way she sped, wind and weather auspicious
to her course, and for two days the voyage was
most prosperous. On the third day the clouds
began to overhang the sky, a gloom of darkness
obscured the sun, and, as the evening drew on,
the fitful gusts increased in violence until they
became a storm.

Stronger and stronger still the fierce blast blew,
and when the treacherous Bay of Biscay was
reached, the waves rose high like mountains, and
the breaking surf upon their summits more than
once washed over the deck.

Believing they could not weather such terrific
storms and seas, though under furled sails ; they
directed their whole care to keep the water

pumped out ; and, so to steer, that indifferent of
their course, they might avoid being washed overboard,
or escape being overwhelmed by the weight
of the descending mountains.

For long hours, in the dread suspense of dark
uncertainty, they were tossed at the mercy of
both wind and waves, in total ignorance of their
course, and drifting where the raging south-west
wind directed them.

As morning dawned they perceived land on the
larboard side, nor could they determine what
part of the coast it was. Of one thing they were
quite certain, that they were being driven rapidly
towards it, and that in another hour or two, at
most, they would be dashed upon the shore,
where their vessel would soon go to pieces.

It was a season of dark despair. Death, at no
immeasurable distance, seemed to stare them in
the face. The hardiest sailors on board lost
heart, and gave evidence of their fears in various
ways. Some swore, and used the awful language
of blasphemy and imprecation ; some looked
paralysed, incapable of thought or reflection ; and
some on bended knees tried in vain to formulate
a prayer. The captain, Gerald, and two sailors,
were obliged to do all the work. They alone were
sufficiently composed, to keep the vessel secure
from each wave rolling over her, and involving
all in swift destruction. Six out of the ten were
spell-bound by fear, at the prospect of the
approaching watery grave. Nor had they long

to wait. Already they were so close to land, they
could see the people gathered on the shore, where
they had assembled to witness the wreck. Closer
and closer she came, and presently, a heavy thud
announced that she had struck the ground. Thud
after thud succeeded each other in rapid succession,
as wave succeeded wave ; and volumes of
water rolled over her, and rushed into the cabin
from below, through a rent where a plank had
been staved in. Some sought the masts ; some,
taking life-buoys, leaped into the sea, and were
soon lost to sight ; and some tried to escape by
boat, which was quickly capsized and all its
occupants drowned.

Among those who had taken life-buoys were the
captain and Gerald. They were both good swimmers
and powerful men. One of the sailors, a
young man whose mother lived in Castletown,
kept for awhile along with them, but the repeated
breaking of the waves at last overpowered his
breath, and they missed him from their company,
to reappear no more.

More than once the task to reach the shore
seemed more than their human power could
accomplish ; and, amid the terrors of his position,
often did Mary come to Gerald's mind, and the
thought of her acted as a charm, to nerve him for
fresh effort, and to brace him for renewed exertion.
But the wintry water was cold — oh! so
cold ! — and this chilling cold, after the exposure
of the past long night, commenced to undermine

his strength and tell upon his frame. A sleepy
dizziness began to creep over his senses, and in a
mystified, confused dream, he seemed to feel the
sea-weed wrapped about his head, and to hear the
sounds of rattling stones echoing in his ears.
Then visions of his childhood, and scenes long
since forgotten, followed in quick succession, with
a vividness and an accuracy, as though the scenes
were again being enacted full before his view.
Then every action of his boyhood and his manhood
years ; nothing that conscience had at the
time condemned, was now omitted. He could
remember when an untruth passed his lips, and
the craven fear that prompted him to utter it.
He could remember how more than once with
cruelty he beat his pony, or spurred his noble
horse's side. The thought came back, too, how
at times, forgetful of his duty to his mother, he
made the tear of grief run down her loving face.
The vision also presented to his wondering view
the revelries of unthinking, foolish, opening manhood's
days; and how he had, in half-inebriated
wickedness, perpetrated offences against the
religion he had been carefully taught, and the
morality he had been brought up to respect.
Then, as the panorama passed, there came
a blank, and in its centre, as in letters of
fire.

** Rejoice, young man, in thy youth, and let
thy heart cheer thee in the days of thy youth; and
walk in the ways of thy heart, and in the sight of

thine eyes ; but know thou, that for all these God
will bring thee into judgment."

Then came a blank again, and when it passed,
appeared each act of kindness, each feeling of
sympathy with distress, each word of comfort to
the afflicted, each hand of succour to the bereaved,
the destitute, the suffering, the unfortunate ; and,
as they followed in succession, they shed a thrilling
beam of sunshine on his soul, which seemed
so soothing and refreshing ; and then the vision
ceased, and all was silent as the grave.

How long an interval elapsed he could not tell;
but with returning consciousness he felt a sense
of warmth, and, opening his eyes, perceived he
was the inmate of an humble, but comfortable,
peasant's cottage. He saw two females near him.
One was evidently the mother of the other ; both
were dark, and under middle height; both had
regular features, with the characteristic French
expression; they conversed together so rapidly
that he could not understand one word they
spoke. The quick eye of the elder soon detected
that he had opened his eyes and looked around ;
then, with the inherent politeness of her nation,
she smiled good humoured and kindly, and
slowly said :

'* Monsieur, Je vous souhaite le bon jour,
J'espere que vous eyes en bonne santa. Comment
vous eyes-vous porte depuis hier ? Voulez-vous
prendre quelque chose pour vous refracted ? Que
puis-je vous offrir ? "

** Good morning sir, I hope you feel well, how
do you find yourself to-day ? Will you take any
refreshment ? Can I offer you anything ? "

'* Madame'* muttered Gerald, who had much
difficulty in recalling a word of French, *' Je vous
suis tres-oblige, mais, en ce moment, je ne me sens
pas dispose a rien prendre. Je vous remercie
beaucoup, beaucoup."

*' I am much obliged to you, but I do not feel
disposed just now to take anything. I thank you
very much."

It is a difficulty, which can only be appreciated
by persons who have had the actual experience,
when those who are strangers to each other's
language are thrown into each other's society,
without the aid of an interpreter. All has to be
conducted by signs, signals, and manipulation ; a
mode of intercourse replete with perplexity, and
abounding with numerous misunderstandings.

It was some days before Gerald could quit his
bed, but youth and a good constitution have
wonderful resuscitation powers, and as soon as he
was able, he left the abode of the hospitable
people who had saved his life ; by the warm
shake of the hand, and by the courteous bow,
alone, shewing how deep his gratitude, how much
he appreciated the kindness, and how largely he
felt indebted for their care.

His vessel was driven ashore between the
Riches de Dorsal on the left, and I. d'Oues-
sant on the right, close to a sea-side village,

called Janildut, near to which lived his generous
preservers. From thence he made his way
with difficulty to another village, called Eenan,
clothed in the borrowed coat and hat of the
husband of his entertainer, and from thence to
Brest. From this, after the delay of a few
days, he was so fortunate as to get the offer, of
working his passage as a sailor, to Cork.

A week elapsed while the little two-master was
getting in her cargo, and then, to his unbounded
delight, the weather being favourable, he again
set out to sea, part of the time working as a
labourer, and part pulling at ropes, and making
himself as generally useful as a landsman in his
position could.

The vessel was slow, and the winds light, and
so another week elapsed before they arrived at
Cork. During the voyage he regained much of
his strength, and, shortly after he set foot on
shore, in his extraordinary dress, and without one
penny in his pocket, he set out for Castletown, a
distance of nearly forty Irish miles, starting about
eleven o'clock.

The days were short, the roads were wet and
muddy, and it was nine at night before he reached
Bantry. It so happened that a fishing boat was
going down the bay, and he went on board,
wearied with his long walk, and heartily glad to
get a rest.

The boat did not start until one in the morning;
the weather set in to freeze ; the moon shone

forth brilliantly ; and the breezes died away ; and
while Gerald was in a sailor's hammock enjoying
a much needed sleep, her sails idly flapped, and
she stood almost stationary in the water. When
he awoke next day, after ten hours uninterrupted
repose, refreshed and strengthened, he found that
they had not accomplished more than half the
way. However, there was no alternative. Between
pulling with two unwieldy long oars, and catching
an occasional puff from the hills, it was nine at
night before they reached Dunboy.

Oh ! it was then indeed his trouble commenced.
He found Mrs. 0' Sullivan almost frantic with
grief and anxiety. The story was soon told him
of the advent of Captain Lovell and his men.
How Mary had gone on the previous night to the
castle on the island, and how Lovell, by some
means, had discovered her hiding place, and had
followed her that morning, with a boat load of
able men.

He felt not a moment was to be lost, so, quickly
divesting himself of his *' peasant's " garb, he put
on his Spanish helmet, with its waving plumes,
his soldier's dress, and Spanish cloak ; and, summoning
to his aid five faithful men, well skilled
in arms, and trained by him for war and daring
deeds, they took boat and pulled with all speed for
the island.

There was a heavy ground swell on the water,
but the night was calm and the moon was shining
brightly; the boat was swift, and the men were

skilled; so, after an interval of not much more
than half-an-hour they crossed the bay. Hastily
landing, they made all speed for the castle, and
while yet a considerable distance off they heard
the heavy blows of weighty instruments following
each other rapidly. Then they redoubled their
speed, for Gerald exclaimed, '' we are still in time,
they have not yet effected an entrance." But, as
they drew nearer still, all the sounds of working
ceased, and perfect silence reigned.

When Mary took the bottle in her hand, with
full intent to swallow its contents, a train of
thoughts, with lightning speed, rushed through
her mind. That mysterious word, "Poison''
spoke a volume. '' It means death," said she,
'* perhaps a lingering death, a suffering death, a
death of agony. This I could bear. It is preferable
to dishonour, but" — then recurred the
doubt — *' May I take my own life ? May I bea
suicide ? Will the great Judge of Heaven then
look on me with hatred instead of love ? Will
He cast me out for ever as a murderess ? A
murderess of myself. A sin for which I shall not
have time or opportunity to repent. A sin which
the world thinks so badly of, and the religion of
the world condemns so deeply, that it will not
allow the poor cold clay to rest in consecrated
ground. Yes! the body of the suicide must not
be brought near the house of God, or be buried
near to those whom it loved in life, nor even near

to those who have died as Christians; but, like the
carcase of a dog, must be thrown into a hole, in
some deserted field or common, all by itself;
alone.

"And Gerald, when he comes, must not bring
my poor remains to the family vault where my
grandfather and grandmother lie, and where
they have buried my own dear father, too. I
must not, as a murderess, come near their sacred
clay. No minister of religion must read over
me, or offer for me one prayer. And, those I love
must not console themselves that I am happy,
nor even pray that I may rest in peace ; nor must
they entertain the thought that I can get to
Heaven. No ! I must be miserable in my death ;
regarded as impure and unholy when my spirit
has passed away, and nothing but the blackness
of darkness awaits me for ever. An outcast from
the happy angels and from the blessed Saviour,
whom all my life I have loved, and loved to serve ;
and cast away from Him into that dreadful place,
where their worm diet not, and their fire is not
quenched.' Oh, horrible ! horrible ! I cannot doit."


With these words and thoughts she flung away
the little vial on the bed, as something that
tempted her to the worst of evil deeds, and conducted
her to the most painful consequences.

But, as she threw it down, the breaking panels
of the door, and the breach, getting larger and
larger, arrested her attention. '' He will soon be

in," she, with a shudder, muttered to herself, in
words that seemed to eat into her heart, *' and
then what shall I be ? A dishonoured, heartbroken,
lost woman. Mother shall be ashamed
of me. Gerald can never respect me again, can
never esteem me, can never love me. By years
of penitence, perhaps I may wipe out the stain in
the sight of the merciful Eternal ; but those that
now love me most, must hereafter only pity me,
and consider me a disgrace ; while strangers may
point the finger of scorn, and say, * See ! that is a
degraded and a lost woman.'

** Oh, heaven! shall I be accounted bad for
doing what I am compelled to do ? And now,
in opening youth, have I — who never injured anyone,
who longed to help the poor, who loved to
succour the distressed — have I no choice between
eternal destruction and life-long infamy ? "

In agony intense, she rolled upon her bed,
while the workings of her pure, chaste, loving
mind, at the very thought of sin and shame,
made the huge drops of perspiration roll down
her forehead, as the big tears streamed down her
cheeks.

*' Would that I had some one near to counsel
me," she cried. *' Oh ! that I had even another
hour to reflect, and make my choice between
these painful alternatives."

But, knock, knock, knock ; hammer, hammer,
hammer ; in quick succession, still fell upon the
door. The door whose prodigious strength, alone,

befriended the noble-minded girl, and which
alone stood between her and shame, or death.

'* Were I to submit to infamy," again swift
thoughts occurred, ''I still would be a suicide.
True! I should not die so quickly, but die I
should, for, life dishonoured, never could I live.
Then, thank Heaven ! Thank Heaven again ! the
choice grows narrower, the way more plain. I
begin, at last, to see it now. If I drink the
poison, I die a suicide, accursed. Oh ! dreadful.
But if I do not take the poison, I shall also die a
suicide, accursed too, and, infamous and dishonoured
besides. Then, Heaven be praised
again, my course is plain. No choice have I but
between two evils, and, joyfully, I take the least,
for surely this is duty. Yes,' she sternly added,
'' the path of duty is — Honour before life, virtue
before infamy, innocence before disgrace. And
for maintaining honour, virtue, innocence with
my life, I feel I need not fear, whatever man may
say, a punishment hereafter, for,

Shall not the Judge of all the earth do right?' "

Again she seeks the vial, snatches it from the
bed, and presses it to her heart. The old
woman's words again recur. " When thou hast no
other friend or help near, and danger worse than
death approaches. It will make you conqueror."

Then, with firm hand, she pulls the yielding
stopper. She falls upon her knees, and breathes
a fervent prayer; then rises, full of courage.

puts the vial to lier lips, and drains it to
the dregs.

Forthwith, she felt that she had fallen heavily
on her bed ; and then, her spirit seemed to soar ;
to leave her far behind, to wing its way, through
dark cold air, where stars with halos dim coursed
round about her, and thunder clouds, approaching
near, sent forth their flashes with tremendous
clap. And one bolt, larger and far brighter than
the rest, with shock tremendous, seemed to strike
her heart, penetrating to its deepest depth.

*' Ah, mother, darling ! Ah, Gerald ! " she
exclaimed ; then, in weaker tones, " 'tis cold,
cold, cold, icy cold ! Ay, this is death, death,
death ! " Then, heaving one deep sigh, she felt no
more.

An hour elapsed, from the time that Mary
0' Sullivan had ceased to breathe, before the iron
obstructions of the doorway were sufficiently
removed to enable Lovell to enter the apartment,
and obtain, as he supposed, the prize he had so
laboured to secure. He then ordered his men
down stairs, and taking a light in his hand,
entered with quiet step and triumphal air. He
soon observed his sought one lying on her bed,
and, placing his light on the table in the centre
of the room, took, all the while, careful precautions,
lest she should suddenly slip by him, and
again escape his power. With the words of love
and pleading again upon his lips, he stood by the
bed side. As she did not move, or speak in



reply, he stooped down. " She is asleep,"
thought he. Then, laying his hand on her
white forehead, a shock ran through his frame
when he felt it icy cold. Quickly taking the
candle, he held it close before her lips, but, there
was no ruffle of the flame, no sign of breath.

"Good Heavens!" he exclaimed, 'she is
dead. Oh ! if I had only known she was so
determined, wretch that I am, I would not have
so persecuted her."

Her clenched little hand attracted his attention.
He took from it with difficulty — for the
rigidity of departed life had already set in — the
little vial. He held it to the light, and on its label
distinctly deciphered

'^HiiiiiimiiimmliTrpWi'
® ®

non

^apfxaKov.
Veterum.
Das Gift.
Le Venin.
Poison.

iMiiimmiiii'im

-S5

The learned Egyptian Sage, who had given this
mysterious bottle to the old woman, not knowing

into whose hands it might fall, had thus marked
that ominous word ** Poison," in the Jewish Chaldean,
the Greek, the Latin, the German, the
French, and the English Languages.

*' Poison," he repeated. *' Poison ! It was her
last resource, poor girl."

Then, loaded with sorrow, and smarting under
the lashes of an upbraiding conscience, he threw
himself on his knees by the foot of the bed ; completely
penitent ; and wishing, vehemently wishing,
alas ! in vain, that he could have lived the
past few hours again. Bad as he was, a roue
and a scamp, he was not altogether bad. He
would have willingly given a year of his life, yea,
his whole life, to see her alive again.

For some moments, he remained kneeling, his
utterance choked with anguish. Then, in his
agony, he cried aloud, ^* Great King of Heaven,
smite me — oh, smite me here — with any death —
any death — any death — or let her — let her live
again ! "

A clap of thunder shook the castle, strong as it
was built. It passed ; then, all was silence. Butin
that silence, *' the still, small voice" which the
Prophet long ago heard in the cleft of the rock,
answered his heartfelt prayer, and Fred Lovell
was dead ! — dead ! — never to come to life again !
But it was not his body that was pierced by the
bolt, or his powerful frame that was shattered by
a sudden visitation — nay ! 'twas his evil nature
that was killed. He rose from his knees with

altered feelings, altered tastes— a new, a reformed
man.

Ah, reader ! we may never have committed
murder; though a high authority teaches, ''He
that hateth his brother is a murderer." We may
not have dipped so deeply in crime as this soldier,
perhaps, we have not had the same temptations.
Is thy servant a dog, that he should do this ? "
said one, long ago ; but, with altered circumstances,
he perpetrated the offence he before
abhorred. But, though the crime of crimson
guilt has not left its undying impress, yet, cannot
each of us recall actions — ay ! actions gone
beyond recall — in condemnation of which, we feel
as he felt ; and, concerning which, our heart's cry
is, " Would to God we could have the same scenes
to enact again, but, oh ! with such a difference in
the acting ? " Is there no kindness we might
have shewn, but which has been withheld ? No
word of love, which was unspoken ? No sacred
opportunity, which was neglected ? No solemn
duty, that was disregarded ? And, now, the one
who would have appreciated the kindness and the
love, where is he ? where is she ? Passed away
for aye; while the solemn duty, and the opportunity
are as irrevocable as yesterday !

Lovell was awakened from his reverie of sorrow
by the loud cries of "Captain, Captain," from
below. He hurried down to meet the danger;
and there, in deadly fight, he saw his own men,
engaged with others who seemed to be gaining

the mastery. Two of his men had fallen, and one
of the attacked had rolled lifeless to the ground.

villain!" said a powerful voice, as he approached,
*' you are the leader. Stay your attack,
men; we two will settle the contest. No hand
shall strike him but my own. The moon gives
full light. Come into the open space before the
castle. You shall have fairly. But, first, where
is the girl you have so cowardly pursued ? "

She is dead," said Lovell, *' but not by my
hand. Poison has accomplished what, with all
my soul, I would have saved."

"Yes, accursed scoundrel, saved for infamy, to
glut thy devilish passion. Make way, men — each
moment wasted, till I find sweet vengeance, seems
a century."

Then, Lovell drew himself up to his full stately
height. He was not accustomed to such language,
or such epithets, but, his mind had changed its
haughtiness and customary frivolity for sorrow
and remorse ; and, therefore, instead of casting
back defiance, he spoke with calmness and
resignation.

Sir, I know you not, but presume you are a
relation or connection. Your grief may be more
demonstrative, but it is not more sincere, than
my repentance. I am a skilled swordsman ; from
four thousand men in our division, I took the
highest place. I own the right of your vengeance,
but, do not think, I should yield you what I owe,
were I to join with you in fight."

Then, throwing his sword on the ground, and
standing with unprotected breast before his
infuriated antagonist, he added, *' Take your vengeance
now."

Gerald — for Gerald it was — for a moment was
abashed by such an exhibition of genuine courage
and manliness, such fearlessness of death. Under
other circumstances, it might have turned away
his rage, and altered his hatred into admiration ;
but, the thought of Mary dead — dead through this
man's instrumentality, hunted to death by him,
driven by him to swallow poison, to save her from
indignities — goaded on his anger afresh, and he
replied :

''I cannot strike aii unarmed foe; but if you
have the courage of a soldier, insult you wall not
brook." And, with these words, he flung his
gauntlet in his face.

So be it " said Lovell, taking up his sword ;

Lead the way, sir, take your choice of ground,
and tell me when you are ready to begin."

At once, all proceed from the castle to a level
grassy field close by. The soldiers form a circle
round ; and the two powerful antagonists stand,
with drawn weapons, face to face.

GERALD AND LOVELL FIGHT WITH SWORDS.

Anna virumque cano.

Virgil.

We tell of armed men, engaged in mortal strife,
Skilled to evade the thrust, and skilled to take the life.

As the two powerfully-built and handsome men
stood face to face, with gleaming weapons in
their hands, it was a sight not easily to be forgotten.
Gerald was, perhaps, the stronger of the
two, the bigger man, but not the more athletic or
more active. He was a good swordsman, too, but
Lovell was an adept in his art.

Soon were the swords crossed, and Gerald, who
was thirsting for vengeance, used all the devices,
and all the skill and strength at his command,
but could not break his adversary's splendid
guard. Lovell had acted purely on the defence,
and never once tried to hurt his foe ; and now
Gerald, confident in his prowess and his might,
redoubled his endeavours, and at last began to
thrust wildly, leaving himself exposed. But
Lovell took no advantage. He was determined
no more blood should be shed by his hands, or
his instrumentality ; so with consummate skill

and self-command, he parried, but made no
attack.

The quick and accustomed eyes of the soldiers
enabled them fully to appreciate the nature of the
contest. It was evident to them, that one was
doing all in his power to kill his adversary, and
that the other was refusing even to hurt when
opportunity offered ; so, when Gerald still continued
his attack, Lovell's soldiers, who were
deeply attached to their brave captain, with one
voice exclaimed, " Shame ! shame ! " and one of
them was so indignant that, raising the axe
which he had employed in breaking down the
doors of the castle, he struck Gerald, with the
back of it, violently on the left arm.

** Disgraceful ! " cried Lovell ; *show dare anyone
strike an antagonist who is engaged in fight
with me. Sir," continued he, directing his remark
to Gerald, *' I cannot prolong this contest ;
I feel deeply pained that anyone should in so
dastardly a manner attack you," and with these
words, again he flung his sword upon the ground.

Alas ! they were his last words. One of
Gerald's men, who had seen the blow dealt by
the soldier to his master, plunged, from behind,
his sword through Lovell's back, with such force
that the blade, reeking with the heart-blood,
gleamed before his chest.

Without a sigh, a moan, a struggle, the murdered
man fell heavily on the sward. In justice
to him, it must be stated, that, never was there a

braver soldier, a more attached friend, a more
accomplished swordsman, or a more daring warrior.
There never was a man who more scrupulously
adhered to the unwritten law of military
honour. He would cut off his right hand before
he would violate its smallest detail, and all the
while, most strange to say, the sanctions of the
written moral law made small impression on his
mind, and little influenced his acts.

How often do those who have been carefully
brought up at home, surrender the allegiance they
were taught to pay to religion, almost as soon as
they come into contact with the world! What are
they like, and whereunto shall we compare them?
They resemble some boys who smoke tobacco,
though it makes their stomachs sick, just because
they think the revolting practice makes them
look manly ; or they are like those who use profane
language, under the same miserably weak-minded
and ungrounded impression ; or those
who, in more advanced years, run the race of
general vice, lest their companions should stigmatise
them as *' verdant" or '* soft." Devoid of
principle, firmness, moral courage ; such weathercocks
are not likely to make a figure in the world.
Self-conceit is their foible, empty-headdress
their characteristic, and the donkey who assumed
the lion's skin their prototype. Lovell was not
one of these. He was brought up in a school of
thought, where honour was esteemed sacred, religion
only a matter of interest for women and old

age, and the laws of morality a fetter constructed
by society, which, to disregard, was part and
parcel of every good fellow's nature, and to openly
violate, was to evince a spirit next akin to genuine
manliness and courage.

Is his character a solitary example, or is it the
reflection of many military men now ? I stay
not to discuss this question, but appeal to those
whose experience will enable them to decide. And
if their testimony be adverse, and the verdict of
friends, acquaintances, and eye-witnesses proclaims
the solemn sentence, *' guilty," not to the
world, but to the secret tribunals of their own
hearts, then, Fan mores! heu virtus! '* there is
something rotten in the state of Denmark;"
something of which this age of civilisation ought
to feel ashamed.

Just as when the curtain falls at a theatre, or
when the sponge is thrown up at a pugilistic
encounter, all the spectators depart, so now, when
one of the combatants was slain, the soldiers
forthwith turned away. Lovell's men committed
to the ground their captain, and two of their
number. They had only crowbars, and axes, and
hatchets, and so were not prepared to contend
with the followers of Gerald, who were well
armed ; and, when the mournful task, the last
duty to their lost comrades was completed, and
three grassy mounds were raised over their
remains, they hastened to find the little haven
where they had left their boat.

The others — Gerald and his men — having
buried their companion, went back to the castle.
It was necessary to put his left arm in a sling ;
the violence of the blow from the soldier's axe
had broken it. It hung helpless. The slightest
attempt to move it caused considerable pain, and
the grating of the fractured bones could be distinctly
heard.

They then proceeded up the winding stairs to
the dilapidated room. The massive door shattered
to pieces, and the twisted, contorted, and
broken bars, shewed the extent of the labour, and
the violence of the siege. When they entered,
the sight of Mary lying on the bed, pale and
lifeless, seemed to obliterate from Gerald's mind
the heinousness of the crime he had just witnessed.
''No end," said he, 'could be too bad
for one who could treat a lady so shamefully, and
persist in persecuting her until she was forced to
seek for refuge in the grave." His passion was
now gone. His grief was intense and sore. Longtime
he sat in bitter, and motionless, and speechless
agony, gazing on the last remains of her he
deeply loved, and who loved him deeply, too. At
length, he raised his head, and, turning to his
awaiting men, in mournful accents gave his
orders.

*' Take her up gently, cover her with that cloak,
and carry her to the boat. We must return to
Dunboy to-night."

And gently did the stern henchmen raise the

cold and stiff corpse, and softly bore her down the
winding staircase, and gently carried her to the
boat, and laid her in the stern, her head leaning
on the support of Gerald, who bore her weight, as
tenderly, as if she was most sensitive, and capable
of suffering still.

It was nearly an hour before the boat — carrying
its load of woe to those that accompanied it, and
of sickening disappointment and anguish to those
that expected it — arrived at the little creek before
the windows of the castle. Gerald looked pale
and worn. Heavy grief rested on his heart ; he
had lost all that he prized most, all that his soul
thought worth living for, all that constituted his
happiness for the present, and his sanguine hopes
for the remainder of his life. The pain of his
fractured arm, sometimes, for a moment, diverted
him from his mental torture. It had not been
set, and was now considerably swollen, but this
was as nothing compared with his sense of utter
desolation.

Mrs. 0' Sullivan and her sister, kept an anxious
look-out at the window from the time Gerald left.
Assisted by the moon's light, they watched the
boat as it skimmed over the billows, under the
evenly pulled oar strokes of the powerful men.
They saw her approach the island, and did not
lose sight, until the shadow of the cliffs obstructed
further view. Interest and anxiety, far from
being lost, were then intensified, for, with the
bright-colouring eye of imagination they saw the

rescuers hurrying up the sloping fields, hastening
to the castle, and then engaging in desperate
fight. The moments seemed hours, as they
awaited their return to the boat; and, their
reappearance on the water ; having accomplished
their object ; the carrying back Mary, safe from
further insult, and happy in her security. Eleven
o'clock passed, still they never left the window ;
half-past eleven, and yet no sign ; but just as
twelve was drawing nigh, together both cried out,
See the boat — see it, they are safe and returning
home."

Not for a moment did they turn their gaze. As
the boat came nearer their anxiety increased.
Nearer and nearer still she came, until at last
they could recognize Gerald by his Spanish hat,
as he sat directing the rudder; and, very soon
after, the form of Mary, lying in the stern and
her head resting on Gerald.

Delight and ecstacy filled their minds. " She
is safe at last," said Mrs. O'Brien; while tears
of joy and thankfulness rolled down the fond
mother's cheeks. Nothing did she know of the
fearful scenes that had been enacted. Nothing of
the agony of Mary as the massive door was being
broken, in the high, strong room. Nothing of the
fearful contest of feelings that had rent her spirit,
as she contrasted, the difference of the amount of
guilt connected with the commission of swift
suicide, while yet pure; and slow suicide, weighted
with the burden of dishonour. Nothing did they

know of the verdict, that drew the stopper, put the
bottle to the lips, and fearlessly drained its contents.
Alas ! and alas ! nothing did they know of
the fearful result, and that the boat conveyed only
the pale, cold, rigid body of that much loved girl.

They saw the rich golden hair in abundant
folds reaching down to her waist ; they could see,
where the cloak was drawn aside, her tiny white
hand, and a part of the evening dress which she
wore, the evening of her departure. They fancied,
they could also recognise, that her eyes were
closed, and that their long dark lashes lay upon
her cheeks. So leaving the window, they hastened
with all speed down stairs to meet their darling,
and to load her with kisses and embraces as soon
as she set foot on shore.

The men had entered the creek, had made fast
the boat, and were carrying Mary in their arms,
bearing her to the Castle, as the two sisters
reached the sloping bank.

** For heaven's sake what is the matter,
Gerald'' said her mother, as with his right
hand extended, he caught her to his side. " Is
she ill ? Has the tossing of the boat overcome
her ? Has she fainted ? "

These were the quick enquiries; but Gerald
knew not how to speak, or how to answer. His
utterance was stifled by his grief. Something
seemed to grasp his throat on the inside, and to
choke and suffocate him, totally depriving him of
power to reply.

** Oh ! tell me, tell me, Gerald," cried her
mother again, and Gerald, incapable of answering,
groaned in misery.

Then, rushing from his side, she laid her hand
on Mary's cold face. She caught her hand, and
felt it stiff, and chilly as the ice, and, uttering one
wild scream, the loving mother fell insensible on
the ground.

IN THE DARK PASSAGE WITH THE GHOST.

Mi s' agghiaccio il langue per la laura."

Italian Saying.

His blood, like fount drops, frozen as they start,
Congealed by fear, refused to leave his heart.

When Mortimer 0' Sullivan saw the pale and
fierce-looking warrior, who, though of towering
height and massive frame, had entered, with
noiseless power, the apartment, which he and his
friends were occupying — the bolts and fastenings
giving way before him, though the bolts were
drawn on the inner side, and the key remained in
the locked door — he felt a cold creeping sensation
pass over his entire frame, and his hair
seemed to leave its natural position and to stand
erect.

'* Oh ! what a fool was I,'' he thought, ** not to
awaken my companions, but it is now too late.
No doubt his four fierce henchmen are at the
door, and will enter as easily as their commander.
But yet, my friends must not be murdered
while asleep. So I will awake them — awake
them now."

When that resolve was formed, he tried to
shout aloud their names, but his words seemed
unable to leave his throat. He made an energetic
effort to rush to where they lay, with the
intention to shake them up from their sleep ;
but he felt spell-bound, he could not move, his
utmost power was not sufficiently potent to lift
one foot from the floor. Meanwhile the stalwart
warrior eyed him horribly; then for a moment
gazed about the room, as though in search of
some one ; after that, turned his piercing eyes on
him again, and said in slow but deep-drawn
accents :

*' Mortimer O'Sullivan, follow me."

Then passing to the door, which had again
mysteriously opened, he walked with martial step
out of the room.

As Mortimer did not obey his command, he
turned again, and in the same deep voice,
repeated the direction, '' Mortimer O'Sullivan,
follow me," and then added, in accents of supreme
contempt, ' ' Are you afraid to follow ? though
you have sworn to vent a condign punishment
on the murderer."

** No," said Mortimer, for this reproach, implying
cowardice on his part, awakened his sense of
manhood. ** No, I am not afraid to follow
you." And some strange impulse leading him,
he walked forth from the old oak-room, leaving
his companions, sleeping soundly, behind him.

The warrior walked towards the stairs ; slowly

and with measured step began to descend; and
Mortimer as slowly followed, seemingly unable to
resist the influence that constrained him.

When the hall was reached, the warrior, still
with erect bearing and easy gait, passed to the
middle of the floor, and stooped as though in
search of something. Then raised himself to his
full height again, and pointing to one large flag,
which had a polished iron ring attached, he again
fixed his eyes on Mortimer, and told him with
stern voice to '* raise it up."

'' No," said Mortimer, '' I decline, I positively
decline either to follow you further, or to lift that
flag."

Thereupon the giant sized visitor, casting
gracefully one fold of his martial cloak over his
shoulder, stood for a moment as in mute
astonishment, then slowly said :

*' See, I have the use of but one arm, the other
has been broken. I would not ask your unwilling
help, if 1 could do it for myself, but do not touch
it if you are afraid, even though with upraised
hands you swore."

Upon this, without a moment's pause, Mortimer
took hold of the ring, pulled it with all his
might, and at length succeeded in drawing back
the flag, which was in reality a trap door which
worked upon a hinge. As he did so, he perceived
that there was an iron ladder leading from the top
to the vaults below. Dark and dismal, and most
uninteresting was the underground prospect ; but.

the warrior immediately began to descend by the
ladder, and as he was passing out of sight again
addressed the words — "Mortimer 0' Sullivan,
follow me."

Mortimer again declined. There was something
repulsive in the look of that dank, gloomy
hole. He began to regret that he had come
so far, and thought of rushing back, when the
words again fell on his ear — " Are you afraid to
follow me ? Is the oath so soon forgotten ? "

Why, he could not tell, but these words seemed
to possess talismanic power. The constraint was
irresistible ; so without further excuse, resistance,
or delay, he descended by the iron steps ; and
soon stood by the side of his conductor, in a cold,
damp, dark vault, which was only illuminated by
the rays of the lantern, which the steel-clad
warrior held in his powerful right hand.

Onward, still onward, the gigantic leader
walked, all the while observing the same stately
and measured tread. As Mortimer followed, he
could not divest himself of the idea, that this
strange individual was growing larger and larger
still. Sometimes he felt convinced that he could
see distinctly through his body, and that it
appeared, clothes and all, to be composed of a
dull blue flame ; and as he watched more closely,
solidity and blue flame commenced to alternate,
while, at one side, drops of red blood seemed
constantly to drop. With his fear every moment
increasing, they wended their way through narrow

passages, sometimes so low, that even Mortimer
was forced to stoop ; and then again, so lofty,
and wide that their footfalls raised an echo as
they struck the stone-paved ground. All was
moist and damp. The mildew stood upon the
walls. Pendants, like icicles from the eaves of
houses in frosty weather, hung from the roof, just
as you may see them now under dripping arches,
or in rocky caverns, or in deep sea-side caves.
And, as they walked, Mortimer felt he was getting
farther and farther away from his companions,
and more than once he turned his head with the
intention of hastening back, and running up the
iron ladder, and racing to the room where lay his
sleeping friends. But it was impossible; the only
light proceeded from the lantern, which cast its
rays in front. All behind was darkness — dense
darkness — relieved not even by an occasional
glimmer.

Just then the sound of alarm fell upon his
ear. He felt convinced he heard confused noises,
as of men fighting, in the distance.

'they are pirates," said he to himself, '* disagreeing
about the division of their plunder. This
man has brought me down, having discovered
by some means that I am the lawful heir to this
place, that I may be murdered in these dark cells,
where no trace of the guilt will ever be discovered,
and no one, not even my friends above,
shall hear what has become of me." With
these thoughts, affrighted, he stopped. His guide.

however, seemed to know what was passing in his
mind, and turning to him, with Hp curled up, as
though in marked contempt, again enquired —

*' Are you afraid to follow me, Mortimer
0' Sullivan ? Do you repent your oath ? "

He was afraid; and stout and brave indeed
would be the heart that would not feel fear in
such a situation. He had, however, sufficient
presence of mind left to know that retreat now
was utterly impossible, and that no course was
open to him but to follow, unresisting, wherever
he was led. So, without attempting a reply, he
slowly resumed his walk, with throbbing head,
and fluttering heart.

Having proceeded, as he imagined, some fifty
yards further, through those terrible, dark passages
; in the distance still, he was enabled, by
the lamp's light, to perceive a door. From some
compartment inside of this, the voices, which
before disturbed him, now unmistakably seemed
to issue. As they approached it, the voices
grew louder and louder, and the angry vociferations
more and more tumultuous, reaching their
greatest intensity in piercing cries of *' Murder,
murder," as they now stood close outside.

As soon as his words could be heard above
the harrowing uproar, the huge warrior again
addressed his companion, saying :

** Mortimer 0' Sullivan, turn the handle, and
open that door."

Mortimer's suspicions appeared to his mind to

be fully realised. He felt convinced that to
enter that room was his certain death — death
from violent hands, death, perhaps, by torture, to
glut the morbid tastes and satisfy the inhuman
cravings of scoundrels, trained in villany and
versed in crime — so, turning to his guide, he said,
with all the deliberate emphasis he could command.


"I will not ; I only regret I have followed
you thus far. It was an act of madness to do so ;
and I now ask you, as a man of honour, to lead
me back by the passages which have conducted
me to this fearful place."

A smile of scorn and derision overspread the
face of the helmeted brigand, for such Mortimer
now thought him, as he replied.

** It is now too late for you to repent your act.
You are, and have been for some time, fully in
my power. Look behind you." And so saying,
he turned the light of his lamp on the passage
they had just passed through, when Mortimer saw
three hideous bloodhounds, of tremendous size,
with open mouths and grinning teeth, ready at
the slightest instigation to fall on him, and worry
him to death. Then, turning his light again
upon the door, in commanding voice he said,
** Again, I ask you to open that door."

** I will not," replied Mortimer, as calmly as he
could.

Throwing back his cloak again, he showed
again his left arm, broken and disabled, hanging

useless at his side. " You see I cannot do it for
myself' said he. '*If you are not an arrant
coward, and a willing perjurer, open it for me''

Mortimer felt that it was but too true, that he
was now fully in this man's power. He thought
his position could not be worse ; besides, the
talismanic words, which before drove him on, had
not yet lost their efficacy. So, laying hold of the
handle, with all the might in his power, he
twisted it violently and forcibly, his terrible
nervous agitation adding strength to his effort.

END OF VOL I.

3 0112 084213419

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books are reasons
for disciplinary action and may result in dismissal from
the University.
To renew call Telephone Center, 333-8400

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

FEB 2D 1

Feb Wet

m

I L161— O-1096

GHOST OF DUNBOY CASTLE

VOL II

OP

DUNBOY CASTLE

BY

Hubert

IN TWO VOLUMES
VOL. n

LONDON :
Simpson, MARSHALL Si CO.


[All rights reserved]

V*. 5^

CONTENTS.

CHAPTER I.
The Guardian Angel 1

PAGE

CHAPTER II.
Mary's Body is laid in the Family Vault - 21

CHAPTER III.
"Lay your love lightly on a Young Man" - - 39

CHAPTER IV.
Aggie Nagle; or, the Victim of Deception - - 58

CHAPTER V.
The Doctor meditates a Double Murder - - 75

CHAPTER VI.
Gerald goes to Mary's Vault to take the Poison - 93

CHAPTER VII.
The Doctor tries to undo his wickedness - - 116

CHAPTER VIII.

PAGE

Oh ! IT IS NICE, NICE, VERY NICE . - - . 133

CHAPTER IX.
The Gipsy appears again 160

CHAPTER X.
Handsome Tom Harrington and Mrs. Goodman - - 171

CHAPTER XI.
Notice to Quit 188

CHAPTER XII.
Mrs. Goodman Elopes 205

CHAPTER XIII.
Suicide in the River 226

CHAPTER XIV.
Surprises 245

CHAPTER XV.
The Coup-disgrace ' 259

THE GUARDIAN ANGEL.

Our indiscretion sometimes serves us well
When our deep plots do fail ; and that should teach us,
There's a Divinity that shapes our ends,
Bough-hew them how we will.

Hamlet.

As attentively and tenderly as any aged couple
ever nursed their only boy, the child of their old
age, so carefully did Tom and Nora attend to the
every want of their unknown visitor at Bogra Vale,
the doctor, too, was most punctual and regular in
paying his visits. A fortnight had elapsed since
he had first seen his patient, yet, daily, with one
solitary exception, about the same hour, the
rumbling of the wheels of his carriage on the
avenue, was the precursor of his knock at the
hall door.

Well ! doctor," said Tom, as he met the
skilful physician, after a somewhat longer than
usual delay in the sick man's room, ** What is
your opinion of his case now ? "

** Indeed, Tom, I do not feel very comfortable
about him. If the fever which, as I informed
you, we call * continued,' to distinguish it from

B2

intermittent,' or ague, and ' remittent,' which
has irregular periods of exacerbation and remission,
had its crisis on the fourteenth day, it
would manifest well marked indications now, and
we should have a distinct alleviation of the distressing
symptoms ; but, as we have not had this
cheering alteration, we cannot expect a change
before the twenty-first day."

'' Do you think his strength will be able to
combat so long a strain ? "

Youth, and unimpaired constitution, generally
secure the victory. The continued delirium in
this case, pointing to cerebral congestion ; the
flushed face ; the throbbing arteries of the head ;
and the great disturbance of the nervous system,
are the worst symptoms. However, there are no
hordes on the lips and teeth ; no twitching
fingers ; no making looking-glasses of the hands ;
no picking of the bedclothes; no settling down
towards the foot of the bed. In other words,
what we call the typhoid symptoms of the third
stage of the disease, are not accompanied by what
may be considered the worst characteristics ; and,
therefore, though every indication is not exactly
as I would desire, still, we have good ground to
hope."

''Do you meditate to make any change in the
treatment, doctor ? "

'* I did think of relieving the congested brain
by opening the anterior branch of the temporal
artery, which is subcutaneous ; or by applying

leeches round the back of the head ; but, I am
very loth to weaken, if it can possibly be avoided,
and never resort to such practice but as a dernier
ressort."

*' Are you quite satisfied with the nursing ? "

"Oh, yes. I think the nurse I sent you has
done, and is doing, her arduous duty admirably,
and she has told me that everything she requires
is supplied to her in a moment ; so, there is not
any fault to be found, no matter in what direction
we may look."

What a pity, doctor, that we cannot communicate
with his friends. I feel sure they must
be anxious — yes, most anxious about him ; and,
speaking selfishly, their presence here would
relieve us of such a load of responsibility."

"Yes, indeed, it is unfortunate that we can
discover no information about them ; but, until
we do, our course is so plain that we cannot
mistake it. We must do our best, meet each
untoward symptom as it appears, so far as it lies
in our power, and with diligent and untiring
assiduity, give nutriment to support his strength."

"I feel convinced, doctor, and happy in the
thought, that you will succeed in curing him, if
by any means there is a possibility."

"That is a mistake, Tom. Anyone who professes
to cure a fever is either a humbug, an
impostor regardless of truth, or an inexperienced
man exposing his ignorance. The sweet innocence
which blooms luxuriantly in that soil alone,

which is sterilized to nobler growths by lack of
knowledge, may make such profession ; but, be
assured, it is not reliable. All the most skilful
man can do is to guide it. Just as you guide a
horse along the road. You may keep him out of
the ditches, or the ruts, or from some large rock
lying in the way, but you cannot pull him and the
cart on. His natural strength must enable him
to go."

'* You make things so evident, it is impossible
to misunderstand you."

** Truth is always simple ; untruth complex.
You have heard that vulgar adage : ' One falsehood
always brings another.' However, there is
one point of treatment on which I wish to lay
especial stress. I have already duly given
instructions to the nurse, but, as it involves
not only attentive care, but also a considerable
amount of labour, I must ask you to be so good
as to see that my order is accurately carried out."

'* Certainly, doctor, I will do so with pleasure,
and shall pay the strictest attention. What do
you refer to ? "

*sit is this, Tom. After a while, in fever, the
circulation becomes weak. The heart participating
in the general muscular debility, seems to need
help to do its work. We know this to be the
case when, having put our hands on the feet or
knees, we find them to be cold. Yes, icy cold,
at the very time, too, that the head is racked with
pain caused by congestion, and that we see the

arteries on the temples throbbing with their surcharged
blood. Now, if in this case we apply
borrowed heat — as for example, a bottle filled
with warm water — to the feet, we cause relief
very soon ; but, this extraneous heat presently is
conveyed to the head, and our patient forthwith
has his fever increased, his sufferings intensified,
and his symptoms exacerbated. It is therefore
necessary, particularly necessary, to avoid this.
So, instead of applying the unnatural heat, as I
may call it, the feet and knees should be continually
rubbed with the hands, whenever it is
requisite to restore the circulation. This is what
I am most desirous that you should see carried
out efficiently."

Most reasonable are your instructions ; they
carry conviction with the detail. You may rely
on my especial care to secure their fulfilment."

'' You are very good, Tom, and I feel much
obliged. I do not often see you when I call, soit
was an unexpected pleasure this morning."

The fact is, doctor, I began to get uneasy, and
remained at home on purpose to get the information
from you ; but, let me add, the approbation
which you were so kind to express should all run
in an opposite direction and current, not from you
to me, but * vice versa.' "

Well done, Tom ! Are you beginning to study
Latin ? I am sure I never renewed my acquaintance
with it since I went up for my Preliminary,
and that is about twenty years ago,"

The doctor had made a slight mistake. It was
nearly twenty-five years ago, but, since he took a
fancy to Nora, a considerable weakness for
desiring to seem young took possession of him.

Have you ever remarked a gentleman, well
advanced in years, who was either paying court to
a young girl, or had succeeded in his suit and
made her his wife ? It is so amusing to notice
the abortive attempts to *' do the juvenile." The
few sparse hairs are brushed up to the best advantage,
or are carefully drawn across the top of the
head, constituting what is called a '' thatch." The
coat has a most youthful cut and colour ; the continuations
likewise. The hat, usually a silk one,
with narrow leaf, is generally worn a little on one
side. The boots are abnormally tight, regardless
of the constant remembrancers arising from
the exquisitely painful pressure. And then, to
behold how the old stiff knees are requisitioned to
imitate the natural elasticity of younger days ;
and how the stooping head is drilled like a recruit
at a garrison depot ; and how the poking chin is
carefully retracted — positively, it is equal to a
theatrical performance. Alas, poor infatuate !
you ought to know that nothing can reconcile
May and December. The ice must thaw and disappear
before the shining sun — the snow must
melt before the heat. It would be as easy to blend
in mixture oil and water, as youth and age. There
is no natural, or chemical, or physiological affinity
between them. It is impossible to amalgamate

incompatibles. But, when the doting years of
senility become so idiotic as to venture upon such
a senseless display of inanity, though our laws do
not sanction compulsory confinement in a lunatic
asylum as a justifiable penalty, still, conniving
society enjoys its derisive laugh, and insulted
nature meets out impartial justice, and takes her
vengeance in a hundred ways. As old Horace
has it,

Naturam expelled fusca, tamen usque recurred,
Et mala perrumpet fortin fastidia victrix.

If you expel dame nature with rough violence,
She will return, and reinstate plain common sense.

There were two paintings in the Harringtonss'
house; both made with unsparing care, by a
distinguished artist. One represented an old
gentleman, with erect bearing, and beaming with
smiles, sitting at the head of his luxuriously spread
table ; and his young wife, with expression indicative
of extreme discontent, sitting at the foot.
The companion picture displayed the old man all
alone, with stooping back, and eyes red with
weeping, for his youthful partner was nowhere
to be found. Oh ! they constituted a study
worthy of contemplation, and pregnant with useful
instruction. In botanical arrangements, we may
recognise the genus "arbor," and the species
*' sempervirens; " but, in human physiology,
under the genus " homo," there is no species
*' evergreen."

Tom's education in Latin was not very extensive,
but he was sufficiently read, not only in the
Latin and Greek, but also in most of the modern
languages, not to make awkward mistakes, or
mispronounce his words. He would not call
'' faux pas " as though it were written, 'fou paw,"
Neither would he warn a friend to be on the alert
by telling him he should be on the 'equi vi-ve."
Neither would he call the actors on the stage
'dramatis personae'' nor commit any of those
errors which, from the mouth of pedantry, so frequently
grate on the ear of anyone whose early
instruction has not been totally neglected. It
therefore amused him, when the doctor complimented
him on the familiar phrase he had
inadvertently employed.

*' Indeed, doctor," said Tom, '* my knowledge
of languages is very limited and superficial. I
know much more about sowing corn, or snipe
shooting, or trout fishing ; but, in the evenings,
Nora and I often employ ourselves with the Greek
Testament, or some French, or German, or
Italian work. You know, we never go out, and
we think we ought to improve our minds, when
we have so much spare time."

*' And you evidently do so to some purpose, and
it is very creditable to you. But, tell me, how do
contrive to let the nurse get sleep ? "

The doctor was anxious to know whether Nora
ever went into the room of the patient, yet did
not like to put the question pointedly.

'' We have," replied Tom, " our regular watches
and periods of repose. I send the nurse to bed at
seven every night, and recall her to duty at
twelve. Again, she takes rest from seven in the
morning until ten ; so she has eight hours' sleep
out of the twenty-four, and I take good care that
she is in bed all the time, and without a light,
too ; so that her off-duty hours may be devoted
as we desire. Besides, after dinner daily, wee send
her for a walk in the grounds, for an hour."

** It is a capital arrangement. The only alteration
I would suggest is, to send her for her walk
before dinner instead of after. You know the
adage, *' After dinner sit a while." However, your
plan seems to agree with her, for she is looking
well. I only fear you give her too much to eat,
for she is growing quite fat."

'' Oh, no ! " said Tom, *' we give her just what
we have ourselves, and take care that she gets
her meals regularly and comfortably. I have
heard of nurses sleeping at their posts, and of
fearful results following, and this is the reason weare
such terrible martinets."

She does not consider you so; on the contrary,
her praises are endless. But you are quite right
concerning the dangers that may result when a
nurse sleeps upon her watch. I remember one remarkable
instance. A patient of mine, well-to-do,
had a severe attack of bronchitis. I ordered two
nurses ; one for the day, and one for the night.
My directions were strict, that the temperature of

the room should be kept constantly at sixty
degrees. I saw my patient late at night ; he was
doing well. The heat of the room was just what
I desired. I had no doubt the old gentleman
would be convalescent in a few days ; but, lo !
when I called next morning, he was dead. The
nurse had neglected to take her repose in the
daytime. The patient being very comfortable, she
took her seat near the fire, and fell fast asleep. As
she soundly slept, the fire went out ; the temperature
fell ; the patient had been smothered when
she awoke."

*' That is dreadful," said Tom. " She was virtually
the murderess of that man. But do not
fear ; we keep the nurse under close observation,
and to her credit, I must say, we never have had
occasion to find one fault. Surely you do not
require that accurate amount of temperature in
all cases ? "

*' Oh, dear, no. I remember one young man —
the case is an instructive one. Typhus fever was
raging in the neighbourhood. The hotel in
which he lived at the time was kept by an old
lady. Her son, whose constitution was very
feeble, died of the terrible disease. Two of her
daughters where, in turn, attacked by it, yet he
never changed his quarters. "Whenever he felt the
headache — the mnui — the lassitude — the chilly,
shivering sensation, which longs to get near the
fire — in other words, the usual premonitory
commencing symptoms of the disease — he immediately

divested himself of his clothes, and
plunged into the sea. This he was at one time
compelled to do three times in one day, but the
result was, the fever never developed."

'' Is that fact generally known, doctor ? "

**I think not. I have often wished to give it
publicity for the benefit of others, but, somehow,
one thing or another has always prevented me."

Then do you consider the immunity from the
attack was due to this precaution on his part ? "

** I have not the slightest doubt of it."

"Was it by your advice he adopted this prophylactic
treatment ? "

"No, Tom; he did so, influenced by his own
impulse. He was one of those who made a
practice of bathing all the year round, and
although I feel sure that tremendous depression,
from the loss of caloric from the system, and, in
some cases, that even heart disease may result or
develop from indiscriminate and injudicious bathing,
I so approve of it in commencing fever that
I would adopt it, most certainly, if I had the
opportunity'

"I should imagine you have often had the
opportunity in your large practice."

Not at all, Tom. I am never sent for till the
disease is well developed, and the time for prophylactic
treatment, as you well express it, has
passed."

I must not delay you longer," said Tom. ** I
am sure Nora is waiting for you, for she

will be as anxious to know your opinion as I
have been."

And so they parted — Tom to his farm, and the
doctor to Nora, who was sitting in anxious expectation
in the drawing-room.

As soon as the doctor entered, Nora rose to
receive him. Their meeting had of late taken
place every day, but was not the less cordial and
warm on that account. She knew instinctively
what the doctor's proclaimed sentiments towards
her were.

Ah! what woman does not see through and
through her admirer ? The practised hand, the
deliberate flirt, may so far evade her intuitive
knowledge as to place her in a dilemma of uncertainty
whether his love will terminate in a proposal,
or, according to the ordinary thermal law
of endosmosis and exosmosis, cool down to the
temperature and consistence of its surroundings ;
but, nevertheless, there is something in woman's
nature that enables her, with much accuracy, to
determine and decipher the readings in the thermometer
of admiration, from the index of ordinary
conversation pointing to one point above
zero, to that of the gushing and prodigal effusion
which denotes the *' blood-boiling " heat.

Well, this knowledge of the doctor's sentiments
made Nora careful and discriminating in her
words, as well as reserved in her manifestation of
anxiety. From the hour of Fergus's arrival,
overwhelmed with acute illness as he was, she

took from day to clay an increasing interest in
him, and in proportion as this interest grew, in
the same ratio, any penchant she had entertained,
or imagined she had entertained, for the doctor,
evaporated. Indeed, the star of insouciance was
rapidly reaching its zenith. She did not feel
bound to tell him what she thought or what she
did. He was not her father confessor. He had
not the remotest idea that she ever entered the
sick man's room. Yet there she contrived to
spend hours ; not at one time, not in succession,
hut she was continually out and in. Not in his
room by herself, either, unless perhaps for a few
moments when the nurse would run to the kitchen
for some beef-tea, or to her own room for
her spectacles, which were constantly mislaid or
lost, at which times Nora would watch until her
return. Besides, we must remember the nurse
was a woman, and a woman does not like to keep
her mouth shut all day long; so, when the young
mistress made her appearance, the pent-up floodgates
were sure to open and deluge her with volubility.
Nora liked this, especially as the conversation
was about the patient, and his prospect of
recovery, and how handsome he was, and what a
splendid-looking young man.

It was the same desire to hear about the
patient that induced her now to watch for the
doctor's daily visit. Of course, he did not know
that. It would have made him furious. Besides,
Nora did not betray the smallest anxiety, except

what might be fay attributed to her desire to
have the stranger well soon, and out of the
house. Neither did she shew, in the very least
degree, less interest in the doctor than before the
patient had arrived, so all the meetings went off
smoothly and satisfactorily to both parties. The
doctor felt fully persuaded that she met him for
his own sake, and her detail of the disappointment
she experienced on the day he stopped
away, he attributed entirely to her chagrin at not
seeing him.

Without question, once a man has a genuine
fancy for a girl, in nine cases out of ten, she canso
to speak, wind him round her fingers, and do
what she likes with him. Never was a fish on a
hook more in the angler's power. Never was the
hooded hawk more under the command of the
falconer. What a third party can see most evidently,
he does not even suspect. What would
convince another, falls unmeaningly, or perhaps
originates a totally different impression on his
mind. The doctor thought he had only to propose
to be at once accepted by Nora. Nora now
thought that, if there were not another man in
the world, she would not marry the doctor.

'* You are a good girl to meet me every day; I
assure you, I feel quite flattered."

'you deserve more interest than I can shew
you. It is so good of you to be so attentive to
that sick man."

'* Well ! Nora dear ! he is so unwell, poor fellow.

If you saw him, your kind heart would feel sorry
for him, he is so thin and prostrate'

'*I feel he is in good hands, and am sure he
will soon be better, and able to return to his
friends, if it be in the power of skill, and art, and
ability to make him."

'really you are too generous to my many
deficiencies, Nora," said the doctor, imagining that
her words were dictated by that ' charity that
believeth all things, and thicket no evil

*' Tom is of the same opinion," said Nora, " and
you must give him credit for discrimination,
though your modest depreciation of yourself
influences you to question the soundness of my
estimate'

''To be so appreciated by those whose opinion
we value, is the most ample and gratifying reward
anyone can aspire to. I wonder, Nora, will you
always continue to hold the same kind opinion
you do now ? "

I have heard of second childhood," said Nora,
a stage in life's journey which I hope most
earnestly a kind Providence will never let me
reach, and I think that imbecile state alone
could alter the ideas which are now so fixed."

"Eternal love — unchangeable," — thought the
doctor to himself, "what more can I desire."
"I have only to 'pop the question' and all will
be right, but not yet, not yet," he meditated, as
thoughts of Eosa Gibson, and others, rose like
phantoms before his mental vision. So, addressing

Nora tenderly, and looking indescribably, he
said, "■ you will know one day, how richly I value
and prize what you now have told me."

"I know it now," said Nora playfully, but by
no means thinking as the doctor thought, or
imagining as he imagined. *' I know now what
allowance you make for the imperfections of those
who are not so blind as to be incapable of appreciating
your kindness and your skill. But, tell me
doctor, when do think this poor sick man will get

well?"

'*I hope next week will tell its story in his
favour, and that he will then begin to mend
rapidly."

*' And when will he get back his mind, or will
he ever ? The nurse tells me he still only raves,
and has never spoken one coherent sentence."

'' Shortly, Nora ; I make no question, his mind
will return vividly, as soon as he begins to gain
strength ; nay, before that, as soon as the violence
of the fever is got under by his powerful constitution."


Then you do think his constitution good, and
that he will soon get well, and be able to go to
those he loves, and who love him ? "

I do," said the doctor, pressing her hand
warmly, for the colour rose to her cheeks when
she thought of others loving Fergus. The doctor
thought her mention of love caused her to blush
because it touched a chord in her heart that
vibrated for himself ; and so, not daring to trust

himself longer in her company, he bid her good-day,
telling her he had a pressing and urgent
appointment which he must keep. He might
have added that it was with a lady, but, for some
reason or other, omitted that particular.

Four days had elapsed since this conversation.
Meanwhile every day the doctor visited, and everyday
had either a quiet talk with Nora in the ,
or a walk about the grounds. Sometimes
they would stroll towards the lake, which the
wild duck now fearlessly frequented, or through
the winding walks, whose sides where bordered by
close-set evergreens. More than once he was on
the point of declaring his love and making an
engagement — concerning the possibility of which
he had not the very smallest doubt. And, more
than once, he had the ominous words of a proposal
on the tip of his tongue, and then, like
Felix of old on another important point, he " put
it off to a more convenient season."

When the doctor had departed, Nora, as was
now her custom, went to the patient's room. The
nurse was anxious to get to the kitchen, and,
almost as soon as she entered, asked her, '' if she
would kindly watch for a few minutes."

'' How has your patient been ? " said Nora.

'* Fist the same as ever, Miss — not the smallest
change— except that he seems to have slept a
little more easily, without moaned so loud, or
tossing so mich."

'ris he asleep now ?"

C 2

** Yis, Miss Nora, he has been quiet like that
for the last hour. Oi've looked at him several
times not known if he was dead or alive."

"• Do you think he is in much danger ? "

*' The doctor thinks well of him, but as far as
Oi can judge, unless there come a change very
soon, 'tis to the graveyard, not to his friends,
they'll be bring him."

The words seemed to sink deed into Nora's
heart. The thought of his death, and the dreary
grave, made her eyes fill with tears ; but, as the
room was darkened, the nurse did not perceive it,
but hastened to the kitchen as soon as Nora sat
down.

The nurse had scarcely left the room, when
Nora rose, full of anxiety, and bent over the sick
man. She could not hear him breathe, and
began to fear that his spirit had flown. Closer
still she stooped her listening ear, but there was
not a sound. She laid her hand upon his forehead,
when he gave a little start, which made her
bound again, so tightly braced were her nerves by
her intense interest. Then he yawned, distinctly
and plainly yawned three times, and then, after
an interval of a minute or two, yawned again.

Nora stood beside the bed with eyes riveted,
watching every movement. The sick man, having
moved himself wearily three or four times, passed
his hand across his brow ; then, after an interval,
did so again and again ; then, in low but distinct
accents, she clearly heard :

'' The tangled thread of bygone occurrences, in
the work-basket of memory, how difficult to
unravel! How arduous the task to find the
connection in the string of events, when the
alliance of the present has been snapped from its
cohesion with the past, and has left a blank,
whose confines seem world-wide. To a mind
like mine, awaking from a long and hideous
dream, the field of mental vision seems a huge
sheet of paper, whose pencil-marks some rough
hand has rendered too obliterated to decipher. A
labyrinth, to whose mazy windings there has been
left no clue. A chaos without a glimpse of light.
A rock-bound shore without one beacon-fire to
mark the course of safety to the sea-tossed
mariner. A blank — a yawning, gaping, fearful
blank. A chasm without a bottom. An ocean
without a load-line. A forest without a path."

Then, with hands upraised, he breathed a
prayer whose significance it was impossible for
Nora to discover, the whispering was so low.
The movements of his lips were visible, but not a
single word was loud enough to reach her listening
ear. And long he thus continued, earnestness
not appearing for one moment to diminish, but at
last his lips ceased to move, his upraised hands
sank gently on his chest, and for a moment he
was still, quite still, all the time his eyelids
closed. But soon his lips began to move again ;
and Nora, who was listening with breathless
attention, heard him say : '* The last I can recall,

yes, the last. It was cold, oh ! so cold. And
now I feel so comfortable and warm. I wonder
where is mother ; and where is Mary ? I fancy I
have passed through death, and now am awaking
in heaven."

Then, opening his eyes, he saw Nora stooping
over him. As he looked at her a smile lit up his
handsome face, and Nora, whose heart was
palpitating with joy, heard him say :

** Oh, beautiful vision ! am I in heaven, and
are you my guardian angel? "

Mary's body is laid in the family vault.

Let me have
A dram of poison, such soon-speeding deer
As will disperse itself thro' all the veins,
That the life-weary taker may fall dead ;
And that the trunk may be discharg'd of breath
As violently as hasty powder fir'd
Doth hurry from the fatal cannon's womb.

Romeo and Juliet.

When Gerald, whose mind was racked with
anguish at the sad fate of his much loved Mary,
and whose broken arm gave not one moment's
respite from excessive pain, heard the piercing
cry of Mrs. 0' Sullivan, and saw her fall, apparently
lifeless, on the ground, the accumulating
weight of woe seemed more than he could bear;
so, like one demented, he stood speechless and
motionless.

Mrs. O'Brien hastened to her sister, put her
hand on her heart, and felt it had not ceased to
beat. Then, taking the shawl from her own
shoulders, placed it as a pillow under her head,
and then hurried to overtake the men who, by
this time, had conveyed the cold and rigid body
of Mary as far as the hall.

Under her direction — for she had all the
presence of mind in moments of danger and
distress, and all the fearlessness and strength of
nerve which so characterised her son Fergus, and
made him so distinguished for bravery at the
siege of Limerick — they carried their burden
upstairs, and laid her in her own room, on her
own bed. Then they returned to the shore, and
in their arms conveyed Mrs. 0' Sullivan to her
apartment. Having dismissed the men, Mrs.
O'Brien, with the assistance of her faithful
servant, whose tears were fast falling all the
while, soon divested her sister of her clothing,
and gently laid her in her bed. Being very cold,
bottles of hot water were applied to her feet, and
a fire was quickly lighted in her room. They
then hastened again to Mary ; took off her clothes
as tenderly as if she were alive, and laid her as
quietly in bed as if they believed she was only
overcome by weariness, and required repose.

To Gerald she next directed her attention,
when she had completed all she could do for the
others, and had left them in the servants' care.
Having carefully examined him, she concluded
that his arm had been broken not far from the
shoulder, as a surgeon would describe it : ** in the
upper third of the humerus." To ease his pain,
she immediately had all the swollen parts bathed
with water as warm as he could bear, which
seemed to give him much relief. Perceiving that
not only the parts about the fracture were swelling,

but also his hand and the lower part of his
arm, she bandaged them all carefully from the
fingers to the elbow. Then feeling that the upper
part of the arm, above the fracture, was somewhat
projecting, she got two pieces of strong pasteboard
which she happened to have in the house, and
having carefully cut them so as to reach from
under the arm to the elbow on the inner side, and
from the shoulder to the elbow on the outer, she
put a covering of French wadding over them, and
placing them in natural outline, held them
securely by bandages around. She then bound
the arm to the side, so that it could not move
from its fixed position, and putting his hand and
wrist into a sling, which was suspended from his
neck, she supported it so that its weight should
not interfere with or distress the upper part of
the arm.

When this was completed, Gerald declared that
all his pain was gone, and, as he was wearied and
exhausted, yielding to her persuasion, he went to
rest. Without one moment's pause, Mrs. O'Brien
then hurried to her sister's, room, and found her
patient breathing naturally, and in a deep sleep.
Then to Mary, who was lying cold and ashy pale,
just in the position they had left her. She did
not attempt to interfere with her, believing her to
be beyond human assistance — already numbered
with the dead.

Days passed on, and Mary remained without a
change — no heat ; no colour ; no alteration ; and

no putrefaction. This last did not surprise them,
as the weather was cold and frosty.

Poor Mrs. O'SuUivan gradually recovered, in
some respects, the effects of the terrible shock.
Her bodily strength returned, but her mind
seemed gone. She took no notice of anyone.
Ate when food was presented — drank whatever
was offered ; but sleep seemed entirely to desert
her. Her unwearied eyes, not for one moment
closed their lids, in day or night. Never did she
make enquiry ; never did she complain ; never did
she evince the very smallest interest in anyone or
anything.

Gerald improved too. His pain did not return.
Knowing that the broken bone required perfect
rest to allow it to unite, he let it remain just as
Mrs. O'Brien had placed it.

After the fifth day, it was determined to put
Mary in her coffin. The sorrowful ordeal was
gone through. She was conveyed to the vault,
which lay under the chapel beside the house, and
placed on a shelf in the same mausoleum which
contained her father, her grandfather, and her'
uncle.

Day after day, Gerald repaired to the necropolis
— the city of the dead. Day by day he sat.
long hours beside the body of his loved one, his
solitary lamp faintly shedding its rays on the
gloomy scene, nor left till Mrs. O'Brien came and
brought him to his necessary meals, returning
immediately to his sad guard as soon as the

formal repast was over. He would not allow the
lid of her coffin to be screwed down, but sitting
beside her, on a large easy chair which, by Mrs.
O'Brien's direction, had been brought there, remained
almost motionless, and in sad grief, looking
— looking on her cold, pale face.

He concluded, as he sat there, that life was not
worth living, and longed to die, and lie there in
the same vault with her who had his heart. He
never would leave her, day or night, but that
Mrs. O'Brien insisted. So overwhelmed with
grief was he, that he seemed to lose self-will, and
to obey her as though he were a child. At length
he said within himself, " I cannot bear this misery
longer. Mary took poison, and died, and so shall
I. Oh ! that she had left me a little in that
bottle, and then, when next they came to look forme,
they would find that the crisis was over, and
that, like Mary, 1 had gone."

With this resolve fully established in his mind,
he told Mrs. O'Brien, next morning, that he had
urgent business in Cork ; that he would go there
that day, and return the next. Mrs. O'Brien,
glad to see a change, and much delighted that
anything could so far engage and divert his
attention, urged him to depart as soon as he
could ; feeling assured that the short absence from
the scene, and remembrance place of his desolation,
would do him good.

His few requisites were soon prepared. He
paid one more visit to the vault, and told his

Mary, as though she heard him, that he would
soon be back ; then returned to the house, and
banded the key of the vault to Mrs. O'Brien, and,
bidding her good-bye, set off for Bantry, on his
way to Cork.

It was late on the evening of his departure,
when he arrived at his destination. All the shops
were shut, and he was unable to procure the
poison he desired. Slow passed the hours, but
morning at length arrived. After a restless night,
he early set forth from his hotel, to procure, from
the first chemist he could find, the deadly drug
which would effect the wished for consummation,
and end the life of which he felt so weary. As,
absorbed in this same thought, regardless of
those he met, and even unaware of their presence,
he passed along the street, a strong hand was
laid on his shoulder, and words, from a voice
which seemed familiar to him, fell on his ear.

"Are not you Mr. Gerald Fitzgerald ? "

"Yes," said Gerald, beholding the enquirer with
intense amazement, for he was one whom he
believed was dead, then added, '* are not you
Captain Roland ? "

"None other," said the Captain. '* The last
time I saw you, we were swimming together for
our lives, from our poor sunken ship which foundered
in the Bay of Biscay, or, rather, was broken to
pieces there. The sea was furious, and the waves
were breaking horribly on the shore. Were I to
live a hundred years, I never could forget that

day's experience. Long time you kept beside me,
indeed, I thought you were the better swimmer
of the two, although I have won many matches,
and never yet was vanquished in a race, but,
suddenly, a huge wave struck you, and though I
anxiously looked, I never saw you more. I felt
convinced that its violence stunned you, and that
you were drowned ; so, when I caught a glimpse
of you just now, I almost feared to speak. I
looked at you — and looked — and looked again,
but you would not take the smallest notice of me,
nor shew the slightest signs of recognition,
although more than once I thought I caught your
eyes."

*did I believe in ghosts," continued he, **I
should have sworn that I had seen yours, for, I
could not imagine that two men could be so alike,
as the one I gazed at, and the one I saw overwhelmed
by the water. My dear old shipmate, I
am so charmed to see you once again, but, however
did you get to land ? However did you
escape ? It seems to me a miracle, that I should
see a man, alive and walking about, whom these
very eyes saw drowned beyond the reach of all
help, and of whose rescue and security there
remained not the shadow of a hope."

** I cannot tell you how I got to land," answered
Gerald, *' I do remember now how that wave
struck me, although, before this, I had quite forgotten
it. It overwhelmed me, when yet I was
some distance from the shore — all, all the rest is

blank, except a dream, in which my entire past
life came vividly before me. When the dream was
ended, I opened my eyes and found myself in a
peasant's cottage. Peasants whose language I
could not understand — although I knew it was
French — but, to whom I owe a deep debt of gratitude,
a debt which I should long to repay, and
which, as long as life lasts, I shall never forget ;
for they nursed me tenderly and kindly, and when
I was able to leave, clothed me with the best
garments they possessed ; but how did you
escape ? "

"- 1 dived beneath the wave that struck you
down, and when I rose again, and swam a dozen
yards, I caught a rope that was thrown to me
from the shore. Cold and exhausted, I was conveyed
at once to a house close by, and was so far
recovered next day that I was enabled to get to
Brest, between which place and Cork I have since
been trading. Like yourself, I could not understand
the language of the peasants at the place
where we where wrecked, and never heard that any
other was saved."

*'I am much pleased to hear you go to Brest.
The peasants who took care of me were named
Predeau. You would confer on me the greatest
obligation, if the next time you reach the French
coast, you would find them out, and give them,
with my best thanks, these twenty gold pieces.
If you could let them know that I do not consider
this as payment for their kindness, but as a little

proof that I am not ungrateful, you would still
add to the compliment. I, too, like you," he added,
made my way to Brest, but not till more than a
week was passed, and from thence, being penniless,
worked my way, before the mast, to Cork."

'* It will give me much pleasure to carry out
your wishes. What you send will be quite a
fortune to those poor people. I know a man in
Brest, who can speak both English and their
patois, and will bring him with me, so, your
entire message shall be delivered. It will also
gratify me much to visit the scene of my escape,
so please do not consider there is any compliment
about it. But, have you been here ever since ? "

'*I do thank you," said Gerald, "for undertaking
this for me, and in such a noble spirit, too,
as though I should believe I owed you no compliment.
It is just like you sailors — more generous,
more obliging, more open-hearted far, than
those who live on land. But, to answer your
question, I only remained part of one day in
Cork, and came back to it late last evening.
Since I have seen you I have gone through sad
scenes. I cannot bear even to tell the story of
my sorrow now, 'tis too much for me."

"Do not worry over it," said the captain, "it
is all passing through life, and will be all the same
a hundred years hence. Meanwhile, I feel sure,
that one who has been so marvellously saved must
have some great future before him."

The captain, for a while, took Gerald " out of

himself'* but he was quickly lapsing back again.
Had he met the companion of his shipwreck
under any other circumstances, he would have
considered it the greatest treat, and would have
gone with enthusiasm over the dangers and the
toils they had shared together ; but, to a man so
steeped in woe that he had determined, definitely
determined, on suicide — suicide by poison, as Mary
had died — suicide in the damp, dark vault, where
Mary lay, — oh ! there is no circumstance which
could interest long such a man's mind, and no
person on earth whom he would not rather shun
and avoid than hold conversation with on any
theme.

'' I am so glad, captain, that you have escaped.
But that my business is most pressing, I should
most willingly pass hours with you. My work,
however, is imperious in its command. It must
be done, and so I am sure your good nature will
excuse me for hurrying away."

Most certainly'' said the captain, *' I hope we
may soon meet again, and that all your troubles
will be past and gone. I seem more bound to
you, my sea-mate, after our wonderful escape,
than to any man on earth. If ever you feel disposed
to pass an hour with Tom Roland, there is
no one in the wide world who will be more
heartily glad to see you."

With a warm shake of the hands, they parted.
Then Gerald, left to himself, hastened to perform
the task he had undertaken. Perceiving the

large, characteristic, brightly coloured bottles in a
window not far distant, he hurried towards them,
and soon was standing at the counter in earnest
converse with the apothecary.

I have a dog," said Gerald, '' a wretched dog,
who has had a limb broken; I want to destroy
him with poison. "What would sou recommend
? "

'' This rat cake," said the apothecary, displaying
at the same time some of the commodity, " will
soon kill him, and he will not hesitate to devour
it."

Must he eat much of it to procure certain
death, for his appetite is not good ? "

*' Well, the more he eats, the sooner he will
die. The worst of it is, you may hear some howling,
for it will give him a bit of pain and thirst
before it finishes him."

'^ Much pain ? "

*why, yes. It will cause violent inflammation
of the stomach and bowels, and there is no
mistake but he will die in agony."

'' Is that the way that our much vaunted
human nature hesitates not to destroy life ? And
is this a barbarity of which the Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals takes no cognisance
? Oh, horrible ! I believe there is no more
hard-hearted creature in the universe than man.
Surely, he needs no prompting from the devil, for,
whether in lust or in cruelty, the veriest devil of
our imagination could not surpass him. Following

the example of our mother Eve, we blame the
devil for our crimes, but need not go so far to
seek the agency. The impulse of the natural
heart requires no tempter, no instigator. Have
you nothing better than that rat cake ? "

The apothecary, who was rather surprised that
anyone should have scruples about causing rats
a slow, a tortured, and a cruel death, quickly
replied, "Oh, yes; I have got hydrocyanic, commonly
called prussic, acid."

And what do you think of its destroying
power ? Does it, too, cause pain, unnecessary
pain and suffering ? "

I once poisoned a dog of my own with it.
The faithful creature I was very much attached
to. He lost the use of both his hind legs, and it
was miserable to see him, as he tried to drag
himself along with his two fore ones. I got the
boy here to open his mouth, and I poured down
his throat about half an ounce. It was the
strongest preparation made. Five drops, I was
led to believe, would kill instantaneously. To
make doubly sure, and save him from the chance
of pain, I gave the large dose. But, can you
believe it ? the moment he had swallowed it, he
seemed to recognise by his instinct that it was all
up with him. He gave me a look of reproach I
shall never forget, and then worked in such
fearful fits, that I ran from the yard, for I could
not bear to look at him. Of course, when I came
back he was motionless and dead."

** But you do not know how long he was in
pain ? "

** No, I am sure I cannot say."

"- Have you, then, nothing better, or more
efficacious than that ? "

*why, yes; but it is expensive. I have a
preparation of morphia."

*' How will that kill ? Have you seen its effect
in any case ? "

I tried it with an old cat. I gave it to her in
some milk and sugar, and she lapped it up as
though she did not seem to taste the poison.
As soon as it was finished, she lay down and went
to sleep, and never stirred after, but went off as
quiet as a lamb. I don't believe she knew anything
about it, till she was dead all out, anyhow,
she gave mesef no sign of suffered howsomever."

'' That will do," said Gerald. '' Give me half
a pound."

•''Half a pound of morphia!" repeated the
apothecary, " why, that would poison half the
street ; besides, it would cost you more than ^3.
Half a drachm you mean, I suppose ; or, say a
drachm, that is one shilling and sixpence."

*you know best," said Gerald. *give me
enough to kill quickly and surely."

Whereupon, the apothecary weighed him out
a small quantity of white powder, and carefully
putting it in a small glass bottle with a wide
neck, told him to dissolve it in water, and then
add a little milk sweetened with sugar, and

D2

assured him that he would find that as soon as his
dog had taken it he would fall fast asleep, and,
without a moan or groan, would never wake again.

Having thanked him for the information, and
paid his charge, Gerald now made all haste to
return home. He arrived, after a tiresome and
uneventful journey, just when all at Dunboy were
preparing to retire to bed.

"- How is Mrs. 0' Sullivan ? " he enquired from
Mrs. O'Brien.

*' Much the same, Gerald; she takes her food,
but never sleeps, and seems quite childish. How
has your poor arm been since you left ? not very
painful, I hope ? "

"■ Indeed, thanks to you, I have never felt it.
The pain has quite gone. It never returned since
you bathed and bandaged it. Have you been to
the vault to have a glance at poor Mary ? "

*' No, I have not; I would go and sit there all
day as you do, ay ! and all night, too ; but what
is the use ? She is happier far, Gerald, than weare.
If her holy spirit could behold you now, it
would fret — if angels can fret — at seeing you so
wretched."

Gerald made no reply ; he was too miserable.
'' Give me the .key," said he, '* I will visit her
before I go to rest. It is now nearly two days
since I saw her."

'* You know I am not superstitious," said Mrs.
O'Brien, "nor easily alarmed, but this morning
I had such a fright. As I slept, a cold hand was

laid there, on my bare arm. It was so cold it
waked me from my sleep; and then I saw, so
distinctly, Mary, clothed in white, standing beside
the bed, and looking at me as though she were in
trouble, and wanted me to help. I should have
concluded it was only a dream, but see, there are
the marks of three fingers impressed upon the
very place where she touched. And, in about ten
minutes after, our faithful servant, Mary, came
into my room, in the most intense fright, and
told me she had seen her too."

'' Most strange," said Gerald, who seemed to
participate in the alarm, ** give me the key; Oh !
give it to me now, that I may go to her at once."

'* Will you promise me that you will not stay
long ? "

Yes, I will promise you, that if I can tear
myself away, I will be back in half-an-hour ; but,
do not wait for me. It is quite time that you had
retired to your bed, you look so tired and exhausted."


'' Then don't keep me up** said Mrs. O'Brien.
*' Remember, if you wait longer than half-an-hour,
I shall go out myself, to look for you."

<< Very well," said Gerald, " but promise me
that you will bring Ted or Mary with you ; you
might stumble and hurt yourself in the dark."

Gerald feared that if she went alone, and found
him dead, as he expected to be, the shock might
be too much for her ; so, having got the promise,
he went to the grave to die there.

Next to Dunboy Castle, though not part of the
same building, was the private chapel of the
O'Sullivans. It was possible to reach it, through
a dark subterraneous passage, by Hating a flag in
the centre of the hall, and descending an iron
ladder ; but the easier way, was to pass from the
hall door, turn to the right, and follow the little
gravel walk that ran by the side of the house.
Having opened the chapel door, it was necessary
to proceed half-way up the aisle and then raise a
large oaken trap-door which was secured by an
iron bolt on the chapel side ; then descend some
stone steps, and, turning to the left a few paces,
a large heavy door would obstruct further progress.
This being opened, a spacious vault, with stone
slabs for shelves, raised about three feet from the
floor, might be perceived by the light of a lamp
or lantern ; but, without the carried light, all
would be dark as possible. On these shelves were
three coffins with lids screwed down, and a forthwith
its cover laid beside it, in this Mary was
lying just as though she slept. A white wrap of
snowy wool was about her head, another of the
same material around her shoulders, a soft
pillow under her head. She was dressed in a
suit of white silk, soft white shoes upon her little
feet ; more like a bride preparing for the bridegroom
than a poor decaying corpse hastening
back to the dust from whence it was taken.

The day before he left, early in the morning,
Gerald had visited her, and had kissed her cold

cheek, before he set out for Cork. Now, on his
return, though far advanced the night, he was on
his way to visit her again, a nervous feeling pervading
him in consequence of the extraordinary-story
Mrs. O'Brien had just told. He brought
his lantern with him, for at that late hour the
chapel and the underground passage, as well as
the vault, were all densely dark.

But before Gerald arrives, let us enter and
learn what took place since the morning before.

The seventh day, reckoning from the very hour
she had drained the little bottle, had terminated
exactly at eleven the night he was away. Just as
the clock in the watch-tower had told its echoing
strokes, there was a movement in Mary's coffin.
She felt as though awakening from a long, long
sleep. She passed her delicate fingers over her
still closed eyelids, and stretched out her arms
which had lain crossed upon her breast. Then
she tried to turn, but found her bed too narrow
and its sides so hard. She opened her eyes but
all was dark. She groped with her hands to find
out where she was, but only felt cold flags. Flags
by her side — flags above her head — a flag when
she put her hand outside her sleeping place and
discovered on what it rested. She then endeavoured
to discover the form of her bed. Oh !
dreadful ; it was a coffin. The thought rushed
to her mind, *' I am buried alive," and, bounding
from her coffin, she began to grope along the
walls. Another coffin — and another coffin — and

another coffin — she distinctly recognised by their
outline. Horror and fear filled her heart. The
cold perspiration stood in big drops upon her
brow. She groped and groped and found at last
the door, then pushed it with all her strength,
but it was locked. She called, she screamed, but
there was no answer but the echo of her voice
resounding in the empty chapel.

For nearly two long hours she groped about
and struggled in that frightful chamber with the
dead. In agony intense, she felt she had been
consigned to the grave, and that nothing was
before her but death from cold, and damp, and
starvation in that awful place, enveloped in
densest darkness.

In her searching she found the chair that
Gerald had occupied, and, being wearied out, took
her seat in it. But, as she sat, she fancied she
heard a noise; it startled her. Looking in the
direction from whence it came, she thought she
saw a ghastly corpse rising slowly up ; and now,
with eyes as though of fire, it seemed to fix its
hideous stare on her, and still it seemed to draw
more near, more near, till, grasping her in its
bony arms, she uttered a shrill shriek and lost all
consciousness.

Ti yap dv kol TrdOoi ths onorav 6i (pikol ^la^oivTo."

LuciAN.
For what request would fail to gain compliance,
When pressed by friends on whom we place reliance ?

Fergus' enquiry, couched in such complimentary
phrase, made Nora blush deeply. He did not
mean to convey an idle compliment. It was not
in the insincerity of general adulatory conversation
that he professed to mistake her for an angel,
and concluded that the place where he saw her
must necessarily be heaven. Oh, no ! far from it.
He had just been comparing in his mind, which
was awakening from oblivion, the last sensation
of distress that had left its impression before he
lost consciousness, and the pleasurable contrast
of his present feeling. Not knowing how to
account for the long season of forgetfulness, his
imagination suggested it was the stillness of the
grave through which he had passed. Then, if
that idea were correct, these was no alternative
but to consider the place of rest, and quiet, and
comfort, heaven. For, to the mind trained and
educated in Christian doctrine, these celestial'

characteristics have no concomitance, no synchronous
existence in the region of the lost.

*' You must not commence our acquaintance by
flattering me," said the pretty girl, returning
with interest the smile of Fergus. '' Indeed, I
should hold a long argument with you about
comparing my room to heaven, and poor me to a
guardian angel, and summing up the whole as a
beautiful vision,' but that I am sure you have
already spoken too much. I must, therefore, for
the present at least, assume the function of the
glorious heavenly inhabitant for whom you have
mistaken me, and command perfect rest, both of
mind and body, until you have perceptibly, in
some degree regained your strength'

As she paused for a moment, Fergus was about
to answer, and had just got out the one word
My — ," when Nora, raising her finger imperiously,
said, "Excuse me, not one word. As soon
as you are better, you shall have full liberty of
speech. Now, I must insist on perfect rest, lest
you should have a relapse, for you don't seem to
know how ill you have been. This, however, I do
not hesitate to tell you, that the tangled web of
the past, which seems to give you so much concern,
you need not trouble yourself about any
longer. We will be able to unravel all the intricacies,
and untie all the knots, and supply for you
the connecting link, so that you need not tease
your poor brain romancing about sheets of paper
with obliterated pencil marks, and chaos, and

chasms, and hideous blanks, and rocky shores, and
unfathomable oceans, and all that nonsense. But,
your nurse is coming, so, I must away; and
kindly, for I must ask a compliment from you
already, when your doctor comes tomorrow, do
not tell him you have seen me. Now, nod your
head in acquiescence."

He does so, with a suppressed smile.

Thanks, that is right. Next, promise me that
you will not speak too much to your nurse, for
she is a great talker. There, nod your head
again"'

He does so.

*' That is right ; and now, good-bye. I shall
come to see you again tomorrow.

Almost noiselessly, she then hurried out of
the room, considerably smitten with Fergus —
delighted, charmed, transported with joy that he
was getting well, and now, as she believed, out of
danger. In the bright sky of her happiness there
was one little vapour — one small cloud. It rose
just above the horizon of her intense satisfaction.
Not bigger than a man's hand, perhaps, like the
vision to the prophet's servant, long ago ; but,
like it, capable of developing so quickly, that it
might require the winged chariot of help, far
above her own power, to bring her to a place of
safety, and so widely spreading, that the whole
heaven of her hope, might soon be overcast.
He had said, '* Where is mother ? " but that was
not all — he had also added, *' Where is Mary ? "

The nurse arrived at the door just as Nora was
going out. In very low accents, Nora whispered
to her, " He has just yawned four different times
in succession."

'* The Lord be praised! " responded the nurse.
** Thin's the surest sines in all the world that
the Chaises has corned, and that he's agoen to git
well, sure and sartine. Miss. There's no mistake,
and 'tis fairly delighted Oi am entirely."

'but that is not all," said Nora, ''He then
rubbed his eyes, and passed his hands several
times across his forehead, as though he were in
deep thought and could not arrive at any definite
conclusion. He then began to talk aloud, saying
that his memory was gone, and that he had no
idea of what had befallen him, and, at last, he
opened his eyes, and asked me if he were in
heaven ? "

Poor, dear soul ! He must be ramble still,
or he wouldn't be taken nonsense like that."

I don't think so," said Nora ; " he is, on the
contrary, just getting out of his rambling, and,
with his mind safely back, is trying to reflect
where he is and how he contrived to get there."

Won't the tother be placed whin he comes
in the mornen ? Oi'll tell ye what it is, Miss
Nora, and ye may take me word for it, too. The
tother' s head over ears in love with yer own
party ses, and if he thought ye was seen this
young man every day, he would go clear and
lane off his mind. There's not a day passes, but

he axes me if ye have been in the room, but
sure, mesef is not so soft as to make him a taste
the wiser."

** What do you say to him' said Nora, whose
opinion to a considerable degree quite coincided
with that just expressed by the nurse.

^* Sorra word I tilt him, Miss. When he axed
me the same question every day, I ups and would
him. What in the name of goodness would ye
want there, did he not think that Oi was equal tome
duty when he sint me there ? And thin, it
would not be for the likes of you, an elegant
young lady, without any experience at all at all,
that Oi would be lookin if Oi wanted help ; so
with that, he stopped, and never axed me the
same question again."

'you replied very well and very cleverly, nurse,
and I am pleased to add, never told him one
untruth. I must say, I am much delighted that
you did not give him any information."

*' Indeed and troth. Miss, there's not the
smallest taste of reason to tell me that, Oi know
it well enough, Sure 'tis not so long I'm in the
world, without known a thing or two. If he
axed me about me own dismiss, such as, if Oi got
me food comfortable, or the like, or how Oi goton
with the family, 'tis mesef would till him there
and thin, or if he axed me about the patient ;
but it's no dismiss of his, if ye take a run into the
room when I'm looked for me spectacles or goes
to the kitchen for a cup of beef tay."

Nora perceived from this remark, that it was
not solely for her sake that the nurse withheld
the information from the doctor; but, that she
was also apprehensive it might militate against
her own freedom, and be the means of preventing
her from taking many a run into the kitchen, and
from having many a chat there.

'' No one can deny that you are a first class
nurse," said Nora, turning the conversation and
desiring to stand on excellent terms with the old
lady, '' and, if you are not made comfortable in
every respect, you have only to mention it to me,
for your care and attention deserve the highest
praise. The doctor is very clever, but all his
cleverness would be useless, if he had not such an
intelligent nurse to carry out his directions.
Indeed," added Nora, 'there is more responsibility
laid on the nurse than the doctor, and as
far as I can judge, a good nurse is worth a good
doctor any day."

The nurse was highly delighted with this compliment,
and she thought Miss Nora, " the nicest
young lady in the world for paying it."

Indeed, Miss," said she, 'soi never was more
comfortable and happy in any gentleman's house
Oi ever was in, than Oi has been in years. And
all Oi can say is, happy's the man that will get
ye. But sure Miss, 'isn't thinker of the doctor
ye are, Oi know he's well to do and has plenty of
money, and that's the chief thing : but this young
man, sent by Providence into yer hands, would

be far more suited to ye, and there is no mistake
but he is a rale gentleman ; perhaps he has a title
Miss. Who can tell ^ and then we'd be no more
or less than *' me lady," and well we'd become it
too. There wouldn't be a finer woman driven
in any carriage in the country."

The idea of **my lady" was quite new to
Nora, and she appreciated it too, very considerably.


What woman does not like a prefix to her
name ? How many would decline it, if they got
the opportunity, it is needless to discuss. The
answer is audibly, and forcibly, and pointedly
given by the record of the number of young and
beautiful girls who have entered into the bonds
of matrimony with decrepid lords and scapegrace
profligate scions of nobility.

Nora, however, made no remark concerning
her ambition for a title, but, with a smile which
was anything but forbidding, told the nurse she
should not speak like that — that she could not
suppose she would fall in love with a sick man,
who, up to that day, was out of his mind ; nor
could she think that he would fall in love with
her, who had only paid short visits to his room
when he was too ill to think, or speak, or look.

'faites, Miss," said the nurse, looking very
wisely, ** Oi'm not so stupid as not to see what ye
think of the young man, and, sure and martin
Oi am, he cannot fail to git head over ears in love
with ye, as soon as he gets strong enough to see

ye and talk to ye. There's wan thing martin, he'll
never lay his oyes on a more beautiful young
lady, or wan that would be a finer ornament to
him whatever he may be, even a king upon a
throne."

You are very kind, nurse, to form such a
good opinion of me; but, suppose his affections
are already engaged; that he already loves
another, one who, perhaps now, is praying for
his return, who loves him with all her heart, and
to whom, perhaps, he is even now engaged to be
married, what then ? "

*' I must say, Miss, that alters the case, and it
is an ould sayer, ' a burt in the hand is worth
two in the bush,' so, perhaps, it is just as well to
keep the tother on hand till ye can see how
the wind blows."

*' Oh, nurse, that is dreadful ! no one but a
flirt would act in that manner."

"• Don't be too sure, Miss. ' It is always wise
to have two or three strings to yer bow ' — that's
an ould sayer, and a thru won. Thin ye know if
one fails another may answer. Did ye ever hear
the ould song : —

Lay yer love lightly,
Lightly, slightly;

Lay yer love lightly on a young man.
First he wil tease ye,
Kiss, and deceive ye,
Never lay all yer love upon wan.' "

"Really, nurse, you are getting worse and

worse; I cannot stay with you longer; besides,
I'm keeping you from your patient. I know you
are too wise to allow him to speak much to you."
So saying, she hasted away, having heard the
outlines of a morality as abhorrent to the ideas
of a truthful, amiable girl, as it is the common
and constantly followed tactics of the practised
flirt, or the well-seasoned habitue of successive
London seasons.

When the doctor called next morning, he
was greatly delighted. He had guided the case
successfully and won a hard fought contest with a
terrible disease. The result was most creditable
to his skill and ability. His directions now,
however, were not relaxed, on the contrary, they
were as accurate as before. '' Carefully avoid
over-feeding," said he, "and only give what is
simple and easily digested. I have known a
relapse, amounting to the prostration of terrible
weakness, follow the giving of a little butter on
the allowed piece of bread. We must not *kill
by kindness' as the saying is, but be most
careful, and only gradually, and by slow degrees,
improve on the regimen we have already pursued."


Tom remained at home that morning to congratulate
him, and, after a short conversation,
left him to his habitual interview with Nora.

'' You have been as successful as we anticipated,"
said Nora, and what you were so kind as
to consider my too favourable estimate, and the

result of prejudice in your favour, has now turned
out to be nothing more than the credit you so
richly deserve."

*you are too good, Nora," replied the doctor,
warmly shaking her hand and retaining it in his
own. " I shall not dispute your discrimination
any longer, although you must still allow me to
attribute your very flattering conclusions, rather
to your generous appreciation, than to any merit
of mine. Our patient," continued he, *swill
now gain strength daily, and in another week
will be able to leave his room. Perhaps we may
have his friends here before that. They will be
able to convey him home as soon as he can bear
the fatigue of the journey. Nothing will be of
greater advantage to him than change of air."

** How delightful," said Nora, whose remark
referred only to the first clause of the doctor's
last sentence, viz., to the probability of the
patient being able soon to come to the drawing-room.
The prospect of his early removal, and
the benefits likely to result from change of air,
did not, however, awaken the same thrill of exultation
; but, the doctor, sharp as he was, did not
draw this conclusion.

•^ Will it be necessary for you to see him everyday,
as hitherto, now that he is better ?

*well, for the next day or two, I would be
afraid to discontinue my visits," replied the
doctor, *' but 1 may have something to say to
you, Nora, before that time expires."

Oh ! do tell me now," said Nora, not having
the most remote idea to what the doctor thus
darkly referred.

** No, no ! " said the doctor, smiling knowingly,
and thinking she thoroughly understood him,
"you must have, for a little longer, an opportunity
of shewing how patient you are."

*' It is really too bad of you, doctor, to arouse
my curiosity like that, and then not to gratify it.
However, do not forget you have promised you
would do so in two days, so I shall give you that
respite."

*' That prolongation of my ' hope deferred ' you
had better have said," responded the doctor.
The handsome face of Fergus, lit up with
intelligence, as he had seen it for the first time
that morning, had stimulated him so powerfully
as to almost induce him to make a declaration of
his love ; just as spurs, when applied vigorously
to the sides of a spirited steed, goad him on to
increased exertion.

And Nora, at that moment, began to divine
his meaning, so expressive were his looks, and to
think the topic was becoming alarmingly personal;
so, to avoid a climax, she suddenly
directed his attention to the wild ducks on the
pond.

'eyes," said the doctor, '* how happy they are
in pairs, not pining in the miserable solitude of
single life."

"My digression was inauspicious," thought

E a

Nora, who, to recover lost ground, suggested that
they appeared to enjoy a general companionship,
and not to limit their sociability to pairs,
and that she wondered Tom was so fond of
shooting. To kill the poor little happy creatures,
who do no one any harm, and to inveigle them
into decoy chambers was, in her opinion, so
unmanly, so cruel, so vile.

The idea of plurality, awakened by the words
** general companionship," and thoughts of Eosa
Gibson suggested, nay, more pointedly referred
to, by the '' decoy chamber," were two bullets
which, though fired at random and inadvertently,
found their billets in the doctor's breast.

What a marvellous endowment is conscience !
The guilt to which it is privy needs no accuser.
It applies with lightning speed the smallest atom
capable of adaptation, and is so powerful an
advocate that it secures the verdict of self-condemnation
long before the evidence has been
adduced, or the identification with the crime
completed. The casual remark, unintended to
convey reproach or accusation, imprints on the
leaf of this sensitive plant the brand of absolute
cognisance. The haphazard suggestion amounts
to confirmation.

**I wonder," thought he, *has anyone been
insidiously, by letter or by interview, poisoning
her mind against me, and telling her something
to awaken jealousy." Like many another self-convicted
culprit, he concluded, under the circumstances,

that ** prudence was the better part
of valour ; " and, therefore, did not venture to
make any allusion to, much less any defence of,
'general companionship " or " decoy chambers."
Feeling the crimson blush hue rising to his face,
he simply acquiesced in her opinions concerning
the cruelty of killing happy, harmless birds ;
and, wishing to turn the current of conversation,
speculated on the very questionable consideration,
'' Whether the author of life will regard as no
offence the intentional, deliberate act, whereby
one animal deprives of life another animal, for
no other reason but because it gives him
pleasure, while he premises his wanton blood-spilling
with the name of ' sport.' "

** Oh ! I am glad," said Nora, '' that I can find
no pleasure in cruelty of any kind. I may be a
very silly girl, but I think the divine direction,
'Do unto others as you would they should do
unto you,' has a wide significance, and is applicable,
not to our own species alone, but to every
creature that heavenly intelligence has formed."

The conversation soon after collapsed. The
doctor bade his farewell with a depression of
spirits, such as he had not experienced for sometime,
but which was by no means reciprocated by
Nora, who, with a light heart and a smiling face,
took the earliest opportunity to see her interesting
invalid, in order that she might supply the
vacuum in his memory, as on the previous day
she had promised.

The interview was a most interesting one.
During its continuance, long and accurate delineations
of the past were given ; much information
of a personal character, amounting to mutual
introductions, was also exchanged. When it was
over, such was Nora's sense of propriety, that she
would not again enter the room, unless when her
brother or the nurse was there ; and then, as a
matter of course, her visits were very short. Yet
they were quite long enough to leave the impression
on her mind, that she admired Fergus more
and more, and that he was becoming each day
more dear to her. Although others did not detect
it, she could not disguise from herself the fact
that she positively felt miserable, unless when
trying to contribute to his comfort, or when anticipating
or enjoying a visit to him, or when
speaking about him.

But how did Fergus fare ? How would any
young fellow fare who had a beautiful girl hovering,
like an angel, round his path ? A young
fellow whose affections were disengaged, and
whose natural disposition was brimful of bravery
and love ? It is unnecessary to answer this question.
In about ten days, he was sufficiently well
to get down to the drawing-room. There, the
young people spent hours together. There, that
wonderful propinquity executed its usual performance.
There, Fergus and Nora seemed as happy
as the day was long, and as contented as two
turtle doves together in a cage.

Somehow, Nora contrived never to be in the
room when the doctor paid his visit, and, somehow,
Fergus never alluded to Nora when conversing
with the doctor. When the doctor had
taken his leave, they would sometimes walk out
together, and anyone who chanced to see them on
their promenades, could not fail to observe their
mutual interest in each other.

Whether the doctor was suspicious, or whether
capricious casualty assisted him, remains involved
in doubt ; yet, it so happened that, having seen
his patient and departed, he made a call further
off in the neighbourhood, and, as he drove back,
under the pretext of giving some greater liberty to
Fergus in reference to his regimen, he directed
his driver to turn again up the avenue to
Bogra Vale.

His return was neither expected nor noticed.
On enquiry, to his surprise, he discovered that
neither Mr. O'Brien nor Miss Harrington was in
the house. He then walked out into the grounds
in search of them, and, before long, espied them
in the distance, in closest conversation. Fergus's
arm linked in Nora's, too ; not hers in his. In
such seeming sympathy of soul were they, that
his jealousy began to burn like a furnace.

Their backs were turned to him. So engrossed
had they become with each other, that they never
thought of looking back. As the doctor drew
closer and closer, he had a full opportunity of
making observations.

Nora looked charming. She wore a dark blue
serge dress, trimmed with narrow cardinal ribbon.
Her belt was of the same colour as the trimming ;
it fastened at the back with a bow, and thence
extended half-way down her dress, tossing ever
and anon in the genial breeze. A sailor's hat of
white and black straw combined, decorated with
the same coloured ribbon, and also having its
streamers floating, adorned her head, and suited
admirably her beautiful glossy black hair. Her
figure was exquisite, and appeared to the best
advantage, for she held her head erect, and naturally
walked well. Tall as she was, she looked not
one ** wee " bit too tall beside the stately figure
of her companion, whose noble bearing, military
walk, and broad shoulders suggested the idea of
a splendid looking man.

** This must not continue," said the doctor to
himself. His anger, now, was at white heat
standard. *' That young man asked me if I
could accompany him home, as he was most
anxious for many reasons to get there, and I
shall now tell him that I see my way to do soin
the morning. Accordingly, approaching the
lovers, as though he was not the least surprised
or annoyed, or had not the very smallest suspicion
they were courting, he casually observed,

What a lovely afternoon. It is just the kind
of balmy genial air that is calculated to do an
invalid much good."

*eyes, indeed," said Fergus, not in the least

taken aback, *' it is most invigorating. It makes
me feel stronger and stronger, and in better
spirits every day. Indeed, only for my uneasiness
about home, and the delay in delivering that
letter, I should be perfectly happy and contented."


Very different were Nora's feelings. If she had
discomposed the doctor a few days before he now
had ample revenge. Her bright cheeks turned
crimson. Her clear white forehead participated
in the hue. Losing her usual look of honest
confidence, she kept her eyes fixed on the ground.

The doctor did not appear to take the least
notice of her confusion. Fergus's remark had
given him the opening he desired. Turning to
him, he said, quietly and in confidential tone, "■ I
have been thinking of your request, ' could I possibly
travel with you on your journey ? ' And I
have found just one little opening that will allow
me to comply, if you are prepared to start tomorrow
morning."

** To-morrow morning? " said Nora, ** Oh ! that
is very quick."

*' To-morrow morning' repeated the doctor,
is the only time at my command, but of course
Mr. O'Brien need not go then, if his business is
not very particular, and his friends not very
anxious."

But it is very particular," said Fergus, '' and
they are very anxious, and nothing but my illness
and total inability to travel would have kept me

SO long. It is so kind of you, doctor, to say you
would accompany me, for really, I am not yet
able to travel by myself, and though I should
dearly like to put off the exertion for a day or two,
I must dismiss the idea of doing so, and most
thankfully accept your offer to accompany me to
Dunboy Castle tomorrow."

'' We can drive in my carriage, which is a very
easy and comfortable one, as far as Bantry,"
said the doctor, 'rand then we can take a boat
down the bay to Castletown ; so I suppose by
starting early, we shall arrive at your home tomorrow
night."

** You are so kind," said Fergus, "I really do
not know how to thank you. I shall be ready
any hour you name as most convenient in the
morning. I don't think the fatigue of sitting in
your comfortable carriage will be too much forme."


Nora never said one word. The unexpected
arrangement seemed too much for her. She
thought to herself, ** If he were here but two days
longer, I am sure we would be engaged. I am
confident the doctor will be back again the very
next day, and then he will come here to persecute
me with his attentions. O/z, if he only knew lioiv I
do begin to hate him''

It was just twelve hours after Mary had awakened,
when Gerald, passing through the chapel,
raised the heavy trap door. As it was opening.

he heard the big clock strike, but scarcely noticed
it. He then, with cautious step, descended the
hard stone steps, and, putting the key in the
door, unlocked it, and, drawing it towards him,
laid open the vault. Then, to see his way, he
directed the light of the lamp forward, when, lo !
a white form on the chair brought back the story
Mrs. O'Brien had told him, and made a cold,
creeping sensation pass over his entire frame.
Then he saw those large eyes, widely open,
staring at him, without a wink, without a motion.
A supernatural awe overspread him, and fixed
him to the ground, as, with tongue cleaving to
his parched mouth, he muttered —

Oh, heavens ! her ghost ! her ghost ! "

AGGIE Eagle ; OR, THE VICTIM OF DECEPTION.

For when my outward action doth demonstrate
The native act and figure of my heart
In component extern, 'tis not long after
But I will wear my heart upon my sleeve
For days to peck at ; I'm not what I seem.

Othello.

The day following the casual but eventful visit
of Eosa Gibson to the sanctum, or operating
room, at Sweet Briar Lodge, unaccompanied by
her mother, Dr. Armstrong presided at a public
meeting in Kanturk. It was assembled by public
advertisement in the local paper, and by large
bills on blank walls and the gable sides of houses,
under the auspices of ** The Society for the Protection
of Young Females and the Expression of
Immorality."

A deputation from the parent society in Cork
attended. Among the numerous and fashionable
audience, which crowded the spacious hall, were
Mrs. Gibson, Miss Eosa Gibson, and Mr. Simon
Goodman.

The chairman was punctually in his place at
the appointed hour. In opening the proceedings,
and introducing the deputation, he referred at

some length to the deplorable results which follow
in the track of immorality and vice, when once
the floodgates of sin have been opened.

** It is not," said he, ** for the initial crime
alone we must hold the seducer and betrayer
guilty. We must follow the subsequent career of
his victim. Perhaps degraded to the habits and
haunts of the prostitute. Perhaps stifling the
rebukes of a reproaching conscience in the dissipation
of inebriety. Perhaps sowing broadcast
among her own and the other sex the seeds of
moral corruption. Perhaps, in another phase of
guilt, though not so observed by the eyes of the
world, exemplifying in married life the character
of one who is forgetful of the graces of discretion
and faithfulness, and bringing the misery she has
caused at home into many otherwise happy
families, by estranging the affections of married
men, and influencing them to leave their wives
neglected and heartbroken."

His introduction made quite a sensation in the
meeting. Loud and long was the applause when
he ceased to speak.

How curious is this ! The brawling termagant,
in the street row, accuses her adversary of the
crime whose memory leans heaviest on her own
heart. The clergyman in the pulpit chiefly waxes
eloquent, and enlarges with most earnestness and
warmest display of righteous indignation, on the
besetting sin that haunts his own path, and,
perhaps, has gained the victory, and carried

captive far away all his peace. Who is jealous ?
Not the pure-minded, the good, the person whose
characteristic is faithfulness ; no, but the hypocrite
who has secret sins in scores, and whose
own career, if unfolded, would secure the dissolution
of divorce. It is the mendacious who will
most quickly accuse another of untruth. It is the
rogue who will suspect and lay, if possible, the
impeachment of dishonesty ; ay ! and it is the
feminine personality, whose own antecedents are
questionable, who, even over the friendly cup of
tea, will insinuate, with malevolent innuendos,
against the pure and the innocent, and will
mercilessly crush the sister who has been overcome
by temptation.

Oh, human nature ! Thou art a strange anomaly
— a paradox inexplicable !

But if, turning from the standard of consistency,
we enter the domain of honour, or of
religion, how hard it is to determine what either
of these much applauded insignia, these stereotyped
expressions, means.

One man lies prostrate beneath the idol's car,
and the wheels of Juggernaut crush out the
martyr's existence, and this is his idea of religion.
Another has the iron hook, attached by a rope to
an erected pole, infixed into the muscles of his
back, and, suspended by this implement of torture,
he whirls around and around in exquisite
agony, and this he esteems religion. ** Instances
of the ignorance of savage superstition," you

reply. Then turn to the exemplars afforded by
cultured civilisation. There we find the pompous
worshipper enshrined in the enthusiastic approbation
of his own uprightness, and standing on a
pedestal of Pharisaical self-righteousness, with a
soul dead to charity, and a heart that has no
sympathy with sorrow, poverty, or suffering; and
this is his religion. Another thinks that imposed
penances can pay the penalty of his transgressions,
and allow him to commence another
scene of wickedness, to be expunged by a similar
process. Another, with more commiseration for
himself, thinks he gratifies an Almighty Power
by a formal attendance at some recognised place
of worship. Doubtless, if he reflect a moment,
unless his eyes are blinded by worse than Egyptian
darkness, he must conclude that his Deity is
very easily pleased ; yet, this is his religion !

When, turning from these manifestations of
absurdity, we look to honour, to understand its
significance, the mind is equally perplexed. One
man feels bound by honour to pay his gambling
debts, but to pay his tailor's bill is outside the
confines of such a gentlemanly impulse. Another
man can attend the haunts of vice and immorality
without compunction, but would knock the
man down who would insinuate he was honour-less.
Another man will trifle with a poor girl's
love, and sacrifice her to his lust, but would not
consider it honourable to break an engagement
with a lady.

The more we meditate, the stronger the conviction
awakens, inducing his to exclaim, *away
with the miserable pretexts that, by a strange
perversion of nomenclature, bear noble names.
There is no true religion which does not acquiesce
in the prophet's enquiry, 'for what is
required of thee, man, but to do justly, and
love righteousness, and walk humbly with thy
God?" And there is no code of true honour
which will infringe on the command, " Do unto
others as ye would they should do unto you."

Dr. Armstrong was, in his own estimation, a
man of honour. Nothing could induce him to
violate the obligations imposed by medical etiquette,
or to take advantage of the opportunities
which his noble calling supplied, in connection
with those who were induced to consult him professionally.
But he acknowledged no such sanction
in connection with his amateur dentistry.
This, to his perverted judgment, constituted no
barrier, induced no restriction, and altogether
released him from observances the violation of
which he would, under other circumstances,
have considered the grossest degradation of an
honourable profession.

It was a full hour before Eosa Gibson, released
from her bondage, left the sanctum. She had
entered that room an innocent, unsuspicious,
high-spirited girl, untainted by guile, or the exhibition
of those deceptive instincts which the
French call double entendre. Her feelings, when

she left it, resembled those of her ancestor, Eve,
after she had yielded to the temptation in the
garden and eaten the forbidden fruit. If you do
not know, practically or theoretically, what these
were, then, while congratulating yourself upon
your innocence, blush for your lack of knowledge,
and consult the divine record.

Apprehensive lest her absence should excite
uneasiness at home, she hurried on her way,
looking as lovely as before, but, with expression
full of thought, while she thus soliloquised: *'I
shall tell all the moment I reach home, and shall
have him disgraced and punished'' Then she
reflected, '* It will involve my disgrace too ; we
shall be obliged to leave the neighbourhood; I
shall be compelled to give up Simon, or he will
give up me ; I shall become the theme of every
scandal talker; the butt of every coarse jest, and
everyone will point at me in derision. Oh ! this
I could not endure ; it would kill me. On the
contrary, if I am silent and keep my own counsel,
no one will be the wiser, for I am confident
that vile man, for his own sake, never will
divulge."

And, as she thus argued with herself, and
pondered over the probable results of different
lines of action, and at length, under the apprehension
of public obloquy, seemed to decide the
controversy of her feelings in favour of silence ;
she almost walked into the arms of Simon, who
was advancing gently towards her.

*^Ah ! Eosa," said he, in his own imperturbable
way. "■ where have you been ? "

'various places, Simon, where did you think?"

*' Well, really I did not know. I shall turn
with you," which accordingly he did. Walking
together they passed along the main street of the
town. At one or two shops Eosa purposely
delayed and made little purchases, for she wished
to be able to tell her friends at home she had
been shopping. Shortly after she had come from
one, and was walking quietly with Simon, she
perceived the carriage with her mamma driving
hastily down the street. As soon as it drew near,
Mrs. Gibson ordered the coachman to stop, then,
addressing Eosa, with a most knowing look
accompanied with a smile, she remarked :

"Oh! so that is it, walking with Mr. Goodman ;
I wondered what had become of you, but I see it
all now."

And Eosa was delighted that she had not to
enter into any explanation, and was more than
ever confirmed in her opinion that her decision to
observe silence was the wisest one. So with well-affected
naivete, bidding her mamma 'eta, ta," she
continued her walk with Simon.

Yes ! under the pleasant shadow of adjacent
advantages, and assisted by opportunities which,
without any contrivance on her part, as it were,
spontaneously presented themselves, Miss Gibson
concealed, from the eyes of her earthly parent,
the dark page in the chapter of the past.

Another example of history repeating itself.
Another fulfilment of the adage, '' There is
nothing new under the sun' Was it not a
reproduction of the ancient manoeuvre, which the
poetic language of Eastern imagery describes
the primordial transgressors as accomplishing,
when they, recognizing the presence of their
creator, *hid themselves among the trees of the
garden ? "

When leaving the meeting for *' The Protection
of Young Females and the Repression of Immorality,"
Eosa and her mother were joined by
the doctor. Mrs. Gibson heartily shook hands
with him, and complimented him on his very
able introductory speech. ** Oh ! " said she,
* what a multitude of sin and sorrow would be
escaped if all were influenced by the same pure
feelings which actuate you, and looked, as you do,
to the lamentable and almost inevitable consequences
which follow in the wake of the first
transgression from the path of virtue." Miss
Gibson, of course, shook hands too; if she did
not it would require an explanation, and this she
was most desirous to avoid. Compelled by
circumstances, she was also obliged to look happy
and smile agreeably, and to hear with composure
her mamma say : —

** You know, doctor, that Rosa is to be married
next Monday, and it will give us so much
pleasure if you can find time to come to the
wedding breakfast."

F9

The doctor thanked her warmly, and assured
her " that pressing indeed would be the engagement
or the call that could induce him to decline
so kind an invitation, which allowed him to
anticipate so much happiness."

Then there were warm hand-shaking again,
and the doctor hoped Mrs. Gibson would bring
her daughter, on the following Thursday, to
have the completing touch applied to her tooth.

And Mrs. Gibson said, '* certainly, and it was
very good of him to think of it ; besides, she
was anxious for Eosa to see him. She had
been so sick that morning when getting up, what
she had never known her to be before."

And Eosa said, '* It is so kind of the doctor to
think of my tooth ; " and the doctor, pressing her
hand, told her "to be sure and come on Thursday,
adding, "• don't forget. The day after tomorrow
— Thursday. ' '

When the doctor returned home, there was a
letter lying on the table of his consulting room.
It had been brought by private hand. The
messenger had asked for an answer, but could
not wait, as he was out, and as the servant could
give no definite information as to the time of his
probable return.

Knowing the handwriting, he took it up
angrily, and read it hastily, with a heavy frown
contracting his cheeks and orbit angles into
wrinkles, and his forehead into a double line of
deep furrows, all the while. It was, of all communications

in the world, the one he had the
most decided disinclination to receive. There
was no other correspondent whose letter would
not have been more acceptable. He felt its very
finger-touch to act as a damper to his spirits, and
to intrude and substitute a distressing incubus
in the place of contemplated enjoyment and
pleasurable thought. Commencing without the
prefix of either "My Dear Doctor," or "Dear
Doctor," or "Dear Sir' or even of the monosyllabic
"Sir." It ran as follows : —

Fern Leigh, Tuesday Morning.
Aggie is very ill. She has not asked me to write to you,
nor is she aware that I am doing so ; but, influenced by love
for my child, I could not refrain. Your absence, now, for three
months, without paying her one visit, seems to pray continually
on her mind. She contrasts it with the time you were in the
habit of coming every day. The warm love you then breathed,
and your protestations of unalterable affection, compared with
the unconcealed and continued neglect which is now your
characteristic, leave her heart-broken. Her baby boy — her
shame — recalling to her mind the broken vows, the heartlessness,
the violation of solemn promises, and the dishonorable
conduct and perfidy of him whom she loved dearer than all the
world beside — is now two months old. But for him I believe
she would make away with her life. She sees no one, never
goes out, and has not left the house for eight and a half months
this very day. To avoid the possibility of reports circulating, she
has asked me to keep no servant for nearly the same length of
time, and I, as you know, have acquiesced in her desire. If all
honor, truth, and pity for your deluded victim have left you,
still hesitate to add the guilt of murder to your already deep-dyed
sins, and come at once to see my disconsolate child.

From her Mother.

As soon as read, the doctor tore the note into
small pieces, so small that it would be impossible
to re-unite them, and then with an expression,
which certainly might be described as '' coarse
language," flung them into his waste-paper basket.
*what a nuisance is that woman," said he,
*' worrying me after this fashion, and affording a
constant source of annoyance. I wish to my very
inmost heart I had never seen either her or her
insulting mother."

But what was the history of *' that woman," as
in his soliloquies he now always described her ?
And who was she ? And how did her present
unhappy and miserable condition come about ?
The story is not a long one.

Fern Leigh was about a mile distant from
Kanturk. When going to it, for the first quarter
mile, it was necessary to take the same road as
led to the villas where lived Lady Johnson and
the Gibsons, and the Goodmanss, &c., but, after
that, the road which branched off to the right,
instead of that leading to the left, should be
followed. It was, indeed, a pretty, romantic-looking
highway. Part of it was so covered with
the boughs of the trees, which, growing on either
side, interwove their embracing arms above its
centre, that, when the warmth of spring educed
the full luxuriance of their foliage, it was impossible
to see the brightest rays of the zenith sun.
The house was prettily situated and comfortable.
It had been the residence of the Naples, who were

a most respectable family, for about a century,
and was one of those cottage-built style of residences,
whose lattice-work is becomingly ornamented
with the evergreen Gelseminum and well-trained
Courtenasters.

The Naples, though not rich, were in what
might be described as — very comfortable circumstances.
From freehold lands let at low rentals,
and well secured houses, they possessed a safe
income of about JC350 per annum. Mr. Nagle
had unfortunately met with an early death. His
horse fell with him when he was out hunting,
rolled over him, and so injured him that he never
spoke after the accident, and all appearance of life
had vanished before, on a door borrowed from a
country farm house, he was carried home. He
left a young widow and a little girl, Aggie, who
was only in her second year when the sad event
occurred. Mrs. Nagle was sore distressed at the
loss of her husband, and mourned for him with
unfeigned regret. Little Aggie was her hope,
her joy, her consolation, the subject of all her
love. She determined that her little pet should
have no stepfather, for, wisely concluding that ina
lottery there is but small probability of drawing
two prizes in succession, she made up her mind
not to risk the chance of getting an undesirable
partner, having lost one who deserved all the love
her warm heart could bestow.

Aggie, as she grew up, evinced both much
intelligence and considerable beauty. She was

quite a foreigner in her appearance. Just of that
type of beauty, which you may often see among
the peasant girls in the west of Cork, and which is
supposed to date from the wreck of the Armada
in 1588, when many Spaniards settled on the
south and west coasts. Her almond shaped eyes
were large and dark, with long black lashes. Her
hair, of raven hue, descended to her heels. Her
figure was exquisite, although she was not taller
than five feet two inches, and her hands and feet
were, if any fault could be found, too small. She
had just entered on her seventeenth year, when
she was introduced, by a mutual friend, to the
doctor. He happened to call at this friend's house
in Kanturk, just at the time when Aggie and her
mother were paying a complimentary visit.

As was his wont, he made himself most agreeable
; appeared to be perfectly fascinated by the
young lady ; induced the mutual friend to let him
have the great pleasure of meeting her again at
an evening party at his house. By degrees, as
opportunity offered, the acquaintanceship improved
; at length he became a constant visitor,
and, after the lapse of a few months, the accepted
suitor of dear little Aggie.

It was one of those love affairs, in connection
with which the doctor was for a while most
serious. He fully believed that he loved this
little prize so ardently, that he could not live
without her; that if anything happened her to
take away her life, he should die too. After a

while, she too, began to entertain similar feelings
about him, loving him sincerely and truthfully,
with all the warmth of a sanguine temperament
and most affectionate nature.

Mrs. Nagle was now in her forty-fifth year.
The doctor's position was, in general estimation,
considered very good. As he seemed so devoted
to her child, and so kind-hearted, so thoughtful
and agreeable, when he asked her consent to what,
he at the same time assured her, Aggie and he
had already arranged, she gave it most willingly.
She believed it would be for her daughter's
advantage, and that the doctor would make hera
steady, attentive, and loving husband.

As Aggie was so young, it was agreed that the
marriage should not take place for one year, until
she was eighteen. During that interval, the time
passed on quickly, because agreeably. The doctor
visited well nigh daily, and, in almost every way
possible, showed his admiration and the ardour of
his devotion.

But, as the days rolled past, other beauties cast
their rays of incomparable excellence on this
changeable and most impressible individual. The
love which hitherto was hers, and hers alone,
became, by and by, subject to what the logicians
call the ** diminishing sorites argument;" in
other words, some portion, every day, was abstracted
from it. She still possessed a moiety;
"the largest half," as they say in Ireland, but
not the whole. Yet, his attentions were not

diminished, and, as she was all sincerity and
purity, she did not entertain even the smallest
suspicion of the alteration. She sat and chatted
with him in her own house, walked with him in
the lanes and roads round about, sometimes
strolled with him though the fields, and, sometimes
with her mother, and sometimes alone,
visited, and lunched, and spent hours at Sweet
Brier Lodge.

Aggie was well and carefully brought up.
Although, as her engaged husband, she allowed
him to put his arm round her pretty little waist,
and give his meeting and parting kiss, which,
with genuine affection, she returned, still, she so
impressed him with the sense of her rectitude
and honour, that he never attempted to take the
smallest liberty.

And so matters went on for months, until, at
last, one day when visiting at his house, overpersuaded
by his vows, and promises, and solemn
asseverations, she reposed in the scoundrel, who
should have been her protector, excessive trust ;
and, being passionately fond of him, yielded to
his pleadings.

Oh ! then came the precipitate downfall, as is
usual in the course of sin. Sin, which has been
compared to the pent-up water in an embankment.
First, comes the dampness pervading
through the massive wall of earth ; then, the
dropping ; then, the stream ; then, the impetuous
torrent, which carries away all obstacles which

oppose its progress. So Aggie, after her first
error, into which her affection, influenced by her
misplaced confidence, led her, next became deceitful
to her really loving mother ; then, positively
untruthful. By means of this prevaricating
deceit, for awhile all was kept in darkness.
During this time, Aggie did all in her power to
influence the doctor to hasten the wedding,
according to his promise. First, excuses were
pleaded. At last, he spoke his mind plainly,
and positively refused. Her tears were unavailing
; her pleading, a mere waste of words ; her
reminding him of his solemn declaration, useless.
Then, and not till then, she recognised her
foolishness in trusting him. Then, and not till
then, her eyes were opened to the real character
of the man she had to deal with. Disconsolate,
heartbroken, and frequently with eyes red from
weeping, her mother, with much anxiety,
wondered at the fearful change in her spirits and
her looks. Nor had she long to wait to discover
the cause — " Coming events cast their shadows
before them." It became evident that Aggie
would soon become a mother.

Seizing the earliest opportunity, Mrs. Nagle
confronted the man who had ruined her daughter
and disgraced her fair fame. He consoled herby
repeating his promise of marriage, but pleaded
strong excuses which prevented him from consummating
that marriage immediately. As time
went on, and the entreaties, both from mother

and daughter, became stronger and stronger, he
pretended to take umbrage, and absented himself
for awhile. Finally, he threw off the assumed
mask of honesty, and honor, and truth — the
iridescence of that moral corruption which had
gilt with the bright hues of a fair exterior his
innate depravity — and appeared in the garb of
that intrinsic rascality, which, only then they
learned, when, alas ! it was too late, constituted
the natural clothing of his perverted nature.

His visits after this were discontinued ; Aggie's
love entertained the hope that he would relent
and come back, and plead with her for pardon ;
but her hopes seemed destined to disappointment.
When the baby was born, a midwife,
brought from Cork, attended, and was sent back,
without seeing a soul but the mother and the
daughter during her fortnight's stay.

Sorrow and weeping told their tale on the
mother, and made her look ten years older in
three short months. And Aggie, who would not
be comforted, at length had grown so weak, that
she was not able to leave her bed.

It was under these circumstances that the
letter was written, concerning the delivery of
which we have already heard, as well as its
import, and the reception which it received.

THE DOCTOR MEDITATES A DOUBLE MURDER.

My blood begins my safer guides to rule ;

And passion, having my best judgment choleric,

Assays to lead the way. If I once stir,

Or do but lift this arm, the best of you

Shall sink in my rebuke.

Othello.

When the appointed Thursday came, Mrs. Gibson
and her daughter duly called upon the doctor ;
and, as Mrs. Gibson had much shopping to do,
and many preparations to make, she insisted on
leaving Rosa — who was most averse to remain by
herself — and went away, telling her she would
return in the carriage for her in half-an-hour.

Eosa paid another visit to Sweet Brier Lodge
on the following Saturday, and, on the next
Monday, the doctor was one of the first who
arrived at Silverlea, to be present at the wedding
breakfast.

Of course the bride looked beautiful and fascinating,
and of course the bridegroom, not being
gifted with the chameleon faculty of changing his
appearance, looked as stiff, and demure, and
phlegmatic, as if he were going to be hanged,
instead of going, of his own free will and choice,

to be married ; the time and place being arranged
according to his own direction, and the antediluvian
impulse of natural selection — which has
permeated the instincts of humanity ever since
the out-cast Cain contracted alliance with the
attractive daughter of some pre-adamite — having
had most unbounded, and uncontrolled, and un-interfered
with scope and sway.

But of the wedding and the bridal dress, to
forego description would be an omission unpardonable.
It would be a fault of such infinite
dimensions that it might seriously interfere with
the acceptability of this veritable history, and
consign its pages to the Lethe of oblivion.

To the deep waters of that classic river
Which washes mem'ry from her throne for ever,

or to the intensely humiliating destination of
composing wrappers for small quantities of starch,
or blue, or some newly advertised soap.

Oh ! what a depreciation from the ardent aspiration
to beguile the intellectual mind from deep
scientific, or political, or other useful but fatiguing
study for a season ; and to assist it to recruit its
powers by inviting it to take holiday while
glancing at characters, faithfully to the life
portrayed; for careful and untiring efforts have
been made

To hold the perfect mirror up to nature.

To escape this chandlery association for these

volumes, this fearful culmination of unconcerned
surmise, you will please peruse the following
particulars and minute details.

The clergy and the choir met the bridal procession
at the west door, and preceded it up the
nave, the choir singing

The seraph's sighs that breathed o'er Eden's plain.

The bride was given away by her father. She
was attired in an exquisite dress of the richest
white satin, and Brussels lace veil, which was
fastened by a diamond crescent, the gift of the
bridegroom. The train was carried by two
beautiful children, two little girls, each about four
years old, wearing lovely frocks of white lace over
satin. The bridesmaids were dressed in white
silk, relieved with pale pink plush, and carried
bouquets of pink and white flowers, tied with
pink ribbons. The bride's bouquet and sprays in
her hair were of orange blossoms, most tastefully
arranged, with other choice white flowers ; and, as
the wedding party left the church, the wedding
march was played, and the bells rang out a merry
peal.

The breakfast gave universal satisfaction. The
champagne defied the adverse comment of the
most refined connoisseur, and the speeches
surpassed the usual witty, laughable effusions
characteristic of similar occasions.

One expressed his unwavering confidence that
the experience of Mr. and Mrs. Goodman would

never reach the transformation scene attained by
a couple recently married at Cork, where, in less
than three months after marriage, one to the other
loudly complained, "I took you for better, for worse,
but I have found you all worse and no better."

Another said, *' he had attentively listened, and
was quite positive the lady, that morning, had
not substituted * go gay ' for the last word in the
solemn promise, which contained the particular
declaration, ' Love, honour, and obey.' "

Another said, " he believed Mr. Goodman, in
the clause which consigns by contract all his
property to his wife, did not substitute, ' And
with all my worldly goods I thee and thou,'
instead of the generous dedication implied by
thee endow.' "

Another said, "■ when Mr. Goodman was told to
put the ring on the fourth finger of the left
hand, he did not persist in putting it on the little
finger, refusing to acknowledge the thumb as
belonging to the finger category."

But, at length, like every other sublunary joy,
this festival terminated, and Mr. and Mrs.
Goodman, amid showers of rice and well-directed
slippers, made their escape, to pass their honeymoon
in Killarney, everyone wishing them
'happiness and safe home," and not a few
wondering what a merry, joyous, lovable, high-spirited
girl could see in such an imperturbable,
confirmed, stationary rooted stick, as was Mr.
Simon Goodman.

From the breakfast, the doctor drove directly to
Bogra Vale ; and, having paid his usual visit,
extended his journey to another call in the
neighbourhood. On his return, he called a
second time on the Harringtonss, and found Nora
and Fergus, as we have before particularized, in
conversation so intense, that its deep interest
would be unmistakable, even to one of less acute
discrimination. It was then he formed his plans
to accompany Fergus on his journey home, and,
before he left, arranged with him to be ready for
his departure on the morrow.

'Tis true he evinced no symptoms of jealousy,
no nervous disturbance, no remote sensation of
anger, yet he burned within himself. He burned
with rage against Fergus for daring to converse
with Nora on such intimate terms.

'was it for this'' said he, ''I saved the
fellow's life, to become a hornet's nest to disturb
my peace of mind ; and a viper in my path, to
wound my tenderest feelings with its envenomed
fangs ? If so, and this continues, rather than be
foiled in my matured intention to have Nora for
my wife, I'll send the blessed lot to their imaginary
heaven sooner than they anticipate. And
then, if as a consequent, there be a probability of
what they call justice overtaking me, I, too, can
soon prepare this ' mortal coil,' freed from that
chemical restriction we call life, so that with
rapidity, it will relax the fleshly bonds of close
adhesion, and crumble back to its original dust

and nothingness ; and so, in annihilation end an
existence, which even now is tedious, but then
would be intolerable.

** Their cherished belief," continued he, 'teaches
them, even as it once taught me, * that to dqmrt
and he with Christ is far better,' So, if by their
deceit and circumvention of my plans, they make
me wish to be released from their society, surely
there cannot be ground for just complaint, as
the exchange will be so beneficial."

And then he laughed, a coarse, low, gurgling
laugh, as in contemplation he went through the
process of a double murder, crowning the funeral
pyre with the immolation of himself, if circumstances
rendered suicide expedient. '* To sleep
and wake no more," said he, '* is preferable to the
suspense and ignominy of the gallows."

We must not forget that Eobert Armstrong had
been brought up a Christian. That in the face of
strong opposition, and the jests, and laughter, and
ridicule of his fellow students, he remained faithful,
for over two years, to the deep impressions of
early instruction. That he never pulled down the
colours from the mast of his belief, until under
the guidance of reason he concluded that his
early impressions were absurdities, and his early
instruction foundationless superstition. Now we
see him under the impulse of his new reliance,
growing daily more steeped in villainy, and, at
last, meditating murder, with the prospect of
suicide in full view.

If it be true that ** By their fruits ye shall
know them' then must our estimation become
very prejudiced against the tenets that could produce
so luxuriant a crop of infamy and crime.
But again, if that writing be true, which proclaims,
'' Train up a child in the way he should
go : and when he is old, he will not depart from
it," then we must expect a ray of light to
dissipate with lightning brilliancy the lowering
darkness that envelopes the renegade, to dispel
the mists of error, and to discover the great
Shepherd carrying back upon his shoulders to
the fold of safety the sheep, struggling in its
foolishness against the uncomfortable restraint
of the necessary conveyance.

When Nora and Fergus were left to themselves,
with the certainty of separation on the morrow,
the pleasures of the intercourse which had
lasted not quite two weeks, seemed doubly
sweet, now that its termination approximated so
closely.

"You have been awfully kind to me," said
Fergus, ** to me a stranger and unknown to you.
You have sheltered me, tended me in sickness,
nursed me into health, and have been so good
and considerate to me, since my returning reason
enabled me to estimate as it deserved your most
disinterested benevolence. How to evince my
gratitude I know not. I find it encumbered with
a mortgage so extensive that I despair of ever
being able to repay it, nor can my tongue find

words adequate to express the extent of my
obligation."

** You should not make such a flowery speech
to your guardian angel," replied Nora. ''I
suppose you forget that a higher power commits
to all his agents their varied duties. If they do
not discharge them faithfully, they are accountable
to Him. If they do, they are still but unprofitable
servants, who have only done what they were
bound to do, and, therefore, deserve no thanks,
and no one owes them any debt, or gratitude, or
mortgage, or obligation."

*well! you are as generous now as you have
been kind before, and I should be ungrateful,
indeed, if I did not value and appreciate, as it
deserves, all you and Tom have done for me.
But, as you don't like the topic, let it pass, for I
have more to say. I fear I shall so miss my
guardian angel that even the prospect of going
home to those I dearly love, is not without its
gloom."

*' Ah ! gay deceiver ! you do not now remember
the suggestive words you spoke when I was standing
by. It was on the same occasion that you
made that most poetic soliloquy about labyrinths,
and mazes, and tangled skeins, and chasms."

"How you do chaff me, Miss Harrington,
about my poor wandering thoughts, when consciousness
was just beginning to return, and I so
longed to know both what had happened in the
clouded past and where I was. But kindly tell

me more of this new light, this revelation that I
made, which leads you now to call me ' gay
deceiver ? '"

** Indeed, I will" said Nora, laughingly, '*I so
remember all your words that, somehow, I'm
constrained to think my memory has improved
since I assumed the roll of guardian angel under
the mystic influence of your enchantment. Your
words were these, ' I wonder how is mother, and
how is Mary.' * Brevity,' says the adage, * is the
soul of wit.' Your remark was brief; but, like
the drop of water under the magnifying glass, it
contained a mine of significance encompassed by
an unpretending exterior."

'* Ha ! ha ! ha ! " said Fergus, laughing, '' I
knew I had no secret to disclose, such as would
entitle me to your new nomenclature, but feared
some trivial nonsense, the offspring and outpouring
of a fevered brain, had led to some
wrong impression. The words you quote are
easily explained. Of mother, I presume, I need
not speak. Mary is my dear cousin. We have
been brought up as children together, so that we
love as brother and as sister should. As I still
see a hesitating, doubting, half distrustful glance
from that very expressive eye, it is, perhaps,
requisite that I should add my much-loved Mary
is engaged, and soon, I trust, will marry a man
as noble-minded and as brave as he is powerful
and handsome. What further information can I
give you, my suspicious guardian angel ? "

*you have been so explicit that I withdraw
my inopportune and inappropriate epithet, and
tender the expression of my regret for using it.
As you have been so candid, let me be so too, and
frankly tell you that your guardian angel does
feel very sad that her mission draws so near its
discontinuance."

'* If you express sentiments of that character,
I shall cease to call you Miss Harrington ; and,
like your brother, shall call you Nora."

*sand so it would please me much if you
would."

** On one condition, which you can easily
grant."

^* What is it?"

*' That you will discontinue Mr. O'Brien, and
call me Fergus."

**I think it would make me blush if I but
thought to do so ; and what would Tom say, and
what would Tom think ? "

** Tom is a straightforward, honourable fellow.
He would naturally think that something more
than ordinary friendship was springing up between
us. That we were entering on a phase of mutual
understanding, which distinctly signified that we
were not totally devoid of interest in each other.
The fact is, that stranger as I am, and short as
our acquaintance has been, I have felt admiration,
which was my first impression, join hands with
esteem, which was my second. These combined
have culminated into love, which each day increases,

coupled with the hope, that you were free,
unbound, still disengaged, and that, as time went
on, a chance remained for me to win your estimation
first and then your love."

Nora blushed deeply as she heard these words.
They were what her heart longed for. What she
desired above all the world besides. "I have
never been engaged," said she, **I have no bond.
Just before you came, the doctor who attended
me through a long and tiresome fever, paid me
much kind attention, nor has this been abated
since. At first, for I shall speak with candour, I,
who never had a suitor, began to take interest in
his interviews, and welcomed his frequent visits,
never thinking they meant more than friendship.
When you came, or rather, were brought here, so
weak that you could not speak, so overpowered
with illness that you could not move, my first
impression was deep interest in your recovery, so
deep, that I no longer had a place, a room, a
corner, for the doctor in this breast; and now,
that interest has increased so much, that I
am quite distressed at the mere name of your
departure."

"And so, the doctor who has been so good to
both of us has lost his heart. Indeed, if otherwise,
'twould wonder be. I see it all. That was the
reason of his rapid move just now, to take me faraway,
to separate us. And he will think so badly
of us both. And we will repay with sorrow, disappointment
and distress, the debt, the obligation

that we owe him for the saving of our Ives. You
could have loved him, Nora, as I conjecture from
your words. Can you not love him still ? If soin
honour, yes, and in gratitude, I am bound to
give him place, and yield the prize which each
day has taught me more and more to value."

"Fergus," said Nora, with eyes suffused with
tears, and voice almost inaudible from emotion,
'* I never can ; and what is more, if tomorrow bethe
last time of our meeting, and I never see you
again, him, I shall never love, and never shall
encourage."

'then, dear, rely on my return, when I shall
hope to see you well and happy; meanwhile, I
shall, to my mother, tell it all. Oh ! you will
love her. She is a noble woman. You will love
Mary, too. I have not words to tell her goodness,
but you will soon find it out. The plan has been
circulating in my head, the last three days, to get
both you and Tom to pay a visit to our place, and
stay with us at Dunboy Castle. 'Twould be tome
such happiness. Does it commend itself to
you?"

'* There is nothing in the world I should like
more," said Nora, "you have made me so happy
again, and dissipated the cloud which almost
overwhelmed me, when you spoke of surrendering
me to the doctor."

And so the evening slipped away, in making
plans, and mapping out the future. Tom was
informed of the intended invitation, and quickly

acquiesced, saying, *lie should like it so
much."

The doctor, on his return home, made his
arrangements as rapidly as he could. The letter
from 'that woman," preyed upon his mind so
continuously that, busy as his newly contemplated
plan made him, he sat down and answered it as
follows : —

Kanturk, Monday Evening.
Dr. Madam,

Your note safely reached me some days back. I regret
to hear of your daughter's folly, which is the cause of her
illness, and would have replied sooner, but have been very
much engaged. To the present, I have not had any respite,
and tomorrow I have arranged to go, in charge of a patient
who is just recovering from typhus fever and is too weak to
travel by himself, to the farthest extremity of Bantry Bay. On
my return, I shall take an early opportunity of complying with
your request, although my skill and experience cannot expect
to be of advantage to those whose illness is due to arrant foolishness
and wayward obstinacy ; and, although the spirit in which
you write is bitter, and the language in which you couch your
sentiments, to say the least, offensive.

Trusting your daughter will have sufficient sense to adopta
different line of conduct from what your letter would insinuate
she is disposed to do,

I remain, Dr. Madam,

Yours, etc
To Mrs. Nagle. R. ARMSTRONG.

pes. — Seeing it is impossible, from change of circumstances,
to carry out my original intentions concerning Miss
Nagle ; it would be more wise if she would make up her mind
to face the inevitable.

Having carefully folded this epistle, he sealed
it, and gave it to his coachman to take to Fern
Leigh at once ; with express directions to leave it
at the door, to make no enquiries, and, if asked,
to say that no answer was necessary.

In the early morning, punctual as usual, just as
the clock struck eight, he arrived at Bogra Vale.
Fergus was up and ready for the journey, *' feeling,"
as he observed, *more strengthened and
refreshed every day." He and Tom were chatting
in the dining-room, where the breakfast was
quite ready, and at which they expected the
doctor to join. Nora did not appear. Tom
made excuse for her, saying *' she had a headache
; " so, without much delay, the travellers
were on the road by half-past eight o'clock,
with a drive before them of about fifty miles,
and then a trip by water of about twenty
more.

The weather was calm ; there had been a sharp
frost during the night. The roads were hard and
dry and favourable for the journey. The doctor,
before leaving, expressed to Tom his regret to
hear that Nora was not well, and told him *' it
was his intention to return the next day, and that
he would, if possible, call the day following."
His thoughts were now entirely engrossed by
Nora. She appeared to possess his affections
twice as much since he had seen her with Fergus.
He had quite made up his mind to propose for
her on his return. As for poor Aggie Nagle, she

had not ones recurred to his recollection since he
had indited the letter the evening before.

Nevertheless, this letter arrived safely, in due
course, at Fern Leigh. Mrs. Nagle took it from
the hand of the coachman, and eagerly perused
its contents. She had almost despaired of a reply,
as a week had passed, and, consequently, the first
emotion of surprise was an agreeable one. She
read the letter twice. The postscript, which, as
usual, contained the kernel, a third time. Then,
lest so heartless and cruel a composition might,
by any chance, fall into her daughter's hands, she
treated it just as the writer had treated hers ; with
this exception — that when it was torn up into
small fragments, she flung it into the fire, instead
of the waste-paper basket, muttering to herself
as she did so, ** The brute ! the brute ! "

As for Aggie, each day she grew more weak.
Her mother plainly saw that the distressing
symptoms were not due to bodily disease. That
the grief and anguish which she suffered were
weighing upon her mind, and were slowly, but
surely, undermining a good constitution, and
bringing her darling to a premature grave. Her
eyes were always red with weeping, her spirits
were completely broken. Her sobs and sighs,
when, in the late hour of night, she thought her
mother would not hear her, were heartrending.
*' Oh, mother," said she, the day after the doctor's
cruel note had arrived, '* I feel a weight, a cold
weight, pressing on my heart, as though it strove

to break it. You will not much longer be wearied
with my wretchedness, nor have before you the
source of your disgrace. I hope and pray, dear
mother, that he may be forgiven for the injury he
has done me. My fault was trusting him ; I did
not think he could, or would, do wrong, and
heavy and sore has been my penalty.

'mother dear, though I have been so bad, I
know you love your Aggie still, and will, for her
sake, give your love to the little one she leaves
behind. You will bring him up better, far better,
than I could, and he will love you dearly, and bea
comfort to you when you are old, and will not
disgrace you, as I have done.

"Mother, you forgive me, don't you? You
know, it was not willing sin or wickedness that
caused my ruin. All was due to my deep love for
him, and my entire belief in him — his truth, his
honour, and his every word''

And then, with weakness overcome, she sank
back on her pillow. Her poor mother — who loved
her only child with that unchanging love, the
hereditary inheritance entailed by heavenly will,
whose reversion is inalienable, and which is at
once, perhaps, the prerogative and monopoly of
mothers — was so depressed with grief, and smothered
by her suppressed sobs, that she was unable,
for some moments, to reply.

At length, with a great effort, raising her head
and drying her tears, she leant over her dear girl.
She looked as pale as though death had already

released from this world's troubles the pining
victim of astounding villany.

Terror and anguish seized her. She thought
her loved one was dead. *' My child ! my child ! "
she cried. ** Oh ! speak to me. Surely, you are
not gone. You have not left your loving mother
yet, whose life is bound in yours, and who loves
her Aggie as much as ever she did in her life,
and blames her not with smallest, slightest blame
for what the perjured wickedness of a false, cruel
man alone is guilty. Oh ! speak to me ; speak tome
once again, or grief will kill me, too ! ''

And Aggie turned her face, and the fond
mother knew she was not dead, and pressed her
to her heart, and kissed her lovingly.

All that day, and all the next, there was no
improvement in the sinking girl's condition. She
appeared to get weaker and weaker. More than
once, her anxious mother thought that she was
gone, so still she lay ; so pale, so emaciated she
looked. All her persuasion with difficulty succeeded
in getting her to swallow a few teaspoonfuls
of strong beef tea, which, with tenderest
care, she had prepared. And now, as the late
hours of night came on, wearied and worn outwith
her watching, she lay down to rest on a sofa
in the room ; with despairing mind, thinking it
would be the last night she would have to wait
upon her daughter. But, scarcely had she
dropped to sleep, when Aggie, calling with loud
voice, and sitting up in bed, awaked her.

Mother ! mother! " she exclaimed, ** have you
not seen him ? He has just been here, and knelt
beside my bed, and asked me to forgive him, oh !
so imploringly ; then vowed his love, just as he
did long ago, and bid me hasten to get well, that
we might get your blessing and be married. Oh !
I feel so bright, so cheered, so well ! He looked
so changed from what he lately looked, and spoke
so kindly and so fondly, just as when first he told
me that he loved me."

The mother thought her daughter had gone
mad, that sheer exhaustion had quite turned her
brain, yet did not tell her so, but, with quick
instinct, taking advantage of the opportunity,
replied —

'* Then, darling, do as he has told you ; hasten
to get well, and drink this cup of beef-tea. It
will help to strengthen you."

And Aggie did so, and soon after, to her
mother's greatest joy, she saw her sink into a
calm, deep sleep.

'poor hapless soul!" said she. "How sad
will be her disappointment when she wakes up in
the morning ! "

GERALD GOES TO MARY's VAULT TO TAKE THE
POISON.

*' I follow thee, and make a heaven of hell ;
To die upon the hand I love so well."

Midsummer Night's Dream.

'* Non covet stringer la mano col Diavolo prima che lo concentrate.

Italian Proverb.

Do not shake hands with Satan in the street,
Until Ms sable highness there you meet,
or
Though death, in form most hideous, gird thee on all sides round,
Despair not, for the path of safety may e'en yet be found.

Gerald, when entering the vault, his left hand
being incapable of movement, held in his right
hand the lantern. It was in such a position that
its light fell directly on Mary's eyes. Those
large eyes, wide open, reflecting the rays, seemed
to glare terribly, and, from his position, they
appeared to fix themselves in threatening menace
on his face.

*' Surely, I have never wronged her by either
thought or deed," he muttered to himself, *that

she should thus regard me so indignantly; and
with such repelling look of hatred and of fear
combined."

It never occurred to him, for a moment, that
Mary had left the coffin in which she lay, and
had wandered, in dense darkness, round and
round that cold habitation of the dead, feeling,
with her sensitive fingers, the chilly flags, and
the alarming outlines of the coffin's shape, until
she had been driven well nigh frantic by her fears.
On the contrary, his fixed and settled opinion
was that her troubled spirit had left its resting
place, had visited Mrs. O'Brien on the previous
night, and, about the same time, her old servant,
and had then returned to the vault to be near her
body, and had taken its phantom residence in his
chair. *' Something must prey upon her mind,"
he thought — *' something must sorely distress
her; something must trouble her so grievously as
not to suffer her poor ghost to rest. It is a
mission, perhaps ; some heavy penance imposed
on her, to wander in the dreary nights until that
mission is fulfilled, and that penance accomplished."
Then, addressing the still shade, he
raised his voice —

*' Oh, ghost ! dear ghost of her I dearly loved
when living, and love no less when dead ; impart
to me thy trouble. I have come here to die
where Mary lies — to die by poison, as she died —
for nought has life for me worth living for when
she has gone. If but the tenor of thy distress

thou wilt to me disclose, I will put off my death
until I all thy will accomplish. No matter what
the price, the cost, the toil, yet a most willing
agent, at her behest, all this poor wasting frame
can do will all most willingly be done, if my
unceasing effort can but bear to her satisfaction.
Speak to me ! Speak to me ! I can bear the
accents of her ghost, though supernatural fear
surrounds me, and awe, which nothing human
could excite, makes me to tremble at thy
presence."

"Hist! echoing winds; her lips appeared tome
to move as though she softly spoke. Oh !
speak again. Speak louder, louder still ! I
cannot hear thy words. Shall I approach more
near, yea, into thy very arms, if so thou kindest
me, that I may catch each whispered utterance ?"
Then, with the words, he drew one full step
nearer; but so vengeful was the stare, and so
darkly menacing, as though in disapprobation,
that he withdrew again. The shaking of the
lamp caused by his movement, and by the trembling
of his excited hand, formed shades of black
and light, in frequent and alternate streaks, overspreading
all her face, and made her visage look
most terrible.

*part thou unhappy? Tell me ! Is there no
penance I can do on thy behalf — no way I can
afflict my soul or body to give thee respite and
forgiveness ? Tell me ! Oh ! tell me soon, for
even now I feel my brain is whirling round, and

presently I fear I shall be mad — yes, mad ! so
mad as to be quite unable to fulfil thy order.
Tell me, dear ghost ! or it may hap I shall begin
to think thought not her ghost, but some vile
spirit which, with audacity extreme, has dared to
simulate her precious form, and come in here to
persecute her ; and then, as heaven's above me,
we shall try conclusions, and all a mortal's power
can do will be employed to strangle thee !

** 'Tis even so — I know it now. Come on!
Come on ! " he shouted with stentorian voice,
and, with a headlong rush, he made for Mary's
throat.

The lamp fell from his hand — the sudden jerk
extinguished it. The little footstool, which was
placed before the seat to keep his feet, while
watching, from the cold flags, now tripped him
up, and he fell, beside the chair, heavily on the
ground.

At that moment, Mrs. O'Brien, accompanied by
Doctor Armstrong — who with Fergus had arrived
about twenty minutes before — and Ted, the servant-man,
all bearing lanterns, passed down the stone-stepped
stairs, and soon were in a few yards of
the vault. They had all distinctly heard the last
words that Gerald had spoken. Mrs. O'Brien,
whose courage, like that of her son, was indomitable,
rushed to the rescue. The doctor followed
close behind, but Ted, who had caught a glimpse
of the figure in the chair, was rapidly retiring.

*' Gerald," said she, raising his head from the

ground, "' has your keen mental anguish driven
you mad ? Be cain ! be cool ! What has
so affrighted you, and caused you to rush
wildly on, as though you were contemplating
murder ? "

'* Where is the ghost?" said he. Then,
answering his own question, exclaimed, " there !
there ! see it on the chair ! "

Mrs. O'Brien rose and placed her hand on
Mary's cold brow, and saw her sparkling eyes
which glittered from the reflected light.

*' Good heavens ! " she cried, *' it is Mary who
has left her coffin and, no doubt, wandered to this
chair in darkness. Ah ! well the poor soul might
cry to me last night for help, locked up in this
dungeon with the dead. Look at her ! look at
her, doctor ! Is there any sign of life still lingering
? Seek, oh ! seek, and try to catch from her
lips the smallest breath."

Dr. Armstrong hastened to the chair. He put
his hand upon the wrist but could find no pulse.
He placed his head close to her side but no heart-beat
could he hear. He felt the arms, but there
the fixed rigidity of death was marked, and then
he shook his head, and, turning to Mrs. O'Brien,
gently whispered, ** all is past." But, as he
turned again, the bright reflection of the light
which issued from her eyes attracted his attention.
Then, taking a taper, he held it closely to her
face, and looked most accurately. The eyes were
clear and full of lustre — no film of death was

Ha

there. Then he exclaimed aloud, as smiles of
joy lit up his face, '^ she is not dead — this is not
death's characteristic— I am sure I'll bring her
round in less than five minutes."

Then Gerald jumped up to his feet like one
revived and cried, " oh ! doctor, not here, not
here — 'twould frighten her to death to find herself
again in this sad vault — let us convey her
to the house — to the drawing-room — to her own
bedroom — anywhere from here."

Ted, by this time, had regained his courage
and come back. Then he, and the doctor, and
Gerald, with his one powerful hand, all raised her
from the chair. Mrs. O'Brien held the light, as
with united strength they carried her — through
the dark passage — up the stone-stepped stairs —
along the gravel walk — through the hall door —
then, wending up the spacious stair-case from the
hall, they gently deposited her in her own bedroom,
and on her own bed.

And faithful Mary, quick as lightning, had the
fire lit and blazing, and, with Mrs. O'Brien's
help, divested her of her snow-white clothes, and
laid her between the blankets, with bed farmers
to her feet and hands. Then the doctor, who
was waiting in the lobby, was called in. Taking
from his pocket a small case, he opened it, and
loaded a syringe which it contained with prepared
liquid from a little bottle, and quickly, under the
skin of the arm, injected its contents.

For two or three minutes there was no effect.

then, gradually, a slight tinge of colour began to
overspread her face.

The pulse is coming back," said Dr. Armstrong,
whose finger remained unmoved from her
wrist. *' Now, let not more than one remain
in the room."

Then, without delay, all left except Mrs.

Brien. As she watched, she saw her close her
eyes. Forthwith she began to breathe; and soon
to breathe more heavily, as though she slept.
Then she turned upon her side, and then started
up, and looking at Mrs. O'Brien, exclaimed :
'' ! auntie, I have had such a hideous dream,
come here, come here and kiss me, for I feel that

1 must cry ; " and then she cried and sobbed
in Mrs. O'Brien's arms hysterically.

** Nothing to be uneasy about;" said the doctor,
'* in fact, it is the very best thing she could do, it
was all that was necessary to make her recovery
complete."

Quickly was the news conveyed to Gerald. He
was in ecstacies of gratification and delight. So
excessive was his joy, that he completely broke
down, and shed big showers of tears. *' What,"
as he observed, *she had never done before, not
even when he was a boy at school."

When Mary had been carefully attended to, and
had partaken of some refreshment, Mrs. O'Brien
called the doctor's attention to her sister. ** She
eats well, never makes a remark on any topic, and
never sleeps. I don't think she has had one

minute's rest the last three days, and, as you
may well suppose, she is evidently dying of
exhaustion."

*' Does she take any interest in any person or
thing ? " enquired the doctor.

'* Not the slightest ; from the moment she
came to the conclusion that her daughter was
dead, she seems to have passed into the stage of
childhood. Intellect completely gone, and sleep
entirely departed, except one heavy sleep that
followed immediately after the dreadful impression,
and which lasted not much longer than a
single hour."

'' I understand," said he, *' be so good as to let
me see her now."

He was immediately conveyed to her room,
although it was now approaching one in the
morning, and although he both felt and looked
tired and fatigued from his long day's journey.

His examination was, as usual, an accurate one.
He paid especial attention to the heart first, and
then closely examined the eyes, and the effect of
light upon the pupils. Having sent for a little
bag, which he happened to bring with him, as he
discovered it in his carriage when at Bantry,
and did not consider it safe to leave it there, he
quickly prepared a mixture. "Now," said he,
"give her this to drink." Then, preparing
another of the same description, he gave directions
that it also should be administered, if she
was not asleep in half an hour. Then Mrs.

O'Brien shewed him his bedroom, and without
delay he retired, to look for his longed-for rest.

Fergus and the doctor arrived at the castle just
after Gerald had betaken himself to the vault.
The meeting of the mother and son was most
affectionate and affecting. She threw her arms
around him, and pressed him to her heart, withall
the warmth of maternal love, then gently said :
'* My boy, my boy, I never ceased to pray, and
never lost confidence for a moment, that the Lord
would bring you back."

The doctor turned away his head. The interview
brought to his mind his own dear mother,
and he felt an ardent longing to see her loving
face again.

Mrs. O'Brien, judging from the emaciated looks
of her son that he had endured a severe illness,
and was still only on the road to recovery, would
not allow him to hear any of the distressing
news that was in store for him. Having given
him and his friend the refreshment they needed,
with a mother's authority, the doctor ably
seconding her, she sent him off to bed. So,
he knew nothing of Gerald and his broken armor
of Mary, or of poor Mrs. 0' Sullivan.

When parting from Mrs. O'Brien, Just as he
was about to retire to his bedroom, the doctor told
her that he was not without good hopes for her
sister. "If we can only secure a good sound
sleep," said he, *' I feel convinced she will awake
with faculties restored; but you must give most

particular directions that her sleep must not be
disturbed, until recruited nature, being satisfied,
rouses to animation of itself.

Next morning, at the breakfast table, there was
a happy party. Mrs. O'Brien presided. The
doctor was on her right hand, Gerald on her left,
Fergus at the foot. At the same side with Gerald,
and not far from him too, sat Mary, looking as
beautiful and bright as if nothing had happened,
and no scene of sorrow had intervened to cast a
shadow on her brow.

Just before they had taken their seats, Mary
paid a visit to her darling mother's room. The
faithful servant, who had been in attendance all
night long, informed her, in whispering accents,
that about ten minutes after she had taken the
second dose, she had closed her wearied eyes, had
fallen into a deep sleep, and. had never so much
as stirred since." Mary, full of love, and knowing
nothing of her dear mother's serious illness, nor
its cause, and, having heard only that morning
that she had not been very well, came close beside
her bed, and stooping gently over her, fixed one
unbroken look of tenderest affection on her
much-loved face. As she did so, the sleeper
quietly opened her eyes, and, seeing Mary smiling
on her, stretched out her arms, and clasped
her to her heart, exclaiming, *'my darling! my
darling ! "

Long and affectionate was the embrace. They
both seemed to know that days had elapsed since

last they met, and that troubles, heavy troubles
had intervened, although now neither had any
definite idea of the terrible particulars. At last,
when the sonorous gong for breakfast sounded
its gradually augmenting peal, Mary joined the
party, bringing with her the joyful intelligence,
** that her mother was awake and well, and would
presently get up."

Great, indeed, were the rejoicing that day at
Dunboy Castle. Smiles were on every face, and
congratulations on every lip. All looked on the
doctor as a benefactor divinely sent, whose
arrival, at that special and important moment,
had brought a shower of refreshing happiness and
blessing, upon hearts that had been parched with
the drought of bitter trial and disfiguring grief.
Every voice was loud in his praise. Fergus
declared *show his kind and hospitable entertainers,
the Harringtonss, in their own unostentatious
way, had given him to understand, that but
for the doctor's skill and attention he would have
had but little chance of recovery." Gerald
rejoined, *' that, but for his timely aid, his heart
would now be bleeding and his life a misery."
Mrs. O'Brien said, *' her debt of gratitude was the
greatest of them all, for, whether she looked to
her sister, or her son, or her much-loved niece, or
her nephew Gerald, on every side she beheld
living witnesses, who spoke more eloquently
than words, and testified in language far more
powerful and effective than speech could utter,

that their debt to Dr. Armstrong was more than
gold could pay'

The doctor, rising to his feet, seemed much
affected, but, after a momentary pause, recovering
his self-possession said: 'the man who would
not do a kindness to another, when events
present the opportunity, most certainly is not fit
to live. I feel I do not deserve the commendations
which your generous kindness has showered
on me. I have only tried to carry out the early
training of a much loved mother. She educated
me carefully in the teachings of Christianity ; and
inculcated as its leading lesson, not the self-applauding
pride of Pharisaical righteousness,
but, a spirit of humility. A humility which derives
its perennial spring of rejoicing from its earnest
struggles to overcome the innate selfishness of
our nature, and degrading that selfishness from
its ascendancy, to enshrine on its dismantled
pedestal, an unaffected longing to contribute to the
happiness of all around. I went forth to the
world with this fond teaching riveted on my soul,
but, after two long years of anxious doubt and
wavering consistency, I bade a long adieu to
boyhood's faith, and, under reason's guidance,
linked my future with infidelity. Whenever,
now, my life has ruts and roughness in its path,
and fortune seems to frown upon my plans, I
feel, in the armour of my new belief, so safely
steeled, that strong defiance is the tower of
strength, from which my spirit looks disdainfully.

But, when some guiding influence scatters round
prosperity, and I am made the humble means of
bringing happiness to others, then, the old
associations rise within me with such giant
power, that I long to tread again the happy ways
that boyhood trod, to live the life enjoined by
Christianity, and follow with the love that brings
obedience all the still well-remembered lessons
that my mother taught. Then, to my wrestling
resolution, rise the forms of powerful associations.
Then the iron bonds of habit. Then the restrictions
which my old belief entailed. Then the
surrender of some cherished idol. Till, at last,
tied and bound with the chain of obstructions, I
fall back a powerless, defenceless, vanquished
captive.

*'I wonder, even now, that I this long confession
have unbosomed; but the joy that rises
in my heart, at witnessing your joy, and your
generosity in connecting me with it, have brought
back the whilom fond longings of my youth, and
words have flowed from the abundant feelings of
the heart."

Overcome with emotion — the depth of which
they alone can fathom to whose lot has fallen
similar experiences — the doctor resumed his
seat.

But there was one there into whose inmost
soul his every sentence entered. One who would
have been constrained to speak at once, but that a
silent resolution decided her, to hold most serious

converse with him, all alone, before he left
Dunboy. It was Mary — the pure, the noble-minded
Mary; Mary, who all her life had
cherished the principle of unselfishness; who
realized her joy in giving joy to others ; who felt
her happiness in giving her bread to the hungry,
and her word of consolation to the afflicted and
distressed; more, far more, than in all the tinselled
pageantry of conventional society's gay life,
and in all the unsatisfying amusements of the
world, which soon become insipid to the taste
and '' perish in the using'

When breakfast was over, the doctor intimated
his intention of returning to Kanturk, without
further delay. He gave as his excuse his many
engagements, and the multiplied calls upon his
time. All persuasion to the contrary was unavailing;
so Mary asked him if she might have the
pleasure of a walk with him on the gravelled
ground before the castle. " The morning is so
beautifully mild," said she, " and I have some
enquiries, most particular, concerning which I
am most anxious to derive information from you."

"Who could refuse such a request, so gracefully
pleaded, by such a pretty girl ? The doctor
thought her exquisitely pretty, and he was not
singular in this estimation. Everyone who saw
her thought so, too. She led the way, he
followed ; and, as she gave Gerald to understand
that she desired his presence too, in a few
moments all were before the door.

"As you are in such a hurry to leave us," said
Mary, " and as we have no attraction for you
here, I shall detain you as short as possible."

excuse roe," said the doctor, 'for many
reasons I should like exceedingly to remain, and
I desire no greater attractions than the society at
Dunboy affords. My expeditious haste, however,
is not the offspring of my likes or dislikes. It is
the imperious demand of duty ; and, as far as I
can form a judgment, from a very brief but most
delightful acquaintance, you would be the last to
urge anyone to place pleasure, however sweet,
before duty, however laborious and disagreeable."

'' I am glad you have formed that opinion of
me," said Mary, "and I should violate the
dictates of candour and truth did I not confess the
justice of your conclusion. Then, not to detain
you, in the first place, will you tell me what you
think of this naughty boy's arm ? Only think,
he has broken it, and will not tell me how it
occurred."

"Most certainly," said the doctor. Then,
quickly examining it, he observed, " simple
fracture in upper third, probably caused by a very
severe blow with a blunt instrument. Beautifully
bandaged; splints most judiciously applied. Arm
in very best position, and the lower portion
of upper extremity with correct support. The
fracture, too, admirably reduced. My opinion is
that it does much credit to your local surgeon,
and that no one could do it better."

'eli Mrs. O'brien heard that," said Gerald,
*' would not she feel flattered ? "

'you don't mean to say it was all done by
Mrs. O'Brien, without a surgeon's directions, and
a surgeon's aid ? "

*eyes, indeed, it was," said Gerald. ''I was
in fearful agony before she arranged it for me,
but ever since it has been painless."

'you astonish me," said the doctor. "She
could not do it better if she had attended hospital
practice for four years."

*' Now, I do not require your estimable presence
any longer," said Mary, addressing herself to
Gerald, *you may go indoors out of the air, while
the doctor and I have a little confidential conversation."


Gerald bowed in acquiescence, and immediately
left them to themselves. For a moment the
doctor did not know what to think. ''I am not
so vain as to imagine I have made an impression,"
said he to himself; 'rand, if I had, I have
discrimination enough to know she would be the
last to divulge it to a stranger." But his mind
was soon set at rest.

•'I listened," said Mary, "with the most profound
attention to the most touching remarks
which you made at the breakfast-table. I felt
every word came from your heart. They were all
sincerity, and the outpourings of deep distress.
Words from the heart go to the heart, and yours
were no exception. They went to mine, so that

I could scarcely keep the tears from falling, to
testify the emotions that agitated my breast. I
have, therefore, asked this interview with you, in
the hope that, as your words went to my heart,
even so, that the words I may he enabled to speak
may go to yours."

And then Mary described the unbroken happiness
of mind which she enjoyed, actuated as she
was, by the very same feelings, which once — ashe
so pathetically described — under his mother's
teaching, influenced his boyhood years. Then, she
contrasted his present unhappy, restless, hopeless
state, when a renegade from his mother's faith,
and a rebel against the God whom he once loved,
with the quiet peace, and trustful security he
once possessed. Then, referring to the associations
the ties, the constraints, the fetters, and the
bonds of sinful slavery, asked him, with all that
eloquence which attends the simplicity of sincerity,
and with the earnestness which is the
inseparable attendant of belief, to make his
decision, there and then, and return, like the
prodigal, to the Father, who would run to meet
him while yet a long way off, and to the happiness
he had bartered for wretched discontent.

While they spoke on the engrossing topic,
listlessly they moved away from the Castle,
and strayed along the path leading by the
water's side. As they lingered long, Gerald, in
whose breast the green-eyed monster jealousy
began to acquire a footing, left the Castle, and

followed in the direction he saw them take. But,
as he hurried along the winding, shaded path, he
heard the sound of Mary's voice. Then, looking
through an evergreen, whose boughs the wintry
blasts had somewhat divested of their Leaves, he
obtained a view, both of her and of the doctor.
To his infinite amazement, both were on bended
knees upon the ground ; and the voice he heard
before fell now upon his ear in clear distinctness,
even the strong cry of prayer, as in an agony of
earnestness, with tears rolling down her cheeks,
she pleaded with high heaven to bring the wanderer
back.

Deeply mortified with himself, for harbouring
one unworthy thought, he hastened to the Castle,
rejoicing that his presence had not been perceived;
and, having taken up his position at the window,
patiently awaited their return.

Full half an hour elapsed, but still they were
away ; and yet another ten minutes, as he frequently
observed his watch. At last, he saw them
coming, arm in arm. No tears in either eyes.
No saddening cloud on either brow ; but rays of
genuine happiness issuing from every look.

The die was cast. The infidelity was abandoned.
And Eobert Armstrong — repeating Mary's
quotations about 'the middle wall of partition
broken down," and '* Return ye backsliding
children, for I am married unto you, saith the
Lord," and " Thy sins and iniquities I will
remember no more" — wore a look of gladness.

very different from the expression that pervaded
his countenance, as he told the sorry history of
his experience, at the breakfast-table, in the
morning.

Close to the Castle was a green-house, or
conservatory. Through this they passed, for it
opened by a glass door into the drawing-room.

It was beautiful, both in its architectural
arrangement, and in the selection and grouping
of the exquisite plants it contained. Its walls and
roof were of glass, fixed in slight oaken frames,
which united great strength with extreme lightness.
A delicate trellis, which formed a succession
of diamond-shaped apertures, latticed the
entire interior of the structure. Parasitical plants,
of rare beauty and untold variety, interlaced
between these openings, intertwining their tendril
spirals around the well adapted supports. In one
part, gracefully festooning with their wreaths of
lovely flowers ; in another, inextricably tangled in
the luxuriant verdure of their shoots and foliage ;
while, every here and there, the beautiful and
elegant outline of the passion flower, with sepals
of the calyx well created, displayed its blossom
as distinctly and prominently as though some
fairy hand had held it forth to catch the wandering
eye, and rivet the absorbed attention on the
rich petals of its brindled corolla.

In the middle were palm trees of luxuriant
growth, whose bright green leaves bore testimony
to their acclimated health ; orange trees, with

rich display of golden coloured fruit; exuberant
amelia, with scarlet, white, and variegated
blossoms ; bananas, date trees, magnolias, and
other exotics which still maintained their magnificent
verdure and vigorous tropical vegetation ;
while a tree, a giant tree of Heliotrope, mingled
its sweet fragrance with the perfumed breathing
of a thousand odorous plants.

This central group was surrounded by walks,
sufficiently wide for two to saunter along abreast,
whereon the snow-white Italian marble, inlaid with
the pink shaded produce of the rich Kilkenny
quarries, formed tesselated figures, varied with
mosaic patterns, recalling the Scripture incidents
of Eden ; while, at the outer sides, adjoining each
glass wall, were tiers of gravelled frames, whereon,
in pots of varied size and form, grew ferns of
every kind, pelargoniums and geraniums, hyacinths
and tulips; heather, with lovely bells of
diverse size and hue ; cyclamens, and monthly
roses; and, gracefully interspersed among the
variety, cacti, with gemmation most extraordinary,
pushed their bright scarlet flowers through each
most unlikely thalamus, sometimes selecting as
their torus the centre of a verdant leaf.

As they passed amid these charming flowers,
Mary said. " How frequently does the varied
scenery of nature point the thoughts upward,
even to Nature's God. When the dark storm
cloud overspreads, it suggests the look of disapproval
on the crimes of sin. When the

unmanned sun displays his glorious rays, the
smiling of paternal love is feelingly suggested.
When the yellow wheat raises its prolific head, it
tells of Almighty bounty; and, when the bright
blossoms attract the eye, and the sweet fragrance
enwraps the senses in delight, they tell of Him
who not only gives necessaries to support the
existence of his children, but, in His loving care,
provides happiness and pleasure for their enjoyment.


** I have often reflected that heavenly wisdom
withholds nothing except what is calculated to
bring sorrow, sickness, or injury, and that, therefore
our whole duty may be briefly summed up
in two short sentences, one negative declaring
what we should not do, and, one affirmative telling
us what we should do.

*the negative, * Do not anything that will
harm yourself or any other creature,' from which
we must conclude that great is our liberty; and,

*' The affirmative, ' Do all or anything that will
bring happiness to yourself and to those within
your influence,' which certainly implies that
great may be our usefulness."

*the more I meditate," replied the doctor,
*the more am I convinced that nearly all our
cares and troubles are the result of our own acts,
and this expresses nearly the same sentiment as
what you have just enunciated."

*then we are agreed. One thought, only
one more, before we join those who are expecting

I2

US. It has struck me so forcibly the last ten
minutes. It is this : —

'though I am taught that angels are 'ministering
spirits,' and that they take great interest
in mankind, yet I do not find that they often find
delight in their experience. I am not told that
they rejoice when acts of kindness are performed ;
no, nor when believers meet and sing together
songs of praise, or when they bow the knee in
prayer; no, nor when the everlasting gates are
opened to admit the ransomed sinner; no, nor
when the mansion is presented to the heir for
whom it was prepared ; no, nor when the crown,
the unfading crown, is placed on the victor's
brow; and yet, I am told, they do rejoice. Do
you remember when ? "

"Yes," said the doctor, with a happy smile.
See that old wretch yonder, by whose side you
have been kneeling on the ground, among the
evergreens. Oh ! he is vile, and contemptible,
and base ; the burden of his sins is grievous. He
is tied and bound by their weight. He has
transgressed against light, and knowledge, and
conscience. His course has been one unbroken
career of crime, and before him lies the blackness
of darkness for ever ; but, at last, his eyes have
been opened to his enormity; at last he has
seen the folly of his course ; at last the ingratitude
of his waywardness has become manifest to
his view. Oh! a mighty sorrow for the past
overspreads him, and the tear of genuine regret

has sprung into his eye. But, e'er that starting
drop has reached his cheek, the news has been
borne on lightning's wings to heaven, and *' There
is joy in the presence of the angels of God over
one sinner that repented."

I thank God," said Mary, '' for that heavenly
joy to-day."

THE DOCTOR TRIES TO UNDO HIS WICKEDNESS.

Hold up your hands, say nothing ; I'll speak all.
They say, best men are moulded out of faults ;
And, for the most, become much more the better
For being a little bad.

Measure for Measure.

The doctor left Dunboy Castle about eleven in
the morning. As he was departing, Mrs. O'Brien
in most flattering language, and with intimations
of the warmest friendship, presented him with a
small purse, of beautiful appearance, in which was
enclosed one hundred pounds. He had not the
smallest idea how much it contained, but since it
was given as a souvenir he accepted it, adding, *' I
shall never forget my short but most happy visit
to your hospitable home."

He had a long interview with Fergus. It was
held in a separate room, and was most private
and confidential in its nature.

I thought," said he, '' from the close intimacy
of your conversation with Nora yesterday, and
the undisguised familiarity which I observed —
when, coming down the walk unexpectedly, you
must have considered me an intruder — that you

were both beginning to entertain feelings more
than friendly to each other."

**I assure you, we had never spoken a single
word that could be called love-making, at the
time of your arrival. Our conversation, on the
contrary, was of a general character ; but I freely
confess I took a deep interest in anything she
said ; which amounts to a proof of the tenor of
my feelings concerning her."

'* Then, Fergus, let me tell you, you never set
your heart on a purer minded, or more worthy
girl. I never met, in all my experience, anyone
I admired so much ; but, that is all over now. I
have known her and her brother since they were
children, and can only add as my testimony and
most candid opinion, the more you know them
the more highly you will esteem them."

** I am so pleased to hear you favour our
intimacy, and encourage me to pursue it. It
seems to be your mission to bring health and
happiness to us all. Indeed the words you have
just spoken are especially pleasing to me. Bound
by esteem for you, and gratitude for the highest
services, nothing would pain me more, than that
anything I should do, would for a moment displease
or annoy you, or cause you the slightest
unhappiness or uneasiness."

I believe you, I believe you," said the doctor
warmly, " honour and truth are a part and parcel
of your nature. You could not act in opposition
to either. But let the subject pass. I hope to

see Nora tomorrow. Can I deliver any message
to her from you ? There is no doubt in my mind
but she will be most anxious to hear, not only
how you have borne your journey, but also if
there has been any little special message sent
to her ? "

** Yes, doctor; you can say, that the sooner
her brother and herself can make it convenient to
pay us a visit the more we shall be pleased."

*' But cannot I say anything that will let her know
that I am aware of your admiration and fancy for
her. That the prospect of your mutual happiness
was the source of much gratification to me.
Something, in fact, to convince her that instead
of being a barrier, I shall try to contribute to it
by every means in my power ? "

** You may, indeed you may. Tell her that I
told you of my affection for her, and that you
were so kind as to approve. Tell her that I told
you I loved her very much. Tell her, that if she
has no objection she can arrange all preliminaries
with my dear mother, when she and Tom come
here, so that our engagement may not be a long
one, but that our marriage may soon take place."

'*I think that will do. With such instructions,
and the bearer of such important messages,
I can easily find a way to express my own
opinions and approval. Dear Nora, I am sure,
will be happy with you ; and your angel cousin.
Miss O'Sullivan, will, I make no question, be a
blessing to her, as she has been already to me."

*mary is indeed a good girl, and is never so
happy as when she is striving to make others so ;
but, you have a long journey before you doctor,
had you not better wait until tomorrow, when
you can start early ? ''

** I should delight to do so, but for one circumstance.
About a week before I left home, I
received a letter telling me of the illness of one,
whom for many reasons I am now most anxious
to see. I have not heard of her since, and have
a most restless feeling. A cloud seems to hang
over me — a horrible foreboding that all is not
going well. Indeed, so powerfully is this case,
impressed on my mind, that nothing but an unsurmountable
obstacle, whose resistance I could
not possibly overcome, would prevent me from
hastening at once to see her."

** I can quite understand; but, please, see Nora
tomorrow also, if with your multitude of engagements
you can possibly arrange it, and kindly tell
her how awfully I miss her, and that I do hope
and entreat that she will try to come to us soon,
very soon."

'' If you give me any more messages I shall be
obliged to take out my visiting book, and take
notes, so you had better not confuse my memory ;
now I must go, and bid your kind people goodbye,
and hasten on my way, for the day is passing
fast."

'^ It will expedite you much to go by our swift
boat to Bantry. It will take you in a little more

than two hours. Having heard of your resolve to
leave us, I have given orders that it and the men
should be quite prepared, at any time you may
desire them."

*you are so thoughtful, and I am so much
obliged," said the doctor, who now, without further
delay, bade all farewell, each one expressing
a sincere desire that their next meeting should be
soon. Never was there a heartier " safe home "
uttered, as the doctor sitting in the stern of the
gig, with eight powerful men pulling, sped away,
at the rate of at least ten miles an hour, from a
place where he had contributed to make all happy,
and where he acquired a happiness more bright
than he ever enjoyed before.

Shortly after one o'clock the well rowed boat
arrived at Bantry, from whence, with as little
delay as possible, he departed and reached his
home a little after ten that night.

It was too late to visit anywhere ; besides, he
felt fatigued by his long journey. So, having
looked over his letters, and having written in
reply to two or three that required immediate
answers, he retired to rest.

Next morning he arose early, as was his usual
custom. Then, having rung the bell ; for the first
time told the servants that he desired their
presence at prayers. It was a novel sight ; such
another had never before taken place at Sweet
Brier Lodge. At first, the idea was freely
discussed ** whether the master had gone, or was

going, off his head." But, when they heard him
read and pray, and experienced that riveting of
their attention which is a tribute seldom denied
to heartfelt earnestness, they concluded that,
somehow or other, there must have been a
miracle, and longed to ask him " If he, like Paul,
of whom he had been reading, was struck down
upon the road ? "

Immediately after breakfast, he ordered his
carriage, and set off. To Bogra Vale, to see
Nora ? No. To Silverlea, to enquire from the
Gibsons if they had received any news from their
daughter ? No. To Fern Leigh, to see Aggie ?
Yes ! And, lest the noise of the carriage should
excite or disturb her — now that he had heard she
was ill — he left it at least one hundred yards from
the house, and walked quickly to the door.

Gentle was his knock, but it soon brought out
Mrs. Nagle to enquire the business of the visitor.
When she saw the doctor, her first impulse was
to slam the door in his face, but his look of distress
prevented her; as, without saying even
'good morning," he exclaimed, ** Forgive me,
Mrs. Nagle ! Oh ! forgive me all the pain and
sorrow I have caused you, and my darling little
Aggie ; and tell me how she is, for my heartburns
within me, fearing she is still very unwell."

Almost struck dumb with astonishment, Mrs.
Nagle, at length, eyeing him sternly, replied,
Is this some more of your hypocrisy ? '*

** No," said he calmly, ^* I am no longer the

heartless, wayward hypocrite which I have given
you just cause to call me. I have learned my
error, have grieved over it with unfeigned sorrow,
and have now come to ask your forgiveness and
Aggie's, and to arrange the day of our marriage
as soon as her health will allow it to take place."

The earnestness of the man convinced Mrs.
Nagle of his sincerity. Rapidly the apparition,
which her daughter had seen the previous night,
ran through her mind ; and then, she asked him
to come in, telling him she would ^'go and see
if Aggie had yet awaked."

Mrs. Nagle was not long absent. She had
visited her daughter's room, but there was no
sign of her long rest being discontinued. She did
not appear to have, in the very least, changed from
the position she assumed when, having taken the
cup of beef-tea on the previous evening, she went
quietly asleep. And so, having returned to the
doctor, she told him each particular.

"It is strange, very strange ! " said she.
About eleven o'clock last night, I considered her
dying, and had almost been forced to the sorrowful
conclusion that she would have passed away
before morning. Then she, who all day evinced
a weakness so great that she was unable to speak,
except in a voice raised a little above a whisper,
suddenly called to me, as I lay upon the couch in
her room. When I approached, she told me you
had been to see her, had asked her to forgive you,
and had spoken to her lovingly, as long ago;

then, told her she must make haste to get well,
that your marriage with her might not be delayed.
Whereupon, I told her, she should do as you
advised, and handing her a cup of beef tea, asked
her to drink it off. And she, who had not taken a
wine-glass full for the past two days, immediately
did as I desired, and has slept soundly ever
since."

'show marvellous !" said the doctor. *just
at that time, having returned from the west of
Cork, before I went to bed, I knelt down and
prayed that she might be induced to forgive me ;
that she might soon be well again ; and that
I might have an opportunity of showing my
deep regret for the grievous wrong I have done
her."

That, indeed, makes it more strange still,
as though your words were borne on angels'
wings, and the prayer, as soon as offered, brought
its answer back, by the request being granted, as
you desired."

** May I not see her now ? " said the doctor.
If I were sitting beside her bed when she awoke,
and answered her first enquiry, just as if I had
been sitting there all along, this, perhaps, might
be the best way to let her know that I had come."

*' Perhaps, it would. The suggestion seems a
good one ; then come with me."

And so both went together to Aggie's bedroom.
Mrs. Nagle took her seat on the couch which had
served as her bed for several nights, and the

doctor occupied the chair which stood by the
bedside.

More than twenty minutes elapsed, and Aggie
still continued to sleep. Mrs Nagle then approached
the doctor, and asked him timidly, ** Do
you think it would be well to awake her."

'' Oh ! by no means," was his reply. '* Sleep
is the best restorer ; let her sleep on. She has
long waited for me ; I must not now hesitate or
object to wait for her, especially as the delay will
be calculated to do her good."

And then they took their places again, and
silence reigned, but not for long ; for Aggie first
turned on her side, and then put out her hand, as
if she wished her mother to receive it, and after
that, without opening her eyes, said gently :

Mother dear, has he not come back yet ? I
have been awaiting and expecting him so long, so
long. Oh ! surely, it has not been a dream that
so refreshed me and delighted me."

Yes, dear Aggie," said the doctor very gently,
'* he has come back to ask again for that forgiveness
which you already gave him late last night."

Then Aggie, knowing well his voice, raised herself
in her bed, and turned quickly towards him.
Then, throwing her arms around his neck, exclaimed,
*' Bobby dear, I do forgive you ; oh, I
do forgive you all ! You looked so sad last evening,
and pleaded so hard, I could not be angry
with you longer."

And Mrs. Nagle sat without a word escaping

her lips, as she Hastened to the pleadings and the
forgiveness. She heard the entreaty to try and
get well soon, and the promises of future efforts
to make her happy, and of trials, by every means
in his power, to atone for the past. The arrangement
was also entered into that the marriage
should take place as soon as mother permitted,
and wherever she desired.

The interview was a long one. Both had many
things to say. Before it was over, the gloom that
had pervaded Fern Leigh for many months had
dissipated, and happy looks replaced the tears
of sorrow, and the merry laughter of joy the
sighs and sobs of heartfelt distress. The doctor,
with a heavy weight off his mind, and in buoyant
spirits, set about his other duties, having first
told Aggie *' that he was about to be more attentive
even than of old, and that she might expect
him, not only the following, but every day."

From Fern Leigh to his home, then two or
three calls to most important cases, and then
direct to Bogra Vale. Such was the doctor's
programme, and this, with all the haste he could
command, he carried out.

It was just the hour for country dinners, half-past
one o'clock, when he reached the home of
the Harringtonss". Hearing the sound of the
wheels, Tom ran to the door, and welcomed him,
and Nora, who was most anxious to know how
Fergus had endured the fatigues of his journey,
was at his side.

The doctor was invited to partake of lunch,
and gladly complied. His breakfast had been
a hasty one, and from the time he had taken
it, nearly six hours had elapsed ; besides, the
change of air had acted as a keen incentive to
his appetite.

He gave a glowing description of his visit to
Fergus's home, told them that all his family
were most unmistakably members of the highest
circle ; that it was a magnificent place, beautifully
furnished regardless of expense, and that on all
sides were manifested evident signs of unbounded
wealth. Then he spoke of Mary, in whom already
Nora took no small interest. He declared she was
the prettiest fair girl but one, that he had ever
seen, and described her so accurately that Tom
began to think of his approaching visit, and to
wonder if he would have any chance. '* For,"
thought he to himself, ** it might involve a weary
length of misery if my poor heart suffered, without
any hope of healing it." Besides, Tom was very
dark, and Mary very fair; and, in anticipation,
young Mr. Harrington, for the first time, began to
experience an inkling of that very strange sensation
called love. His hopes, however, were destined
to be nipped in the bud, for Gerald was
next described, his splendid physique, and handsome
face, and engaging manners, until poor
Tom had already abandoned in his favour all
hopes of success. He concluded that with such
a rival he could have no chance of victory, even if

every opportunity were afforded him to make
efforts to engage the affections of Mary.

And then, Mrs. O'Brien and Mrs. O'Sulhvan
received the effective demonstration of his portraying
powers, until, of each member of the
family, it might be justly remarked to him,

** Their refinement suffers no perdition in you."

After luncheon, the doctor and Nora had a long
conversation. With the acuteness which characterises
a clever woman, she quickly perceived,
long before they left the table, that she need be
under no apprehension that he intended to renew
his attentions to her; and therefore the more
readily she conceded a private interview, fancying
she might hear something particular about Fergus
; nor was she disappointed.

The doctor delivered his various messages faithfully;
told her that her presence was anxiously
awaited at the castle, and that Fergus would
take the earliest opportunity to make her his
wife, unless opposition was presented on her
part.

*' I must congratulate you, Nora, dear' said
he. '' You could not possibly find a more
honourable, noble-minded man. He will love
you ardently and sincerely, and do all in his
power to make you happy. The rest of the
family are precisely his stamp, everything a
young and amiable girl could desire. Knowing
you as I do from your childhood, and loving you

and Tom as if you were both my own children,
it gives me sincere satisfaction to anticipate such
a bright and happy future for you."

So seriously, so kindly, so warmly did he
speak, that, before the conversation was ended,
Nora thought that she must have hitherto entirely
mistaken his feelings towards herself, and,
in her vanity, conceived that he was enamoured
and captivated by her, whereas, in reality, he was
only exhibiting the anxious solicitude and interest
of an old and sincere friend.

** The question for consideration now is," said
the doctor, ** when you and Tom will be able
to go and accept this invitation. Fergus thinks
every day a week long, and all are most anxious
to see you both, and most desirous to make your
acquaintance. You may be sure your welcome
will be a hearty one, for they have been told,
in glowing terms, all the considerate care, and
untiring attention, their invalid received when he
was here.

*' When do you think we ought to go ? " said
Nora.

*really, my opinion is, the sooner the better.
To-morrow will be Friday. The old women say it
is an unlucky day to travel," said the doctor,
with a smile ; "so that will not do. Then
Saturday, Sunday, two days more. Go on Monday
morning. I shall write to Mrs. 0' Sullivan
to-night to say they may expect you at Bantry by
two o'clock, and to be so good as to send their

gig to row you to the castle. By that means you
will be with them by five at farthest, and, let me
assure you again, they are delightful people, and
it is really a splendid place, and you will both
enjoy yourselves exceedingly."

*'I don't think I shall feel so comfortable as
you seem to anticipate," said Nora, *' if they are
so rich and grand."

*eyes you will," said he. ''I never was
anywhere that I felt more completely at home,
and more entirely at my ease."

'rit is very well for you to say so," replied
Nora. "■ You have travelled, have lived in
fashionable Paris, and have mixed in society, but
I am a poor unsophisticated country girl that
never spent a day away from this."

"• You need not entertain the smallest apprehension.
They are so kind and attentive, and
yet so judiciously so, that you cannot perceive any
politeness of a marked character, or anything to
make you uneasy or uncomfortable."

<< Why do you think they are so rich ? "

Well dear ! 'tis true, I cannot give you the
rent-roll, but there is that unmistakable look of
wealth about everything, as if money were no
object. When I was going away, Mrs. O'Brien
handed me this beautiful little purse as a
souvenir,' and when I opened it, to my astonishment,
I found a hundred pounds, the largest fee
that I have ever received in my life."

*' And is Mary very pretty ? " enquired Nora.

K2

'eyes ! the prettiest fair girl, as I observed
before, that one could trace on the outlines of
imagination. You know I admire dark beauties,
being of a fair complexion myself; but, really,
Mary is exceedingly beautiful, and, oh ! so good,
and imbued with such a longing to make others
good, too. I shall never forget her. She has
made me more happy, and more anxious to make
others happy, than I ever felt before."

Before the doctor left, Tom was consulted, and
it was arranged that they both should start the
following Monday, and that Mrs. 0' Sullivan
should have a letter sent to her that same
evening, to apprise her of their coming.

Back to his work, back to his numerous
engagements, the active professional man went,
having first told the Harringtonss that he was
afraid he should not be able to call on them again
before they started, as he should be very busy;
and having asked them to be so good as to
convey, to each and all at Dunboy, the very
kindest messages and remembrances.

More happy was he that evening than he had
felt for a long, long time before. In obedience to
what he knew was right, he had surrendered
Nora, had cast to the bats and the moles his
ideas of jealousy and vengeance, and had acted
the part he believed to be his duty to the girl he
had injured and cast off; but yet he was not
quite happy. One thought, like an incubus,
pressed relentlessly and continuously on his mind.

He could not get rid of it. It acted as a slow,
but constantly increasing, torture. It reminded
him of a story he had once been told, and which
had left an unfading impress on his imagination.
It was about a man who had given grievous
offence to some who were possessed of power
commensurate to that of an arbitrary imperious
autocrat.

This man was fastened by strong chains and
bands to the ground, as he lay stretched at full
length upon his back. So tightly, so firmly
braced were all his fetters, that he could not move
his head the smallest distance from the spot
where it was fixed.

Far above him was a large tank, from a leak in
which the water slowly escaped. A drop formed.
He could see it as it grew in size. At last it fell,
and struck him exactly in the middle of the
forehead. Its coldness was, in the warm atmosphere,
delightful. It cooled his feverish brow.
He took great pleasure in the advent of that drop,
and longed for it to come again. It came — it
came — slowly, but surely and constantly, it came.
At length, the part it struck became tender, sore,
painful. By and by, after long hours, the
suffering which it caused became excessive, and,
with the suffering, the unnatural heat, of which
it was the index, spread. The torture was, at
last, so awful that he roared in agony. But still
it fell — it fell ; and, as it fell, the pain increased,
and with it the inflammation, till, in its excess,

it extended to the brain, when much longed for
death terminated his sufferings.

It was a pleasure to me at first' soliloquised
the doctor, *' when, in the baseness of my crime,
and in the hardness of my heart, I wronged dear
Rosa Gibson. Oh ! what would I give now that
the past could be recalled. The drop falls
unceasingly on my conscience, and causes a pain,
an anguish, a remorse that I would give the
world to be rid of*'

Then he remembered he had read somewhere

** Thou wast a God that forgave them, though thou tooke
vengeance of their inventions."

Whereupon he prayed that he might be able to
submit, without murmuring, to the rod, however
severe its strokes; and that in every trial he
might be able to say, "Welcome the will of God."
Alas ! he little knew the nature of the ordeal
that awaited him.

OH ! IT IS NICE, NICE, VERY NICE.

Stat sua clique dies, breve et irreparable tempus

Omnibus est vitae, sed fama extended facts

Hoc virtutis opus. Virgil.

Each has his own allotted span of time,
Though irreparable and short it be ;
But, to achieve high fame by deeds sublime.
This is the work of virtuous constancy.

How many adjectives are requisitioned to qualify
the march of time? Fleeting, flitting, flying,
hasting, hurrying, moving, passing, speeding,
running, rolling, rushing, revolving, vanishing.
If general experience be a reliable authority, the
march becomes more expeditious each succeeding
year. In childhood an age seems to intervene
between the Christmas and the summer vacation.
The language of advanced years is, *'0h, my!
here is Christmas upon us again."

Nearly three months of that rapidly departing
measure of human existence had completed its
revolutions since the record of events described in
the last chapter. During that period, changes followed,
with quick succession, in the prospects and

condition of nearly all the characters to which
our history has given an introduction. It maybe
truly described as an eventful time. Important
occurrences had taken place at Dunboy Castle, at
Bogra Vale, at Silverlea, at Sweet Brier Lodge,
and at Fern Leigh, too.

At Dunboy Castle, three days after his arrival,
Fergus presented to Mrs. O'Sullivan the letter of
her dear son, Donal. He did not do so earlier, inconsequence
of her state of health, lest injury
should, by any chance, result from any excitement
so soon after her severe illness. It is scarcely
necessary to state that it awakened the most
intense interest. Had it been received in time,
the Lovell episode might have been avoided.
But the event, the terrible results of which both
Mrs. O'Brien and Gerald most distinctly and
painfully remembered, appeared to have been
obliterated from the recollections of Mrs.
0' Sullivan and her daughter, Mary.

As might be expected, Mrs. O'Sullivan immediately
communicated its contents to her much-loved
sister, Mrs. O'Brien. Then a general
council was held, and the pros and cons of each
aspect of the question were accurately discussed.

** There is no doubt," said Fergus, *That
all immediate danger is past. The bands of
marauders, who were relieved from active duty
when the siege of Limerick terminated, and who,
no doubt, have done the dark deeds of pillage,
plunder, devastation, robbery, and murder, up

and down the country; if coming, would have
found their way here long before this. What we
have now to dread is not the paltry pillaging of
scattered soldiery under reckless leaders, but the
wholesale robberies committed in the name of
those in authority, and concealed under the
euphonious term * Confiscation.' There is no
question in my mind," continued he, *but that,
under the guise of some miserable pretext, we
shall some day hear that this our paternal home,
and all our landed property, has been transferred
to others, and that we shall be required to make
room and to give place to the partisans and
favourites of our invaders, or to the traitors who
have basely and ignominiously proved renegades
to their country, and deserted to her enemy's
side."

The disclosures in that letter are sufficiently
distinct," said Gerald, " to enable us to conclude
that we have very little consideration to expect.
Donal seems confident of the result, and, therefore,
with his soldiers, has made choice to depart
for France ; and urges his mother to realize all
she can while yet there is time, and be prepared
to follow him when the fatal hour has come that
she must leave her home."

*sis it not a wonder," said Mary, ** that people
can be so wicked that they do not remember it is
written, ' Thou shalt not steal.' But you cannot
wonder that they forget that direction, when their
acts show they have ceased to regard that other

direction, * Thou shalt do no murder.' Those
who will not hesitate to murder will suffer no
constraint of conscience sufficiently powerful to
induce them not to steal ; and those who murder
and steal, where, oh ! where, will the wickedness
of their offences end ? "

Mrs. 0' Sullivan, with a deep drawn sigh, and
with great gentleness, remarked, 'sit is scarcely-worth
while now, at the closing hours of my
days, to drive me from my home ; hut, as Mary
has just said, * what will robbers and murderers
hesitate to perpetrate.' It, therefore, appears tome
to be best to do as Donal has suggested, and
prepare at once for our departure."

And then Mrs. O'Brien wound up the conference
: ** Whether these young people are disposed
to go to France I know not ; perhaps they have
not even yet made up their own minds. There
can be no question, however, we had better make
preparations for the worst. This is, no doubt, the
wise and prudent course. We shall then be in a
position to be guided as circumstances present
themselves, and as we, with increased information,
deem the most advantageous for our interests,
and in every respect the best."

And with this they all eventually agreed.
Fergus did not know what Nora would like. It
struck him very forcibly that she would sadly
grieve at being compelled to go away to France,
and to leave behind her, all alone, her brother
Tom, to whom he knew she was bound by the

warmest ties of affection. He also thought that
his much loved mother would not like to leave
him, if under the impulse of Nora's persuasion,
he determined to remain in Ireland. And then,
again, it was evident to him that his aunt, Mrs.
0' Sullivan, would not like to leave her sister ;
and that Mary would not like to leave her
mother ; and that Gerald would not leave Mary.
So, the more he deliberated, the more firmly he
came to the conclusion that it was neither improbable
nor unreasonable to entertain the idea that
all would remain in the *' distressful country,"
even though they should be obliged to leave
Dunboy and see their lands handed over to the
foreigner. That there was wisdom in adopting
this policy of watching and waiting, subsequent
events fully proved.

From the inhabitants of Dunboy we look fora
moment to Mr. and Mrs. Goodman. We left
them starting on their wedding tour. In due
time they reached Killarney, and having remained
there for a week, passed on to Denmark, and
visited some of the strangely wild and beautiful
scenery of the western coast. There for the first
time Rosa saw the huge bottle-nosed whale
ploughing the ocean, and throwing up an immense
volume of water some thirty or forty feet,
as he passed between the main land and the
Skilled, and Basket Island in the distance. In
these localities another ten days were pleasantly
and happily spent. Then they returned to

Killarney, intending to remain there another
week, before they went home to the pretty
new villa, which was being beautifully furnished
and carefully prepared for them during their
absence.

Simon was much attached to his beautiful
wife, each day that affection seemed to increase,
but this was not Rosa's experience. True, she
had been very fond of him, but that was before
her marriage. The events preceding it had
altered the whole tone of her thought and life.
She did not see her way to put off the marriage,
and finally break the engagement, though so
great was the alteration in her feelings that she
wished much to do so. She therefore went
through the ceremony, as the sufferer from toothache
goes to the dentist to have the offending
cause of anguish removed ; or, as the convict,
pinioned by the gaoler, follows the executioner to
the scaffold. A work of necessity, unavoidable —
her fate, her doom. But want of affection, which
is a negative quality, often becomes transformed
into dislike and aversion, which are very positive
qualities. So it was in this case. Before the
honeymoon was over, he who, ten days before
the marriage, was really loved, became gradually,
but slowly and surely, to occupy the place, first of
indifference, then of dislike, then of absolute
aversion. Rosa, although to do her justice she
struggled hard against it, and concealed as far as
she could her altered feelings, was yet unable to

extricate herself from the groove into which
she had unwillingly and unconsciously, but yet
gradually and decidedly slidden. As love covered
sins, even when they amount to a multitude, so
want of love is a most lynx-eyed condition ; where
imperfections are magnified ; foibles becoming
serious faults ; and insignificant failings almost
unpardonable transgressions.

** Do look at this bonnet, Simon, and tell me
what you think of it ? You seem quite indifferent
as to what I wear."

** It's very nice, very nice indeed, darling,"
responded Simon.

*' I would rather you told me it was the ugliest
fright you ever beheld," retorted Rosa, ** but it is
always the same. If I ask you about some young
lady you say, * she's very nice.' If about the old
cat, * she's very nice,' If about some gentleman,
he's very nice.' If about some puppy dog, * he's
very nice.' If about the soup, or fish, or beef at
dinner, * it's very nice.' If about some new
song, * it's very nice.' It does not matter the
very least, whether I ask your opinion about manor
woman, cat or dog, soup or music, beef or
intellectual reading, I am sure of receiving the
same eloquent and comprehensive commentary,
he, she, or it, is very nice.' "

Simon, having received with much composure
this initial matrimonial lecture, like a good,
obedient husband, promised reformation ; acknowledging
: " It was very stupid of him, and that he

could only attribute it to a careless habit, which
he felt bound to acknowledge was, to say the
least, unintellectual and vulgar."

If Rosa lived in these days of refinement and
education, she would be frequently shocked by
the discovery of this vulgarity of Simon's, not
only in the conversation, but also in the correspondence
of her friends. No doubt, she would
often feel inclined to say, '' What a pity someone
does not kindly mention the existence of this
unbecoming practice to those who, quite unconsciously,
appear to be its fettered slaves ! " Perhaps,
too, she would be constrained to consider
what could be the origin of this monosyllabic adjective,
whose significance appears encyclopaedia ;
whose application, infinite; and whose employment
so universal as to become fatiguing to the
ear, and repulsive to the reflection.

As Mr. and Mrs. Goodman were discussing this
topic, and as the adjective 'nice," the town of
** Nice," "vix>3," the Greek for victory; and the
'nicene Creed," alternately, made the enquiry
discursive, Rosa was attracted to the hotel window
(the drawing-room was on the first floor, and
overlooked the street) by the sound of voices.
On approaching, she perceived a crowd of about
twenty persons, who had assembled outside, and
whose loud and well sustained laughter excited
her curiosity. Having thrown up the lower
sash, she experienced no difficulty in hearing
the conversation, in observing the countenances

of the speakers, and in estimating the badinage
which stimulated such an effervescence of excitement,
and afforded such general amusement.

There were two persons engaged in animated
conversation, a gentleman and a lady, or, if
you like the expression better, a man and a
woman, or, perhaps better still, a male and a
female.

The gentleman, the man, or the male, who
rejoiced in the name of Pat Carney, was tall and
thin, with narrow shoulders, knocking knees, and
a long, narrow, pale face. His cheeks so sunken
that one would be led to conclude all his molars
were deficient. The beard and whiskers, which
Providence had given him as a counterpoise to
the absence of flesh on his superior and inferior
maxilla, or jawbones, had been carefully and
cleanly removed by the razor. "Lazarus resurrect "
would not have been an inappropriate description.

The lady, the woman, or the female, Bridget
Donaghue by name, was as perfect an opposite as
you could imagine. She was short and stout, and
her face well provided with both colour and fat.
Her eyes were far apart, and of the Chinese
allocation. Her nose, wide at the base, was
relieved by a retrousse tip. Her upper lip was
very short. Her mouth, whose sides formed the
horns of a crescent in the direction of her eyes,
was well developed — an annual, in fact — or, extending
from year to year, with the y's left out ;
and her chin, well projecting, was apparently

making constant, though unsuccessful, efforts to
follow the direction of her nose.

'"• Array, Biddy," said Pat, " 'twas mesef was
thinker about ye t'other day. Oi just took a look
into the india rubber shop, and there was a doll that
somehow got crushed in the packing ; just as if
some sixteen-stone gentleman had sot on the top
of its head all the time it was coming over from
France, bringing its unfortunate features into overcrowded
company. Be this and be that, Biddy !
it brought ye into me head at worst, for it was
the dead map of ye. If ye would only buy it,
and bring it home, and sit it up against the wall,
the dive a wan would trouble to ax ye whose
likewise it was ; they would be full sure and
martin."

At hearing this, the assemblage, fixing steadfast
looks on Biddy's unabashed face, and
recognising the likeness, roared with laughter.

Do ye know, Pat, Oi was reminded of ye just
the same way ? Oi was looked into a shop
winder, and Oi seen, right in the middle, a
beautiful finger, and under it was printed, ' This
style, seven and sixpence.' "

And was it that reminded ye ? " said Pat.

'* No," said she, " hould yer whisht, and don't
be interrupted me ! Oi'm goes to tell ye what it
was. In the same winder, but all wayside like,
as if it wasn't worth observed, and as if they was
partly ashamed to show it at all, was another finger;
an anguish looked thing it was, sure enough,

just as if it was fed on father, with a squeeze of
lemon in it, for a twelvemonth ; and under it was
printed, * This lot 3d. a dozen.' Begot ! after Oi
seen it Oi couldn't get ye out of me head for
over half an hour."

The laughter, all round, rose higher than
before, and Biddy felt she had had her revenge
with interest ; and Eosa chuckled again in the
room, and even Simon joined.

*' Well, Biddy ! 'tis a good thing that somethen
makes ye think of me ; for. there is no mistake,
but you'd be a useful, serviceable woman to any
man that kept livery stables or had a farm."

'' How so, Pat ? " said Biddy, who thought he
wanted to make friends, by passing her a compliment.


'' The stable man would make his fortune, for,
sure and martin, that face of yes would frighten
any horse from aten his oats; and, there's no
doubt, ye would be worth any money to a farmer,
for if he stuck ye up in a corn-field, the civil a
crow would fly within a mile o' ye."

Again, there was a loud laugh, but not sufficient
to discomfit Biddy, who promptly replied :

Faites, and ye could make money with yer
face, too, Pat ; for if any quack doctor would set
it in his winder, as the condition of a patient
afore he was cured, the sorra a wan that passed
but would come in, for they would think the
recovery a merekel."

The laughter after this was so loud and long

that Pat hung his head and seemed abashed, but
Biddy did not Hke to see him losing heart, so she
tapped him on the back, and said, '* Never mind,
Pat, never mind! No father what anyone says
against ye, there is no one can say yer a two-faced
man ; indeed, they can't."

And Pat, pleased with the compliment, smilingly
enquired, '' Why so, Biddy ? "

Then Biddy, raising her voice that all might
hear, replied, " Begot ! if ye were, ye would
lave that ugly starved-looking face at home and
bring the other out with ye ! "

Perfectly vanquished by this last hit, Pat retired,
followed by the roars of laughter of the
crowd before the hotel, and Biddy, in all the
elated spirit of victory, cried more lustily than
usual, 'afresh fish! fresh fish!" while Pat, to
console his feelings, sung, as he went, the well-known
Irish ballad —

Och ! Biddy Donaghue,

I've set me heart on you ;
If you'll but marry Patsy, you'll ne'er have cause to rue !

For to ma yer mind is true,

I'm your Irish cockatoo ;
Mr. Cupid knocked me stupid over Bridget Donaghue !

It is only necessary to add that the incident
completely obliterated the recollection of the
matrimonial tiff from the minds both of Rosa
and Simon.

In rapid review of the incidents of three

months, we would next turn to Kanturk. Mrs.
Nagle and her daughter had a long conversation
with Dr. Armstrong. It was decided that both
should go to Cork as soon as Aggie was sufficiently
strong to travel, and it was thought that
this might be accomplished in about a fortnight
or three weeks. When the time arrived, the
doctor saw them off, and arranged to meet them
in a few days. Meanwhile, he completed his
arrangements, so that the marriage might be
quietly performed there, and that there might be
no obstacle to his bringing back his wife and
child to Sweet Brier Lodge.

The day before he set out for Cork, he called
his housekeeper into his sitting-room, and told
her how very satisfied he had been all along with
her care and attention ; however, that his wife
(at which word she almost started) who had not
been well, was now very much improved in health
and strength, so much so indeed, that he would
be able to bring her home. Moreover, that he
had persuaded his mother-in-law to remain with
them, so that he should not require her valuable
services after they arrived. It would give him
pleasure to assist her in getting another place, by
any means in his power, and that she was quite
at liberty to give him as a reference.

There was a considerable amount of surmise
and conversation in the kitchen that evening.
The doctor and his marriage, and when it could
have taken place, and whether the lady belonged

L 2

to the neighbourhood, were severally the topics
under consideration.

^*I am sure," said the housekeeper, ''I always
considered him a bachelor— yes, and a confirmed
old bachelor, too— who would never change his
condition. It is the greatest surprise that could
have befallen me, but, true it is, the unexpected
is what oftener happens."

In due time, the doctor, and Mrs. Armstrong,
and baby returned. Mrs. Nagle took up her
abode with them. All agreed that it would be
too lonely for her to remain by herself at home.
So happily did they live together, it was at length
definitely settled that she should not leave them,
and that Fern Leigh should be let to the first
desirable tenant that could be found.

Away from Kanturk we turn our attention,
and hasten back to Dunboy Castle. The marriage
of Gerald and Mary took place within three
weeks, and the happy couple set off to the
beautiful Killarney to spend their honeymoon.
It was a grand affair and most auspicious.
Many of the leading gentry from the adjoining
counties were present at the festivities. Among
the number the Knight of Kerry, who was a
relation of the bridegroom, and who made them
promise that before their return they would spend
some time with him at his Castle on Valencia

Island.

Tom and Nora waited for the marriage. Both
became great favourites with all at Dunboy.

Mrs. O'Brien willingly gave her consent to the
marriage of her son with Miss Harrington. The
happy event took place at Bogra Vale, the week
after the marriage of Gerald and Mary, and the
happy couple went to Cork to spend the first few
weeks of their united bliss.

Of course, Mrs. O'Brien and Mrs. 0' Sullivan
were present at the occasion, and during their
stay were the guests of the Harringtonss. As the
bride could not brook the idea of living far from
her much-loved brother, Mrs. O'Brien took Fern
Leigh from Mrs. Nagle, as the future residence of
her son and Nora. Both insisted that she should
take up her abode with them ; nor was her heart
indisposed to comply, for all her love was concentrated
in her noble boy, who was her only child.

When Gerald and his lovely wife went to
Killarney, they arrived there the day after the
Goodmanss had returned from the wilds of the
west, and, by some strange fatality, took up their
abode in the same hotel.

From the moment of their arrival, Rosa, who
saw him from the window, was greatly impressed
by the appearance of Mr. Fitzgerald. She
thought him the handsomest man she had ever
seen, and, in her secret thoughts, drew very
unfavourable comparisons between him and Mr.
Goodman, at last arriving at the conclusion, that
she wondered more and more, what could have
induced her to set her love and devote her life on
such a man.

Being remarkably pretty, full of vivacity, and
very fair, her appearance must also have attracted
Mr. Fitzgerald, for, more than once, as they sat
vis a vis at the table d'hote, when she raised her
eyes suddenly, she found his full gaze rivetted on
her face.

This she considered was a silent compliment
paid her. '* He does not dislike my looks,"
thought she, ** perhaps he admires them as much
as I do his." A slight blush, spreading over her
lovely face, proclaimed the truth that she was conscious
of his look, but the moment their eyes met
she, as quick as lightning, turned hers away.

The second detection was not attended with a
similar result, for Eosa paid back the glance with
such interest, by one of those wicked looks that
had previously made such deep impression on the
doctor, that a decided smile asserted its presence
on Mr. Fitzgerald's face. He felt that, on this
occasion, the colour mantled on his cheek, instead
of hers.

Who does not know that there are flirtations
carried on with the eyes, as well as flirtations
carried on with the lips in conversation. True,
they are more still, more sly, more unobserved,
but yet not one whit less convincing and demonstrative
to the actors. And so it happened that
Gerald, without the knowledge of his pure-minded,
unsuspecting, and beautiful bride, and
Eosa, without the knowledge of her husband,
while both were on their bridal tours, and both

were in the enjoyment of honeymoon blessedness,
actually carried on a career of unfaithfulness and
deception towards those to whom, on bended
knees, they had so lately vowed such binding and
solemn promises.

We know of the depth of Gerald's affection for
Mary ; we know he would have died by his own
hand if she had not been restored to him ; we
know that he deemed life not worth living if
deprived of her ; and yet, at the very first temptation,
we find his eyes disloyal to their allegiance.
Ay, and what makes matters worse, we all
know that the eye is only a complying vassal,
which yields obedience to the silently conveyed
admonitions of the commanding heart.

It is not for a moment asserted, or insinuated,
that Gerald had an impure thought, much less an
impure wish, or that his affection had decreased
in the very least for his noble, and beautiful, and
loving wife ; but, we cannot forget that the world
is made up of tiny atoms — the ocean of drops —
that the greatest crime ever committed originated
in a silent thought, while an unerring record
proclaims that it is, ** the lieth foxes that destroy
the vines."

A look — a glance — is very little in itself ; but it
is a beginning, and once the beginning is made,
who can tell the magnitude of the completion ?

THE GIPSY APPEARS AGAIN.

There are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio,
Than are dreamt of in your philosophy.

Hamlet.

The Fitzgeraldss and Mr. and Mrs. Goodman met
daily at the table d'hote, and, in the evening, in
the drawing-room, and an acquaintance gradually
developed between them.

Rosa, whose career was already chequered,
was far too wise to show her 'penchant for Mr.
Fitzgerald, but she commenced immediately, withall
the wiles which are instinctively the property
of women, to evince most ardent attachment to
his wife. She courted her company ; listened
with the most profound interest to her conversation;
soon employed '* dear " and *' dearie,"
*' ducky," and ** darling," instead of the cold and
distant sounding '' Mrs. Fitzgerald ; " and, by and
by, wound her arm round Mary's pretty waist,
and, when meeting or parting, impressed a fervent
kiss upon her cheek.

Reader ! are you a young lady, and have you
an unmarried brother, or a good-looking husband

? Can you tell me sincerely you have never
experienced any gentle attentions from any of
your own sex ? Do you not remember what a
dear girl you suddenly became, and rose accordingly
in estimation ? Of course, purely and
simply for your own sake ! And, what attachment
to you your fair young friend evinced ! And
how those little notes, you so often received, first

commenced, *dear A ;" then, '^ My dear

A ; " then, ** My dearest A ; " then,

My very dearest A ; " while, perhaps,

*' ducky," and '* darling," and '' dearie," and
*' honey," and a whole vocabulary of sweet names
were introduced, until the thermometer of affectionate
display reached boiling-over heat ; and you
learned to appreciate, with admirable accuracy,
how the affair with the brother was progressing,
or the exact measure of your husband's flirtation.
It was supremely unnecessary to make any
enquiry from your male relation. The only
strange part of the performance is, that the subjects
of these attentions — the submissive recipients
of loving names, compliments, kisses, and
professions of affection — sometimes consider the
motive single, and the display genuine. Nor are
they undeceived, until, with the cessation of the
brother's attention, the attractiveness of his sister
wanes in similar proportion. And, with the
rupture of the flirtation, the good and charming
qualities of the most amiable wife become so irrevocably
disbanded, that the fact soon becomes

apparent that she is not the exquisite darling, in
her friend's opinion, which she was once esteemed
to be.

** What a dear and beautiful young creature is
Mrs. Goodman ! " said Mary to her husband,
when, having spent the evening in the drawing-room,
they had retired for the night.

** Yes," said Gerald, with apparent unconcern,
*' she is very pretty, and so full of vivacity. I do
wonder what she saw in that most insipid and
silent man."

^' There is no accounting for taste, dear. Perhaps,
she admires him very much ; perhaps,
there is a mine of goodness in his nature, which
only requires to be sought for to be discovered.
If we knew him better, we might conclude that
he was intrinsically a most desirable acquaintance
and an estimable man."

** Quite true," responded Gerald; *but appearances
are most decidedly against him, yet all
diamonds look rough and dull until polished."

** Just imagine, Gerald ! both Mr. and Mrs.
Goodman come from Kanturk, and know Dr.
Armstrong so well. Mrs. Goodman mentioned
the place to-day, and when I asked her about the
doctor, oh ! you should see how she blushed. He
might have been an admirer of hers."

*' Not likely, I should think; the doctor would
be too old for that. It was, probably, the discovery
that you had a mutual friend, that caused
her apparent embarassment."

And so the conversation continued on the
same topic for some considerable time. It seemed
replete with interest to them both. But, although
it lasted long, Gerald did not tell his wife that
Rosa had two conversations with him that day,
all alone. That she had allowed him to button
on her glove. That, as he did so, he had professed
his admiration of her pretty little hand;
and that, as a punishment, she had given the end
of his Long beard a little pull ; and looking at
him full in the face, as she did so, said with a
deep sigh, *' How I wish Mr. Goodman was like
you ! " That both had heard her approach, and
had so rapidly become engrossed with interest in
publications they had snatched from the table,
that no one could possibly imagine they had exchanged
one word with each other before her
arrival.

Mr. and Mrs. Goodman had intended to spend
not more than two or three days at Killarney, but
the attraction of the Fitzgeraldss induced them to
prolong their sojourn till the promised visit to
Valencia took Gerald and his wife away. Eosa
then discovered that the place was very dull, and
Simon, who had already become a mere implement
in her hands, at once made arrangements
to return to Kanturk.

Many were the conversations that Mary held
with Rosa during those days that were spent at
the same hotel. Ay, and many were the conversations
that Gerald had too. The latter were all

of that light, nonsensical, trashy description
which characterises flirtations, and which but for
the rapport, the congeniality of feeling, and wish,
and sentiment, which sways the perpetrators
alike, would be as totally devoid of interest to
anyone endowed with common sense, as the
chattering of rooks or the cooing of doves. But
Mary's conversations were not of this character.
Her beautiful young acquaintance professed much
love, much interest. She seemed to delight in
her society, and, being of a most affectionate
disposition, was most demonstrative. Mary, who
was of a loving disposition, too, became quite
attached to Rosa, returned with equal warmth
her embraces, and having told her of her own
happiness and peace of mind, used every persuasion
to make Rosa happy too.

More than once did Eosa sob and weep as
Mary pleaded with her ; and more than once with
the earnestness of genuine sincerity did she say,
** Ah ! dear, you would not thus speak with me,
if you knew all I could tell you ; on the contrary,
you would spurn me, you would look on me as
lost past recovery, you would speak to me no
more, and yet you would say it was not my fault."

Mary could get no information about this dark
secret from her. It was deeply buried in her
breast, never to be disclosed. It was gnawing,
eating, devouring, like a cancer, keeping her back
from the enjoyment of that perennial happiness
which springs from a conscience at peace with

itself; persuading her that she could entertain
no hope, and urging her to seek in frivolity, and
dissipation, and sin, that respite from reproach
which her reflection refused, and which her unoccupied
moments transformed into a furnace-flame
of discontent.

The fact was, that from the hour she had passed
in the doctor's sanctum, poor Rosa had no peace.
The contest between bad and good often waxed
hot, and raged furiously. Could she have disclosed
to some kind and sympathetic heart like
Mary's her distracting secret, there is no doubt
she would have discovered some mode of egress,
some escape from the mental condemnation that
was spoiling her life ; but she could not summon
courage to unfold the story of her shame ; to tell
of that forced humiliation, the effects of which
she had not yet escaped ; which involved continual
deceit ; and carried the heritage of unending
wrong to the man she had married. And, while
sometimes despair and wretchedness, originated
by what could not be recalled, made her long for
death, and suggested more than once the thought
of suicide, no one could tell who looked at her
lovely face, and eyes beaming with animation,
that she was not the happiest girl in the universe.

It was no solace to her mind that she had
been the unwilling victim of another's villainy.
The engrossing thought which haunted her, disdaining
the consideration of the cause, dwelt
solely on the fact that she was ruined in purity.

in innocence, and in her private reputation,
though the world knew it not. So deep, so
compromising, so utter was this ruin in her
estimation that she felt obliged to shield its guilt
by deception and by falsehood. Continued deception.
Falsehood, not once uttered, and then
discarded, but sustained by continual act.

Had Dr. Armstrong known the pall of sorrow
he had spread over that promising young life ; if
he had seen the tears, and heard the sighs and
sobs of heartbroken distress ; if the curtain that
concealed the future had for a moment been
raised, and he could have caught a glimpse of the
consequences which flowed as a natural sequence
from the crime he had perpetrated ; if he could
have discovered the fulfilment of his almost prophetic
speech, delivered the day after Eosa's
degradation; then, if he possessed one spark of
proper feeling, there is no culprit condemned to
penal servitude for long years, as a penalty for
discovered transgressions, who would have reason
to envy his state of mind, or, who would wish to
exchange the captivity of imprisonment for the
crushing fetters of condemning conscience. How
insignificant is the sentence of judicial conviction
when contrasted with that self-reprobation which
delegates the culprit to the dungeon of misery,
from whence there is no escape, and no reprieve.
Where the inward monitor is at once the convicting
witness, the condemning jury, the relentless
jailor, and the unpitying executioner.

But, on the other hand, are we to suppose that
the few tears of penitence which flowed, as Mary-pleaded
with him, were sufficient to enfranchise
from condign punishment his future ? Are we
to suppose that his victim, his unwilling, constrained,
crushed, overpowered victim, must
wallow in the depths of impurity of which he
was the source ; suffer the purgatory of continual
self-contempt of which he was the cause ; and
endure through his instrumentality a life of
deception and suffering ; while he is to live scotfree
from punishment, established in social and
domestic happiness, wearing the colours of respectability,
and the reputation of moral sanctity ?
Are we to suppose that all the wretchedness is to
befall her, the violated ; and all the immunity isis
to be his, the violator's ? Then would the
assumption be antagonistic to reason and justice,
which propounds the question, " Shall not the
judge of all the earth do right ? "

From Killarney Gerald and Mary went to
Valencia. An enjoyable visit of ten days there
soon terminated. Anxious for the quiet of home
and the happiness of useful occupation, Mary
proposed that they should return to Dunboy ;
where, on their arrival, they found Mrs. 0' Sullivan
full of joy at seeing them again, and delighted
to welcome them.

And then the days flew swiftly by, and the
sunshine of happiness had not one over-passing
shadowy cloud. Mary resumed her work of

kindness and philanthropy among the poor of
Castletown, and those who had sorrow received
sympathy, those in poverty found help, those in
nakedness got clothing, and those who were sick
and suffering were visited and cherished. Truly
a minister of glad tidings was among them,
whose presence in many a darkened room shed a
ray of joy.

• One morning, engaged in her usual avocation,
as the Httle company of Mary's pensioners
assembled round her, among them she perceived
one whose presence immediately arrested her
attention. She had seen that countenance
before. It now, at once, riveted her gaze,
bringing an expression of alarm and trouble over
her placid, happy face.

'* Oh ! where have I seen you, and why does
your presence discomfort me so terribly?" said
Mary.

And the old woman replied, in accents as
familiar to Mary's ear as her appearance was to
her eyes,

'kind lady, you were good to me before.
Have you forgotten the little bottle I gave you, or
has it taken away all recollection of the past ? "

And with the words 'the little bottle," Mary,
who had been sitting, sprang to her feet, and
raised both hands violently, as in a spasm, to
her head. The scenes of Lovell's presence at
Dunboy. Her flight by night. Her sojourn in
the Castle on Bere Island. Her fearful agony

there, as the door was being shattered under the
strong blows of powerful men. The straining
and breaking of the bars. All rose like a vision
before her. And then, most vividly reappeared
in reflection's mirror, her own despair, as she
drained the contents of the vial. Nor did her
thoughts stop there. The memory of another
occurrence came back like an apparition. She
seemed again to wander hopelessly in that damp,
cold vault, to feel • the coffins of the dead around
her, and to realize the fearful thought that she
had been buried alive.

All, with staring eyes, and open mouths, were
struck dumb with astonishment, as they viewed
the agony depicted on her fair face, and saw her
frantic gesture ; and some of the old women
actually seized the witch, whom they supposed
had cast her vile enchantment over their kind,
and generous, and most charitable benefactor.

But Mary, coming quickly to herself, exclaimed,
'let her alone! it is not her doing; she has
been my friend; I owe her much for her kindness.
It is the occurrences of the past which have
rushed so vividly to my memory, that I almost
feel as though they were again being enacted.

Then the old woman, released, raised her
hollow voice again, '' Kind lady, you have so
captivated my heart, that I would wish to suffer
in your place, rather than injure you. The
mention I have made of things now past, I
fondly hoped would bring back joyful thoughts of

victory, and make you glad in their remembrance.
My pain has been the more, finding they bring
distress and sad discomfiture."

^*It is not so," said Mary, interrupting her.
** Up to this moment, from the time I drank the
contents of that small bottle, all memory of my
troubles has been lost. That all has ended well
my presence here is proof. But how the fiery
trial passed, and how the escape from dangers
was effected, and how I spent dark hours in the
grave, and how I left its precincts, and came
back to life, I know not. Like a most vivid
dream, I see the sorrows, the dangers, the
terrors; but the escape, the rescue, the deliverance,
is clothed in deepest darkness, in obscurity
impenetrable."

Wouldst thou learn more, kind lady, ask thy
friends. They can enlighten thee, can tell thee
all, but with the past I have not aught to do.
'Tis of unaccomplished deeds, which still lie
buried in the womb of time not come, that the
Egyptian sage hath given me insight. And, as I
gauge thy horoscope, no thunder-clouds, with
torrents teeming, such as thou hast experienced
in the past, darken thy horizon now. But still a
shadow soon will pass across thy sun, and then
another, heavy for awhile. Yet let not these thy
cheerful heart depress, for their dull gloom will
not for long enshroud thy way, and then, unto
the end of thy career, the light of joy and peace
will gild thy flower strewn path."

The old woman left without another word.
When Mary called her to come back, she turned
not once upon her course, nor uttered one reply,
but raising up her pale, thin hand she shook it
nervously, to indicate her inability to comply.
Each eye, with wistful look, followed her footsteps
as she went, but not one raised a voice until she
disappeared.

As soon as Mary reached her home, the evidences
of excitement which were still apparent
in her manner, and her looks of anxiety, quickly
aroused the attention of Gerald. He followed
her to her room, and, passing in after her, closed
the door, asking, at the same time, " What can
be the matter with you, Mary, darling ? "

** Just what I desired — to have you with me,
all alone," said Mary, disregarding any allusion to
his question. '' I want you to tell me now all
about Captain Lovell " — at the mention of this
name, Gerald shewed much emotion — 'all about
my escape from the castle on the island — how
I arrived here — and then," said she, lowering her
voice, " tell me about that dreadful vault, where,
alone — alone, in darkness dense, I spent long
hours with the dead. Say, too, how I was rescued
from that living grave. You see I know it well,
with the exception of these few particulars, and
these I know you can disclose. Then oh ! tell
quickly all that I long to hear."

Then Gerald told her how he arrived one day
too late ; that she had fled, and that her hiding

2

place upon the island had been discovered. *' On
my arrival at the castle' said he, ** the entrance
had been accomplished. I first saw Lovell, as he
walked down the stairs from the room you had
occupied. In answer to my enquiry concerning
you, he replied that you were dead. The agony
in his face, as he told me you had poisoned yourself,
almost unmanned me. Full of rage and
grief, I challenged him to single combat. Throwing
down his sword, he presented to me his
unprotected breast, and bid me, if I willed it, to
run him through. * I have driven her to death,'
said he, ' and now am as full of sorrow for it as
you can be, and oh ! so penitent that no other
blood shall ever be shed by me.' I could not kill
him like a dog, so threw my glove into his face,
when, taking up his sword, he followed me to a
level piece of ground hard by the castle, wherewith
our men around us as spectators ranged,
we entered on the fight. All my power, my
strength, my skill I used, to beat down his defence,
and to transfix himself, but, with consummate
skill, he guarded so that I could not
touch him. Twice he shewed me he could have
run me through, but held his weapon back, and
would not even scratch me.

**I own I feel deep shame that still I pressed
the fight, though fight it was not; that is not
its name — my wild attempt to murder, is the
epithet. He would not use his skill to injure
me, while I attacked with all the rancour

which revenge awakened, and detestation goaded
on.

'* The soldiers, skilled in sword exercise, saw
how it was, and cried out ' Shame ! ' that I should
try to murder one who would not injure me ; but
rage rose higher still within my heart. I rather
he had cut me down than thus appear vanquished
and overcome in the presence of my men ; so
still I thrust at him, till one of his men, in very
contempt of me, raised his axe and struck me on
the left arm, breaking it as you have seen.

'* Then Lovell threw his sword again upon the
ground, deeply indignant at the interference,
whereupon one of my men, in revenge for the
blow I had received, thrust, from behind, his
sword through his body, when, without one word,
he fell dead on the sward."

I am so glad you did not strike the blow. I
am rejoiced to know of his repentance, and
make no question of its sincerity from what you
have said. My last prayer before I drank that
dreadful draught was offered up for him, that
Heaven would change his heart; and it was
granted. Oh ! now when too late, I see, I see
my fault."

*' Your fault ! " said Gerald in surprise, " what
act did you do wrong ? "

I took that draught that robbed me of my
mind. I lost my trust, my confidence. I should
have kept in mind that I was in higher hands,
and that He could disarm the strongest arm and

mould to gentleness the hardest heart. My
punishment was all the needless agony I bore.
My punishment, those long hours in that dreadful
vault. My punishment, that Lovell's life was
lost, just when, if spared, it might have been
most useful; and what adds further grief, that
loss of life is due, where least I would have wished
it, even to you. Oh ! I am so sorry," said Mary,
bursting into tears.

'* And deep is my grief, too," said Gerald. '* I
longed to tell you all, but feared the sad remembrance
might have done you harm. And ever since
that death, I cannot remove from my thoughts
the presence of that man — his noble daring when
he stood undaunted before my sword ; his heartfelt
penitence ; and then his sparing me my life —
indeed, the thought so presses on my soul, that
all along I feel myself his murderer'*

'' Oh ! not so bad," said Mary. '' Oh no ! not
his murderer; you tried 'tis true, but Heaven,
kind Heaven would not allow you. And Heaven,
with all my heart, for that I thank. But, tell me
of the rest, for more I long to know — yea, tell
me all."

Then in minute detail Gerald recorded how he
brought her from the island ; how he landed herat
Dunboy ; how for days he watched her, when
he thought her dead ; how she was committed to
the vault ; how he sat beside her there ; at last,
how tired of life, he went and purchased poison,
that he might die there too ; how he found her

sitting up ; and how the skill of Dr. Armstrong
brought back animation.

And Mary heard the story in suspense profound,
marked each detail, and grasping each
incident, understood all that had passed while
she lay helpless in unconsciousness.

** It was dreadful, Gerald ! in that grave among
the dead, without a hope of seeing life again. I
cannot tell how awful, nor do I wish to brood
over these sad thoughts. They bring no profit.
They all teach the same lesson, that I deserved
to be punished for casting off my trust, and
ceasing to believe that He, who had promised to
defend me, would continue to do so. Oh ! what
consequences follow in the track of sin. I took
that draught; hence Lovell's death; hence your
participation in it; hence the suffering, and the
mental pain caused to both you and my dear
mother ; hence, too, the frightful sojourn in that
tomb among the dead. But you have told me
one thing which has pained me most of all, that
is your premeditated suicide. Would you, indeed,
have poisoned yourself had I not recovered ? "

'eyes, most certainly! were I to say otherwise
it would be false."

*' Oh ! Gerald, what an awful sin ! Do not you
believe it is so ? ''

**I thought that you had done so, and I did
not care for any hereafter different from yours."

'' But there appeared before me but two courses.
One was sin, degradation, death ; the other death

alone, without the sin and the degradation. I
preferred the latter, and would again had I no
other alternative ; but you had no such plea, you
had life and usefulness before you, and the
commission of no sin compulsory, yet, because
you felt discontented with the decree of Heaven,
you decided to destroy yourself."

** You know, Mary, I do not look on religion
as you do. I have been brought up a Christian,
and mean to continue one. Had I been brought
up a Hottentot, or a Parsee, I doubt not I would
have remained the same, for I see much I cannot
understand. In the world each creature preys on
its inferior; there is one unbroken chain of
uninterrupted cruelty. In the Bible I read that
orders were given by God to destroy, in cold
blood, the men — the warriors, who bravely
defended their homes and families. Ay, and
worse than that ! their wives, and helpless,
innocent, little children, too, who were not
partakers in the resistance. This narrative
revolts against my thoughts of right, and makes
the humane portion of my nature cry. Is this
the act of mercy ? Is it not rather the worst
form of cruelty and injustice ? Then I read
again, that * By Him were all things made, and
without Him was not anything made that was
made.' And then, I read of ' death unending, and
a hell of fire,' and am taught that all must endure
that undying death, and share that hell, excepta
favoured few among professing Christians.

*' With all these thoughts deeply pressing on
my mind, I should be truthless and a hypocrite to
say that mercy was the character of God ; more
particularly, if He possessed a foreknowledge of
results, and, uninfluenced by necessity or any
overpowering cause, created, of His own free will
and choice, crowds of keen, sensitive, and most
feelingly acute creatures, knowing that torment,
and suffering, and unending death awaited them.
Surely, the blood may curdle in the veins at the
reflection awakened by the words, * Their worm
diet not, and their fire is not quenched.' "

** Gerald'' replied Mary, with a look of deep
pain on her face, ''do you know why this world
hangs in empty space ? "

"- Yes, dear ; it is due to gravity, or attraction."

*' Do you know why it possesses gravity; or
why gravity, or size, or bulk should cause
attraction ? "

'' Well, no. Philosophers tell us it is so ; but
why it is so, I cannot say."

'' Do you know why we require air to live,
and that if it were removed we should quickly
die ? "

*soh, yes; we require air to oxidise the blood,
and that is essential to our vitality."

'' But why does blood require oxidation ? "

** To remove the impurities of the worn-out
tissues."

Why is this essential ? "

'* I cannot say, I'm sure."

Then, you tell me candidly, you cannot
understand the ways of God about the world we
live in, or the lives which we possess ; and, while
you tell me so, you only allow what the greatest
philosopher must also confess, that he knows so
little of the works of God that he cannot even tell
me whip his finger or his tongue is obedient to his
will! Then, this being so, is it reasonable to
expect that we should understand that God
Himself, whose simplest works are puzzles to
our finite minds ? and, forsooth, because we cannot
understand his dealings with the world, we
have a right, from our partial and limited knowledge,
to draw conclusions degrading to those
principles and instincts which He has implanted
in our hearts.

*' Who gave man an esteem for honor, mercy,
truth, justice ? Who stamped the impression on
his mind that these were noble and exalted, and
that their opposites were abhorrent to proper
feeling ? And with knowledge too limited to
understand his commonest works, shall I accuse
the Giver of these gifts as one devoid of their
possession ?

Who planted love in the human heart? Who,
that sacred and unselfish love which will induce
the parent to stand between its child and death ;
that love which would influence you to hasten
now between me and the maddest dog that ever,
with envenomed tooth, inoculated agonising, incurable
hydrophobia ; that love which made you

deem your life worthless when you thought mine
was gone ? And will Reason say that the Giver
of such love is devoid of its possession ? Will it
not rather enforce the conclusion that it is the
woof of the texture of His existence ?

**I need not argue. Your own intelligence
decides — the idea is preposterous. Then leaving
what we cannot judge, because our knowledge is
too finite, let us meditate on what we can judge.
I cannot Hell the character of God from His dealing
with the world, nor from the records of the
world's history, but I can tell the character of
God from his dealings with my own life and my
own heart. And while I find that deep-dyed
ingratitude is my characteristic ; that all my acts
are full of sin, and all my best efforts replete with
imperfection ; still, as I review the past, must the
language of my experience proclaim, ' Trulij,
goodness and mercy have followed me all the days of
my life,' and nothing but forbearance, kindness,
loving-mercy, and long-suffering could have endured
the return I have constantly made."

''I see the reasonableness of your words, my
darling," said Gerald. '' My heart acknowledges,
even while you speak, their truthfulness. Yes, I
can understand the dealings of my Maker with
me, and find them conformable with the acts
of one who is * merciful and gracious, slow to
anger, and of great goodness.' You are right ; I
do not know sufficient to judge of His acts with
the world. Indeed, to try is rank presumption.

It is the insane effort of finite intelligence trying
to measure the boundaries of infinity."

Mary had a golden opportunity offered, and
availed herself of it, and was happy in the
thought of bringing happiness to Gerald's mind,
by leading him to decide from personal experience,
that instead of being cruel, and' delighting
in punishment and suffering, He is a God 'whose
mercy is everlasting and whose truth endure from
generation to generation."

HANDSOME TOM HARRINGTON AND MRS. GOODMAN.

II serait doux d'entrer sous Tamoureuse loi,
Si Ton trouvait en amour de la foi ;
Mais, helps ! 6 rigour cruelle !
On ne voit point de bergere fidele.

MoLIERE.

It would be sweet to take the nuptial tie,
If one were sure that love would never die ;
But ah, alas ! it is intensely cruel
That plighted love so often wants renewal.

When Mr. and Mrs. Goodman returned to Kan-turk,
they were met by the father and mother of
the bride, who escorted them to ** Lara Grove,"
their new abode. Much care, expense, and
trouble had been lavished on it, to make it not
only thoroughly comfortable, but even luxurious.
Eosa was charmed as she hurried from room to
room, and viewed with admiration the efforts that
had been made by her friends, in her absence, to
contribute to her happiness, and give her the
pleasurable feeling that she had not been forgotten
when away. The drawing-room she pronounced
'' exquisite ; " the dining-room, with its
costly oil paintings, 'magnificent;" her own

boudoir, ** aesthetic ; " the bed-rooms, 'perfection
; " and the library, "just what would gratify
Simon."

The morning after her arrival, as soon as
breakfast was over, she arrayed herself with
especial care, putting on her most fascinating
bonnet and most becoming dress, and, having
ordered her phaeton and ponies — her father-in-law's
present — set off for Kanturk, telling Simon,
that " she did not intend to be very long away."

She was a capital whip. The ponies under her
guidance dashed along the road, and looked really
splendid as they tossed their heads and trotted
swiftly through the town. General admiration
was excited. Everyone turned to take a glance
at the charming driver in the front seat; the
well-appointed livery servant sitting behind, with
cockade in hat, gold-lace band, and crested
buttons; and the pretty phaeton and lovely
ponies.

Without stop or stay they hurried along, nor
were the active little animals pulled up, until they
arrived at the gate of Sweet Brier Lodge ; when
Rosa, alighting, gave the reins to her servant,
and at the same time directed him to walk the
pretty creatures backwards and forwards until she
returned.

With palpitating heart she entered the waiting-room.
The doctor being engaged with a patient,
she was detained about ten minutes. She then
hastened to his consulting-room, and with beaming

eyes, and a most engaging smile, which
displayed her beautiful white teeth, showed her
joy at seeing him again.

He stood up, shook hands, and expressed his
delight at seeing her looking so well ; but, there
was something in his manner so totally dissimilar
to the last time she had called to see him, and
the reception was so different — no clasping in
the arms, no succession of ardent kisses — that
Rosa, with the expression on her countenance
entirely altered, exclaimed, 'what is the matter
with you, Bobby, are you not feeling well ? "

"Oh yes! thank you, Mrs. Goodman, quite
well."

'eyes — thank you — Mrs. Goodman " — repeated
Eosa, adding, " have I offended you ? Have I
displeased you ? What have I done ? Why this
great, this unexpected change ? "

I have been so grieved for what has taken
place," responded the doctor. " The thought, has
never left my mind, how wickedly I have acted.
How I should long to have the past undone, and
see you again, as you once were, a good and
happy girl. You can be so " he continued, " God
is good, and is forgiving, and "

Eosa's sweet expression was now transformed
into one of supreme contempt. Interrupting him,
she exclaimed: "You are a choice one to speak
about religion. ' God is good ' — for God's sake
withhold from my ears the announcement of such
hypocrisy. If you are altered, changed, tired of

iii — humiliating as the thought is, it must bespoken
— at least have the sincerity to say so, and
do not nauseate me with religion altogether, by
hearing its name polluted, by its mention from
the lips of one so steeped in deepest immorality."

*'I know I have been bad. Oh ! so bad; but
mean to be so no more, and with the deepest
feeling of sincerity, long to see you too leave the
way of transgression, and seek your happiness
in "

*^ Plague me not," said Eosa, again interrupting
him, *' I have heard and read that when
insatiate profligates get tired of their dupes — the
degraded sufferers from their lust and villainy —
and long for fresh fuel to goad their jaded appetites,
it is their usual practice to put on the affected
semblance of piety, and preach it to their victims,
as the noblest, readiest, easiest way to lull their
suspicion of transferred affection, and, as the
most uncompromising pretext, and most successful
diplomacy, to enable them to get rid of them.
And now I am to understand you assume this
mask, and with unblushing effrontery, after your
behaviour to me, unhesitatingly assume this line
of acting. Then be it so ; but, let me tell you,
sir, you need not have had recourse to this
expedient."

'' It is not soit is not so," said the doctor
earnestly. 'what I have said is true. I long
for your real happiness, your peace, your
soul's "

I will not hear your flimsy pretexts, your
hypocritical pretences. I could not have expected
better treatment from one so vile. But had I
anticipated this before I left this morning, I
would have placed a loaded pistol in my pocket,
and would have shot you dead at the first mention
of abandonment. Now, no more of that
religious dodge, but answer me.

**Do you remember, sir, our conversation on
the morning of my marriage ? I told you that
each day, when first I left my bed, I was so sick,
and you replied, ' it is the surest proof that you
are on your way to be a mother.' Then you
added, how you would love the child ; that it was
yours ; and that, when the time of its birth came
round, your love would warmer grow each day,
both for the mother and the baby ? "

'^ I remember*' said the doctor, with a groan of
remorse.

** You need not grunt now. I needed not this
exhibition to convince me the subject would be
disagreeable, and that your affection for your
unborn child would be as transient as that for its
mother. Well ! now I must bear alone, without
even the sympathy of my destroyer, the shame,
the anguish, springing from my own feelings, and
from the continued wrong I do to Mr. Goodman.
And sir, when the child is born, am I to act the
hypocrite like you, and lead him still to think
that it is his, and let him bear the trouble and
expense of that which is at once the proof of his

disgrace and mine ? I shall not do so villain !
I had rather meet the penalty my sins — imposed,
fostered, originated, forced by you — deserve. So
now, I tell you plainly, when it is born, not to
commit continued injustice towards him, and not
to perpetuate so vile a brood, my mind is fixed,
my resolution firmly formed. It is this — I shall
smother it !

*then it will be yours — newly religious man,
upright man, moral man that you are — to see
that justice is not defrauded of its victim. So
you can add to the security of your present enviable
position, by having me — the murderess —
imprisoned, tried, convicted, hanged. And so
will end this tragedy, and my unhappy life."

*' Oh ! by all that's kind and good, speak not
like that ; it will break "

"I want no more, sir, of your words or
intercourse ! You have me not bound in the
sanctum of your villainy now, where I perforce
must hear your false professions, and suffer helplessly
your indignities'*

Then, turning on her heel, she left the room,
and, hastening to the hall door, let herself out,
without one glance, or look, cast back on the
author of her grief and desperation.

The doctor's feelings were not enviable. He
knew he deserved all she had said, and more.
The thoughts of the past were torturing. The
idea of the wrong he had done Rosa never left
his thoughts. The reflection that Mr. Goodman,

who had never, by act or word, harmed him, was
by him deeply, irrevocably, continually injured,
added to the poignancy of his mental suffering ;
and now, the threat that murder was about to
follow in the wake of the crime he originated,
appeared the climax of his distress. Leaning his
head upon his hand, his punishment seemed
thoroughly to prostrate him. It pressed on him
as a load too heavy for him to bear. It crushed
him to the dust of humiliation. He groaned in
the heartfelt agony of his remorse.

When Rosa left the door, she quickly walked
down the gravel path leading to the gate. As
she drew near, a tall, dark, handsome young
fellow, with very erect figure, and military walk,
approached. His eyes were fixed on her before
she noticed him ; but, as soon as she beheld
him, she felt, in a moment, that he was fascinated
by her charms.

Oh ! ladies are so quick of intellect, of sagacity,
of instinct, if you like ; they know with half a
glance the extent of appreciation which is conveyed
in the look of a new admirer.

This handsome young fellow, for so she decidedly
considered him, raising his hat, held it off
while he opened the gate ; and Rosa, with a most
graceful bow, passed unimpeded. Still holding his
hat in hand, he volunteered his assistance to aid
her to mount her seat in the carriage. She gracefully
accepted ; and, favouring him with one of
her sweetest smiles, said, " Thank you so much."

N2

Tom Harrington — for it was he — thought he
had never before seen so pretty a creature ; and
was, at that moment, quite ready to devote himself,
his^life, his heart, and all Bogra Yale and its
surroundings to her service, if he could only find
out who she was, and if she would accept the
willing offering.

Rosa drove home, making no call by the way ;
and Tom went in to see the doctor.

When he entered, before 'good morning," or
"How are you'' or "Fine day," or any other
of our conventional phrases escaped his lips, he
asked.

*' "Who was that young lady that just now went
out from your house ? I never saw one so
pretty before. I thought Miss 0' Sullivan was very
beautiful, but really, in my estimation, she cannot
compare with her. Her face is so lit up with
animation, her eyes flash such fire, really, doctor,
if she is married, it will be the greatest disappointment
I have ever experienced, for my heart
seems completely captured by her. I could
devote my life to her. Her appearance has awakened
an idea of happiness, such as I never before
experienced."

'* Oh, Tom, Tom ! " said the doctor, "there is
much of disappointment, and sorrow, and fretting,
and mental misery in this world ; and the most
of it, or, perhaps, I might say well nigh all, we
bring upon ourselves."

"Pardon me, doctor," said Tom. "I am

always so glad to get your good advice, but please
do answer my question first, who is that young
lady ? "

'' She is a Mrs. Goodman, married about a
month ago. I see my words have overcast your
looks, but you know I cannot alter circumstances,
nor change the past, however deeply I may long
for such a power."

I wish much, then, that I had not seen her.
You cannot think what a life I lead, and how
awfully lonely I am in that house by myself, ever
since Nora was married. True, the time that has
elapsed is short, but to me it seems an age. In
the daytime it is endurable, for I am occupied
about the farm ; but, in the evenings, it is simply
and absolutely unbearable. No one to speak to ;
no one to exchange an idea with. Sit — Mope —
Head. Bead — Mope — Sit ! Work the changes on
this programme how you will, the monotony is
intolerable. I thought when I saw that awfully
engaging lady, one whom, I am sure, I could
really love, that the dawn of a happier day had
appeared; but, no sooner have my hopes been
awakened, than the chilling frost of disappointment
nips them in the bud. Good-bye, doctor.
I never saw you look so melancholy before. Do
you not feel well ? "

''111 in mind, Tom; and, like yourself, the
prospect seems so dark, that the smallest break in
the storm cloud that envelopes is not perceptible.
Your position, however, is enviable when compared

with mine. There are hopes that yours
will brighten, but my only prospect is that bad
will turn to worse. Oh, Tom ! if you knew the
weight that this moment rests upon my heart, in
very pity for me, you would forget your own
trouble, or consider it, in comparison, so light,
that it was not worth the wasting of a thought."

*' I am exceedingly sorry for you," replied Tom.
*' Can I be of any use ? Then, tell me, and rely
upon my help, in any and in every way that lies
within the compass of my power."

'* Thank you a thousand times ! I cannot tell
you ; neither could you help me, if I did. I've
no one but myself to blame ; but what is done
can never be recalled."

Then Tom — concluding he could be of no
advantage, and truly distressed at the doctor's
trouble — yet believed that his own desolation was
a lot sufficiently hard for anyone, and was full of
doubt that, in comparison, it would appear so
inconsiderable. With these thoughts in the
ascendant, he took his leave, and wandered
listlessly into the town. Somehow, he felt a
longing that he might meet Mrs. Goodman again:
even if it were only to pass her in the street
without a recognition, which he had not the
assurance to expect. And so, he rambled about
for nearly two hours, but, the fates being unpropitious
to his desires, he had to return home,
feeling more desolate and discontented than ever
in his life before.

And days passed on, and weeks rolled by.
Many an hour did Mrs. Goodman occupy his
thoughts by day. Many a midnight vision
presented her, with enchanting accuracy to his
view, and many a time Tom visited Kanturk in
the hope of seeing her. Yes ! the idle, useless,
senseless hope ; for how could it benefit him ?
Was it not rather calculated to unsettle his mind
more, and lead him to dwell with more prejudiced
feelings on his loneliness and discontent ?

Various were the devices he had recourse to, in
order to while away the time that hung so heavily
on his hands. He turned his hand to carpentry,
and tried to work the chisel and the saw. There
were some scores of old prints in the house. He
fitted frames to all ; and, at last, became quite an
adept at corner cutting and adjustment. Then,
under the influence of that imaginary panacea
for all grievances, which some national idiosyncrasy
suggests to Irishmen, he meditated emigration;
and dwelt upon the topic long; though all
his cogitations were unable to decide between the
rival claims of newly discovered lands and the
Canary Islands, with the imposing peak of
towering Teneriffe acting with the attractiveness
of a magnet. Plans were made and altered, and
altered and made again, while, all the time, the
truthful record, that 'rit is not good for man to
be alone," found confirmation strong, in his
dissatisfied experience.

And as from week to week, he thus dragged on

through time, the season of his birthday came
around. The teeming rain, through all that day,
fell constantly. The winds moaned in discordant
concert. And Tom's melancholy, which was
now becoming chronic, realised its climax in
depression the most dismal. Being unable to
leave the house, he wandered from room to
room, until, at last, with soul surcharged with
heaviness, he gave vent to his pent-up feelings in
lines, which, if devoid of poetical fire and
literary merit, should not in pathos be deficient,
for floods of tears welled to his eyes, and fell
upon the page during their composition.

Low'ring dark clouds o'ercast the morn. The wind

In moaning murmurs sounds so passing drear,
It wakes a plaintive sadness in the mind,
Till doleful thoughts evoke the trickling tear.
But why this sorrow on a natal day ?
Away sad thoughts, away from me, away !

Yet now, while listening to the dreary blasts,

I find my thoughts all mirrored in their sky.
That sky a mournful pall of gloom overcast,
My thoughts are shrouded in melancholy.

But this should be a day of joy and cheer,
Away then, gloomy thoughts, approach not here.

The days of youth anon recur to mind,

And childhood's home, with every scene so glad ;
The sports, the joys, the friends that were so kind,

Ye past delights, why make my heart so sad?
E'en memory brings me in my sleeping hour

To tread the *' shady walk " where childhood strayed ;
My dreams recall " the knoll," " the grove," '' the bower,"

The room where first I breath'd, where first I play'd ;

The home of youth my dreams in memory keep,
That home, all lov'd ones gone, I wake, and weep.
This natal day should be a time of joy,
Then past delights, why bring this sad alloy?

Oh ! silence, sad dejection's saddest nurse,

And loneliness, of death the near akin,
Methinks thy vaunted calm a scathing curse,

Fomenting discontent, and grief, and sin.
For as, in desolation sad, I muse.

The fairest scenes no rays of joy impart.
And, all alone, my wayward thoughts refuse

To rouse my spirits or to cheer my heart.
Alone ! yes, all alone, with course half run.

My sands are drifting towards the destined tomb ;
Who knows, but life's thread may be nearly spun.

And verging quickly toward an earlier doom.
What matters it ? I have no kindred tie,

No sympathizing soul to miss me here.
No one to grieve for me or sigh,

Or bathe my lifeless relics with a tear.
Estranged from those most dear, they now forget

Him, whom, perhaps, their love would once have mourned ;
'Tis well ! for I should grieve to think they'd fret.

Or grieve me gone, dejected and forlorn.

Ye gloomy thoughts, ye will not flee away,
You're sweet in loneliness, then stay — then stay.

Ay ! gloomy thoughts. I bid you welcome here.

Now is your season, exercise your sway.
Life's Httle isthmus dwindles every year,

Till ocean cares drift all its sands away.
If joys were ours, nor trouble's tempests rage.

Nor toss our little bark with sorrow's wave ;
Then we should deem this life no pilgrimage.

Nor think of heavenly joys beyond the grave.
By kind decree our happy youth glides slow.

To childhood's joy a day is like a year.
But old age tides, tho' slow their currents flow.

But a few moments in the past appear.

And gleams there not a hope in all our grief,

A hope which bids our drooping spirits rise ;
A hope which gives a lasting, sure relief,

That hope, " God will wipe all tears from our eyes ! "
Ye gloomy thoughts, I wish you not away ;
Ye turn the mind to Heaven, then stay — then stay.

About two months after this memorable birthday
had passed, Tom, who had signally failed in
his various efforts to content himself at home,
took it into his head one day, to pay a visit to
Nora and her husband, Fergus. Being an active
young man, and a good walker, he set out from
Bogra Vale, passed through Kanturk, and, wending
his course along the prettily shaded road, indue
time arrived at Fern Leigh.

There he found Fergus looking as happy as the
day was long, and so, enjoying a state of mind the
very opposite to his own experience. Nora's face,
too, was beaming with joy. He had never seen
her looking better.

They were both delighted to see Tom. He
was a favourite with everyone who knew him.
Both with united request insisted on his spending
the remainder of the day with them, and on his
not returning to his lonely home as long as his
engagements would allow him to remain away. Of
course, his attention was directed to the improvements,
which were many and various. Not only
was Fergus becoming an extensive farmer, but
he took measures to ensure domestic enjoyment.
With this object in view, he made enlargements

to his house by the addition of a magnificent
ball-room, and a well. arranged billiard-room. He
had obtained a long lease from Mrs. Nagle, to
whom the fee simple belonged, so could not be
accused of acting the foolish part, which some do,
of laying out money on the property of others.

Tom enjoyed his visit very much, and for a
while forgot the desolate loneliness of his bachelor
life. Time, too, that wonder-worker, began
to dull the vivid impression which the transient
effulgence of Eosa's beauty had painted on his
heart with infallible accuracy. So, having spent
two days most delightfully at his sister's, he set
out for his home again.

When in Kanturk, and passing along the main
street, a phaeton attracted his attention. He
thought he recognised it ; most certainly he had
seen it before, as well as the servant who occupied
the back seat, and who now, while awaiting
the driver, held the whip and reins. So intent
was he in his observation, that he almost jostled
Rosa as she passed from a shop to her carriage.

With hat off in a moment, Tom politely
begged pardon, while the unexpected apparition
made his handsome face blush scarlet.

Rosa noted quickly his discomposure, understood
most accurately its interpretation, and well
remembering that she had seen him before, smiling
sweetly, said —

*' I do not forget how kindly you opened a gate
for me, and handed me to my carriage when last

we met, but it is a long time ago, and no doubt
the trivial occurrence made no impression on
your mind."

*' No impression ^ " ejaculated Tom. "- 1 never
ceased to think of it ever since. I pondered over
it the livelong day, and I dreamt of it by night."

"Then," said Rosa, looking most archly wicked,
"did you expect me to run after you, or try to
find your dwelling-place, or to send some message
praying your leave to get an introduction ? "

"No, indeed!" said Tom, "but I walked for
hours through the streets in anxious hopes of
even seeing you for a moment. Day after day I
came to Kanturk, and wandered up and down
with this one object, until at last I thought your
absence was designed, or, at all events, that the
inducement, whose spell was so potent in my
case, had no counterpart at all with you."

Then do you mean to tell me, candidly, and
without flattery, that you really wished to meet
me again ? "

*' Yes, as I never wished to see another in all
my past experience."

"And all the sum of your devices, to accomplish
this end, is comprised in your peripatetic
ramblings through the streets of Kanturk, which
I seldom visit once a month ? "

'Tis even so," said Tom. " I knew not what
to do. If I had, I would most willingly have
done it."

What simpletons you men are — how utterly

devoid of invention and contriving powers to
carry out your wishes ! But oh ! I cannot longer
stand here in the street. Come, then, and seeme
anytime you please. Here is my card, and my
address.

Mrs. Goodman,
Lara Grove.

It will give me pleasure when you come, and I
shall be glad to see you."

Then Eosa quickly drove away. As she went,
Tom felt, as if he were not quite sure whether he
was standing on his head or his heels.

NOTICE TO QUIT.

Nos Patriae fines et dnlcia liquids arva,

Nos patria furious.

Virgil.

We from our country's shores, our land of birth,
Must flj', and leave our much-loved fields and hearth.

Moke than two years had elapsed since the occurrences
recorded in the last chapter ; meanwhile,
a series of events transcendent in their importance
had transpired in the histories of the various
families to which the narrative has given an
introduction.

At Dunboy Castle, Mary presented her husband
with a beautiful boy, who, as a natural consequence,
was called Gerald, after his papa ; nor is
it a matter of surprise that, as an appendage,
0' Sullivan was added, that the family name of
his mother might not be forgotten or ignored.
Gerald 0' Sullivan Fitzgerald, a name of momentous
significance, and destined to play a part of
considerable consequence in his day and generation.
Shortly after his birth, the tenantry received
a cordial invitation, and there was general

feasting and rejoicing, and, at Mary's special
request, a large distribution was made among the
friendless, the sick, and the poor.

But soon the season of excitement and merrymaking
passed away, and the family at the castle
resumed their peaceful, happy, and unostentatious
mode of life. Nor was this interrupted until
a messenger, on horseback, presented one morning
a document of formidable proportions, and huge
seal, conveying details of thrilling interest. It
was couched in the formal language, and imperious,
insulting style, characteristic of similar productions,
and was directed, not to the O'Sullivans,
or to any member of the family, but

To All whom it may Concern."

When the unusually large letter was brought in
by the servant, who announced that the bearer
had gone away, having stated that it was inconsistent
with his directions to wait for an answer ;
Gerald broke the seal, and read aloud as follows :

*' Know all men by these Presents, that the landed property,
and all the messuages and medicaments thereon erected
and thereunto belonging, situate in the western division of the
county Cork, and hitherto seized in fee-simple by the O'Sullivan
family, and known as the estates of the O'Sullivans of Bearaa;
in consequence of the disloyal actions and treasonable practices
of the aforesaid owners, are in all their parts, shares, and
proportions, alienated, estreated and confiscated from the aforesaid
former possessors, and are hereby, independent of all
conditions, restrictions, and limitations, transferred to our wise

and faithful ally, Richard Pulley, who, by his willing aid and
timely assistance, hath well deserved of us.

*sand be it further known that, if peaceable and quiet
occupation and possession is not at once surrendered and complied,
in conformity with the directions of this decree, then the
personal effects, as well as the fee-simple of the lands, messuages,
and hereditaments aforesaid shall be included in the
conveyance of this our gift, and our authority is hereby
granted to take forcible possession of the same.

Whereas, an immediate surrender, in obedience to our
order and direction, will allow the former owners to maintain
the undisturbed retention of what they now hold, in money,
valuables, goods, and chattels.

*' Given under our hand, at Limerick, this 15th day of
August, 1653, in behalf of the Protector and Commonwealth of
England,

''J. FLEETWOOD, Deputy-governor."

'just what Donal in his letter forewarned,"
said Mrs. 0' Sullivan, as soon as Gerald had
concluded its reading. "Is it not well that,
following his direction, we have made timely preparation,
and that this decree of violence, and
robbery, and confiscation does not find us unprepared."


Yes," responded Gerald, " we are not without
sufficient means and money, and it would be
exceedingly unwise to run the risk of losing all
by attempting a futile opposition. I have been
in communication with Fergus, and he is very
desirous that we should settle somewhere not far
from him. He says it would crown his happiness,
as well as that of his dear mother, who
longs to live near her beloved sister again. He

informs me, also, that there is an elegant villa,
about three miles from his residence, advertised
to be let or sold. So, until our plans are more
matured, it appears to me to be advisable that we
should forthwith follow his advice, and, for a
while at least, take up our abode in that locality.
There, in safety, and without the turmoil of
haste or confusion, we can consider the advisability
of following the advice of Donal, to leave
our country and emigrate to France."

After due deliberation this course of action was
decided on. It appeared under all circumstances
the most wise and advantageous. In less than a
fortnight Mrs. 0' Sullivan, with Gerald and Mary,
and their beautiful little boy, were comfortably
located in one of the villas in the neighbourhood
of Kanturk, a little more than three miles from
Mrs. O'Brien, Fergus and Nora, and in close
proximity to the residences of Sir James and
Lady Johnson, the Gibson family, and Mr. Simon
Goodman and the lovely Eosa.

The villa was situated most picturesquely on
the western slope of a hill, with a view of the
Cork and Kerry mountains in the distance.
There was a shrubbery at the back, well laid out
grounds around, with walks intertwining amid
judiciously planted evergreens. It was, moreover,
comfortably fitted, and magnificently adorned
with the recherche furniture conveyed from Dunboy
Castle. In memory of the old and much loved
home, which they had been forced most reluctantly

to quit, this new abode was entitled
"Bearaa."

Mr. and Mrs. Fitzgerald were soon called on
by the county families, also by the acquaintances
they had made at the hotel in Killarney. Mrs.
Goodman brought with her a very lovely little
girl, of whom she appeared to be passionately
fond, while Mr. Goodman's love could only be
described by the word *' idolizing." The unoffending
little one had not been smothered in conformity
with the threat which had been made at
Sweet Brier Lodge, for, although that menace
was not the unintended result of an outbreak of
passion, but Rosa had uttered it with the full
determination to fulfil her word ; yet, when the
little helpless thing was born, the poor mother,
who for three days lingered between life and
death, was too ill and weak to destroy it, even if
such was at the time her inclination. Presently
she grew stronger ; with the return of health and
strength, all the instincts of a warm-hearted
mother assumed their position and evinced their
superiority; until she felt, she would rather take
her own life than injure the little innocent that
lay in trustful happiness in her arms.

The meeting between the mothers was an
exultant and a happy one. Little Gerald was
really a splendid fellow, and a most intelligent
child ; but little Rosa was a perfect beauty. Both
Mrs. O'Sullivan and Mrs. Fitzgerald declared '' it
was the prettiest 'wee thing' they had ever seen."

Eosa told them with delight, that ^' it was constantly
stopped when out with the servant, and
that the admiration it received was universal,"
adding, *' if she were a little older I am afraid it
would quite spoil her, it would be so calculated to
make her conceited and proud."

But, more than she was aware of, had seen
and enquired about her baby. She had not
even heard the names of all the admirers.
Dr. Armstrong, accompanied by his wife, was
one day driving in his carriage. He was about
to pay a professional visit in the neighbourhood
of the Goodmanss. They were both dressed in
sombre black, and both looked deeply sorrowful.
Theirs had been a house of mourning.
Little Bobby had grown rapidly, and was a most
promising, handsome boy, with the light complexion
of his father, and the large dark sparkling
eyes of his mother. His anxious mother loved
him extravagantly, and the doctor grew more and
more fond of him every day, until the extent of
his affection rivalled hers. When at home and
unoccupied, Bobby was continually with him. He
never seemed tired of playing with the child,
or wearied of his company. Scarcely a day
passed but he brought him home some new toy.
Each day his strength and activity increased,
while his intelligence kept pace with his growth.
He could now run over the house, climb upstairs,
get down unaided, and not only prattle,
but speak a number of words with much discs


tightness. When the day was fine, it was his
father's great sleight to take him out with him
as he went to visit his patients. Perhaps the
fact, that there was no apparent prospect of
another child in the house, made him unusually
dear to both his parents. He was, indeed, their
little idol, and became daily more closely wound
about their hearts, uniting them more to each
other, by this little bond of mutual affection.

One day, when the doctor returned from his
round of visits, Aggie, with a look displaying
much anxiety, told him that little Bobby was
evidently very unwell. He was heavy and sleepy,
instead of merry and playing about ; and his face
and hands felt unnaturally warm, while his
breathing was quick and laboured. His father
immediately hurried to his room, and, with
considerable agitation, displayed both in his voice
and manner, pronounced the child in a precarious
condition, being attacked with double pneumonia,
or, in other words, inflammation on both his
lungs. And then were the inquiries made how
the attack could have been caught. And then all
the best and most approved methods of treatment
were resorted to ; and then there was unwearied
nursing, both by father and mother; but still
there was no sign of amendment; on the
contrary, he grew worse and worse. Often in
the course of his sad and heavy trial did the
father think of David, praying, and weeping, and
fasting, and refusing to be comforted, when the

hand of the Lord lay heavy on the child that
was born of the wife of Uriah. With a soul-depressing
sense of his own guilt, he, too, prayed
that little Bobby might be spared, but, as
often as he prayed, Rosa, and Mr. Goodman, and
his own baby there, continually crowded on his
thoughts, and stayed his utterance, and dispelled
his hopes. For five long days, the bitter struggle
lasted. Each day the child grew still more dear
to both his parents. At last, the fatal moment
came. The loving little fellow cast his little arms
alternately round his father's and his mother's
neck; and, kissing them, uttered, *' good-bye,"
as though he knew the hour of his departure was
at hand. Then, suddenly, a glow of purplish hue
overspread his face, his lips became quite blue,
and, without a struggle, he lay, in the presence
of his parents, a lifeless corpse.

It was about ten days after their little darling
was committed to the cold grave, that the doctor
and his wife were attracted by the beautiful baby,
as they drove along the road. The attention of
both seemed arrested at the same time, but Aggie
spoke first.

*' Oh, Robert ! is not that a lovely child ? Do
stop till we look at it, and enquire whose it is."

And the doctor willingly complied with the
request, and pulled up his horse, when, after a
short preliminary conversation, the nurse handed
to Mrs. Armstrong the magnificently dressed and
sweetly pretty little girl, who was now over fifteen

months old, and was most interesting, being able
to prattle fluently.

Having showered their admiration on the child,
and given the delighted nurse half-a-crown, they
enquired from her the name of the parents.
And, when the nurse replied, '' Mrs. Goodman,"
the doctor turned so pale that his wife, in
apprehension, asked him if he were unwell ; and,
when he answered that he was not, then she
enquired, sharply, ** Do you know these people ? "
And the doctor allayed all suspicion when he
answered, *that he remembered Mrs. and Miss
Gibson had called on him, recommended by Lady
Johnson, and that Miss Gibson had since been
married to a Mr. Goodman, whom, as far as he
could recollect, he had only once seen."

As they drove home that day, many a time the
thought recurred to the doctor's mind, *' Surely
my sin hath found me out." My dear boy has
been taken from me — a punishment I deserved ;
and I dare not notice this lovely child, whom,
though mine, I cannot claim, and whose presence
is a constant witness of my sin, and the injury I
have done both Mr. Goodman and his wife.

Whenever the doctor could find time, he
directed his carriage to drive along that road ; one
motive alone influencing him — his desire to see
that lovely child again ; for, true it was, that his
heart warmed towards it, and all his affection
appeared now to be concentrated in it, since he
had lost his darling boy.

And as, with this intent, he passed one day in
the direction ; just as his carriage turned a
winding sweep that gave the road a picturesque
appearance, aided by the graceful trees that
raised their branches on each side ; he suddenly
caught sight of a gentleman and lady, who were
walking together, and apparently engaged in close
conversation. It will not be easy to imagine his
feelings when he discovered that he had before
him — in full view — almost face to face — to his
intense surprise — Tom Harrington and Mrs.
Goodman.

It would be a difficult task to decide to whom
the sudden and unexpected interview caused
the greatest consternation. Rosa blushed ; Tom
turned scarlet ; the doctor, as was his wont under
excitement, deadly pale. There was one redeeming
feature; each was so engrossed by personal
discomfort that the display of uneasiness which
mantled the other face was entirely overlooked.

In return to Tom's salute, the doctor raised his
hat ; then, drove on quicker than before, meditating
as he went, 'perhaps I may be the means
of ruining that young man. There is no doubt,
but for me and my doings, Mrs. Goodman would
never have entertained the thought of forming an
intimacy with a stranger."

But in his evil forebodings, in this instance, he
was wrong. True ! Tom loved another man's
wife with a sincere and deep love. He admired
her extravagantly ; he delighted in her society ;

but never from his lips did one word escape that
he might not have uttered, without the chance
of giving offence, in the presence and hearing of
her husband. Tom was a man of honour, and a
gentleman. He could not help the concentration
of his affections ; for, in reply to the old enquiry :

Is human love the growth of human will ? "

all experience gives the answer, •* Nay ! " But he
could prevent the utterance of one unsuitable
remark, or the intrusion of one unwarrantable
innuendo ; and these he as carefully avoided as
though he had been walking with his own sister,
and speaking in the ears of Nora. And many a
time did Tom, after his invitation, call at the
Goodmanss' house, and always was received most
courteously by Mr. Goodman ; and often would
he sit, and smoke a cigar, in Mr. Goodman's
private room, and listen in admiration to his
researches in chemistry, or muse in deepest
thought over the scriptural questions, which, for
the benefit of a Young Men's Institute at Cork,
he would frequently transmit to the secretary;
and an example of which, as it illustrates the
character of Eosa's husband, perhaps it may not
be altogether devoid of interest to insert —

Questions in Chemistry.

No. 1. — What is liquid hydrochloric acid? How is it prepared
? And what are the results of its digestion in peroxide
of manganese ?

No. 2. — How is sulphide of hydrogen usually obtained, and
what action does it excite when conducted into a solution of
arsenious acid ?

No. 3. — Write in symbols the composition of iron pyrites,
magnetic pyrites, and mispickel, and specify the system in
which each occurs.

No. 4. — Associates and phosphates crystallize in the same
system, and resemble each other in other characters. What is
the readiest method of distinguishing between them ?

Questions on the Old Testament.

No. 1. — One of Ahab's posterity was a powerful factor in
the fulfilment of the prophecy delivered to him ?

No. 2. — A passage occurs in Jeremiah in which God seems
to disclaim the institution of sacrifice ?

No. 3. — The Book of Genesis is quoted as inspired in the
New Testament.

No. 4. — Since the Christian era, the head of the Gulf of
Suez has retired southward. This is in accordance with
prophecy ?

No. 5. — The Law contains an injunction to be observed in
the numbering of the people, in the neglect of which, some hold,
David's sin consisted ?

No. 6. — Give three distinct proofs from the Old Testament
of the existence of pre Adamite man.

And Tom could make no attempt at the chemistry,
but was so interested in the Scripture questions
that he took a copy of them, saying, '' With
the aid of a Bible and a Concordance, he would
try to discover the answers to them, when at
home."

But Tom was not the only acquaintance who
had the pleasure of walking and conversing with
Mrs. Goodman. Soon after the Fitzgeraldss

settled in the neighbourhood, the intimacy
between the families rapidly developed ; and often
did Gerald escort Rosa, not only in her rural
walks, but sometimes into Kanturk; and often
might be seen wandering with her through the
pretty grounds attached to his own villa, and also
through the shady walks of Lara Grove.

One day, as Mary and her nurse with baby,
were walking through the well shadowed paths of
Bearaa ; in a charming little summer-house, which
the rays of the warm sun could not penetrate,
they found Gerald and Eosa engaged in close
conversation ; but the pure mind of Mary did not
harbour one dark thought of jealousy ; she shook
hands warmly with Eosa, and embraced her
affectionately, and, having joined in the conversation
for awhile, again left them to themselves,
telling them, '* that she did not like to keep J|he
little one out too long'

But the neighbourhood was not so charitable.
It was a frequent topic of discussion how constantly
Mr. Fitzgerald and Mrs. Goodman were
together, and how very close their intimacy ; and,
some even '* expressed surprise that Mrs. Fitzgerald
would allow such conduct, and could not
imagine how to account for it."

Some, however, sympathised with her, and said
'' perhaps the poor thing cannot help it. He maybe
a tyrant at home, and she may be glad to get
rid of him on any terms ; " and some *' wondered
that Mr. Goodman would allow such latitude to

this wife," but then they added, ** he is such a milk-and-water
character."

As usual in such cases, the parties most interested
did not hear the smallest reference to such
remarks. They had not the slightest idea that
any one indulged in surmises at their expense, at
the very time that they were the general topic of
discourse — uncharitable discourse — and unkind
remark, not only in their own vicinity, but almost
extending to Kanturk.

Shortly after this, an event happened which
made a deep impression. The beautiful little
Rosa evinced signs of languor and weakness.
Her little footfall was not heard as usual pattering
through the house, and her little prattling
voice was silent. Evidences of serious illness
were unmistakably exhibited. At the very
earliest symptoms, both her mamma and Mr.
Goodman were filled with anxiety. Dr. Otway
was immediately summoned, for he had attended
at the confinement ; Dr. Armstrong having never
been asked to the house, and his name never
being mentioned there.

For some days, the appearances, in his estimation,
were not calculated to give ground for
serious alarm. True ! there was considerable
sickness of the stomach, but this, perhaps, was
due to improper food or to overfeeding ; butin
a while, other signals of more consequence
developed, and the case began to assume considerable
importance. A feeling of cold so intense

that it was succeeded by shivering, and this again
giving place to unnatural heat and thirst ; and
then, in rapid sequence, the furred tongue, now no
longer the only testimony ; but superadded to it,
pain in the head ; intolerance of light ; bloodshot
eyes ; a wild wandering look ; and these followed
by delirium. The diagnosis of the case was now
but too plain, and now the prognosis was but too
unfavourable. It became evident that the delicate
membranes that surround the brain were the subject
of inflammation ; that the child was suffering
from the disease known by medical men as
*' meningitis," and that little or no hope of
recovery could be really entertained.

Mr. Goodman was inconsolable ; Mrs. Goodman
like one who had lost her senses and become
frantic. Night after night she never took off her
clothes, but sat a patient watcher by the little
bed, her eyes red with weeping, and her heartbreaking
with sorrow. Though Doctor Armstrong
was the object of her greatest aversion, she would
not hesitate a moment to see him, if he could bethe
means of saving her child. She communicated
with her husband, and he, in the
vague hope that some advantage might result, at
once took the phaeton and went, as fast as the
ponies could convey him, to Sweet Brier Lodge.

It was the morning, scarcely half-past ten
o'clock, and the doctor was at home, it being
within the hours for consultations at his house.
When Mr. Goodman entered, he, full of amazement,

and not being able to divine the cause, was
at first considerably abashed, and scarcely able
to retain his composure. He felt like a culprit,
in the presence of the judge, who had just
received from the jury the verdict, *' guilty."
Conscience unsparingly delivered her sentence of
condemnation as he stood face to face with the
inoffensive and unoffending man whom he had
wantonly and irrevocably injured. And, when
that man began to speak in kind accents of
confidence, and told him the reason of his call,
entreating him to come, without delay, to see his
darling child, the words burnt like fire into his
soul, and he felt that the rod in the hand of
offended Providence was about to be laid on
afresh.

At last he muttered, in broken sentences, *' I
am so sorry ; so full of grief, at this new trouble.
I shall go with you at once ; and only hope that
the end we so desire may follow from our
endeavours." Then, without delay, he took his
hat and gloves, and quickly pulling on his
overcoat, proceeded — sitting by the side of Mr.
Goodman — ay ! can you realise the situation ? —
sitting by the side of Mr. Goodman — to visit his
own child — and to see the woman he had
engulphed in the mazes of endless deception and
irrevocable sin.

Quickly the nimble ponies, hastened by their
driver, hurried over the ground. Dr. Armstrong
stands beside the sick child's bed, with the

mother on his one side, and Mr. Goodman on the
other, both in the keenest state of anxiety, and
steeped in sorrow. Soon he makes his examination,
and soon discovers that recovery is
impossible. Then, bowed down by grief, Eosa
and Mr. Goodman see the tears, which he cannot
restrain, falling fast on the bed of the child.
Rosa, recognizing the meaning, with a cry of
anguish, falls in a fit of hysteria on the floor, and
Mr. Goodman, for whose relief nature would
yield no tears, tries to bring what assistance he
can to his wife, while his own heart is bursting
with a storm of anguish.

The doctor returned to his house, and resumed
his occupation beneath the pressure of another
mountain of grief. The mother recovered from
her hysteria. The beautiful little child died and
was buried. Mr. Goodman never raised his head
again, but each day grew thinner and thinner.
Eosa, with rebellion in her heart, tried to drown
her sorrow with wine and ardent spirits ; but they
made her so ill, in a short time she could not
endure even to look at them. Then, to gain a
respite from her harrowing thoughts, she courted
every kind of dissipation, every means to rescue
her from herself. Hence she encouraged the
society of Tom, also that of Mr. Fitzgerald, and
in less than four months entered every scene of
gaiety which the neighbourhood presented.

Blame her not too severely. She was at war
with her own mind. Her great object was to

banish reflection. The past to her now appeared
one unbroken scene of misery, degradation, sorrow.
Trying indeed, to her sensitive nature, was the
sense of shame that pervaded her mind at the
recollection of her history and the record of her
humiliation. The sorrow of this new trial made
her doubly desperate. She would prefer annihilation,
rather then spend her life in the throes of
that terrible desolation and anguish which now
brooded over her by day, and haunted her in
dreams by night. Oh! for excitement, excitement
; change, change ; ay, deeper crime, worse
sin, rather than the dread monotony of uninterrupted
quiet with her own sad thoughts.

MRS. GOODMAN ELOPES.

Che ha burn cavalry e bella moche,
Non ista mai senza doge.

Proverbs Tuscan.

The man with costly horse, or pretty wife,
Is full of trouble all his livelong life.

It was a study for an artist, a model for a statuary,
an ideal imagery for a sculptor, to view
Mary and Rosa as, with arms entwined, they
walked through the grounds of Mary's new home,
** Bearaa." Two prettier women it would be impossible
to find. Mary was the taller, the slighter,
perhaps — and it is only a perhaps — the more
graceful, for Rosa's figure was also excellent.
Mary's face was beautiful, her features and her
complexion perfect ; but so were Rosa's, too.
The only difference, the only marked difference
was, that Mary's beauty was what might be represented
as *' angelic," while Rosa's contained a
considerable quantity of that sublunary expression
which, in connection with good looks, is
commonly described as '' wicked."

A close intimacy gradually increased and developed

into a mutual affection. Mary was fond
of Rosa; and Rosa, since her baby's death, cared
for nothing and no one, with the exception of
Mary. Her kindness, her sympathy, her loving,
affectionate ways, her unselfishness, her sterling
goodness — all deeply impressed her. Often, in
the secret wishes of her heart, she longed to belike
her, but there seemed to be '^ a great gulf
fixed " between them, which she could not cross ;
and so, instead of improving by the intercourse —
as she portrayed a mental picture, with the purity
and goodness of her friend, on the one side ; and
her own ruin, deception, and guilt, on the other —
she hated herself the more, pined the more over
the contrast in their respective lots, and longed to
escape a comparison which made her seem so
odious in her own eyes.

Mary, from principle, and the sincere longing
of her own heart, tried to bring happiness to
everyone she met. Ay ! to everyone, without
distinction, and without exception — to young and
old, rich and poor; to those languishing with
weakness on the bed of sickness, and to those in
the enjoyment of robust health. She was not
one of that indiscreet class of persons who, with
unseasonable importunity, and injudicious officiousness,
broach their hobby on all occasions ;
and who, accordingly, as might naturally be expected,
earn for themselves the character and
appellation of a bore. Such, instead of enlisting
sympathy and ensuring consent, raise a bulwark

of opposition, distrust, and hatred. Oh, no ! her
earnestness was too sincere, her wisdom too
astute, to act so inconsiderately. She waited and
watched for her opportunity in every case. Thus
she had acted in her intercourse with Doctor
Armstrong, when the desirable moment was soon
presented ; and thus, in the case of her own
husband, when tedious months rolled slowly
and unprofitably by. But, when the desired
opportunity presented, she seized it — grasped
it — embraced it — and, not with the arrogant
assumption of superior wisdom and superior
merit, but with the pleadings of love and sincerity,
advocated the cause she had at heart, with the
true eloquence of simplicity, with the tears of
genuine emotion, and with the earnestness of
belief.

And long she looked-for some golden opportunity,
as she conversed with Eosa; and often
tried to bring it round, but Eosa fled from it, as
the pigeon from the hawk, or the hare from the
hound. And all she could gain, from her various
attempts, was the repetition of the assertion,
** Oh ! you would not speak to me, you would
cease to love me, you would flee from me, if you
knew all ! "

But while scenes of sorrow came and passed
away, leaving their impression for good or ill at
Lara Grove and Sweet Brier Lodge, a long delayed
but joyful event took place at Fern Leigh. Fergus
and Nora longed for an heir, some little one to

love, but time passed on, and brought no fulfilment
of their desires, till hope deferred made
their spirits sad with disappointment. At length,
however, the consummation of their wishes was
achieved, when a splendid boy arrived, to cheer
their hearts, complete their happiness, and afford
them a common focus, wherein to concentrate a
portion of the love they never ceased to lavish on
each other.

Doctor Armstrong, who — from the time he
attended Fergus, in his protracted fever, at Bogra
Vale, and afterwards accompanied him to
Dunboy — was esteemed as a friend, and prized asa
skilful physician, attended. Nora made a rapid
convalescence, and baby grew stronger and more
interesting every day. When nearly two months
had elapsed after the joyful event, it was decided
that the christening should take place, and that
his name should be called fergus," after his
father — *' Thomas," after his uncle — and
*' Eobert," after the man who had saved his
father's life. So Fergus Thomas Eobert was to
receive his appellations, and the event was to be
signalized and observed by a grand ball. Invitations
were issued to all their friends around,
including the Fitzgeraldss and the Goodmanss, Sir
James and Lady and Miss Johnson, and uncle
Tom as a matter of course. Several of the county
people were also included, among the number
Lord Ardoyne and the Honourable George Vance
who were mutual friends, and had just

Pa

returned to the neighbourhood after two years'
travelling on the Continent. Acceptances were
received until the total reached one hundred and
twenty. There was but one who was forced to
send refusal. A gentleman who was obliged to
attend the Four Courts, in Dublin, in connection
with a law suit, which had been carried on with
varying success for years, and now, at length, was
likely to come to a conclusion.

The description of a company so numerous
would be wearying and cumbersome. To detail
the elegance and costliness of the ladies'
dresses would be embarrassing even to a silk
mercer. To tell of the jewels, and diamonds, and
costly stones of various shades and values, would
in some degree resemble a counting of the
stars. And yet, of two of the visitors a short
delineation may not be unendurable, as they were
like meteors that shot across the galaxy, whose
brilliancy was enhanced by titles.

Lord Ardoyne and the Honourable George
Vandeleur were very great friends, yet, the extreme
opposites in appearance. Ardoyne was tall
and dark, with commanding figure, and long blackbeard
and moustache, which well comported with
his large dark eyes, and handsome aquiline nose.
The Honourable George Vandeleur was fair, and
short, and rather stout, with light beard and blue
eyes. "Birds of a feather flock together" says
the proverb, so we may assume that the tastes of
these gentlemen were congenial, and their dispositions

kindred, although their personal appearances
were so dissimilar. They had both been
together at Oxford at the same time that Fergus
kept his terms. It was there that a close friendship
sprung up between them and young O'Brien,
who was the object of their admiration, as he was
not only a double first honour man, but the best
runner, wrestler, and fencer at the University
during their sojourn. They were all about the
same age. The two noblemen were still unmarried,
and more than once, before they saw Nora,
expressed their astonishment at " what could
have induced her husband to submit to execution"
— their synonym for matrimony — ^*at such
an early age."

The appointed day for the ball, though the
invitation given was a long one, soon arrived.
Carriage after carriage rolled up to the door. The
capacious rooms were called. The drawing room,
from which the ball room opened, had its particular
attractions for those who cared no longer
for the dance ; those who preferred the card table
or social converse *' to the giddy whirl on the
light fantastic toe." The billiard room, too, had
its devotees. Between the dances, many partners
enjoyed the cool and balmy air of night, as they
wandered through the open ball room window
into the pretty, well planted grounds that surrounded
the house.

This window opened on a veranda about three
feet wide, from the outer edge of which curiously

wrought iron-work rose some twelve feet high, to
support a sloping wood work roof with projecting
figured border of artistic design. By this arrangement
the lower story of the house was protected
both from the cold rains of winter, and the bright
blazing rays of the glowing summer sun. Allover
the iron-work, and embracing the arch
which formed the place of egress to the lawn, the
evergreen jasmine tenaciously adhered, with profusion
of verdure, and pretty simple blossoms
emitting sweetest fragrance.

Five stone steps led from the veranda to the
gravelled walk which circuited the well mown
grass, and conducted to various Httle summerhouses
with rustic seats and tables, where the
smoker could enjoy his cigar, or the tea-party the
cheering cup, when the warm sun made sitting in
the house oppressive.

In this middle plat were clusters of rhododendrons,
artfully contrived, with here and there
witch-elms, around whose stems were seats conveniently
arranged, over which the inverted
boughs formed a cupola, with foliage so luxuriant
as to defy the entrance of the midday sun.

Between the trees a skillfully constructed path
wound round and round, so as to form a mazy
labyrinth, easy, most easy to enter, while to discover
the egress was most difficult and puzzling.

Groups of trees also grew luxuriantly between
the summer houses on the side; augustine and
genistse, with their gay yellow coralline, laburnums

and lilacs with their rich clustering blossoms, and
the giant fuchsias with their thousand blooming
bells hanging most gracefully. While, at the
lowest end of the grounds, three stately aspen
trees towered high toward heaven, whose leaves,
in the calmest day, keep up continual movement,
leading the Irish peasantry to conclude that restless
spirits and *' wee " fairies held their constant
revels there.

The view was grand and gorgeous on a summer
evening, just as the sun was sinking beneath the
horizon in the west, to glance between these trees
at the glowing crimson edging of the clouds that
streaked the deep blue sky, and to observe the
brown and black and purple shades that adorned
the distant Bogra mountains, or the still more
distant high lands of Kerry.

The gentle zephyr was playing softly through
these leaves and trees and flowers, offering a
most grateful and refreshing coolness to the partners,
who, leaving for a while the ball room,
wandered amid the shrubs or promenaded along
the walks.

Of those who enjoyed the dance with a zest
beyond the others, may be enumerated, Nora and
Mrs. Goodman among the ladies, and Mr. Fitzgerald
and Lord Ardoyne among the gentlemen.
Tom, too, and Fergus, appeared to be indefatigable,
but in elegance and grace of movement,
though the contrast was not a wide one, they
would have to concede the palm. Rosa danced

beautifully, and was as light as a feather in the
hands of her partner, and consequently was in
great demand. Tom and Gerald, and Lord
Ardoyne, each tried to secure her for every dance,
but it was evident she recognised the superior
merit of his lordship, and, consequently, preferred
him as a partner to the others.

Mary did not go to the ball. It was not what
harmonized with her taste. The excitement and
the late hours she did not consider as calculated
to do good to either mind or body. Although
this was her matured opinion, she did not, with
the pertinacity which influences some people,
strive to impose her impressions on her acquaintances
; neither did she, like some good Christians,
arrogantly commend her own ideas as infallibly
correct, and condemn those who differed from her
as hopelessly and degradingly wrong. Charity
was one of her leading characteristics ; that
charity which seeketh not its own aggrandisement,
which is not puffed up with high-coloured
notions of its own sanctity and holiness ; that
charity which thicket no evil of others, nor condemned
them as reprobates, while it surpassed
Pharisaical pride in the imaginary superiority of
its own excellence.

Mr. Goodman was also indisposed to take part
in the gaiety. His heart had not yet overcome
the shock occasioned by little Rosa's death. Notwithstanding
that these feelings actuated him he
had no wish to interfere with the inclinations of

his wife. And so it happened, that while Mary
remained at home enjoying the society of her
Httle boy, and usefully engaged in preparing
various little gifts which she intended for Mrs.
Brady and little Cattie, whom Dr. Armstrong had
introduced to her notice, and for other poor
whose acquaintance she had sought out in the
slums of Kanturk. And, while Mr. Goodman, in
the quiet of his study was contemplating,
whether '* the physiological properties of our
mechanism, were originally framed with specific
reference to the pathological necessities which
might subsequently be evinced." And while he
sought relaxation from the physical problems
intertwined in this consideration, and gave his
mind a respite in the endeavour, after the suggestion
of some old astronomer " to reproduce
a solar spectrum," by '' taking a composite
delineation of the arc spectrum of several starry
meteorites, taken at random, between iron
meteoric poles." — Yes ! we repeat, while Mrs.
Fitzgerald and Mr. Goodman were thus respectively
and separately engaged, Mrs. Goodman
had accepted a seat in Mr. Fitzgerald's carriage,
and had gone with him to the ball. Both were
thoroughly enjoying themselves there, aided by
the capital performance of a very carefully trained
and well appointed band, which Fergus, for the
special occasion, had brought from Cork, regardless
of expense.

Nora had secured the attendance that evening

of a great favourite of hers ; a member of the
aristocracy too. The Honourable Ethel Butler
was one of the Ormond family, moreover a lovely
girl, and highly accomplished. '* What an eligible
match for Tom," thought she. In fact, she had
set her heart on it. Tom appeared to have made
a very favourable impression ; for, besides being a
good-looking young fellow, with very commanding
appearance, he had plenty of conversational
power. He and Ethel danced together, and
walked together in the gardens before the house,
till Nora, who was an anxious and interested
observer, began to think that her fond wish would
be accomplished.

But hers was not a solitary example of intense
interest in the affairs of others. There were a
great many ideas, which never reached her ears,
ventilated about the hearts that were smitten ;
and many matrimonial probabilities were indulged
in that night, by fond mammas, and dear
brothers, as well as loving sisters. Ay, nor was
that all, there were also a great many remarks

about the frequency of the times Mr. danced

with Mrs. , and Lord danced with

And not a few observations about the

prolonged absence of some in the grounds,

and wonders expressed whether Mr. would

approve of such conduct on the part of his

wife, and whether poor Mrs. had any idea

her husband was that Jcind of man.

Oh ! those seats ranged around the walls —

which dowager matrons, and sarcastic spinsters, of
undiscoverable age, hold so tenaciously against all
comers — are not unfrequently the Pandora's box
of modern society, whence issue suspicions sufficient
to pollute the moral atmosphere of life,
damaging, with scandal vile, fair fame ; and,
bearing in their train, desolation to both hearts
and homes.

Morning's light was streaming in before the
festivities concluded. Many said they never spent
a more enjoyable time, and only desired the
anticipation of such another incident in the
following week. Tom told Nora that '' Ethel was
delightful, a jolly girl, and most agreeable ; " butin
answer to her enquiry confessed : '' that he
did not feel * smitten,' and that, candidly speaking,
he did not think that she would do." Nora,
who often was distressed while reflecting on his
loneliness, and who thought that it was time that
he should settle down in life, was quite disappointed.
Mrs. Goodman drove back in the
carriage with her protector, Gerald, who left herat
her own door ; and all the others, with the
exception of Lord Ardoyne and his friend, who
remained with Fergus for the next two days,
returned to their respective homes.

For some time, it had been the subject of
discussion, among the families of the Fitzgeraldss
and O'brien, how to invest the very extensive
funds which now, for some time, were lying,
without interest, on their hands. It was

eventually decided that it would be advisable for
Gerald, whose time was unoccupied by any
avocation, to make a trip to France, and take
counsel there with Donal. Fergus professed his
willingness to go, but he had now the management
of an extensive farm, and did not think it would
fare so well in his absence. So Gerald, admitting
the soundness of this objection, with the consent
of Mary, to whom he gave assurance that his
delay would not be long, declared his readiness todo
all in his power. Three days after the ball all
preparations were completed, and Gerald, after an
affectionate interview with his wife, got ready for
his journey. She reminded him of their former
separation on the shores of Bantry Bay, and told
him that although she could not think of keeping
him from the accomplishment of a work of
usefulness, which was absolutely necessary, yet,
that the days of his absence, to her, would belong,
and that, with anxiety, she should look
forward for his safe return.

"It would be selfish of me, Gerald darling, to
deter you. What would life be if we did not
forego even some of our most cherished delights,
if the surrender be the means of bringing benefit
to others." Gerald seemed as loath to leave
Mary as she was to part with him, and told her
* it would not be his fault if the absence were a
long one, and that little Gerald would help to
occupy her time, and prevent her from being
lonely."

And Mary answered, "Yes, he will occupy my
time, and thoughts, too, a great deal, and Eosa
will come in as hitherto, and so the time will
pass ; but nothing can replace my husband, and
no one, loved however he be, even as we love our
little boy, can take my thoughts from you, till
you come home again, nor occupy that share of
my affection which always shall be yours."

And then, after many a lingering kiss, and
many an embrace to wife and child, Gerald tore
himself away.

And Mary watched him until out of sight, and
could not keep back unbidden tears when he
passed from her view. Then, turning to her
child, she felt to love him more, as though he
now was dearer when her beloved was gone.
That day, full of trouble as it was, soon hastened
to its close. A lovely evening, with bright rosy
clouds overspreading all the west, betokened a
coming morning of sunny, cheerful weather.
The next day also came and went, and another
after that arrived. Mary then bethought her that
Rosa had not paid her usual visit, and wondered if
fatigue from the great ball had made her ill, and
so confined her to the house. As these reflections
came rushing to her mind, with that kindness of
motive which seemed part of her existence, she
put on her hat, and hastened to Lara Grove to
make enquiries.

Simon, standing at the window, was looking
out, as though absorbed in thought. The

approaching figure roused him from his reverie.
Recognizing Mary, he went to the door to meet
her, and opened it in anticipation, just as she was
coming up the steps, and before she had time to
knock, or pull the bell.

"I have come to make enquiries for your good
wife' said Mary. '' As she has not come to seeme
now for three long days, the thought, at last,
has rushed into my mind that she perhaps is ill ;
over-fatigued, most likely, with that great ball,
and all the dancing she has had at Fern Leigh.
But you are looking sad ; I hope my surmise has
not proved too true, and that you have not now
cause to grieve on her account."

'' You surprise me, Mrs. Fitzgerald," responded
Mr. Goodman. ''I have not seen Eosa for the
last two days, and was under the impression she
was staying with you. When she was leaving
me, three days ago, she turned and said, * Goodbye,
send to Mrs. Fitzgerald if you want me.'
I did not send, for though I felt lonely and
miserable enough, that she was enjoying herself
with you was my impression, and so I did not
wish to interfere with her happiness, nor for my
selfish sake, shorten her pleasure."

Then thoughts — dark thoughts — rose rapidly
in Mary's mind. '' Gone ! just when my husband
went ! They were so intimate, too, and so much
together all the time that he was here ; " and
shades of sadness passed over her pretty face.
Then she repeated to herself, '* Impossible ! away

vile thoughts ! Gerald would never be so deceitful,
so wicked, nor act such a part towards me, and
with another man's wife. What a shame to
think so for one moment." Then raising her
eyes, and looking Mr. Goodman fully in the face,
she said, " I am quite confused at what you tell
me. I cannot understand it. Do you think Rosa
could have gone to Mr. O'Brien's."

** No, it was never her custom to go there. To
your house she always went. What does Mr.
Fitzgerald say at her absence ? "

' Mr. Fitzgerald went away to France on
important business three days ago, so I have not
an opportunity of enquiring."

'* Mr. Fitzgerald gone ! — three— days — ago ! "
repeated Mr. Goodman, emphasising every word.
"Oh! how could he be so deceitful, and so
forgetful of his duty to God, and you, and me ?
I always treated him as a man of honour, and
placed such implicit confidence in his sense of
right, that when Eosa was with him I felt she was
as safe as if with you ; and now to think that he
has gone, and at the same time she has disappeared.
Oh ! how could he, how could he, act
such a heartless part ? "

These words were uttered with an expression of
grief and despair, which appeared to well up from
the bottom of his heart, and Mary's sensitive
nature was wounded to the quick at the deep
feeling of anguish which she witnessed. She felt
the words were spoken not as an accusation

against her husband, but as the sincere expression
of the conviction which had settled on the
mind of one who was overwhelmed with grief,
and to whom appearances certainly gave ground
for the terrible conclusion at which he had
arrived. Steadily looking at him, with an expression
almost as sad as his own, she exclaimed :

''Ah! Mr. Goodman, do not harbour such a
thought of my Gerald. He is not the dishonourable
wretch that appearances give you but
too strong ground to suspect. He would rather
cut his right hand off, than by such villainy
injure you, ruin Eosa, and break my heart ; "
and Mary's tears rolled down her cheeks in
torrents, and convulsive sobs choking her, prevented
her from uttering more.

Excuse me, Mrs. Fitzgerald," said Mr, Goodman,
** perhaps I have spoken hastily, and I am
sorry for it ; but the conviction seemed to settle
on my mind as you spoke. Let us both hope
that it is not so, and time may show how great
an injustice I have done him."

*' Thanks, kind Mr. Goodman," said Mary,
'* I shall do all that I can from this moment to
unravel the mystery, and to discover what has
become of Eosa, and, will hasten to let you know
the result as soon as anything definite may
appear in response to my enquiries." So saying,
she hurried home again, and directly sat down
and wrote to Dr. Armstrong, and sent the letter,
which ran as follows, at once by a messenger :

Bearaa, Thursday Morning.

My dear Friend,

Words can scarcely describe to you my anxiety
and distress. Mrs. Goodman has left her husband's home the
last three days. Her departure, just at the time my husband
left for France, on important family business, makes a most
suspicious coincidence. I have just seen Mr. Goodman. You
cannot imagine his state of mind. He was under the impression
that his wife was staying with me from her parting words to
him. But when he heard that she was not, and that the date
of her absence corresponded with the time of Mr. Fitzgerald's
departure, he hastily drew the conclusion that she had eloped
with him. I need scarcely tell you, that I do not harbour such
a thought, feeling confident that my dear husband is incapable
of such wickedness, deception, and dishonour; but, I do so want
your help ; first, that we may discover what has become of
Mrs. Goodman ; and next, that we may be able to prove convincingly,
that my darling husband is innocent. I am persuaded
that you will not lose a moment, but will feel well nigh as
anxious as

Yours most sincerely,

Mary FITZGERALD.

The messenger, with all the speed a nimble
horse could lend, soon arrived at the doctor's.
The note was brought in. The doctor, fortunately,
was at home. Knowing the writing, he quickly
broke the seal and perused its contents. Its
detail struck him like a thunderclap. For some
moments, he was like one from whom all power
of reflection had fled. Conscience, like Nathan
speaking to David long ago, proclaimed, "Thou
art the man." As soon as he could gather his
distracted thoughts, he wrote : —

Sweet Brier Lodge, Thursday.
My Dear Mrs. Fitzgerald,

I am completely prostrated by the tidings
contained in your letter, and shall go at once in quest of the
information. You may rely on hearing from me as soon as I
have any intelligence to communicate ; meanwhile,
Believe me,

Yours most faithfully,

R. ARMSTRONG.

Throwing aside all engagements, the doctor set
off immediately to Kanturk. He went direct to
the leading hotel, where post-horses and carriages
could be obtained on hire, and, having entered a
private room, sent for the proprietor.

Mine host, of the 'sharp of Erin," soon
appeared. The doctor was the medical attendant
of his family, and had the credit of saving his
wife's life. He was, accordingly, received with
much respect and attention.

*mighty glad to see ye tother. Repose yer
bisnis is gotten so large ye are turin out yer own
horses, and wants a bit of help from me. Well !
ye deserve all success anyhow ! "

^* No," said the doctor, interrupting him. *'I
want some very particular information from you.
Three days ago, did your horses and carriage take
away, from this neighbourhood, a gentleman and
lady?"

**Yis," said the innkeeper. *' Three days ago,
we let the best closed carriage and two horses to
a gentleman, as was goes to Cork in a hurry;

and, what's more, just on the outskirts of the
town, he picked up a beautiful young lady, and
both went off together; so the driver would me."

'' Can you tell me who was the gentlemen that
hired your carriage, and who was the lady he met
on the road ? "

'* Mesef cannot tell ye the wan or t'other, Oi
didn't see either ov em. The order was given
whin Oi was out, but, very like, the driver will
be able to tell ye all ye want ; and, as he is within
just now, Oi'll sind for him, and ye can hear all
he has to say."

With those words, he hastened to the door,
opened it, and cried out, with powerful voice,
'still Patsy Hogan to come here at want, Oi
wants to spake to im."

Qs

SUICIDE IN THE River.

Well, heav'n forgive him ! and forgive us all !
Some rise by sin, and some by virtue fall ;
Some run through brakes of vice, and answer none ;
And some condemned for a fault alone.

Measure for Measure.

Patsy Hogan quickly appeared in answer to his
master's call. He came in, hat in hand, and
seeing the doctor, in token of respect, gave the
middle lock on his forehead a pull between his
finger and thumb, as he nodded his head.

'* Who was the gentleman that ye drum to Cork
in the best carriage three days ago ? " said the
landlord.

** Begot, sir, mesef doesn't know his name. He
isn't long in the place, anyhow, or Oi'd know him
right enough," replied Pat.

"Don't you know the lady either ? " enquired
the Doctor.

** Well, no ! Oi can't say as Oi does, but Oi've
seen the both ov 'em afore."

Where did you see them? " asked the Doctor.

*' Here in the town, twist, if not three times.

They walked in, both ov em together, like ways
from the country, and 'wasn't so far away they
lived ether, for they both walked back again."

** What was the man like?" again enquired the
doctor.

The gentleman ye mane," said Pat, ** and a
rale gentleman he was, and no mistake. He gev
me a pour-note for thriven him, and 'isn't
every wan ye thrive does that, those hard
times."

'* Well ! the gentleman, what was he like ? "

** Oh, begot ! a fine looked man as we'd see ina
day's walk. Tall and stout, and as straight asa
whip, only he was so alla in the face, and the
hair on his head and face so black, he would be a
good-looked man. And the lady was just as fair
and beautiful, as he was dark and ordinary."

*' Where did you drive them to in Cork."

*' Bead, sir, mesef didn't thrive em anyplace
at all, at all."

*' You must have driven them somewhere,"
said the Doctor. *' What do you mean ? "

*soi mane what Oi sais, the civil a place Oi
drum em to."

'' Then where did you leave them ? "

Oi didn't lave thin at all."

*' Where did they leave you ? "

'that's a different thing altogether; why
didn't ye say it must ? When we comet into the
town, the must jansen cor they sawed in the
street they stopped, and put the boxes on, thin

they paid me the fare, and here, ses the gentle
is somethen for verses to git a drink, and
with that he puts the pour-note into me fist. So
to say where they went, is not in me power."

*' Did he not say anything about where he was
going to ? " again asked the doctor.

'* Well yis, he would me to thrive fast, as he
wanted to catch a vessel as was goes to France,
and that's about all Oi knows about em."

And then the doctor thanked the landlord and
the driver for their information, and left the
hotel, not knowing whether it was Mr. Fitzgerald
or Tom Harrington that had run away with
Rosa; but feeling perfectly convinced it was
either the one or the other. The description
answered both, and both had walked into Kanturk
with her.

To settle the matter in his own mind, and
decide the doubt which the cabman's remark
awakened, he immediately proceeded to Bogra
Vale.

And soon along the well known road, which atone
time, and that not so long ago, every day he
passed ; and soon up that often visited avenue,
with its numerous associations, and fertile scenes
of thought ; and soon at that door, the sight of
which ere while had made his palpitating heart
redouble its bounds, he arrived ; and quickly
alighting from his carriage, sharply knocked.

The door was opened in a moment ; Tom had
seen him coming, and hastened to let him in,

exclaiming as he did so : '' Well ! doctor, how are
you ? "

His appearance was almost like an apparition
to his visitor. Somehow the doctor thought,
expected, almost hoped, that Tom had been the
culprit. Bad as his absconding would be, it
would not involve the same amount of wretchedness.
But now the confusion, that up to that
moment had been kept awake by the uncertainty,
is dissipated. Tom is exculpated, and with a full
sense of confidence, Gerald is convicted. With
this conviction a wild storm of trouble raged
within his mind. ''I have made Rosa what she
is," thought he, '' but for me, she would not have
left the path of modesty and virtue. Her fascinations
have overcome the honour and morality of
Gerald ; and Mary, my greatest friend, my benefactor,
to whom I owe so much, is destined to be
ruined in her dearest worldly happiness, through
my vile sin'*

*' What is the matter with you ? " said Tom, as
the doctor stood speechless, and in a maze of sad
thoughts enveloped and confounded, as one half
demented, before him.

Then the doctor, passing his hand backward
and forward across his brow, with a heavy sigh,
exclaimed: "Oh! Tom, Tom! distressing news,
bad news, enough to turn one's brain, or make
one wish he never had been born." And then he
told him about Rosa's flight, and all the varied
particulars of information which he had obtained

at the hotel ; and then about the letter he had
received from Mrs. Fitzgerald ; and of the crushing,
criminating fact, that Mr. Fitzgerald had
departed that very same day, on particular
business to France.

Tom, colouring with anger as the doctor spoke,
at once exclaimed : ** He is the greatest scoundrel
on the face of the earth. I never was more
deceived in any man. I thought he was the
personification of honour, truth, and true nobility,
and find him, to my horror, the most deceptive,
heartless villain in existence."

'' But, Mrs. Fitzgerald has not the smallest
doubt of his innocence," remarked the doctor
inquiringly, for he wished, if possible, to have
his own opinion shaken.

** It is not likely she would," replied Tom.
*' One so good, so amiable, could not entertain
the slightest hard thought of anyone, much less
of him who is her husband, and whom she loves
so deeply; but, when she finds out the terrible
truth, there are strong misgivings in my mind,
that it will break her heart."

*' You do not appear to entertain any doubt as
to whom we must attach the guilt ? " said the
doctor.

'show could I?" replied Tom. ** He was
always walking and talking with her. It only
astonishes me that I did not see through it
before. The night at the ball at Mr. O'Brien's,
he brought her there in his carriage by herself.

and took her away by herself, and danced with
her time after time. Once when I was out in the
garden, seeking there the cool air after the dance,
I could have sworn that I saw his arm around her
waist; and, only Ethel Butler was with me, I
would have gone straight up to him. Then they
went into a shady summer-house; so leaving
Miss Butler in the ball-room, I hastened out as
quickly as I could, but they had departed.
Shortly after, meeting him in the ball-room, I
asked him how he liked his perambulations in the
grounds ? When he had the coolness and the
insincerity to tell me, ' he had not been there at
all.' Nora hurried me away at the moment to
join another dance, or I would have told him that
I had not yet lost my sight. But now it is
evident to me, quite evident, what game he has
been playing."

'soh! Tom, Tom, Tom, how can we ever tell
his good wife. I am truly grieved to say that,
compelled by circumstances, and the enquiries I
have made, I am forced to coincide with your
opinion. It has been a heavy blow to me, and I
know not how to bear it."

'sit is a heavy blow to me, too," said Tom.
*' You cannot think how I respected and loved
that woman ; but, a wrong word she never
breathed to me though much we were together.
That villain must have worked his vile ends
slowly and craftily; and must have persuaded
her by often detailed professions of his love, and

by a thousand lies, to listen to his plans, ere she
would condescend to plunge, by her false step, so
many into misery."

Poor Tom was now in abject grief. He had
meditated a visit to Lara Grove that very day.
The news at once prevented and prostrated him.
As soon as he was alone, with bended head and
downcast eyes, he walked and walked for hours,
in deepest sorrow. And when the night came on,
no sleep came near to soothe him, and give him
respite in transitory oblivion, from the torturing
trouble that was festering around his heart.

The doctor, in fulfilment of his promise, for his
word to him was now a solemn obligation, proceeded
to Bearaa, to unfold all the information he
had gleaned. Mary was watching for his arrival ;
received him with evident emotion and anxiety ;
and listened, bound in silence by interest most
profound. He minutely repeated all he had
heard ; confessed that his mind had led him to
suspect Mr. Harrington, but that he had gone to
see him, and had found him at his home.

** And did you tell him all that you have told
me?"

*' Yes, all the facts, but not the suspicion which
Mr. Goodman entertained."

** And what was his opinion ? Poor young
fellow, I am sure he was overwhelmed with grief."

"Yes, he was heartbroken; but his opinion you
would not wish me to repeat."

Then do not name it. I will wait, and wait

in hope. The more I think, the less I can believe
that my Gerald is in fault. It comes to this,
doctor, he is what I have always thought and still
think him, the noblest and the best of men, or
the worst and most deceitful that can be found, for
there is no middle place." And Mary's tears fell
fast.

Weeks passed on, but there was no letter from
Gerald. All the neighbourhood had a fertile subject
for conversation in the occurrence ; and all,
with one voice commiserated Mary, and avoided
her; and pitied poor Mr. Goodman, who could
not be avoided, as he took to his bed. Gerald
was condemned partially, and Eosa exceedingly
and entirely ; but, both were far away, and heard
not one of the remarks ; and regarded with equal
unconcern, the comments, whether favourable or
the reverse, whether originating in the indulgent
hopes of charity, or with envenomed barbs dipped
in the destructive poison of malignity.

Eosa and her paramour reached Cork in good
time. The expectation of a handsome gift had a
wonderful effect on the driver, and his directions
were to make all the speed in his power. They
remained four days in the city, going to every
place of amusement, and seemingly delighted
with the society of each other ; and then they set
off for France, nor did they rest on their journey
until they arrived in Paris. There, into one busy
whirl of pleasure and amusement they plunged.
The plays, the operas, the pictures, everything

worth looking at, from the Archbishop's cathedral
of Notre Dame to the pretty cottages in the
suburbs. There, with a handsome carriage and
magnificent pair of horses, they might be seen as
they drove along the Rue de la Paix, or Richelieu,
or Honor e, or Eue Royale ; or, brilliant among the
brilliant, swept along the Boulevards to the Bois
de Bologna, to the Jardin Zoological d'Acclimata-
tion, or to the Bois de Vincennes. Money seemed
no object, and pleasure and excitement the only
pursuit. But, in awhile, all this began to grow
dull and wearying ; and, Eosa's admirer suggested
to her ** that he had some very important business
of a private character to transact, and that
she had better wait in Paris for his return, as it
would be necessary for him to go back to Cork to
replenish the exchequer'' At first she seemed
disposed to agree with the suggestion, but then
the idea prominently arose, that she would be so
lonely by herself ; and this took such possession
of her mind, that all his pleadings were unavailing
; and so, after two months' absence,
they returned, with the avowed intention to rest a
little while, before they extended their travels to
Italy, Switzerland, and the beauties of the Eine.
Handsome apartments were taken, and the
theatres and concerts visited again. One morning
her admirer again reminded her of his
pressing family affairs, which so required his
presence. There was no excuse to plead now.
No argument to advance. He was obliged to go

away, and she knew it would not tend to their
mutual advantage that she should accompany
him. So Eosa bid him ** make all the haste he
could." And he replied, ** Did she think he
required any additional attraction ? " So, with a
heart depressed, she saw him leave, and wished
him back again as soon as he was gone ; while all
the time he went, as long as he could obtain a
view, he never ceased to look back, and wave the
fondest, tenderest adieus.

Day after day fled. A weary week rolled out
its ominous length, yet there was no return ; and,
as she anxiously awaited each post, thinking the
next would bring the joyful intelligence when to
expect him, at length a letter did arrive. It
contained a J6100 note ; and, in cold and
measured terms, expressed his regret that he
really was unable to return to her ; adding, that
there was no use in writing to him, as he was
compelled again to go abroad.

** Only think, dear," said he in one part of this
effusion, **I have been away with you for two
months. It is truly astonishing, for never before
could I admire any girl longer than a fortnight'*

It is not easy to imagine her feelings when she
perused this letter. Scarcely believing her own
eyes, her own senses. She read it again, and
again. But the more she read, the more unmistakable
the meaning. It raised a hideous vision
before her view. Home abandoned. Friends
alienated. Alone in the world. Deserted — forsaken

— lost ! And all for one, whose letter proved
him to be callous, indifferent, and heartless.

As soon as she realised her position, her pent-up
sorrows for awhile kept her a prisoner in
her apartments ; without anyone to speak to,
anyone to whom to confide her care, anyone from
whom to seek for counsel or advice. Deeply
did she then repent the folly of her flight.
"Life is now," said she, ''a blank indeed.
Whither shall I turn, or whither shall I go ? "
She could not endure the thought of visiting
places of amusement all alone. She would
gladly have done so, as a means to divert her
thoughts, and steal her from herself. One evening
she arrayed herself in a most becoming dress
and pretty bonnet, but scarcely had she passed
ten paces from the street-door when she turned
back again. She could not bear the thought of
setting off alone.

And soon the people in the house began to
entertain suspicions; partly awakened by her
sorrowful and altered looks, and partly by the fact
that her good gentleman did not return. Their
remarks were, at first, as though they pitied her ;
but in awhile they assumed a tone of insolence ;
until, at last, the information was rudely conveyed
to her, "that the apartments were for
respectable married people, and the sooner she
would suit herself elsewhere, the more would they
be pleased." Sorrow came on sorrow, trouble
upon trouble, grief upon grief, until her bright eyes

were always red with weeping, and her Hvely
spirit was prostrated by loneliness and fretting.

It was arranged that she should leave at the
termination of her week ; but three days more
remained ; then, where was she to go ? At times
she felt as if she neither knew nor cared. At last
the evil thought rose in her mind '* no one knows
where I have gone, and no one shall ever know.
I'll take another lodging, but it will be where I
shall not be asked to leave."

One day, after a month's unvaried sitting in
the house, she walked forth, full of thought, and
yet not knowing where she strayed. As fate
would have it, her footsteps were directed to the
river's bank. The water rolled beneath her, dark,
and cold, and deep. " One plunge in there, Rosa,"
said she to herself, " and all your cares will be
ended, and this most wretched life concluded."
She thought the moment was propitious till,
raising her eyes, she saw that she was observed by
two gentlemen, who evidently were watching her
every movement. Quickly turning round, she
sought again the desolation of her home, resolving
that, when the evening shades threw round
their garb of darkness, and the still hour of night
prevented idle loungers from their walks, she
would again come out ; again seek that same
unfrequented place, and would find in a watery
grave a termination of a spoiled life, and of an
experience chequered by the villainy and deception
of two bad men.

And as the night came on, the teeming torrents
fell from heaven's dark clouds. The lightning
flashed — the thunder roared. Eosa, who minded
not the war of elements, was tenderly susceptible
of the opinions of those around her, and lest her
going out in such rough weather might awaken
suspicion, gave her poor life a respite till the
following night. While in this sad state of mind
she sat before her fire — which was fast sinking
into dark ashes, as her engrossing thoughts of
coming death left it unobserved — her landlady,
without the ceremony of her accustomed knock,
came in, and bluntly asked :

Have you provided yourself with apartments
yet?"

** I think that I have seen to-day a place that
will suit me," responded Rosa; but, I have
determined to call there again tomorrow evening,
when my final decision will be arrived at."

"■ I hope they will suit, I'm sure ; for suit, or no
suit, you must leave this when your week is up."

*' Do not disturb yourself," said Rosa calmly,
*'I have quite made up my mind to leave, so
your rooms will be vacated at the appointed
time."

*' You'd better not give reference to me,"
responded the landlady, ** for my honest opinion
would not be very flattering. Indeed, more than
once, I thought what an amount of assurance
you must have to take my rooms, pretending you
were respectable and married. Here I am, with

my family depending upon the respectability of
my house, and, if it happened to be known that
1 was harbouring a kept woman, 'twould do me a
sight more harm than the paltry rent you pay me
would do me good."

*' I am married," said Rosa."

At which the other shouted out a coarse,
boisterous laugh; and then saying sarcastically,
*' Do you take me for a fool ? '* walked out, slamming
the door after her.

It was early when poor Rosa retired to bed, but
there was no sleep for her that night. As morning
came she dropped off into a short repose, and
then she dreamt she stood upon the water's bank,
and jumped into the dark, deep stream ; and then
she thought she felt the water so intensely cold,
and making noises horrible in her ears ; and
when she reached the bottom, there was such a
dreadful looking fish, with great green eyes and
a prodigious mouth, which swam at once, showing
its large white shining teeth, to tear her limb
from limb. Then, uttering a shriek, she started
up, and, to her intense relief, found herself alone,
with loud-beating heart and big drops of perspiration
trickling down her brow.

The light was streaming in. She left her bed
more wearied far than when she entered it ; and,
putting on her clothes, walked up and down her
room, to try to banish from her thoughts the
hideous dream which made so deep an impression.

'* It is a silly fancy," said she, *' I could not

see down deep in that dark-coloured stream,
neither are there fishes here that would attack
me. If I were abroad it might be different, for
there live sharks that prey on human flesh ; but
here, there is nothing larger than a trout or a
-salmon. Away then all my fears. Ye shall not
frighten me from my purpose. To night — tonight
— I'll carry out my plan, and none shall
ever hear again of sorrowing, wretched, friendless,
weeping, Rosa."

When it was nine o'clock she passed to her
sitting-room. One of the children was laying the
breakfast table, and with a sunny, happy face, lit
up with a smile, enquired :

'* What would you like for your breakfast,
madam ? "

"- A cup of tea and a small piece of dry toast''
responded Rosa.

'eyes, ma'am," replied the child, whose little
face now assumed the look of sadness, seeing in
Rosa's eyes the trace of weeping, and hearing
Rosa's words so mournful and so low.

'* I am so sorry, ma'am, to see you look so ill ;
and I did cry last night to hear my mother speak
all those cross words. All we children love you soever
since you came, and we shall be so sad, and
shall miss you, oh ! so much, when you leave us."

** May heaven bless you child," said Rosa, '' for
this kind word. It is the only one I've heard for
five long weeks."

"I wish I could bring back that nasty man,"

resumed the child. 'rit was so cruel of lira to
leave you. If I were your little girl, I would kiss
you all day long, and never let you sit alone."

And, with these words, the thought of little
Rosa — dead and gone — rushed to her mind.
Her nervous system, weakened by her sorrow,
was unstrung; so, putting up her handkerchief
to her eyes, she sobbed and wept inconsolably.

The child, fearing she was the cause of this
distress, when in her little loving heart she
wished to give comfort, hastened from the room,
nor did she return, with the tea and toast, for
half-an-hour, by which time Rosa, having gained
her composure, patted the little one on the cheek,
and kissed her fondly.

She drank a portion of her cup of tea, but
could not eat one tiny bit. She felt her breast
too full. A big lump seemed to rise up in her
throat, and almost to suffocate her.

Before her dinner, she again went out, and
retraced her steps to the river's side, that, when
the evening's darkness came, she might not lose
her way. The streets were full of busy life.
Even the neighbourhood of the river was not
deserted. And, as she walked along its banks,
more than one boatman asked her ''if she
wished to have a row?" And more than one
man, in the garb of gentlemen, passed her, and
repassed her, and stared so vulgarly and so
rudely that she returned, and sought again her
miserable home.

R 2

And dinner hour arrived, and dinner on the
table lay, but Eosa could not eat. Cutting a
wing from a chicken, she wrapped it up in paper,
and locked it in her trunk, that it might not be
noticed that she had not touched her food.

And tea time came, and then she forced herself
to swallow down a bit of toast, for she was feeling
weak, and faint, and sick. And then, she rang
the bell, and, in response, the landlady appeared.

"I shall be busy with my removal tomorrow,
so would wish to settle my account with you
to-night."

All right. Miss," said the coarse, rude woman.
Oh ! she was one who made a profession of
religion and morality, and who, when it suited
her purpose, could assume the part of kindness,
courtesy, and politeness. After her curt answer
she retired, but soon returned, bringing in her
hand her bill, mulcted in every item to the last
extent, and threw it on th table, expecting a
remonstrance, and well prepared with ready
insolence in return.

*' The amount is five pounds, ten shillings,"
said Rosa.

** Yes," replied the other, ** and very chape and
reasonable, too."

** Here is your money ; kindly give me a receipt."

The other, without so much as saying '' Thank
you," walked out of the room, leaving the door
open after her ; and, presently, the loving, little
girl returned bringing the acknowledgment.

Thank you, darling," said Rosa, *there is a
present for your own little self," putting in her
hand three gold pieces.

The child in raptures, hurried from the room
to shew her wondering mother her rich wealth.

But when the darkness came, spreading its pall
around, Rosa put on her hat; her jacket, made
in Paris, shewing her pretty figure and her tiny
waist ; her gloves, too, she carefully buttoned on ;
and, taking her parasol, with agitated step she
passed down the stairs, out into the street, and,
well remembering every turn, hastened to the
river. All was still and dark as she approached
the carefully selected spot. Twice she thought
she heard the sound of footsteps following her,
but looking round carefully through the gloom,
and seeing no one, forthwith proceeded on her way.
The rain again had now begun to fall. At first a
few large drops, but soon in a heavy shower it
beat on her parasol, and made so loud a noise
she could hear nothing else. At last the bank
was reached, and Rosa stood upon the brink, the
dark, gurgling ripples rolling before her eyes.

'*Ah!" said she, as she looked in, *' how
happy might I now have been, but for Doctor
Armstrong. No thought of sin once passed before
my mind, until he wrought my ruin. I forgive
him. Yes, I forgive him all. I forgive him, too,
who, by his professions of unchanging love,
brought me from my home, then left me, oh ! so
heartlessly. I wonder shall I meet my little

Eosa on the other side. I wonder will she love
her loving mother there. Oh, Mary ! kind,
good Mary, pray for me, if you should ever hear
that I am gone — if ever the report should reach
your ears. And you, too, kind, considerate
Simon. I could not live with you, knowing that
my deceit, alone, prevented you from spurning
me away. Forgive me all the pain that I have
caused you, and do not blame me, for I was compelled
to be unfaithful."

Then with a shriek she cried : '' Eosa Gibson,
'tis full time for you to die," and, with convulsive
effort, plunged into the stream.

There was a thud. A splash. And then the
divided waters made circle after circle round the
spot where they had overwhelmed the

VICTIM OF THE DOCTOR'S VILLAINY !

SURPRISES.

Quicquid agent homines, notum, timor, ira voluptas,
Gaudea. — Juvenal.

Whate'er incites man's anger, pleasure, joy,

His vow, his fear, these themes my thoughts employ.

Mary Fitzgerald was sad at heart; everyone
seemed to hold the opinion that Gerald had
eloped with Rosa. His long silence and absence,
now quite three months, contributed an amount
of circumstantial evidence which it became daily
more difficult to refute. However, these her
feelings were not evidenced to the world, on the
contrary, they were pent up in the repository of
her own breast. She did not relax in the slightest
degree her attention to her little boy, but, from
the moment his mind could receive impressions,
instructed him in the great truths which gladdened
her spirit, and gave her support in the
hour of trial. She also was as assiduous as ever
among the poor, the afflicted, the sorrowful, and
the distressed ; was never weary or tired in the
attempt to bring joy and happiness, to dry the
mourner's tears, and to relieve the pressing calls
of poverty and want.

As she was making preparations one morning,
for these her usual excursions among the children
of penury and wretchedness, just before she
started, Doctor Armstrong, bearing evident traces
of excitement and anxiety, drove up to the door.
He quickly came in, and received a cordial
welcome ; but, before he could declare the object
of his early and unusual call, Mary, whose heart
was engrossed with one subject, addressed him.

'' Doctor, tell me candidly, do you think Gerald
took away Rosa ? "

'' I fear it is but too true," responded the
doctor. '' Each day seems to unfold additional
proof. I have, this very morning, discovered that
Rosa went from here to France."

'' Then," replied Mary, " that decides it. However,
I do not forget that, on two occasions, I have
already distrusted the power of my God to save
me. In both my wickedness was great, and as
might be expected, much sorrow and sin followed.
Now, too, I can see, that in both these cases,
there was no necessity whatever for my grief,
my agony, and my unbelief. I was like the
women who were going to my Saviour's tomb.
They hopelessly enquired, ' Who will roll us
away the stone ? ' even when the stone was
already gone, and the angel's power had removed
it. If I had only rested in hope, I would have
found the protection I required. Captain Lovell
would have been spared to a life of usefulness,
and I should have escaped those dreadful hours

in the tomb. In this case, I shall avoid that sin,
and, though I cannot close my eyes to the facts,
and, though appearances are most discouraging,
yet will I follow the prophet's advice — ' Who is
among you that feareth the Lord, that oheyeth
the voice of his servant, that walketh in darkness
and hath no light, let him trust m the name of
the Lord, and stay upon his God.' "

*eyes," replied the doctor, '* and when resting
upon that foundation you will prove the truth
that *as thy days so shall thy strength be,' so that
even if the worst come, you will be able to bear it ;
you will be more than conqueror."

*sit is, indeed, a charming consolation to one
walking in the darkness,' which now surrounds
me, and whose light of hope grows daily less and
less, to hear that, ' as my days so shall my
strength be ; ' but, what is the matter with you ?
Indeed, it is time I should lay aside my selfishness,
for you look most distressed."

And so I am, and have come here with all the
speed I could command fol' your advice. All
night I lay sleepless, and tossed about by the
reflections of my mind. I could not get Rosa
Goodman from my thoughts. She seemed to
stand beside me, and reproach me as the cause
of all her sin and sorrow ; and then, to my fancy's
imagery, appeared her face, so worn and sad, and
terribly disconsolate, that, as soon as light
appeared, I gladly left my bed, and wandered like
a troubled spirit through the house from room to

room. Then, when the post came in, I went into
my surgery where all my letters and papers are
left for my perusal. Strange, and unusual, there
was no letter there, and nothing for me but my
Cork paper enclosed in its usual wrapper.
Mechanically I took it up, for seldom do I open it
or read it. When, all at once, a passage caught
my eye, and by a strange fascination I was compelled
to peruse it. I have cut it from the paper,
and brought it here to you."

*' Before the magistrates, J. R. Barry and D. Corrigan, Esqrs.
A respectably dressed young woman, unmistakably a lady, and of
most prepossessing appearance, was brought before the court,
charged with attempting to take her own life. She declined to
give her name or address, but admitted that she had, some weeks
ago, returned from France. She also declined to make any
promise not to injure herself for the future, and expressed
regret at the failure of her last attempt. As she stated she had
no friends, and could not provide bail, she was sentenced to
ten days' imprisonment."

When the doctor looked up, to perceive what
impression this detail had made, Mary immediately
enquired, " Why should that disturb you ?
It is, alas, a melancholy truth that many victims
of heartlessness and villainy are glad to make
away with their lives. They seek death asa
respite from the wretchedness and sin that
surrounds them, and the reproaches of a condemning
conscience."

** That is not all," resumed the doctor, commencing
again to read.

In the course of the proceedings, James Dvvyer was
examined. He stated that he lived at No. 17, Murphy Street.
Agate Road, and was returning from his work, at which he was
detained until a late hour the previous evening, and was on his
way home. His shortest road lay by the river. As he walked,
his attention was suddenly attracted by the appearance of a
lady standing on the bank. As he came near, he could hear her
sobbing and crying, and before he could reach her, she had
plunged into the deep water, uttering the cry, * Eosa Gibson, it
is time for you to die.'

' Are you sure,' enquired the magistrate, ' she said Rosa
Gibson ? '

' Quite sure, yer worship,' replied the man, * for my own
wife's name war Gibson afore she war married, and that's what
made me think on it.'

'then what did you do?'

' Oi cried for help as loudly as Oi could, and, thrown off me
coat and shoes, as soon as ever she rus to the top Oi plunged in,
seized her, and brought her out. Oi must say Oi was assisted
in hauling her up the bank by the watchman. The cries Oi
raised for help brought him to the spot. She was quite
insensible whin taken out, but, after awhile, recovered
consciousness again.' "

As soon as he had finished reading, turning to
Mary, the doctor said: — '' Oh, I am overwhelmed
with shame, yet to you I must make a confession.
Rosa Gibson was ruined by me ; I am the cause of
all her sin and suffering. I am the cause, too,
that your husband has been led away, for she
never would have listened to any enticement to
sin but for me, nor would she have tempted him
to leave his wife and home. I am the cause that
she has treated Mr. Goodman so deceitfully in
the course she has followed ; and I cannot tell you

how the sense and weight of all these accumulated
sins are pressing on my soul ; and now, this
attempted murder would have added to the list of
my transgressions, but that Providence, in mercy,
by a miracle, has preserved her life."

The doctor hid his face in his hands. Mary
looked as though overpowered with astonishment.
Such a revelation she did not anticipate. It came
to her like an earthquake shock. She paused fora
moment, during which the doctor held his head
down, and his handkerchief in both his hands,
concealing his face, and then, in slow and solemn
words, replied —

"It was Eobert Armstrong, the renegade from
the faith of his mother, — it was Robert Armstrong,
the Infidel, — that acted that atrocious part. But,"
added she, "Robert Armstrong, the Christian,
would die before he would commit one of these
enormities, and for some years has tried, with all
his might, to undo the evil of his previous acts.
But let us leave the past ; it is beyond our influence.
The present is in our power, and it
requires action — immediate action." Then she
added, with an emphasis of tone and energy,
You and I must go to Cork to-day, and find
out Rosa, the sooner the better."

The doctor immediately acquiesced. He pronounced
the goodness of Mary, "wonderful," who
would thus propose to take a long and tiresome
journey in the hope of befriending one who,
without any provocation on her part, hesitated

not to inJLue Lier irreparably. Mary gently
reminded him, '* ' If we are His servants we
must walk in His steps,' and we can easily recognise
those steps when we reflect, * While we were
yet enemies He laid down His life for us.' "

By changing horses on the road at various
places, and by driving fast, they arrived in Cork
shortly after three o'clock. The first call they
made was at the residence of Mr. Barry, one of
the magistrates who committed Rosa to the
prison. He was an acquaintance of the doctor's,
and instantly made out an order for the liberation
of the interesting prisoner. Armed with
this, Mary went forthwith to the gaol.

The warder, who was a man of intelligence,
immediately recognised the respectability and
social standing of the lady who made enquiry.
Having asked her to take a seat in the waiting-room,
where he assured her she would not be disturbed,
he passed to the cell where Eosa was, and
told her 'that a lady had just arrived at the
prison, who wanted to see her, and who had procured
for her the necessary discharge, so that she
might leave as soon as she pleased."

Rosa was astonished at the information. '' You
make a mistake," she replied, " I know no lady in
Cork, and am sure no one would come and search
for me here''

** Is not your name Rosa Gibson ? " he retorted ;
but, as she made no reply, but gazed at him with
evident surprise, he added, " If so, I tell you

there is a lady waiting outside who wants to see
you, and who has brought your discharge with
her."

^* Where is she?" said Rosa inconsiderately, for
she still felt convinced there must be some mistake.


*' In the visitor's room," he replied, "if you
follow me I shall show you the way."

** Then I shall follow you at once, for I feel sure
it is some misapprehension."

The warder came to the door, opened it, let
Rosa in, and immediately closed it after her.

When Rosa saw Mary she flew into her arms,
and Mary with open arms received her, and
clasped her to her breast.

She was not like some of those modern saints
who, though professing to be the servants of
the *' Friend of Sinners," yet hold their flounces
closely pressed, lest they should touch against an
erring sister passing in the street, and whose
countenances immediately assume the combined
expression of contempt, dreaded contamination,
and superiority.

Long did they embrace, and long they wept the
tears of love upon each other. As soon as their
deep emotion allowed utterance, in rapid sequence
came : '* So glad I am to see you once again.
However did you find me ? How I have longed
to see you. How good of you to seek me here."

And then, with throbbing heart, Mary enquired
:

Where did you leave Gerald, and why did he
abandon you ? "

And when Eosa, with the sincerity of truth
beaming in her face, replied : ^' I have never seen
him since he left me at my door, the evening of
Mr. O'Brien's ball ; "

Mary, whom love and fear combined made full
of doubt, replied, " Ah ! Eosa dear, do not deceive
me. I have already heard the worst, and can
bear all, but do tell me, if you know, where he is,
and where he left you ? ' '

'most truthfully I tell you, Mary," replied
Eosa warmly, a bright blush mantling her cheek
at the thought that her word was not believed —
** Most truthfully I tell you, I have not seen him
since the night of the ball ; the wretched night
when I met that wicked man, who took me from
my home, and to whom, with one exception, I
owe all my troubles."

'* But you used to walk and speak with him so
much ; and then, you both went off to France at
the same time ; so that the whole neighbourhood
set it down as fact that you had eloped together."

"Yes, Mary, much did we walk together, and
long were our conversations, and how I wish I
had listened to his words, and yielded to his
advice. Oh ! so many times he told me what a
peaceful, happy life was yours ; how you rejoiced
in doing good, and adding to the happiness of
others ; and then he would pray me to listen to
your advice, that I might be happy too ; for his

quick intelligence perceived there was an undying
worm gnawing at my heart."

And Mary's heart overflowed with gladness at
these words, and tears of joy ran down her
cheeks, as she heard, not only of Gerald's
innocence, but his innate goodness ; and she
exclaimed, ** then am I the greatest culprit, and
I must ask forgiveness from you both, for, in my
secret thoughts, I have been uncharitable, and
cruelly wronged you. But who was the wicked
man that tempted you from your home ? "

I do not mind to tell you, darling," responded
Rosa, 'but let us never name him more. It was
Lord Ardoyne, whom I met at the ball at Mr.
O'Brien's."

Then many were the explanations between the
friends, until Mary, longing for the happiness of
one who had been terribly wretched, again
pleaded with her to leave the ways of sin, and
accept the peace that reigned in her own heart.

*'I am too bad," said Rosa. ** Again I must
reply, as when you pleaded with me often times
before, * If you knew all, you would not speak tome.'
"

*but I do know all," responded Mary. ''Dr.
Armstrong, with falling tears and truly repentant
heart, has told me all his sin, and it is
he who has brought me here to-day, for in his
newspaper this morning he saw the account of
all that happened, and how you had been
rescued." And long did Mary reason with her

friend. She pointed out to her full many a text,
while falling tears proclaimed her love and
earnestness ; until, as the chains made fast by
wicked men, fell from the hands of Peter in the
prison, so Rosa's mental chains, wrought by the
villainy of wicked men, fell off in the prison too,
as she heard from Mary's lips the words,
*' Though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be
white as snow ; though they be red like crimson,
they shall be as wool."

They spent that evening in Cork, rejoicing
together. It was too late to return. They
sought out James Dwyer and gave him fifteen
gold pieces and unnumbered thanks. Next day
they went back to Kanturk. Mary soon took
Rosa to her husband's house. He was very ill —
confined to bed. Consumption, which was
hereditary, had laid its hand upon him. Rosa
nursed him tenderly from the moment of her
arrival. Day and night, night and day, her
attention was unremitting.

Two days after their return to Kanturk, six
letters came by the same post to Bearaa. All
were from Gerald, written at different times.
The last two were filled with anticipations of
tribulation, lest the reason he had received no
letter was the illness of his dear wife. He also
stated that he had arranged all his business
most satisfactorily, and might be expected at
home any day.

Before the termination of the week, he arrived,

looking well. Mary, overjoyed at his return, did
not even mention to him the report about the
elopement. The whole neighbourhood believed
they had been deceived, and the scandal died a
natural death.

About three months after, as Mary and her
husband were paying a morning call at Mr.
O'Brien's, they casually heard that Lord Ardoyne
had been washed overboard and drowned in the
Bay of Biscay, as he was going on a tour of
pleasure to Spain.

And years passed on; and many were the
events at Kanturk, and in its neighbourhood.
Nora had another son, also a charming little
daughter. Mary had a lovely little girl, the very
picture of herself. Dr. Armstrong had two sons
in succession, and Aggie ceased to mourn for
little Eobert. After a long illness, in which Rosa,
without a murmur, attended with a patient solicitude
and intelligent care that would have done
credit to a trained nurse, poor Mr. Goodman
succumbed to the ravages of his relentless,
wasting disease.

And Rosa mourned him long. And though
many suitors sought her hand — for it was
universally admitted she was a most lovely
fascinating widow — she constantly refused them
all, and devoted all her time in working with
Mary for the benefit of the poor, and the alleviation
of the sufferings of the afflicted.

When Gerald returned, Tom Harrington was

one of the first to call on him. He had met his
good wife in Kanturk, and she had informed him
how baseless was the slander, and how utterly
untrue ; but, when she mentioned Lord Ardoyne,
the thought immediately, and for the first time,
struck Tom how great was the resemblance
between them, and how, very probably, it was he
who had put his arm around Eosa's waist in the
garden.

Tom and Rosa met again, and, in a little while —
though Tom vowed it should not — all the old
flame revived. He became even a more constant
visitor at Lara Grove than in former days he was
wont to be. Mary told him all the good
qualities of her friend, and how completely
changed she was, and added "he would be a
fortunate man, indeed, if he could obtain her fora
wife, for she was as truly good as she was
pretty, and would be a prize, and something to
make proud the heart of any man."

Tom was most assiduous in his attentions. It
was no trouble to him, for his heart prompted.
At length, his efforts were crowned with success.
The happy day was named ; arrived in due course ;
and all the friends around came to the wedding.
It was a joyous time for all, for all were happy.
Tom was a general favourite. Besides his good
looks and his splendid figure, he was everywhere
respected as a noble-minded, honourable, worthy
man. Rosa was a favourite, too. The fact that
Mary had resumed her friendship, made the

vacillating neighbours banish their former
impressions, and now they wondered what could
have made them, even for a moment, entertain
the thought that she would elope with Mr.
Fitzgerald.

Soon was the breakfast over, and the speech's
echo silent. Tom and Eosa appeared in travelling
costume. They meditated spending the
happy time in Dublin. Both looked, if possible,
better than ever. Mary's heart was full of joy,
for she had been the humble means of bringing
the blessedness of true and unending peace to
those she loved.

As they drove away, came the cry from Rosa's
lips, ** Good-bye, Mary, darling! you are the
cause of all my joy." And Tom exclaimed,
'' You are the cause of all my joy." And Gerald
repeated, in a lower tone, "Yes, darling, and
you are the cause of all my joy." And Dr.
Armstrong took up the note, audibly declaring
'rand you are the cause of all my joy." And
a crowd of poor men and women who, with
happy faces, came to see the wedding, echoed
back the cry, " You are the cause of all our joy,
too ! "

Such were the times — such the friends — and
such the influence of Mary 0' Sullivan.

THE COUP-DE-GBACE.

Hie mums alexius est
Nil conspire sibi, nulla pales cere culpa.

Horace.

Honour and truth a tow'r of strength bestow,
But guilty conscience brings a weight of woe.

Our readers, perhaps, will remember, that when
Mortimer 0' Sullivan was in the dark passage
with the ghost, the last request, which his ghastly
companion made to him, was that he should
open the door from within which proceeded the
shouts of murder, and the shrieks of suffering.
That to comply with this request, he at first
declined — positively declined — feeling assured
that death, perhaps, too, attended with torture,
awaited him if he consented.

That the ghost then upbraided him with
cowardice— cowardice so great, that it influenced
him to disregard the solemn oath he had sworn,
to avenge the death of the fair lady he had seen
in the boat with the brigands.

It will also be remembered that this reproach
had such impressive weight, that casting away
his fear, and laying hold of the handle of the
door with all the might in his power, he twisted

it violently and forcibly, his terrible nervous
agitation adding strength to his effort.

Oh ! it was then, indeed, that the hideous
shouts grew loud ; it was then that screams, like
burning knives, seemed to pass through his brain.
At first, the noises were confused ; but, at last,
he distinctly recognised :

Oh ! Mortimer O'Sullivan, Mortimer O'SulH-
van, you are pulling my nose off, Mortimer
O'Sullivan ! "

At the same time, a well-directed and heavy
blow upon his arm, awakened him to the fact that
he was still sitting in the room with his two
friends, and that, in a most hideous dream, he
had mistaken McSweeney's nose for the handle of
a door.

** Whatever is the matter'" said both his
friends. " Have you seen the ghost ? " As they
perceived him trembling with fright, and the
perspiration dripping down his face.

Mortimer, wiping his forehead with his handkerchief,
and laying his hand on his palpitating
heart, replied. " Yes, I have seen him, and have
been in his company the last half-hour. I can
well recognise his features still. Oh ! it was an
awful ordeal."

The fact was, he had just finished the first volume
of the work he had picked up from the shelf. So
imbued with interest was he, that he tried to muster
courage and search in the library downstairs for
the second volume. As he endeavoured to brace

up his confidence to do so, he took his seat by
the warm fire, whose soothing influence soon
sent him off to sleep, when, so strong was the
effect of the narrative, and so saturated were his
nerves with the details, that his highly wrought
sympathies embodied themselves in a dread
nightmare dream, which as accurately impressed
the incidents of a " true ghost story " on his
mind, as if he had seen the veritable ghost itself.

He quickly offered sincere apologies to his companion,
whose nose he had mistaken for the door-handle,
and explained how the book he had
been reading, and the advent of the ghost, which
he had been expecting, had created a confused
and commingled impression on his mind, which
sleep had moulded into a most distressing outline.


Forthwith McSweeney, whose period for keeping
watch the lots had assigned to take the next
hour, expressed his willingness to enter on his
duty, and how his friend, whose experience had
been so worrying, to assume his place on the
hearth rug, and indulge in much-needed repose.

Mortimer, however, declined to accept his offer.
He assured him that his mind felt too excited to
allow a chance of sleep, that it would be perfectly
futile to attempt it, and that, under such circumstances,
his selfishness would be great, if he
would consent to deprive another of an advantage
which his own nervousness would not allow him
to enjoy. And so, after some interchange of

compliments, it was agreed that Mortimer should
watch again, on condition that, without waiting
for the termination of an hour, he should be at
perfect liberty to awaken his companion at anytime
he desired, and take his place at full length
before the fire, whenever he felt so disposed.

This arrangement being concluded, balmy
sleep soon again regained the ascendancy, and
McSweeney and Fitzgerald, a second time embraced
in the arms of Morpheus, made the
spacious room resound with their monotonous
snores ; but not so Mortimer. Having made a
diligent search, he was at length successful in
finding the second volume of the old book, the
reading of which you, reader, have just completed.
He expected to derive as much pleasure from its
perusal as he had obtained from the first volume.
So taking his seat, at a comfortable distance
from the replenished fire, he was soon absorbed
in its details, leaf after leaf being turned over in
rapid succession.

The reverie of his interest was, however, destined
to interruption. A sound, as of rustling
silk, in close proximity to the back of his chair,
diverted his attention, and induced him to take a
retrospective glance. When lo ! to his horror,
the same tall dark warrior, with martial cloak and
Spanish hat and plumes, who had mysteriously
entered the room before, though doubly locked
and bolted was the door — the same who had conducted
him through the dark subterranean passage

— appeared again, and as he turned his head,
grasped him round the waist with one arm, and,
placing his hand over his mouth, prevented him
from calling for the assistance of his friends. He
struggled with all his might, but could not move,
so tightly was he held. He tried to alarm his
comrades by his shouts, but so closely was the
hand applied, he could not give utterance to the
smallest sound.

And now, in the arms of his captor, he seemed
to rise supernaturally from the ground, then to
pass quickly through the ceiling of the room, and
to glide as on wings through chill air, and fog,
and rain, until at last he found himself standing
on the bank of a river. Oh ! how rapidly did its
waters roll, how dark and deep it looked. The
solemn hour of night entrapped all nature in a
sable mantle and made the gurgling stream look
fearful in the intensity of its surging torrents.
As riveted in suspense he awaited the next
development, the warrior suddenly vanished from
his view, and then he felt the drizzling rain fall
fast and cold, the chilly drops permeating his
clothing, and the piercing blast making every
muscle m his body tremble.

'* How am I to escape from this ? " thought he.
*' What could be the object in bringing me to
such a place, and leaving me there at this still
hour of night ? " Then, as he meditated on the
situation, he looked around. Standing on the
bank some few yards from him, he saw a lady

most elegantly and gracefully attired. Oh! her
face, how lovely it appeared, her form how beautiful.
It was the very same adorable creature
whom he had seen in the boat with the brigands,
when they rowed into the little creek beneath his
castle's windows. Now that queenly face was full
of sorrow, and the rolling tears fell fast down the
lovely cheeks, while her cries of sorrow, which
were most pitiful, as she wrung her hands in
anguish, filled his soul with interest so profound
that forthwith all thoughts of self were utterly
estranged.

"I must enquire what is the matter, I must
see if it be in my power to bear assistance,"
muttered he to himself, as, with all the speed he
could command, he hurried to her side. But, ashe
approached, and even now drew near, the lady,
who did not seem to recognise his presence,
uttered a wild scream, and threw herself into the
water.

Not a moment was to be lost. Tearing off his
coat, and kicking off his boots, he rushed to the
spot where she disappeared. The instant she
rose to the surface, with a prodigious bound, he
leaped off to the rescue, and seized her tightly
ere she could sink again. But, as he seized, a
yell most hideous echoed in his ears, and blow
after blow came heavily on his side, while, with
unmistakable distinctness, the words resounded,
'for heaven's sake, Mortimer O'Sullivan, what
are you at now ? "

There were the three friends still in the old
room of Dunboy Castle. They had not retired
to rest all night long. The fear of the expected
ghost had prevented them. Fitzgerald and
McSweeney had slept full well. The sofa and the
hearth rug had answered admirably for beds, but
O'Sullivan had been poring over the second
volume of his story, and had never laid it down
until it was finished. He had, then, fallen into
a deep sleep, but, in that sleep, he had seen the
attempted suicide in the river most vividly
pourtrayed, and had dashed in heroically to avert
the calamity. His leap, however, had brought
him full plop on the slumbering carcase of
McSweeney, around whose neck he entwined one
arm, with such convulsive pressure, that, the
foreboding preliminary of choking brought all the
blood into his friend's face. While, with his
other arm, he struck out vigorously, and kicked
with all his might, as though he was swimming
to the shore.

Fitzgerald, aroused from his sleep, sat convulsed
with laughter, as he watched from his sofa
the strange performance; while McSweeney, in
self-defence, let out with both hands at his
plunging aggressor.

The shout and the blows soon awakened
O'Sullivan, who at once suspended further
attempts to secure the safety of the drowning.
Then, rubbing the sleep from his eyes, he
exclaimed, " My dear fellow, do forgive me

again, it was the effect of another dream. I
have been up all night reading that blessed book,
and now its impression on my mind has made
me imagine that such a lovely girl was drowning,
and that I was making violent attempts to save
her.

*but, lo ! the light is streaming in, we need
no longer fear to go to bed. I alone have, seen
the ghost, and that so vividly, so distinctly, and
with such fearful impressiveness, that I would
rather stay awake all night than experience again
the terror of so terrible a visitation. But, let me
add, though dread the apparition, I look back
with satisfaction to this eventful night, for, the
story I have read has taught me a lesson which,
I trust, I shall never forget. That lesson is that
honour, sincerity, and truth, are the only paths
that lead to happiness; while selfishness, irreligion,
and sin, are sure to bring a load of lasting
misery.

"Now, to bed, to bed, let us at once repair.
When darkness comes, if you agree, we will
watch again. I have found another Book. It is
called :

Kate of Hillary.'

And, so anxious am I to read it, I am satisfied
to undertake again the first hour's watching."
*' Agreed " said the other two.

FINIS.

D. Maples AND CO. LIMITED,

LIVERPOOL.

3 0112 084213427
