fc

^ymM'''-M't

f,.

3lyt\ /7-^^-< \

A VERY Mx\D WORLD

THE lias THAT LOVED A SOLDIER. By G. M.

Penn. 3 vols.
IN DURANCE VILE. By the Author of " Molly Sawn."

3 vols.
TOILERS OF BABYLON. By B. L. Farjeon. 3 vols.
MONICA. By H. Everett-Green, r. vols.
ONE FOR THE OTHER. By Esse Stuart. 3 vols.
THE CURSE OF KOSHIN. By the Hon. Lewis

WiNGriELD. 55.

Florida. By Anna Bowman Dodd. 5^.

WARD & DOWNEY, Publishes, London.

OB, *

MYSELF AND MY NEIGHBOUR FAIR.

BY

Frank HUDSON,

AUTHOR OF

THE LAST HURDLE : A STORY OF SPORTING AND COURTING,
"THE ORIGIN OF PLUM PUDDING," &C.

IN TWO VOL Uses.
VOL. I.

Wed AND DOWNEY,
12,, YORK STREET, COVENT GARDEN.

1889.
[The Right of Dramatising any part of this Novel is reserved

KEfiLV AND CO., MIDDLE MILL, KINQfiTON-ON-THAMBS

AND GATE STREET, LINCOLN'S INN FIELDS, W.C.

V

'-0

CONTENTS.

C^ CHAP.

^ I.-

^

II.
III.

P Iv—'
r • Vi—'

The Madness of this World proved beyond a

Doubt . 1

Cases op Madness among the Lower Orders . 11
I Dine out . 18

The Butler and the Bluebottle . . .27

Exit Wilkins . 33

The Advantages op being Little . . .41

A Suggestion . 47

The Gardener's Daughter . . .56

Nature will be Nature still . . 63

Civilized Savages . . . . .70

At the Opera . 77

That's the Way the Money goes . 85

Concerning Fritz 93

A Musical Afternoon 101
the Widow and I go to Church . . 108

Paul Joyce explains his Mission . . .115

Mrs. Coombes . 123

At the Theatre . 130
Those Yankees 138

-Very Low Comedy . . . .146

-Paul's Confession 155

-By the Sad Sea Waves 171
Mrs. Wilson Appears 178

CHAP,

-^^^^•— The Pleasures of English Travelling .

^XV.— Back again in Brownlow

XXVI.— I Lunch with the Widow

XXVII, — Aunt Minerva

XXVIII. — A Sanguinary Subject . . 217

XXIX. — Tom Pierce arrives . . 228

XXX. — Tom meets his Aunt . . 237

XXXI.— Miss Minerva assists at a Matinee . 246

XXXII.— Vive Labour . 258

XXXIII. — A Letter prom Paul . . 266

PAGE






M. H.

arts took is gcbicaleb.

Bool^ 1.

Chapter I.

THE MADNESS OF THIS Would PROVED BEYOND
A DOUBT.

You have doubtless read and forgotten it,
but it is nevertheless quite true that in
ancient times a very large sect of philosophers
maintained that all men were mad. This
belief is still current amongst our greatest
madmen, by which I mean our greatest
thinkers of the present day. Professor Ball
(of Paris, I believe) declares there are millions
of people on this planet suffering from
some form or another of insanity. But the

VOL. I. 1

professor does not go far enough : the ancients
were nearer the truth. Now I am mad —
yes, I, Philip Brownlow, J.P., aged forty, of

Brownlow House, shire, am as mad as a

March hare. But I am not a lunatic. And

here let me state once for all, that there

exists as great a difference between lunacy

and mere madness as there is between rabies

and mere distemper. Yes, I am mad, and

pride myself on the fact, for I like to be in

the fashion. Everybody with brains is mad.

Now Hodge, whose brains are in his horny

hands, is not mad. Were he so, he would

never work like a slave in my fields from

early morn till dewy eve for a few shillings

per week. No, becoming discontented with

his lot, he would trudge up to choking London

to seek his fortune, which he would not be

very long in finding in jail (if very mad), orin

the workhouse (if only middling mad).

But Hodge labours under the disadvantage of

being sane, and so he works hard, lives on

bread and bacon, and dies of old age. , Poor
fellow ! He has no brains in his head to go
mad with.

Those who are blessed with a arose amount
of brains are very mad — a great deal madder
than I can ever hope to be, though I may
state, with, I trust, pardonable pride, that I
am akin to the Great Napoleon in the matter
of window counting, and to Dr. Johnson
(grand old madman !) in " step counting."
Indeed, in one point I beat those two illustrious
madmen. There, I have said it ! My
pride has got the better of my modesty, and
out it must come. Napoleon only counted
the windows in houses ; / count the number
of panes in each window, and (if I enter the
house) the number of chairs, tables, pictures
and ornaments therein. But, alas ! I am very
far behind Napoleon in other points. I am
not mad enough to think I could conquer the
world. As to the great doctor, I have beaten
his " step counting " very often by counting

1-2

every flagstone which I have stepped on from
the Marble Arch to Oxford Circus. One of
the strangest facts in this mad world is that
the maddest people are the very people who
think themselves the sanest. Mayhap, you,
my dear mad brother, are one of that class ?
Don't think I wish to flatter — I say mayhap
you are. If so, don't you think yourself a
great deal wiser and more godly than your
neighbours ? Don't you firmly believe in your
heart of hearts that your children are brighter,
your house better managed, and yourself a
person of superior knowledge and discrimination
? You know you do : if you did not,
you would be a mere brainless sane-man. But
you have plenty of brains, my dear mad
brother, and that is the reason you are constantly
doing things which a costermonger's
jackass would deem very foolish.

In nothing do we exhibit our madness to
such an extent as in our pastimes and public
amusements. Many of us will, under a blazing

June sun, tire ourselves to death (besides running
the risk of broken noses) by striking a hard
leather ball with a piece of wood, called a bat.
Is there the slightest particle of sanity in a football
match ? Were you ever in one ? If not, try
it. Let us take our great town amusement —
the theatre. The theatre is a place wherein
certain men and women appear upon a platform
(called a stage) and for the space of
some three hours represent themselves to be
other people — such as kings, queens, knaves,
virtuous maidens, ladies of fashion, &c. ; and
they love, murder and die ; or plot, intrigue
and marry ; or sing, dance and make vulgar
jokes. When the business is finished, a green
curtain descends and hides them from your
view, you rise from your seat and make the
best of your way into the street, while the
people who represented themselves to be
other people, change their clothes, wash the
paint from their faces, and lo ! are themselves
again. Now, I will take it that you,

my dear mad brother, have been sitting in
that part of the theatre which is called the
stalls. You could have taken a seat in that
part called the pit if you liked. The pit
might be styled the " unreserved stalls," it
being only separated from the stalls proper
by a thin partition about four feet high.
To be sure, the pit seats are neither numbered
nor cushioned, and moreover are only about a
quarter the price of the seats in the stalls ; so
■of course you could not think of sitting there.
No, delightful madman that you are, you
go to the stalls, where the lady in the next
seat to yours shudders at the sight of some
factory girls drinking beer from a bottle
in the gallery, as she removes her mantle,
displaying a tout ensemble in the matter of
bosom and neck the sight of which would
make that hapless sane-man Hodge blush
up to the roots of his carroty hair. Well,
the tiling called the " play " is over, and
the green curtain is very much in evidence.

Why do you strike your hands together in
that rapid manner ? Oh ! you are pleased !
I understand : the thing called a " play "
has pleased you. That is to say, a certain
number of men and women who have
appeared before you and who have pretended
to be other people, have caused
you pleasure, and so you make a crow-clapper
of your hands. Very good : and
that gentleman behind you in the pit,
what does he mean by imitating the voice
of an angry gander ? Oh ! he is not pleased
with the thing called a play, and so he
makes a noise like a gander. And you,
my dear mad brother, and that other mad
brother in the pit, both think yourselves
sane men ! Will you, when you reach home
to-night, and are pleased with your light
supper, clap your hands together for fully
sixty-five seconds ? Or will he from the pit
there, when he gets home and finds the baby
squalling, or the water turned off, or some

such displeasing occurrence, will he, imitating
the gander, hiss for the same period ?

In my old college days I had a " chum " from
Ireland, and a madman after mine own heart.
The dear fellow thought himself a very Solomon.
I have known him to go miles out of
his way for the express purpose of procuring
what he called " real Irish whisky," and
which, in the goodness of his heart, he would
invite me to partake of.

Ah," he would say, " it cost me a journey
to get this whisky, Phil, but it is well worth
any journey, for it is strong and well-flavoured."


And then, into this strong, well-flavoured
whisky, which cost him such a journey, would
he pour a spoonful of rum, which took the
flavour away, hot water, which took its
strength away, sugar to sweeten it, and then
a bit of lemon to make it bitter again.

How often will those who are mad enough
to know better rave about the wisdom of

certain people who have made a noise ip. the
world. They will cite Bacon. Well, Bacon
was the greatest philosopher who ever lived.
Was he sane ? Perish the thought ! Were
he a brainless sane-man do you think he would
stop his coach on a bleak morning in High-gate,
and Cjuit its warm interior to stuff a
chicken with snow, thereby catching a cold
which killed him ? And Izaak Walton, "the
gentle and the wise " — how about him ? Was
there anything very gentle in killing a harmless
necessary cat for the mere purpose of
baiting a fishhook with part of its entrails?
Was there anything very wise in the old man
leaving his warm bed at two o'clock on a
rainy morning to go fishing for a loggerheaded
chub, which when caught he would
bestow upon the first red-cheeked milkmaid
who sang him a song by Kit Marlow ? Was
Byron sane when he started the Liberal 1
Was Voltaire sane when he fancied himself
superior to Shakespeare ? or Walpole when

he collected bits of old iron? or Frederic
the Great when he thought himself a poet ?
or Charles the First when he went to arrest
Pym and Hampden? or — but why continue
further ? Have I not said enough to show
that it is a mad world, my masters? And
the worst of it is that sane men have not
brains enough to mend it.

CASES OF MADNESS AMONG THE LOWER ORDERS.

It is snowing like old Harry, but as I am
seated in my library with a good blazing
fire before me what do I care ? Let all the
birds, beasts and fishes throughout my broad
domain do what they can to keep themselves

comfortable. With this wish

The entrance of my housekeeper interrupted
me just now. She came to tell me
that Sally and Tom are going to be married,
and that, please, they have given a month's
warning. It's very odd — in fact it's most extraordinary.
It is the first time I have met
with the case of two people in the lower order
of life being gifted with madness. What are
we coming to when groom and housemaid
are endowed with brains ? Tom is a capital

groom, and can doctor a horse as well as
any Vas. in the market ; I allow him thirty
pounds a year, with board, lodging and livery,
lie is young — not more than twenty-five, and
should he elect to remain in my service until
he was, say, fifty, just calculate what a nice
little sum he could save to open a little public
house with. Sally is about twenty, neat and
pretty. She receives twenty pounds a year
and " all found." Now these two young persons
are going to cast from them all these
advantages for the sake of matrimony. Once
married, as they are Avell aware, their careers
as domestic servants are ruined. How are
they going to exist ? How are all the little
Toms and Sallies — ex servants are extravagant
in that way — going to exist ? Do the
mad couple know or care ? Not they ; it is
only sane people who bother themselves about
such matters.

Talking of ni}^ housekeeper, she is an
Irishwoman. The fact is I have been greatly

troubled in my time in the matter of housekeepers.
I think I had six, all told, ere I
secured Mrs. Murphy's services ; all were well
up to their duties, but were every one of
them a little shaky over their " r's." They
were a peg above those humble people who
are misers with their "h's," but they went
in very heavy with the " r's." One of them,
the youngest of the lot, was always talking
about her par, and the very next one I
engaged told me her mar was a real lady.

Now my cook the other morning in my
hearing called Tom " an impudent feller," but
I don't mind that. My cook and I seldom
engage in conversation of any length ; with
my housekeeper it is quite different, and I
will not endure one who cannot pronounce
her own language when speaking to me.
Hence Mrs. Murphy. She has a delicious
Dublin (county) brogue, which reminds me
of Mrs. Boucicault. Some connoisseurs prefer
the Cork brogue, others are charmed

with the Limerick, while some are blessed
with ears to which even the Galway and
Antrim brogues are music. iJ^ow, having
travelled a great deal through that very mad
island, called Ireland, I flatter myself that I
am a bit of a judge of brogues, and I say
without fear or favour that the County Dublin,
County Waterford and County Louth
brogues are the pick of the basket. I wish
some great professor would, during a lucid
interval, explain how it comes that the purest
English is spoken in Dublin, and also why
the peasantry of Munster and Leinster speak
Elizabethan English almost in its purity.
When the professor explains us all this, he
micfht then give a lecture on the extraordinary
correctness of the pronunciation of
foreign words by the Irish peasants all over
the country from Dublin to Cork.

Well, about this housekeeper of mine —
she is awfully sane, though she once showed
symptoms of the highest order of intellect.

Yes. on one occasion lie acted like a sensible
madwoman. Her only son, who is as
mad as mad can be — his late father was a
whisky-taster in the Customs —-took it into
his head to enlist. Upon hearing of this
Mrs. Murphy cried herself nearly blind, and
then informed my butler (of whom more
anon) that as her son had disgraced his
family by enlisting, she had resolved to disown
him. Meanwhile, Pat Murphy was
ordered off to the wars, and after helping
to shoot down a few blacks, returned to
Woolwich with his regiment. Immediately
after his arrival he wrote to his mother,
who after glancing over the letter put it
into the fire, and never answered it. A very
determined woman is Mrs. Murphy. Her
son was dead to her — he had disgraced his
family by donning a red coat. Three months
later another letter came from Pat, stating
that he had been made a corporal, and had
been awarded a medal, and containing his

photograph with the corporal stripes on his arm

and the medal on his breast. Then did Mrs.

Murphy's interval of madness take place.

"What do you think, sur," she exclaimed

to me with pride and pleasure beaming allover

her face, " but me son Pat is a corporal,

a full corporal, with strips and all, and a

beautiful medal ; there is his likeness, sur,

which he sent me." She ended by asking

my permission to go to "Woolwich to see

him. I wonder what would become of Mrs.

Murphy if her son had been made a major,

or even a captain? Her madness would then

culminate in lunacy, and Coney Hatch would

be her portion.

Do you like dinner-parties ? I hate them.
One has to endure them, but in my private
opinion the people who give them ought all
to be hanged, drawn and quartered. I am
reluctantly compelled to make one at a
dinner-party tomorrow evening. The friends
who are responsible for the infernal thing

are near neighbours, Sir James Walls and
his moon-faced wife, Lady Walls — why will
people insist on giving the title " Lady " to
a baronet's wife ? " Dame " is the correct
title. Lady Walls is almost as mad as her
husband, and lost a stone and a half in
weight last season because she was not invited
to the State Ball. But she could well
afford it.

VOL. L

I DINE OUT.

A MISERABLE February evening : roads almost
impassable with snow, bitter wind blowing
from the north. Just the evening to sit
by one's warm fireside. This being so, and
for no other reason that I can think of,
these Walls invite us all to journey in the
cold from all parts of the county for the
express purpose of eating at their table.
Here we are then, men and women, cooped
up in this dining-room, having journeyed
thither in closed carriages over the snow-blocked
roads at the rate of three miles an
hour. Heaven help the poor women going
home to-night, for they are in full dinner
dress, which means little dress at all. Look
at that old hag, Mrs. Tatte-Snarlow, with

half the top part of her wrinkled bocl}^ bare,
and with a diamond necklace encircling her
scraggy neck, the vulgar old creature ! She
was a beauty in her youth. I well remember
her twenty-five years ago, just after her marriage
with Mr. Thomas Tatte, a barrister
in a very large way of business — he was
making upwards of twenty thousand a year,
and had purchased Brief Hall, an adjacent
property. Mrs. Tatte was the daughter of
the Reverend Jacob Slow, who preached
soporific sermons in our parish church for
thirty years, and then died of the gout.
Strange as it appears, this clergyman had
only one child. Well, as none of the male
members of the county families made a bid,
Julia married the common barrister, and
became mistress of Brief Hall. She has
four gawky sons, and three sharp-nosed
daughters — there they were, gazing with
silent rapture on the handsome features of
young Cornhurst, who is heir to thirty

2—2

thousand acres and an earldom. But why
Teitte-Snarlow ? I know there is a phase of
madness amongst the middle classes, which
consists of an absorbing desire to have as many
names as possible. But why Snarlow f that's
what bothers me. Must find out all about it.
Yes, here we are, men in white ties like
a lot of waiters or parsons, and swallow-tail
coats like Christy Minstrels, while the women
are resplendent in the latest dinner costumes.
And we are all feeding. That's what we are
all dressed to death for — for the purpose of
feeding. Think of it. Have you ever known
a gloomy cow, or a corpulent pig, write to
other cows or pigs, asking them to come a
distance of so many miles over snowy roads
for the express purpose of swallowing cut grass,
or mashed mangoes ? You know you never
have. All animals are dreadfully sane, save
those, like the dog, who dwell much amon?
men. Such animals occasionally go mad, asa
matter of course.

A diminutive object attached to a larp-p
moustache is seated opposite me. He is our
M.F.H. Now, this creature has a rent-roll
of forty thousand per annum, most of which
he spends on race-horses, while the remainder
goes for sealskin jackets and diamond earrings.
Said jackets and ear-rings arc bestowed
upon ladies whose love is extremely
catholic. Our M.F.H. is quite aware of the
fact. He is also aware that his racers never
win any races — indeed, many of the animals
he has never seen, his trainer being generally
the purchaser. The latter buys and sells his
patron's horses just as he pleases. Forty
thousand a year on worthless women and
useless horses ! And set we give this man
the important post of master of our foxhounds.
To be sure he pays all expenses,
but still the fact remains that he spends forty
thousand a year on worthless objects.
Watch how all the young ladies beam upon
him. Forty thousand a year, my dear, and

only think of him buying those horrid
women in London, and we pure, well-bred
county girls dying to sell ourselves to him.
Of course, none of us would think of selling
ourselves in that ofF-hand careless fashion
affected by those horrid London women. Nowe
must have a hoop of gold put on our
finger, and the clergyman must read something
called a marriage service, and we must
shed copious tears when kissing mamma, and
all that sort of thing, you know. How lucky
for us none of those horrid London creatures
insisted on all that ceremony!

Ah ! you dear English girls, with your
native dignity innocence and grace, there is
a lot of method in your madness. One of
you will capture our poor little M.F.H.,
and then woe betide him if he is caught
investing in sealskin jackets. His moustache
won't save him.

Little Mrs. Wilson is on my right, her
wicked black eyes sparkling, and her face

all over dimples. Are you aware that
dimply women are scarce now-a-days ? They
are dying out like those flaxen-haired
beauties, that were

Thick as autumnal leaves that strow the brooks
In Vallombrosa "

some twenty years ago, and who are as
scarce now as the chough and ruff. They
were a dangerous breed. Dimply little
widows, like Mrs. Wilson here, were also
very much to the fore some years ago ; they
are — or were — a good-natured species. Little
Mrs. Wilson is very wealthy, and her estate
joins mine on the north side.

Look at that tall, beardless, creamy-faced
hobbledehoy of a fellow, with his pretty
little golden-haired wife sitting between him
and the M.F.H. He looks foolish enough
to be a sane man, but not so — he is very
mad. He is the Duke of Stanton (we call
him the Young Duke), and his pretty little

wife hails from America. He does not care
a straw for lier, but being poor, for a duke,
lie sold his title to a Chicago heiress. Does
she care for the owner of the costly purchase ?
Not the ghost of a bit ; she is as free from
love as a frog from feathers — that is so far
as her husband is concerned. Her grace,
as I have stated, is a Chicago lady, and
the daughter of a very wealthy potted-meat
manufacturer. I presume that is the
reason she is a prominent member of our
local Primrose League, which numbers ten
members, all told ; they are all married
ladies. They have no families. Now will
you just think, you people who imagine
yourselves sane — just reflect on the picture
of your wives meeting together ina
room, and then rising one after another
to gabble on what they know nothing
about. At present all our Primrose Dames
are more or less rabid on the Home
Eule question. Good heavens ! What do

childless wives, who leave their silent homes
to the care of servants, while they go abroad
making foolish speeches — what cz they know
about Home Eule?

"Did you read my speech on Home Eule,
Mr. Brownlow ? " asked her grace the other
day. I had not, and said so.

"' Oh ! you should have done so," she went
on ; "it was very well reported in the
Morning Mail. They sent down a reporter
specially."

Did they indeed ? That was very enterprising.
By the way, was your grace ever
in Ireland?"

Ireland ! " with a shudder. " No, thanks ;
I don't wish to run the chance of being shot
from behind a hedge."

"Have you ever read Irish history,
duchess ? "

I never knew there was such a thing."

I thought not.

Just fancy those horrid Irish wanting to

manage their own affairs"' further remarked
her grace. " Did you ever hear of anything
so absurd, Mr. Brownlow ? As if we English
would think of allowing such a thing ! "

We English might do worse," I said.
You Americans have got on very well
without us."

Oh ! you talk nonsense," she snapped,
with an angry flush — just because I called
her an American. Fancy the daughter of
a great republican jobber getting angry on
being called an American.

^ * * * *

This confounded dinner is over, thank
heaven!

THE BUTLER AND THE BLUEBOTTLE.

When Euskin escapes from the clouds, and
comes down among his brother madmen, he
speaks words of burning madness — ay,
words whose mighty truth could only emanate
from a madman of the highest order.
Note his giving the common house-fly as the
highest type of courage. The thing looks
ridiculous at first blush, does it not? "As
brave as a bluebottle " does not seem a very
high-sounding compliment, and yet what hero
ancient or modern was, or is, as brave as a
bluebottle? Why, my dear sir (or madam),
a healthy bluebottle has not even an idea
of fear. He fears nothing. If you succeed
in frightening a bluebottle, write to the
Times at once, and tell them how you did

it. You are sure to be made a baronet at
least, and very probably be granted a pension
out of the Literary Fund.

Now, I take it that no one weill contradict
me when I state that the common bluebottle
fly is as mad as a March hare. This is one
ol the causes of his marvellous bravery.
But there is another cause, and I think I
have discovered it : the bluebottle has no liver
at least, none that I could discover with
a powerful microscope. You have no idea
what effect the liver has on one's courage.
Another fact which proves, beyond a doubt,
the absence of liver in the bluebottle is his
superhuman digestive powers. He fears no
food of any description, and thinks nothing
of fourteen or fifteen different courses for
breakfast. Now as a sample. It is the celi
of March and a "pet day" — sun shining warm
and bright through my breakfast-room window,
almost killing the fire in the grate.
Mr. Bluebottle has awakened from his slumber,

and the beautiful weather has tempted
him to come from his retreat — somewhere
near the top of the further window — and
partake of some breakfast. After buzzing
round my head for a spell, he lit on my
hand ; from thence he flew to the ham and
eggs, and had a good banquet there ; from
that to the sugar, where he gorged himself
for fully three minutes, and then he attacked
the butter, and from that to the jam dish ;
then back to my hand once more. I brush him
off, and with a buzz he settles on the cream-jug,
and has a good minute's draught — fancy
cream on the top of ham and eggs ! I have
long since given up the idea of either killing
him or frightening him. Neither can be
done. The cream has only renewed his appetite,
and once more he attacks the ham.
So steady and still does he work, that one
would imagine him dead. Dead ! off he is
again to the sugar. After that he tries the
butter, jam, bread, and cream once more

in succession. Bless my soul, what a glorious
stomach ! Is it any wonder he fears nothing
on the face of the earth ?

My reason for mentioning this fly is born
of the fact that he is a great source of
annoyance to my butler. I think I have
mentioned that my butler suffers from sane-ness
to a terrible extent ; the taint is, I
believe, hereditary; his father, whom I remember
quite well, being also a martyr to
sameness. Well, my butler has had several
battles with my dormant bluebottle, but has
always come off second best.

Drat that fly, sir ! " he exclaimed to me
one morning. " I can't hit him nohow, and
he takes delight in putting me out."

To the sane mind of my butler, a spade
is a spade, and a fly is a fly. I remember
one evening last August we had a Turner-usque
sunset — the whole west,

Not, as in Northern climes, obscurely bright,
But one unclouded glow of living light."

Seen from my study window, the , effect
was unutterably glorious. My butler happening
to enter as I stood by the window,
I cried, " Wilkins, is it not beautiful ? "

"Which, sir?"

"The sunset."

"Sunset, sir? Oh, yes, sir." And he
looked at me suspiciously. He thought I
was mad. He was correct. What is there
beautiful about a sunset ? Why should I
call it glorious ? It is all delusive reflection.
Whether is a Turneresque sunset, all
pink and gold, or a scowling sky and a sea
white with rage, the more glorious? Ask
the petrel : he will vote for the scowling
sky, the howling wind and the boiling sea,
I'll go bail. I once witnessed a sudden
squall at sea, as I sat safe on a harbour
wall. The squall occurred at about the distance
of a mile from the shore. I saw the
smiling sea — it was in August — suddenly
lashed to fury, and in its mad rage, I saw

it gobble up a bridal party in a pleasure
boat, and just behind my back were rows
of untired pleasure boats nodding to sleep
in the quiet harbour. That squall was a
glorious sight — seen from a distance. The
bridal party were too close to it. I wonder
how we would fare if we managed to get well
into the middle of a Turneresque sunset?

But to return to my butler and the bluebottle.
The feud has been long and bitter
on one side, at least. But just now Wilkins
entered, and opening the top of one of the
windows, out flew his enemy.

"That bluebottle fly has flew out, sir,"
he said with a smile of quiet satisfaction,
as he proceeded to open the top of the other
window, when in flew the bluebottle through
it. He had only gone out for a slight airing.
I never saw a man so " taken back " as my
butler was. He was actually struck speechless
when that fly lit on his nose. There
is nothing like silencing your enemy's guns.

EXIT WILKINS.

Mr. John Carter called to see me to-day.
He is on a visit at the Rectory. Carter is
a composer — writes music for songs. He is
not clever enough — I mean he has not brains
enough to be quite as mad as the great
composers, but he is mad enough in all conscience.
Although his name is John Carter
he signs himself " Victor Dalton." I wonder
if French song composers give themselves
English names. Can it really be that Englishmen,
like some parvenu Irishmen, are
ashamed of their own names? Remember
this; men of birth, members of old families,
are always proud of their names, especially
in Ireland and Scotland. It is the parvenus
of both countries who seek to change their

VOL. I. 3

names. The O'Donnels, landed gentry, are
proud of that 0' as can well be ; but the
Sonnets, wife and daughter of the late Dr.
O'Donnel, M.D., cut the 0' from their name.
This is the madness begot of ignorance and
low birth. I heard of a medical man in Cork
whose real name was Maldon, but who
changed it to Maldon! Now, Maldon happens
to be one of the most aristocratic names
in Ireland. A county family with that name
would hold their heads very high indeed.
But this parvenu pill-maker preferred Maldon.
Ah! well, all this is by the way.

As to this man Carter, he sat for nearly
an hour telling me his woes. And what do
you think these woes consisted of ? Listen :

Would you believe it, Mr. Brownlow,
were I to tell you that I have been invited
down here under false pretences?" he exclaimed,
with a mad glare in his sky-blue
eyes. "You know that the parson is one of
my oldest friends, in fact I may state that

I was this wife's first sweetheart. Well, he
wrote to me last week inviting me down to
The Rectory, stating that the quietude of
a country house would enable me to get
through my new set of hymns — words by
Lady Gosling — in less than no time ; the
gaiety, and constant round of visitors
and visiting must distract you dreadfully,
he added. Well, Mr. Brownlow, I came.
Do you think I have been able to do any
work on those hymns since .^ No, sir, nota
damned note. On the very day after my
arrival I had just sat down in my room to
compose, when up came one of the servants —
Please, sir, there are visitors in the drawing-room.'
Down I had to go and listen to the
jabber of a gouty major and his two lanky
daughters for fully half-an-hour. When they
were gone I was at liberty to return to my
desk. I don't believe I was at work ten
minutes when up came the servant with a
request for my presence in the drawing-room

3—2

once more. Down I had to trot to be introduced
to Mrs. and the Misses Jones, of
Mountains. Mrs. and the Misses Jones
jabbered for half-an-hour on the eldest Miss
Jones's forthcoming marriage with some one
or other, and then they retired. Back to my
desk again, but only for a few minutes, for
Mrs. Snarlow Tutti, or Tutti Snarlow, or
whatever the devil the woman's name is,
arrived with her daughters, and of course I
was summoned to their presence. Have you
ever seen Mrs. Barlow Snatch, or whatever
her name is ? Yes ? Then you know what
she is ? Fancy my being dragged down all
the way from London to be introduced to
a thing like that ! "

Very annoying, certainly," I observed.

Annoying ! I should think it was, and
by the Lord Harry I won't stand it. I'll
leave for London tomorrow."

And away he went. That man has a great
grievance. The impertinent presumption of

dragging your guest down to the drawing-room
every time a chance acquaintance calls
on you should be punished with imprisonment.
Parvenues think it is " good form " to act
thus, but they are quite wrong in this, as
they are in nearly every other question of
etiquette. The case stands thus : — A invites
B to his country house. B is averse to
strange faces, and besides has some literary
or musical work to do. A says to himself,
I know B is coming down to my house
for the sake of quietude, I know he detests
strange faces, and has a horror of being introduced
to people, yet I will compel him,
when I get him here, to come into my
reception room every time any of my casual
acquaintances call. I will compel him to
talk to them and listen to their talk. It is
good form."

Is it? In Eoyal Charles's time it was
thought good form to seduce your neighbour's
wife or daughter. Indeed, there are

some old-fashioned men who believe in that
species of good form still. Talking of wives,
my groom and housemaid quitted my service
to go and get married yesterday.

^ ^ ^ T^^ 'W

There is no time in a man's life so enjoyable
as that period of half-an-hour with a
good cigar after a well-cooked and well-served
dinner. " That's it, Wilkins, stir up
the fire, the east-wind has set in for the year."

I really believe Wilkins to be the best
butler extant. The longer he remains with
me the better he gets — just like this port.
How softly he has closed the door behind
him, and how well he attended at table this
evening ; almost better than ever, I thought.
My butler must be getting on in years —
nearly fifty I should say, though his clean-shaved
face and placid life makes him appear
much younger. Ah, what it is to be
sane, and without any care! Proud as I
am of mv madness, I sometimes wish I was

as free from bother and worry as my, very
sane butler. That reminds me, I must see
if he has received his new livery from town.

7^ ^ Tli 7^ 'V 'V

I have actually rung the bell twice, and
no appearance of Wilkins. Enter Mrs.
Murphy, white as a sheet.

Oh, sur, poor Wilkins ! "

"Well, what about him? I have rung
for him twice."

"Oh, sur, he'll never come again. He's
hung himself in his bedroom."

What ? " I exclaim, starting to my feet.

"Hung himself, sur. Pray do come up
and look at him."

I hasten up to the man's room. Yes, he
has hanged himself sure enough. The cord
which bound the box containing his new
livery did the business. He drove a stout
holdfast " into the wall, about eight feet
from the ground, and fastened one end of
the rope to it, making the fatal noose

on the other. And so he hangs, the idiot!
And I took him for a brainless sane-man.

What can have what's this piece of paper

on the table? A half sheet of note-paper,
upon which is written in pencil, "I was
sweet on Sallee."

The confounded idiot! He was sweet on
Sale, indeed ! He never let any one suspect
the existence of this deep madness. No
one knew of it, not even Sallee, the drivelling
idiot ! Had I known he intended doing
this I would have dismissed him on the
spot. Where am I to find such another
butler? Were it not that he is quite dead
I would get him six months' imprisonment.
He was sweet on Sallee ! And he accordingly
hangs himself in my house, and in
my livery. Fancy this man, whom I trusted
so well, playing me this dirty trick — disgracing
my house by a suicide. There will
be a horrible nuisance tomorrow in the
shape of an inquest. My poor carpets !

THE ADVANTAGES OF BEING LITTLE.

Thank Heaven all that bother about Wilkes
is over, and his body safe out of the house.
Little Mrs. Wilson called on me yesterday
to ask my opinion on the best mode of
investing twenty thousand pounds, which
she has lying idle in the bank. What does
she take me for — a stock broker ? I told
her to consult her solicitor. Her private
income is about six thousand a year ; she
has no family, and yet she is anxious to
make more money! Next she wanted to
know what colours I preferred. Crimson
and purple are my favourite colours, though
why she should want to know is a mystery.
Next, she asked me to go over and have
a look at her new conservatory, which she

was sure I should like. After I had promised
to go, she thought of the late Wilkins.

"Poor man, just fancy him committing
suicide in that fashion," she exclaimed, trying
to look sorry. " So romantic, his loving
the housemaid. But why did he not tell the
girl ? " And the little widow's face became
dimply. " Women like being proposed to,
though they pretend they don't." And the
dimples became more dimply than ever.

You must feel lonely at times in Verges
? " I remarked.

Oh, very," she replied. " I sometimes
think of having a companion. Don't you
feel lonely sometimes in this great house ? "

"Not often. I have my books."

I hate books ! " she exclaimed, rising to go.

Well, as I promised to run over to
Yirgemont and look at the confounded conservatory,
I suppose I had better keep my
promise, and have it over.

^ * ^ * ^

Virgemont is certainly a charming place —
not so stately and old as my place, but
still beautiful after its own way. Little Mrs.
Wilson insisted on showing me all over the
house and gardens, while she kept asking
my opinion on one thing and another.
The conservatory is well built, and filled
with choice flowers.

What is your favourite flower ? " she
asked me.

The crimson rose," was my truthful
answer. And now let me state, once for all,
that in my private opinion the crimson
rose, for beauty, ; equals all other ' flowers
put together.

After luncheon I quitted Virgemont.
What a jolly little woman its mistress is !
On my way home I suddenly came upon
our little M.F.H. — by the way, the little
creature's name is Towers — Walter Towers.
He was standing by a stile, talking to Susan
Hemming, his gardener's daughter. Susan

is the belle of the village — tall and handsome,
with big black eyes and rich chestnut
hair. She stands head and shoulders
over little Towers. On seeing me" the latter
joined me in my walk homewards.

I was just asking that girl how her
father was," he said. "Poor man, he has
been confined to his house with rheumatism
for the last month."

Sorry to hear that," I said. " He has
no one to look after him, has he ? "

No one, except his daughter," answered
Towers, lighting a cigar. " I sometimes go
and sit with the old chap for a while."

"That's very kind of you."

"Yes."

We parted at my gates. Wonder the
little chap is not captured. Never saw a
man escape so miraculously before. I believe
every girl in the county has had a
shot at him, but all missed. Perhaps he's
too small to be hit. What a lot of us

escape scot free in this world,' just because
we are too small to be hit by any of the
slings or arrows of outrageous fortune.
Which would you prefer being, an English
gardener, or a Russian Czar ? But then,
why ask mad people such a question ?
When I was very young, and ere my brains
had become developed enough to make me
the madman I now have the honour of
being, I used to envy the life of the
domestic cat. I thought he, or she — but
especially he — had the most careless, happy,
well-fed and delightful an existence of anything
human or animal on the face of this
planet. And I am not quite sure that I
don't half believe it still. Just think of
the life of a well-fed cat in a comfortable
house? Even the newest fashion in lady's
lap dogs leads a miserable life in comparison.
Do you think that if Tom was a big
animal, like a cow or a horse, he would
have such a pleasant time of it?

Little Mrs. Wilson sent me a bouquet of
crimson roses to-day. Good-natured little
creature ! She must have sent to London
for them. There is not a single crimson
rosebud in Yirgemont. Strange that the
little widow is not married. I have heard
of several proposals, none of which seem to
have been acceptable. Perhaps she is hard to
please ; though certainly the late Mr. Wilson
was not a wonder. But then, he was the
master of Yirgemont and six thousand a year.

A SUGGESTION.

If there is one madhouse more than another
which I am fond of visiting, it is the
House of Commons. Now, my dear mad
brother, just try to become sane for one
moment, and consider the delightful insanity
of a lot of men, chattering like a
flock of magpies in a pine wood, day after
day — or night after night — one side of the
House proving again and again, beyond a
doubt, that every word spoken on the other
side of the House is false, mischievous,
and calculated to ruin the country. Think
of the money, time, ease and comfort
parted with, for the sake of obtaining a
seat amongst these silly chatterers ! Remember
this : no commercial man — I don't

care what line of business lie is in — should
ever be tolerated in Parliament. Such a
man is sure to vote according to the interest
of his especial trade, rather than the interest
of his country. Never believe for one instant
that there is any patriotism about
business men. A Birmingham small arms
manufacturer will sell guns to his country's
greatest enemy, and will from his seat (if
he has one) in the House swell every war
measure with his vote. I don't think it
safe to allow so many professional people
into Parliament ; but they are not so dangerous
as the commercial member. We
county people enter Parliament as our
fathers did before us. We are born to it.
We have our country and its broad acres
at heart. I don't care what we are,
Liberal or Conservative, Whig or Tory, we
have only one desire — to see England great
and prosperous ; and to that end we fight
for her well-being in Parliament, while our

sons fight for her on land and sea, sword in
hand. It is not ive who chatter like apes
and bray like asses. We seldom speak, but
we " vote solid." Success and long life to
the county party ! Free from all items of
commerce, we are consequently free from
all bias and jobbery. We enter Parliament
as leaders of our people. We are minor
kings, every one of us — our subjects are
our tenants. Parliament is our sole business.
Mind, we are madmen all the same ; but
what is our madness in comparison to
that of the shoddy people? People who
let their business go to the dogs, for the
sake of sticking " M.P." after their names !
Mad they all are — but what is their madness
compared to the madness of their
electors ?

I wish you hould just try, my dear mad
brother or sister, to fathom the awful depth
of idiocy exhibited by the intelligent Englishmen
who returned for Slocum Lodger, as

VOL. I. 4

member of the greatest legislative assembly
the world, Mr. Tallow, the eminent soap boiler.
What affinity is there between soap boiling
and law making ? None ; and that is the very
reason Mr. Tallow is elected by his fellow
madmen. I have always noticed that Mr.
Tallow, and his kind, announce themselves
as Conservative. We, the country party, dislike
our political opinions being embraced by
Messrs. Tallow and Co., but there is no help
for it. Have you ever noticed what Conservatism
means as understood" by the lower
classes — your Conservative mechanic and
Conservative soap boiler ? Their idea of Conservatism
is, " Down with Ireland." That's
the sum total of it. And they really believe
Conservatism to mean that, and nothing else.
Get into conversation with a " Conservative "
tinker, and before he speaks half-a-dozen
words he will mention something about
them blooming' irish." The lower middle
classes — at least, the Conservative portion of

them — are just the same. It is only among
the upper classes that Conservatism has its
true meaning — a mad meaning of course —
but still, not so mad as the meaning held
by the lower classes.

The last time I sat in the House of
Commons a grand old madman spoke of
the Irish peasantry paying their rent with
the greatest punctuality, save and except
when they were starving. How all the Allows
and their brother shoddy Conservatives
did laugh to be sure ! Ah ! Messrs. Shoddy
and Co.,1 wonder would you starve yourselves
to pay your debts ? No, no, no ! 1 know you
all. You would see your creditors to the
devil first. Good God! have I not seen a
whole family of Galway peasantry living on
seaweeds Think of that when you go home
to dinner, Messrs. Tallow and Co. Seaweed
for breakfast, seaweed for dinner, and seaweed
for supper ; while every penny the poor
creatures could earn went to the landlord of

4-2

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF Illinois

their miserable mud hovel. A mad world,
is it not, my masters ?

The chief cause of all these remarks is her
Grace of Stanton. She has been making a
long speech, more or less through her nose,
at a recent Primrose meeting, the subject
being, of course, Ireland. It has always
been my private opinion that there should
^be a stringent law against women meddling
in politics. If there is one thing in this
world which women know least about, it is
the politics of their own country. I remember
reading of a Ladies' Land League
in Ireland; its members were mostly (as in
our Primrose League) old maids and childless
wives, besides being Radicals to a man — no,
to a woman I mean. One is not surprised at
anything ladies may do when they become
Radicals, and fail to become wives and
mothers ; and besides — what other amusement
is there for them in a coerced country ? If
they went to a dance they ran the chance of

being atoned by police, as an unlawful
assembly, or of being shot in the legs —
women have legs — by moon lighters as a too
lawful assembly. The case is different herein
Norland. The ladies who call themselves
Primrose dames are the wives and daughters
of Conservatives, and ought to know better —
at least, their husbands or fathers should
know better. I firmly believe that a law
should be passed — indeed I am convinced
that but for our madness, such a law would be
passed — for providing each married lady with
two children, boy and girl; for no matter
what you say, a wife minus children is sure
to nurture fads. Should these fads be
nurtured in secret, there is mischief brewing.
Fads, secret or open, she will have, unless
she is sane. And how many sane women are
there in the world ? Touching this bill, I
would have a fund of children provided by
the state. There are thousands of children
going to w^'iste all over the country, and

thousands of parents have more than they
*well know what to do with. Why, if the
'Government sent a properly worded circular
to all the curates in the three kingdoms, I'll
wager anything replies would come in by
return of post offering contributions to the
fund, to the amount of, at least, two thousand
assorted children. Those specimens, supplied
l3y the curates, should be presented to
well-to do Conservative wives. Another circular
to the British workmen would bring
in at least ten thousand children to the fund ;
those should be meted out to Eadical and
liberal wives Mark my words well, nor
think I am joking — if you want to keep
Englishwomen in their homes and away from
public platforms, and other forms of mischief,
there is only one talisman required: it consists
of a specimen of that aggregate of phosphorus
and blubber called a baby. The worst of it
is that babies are rather brittle, and consequently
liable to danger while travelling ;

therefore I would suggest that the government
should deal only in children from seven
to eight years of age. Yes, I know what you
are thinking — " Why, the man is mad ! " I
am proud to say I am. I, Philip Brownlow,
am as mad as a hatter ; and you, my dear
brothers and sisters, are all in the same condition,
only you have not studied yourselves
well enough to be aware of the fact.

THE gardener's DAUGHTER.

Little Mrs. Wilson called upon me yesterday
and wanted to know if I would advise lier to
sell Virgemont and leave England for France.
This was a puzzle to me. How do I know
wdietlier it would be advisable to live in
France or not ? However, I said, " If you
have a desire to live in France, by all means
do so : life is short, and this is the more
reason we should spend sit how and where
we liked best."

I think that was very sound advice, and
yet the woman seemed annoyed, and snapped
out, " I dare say you would be glad to get
rid of me."

Now, is there any pleasing a woman ?
Here was this dimply creature in crimson

and black — rather becoming, by-the-way —
who had driven over for the express purpose
of asking my advice upon a subject of
which I knew nothing, and when I endeavoured
to give her the best advice I
could, she exclaimed that I wanted to get
rid of her ! I am aware, of course, that she
is very mad ; but still she ought to possess
a shade of common-sense now and again.
However, after a few moments her good-humour
returned, and she asked me if I
would go over to Virgemont and see her
dog Dash, who was not at all well. This
staggered me for a moment. What will she
ask me to do next ? Takes me for a dog
doctor now! I promised to go, of course,
and then she rose to leave. What small
feet and ankles the little creature has ! I
caught sight of them— couldn't well help it
as I assisted her into the carriage. Dark
crimson stockings. Pity the little woman
has no family. True, she is not a Primrose

Dame, or anything of that sort. But trust
me, for all that she is up to some mischief.
I could see it in her eye.

I have been to-day to visit her dog Dash,
a Gordon setter. He is suffering from too
much food and too little exercise, but the
little widow said, " What exercise can I give
him? I cannot shoot partridges." She is
not going to France after all, she thinks.
I told her that should she be anxious to
dispose of Virgemont, I would be happy to
become its owner at twenty years' purchase.
I don't particularly want it, but goodness
knows what successful Stock Exchange
gambler or eminent brewer might get hold
of it if it went into the market. However,
little Mrs. Wilson thinks she will not sell it,
though, as she has told me several times,
it is very lonely for her."

On my way homewards I wanted a light
for my cigar, so entered Hemming's. cottage
for the purpose of procuring one. There sat

old Hemming by the fire, looking very ill,
poor old fellow. There also sat little Towers,
while Susan, with a very heightened colour,
busied herself doing nothing about the room.
What a magnificent specimen of womanhood
the girl is !

I was certainly surprised — agreeably surprised
— at little Towers taking such an
interest in his gardener. I did not believe
it was in him to take an interest in anything.


Well, Hemming,' how are you to-day ? "
I asked, as Susan handed me a chair and
Towers looked at his watch. It was the
latter who answered :

Oh, he feels much better to-day. We
will have him all right by next week."

The maister he be very kind to I and
Susan, sir," said the old fellow, turning tome,
and making little Towers actually blush.

Oh, you'll be all right presently," he said,
rising to go. " Susan will come up to the

House this evening and take back the things
the doctor said you should have. You won't
forget," he said, turning to the girL

No, sir," she answered, rather quickly I
thought.

Expect she did not half like the idea of
taking anything home from the House. It
looked like 'cliarit}^ Towers was with me
part of the way home.

You seem to take a great interest in
your gardener," I remarked.

Do you think so ? "

Well, yes ; honestly. Towers, I did not
think it was in you."

"Oh! thanks, very much," he observed
smiling.

I had no idea you were such a man of
feeling." Why the little object should become
annoyed at this is more than I can understand.


"I don't see why I should not look after
ray gardener without being chaffed for it ! '

he exclaimed. " There is nothing to be
ashamed of."

No ; nothing," my dear boy. I am not
chaffing you, I assure you ; don't think so
for a moment. I merely said that I did not
think you had so much thought. And nowhere
are my gates. Good-evening."

Just fancy the little beggar losing his little
temper because I told inn he was better than
I thought he was ! Madman that he is — wh}-,
he ought to have been highly complimented.
But little men are like little dogs — they often
snap at the hand that pats them. Hope the
little beggar will be captured by one of the
Tatte-Snarlow gang.

That reminds me : knowing that the widow
knows everything in connection with everybody,
I asked her the meaning of Snarlow.

'^ Oh ! doii!t you know ? " she asked in surprise.


"No, I don't."

Why, Mrs. Tatte discovered that the late

Sir Alfred Snarlow was a distant connection'
of an aunt of her mother's, so she advertised
in the Times and Morning Post, stating that
she, Mrs. Tatte, of Briefly Hall, so-and-so,
would for the future adopt the name of her
late relative— I think she called him a great-uncle
— Sir Anthony Snarlow, Bart*'
So you see the mystery is solved.

NATURE WILL BE NATURE STILL.

As everybody is leaving for town — we are
now in April — I suppose I must do likewise.
I would much rather remain here and see the
trees burst their buds, but that would never
do. People would begin to think I could
not afford to go up for the season. No, no !
much as I long for the country in May, I
must perforce hie me to London town. I am
not compelled to go, I don't want to go, but
I must go or my neighbours might think I
couldn't go. All this reasoning reminds me
of another peculiarity among the middle
classes — their terrible fear of what their neighbours
might say. I have heard of families
of well-to-do professional people living the
life of the damned. They dreaded to go out

for a walk lest their next-door neighbour to

the right would think it strani:^e to see them

out walking. They feared to remain indoors

lest their neighbour to the left should wonder

what could keep them at home. They were

continually buying new clothes so that their

neighbours opposite should not imagine they

did not follow the fashion. In fact, their

whole lives were not spent with any comfort

to themselves, but solely with a view to the

opinions of their neighbours. It is a curious

fact, and one which shows that nature still

insists, despite modern Radicalism, in keeping

every strata of society in its proper place —

that nothing will make the middle classes

understand this important fact : the upper

classes come and go as they please, and

never think for a moment of what their

neighbours may or may not choose to say.

Is there anything more funny than your

lower middle class, your girl or young man,

aping the lady or gentleman ? Some of our

female post-office clerks offer a gooch study
in this line. They have got a government
situation, and have quite lost their little heads.
It never seems to occur to them that they
are public, not government, servants. They
appear to think the public rather a nuisance,
and as such, to be treated with the utmost
incivility.

What do you want ? " asked one of these
creatures, looking up from her novel, in a
post office not a hundred miles from Nothing
Hill Gate Station.

I want two postage stamps, please," I
answered.

She " chucked " the stamps at me, and
throwing the twopence into a till, went on
with her, no doubt, very interesting novel.
Having stuck the stamps on a little parcel,
I requested her to take it, as it would not
go through the opening in the box outside.
Annoyed at being disturbed a second time,
she snatched my poor parcel and flung it into

VOL. L 6

a corner. Had I reported her at liead-quar*
tears she would have been dismissed on the
spot. But I was merciful. Now this young
girl was better dressed than her poor
mother had ever been. She was better educated
— thanks to the School Board — than
ever her father was, and she was heartily
ashamed of both parents, for was she not a
lady ? Ah ! you poor creatures, poor silly,
ignorant daughters of Eve, when will ye
understand the meaning of the word lady 1
When will ye perceive that to appear as ladies
ye must be polite and gentle to the humblest
? when will you come to understand the
simple truth, that the greatest known sign
of high birth is courtesy to your inferiors ?
I do not speak of your superiors, because
it would be useless to try and persuade ye
that ye have any superiors.

I don't for one instant mean to insinuate
that all post office girls are boorish. There
are hundreds of civil, polite and pretty girls

in the ranks, but they are all ladies by birth.
I remember a post office in Archer Street,
Baj^swater, which was, and is I presume, noted
for its pretty and courteous girls.

Truth to tell. Englishwomen, except when
of good birth, are terribly rude. As for the
men ! Eemember this : the Anglo-saxon is a
savage brute at heart, and it takes at least
six generations of good breeding and high-class
education to make a gentleman of him.
Even then the savage will frequently break
forth. It takes ten generations to make a
well-bred gentlewoman, simply because the
education is not so high class on the female
side.

Now I want you to ponder well over this
for it will show you that nature's laws cannot
be altered. Nature says to Biddy Shoddy,
"Yes, you have got into a good position —
far better than your father ever dreamed of
you dress well, are slim and refined in appearance,
and do not drop your ' h's.' You

might very well pass for a lady. But /,
nature, forbid it. You still retain the rudeness
of your class. You think a lady could
not condescend to be civil to any one. The
instant prosperity comes to you, you straightway
lose your head. No, no, Biddy, you
may change in station, voice, dress, and even
morals, but your rude nature still remains,
:and hence you never can be a lady. You
shave as little of the lady in your composition
as the average 'government clerk' has
^of the gentleman in him. What a satire on
the name of man some of those same government
clerks are ! Creatures without a second
idea, and mostly risen from the gutter. There
are gentlemen to be found among them of
course, but such gentlemen are so by birth.
One would imagine that these low-bred men,
who do all they can to ape the gentleman,
would study from the living model in the desk
beside them. But nature says, " No, no, Tom
Shoddy, your father was a government clerk

before you, and like you he worked in the
same office with a real gentleman for thirty
years, and yet he never thought of copying
his politeness and courtesy. Neither must
you, Tom. You must try to ape the gentleman
to your dying day without once adopting the
manner which would make you one."

TqC 'ffS ^V ^ '^

Talking of going to town, I met old Hemming
yesterday ; he is out and about once
more, and informed me that his daughter
Susan has gone to London to a good situation,
procured for her by " the maister."

But you will miss her greatly," I said.

'• Yes, sir, that be true," answered the old
man with a sigh ; " but the maister said it
was for her good, and so I let her go. But
I miss her, sir, I miss her ; the cottage is so
lonesome without her."

Poor old fellow, he looked very feeble and
downcast as he trudged homeward.

CIVILIZED SAVAGES.

London seems to be getting more vulgar
every year. We Anglo-saxons are totally
destitute of taste ; witness our art shows (save
the mark !) and our appalling exhibitions. Yes,
we manage to vulgarize everything. Education
teaches us to admire beautiful objects
and sweet music, but the Italian and Frenchman
can admire such things without being
educated. The love of the beautiful is born
in them. Both are superior to us as civilized
men. We are the only European nation, save
perhaps the Russians, who still have a large
share of the savage in us, though in our madness
we think ourselves the cream of the civilized
world. Vain boast ! Take a sample of
the Anglo-saxon who has not been educated

up to the love of the beautiful. To jjidge of
a country you must not study its upper or
educated classes, you must study its "people."
We will accordingly take a sample of our
race from among the " people '' of its mighty
capital — mighty London — the Mecca of the
greatest madmen in the world. Now let us
pick one out at random ; he will do as a
sample of the whole, and will exhibit the
Anglo-saxon character in its native purity,
unspoiled by education. Here he is — Henry
Smith, "carry," as he is affectionately called by
all who have the pleasure of his acquaintance.
Have a good look at 'Arry ; observe his fishy
eyes, trap-door mouth and monster teeth,
horribly unclean (what there are of them).
Note his large ill-shaped head, low forehead,
shovel feet and lobster hands. What are this
man's amusements ? His parents are well-to-do
green grocers. He seldom helps them, except
on Saturday nights. How does he spend his
time? Smoking and swilling beer all day,

save when he is engaged in dogging some
unprotected girl through the streets with a
view to " picking her up " and debauching
her. Every night sees him in some music
hall, where that awful voice of his swells the
chorus of some such ditty as :

It's voice to be a master ;
Oi bam the laity's caster ;
Tbe girls they cry
When Oi pass boy,
There goes the laity's master."

(I have endeavoured to spell the words as
pronounced by 'Arry and his mates.) Has
he any idea of literature, science, or art ?
Ask him. As for the typical young girl in
'Arry's station, I will not shock you by giving
her portrait. She is, like the Turk, " unspeakable."


I judge of the genius and character of
a people by their public statues. What do
the London statues speak to me of? War,
war, war! It is the Anglo-saxon's nature
to fight, conquer and oppress whenever he

gets the chance. So we bravely go into
th land of the black man with a sword in
one hand and a Bible in the other, while
'• our Mr. Jenkins " follows in our wake
with samples of rum and whisky. All the
black men we don't succeed in killing, we
convert to Christianity, which seems to
bring with it an absorbing desire for ardent
spirits. Have you ever looked over a
volume of the Times? Any person doing
so will find from its truthful columns that
England's policy is one of " Aggression and
Expression." Look over any number of
volumes, and the result will be the same.

The Daily Telegraph truly called the
Anglo-saxon in a " state of nature " a " cruel
savage ; " but though cruel and savage, he
is not craft 3^ and cowardly until he becomes
civilized, or semi-civilized. (I have come to
the conclusion that you cannot wholly
civilize the Anglo-saxon.)

Little Mrs. Wilson is stopping in the same

hotel with me — not with me in the same
hotel, please to understand. (Delightful language,
the English.) She arrived about three
days after me. (Positively divine language,
the English.) Strange coincidence that we
both should fi on the same hotel! She
came into my sitting-room to-day with grave
news. Lady de Jones, the wife of Sir
Thomas de Jones, the eminent physician,
has actually given birth to twins I If a
thunderbolt had fallen through the de Jones'
roof it could not have caused more consternation.
Twins are awfully vulgar, it
appears. I never knew this before. But
little Mrs. Wilson knows all about these
things. The announcement of the birth will
not appear in any of the papers, and Sir
Thomas and Lady de Jones are immediately
going abroad. It appears that twins have
been out of fashion for close on twenty
years, and are not likely to become the
correct thing again until some duchess, at

least, introduces them once more Poor
little unfortunate de Joneses, Junior, how will
ye ever meet your mother's reproachful gaze ?
Better you had been still-born. Had you
been boys it would not have been quite so
bad-though bad enough ; but you are both
girls, and Mrs. Wilson says girl twins are
beyond redemption. Mrs. Wilson says it
is feared that Sir Thomas will lose a lot of
his patients through the unfortunate affair.
Let us hope not. One misfortune at a time
is quite sufficient. So, my dear mad brother
or sister, when the season is over and Sir
T. and his good lady return home again
from the south of France, do not desert
your eminent physician. The twins were
not his fault.

Little Mrs. Wilson complains of having
no male friend to escort her to the theatre,
and declares that life is becoming a burthen
to her, as she cannot attend any place of
amusement. Fancy a woman getting tired

of life because she cannot attend a theatre —
a woman of £5,000 a year ! A good-natured
little creature though — actually brought mea
bouquet of crimson roses this morning. I
have promised to take her to the opera tonight.


AT THE OPERA.

The little mow and myself are seated in
the third row of the stalls. The opera is
Traviata," and the house is accordingly
crowded. Her Grace of Stanton is seated
in her box, looking very pretty in pink
and pearls.

Do you like the duchess in pink ? " asks
my companion. " 1 don't. Americans never
know how to dress."

Indeed ; how is that ? "

Oh, I don't know," answers the little
widow, opening an enormous fan formed
of crimson ostrich feathers. " I don't know
why, but they don't. The duchess does
not care for music."

No ? " I say rather surprised. " Then

why does she give so many musical At
Homes during the season ? "

Oh, just because it is the thing," snaps
the Httle widow. " All duchesses go in for
private concerts, and besides, our duchess
is so fond of Signor Tontine's singing," and
the widow gives a dimply smile.

Well, he has got a superb voice, as
tenors go now-a-days," I say.

Yes, he's got a lovely voice, and lovelier
eyes," says Mrs. Wilson, and then adds
after a slight pause, " I think the duchess
admires the signor more as a friend than
as a mere singer," and the dimples play allover
her face.

Oh, she admires him as a man more
than as a tenor, you mean to say ? "

"Yes, he is very handsome."

And the duke — what does he think
about the matter ? "

The duke ! oh, who cares ivhat he
thinks ? " exclaims the little widow, fanning

herself furiously. "He is ,just as
bad

As the duchess or the tenor ? " .

Hush ! " she says. " I want to listen to
the music."

And the opera begins. Signor Tontine
is in splendid voice and receives tumultuous
applause. A handsome man is the signor
no brains, though, I fear.

Have you read that book lately published,
which treats of opera singers ? If you have
not, pray do so at once ; it will give you
some idea of what operatic managers have
to put up with in this mad world. The
whims, ignorant presumption, and downright
impertinence of our operatic stars, asset
forth in that book, are simply astounding.
The writer of the book says, very justly,
that the lower the origin of the singers, the
more impertinent and presuming they are.
'Twas ever thus. Mario appears to have
been the only thing approaching a gentleman

he was an Italian count — on the operatic
stage. As for the signoras, one prima donna
seemed to be just a little bit more ignorant
and presuming than the other. All
mad, of course, but not half as mad as the
public who applauded them. Was it not
Frederick the Great who, on a prima
donna getting sulky and refusing to appear,
sent a cohort of guards to take her out of
her bed and make her dress and appear ?
Great man, Frederick — mad as Daddy-longings.


During the entrance I stand up and survey
the house through my glasses.

In one of the top boxes I catch sight of
Towers's moustache. He is talking to someone
concealed from view behind the silk
curtain. Ah ! now I see a bare arm encircled
by a diamond bracelet. Wonder
who she is? Fancy bringing a lady to the
top tier ! He must know that ladies go to
the opera to be seen. Stay, though ; this

lady evidently prefers not being sen, for
she keeps close behind the curtain. Ah !
she has risen and gone to the back of
the box, where in the shade she can survey
part of the house. She thinks no one can
see her, but not so — / can spot her through
my glasses. So this is the " good situation'*
my pretty Susan? What good wages you
must receive to be able to sport those
diamonds. Why, the old gardener would
scarcely know his daughter !

Resuming my seat I catch sight of Paul
Jo^^ce, who is sitting about two stalls to the
left. Paul is one of my oldest friends — a consummate
madman. He is dark, melancholy-eyed,
and I should say about thirty-six years
old ; has a small estate in Wales and a large
one in Ireland ; from the latter he has received
no rent for the past three years. I
nod to him and he nods to me, and so the
second act commences.

"Do you see that funny-looking old man

VOL. I. 6

seated behind the duchess ? " observes the
Utile widow.

I look towards the box, and see a hatchet-faced
and ferrety-eyed old man in a colossal
shirt front, and the baldest head I ever saw.

"Who is he?" I ask.

Few people know, but I do," says Mrs.
Wilson, becoming very dimply. " That old
man is her uncle. She never invites him to
her house, either here or in the country, because
he is too awfully vulgar. But as he is
very rich, and a bachelor, she does not like
the idea of him leaving his wealth to charitable
institutions."

"And so "

And so, don't you see, she invites him to
her opera box, when she has no one else
there. It satisfies him." And the little
widow gives a merry little laugh.

Wonderful woman the little widow ; knows
every one's affairs. What a wife she would
make for a political man with aspirations !

If she wouldn't succeed in making lier husband
Premier, it would be a puzzle to all
concerned. Can't make out how it is that
she is not married before this. Her first is
now dead close on two years. Yes, she will
be married before another twelve months.
A three-years' widow with five thousand per
annum is a moral impossibility. Very pretty
does the little]woman look to-night, and many
are the admiring glances bestowed upon her.
Happy thought : introduce Paul Joyce, though
I fear the die is cast as far as poor Paul is
concerned. Wonder has he ever seen her
since ? This little widow would soon make
him forget his sorrow — would soon wake him
up from his dreams. Paul is a devil to
dream.

* * * *

I never cared for this opera, and will be

glad when it is over. It is not the music,

but the questionable plot which makes it so

popular. Oh ! for one act of the glorious

6—2

Don " — though by the way that plot is not
quite Sunday-school.

Do you like German operas ? " I say to
the widow.

Why do you ask me ? Do you ? "

Yes, very much."

So do I," says the little widow, dimpling.

A charming little creature !

q)i lb

that's the way the money goes.

Do YOU still doubt my words as to the barbarian
taste of the English people? Just
read this clipping from the Echo newspaper
It is headed " A Piccadilly Night scene." So
you will perceive that the occurrence has
taken place in the midst of the most fashionable
portion of this great metropolis of the
world. I only give an extract from the
report.

This was the constable's story : — " At
twenty minutes after midnight a large crowd
of young men and women assembled near
the Criterion, in Piccadilly, and shouted and
hollowed at the top of their voices. The
prisoner was among them, and when advised to
go away remarked, ' It's all rot ; I am a

solicitor and shall stop here as long as I like.'
On again being told that he must go away, he
struck the constable with his stick and trod
upon his toe, causing him great pain. He
was arrested by another constable. There
had been a football match between Oxford
and Cambridge Universities, and a number of
people who had been to see it came out of
the Criterion and met another crowd coming
from a boxing competition at Her Majesty's
Theatre. The disturbance was so great that
the inspector at the station had to turn out
the constables who were off duty in order
to quell it."

There is a great deal more of the same
nature in the report, but I have given sufficient
for my purpose. Eemember this is only
one sample of a series. Such brawls occur
almost every other night in the neighbourhood
of Piccadilly. Now just think of the
primary cause of this row. Our rival universities
are having that refined and intellectual

amusement — a football match. Our
chief operatic house is filled with a crowd
witnessing a boxing contest. The football
crowd and the boxing crowd meet outside
a restaurant and proceed to break each
other's skulls. This, oh, beloved madmen,
is England !

Do you remember when slumming was
all the rao^e almoner our madwomen ? All
the East end lanes and alleys were visited
by our dainty leaders of fashion. Ah !
which end of London is the most brutal and
wicked ? Which end of London most needs
the influence of good women? That reminds
me. Have you failed to notice the
almost constant appeals for help — monetary
help — on behalf of the East end which
appear in the papers ? If so, do not fail
again, for thereby hangs a tale. Do you
know the fearful amount of poverty and
starvation, not only in the East end of
London, but in the West end too, ay, and

all over England. What becomes of all the
money we pay in taxes ? How is it that
some of it does not go to feed these starving
inhabitants of "the wealthiest, noblest
and most civilized country in the world ? "
I will tell you, dear mad friend. Our money
is squandered, recklessly and criminally
squandered, by our Government. This England
could be properly managed for half
the money we pay its present mismanaged.
There is not a single public department which
is not disgracefully mismanaged, while we
pay double and treble for its mismanagement.
Just think over some of the items we pay —
we who cannot afford to help our starving
fellow-creatures. We give £400 a year to
the Pursebearer ; we know not what the
man is or what his duties are. We give to
our Clerk of Presentations (another mystery)
£1,000 a year. Then we have a gentleman
whose sole duty is " to carry the Great
Seal home," whatever that may mean ; we

give him £335 pounds per year. But hear
Mr. Jennings from his place in the House of
Commons : " When things are done on this
lavish scale we need not be surprised to
find the judges requiring 22 clerks, costing
over £8,000 per annum. The salaries of
masters ranging from £1,500 to over £2,000
these being among the pleasantness things
which patronage has to bestow on the undeserving.
Sir F. Pollock, a senior master,
said before a committee on the subject, that
there were no duties which a senior clerk
could not perform just as well as a master :
85 clerks attached to this office receive from

£250 to £700 a year Before the

committee of 1886, it was stated that one
clerk was employed in entering summonses
in a book, receiving £400 a year for work
that could be done by the merest copyist.
A little further down the list are entered five
clerks as 'redundant' since 1871. These
receive from £300 to £500 a year, but not

one of them lias passed the threshold of his
office for the last seven years (laughter).
Why should the country be called upon to
pay men £400 and £500 a year to walk
about the streets doing nothing while there
are thousands of people who are obliged to
walk about the streets because they have
nothing to do? . . The effect of the
present system is to put a premium on
incompetence The clerks in one department
are supposed to work from eleven
o'clock to five, but Mr. Gizzard, in his evidence
before the Eoyal Commission, said
that some of them really went away at four
instead of eve — the ennui of the place was
so great that they could not stand it (laughter).
Pressed by the Commissioners he added,
'If we have any private work to do we are
not always there at eleven o'clock.' That
was to say that they did their private work
first, and if they had any scrap of time left
they gave it to their public duties (laughter)

The clerks in the Taxing Department
are paid £600 a year, work six
hours a day, and have six weeks' holiday
every summer In the Chancery division
there are 12 clerks at nearly £1,200
per annum each, 24 clerks at £600 per annum
each, and a host of other officials from
registrars with £2,000 a year to clerks at

£300 The Probate, Divorce and

Admiralty Division is another haven of peace
and plenty (laughter). The Senior Registrar
of the Probate Registry pockets £1,600 a
year, besides a compound allowance of
£1,863 8s. 6d with some smaller sum,
making a grand total of £3,472 annually.
I cannot see why these shameful
amounts should be paid to officials whose
duties are notoriously light and easy. The
gentleman next below the one I have just
mentioned is the registrar of Admiralty
Registers, who pockets £2,134 for services of
the very slightest kind. The man who looks

after the ushers in the Courts of Justice
draws £600 per annum, while the distinguished
person who gives out the pens and
ink, and who is called Superintendent of
Stationery, receives £300 per annum. All
the charges in the estimates appear to be
based on the same prodigal scale''

In the foregoing speech — or rather extracts
from it — I have been careful to bracket the
laughter," just to let sou see how funny
this scandalous state of affairs seemed to be
to the inmates of our great Madhouse. Just
ponder over these amounts, and then remember
that they only represent a small tithe
of the money squandered by our Government,
while we are taxed up to our eyes,
while our war-ships are without guns, our
infantry without swords, our cavalry without
horses and our poor without food. Notwithstanding
all this, many of us think ourselves

CONCERNING FRITZ.

I NOTICE that the rather sullen, impudent and
surly-looking young man who is Emperor of
Germany, is nothing if not national. His
latest decree is that all German actors and
actresses should banish all French words, or
even words based on the French, from their
professional vocabulary. Thus, scene ballet
repertoire and such words, have received
notice to quit. I wish the young Emperor
would in his intense nationalism prohibit his
subjects from leaving their country. But I
fear his Imperial Majesty is not quite so mad
as that, though the Germans are all very mad
indeed. I have come to the conclusion that
it is the fact of their being Germans which
makes them so mad. Who would be a German

if he could possibly help it ? Have you ever
noticed how awfully offended people are at
being mistaken for Germans ? I know
Germans myself who in the most transparent
German accent unblushingly declare that they
are English bred and born. Why, even those
pasty-faced waiters in our public restaurants
tell you they are " Sneeze," by which they
mean to say that they are Swiss, though their
square German jaws and accent betrays them
at once. A curious fact about this same
accent : Certain Irish brogues are, to English
ears, undistinguishable from the German accent,
and thereby hangs a tale. I once knew
a little fellow from South Dublin who had to
the full that peculiarly rough South Dublin
brogue. He had spent some time in London,
and always spoke of the Londoners with the
greatest contempt. I once asked him why he
disliked London and its people so much. " I'll
tell you the reason, sur," he answered. " They
always took me for a damned German ! " Of

late one of our journalists spoke of, the Queen
of Spain as a German, whereupon the Spanish
Ambassador actually called upon him to deny
the assertion. We English are the most unpopular
people on the face of the earth. Weare
objects of dislike and contempt from north
to south, and from east unto the west. But
if we are disliked by foreigners, the Germans
are absolutely hated. Witness them here in
England : Fritz comes over here, works for
starvation wages, and then sends for all his
family, including his sisters, his cousins, and
his aunts. All offer their services for starvation
wages, thus ousting their English rivals.
Worse still — their workmanship is far inferior
to that of English hands, but of course passes
for English work in the market at home and
abroad, and thus gives rise to the opinion
that " English work is deteriorating." In fact,
through these Germans our country is completely
losing her trade in manufactured
articles. How intensely amusing is that man

Bismarck's mad remark, " We Germans fear
nothing but God." As far as I can gather, the
Germans fear nothing so much as living in
their own country, for they quit it as fast as
they possibly can. I am not a lover of armed
strife, but I am fully convinced that the sooner
Germany goes to war with some state, the
better it will be for England — that is, if all
the Germans now among us are compelled to
return to the Fatherland and fight.

Now let us look calmly, and like dispassionate
madmen, at the root of all this German
pauperism — pauperism which drives these
square-faced, snub-nosed, hard-working creatures
away from their own country to the
German's paradise — London. We see a magnificent
country, famous for its literature,
science and art, ruled by a young soldier,
sprung from a race of mighty warriors, and
with an army said to be the largest and best
drilled in Europe. We perceive that every
man born in the land has per force to become

a soldier, as if the good God of Heaven sent
him into the world for the express purpose of
sending some other soldier out of it. We perceive
that the young emperor's chief amusement
is the constant reviewing those men who
are per force soldiers. What a nice box of
toys the young man has got to be sure ! And
what a nice price the nation pays for his
amusement ! God knows how many thousands
of pounds are squandered yearly in parades
for our young friend's amusement.

This great country is, as far as I can see,
from one end to the other, a mere nursery for
soldiers. In fact, Germany is one huge barracks.
All who can get out of its gates flee
for their lives to England and America.
"Where is the German Fatherland ? " is a line
in one of their songs. The question is easily
answered — the German Fatherland is any
place but at home. So hail the first shot of a
new Franco-German war, and let us be rid of
our square-faced friends !

VOL. I. 7

Don't you forget, my dear brothers, that
France is the greatest country in the world.
We English are rough and ready boors compared
to the French. What do we know about
art, music, or any other intellectual refinement,
after all ? You can take the French
at anything and everything — art, literature,
science, arms — and they remain supreme.
And in the matter of courtesy, refinement
and politeness, how much can they not teach
us ? People will tell you that French politeness
is only on the surface. Well, what of
that ? We don't want men's politeness hidden
from view — we want to see it, to feel it. Politeness
on the surface is just where it should be.
How often do we hear it said of one of our own
countrymen, " Yes, he appears rather brusque
and rude, but he is a good fellow when you
come to know him." When we come to know
him ! As if we care to cultivate an intimate
acquaintance with a man who is brusque and
rude ! No, give me the Frenchman with his

politeness on the surface. Again I ask, what
do we know of art — or, to put it more properly,
the fine arts? That we Anglo-saxons
are the vulgares people on the face of God's
beautiful earth, I think I have intimated before.
As di people, our sense of beauty is nil.
If we try to worship the beautiful in art, we
become grotesque and let our hair grow long,
starve ourselves to look haggard, and sport
sunflowers — which never should be cut from
their stalks — and wild poppies. The sense of
beauty is not in us. What architects we are I
John Euskin has been for fifty long years trying
to teach us how to build a decent-looking
house, and up to this not one of us has
followed his teaching. Not because we don't
want to do so, but because we cannot —
Buskin's sense of beauty is beyond us. What
a hideous city London is, take it for all in all !
And New York ! For a full sense of our
Anglo-saxon taste, both here and in America,
you should visit both London and New York,

7-2

and then Paris. All these remarks are bred
of the information given me by the little
widow, to the effect that at the Duchess of
Stanton's musical afternoon, which takes place
tomorrow, a great German fiddler and a
greater French baritone will be on view. The
duchess gets hold of some capital lions.

<^-o

A MUSICAL AFTERNOON.

The Duchess of Stanton's musical At Home
is in full swing, and some fellow with a very-bald
head is thumping away at the piano.
Present : the duchess herself, looking very
pretty in a chaste white morning costume ;
little Mrs. Wilson, pert and dimply, gossiping
with a very broad bishop with immense
calves — she occasionally darts a glance out
of those wicked eyes in my direction (wants
me to notice the calves, I expect : wonderful
sense of humour in the little widow) ; — two
members of Parliament talking matters of
state in a corner — one all whiskers and watch-chain,
and the other all feet and nose : both
very . mad ; curly-headed, dapper young
artist — painted the duchess for last year's

Academy slow — spooning Miss Minton, the
new society actress ; four or five titled
nonentities looking very much pleased v^ith
themselves; Carton, the Polite novelist, taking
mental notes, as he fingers his fiery moustache ;
a bevy of the prettiest girls of the season,
quietly criticizing sadi other ; the bishop's
daughter with a very parrots nose — she is
nearly forty, Mrs. Wilson says — looking languidly
towards Captain Spray of the Blues. No,
I don't think the captain will rise. Presently
I catch sight of Paul Joyce seated near the
piano. Must have a chat with Paul by andy.
Others present, " too numerous to mention."
Enter Signer Tontine. Ah ! he is not
so young as he looks when on the stage.
His face has that haggard appearance common
to all theatrical people who have been
for any length of time on the boards. His
eyes are large and dark, but with a certain
sly expression lurking in the corner. Her
grace flushes just a tiny bit. Fancy a thing

like that making a duchess flush ever so
little ! But see the bouquet of beautiful
English girls present — they don't deign to
bestow even a cursory glance at the famous
tenor. No, they are all ladies bless them,
with all their faults, and do not go in for
spooning greasy Italian singers. No, they
appear perfectly unconscious of the great
signer's presence, as one and all they sit
gazing in silent rapture on the magnificent
form of Frank Felon, the champion amateur
boxer. But hush ! the signor sings.

Ah ! in this small room I can detect flaws
in the voice, not noticeable in the theatre.
Yes, his voice is going. Hurry up, signor!
Make hay while the sun shines, for soon you
will go unloved by even American duchesses.
After the signor has finished " La Donna e
Mobile," the great German fiddler — well,
violinist — enters ; a short, fat, heavy grey-moustache
man, with shining steel-coloured
hair brushed back from the forehead ; the

hair on the back part of his head needs
the scissors badly. He carries his fiddle
in a neat case. He loses no time in un-carting
it and starting with his great solo.
Yes, this German can play the fiddle — -
well, if you wish it, violin. Enter M. Privet,
a well-known society baritone ; a tall handsome
man, quiet and surprisingly unassuming
for an amateur singer.

Every one seems glad to see him, and presently
the duchess graciously asks him if he
will favour us with a song. He will be only
too delighted, if any one will condescend to
accompany him. "It is a new song," he
adds, unfolding the roll of music. No one
apparently is bold enough to venture, for the
first time, on the treacherous sea of a new
baritone song accompaniment, and " before
such a lot of people too." Suddenly the
German fiddler rises, and intimates that he
will be happy to accompany Monsieur Privet.
What a scene follows ! Monsieur Privot turns

white, and his eyes flash like ,an angry
cat's.

Sto, I will go," he exclaims glaring at the
poor duchess ; " I cannot stop the longer. You
should not have invited me where this man
comes," and he points his long delicate finger
towards the fiddler. " You should not,
Madame la Duchesse ! It is insult ! " And he
rushes from the room leaving us all speechless
with astonishment.

No, not all of us, the fiddler seems to take
it all as a matter of course. He smiles
blandly, and remarks :

It is Sedan dat is the cause of all that,
ladies and gentlemen."

How shockingly rude ! " remarks the
bishop, who wants to stretch his legs, but is
afraid to.

I am very much surprised at Monsieur
Privot, and shall not insult him for the
future by asking him to honour my house
with his company," observes her grace with

well-acted dignity. " I regret, Professor
Plants, that you should have received any
discourtesy from any guest in my house,"
she adds, " and beg to apologize for having
invited Monsieur Privot here."

Oh, do not speak of it," says the German
smiling. '^ I do not at all mind vot
Frenchmen say."

It was certainly very bad form on the
part of the baritone, but think of the patriotism
! Eemember this : the Celt never
ceases to be a patriot. You will perhaps
say that the French are not Celts, but you
will be wrong if you do. The French are
every bit as much Celts as the Irish or
Scotch. Now, a German who leaves his own
Fatherland for America or England, is in
five years a complete Yankee, or Englishman,
as the case may be. Germany he
never wants to see again, nor does he take
the slightest interest in her politics, commerce,
literature, science or art. Not so the

Frenchman, or the Irishman, or the Scotchman.
Whatever land they by force of circumstances
are driven to always remains the
land of the stranger to them. Let them rise
to wealth and power, or sink to poverty
and obscurity, their native land is always
first in their hearts. All honour to Monsieur
Privot, then, and with all his bad form let
us echo his sentiments — vive la France!

Yes, one of the maddest blunders of this
mad England was her falling out with France
and truckling to Germany.

THE WIDOW AND I GO TO CHURCH.

That exceedingly stupid man the Duke of
Stanton has left England. Left his beautiful
castle in the country, his gorgeous mansion
in town, left his pleasant clubs, his life of ease,
his pretty young wife — and all for what?
Why, to go shoot bears — when he can find
them — in the Eocky Mountains. And this
eminent idiot would probably take an action
against me if I called him insane in print !

Yesterday being Sunday, little Mrs. Wilson
asked me to escort her to Beaufort Street
Church. She apologized for troubling me, but
explained that it was not fashionable for
ladies to be seen alone in Beaufort Street
Church since the late curate ran away with
Miss Cuttle, an orphan heiress, who always

attended the church alone. It appears that
the curate was hampered with a wife and
five children, but they did not handicap him
in the least in his flight with Miss Cuttle. He
did not allow them to do so.

The sermon was delivered by the rector,
who has not yet lost the Oxford drawl. He
sawed the air very much, but then he had
such beautiful Yandyck hands. He spoke for
nearly twenty minutes on the pomps and
vanities of this wicked world, and then
hastened away after a hurried benediction
to be in time for luncheon off solid gold
plate, with his grace the Duke of Coal-hurst.


Little Mrs. Wilson says he is a perfect duck
of a clergyman, and so good to the poor. It
appears he actually advertises in the daily
papers for assistance on behalf of the poor of
the parish, every Christmas. With the money
thus received he purchases several half-pounds
of one-and-sixpenny tea, one of which

he bestows upon each poor person who has
not missed church once in the past twelvemonths.
A good, kind, thoughtful. Christian
gentleman. How the poor of this parish must
bless him. His wife, the dear soul, has also
a fund started, from which she is enabled to
bestow a two-pound bar of soap, wrapped up
in a temperance tract, to all who are fortunate
enough to win the half-pound of
tea.

By-the-way, this Beaufort Street Church
is rather fashionable, and accordingly the
Duchess of Stanton has hired a very prominent
pew therein. She prayed yesterday in
company with Mrs. Combs, the newest
society beauty. Mrs. Wilson informs me that
she believes that there really is a husband
to Mrs. Coombes somewhere or other, though
she has never met any one who has ever
seen him. For the rest, Mrs. Coombes is
very beautiful, dresses well, has a pretty wit,
makes a capital two-shilling cabinet carte-devise,

and is a tremendous draw. She appears
to be at present in the service of her
Grace of Stanton, who thereby is sure of all
the best men in town at her entertainments.
A great woman at bazaars is Mrs. Coombes :
all the charity-organization mongers east
and west fight tooth and nail for her services.
You should behold her stall at one of their
bazaars, with " Mrs. Coombes, Universal
Provider," printed in gold letters on pink
silk over the top. Such a stall of choice and
tempting articles ! Universal provider she
is indeed, for her stall is filled with everything
pretty and useful, from a sealskin cigar-case
to the newest thing in walking-sticks.
Oh ! does she not look lovely as she sits
behind her wares in the soft dim light of a
large pink lamp ! I shall have more to say
about the beautiful Coombes presently.

Towers also patronized Beaufort Street
yesterday, it was only when he stood up that
I saw him ; when seated his head did not

reach top the to of the pew. Wonder where
Susan was doing her devotions?

The Tatte-Snarlow gang were also in evidence
; things are growing desperate with
the girls — even the youngest is beginning to
look fade. They kept their eyes on little
Towers — whenever he stood up and gave
them a chance. Hope one of them will
capture him. If so, old Hemming and his
daughter will be amply revenged.

On our way homeward, Mrs. Wilson said
she did not know what to think of Stanton
going away, and " leaving such a giddy
wife all alone in London."

Oh ! I think the duchess will manage
to take care of herself," I said. "Yankee
women are not such foolish creatures as
their English sisters."

Do you think not ? " murmured the little
woman. " Then I suppose / am one of those
foolish Englishwomen ? "

"I hope not," I answered.

"You are very kind," she snapped with
a jerk of her little head.

Now pray don't get angry with me, Mrs.
Wilson," I said. " If you really wish to
know my opinion, I think you the most
sensible woman I have ever met."

I knew this would bring back the dimples,
which it did ; the little widow was all smiles
and dimples for the rest of the journey. Oh !
if I only told her how awfully mad she was !

Have promised to go to a confounded
dinner to be followed by a ball tomorrow
night. How I wish the season was well
over, and I at liberty to return to the
country. Think of the madness of leaving
our beautiful country houses, whilst the
country is looking its loveliest, and rushing
up to this broiling, overcrowded London for
the purpose of boring each other to death
at balls, receptions and dinners in stifling
rooms! Madness — is it not worse than
madness ? Think of the gorgeous beauty of

VOL, I. 8

the woods and dales, the glorious summer
breeze, laden with the scent of millions of
flowers ; think of the beauty — but I forget,
we have no sense of beauty in England.

i^->

PAUL JOYCE EXPLAINS HIS MISSION.

Paul Joyce dined with me yesterday. His
madness has taken a new turn. He was
labouring under the delusion that he has a
mission — a very mad mission indeed. He
called it " Intellectual Monarchy." , His idea
is that our greatest men should constitute a
body from which they would elect by vote
one of their number as king, and that king
should be absolute monarch over us all until
he reached the age of seventy, when he should
retire, and another king be elected in his
place.

It will be," exclaimed Paul, rising from
his seat and pacing up and down the room.
It shall be, Phil ; but not during our time.
The next century — about the middle of it —

8-2

will see my dream fulfilled, provided I am
spared for a few sears, so as to be able to
travel from country to country and teach the
rising generation how to work the thing.
I mean to travel not only over England, but
even through France, Germany and Russia.
I will sow the seed which will spring up
and blossom in the next century."

Why not in this century ? '' I asked.

Listen," he answered standing still before
me.

This is the fag end of the nineteenth
century. All its great work is done. It is
past bearing, and in fact is on its death-bed.
All its great people have been, and are gone.
No more great men will come until the new
century dawns. And what mighty men has
this dying nineteenth century not borne in
her time," and Paul began his walk again.
Ah ! Phil, old boy, just think of the sixties ;
think of the race of giants who were on earth
then. If they had only thought of banding

together and proclaiming themselves rulers of
the earth'

"Who?"

Who ? Thackeray, Dickens, Victor Hugo,
Carlyle, Dumas, Tyndall, Browning, Tennyson,
Longfellow, Huxley, Euskin — these area
few of the mighty race who lived in
the sixties. Some are among us still, Phil,
but the harvest is past and the summer has
gone with them, and their work is done.
What a band of immortal kings ! " he cried
in ecstasy, " what a royal brotherhood."

"But have we not great men still — other
than those you have named ? " I asked.

Pygmies, Phil, pygmies," he answered, resuming
his seat. " Dregs of the golden bumper.
I tell you there will be no more great
men this side of nineteen hundred. It is the
law of nature."

Well, how are you going to work ? What
is your programme ? "

ril tell YOU ; the idea has been workings

in my mind for the past three years. Now
ask yourself, Phil, has there ever been a king
or emperor who in mind — in intellect — could
compare with any of the band of immortals
I have just mentioned ? No. In olden times,
ere people learned better manners, they were
always attacking or being attacked. They
did not live in a period of Thought, they
lived in a period of Action. They could not-read,
they could not write, but each man
born of woman was taught to fight. His life,
his home, his liberty depended on his skill
with the bow and arrow. The bravest and
most skilful shot was elected leader of his
brothers when setting forth to attack, or
when defending their country from hostile
neighbours. As times grew milder, the sons
of these rough-and-ready leaders were created
kings, and as such were always ready intimes
of war to lead their armies in person.
Those times are gone by now. We now pay
hired soldiers, whom we create generals and

the like, to lead our armies (also hired) forti
to battle. Kings don't expose themselves
now. Such being the case, what do we want
with them ? Their occupation is gone."

Oh ! you're a republican," I exclaimed.

Nothing of the sort," he answered, rather
sharply. " I am anything but a republican.
I am fur a monarchy, but my monarch must
be a man of intellect. In fact I want our
greatest man to be king. You admit, I presume,
that Ben Jonson was a greater man
than that tipsy mountebank, James the
First?"

Yes."

And you will admit that Shakespeare and
Bacon were greater people than that she-dragon
Elizabeth ? "

"Yes."

I only cite those at random ; but if I
wished I could go through any reign, both
here and in other countries, and prove that
in each reign the real kings were private

individuals." Here lie rose excitedly and
cried, '• Heavens ! Phil, just think of Shakespeare
having to walk backwards from the
presence of a drunken clown like James the
First ! Is it not enough to make your blood
boil ? "

"Well, you see, Paul, of course Shakespeare
was a demi-god in comparison to the
Scot, but at the same time he was only a
subject while the other was King of
England."

Ah, good God, man ! that's the whole
matter," and Paul's great mad eyes flashed
fire. "Isn't that what I am endeavouring
to stop ? "

"Stop— how?"

By lecturing. Does not your own sense
tell you that the people of a country should
be led by their greatest men ? Doesn't your
own sense tell you that there must be something
radically wrong with a country which
allows its great Shakespeare to go untitled;

while it bows to the yoke of a tipsy Scotch
buffoon ? "

"Yes, yes, my dear boy, but what is the
use of talking about such matters ? As I told
you, we are all mad, and we will never do
anything as it should be done in this world."

"Yes, we will, Phil, yes, we will, or at
least those who come after us will. As sure
as my name is Paul Joyce, the twentieth century
will see my dream of Intellectual Monarchy
fulfilled."

Never," I said laughing, *' it's all nonsense."


I say it will'' exclaimed Paul.

Never," I persisted.

It shall by " Uncle Toby's immortal
oath may have been a very big one,
but I firmly believe that Phil's was bigger.

The dear old madman has promised to
come and stay with me for a while at Brown-low.
What a pity he did not marry that
Cfirl he was so much in love with lorn? years

ago. Disappointed lovers are as prone to
mischief as childless wives. I greatly fear
that Paul's mischief will turn out rather
serious for him, if he goes lecturing in
Russia.

MRS. Comes.

At all bazaars, as I have previously intimated,
Mrs. Coombes' stall is the centre of attraction,
principally of course on account of
Mrs. Coombes herself, but also for the sake
of the really useful and ornamental articles
she offers for sale. I was saying the other
day to Mrs. Wilson that Mrs. Coombes must
have a regular income of some fairish amount
or she never could purchase such charming"
and expensive articles to re-sell for charity.
At this the little widow laughed very heartily
indeed, and then lamented my ignorance.

Why, don't you know how Mrs. Coombes
obtains all the goods for her bazaar stalls ? "
she asked.

"No; I understood she purchased them."

Oh, dear no," said the widow. " Mrs.
Coombes is nothing out of pocket by her
charity, I can assure you. Catch her ! "

Well then, how is it done ? " I asked.

By barefaced cheek ! " exclaimed the
widow. " Excuse me using a vulgar expression,
but it is the only one applicable. Cheek
is Mrs. Coombes' magic power of converting
other people's property into her own."

How do you mean ? "

Why, she calls upon all her friends and
acquaintances, no matter how slight the acquaintance,
and anything nice and portable
she sees in their rooms she insists on being
presented with for charitable purposes."

"The deuce she does!"

"Yes, she is advertised, along with the
Duchess of Stanton and others, to assist at
the forthcoming: Old English Fair in aid of
the funds of the Eoyal Home for Idiots. Probably
you will receive a visit from her," and
the little widow smiled a wicked smile.

Sure enough, yesterday morning, while at
my rather late breakfast, Mrs. Coombes
arrived unannounced.

Now don't attempt to rise," she exclaimed
playfully. " Proceed with your breakfast.
I had no idea you were such a late mortal ;
and you men are always deriding us poor
women on our late hours."

"Well, the fact is, Mrs. Coombes "

"Now pray don't apologize," she interrupted.
" How can you be expected to
appear early during a busy seasons I saw
you at Mrs. Belmont's last night."

Yes, I was there, but came away rather
early."

I don't blame you at all, Mr. Brownlow,
it was ghastly. The Belmont never knew
how to entertain."

"No?"

No ; why old Mr. Belmont (I mean the
present one's father) was only a captain in
the navy — a mere navy captain."

Dear me, you astonish me, Mrs.
Coombes."

I'm sure I do," she replied, gazing round
the room rapidly. "By the way, what are
you going to present me with for my stall
at the bazaar next week. I have called on
you specially, knowing you are a generous
man." And the beautiful eyes beamed upon
me.

"Well, really, Mrs. Coombes, were I at
Brownlow I could readily find something
suitable for a bazaar stall, but here I "

Now, now, I won't take any excuses,"
she exclaimed, rising and laughingly running
from corner to corner of the room. At
length she discovered my beautiful Malacca
cane mounted in gold — it had only returned
from being mounted last week.

Oh, this beautiful cane is the very thing! "
she cried in rapture. "You dear man, to
have such a nice offering for me. I will
hang it up. right in the centre of my stall."

But, Mrs. Coombes "

Now, not a word — I insist on having this
cane. Au revoir ; will see you at Lady
Bashfield's to-night, I expect," and she ran
off ere I could say another word.

Shortly afterwards Mrs. Wilson came in.

What on earth made you so foolish as
to give that cane to Mrs. Coombes ? " she
cried.

Well, if the truth must be told, Mrs.
Wilson, I did riot give the cane to Mrs.
Coombes. She took it."

"Yes, but why did you let her take it?"
And little Mrs. Wilson appeared actually to
be angry. But why — what did it matter to
her?

"I could not prevent her taking it," I
answered. " She didn't give me time. She
was gone with it ere I could say Jack
Eobinson. But how did you know anything
about it ? Did she call at your rooms ? "

Oh, yes," said the widow.

And what did you give her ? "
"A bit of my mind," and the dimples
returned again. "Mrs. Coombes won't beg
anything for charity from me in a hurry.
What a madwoman she must be to think
people cannot see through it all."

The little widow was not aware of the
great truth she uttered just then. Mrs.
Coombes is very mad indeed. She thinks she
is one of the leaders of fashion and one of
the queens of society. Alas! it is not so. She
is made use of by people like the Duchess
of Stanton, who set her as a decoy duck to
make the men flock to their receptions.
She is used by charitymongers to wheedle
the money out of men's pockets at bazaars-said
method of gaining cash being rather
"too, too much" for thoroughbred women.
Yes, Mrs. Coombes has her uses, but she is
not treated as an equal, though she is in
blissful ignorance of the fact. Next season
she will have become forgotten, will have

been divorced from her now invisible husband,
and we will hear no more of her until
she appears on the stage as " Juliet " in a
matinee. Poor little society beauty!

Mafe^

mm'

VOL. I.

AT THE THEATRE.

We went to the theatre last night — the
widow and I — to see the " highly successful
comic opera entitled ' Minetta.' " Shades
of Jacques Offenbach and Hortense Schneider,
what has comic opera come to ? When one
thinks of " La Grande Duchesse," even as performed
in English — when one thinks of its
mad, merry fun, its sparkling music and
its clever interpreters, one is forced to
wonder how the public put up with the
wretched vulgar productions, miscalled comic
operas, now offered them. I don't for one
moment suppose that any comic opera, or
rather opera-bouffe, will ever be written to
approach the "Grand Duchess," but still something
within, say, a hundred miles of it ought

to have appeared ere this. Is the thins
dead ? Has the light of comic opera gone
out in France — it never has been in England
but in France, the home of sparkling
music and brilliant comedy, are there no
more Offences in it ? I fear not. Opera-bouse
is as dead as the empire whose latter
days it electrified. Don't you believe those
awfully " cultured " people who tell you
that there is no music in Offenbach's operas.
Ask them what the " Sabre Song " is, if it
is not one of the greatest military strains
ever composed. Ask them what the " Love
Letter " chorus is, if not most original and
beautiful music. Any true lover of music
can pick out dozens of such gems from the
great Frenchman's works. Touching this
same chef-d'ceuvre^ " La Grande Duchesse," it
was the greatest satire ever penned against
the German nation, has never been forgiven
by that nation, and was the prime cause of
the Franco-Prussian war. You no doubt

9—2

think it incredible that two nations should
go to war over a comic opera, but you forget
how mad we all are, French, English and
German alike. Why, have not we English
gone to war with poor ignorant blacks for
no cause at all ?

■ As to " Minetta," " the highly successful
comic opera," its music was stale jingle, its
plot nil, as far as I could discern, its dialogue
weak where it was not dirty, and its exponents
unmitigated duffers. The female
performers had never been taught the principles
cf correct pronunciation, and consequently
I had not the smallest idea of what
they were saying. They chattered away,
but a lot of magpies chattering in a park
shrubbery would have been equally as intelligible.
The men were a little better — that is
lo say, one could make out what they were
talking about. But they could not act. They
looked simply what they were, a lot of music-hall
singers out of their element.

The widow having given m^ permission
to go out and enjoy a cigarette during the
second estrade, I adjourned to the saloon.
There I met Tom Pierce. Tom, I may state,
is a " society novelist," also dramatic critic
for a society journal, and aspiring dramatist.

What do you think of the opera ? " he
asked.
'. " Can't make head or tail of it," I replied.

Oh, I am not talking of the scrip, I mean
how do you like the music ? Xo one looks
for plot in comic operas now a days."

I can't discover any music either," I said.

Well, it's not the most original music
certainly," confessed Tom. " But no one
looks for original music in comic operas
nowadays. But just think of the way little
Carrie de Smythe sings ' Come kiss me who
dares.' That is enough to draw the town."

Carrie de Smythe ! and you think she can
sing?" I cried in astonishment. "Why, she
can't talk, much less sing." .

Well, I admit lie is not a Patti."

She hasn't the slightest idea of acting," I
went on.

But, my dear boys, no one expects good
acting or singing in comic opera nowadays,"
exclaimed Tom. " All we want now
is to see a lot of fine women in tights, who
can rattle off catch songs, and one or two
knock-about comedians. Comic opera is
quite a different thing to what it was in the
days of Julia Mathews."

Indeed it is," I said, " a very different
thing. In fact all the comic element has
run out of it."

Oh ! I don't know so much about that,"
said Tom. "' Minetta' draws all London, and
will continue to do so probably until Christmas.
You cannot call a piece bad under
those circumstances. The composer tried his
hand at serious work, but starved on it. He
wrote ' Minetta,' and is making eighty
pounds a week."

"Yes, I suppose we must look at it in
that way. The drama's laws the drama's
patrons give. It is the same now as in
Pope's time; but still, 'Minetta' is not an
opera."

"I never said it was," replied Tom, and
then the electric bell sounded, and we returned
to our seats.

I wonder if Tom will ever have a play
produced ? He has been pestering managers
for fully ten years with his MS., but never
with success. Curious, what a number of
novelists there are who are ambitious of
dramatic honours. Yet how few of them
ever make any success as playwrights. Tom
may succeed yet. He has youth on his side,
and besides, is not wholly dependent upon
his pen. God help him if he was !

******

Mrs. Wilson told me to-day that it has
come to her knowledge that a conspiracy
is being hatched by some of the wisest and

fiercest mammas in London, for the capture
of little Towers. They have resolved that
he won't leave town unmarried.
- "You must warn him," said the widow.

Why should I ? " I asked. '

Simply because it is so unfair."

Unfair ! Surely little Towers can take
care of himself?"

Oh ! you don't know what I mean at
all," said the widow. "I mean it is unfair
to our own county girls. They have the
riofht to him — or at least some one of them
has," and the little widow smiled.

How would you like ? " I stopped intime

I thought, but not so.

"What!" she cried, flushing with anger,
do you for one moment suppose, Mr.
Brownlow, that I should ever think of marrying
Mr. Towers! Answer me?" and she
stamped her little foot.

No, no, not at all, Mrs. Wilson," I hastened
to say, " believe me, such a thought

never for a moment entered my head. As
for little Towers, he will do very well for
some silly girl with a craving for money,
but I trust such a charming woman as

yourself "

There, that will do," she cried, all dimples
once more. " I don't wish to hear anymore.
You are forgiven."

[-^-^^^

H-y^

THOSE YANKEES.

I HAVE always been under the impression
that America will be a very fine country
when it is finished, provided it is not spoiled
in the making. And somehow or another I
incline to the belief that it will be so spoiled,
for the Yankee madness is very mad indeed.
Understand, I use the word Yankee because
the Yankees are the people. The people of
America are all Yankees, which is saying
that they are all horribly vulgar, fearful
liars, and disgusting braggarts. The American
ladies and gentlemen — the Southerners —
are the nicest creatures in the world. But
as I have before stated, you must judge of
a country by its people — its commonality — to
use a good old English expression, now

seldom uttered save by the Irish peasant.
For a long time I was under the impression
that the Yankee's brag anent his country
and its stupendous greatness and superiority
over every country on the face of the earth,
and England in particular, was only so much
side," — that he only praised his country asa
matter of principle. But I have changed
my mind. They reals believe what they
say. I was convinced of this in the following
way. A troupe of Christy Minstrels came
over here from New York. Some music-hall
would have been the proper place for them,
but they elected to open at the most
famous theatre in the world — Drury Lane.
I cannot understand what the manager was
thinking about when he let them the house
in question, but anyhow, let it he did. Now,
as all the world knows, the Drury Lane
theatre has always been a fashionable house
when there is anything good on its stage.
As all the world knows, it was nothing less

than sacrilege to allow a lot of men with
corked faces to appear on its honoured
boards. Well, when the Yankee agent in
advance arrived he called all the hands " in
front " together, and thus addressed them.
At least, the following was the purport of
his remarks. (The " hands " were the check-takes,
cloak-room attendants, and box-keepers.)
"Now, good people, I want you
all to be particular with the audiences which
will visit this house during the stay of the

Minstrels. You must be very ]polite

and civil, because the people who will attend
will be superior to those ivlio are in the habit
of attending here ! " And he believed every
word he said. He believed that these miserable
black-faced Yankees would draw a more
fashionable audience than even Garrick,
Kean, Kemble, or any other " stars " ever
drew to Drury Lane ! Ah dear ! what a
dire failure they were, poor fellows ! And
the manager stated that the failure was due

to want of taste and refinement in the Londoners.
Yes, the Yankees are very mad
indeed. Funny to read their theatrical
papers when they treat of English actors and
actresses. The Yankee critics affect to be
very much disgusted with the "English
accent " on the stage. Fancy a lot of half-educated
scribblers, who talk with a twang
which puts one's teeth on edge, professing
to find great offence in the English accent !
The question is, how should the English
language be spoken — with an English
accent or a Yankee one ?

But I think the greatest fun of all is their
Society " papers. These papers are quite
as amusing as the " Society '' itself. Society !
Well, there is a sort of Society — as we in
England understand the term — in the South,
where many of the old slave-holders still
dwell, but the so-called " society " which
these precious journals treat of is composed
of the most shoddy lot of men and women

which it has been my misfortune to meet
withal. Now, some of our own cheap society
papers are open to ridicule occasionally, but
still, when they give us details of people,
those people are somebodies. The Yankee
Society " journals give the most minute
particulars about nobodies. Here lies a
paper printed in New York. I take an item
of its " Society Gossip " at random : " Miss
Lillian Shalt has returned from school
at Boston, and will remain with her
parents until the Fall." There is an important
bit of social gossip ! Here is another
gem : '' Mr. Jeff Goode, the eminent orange-grower,
is laid up with a bilious attack."
And yet another : " Mrs. John Washington
Dobbs, one of the Queens of New York
society, eats two eggs, a round of toast, and
drinks two large cups of coffee for her
breakfast."

The entire paper is made up of garbage of
this description. Shocking as it appears to

US, the Yankees think it the creme de la creme
of " society " gossip. And is not " one of
the Queens of New York society " distinctly
precious ! How greedy of praise they are
too ! I have noticed of late that in almost
every new play produced in London there is
an American character. This character is
always a cool, highly-polished, brave, cynical
and altogether "good" sort of fellow. "Why
is this thus ? " I asked Tom Pierce. " Don't
you know?" he replied. "Why, don't you
see, America has become a great market
for English dramatic ware, but no play will
be successful there unless it has an American
character in it. And the said character must
have most of the fat''

The Land of the Free ! And they want
to banish all the English actors from the
country ! The home of the brave ! And they
are afraid to allow an English teapot into
their port lest it should take a cent out of
some Yankee tinker's pocket. But what can

you expect from a nation of wooden nutmeg
makers and patent "ironclad lemon squander"
manufacturers ? What American would purchase
his own country's goods if he could get
those made in England? The land of the
free and the home of the brave ! Bah !

Do you know what makes me incensed
against these poor mad Yankees ? Well, the
fact is this, the little widow has informed
me that the Duchess of Stanton's uncle —
the old creature we saw in her grace's box
has at last turned Turk. He insisted on
being introduced to her grace's friends.
She refused, and told the old man not to
come near her for the future. The upshot
of all this is that, for pure spite, the old
boor has sent to America for another niece,
whom he has announced as his heiress, and,
worst of all, has actually taken a place
in our county ! The place in question
is called Beechley Wold, and is within
three miles of Brownlow and two miles

of Stanton Castle. Fancy having this
man and his Yankee niece as neighbours !
Certainly Peter Butts — that's the old beggar's
name— is not a Yankee, having been
born and bred in London, but he is a vulgar
cockney, which is equally as bad. It
appears that his brother, her grace's father,
ran away to sea when fourteen, deserted his
ship at New York, and eventually found
himself in Chicago, where in due time he
grew wealthy and died, leaving all his money
to his only daughter, now her Grace of
Stanton.

"^^^;

VOL. I 10

VERY LOW COMEDY.

Tom Pierce, who is on the look-out for
comic business " for a comedy he is at
work on, intends visiting the Haddington
Vestry Hall to-night, and has asked me if I
would like to accompany him. He says it
is delightful fun to hear and see the creatures
who are called vestrymen. I expect it
is, and have accordingly promised to go.
Tom was to call for me at seven.

Here he is.

*****

Well, here we are in the Vestry Hall,
and in that part known as the " gallery,"
from whence we can see the " whole show,"
as Tom says. The gallery is filled with an
audience composed of local ratepayers, who

are joking and chaffing like a lot of costermongers
in the "top" of Old^Drury on a
Boxing Night.

What's on to-night, Ted ? " asks a gentleman
in a straw hat and no collar.

Oh, a regular barney," answers Ted, who
is evidently an undertaker. " Yur see, Jack
Bung has come 'one from his 'holidays, an' is
going to give it 'em all straight fur moving' a
resolution in 'is absence."

Wot resolution ? " queries Straw-hat.

Donne ; but you'll 'ear all about it now.
Here's 'em all."

And then we notice below us in the "hall"
the usual assortment of snub-nosed, bottle-nosed,
long-nosed, red-nosed, flat-nosed, and
fat-nosed gentry, who, by some mysterious
agency, are destined to become vestrymen.
When the bald-headed, hatchet-faced
chairman is seated, Mr. Jack Bung — all cuffs,
collars, and whiskers — rises to state his
grievance.

10 -2

Sir'' says Mr. Bung, pointing his stumpy
forefinger at the chair as if he was going to
denounce it ; " it has come to my knowledge
that during my absence and 56>journ at Margate,
a certain cock of individuals in this
room— (cries of " Name I " "Order!" and
laughter) — has been making abortive resolutions
against me. Now I say, Mr. Chair,
that these persons told lies."

Here a number of vestrymen rise excitedly
and jabber forth all together, while some of
us in the gallery call out, " Sit down, and
give the man a chance," and " Now then,
Tickell with the glass eye, sit down, or I'll
tell your wife you've been drinking." This
last sally causes a roar of laughter, while
Mr. Tickell glares through his glass eye up
at the gallery. When the Chair succeeds in
gaining: silence, a stout moon-faced man rises
and remarks :

Wot I say is this, Mr. Chair. Mr. Bung
says he were at Margate when a carting resolution

was brought against him. Now, as I
'happens to know, Mr. Bung wasn't at Margate
at all at the time, but in the private bar of
the Spotted Dog."

Great laughter in the gallery, mingled with
cries of "Good old Spot!" Meanwhile Mr.
Bung is gesticulating at an awful rate, and
is evidently denouncing some one, but not a
word can be heard, so great is the uproar.

Silence once more restored, Mr. Bunor
cries, " That is a deliberate, unadulterated,
cowardly lie ! " Terrible uproar, mingled
with cries of "Turn him out!" "Chair!"
Apologise ! " After a spell, order once
more reigns, and Mr. Bung apologises to the
moon-faced man, who nods his head in response.
" As for Mr. Tickell," continues
Mr. Bung, " he has always been dead against
me " (Mr. Tickell here starts to his feet, but
is held out of order by the chair). " He has
before now been down upon me, yet I can
tell you, Mr. Clair, that Mr. Tickell has

rented his 'ouse since eighteen-seventy-two
at one hundred and twenty pounds, and
has only been rated at sixty pounds. What
do you think of that ? And this is the man
who is the soul of honour and honesty, and
the deacon of a chapel too ! "

Great laughter among us in the gallery and
considerable uproar downstairs. A flat-nosed
man rises to know " why Mr. Tickell's deaconship
should be dragged in as a matter of
privilege ? "

Mr. Bung : I want to give you some
facts.

Flatness (excitedly) : We don't want your
facts.

Mr. Bung smiling) : I know you don't.
[Great laughter from gallery.)

Order being restored, a red-headed, goggle-eyed
man jumps up and cries excitedly :

Fair play ! I demand fair play for Mr.
Bung."

Oh, oh ! " exclaims Mr. Tickell, " why

don't you pat 'im on the back and say,
Wire in, Jack — wollop the blooming' lot ! ' "

Great uproar downstairs and peals of
laughter from the gods.

Is this man," continues Mr. Tickell, pointing
to Mr. Bung, "to be allowed to dig up
the past career of members of this vestry?
Why, Bung forgot altogether to have his
house. No. 6, Brick Eow, assessed ! "

Don't you lie — you liar ! " shouts Mr.
Bung, rising, while the air resounds with
laughter from the gallery and cries of
Order ! " and " Silence ! " from the hall.

It is not a lie ! " roars Mr. Tickell. " And
if you call me a liar again I'll break your
jar ! "

Terrible excitement — two members holding
Mr. Bung's coat-tails to keep him from rushing
at Mr. Tickell, who is being held down
by three able-bodied men. Now a bull-defaced
man cries : " We have no confidence
in the chairman who allows this sort of thing

to go on." Then thunders of disapproval
from all sides, mingled with cries of "Turn
him out!" "Don't insult the chair! " "Bravo,
Noddle ! " Meanwhile the unfortunate chairman,
who by this time is fairly done up, rises
and says :

I move that we proceed to the next
business."

Voice from gallery) : Go home, you blooming'
josser!

Chairman sternly) : I'm not speaking to
the gallery.

Mr. Tickell : Why don't you obey the
chair. Bung?

Bung : I don't care a button for you or
the chair.

Chairman livid) : Mr. Bung says he doesn't
care a button for the chair !

Bung: No more I don't.

Cheers and laughter from the gallery ; and
then a clean-shaven man, dressed in a rather
sport " style, rises and observes :

I see we can get no business done. Let
US dry up and go home."

Don't be a fool ! " cries Mr. Bung.

I say, Bung has called Mouldy a fool ! "
exclaims Mr. Tickell, whereupon there is more
confusion, the gallery expressing its delight
by shouting, " Good old Bung ! " " Give it
■*em 'ot ! " " Now then, glass-eye, shut up ! "
and other painful remarks.

Chairman {icith dignity) : I'll leave the
room exit).

Voice from gallery) : Bung, collar the
chair, old chap !

Mr. Tickell glaring at gallery) : Shut up.

The uproar is now so terrific that I tell
Tom I must leave.

I can't stand any more of it," I say.

Neither can I," he replies, and we both
make the best of our way into the street.

"Well, what do you think of that'' he
asks, as the hansom hurries us away. " Nice
lot of people to have control as vestrymen, eh ? "

Ah ! my dear Tom, is it not terrible
madness ? "

Madness ! " he exclaims ; " is that what
you call it ? / call it humour — the humour
of the lower orders. A vestry meeting is
the lowest of low comedy, and ratepayers
would resent any departure from established
custom. They go to their vestry hall as you
or I go to a theatre — to be amused."

And what was all the row about tonight
! "

"Heaven alone knows."

"Why, don't the vestrymen know what
they were fighting about ? "

Not they," he answers ; " if they did
there would not be half the fun."

•^1«-

Paul's confession.

Mad as myself, ay, a madder man than ever
I can hope to be, is Paul Joyce. I died
with him last night at his chambers in Caxton
Inn. After dinner he began on his Monarchy
of Intellect craze.

You know, Phil, as well as I do, that if
the countries of Europe were all governed
by men of intellect there would be peace
all round. What is Europe now ? An armed
camp."

"I don't dispute that fact at all," I said.

No ; well, do you for one moment believe
that the good God made these beautiful countries
for the sole purpose of being utilised
as drilling-grounds for soldiers of the czar,
the emperor, or the king, as the case

may be? No. Do you think that Jesus
of Nazareth died upon the Cross to save
mankind for the purpose of making us
fight each other to the death — to slay each
other, Phil, for the pleasure of kings and
emperors? — because that is what it amounts
to. Ah ! my dear fellow, these things want
looking into."

Of course they do," I remarked. " And
now tell me what you have been doing this
year. I wanted to ask you when you dined
with me, but you were so full of your mission
"

Yes, that's the word," and Paul nodded
his head with approval.

Well, now I want to hear about yourself.
How is it you have not married ? "

Why are you not married ? " he answered
quickly.

"Well, I can scarcely answer that question.
I dont know why, unless that I never met
with any woman who has made me think of

marriage. But you, Paul, you know you told

me six years ago you were in* love with

some woman."

"Ah ! for Heaven's sake don't talk of her ! "

he exclaimed, rising and walking up and down

the room — an old habit of his.

I'm sorry I have mentioned the subject,"

I said ; " but you know you used to tell me

all about it."

"Yes, yes, but it's all over now," and Paul

sat down again. " I have lost her — lost her

for ever ; and all my own fault, Phil, that's
the worst part of it ; thais what drives me
mad when I think of it. My God ! what an
idiot I was ! Oh, what an idiot I was ! "
and the poor fellow actually trembled with
emotion.

Well, there, we all have our troubles,
Paul — there is no man on this earth who
has not a thorn festering in his heart — nota
woman who has not some dark sorrow
hidden away from all."

Yes, you are right ; but think of what
my grief must be when I tell you that it
was all my own utter idiocy which lost me
the only girl who could have made my life
worth living. Fancy my loving a woman —
and such a woman — for five years, yet never
telling her of my love ! "

What ! " I exclaimed in astonishment.

Fact, Phil*'

"Well, my dear fellow, what was your
idea?"

Idea, Phil, idea f What was my madness,
you mean. Away from her, I was in
misery •, with her, I affected a coolness — a
nonchalance that's the only word for it."

"Ah ! I expect you were shy and nervous,"
I said, " and tried to hide it by an appearance
of coldness. I remember you wrote to me
once stating something of the sort."

Yes ; " and then after a pause, " she grew
tired of my coolness at last, and "

Married ? "

Left England for India with her brother.
I daresay she is married to gone happy
beggar by this time. And now, Phil, let
us talk of something else."

We were soon deep in the Monarchy of
Intellect again. What a blessing he has got
this madness to keep him alive.

On my way homeward I thought of that
letter he sent me, some years ago, and remembered
that it was with one or two other
curious letters in a small pocket-book in my
desk.

It lies before me now. At the time it was
written, Paul was in far better spirits than
ever he will be again, yet I can trace a
touch of sadness in this " confession."

Dear Phil,

I want you to help me. Don't start,
this is not a begging letter. I simply want
your advice on a very delicate matter. The
fact is, I have been for a long time very

much in love. Now, I want you to particularly
understand that this is not a mere
case of spooneyism ; it is real, earnest, downright
love, deep as a draw-well. She is an
angel — a kind-hearted, gentle angel — to
everybody but me. That's what's the matter.
I know she is not a flirt ; if she was one,
I could understand her. What is she like ?
Well,

She's not very dark, and she's not very fair,

She's rather a sort of a blend ;
Her eyes they are hie, and her free wavy hair

Is as brown as my briar with the bend.
She's not very tall — just ' as high as my heart,'

But she shouldn't be shorter or taller.
And now I have given a true life-like carte

Of my dear little — what-do-you-call-her.

The above, I may tell you, forms a portion
of a string of verses which I wrote and sent
her, and which she was pleased to say were
rather good ; ' but she must have been in
good humour at the time, for when next I
saw her she informed me that she thought
my verses ' very impertinent,' and actually

handed ilium back to me, with the remark

that she ' did not want them.' *But, curious

to relate, within a month from the time she

handed them to me, she wrote asking me

for them again. Well, Phil, you know what

the bad young man with the tenor voice

sings in the opera, ' La Donna I Mobile.'

Some fellow has written somewhere or other,

that the world has been rolling and rolling

for thousands of years, and that earth, air

and water have given up their secrets to man,

but that woman — remains as great a mystery

as ever. Now, I don't think Gentle Will ever

wrote a better bit than that, and he knew a

thing or two about the sex.

I once thought that I did understand

HER ; but, goodness, what a mistake I made !

She seemed always so glad to see me, wrote

to me so often, and sent me so many little

boxes of flowers, gathered by her own fair

hands, and — and all that sort of thing, don't

you know. So, I wrote her a long letter,
VOL. I. n

telling her that I thought she cared for me,
and that I adored her. Good heavens ! what
a reply I received. Talk of rage, that little
angel was mad.* The idea of my ' daring
to think that she ever cared about me in
any way,' it would be ' excruciatingly funny
were it not so horribly impertinent,' &c.
Such a scorching, sneering, biting, bitter
letter no fellow ever received from woman
before. It drove me clean out of England.
I wandered from place to place for twelvemonths,
lonely and miserable. After all, my
dear Phil, was there anything very wrong
in my telling her that I thought she cared
for me? Was it really impertinence? Do
men ever propose to women without having
some idea that they will be accepted ?
Should I have spoken to her alone in the
twilight with nobody by but ourselves, instead
of having written ? These are some of
the things I want to know.

Of course she was — and is. P. B.

Well, when twelve months had passed
I ventured to write to her, saying that I
hoped she was quite well (just as if nothing-had
occurred, you know), and that I thought
of returning to England and buying a farm
(I always had a mania* for farming, you
know) ; I told her of the sort of farm I should
go in for, and the county it should be in.
I don't know what made me bother her withall
this — do you ? After about a month
she wrote me a sneering letter, anent my
ridiculous ideas on farming, and stated that
if I really did want to go in for what 1
knew nothing about, it would be as well to
take a place in Ireland or Wales where land
was cheap.

I don't know why all this should have
enraged me so,f but enrage me it did, and
I sat down and wrote her a blazing letter,
requesting her never to write to me again.

Alas! farming is not his madness now. P, B.
t/do. P. B.

11—2

Yes, Phil, I did that — and for the next six
months was the most miserable man on the
face of the earth. Fancy my requesting the
one woman on this earth who could make
me happy, never to write to me again !
And she did not — until Christmas, when she
sent me a beautiful Christmas card, God bless
her ! with ' Best wishes ' and her initials in
her own handwriting on the back. Now,
what do you think of that? Peace on Earth,
and Goodwill unto Men — yes, I felt like that,
Phil, on that Christmas morning. How I
treasured that little bit of pasteboard — how
I carried it about in my inside pocket!*
What were all the masterpieces in all the
galleries in Europe compared to it ?

I wrote her such a long letter thanking
her ' ever so much ' for her kindness in
remembering me. But she never replied.
Yes, I felt that, Phil — felt it very much.
But I would not write again, and I did not

Did he mean his stomach ? P. B.

write again — that is, net until I was about
to return to England, when I wrote a few
lines and posted them to her. Three days
brought me an envelope with the well-known
handwriting, and which contained one of her
visiting cares on the back of which was
written, 'If you are coming to London, of
course we shall be glad to see you.' It
was not very encouraging, but it made my
heart jump again. I returned to England,
and would you believe it, Phil, it was four
months ere I could muster up courage to
visit HER. Yes, a great over-grown five-foote
tenner of a man, afraid of a little woman.
How mad* I was with myself.

"At length I wrote, stating that I would
call on such a day. The season was over,
and they had gone down to the country.
Back came an answer from there, stating
that she was glad I was back again in Old
England, and giving me full directions as

Mad you are, not with, but m out's ^If. P. B.

to getting down to their place, wdiicli, lie
added, was ' looking lovely, especially the
garden.' Down I went. Phil, if you only
knew all the nice things, all the pretty
speeches I had prepared to whisper into her
shelly ear ! Did I whisper one of them ?
Not one. When I met her I was as nervous
as nervous could be, but I assumed an air
of extreme coolness. Now will you explain
this? * And after dinner we walked together
in* the garden, in the nice old-fashioned
country twilight, and instead of saying all
I had to say, I simply puffed away at a
cigarette, mad idiot that I was.f Here was
I beside the woman who for months past had
never been absent from my thoughts, and
I put on an air of boredom ! Suddenly she
suo^o^ested that it was time to return to the
house, and back we walked in silence. When
leaving to catch the last train for London,
I bid her good-bye in a ' happy to meet you,

Certainly. You're mad. P. B. f Hear, hear I P. B.

I'm sure,' kind of way, though my heart
was thumping against my side like a hammer.
Ah! how pretty she looked as she
stood at the door.

*' In a week's time I sat down and wrote
some verses to her. They were good, Phil ;
I knew they were. I sent them to her saying
I would run down to see her again in a
couple of weeks — and I did. After dinner,
we sat in the twilight under a tree, on the
lawn — I smoking a cigarette, being too nervous
to do anything else. Suddenly, out
she brought those verses. I felt myself blushing,
and it made me angry.

' Ahem ! You know the verses,' she
asked. 'Yes, they are rather good, are
they not ? ' I replied quite coolly.

' They are good,' she continued, ' very
good, and the lady you mention in them is '

What was it she said then ? It might
have meant nothing, but this I know, it set
my heart bounding with joy. And yet it

was such a peculiar expression, and said so
quickly that were I offered millions of money
to remember it, I could not do so. What
answer did I make her? None. Good
heavens, Phil ! I sat so close to her that her
hair brushed my shoulders, and I never

even Oh, God, what an idiot I was.

In another moment she rose, and said with
a sharp tinge in her voice, that it was time
to return to the house. On leaving that
niofht, she handed me a little bunch of white
roses. The next day I wrote her a long
letter, telling her how much 1 loved her, and
asking her to make my miserable life happy.
Back came a short, curt note from her stating
that she had ' thought and hoped I would
have never alluded to that subject again,' and
that ' she would always remain my friend
but as for being anything further,' &c., &c.

"That letter regularly knocked me up fora
fortnight. Then came a long letter from
her askance me when I ' intended coins down

to see them all.' I wrote a short note stating
that I was too seedy to go at present. Back
care a letter telling me that my reason was a
foolish one,' and that she never would ask
me to visit her again. To this I wrote a bitter
reply, for my heart was sore, Phil. Oh !
what a letter I received then. Filled with such
sentences as ' ignorance and presumption,'
'vanity and impertinence,' &c. All this ending
with reference to my ' abhorrent ways
and thoughts,' and a request to refrain from
writing to her again. You may be sure I
did not write again. And, what do you think ?
in a month's time came a large envelope
from her filled with rose leaves ! Not a
scrap of writing, save the address on the
envelope. Now what am I to do ? It is a
fortnight since I received it. Drop me a long
letter, Phil, telling me what I ought to do,
and what you think of the whole business.
Yours as ever,

"Paul Joyce."

I answered this letter on the day I received
it. I told him the woman loved him madly
as of course she did. Any man could see
that, who took the trouble of doing so.
Wonder did he try to take my advice, which
was to go in and win.

BY THE SAD SEA WAVES.

I QUITE forgot to bid good-bye to little Mrs.
Wilson, on coming to Hastings. I hope the
little creature will not feel offended. Fact
is, I came away in a hurry. Getting weary
of continual dinners, balls and receptions,
and, in fact, feeling too indisposed to attend
any more, I called upon Dr. Jacob Salt,
the eminent physician, and stated my case
as follows :

Dr. Salt, these are my symptoms —
drowsiness and disinclination to rise in the
morning before eleven ; sleeplessness at night ;
sense of fulness in the stomach after meals ;
dryness of tongue after smoking ; feverish
thirst in morning after late supper, and constant
longing for the sea."

Let me feel your pulse, Mr. Brownlow,"
said the doctor, pulling out his watch and
seizing my wrist.

He held me thus for fully a minute, as he
fixed his eyes on the second hand of his
watch.

"Have you ever had any illness before?"
he asked.

Several times."

You have a wish for the sea ? "

"Yes."

'' Well, then, my advice is that you leave
town for Hastings or St. Leonard as soon
as possible "

Thanks ; o'ood mornings."

To write letters to all who expected my
company during the week did not take me
long A brief note to Tom Pierce, asking
him to put a paragraph in one or two of
the social journals announcing my hasty
journey to the south coast by my "physician's
urgent advice," and off I started ; and here

I am. Never felt better in my life, but this
entre nous.

This is my first visit to Hastings, and with
the help of God it will be my last. The
place absolutely reeks with 'Arries and their
sisters, cousins and aunts. You could walk
for a mile over their bodies as they lie on
the shingle by the very muddy sea. Man,
woman and child lie there from ten
o'clock in the morning until one in the afternoon,
when they retire to gorge themselves
with roast pork and apple dumplings, washed
down by four-ale. After dinner, back they
go again to their shingly beds. And such
costumes ! The girls — mostly greasy Jew-esse
with the most awful noses — dressed in
white or blue " sailor costumes," with sailor
caps, dirty stockings and canvas shoes.
The men — poor half-starved, washed-out looking
fellows, with the longest necks and the
biggest mouths I have ever seen — all dressed
alike — and there are some thousands of them

in boating costumes (flannel trousers and
knitted guernsey jacket, surmounted by a
tennis coat, generally all white and blue
stripes, tennis shoes, and a straw hat with
flaring band). The joke of this is that none
of them ever enter a boat.

Besides the carpet of these canaille spread
along the beach, there is a very large army
of them always on the move up and down
the promenade. They amuse themselves by
firing stones at their friends below on the
beach, who return the compliment. Hence,
there is a continuous shower of stones to
be observed, and occasionally felt, all day
long.

Where on earth do all these people come
from ? " I asked one of the waiters here
yesterday.

"Mostly from London, sir."

They must ruin the place."

"That they do, sir. The summer season
in Hastings is done for. These 'cheap-trappers,'

as we calls 'em here, have finished
it."

Why, have they not always been with
you in the summer?" I asked.

Oh, dear, no, sir ; only this last three
years. These class of folks takes a long time
to find out a new holiday place, but they
find it out in the end."

"And then?"

"And then all the good people give it
the go-by. We 'ave our winter visitors still,
sir — all first-class ; but them who used to stay
here in the summer now go to Eastbourne."

Foreigners are always wondering at the
exclusiveness " of the English. Let some
of them come here to Hastings and view
our 'Arries as they lie with their 'Arries
in lines along the shingle, and I'll wager our
English exclusiveness will no looser be an
object of wonderment.

Why on earth did I come here ? Was it
because I was madder than usual? That

must be the reason. To be sure, I had a
wish to escape any further balls and dinners,
and yet could not bring myself to quit town
ere any of the others from my county did
so. Still, why not have told old Salt that
I had a craving for travel ? He might have
sent me to Paris ! But one never does what
one really ought to do.

I have been here but two days, and
already I am suffering from the most acute
attack of ennui. There is absolutely nothing
to do — no way to amuse oneself. As for
enjoying a walk on the promenade, or
through the shingle, that is out of the question
while 'Arry is abroad ; and as for
boating, who could think of boating, or
bathing, in that muddy water? I wonder
do the natives of Hastings know what a
real sea is like ? Have they the smallest
idea of the great green curling breakers,
bursting with a roar into sheets of foam,
which gallop up the beach at the rate of

sixty miles an hour, and then gode slowly
back again, leaving tiny pink shells glittering
in the shining sand ? Ah ! for the real
strand and the real green sea, with sea-gulls
white and grey floating on its bosom, and
seven miles of a yellow beach to thunder upon,
and with phantom schooners to be seen
by moonlight, all white-winged, and fairy
barques to be seen in the dawn, with brilliant
rosy sails. And ever and ever, night and
day, the distant thunder of the mad, mad
waves. Hush ! can you not hear them now,
as they sound through twenty years of time ?
I never saw anything more like weak pea-soup
than the sea at Hastings.

m^^-r^^

VOL. 1.

MRS. WILSON APPEARS.

My bedroom window looks out upon the gay
and festive beach — the " Sands " it is called
Jiere, Heaven alone knows why, for sand
proper on Hastings shore there is none, the
beach being entirely formed of gravel (or
shingle), and mud. It is a sweltering noon,
yet there lie all the 'Arries and their girls
on the burning shingle, under the blazing

sun. And music !

The "hall porter" is a regular linguist—
knowing all Continental languages, besides
several Hindoo aud Arabic dialects. It is
almost needless to say he is an Irishman. I
had full proof of this yesterday morning
while enjoying a cigar on the hotel steps.
One of those instruments of torture called

a piano-organ was being operated upon by
an impudent-looking and particularly greasy
Italian, while a brazen-faced girl in a short
red dress and gaudy head-gear stood by
leering at me. My friend the hall porter
appeared on the scene, and after giving the
pair a piece of his mind in choice Italian,
ordered them away. Cursing him in musical
Tuscan, they went their way, and then the
porter turned to me and remarked :

This is the civil's own town for music,
sur." So saying, he retired.

He was right ; it is the very devil's town
for music. From my window here I can
count the following, ranged at intervals along
the promenade : — Three little girls playing
fiddles ; five niggers, with banjo, bones and
tambourine ; two " mysterious minstrels,"
with an American organ on a donkey-cart ;
a blind harpist ; a ditto flautist ; two more
niggers ; three piano-organs ; and last of all
the Hastings Band, composed of about 



teen brass instruments — all going together!
It is the maddest town I have ever been in.
Mad, and yet how miserably dull ! I do
wish little Mrs. Wilson was here ; her prattle
would be a change for the better. Well, I
suppose I had better go down to the steps
again, and have another weed ; there seems
to be nothing else to do.

*****

Alio would have thought it? While sitting
smoking just now, the 'bus arrived from
the station, and out popped — Mrs. Wilson !

'• You wretch ! " she exclaimed, while the
dimples played all over her face. " Fancy
coming down here to enjoy yourself all alone.
And never telling any one you were going"'

My dear Mrs. Wilson," I cried, " I'm
delighted to see you." Which I was.

"I don't believe you are," she answered,
more dimply than ever, as she tripped into
the hotel, followed by her maid.

Thank goodness. I've now o-ot some one
to talk to, and listen to. The little widow
is delightful to listen to. I have promised
to show her the promenade and pier.
And here lie is, ready for the walk. Wonderful
taste in dressing ! She stands before
me, the best-dressed woman in Hastings.

Here I am," she says. " And now please
take great care of me in this strange
place."

Certainly," I exclaim, offering my arm.
If any man dare even look at you, his life
shall pay the forfeit."

We stroll along the parade criticizing
the shops and people until we come to the
pier. Here we sit down on one of the seats
facing the sea.

What a curious lot of people there are
here," says the widow. " They remind one
of the picture of Margate Sands."

"Yes," I say. "Hastings is now quite
as bad as Margate in the summer time."

'well, why did you come here?" queries
the widow.

Ordered by my doctor. But lory did
you come here ? "

■ " Oh, I really don't know ; " and the little
widow is positively blushing and evidently
confused.

As sure as anything she has come down
here bent on some mischief. There is a man
in the question, I could swear. Who is
he ? Must keep my weather-eye open.

By the way, Mr. Towers has gone down,"
she says, for the purpose of changing the
conversation, I presume.

Has he ? Then he was not captured
after all?"

No ; he escaped before the plot was
ripe," and the widow smiles a wicked smile.
You know," she continues, " I don't think
Mr. Towers is quite such a fool as he looks."

Oh, indeed he is not," I say. "He has
lots of brains."

"You know, I don't think he would be
such a bad match at all," and the widow
looks at me thoughtfully.

I should think not," I answer. " Forty-thousand
a year and a lovely house is not
to be despised."

Oh, I'm not thinking of the money," she
exclaims sharply, " nor of the lovely house,
as you call it."

No ? " This I say in a tone of query.

iV(9," she exclaims with a pettish look, " I
think Mr. Towers would be just as nice
without money."

As nice a husband, do you mean ? "

"Yes," with a snap.

"Yes, if his wife had money," I say.

What do you mean ? " she exclaims with
flashing eyes.

"What do I mean, Mrs. Wilson? Why,
what I say. What on earth is there to get
angry about? You say "

Oh, never mind what I said," she cries

in a perfect blaze of anger. " Do for goodness'
sake, let us change the conversation.
I did not come down here to be pestered
about Mr. Towers or Mr. Anybody Else."

My dear Mrs. Wilson, surely you will
own that it was not I who commenced "

Up she jumps from the seat.

Since you persist in continuing the subject
I will leave you," she says with flushed
face and flashing eyes, and then hurries away.

Was ever such a mad little woman heard
of before ? She actually begins a conversation
about a man, and because I quite
agree with her in everything she says
concerning him, she flies into a raf?e !

As I walk back along the promenade,
I come upon her, seated, listening to a
band of niggers. She smiles when she
catches sight of me, and I immediately hasten
towards her.

Well, I hope you have got over jour
nasty temper," she says.

^^ My nasty temper? Well, come, that's

There, there, I forgive you," she interrupts.
" Sit down and Austen to the music''

THE Pleasures OF ENGLISH TRAVELLING.

If Towers has returned to the country, the
ice is broken, so I am determined to start
this afternoon. I tell Mrs. Wilson.

How curious," she exclaims, " I was
just coming to tell you of my intended departure
to-day."

No ! why then we will travel together.
How jolly ! "

Then you think I won't be a nuisance ? "
she asks dimpling.

"Nuisance! My dear Mrs. Wilson, your
companionship "

Ahem, and my maid's," she observes
with a demure look.

And your maid's, will afford me the utmost
pleasure."

Thank Heaven, I can go back to dear
old Brownlow at last. And no one can say
I was the first to leave town. That's a blessed
thought.

By-and-by, the 'bus lands us at the railway
station — Mrs. Wilson, her maid and
myself. We have a good ten minutes to
spare, so we " pick and choose " our seats
in the train.

Let us get as far away from the engine
as possible," says the widow, "in case of a
collision."

We are barely seated when in jumps Tom
Pierce.

Why, where did you spring from ? " I
ask, and then introduce him to Mrs. Wilson.

Oh, not from very far," he answers, looking
at me and then at the widow. " I came
down by the midday mail yesterday for the
purpose of writing a descriptive article on
Hastings for the Herald of Fashion. They are
doing the south coast watering-places in it."

"You have certainly been very quick at
gaining your knowledge of the place," remarks
the widow.

Well, the fact is, Mrs. Wilson, my coming
down at all was a mere matter of form. I
have been here scores of times. All I wanted
was just one look round to see if there was
any change."

And have you found any ? "

No, except that there are even more
'Arries in evidence than was the case
last season."

Here, quite apropos, enters a "sporting"
'Arry with an elaborate travelling rug.

Would think he was bound on a journey
to the North Pole," whispers the widow,
who is evidently very much annoyed at his
appearance.

'Arry, who sports a massive chain, a
diamond ring and a horse-shoe pin, places
the v\x^ on a seat, while he sinks into the
opposite one. His intention is evident. The

seat with the rug is for the repose of his
feet.

The whole thing is very annoying. Here
we were all to ourselves, nice and private,
and now we will have to endure this unspeakable
boor, probably all the way to
town.

Tom, who hates this type of Englishmen
with a fierce hatred, remarks :

Pardon me, sir, but do you require two
seats ? I mean, is it absolutely requisite that
your rug should occupy an entire seat all to
itself? Because I should very much like to
sit there."

Oh, that 'ere rug belongs to a friend of
mine," answers 'Arry with a grin. How is it
these people never have two teeth together ?

And is your friend travelling in this
train ? " inquires Tom.

Yas ; he told me to secure a seat with
his rug. He will be here in a jiffy."

I know the man is telling lies, so does Tom.

Is there time to find another carriage ? "
asks Mrs. Wilson in a tone which ought to
have made 'Arry's blood run cold.

"If you ask me, I don't think there is,
miss'' replies the latter.

He is right ; at this moment the guard's
whistle sounds, the engine gives a shriek
and a snort, and then off we go slowly.

Why, your friend is late," cries Tom to
'Arry.

Oh, 'e's all right," answers the man.

"But let him have his rug," and quick
as thought Tom seizes the rug and heaves
it out on to the platform. " There, now he
will have his rug for the next train."

Why, damn it, sir, what have you done ?"
cries 'Arry choking with rage.

Done ? " answers Tom, " why, what you
ought to thank me very much for. But for
my presence of mind you would have left
your friend unless."

Oh. that be hanged ! " cries 'Arry fuming.

And then little Mrs. Wilson fairly laughs
outright, checking herself suddenly.

'Arry sees he has been " done," and sits
glaring at us until we arrive at Tunbridge
Wells, when he jumps out and enters the
next compartment. Wonderful man, Tom
Pierce. And now the widow has another
merry little laugh.

That was capital," she declares. " I
never saw anything half so good. Now I
hope we will remain undisturbed for the
rest of the journey."

Alas, no ! enter fiend number two. He
is dressed in the latest fad of the tailors
and wears an eye-glass, which after screwing
into his left optic he fixes full on the widow,
who returns a well-bred stare, which quite
unnerves him, and his gaze wanders towards
the maid. Then he dross the glass, settles
himself well into his seat, cocks one leg
over the other, pulls out his scented handkerchief,
blows his nose and wipes his forehead,

replaces his handkerchief in his breast
pocket, being careful to allow a corner of
it to stick out in the approved fashion.

By this time the train is on its way to
London again, and Eye-glass surveys the
scenery for some minutes. Then he lies
back in his seat, and taking from his waistcoat
pocket a gold toothpick commences
excavations on his front grinders. This
being accomplished, he pulls forth a silver
cigar-case, and leaning over towards little
Mrs. Wilson, asks with a sweet simper :

Do you object to smoking, miss ? "

Can't say ; no gentleman has ever smoked
in my presence," answers the widow in a
tone that could freeze a gallon of paraffin
oil.

Eye-glass, looking awfully foolish, slowly
replaces cigar case in his pocket ; then produces
a comic paper, which he pretends to
read for the rest of the journey to town.

Wonderful woman the widow !

BACK AGAIN IN BROWNLOW.

The autumn leaves are sport for the idle
winds, the nights grow cold, and the sun is
a laggard to rise and impatient to retire ;
the hoar-frost sparkles in millions of diamonds
on the tall pines and dwarf palms on the
lawn, and the beeches in the park look
tawny and tired of life. Blue, black and
brown are the stubble on the hill-side with
pigeon, plover and starling, while silent as
death are the voiceless woods.

Summer is dead, and yet all her gifts are
not buried with her. Nay, down by the
river, lined with pollards, bulrushes and
flags, and owning many a lusty trout in
its secret pools, summer's children linger
still. On the further bank runs a stags

I. 13

going sort of thorn hedge, now and again
divided by an elder bush or a mountain
ash with its clusters of rubies flashing
'neath the great big copper sun ; the
white stems of the woodbine — its leaves
now a glorious crimson — twining in and
out among the haws, while the viburnums
sparkle royal red here and there, and creeping
through the underwood comes the pale
green arum. Nearer to the water still lie
patch and patch of more bright colours —
wild mint, yarrow, willow weed (where
the summer night moth has often paused),
purple loose stripe and a wandering marigold,
and there by a raft of lilies stands a
heron motionless — fit emblem of silence and
the tomb. For all this crimson glory is but
the hectic-dyed mantle of the Herald of
Death. Summer is dead, and her children
are following quickly. Look ! there falls a
brown shower from that sturdy elm.

And this beautiful Summer now buried

in these dank sodden leaves, which we walk
so silently over — think of her coming down
from Heaven with her lap full of flowers
and her warm scented breath, to transform
our woods and fields into paradises, while
we fly from her presence, turn our backs
upon her glorious handiwork, and seek
the close stifling atmosphere of dining-rooms
and drawing-rooms in London. There
we remain feasting and fiddling until our
Heavenly visitor has gone and most of her
gifts have grown old and cold. Then do
we return to walk the sodden earth, which
two short months ago was alive with life
and colour. And still there are people who
won't believe that we are all mad!

I met old Hemming, the gardener, yesterday
evening, as the bronze sun was dipping
down in the west. He was on his way
homeward, after a hard day's work in little
Towers's gardens. Feebler and feebler gets
the poor old chap.

13—2

Well, Hemming, how goes it with you
now?"

I be main tired o' nights, sir," he answered,
" and I miss Susan now that the
long darkness is coming. I most wish she
hadn't a gone to Lunnon. I be getting' old,
sir," and he smiled faintly at me.

Do you ever hear from your daughter ? "

Most every week, sir. She is a good
girl, an' don't forget her father. Why, sir,
she sends parcels of things nigh every Saturday."


And does she say how she likes London ?"

No, sir, no ; she never says nothing
about Lunnon, only she is quite well."

And then I left him. May he never know
where the money comes from which buys
those parcels. He has not long to live, poor
old boy — let him die in peace.

Little Mrs. Wilson drove over yesterday.

Those people have come," she informed
me.

What people ? " I inquired.

Why, those relatives of the duchess — the
uncle and a new niece fresh from America.
The duchess is raging," and she smiled a
wicked smile. " It's rather awkward, you
know, having low relations when you are a
duchess."

What's this the man's name is ? " I said,
for the idea of these people being near neighbours
was and is far from pleasant.

The man's name is Butts," replied the
widow dimpling with fun. " Butts ; nice
name for the proprietor of Beechley Wold,
isn't it?"

Charming ; why, Mrs. Wilson, it is enough
to make old Harry Beechley sit up in his
coffin. What is the girl like?"

Haven't seen her yet, but her name is
Carrie Dixon. That's not so bad."

Dixon — no ; though the ' Carrie ' smacks
of the music hall. Will you recognize
them?"

Oh, I don't know. They may not
be so bad after all, and though a raw
Yankee, Miss Dixon may be presentable
enough."

"Quite so."

Perhaps Miss Dixon might grace Brown-low
House yet," said the widow with a
merry laugh. " Who knows ? These Yankee
women are famous husband catchers."

"Do you think I am worth the catching,
Mrs. Wilson ? "

This question seemed to puzzle her a bit,
for she did not answer for a moment. Then
she said, " Oh, I don't know."

Then the conversation drifted into other
matters, and she left after extracting a
promise from me to tell her my candid
opinion of Miss Dixon, when I had the opportunity
of forming one.

The following letter was brought per
mounted groom this afternoon :

Woodbourn, September 30th.
Dear Phil,

"I want you to come over and stay
with us until you have had enough of us.
Only came home last Monday. Shooting
better than ever. Have not seen you this
ever so long. Dad joins me in best wishes
and a request for the honour of your
company. Don't fail to come as soon as you
possibly can, if not sooner.

Yours in haste,

Sydney Barton."

Why, let me see, it must be nearly two
years since I saw Sydney. He was then very
mad, though not so mad as his father, but I
daresay he has improved since. He had left
college and was about starting on a tour —
a " grand tour " round Europe, and now he
is back from his travels. Dear old boy, I
certainly will go over to Woodbourn for a
while, though old Miss Barton is such a she-dragon.

How that man, John Barton, can
stand such a woman for twenty-four hours is
a mystery ; but there, is he not, like us all,
mad?

Yes, go I will, for to tell the truth I
am beginning to feel deucedly dull and
lonely in this great gloomy house. Strange,
why this should be so ; I used to feel cheerful,
happy and comfortable enough.

Why, bless my soul, the widow forgot one
of her driving gloves. Here it lies, fairy-like
in size, and daintily-scented, with brown
velvet bands down the back. What a small
hand the little creature has got ! Must send
it to her this evening ; stay, perhaps it would
be more polite to take it myself in the
morning.

I LUNCH WITH THE WIDOW.

The gossamer is sparkling in festoons along
the hedgerows, and the October sun shines
red and warm enough as I walk briskly along
the road. I have sent my traps on to Wood-bourn
per dog-cart, and am going thither on
foot myself. I intend taking Virgemont on
my way, for the purpose of returning the
widow her glove.

An hour's walk brings me to Virgemont
gates, and live minutes' walk up the drive
brings me to the house. There is the widow
on a ladder, with dainty morning dress
tucked up, as hammer in hand she is busy
nailing some trailing plant to the wall. So
busy is she that she does not hear my
approach until I speak :

Mrs. Wilson, you make a pretty picture."

She turns round all dimples.

I thought you'd come," she exclaims.

"Oh, you did!"

No, no," she says quickly. " What I
meant to say was, that I thought you would
bring me back my glove. Thank you very
much ; it was stupid of me to leave it.
Would you mind holding the ladder while
I get down ? "

Certainly."

She is down the six steps in a liffey. Wonderful
woman !

Now come along," she says ; " I want to
show you my new piano."

"Oh, you've got a new piano, then?"

Yes, and such a beauty ; its tone is
simply exquisite. You're fond of music, are
you not ? "
Very."

"I thought you were. Oh, who do you
think called to see me yesterday?"

I give it up."

Now, can't you try and guess ? " she
persisted.

Can't for the life of me, unless it was Mr.
Butts."

No, it wasn't Mr. Butts ; it was Mr. Towers."

Oh, indeed ! "

Yes ; and he has promised me a whole
heap of cuttings for the garden. Isn't it kind
of him ? " and the widow looks at me with
very open eyes.

Very kind indeed ; but how comes it that
you have never asked me for any cuttings ? "

Oh, I don't know," she answers, and
then after a pause, " Don't you think Mr.
Towers nice-looking ? "

Yes, he has what I would call a pretty
face — a ladylike sort of countenance."

The widow smiles a quiet smile, and says
nothing further until we enter the drawing-room.


Why, you have had it newly decorated ! "

I exclaim, for the whole room is aglow with
dark crimson ; curtains, carpet, chairs, lamps
and walls having all a goodly percentage
of my favourite colour.

Do you admire my taste ? " she asks,
seating herself at the piano.

Indeed I do," I answer. " The tout
ensemble is charming."

"Thank you," she says with a pleasant
smile, and then she begins one of Beethoven's
sonatas. Her playing is full of verve and finish,
and I sit perfectly delighted until she has
finished, when she twirls round on the music
stool and faces me.

What do you think of the tone ? "

Perfect, Mrs. Wilson, and your execution
is quite a musical treat."

Honestly ? "

Honestly, you play to my mind far
better than many professionals."

I stay and lunch with her, although I promised
to be in time for luncheon at Woodbourn.

And so you are going to remain sometime
with Mr. Barton ? " she says.

Yes. Sydney and I are very old friends,
and as we haven't seen each other for over
two years, I daresay we shall not grow tired
of each other for some weeks."

Grow tired of each other," she exclaims.
" You talk of us women being
fickle and changeable, yet you men actually
grow tired of each other in a few weeks."
And then she adds, after a slight pause and
with several dimples, " Though to be sure,
that's not at all wonderful when one comes
to think of it."

Now, now, Mrs. Wilson, you must not
be so severe on us men. We are really
not a bad lot taken for all in all — when
you know us."

Yes, when we know you. By the way,
when is Fanny Barton going to be married?
She must be twenty-five."

Oh, no ; not twenty-five."

How can you know, pray ? " she asked
sharply.

Well, Sydney is only twenty-six, and there
is, I know, four years between Fanny and him."

'you seem to know all about it," says
the widow. "You men are always talking
about women's ages." And she actually
seemed angry.

Always talking about women's ages !
My dear Mrs. Wilson, surely you know
better than that? I simply said that Fanny
Barton's age "

"Why, what on earth does it matter tome
what her age is ? " cried Mrs. Wilson,
flashing with anger.

No, certainly not," I hasten to say. " I
only wished to set you right as to her age."

Will you please say nothing further on
the matter," she exclaims, endeavouring to
speak calmly.

In another moment the storm has blown
over, and naught remains but laughing ripples.

Now, I'm going to apologize for being
such a rude, hasty hostess," she says.
"Indeed, I know I am horribly rude occasionally,
but, Mr. Brownlow, I am heartily
ashamed of myself the next minute. I
don't think rudeness is really natural tome."


"I'm sure it's not."

Thank you," she says, with a bow of
her little head. "I think my horrible fits
of rudeness proceed from discontentment."

"Discontentment?" I say in surprise.
Why, surely you are not discontented,
Mrs. WHson?"

Yes, I am," she answers sharply ; " awfully
discontented."

How, and why, may I inquire ? "

Oh, I don't know ; you see I sometimes
feel very lonely and miserable, all by myself
in this great house."

"Why don't you advertise for a companion
? " I ask.

Oh, ridiculous nonsense," she exclaims,
flushing again.

"I don't see anything particularly nonsensical
in the notion," I say.

Don't you ? Well, I do."

And now I rise to leave. It is three
o'clock, and it will take me a good hour
to get to Woodbourn.

"Let me have the waggonette brought
round," Mrs. Wilson urges.

"No, thanks, I prefer walking. Au revoir'

Au revoir — oh, tell Fanny I shall drive
over to see her tomorrow."

"I shall."

Down the drive and out on to the road
I go. Looking back I can see the house,
on the rising ground, and the little widow
standing on the steps. Look! there she is,
waving her handkerchief. I raise my hat
and wave it.

A delightful little woman!

AUNT MINERVA*

The clock in the stables is chiming the
hour of four as I enter Wooclbourn gates.
The drive — or avenue, as it would be called
in Ireland — is lined each side by a low
thorn hedge clipped to a flat top, and sentinelled
now and again by a straight silver
birch, a mountain ash, a poplar, or a lilac
tree, all, alas ! almost leafless now. And
once or twice I notice the grey-green juniper
tree, while in and out, and here and therethrough
the bottom of the hedge, peeps
the last of the wild clematis, the briony,
and the purple-black berried nightshade,
with just one yellow habit, solitary and
depressed. Away out by the edge of the
pond to the right rises the sweet-sedge,

VOL. I. 14

now turned sober buff, and looking very
melancholy in the setting sun.

Why, what the deuce has kept you ? "
cries fair-haired Sydney as he meets mein
the hall ; '' your traps have been here
these three hours, and we waited luncheon
fully an hour for you, you lazy
beggar."

You must forgive me, Syd. I had to
call at Virgemonte, and could not get away
sooner."

"And how is Utile Mrs. Wilson? As
chatty and bright as ever ? "

Just as ever."

By this time we are in the " Snuggery,"
as S3^d calls his smoking-room. Snug it is
with its pretty Queen Anne fireplace, choice
collection of books, and gems of watercolours,
its odd-shaped easy-chairs and
ottomans.

The governor and Fanny are out walking,"
Syd says as we sit opposite to each

other by the glowing fire. "We thought
you would not come until* night, when you
were not here ere this. And how are you
anyhow ? "

"All right, but rather lonely — at least, I
have been — but I expect Woodbourn will
soon revive me."

I hope so."

"And now, how have you been enjoying
yourself?" I ask. "Flirting and feasting
from Paris to Madrid, and from Some to
Vienna ? "

Yes," he says, " I've had a jolly time
of it, but am not sorry to get home to old
England once more. On my way through
London I called at your hotel, but found
you had gone to Hastings."

How is your Aunt Minerva ? " This
query caused him to look serious for a
moment.

She's as cross and as great a hypochondriac
as ever," he replies. " I tell you

14—2

honestly, Phil, Aunt Minerva is a confounded
nuisance, and the skeleton in this
otherwise 'happy 'one."

How unfortunate," I say.

"You may well say that. As for my
father, she regularly worries his life out ;
nor can we keep a servant here for anytime.
They give notice one after another,
stating as a reason that they ' cannot stand
Miss Minerva's temper.' I wish to goodness
the dad would assert himself."

And does he not ? "

"Not he. You know him of old — a hot-tempered,
peppery old fellow, without the
'least firmness. Result, Aunt Minerva hasher
own way in everything."

You surprise me, Syd. I never imagined
you had to put up with quite so much as
that."

Ah, my dear boy, that's not half of it,
but for goodness' sake let us talk of something
else."

"Did you see your cousin Tom Pierce
while in London ? " I ask.

Father, why he is coming down here
tomorrow."

He is ? By Jove ! that is rare good news,"
I exclaim, for Tom is a prime favourite of
mine.

Yes, he is on some dramatic craze, and
wants to revive the old pastoral drama, so I
persuaded him to come down here and pickup
rural characters and ideas."

Has he ever been here before ? "

Never ; it will be amusing to watch how
Aunt Minerva takes him, especially when she
hears that he is writing a jolly."

Oh, she does not like playing then ?"

She goes almost into hysterics at the
mention of theatres. It is her madness."

Mad she certainly is, Syd, but which
way — for or against the theatre ? "

Against it of course. She has never been
inside a theatre in her life."

"Ah, that accounts for it."

"And Fanny, who is passionately fond of
the theatre, and a worshipper of Shakespeare,
has to read his works by stealth."

"Pleasant, Syd, very pleasant."

And now Mr. Barton and Fanny return
from their walk. John Barton is a white-whiskered,
white-headed and ruddy-checked
old chap, with steel-grey eyes, and, as Syd
says, a very peppery temper. Fanny is tall,
slight and graceful, with her poor mother's
Grecian nose and hazel eyes. Both father
and daughter are, like Syd, old friends, and
welcome me cordially.

"We should not have gone out, Phil, had
we known you were coming," Fanny says.
^' But when you didn't put in an appearance
at luncheon, we thought you would not turnup
until night. Pray, what delayed you, sir? "

I explain my absence from the luncheon
board, and inform her of Mrs. Wilson's promised
visit on the morrow.

Oh, the dear little woman," she exclaims,
"she seems like sunshine in a shady place."

"Then you like her?"

"Who does not ?" she answers.

Who is that, dear ? " asks her father.

Mrs. Wilson of Virgemont, papa."

Mrs. Wilson of Virgemont, indeed ! The
daughter of a pawnbroker."

It is a corkscrew curled, wizen-faced, bony-handed
lady who speaks. She has just entered,
leaning on a stick, and stands glaring
at me.

The daughter of a pawnbroker ! " cries
Mr. Barton. "Why, confound it, Minerva,
what are you talking about ? The daughter
of a stockbroker, you mean."

Well, isn't it all the same ? " she asks ina
rasp voice.

No, it's not all the same ; what the devil do
you mean by confounding one with the other,
you old "

Hush, papa dear," says Fanny in a low

voice, and then aloud, " aunt, don't you know
Philip Brpwnlow, or has he gone out of your
recollection ? "

I rise and advance towards her.

Oh, dear, no ; he hasn't grown out of
my recollection at all. How do you do?
Now I must leave this room ; the sickening
and disgusting odour of tobacco-smoke pervades
the entire atmosphere."

Out she goes, and then calls Fanny to assist
her upstairs. Sydney, who is smoking a
cigarette, looks up at me with a " 
? " expression in his eyes.

"You must excuse my sister's apparent
brusqueness," says Mr. Barton ; " you know
her of old, Phil."

Oh, I don't mind it a bit, Mr. Barton. I
know how irritable and strange perpetual illness
causes people to be."

"Perpetual illness be hanged!" mutters Syncope
along and see your room, Phil."

A SANGUINARY SUBJECT.

Thank Heaven, that raving maniac, Miss
Minerva Barton, never appears at dinner,
having her dinner, " generally some awful
mess of sago or arrowroot " (Syd), in her
own room. Consequently we four, Fanny,
Mr. Barton, Syd and myself, had a jolly little
dinner and a happy talk over times gone by.
And then Fanny played us some sweet music.
I wish Fanny was married. She would make
a man's home happy, I'm sure. I have been
told that she has refused several suitors. The
reason has also been whispered to me — said
suitors were all country gentlemen fonder of
counting than music, art or the drama.
Now Fanny is mad on all three, and does
not care a straw about hunting or any

other country amusements. May some popular
author (there are none great now, Paul
Joyce is right), some successful dramatist or
fashionable painter, woo and wain handsome
Fanny, who, by the way, inherits her grandmother's
property in Essex. Site doesn't mind
the smell of tobacco-smoke a bit, and is now
in the billiard-room marking for Syd and I,
who are having a game, while Mr. Barton
sits smoking a long pipe with a cherry-stem
and a china bowl.

Why do you say we are all mad, Phil ? "
she asks.

All mad, who are all mad ? " queries her
father, looking from her to me. " Who are
all mad, Phil, eh ? "

Every one," I answer.

"What, every one mad? Bosh!"

And I suppose he is about the maddest
man I have ever met.

Do you still hold that idea, then ? " asks
Syd.

"I do, indeed," I reply. "Every day makes
me a firmer believer. We are all as mad as
an army of litters."

Fanny laughs outright at this, and the dear
old squire e3^es me suspiciously. He thinks
me mad perhaps, but that is because I say
something startling and strange to In. How
many mad things, to me have I heard him
say !

Then you believe that we have all a drop
of mad blood in us ? " Syd says.

I believe that all our blood is mad," I
answer, " and furthermore, I believe that
we all have down deep in us a drop of the
animal."

Calls us animals now, Fanny," remarks
Mr. Barton. " First, we're mad, now we are
animals ! Go on, Phil, try and make us something
else." And the old fellow puffs away
good-humouredly, having, he thinks, said
som.ethinfij very clever.

Marker, call the play," says Syd.

Thirty-eight plays twenty-nine, sir," answers
Fanny prompt.

Of course we are all only a higher order
of animals," I say, whereupon the squire
groans in the most approved parliamentary
manner.

I admit that," Sj^d says ; " but what do
you mean by the term ' drop of the animal ? '"

Drop of the fiddlestick ! " exclaimed the
squire.

No, papa ; let Phil explain," laughs Fanny.

Explain ? " I say. " Certainly, and ere I
proceed with the ' one drop ' theory, I will
give an example of a common madness
amongst men. Now, Mr. Barton, you says
you are not mad ? "

Decidedly I do."

I say that you are — very mad."

Here all three laugh heartily, and the
squire says " Fll tell you one thing, Phil ;
you are as mad as a March hare."

I know I am, and so are you."

Prove it," lie says.

Certainly ; allow me," and I take the pipe
from his hand. "What is this?"

A pipe, of course."

That is, it is a sherwood stem, affixed
to a china cup."

Exactly."

What is this burning in it ? "

Why, tobacco of course."

And what is tobacco ? "

Tobacco ! " exclaims Mr. Barton. " Why,
bless my soul, don't you know what tobacco
is? It is a weed, of course."

And why have you placed this weed in
this china cup and then set it alight ? "

Why, to smoke it, to be sure."

What do you call smoking it ? "

What do I call smoking it ? " and my host
gazes at me in astonishment. " Why, what
does anybody call smoking ? — drawing the
smoke through the stem of the pipe and then
puffing it out of your mouth, that's smoking."

'^s it a food?"

Food ; certainly not."

"Is it a drink?"

Drink ; why, what are you talking about,
Phil?"

What makes you smoke at all ? " I ask.

'soh! how the deuce do I know?" cries
the old chap hotly.

"Now, look here, Mr. Barton," I say.
Here you sit, with a cherry-stick bored
through the centre, and affixed to a china
cup. In this cup you place a compound of
American or Indian weeds, mixed more or less
with saltpetre, and which physicians have
declared over and over again to be rank
poison to the system. This j^ou light with a
match, and forthwith commence sucking the
poisonous smoke — smoke so poisonous, in
fact, that a mouthful of it will sicken a non-smoker
almost to death, while nicotin is
certain death if swallowed in its purity.
Well, this smoke, as I have said, you suck

through the stem, and then pufF out again.
And then you call yourself a sane man. Do
you think there is any sense in that ? *'

By Jove, Phil ! " exclaims Syd. " I think
there is something in your theory, after all."

You never explained it like that before,
Phil," Fanny says. " Now, papa, what have
you got to say ? "

Why, everybody smokes," cries her father.

'quite so," I say. "And everybody is
mad."

While talking I have been also attending
to my game, and have won, beating Syd by
seven. We adjourn to the drawing-room and
there Fanny asks me to explain my " one
drop " theory. So, all seated round the fireplace,
I begin :

My meaning of the term one drop of an
animal is this : I maintain that each of us
has something of the nature of one or
other animal. This drop never asserts itself
save in cases of the direst distress."

How do you mean ? " asks Syd.

We will suppose we know four wealthy
gentlemen — we will call them Brown, Jones,
Eobinson and Smith. Eemember, these men
have never known what it is to want for anything
; nor have they ever known any serious
trouble. Result — they are jovial and good-natured,
loving husbands, kind fathers, truest
of friends, and all the rest of it. Now we will
suppose that by some extraordinary and sudden
stroke of fortune, or rather ?misfortune,
all four are bereft of all their wealth, all
their children, wives, homes, and are, in
point of fact, left penniless, starving, and with
very little clothing — crouching, say, in the
middle of some bare heath in pelting rain.
Now understand, these four men have now
no money, no friends, no food and no shelter,
nor have they the slightest idea of where to
look for any. Now watch Brown ; do you see
how the famished look in his eye slowly gives
place to one of fierceness ? Listen to him :

Must I who have been accustomed to all
the luxury, and pleasure, and happiness in life
must I die of cold and hunger? No, by
Heaven, no ! Where are all the friends whom
I have lavished my wealth upon ? Curse
them ! They leave me here to starve. Starve ?
No, I will not starve and die while others
have plenty. I am mad with hunger.' — See
him rise and prowl along in search of food.
The first man he meets he will attack and kill
for the purpose of securing any money his
victim may possess. Brown, you see, has a
drop of the wolf in him. Now look at Jones :
see the famished look give place to one of
determination as he rises and gazes boldly
around. Then he says, ' What ! am I going
to die of starvation on this heath while I have
hands to work with ? No ! I will trudge to
the next town and look for some work — I
don't care what it is ; I will sweep the streets,
or break stones, as long as I am paid for it.
I'm not going to give in.' — And away he goes

VOL. I. 15

towards the town. Jones has a drop of the
lion in him. Now we come to Eobinson. Just
watch Eobinson — his famished look slowly
gives place, not to the look of fierceness
which we noticed in Brown, nor the bold
determined look of Jones, but to a cunning
look. 'I'm not going to stand this much
longer,' he mutters, as the cunning expression
deepens. ' Let me see — if I want to save
myself from starvation and death, I must get
some money forthwith. There's that old
glutton, Alderman Goggle, whom I have
often given a good dinner to. He won't know
me now — no, curse him ; but I think I can
copy his signature. Yes. Til get some
money.' — And off he goes and forges a
cheque. Eobinson has a drop of the fox in
him. Last of all comes poor Smith. His
famished look remains, but gradually becomes
mixed with hopeless despair. ' Oh ! my
God ! ' he cries. ' Is this the end of all my
greatness ? Left to die on a wild heath, without

money, food or friends ; nowhere to go,
and no one to look to ; hopeless and weary.
Let me die.' — And he lies down and dies.
Smith had a drop of the sheep in him.
Eemember this : all those four men while in
prosperity would have been very much insulted
indeed if you hinted that they were
sheep, or wolves, or foxes. They were quite
ignorant of the fact themselves. And had
they not met with dire misfortune, we would
have been ignorant of the fact also."

Then you believe that no man can be
fathomed until he is in misfortune and
trouble," says Syd.

No man knows what he is himself, or
what good or evil is in him, until he finds
himself reduced to poverty and starvation."

Who's starving ? " asks Mr. Barton, starting
up.

He has been quietly sleeping during my
lecture !

15—2

TOM PIERCE ARRIVES.

The Woodbourn preserves are among the
best stocked in the whole county, and Stand
myself have had splendid sport to-day.
Sport ! Yes, have we not slaughtered a lot
of poor devils of birds in cold blood (the air
was frosty), and have we not returned from
the fray terribly tired, and consequently
have we not enjoyed ourselves like English
madmen ?

Why did you not say where you could
be found at two o'clock ? " Fanny asks.
^' We could have sent a nice lunch to you
both."

"Never thought of it," answers Syd ; " we
had no intention of quitting the near grounds
and thought we could turn in here for

luncheon. But by degrees we wandered
further and further, until we found ourselves,
keepers and all, three miles from anywhere."

Little Mrs. Wilson was here in the morning,"
Fanny tells me. " How pretty she
looks in crimson."

"Oh! was she in crimson?" I exclaim.
Yes, she does look rather well in that colour."

Little Mr. Towers called while she was
here, and both remained to lunch," she
continues.

Oh, indeed," I say ; " did they go away
together ? "

Yes. Do you know, Phil, I think little
Mr. Towers is a bit gone there," she says
with a knowing smile.

Oh, ridiculous ! " I exclaim. " Little
Towers ! a little fool ! What would he do
with such a wife ? "

"What would he do?" Here Fanny
broke into a merry laugh, and ran off to
dress for dinner, while I follow suit.

But the idea of little Towers thinking
seriously of the widow! No, it's impossible
he could not think seriously of anything.
Ah ! now I remember Mrs. Wilson asking
me if I did not think little Towers " nice-looking."
Can she really — well, why not?
Now that I come to think of it, Towers is just
about the sort of man she would marry.
And did she not get very angry in London
when I gave her a hint on the question ?
Yes, and he called to-day while she was
here? That was arranged between them of
course.

Oh, dear, what will I do for some pretty
little creature to talk scandal to me, and to
quarrel with me, and to make it all up
a^^ain, if little Mrs. Wilson marries?

Tom Pierce arrives in time for dinner.
He has never seen his uncle (his mother's
brother) before. In fact, the only one of
the family he had ever met previously is
Sydney.

The old squire likes his nephew from the
first — there is a frank, honest and decidedly
humorous style about Tom, which seems
to carry him through everything, and to
make him a prime favourite with everybody.

I wonder how he will get on with his
Aunt Minerva? I hope I will see the meeting
between them ! How he does rattle away
to be sure ! Music, art, literature, and above
all, the drama, he dilates on with delightful
freshness and originality.

Fanny sits opposite to him, with an
amused and interested expression. At last
she has some one who can talk about plays
and theatres.

'• Sydney tells me you write plays yourself,"
she says to him.

'^ Oh, yes, I write plays, fair cousin," he
answers ; " in fact I have written about thirty
plays."

What's that you say ? " inquires his
uncle. "Written thirty plays."

"Yes, uncle."

"Have I ever heard of them?"

"No," answers his nephew gravely, "you
see they are not so common as Shakespeare's."


You mean they have never been performed
at all, Tom," Fanny says.

Quite correct," he replies. " The theatrical
world knows not its greatest men."

I never hear of a new tragedy being
produced now a days. How is that, Tom,
eh ? " asks the squire.

Why is there no new tragedy produced ?
The reason is very simple, my dear uncle —
many new comedies answer the same purpose.
Oh, I say, Phil ! you remember little Jenkins,
the low comedian ? "

Yes. What about him ? "

"Well, he has written a play called
'Dynamite,' and has gone on tour with it,
or rather, he commenced his tour with it ;
but the first theatre he opened at he blew

the roof off, besides knocking the orchestra
off their chairs ; fact."

Bless my soul ! " exclaims the squire.
How did he manage to do that ? "
■ " Well, you see, uncle, in the play, which
Jenkins assured me there was millions in,
there was one great and entirely new and
novel scene — it was never seen on any stage
before, and it is more than remotely probable
it will never be played on any stage again —
for this scene represented the blowing up of
all the characters, save the hero and heroine,
by dynamite. ' You see,' said Jenkins tome,
' in all other dramas, new and old, the
villains are either shot, drowned, stabbed or
arrested, if they don't take poison ; but in my
play I will have the villains — and they are
all villains in it but two — blown up into
smithereens by dynamite. I fancy that
will bring down the house,' he added, and
it did, or anyway it brought down the
roof."

What has become of him ? " I ask.

He had to run or the authorities would
have been down on him, and he is now in
the north playing Hamlet with a ghost show,
under an assumed name. Ah ! it will all
blow over in time, and then poor Jenkins
can venture back to town."

What is this new actress like, this Miss
Fayncourt ? " Fanny asks. " She seems to
be all the rage now."

Yes, and she deserves all the praise she
receives," answers Tom. " She is lovely to
look upon, charming to converse with, and
a splendid actress."

■ "Fayncourt," says Syd. "Oh! I saw her
carte in the Strand windows ; she is certainly
a beautiful woman."

I should think so ! " cries Tom. " And
can't she sit a horse ! You should have seen
her in the Eow last season. Follows the
hounds too, whenever she has time."

Does she, by Jove ! " exclaims Sydney.

I should like to meet her in the field," and
he laughs.

You may some day," says Tom.

I don't think actresses make good wives
for country gentlemen," remarks the squire.
"No, no, I'm sure they don't. Too fond of
London tinsel and all that sort of thing."

Eubbish ! " exclaims Tom, while Syd,
Fanny and I prepare for a storm.

What's that you say ? " asks the squire
sharply.

Eubbish ! " answers Tom calmly. " That's
what I say."

Then what the deuce do you mean, sir ? "
exclaims his uncle in a fume.

Oh ! he means he does not agree with
you, papa dear," Fanny says soothingly.

Yes, uncle, that is just it," Tom adds.
You and I agree to differ on the subject
of actresses."

"Very well, sir; but you know nothing
about the subject, nothing whatever," and

the squire looked at Syd and myself for
applause.

"I don't pretend to know so much about
actresses as you do, uncle," Tom remarks,
certainly not ; you have had more to do
with them I daresay."

"Why, what the devil do you mean, sir? "
cries the squire, almost choking ; but a burst
of laughter from us all soon brings him
back his good humour.

I wish Aunt Minerva was here," whispered
Syd to me.

I am looking forward to some fun in this
delightful madhouse.

^(kMhhr^'

TOM MEETS HIS AUNT.

Off the morning-room is a small writing-closet,
the door of which is hung with one of
those Oriental reed curtains — those curious
arrangements which can be seen through, and
which render the objects seen quite visionary.
Well, here I sit writing in this anteroom
as the morning sun streams through the
painted window. It is this subdued painted
light which makes the outer room so bright
by contrast, and which accordingly allows of
my seeing every object there distinctly
through this reed curtain.

Presently I hear voices. Fanny and Tom
have entered and are sitting by one of the
windows.

And so you are a real live author, Tom ? "
Fanny says.

Yes, I scorn to deceive you, madam, I
ham''

Well, I'm glad that some of the family-have
brains," continues Fanny. " I'm sure we
Woodbourn Barons are about as dull as a
funeral."

Ah ! we must try and wake the echoes of
mirth — make the welkin ring," says Tom.

And then poor Aunt Minerva is so peevish
and crotchety," Fanny tellshim. ''* You know
she is such an invalid."

Indeed ! What's the matter with her ? "

Oh, I don't know — general breakdown of
the constitution, I think."

General break up, you mean," observes
Tom.

Well, it's all the same, isn't it ? "

I believe the old lady, my Aunt Minerva,
is not a lover of the muses ? " Tom remarks.

Oh, for goodness' sake don't mention anything
about plays or theatres to her," cries
Fanny. " It is Hke shaking a red rag before

a bull. And the worst of it is, she has made
papa nearly as bad as herself, and now when
in town he will never take me to the theatre.
Isn't it a shame ? "

Shame ? " exclaims Tom. " That's not the
word for it — it's a scandal."

By the way, Tom, you have never seen
Aunt Minerva yet?"

No," answers Tom, " that is a pleasure
which is in store for mc."

Here the old lady in question is heard
calling " Fanny ! Fanny ! "

"Gracious, here she is," exclaims Fanny
laughing, and running out of the room.

Tom takes out a pocket-book and begins
writing — evidently making notes for his new
pastoral comedy. Enter Miss Minerva. She
does not observe Tom, who in his turn does
not hear or see her, being too busy with his
pencil. She sinks into a chair.

"Where is that girl?" she exclaims aloud.
"Am I never to have any one come to me

when I require them ? Oh ! what a lot of
brutes they are. They would see me die
before any of them would stir hand or foot to
assist me."

All this uttered in a harsh, peevish, grating
voice is quite enough to make Tom aware of
his aunt's presence. He sits surveying her
mentally " taking her bearings " for a
moment — then he gives a loud :

"Ahem ! " This makes the old lady jump
nearly out of her chair.

A man ! " she exclaims, glaring at him in
astonishment.

Perfectly correct, my dear madam," observes
Tom with a placid smile. " I am a

man."

Who are you, man ? " asks Miss Minerva,
almost choking with indignation.

Who am I ? " repeats Tom with well-acted
astonishment. "Ha! ha! ha! That's good —
that is good ! " and he leans back laughing.
This seems to rouse the old lady to fury.

Answer me, man ; who are you, and
where have you come from ? " she exclaims.


Good heavens ! " cries Tom in bewilderment.
" And is there one civilized being who
does not know me'^ Why, there is not a
devil "

Sir ! " cries his aunt.

A printer's devil, I mean," continues her
precious nephew. " Not the old boy — oh,
dear, no."

*' Once for all, sir, who and what are you ? "
cries Miss Minerva, gasping with rage.

What am I ? A poet, a dramatist and
amateur actor."

Ah ! " gasps Miss Minerva, " a play-actor
; leave the house, man ; how dare you
enter here? Do you hear me? Leave the
house at once, or I shall call one of the servants.
How dare you presume to enter
here ? " and she trembles with passion.

Now look here, my dear madam," says

VOL. I. IG

Tom, " I don't know who you are or what
you are, nor do I care the husk of a nut,
but I am a theatrical man, and I won't hear
the profession run down."

Young man ! " screams Miss Minerva,
starting to her feet.

Old woman ! " answers Tom, springing
to his feet.

At the words " old woman " Miss Minerva
gives a loud piercing scream and is about
to fall, when Tom runs and catches her. In
doing so he knocks her wig clean off, leaving
her bald head bare to the full light of day.
This sets her screaming louder than ever. In
an instant, Fanny, the squire and Sydney
appear on the scene. The squire stands
transfixed, with hair on end, at the sight ;
Sydney falls into a sofa laughing, while Fanny
goes to assist her aunt.

Oh ! take me away to my room and let me
die," exclaims the latter, as Fanny re-wigs
her and takes her arm. " Turn that madman

out of the house mstantl}^" and she quits the
room on Fanny's arm.

Tom, quite calm and cool, resumes his seat
by the window, and when the squire recovers
his speech he says : " What is the meaning of
this ? Tom — Sydney — will somebody speak ?
Damn it, will somebody say something ? "

But Sydney sits with eyes full of fun gazing
at Tom, and Tom sits, cool and comfortable,
gazing at his uncle. The latter, after glaring
from one to the other, cries :

Damn it, you look like a pair of dumb
idiots! Will you please explain "

'the meaning of the impressive tableau
which you witnessed on entering," Tom interrupts.
" Certainly, my dear uncle ; take a
chair. The fact is, my aunt and myself were
having a little pleasant tete-astute on things in
general. In the course of our conversation I
happened to mention something about theatres,
when to my horror she was immediately seized
with a sudden weakness. I ran to her assist

-2

ance, and in doing so had the misfortune to
disarrange her head-dress."

Sydney's laughter is infectious. I find myself
laughing behind my curtains, and then
the squire breaks out into a hearty " Ha !
ha ! ha ! "

Well, upon my soul, it will do her good,"
he cries, and just at this moment a servant
comes in to tell him that " Miss Minerva
wishes to see him."

All right," he says, " say I will be there
presently. I suppose she wants to say goodbye
before she dies for the hundred and fifty-fifth
time," he says, and then leaves the room.

I suppose she will order him to have
me hanged, drawn and quartered," remarks
Tom. " I say, Syd, wasn't that a grand
scene ? "

I should think it was," 1 reply, walking
through the curtains.

Oh, did you see it all ? " he asks.
« Every bit of it."

I'll put it in a comedy," lie continues.
It will make a splendid curtain for a second
act."

And then we all three go for a gallop.

Of course it was awfully rude to speak
to my aunt as I have done," whispered Tom
to me while waiting for the horses ; " but
she has put the squire up to boycotting
theatres, which is simply cruel to Fanny."

MISS Minerva ASSISTS AT A MATINEE.

Miss Minerva has not appeared downstairs
since her encounter with Tom yesterday
morning. Good ; a Httle of that elderly
spinster goes a very long way.

By the way, yesterday evening during
dinner I noticed that one of the servants
looked too short for his livery, or the livery
was too long for him. I also saw that he
was nervous and awkward and altogether
ignorant of the duties of a table attendant.
Later on Sydney told me that the man was
really a dog trainer whom he had picked
up in London and brought down to Wood-bourn
as a trainer of pointers and setters.
Delightful Miss Minerva had bullied one
of the footmen so that he left without

giving any notice, and Ben Bantim — the
aforesaid trainer — was hastily put into his
livery.

"He is a capital dog trainer," continued
Syd, " but an awful failure as a footman."

Yes," observed Tom, who was listening,
I never saw a worse footman in a bad farce."

Breakfast is over, and I sit writing a letter
to Paul Joyce in the little writing room.
Through the reed curtain I can see Fanny
in the next room, as she sits by the fire
looking over a book. Presently enters to
her Ben Bantim with a coal scuttle. His
troubled woe-begone face is a study.

Is the fire all right, miss ? " he asks.

Yes, Ben ; have the night-keepers finished
their breakfasts yet ? "

(The squire has four men on the watch
for poachers all night, and after giving
them their breakfasts allows them to go
home and sleep, or do anything else the)^
please until evening.)

No, miss ; they's not done feeding' yet,"
says Ben. " They're a-tuckin' in still."

They are what ? " asks Fanny in bewilderment.


"A-tuckin' in, miss," continues Ben; "a
feeding' away like one o'clock. The morning'
hair is a powerful doctor for the appetite.
Lor' bless you. Miss Fanny, when I was in
London, in the tyke line, I used to get hup
at five on a summer's morning', and when
nine o'clock came, couldn't I put a pound
-of steak across my chest ! "

^' A pound of steak across your chest ! *'
-echoes Fanny. " Why what in the world
do you mean by that ? *'

Why, I means that I het it with gusto, miss''

Oh," exclaims Fanny laughing, " I really
thought you were alluding to a poultice."

Why, miss," continues the footman's
understudy, " after taking lout the dogs
from five till nine for a constitutional, I used
to be as 'angry as a blooming' 'unter."

A blooming what Ben ? "

"hunter, miss," answers Ben, emphasizing
the " h " as if his life depended
upon it.

Ben, you must endeavour to avoid using
cockney expressions, at least while acting
as footman. Of course it does not matter
so much in the kennel."

The kennels, miss ! " exclaims Ben. " Ah,
that's my proper place, miss ; I ain't in my
element as a flunky, and that's a fact. Put
me in the kennels with the tykes and I'm
all there. You might ask the boss — I mean
the master, miss — to turn me on to the tykes
again."

Oh, you won't have to endure your
agony for very long," laughs Fanny. " We
expect to have a new footman by tomorrow.
Then, Ben, you are free to return to your
four-legged friends'*

An' a good job too, miss' says Ben
as he retires.

M}^ letter finished, I go and sit by the
fire and have a chat with Fanny.

Why where are Syd and Tom ? " I ask.

Syd has gone to transact some business
with the steward," Fanny answers, " and as
for Tom, I expect he is too busy over his
note-book to think of any one."

This is said in a tone of pique. Ho, ho!
is that how the land lies ?

Do you know, Phil, I would give the
world to be an actress," she continues with
a laugh. " How I should like to play Lady
Macbeth, and have columns of print all
about myself and my dresses, like Ellen
Terry."

Ah, yes ; that would be something."

Or I should be happy if I could even
play Juliet at a matinee like a professional
beauty. ' On Saturday next, at two o'clock,
Shakespeare's tragedy of '' Romeo and Juliet."
Juliet, Miss Fanny Barton.' Fancy that announcement
in blue type on pink paper

hanging in the windows of all the cigar
shops and public houses in the neighbourhood
of the Strand ! " and she laughs a
merry laugh at the notion. '* I wonder
what papa would say ? "

And your aunt ? " I query.

Oh, Phil, I really believe she would have
a serious fit of some kind," and Fanny becomes
quite grave at the thought.

Presently Tom enters and sits down between
Fanny and me, as he rattles away
one humorous theatrical anecdote after
another. As I have stated before, his spirits
are infectious, and ere many moments he
has Fanny and myself — especially Fanny —
as lively and gay as himself.

Suddenly he asks Fanny : *' Do you know
the ' Pirate's Bride ? ' "

"• Yes," exclaims Fanny ; " do you ? "

Backwards," he answers. " Suppose we
have a scene from it," and up he jumps.
"Phil will be the Audience."

"Agreed!" cries Fanny, also jumping up.
What scene shall we have ? "

Oh, the second one, where Lorisimo
returns to seek his bride. But stop —
what will Lorisimo do for a cloak and
hat ? He must have a cloak and hat, you
know."

I have it ! " Fanny says. " Put on your
dressing-gown and I'll run and get you Aunt
Minerva's old sun hat."

The very thing," he cries, and away they
both run. Dear delightful mad creatures !

Presently they return — Tom in a gorgeous
blue satin dressing-gown and Fanny with
an enormous straw hat, which she places on
his head, laughing merrily all the time. Tom
now looks as much unlike a pirate and as
much like a Chinese gentleman depicted on
a tea chest as it is possible to conceive.

Now what about the Bride's father ? "
he asks. " The Bride must have a father."

Won't Phil do ? " Fanny suggests.

Phil, no — he's the audience ; we can't
make the audience act."

At this moment Ben enters to have another
look at the fire. Seeing Tom in gorgeous
array, he stands staring at him open-mouthed.

Here," says Tom to him ; " were you
ever on the boards ? "

'' Do you mean board-wages, sir ? " asks
Ben.

Xo, no ; did you ever take part in a
piece ? "

A piece of what, sir ? " queries Ben, evidently
mystified.

Mr. Pierce means, have you ever acted
in a play, or ever seen one ? " Fanny explains.


Oh, yes, miss, I saw the ' Forty Thieves '
played."

Very good, then you have some idea of
acting," Tom says, slipping some money into
the man's hand. " There's your salary in
advance. I want you to go behind that

door, and when I cry ' Ha, lia ! ' you rush
out and I kill you."

Kill me ! " cries Ben, looking from Tom
to Fanny, and from her to Tom again.

Yes, yes, but only in fun, you knows'*
says the Pirate. " Now to your post ; but
stay, you don't look fierce enough." Here
he goes into the writing-room and returns
with a piece of blotting-paper rolled up
and dipped in ink, with which he proceeds
to paint a black moustache on Ben.

But, sir " the latter begins.

Stop," cries Tom ; " don t move a muscle
or you'll spoil the effect. There, that's
lovely. Now to your post behind the door,
and remember the ' Ha, ha ! ' "

Ben goes behind the door, evidently not
half pleased with the whole arrangement,
and Tom " goes off," while Fanny, who had
already " gone off," now comes on — enters
to use the proper term. She is supposed
to be in great anxiety about her husband.

and as near as I can follow lier this is
what she says (in very tragic tones) :

Ah me the nights still grow apace,
Why tarries my Lorisimo ?
Where may he be ? Perchance
Beneath the ocean's flood
Full forty fathoms deep."

Here Tom stamps " outside " at an awful
rate, which causes the Bride to observe :

Footsteps in the corridors!
Should this be my father,
I must dissemble."

And so saying the Bride retires to the appointed
corner, while the audience gives a
round of applause. Enter Lorisimo as if
he was walking on thistles in his bare feet.
I don't know whether he or Ben — who looks
at him from his post behind the door, just
as one would look upon the antics of a
harmless lunatic — is the funniest sight. This
is what Lorisimo says in a voice evidently
drawn from his boots :

Methinks I heard a moan.

It might have been the music of the draughts — "

Winds," says Fanny, in a stage whisper
from her corner, and Lorisimo thus corrected
says :

It might have been the music of the winds
Which sweep around the castle."

Here the Pirate bold begins walking on
thistles again, and the Bride coming forward
cries :

Who goes there ? "

Whereupon Lorisimo stops his promenading
and cries :

That voice ! "

Which causes the Bride to immediately observe
:

That form ! "

This seems to be quite enough for Lorisimo,
who exclaims forthwith:

'Tis she !
Come to my arms, my beautiful bride ! ''

Thus saying, they rush into each other's
arms, and as they embrace their Aunt Minerva

walks in ! With a scream of horror and
astonishment she falls into a chair. Out
rushes Fanny, while Ben, quite forgetful of
his fierce appearance, runs to Miss Minerva's
assistance. On seeing his inky face she
screams louder, and he bolts — and all this
time Tom, who has thrown off hat and
gown, is rolling about on the sofa with
laughter.

I — I follow Ben's example and bolt!

Q^^'MmU (^Xs

^^lil?|^

VOL. I.

VIVE V AMOUR,

By-and-by Tom and I are seated smoking
in the snuggery, when the squire enters,
hair positively on end with fury. Catching
sight of Tom he exclaims, "Ah, just the
man I wanted, and you too, Phil — you are
both men of the world, men of brains —
now tell me what's to be done, eh ? What's
to be done, sir, damme, that's the question?"


"What's the matter, uncle?" asks Tom.

Am I master in my own house, or am
I not, eh ? Answer me that, sir ? " cries the
old fellow, pacing up and down the room.

Of course you are, uncle," replies Tom,
winking at me. " An Englishman's house is
his castle."

Eight, sir," exclaims the squire, stopping
and bringing his hand down with a
bang on the side table, " an Englishman's
house is his castle, and by the Lord Harry
I won't stand it any longer ! "

I applaud your sentiments, my dear
uncle," says his worthy nephew.

Would you believe it, Phil," he exclaims,
turning to me with a wild glare in his mad
eyes, " would you believe it if I were to
inform you that my sister, my confounded
sister, sir, is playing the very devil with
my naturally calm and peaceful temper ? *'

Oh, shame, shame upon her ! " cries
Tom, with tremendous indignation in his
tones.

"Will you believe it, Tom," cries the
squire, glaring more than ever, " when I
tell you that she has just been abusing me
like a pickpocket because I wouldn't order
you, her sister's and my sister's son, out of
the house?"

17—2

"Good heavens!" exclaims Tom, looking
quite astounded.

Out of my own house ! "

Merciful powers ! " cries Tom, looking
thunderstruck.

You may well express astonishment,
Tom," exclaims the squire, " but never mind,
there Avill be an end to all this in the
future. I shall be master in my own house !
I'll begin at once."

"Do, uncle."

I will, Tom. I'll order dinner an hour
earlier than usual ! I'll let her see she can't
do as she likes."

And away he goes to issue the momentous
order to the cook.

I think you have said that we are all
mad," remarks Tom.

I have indeed," I reply.

Then, upon my soul ! I believe you are
right," he exclaims.

'■ Why of course I am, my dear boy. Do

you for one moment think that if your
uncle, for instance, was a sane man, he
would tolerate this old lady interfering in
his domestic arrangements ? "

Certainly not ! " cries Tom ; " Fanny is,
or should be, mistress of Woodbourn. As
for enduring Aunt Minerva's continual presence,
why, I'd rather be doomed to write
jokes for a Scotch editor."

I've long been of opinion that something
should be done for old maids," I say.

"How?" asks Tom. "Do you mean
in the way of providing husbands for
them?"

Yes ; I think the government ought to
take the matter in hand, and have a list of
eligible and willing men — matrimonial volunteers
— to bestow upon all spinsters who
should apply."

It would never do, Phil ; it would be certain
to break down."

Why ? " I ask.

The demand would outrun the supply.
The list of men should be as long as Oxford
Street."

Well, and so it could be if the government
acted at all in a generous spirit. Let
them give each man who marries a spinster
over forty years of age, a gold medal."

And a pension," added Tom.

Well, yes, where the spinster has not an
income. Besides, you forget, Tom, that there
are plenty of old maids who would not
marry at all."

Oh, bosh ! " he exclaims. " Don't try
and make me believe that."

I tell you there are ; they are a small
minority, it is true, but still they exist :
women who have loved and lost. And don't
you mind what shallow scribblers and
sceptics say about the non-existence of love.
It lives immortal, Tom, and its home is
woman's heart. That idle talk of drawing-room
noodles, about women being fickle, is

wrong, very wrong. Mind you, I don't say
that the tribe of girls brought to town every
May to be sold to the highest bidder, know
what love means. But they will some day,
and then God help their husbands! For I
tell you this, Tom — if a woman loves a man
she will let him know it. If he happens to
be her husband, so much the better — he
has a willing slave whose sole desire is to
please him ; but if the man is not her husband,
why, then so much the worse for her
husband. A woman in love will barter
everything for the possession of the man she
loves."

But don't you think their love is apt to
cool?"

Never, once loved, always loved, with
them. They may leave you because you
have grossly insulted or injured them ; they
may never speak to you, or even deign to
notice your presence again, but they love
you all the same. They cannot help it."

I suppose you are right," says Tom : " In
fact, in the words of Moore :

The heart that once truly loved, never forgets,
But as truly loves on to the close ;
As the sunflower turns to its god when he sets,
The same look which it turned when he rose.'

I don't think those are the correct words, but
they will do."

Presently we take a stroll towards the
stables, and when passing by the kennel door
overhear Ben talking to one of his fellow-servants
:

Strike me merry ! Ted, there's that
young toff from London — him with the
straw-coloured hair — an' if he didn't get me
into a blooming' row this niornin', may I be
poleaxed. What do you think! Him an
Miss Fanny was playactin', an' he cops mean'
before I could say wayoh, he had me
blooming' kisser all over ink — straight ! Then
he tells me to stop behind the door till he
says ' Ila, ha ! ' an' then, says he, ' run out.

an' I'll kill you.' 'Not much,' says I to myself ;
I'm not having any now.' ' Of course,' says
he, ' it's only in fun.' ' Eight you are,
cocked,' says I, an' goes behind the blooming'
door. You should pipe his togs ! Strike me
handsome ! but they were saucy — oh, my !
An' ain't he got a comic clive chase? Well,
him an' Miss Fanny — good luck to her, shes
all right — begins coin' Irvin' an Terry allover
the shop, an' ends by having' a coonoodle,
when who should turn up but the old Dutch
clock. Wayoh ! didn't we all make tracks ! "

Father graphic in his description of you,"
I say to Tom, as we walk on.

"Yes, and also of my aunt — 'Old Dutch
Cock ' is good."

A LETTER FROM PAUL.

I AM beginning to grow tired of 
at fur and feathers, having
had over a week of it. Some fellows there
are who never grow tired of slaughter, but
I am not one of them. Enough is as good
as a feast, and a great deal better. But we
have had other amusements besides shooting
and billiards — namely, a dinner-party and a
Cinderella dance, both got up in honour of
Tom and myself — what madness ! Dinner-parties
I detest, dances I abhor, which must
be my excuse for describing neither. Tom
and Fanny are eternally gossiping in low
tones in the conservatory. That conservatory
will soon be worn out. The squire has
had several more rows with his sweet sister,

and still he is not happy. The only people
in the whole house who are at all accountable
for their actions are Syd, myself and a
collie dog, and even we three are mad enough,
in all conscience !

Little Mrs. Wilson drives over to luncheon,
brimful of gossip, the chief item of
which is the non arrival of the Duchess of
Stanton from town. In fact, it appears her
grace has suddenly started for the Continent.

"Just fancy!" says the widow, "going
over to France or Italy — for no one seems
to know exactly where she has gone — while
the duke is away ! And, moreover, one
would imagine she would have been eaorer
to get back to the Castle, now that her
uncle and cousin are residing close to it."
And the little widow smiles.

Have you seen these new arrivals yet ? "
asks Fanny ; " what is the gentleman's name ?"

Butts ! " replies the widow : " nice name,
isn't it?"

What's that, what's that ? " queries the
squire, looking towards the widow. " Butts,
did you say ? Butts I bless my soul, what an
extraordinary name ! "

Do well for a farce," observes Tom.

Yes," Syd says ; '' you should take a note
of it, Tom, and copyright it at once."

But, have you called on Mr. Butts and
his niece yet, Mrs. Wilson ? " Fanny asks.

No," she answers, tossing her little head,
I am waiting for them to call upon me''

By the way, did Towers send you those
cuttings, Mrs. Wilson?" I ask her.

Oh ! indeed he did, and moreover, sent
his gardener to superintend their bedding,
though I think my gardener was mortally
offended. Now, was it not awfully kind of
Mr. Towers ? " and the widow looks across
the table at me, in that wide open-eyed way
which I have noticed before.

Very," I say ; " but little Towers was
always a great lady's man. Do you remember

our conversation in London concerning
him?"

The widow becomes very dimply indeed,
but does not reply.

When she is leaving, and while all the
others stand admiring the natty little phaeton
and pair of well-matched ponies, she turns
to me at the door and says : " And pray,
how much longer are you going to remain
here spooning Fanny ? "

What ! " I exclaim in astonishment,

Yes, you," she says looking straight into
my eyes.

My dear Mrs. Wilson, for goodness' sake
don't admit such an idea into your head —
it is unfair both to Fanny and myself."

Do you mean to tell me I am mistaken ? "
she asks sharply.

Certainly I do. Now, had you spoken
so to Tom Pierce, you would have been
nearer the mark."

Well, don't let us quarrel," she says
smiling and dimpling ; " you know I was
only quizzing. Good-bye for the present."

In another moment she is driving down
the avenue. But, fancy her thinking me in
love with Fanny!

^^ T^ ^tC *V <t*

The following letter has just reached me via
Brownlow House. It is from Paul Joyce, and
is dated from his chambers in Caxton's Inn.

"Dear Phil,

"It is a curious fact, and one I cannot
quite account for, but ever since the night
you dined with me and spoke of her I have
been perfectly miserable. I thought I had
forgotten all about her, but alas ! I woefully
deceived myself. Night after night do I sit
up until the small hours, thinking of the
past and of the hopeless mistakes I committed.
What a lesson my life has been —
would be if printed and published ! Here

is my whole happiness wrecked through my
own folly — my own idiotic pride. No, not
pride — pride is a noble vice. My vice was
vanity. 0, good Heavens! if I could but
recall the past — bring back even one short
hour of my existence when she was by !
But it is one of the unalterable rules of this
life, Phil, that man never knows how momentous
the present is until it becomes the
irretrievable past. Too late ! too late ! Can
you not hear the funeral bell toll those words
every other day ? Morning, noon and night,
that bell is ringing in my ears. God help
me !

My ' mission ' has gone clean out of my
head for the time being, but I must pull
myself together. This won't do at all,
another month of it and I would shoot myself.
I am going to run down and see you
soon. Write and say when.

Your old friend,

Paul Joyce."

Poor Paul ! He is in a very bad way. I
must write and tell him to come to Brown-low
as soon as he likes. What an inquisitive
ass I was to touch on the old scar that day.
We men are frequently as cruelly and recklessly
curious as the most womanly woman.

END OF VOLUME I.

OR

MYSEi

R FA I

w%r'w^^

L I B Really

OF THE

University

or ILLINOIS



THE LASS THAT LOVED A SOLDIER. By G. M

Fens. 3 vols.
IN DURANCE VILE. By the Author of " Molly Sawn."

3 vols.

TOILERS OF BABYLON. By B. L. Farjeon. 3 vols.

MONICA, By H. Everett-queen. :> vols.

ONE FOR THE OTHER. By Esml! Stuart. 3 vols.

THE CURSE OF KOSHIN. By the Hon. Lewis
Wingpield, 55.

Florida. By Anna Bowman Dodd. 5s.

WARD & DOWNEY, Publishers, London.

MYSELF AND MY NEIGHBOUR PAIR.

Frank HUDSON,

AUTHOR OF

THE LAST HURDLE : A STORY OF SPORTING AND COURTING,
"THE ORIGIN OF PLUM PUDDING," <feC.

IN TWO VOL Uses.
VOL. II.

WARD AND DOWNEY,
12, YORK STREET, COVENT GARDEN.

1889.
[The Right of Dramatisincf any part of this Novel is reserved.]

KELLY AND CO., MIDDLE MILL, KINOBTON-OX-THAMES

AND GATE STREET, LINCOLN'S INN FIELDS, W.C.

CONTENTS.

CHAP. PAGE

I. — Miss Carrie Dixon of New York State . 1

II. — Tom Pierce excuses Himself . D

III.— I SIT BY THE Fire . . . . .17

IV. — Paul agrees with me , . . • 26

V. — Christmas a la Mode 3S
VI. — Miss Dixon astonishes the Squire . 40

VII. — A-hunting WE will GO . . . .51

VIII. — I COME A Cropper . . . . 60

IX. — Another Accident . . . . .67

X. — Miss Fayncourt leaves with an Escort . 80

XI. — Storm Number Two . . . .90

XII. — Concerning Sydney 99

XIII. — Mr. Butts shows up . . 109

XIV. — I VISIT MY Lady-love . . 118

XV. — Paul meets his Fate once more . . . 127

XVI. — Little Towers calls 139

XVII.— Marion advises Paul 151

XVIII. — Honeymooning . 160

XIX. — Still Honeymooning 170

XX. — The Duchess is set free . . . 180

XXI. — Home again . 187

XXII. — Susan cuts up rough 193

XXIII. — News of the Lost One . .201

XXIV. — The Lost One found . . . . 212

Conclusion . . 230

M. H.

^00^ 2.

Chapter I.

MISS CxVRRIE DIXON OF NEW YORK STATE.

Christmas is at hand once again, this being
the fourteenth of December ; and a regular
old-fashioned Christmas season to boot, with
snow lying" inches deep o'er hill and dale,
and skating parties being in full swing allover
the country. It is said that a snowy
winter is far healthier than a mild one, and
possibly the air is purer while the ground
is hard and white. There is one person who
will agree that the snow is the healthiest for

VOL. II. 18

Mm — Monsieur Eeynard. Hunting has ceased
all over England, save in one or two of the
extreme southern counties, for the past
month.

I can see from my library windows a whole
colony of half-famished Norway felts on an
elm tree in the park. I'll go and have a
shot at them.

There! see how the instinct for slaughter
asserts itself the instant I catch sio^ht of a
few half-starved and defenceless foreigners.
Like Macbeth, I want to murder my guests.
Ah ! dear me, I wonder how many thousand
years of time it will take to render the best
and holiest of the Anglo-saxon race fit to
enter the kingdom of Heaven ? Well, let my
good, charitable instincts — if I possess any —
rise to the occasion, and instead of treating
the poor wayfarers who have sought the
sanctuary of my private park to a charge
of small shot, let me treat them to a generous
banquet after their long and rough sea-voyage.

They, you see, like all foreigners,
flock to England when there is nothing
for them to eat in their own country. I
wonder if any distinctly German birds
arrive here ? The question is an interesting
one.

With a sieve filled with grain I hasten
towards the tree, walking more slowly as I
approach nearer to it. I shake the grain
round the trunk and then walk quietly away.
Turning when a little way I beheld the poor
creatures down on the-snow ravenously picking
up the grateful food. Ah ! my friends,
you will digest that better than leaden pills.
I feel quite happy as I see you all having
your fill — but woe betide you if I was hungry
and wanted a meal; I would have your
blood, ay, your flesh and bones, my pretty
speckled-breasted guests all the way from
Norway.

At the front door I find a dog-cart in
charge of a tiger in sky-blue livers In the

18-2

hall, Jenkins stands with a card, which I
take and read :

MISS CARRIE DIXON

(of Neu York State),

Beechley Wolf).

I enter the drawing-room and there find a
decidedly pretty, fair-haired, and blue-eyed
young lady, toasting her toes at the bars of
the fire-grate as she lies back in an easy-chair.

"Mr. Brownlow, I guess," she says rising
and giving her little head a nod. "You'll
excuse me taking possession during your
absence, but fact is I drove over just to
give a friendly call, and feeling it rather
cold I told your man-servant to allow me to
warm myself."

All this is uttered rapidly and with a very
pronounced New York twang.

"I am only too delighted to meet you,
my dear madam," I hasten to say ; " pray

resume your seat — too delighted I assure

you."

Yes ? " she remarks resuming her position
of ease in the chair, and again burning the
toe of her boot.

"And how do you like English country
Hfe ? " I ask, sitting down opposite to her.

Not much," she answers; " it doesn't kinder
suit me at all. It is very refined, and exclusive
and English ; but give me free-born
America, where one person is as good as
another — as long as he, or she, has the
dollars. Here you are all too stuck up."

'■' All chat. Miss Dixon ? "

Stuck up," she answers, " touch-me-not
sort of people. Afraid to say or do anything
at all original or out of the common."

She is right, this little Yankee girl toasting
her toes. She has hit us off to a nicety, and
she is quite aware of the fact, for smiling she
continues ;

"See, 1 know you all well. Take my

cousin the Duchess of Stanton now ; I guess
she is ashamed of poor Uncle Butts, now
that she has lived here long enough to become
quite English, you know. She won't
own me either, but I don't care a red cent.
I know our coming to live at Beechley Wold
has made her real mad. Ha ! ha ! and I'm
real glad, so I tell you."

I suppose there is no talk of the duchess
returning to the Castle for Christmas ? " I
say.

Oh, my, no ! she is still on the Continent,
and her husband is away in the Cockles —
tliafs English, you know," and she smiles a
knowing little smile. "Ah! wait until marry
a duke ! Ill keep him from wandering away
from home, and don't you forget it ! My
cousin the duchess isn't half a woman to
stand it. They do say " here she suddenly
checks herself.

The duchess is your father's brother's
daughter, I presume," I say.

Oh, my, no ! My mother was Uncle Butts'
and the duchess's father's sister. Now do you
understand ? "

I see ; you are her grace's cousin on the
mother's side?"

You've struck it," she exclaims. " Mother
left London for America about four years
after her brother (my uncle, and the father
of my cousin the duchess). My cousin had
a better time of it than me — was sent to a
tip-top school in Boston, and all that, you
know. My father was always too poor to
give me a first class stuffing."

A what. Miss Dixon ? "

Stuffing — don't you know what that
means ? Oh, you're a regular greenhorn ! "
she cries with a merry laugh. " Why, stuffing
is what you call cramming here. It's all the
same."

Of course it is," I say.

She remains for luncheon, and then 1 see
her to the dog-cart.

Now, you skinner over and see us,
mind," she says. " Don't you swallow what
they tell you about Uncle Butts — he's all
right, I can tell you. Now listen," here she
speaks with splendidly assumed gravity; " upon
my word and honour as a lady, he does not
eat with his knife, or chew tobacco in the
drawing-room ! "

With a spy twinkle in her eye she mounts
the dog-cart, takes the ribbons and starts
off.

A well-meaning honest little creature as
any I have met withal. If all Yankees were
only half as nice, I would have nothing to
say against them.

TOM PIERCE EXCUSES HIMSELF.

Paul Joyce has never paid this promised visit
to Brownlow. He replied to my note, stating
that he would write and tell me when he
was coming, but no letter has arrived up to
this. Another delinquent is Tom Pierce, who
was to have come down a month ago. However,
his letter, to hand to day, fully excuses
him. Here it is :

Chills Mansions, Netting Hill,

'london, Dec. 17.
Dear Phil,

"I owe you an apology, and a very
sincere one, for my failing to either go down
to Brownlow as per arrangement or write and
explain my absence. But I think the following
thrilling narrative will explain all.

'• You know that I quitted Woodbourn —
where I am due on the 24th — on the ord
of November, and came up to London. I
had arranged to leave again for your place
on the 20th. Meantime some one departed
this life and left Sam Eyre £1,000 a year,
on the strength of which he took a house
in the country. He invited Jack Brown and
myself to spend a week with him, telling us
that we should enjoy ourselves immensely,
and that Jack could take splendid sketches,
and I find many original characters. Accordingly
Jack and I accepted. The house
was situated about five miles from Ealing,
Sam informed us. ' When you reach Ealing,
take a cab and tell the driver to bring you
to Stag Hall,' he wrote. It was a wet
evening when we started, and wetter still
when the train drew up at Ealing. A
solitary cab stood outside the station. We
jumped into it, as the porter placed our two
portmanteaus on the top.

' Where to, sir ? ' asked the cabby.

' Stag Hall,' I answered.

' Eight, sir ; which way do I go ? '

*' Now how the devil do ice know ? ' I
answered.

Do you mean to say you don't know
where Stag Hall is r ' Jack cried in astonishment.


'' ' Never 'heard o' the blooming' place before,'
answered the cabby. ' I say. Bill,' to
the porter, ' do you know where Stag Hall is ? '

' No,' answered the porter. ' But, hold
on — a chap came from London a couple of
months ago and took a house about five
miles from here. It used to be called Stone
Cottage, I think, but I believe he changed
the name.'

' And which way do you go to it ? ' asked
the cabby.

' Oh ! 'angel if I know ? ' answered the
porter ; 'all I can say is that it is about
five miles from here, I'm told, and lies somewhere

off the main road.' This was pleasant
news ! Anyhow we got the cabby — under
promise of a liberal reward — to drive along
the main road, and chance the luck of finding
some one who knew where we were going
to — which was more than we knew ourselves.
We drove along for about two hours stopping
at every house in which we saw a light. We
must have knocked at thirty doors that
awful niizht ; but no one seemed to know
where Stag Hall was. At last the cab
stopped in the darkest and muddiest part
of the road, and the cabby dismounting,
opened the door and requested us to get
out.

' I've 'ad quite enough of this 'ere ! ' he
exclaimed in his gin-and-fog voice.

' How dare you, fellow ! ' cried Jack.
Drive on instantly or I'll call the police.'

"call the police!' repeated cabby. 'So
help me ! I wish you could. We're a
blooming' long way from Bow Street here '

' Will you drive on, or will you not 1 '
I asked.

' I will not sir,' he replied. ' You took
me from Ealing Station, you don't know
where you want to go to, the mare is done
up, I'm wet to the skin, and I won't play
the game any longer.'

So saying, he mounted the cab and removed
our traps to the roadway. We paid him, and
off he started.

' What the deuce are we to do now ? '
cried Jack, as we stood in the pelting rain
in the dark muddy road.

' 'Pon my soul, I don't know,' I replied.
While we were considering?, something
tumbled over Jack's portmanteau, and a
voice exclaimed :

' Why what in the name of all that's
infernal is that ? ' It was Sam ! I think we
were rather glad to see him. He had, wondering
at our lateness, wandered forth to see
if we were dead. He declared that the cabby

should be shot for leaving us in such a plight.
It was only a month ago that I christened
my place Stag Hall,' he remarked, ' but the
cabby should have found it out nevertheless.
However, come along, we have not far to go,
that's one comfort.'

'' He shouldered one of the portmanteaus.
Jack took the other, while I carried his
easel. We tramped along the road for a
while, then turned up a narrow lane in which
the mud was in great form— in fact it was
three feet deep.

' Have we very much further to go, old
fellow ? ' inquired Jack, after falling into the
side ditch three times.

' No,' said Sam, ' we have only to cross
two fields, jump a ditch, go over a small
marsh and there we are ! '

' Is there no confounded road to Stag
Hall ? ' asked Jack. ' Because if there is I
think it would be as well to strike on to it. I
daresay crossing fields, ditches and marshes

is very rural, not to say romantic, but for my
part '

Here he vanished.

' Hanged if he isn't into the ditch again !'
cried Sam in disgust. ' You are evidently
not accustomed to country life, Jack,' he continued,
as he pulled him out.

' No, thank Heaven ! ' exclaimed Jack, ashe
shouldered the portmanteau once more.

On we trudged through mud and rain and
darkness. Looking back on that journey
it seems like some hideous dream. How we
got through that marsh is a mystery I never
hope to solve.

At last we reached a long whitewashed
house, one story high, and apparently surrounded
by an ocean of mud. This was Stag
Hall!

' I have had it newly done-up,' said Sam
proudly. He referred to the whitewash. We
remained in Stag Hall for three weeks — in
bed. The doctor's fees were thirty-five

guineas. He said he couldn't risk his life
crossing that marsh six times for less.
Now you know how it is that I neither wrote
nor put in an appearance. Will see you at

Christmas.

"Yours ever,

"Tom Pierce."

So much for Tom ; now I wonder if Paul
will write. I hope he has not got into any
mischief.

I SIT BY THE FIRE.

I INTENDED going out after the duck and widgeon
to-day, one of my men having brought
me the news that the east marsh was alive
with those birds (they always flock there in
hard weather). But the east wind is a Httle
too pronounced, so I e'en stop at home at my
ain fireside, and leave my feathered friends
undisturbed.

Little Towers called yesterday, and never
ceased anathematizing the frost and snow all
the time he remained. The little creature is
like a fish out of water because the hounds
are idle, his saddle empty, and the foxes sleep
in peace. En passant — I was once introduced
to a very high and mighty Oriental personage,
whom I found to be a man of great intelli-

VOL. II. 19

hence and microscopic observation. Like all
the wise men of the East who have learned
the English language, he spoke it without the
slightest trace of a foreign accent.

Why do your people call us English mad
devils ? " I asked him.

Why, because you are," he answered
smiling. I knew of course that he was perfectly
right, but wanted to ascertain how he
hit on the truth, and so I said :

Yes, but why are we mad ? "

I will give you four reasons out of four
hundred," was his answer. " You are the
most bloodthirsty nation on the earth ; you
shed blood for mere amusement — we only shed
it for some deep purpose, such as revenge,
ambition and the like. You English are not
content unless you are killing something, if
it is only a pigeon out of a trap. There is
still too much of the Saxon and Dane about
you. Again, your chief outdoor amusement
consists of galloping on horseback with a

number of dogs, over hedges and ditches,
after a poor animal called a fox, and when
you see the wretched fagged-out creature
torn to pieces by your dogs, you ride home
satisfied to dinner. Eemember, you do not
hunt this fox for the sake of food. No, no ;
there would be sanity in that. Again, your
chief indoor amusement seems to consist of
taking a woman by the waist and twirling
with her round and round a room while a
band plays, until you are both tired and
giddy, and then you both sit down panting
on the stairs."

And then I said, " But are not you Eastern
also mad in your way ? "

Very," he replied briskly.

Now, what does your madness consist of? "

In allowing you English to rule over us,"
he replied with a quiet smile.

But to return to little Towers. He told me
he had thoughts of getting married, and on
my asking him if he had fixed his eagle eye

19-2

on a suitable match, he hesitated, looked
more foolish than ever, and then said, " I
think I have, don't you know ? "

It's the widow, of course ! The little idiot,
does he think he could manage such a self-willed,
fiery, quick-tempered, clever and delightful
little woman for one week ? Wonder
what he has done with Susan ?

Talking of the widow, I wonder she has not
called of late. Her cheery chat always seems
to enliven me. What a blessing it is to be
born with such spirits ; it makes one's pilgrimage
twice as easy.

I am beginning to feel uneasy about Paul
Joyce. I cannot understand his long silence,
and fear he is either ill or has left England.
I hope to goodness he has not been fool
enough to go lecturing in Germany or Russia.
The idea of telling the people of either
country that their rulers should be men of
intellect, would scandalize the present monarchs
to such an extent that poor Paul's head

would alone appease them. The trade of.
continental kings and emperors is a disgraceful
monopoly; yet, somehow or another, it
is not a concern which I would care about
taking many shares in.

Perhaps Paul has gone over to his place
in Ireland, though I think his lectures there
would bring him to the plank bed and prison
barber. There seems to be some idea in the
Irish mind official that all public speaking
is devilish, and as such to be put down by
fire and sword. What a delightful country
it must be to reside in !

Enter Jenkins with midday post. Ah, a
letter from Paul at last!

Caxton's Inn,

London, W.C.,

"Dec. 19 th.
"Dear Phil, —

"I owe you a thousand apologies for
my negligence in neither answering your last

welcome note nor in availing myself of your
kind invitation. But I have been so busy.
As you know by ni}^ last letter, I was in a
horrible state of mind, and fearing I would
do myself some harm, I made a mighty effort
to pull myself together and write out my
lecture on Intellectual Monarchy.

Well, in due time the lecture was finished,
and then ' got by heart,' as they say in Ireland.
My next move was to hire the Tabard
Hall; and announce in the press, and also by
placards, that on Wednesday evening, the
twenty-fifth of November, Mr. Paul Joyce
would lecture on ' Intellectual Kings ' in the
Tabard Hall, Great Courtly Street, W.

I had a very large audience — many, I
expect, being misled by the title ' Intellectual
Kings,' which gave them the impression that
I was going to speak of Alfred the Great,
Frederick the Great, and the few other rulers
who had a fair amount of intellect. Had
they known I was going to propound a new

and decidedly revolutionary doctrine, most of
them would, I am convinced, have stopped
away. Anyhow, the lecture took them by
surprise — by storm, in fact. It was a great
success, Phil, and the Eadical papers gave ita
splendid notice — the others did not send
any representatives. But never mind, they
shall some day. Already there is a society
forming by a number of young fellows, which
is called the ' Joyce Society,' and which is
formed for the sole purpose of propagating
my doctrine. It will rise.

"And now I am going to accept your longstanding
invitation, and will spend Christmas
with you. I'll start for Brownlow on the 23rd.
Till then

"Believe me yours, as ever,

"Paul Joyce."

So the ice is broken, and Paul has held
forth as the apostle of Intellectual Monarchy.
Well and good : there is something in the

thing, but will it ever come to a head? 1
am glad Paul is coming down for Christmas.
I don't know why it should be, or how it is,
but for some time back I have felt awfully
discontented and restless. Restlessness is a
horrible complaint. Have you ever noticed
how restless dogs are when they are about
to go mad ? Man and dog are very much
alike in that respect, only the dog sometimes
goes madder than the man. I wonder if
they took to shooting madmen with the same
commendable alacrity which they display in
shooting mad dogs, how many of us would
be left to propagate our species ? My dear
sir (or madam), man would soon be as extinct
as the dodo ; for after shooting all their fellow
creatures, as in duty bound, the shooters
would have then to shoot each other.

All this time I have not opened the other
letter lying on the salver. I see by the handwriting
on the envelope that it is from Sydney
Barton Now to see what he has got to say.

"Falcon's Hotel,
"Brook Street,

London, W.

"Dec. 19 th.
Dear Phil, —

"Have just met Paul Joyce, who told
me he was going to Brownlow House for
Christmas. I told him I wanted you over
to Woodbourn for that season of holly and
ivy, and that he must come also. So ' come
along do ; ' what the deuce would you two
find to do with yourselves in your wilderness
of a house ? Eemember, I expect you both ;
so wall the dad and Fanny. I leave for home
with the gay and festive Tom on Thursday
evening.

"Yours, in haste,

Syd."

Wants Paul and I over to Woodbourn for
Christmas, does he ? Well, so be it— it will
be more lively for Paul.

PAUL AGREES WITH ME.

Paul came down yesterday, looking brighter
and better than I have seen him for sometime
: the success of his lecture seems to
have roused him for a time from his deep
sorrow. For a time I say ; it is hopeless to
think of him ever being really and truly
happy and free from remorse in this life. I
could never understand Tennyson's philosophy
when he wrote :

"tis better to have loved and lost,
Than never to have loved at all."

Now I think it must be very pleasant to have
loved and won, and certainly ten times better
than to have never loved at all. But how can
it — or could it — be better to have loved and

lost than to have remained heart-free ? If a
man has not loved a woman, and lost her, he
is quite free from all that horrible feeling of
hopelessness and misery and weariness of this
life. No, no, Alfred, Lord Tennyson, your
philosophy is altogether wrong. I think
Paul's kind of loss — I mean, loss through
one's oicn fault — must be the hardest to
bear. The remorse and constant self-judging,
mingled with the sad, sad thought, not that
"it might have been," but that "it could have
been," must be simply torture.

However, I intend keeping Paul, as long ashe
is here, on another tack. lie is seated
opposite to me, smoking, just now.

"You know, Phil," he says, "I have come
to the conclusion that the greatest ruffian
who ever existed was James the Second."

"You have?"

"Yes ; no French king — not even the worst
of the Louis's — ever approached Weigh Shamus
of blessed and Holy Eoman memory. The

man's innate love of cruelty was simply
fiendish. Think of all his foul and bloody
murders ! and all in the name of religion.
Heavens, Phil ! think of that — all in the name
of religion."

Yes, I must agree with you that religion
has been a cloak for many a cruel and
murderous deed," I say.

Ah, you may well say that, Phil," and
Paul rises and begins his caged-tiger march
up and down. "But think of the royal
dastard having those two Scotch girls
drowned in the Solway because they refused
to embrace the Eoman Catholic religion.
There was a cursed deed! You
remember, he had them tied to stakes in
the sand at low water. On came the advancing
tide ; long ere it was in sight the
poor doomed girls heard its roar as it
rushed through the mouth of the estuary,
but they never quailed, God bless them ! —
they never quailed, and the holy king's

emissaries saw the waters close over their
heads."

Yes, Paul, but don't you see, it was
through the cruelties of this man that we
came to think of our Bill of Eights, our
Prince of Orange, and our subsequent Constitutional
Government. You see, out of
evil Cometh good."

'' Yes," he says, resuming his seat, " and
yet, Phil, look at the frightful laws which
were enacted by our Reformed Parliament ?
If James persecuted the Protestants preroga-
homily, his successor, or rather his successor's
Lords and Commons, persecuted the
Eoman Catholics constitutionally T' and he
smiles at the word. Then, after a pause,
Does it not seem terrible to you now,
when you read of men being hanged for
the most petty larcenies ? "

"Certainly it does."

"Well," leaning forward towards me,
don't you think, or rather, don't you brow,

that there are many laws in force now, and
many customs, which to our great great
grand-children will seem terrible — eh ? "

"Why, of course," I reply. "Different
times, different manners. What is sense tous,
will appear nonsense to our descendants."

You mean we live in a fool's paradise ? "

No, I mean we live in a madman's
paradise, where everything we pride ourselves
on is utterly insane. Our mad descendants
will discover this, but will be
totally blind to their own stock of mad
rules and regulations, which will remain
for their remote descendants to smile, wonder
or shudder at. And so on until the end."

"Then you still stick to your theory that
we are all mad ? " he says.

"Certainly I do."

By Heaven I Phil, you are right."

By-and-by, when I am thinking of going

to bed, my housekeeper enters. With a
preparatory cough she says :

I have had a letter from Saint
Murphy, sur."

Ah, indeed ; pray who might he be,
Mrs. Murphy?" I ask.

My son, sur," she repHes, evidently surprised
at my ignorance.

"Oh, your son?"

Yes, sur ; don't you remember my telling
you that my son was made a corporal ? "

Yes, I think I do remember something
about it."

"Yes, sur; well, now they have made
him a full saint," and Mrs. Murphy's eyes
glow with pride.

"Oh, I'm very glad to hear it, Mrs.
Murphy."

"Yes, sur; and I was thinking that as
you were going away for Christmas, I
would make bold to ask your permission to
have my son here to spend the day with me."

Certainly, Mrs. Murphy ; by all means."

Thank you very much, sur." And my
housekeeper retires in delight.

And yet that woman refused to open her
son's letters while he was a mere private !

We go over to Woodbourn tomorrow

m



CHRISTMAS A LA MODE,

I don't know how it is, but I never can
moralize in Woodbourn. Now this is the
more curious, when .1 come to remember
that if there is one place more than another
where everybody is very mad, it is Wood-bourn.
Yet, such being the case, still I
cannot moralize. Instead of moralizing, I
find myself giving way to just the same
amount of madness as the rest of them.
Now this beautiful nonsense called Christmas
is in full swing here. Not even the
knowledge that Aunt Minerva hovers above
us can restrain us from doing and saying
the most inane things.

Outside, the snow is slowly melting away,
and ever and anon, during a lucid interval

VOL. u. 20

of silence, we can hear the drip, drip, drip,
as it falls from the roof. Yes, Monsieur
Eeynard will be called upon tomorrow by
little Towers and his merry men.

Our Christmas dinner is over, we have
drunk to the health of absent friends, and
all the rest of it, and are now all seated
round the drawing-room fire — Fanny, Paul,
the squire, Sydney, Tom and myself.
Fanny has been singing us Sullivan's latest
ballad, the squire has told his celebrated
huntingiStory — he has told it every Christmas
for goodness knows how many years —
Paul has related his adventures on a Welsh
mountain, Syd has given us a graphic description
of a bull-fight in Madrid, I have
told a rollicking Irish tale, and now it is
Tom's turn.

Now, Tom," Syd cries, " keep the ball
rolling. What's the use of Christmas if you
can't tell lies?"

I beg your pardon, sir," replies Tom

with dignity. " Be pleased to understand
that veracity is my great speciality. In
fact, General George Washington was an
Ananias in comparison to me."

Hear, hear ! " from us all.

Now what would you like me to tell of?"

"Give us a good ghost story, Tom," says
the squire. " Not too long, as I want to
go and have my smoke."

"A short ghost story — very well," says
Tom, "I will give an account of a meeting
of the Ghost Club."

The what club ? " asks his uncle.

The Ghost Club — a very old-established
club indeed."

"Go ahead."

And Tom commences : " It was Christmas
Eve, and the members of the Ghost Club
were holding their annual meeting in the
old ruinous castle on the top of the bleak
hill. The moonshine through the broken
roof and windows shed a flood of silvery

20- 2

light on the grassy floor of the banqueting
hall, where the ghosts sat round on stones.
There were present, the Ghost of Hamlet's
Father, who was president, the Phantom
Knight, all shining bright, the Headless
Horseman, the Castle Spectre, the Spectre
Bridegroom, the White Horseman, the Need
Baron, and numerous other ghosts of lesser
note. After some general preliminary discussion,
the Ghost of Hamlet's Father rose
and said : ' List, list ; oh, list, ye brother
ghosts ! For the two hundred and fifty-eighth
time do we meet here on Christmas
Eve. This is a very conservative club '

' Hear, hear ! ' cried the Eed Baron.

' Silence,' exclaimed the Phantom Knight,
and the president continued : ' Brother Ghosts,
since we last met we have each by our own
individual efforts accomplished good work
(cheers). I will only make mention of a
poacher frightened out of his wits by the
Headless Horseman (cheers), a burglar ditto

ditto by the Castle Spectre (cheers), an plant
very miserable miser knocked into a
fit by the Eed Baron (loud cheers and a
cry of " good old Baron "), and a runaway
couple pursued for miles by the White Horseman
(cheers). As for my own efforts (loud
and prolonged cheers) I have appeared to
some thousands of persons nightly in several
parts of England.'

So saying the Ghost of Hamlet's Father
resumed his seat amidst great cheering.
The Eed Baron then rose and proposed a
vote of thanks to their worthy president,
which was carried unanimously. After a
graceful reply from the president, the Phantom
Knight stood up and said : ' Brother
Ghosts, I have lately heard of one who I think
ought to be elected a member of this club,
so with your permission I will propose his
name.'

' Who is he ? ' cried several of the
ghosts.

' The Ghost of a Penny,' repel the
Phantom Knight.

"Hereupon there was general groaning
from all sides, and the Phantom Knight drew
his phantom sword.

' Order, order ! ' cried the Ghost of Hamlet's
Father gravely. The Phantom Knight
replaced his phantom sword and sat down.

'* ' Brother Ghosts,' said the Ghost of Hamlet's
Father, rising, ' the Phantom Knight
wishes to introduce a new member, called
the Ghost of a Penny. Now what in the
name of tombstones is the Ghost of a Penny ? '

' Hear, hear ! ' cried several members.

' Even a live penny is not of very much
importance by itself,' continued the president
; ' and as for the ghost of one — has
the Phantom Knight ever met it ? '

' I said I had heard of it,' said the
Phantom Knight scowling.

' Our brother member says he has heard
of it,' says the president ; ^ well, we cannot

go by mere hearsay in this club, therefore
I say that the Ghost of a Penny is not a
fit and proper candidate for membership.'

The speaker resumed his seat. A burst
of loud cheering echoed all over the place.
Up jumped the Phantom Knight, out sprang
his phantom sword, and — even then the
morning cock crowed loud, and the members
all vanished."

*****

Very good ghost story indeed, Tom,"
says the squire as we enter the billiard room.
Did you make it out of your own head,
eh ? " He turns round to look at Tom — but
Tom is not there. Neither is Fanny.

And it's oh ! the mistletoe bough. Though
it frequently leads to a row. But Christmas
is here, so give it a cheer, Hurrah ! for
the mistletoe bough.

MISS DIXON ASTONISHES THE SQUIRE.

How quickly the last five days have passed
here to be sure ! Time seems to have flown
as it was wont to fly in the holidays of my
youth, which proves that I am thoroughly
enjoying myself.

The frost and snow have vanished, leaving
a very moist and decidedly chilly atmosphere
behind it ; yet damp and cold as it is, we five
Fanny, Paul, Tom, Syd and myself — have
been for a good walk through the home
park and consequently are enjoying our
lunch with "rare gusto," as Ben Bantim
would put it. By the way, that very unwilling
footman's understudy is back again
among his dogs, and if whistling and singing
snatches of popular music-hall ditties are a

sign of happiness, lie must be in the seventh
heaven of bliss.

You say you are going to hunt tomorrow,
Syd," says the squire.

Yes," answers his son, " Phil and I ; by
the way, do you hunt, Paul ? "

Not much of late," replies the latter.
"However, if you can spare me a mount, I
shall be pleased to take part in the excitement
of the chase."

Let me see — where is the meet to be ? "
I ask.

Pound wood, about two miles from here,"
Syd informs me.

I cannot, for my life, discover what
pleasure you men find in hunting," Fanny
says presently. " Do you hunt, Tom ? "

"No," answers the embryo Shakespeare
promptly ; " riding over hedges and ditches —
especially through a strange country — is not
to my liking. And even when I know every
inch of the country, as in Essex, I can see

nothing in the sport. In fact, there is
nothing in it."

So I say," Fanny remarks with emphasis.

Eubbish ! " exclaims her brother. " Hunting
is one of the grandest amusements on
the face of the earth."

And one of the most healthy," says the
squire ; " most healthy."

"Yes, papa, very healthy," Fanny says
to him with a quiet smile. " Only four
Nimrod broke their collar-bones here last
season."

Anyhow, Phil, Paul and myself are going-out
tomorrow," Syd exclaims. " That is settled.
You, dad, are coming also, of course? "

Yes," answers the squire, " I'll be with
you."

I hope you will all have a pleasant day,"
remarks Fanny, " and that the fox will
enjoy the fun also."

How do you know he won't — eh ? Tell
me that, miss?" cries the squire.

How can I, papa ? " she answers. " How
can any one tell what the poor animal feels
until the ' Revelations of a Mangled Fox ' are
published ? "

"Fanny scores one," says Tom.

"And pray what are you going to do
with yourself all day tomorrow ? " the squire
asks, looking towards his nephew, while Fanny
looks hard at her plate.

Who, I ? " Tom inquires calmly. " Oh !
I'm going to sit at home here and work up
some of the characters for my comedy."

Presently a brougham drives up, and out
pop Mrs. Wilson and Miss Dixon (of New
York State).

I've brought Miss Dixon with me to wish
you all a happy new year," says the little
widow, after introducing her companion.

And then we all sit round the great big
bright fire in the drawing-room, and have
what Tom would call " a jolly little jabber "
on things in general. In animal spirits,

shrewdness, brightness and merry laughter, the
widow and her Yankee companion are well
matched, though the widow has a little
the best of it. What an amount of animation
and humour is betrayed in those dimples and
sparkling eyes ! The old squire loses his worried,
peppery look, and beams with geniality
as he listens to her silvery tongue. Presently
the conversation drifts to hunting — it always
does in country houses.

•^'Do you hunt, Miss Dixon?" Paul
asks.

"Never since I climbed the trees to hunt
for birds' nests in New York State," she
replies. " I guess I'd fall slick off the horse
when we got to a fence."

Oh, you could easily learn to ride,"
Fanny says, " if you care about it. I confess
1 don't."

"Oh, I do'' exclaims Miss Dixon, "at
least, I fancy I should. I think hunting is
a real elegant amusement."

So it is," says the widow, looking at me.
I'm going out tomorrow."

Oh, you are ? " I say, " so am I."

Are you ? Oh, then, we will fly together
o'er the downs, as the poet says."

You used to be a flier, Mrs. Wilson," the
squire says.

"Yes, but I'm beginning to get old now,"
she says, dimpling considerably.

Nonsense," he exclaims, " you never
looked younger in your life — never."

Hear, hear ! " exclaims Miss Dixon, of New-york
State, " I think Mrs. Wilson is a daisy."

"No, no, a rose," Tom suggests.

"Now that will do," cries the widow,
flushing with pleasure, "just cease your
comparisons, or I'll have Mr. Brownlow
comparing me to a nettle in a moment."

I disclaim any such intention, and then
the topic changes to Shakespeare and the
musical glasses, or in other words becomes
generally mixed.

Are you fond of the theatre, Miss Dixon ?"
Fanny asks.

Oh, my, yes ! Awfully fond of it. Do
you know, I kinder think I could act real
well if I was stuffed ? "

I don't know whether it is the word itself,
or the bewildered look it brings to the squire's
face, which makes us all quite unable to restrain
a laugh. As for Mrs. Wilson, she has
actually to keep her handkerchief to her
mouth as if suffering from tooth-ache.

"If you were what'' asks the squire.

'stuffed," replies Miss Dixon. "Why,
my goodness, don't you know what that
means ? "

Miss Dixon means crammed, or coached,"
I explain.

Eight you are," cries Miss Dixon. " Yes,
I reckon I'd make some of them sit up."

This causes another ripple of laughter :
the girl's Yankeeisms are simply delightfully
funny.

Sit up where ? " asks the squire, looking
again bewildered.

Oh, anywhere," snaps Miss Dixon sharply,
evidently beginning to feel annoyed at our
hilarity. Then turning to Fanny she asks :
Say, have you seen Miss Fayncourt ? " A
query which curiously enough makes Sydney
and Tom exchange rapid glances.

'' No, but 1 have heard of her," Fanny replies.

Oh, she is terrific," exclaims Miss Dixon.
"My! she takes the cake."

She takes the what ? " asks the squire,
but a regular peal of laughter follows and
the question is not answered. And then
Mrs. Wilson intimates that it is time to end
their visit.

While in the hall, Miss Minerva walks
slowly down the front stairs, and pausing
at the last step, glares at Miss Dixon, who
whispers to me, " It's alive."

My sister. Miss Dixon," says the squire
in a flurry.

How do you do, ma'am ? asks Miss
Dixon, advancing.

How dare you call me ma'am f " haughtily
replies Miss Minerva. "I do not want to
know you," and she slowly walks into the
morning-room.

"Why, confound it, Minerva, what the

?" here he rushes into the room after

her, and bangs the door. We all hasten
on to the steps.

I must sincerely apologize for my aunt's
rudeness. Miss Dixon," says poor Syd, blushing
with annoyance and shame ; " she is a confirmed
invalid, and her continued ill-health
has made her quite eccentric and odd."

"Ah! poor old lady, she's all right,"
replies Miss Dixon ; " sorry I called her ma'am,
though."

Meanwhile I walk towards the brougham
with Mrs. Wilson.

Miss Dixon has called on you then ? "
she says.

<'Yes/'

How do you like her ? "

Oh, she's a rough diamond. Is she on
a visit with you now, Mrs. Wilson ? '*

Yes, until tomorrow. Poor girl, she has
no one to bring her anywhere, so I have
taken her in hand."

"That is quite right, and very kind of
you," I say with truth.

You think so ? " she answers dimpling.
*' When are you going back to Brownlow ? "

Oh, soon, though I feel very jolly here."

Do you ? " and she jumps into the
brougham without either waiting for my
assistance or allowing her guest to enter
first.

Soon the brougham is on its way down
the drive.

When I enter the hall again I find Miss
Minerva walking slowly, and with Fanny's
assistance, upstairs, while the squire, speechless
with indignation and rage, stands, hair

VOL. II. 21

on end, gazing after her. As soon as he
can command words he cries to me, " Damme,
Phil, I've given her a bit of my mind ! I'm
not going to stand her any longer. Do you
hear ? " he shouts up the stairs, " I won't
stand it any longer, madam ; and if I say
I won't, I won't .''

"The old boy will assert himself yet, see
if he doesn't," whispers Tom to me.

"The sooner the better," I reply.

"Yes, you're right, Phil. I'd rather live
in a bad harmonium than have to put up
with Aunt M."

^^

A-hunting WE WILL GO.

A STILL, close morning finds us on oar way
to the meet at Eoundwood — Syd and I riding
together, while Paul and the squire are a
little way ahead of us.

Where did you get that horse ? " Syd
says, running his eye over my mount — which
arrived from Brownlow with my " togs "
this morning.

"Purchased him in London last June,"
I answered.

How do you like him ? '*

I'll tell you that when the day is over.
I have never ridden him since I tried
him."

We ride on in silence for a while, and
then I say :

21—2

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF Dunois

I don't like the look of the sky, Syd, nor
the unnatural closeness of the air."

"What does it tell of?" he asks.

I fancy it is the forerunner of a very
severe storm."

'* I hope not. Enthusiastic huntsman as I
am, I object to being drenched to the skin or of
being a target for erratic flashes of lightning."

I say, Syd, what do you think of Mrs.
Wilson ? " Why I should ask this question
I don't know.

How do you mean ? "

Why, what do you think of her appearance,
style and general tout ensemble ? "

I think her a stunner, Phil — a regular
ripper." And Syd lights his cigar with a
flourish.

Can he be smitten as well as little Towers ?
Why not? She appears to be the sort of
woman to smite anybody.

Why do you ask me that question ? "
he continues, eyeing me.

Well, do you know, Syd, I think your
father would not object very strongly to the
widow becoming his daughter-in-law. Now,
honour bright, would you feel disposed to
marry her ? "

Why, what the devil are you talking
about ? " Syd cries. " Would I marry Mrs.
Wilson ! What put such an idea into your
head ? " And he laughs.

Oh, I don't know," I say ; " I simply
asked you from mere idle curiosity."

Syd puffs very rapidly at his cigar for a
few paces, and then says in a low voice :

It is a curious thing, your speaking of
marriage, Phil, for presently I hope to meet
the only woman I will ever marry — that is
always providing that she will have me."

Why, who on earth is she ? " I ask.

"Miss Fayncourt."

What, the actress ? "

The actress ; but don't speak so loud
the governor might overhear us."

And is she down here f "

Yes ; the fact is this : When I was last
in town, Tom Pierce introduced me to Miss
Fayncourt at a matinee. I found her a
delightfully pleasant, sensible, witty and
polished woman, looking even more lovely
off the stage than when on it. We got on
splendidly together."

Well ? "

Well, she told me that she was passionately
fond of hunting, and I strongly advised
her to run down here."

"Oh, you did, did you?"

Yes, you know it is only an hour and a
half run by special from Victoria. I told
her our county had the best pack in all
England."

"What a whopper ! and what did she say
to that?"

She thought the distance too far. However,
her season at the Haymarket being up
last week-she starts for the provinces in a

month — I made Tom write her a note giving
a glowing description of our sport, and
urging her to come down and have a day
with us. To this she wrote to Tom asking
him to be good enough to engage rooms
for her and a stall for her horse at the
hotel in Torpington. This Tom has done."

And you think she is sure to put in an
appearance ? "

Certain, my boy." And Syd smiles a
smile of triumph.

I wonder what the governor would say
if he knew all this," I say.

This makes Syd look troubled for a minute,
but the next minute he cries :

I don't care what he or any one else
says or thinks. I'll marry Miss Fayncourt
if she'll have me."

And he will. These Woodbourn Barons
are a stubborn, determined lot. But won't
there be a row in the house!

Presently we reach Eoundwood, and there

sure enough is Miss Fayncourt, the celebrated
actress, dressed in a grey habit and mounted
on a magnificent chestnut. She is the observed
of all observers amongst this largely-attended
meet, though no one seems to know
who she is. Syd at once rides towards her.
She greets him with a cordial smile, and
soon both are in what appears to be a most
interesting conversation.

By Jove ! there is Sydney Barton with
the fair unknown," I overhear one rider say.

Who can she be ? " asks another. " She
is not from any of the houses."

Now Paul rides up.

I say, Phil," he says, " do you see who
Syd is talking to?"

Yes."

She has created quite a sensation."

She seems to be creating a sensation
as far as the squire is concerned, at
present," I say, for at this moment the squire
is doing all he can to attract his son's

attention — but the latter will not see him.
This seems to put the old boy into his usual
state of temper, but he is still too much the
old gentleman to interrupt the pair. However,
he keeps hovering round them.

Wonder if he knows who she is ? " I
say.

Oh, yes," answered Paul ; " I told him'*

"You did

Yes — what harm ? He asked me if I
knew who the lady in grey was, and I
answered. Miss Fayncourt, the famous actress.
Did I do wrong?"

Oh, no," I reply, but seeing all the time
a row looming in the distance.

And now the little widow turns up with
Miss Dixon, who drives a phaeton and pair
of bay ponies. The pretty Yankee handles
the reins, as a driver, capitally. A groom
canters behind leading the widow's black-brown
mare.

I dismount and assist her to the saddle.

'swell, how do you like all this arrangement
in pink, Miss Dixon ? " I ask.

Oil, it's real spry," she answers. *' I
guess I'll learn riding right away."

As she is speaking, our M.F.H., little
Towers to wit, advances on a horse a great
deal too big for him — or is it that he is too
small for the horse ? He lifts his hat in a
very formal manner to the widow, I imagine.
The latter immediately introduces him to
Miss Dixon.

Awh," remarks Towers, raising his hat
again.

Oh, my I and you are the master of all
these beautiful dogs ? " cries Miss Dixon.

Awh, yes," he says. " Do you hunt ? "

"Well, now, it's mighty curious to be
asked that question so often," she answers.
"No, I don't hunt."

"But she is going to learn riding, Mr.
Towers," the widow puts in.

Awh, delighted to hear it ! "

Little Towers never says "Awh" except
when talking to a lady — especially a lady
he has met for the first time. Part of his
madness.

And now he informs us that it is time to
make a move for the covert, and bidding
au revoir to Miss Dixon, away we go.

'fej^H)

I COME A CROPPER.

Towers goes ahead while I and the widow
proceed at a slow pace.

By the way, Mrs. Wilson, what is your
opinion of little Towers now f " I ask.

Why do sou ask ? " she answers,
smiling.

Oh, I don't know, only I fancy he is a
great admirer of yours."

"Well, sir, and pray is there anything
very wonderful in that ? " she demands.

"No, quite the opposite — only I just

wanted to know — that is — I " Here I

come to grief.

"You just wanted to know what?" asks
the widow, dimpling considerably.

Well, don't you see, Mrs. Wilson, I once

said fun something or other about you and
Towers, and you got exceedingly annoyed,
and so, don't you see, I wanted to know if
the same idea — that is, what I mean to say,

you once said " Here she breaks into

a silvery laugh.

Why, what on earth are you talking
about ? " she cries.

Upon my word I don't know," I answer
with sublime truthfulness. And then we
both break into a canter, and soon get up
with all the others, now well on their way
to the Eoundwood coverts — never known to
fail.

By-and-by, Monsieur Eeynard is called
out and responds to the invitation. Tally
ho ! ho ! ho ! And away we mad people go
over hedges and ditches. I keep close by the
widow in case of accident, though she does
not require any pilot as she is a fearless rider
and a finished fencer. Away to my right I
catch sight of Syd, who is piloting Miss Fayn-

court, while behind both rides the squire,
evidently determined to keep his eye on them.

This madness of hunting is very insidious,
and steals away any sanity you may happen
to possess before you know where you
are. The swift flight through the air intoxicates
one, and the excitement bred by
seeing a whole field of mounted madmen in
flashing coats, is certainly very exhilarating.
The widow now leads by a few paces. /
pilot her ! I have quite enough to do in
looking after myself. My horse has never
been over the country before, and is slightly
nervous over his jumping. Must be very
careful or he will spill me.

And now I am somewhat concerned to find
that M. Eeynard has taken it into his
tawny head to double and make for Wood-bourn
Heath. If he insists on continuing his
course right on to that decidedly trappy
locality, some of us will certainly come to
grief.

Woodbourn Heath is really not a heath at
all, at all, as Pat would say, but a tract of
about thirty acres of rough and rugged ridges
of gravelly soil covered with rank grass and
furze. Its danger to riders consists of its
trapping ditches, which are for the most part
hidden by the furze growing along their
sides, though horses who know the spot
generally manage to come out of it all right.
Yes, sure enough the fox is going straight
for the heath ! Now, shall I risk my novice
of a horse? No. I call to the widow, but
she does not hear me. On she goes towards
the treacherous spot. She may come to grief
I will follow her. Surely where a woman
goes I am not afraid to go.

Now we are at the confounded place.
Straight ahead goes the widow towards a line
of low furze, which I know screens a wide
ditch with a sloping bank on its opposite
side.

Steady," I call, but she does not or will

not hear. This won't do — I'll hasten up
and show her the way.

This I do — now for it — oh !

*****

When I open my eyes I find myself lying
on the grass, with my head resting on something
very soft — it is Mrs. Wilson's breast.

"Thank God!" she exclaims. "Oh, I
thought you were killed."

Her face is pale, and she has evidently
been very much frightened. Indeed I can
still feel her tremble.

"I'm all right," I answer, after testing each
limb ; " no bones broken. Only a little
shaking. Let me see, how did it happen?
Oh, yes, that ditch. But — where are our
horses ? "

"I don't know, and I don't care," she
answers. " All I know is that you are
safe."

"Safe — of course I am ; just assist me to
my feet."

You're sure you are all right ? " she says
without moving.

"Certain — just let me stand on my feet
and I'll prove it."

She stands up, gives me her hand and I
am soon on my feet again. Now I am conscious
that my right ankle is a little painful.

Ah ! " I exclaim, " my ankle is touched."

Is it ? " she asks anxiously, " then take
my arm ; we have not far to go to gain
Woodbourn House."

It is very kind of you, Mrs. Wilson," I
say, taking her arm and walking slowly in the
direction of the house. "But for you, I
might have lain there, and perhaps have been
galloped upon by some of the others."

"Oh, don't!" she. says with a shudder;
the instant I saw your horse go down, I
drew up and ran to you — your horse and
mine, meanwhile, going off on their own
account."

And where are they now I wonder ? "

VOL. II. 22

Oh, they are certain to be secured and
brought home," she says.
" It is a wonderful fact," I remark presently,
" but woman seems to be always at
hand to comfort man when he is down."

She says nothing for a moment — then she
asks :

Why don't you marry ? "

Marry ! " I exclaim, stopping and looking
at her. " Marry ! Oh, Mrs. Wilson, will you
marry me ? " and I take both her hands. " Say
you with"

Yes, dear."

ANOTHER ACCIDENT.

The wind has been getting stronger and
stronger — it began ere I got my spill — yet
do we not move a step from where we are
standing.

Why, I must have loved you all along,"
I say, " my dear little — little "

Marie," she says, smiling a delightful
smile ; " that's what you are to call me
now''

Marie, then — I know now that I have
been loving you all along."

I'm glad to hear it, Paz," she says ; " now
come along, ere your ankle gets too inflamed.
You must have it bathed the instant we
reach the house." So saying, she takes my
arm in hers, and we once more proceed on

22—2

our way. Stronger and stronger blows the
wind.

We are going to have a storm to-night,"
I say ; " let us hope it won't come on ere
we reach home."

What if it does ? " she answers. " Weare
together, Phil, dear, and together we will
meet sun and storm until the end."

Very pretty, indeed, does the little woman
look as she says these words. Under the circumstances,
the correct thing to do is to kiss
her. I always like to be fairly in the fashion.
And so on we go again, I scarcely noticing
the pain in my ankle as we chat about the
future, while every now and again we have to
cling to each other to keep from being blown
away.

I wonder how the hunt is proceeding, orin
what part of the county it is now ? " I
say.

Oh, I don't know, and I don't care," she
answers. And I don't believe she does.

At last we reach the house, and, entering
unannounced, find Fanny and Tom with their
heads very close together, studying "Romeo
and Juliet " by the drawing-room fire.

Both jump up with comical promptness.

"Pray don't let us disturb you," says Marie
with a wicked smile.

But Fanny has noticed my limp.

You have been thrown, Phil ! " she exclaims.


Yes, but with no more serious result thana
sprained ankle," I say.

And you, Mrs. Wilson," asks Tom, " have
you come a cropper also ? "

No ; Mrs. Wilson came to my assistance
when I fell, and then her horse joined mine
in a gallop by themselves."

Now, Fanny, I want Mr. Brownlow to
bathe his ankle," Marie says.

"Yes, come along, Phil. Take my arm,"
exclaims Tom, and so saying he offers his
arm, and together we go up to my room.

"By Jove! Phil, the wind is rising," he
says.

"Yes, I expect we shall have a storm tonight."


Tom gets off my riding boots, and I makeshift
to get off the rest of my hunting clothes
by myself. Then, after getting inside a lounge
suit, I set to to bathe my ankle. Tying a silk
handkerchief steeped in water round it, I get
on a pair of slippers, and am about to proceed
downstairs again when, happening to
look through the window, I catch sight of the
noble army of hunters going full speed along
the narrow ridge of land which flanks the
bottom of the park. This ridge is divided
in the centre by a high " open " paling
painted green. Horses in our hunt always
take care to clear it with something to spare ;
but it is a dangerous obstacle for strange
horses, who might fancy they could jump
through it.

I catch sight of Miss Fayncourt's grey-habit

; she is still piloted by Syd. On they
gallop towards the paling. Syd clears it,
while she follows him. Ah ! just as I expected.
Her foolish horse has come to grief,
having regularly smashed through the fence.

Syd has been on the alert, and hastens to
her assistance. Luckily the animal has not
rolled, but remains where he fell, and in
another moment Syd has assisted the fair
rider to her feet. What an escape !

I hasten, as well as I am able, to the
drawing-room to tell the news. And while
we sit discussing the chances of there being
any more accidents, Syd enters with Miss
Fayncourt on his arm. She looks dreadfully
pale, and still bears traces of her shock,
though she recognizes Tom with a smile.

Syd loses not a moment in introducing his
sister, and then the widow and myself in turn.
And then the stranger sinks into a chair by
the window, and we all fear she is about to
swoon, but Fanny is quick with a glass of

water. At this moment the squire enters by
the further door.

Sydney ! " he exclaims, white with fury,
what the deuce do you mean by following
a confounded actress "

Here he stops short, and glares in astonishment
at Miss Fayncourt, who has sprung to
her feet. The next instant she falls back insensible
into the arms of Syd, who is just intime
to catch her.

Miss Fayncourt is one of my most
esteemed friends ! " exclaims Tom with an
angry flush ; and Syd, whose face is now as
white as his fair burden's, says :

Woodbourn must be coming to a pretty
pass when a lady, and a stranger, is insulted
by its master while beneath its roof." Then
he raises the actress in his arms and carries
her over to a couch, upon which he gently
lays her.

The squire, who still stands silent and
astonished, does not reply for a moment.

Then he says : " I did not know the lady was
here."

But Syd gives an exclamation of impatience,
and the squire, without another word,
walks out of the room.

Presently Miss Fayncourt regains consciousness.


Now, Miss Fayncourt, you really must
allow me to assist you to jour room," Fanny
says.

"i^/y room!" she repeats.

Yes," Fanny continues. " A good night's
rest will refresh you and restore your nerves
completely."

Of course it will," Tom cries.

But at first Miss Fayncourt won't hear of
it. She says she must return to Warrington.


Torpington ! " exclaims Syd. "My dear
Miss Fayncourt, listen to the wind. Why,
you would be blown away."

And then Fanny and Marie use their joint

persuasion, and eventually she consents and
goes upstairs with them.

The instant the trio have left the room Syd
cries, " There, what do you think of that ?
Am I a child or an idiot that I cannot
speak to any person, man or woman, whom I
choose to speak to ? "

Oh, it's disgraceful ! " Tom exclaims in a
tone of disgust.

Here Paul enters.

Oh, you are all right, Phil," he cries.
I saw your horse being led towards Brown-low
by one of the hunt servants, and immediately
imagined that you had met with some
severe accident."

No, only a slight sprain. Did you happen
to see Mrs. Wilson's horse in any one's
charge ? "

No," he answers ; " but I saw a splendid
horse lying dead with a piece of
paling through his body up there on the-ridge."


"Yes," Syd says, 'her horse is dead — regularly
spitted himself on one of the rails. She
does not know it, I having told her that he
was only hurt, and that I would send a
groom for him."

*****

As the evening wears on the wind rises to
a gale, while the rain comes down in torrents,
and it blows with such fury against the windows
that they are in imminent danger of
being smashed. The candles in the diningroom
flicker with the draught, which no
amount of bolting, barring and curtaining
can keep out, and the noise in the chimney
is loud and weird. Boom ! whistle ! and
roar! goes the mad wind round the house
outside. Wonder how Miss Minerva likes
it? We are anything but a lively group at
dinner, though to be sure I and Marie can
talk in eye-language. The squire speaks
not a word to any one. Syd also is in the
sulks, while Tom and Fanny talk in low

tones. What a contrast to the chatter-chatter
we usually indulge in!

Immediately after dinner the squire disappears,
and then Paul and Syd go to the
billiard-room. Tom and Fanny also retire
to some remote apartment, after the latter
has been to visit her guest's room. I suppose
it is because I am very happy and
contented that I refrain from moralizing on
the present internal " arrangements " of this
delightful madhouse. Yet, what a chapter
I could write. What a lecture I could deliver
on this phase of English home life.
Not alone here in Woodbourn, but in dozens
and dozens of other houses throughout England
to-night, are internal dissensions rife —
dissensions which, perchance, will culminate
in the break-up of many a happy fireside
circle. Now, if you were, Asmodeus-like, to
peep through the roof of each of those
houses, you would find that all the strife
and unhappiness was created by some member

of the family wanting to marry, or
having married the mate of her or his
choice. This always has been, is, and always
will be, the sole cause of discord in English
county families. Mad! mad! mad! God
bless my soul! how mad we all are!

And just think of the morbid madness of
this woman Minerva Barton ; day after day,
year after year, she keeps within her room,
seldom coming among any of her kith and
kin, and never going out in the pure air of
Heaven. It is this close confinement which
makes her so nervous — ill she really is not,
though she fancies she is dying. A good
electric shock would, I am convinced, do
her any amount of good.

And then turn your attention to the
squire : think of an old man like him bothering
his head, nay, working himself into a
fury over his son's politeness to a beautiful
woman. What will it matter to him in a
few, a very few, short years, who his son

marries? The old mad creature! And
Sycl ?— awfully mad. And as for Fanny and
her cousin Tom, they are appalling cases.

"What are you thinking about?" says
the widow pouting a little.

Thinking how mad we all are."
"Well, upon my word!" she exclaims
laughing, " you certainly go in for pleasing
subjects."

By the way, talking of madmen, what
about little Towers?" I ask.
"What about him?"
Is he not a great admirer of yours ? "
"Well, surely I cannot help that," and
she laughs. But the next moment she
becomes serious and says " I'll tell you the
truth, Phil; he asked me to marry him
last week."

What ! " I exclaim, " the impertinent
little puppy ! What did you say ? "

Of course, I told him I was very sorry,
and all that, you know."

The little puppy ! " I exclaim again.

*' Ah, well, you know, he couldn't help
it," she says dimpling.

No," I say after a pause, " who could ? "

Now, come along and listen to my playing
that new waltz."

§a

MISS FAYNCOURT LEAVES WITH AN ESCORT.

A BLEAK, cold morning, and a storm fitfully
moaning its death wail. From my window
I can count four noble trees lying low in
the park. I think of my ancestral oaks and
elms in Brownlow Park, and pray that none
of them have come to grief.

My ankle is still a little painful, as I
descend to the breakfast-room, there to find
Marie, who has been down first of us all.

How is Miss Pavncourt this mornings ? '*
I ask after certain ceremonies had been gone
through.

"Oh, I expect she is quite recovered," she
answers : "but Fanny will tell us when she
comes down. I'm so sorry Mr. Barton spoke
so strongly. She seems to be awfully nice'*

"Yes; but the prejudice against players
dies hard in country houses ; and besides,
Miss Minerva has completely poisoned the
squire's mind on the subject of theatres."

And then, so selfish are mortals who are
afflicted with the " tender passion," that we
quite forget all about Miss Fayncourt — and
everybody else — in our own happy chatter
on the future.

Now Fanny enters, and in answer to our
inquiries says : "• Miss Fayncourt is completely
recovered, but declines to come down
to breakfast. I wanted to send one of the
grooms early this morning, to the hotel in
Torpington, to bring back her maid, but she
would not allow me to do so. Papa spoke
with such outrageous rudeness, that I am
not surprised at her wishing to be under
as little compliment to us all as possible."

Well, and how is she going to leave ? "
I say ; " her horse is killed'

Yes, isn't it sad ? " Fanny goes on ;

VOL. IL 23

she doesn't know of it yet, and has asked
me if I would have it brought round ready
for her after breakfast."

What are you going to do ? "

"Well, the best thing is to say nothing
until she has breakfasted, and then tell her.
Syd will have one of his hunters ready."

One by one the others arrive ; the squire
still " offish," as Tom puts it, and Syd in
riding attire,

I trust Miss — a — Fayncourt is quite recovered
from her accident this morning,"
the squire says in a cold voice to his
daughter.

"Yes, papa; but she breakfasts in her
room."

"Very unhealthy, very, and a very lazy
habit," says the squire looking under his
brow towards Sydney.

The latter has flushed a little, but has
the sense to say nothing. Not so, Tom.
"I don't see anything particularly lazy "

He has got so far when a warning glance
from Fanny stops him, and silence almost
reigns supreme until breakfast is just over,
when the squire, looking at Syd, asks :

What do you appear at the breakfast-table
in that get-up for, sir? You are not
hunting to-day."

"No, I am not going to hunt, but I am
going to accompany Miss Fayncourt back
to her hotel, from this delightful home of
hospitality," Syd says coolly, rising and going
towards the door.

"Why, what the deuce do you dare to

but ere the squire can finish Syd is

gone. Then, glancing round on us all, he
continues, " What, what is this ? Confound
it, will some one explain ? "

"Explain what'' asks Tom.

Explain what, sir ? " cries the squire.
Explain the meaning of Sydney accompanying
this person to her hotel."

"K you mean by the term person the

23—2

lady whom you have the honour of receiving
beneath your roof, all I can say "

But Tom cannot finish ere the squire
breaks in with ;

"Honour of receiving beneath my roof?
What the devil do you mean, sir ? Eh ?
I say, sir, what do you dare to say, sir?
I want to "

But Tom has followed Syd's example, and
has retired. Not wishing to get into any
discussion with the infuriated old pepper-box,
/, too, leave the room, and am almost
immediately followed by the widow.

Presently Fanny comes to tell us that
news has been brought to the squire of the
collapse of a large wooden sheep-shelter
during last night's storm, and the death of
nine of his famous breed of sheep, which
have been buried in the ruins.

"Papa has gone post-haste to the spot,"

she adds. "What a chapter of accidents!"

And shortly afterwards, while the widow

and I are studying the language of flowers
in the conservatory, Tom enters.

By Jove ! " he exclaims, " we may lookout
for squalls."
"Why?" we ask.

"Why? Simply for two reasons — Syd insists
on riding with Miss Fayncourt to Torpington,
and the squire has had nine of his
sheep killed last night. Put that and that
together, and it brings out the sum
roio.'"

I expect you are right"' Marie says.

Presently the widow's — I must stop
calling her the widow now — presently Marie's
maid arrives with a mysterious-looking box,
and in another half-hour Marie comes down
the stairs minus her riding-habit and plus
a dark crimson walking costume, with a
natty little hat to match.

Now I'm going," she says to me ; " and,
Phil dear, promise me you'll go back to
Brownlow tomorrow so that I can call

and see you, and satisfy myself that you
are attending to your sprain."

Yes," I say, " I'll return tomorrow. By
the way, what about your horse?"

Oh, she was caught all right, and brought
home by somebody's servant. Now come
and see me to the door."

I take her arm and walk with her to the
door. There stands her brougham, with Jane,
her maid, waiting. I also notice a groom
with two horses — one with a lady's saddle.
At this moment, Sydney, who has been
awaiting her coming in the lobby, walks
tall and erect down the stairs with Miss Fayn-
court on his arm. How stately and handsome
she looks in her grey habit and silk
hat. She bows with well-bred grace to us allas
we stand at the door. Then advancing
to Fanny she takes her hand and kisses her.

I shall never forget your kindness. Miss
Barton," she says ^ " never." Then turning
to Marie she shakes hands with her.

Good-bye, Mrs. Wilson ; I suppose I shall
meet you in London next season ; at least, I
hope so."

So do I, Miss Fayncourt," says Marie,
looking at me.

Good-bye, Tom," she exclaims, turning
to the coming Shakespeare. " I know I shall
see you soon."

Yes, you may put that down as settled,"
Tom answers.

And then she takes Syd's arm and goes
down the steps. Marie says her adieux and
enters her brougham with her maid. In
another moment all have departed. As we
turn from the door, there stands Miss Minerva
on the stairs. The storm seems to have
shaken her up a bit, and she looks positively
green.

Hill, aunt ! how are you this morning ? "
cries Tom. But she heeds not his impertinence.


"Who was that strange lady who slept

here last night, and who has just departed on
horseback with Sydney ? " she asks in grating
tones, looking at Fanny.

The celebrated actress. Miss Fayncourt,"
replies Tom promptly.

What ! " she exclaims.

Fact, I assure you," says her dutiful
nephew.

"Did you say actress ? — in Woodbourn?"
she cries with anger. "Fanny, is that
true ? "

"Yes, quite true, aunt," and Fanny walks
away. We all follow suit, leaving the old
lady speechless on the stairs.

By common instinct Paul, Tom and myself
make for the Snuggery, well knowing that
the smell of tobacco smoke always prevalent
there will keep the old she-dragon from
following us.

Now, won't she give the squire a bit
of her mind," says Tom. " Poor Syd is
bound to get it hot and heavy before long."

We can hear Aunt Minerva calling for
Fanny.

"I hope Fanny won't go to her," Tom
cries. " She only wants to have a row with
somebody. Why can't she kick up a row
with one of the servants? Upon my soul,
Phil, it makes me mad when I see how that
girl is worried by this confounded old aunt
of ours."

Makes you mad ? " I exclaim. " Why, it
wants no making — you are mad."

I suppose I am," he admits after a pause.

STORM NUMBER TWO.

It is not long ere Tom ventures out of
the smoking sanctuary in search of Fanny
I wonder how the squire will like his precious
nephew as a son-in-law ? for son-in-law
to the squire Tom has evidently made up his
mind to become, and such being the case,
all the squires and Miss Miner vas ever invented
will not keep Tom Pierce, gentleman,
and Fanny Elizabeth Barton, spinster,
from beinor made one.

All this time Paul sits puffing a disrepute
briar pipe, one side of which
is burnt down nearly half-way.

"I say, Phil," he says, "I think it is about
time I was back again at my lecturing."

"Nonsense," I exclaim. "I am returning

to Brownlow tomorrow, and you are coming
with me. I will not hear of your leaving
until my marriage."

Your what ? " he cries, letting the briar
fall out of his mouth.

"My marriage ; I am going to marry Mrs.
Wilson."

The devil you are ! " he cries rising and
grasping my hand. " I'm awfully glad to
hear it, old fellow ; she's a charming little
body, and just the wife for you. When is
it coming off? "

Oh, in about a month ; I want you to be
best man if you don't mind."

Mind, certainly not, my dear boy ; I'll be
quite pleased," and he resumes his seat.

•' I expect mine will not be the only
marriage in these parts this year," I say.

No ? "

No ; I expect Tom will insist on marrying
Fanny, or Fanny will insist on marrying
Tom."

Yes," he says, " they seem to be getting
on all right."

And then I fully expect that Syd will
insist on marrying Miss Fayncourt, in spite
of the squire and Miss Minerva. The very
idea of the opposition is quite enough to
make him determined on marrying."

Yes," Paul says ; and then after a pause,
All my friends seem to be getting married.
Happy beggars ! " And he turns to look out
of the window at nothing in particular.

*' I do wish you would rouse yourself from
your dreaming and look out for a wife,"
I say. " Come now, can't you think of so77ie
woman you have met of late who would
suit?"

No, no, Phil, it's no use ; the die is cast."

Well, then, come along and have a game
of billiards."

*****

Slowly the day drags its length along.
The squire returns growling from viewing his

dead sheep, and is immediately summoned to
Miss Minerva's presence.

She's going to make it hot for poor Syd,"
Tom says. " Wait until you see what a jolly
row we will have by-and-by."

He is right. About six o'clock I am resting
my ankle by lying on a couch in the
drawing-room. The candles are not lighted,
but the fire burns brightly, though the room
is so large that it is quite gloomy, not to say
dark, in the corner wherein I am resting.
This fact I shortly find cause to regret, for
presently Syd enters followed by the squire,
who closes the door with a bang.

!Now, sir ! " he cries, and I know there
is going to be a row. They do not notice me,
and it is too late to think of moving ; the
whole thing is very awkward.

Now, sir ! " the squire repeats. " What
right had you in bringing that woman here
yesterday evening ? "

What right had I ? " Syd answers coolly.

"The right of courtesy to a lady — a lady
who had met with au accident."

Pish ! " exclaims the squire. " She was
quite well enough to go home to her hotel,
quite well enough, sir."

I say she was not," Syd answers sharply.

How dare you contradict me, sir ! I say
she was. And how dare you leave here with
her this morning, eh ? What the devil did
you mean by that, Sydney Barton, eh ? Tell
me that, sir ? How dare you sir, eh ? I say
how dare you, sir ? " and the squire has to
stop for breath.

How dare I ? " echoes Syd scornfully ;
how dare I ? Am I a child ? "

Yes, you are, sir ! " cries the squire.
What do you mean by riding off with a
confounded actress, eh ? "

Father, you must not speak of Miss Fayn-
court in that fashion. I'll not allow it ! "
cries Syd in a dangerous tone.

You'll not have it," screams the squire

You ! Who the devil are you, sir ? Tell
me that, eh ? I say how dare you "

Oh ! for Heaven's sake, stop this ridiculous
nonsense," exclaims Syd moving towards the
door. This simply puts the squire almost
beside himself with fury.

Ridiculous nonsense!" he shouts. "Is
that what you say, you damned fool ! "

"Father, dort say that again," exclaims
Syd turning back, his face looking blanched
in the firelight.

Yes, I will," cries the squire. " You area
damned fool ! "

Syd turns without another word and quits
the room. The squire sits by the fire fora
moment to compose himself, I suppose, and
then muttering something or other about
fools in general, goes out, and leaves me alone.

Dear, dear, in the words of Shakespeare,
What fools these mortals be."

Presently I limp out into the hall, where
1 meet Tom.

Did you hear the row ? " he asks.

"Yes," I say. "Where was Fanny?"

In her room, thank Heaven."

Where is Syd ? "

In his room."

*****

Syd does not appear at dinner, which is
gone through in depressing silence. Indeed,
the squire does not open his hips, except
to eat, during the whole time. What a
contrast to other times! But I find that
pleasant periods in our existence are few and
short, and only come and go that we may
have something to regret. Marie seems to
have carried a good deal of my gaiety away
with her. Thank goodness, I go back to
Brownlow tomorrow. I wish Syd would
turn up ; I hope he is not fool enough to
go without any dinner.

*****

Dinner well over I venture up to Bedroom
door and knock at it.

No answer.

I knock again, louder.

Still no answer.

Oil, hang it all, he must be sound asleep !
I open the door and look in. A candle burns
on a side table, the room is in a state of
confusion, but Syd is non est! But the open
drawers and torn letters tell me a tale. Syd
has packed a portmanteau and has gone!

What a madman! Now to tell Fanny.

I limp downstairs, only to meet the poor
girl sobbing, while Tom tries to comfort her.

You know all, Phil ? " he says.

"I only know that Syd is not in his room."

He's gone away," says Fanny through
her sobs. " Ben Bantim saw him drive off in
the dog-cart with his portmanteau, while we
were at dinner."

Who attended him ? "

The under-groom."

'' Well, when he drives back, he ;will no
doubt bring a message from Syd," I say.

VOL. II. 24

** No, no," Fanny says ; " he will send no
message. You don't know him, Phil."

I tell you the best thing to do," I say.
Tom, you go up to London as quick as you
can and hunt him up. He is sure to have
gone there."

Capital idea ! " cries Tom. '" I'll go by
first train tomorrow morning. Don't fret,
Fanny ; I know all Syd's haunts, and will be
sure to find him."

And Fanny, comforted, dries her tears.
I look into the dining-room : there sits the
squire, with brows knit and determined lips
pressed tight. The old English volcano!

ir

CONCERNING SYDNEY,

Home once more. It is exactly a week since
Paul and I quitted Woodbourn. Complete
rest has made my ankle all right again.
(The widow has called every day to make
kind inquiries about it, bless her ! Weare
to be married in four weeks from today.)


Poor old Paul is now in the library busy
at work upon an article entitled " Intellectual
Monarchy," for one of the monthly reviews.
I suggested the idea, for the mere reason of
giving him something to occupy his mind,
and keep her out of it.

Sydney Barton has neither been seen nor
heard of since the night he drove away

24-2

from Woodbourn. All known of him by Fanny
the squire never mentions him — is that he
took a ticket for London. I had a sort of
vaofue idea that he would have driven to
Miss Fayncourt's hotel and then and there
have asked her to marry him on the spot.
But not so ; he never even called there on
his way to the station. Probably the actress
had left for London by the five o'clock
train, so that if he had thought of calling
at the hotel he would have drawn it blank.
Stow after all this hubbub and row, all this
alarum and excursion, I wonder if Miss
Fayncourt would think of marrying Syd ?
Would she care to give up her great position
on the stage, with all its triumphs and glitter,
for the humdrum life in a country house ?
I fear me not — and yet

But what is Syd doing all this time ? How
does he manage to exist?

Enter Jenkins with midday letters. Ah,
here is one from Tom Pierce. Now we may

hear something of the runaway heir \x>
Woodbourn.

"Chills Mansions,

"Netting Hill, London, W.

January 17th.
"My dear Phil,

"According to promise I write
you re my cousin Syd. I may say at the
commencement I have not been able to light
upon the slightest trace of him.

I cannot make it out at all ; I thought
I knew, in fact I do know, all his haunts
in town, but he has neither been seen nor
heard of in any of them. Even at the Olympic,
which you know is his favourite club,
they know nothing about him. I have even
called upon the innocent cause of all the
row, Miss Fayncourt, and told her the whole
story — I thought it best — but she had
neither seen nor heard from him. She was
greatly shocked, but I told her it was all

Aunt Minerva's fault. And so it is, Phil.
Poor Fanny writes to me in a state of fearful
anxiety. I really think Syd ought to
write to her, don't you ?

I don't know how he is off for funds,
but he cannot have had very much when
he started. How is he going to exist when
his cash is all gone ? That's what I want
to know. However I don't mean to give
up the hunt yet, and probably my next letter
will inform you of the important ' Capture
of Sydney Barton, the Escaped Lunatic'
Yours as ever,

'atom Pierce."

Lunatic is not the word, my dear Tom
madman is the correct term to apply to
Syd.

In looking over a batch of cards left by
callers during my absence, I come upon

two which are complete strangers. Here
they are :

MR. HENRY ARTHUR WYNNE,

Fairleigh Cottage.

MRS. VINER,

Harleigh Cottage.

They are newcomers, and evidently a
bachelor brother and a widow sister. Fairleigh
Cottage is a charming little house,
standing in about fifty acres of a park, and
is part of the Stanton property. Talking
of Stanton, how the deuce is it the duchess
has never written to anybody ? I wonder
how the Tatte-Snarlows manage to exist,
now that they cannot visit the Castle ?

Presently Paul enters, looking weary.
"Pm regularly tired out, Phil," he cries,
sinking into a chair. " Writing for magazines

must be a killing task to those regularly
in harness at the work."

How goes your article ? "

I've got about half through it, but I
don't think I'll finish it."

Why ? "

"•' Ah, it's too much trouble."

"Paul, Paul, you II never be the founder
of a school of thought or of a system," I say.

Then you think I have no determination
P " he asks.

I am afraid you have not. Now why
give up your article when it is half finished ?
How have you treated the subject?"

'^ 0\ just as I have treated it in my lectures.
I have got as far as the accursed
manner in which Charles the Second treated
all those who had fought and bled for him."
Here Paul rouses up, and the old fire returns
to his eyes. " Think of it, Phil— think of that
miserable debauchee and betrayer of his
country being king over this mighty England

! Think of the tears of joy — tears of
joy, Phil, shed by the populace on his entrance
into London. Think of him taking
it all as a matter of course, and thinking to
himself that really ' the English people were decidedly
very fond of kings,' and consequently
to be treated as children. Can you account
for it, Phil ? Can you account for the hope
less idiocy of the English people after all
they suffered under Charles the First ? "

I account for it as I account for everything,"
I answer. " This is a mad world."

"And after all Charles the Second's scandalous
reign, they actually allow James the
Second to disgrace the name of kinsf in a
far more scandalous, blasphemous and cruel
manner. Good Heaven ! Phil, can you tell me
how it is, that with the many men of highest
wisdom and intellect living in those times,
some one of them was not made ruler and
those accursed Stuart kicked out of England
? "

No, Paul, I cannot tell you. It is the
divinity that doth "

No, did hedge a king," Paul says smiling.
The Lord's anointed, forsooth ! A precious
man Charles the Second to anoint." He
jumps up from his chair and begins the tiger-walk,
as I call it. "I can see them now, those
great, mighty, proud and brave English
people kneeling in the dust as the Lord's
anointed rides by with his French prostitutes,
and I can hear them offering a prayer
to the pure heavens — a thanksgiving — that
Eoyal Charles condescended to come over
from France to rule over them. My God !
My God ! " And he actually laughs — but it
is a bitter laugh. A laugh which would have
made the merry monarch feel very uncomfortable
indeed.

What a strange, strange man this Paul
Joyce is ! See, now he resumes his seat and
immediately becomes deep in thought. All
the fire leaves his eyes, the look of animation

fades from his face — he is thinking of her.
He sits thus for fully five minutes, and then
says, " It's no use, Phil ; her face comes between
me and all my work."

Oh, ridiculous nonsense ! " I answer.
You really must not be such a child, Paul."

"You think me a child, Phil," he says with
a sad smile; ''I wish to God I was."

Well, I think it childish to be eternally
brooding over the past," I say. " What can't
be cured must be endured, and it's wrong,
and I may add sinful, to spoil the life God
has given you by nursing any sentimental
sorrow."

Yes, it's all very well to talk like that — I
could do the same once : he jests at scars
who never felt a wound. You are going to
marry the woman of your choice. You know
not what sorrow means, and I hope you never
will."

He rises and goes towards the door.

Where are you off to ? " I ask.

To have a smoke."

Well, you might ask a fellow to accompany
you," and I rise and go with him to the
Smokers." How I wish that girl — he has
never told me her name — would turn up
here ! Oh ! what a delightful sight that would
be. I can fancy the meeting, the blushing ;
then the talking in low shy voices ; then the
going for a little walk round the garden, and
returning as happy as any king and queen in
any story. Alas ! this sort of thing is only to
be met with in novels.

'ic ^^'41^^

ME. BUTTS SHOWS UP.

The sun is actually shining brightly this
morning. Such being the case I am preparing
to go out for a canter — Paul is deep in the
article on Intellectual Monarchy once more —
when Mr. Butts and Miss Dixon are announced.


'' I just thought I'd fetch uncle right
around to see you," says Miss Dixon (of New
York State). " I guess you have quite forgot
to call on him

How do you do ? " I say, advancing to
greet Mr. Butts, who stands still near the
door, dressed in a long shiny frock coat, gladstone
collar and black cravat.

Pretty fair, pretty fair," Mr. Butts says,
now venturing forward.

Sit down right here, uncle," his niece
says, pointing to a chair beside her. He
slides into the chair and gives a bland cough.

And how have you been, Miss Dixon ? "
I ask.

Oh ! I've been just real gay and festive.
I've had a regular Englified Christmas at
Beechley Wold — plum pudding and mince
pies, and roast turkey and roast beef, and all
that— hadn't I, uncle ? "

"Yes, Carrie, we 'ad," replies the uncle,
looking at me to see how I would take the
astounding intelligence.

"And we had a mistletoe — a real regular
mistletoe," exclaims Miss Dixon with a
roguish smile. " Hadn't we, uncle ? "

"Yes, Carrie, we 'ad," affirms Mr. Butts,
who has blown his nose six times already,
each time making a sound like a toy trumpet.


Were there any gentlemen present when
the mistletoe hung high ? " I ask smiling.

No," she says demurely. " No one, only
uncle."

The ghost of a smile flickers over the
latter's hatchet features, and then he blows
his nose for the seventh time.

''My!" she exclaims presently, 'what
lovely fiddle-saddles you have got. I guess
they're worth a pile."

Why, what on earth do you call fiddle-saddles
? " I inquire laughing.

"Why, those china nick-nacks on the
shelves round about," she answers. " You
English call them bric-à-brac" And up she
jumps and proceeds to inspect each specimen
of my collection of Dresden and Nankin blue.

Mr. Butts follows her with his eyes and I
take the opportunity of having a good look
at his face. He is not the meek man a casual
observer would take him to be. Beneath all
that nervous coughing and nose-blowing
there lurks an iron will and an intensely
stubborn determined nature.

Presently Miss Dixon opens the conservatory
door and enters to have a look at the
palms.

Charming woman, your niece," I say to
Mr. Butts. " Let us hope she will take it
into her head to marry and settle among us,
like your niece the duchess."

The man's face loses its look of nervousness
and meekness as he exclaims, " Carrie is as
superior to the duchess as cheese is to chalk,
sir."

But Carrie has overheard him, and from
the door of the conservatory says, "My!
uncle, you should go full steam with that !
Why my cousin the duchess is a grand lady
in comparison to me."

I don't care a halfpenny piece what she
is, or what she's not, she ain't as good as you,
so there I tell you," exclaims Mr. Butts, who
now begins to feel at ease in my august
presence, and consequently speaks his mind.

'•' But my ! uncle, Mr. Brownlow doesn't

want to hear all about my first-class qualities,
I reckon. Now you just talk of something
else." And Miss Dixon (of New York State)
goes back among the palms.

As lively as a kitten," says Mr. Butts ;
"just my style, sir. Would make any 'one
'happy."

Yes," I say, " I've no doubt of that."

"The man that sits that mrl will have
all my cash," says Mr. Butts, " every penny
of it, an' I don't mind telling you, sir, it
runs into very nearly six figures," and he
beams proudly upon me.

Oh ! I'm sure she will make a good
match," I say ; " she is the sort of girl who
would attract a man."

"Mind you, sir, he must be a gentleman.
I don't care how poor he is as long as he
has got his name up in the family line."

Name up in the family line ? " I echo
in bewilderment. "Pardon me, Mr. Butts,
but I do not quite gather your meaning."

VOL. II. 25

Why, sir, what I mean is this here — I
want my niece to marry a regular gentleman.
I ain't a gentleman, Mr. Brownlow, but my
niece is a lady in manner and schooling."

Certainly."

Very well then ; I want her husband to
be a man of family pedigree. Now do you
understand ? "

Oh, yes, perfectly," I answer.

"And I don't care a brass farthing if he
hasn't a halfpenny, as long as he has a crest
and matter. If she marries a lord, took or
earl, of course well an' good, but failing' that,
she must marry a gentleman, or her husband
won't have my money, so I tell you."

Yes, she deserves a good husband, Mr.
Butts, for she is a singularly pleasant and
charming girl," I observe, not knowing really
what to say.

She is that,"^exclaims Mr. Butts ; " you've
hit it in once."

Just while I'm wondering how I will change

the conversation, Paul fortunately strolls m.
At the same moment Miss Dixon comes from
the conservatory.

Why, how do you do, Mr. Joyce ? " she
cries. " See I remember your name ! You
forget mine, I guess ? "

Oh, no, I don't," Paul answers, " I don't
forget ladies' names so easily. Miss Dixon."

La, you do actually remember it ? " she
cries.

Of course I do."

And then I introduce him to Mr. Butts,
who once more begins his couo-hinof and
nose-blowing, which does not cease until
he has become quite used to Paul's presence.
This takes about ten minutes to accomplish.

And then we converse on things in general
and nothing in particular until Miss Dixon
(of New York State) tells her uncle it is
'• time to skiddaddle."

How do you like them ? " I ask Paul
when they have gone.

2b-2

"The girl is pretty and piquant," he
answers ; " what a pity she is so thoroughly
Yankee."

"And Mr. Butts?"

I cannot call him the acme of refinement
and culture." And Paul goes back to his
writing.

By-and-by I get at him again.

"Now, Paul, why would you not think
about laying siege to Miss Dixon's heart?
She would make you a capital little wife,
despite her Yankee words and ways."

No," he says, shaking his head and smiling
sadly. " It is useless. Marion is my first,
last and only love."

Marion ! Oh ! is that her name ? "

'• Yes, didn't I tell you before ? Marion
Wynne."

"And her brother's name was "

Henry Arthur," he answers, looking
sharply at me ; "do you know him ? "

No," I answer carelessly. " By the way,

Paul, you never told me whether you acted
on my advice as given in my letter, eight years
ago."

'' You mean the letter you sent in answer
to mine describing the whole case ? "

"Yes."

Oh ! it was the old story over again, Phil
the old story. I wrote her a letter stating
I was going to call upon her on a certain day.
She replied to it, saying how glad she was to
hear of my coming. Well, I went, Phil, went
with the full determination of pressing my
suit. But when we met, I instantly assumed
the old manner of cool indifference. Good
Heaven ! Phil, what an idiot I must be ! " And
he starts to his feet. " What is the madness
which compelled me to act like that ? "

Not being good at conundrums I remain
silent.

Presently he says, " Well now, if you please,
we will talk of something else." And we do.

I VISIT MY LADY LOVE.

Yesterday evening after our conversation
anent Marion Wynne, 1 went to the drawing-room
and quietly fished out the two Fairleigh
Cottage cards and placed them in my pocket.

Just as well not to leave them in Paul's
way," I thought. " By Jove ! what a curious
incident, their coming to reside hereabouts ! "

Little does Paul know of the surprise I
have in store for him. This afternoon I intend
asking Marie to call upon the new arrivals
and invite them over to luncheon on a certain
day. I will bring Paul along to the widow's
on that day also, and then — tableau !

I'm going over to Mrs. Wilson's, Paul,"
I say. " What will you do — will you come
with me ? "

"No, indeed I won't," he replies, "you
know I would only be in the way. While
you are gone, I will try and finish my article
on Intellectual Monarchy. So go your way."

Very well, then, I'll leave you to yourself.
I shall be back about four o'clock."

Off I start on my galloping steed to visit
the lady of my love, quite like a knight of
old. Presently I come to a bridge spanning
the river which divides the Yirgemont property
from Brownlow. A little way down on
the right bank I see a group of men standing
round some object.

I hope none of my sheep have been
drowned," I mutter, as I rein in, and beckon
to one of the men, who immediately comes
towards me. He is one of my tenants.

"I hope that's not one of my sheep
drowned, Bobbin ? " I say.

No, sir, it beyent no sheep that's drown,"
he answers ; " it be old Hemming the gardener."


Hemming ! "

Yes, sir, an' he must ha' been in the
water a long time. We didn't right know
'im a-first. Th' say 'e 'as been mission' since
the big storm."

Poor old Hemming ! And so you have
gone to your long account in blissful ignorance
of sour daughter's infamy. And she —
when will she hear the news ?

I ride on towards Yirgemont, leaving the
group of men and the cold wet body behind
me, and feel relieved when I get a good
distance away from both.

The widow — Marie, I should say — receives
me with a little flush of pleasure. The
delightful little lady must have had some
idea of my visit, for she has a plentiful
display of crimson camellias in the drawing-room
and wears one in her breast.

By the way, have you had any visitors
from Fairleigh Cottage?" I say presently.
Yes," she answers ; " only yesterday.

and charming people they are. Have they
called at Brownlow ? "

"Yes, during my stay at Woodbourn.
Who are they, and where have they come
from — do you know?"

Oh, yes ; they are Anglo-Indians, and
brother and sister. She is a widow — like
me, ahem ! — her husband, who seems to have
been an old man, having died some three
years ago. He was a wealthy indigo planter,
and must, of course, have left his wife the
bulk of his fortune."

"And the brother?"

Oh, he has been dabbling in coffee
planting, but having grown tired of India,
sold his shares and came home. He has a
small property in Berkshire, but having let
the manor house with it, has come to reside
in Fairleigh Cottage. And now you knows
all."

Yes, and now you must know all," I
say.

All what ? " she asks in a tone of surprise.


Listen."

She does. And I tell her of my accidental
discovery that Paul's first, last, and only
love is none other than Mrs. Yiner, of Fairleigh
Cottage.

No ! " exclaims the widow.

Yes — now I want you to invite the lady
over to luncheon tomorrow or next day,
and at the same time send an invitation to
Paul and myself. Do you understand."

Of course she does ; the little widow —
Marie I mean — would understand anything
(so long as it suited her purpose).

Capital, capital ! " she exclaims, dimpling
with pleasure. " Won't it be splendid if they
both marry after all."

That's just what I am looking forward
to with hope," I say. " And now come and
play me something before I go."

She sits at the piano and plays to me

for ten or fifteen minutes, and then I very
reluctantly rise to go.

I'll ask Mrs. Viner for Wednesday," she
says as we stand at the door while my horse
is being brought round ; " and you will
receive a note on the morning of that
day."

"Very good; and now, in the words of
the poet, 'My charger is jangling his bridle
and rein.' "

Then be off."

And back again I ride towards Brownlow.
When passing the bridge I look for the
group of men on the bank, but they have
gone and taken the old man's body with
them. Poor old chap ! I expect he was
regularly blown into the river during the
storm. I hope Towers will give him decent
burial, for Susan's sake.

By the way, I wonder what he has done
with the girl?

When I reach Brownlow I find Paul

walking up and down the front of the house
smoking.

"Article finished, Paul?"

"Not quite — I grew tired and turned it
up for to-day," he answers. " Mrs. Wilson
quite well ? "

Yes."

By and-by, when seated over the fire in
the dining-room, he takes from his pocket
a roll of paper and unfolding it, says, " I
wrote these to-day, but I didn't finish them.
Tell rae what you think of them:

' It seems a hundred years or so
Since you and I last parted,
When cruelly you bid me go,
Forlorn and broken-hearted.

* I think I promised to forget
That I had ever met you ;
I tried to keep that promise, yet
I never could forget you.

"*I know I vow'd I'd cease to think
I ever cared about you.
Alas ! my thoughts were black as ink,
And blacker still without you.

^ And since you've scratched me off your list
Of lovers, and dismissed me,
How many fellows have you kissed ?
How many women kissed me ?

'• * How many whispered talks were talked —
How many vows were spoken ?
How many moonlit walks were walked —
How many vows were broken ? '

It wants another verse yet. How do
you like it ? "

I think it is capital' I reply. " What
are you going to do with it?"

Nothing," he says, folding the paper and
putting it in his pocket. " I only wrote
it for fun."

Now don't talk nonsense," I exclaim.
You know you were thinking of her!'

Well, suppose I was," he says ; " what
of that? She is not here to give it to."

No, of course not ; but if ever you
should happen to send them to her, you
might as well omit the fourth verse."

If ever I should happen to send them

to lier ! " he exclaims. " Don't you know
very well, Phil, that I never shall have, the
chance ? "

How should I know ? " I ask.

How should you ? Why, my dear fellow,
I have as little knowledge of where she is,
or whether she is married or single, as you
have."

And then I tell him of old Hemming' s death
just to change the conversation.

PAUL MEETS HIS FATE ONCE MORE.

Wednesday has arrived, and with it has
come Marie's note inviting Paul and myself
to lunch at Virgemont. In fact, we are on
our way thither at the present moment,
per horse.

''I say, Paul."

Yes ? "

What would you do if you were brought
suddenly face to face with that lady you
are so fond of ? "

What would I do ? " he echoes. "Why,
what a curious question."

It is ; but you know I am always given
to asking these curious riddles. Now, what
would you do, if you suddenly met her, a
widow for instance — I suppose she is married."

Maid or widow, I really believe I should
be struck dumb with emotion ! " he answers.

You really think so ? "

"I do indeed."

Strange that this man, loving a woman
with all the depth of his very reserved nature,
should, when in that woman's presence, assume
an air of boredom, and actually appear as
if tired of her presence ! I have heard
of women whose foolishly vain natures have
made them act thus in the presence of the
man they loved, but Paul is the first man
I have seen play the game. Ah ! ladies and
gentlemen, it is a fatal game to play, and
breaks not your pockets, but your hearts.

A little way along the road we meet the
footman's understudy, Ben Bantim, dressed
in his best, and carrying a large carpetbag.


Where are you going to ? " I ask as we
rein up.

To Torpington, sir, to catch the train for

London. I've 'ad a bit of a shindy with, the
boss."

"Oh, indeed! What about?"

Not much, sir, when you come to think
of it. To tell you straight, sir, I wanted to
turn up the blooming' job long ago, when Mr.
Sydney went away."

"But what was this difference you had
with Mr. Barton?"

Well, you see, sir, that yer Miss Minerva,
I couldn't cotton to her nohow, an' this
morning' she struck Dash the setter pup with
her stick, and out he comes yelping' to me.
This giv' me the needle, sir, an' I talks
what I think out loud enough in the kitchen.
The boss heard of it, and got nasty at once,
you may reckon, and comes out to the kennels,
and slang me awful. ' Oh, well, here,
Mr. Barton,' says I, 'I turn up the job hereon
the spot.' ' Eight you are,' says he ;
'here's your money an' go'"

"And so you left," I say.

VOL. IL 26

Yes, sir, I packed my few belongings and
started. Miss Fanny, good luck to her, she
come to me, an' she says, 'I'm very sorry
you're leaving us, Bantim.' ' So am I, miss,'
says I, ' but it can't be helped now.' She
wanted me to drive into the station in the
dog-cart, but I says, ' No.' An' then she
says, ' If you should happen to catch sight of
Mr. Sydney, don't forget to go up an' make
yourself known to 'im.' ' Eight, miss,' says I,
an' I'm just the man that would happen to
drop across him.' And then she says, ' An' be
sure an' write to me if you see 'im, tellin' me
where he lives an' how 'e is a-lookin'.' "

"Yes," I say, "don't forget to do that."

Xo fear, sir," answered Bantim "An I'll
bet an}^ one 'alf-a-dollar I spot Mr. Sydney
before I'm a month in London."

After bestowing a coin on Mr. Benjamin
Bantim, we start on our way again, and are
soon riding up the drive at Yirgemont.

In another five minutes we stand in the hall.

Mr. Brownlow and Mr. Joyce," announces
the footman.

Paul enters about a step before me, and
then stops short, but only for one instant.
The next moment he is shaking hands in a
very matter-of-fact, glad-to-meet-you sort of
way, with an extremely handsome woman
dressed in a riding habit. This is Mrs. Viner.

Then I am introduced to her, and we all
sit down to luncheon. Mrs. Viner has large
grey eyes, glossy brown hair, and a very
determined little mouth. I would take her
to be about twenty-seven years old. Her face
is pale, and she seems a little nervous.

And Paul ! Here he sits beside the woman
who has been his fate, who has coloured his
whole life, whose presence he assured me
would strike him dumb with joy. What is
he doing now? Chatting away on things in
general with Marie, without so much as
addressing a single word to Mrs. Viner, who,
after giving her head a barely perceptible toss,

26—2

starts a literary and artistic conversation with
me. The widow — Marie I mean — is a little
put out," so am I. Here have we brought
these two people together, and all to no
purpose. As for Paul, I am disgusted with
him. I can see very well, that though Mrs.
Viner is conversing with such animation, she
is listening all the while to what he is saying.
Dear, oh dear! what a world this is for
cross purposes !

After luncheon, the widow — Marie I should
say — proposes a walk in the garden, with a
meaning glance at me.

"There is not much to see there," she
continued, " save evergreens and a few winter
flowers, but still it always seems to me a
soothing sort of place," and she laughed.

"Ha, ha, ha'' laughs Paul, "a capital
word, soothing — just the word for a garden.
Don't you think so, Mrs. Yiner ? " and he
turns smiling to her.

Yes," she answers, and then rises.

There is one thing very certain — Paul is in
the best spirits I have seen him in for many
a day. What has put him in such spirits?
Her presence, of course. And yet he treats
her in the most careless manner ! Hang it
ail! it's enough to make me kick him.

On our way to the garden, Marie and I
manage to walk on in front together.

What is the matter, Phil ? " she asks.

"How?"

Why, I thought you told me Paul Joyce
and Mrs. Viner were old sweethearts."

So they are, but that idiot Paul is as mad
as a hatter," I exclaim.

"Why, he must be!" cries Marie. "He
has scarcely spoken two words to her.
Does he think a woman will stand that
treatment ? "

What are they at now ? " I ask.

Marie looks round. " They are walking
behind us, she stopping to look at the flowers
on one side of the path, and he stopping

to admire the shrubs on the other," and the
widow gives an exclamation of impatience.

"If you only knew how Paul loves that
woman," I say.

** Fiddlestick ! " cries the widow ; " he looks
like a lover, doesn't he ? Just turn and look
at him now."

I turn my head, and see Paul walking a
few yards behind Mrs. Yiner, smoking a
cigarette !

And I thought we could have made him
happy to-day," says the widow, "but he
doesn't deserve to be happy."

"You are right, Marie," I answer; "he
does not."

Let us wait until she joins us," I say ;
then you walk on with her, and leave Paul
to me."

"Very well."

When Mrs. Yiner reaches us she says,
Paul — I mean Mr. Joyce is still as great a
slave as ever to tobacco."

"Oh ! I don't think he smokes much," I^ay.

Don't you ? " she exclaims ; " I do." And
bhe walks on with Marie.

'• I say, Phil," cries Paul, when he comes upto
me, " have you ever smoked this brand of
cigarettes ? It is called the Zoonipoo Brand.
They are the best cigarettes I have ever
smoked. Must send for another box."

"Mrs. Viner has just been saying that you
are a slave to tobacco," I say.

Oh ! she'd say anything about me," Paul
says, laughing good-humouredly. " It's a
way she has got, don't you know. What a
lovely garden this must be in the summer,"
and he stops to have a look round.

Yes ; what do you think of Mrs. Viner ?
Is she much altered ? "

Not a bit," he replies ; " I declare she
looks younger than ever. Wonder who it
was she married. I quite forgot to ask her."

Now I ask you, dear mad brother (or
sister), who has (or have) been the ear-witness

and eye-witness of my most secret thoughts
and most important deeds — have you ever
heard of such an exasperating madman in all
your experience as this madman Paul Joyce ?
Here he is talking in the most careless manner
of this woman whom he loves, ay, more than
life itself.

I'll not mention her name again in his
presence. That will be dire punishment
enough for one day.

Presently it is time to leave, and Mrs.
Yiner's horse stands at the door. As Paul
does not offer to do so I assist her to the
saddle, and away she goes without waiting
for us to accompany her.

What a truly charming woman," Marie
says to Paul.

Yes, she is rather nice, isn't she ? " he
replies in a patronizing tone.

Nice," says Marie, flushing a little ; " she
is a great deal too nice to remain lo]jg
single. I hope she will marry soon."

"So do I, Mrs. Wilson," Paul says with
a smile. " Good-bye."

And we mount our horses and go on
our way.

But I notice that Paul has become suddenly
bereft of all his gaiety and spirits, and is
silent and sad all the way home. Ah ! he
is once more on the rack of remorse and
torture. Serve him right !

All during the evening he is restless, and
walks from the library to the " smokers,"
and from the " smokers " to the billiard-room,
and then back to the library again.

In the latter apartment I now sit writing.

He has thrown himself into a chair, and
has taken up one of the illustrated papers,
which he runs through in a minute.

Not much in any of the papers this week,"
he exclaims.

No."

Where are you going tomorrow ? '' he
asks after a pause.

Where am I going ? Well, really, I have
no particular engagement. Where woul(J
you like to go ? "

Oh, nowhere particular," he replies ; " I
have no special wish."

I finish my letter, fold it, put it in an
envelope, and proceed to address it to my
solicitor.

Now I will leave you alone to finish your
article," I say.

Oh, I'm not going to finish it*' he ox
claims in a peevish tone.

Oh, I'd finish it if I were you," I say ;
what's the use of leaving things half accomplished?"


What do you think of, er — Mrs. Viner ? "
is his next query. He wants to begin talking
of her, but I won't gratify him.

To tell you the truth I have not had time
to form any opinion' I reply, and leave him.

No, no, Paul Joyce, your punishment is not
complete yet.

LITTLE TOWERS CALLS.

Miss Carrie Dixon (of Jew York State) called
this afternoon looking very pert and pretty
indeed. After she had settled herder comfortably
in an easy-chair, and had begun the
process of toasting her toe at the bars of the
grate, she said :

Say, Mr. Brownlow, do you know
those Tatte-Snarlows ? My ! ain't they a
treat ? "

I know them very well," I answered. .

You do ? Well, I guess you don't know
much," she exclaimed.

No ? "

"No, indeed; you should just see them
come around in a carriage and pair — old Mrs.
Tatte-Snarlow and her two daughters and a

long thin son — such, a guy ! " and then she
laughed merrily.

Yes, he is rather tall and thin," I observed.

Tall ! Thin ! My ! it would take two of
him to make a shadow. Well, the old party
gave herself all the airs and graces of a queen,
and wanted to impress uncle and me with her
superiority, but I soon let her see it was all
too thin."

"What was too thin?" I asked a little
puzzled.

"Why, the whole shoot."

The whole shoot'' I repeated still more
puzzled.

"Goodness me! what a greenhorn you
are," she cried; "why, you don't know
anything."

I don't know much, certainly," I admitted.

Well, what I mean is this : old Mrs.
What's-her-name wanted to kill us with her
grandeur, but I guess I let her see pretty
quick that it wouldn't wash; no, sir-ee."

"Quite right," I said; " the Tatte-Snarlows
are given to that sort of thing, I know."

"And another thing, Mr. Bvownlow,'' she
exclaimed with a wise look, " they Tastes
are not gentry. I could spot that
right away at a glance, anyhow. They
haven't many ancestors to boast of. And
I know what the old woman waltzed
her son over for. Thinks I would be a
good match with all uncle's dollars. Oh,
my ! They know their way about'' And
she fixed her eyes on me with a comical
smile. "You see I know a thing or two.
Say, where is Mr. Joyce ? "

I really cannot tell," I replied. " I expect
he is smoking as per usual somewhere or
another."

Say, why don't he get married ? " she
next queried.

"I'm sure I don't know," I answered
smiling at the question. " Why don't you
ask him?"

Ask him what? " she demanded.

Why, the reason he has not married'*

"Not me. Oh, I didn't tell you I was
learning riding. Yes, sir-ee ; I'm taking lessons
three times a week and am getting on
spry, I can tell you."

I'm very glad to hear that," I said ; " we
have so few fair riders at our meets now."

"Wait till you see me next season," she
cried ; " I'll lead the field right slick, and
don't you forget it."

"I'm sure you will be quite proficient by
that time."

You bet."

At this moment little Towers (moustache
and all) was announced. By the way, that
moustache seems to be actually growing
larger day by day.

Awh — how dido, Miss Dixon?" he said
sitting beside her.

Oh, I'm all right, I guess ; how are you ? "
And she eyed him with a critical glance.

"I'm very well, thanks — ali. Lovely
weather ? "

Splendiferous," exclaimed Miss Dixon ;
what you English call a mild winter."

By the way, Towers, your gardener has
met with a sad end," I observed. " Poor
old fellow."

" Yes," he answered, " he must have been
blown into the water during the gale. I
expect he was going home by a short cut
along the river." And he tried to look sad.

I wonder does his daughter know of it? "
I ventured to inquire.

I really don't know," he answered, with a
slight tinge in his cheek.

Have you any idea of where she is ? " I
asked.

"Not the slightest," said the little liar
blandly.

But I thought you had recommended her
as a domestic servant to some friends in
London."

Oh, yes," he hastily answered, " but she
left there long, since."

At this moment Miss Dixon, who had been
looking towards the window, cried, " Oh, here
comes Mr. Joyce."

And presently Paul entered. Miss Dixon
immediately began questioning and cross-questioning
him about himself, his doings,
and his designs with delightful naivete, to
all of which questions Paul returned the most
perfectly straightforward, honest answers.
All this time little Towers, who pretended to
be listening attentively to my account of my
cropper on Woodbourn Heath was covertly
watching the pair with anxious eyes. Ho ! ho !
thought I, " wants to marry the little Yankee,
does he ? Well, he might do worse. But it
strikes me that it is a million to one on Paul
if he chooses to enter the running."
*****

Alien they had departed, Miss Dixon in
her phaeton, and little Towers in the saddle,

I said to Paul, " That little Yankee would
make a capital wife for a man."

Yes," he replied, " Towers should go on
there."

"I don't fancy she is very much struck
with our little master of hounds," I remarked.
Now I half believe, Paul, that you are the
man for her — I mean according to her
ideas."

Now for goodness' sake, Phil, let us have
no more of this," he exclaimed. "You ought
to know me by this time."

Know him by this time. As if such a
strange being, such a prize-puzzle could be
ever really known !

After luncheon, the day looks so genial,
that I begin to feel genial and forgiving also,
and accordingly say to Paul :

"I think we ought to ride over to Fair-heigh
Cottage, eh?"

Paul does not pretend to be very much

VOL. II. 27

moved, but there is a sudden light in his eyes
as he replies, " Yes, if you like."

And so we have our horses at the door
in fifteen minutes, and in another couple of
minutes are riding along the drive.

As we proceed, Paul becomes quite chatty
and even funny.

"Why, you are in prime spirits to-day,
Paul," I say smiling.

"Yes, it's the effect of the bright sun, so
bright for this time of the year, you know,
together with the exhilaration of riding," he
says. " You know, Phil, riding is the finest
exercise in the world."

"Yes."

Oh, yes ; makes your liver all right, and
of course if your liver is all right, you're all
right."

Presently I ask, "What have you done
with those verses you wrote ? "

Pve got them still. Why do you ask ? "
and he looks sharply at me.

For no particular reason, only I think it
would be a pity to destroy them."

Then you really think them good ? " he
inquires with a flush of pleasure.

I do, indeed ; of their kind they are
capital."

When we reach the cate at Fairleio^h cottage
I say, " I hope we shall find them at
home."

They are," Paul exclaims ; " at least she
is. I have just caught sight of her at one
of the windows."

And sure enough Marion Yiner stands at
the door to welcome us, looking superbly
handsome in a grey costume. There is just
the slightest little flush on her pale cheeks as
she shakes hands with us — after a natty little
groom has taken charge of our horses.

My brother is out riding," she says, when
we are all seated in the warm, cosy little
sitting-room ; " but I expect him home every
moment."

I hope you don't feel lonely here," Paul
says.

No' she answers, looking away towards
the fire, " except sometimes, when Larry is
away for instance. Then I feel rather lonely."

And now her brother returns ; a strong,
sturdy, brown-bearded, grey-eyed young fellow.
After being introduced to me, he shakes
Viands cordially with Paul.

Ashy, it must be ten years since we last
saw each other, Paul," he cries.

Oh, not so long as that, Harry," his sister
says. " Only about eight years I think."

"And quite long enough," he exclaims.
Not married yet ? "

No," answers Paul, with a swift and wholly
unconscious glance at her,

Neither am I," continues Harry. " Weare
both doomed to single blessedness."

And then he turns to me, and we both are
immediately up to the eyes in a discussion on
the Indian Empire. I find him to be a man

of immense information on all branches of
the Indian subject, and listen to him with the
greatest interest. Still, I have my eyes and
ears open to all Marion and Paul are saying
and doing. They are speaking in very low
tones, but I can hear her telling him of her
marriage with Mr. Viner. "It was Harry's
wish," she says ; " he had to leave me so
often, for days at a stretch, and thought it
best that I should marry and have some constant
companion. Mr. Yiner was more like
a father than a husband."

He was rather old," Paul says.

"Yes, nearly sixty."

And then they commence talking of old
times, and seem as happy as two children at
play. What a contrast to their last meeting !
If Paul would only go in and win now all
would be well.

But he doesn't, and presently it is time
to leave.

You seemed to be enjoying yourself to-lay,

Paul'* I say, when we are well on our
way.

Yes," he answers, " I was. How pretty
Marion looked."

'' Yes ; now how was it that you treated the
girl so coolly when you met her at Virgemont ? "

He does not answer for a moment, then he
says, " Phil, it was the old story over again :

the instant I came into her presence my d d

idiotic, cool manner asserted itself."

But, bless my soul ! your repeated lessons
ought to have cured you of that. Think of
the misery and remorse you have endured."

I do, I do," he replies ; " but it is my
cursed nature."

At all events, you got on better to-day,"
I say ; " though I suppose if I or her brother
had not been in the way, and had you both
been alone together, you would have acted
the cool bored part over again ? "

He won't answer, so I light a cigar, and
puff away in silence the rest of the road home.

MARION ADVISES PAUL.

It is just three days ago since we rode
over to Fairleigh Cottage, and as we sit at
breakfast Paul slowly reads a letter, and
then exclaims :

"Bah!"

"What are you bathing at?" I ask.

"I'll tell you," he answers, and I notice
that his face has lost some of its colour.
"You talk of my being fickle and all the
rest of it."

I certainly do."

"Well, do you remember how well
Marion and I got along the other day,
when we went to visit her and Harry ? "

"Yes, very well."

"Do you remember saying you thought

those verses I showed you were rather
good?"

"Yes, and I think so still."

"Well, Phil, I sent her those verses by
post the night before last."

Well, what does she think of them ? "

What does she think of them ? " he

echoes. " Head that," and he chucks me

over the letter. I take it up, and read as

follows :

Fairleigh Cottage,

"Jan. 28th. '

"Dear Paul,

I return you the lines you were
kind enoufi^h to send me. Please don't be
offended, but I must ask you not to send
me any more of such.

You must also allow me to say that I
am not in the habit of ' kissing fellows,'
nor have I ever had what you are
pleased to call a 'list of lovers,' and
even if I had, your constituting yourself

one of said list is only on a par with
some other of your vain imaginings.
Yours sincerely,

Marion Viner'*

There, what do you think of that ? '*'
he exclaims, when I have finished reading.
Not much love in that epistle is there ? "

"Oh! I don't know so much about
that," I reply. "You see part of those
verses have offended her. Show them tome."
He hands me the verses, and I
come to the stanzas :

And since yoa struck me off your list
Of lovers, and dismissed me,
How many fellows have you kissed ?
How many women kissed me ?

How many whispered talks were talked ?
How many vows were spoken ?
How many moonlit walks were walked ?
How many vows were broken ? "

"You see, Paul," I continue, handing
him back the verses, " women are curious
things."

I should think they were ! " he exclaims*

And, you see, they don't like being
called flirts."

"Who called her a flirt?" he demands
fiercely.

"You alluded to her 'list of lovers,'
and furthermore, hint at her 'moonlit
walks with men.' "

Oh ! that is merely a playful conceit."

"Yes, my dear boy, but you forget that
all women — with the exception of Mrs. Wilson
— are deficient in humour, and fail to
see many of men's playful conceits."

Oh, rubbish ! " he exclaims.

"But it's not rubbish, Paul. And moreover
you ask her how many women
kissed you? That is really and truly what
has done for you."

"Oh, nonsense!" he cries angrily. "At
any rate Mrs. Viner will never be again
troubled with any of my poetry. Now
I'm going to smoke." And away he goes.

Was there ever such a pair of n>ad
mortals? Both loving each other deeply and
fondly, but always at cross purposes.
*****

As luck will have it, Mrs. Yiner and her
brother drive over in the afternoon. I
firmly believe she has proposed this visit
for the express purpose of " making it up "
with Paul ; but he, of course, is on his
"high horse," the hopeless idiot! The poor
woman tries hard (within the limits of
becoming modesty) to draw Paul into
good humour, but without any apparent
result. Harry Wynne and myself go even
more deeply into the Indian financial question,
but still I note the two lovers. Just
listen to them. She speaks low ; he affects
a particularly loud tone, viz. :

Marion with a roguish look) : Well, and
so you are not married yet, Paul?

Paul : No, indeed ! Hard to please, you

Marion smiling archly) \ Are you really
so hard to please?

Paul: Positive fact, I assure you. Have
you heard the new opera ?

Marion : No. after a pause.) Ahem !
Where are those verses you sent me?

Paul : Why do you ask ?

Marion : Well, I think them rather
good — though — the — er — lady is not the
flirt you think her.

Paul : I don't think anything at all
about the matter. As for the verses you
were kind enough to return, they are in
ashes.

Marion with an angry flush) : Oh,
indeed !

No, there is no use in trying to bring
these two proud, stubborn hearts together.
Even she has her little faults. She was
pleased with those verses, yet she returns
them with a curt note, and now she is
angry because she hears they have been

burned. But for all that Paul is acting
like an idiot. The girl has done all she
could to make up for her hasty letter, but
he won't cry pax; and so with an angry
flush and a toss of her head she turns
from him, and joins her brother and me on
the Indian topic, and seems to forget the
existence of such a being as Paul Joyce,
as she relates her experiences of Indian
servants and their manners and customs.

Suddenly Paul says: "I think I will
leave England, and go on a journey
through India," and he looks under his
eyes at Marion.

Yes, you should," she says, turning with
a smile to him. "You will find it a
most interesting country ; I certainly should
strongly advise you to go."

She should strongly advise him to go !
I fancy I can hear Tom Pierce listening to
her, and murmuring the mysterious word,
Walker." Yet she seems perfectly sincere.

"So you would really advise me to leave
England ? " Paul asks calmly, but with a
slightly blanched face.

Certainly I should," she declares.
Travelling is the most enjoyable of lives."
And she closes her lips firmly.

Proud, stubborn little madwoman —
prouder and more stubborn madman ; I
wash m}^ hands of you both.

♦ * *

By-and-by, after Marion and her brother
have gone, 1 find Paul in the " smokers "
pouring over — those verses ; those verses
which he told her he had burned. Ah !
if he had only been sane enough to have
handed them to her when she mentioned
them.

Phil," he says, " I want you to do mea
great favour, like a dear old boy'*

"Certainly," I say; "what is it?"

"I want you to let me go to London
tomorrow."

What ? " I exclaim in surprise.

Now don't refuse, there's a good fellow ;
Tom Pierce will be a splendid substitute
for me at your wedding."

"But, Paul "

Now there is no use in refusing me my
wish; I am going to start for India."

"Paul, Paul, will you ever learn
wisdom?" I say, laying my hand on his
shoulder.

"For God's sake, don't lecture me, Phil,"
he says in broken accents ; " I'm bad
enough : there is only one thing for me."

"And that is?"

"To do as she said, and leave England."
And then he breaks down, and sobs — my
God, how the man sobs !

->is<-

HONEYMOONING.

As I sit in the balcony of my hotel, I
behold, promenading at my feet, in all the
glory of buff boots and newest sporting
suits, dozens of well-known frequenters of
racing circles — mostly of the book-making
persuasion ; mixed with these I notice
powerful advocates, successful dramatists,
popular novelists, fashionable artists, society
beauties, and favourite actresses and actors.
Sure, never was seen so great a collection
of celebrities ! Besides all these mentioned,
there are lords, dukes and earls galore,
with their wives, or those who are not
their wives. There goes "Bertie the
Buzzed." Why he is called the " Buzzed "
I haven't the slightest idea; but anyhow

he is heir to an earldom and sixty thousand
a year. His companion is little Betty Cuff,
a chorus girl from the "Frivolity." Betty
is decidedly pretty, but " makes up" a great
deal too thickly, and is too pronounced in
bust and bustle. And now passes Lady
Di — • — no, I won't mention her name, her
husband might not like it ; her companion
is the celebrated baritone from Covent
Garden; I forget what the beggar calls
himself, but he is a great pet with the
ladies. And there is Jack Banner, the
leading man at the Sheridan Theatre, which
was built for Fanny Canning by old
Samson the Jew, who is something in the
City, but Heaven alone knows what. Jack
is a sleek, lady-like young fellow, and the
great cup-and-saucer comedy lover ; you will
see his photo in every print shop from the
Strand to Melbourne Grove. I don't know
who the lady is, but there is a boulevard
look about her boots. I wonder what

VOL. II. 28

Jack's wife is doing at home in hammersmith
?

Sir George Jeff, Q.C., has just passed,
after stopping twice to look back at a little
object in crushed strawberry, with pearl-grey
bonnet. At his time of life, too ! the
gay old dog ! Wouldn't it be fun if old
Lady JefF was watching him through her
double glasses ? A clever man Sir George ;
I recollect when he used to haunt the
Old Bailey for the purpose of picking up a
criminal client or two. But those days are
over. Like Mr. Gilbert's Judge, he married
the ugly daughter of a solicitor, and for a
reward, had all the clients his father-in-law
could procure him. He rose to eminence
rapidly, and is now a great gun in the
Divorce Court. He used to be a Eadical in
the Old Bailey days, but is now a Tory of
the deepest dye, and also a colonel in the
City Volunteer Hussars. But my eyes
are growing tired with watching the continuous

stream of people, and to rest them
I look across there, to the blue sunlit sea.

I suppose, my dear mad brother (or
sister), that you think I am stopping at
Brighton during the summer race-week?
Look at this paper I have opened to read,
but have never read ; it is called Le Figaro
and is dated March the seventh. Look at
those sunny slopes behind there, dotted
with villas flashing white in the sun ; turn
your eyes towards the sea — look at its
depths of blue ; observe those plants thereby
the marble pillars of my hotel : palm
trees, acacias, cacti, prickly pears, and all
the rest of them. Not very like Brighton,
now is it? My dear sir (or madam), this is
Monte Carlo, and the date is March the
eighth.

Have I visited the Casino — the gambling
hell? No, there are quite enough madmen
there without me; one of those madmen
blew out whatever superfluous brains he

28—2

might have possessed in one of the bypaths
of the public gardens last night.
They tell me he came here to escape the
east winds so prevalent in London at this
time of the year. The doctors told him the
only chance for him was Monte Carlo.
Thither he came, and after losing all his
money, together with his watch, studs, and
all the rest of it at the green-board, he
shot himself. The east wind of London
could not have finished him off in less
time. It appears his young wife on hearing
the news, gave an uncommonly loud and
piercing shriek and then fell back insensible ;
when they brought her round it was only
to find her a chattering idiot. But Monte
Carlo is a very fashionable place, and, in
point ol fact, the " Beauty spot of the
Elvira.' The noble prince who is the
ruler of this beauty spot takes good care
that none of his subjects stake one single
coin on the queen-table. "Let those mad

foreigners, especially those terribly mad
people from England, gamble away their
wealth at my table, but don't let me catch
any of you, my faithful subjects, risking
your money at the fatal game ; if I catch
you I will clap you into prison." And he
does.

We came here from Nice last Monday.

My wife ! Oh, that reminds me, I have

not informed you, dear mad brother (or
sister), of my marriage. Yes, Mrs. Wilson
and I became one, until death do us part,
exactly sixteen days ago ; Tom Pierce acting
as substitute for poor Paul. A very
smart wedding it was, I can assure you, in
proof of which I refer you to the Morning
Post of that date, not forgetting the
Torpington Guardian which came out with
a column and a half of most graphic matter
on the affair, describing some of the dresses
most minutely, besides enumerating the
presents, and giving a short genealogical

account of the Brownlow family, in which,
however, the writer twice mixes me up
with other families of the same name who
are no connections whatever. (But this by
the way.) A most enterprising paper is the
Torpington Guardian and enjoys a circulation
of upwards of fifteen hundred, and this,
together with the county advertisements,
of which it has the monopoly, besides a
back page leased to a London advertising
agent for ten pounds per week,
makes it pay its proprietor fairly well.

Well, as I have said, we came here from
Nice, and intend going back to Paris
tomorrow. This place, just now, is too
English, you know, as Miss Dixon (of New
York State) would say. We English are
the only people under the sun who avoid
each other as much as we possibly can
when abroad. Disliked by all people
through whose country we travel, we
dislike each other, just to be in the fashion.

No, ■ I am wrong ; we dislike each other

because we are so sensible of each other's

faults and failings. Have you ever noticed

what a ruinous effect the sudden appearance

of a policeman gives to the prettiest and

most secluded of walks, in say, Kensington

Gardens? Something of the same effect,

only more so, is felt by me, on the sudden

appearance of one of my own countrymen

amid Continental surroundings.

And how have things been elinor on since

O CD o

that eventful evening when Paul Joyce
decided on leaving Brownlow? He left the
next morning ; I myself driving him over
to the station. He said he would " write
soon," but up to the time of my marriage
and departure for Paris, no letter arrived
from him. Nor had any tidings come to
hand regarding the mysterious disappearance
of Sydney Barton, who, from the
night he quitted his father's roof, has
hot been seen' or heard of. Poor

Fanny was at our wedding, but looked
awfully sad and fretted, though I noticed
Tom Pierce did his utmost to comfort her.
I have often noticed that our girls are
far fonder of their brothers than of any
other relative, either father, mother, lover,
or husband. I think this curious trait is
only to be found in English girls. French
girls are very fond of their mothers, until
they marry and have familles, then all
their love is for their little ones. Irish
girls will desert all for their husbands, and
American girls love no one better than
they love themselves.

Talking of American girls. Miss Carrie
Dixon (of New York State) looked very
chic at our wedding, and was followed allover
the church by little Towers. I wonder
what Susan is doing ? Mr. Butts did not
attend our wedding; the widow — Marie I
mean — quite forgot all about him.

Nothing has been heard of the Duke of

Duchess of Stanton, and every one in the
district is beginning to wonder if the
Castle will ever behold its mistress again.
It is certainly very curious that her grace
should remain so long without writing
even to her housekeeper. But no — not a
line from either her or the duke.

What keeps Marie? We are going out
to do the promenade just once, as Marie
insists on letting people see that she is
here. Delightful little madwoman.

Here she comes.

^S:^*^ftlfeP^

STILL HONEYMOONING.

Back again in Paris — beautiful, butterfly
Lutetia, the pet of the world. Under
king, directory, emperor or republic, always
gay, grand and mighty ; the centre of civilization.
Vive la France!

It blows jolly cold on the boulevards
though, all the same, and Marie, who is
almost smothered in furs, clings closely tome,
as she pops her head every other
moment behind my shoulder to avoid the
cutting east wind.

Good gracious ! Phil ; this is almost as
bad as London," she exclaims.

"Not quite," I say, "but it is bad
enough."

Cold and bleak as it is, however, the chief

boulevards are crowded with be-furred pedestrians,
male and female, and the cafes seem
to be doing a roaring trade. I think Parisis
the place, par excellence, for pretty shop-windows
; it has taken us nearly two hours
to stroll from the Faubourg Montmartre to
Durant's Restaurant, thanks to those same
windows.

Presently Marie says, " Why, what a
number of Americans there are here. I
think every other minute I hear Carrie
Dixon talking behind or before me, every
second woman seems to have her accent."

"Yes, Paris is to the Americans what
London is to the Germans — a paradise."

While gazing with amusement into an
enormous toy emporium, Marie says, sottovoce,
"Don't look round for the world."

Why ? " •

"Because those horrid Tatte-Snarlows are
standing behind us. You know we never
sent them any cards ; " and then, after a

minute : " Thank goodness, they have gone
on. What a relief! "

So on we proceed, after having a long
look at the windowful of walking dolls,
talking dolls, laughing dolls and crying
dolls, all dressed to death as Marie says.
We bid adieu to these and their wonderful
houses (each as red and as new as a
Chislehurst villa), and also to the numerous
representations of the hav general in
tin, pasteboard, composition and wax ;
mounted on his famous charger, marching
up and down outside a half a foot of
cardboard battlements, with his sword
drawn ; sparring, with boxing gloves, a
German with long hair and goggle spectacles
and giving him a punch in the stomach at
stated intervals ; taking off his hat and putting
it on again ; and other actions too
numerous to mention. Boulanger seems to
be as popular in the nursery as he is on
the boulevards.

Presently Marie, after noticing a theatrical
poster, exclaims, " Oh, Phil ! you must take
me to the opera to-night, my favourite
'Faust' is announced'*

Very well," I answer. " Now let us get
back to dinner."

Just at this moment a hand claps me on
the back, and a voice cries, " Ha ! ha !
we meet again," in mock tragic tones. It
is Tom Pierce.

And when did you arrive here ? " I ask
as we three proceed along together.

"Yesterday," he answers. "Wanted to
see the new comedy at the Palais Eoyal."

"Wanted to crib something out of it?"
I say smiling.

Eight you are, Phil ; that's the idea."

"Have you heard or seen anything of
Sydney Barton?" Marie asks him.

Not a word," he answers. " What a
drivelling idiot the man must be. I wonder
how he is managing to exist, though.

Any money he may have had is all gone
by this time." And Tom looks troubled
for a moment.

"Oh! he'll turn up all right," I say.
And now you ■ must come and dine with
us, and afterwards give us the honour of
your company at the opera."

i^ 'V '^ '^ 'V

We are late for the first act of "Faust'*
and Marie is accordingly inclined to be
cross, but the rising of the curtain on the
second act, with its lively music and full
stage, puts her in good humour once more,
and she settles down to enjoy the performance.


The house is crowded, and a very
brilliant sight it presents. I can only see
two boxes empty — one in front of where
we sit, and the other right in the centre
of the house. I soon turn my eyes to the
stage, and am enjoying Valentine's beautiful
solo, when Tom whispers, "Phil, looks'*

"Where?" I ask.

At that box opposite ; see who has
just entered it ? "

I look towards the box ; a lady and
gentleman have entered it, and are now
seated back in the shade. But I can
spot them — they are the Duchess of Stanton
and Signer Tontine.

"There, what do you think of that?"
Tom says.

-" Oh ! I am not at all surprised," I say ;
and then some instinctive feeling makes
me turn and look towards that other
vacant box in the centre ; just as I do so
a lady and gentleman enter it. It is now
my turn to whisper to Tom, " Look ! " He
does so, and says in a low voice, " Great
Scott!" The cause of his surprise and
mine is bred of the fact that the pair weare
looking at consists of the Duke of
Stanton and a lady — name unknown.
Marie all this time is too engrossed with

the opera to notice anything in front, thank
goodness.

I say," Tom whispers, '' if the duke
spots Tontine with his wife, there will bean
explosion."

"Possibly. Who is his companion I
wonder ? "

Oh ! one of the demi-monde'' he
replies. I think he is about right.

The act is coming to a close, when the
duke catches sight of his wife and her companion.
Tom and I see him rise and leave
his box.

"By Jove! he is going round to them,"
Tom exclaims.

Yes, there is going to be a row — a
serious row," I answer.

The door of her grace's box opens ; the
duke enters, hands his card to the signor, and
goes out again. As the door closes behind
him, the duchess, who has been stricken
dumb with shame and terror, falls insensible

from her chair just as the act-drop comes
down.

Oh ! that was magnificently sung all
round," Marie exclaims, beaming with pleasure.
" Have you not enjoyed it ? "

Yes, very much," I answer ; and Tom
declares he never heard such a Faust before.

And then she gives us leave to go
out and enjoy a cigarette. Out we go
just as the signor is conducting the half-conscious
duchess from her box. In the
corridor we meet the duke ; he has evidently
made some excuse to his fair companion,
and is on the point of leaving the theatre.

Ah, Brownlow ! " he exclaims, " I'm glad
I have met you."

Yes ? "

Yes ; can you give me your services
tomorrow morning at daybreak? I have
a little affair on hand."

I understand," I answer ; " but I amon
my wedding tour."

VOL. II. 29

What, married ? " he cries, smiling.

Yes, married at last. But here is my
friend, Tom Pierce, a cousin of Sydney
Barton's ; he, I am sure, will put himself
at your service."

Certainly," is Tom's answer.

Thanks, very much," Stanton says, producing
a card and writing his present
address on it. " There is my address, Mr.
Pierce, and I shall expect you at five
o'clock tomorrow morning."

Agreed ; I shall be there," Tom says.

And shaking hands with us both the
duke leaves us.

Gone home to make his will," Tom remarks.

"Yes: I hope he won't fall."

When we are seated again I notice that
the opposite box is still empty ; the
duchess and her companion have also left
the theatre ; the duke's companion still
remains and is now engaged in ogling an
old gentleman in the next box.

During the next act Tom says, '/ 1
thought you told me the Duke of Stanton
was away in the Eocky Mountains shooting
bears or eagles or some such small game ? "

"Yes, so I understood."

He must have grown tired of it very
soon."

Oh ! you forget that he has been away
for over ten months," I say. "Now let us
listen to the music."

i(®^^i

29-2

THE DUCHESS IS SET Free.

My first thought on opening my eyes this
morning was, " How has the duke fared in
his encounter with the tenor ? "

And all during breakfast I am more or
less taken up with the same thought, much
to Marie's uneasiness.

"I'm sure there is something preying on
your mind, Pair dear," she says ; " do tell
me what it is."

My dear Marie, you are quite mistaken ;
I am tired of sight-seeing, that is all."

'^ Very well, then," she says ; " we will
return home tomorrow."

Oh, no ! I am not quite so bad as
that,*^ I remark laughing.

"Now I know better," lie exclaims.
"We go to-morrow'*

What a curious arrangement the postoffice
is here. I told Tom to write me a
note after the duel and to post it
at once ; but stay ! — why, he couldn't have
time to post before seven o'clock, consequently
his letter will not arrive here
until about two ; perhaps he will remember
that, and come himself.

Oh, here comes the garçon with a letter.
It is from Paul, and has been forwarded
on from Brownlow. It bears the Southampton
post-mark also. Now to hear what the
poor fellow intends doing next :

"Crown Hotel,

Southampton,

"March 10th.
"Dear Phil,

"Allow me, ere I embark for

India (there to travel for a year or so), to

congratulate sou on your marriage, which

I saw duly chronicled in the papers. I
would have written long ere this only I did
not know where to address to ; even now
I am still in the dark, but chance Brownlow
in the hope that they know your address
and will forward my letter.

Yes, I am bound for India, where she
told me to go. You see I obey her slightest
wish. When I do India I shall go on to
China and from thence to Japan ; and then,
God knows where. England I will not
return to for many a long year — perhaps
never. Heavens ! how different all this
might have been if I had only a little tact
and common-sense. But it is useless, Phil ;
I never can change my stubborn nature ;
and she — she is almost as stubborn ; you
know she is — and so it is that we are
both asunder.

All my hopes and all my ambitions are
dead — dead and buried. Oh, Phil, how I
wish I myself were dead. It is a wicked wish,

but I cannot help it ; my heart is broken.
I believe the Joyce Society is becoming very
great and active ; I wish them all success,
that is all I can do. I cannot work anymore.


God bless you, and make your married
life a happy one.

Your affectionate friend,

'paul Joyce."

Poor Paul! There goes one of the most
miserable men who ever left England on his
travels. What a warning to young fellows
that man's life is ! All his misery is entirely
his own making. Well, yes, she is a little
to blame too — she, who is pining away, and
eating her heart out, in Harleigh Cottage.
Such is love when it takes up its abode in
self-willed, stubborn hearts.

Ah ! here comes a letter, per hand, from
Tom. It bears no address and is written in
evident haste.

"Dear Phil,

I have bad news, so prepare yourself
for it. I met the duke in the grey dawn
this morning, and entered a close carriage
with him, which immediately set off at a
quick pace towards the south. Three-quarters
of an hour brought us to a quiet roadway
with market gardens on one side and
a thick wood on the other (divided from the
road by a low paling). Here the coach
stopped and we got out, and crossing the
palings, entered the wood. Just as we did
so, a gentleman came up to us and raising
his hat said, 'The Duke of Stanton, I presume.'


' Yes,' answered my companion.

' This way,' said the stranger, who spoke
English, by the way, with a strong Italian
accent. We followed him and soon reached
a clearing, where we beheld Tontine and
another gentleman, who I found to be a surgeon.
The gentleman who had conducted

US thither now introduced himself as Tontine's
second, and he and I lost no time in
arranging the distance, &c. Tontine had
chosen pistols as the weapons. By the way,
now I had better tell you, that on the duke
seeing his wife and Tontine together, he on
his way to the box wrote on his card in
French, ' Meet me tomorrow morning at six
o'clock in St. Vincent's Wood. Choose your
weapons.' Short and sweet, was it not?
In a very little time all was ready, and
Stanton and his opponent stood face to
face. It was my duty to give the signal
to fire — which signal was the dropping of a
handkerchief.

I counted one, two, three, slowly to myself,
then gave the signal. Ba-bang ! and
Stanton staggered and fell. The surgeon
and I were kneeling by him in an instant.
But the former immediately shook his head.
And well he might — His Grace the Duke of
Stanton was shot dead.

Come over to the hotel (D'Alcourt's,
Eue Victoire) at once. The surgeon and
myself brought the body back in safety and
unnoticed. No one in the hotel, save the
staff, know anything about the affair. Come
at once.

In haste,
Tom."

So, Her Grace is free. Now to tell Marie,
and then go over to D'Alcourt's and arrange
for the transmission of the remains to Stanton
Castle.

-^^^Jfe4*?^-

HOME AGAIN.

Well, here we are back in Brownlow
once more — having returned from Paris
exactly a month ago. Tom Pierce and myself
arranged everything in connection with
the removal of poor Stanton's remains from
Paris to England. We had some trouble
with the police authorities at first, for Tontine
was too proud and elated at being called
out by a real English duke, and actually
killing him, to keep silent, so he told the
whole story to a reporter of the Figaro and
then crossed over to Italy. Such being the
case the police wanted to claim the body
until the whole affair was thoroughly sifted
but even the dead body of an English duke
is not to be trifled with, and accordingly,

we enlisted the aid of certain his-h officials,
and were allowed to coffin and bring
home the remains in peace. And William,
sixth Duke of Stanton, now sleeps with his
ancestors in the family vault beneath our
parish church.

It appears that ere he had been in the
Eocky Mountains district two months, he
grew tired of hunting for bears who never
appeared, and so gave up the sport and
returning to New York, took ship from
there to France, intending to return to
Stanton Castle via Paris. Picking up with a
famous member of the demi-monde he brought
her to the opera on the eve of that fatal
morning in St. Vincent's Wood.

He hastily drew up a will, in which he
desired all his wife's goods and chattels —
books, jewellery, and such things — to be forwarded
to her immediately. He also directed
that the residue of the fortune she brought
him, and which at the time lay in the bank

(and does still in fact) should be also returned
to her.

And where is she ? Heaven alone knows
Her " belongings " still remain in the Castle,
no one knowing where to forward them to.
A cousin of the late duke now reigns at
Stanton. He is unmarried, and consequently,
all the households containing marriageable
daughters throughout the county are in a
flutter of excitement and expectation.

My dear," I say to Marie, " there is a
chance for Miss Dixon."

How do you mean ? " she asks.

'• Why, at Stanton Castle ; the new duke
might marry her, if she "

No," she replies ; " I think the Stanton
have had enough of Yankee wives for sometime.
Besides, don't you know ? "

"Know what?"

"Why, of Carrie Dixon's engagement to
Mr. Towers."

Never ! " I exclaim.

"A fact ; they are to be married next
June at St. George's, Hanover Square. Carrie
insists on that," and my wife smiles, " because
it is so fashionable."

Well, you surprise me," I say ; " I never
thought she would marry such a little tomtit
as Towers."

Oh, I expect she grew tired of waiting.
By the way, Marion Viner called here yesterday
while you were out. What do you
think? Her hair is becoming quite grey,
and she has grown positively thin and
haggard-looking."

I'm not at all surprised at that," I say ;
she knows she drove away the man she
loved through mere pique. That must be
quite enough to make her wrinkled and

grey."

Ah, the poor girl ! " is Marie's exclamation,
"I pity her sincerely."

My being out when Mrs. Yiner called
yesterday was due to the fact that I had

ridden over, to make inquiries about Syd, to
Woodbourn. But nothing was known thereof
his whereabouts.

Oh, Phil, I do wish we could hear something
of him," poor Fanny cried. " Papa
is fretting his life away, though he never
mentions his name."

And the old squire certainly looked ten
years older than when I saw him last. He
spoke in subdued tones, and seemed to have
quite lost his fiery temper.

I tell you what we must do," I said to
Fanny, as I was leaving ; " you and your
father must come up and stay with Marie
and I when we go to town, which will be
in a couple of weeks. The change will do
the old man good ; and who knows but we
might drop across some one who has heard of
or seen Sydney. Never fear, Fanny, all will
come right in the end."

I hope so, Phil," she said with a forced
smile ; " and thank you very much for your

kindness in inviting us to town. Yes, I will
coax papa to come."

That's right ; and how is your aunt ? "
Greatly altered, too," she answered ; " she
has never left her room since that night."

On the way back to Brownlow I thought
of all sorts of schemes for entrapping that
eminent madman Sydney ; but none of them
seemed to suit when I began to go into
them thoroughly. Private detectives seems
the best idea.

-^

SUSAN CUTS UP ROUGH.

May the eighth, and glorious weather, sees
us in our house — taken for the season — in
Mayfair. Moreover, this bright May morning
sees Marie and myself preparing for the wedding
of Miss Carrie Dixon (of New York State)
with little Towers.

I do believe we shall be late," Marie
cries. "Is the carriage at the door,
Jane ? "

Yes, madam."

"That's an right."

I, being dressed, leave my wife in the hands
of her maid and enjoy a quiet cigar. By the
way, I have nearly forgotten that I have been
compelled to accept the duty of giving the
bride away. This is how that came about.

VOL. II. 30

Miss Carrie Dixon (of New York State)
called upon us last week.

Say," she observed ; " I guess somebody
has got to give me away on my wedding-day.
Ain't that so, anyhow ? "

Yes," I answered ; " it is the usual
custom."

Well, that's all right then," she continued
; " but it strikes me it's funny. I
give myself right away, don't I ? "

Certainly you do when you accept a
husband," Marie answered.

That's so ; well now, how am I going
on ? What's the matter with me 1 " and she
laughed. " I guess I have no one to give
me away but myself."

"Won't your uncle do so?" I asked.

No," she answered ; " not if I know it.
I'm not going to have my wedding spoiled
by any of his nervous fussiness — don't you
fret. Uncle would begin coughing and blowing
his nose like thunder, and would set all

the folks giggling, which would make me* real
mad. No ; I have told uncle he must stop
at home until the show is over. Then we
will go back with you all and have a splendiferous
spread at the hotel."

"But you must have some one to give
you away, dear," Marie urged. (Women are
so particular about every detail connected
with weddings.)

That's what's the matter," replied the
little Yankee ; " and so I came right away
here to know if Mr. Brownlow would work
the oracle."

With pleasure," I replied, laughing at the
expression, which had completely mystified
Marie. "I'll give you away, Miss Dixon,
though a slightly older man would have been
a better selection."

Oh, you're old enough for the job," she
replied ; whereupon Marie looked a Httle
put out " for an instant, but she joined mein
laughter.

30-2

And SO it was settled that I should give
away the bride at the altar. And now here
comes Marie, looking very dainty and pretty
indeed.

*****

The church is crowded with those who are
guests, and those who are not. The three
Miss Tatte-Snarlows are bridesmaids, together
with three other girls, who are strangers tome
; and the bride, looking particularly nice,
has just taken the arm of her future lord
and master (who is looking even a little more
foolish than usual), and both are now walking
down the aisle, the nuptial knot being
tied and the register signed. Marie and I
walk directly behind the bridesmaids, withall
the rest of the guests in a cluster after
us, as the organ peals out the Wedding
March. When we get to the church door
we see the usual crowd of women, together
with a sprinkling of men, waiting in a line
to the carriage, while a stalwart policeman

represents the law. We all pause at tie
door until the bride and bridegroom proceed
to their carriage. This they do in double
quick time. Little Towers hands his bride
into the carriage, and is in the act of following
her, when a woman suddenly makes a
rush at him, and ere the policeman can
interfere, has shaken the little bridegroom —
holding him by the collar of his coat — as a
dog would shake a rat. It is Susan Hemming
!

Susan, but how altered ! — dirty, slatternly
and bloated by drink. The policeman hustles
her away, and asks little Towers if he intends
charging her." " No," he answers, as he
stands trembling and white by the carriage
door, while the crowd jeer and all the guests
stand astonished. In fact, the three Miss
Tatte-Snarlows have looked around to see
if there were three male guests handy in case
they fainted.

Say, you come right in here," cries the

bride to her lord and master. " I guess you
look mighty foolish."

Her lord and master obeys ; but as the
carriage door shuts, a couple of roughs seize
the horses' bridles, and Susan rushes forward
with a miserable-looking, dirty and evidently
half-starved infant in her arms, while the
crowd of women surround the policeman and
keep him from reaching the carriage.

"Hey," she cries through the carriage
window, " you Towers ! You're going away
with your wife, ain't you? What about
me, that you enticed up to London from
my father's house, and made me what I am,
damn you ? You're a beauty, ain't you ?
leaving your child to starve. Look, ma'am,
this is his child and I am its mother — and
he gives me nothing to support it. No, blast
him ! Took me up to London and then
deserted me. A nice husband you've got,
good lady "

But here the policeman succeeds in breaking

through the crowd, and unceremoniously
hustles Susan and her baby from the carriage
door. The men who hold the horses'
heads, seeing this, stand aside, and off goes
the carriage double quick, amid the jeers
and hooting of the crowd.

*****

And so the splendid " wedding-breakfast "
ordered by Mr. Butts at the Hotel Metropolis
went untouched — not one of the guests
turning up. The scene at the church door
had completely taken away their appetites.


And all the " numerous and costly presents"
which were arranged for show, also
went unseen. Those same presents included
a large reading lamp on a silver stand from
me, and a set of Euskin's works (complete)
from Marie. I, myself, am rather sceptical
as to the interest either Towers or his wife
will take in the works of grand old John,
but a set of his books being a fashionable

wedding present just now, Marie of course
insisted on choosing them.

The poor little woman," she said, as we
drove back from church this morning ; " she
will remember her wedding-day ! What a
disgraceful scene, Phil ! "

Yes, but it serves him right."

Who is the woman ? "

His late gardener's daughter. He enticed
her to London, telling her father he had
procured her a situation in some friend's
house."

The little wretch ! " exclaims Marie.
*' But didn't she give him a shaking ? " And
my wife laughs at the recollection of the
scene.

The bride and bridegroom were, an hour
after they quitted the church, on their way
to the Continent.

NEWS OF THE LOST ONE.

One or two of yesterday's evening papers
must have made a good thing out of little
Towers and his shaking, for the contents
sheet of one bore, in large type, " Exciting
Scene at a Wedding: Bridegroom Horse-whipped
AT the Church Door ; " and the
other placard put it even stronger, for it
had " Startling Scene : Bridegroom Shot in
St. George's Church ! " Wonderful imaginations
these reporters have !

Mr. Butts swears he won't pay for the
wedding-breakfast, as he affirms that " there
was no wedding-breakfast." However, I think
the lawyers will convince him that he is
wrong.

As I sit reading the morning paper, Jenkins

comes to tell me that there is a dog
fancier in the hall who wants to know if
I would think of buying a French poodle,
and that if so, he has a beauty.

No, I don't want any dogs," I reply.

He told me to say that his name was
Ben Bantim, sir," continues Jenkins.

Bantim ! " Marie exclaims. " Why that's
the man who was at Woodbourn."

Yes, I remember now," I say.

Oh ! go down to him, Phil. He might
have some news of Sydney."

"You are right," and down I go to interview
the footman's understudy, who stands
in the hall with a toy terrier (all ears)
under each arm, and a black poodle shaved
within an inch of his life — save the tip of his
tail, his head and haunches — held by a chain.

"Well, Bantim?"

Good-morning', sir, good-morning'. I seen
by the Morning' Post that you was in town,
sir."

Oh ! sou take in the Morning Post, then,"
I say.

No, not exactly that, sir, but in the pub
which I uses the landlord is a red 'ot Tory
an' won't allow no paper into 'is bar but the
Times, Telegraph an' Morning Post. So these
yer papers are just the ones for me."

"Why?"

Well, you see, sir, they all gives the
arrivals of gents in town. An' when I see the
arrival of, say, you, sir, for instance, I notes
down the address, an' I says to myself, I says,
I'll call there, I says, tomorrow an' see if he
wants a dog. Do you see, sir ? "

Oh, yes," I say laughing. " You read the
papers solely on business principles ? "

That's it, sir ; what do you think of this
yer poodle ? He's a good 'un, 'e is, an' would
just do for the missus, sir."

No, Bantim, we have more than enough
of dogs in the country."

"Ay, sir, I suppose you have." he says,

preparing to go. " I 'ope all in Wood-bourn
are all right, sir — Miss Fanny in
particular."

Yes, they are all quite well. Indeed, Miss
Fanny and the squire are coming up this
week to stay a while with me. By the way, I
suppose you haven't seen Mr. Sydney in your
travels."

Yes, sir, I 'as," he replies ; " twice."
Twice, eh ? Where and when ? "
"Within this last week. You see, sir, I
does a good stroke of business in the dog
line out by them villars along Eichmond way.
Watch-dogs goes like one o'clock thereabouts.
Buys them to frighten burglars. Well, last
Monday I went with a collie to Miss Fayn-
court, the celebrated actress, sir, but you
know her, of course."

Miss Fayncourt ! " I exclaim, a sudden
thought striking me.

Yes, sir — her that stopped a night at
Woodbourn — don't you remember, sir ? The

night of the storm, it was. Her horse \\;as
killed on the north ridge."

Yes, yes," I say. " Does she live in Richmond
? "

Not exactly Eichmond, sir, but a little
way beyond it. Oh ! but it is a grand place,
with a lawn in front as smooth as a skittle
alley, an' a 'all hall 'hung with plates an'
dishes. It's called Victoria Pillar."

"Well, about Mr. Sydney?"

Yes, sir. Well, as I was saying', I was
going' along with the collie, an' was about
half a mile from Victoria Pillar, when who
should I see coming' along the road, with a
Gladstone bag in his 'and an' a straw 'at on,
but Mr. Sydney."

And did you speak ? "

I stood till he come up, but the instant he
clapt eyes on me he looked the other way and
walked quick past me."

Well, didn't you say something? " I ask.

Yes, sir, you may be sure I wasn't going' tolet

him pass after what Miss Fanny said tome.
So I called out ' Mr. Sydney, don't you
know me — Ben Bantim ? ' An' he never spoke,
but did a guy down the next turn."
Well, what then ? "

"Well, sir, of course I didn't attempt to
fuller 'im when I seed he didn't want to speak,
so I went on my way to Miss Fayncourt's and
'anded over the collie. At the same time I
didn't forget to tell her that I remembered her
in Woodbourn, and what do you think she
says, sir ? " And Ben looks at me as if he was
asking a new conundrum.
"What did she say?"
Why, she says, says she, ' Do you know if
Mr. Sydney has gone back to Woodbourn
yet ? ' ' Well, miss,' says I, ' that's a funny question,
'cause I'm just after meeting' 'im.' With
this she looked at me astonished an' says,
Where did you meet 'im ? ' and I says, ' Why,
about 'ars a mile from 'ere, miss.' An' with
that she says, ' Are you sure ? ' and I answers.

As sure as my name's Ben Bantim ; I thijik
I ought to know Mr. Sydney, miss.' And
when I told her I didn't stop 'im she got
regularly cross-looking, an' thinking' she was
going' to round on me I slung my 'took."

"And what was the second occasion on
which you saw Mr. Sydney ? " I ask.

Why, only yesterday sir."
" Where ? "

At about a mile from the same spot where
I seed him on Monday. He come along the
road towards me, but he foxes me most the
same minnie as I pipes 'im, an' he does a
double an' skates. I was going' to clive 'im
I was, straight, sir, but then I thinks to
myself, if Mr. Sydney don't want to see me
that's good enough."

Was it about the same hour on each
occasion when you met him ? " I ask.

It was about two o'clock on the Monday,
an' I reckon it must have been after three
yesterday. I wrote a note to Miss Fanny, as

she asked me, sir. I ain't much of a dab with
the pen, but I think I said all I had to say
square enough."

Very well, Ben, here is something for your
trouble, and give me your address."

Thank you, sir, an' 'ere's my card," and
Ben, handing me the card, departs in peace
with his " dogs."

The card, which sets forth that Ben is a
dealer and breeder of dogs to the nobility
and gentry at large," I place in my pocket,
and go upstairs to give Marie my information
concerning the lost one.

"Oh! Phil, we must find him," is her
exclamation.

Certainly, my dear, but how ? "

Why, we must think of some way.
Fanny and her father arrive this day week ;
we must all four hold a council of war on
the subject."

The squire will not move in the matter,"
I say.

Oh, nonsense," lie answers ; " we can
soon coax him round." And I firmly believe
that my wife could coax any man
round.

I take up the paper once more, and by
chance the first heading my eye lights on
is " Indian Intelligence," and then I read, with
hushed breath, " Mr. Paul Joyce, an Englishman,
lately arrived, died of sunstroke in
Calcutta on Friday."

'' Dead ! " I exclaim, flinging down the
paper in grief, " dead, dead ! "

Who, dear ? " cries Marie, coming up tome
and placing her arms round my neck ;
"who, dear?"
Paul Joyce."

She picks up the paper and reads the
fatal paragraph. Then after a pause she
says, 'perhaps there is some mistake, Phil
dear. There may have been another Englishman
named Paul Joyce in Calcutta. Why it
is a very common name in Ireland and

VOL. IL 31

Wales." But she knows well that there is
no mistake. There never is in such cases.

And so that is the end of poor Paul and
his Intellectual Monarchy ! Another brilliant
young career cut short through Dan Cupid.
For be it known unto all that this Love which
we sometimes imagine has left the world, is
still rampant, and is the primary cause of
most of the misfortunes and deaths amongst
us mad mortals.

Poor Paul ! what might you have not
been but for your own strange nature and
her proud stubborn heart ? It was only last
week I was reading an account of a meeting
of the Joyce Society which was very successful.
In fact, the society now numbers two
thousand members in London alone, and I
understand they are appointing branches not
only throughout Great Britain but in many
continental cities.

But fancy a man leaving England to die
in Calcutta because a woman, through pique,



advised him to go ! And, remember, men ,do
this sort of thing every day, all these eighteen
hundred and odd years having failed to make
men understand women any better than at
first.

*:fp

31-2

THE LOST ONE FOUND.

The squire and Fanny arrived yesterday
evening, and strange to say Tom Pierce called
to-day. In fact he is here now, talking tome.
He is very sorry about Paul.

What on earth brought him to Calcutta
in June ? " he asks in surprise.

Fate," I answer, " fate and madness."

Must have been," he says, " no man in
his senses would think of going."

And then we began to talk about Sydney
the squire not being present. (He is writing
in the library.)

"Has Fanny told you about receiving a
letter from that dog-fancier man about Syd ? "
he asks.

"Yes, the man called here last week, and

told me all about it," I answer. " It appears
that he met Syd in the same district on each
of the two occasions."

Close to Eichmond, wasn't it ? "

Yes, and carrying a Gladstone bag ; I
wonder what that meant ? "

Oh, goodness knows," Tom exclaims.
Perhaps he was looking for quiet lodgings ;
though I don't think a man like Syd would
bury himself away out there. Still it is
curious, the man meeting him twice in the
same locality."

Yes, and more curious still, Bantim was
going to Miss Fayncourt with a dog on
the first occasion."

Miss Fayncourt ! " exclaims Tom.

Yes, and it was only quite casually Bantim
mentioned the fact. I thought at the time
that there might be some connection between
her residence in the locality and Syd's
mysterious appearance there ; bat in questionings
the man he assured mc that Miss

Fayncourt was as much surprised on the
point as I was."

"It's very curious, all the same," Tom
says. Then, after a " little think," he jumps
up, and looking at his watch ^ exclaims,
Phil, are you game to try an adventure ? "

What kind ? "

Listen : it is half-past twelve ; we can
get to Eichmond in an hour from now. Let
us go and prowl around the district on the
off chance of dropping across Sydney."

Not a bad idea ? " I say rising.

Hold on," Tom says, " we must get the
squire to accompany us. How will we
manage that ? "

I think for a moment and then say, " Let
us say we are going to take a run out of town
just to see how the country really looks in
June."

Yes, that will do."

Here Marie and Fanny come in, and we
tell them of our plan.

Capital ! " Marie says. " I do hope you
will be successful. But are you going before
you lance ? "

Yes," I say, " we should be too late
otherwise."

And at this moment the squire enter.
He seems to be aging every day, and now
stoops somewhat, but is still agile as a
youth.

Uncle Jack," Tom says, " Phil and I are
going to have a run down by train to Richmond,
just to see the Thames in June. Come
along with us."

Do, papa," Fanny says ; " it will quite
brighten you."

Do you think so, dear ? " he says with a
sad smile. " Well I will go, if Phil won't
think an old man a nuisance."

Old man, forsooth ! " I cry. " Why you
are lighter on your legs and heartier than
many a young man of twenty."

"Indeed that is quite true," Marie observes.

"Now make haste, and be home in
good time for dinners

And so here we are, as some distant clock
strikes two, wandering around Eoyal Richmond
and chatting about Farmer George and
many another notoriety, royal and otherwise,
who have lived and died by the silvery
Thames. Since we started, Tom and I have
strenuously avoided all mention of Sydney,
but we are nevertheless keeping a sharp lookout
for that hot-tempered son of a hot-tempered
sire. The squire seems to be pleased
that we are with him, or that he is with us,
and suddenly he says, "Boys, I wish we could
find my son."

It is the first time he has mentioned Surname
since that night, and Tom and I look at
each other in regular surprise.

So do I," I hasten to say.

And I, mv dear uncle," Tom adds.

And, what's more, we must find hkn.
He is sure to be in London somewhere."

"Yes," I say, "he can't have any funds
to leave it with."

"No, poor fellow," the squire says with a
tremor, " I don't think he has any money at
all, and that is what is fretting me." And
the old man turns away his head and blows
his nose.

Don't you fret, uncle," Tom exclaims in a
cheery tone, " don't you fret ; we will find
him."

"Phil, and you, Tom," says the squire,
taking an arm of each of us as we saunter
along, "I have been an old stubborn fool.
But for my false pride I would have advertised
for him in the Times, begging of him to
return, married or single — ay, married or
single. Or I could have employed a private
detective, but no, I was too stubborn to do
either." Then after a pause he says, " I'm
glad you brought me with you, for now I

have told you how I feel with regard to my
dear son."

Ah ! my dear Mr. Barton, it pleases me
more than you can tell to hear you speak
so," I say. "And really, if Syd should ever
marry Miss Fayncourt, I assure you I think
he will have made a capital match."

I should think so indeed," Tom exclaims.
Why she has refused some of the best offers
in the kingdom, including the Duke of Barclay
and Sir Francis Bretton, of Tubber-coney,
co. Louth."

Indeed ! " exclaims the old man, evidently
surprised.

Oh, yes," Tom proceeds. "By the way, it
is not generally known that Fayncourt is only
an assumed name. Her real name is Norton,
and her father was the late Canon Norton, of
Combe Hatton."

"You don't tell me so?" says the squire
in astonishment.

Oh, indeed I do," answers his nephew.

Dear, oh dear, what a fool I have been,"
mutters the squire, half to himself, " what an
old fool I have been." Then, turning to me,
he says, " Phil, do you remember proving tome
that I was mad ? " and he smiles.

"You are not a bit more mad than other
people," I say.

"I don't know about other people, but I
agree with you that I am, or have been, mad,"
he exclaims, "very mad."

"By the way, talking of Miss Fayncourt,
she lives about here, somewhere or other,"
Tom says, as if the idea had just occurred
to him.

Yes," I say, " I believe she has got a
perfect picture of a place."

Very likely," the squire says. " Canons'
daughters are noted for their artistic
tastes."

Here Tom catches my eye and motions me
to look ahead to the right. I do so, and
observe a Queen Anne villa peeping its head

above a thick shrubbery. This is Miss Fayn-
court's.

By Jove ! I am beginning to feel both
tired and hungry. I wish some good Samaritan
would bring us in, and rest and refresh us."

I cordially confess I feel I could do with
something of the sort myself," I say.

On we walk until we come right opposite
to the gate, upon the pillars of which is
carved in a granite slab " Victoria Villa."

"Oh, what a charming little residence,"
cries Tom in rapture, pausing to look through
the gate. " Some person of taste dwells here,
that's certain."

And more certain still, the person of taste
had spied Tom from one of the windows of
the villa, and now comes tripping down the
path.

"Why, if it isn't Miss Fayncourt," cries
Tom in tones of very great astonishment.

"Who did he say? Miss Fayncourt, eh,"
asks the squire.

Yes," I answer. " How curious that we
should have just been speaking of her."

"Very curious, very curious indeed," says
the squire. " I have been wantonly rude to
the lady, and should like to apologize."

The actress by this time has arrived at
the gate, opened it, and shaken hands
cordially with Tom. He says a few hurried
words to her, and she immediately advances
towards the squire and myself, who are
standing a few yards from the gate.

Mr. Barton, is it not ? " she says, extending
her hand.

The old man takes off his hat, and holding
it in one hand, takes Miss Fayncourt's with
the other, as he says with old-fashioned
courtesy : " Miss Fayncourt, I have been
guilty of the most unwarrantable and unmanly
rudeness and discourtesy to a stranger
and a lady while beneath my roof. I am
heartily ashamed of myself, and most humbly
beg her pardon."

Oh, pray don't think any more of the
occurrence, Mr. Barton," she answers with
a frank smile ; " I freely forgive and forget.
And besides, I am quite aware of the
traditional, and consequently pardonable,
prejudice against the stage and all connected
with it which exists in country houses. My
lamented father was just as prejudiced as
anybody else. But come, let me return
hospitality for hospitality, and have the
pleasure of entertaining you at luncheon —
and you too, Mr. Brownlow ; you see I
remember your name."

As if quite unconsciously, she takes the
squire's arm and walks towards the gate — the
squire completely captured! I follow behind
them, and am wondering where Tom has
got to, when I spy him romping with a
collie dog on the lawn.

"That's all right," he whispers.

"Yes," I answer. "How I wish Sydney
would by some extraordinary chance turn up."

Oh, wouldn't it be splendid ? " he ex-aims.
" Twould
make."

claims. " Think what a fetching curtain it

A delightful hostess Miss Fayncourt has
proved herself to be, and has presided at the
luncheon board with the grace and dignity of
a queen. And now we are all seated in the
charming little drawing-room listening to her
playing (at Tom's request).

The squire is seated facing the piano, lost
in thought — sad thought, which music has
such power to raise. I am seated facing one
of the open windows, while Tom faces the
other. Looking away down towards the
gate, I see it is open, I having neglected to
close it as T entered behind our hostess and
the squire. Suddenly I start, and then look
towards Tom. He has also seen what I have
seen. But we both hold our peace, and
presently a knock comes to the hall-door.

This causes Miss Fayncourt to stop playing
for the purpose of listening.

A servant opens the door.

"Is the proprietor at home?" asks a voice
which makes both the squire and his hostess
start to their feet.

Yes, sir. Who shall I say ? " asks the
servant.

Oh, say the representative of Messrs. Jill
and Company, the celebrated rubber-stamp
manufacturers."

My God ! that's my Syd's voice ! " cries
the old man, going towards the door.

The next moment we hear the exclamations
of joy and surprise:

Sydney ! "

"Father!"

*****

In the words of the young lady novelist,
fresh from school, " we will draw a veil over
the scene which followed." A scene, or as
Tom expressed it, a " denouement of joy,

forgiveness and surprise." However, we
have all now recovered our wonted calmness,
that is, as far as we poor mad mortals can
recover anything, and as we sit enjoying
our cigarettes on the lawn, preparatory to
bidding our kind and now remarkably
animated hostess adieu, the squire says :

I declare, boys, I feel ten years younger
than I did yesterday'*

'* Hear, hear ! " Tom says. " You are a
regular modern Faust, uncle."

And then Syd makes us laugh heartily at
his tragi-comical adventures as a rubber-stamp
agent."

Yes, it must be a nice game ! " Tom cries.
Bring you about fourpence a-day and your
tea."

Oh ! it's an awful game," Syd says. " How
the hundreds of fellows working at it manage
to exist I cannot for the life of me make out.
I had a few pounds when I started; but for
that I don't know how I should have got on."

VOL. II. 32

By the way, Syd," I say, " how comes
it that you have been prowling around this
district so much lately ? "

Why, how in the name of goodness do
you know that ? " he asks in astonishment.

Found here — eh ? " the squire exclaims ;
"you never told me that, Phil."

Quite forgot it," I reply, and then turning
to Syd, who is casting furtive glances at
the actress, I say, " You want to know who
told me : Ben Bantim."

"Oh, yes, he saw me here once or twice
I recollect."

And why in the name of goodness did
you not speak to him ? "

Ah, well, Phil, I was heartsick and did
not wish to meet or speak to anybody I
knew at Woodbourn."

You foolish fellow," cries Miss Fayn-
court. '• I wish I had known that you were
wandering about here."

And Syd, with just a little flush on his thin

travel worn cheeks, goes on : " I'll tell sou
what brought me down here. One of our
travellers who works the East End, told me
that this district was practically unbroken
ground, and "

Unbroken what — eh ? " queries the squire.
What's that, Syd — unbroken ground ? Were
you thinking of going in for farming ? "

"No, no, dad," Syd answers laughing ;
I use a phrase denoting a place which has
not been canvassed. Well, on hearing this,
T determined to give it a couple of weeks'
trial. I may inform you all that I am now
a competent commercial traveller — that
means, I have acquired all the cheek, push
and blarney required."

Oh, indeed," smiles our hostess.

'• Yes," he proceeds, " when I first began,
I used to walk up and down for five minutes
or so outside a house, ere I could summon
up courage to knock at the door. But now
why, I think this was the only remaining

32-2

residence within a radius of three miles which
I had to call on. Yes, every householder,
every servant, and every policeman in the
entire district have listened to my lecture
on the extraordinary advantages to be derived
from the possession of one of our rubber
stamps."

By Jove I we must all have one each ere
you resign your post," Tom declares, and
Syd continues :

Seeing this gate open, in I walked
and "

Here you are," Miss Fayncourt says.

Yes, Syd," remarks Tom ; " in the language
of the classics you ' struck a bright.' "

Struck a what, Tom — eh ? " asks the bewildered
squire, " a bright — eh ? "

And then Tom hae Ko explain to his uncle
the exact meaning of the mysterious cockneyism.


And now it is time to leave our charming
hostess, after she has promised to come and

dine with us tomorrow. Sycl lingers a little
by the gate, while Tom, the squire and I goon.


"Dear, dear, what a happy old fellow I
am, boys," cries the old man, " and what
a Providential occurrence — what a Providential
occurrence."

"Yes," Tom exclaims, "just like the last
chapter in a novel, or the last act of a play."

"But is it not strange, Phil, our coming
to Eichmond ? " the squire asks.

Yes," I say, " passing strange."

But I don't tell him it was all planned.

jT^^^i^^ii&P^

Twelve months have slipped away since we
found that eminent madman, Sydney Barton,
knocking at the door of Victoria Villa, the
residence of the celebrated actress, Miss
Fayncourt. She is Miss Fayncourt no longer,
having been married to Syd at St. George's,
amid one of the most fashionable and notable
gatherings ever seen within its walls. She
has left the stage for good and all, and now
reigns as mistress in Woodbourn, the pride
and joy of her husband and her father-in-law.
Miss Minerva is now residing at Eastbourne,
having left Woodbourn the moment she
heard of Syd's marriage — and passes her
time between scolding her unfortunate maid
and visiting her physician.

Fanny was married to the gay and festive
Tom about six months ago, and is living
with her husband in London, where she can
go to a theatre every night in the year, so
she ought to be, and is, happy. Tom and
she are coming down to spend the autumn
with Marie and I.

Oh! little Towers and his wife have returned
after a twelve months' tour. I suppose
they thought it would take quite that period
to obliterate the Susan incident at the church
door.

It appears from what Carrie has told Marie,
that the case stood thus: All the money
supplied to Susan, through Towers' solicitor,
she spent in drink, nor would she give up
possession of her child (Towers wanting to
have it properly reared and attended to).
Then she began to pay drunken visits to the
solicitor's office, and at length the nuisance
became so unbearable, that Towers was " reluctantly
compelled" to stop all funds.

"I suppose it really couldn't be helped,"
Marie said to me, when she related the above
facts. "But it seems so terrible all the
same."

Yes — the little rascal brought the poor girl
to London. I remember her a modest, quiet,
hardworking girl, who devoted all her spare
time to her father."

Ah ! my dear mad brother (or sister), you see
in Susan's fate a drama which is enacted over
and over again year after year. By-and-by,
Susan will be found dead in the street, and
her child (if it is still alive) will be taken to
the workhouse. I wonder what name they'll
give it ?

Mrs. Viner and her brother are residing
once more in their own home in Berkshire.
She has not married — and she never will.
Her heart lies dead and buried in a certain
grave away outside Calcutta.

And the Duchess of Stanton ? She has
embraced the Eoman Catholic religion, and

having received her money as per her husband's
will, has given it to an Irish convent
which she has entered — never to appear outside
its gates again. So, we have done with
that wretched, sinful life.

The present duke is still a bachelor, and is
supposed, by ladies who know about such
things, to be a great catch. But up to this
he has not evinced any marked disposition to
swallow any bait.

The Tatte-Snarlow girls are married at last,
thank Heaven ! They were becoming a positive
eyesore. They married trade — stocks
and shares, or something of the sort — and live
in London — another thing to be thankful for !

And now, my dear mad brother (or sister),
we must part. — What about myself?

Well, I'm all right and as happy as the day
is long. What of Marie ? I think I can safely
aver that she also is happy. Our marriage has
not been a failure — from where I am sitting
I can see her bending over a swinging arrangement

of pink silk, lace, pillows, and all the rest
of it, in wtiicli slumbers a regular regulation
live baby, who I hope will some day follow his
father's footsteps through this mad world.

THE END.

KELLY AND CO., MIDDLE MILL, KING STOK-OX-TH AMES ;

AND GATE STREET, LINCOLN'S INN FIELDS, W.C.



12 084213468
