in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/myducatsmydaught01hunt

FRANK MURRAY, 9 & 11 YOUNG Street,

EDINBURGH.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. T.

LONDON
KEGAN PAUL, TRENCH & CO., 1 PATERNOSTER SQUARE



Contents OF YOL. I.

CHAPTER

I. The Factory of the Future

II. Ax Idler in the Market-Place

III. The Pursuit of Knowledge

IV. A Coincidence .
V. Sunday at Stratton

VI. By the Sea

VII. The Happy Valley

VIII. A Grateful Friend

IX. The Views of Mr, Mallory

X. Father and Daughter

XI. At Hartington Gardens

PAGE














i

I

Chapter I.

THE FACTORY OF THE FUTURE.

Some twenty years ago, Mr. William Lynn of
Lynnfield was one of the chief manufacturers
of Shawkirk, a thriving town in the Scottish
Border district. Mr. Lynn was a kindly, openhanded
man, neither very clever nor very industrious.
His career, had he been born poor,
would never have furnished a theme to preachers
of the gospel of getting-on. But on his
father's death he had been left at the head
of a solidly established business ; and this,
favoured by good times, had continued to
prosper, somehow, under his own rather lax

.supervision. His fellow-capitalists, indeed,
yoL. I. A

failed to understand why success should attend
one who wore the shackles of business so
lightly, who dreamed away half his hours ina
library, and whose head teemed with crotchets
for the benefit of the Working-man.
However that might be, it was the fact that
the Lynnfield works did a good and safe trade,
and were as flourishing a concern as any in
Shawkirk.

Then a report went forth that Mr. Lynn had
decided to carry one of his fanciful schemes
into practice. Shawkirk society was stirred to
its deeps. No one knew what the Scheme
was ; but everyone knew that it was bad, mad,
and fated to fail. With the Shawkirk manufacturers
it was an article of faith that Trade
should in no wise be alloyed with Philanthropy.
There was a prevalent feeling among
them that Mr. Lynn, in making any such attempt,
was acting as a traitor to his class.
They viewed his proceedings with extreme
disfavour. " If he goes on like this," observed
Mr. Macritchie of the Bridged Mills, *' he
will do any amount of harm." — " If he goes

on like this, lie will very soon come to grief,"
said Mr. Turpie of the Townhead Tannery.

No one deplored Mr. Lynn's perversity more
bitterly than his brother-in-law, Mr. Peter
Inglebyby. This gentleman was the proprietor
of a dye-work, which daily empurpled the
stream on whose banks Shawkirk is situated.
Mr. Inglebyby was not by comparison rich. He
had, moreover, a growing family ; whereas
Mr. Lynn had but one child, and was a
widower.

Mr. Inglebyby had done his best to show his
brother-in-law the error of his ways, but in
vain. Mr. Lynn was enamoured of his Scheme
of Co-operation. He was bent upon making
Lynnfield a model factory — a factory which
should be as a beacon-light to other employers
of labour — in short, the Factory of the Future.
Already he had taken certain preliminary steps
in the working out of the Scheme, by providing
his hands with a library and a gymnasium,
a bowling-green and a swimming-bath.
The hands had not been particularly grateful
for these boons. They had refused tg

enter the library or gymnasium ; they had
wanted to play quoits on the bowling-green,
and had traced the origin of all their maladies
to the use of the swimming-bath. They disliked
the idea of being petted and patronised.
If their employer really wished them well, why
did he not take the much simpler plan of raising
their wages ? Some of them regarded the
whole thing as a kind of joke on a big scale.
Others looked askance on the innovations, as
foreshadowing a possible design on Mr. Lynn's
part to take some fresh advantage of the sons
of toil.

Mr. Lynn's next proceeding was to build a
Hall in connection with his factory. This
erection cost him a good deal of money. It
contained a committee-room, recreation-room,
music-room, reading-room, smoking-room, and
a bar for the sale of intoxicating drinks.
The Hall itself was a spacious, high-ceiled
apartment, with a platform, benches, and all
things requisite for the holding of meetings.
Here, in imagination, Mr. Lynn beheld his
bands assembling nightly for the discussion

of politics and economics, and for conference
with himself and with each other on the question
of the common good. He had as yet
made no public statement as to his intentions.
But he had looked forward to the opening of
the ncAV Hall as his opportunity for doing so ;
and on the completion of the building, a placard
affixed to the great gate of the Lynnfield
Works announced this purpose to the hands.
They were invited to gather themselves together
on a certain evening, that they might
hear from their employer himself an exposition
of those co-operative principles which
were henceforth to regulate their mutual relations.
The work-people stared at the placard
in stupid amaze ; but the Shawkirk manufacturers,
when they heard of it, were filled with
anger and disgust.

These doings were terrible to Mr. Inglebyby
as an employer of labour. And it did seem,
moreover, a hard thing that a rich widower,
with interesting nephews and nieces, and an
only son, in delicate health, should indulge in
those costly eccentricities, and show himself

thus dead to the feelings which do honour to
an uncle. Mr. Inglebyby resolved on a last attempt
by way of recalling his erring brother-in-law
to a sense of duty ; and walked up to
Lynnfield, framing cogent appeals and simmering
with indignation.

It was a sultry forenoon in July. As Mr.
Inglebyby drew near the Factory of the Future,
he found the hands pouring out at the gates,
and was told that Mr. Lynn had given his
people a half-holiday on account of the ceremony
of the morrow — the opening of the new
Hall. This fresh extravagance embittered Mr.
Inglebyby 's mood. Here were some three hundred
work-people let loose — the men to drink,
and the girls to parade the streets — doing
nothing but harm to themselves, and making
other employers' hands more discontented, if
possible, than they were already. The Union
Jack flying from the turret of the new Hall
was, in Mr. Inglebyby's eyes, a flaunting symbol
of frivolity. The placard on the factory gate
seemed an insult to the ties of kinship.

In the counting-house the indignant gentleman

found only the chief-clerk, who was
seated at his desk, with a heap of letters and
invoices before him.

'' Good day, Arden," said Mr. Inglebyby. '' I
did not expect to find anybody here. How
comes it that you are not taking an idle day,
like the rest of them ?"

Somebody must look after the correspondence,
you know," said Mr. Arden pleasantly.
"Wait a minute" — he added, as Mr. Inglebyby
was making for a door marked " Private" —
Mr. Lynn is engaged just now — he has
some one with him, and they are not to be
disturbed. Won't you take the newspaper,
Mr. Inglebyby?"

Mr. Inglebyby took the newspaper, but
apparently found nothing to interest him in
its columns.

Who did you say was with Mr. Lynn ?" —
he asked, after an interval of silence.

Hume — one of our travellers. But they
won't be long now, I should think."

Mr. Inglebyby responded by a significant
"Ah!" Then, after a pause — "I greatly

fear," he said, " that this Hume is a young
man who is going wrong."

Indeed ! what makes you think so ?"

"He belongs, like myself," said Mr. Inglebyby,
to Mr. M'Candlish's congregation — that is, I
should say, nominally. But for some months
past, I have not once seen him in chapel. I
know that he frequents most dangerous
society. And I myself met him by chance
only a few nights ago, when, I do not hesitate
to say, he was under the influence of intoxicating
drinks. I shall consider it my Duty "
Mr. Inglebyby always spelt the word Duty
with a capital letter, and pronounced it with
the effect of one — "to warn my brother-in-law
against that young man. I suppose his —
ahem — irregularities have not escaped your
observation, Arden ? "

So long as he does his work," replied Mr.
Arden, " I have nothing further to do with
him. Mr. Lynn, I know, has a high opinion
of Hume. They have been together for
nearly half an hour now " — he added.

Mr. Inglebyby waited, with growing impatience,

for about fifteen minutes more. Then,
remarking sarcastically on the value of some
people's time, he rose, knocked at the door of
the private room, and opened it without
waiting for a " Come in." He could not
suppress an exclamation of surprise at the
scene which met his gaze.

Mr. Lynn was seated at a table, on
which, amid a litter of papers, stood an
allegorical group in bronze. Behind him was
a life-size female figure in stucco, representing
Industry"; while round the walls were hung
flags, floral devices, and festoons of evergreens.
Opposite Mr. Lynn stood a very pale, very
agitated young man, who broke off" in the
midst of an excited speech as Mr. Inglebyby
appeared. Mr. Lynn himself — a mild-looking
man of about fifty years of age, with blue eyes
and a light flaxen beard sprinkled with grey
seemed hardly less perturbed than his
companion.

Oh ! — Inglebyby," he said nervously — " I'll
see you immediately — I'm engaged just now
with Mr. Hume. It is a private matter — that

is, some private business we have to talk over.
Will you excuse me in the meantime ? — I
shall not detain you very long."

"Flowers, statues, and a profligate in tears!'
said Mr. Inglebyby to himself, as he closed the
door. " What does it mean ? But it's of a
piece with the rest of his doings. Only this
much is certain — it can't go on. No, it can't
go on."

Mr. Inglebyby came back to his chair in the
counting-house. He exchanged a meaning
glance with the head-clerk, but neither spoke.
The ticking of the office clock, the occasional
rustle of Mr. Inglebyby's newspaper, and the
scratching of Mr. Arden's pen, were the only
sounds heard. They seemed to accentuate the
silence which hung over the whole idle factory.

There was a sharp contrast in appearance
between the two men who were now consciously
awaiting the result of the interview
in the private room. Mr. Inglebyby was in his
fortieth year, and looked considerably older.
His hair was in colour iron-grey, and had
apparently the stiffness of iron. He had the

hard features and high cheek-bones of the
North Country. Looking at that stern, almost
granitic face, you could scarcely believe it
capable of a smile save at the cost of severe
muscular exertion. When Mr. Inglebyby
frowned — which was, in truth, not seldom —
two ridges of bushy grey eyebrow ran into
one, two cold keen eyes shot their glance from
beneath, and certain wrinkles on the brow
became furrows. Mr. Inglebyby was what the
Germans call grayling — a rectilinear man.
His manners were formal, even to rigidity.
If he ever unbent, in any moment of rare
geniality, you listened instinctively to hear
the crack. No colours save black and white
entered into the master-dyer's costume. His
garments were actually loud in their protest
against Fashion. His stiff upright collar and
large black tie seemed almost parts of the
man. No eye save his wife's had ever beheld
him divested of these symbols of respectability.
Mr. Inglebyby was, as it were, a living
incarnation of Duty — a term which in his
mouth commonly meant something disagreeable

to others, and consequently not unpleasing
to himself.

Mr. Arclen was about ten years younger
than Mr. Tngleby. His features were good,
though there were strong indications of
sensuousness, not to say animalism, about the
lips and eyes. His hair was dark, his face
well-coloured ; its prevalent expression suggesting
at once affability, shrewdness, and
self-possession. Mr. Arden had a singularly
musical voice, and spoke with an accent that
was not Scottish. He was undeniably a handsome
man, who dressed well, and had what
the Shawkirk ladies called "a fine manner."
Mr. Inglebyby, who held fine manners and fine
dress in equal contempt, entertained a feeling
of respect for Mr. Arden, based on his capacity
for business and his attention to it. He had
been heard to say that " Lynn had never done
such a sensible thing in his life as when he
brought Arden from the South, and took him
into his counting-house" — and to jji'ophesy
that "that young man would get on."

Another quarter of an hour .had passed

away. Then Mr. Inglebyby was aroused from
the gloomy reverie into which he had fallen
by a sudden cry from Arden —

Good God, Hume! what's the matter with

you?"

Mr. Inglebyby looked up from his newspaper,
and saw the young man who had been
closeted with his brother-in-law hurrying towards
the head-clerk's desk. Arden's surprise
was natural. Hume had left the counting-house
an hour before, outwardly spruce, jaunty,
and at his ease. Now, he was haggard and
dishevelled, his eyes were moist, and the hand
which he held out to Arden trembled visibly.

Good-bye, Arden," he said. " I'm going
going for good. I shan't see you again —
good-bye !"

*' Where are you going?" — said the head-clerk,
staring at him ; " what does all this
mean, Hume ? "

It means — well, you'll find out soon
enough what it means. It means " — he went
on excitedly — "that I've been speaking just
now to the best and kindest man I'm ever

likely to meet in this world ! And now, I'm
off — this is no place for me !"

"Hold on!" — said Arden. 'what makes
you in such a hurry, man ? Are we not to see
you again?"

No. I'm going right away. I'm leaving
this for good, I tell you — for ever. Good-bye,
Mr. Inglebyby" — and he held out his hand to
that gentleman also.

But Mr. Inglebyby deliberately put his hands
behind his back, and regarded the young man
with a glance of most austere displeasure.

"Sir," he said, "you must allow me to
draw my own conclusions from the painful
scene of which I have been the unwilling spectator.
I shall certainly not give my hand to a
man from whose words and demeanour I can
only infer that he has just been dismissed from
his situation for neglect of duty — or worse."

Hume, in his half-dazed state, seemed not
to heed, indeed, scarcely to hear, what Mr.
Inglebyby was saying. "Without another word
he passed out of the counting-house ; and
from that day Shawkirk knew him no more.

I suppose he has been discharged for
being drunk," said Mr. Inglebyby. 'rit is only
what I should have expected. I am glad,
sincerely glad, that my brother-in-law has
had the strength of mind to get rid of him.
If he had been in my employment, that young
man would have been dismissed long before
this." And he began to cherish the hope
that Mr. Lynn might even yet be recalled
to a sense of his duties as an uncle and an
employer of labour.

"You are surprised at these statues and
wreaths and things, I daresay?" — said Mr.
Lynn, when his brother-in-law joined him in
his private room. " They are to be placed in
the new Hall this evening. I explain my
Scheme there to the men tomorrow, you
know."

I have heard that such is your intention,"
said Mr. Inglebyby. "And I have come to beg of
you once more, Lynn, not to do this thing.
You may resent my interference — that I cannot
help ; I must do what I consider my Duty.
My conscience will not allow me to stand by

without seeking once more to show you the
error — the wickedness, I might almost say —
of the course you are taking. Sooner or later,
this thing means Ruin. If you have no care
for yourself, think on your son — think on your
on your — "

"On my nephew, you would say?" — suggested
Mr. Lynn, quietly.

And if I did say that your relatives have
a claim upon you before your workmen, I
should only be saying what is right and
just in the sight of God and man," said
Mr. Inglebyby, looking almost sternly in the
other's face.

"You spoke of your conscience, Inglebyby, a
minute ago," said Mr. Lynn, mildly ; " and I
don't doubt that you are acting as your conscience
bids sou. But I, too, have a conscience.
And my conscience will not allow
me to go on any longer making money
through the working of a cruel and iniquitous
system — a system created solely in the
interests of Capital — which grinds down wages
to the starvation point, and must lead — "

Yes, yes," said Mr. Inglebyby ; " I have
heard all that before. Talk about it, lecture
about it, write about it, if you will — but
don't, Lynn, don't for Heaven's sake try to
carry it out at Lynnfield. Is it not the case
that the firm that fidgets does no good ? And
this ! — this is not fidgeting — it's rank communism,
anarchy, revolution — it's unsettling
everything, upsetting everything, and breaking
down a business which it took your father
a life-time to build up !"

"Now, would you just listen to this?" —
interposed Mr. Lynn blandly ; and he produced
some loose sheets from a drawer in his
writing-table. " I have here worked out what
I take to be a thorough refutation of the old
fallacy that wages are paid out of capital.
You may have noticed that, not seldom,
when wages are low, interest is low ?"

Mr. Inglebyby responded by a gesture of impatience.


Now, notice how this fact bears on my
theory that wages are not paid out of
capital, but out of the product of the work-vol.

I. B

man's labour. This fact about interest
shows — "

Oh, we don't need to go into that now,"
said Mr. Inglebyby. '' The fact is, Lynn, you live
far too much in that library of yours. What
you say may be reason in a library, but it is
arrant nonsense in a counting-house. — By-the-bye,
I suppose you have dismissed that man
Hume ?"

'' Well, yes. I have."

There you did right — quite right. I am
glad that you have found him out, before he
has done any more harm in the place. I
suppose you did detect him in his evil courses
getting drunk, and so on ?"

'' No — not exactly. It's a painful thing to
speak of, and I'm not sure that I have acted
rightly, after all. But I may as well tell you,
Inglebyby. The fact is, he made a mistake about
money."

*' Embezzled, you mean ?"

Well, you might put it so* The poor soul
was tempted by associating with men richer
than himself — the old story. He was an able

fellow, too, and good at heart ; and he worked
well for me for many a long year — since he
was a boy, almost. When I think of it all,
I fear that I have been harsh. And yet, it
would not have been fair to others — "

What would not have been fair ? What,
may I ask, have you done with this — this
criminal?"

I was afraid that if I kept him on here he
might fall again under the same temptations,
and perhaps — who knows ? — have led others
astray. I thought it my duty to Society to
send him away from this — abroad, where he
can make a fresh start. Indeed, that was his
own wish. So he sails for Australia before the
week is out. But I don't feel comfortable in
my own mind about it. Perhaps I have not
made sufficient allowance for his youth — for
his circumstances. Perhaps I should not have
done this, after all."

'' Of course you should not," said Mr.
Inglebyby ; " there cannot be the shadow of a
doubt as to that."

I liked to see him at my house, too,"

Lynn went on ; " and he was always such a
special friend of little Arthur's. The whole
thing has pained me more than I can say.
It is most unfortunate — I feel thoroughly
upset — and there is that Address hanging over
me which I am to deliver tomorrow."

I suppose you have paid his passage
out?"

Oh, that is all arranged."

And given him money besides ?"

*' You may be sure I did not send him away
quite destitute. He will have sufficient for
his outfit, and something over and above to
make a fresh start, out there — away from his
old temptations."

I thought so. How much, may I ask,
have you been robbed of by this — this felon ?"

"A mere trifle — not £100. By the way,
Inglebyby, I had rather you did not call him a
felon,' and so on. Technically, you may be
right — but it jars on me, you know. Yes, he
confessed all, poor lad. The sum is nothing
in itself; you see, it is the principle."

I wonder you did not take him into partnership

!" — cried Mr. Inglebyby with withering
irony. '' That would at least have been better
than taking all the men in ! And you call
this acting on principle — doing your duty to
Society ! Your duty, Lynn, let me tell you,
was plain. You say that you want to make
Society better, and you begin by allowing a
thief to escape ! Not content with that, you
give him the means of starting on a fresh
career of crime, where his true character is not
known ! It is simply deplorable. — I am glad
of one thing," he added, after a pause — " I
am glad I did not shake hands with him !"

From the subject of Hume's delinquency,
they returned to the subject of Mr. Lynn's
Scheme. They discussed it long and hotly,
and with the old result. Mr. Inglebyby, the
practical man, departed victor in the argument
; leaving Lynn, the theorist, unshaken
in his belief that he had worked out the Millennium
from statistics.

Next evening Mr. Lynn set forth his Scheme
to a mystified audience of weavers, tenters,
porters, engineers, and mill-girls, whom he

declared to be the pioneers in a great Movement,
by which the claims of Capital and
Labour were to be brought into everlasting
harmony. His hearers did not understand
what he meant, but they felt that if there was
to be much speech-making of this kind under
the new order of things, they would require a
compensation for listening more solid than
floral decorations. There was a general agreement
among the hands that such compensation
should take the shape of an immediate
rise in wages.

From that night Mr. Lynn completely altered
the tenor of his life. Instead of trusting
the management of his works, as he had
hitherto done in great measure, to an excellent
staff, he was himself constantly present in the
factory. He insisted upon altering the lines
on which the business had been conducted ;
and his alterations were not improvements.
He seemed to have become possessed by the
spirit of teasing wholesomeness. He directed
the engineers how to economise their steam-coal,
and the clerks their blotting-paper. He spared

neither time nor money to make his cherished
Scheme a success, and his efforts were not long
in leading to striking results.

Before three months had passed, Mr. Lynn
had contrived to quarrel with his manager,
who had served both himself and his father
well. He replaced him by the head-clerk,
Arden, who studied his master's character to
the neglect of his interests. Mr. Arden's promotion
brought with it a share in the business.
The new manager soon made himself necessary
to Mr. Lynn, and showed a zeal in the
cause of co-operation apparently not less fervid
than his master's.

Then came a period of dulness in trade.
The hands had never understood Lynn's
Scheme ; but they understood what was meant
by working half-time at reduced wages. They
did not mind sharing in the good, but they
strongly objected to sharing in the evil. And
so they began to look on their Employer — as
they persisted in regarding Mr. Lynn, despite
all his protestations — with suspicious or contemptuous
dislike,

The business began to go down-hill. Neither
Mr. Lynn nor his manager had the technical
knowledge required to conduct it with success ;
and though the latter strove to atone for this
want by a high spirit of commercial daring,
his ventures did not bring profit — at animate,
to the copartnership.

The more obstinately Mr. Lynn strove to
work out his theory, the more complicated
became the state of his affairs. He soon
found that he must make great sacrifices, if he
would keep the promises he had held out to
his partners — the men. He made the sacrifices,
and kept the promises. He reduced his
personal expenditure to a minimum, and
adopted a style of living which was, by comparison,
mean. The consequence of this was
that nearly all his old friends dropped away
from him ; while the drain on his purse continued.


Then occurred an event which seemed to
the Shawkirk capitalists, who had been watching
the lapse of Lynnfield with dissembled
glee, as the beginning of the end. Mr. Arden,

after two years of managersliip, resigned his
connection with the Factory of the Future,
and departed for London. Evidently, the ship
must be going down.

This defection was a heavy blow to Mr.
Lynn. The whole burden of the Scheme now
pressed upon his own shoulders, and he felt
the business slipping through his hands. There
was none to assist him. Indeed, the other
manufacturers, who looked on him as the
common enemy, had formed a kind of ' ring '
against him, and cut him out of the market
so far as they could. His balance at the bank
dwindled away, and at last he had to draw on
his credit. As things grew darker and darker,
the incessant planning and brooding began to
tell upon his brain. The once mild and even-tempered
Lynn became fretful, moody, even
morose. There was, indeed, no small degree
of truth in what the Shawkirk capitalists said
of him — that " Lynn of Lynnfield had become
a monomaniac."

At length the end came. Three years after
the opening of the new Hall, Mr. Lynn died

a broken-hearted man. The subsequent investigation
into the state of his affairs occasioned
general surprise. That he should have
lost, and lost heavily, was what everyone expected.
But that in three years Mr. Lynn of
Lynnfield, who had been reputed a man of
great wealth, should have brought himself to
the verge of bankruptcy, surpassed the gloomiest
anticipations of even Mr. Inglebyby. Yet
such was the case. The fortune which fell to
Mr. Lynn's only child, after all liabilities had
been met, amounted to rather less than =£1000.
A few months more, the capitalists said, and
he would have died insolvent.

There were those in Shawkirk who connected
the name of Mr. Arden, ex-manager, with the
disaster which had overtaken Mr. Lynn. He,
it was said, had made a good thing of Cooperation,
if nobody else had ; and had gone
out of the concern just at the right moment
for himself. Others, again, held that there
was no valid reason for ascribing Mr. Lynn's
failure to anyone but himself. He had simply
muddled away his money," and '' torn up a

fine business by the roots;" and though the
time taken up by that operation was certainly
short, the Scheme had been mad enough to
account for anything. Mr. Arden was a clever
man, who had tried to keep Lynn right, until
obliged by the latter's obstinacy to give up the
task in despair. So said Mr. Arden's friends,
of whom he had quite a number. For success
never failed to make friends at Shawkirk ;
and Mr. Arden had been a successful man.
Returning to London not quite empty-handed,
and being backed up by a stock-broker
named Chevenix, whose daughter he had
married — he himself went upon 'Change, and
in the course of a few years gained credit and
renown as a successful speculator. The fame
of his financial operations extended even to
Shawkirk, where his old associates magnified
his wealth into something fabulous, and spoke
of him as an honour to the borough.

Mr. Inglebyby found himself appointed, under
his brother-in-law's will, sole guardian and
trustee of Lynn's only child. Mr. Inglebyby
discharged his trust faithfully and not unkindly.

The money left by Mr. Lynn was
prudently invested. The boy was brought up
in his uncle's house, where he was much beloved
and petted by his aunt and girl-cousins.
In due time he was sent to a good boarding-school
in the city ; and afterwards, in accordance
with his own desire, became a student at
a Scottish university. Mr. Inglebyby agreed to
this latter step — which he would never have
thought of in the case of his own offspring — less
out of regard for his nephew's wishes, than
from a conviction, amounting to certainty, that
the elder Lynn's business incapacity had descended
at least in equal measure to his son.

Arthur Lynn's patrimony might have been
considerably increased had it been found possible
to dispose of the Lynnfield works. But
the period of depression in trade, which had
set in before Mr. Lynn's death, lasted for some
years afterwards, and no purchaser came forward.
Before trade revived, the factory had
fallen out of repair, and modern improvements
had left it behind in the race. Capitalists
came, looked at Lynnfield, shook their heads.

and built them new mills elsewhere. In
course of time the Factory of the Future became
a dismal ruin — towards whose smokeless
chimney-stalk Mr. Inglebyby was accustomed
to point when perforating on the follies
of philanthropy.

Chapter II.

AN IDLER IN THE MARKET-PLACE.

I AM almost beginning to wish I were onboard
the steamer now. The last hour before
saying good-bye is always the worst part of
it."

You won't forget your promise about
writing, Arthur ? We 'are to have long
letters from you — how often ? Once a week,
is it not ? "

I am not likely to forget any of my
promises to you, Gertrude. Of course I shall
write long, very long letters. I daresay that
will be the surest way to make you wish I
were back again."

That will be in October ? "

"Without fail. I must be home in good
time for the Exam, you know."

"Oh, Arthur, I do so hope that you will
pass ! "

The speakers were a girl of twenty-one and
a young man of twenty three ; the scene being
the parlour in Mr. Inglebyby's house at Shaw-kirk.
The young man was Mr. Inglebyby's
nephew, Arthur Lynn ; and the girl was his
elder daughter, Gertrude.

Mr. Inglebyby's parlour was one of those
rooms which seem to be specially prepared for
the delivery therein of funeral sermons. The
windows, which were partially shrouded with
dusky curtains, commanded an uninterrupted
view of a high, blank walk, some dozen yards
distant. The carpet, hearth-rug, and table-cover
were worn and sad of hue. The chairs,
arranged symmetrically round the walls, were
covered with black, slippery haircloth. The
sofa, which suggested anything rather than
repose, was protected against visitors by
specimens of crochet-work, and faded heirlooms
wrought in wools. The furniture was
all of black mahogany ; and would have been
described in an auctioneer's catalogue as

substantial.' The walls were panelled in
dark oak ; and covered, above the panelling,
with a dingy brick-red paper. They were
further adorned with illuminated Scripture
texts, and with a number of portraits of
Dissenting Church Fathers. Mr. Inglebyby's
parlour was not a beautiful room, nor a cheerful
room, nor even a comfortable room ; but
at least it was — what more modern apartments
seldom are — a room with a character of
its own.

Gertrude Inglebyby was a rather tall girl,
with fine features and a graceful form. Her
hair was dark brown ; her eyes were grey
and limpid, and full of a soft seriousness.
Her complexion was clear and pale, relieved
by the bright red of the lips. Miss Inglebyby,
without being a beauty, was beautiful. Her
loveliness was of the winning rather than the
dazzling type. Half her charm lay in her
pure unconsciousness of self.

Arthur Lynn was tall ; good-looking ; rather
dark than fair, with bright frank eyes,
and a peculiarly pleasant smile. An Observer

once classified his fellow-beings into
men who think, men who feel, men who do
neither, and men who do both. Lynn, to
judge from his face, belonged to the last of
these categories. Both his expression and
manner had a kind of surface carelessness
about them, which was apt to mislead those
who do not look below the surface. They
would most likely have said of Lynn that he
was a young man who did not think very
deeply, nor feel very acutely. In this, however,
they would have been wrong. There
were others — his guardian, Mr. Inglebyby,
among them — who said of Arthur Lynn that
he showed a lamentable want of steadiness.
He seems as incapable of thinking seriously
on any topic," Mr. Inglebyby had said of his
nephew, "as he is incapable of standing still."
At present, however, Lynn was standing quite
still ; and his face, as he gazed at the blank
wall which shut off the view from Mr.
Inglebyby's parlour-window, betokened thought
deep, and not altogether pleasant.

VOL. I. c

Arthur Lynn was at this moment in the
position of one who has carried his point, and
now half regrets it. He had lately completed
his third session as an Arts student at a Scottish
University. His course had been a distinguished
one, ending in a fiasco. After
gaining high honours in other subjects, he had
failed to pass in the last of his examinations
that in mathematics — and had consequently
been unable to take his degree. Now it was
a matter of great importance to Arthur Lynn
that he should take his degree within the
next twelve months ; and having failed in
spring, he must make another attempt in
winter. It had occurred to him that the
intervening time might be filled up by taking
a summer Semester at a German University.
He had, accordingly, come to Shawkirk, and
represented this view of the matter to Mr.
Inglebyby.

Mr. Inglebyby's ideas on the subject of German
Universities were limited, but definite. One
of these institutions he believed to be at a
place called Heidelberg, where they drank

beer and fought with swords ; the other, at a
place called Tubing, where they drank beer
and did not believe in the Devil. Mr. Inglebyby
declined to see that any advantage could be
gained from a sojourn at either of these seats
of learning. There might be others — he would
not deny it ; but if so, he knew nothing of
them, and had no doubt they would be equally
objectionable. To go abroad in this way
would cost money, of which his nephew had
none to spare — much less to waste. Then Mr.
Inglebyby suggested a tutorship, by way of filling
up the vacation usefully. But Lynn
would have none of the tutorship. For the
present he stayed on in his uncle's house —
which he had been taught to regard as his
home — as it was supposed, reading mathematics.
He had at first been inclined to
resent having his plans thus thwarted. But
before many weeks had passed, he seemed
quite reconciled to the prospect of spending
the vacation in his native town.

Then, all at once, Mr. Inglebyby executed a
change of front. He took up the German

University idea, which had been allowed to
lapse, and pressed it with what, for him,
amounted to ardour. It had come to Mr.
Inglebyby's knowledge that there was another
University town, called Leipsic, where disbelief
and the duello, if not altogether extinct,
were less rampant than elsewhere. He would
consent to his nephew going there ; that would
be better, at all events, than spending the
summer months in absolute idleness. So,
after much discussion, the matter was settled ;
and now that the day of Lynn's departure had
come, he found himself awaiting the hour of
his going with a lack of hilarity which he
would not have deemed possible a few weeks
before.

I could never have believed," he said,
that I should be so sorry to leave this town
any more than I could have imagined that
my uncle would have agreed so readily to
my leaving it. His opinions on the German
Question have matured with wonderful
rapidity!"

'' He knows," said Gertrude, with a quick

blush, '' that it is better for you to study
abroad than to waste your time in Shawkirk.
Even I find it tiresome, at times. And it
must be far worse for you. You have no
companions here — at least, you had none before
Mr. Morton came."

I did not find it tiresome at all, I assure
you — even before Morton came. I know I
shall often wish I were back again, before
October. How I shall miss you, Gertrude ! —
you all, I mean. I shall picture you sitting
in this dull old room, while I am seeing all
those foreign towns, with their castles and
cathedrals and galleries. Perhaps, Gertrude,
some day — who knows ? — we shall see all those
things — together. "

We shall all miss you a great deal, Arthur,"
said Gertrude, hurriedly. " But I am glad
you are going, for your sake. You will work
hard at mathematics, will you not, even though
you don't like them ? I know you will do
that!"

Of course I shall work hard, at mathematics,
— and other things. I intend above all

to get a good hold of the language. There's
what they call an English colony at Leipsic,
you know, but I intend to avoid all the English
people over there. I shall associate with
Germans, and Germans only. Then, perhaps,
when I come back, we shall read Schiller
together. If so, I shall feel that I have not
studied in vain ! "

'' You will make me believe that father is
right when he says you have no ' earnestness',
Arthur."

I won't have you believe anything bad of
me, Gertrude ! I can't afford to do without
your good opinion. And, seriously — I do intend
to work up German in a most ' earnest '
spirit."

You know how anxious father always has
been about you — how much he wishes you
to succeed."

Oh, yes. Unfortunately, his idea of success
is almost the same as my idea of failure.
I am afraid, Gertrude, that but for you he
would have given me up as hojDcless, long
ago."

You know, Arthur, you believe nothing
of the kind."

Well, I know this, that many a time when
I have ruffled him, you have smoothed him
down. But for you, I might have been sitting
on a three-legged stool at this moment, making
a mess of somebody's ledger — you know
who it was that brought him to see my peculiar
fitness for a college course. And I believe,
Gertrude, that you've been playing the good
angel again — though perhaps I am not so
grateful to you as I ought to be. I believe
that had it not been for you he would never
have agreed to my going to Germany."

Lynn said this with a smile, and looked
down at his cousin, who was standing by his
side at the window. But Gertrude had turned
away her face.

Gertrude " — said Lynn at last, as she still
kept silent— "have I offended you, just before
we must say Good-bye V

No" — the girl said, her face still averted
" oh, no — how could you have done that ?
I wonder why father and Dick have not

come from the works ! They should have been
here before this time."

'' Do you know," said Lynn, " I have been
thinking — since it was decided that I should
go — thinking that I have never lived for more
than a few weeks at a time without seeing you,
and now I shall be for months away. I never
felt till now how much you were to me — how
much you have done for me. Gertrude — "

Here the door opened, and Lynn dropped
his cousin's hand, which he had taken in his.
Mrs. Inglebyby sailed into the room, and with
her Caroline, her younger daughter.

Why, Arthur !" said the latter, " have you
and Gertrude not finished admiring the view
yet?" — and she glanced at her sister's face,
then at Lynn. " Oh, I see — you have been
rehearsing your adieux in private, you
two !"

"Well," said Mrs. Inglebyby, sinking back
upon the parlour sofa as she spoke, " we have
finished your packing, Arthur, and I do hope
you will find everything right. If anything
has been forgotten, you must just write for it.

But oh, dear ! — oh, dear ! — how I wish you
were not going away at all !"

Mrs. Inglebyby was a mild, placid-looking lady
of middle age. In her youth she had been a
handsome blonde, of a somewhat exuberant
type. Time had dealt gently with Mrs. Inglebyby,
save indeed as to her figure, which no
artifice or effort on the part of her dressmaker
could make other than portly. But there
were no wrinkles on the white brow, no grey
hairs in the flaxen-brown ' front,' no crows
round the light blue eyes. It may have
been that in her early days Mrs. Inglebyby had
possessed the faculty of thinking for herself.
If so, it had not survived her union with Mr.
Inglebyby. That gentleman on all occasions
relieved his wife of the necessity of forming
an opinion — which was one reason, probably,
why she was so much the better-preserved of
the two ; in her case there had been no wear
and tear of the tissues.

Caroline was now eighteen years of age.
She had small, regular, well-cut features,
laughing blue eyes, and an abundance of wavy

chestnut hair. It was commonly said of Mr.
Inglebyby's two younger children, Caroline and
Dick — and not without truth — that they were
'spoiled.' In the 'spoiling' of Caroline Mr.
Inglebyby had elaborated with his wife. He
had always found it difficult to withstand his
pretty daughter's coaxing ways. Under her
influence many things undreamt of in Mr.
Inglebyby's philosophy had come to pass — the
introduction of works of fiction into that
serious household — sundry concessions to
fashion in the matter of female attire — a seaside
villa at Sprayton. Caroline was quite
conscious of her power, and claimed the privilege
of doing and saying, thin certain
limits, what she pleased. She had a sort of
notion that, being pretty, she was somehow
absolved from the trouble of being good in
many of the ways wherein plain people must
seek to expiate facial defects. And thus she
twittered gaily through life — like a charming
piece of porcelain, animated by the spirit of a
magpie.

Oh dear ! " — cried Mrs. Inglebyby, continuing

her wail — " low I wish, Arthur, your
uncle had never changed his mind about your
going abroad 1 I'm sure I don't know why
he did. I can't help thinking that it is safer
for a young man to stay at home, among his
friends, than to go and live among strangers,
and foreigners, on the Continent."

To Mrs. Inglebyby's inward eye, it should be
said, the Continent presented itself as a
great Plain, studded with crucifixes and card-tables,
where men with black mustachios and
false titles existed by the plunder of Cook's
tourists.

*' I'm sure, mamma," said Caroline, " I don't
know what there is to be so melancholy about.
I think Arthur is to be envied, getting away
from this stale old place. I wish / had the
chance of going abroad — I mean to, some
day."

Caroline !" — feebly expostulated Mrs.
Inglebyby.

"Here's Papa at last!" — cried Caroline,
who had gone to the window. " And, I declare,
Mr. Morton with him !"

^^Mr. Morton"— said Mrs. Inglebyby. ^' He
must have come to bid you good-bye, Arthur.
I am glad of it — he will help to cheer me up,
and the girls, after you are gone."

Hereupon there entered Mr. Inglebyby, his
son Eichard, and a dark, sunburnt young mana
few years older than Lynn, dressed as a
mate in the mercantile marine.

On the outward man of Mr. Inglebyby, the
years had not wrought much change. His
face was a trifle harder and thinner ; the
furrows on his brow were deeper, and the
bushy eyebrows and iron-grey hair were
sprinkled more plentifully with white. But
there had been no dimming of Mr. Inglebyby's
eye, nor abatement of his natural force. He
was one of those men who begin by looking
old at forty, and then scarcely seem to age at
all in the next score of years.

Between Mr. Inglebyby and his son it would
have been difficult to detect the faintest trace
of a resemblance, in countenance or in character.
Dick — he was ' Eichard ' only to his
father — was short, stout and rubicund. As

the Shawkirk people said, lie " featured his
mother"; but there was on Dick's face an
expression of latent cunning, of which Mrs.
Inglebyby's countenance was guiltless. Dick's
cunning was exercised for the most part in
shirking his duties at the Victoria Dye-Works,
in wheedling stray sovereigns from his mother,
and in concealing his peccadillos from his
father. He was, in truth, a determined .
In vain had Mr. Inglebyby striven
to subdue this eager spirit to the routine of
a drab-coloured domesticity. Dick turned to
dissipation as naturally as a sun-flower turns
to the sun, or a duck to the water. He
garnered up in secret rich stores of forbidden
knowledge. The birds of the air seemed to
whisper to him the lyrics of the music-hall.
Under grave disadvantages, he kept well
abreast of the latest developments of slang.
And Dick was not without ambition. In his
higher imaginative moods he had visions of
a London billiard-room, thronged with gilded
youth, in which — after tantalising an opponent
with hopes of easy victory — he should suddenly

put on an inimitable, dazzling 'break
and witch the world as a ball-compelled. This
budding reprobate was now in his twentieth
year ; and already Mr. Inglebyby's old friends
were shaking their heads and asking men to
mark their words, while they foretold with
grim glee how " that lad would vex his father
yet."

' So you're away at last, Arthur ! " —
said Morton. "Do you know" — turning to
Mrs. Inglebyby and her daughters — " you are
all sitting there and looking as sad as if
Arthur were ' bound for the Eio Grande ' at
least, instead of merely going off to have a
good time on the Continent ?"

This speech jarred on Mr. Inglebyby. He
had wished to give his nephew an earnest
valedictory address. Indeed, it had been a
question with him whether a service of prayer
ought not to precede the young man's departure.
Clearly, that was now impossible.
He resented Morton's presence deeply. It
tended to lessen the solemnity befitting the
occasion.

'arthur," he said, ignoring Morton's remark,
" I suppose it is not necessary that I
should endeavour to impress on you further
the seriousness of the step you are taking.
I trust that you will be industrious and
economical — you yourself must see the absolute
necessity of that — and that you will
hold yourself entirely aloof from the frivolities
of foreign life. I do not know that I have
acted altogether rightly in giving my consent
to your going abroad. I can only hope that
you will never give me reason to regret
having done so."

Oh, I wish you would give up going even
yet, Arthur ! " — cried Mrs. Inglebyby, almost in
tears — '* it is not too late. I am so frightened
when I think of your being all alone among
foreigners. I'm sure " — she added, turning to
her husband — '' I don't know why you agreed,
after all you said about that dreadful Continent
! The things you told us were enough
to make one's flesh creep — and, after all, to
think that you should let Arthur go ! "

Mr. Inglebyby bestowed on his wife an angry

frown ; but apparently did not think it expedient
to defend himself further.

'not go!" — said the sailor. "Oh, that
would never do. Look here, Arthur ! — that
boat of yours doesn't clear for a couple of
days yet, does she ? "

'• No, but I have some arrangements to
make in town."

All right. Now, I've an idea. I shall
make the run over to Hamburg with you — "

'' Why, may I ask, should you do that ? " —
inquired Mr. Inglebyby sharply.

Well, you see, I know the ropes there.
I was there once or twice before I shipped
in the Salamanca. I'll show you round the
Sancti Pauli quarter on a Saturday night,
Arthur. Yes, I've plenty of time — the old
boat won't be out of the graving-dock for a
fortnight yet. I'll go ! "

Mr. Inglebyby's brow became clothed in
thunder.

You seem to forget, Mr. Morton," he said,
that my nephew is not going from home on
a pleasure excursion,"

Of course, I know that — but isn't that
just one reason the more why he should have
a little—"

*' Innocent recreation " — suggested Lynn.

*eyes. A little — well, a little fun, you
know, before he settles down to a steady
pull at his work ? "

"It is not a reason to my mind," said Mr.
Inglebyby. " My nephew, sir, is not circumstanced
like you — he has his way to make
and his bread to earn in the world. I have —
partly against my own judgment — consented
to his studying in Germany. He believes
that it will do him good to see foreign towns.
I do not believe that. I believe that a man
can see all that is needful — all that is good
and useful for him, here'' — and Mr. Inglebyby
indicated the blank wall confronting his windows.
— " But, as I said, I have consented.
I do not know, nor do I desire to know,
how you employ yourself when you land at
foreign ports — "

"Oh, I know!" — interrupted Caroline.
You hire donkeys, and horses, and tumble

VOL. L D

off them — and you fly kites over steeples,
and climb up them — and the people all cry
Jack ashore !'"

"Silence, Caroline!" — said Mr. Inglebyby,
severely. " These things are not a fit subject
of conversation for a girl of your years. As
regards your proposal, Mr. Morton, I can only
reiterate my opinion that enjoyment — in any
form — would simply throw Arthur into a
wrong frame of mind, at a most serious juncture
in his life."

I should be sorry if it did that, of course,"
said Mr. Morton.

My nephew," continued Mr. Inglebyby, "has
not yet entered on the work of bread-winning.
Until he is at least self-supporting, he should
think nothing of the so-called pleasures of life."

I think you are too hard on Arthur,"
interposed Mrs. Inglebyby. "You forget how he
worked last winter, and the prizes he took.
And even since he came here he has not been
idle — he has read German every day with the
girls."

"Oh, that reminds me, Arthur," said

Caroline — while Mr Inglebyby acknowledged
his wife's remark by another angry glare
" when you write, don't forget to send
us more songs. And remember — I want
the whole of the Herring that loved an
Oyster!"

"You want the whole of whats" — asked
Mr. Inglebyby.

It's a song, papa — such a funny one ! — ' A
Herring loved an Oyster.' I mean to learn it.
Arthur has been translating German songs for
us, you know."

I did riot know," said Mr. Inglebyby ; " and
I trust" — he added, turning to his nephew —
"that when you reach the scene of your
labours, you will redeem the time of your
visitation to some better purpose than in trying
to make one word rhyme with another.
Kemember, Arthur, I beg of you, what is your
life — it is even a vapour, that appeareth for a
little time, and then vanished away. Use
each day as if it were to be your last — and
you will not waste the precious hours in
making poetry. It was for that, I believe,

LIBRARY

that you gained the prize which your aunt has
spoken of?"

'' It was. There is no denying it. But it
will never occur again. And, really and
truly, the Professor was more to blame than
I was."

"I do not understand what you mean.
But it appears to me, judging from the
results, that your time would have been much
better spent in the study of mathematics. I
cannot see that this prize will be of any
service to you, in your future walk in life.
What, can you tell me, is a prize for poetry
worth ? And what is poetry ?"

And Mr. Inglebyby shook his head, and
looked round as if challenging his household
to furnish him with a sufficiently contemptuous
definition.

'' Tm afraid we have hardly time to go into
that now," said Lynn — "here is the waggonette
at the door. Well, then, Morton — are
we, or are we not, to meet on board the
Breslau f "

"Arthur," said Mr. Inglebyby, "it is my

earnest desire that you should not meet Mr.
Morton there. If you do, I can only say —
though I fear that my saying so is not likely
to influence your decision — that I shall regard
your conduct with the deepest sorrow and —
displeasure. And this I say from no prejudice
against Mr. Morton."

Lynn said nothing, but his face showed
the annoyance he felt. Involuntarily, he
looked across the room towards Gertrude,
expecting that answering glance of sympathy
to which he was accustomed in his little
differences with his uncle and guardian.
But Gertrude was not looking his way.
She had caught Mr. Morton's eye ; and her
lips were rounded into an unmistakable ' No.'

Oh, I shan't insist on going," said the
sailor ; "I don't want to raise up any disturbance
on my account, I'm sure. But I
really don't understand you, Mr. Inglebyby —
that I must say."

"It is not necessary that you should,"
said Mr. Inglebyby. " I thank you, however,
for having yielded to my view of my

nephew's interests. I shall now be able to
part from him in a truly friendly spirit."

Lynn made no further remonstrance.
Again he looked at his cousin ; and saw
that the anxious expression which her face
had worn during the foregoing discussion
was changed into one of relief, almost of
gladness, as Mr. Morton renounced his purpose
of leaving Shawkirk. " I suppose she
does care for him," he thought within himself;
"perhaps, after all, it was as well I
had not the chance of saying what — I might
have said."

Here Lynn's attention was called away to
his cousin Dick, who was jogging his elbow
and twitching his sleeve in a furtive but
determined manner. Dick's face, during that
farewell hour, had been a picture of anxiety
and distress. Indeed, Mrs. Ingieby afterwards
remarked that she would not have
expected such a display of fine feeling, even
from Dick. And Dick's anxiety was genuine.
During the bustle attending the conveyance of
Lynn's luggage to the waggonette, he at last

succeeded in withdrawing his cousin upstairs,
to have just three words with him in private.

I say, Arthur, old man," he began,
you're an awful good sort, you know —
and—"

How much is it this time, Dick ?"

Well, I would not ask you, Arthur, if I
could possibly help it — you know that — but
the fact is, if you can t give me a hand, I'm
well, I'm burst. I got the tip to back
the Canister colt for the Biennial, and he'd
have pulled it off all right — but the infernal
jockey was caught napping, you know — didn't
come till it was too late — and — and could you
let me have a fiver ? I'll send it over to
Leipsic in a fortnight — see if I don't."

No, I can't — it's no good, Dick. Besides,
I have barely enough to carry me through till
I get to Leipsic."

But what am I to do, then ? Oh, this is
dreadful I The fellow that put it on for me
has cut up rusty — says he'll go and get it
from the governor, if I don't cash up tomorrow.
It's a debt of honour, you know!

I thought you would have helped a fellow —
when you're going off to have a rare time
abroad too."

*richard!" — called Mr. Inglebyby from
below.

I say, Arthur, for God's sake, see me
through this time — it will be the last, I swear
to you I My mother's cleaned out, and I'll
have to go to Gerty if you don't — though
I'm afraid she's in low water — got next to
nothing herself, just now."

*' I can't afford it, Dick, as you know very
well. But look here — rather than have you
plundering Gertrude, I'll send you what I can
from town."

How much, do you think ?"

Three pounds. I can't do more — and
even that will run me very tight."

Couldn't you make it three ten ?"

Certainly not. Now, ivill you let me go ?
you'll make me miss the train. No, no —
you needn't mind thanking me. I understand
aU that."

I am grateful, of course — you know that

though I hate making a fuss about a thing"
mumbled Dick, as they went down-stairs.
Well, Arthur is a soft fellow !" — he said
within himself. " How is his sending on
the cash to keep me from borrowing from
Gerty ? I suppose he's soft on Gerty — confound
his impudence ! A fellow without a sixpence
! It's a sin that he should be let travel
about and enjoy himself, and a man like me
made to stay and grind on here !"

Five minutes more, and Lynn was being
driven off in hot haste to the station. One
glance backward at the group on his uncle's
door-step showed him Mrs. Inglebyby dissolved
in tears, Caroline kissing her hand, and Mr.
Inglebyby looking texts. Dick had disappeared,
presumably to indulge his emotion in secret.
Gertrude was waving her handkerchief, and
Morton stood close by her side. This was the
last thing Lynn saw, before the waggonette
turned the street-corner, and his relatives
were lost to view.

Well," said Mrs. Inglebyby that evening,
when she was alone with her husband, " I

hope it may all turn out for the best. But I
do not think it can be a good thing for
Arthur to go so far away among foreign
people, with no one to look after him. He
has never been used to that."

It is not a good thing," said Mr. Inglebyby ;
^' of that I am as well aware as you can be."

Then why did you send the poor boy
away ? He was quite content to remain herewith
us, I'm sure."

No doubt," answered Mr. Inglebyby drily.
It is not, I say, a good thing for one such
as he to go where he is going, among Sabbath-breakers
and profane persons. But it was my
Duty to permit, nay, even to urge his going.
It would have been a still worse thing for
others had he remained here."

How could that be ? I declare I do not
understand you in the least !"

"No — but I shall explain. Had you,
Matilda, been less blind to the interests of
your family, you would have needed no such
explanation."

What ! — blind to the interests of my

family ! " — cried Mrs. Inglebyby, with the nearest
approach to indignation of which she was
capable. " What have I done that you should
say such a thing V

I refer more particularly," said Mr.
Inglebyby, '' to the interests of your elder
daughter."

''Of Gertrude?"

Yes. I do not wish to hurt your feelings,
but there are certain things which my Duty
constrains me to say. Had Arthur remained
here, as you begged him to do, he would have
spent the summer months in — ' making love '
such is, I believe, the customary phrase —
to your elder daughter. That has been clear
to me for some time back, though apparently
you have failed to perceive it."

Well, you are quite wrong there," said
Mrs. Inglebyby, mildly triumphant ; " why, I
saw it all the time ! "

You — you saw it all the time ? " — repeated
Mr. Inglebyby ; and there was written
on his face the lusting of the natural man
after strong language, doing battle with the

exigencies of creed. " You saw it all the
time, and did not raise a finger to prevent
it?"

'' No — why should I ? Especially as I think
dear Gerty is fond of him. Any one might
have seen how pale she has been all day, and
going about as quiet as a mouse. Poor girl !
I am so sorry for her ! "

Mr. Inglebyby's brow became black as night.
He opened his mouth to speak, but apparently
words failed him for the moment. Then he
took two turns round the room, and came to
a halt in front of his wife's arm-chair.

You speak," he said sternly, " as one of the
foolish women speaketh. Do you not see that
such a thing must not be thought of? Do
you not see that it would bring down misery
on your daughter ? Do you not see that f "

N-no," quavered Mrs. Inglebyby ; " I do
not see it. I am very fond of Arthur. He
is my poor brother's only son. Why should
he not—"

Why ? "exclaimed Mr. Inglebyby. " Why ?
Because he is, I tell you, no fitting mate for a

daughter of mine. Because lie is an Idler in
the Market-place ! "

You have no right to say such dreadful
things of Arthur," said Mrs. Inglebyby, now in
tears. " He is not — what you call him."

I also," said Mr. Inglebyby, " have an affection
for Arthur Lynn. How could it be
otherwise ? He is near of kin to you — he
has been under my charge since his boyhood.
He is of a generous nature, and never told
me a lie. But all that does not blind me to
his defects. I have warned him against
these, but he has turned a deaf ear to my
warnings. The way of a fool is right in his
own eyes ! "

I'm sure Arthur is not a fool. He is very
clever — everybody says so."

Everybody does not say so — though it
would not influence my opinion if everybody
did. And as regards the possibility of his —
marrying Gertrude, his cleverness is not the
point at issue. He has no money, and is
never likely to have any. He has the same
flightiness which ruined your unfortunate

brother. He will be a Thorn to all with
whom he is connected. AVhat is to become of
him when the money left him by his father is
expended, I cannot say. I groan when I
think of it. Already there are not two hundred
pounds remaining, and yet he fails to
realise the uncertainty of his position. He
shows no anxiety to become self-supporting."


There is the scholarship," said Mrs.
Inglebyby.

*' To be competed for a year hence ! And
if he gained it — a result which his failure to
pass in that last examination makes, I should
say, problematical — what then ? A scholarship
is not an annuity for life — it is only a
means to an end. What is to come after ? "

''He talks of the English Bar," said Mrs.
Inglebyby.

He talks of many things," rejoined her
husband, " and does few. The English Bar !
you do not know what that is ; neither do
I. But I know that it means starvation."

I always thought that Arthur should become

a minister. He likes to speak, and he
would look well in a gown."

That is absurd. He is absolutely unfitted
for the work of evangelisation. There was a
time when I thought otherwise — when I suggested
to him that he might become one of
our own pastors. On that occasion, I remember,
he answered me that he was an Erastian.
That was what he said — an Erastian ! "

'' He did not mean that seriously, I am
sure," said Mrs. Inglebyby, shaken by the awful
word, — " he must have been joking."

Such was not the impression he left on
my mind — though he is, I am well aware,
capable of jest upon such subjects. When
I asked him to what he would turn, if not
the work of the ministry, he said he had
some thoughts of becoming a Wine Merchant.
Such were his words."

"It is such a pity, as Gertrude always
says, that Arthur has no money ! " — said Mrs.
Inglebyby.

I do not agree with Gertrude, nor with
you. Had his father died a rich man, your

nephew's disposition would still have been
the same. If he had a fortune to-day, he
would squander it tomorrow. He has no
business capacity at all ; I doubt if he could
even add up a column of figures correctly.
He is his father's son, all over. — You remember
what he did last year, when the
hands were out on strike, and we were trying
to break the Union ? — how he gave money
to the wife of a Union man ? It was very
painful for me, I can assure you, to meet
the other employers after that. For, of
course, that man Turpie came to hear of it,
and accused me behind my back of being
concerned in the matter too."

*' I remember it quite well. Gertrude said
the man had been ill and out of work before
the strike began — and had a lot of little
children."

That has nothing whatever to do with
the principle involved. Women cannot be
expected to understand such things, but a
young man of your nephew's years might
have shown more common prudence. But

of that lie has none. He will, I fear, do
little good in life. He has no earnestness
of purpose. It grieves me to say so — and
to know that I cannot, in justice to my
own flesh and blood, have him to sojourn
again under this roof."

"I think you are very cruel," whimpered
Mrs. Inglebyby.

Not so," said her lord, in tones of unshaken
resolve ; 'rit is you who are foolish
and blind. I am only doing my Duty —
at some cost to myself, but it shall be
done. You, Matilda, have also a duty to
discharge. And remember — not a word of
this to Gertrude. I believe that you are
altogether wrong in your surmise, but in
any case there is no occasion for disturbing
her peace of mind. Anxious as I amon
Arthur's account — desirous that he should
walk uprightly and stumble not in the way
-yet I am relieved this night, to think
that he is gone ! "

VOL. L

CHAPTER III.

THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.

All the world of Leipsic was on Swimmers
Teicli. The Teich is a great, square, shallow
basin, fed from the sluggish river that flows
near by. There is an artificial island in the
middle, with a restaurant called Been Retiro.
Thither people resort, during summer, in boats,
during winter, on skates — for the purpose of
drinking beer.

It was a Skating Fete that had brought all
the world of Leipsic, that January evening,
to Schimmel's Teich. Chinese lanterns swung
from the trees around the lake, torches darted
hither and thither across its frozen surface ;
the restaurant buildings were a blaze of
light. A confused, mirthful noise rose from
the ceaselessly-moving throng, and vibrated

through the keen, tingling air — the ring of
a thousand skate-irons, voices loud and low,
shout and laughter, with a chorus of Saxon
gutturals to it all. A regimental band on the
island was playing Strauss' s waltzes. In the
intervals of the music, cries of " Kneller !"
and answering cries of " Gleich" — accompanied
by the clanking of beer jugs on the
table — came thick and fast from the Been
Retiro.

On the verge of the lighted space round the
island, two young men were standing, motionless
among the ever-moving figures. They
had no skates on their feet ; they were not,
apparently, listening to the " Weller und
Women " waltz ; their backs were turned to
the restaurant and its allurements. It would
not have taken a very acute observer to pronounce
these young men certainly British,
and probably Scotch.

They stood without speaking and watched
the crowd of skaters that swept by — soldiers,
students, and ' Philistines ' of every calling,
with their sweethearts, wives, and daughters.

Now a tall officer glides solemnly past, his
hand raised in salute every other minute to
the peak of his forage-cap. Then comes a
stout ' house-father,' puffing and blowing
behind the sleigh-chair in which he pushes
along his still stouter wife. Then a group
of students, capped in white, red and blue,
rush aimlessly by, uttering strange cries.
Next comes a popular actress with her suite
one sub-lieutenant bearing her muff, another
her scarf, a third her shawl. Near at handsome
half-dozen couples are endeavouring to
waltz on skates, amidst shouts of merriment.
Then there is an accident, followed by the
Teutonic equivalent for an altercation. One
student, skating along with his demoiselle,
has cannoned against another, skating along
with his ; and both are overthrown. They
pick themselves up, salute each other with
extreme courtesy, exchange cards, and pass
on. Blood will be spilt on the morrow — not
in any very serious quantity — as a consequence
of this misadventure.

"It is a lively scene," said the younger

of the young men, who had been observing
the shifting throng with a wistful gaze.

'' It is lively, certainly," answered his companion,
in a tone that did not imply approval
; "it is lively — but it seems to me
that is the best you can say for it."

I think it's too bad of you, Stomach,"
said the other ; " even though you won't put
on skates yourself, you might have helped
me to hire a pair. I'm sure / can't see any
possible harm in making a round or two of
the Teich, or whatever they call it. / am
not licensed yet — though you are. And this
is not Shawkirk ! "

"Ah, Eobson, that ought to make no
difference. The things that are wrong after
taking licence must have been wrong before.
And what you would not do in your native
town, my dear Eobson, you should not do
here."

"Don't preach, Stronach — I'm not worth
your while. Of course what you say is all
right enough ; but still, you know, one must
do at—"

If you begin with that maxim two days
after you land in the country, I wonder
where you will be at the end of six months !
I brought you here, Robson, to show you
how these people prepare themselves for
their Sabbath duties. To-morrow, I shall
show you how they perform them. I certainly
did not expect that you would wish
to join in this scene. I am glad your ignorance
of the language has kept you from
that

Well, there are ever so many Scotch and
English fellows on the pond, I'm sure — "

The more shame to them," said Mr.
Stronach decisively.

Just then a sleigh-chair dashed across the
space of light in front of the restaurant,
passing the two young men so closely that
they had to draw back to avoid it. There
was a young lady in it, dressed all in furs.
She was lying back in the chair, so as to hear
more easily. The young man behind it was
bending forward, so as to speak more easily
in her ear. He, also, was capped, caped, and

gloved in furs, after the German fashion ;
but his speech was English.

Shall we stop, to hear the music ? " he
said, slightly checking the speed of their
progress.

Oh, no ! I am sick of Strauss, and this
is too delightful ! Please go on — but do take
care of the natives ! Have some respect for
their feet ! "

This was said as they passed in front of
Mr. Stronach and his companion. The young
man looked up, and greeted his countrymen
with a slight nod of recognition.

Those are not Germans," — they heard him
say, as the sleigh-chair shot out again into
the darkness.

"Well !" — remarked the youth

Eobson, after a pause of astonishment. " I
say, was. that really Arthur Lynn ? "

"Yes," said Mr. Stronach curtly; "that
was Lynn."

"1 hardly knew him again — he's not like
the same fellow. And I say, Stronach, who
was that with him ? What a lovely girl !

"What a perfect face ! Do you know her,
Stronach ? "

I cannot say that I know the young
lady, but I know who she is. She is a Miss
Arden — an English girl, studying music here."

At the Conservatoire ? "

"No — she's only student for pleasure, I
understand. She's one of E — 's pupils —
seven thalers an hour. They say her father
is fabulously rich. He would need to be."

"And how has Lynn managed to pick
her up ? "

"I don't know what you mean by 'picking
up' a young lady, Eobson. But she
is seen everywhere with Lynn. They are
always walking together or skating together,
or — I am told — dancing together and going
to the theatre together. Everyone here talks
of Miss Arden — her beauty, her dresses and
her cleverness — and her constant companion."

Lynn's a lucky beggar, it seems to me."

Does it ? I should hardly think, however,
that he can be quite satisfied in his
own mind."

"How do you mean? He seemed to be
enjoying himself pretty well just now."

He seems to do nothing else but enjoy
himself — that is what I mean."

There was a short pause, during which Mr.
Stronach's companion appeared to be digesting
this last remark. Then,

I say," he began, " what would old
Inglebyby think if he were to see his nephew
here to-night ? He's even more strict about
these things than you are."

"Mr. Inglebyby, I happen to know, is in
great anxiety on his nephew's account. Before
I left Shawkirk, he made me promise
to see Lynn as soon as I reached Leipsic,
and to write him from time to time as to
how he was getting on."

Then have you seen much of Lynn since
you came ?"

"As much as Lynn could not help. We
were never great friends at college, you
know ; and here our paths are different.
But I have heard plenty about him."

And will you write to his uncle about
about Miss Arclen ? "

I have written," said Mr. Stronach, " ina
general way. His uncle, I know, wishes
him to leave Leipsic ; but so long as this
girl remains, he will too."

They were now making their way off the
lake, and were too much occupied in avoiding
collisions with the skaters to continue
their talk. But when they had reached the
bank, Robson took up the conversation again.

"They used to say at Shawkirk," he began,
" that Lynn was very fond of his
cousin Miss Inglebyby, and that they would
make a match of it. Do you think there
was ever anything in it ? "

I know there is nothing in it now," said
Mr. Stronach. 'from what I have heard,
I should think that Mr. Inglebyby would be
altogether opposed to such a thing."

"Well, you ought to know, being so intimate
with them — but everyone said it, I
remember, when Lynn was last there."

I tell you it is not the case," said Mr.
Stronacli ; and then turned the conversation
to the subject of the Continental Saturday
Night.

Meantime the sleigh-chair was threading
its way through the crowd, but more slowly
now than before.

"You are very silent, Mr. Lynn," said
the young lady, turning her head a little,
so that Lynn could see the contour of the
delicate cheek against the dark furs she
wore. "And you are not taking my breath
away, as you did."

"Am I not? Well, hold hard, and I shall
rush you along,' as Mrs. Overend would
say."

"No, don't. Rather let us talk. Who
were those men you nearly ran down in
front of the Restauration ? Friends of

No — not friends. One of them was the
young parson who preached in the American
chapel, that Sunday evening we went there
Stronach,"

'' I remember him. He is a horrid man.
Don't you think so ? "

Well, I'm not sure that I have any profound
affection for Stronach. He is a perfect
specimen of the prig ecclesiastic — one
of those fellows, you know, whose very soul
seems to be in a clerical stock."

*' And the other?"

"A man of my year at college. He and
Stronach, as it happens, both come from Shaw-kirk
— my native town, you know."

*' So that was what made you so silent all
at once ! They reminded you of your native
town — which, by the way, I think you told
me you detested ? "

So I do, cordially."

But not all the people in it ? "

Oh, no— not all."

'' There are some, perhaps, you rather like
than otherwise ? "

Yes, that is so."

*rand there is perhaps one, Mr. Lynn —
though you have never told me that — whom
you—"

Here the sleigh chair ran into the middle
of a group of students, who, seeing the young
lady, began to apologise profusely for being
in the way. '' Each Got ! Seen Sie mat!
Die shone Engendering ! " — these exclamations
reached the ears of Lynn and his companion
as they passed on, and made both
of them laugh.

"I told you that was the name they had
for you," said Lynn.

"And now, of course, I am bound to believe
you ! "

Here a voice was heard behind them,
shouting " Herr Lynn ! Herr Lynn I"

It's that tiresome fellow Von Bernstein,"
said Lynn, bringing himself to a stop ; " what
can he be wanting now ? "

Here a tall young German, in the blue and
silver uniform of a cavalry officer, skated up,
and did elaborate obeisance.

Fraulein Arden — Herr Lynn " — he said —
a thousand pardons ! But I have been
sent in search of you by Madame. It is
Madame's desire that you should join in a

quadrille, which we are going to dance on the
ice."

But that is ridiculous, Herr Baron ! " —
said Miss Arden. '' How can one dance on
skates ? "

But it is Madame's desire," repeated the
young officer.

Then of course we can but obey. Come,
Mr. Lynn — be good enough to conduct me to
my chaperon ! "

Guided by the Herr Baron, they proceeded
to another part of the pond. On the way,
Lynn heard Von Bernstein, who was skating
by Miss Arden's chair, request the honour of
the young lady's hand in the dance.

"Oh, yes," Miss Arden said; "I shall be
very pleased to dance with you, Herr Baron,
or skate with you — whichever it is."

Here Lynn became keenly alive to the
absurdity of German titles, and to the ludicrous
want of room in a German cavalry
uniform.

Presently they reached a group of people —
all young, and nearly all English or American

the dominant spirit in which appeared to bea
small lady with a pale smiling face, and
very dark, bright eyes. She was dressed in
mitigated mourning, and looked a little, but
not much, older than the rest of the party.
This was Mrs. Overend — known, and deferred
to, among her set as 'Madame' — the rich
American widow who queened it over the
colony for the time — who gave little supper-parties,
arranged dances and excursions, and
chaperoned any number of young ladies all
at once.

So, Herr Baron," she said, " you have
captured the runaways ! Camilla, I shall
scold you in private. But I must ask you,
sir. Lynn — do you think it right to run off
in this way with one of the young ladies who
are under my care ? You must plead guilty at
once, sir, and promise never to do so again ! "

*' I plead guilty," said Lynn, '' and promise
not to do it again — without permission. But
Miss Arden has been quite safe, I assure you.
"We made the tour of the pond, and had only
three collisions."

You might have made the torn thrice in
the time, it seems to me. Now, Mr. Lynn,
you must be punished. You shall be my
partner in this quadrille ! "

I shall be breaking my promise, and
doing it again, if you punish me that way.
But where is your music to come from, Mrs.
Overend ? "

Oh, that will be all right, I guess. Herr
von Bernstein knows the bandmaster, and they
are going to play a set of quadrilles. Now,
all of you take your places — I can see the
great man raising his baton, and looking our
way !"

Mrs. Overend's quadrille was not brilliantly
successful. To catch your skate in a
crack of the ice, and fall prone in the act of
bowing to your partner, is not a pleasant
experience for any gentleman. This misadventure
befell one of the party ; and his
was not the only casualty of the kind. Then
other skaters, singly or in couples, rushed
from time to time among the dancers, and
threw the figure into confusion. Long before

the Finale was reached, dancing on skates had
been voted a failure and a bore.

You must set us something else to do,
Mrs. Overend !" — " Do let us stop before there
is a fatal accident ! " — " My arm is wrenched
quite out of joint ! " — " I have lost a skate ! "
expostulated the dancers.

I shall never try this again," said Miss
Arden aside to Lynn — " at any rate, not with
Herr von Bernstein for a partner. He has
sprained my wrist, and torn my dress with
his horrid spurs. Fancy skating in spurs ! "

I have an idea," said Mrs. Overend. " We
have had enough of crowding and coloured
lamps. Let us leave the fete, and go up
the Pleisse instead ! That will be so much
more romantic."

Capital ! " — said some of the party ; " yes.
let us go up the river ! "

"But will it be safe?" — asked one young
lady, rather nervously.

Safe ? Why, it is frozen right away
up, and the ice is at least a foot thick, I
know."

VOL. I, F

"But it will be so dark among those tall
trees ! And there is no moon."

That is a pity, of course ; but there will
be as much light as we are likely to want.
Don't you think so, Mr. Lynn ? "

I think whatever you think, Mrs.
Overend."

And you, Herr von Bernstein ? "

As Madame wishes it."

So, then, it is settled ; we shall go — or
rather, you gentlemen will take us, in chairs."

It seemed a matter of course that Lynn
should find himself again behind Miss Arden's
chair. Mrs. Overend, in marshalling and
arranging her party, had not needed to arrange
that.

At first they passed between houses and
under bridges ; the Pleisse, in this part of its
course, being exactly like a canal. The party
kept as close together as the breadth of the
river would allow, and there was plenty of
talk and laughter, at any rate among the
ladies. A stiffish breeze was blowing down
the river, and the men needed all their breath

to drive the chairs against it. There was
some talk of a race home, with the wind
behind ; and some jesting about the prize to
be given to the sinner.

By-and-bye the houses of the suburb became
more sparse, and at last were left in the
rear. The river wound between low banks, on
which the brushwood and sedges stood white
and stiff with frost. Looking back, they
could see in the dim hazy light that overhung
the city the spires of the churches, and the
dome of the citadel. Then they entered on
that long straight reach of the Pleisse, where
it doubles its breadth, and crawls more sluggishly
than ever between banks densely
wooded. Now its current was bound with
firm, black ice ; the trees, rising gaunt and
bare, threw the sides of the river into dark
shadow ; the topmost branches were duskily
outlined against the sky, and the starlight,
quivering through them, rested only on the
centre of the stream. Up the reach of
the river the darkness was broken here and
there by splashes of ruddy light which travelled

downwards — the torches of skaters
who had been up to Connewitz, and were
now returning. These, as they passed the
Anglo-American party, exchanged a friendly
Gluten Amends which the banks re-echoed
strangely. Then the sounds of singing were
heard, far up the river. Presently a cluster
of torch-lights appeared at the bend, and the
voices became more distinct. It was a party
of students, singing to the immortal air of
Print Eugene ' a patriotic Lied of their own
how once Kong Wilhelm sat at Ems,
quietly drinking the waters, and meditating
only of peace, and

Da that in sein Cahinette
Lines Morris Benedette^

Den gesandt Napoleon.
Der fiiig zornig an zu coller,
Weil ein Print von Hohenzollern

Solly auf Spaniels Konigsthron."

They had got to the verse about the " grande
nation'' — sung with immense sarcastic effect
as they met and passed the sleigh-chairs.
The flare of the torches lit up the river

from bank to bank, and the voices rang clear
through the frosty air. Then light and sound
swept on together, and died away far down
the stream.

Let us go on to Connewitz," said Yon
Bernstein at last ; " it is but an English mile
further."

That you may get Lager Bier, Herr Baron ? "

Truly," replied the Baron gravely ; " and
that you may get coffee, Madame. They
have all things very-good at the Drew Lilies
assure you."

Then the point was debated, and carried
against Herr von Bernstein and the other
gentlemen of the party. The ladies, protected
by furs and veils as they were, felt the wind too
nipping and eager to be faced longer. And
they professed themselves impatient for the
proposed race and its excitement.

A pair of gloves, Camilla — twelve button —
on the Herr Baron ! " — cried Mrs. Overend, behind
whose chair Von Bernstein was on duty.
The wager was promptly taken up. The tall
young German loosened his belt, tightened

his skate-straps, drew himself up proudly, and
prepared for victory. A minute after, the
chairs were turned, and the race began.

Now, Mr. Lynn," said Miss Arden, " I
expect you to bring me in an easy winner !
I know how fast you can go."

Scarcely had she spoken, when one of
Lynn's acres slipped from off his foot, and
went spinning towards the bank.

Confound it !" — said the gentleman.

How provoking !" — said the lady.

There was nothing for it but to go in search
of the lost skate. Several minutes were spent
by Lynn in groping about in the darkness ; at
last he found it, and came back with it in his
hand. By this time the rest of the party
were out of hearing.

You cannot overtake them now," said the
young lady ; " wee are out of the race, Mr.
Lynn."

And you have lost your gloves."

Oh, that does not matter. I shall win
them back at Vielliebchen. Mrs. Overend
always loses at that game."

"So I should imagine. But do you know
what Mrs. Over end will say about this little
accident V

No. What will she say ? "

She will say it was a ' put up thing.' "

"Meaning, of course, that you were afraid
to race against Herr von Bernstein ? "

Of course. But I was not really, you
know. It all comes of skating without heel-straps
to one's acres."

Next time you take me up the river you
must have heel-straps, Mr. Lynn."

Next time — but when will that be ?"

"Why, it is not going to thaw, do you
think?"

"I hope not," said Lynn; "this is much
more pleasant."

They went down the river by no means
at racing speed. The wind carried them
smoothly on, almost without need of exertion
on Lynn's part. For some time neither
spoke ; and nothing broke the deep silence
that hung over the river and the woods
save the slight noise made by Lynn's

skates, and by the runners of the sleigh-chair.


^' This is the luxury of motion," said Miss
Arden at length. 'one feels, sitting here
and seeing nothing but the darkness ahead,
as if one might glide on for ever 1 They
may say what they like of the Pleisse — that
it is muddy, stagnant, and a ditch. But I
shall always love it ! "

"And I, too. It was here I met you first."

"But the Pleisse looked very different
then, did it not V

'eyes; it was in May. The trees had
their fresh leaves on then, and the woods
were full of flowers. You remember that
picnic party ? How we rowed down by
moonlight, and heard the nightingales calling
to each other across the river ?"

"Yes, I remember it. Mrs. Overend told
me that I should meet a young Scotchman
named Lynn, who had newly come to
Leipsic."

And me, that I should meet a young
English lady, a Miss Arden — do you know,

it seems to me as if a life-time had passed
since then ?"

'rand yet, it is only seven months, after
all !"

But such months ! They have been a
succession of fair days, as your favourite
poet says."

*' Yes — and we have contrived to bear
them, in spite of Goethe. I shall always look
back on them — you, no doubt, will forget."

I shall not forget, and you know it.
Camilla, I must say a word to you, now, if
I am ever to say it. Those days have been
the most beautiful thing in my life to me.
But how I am to look back on them, rests
with you."

Why should you speak of that just now ?"

I must speak of it just now. I must
say to you what I have often said before,
though not perhaps in so many words. If
we are to part, I shall think my life worthless
without you."

Surely you need not talk of parting,
now ? You are not going away ?"

Lynn could not see the girl's face, which
was turned away from him. But he thought
he knew what its expression must be — half-playful,
half-tender ; a look he had often seen
on it before. And the voice in which she
asked her question was very low and soft.

No, I am not going away — at least, not
yet. But you may be going from me. Tell
me, Camilla — those days of ours have been
too short to you ? — as they have to me ?"

Yes," murmured Camilla. Lynn was now
bending over her as she sat, so that his breath
stirred in the loosened tresses of her hair.

"And must they come to an end?" — he
whispered in her ear.

I — I do not understand you. You are
very mysterious to-night, I think. Why do
you vex yourself with such thoughts, now —
and — and me, too ? Why not let us go on,
as we have always done ?"

You know that cannot be," said the
young man, drawing back. '' You are trifling
with me, I think, Camilla ! "

Now I have made you angry, without

meaning it. I know you are reproaching mein
your thoughts, and I cannot in the least
think why. What is it ? — tell me now,
this moment, or I shall think you want to
quarrel ! "

God knows that is not what I want, but
it is what I begin to fear. Is this true, what
Mrs. Overend told me yesterday — and what
you have never told me — that your father
is coming here ?"

Certainly it is true. I — I was going to
tell you. Why should I not ?"

That I do not know. But I know this,
Camilla, that things have not been between
us, these last days, as they were before. I
have seen the shadow of a change."

"That is pure fancy. I am not changed
to you — "

And never will be ?"

No — that is, I do not think so. Who
can answer for the future?" — she went on,
almost as if pleading by anticipation for
herself. 'who can tell what things may
happen?"

That is why I have resolved to speak to
you to-night. When your father comes — "

** Why will you always speak of that ? His
coming need make no difference. I don't
suppose he will be more than twelve hours
in Leipsic altogether, on his way back from
Berlin. He only wants to make sure that I
am still alive. I know so well how it will
be ! — ' So, here I am,' he will say ; ' glad to
find you looking so well.' Then he will take
me out and buy me something, and go off
by the next train. That is his style."

Lynn thought it was a curious style, but
made some allowance for the play of fancy in
the description.

'rit is the merest chance his coming here
just now," Miss Arden went on, after a slight
pause. " It need make no difference."

But it must make a difference — that is
what I want you to see as I see it. Camilla,
I must meet your father while he is here."

'' Of course you will meet him — that is, if
you wish it."

That is not what I mean. There is something

that I must say to him — if you give
me leave. Without that, I can do nothing
except to go, and never see you again.
Camilla, you know what I must say."

*' Yes, I know it," the girl said, in a voice
that scarcely rose above a whisper.

^' Think well before you answer me. Remember
that the happiness of your life, perhaps,
and certainly of mine, are in your hands
just now. Camilla, our days here have been
like a happy dream — you can make them a
reality by one word. I think I know your
heart — I think that you love me, as I love
you. I have kept back nothing from you.
I have told you that I am poor."

"Yes, yes — you have told me that."

And you think you understand what that
means ? — what it is for a man to be poor ?"

Oh, yes, I understand it."

And your father, I know, is rich. But I
shall go to him without fear or shame, if you
speak that one word. Camilla, tell me — am I
to go ?"

There was a minute's silence, during which

Lynn bent over the back of the sleigh-chair,
now gliding with the wind very slowly down
the river. At last the answer came — " Yes."

And I may tell him that you have given
me your love ?"

*' Yes . . . you may tell him that, too."

*rand that you will never change — that
you will never take back your word to me ?"

I shall tell him that myself, Arthur" —
and she turned her face towards him for a
moment, so that he could see the shining of
her eyes, lit up as he thought they had never
been before.

''My love!" he said, "you have made
me more happy than I can tell you. Now weare
sure of each other !" — Then Lynn sent on
the sleigh-chair with such an impetus, that
Mrs. Overend and her party were not kept
waiting above ten minutes for the lingerers.

Mrs. Overend lived in a pension in the
Konigstrasse, of which Miss Arden was also
an inmate. On the way thither, Lynn walked
by the American lady's side, carrying her
skates. She had, he thought, less to say

for herself than usual. She looked almost
serious.

*'Mr. Lynn," she said abruptly, "I wonder
if I may use the privilege of a friend with

you?"

*' Yes, indeed, Mrs. Overend ; I am sure
you may do that."

*'Mr. Lynn, I like you very much — there,
that's what I call being frank. Next to
Americans, I like Scotchmen ; and of all
Scotchmen I have ever known, I like you
the best."

Lynn smiled, and thanked the lady for
her good opinion.

"And so, because I like you, I am going
to speak a word of warning. Of course you
know now what is coming ?"

"Yes, I think I do."

When one sees a man paying such attentions
to a young lady, you know, one draws
certain conclusions. I may tell you, Mr.
Lynn, that had Miss Arden been entrusted
to my care by her friends, I should have
interfered long ago. But that is none of my

business — it is of you, not of her, that I am
thinking. It is for your sake that I want
to speak a word. I hope you won't misunderstand
me ? "

No, no ; I shall not do that. You are
very good."

"Well, I have lived for the last ten years
in Europe, a summer here and a winter there.
And I know what goes on in the ' colonies '
two people meet every other day for six
months, and they get to like each other
very much, and then they go off when the
hot season begins or the cold season begins,
according to climate, and don't ever intersect
one another again. It doesn't do for
birds of passage to think of nest-building,
Mr. Lynn."

Not as a general rule."

Well, to take the particular case — I don't
want to say anything against Camilla, and I
don't suppose you would listen to me if I
did. She's a dear, charming girl, and I've
got to like her so much. But, you know,
Mr. Lynn — men trust men ; women never

trust women. That is why I am saying
this, at the risk of offending you."

'you will not offend me, even if I can't
agree with what you say."

Very good. You have told me, oftener
than once, Mr. Lynn, that you have your
way to make in the world yet."

That is certainly true."

And I believe that, with your powers,
you have a career before you — at least, you
would have in the States, where we ain't
so crowded. But you have not begun yet.
Now — a failure in love is a bad thing to
start upon."

*' Why do you speak of failure, Mrs. Over-end?"


I shall tell you — and I do admire your
patience with me, Mr. Lynn ; I do indeed !
Of course you have told Camilla that you
are — well, not rich ? — Yes ! I knew you
would. And she of course said that that
was nothing to her ? — Yes ! Well — reflect,
Mr. Lynn, that a girl like her does not know
what poverty is. She does not think you

VOL. I. G

really poor. You have lived here — where a
thaler seems to go almost as far as a sovereign
in London — just like everyone else. Poverty!
why, she does not realise that drives, and
bouquets, and stalls at the opera, are beyond
the dreams of a poor man — in England. Here,
they need not be ; but there, they are."

Of course I know that," said Lynn.

'that is why I told you that Mr. Arden
is coming here. I knew that Camilla had
not said anything about it. She shrank
from it, and I do not wonder."

Why do you not wonder, Mrs. Overend ? "

"She knows, of course, what sort of man
her father is — what his views are, and what
he would say about — about — well, you know
what."

"Then you are yourself acquainted with
Mr. Arden?"

"Not intimately, but I do know him —
well enough to know him. He was mixed
up in business, somehow, with my late
husband. And he was most civil to me,
while I was in London."

Then, what sort of man is he ? I wish
you would tell me that."

I will tell you, Mr. Lynn — I am glad
that you have asked me. Mr. Arden, so far
as I understand him, isn't the man to let
his daughter marry on a primrose ring and
a love-rhyme. I don't think I need say anymore
than that — and now, tell me that you
aren't angry with me, for having said so
much?"

"No, no — how could I be that? I know
that you have spoken out of kindness, and
nothing else."

"That is so," said the American lady.
Not a word more passed between them,
until they came to the Konigstrasse, and
said Good-night.

Mrs. Overend's warning had given Lynn
food for serious reflection, and made him
feel for the moment somewhat low-spirited.
But Camilla's way of bidding him Goodnight
went far to restore his confidence.
There was a quick pressure of the hand,
and a whispered word : — " Papa comes on

Sunday night. He will stay at the Hotel
de Prusse." It needed no more than this
to send Lynn home in a mood of joyous
excitement.

His rooms were in the Sternwartenstrasse,
three stairs up ; so that their rental did not
make a large hole in his income. He found
his stove lighted, and all his books and papers
laid out on the table, ready for work. But
Lynn did not feel disposed for work, just
then. He lowered his lamp, lit a cigar,
and threw himself on the sofa ; and then,
in the dusk and quiet, began to think it
all over.

All the details of that scene on the frozen
river came back to him with vivid clearness,
and wrought in him a kind of ecstasy. The
tone of the girl's voice, as she murmured
"Yes" — the droop of her head — the subtle
fragrance of her hair — all were as distinct
in his memory as the word itself. No, he
would not doubt her, let the msdom of this
world say what it pleased. " Avoient never
trust women " — that might be true ; but he

would trust Camilla. That he might not
appear an eligible suitor to Camilla's father
was probable enough ; but had she not promised
— or as good as promised — that she
would never change ? — would never take
back the word she had spoken ? Then he
began to picture to himself his coming interview
with Mr. Arden ; and to outline the
manner in which he would state his case
and urge his suit. He must be prepared
to meet objections — that was certain. But
then, he was sure of Camilla. How little
did Mrs. Overend understand her — and how
thoroughly did he !

There was a knock at the door ; and the
servant brought him a letter.

He recognised the hand-writing of the
address ; it was Mr. Inglebyby's. There were
two circular notes in the envelope, and
nothing else — not a line, not a word. Lynn
knew what this meant. It meant that his
uncle was very angry.

Mr. Inglebyby had some reason to be angry ;
Lynn acknowledged that to himself with a

twinge of self-reproach. He had not returned
to Scotland in October, thus breaking through
the arrangement that had been made, and
putting off the evil day of the examination
for another six months. Of late also he
had been remiss in writing to his friends ;
and to each of his letters there had
been a postscript, requesting a remittance.
He had been spending a good deal of
money in these last months — at least, a
good deal comparatively. Those drives and
opera-stalls and bouquets to which Mrs.
Overend had alluded had cost something,
no doubt ; his uncle, of course, would say too
much. Well, the scholarship would make
that all right. Then Lynn cast a glance at
a packet of books which lay on the top of
his secretaire, with the dust of months upon
it. They were works treating of such subjects
as geometry, algebra, and conic sections ;
and he had never opened one of them. A
young man in love does not fly to equations ;
he finds German poetry, as a rule, a more
congenial branch of study. Lynn had been

reading a good deal of poetry lately ; more
than that, he felt that he had been living it.
He could scarcely expect his uncle to enter
into his feelings. Perhaps Mr. Arden would
prove more sympathetic. Well, forty-eight
hours would show that — Mr. Arden would
be in Leipsic tomorrow night, and he would
go to him on Monday.

Chapter lY.

A COINCIDENCE.

"My dear Lynn, what's the good of looking
so broken-hearted over it ? Aren't there lots
more of scholarships, and such things, that
you can go in for?"

My dear Morton, you know nothing about
it. It happens that there are no more
scholarships that I can go in for. And if
there were, I would not go in. I mean to
cut the whole thing."

Oh, nonsense. Why, I was plucked the
first time for my mate's certificate — three
seconds wrong in my chronometer time did
it — but went in again, and passed aU right."

The cases are hardly parallel, I fancy."

These remarks were made on board the
Chloe, a small cutter yacht owned by Mr.

Morton, in which the two friends were running
up the frith towards Sprayton. It
was a fine afternoon, early in May. A stiff
westerly breeze was blowing, and the cutter
slipped fast through the water. The ropes
and wire-stays sang in the wind, and the
foam ran humming and bubbling astern.
Ever and anon a dark shadow would race
over the water from windward, and then
the boom creaked and the mast dipped, as
the yacht swerved from her course, luffed
into the wind until the passing of the
summer squall.

Some three months had passed since
Arthur Lynn's return from Leipsic. The
result of his German studies had more than
realised Mr. Inglebyby's gloomiest forecast. He
had been plucked in mathematics, without
even going through the formality of giving
in a paper. He had consequently been debarred
from so much as competing for the
Paxton Scholarship, which — had he gained
it — would have yielded him a revenue
of £150 per annum for three years —

but which, unfortunately for Lynn, was
open only to graduates in Arts. This result
had grievously disappointed his college friends,
who believed, and not without reason, that
he would have carried off the Paxton —
the Blue Ribbon of Academe — had he only
been able to satisfy the demands of the
examiners in mathematics.

"Yes," said Lynn ; "whom the gods
chasten, to them they grant the desires of
their hearts."

What on earth do you mean by that f " —
asked the sailor.

You remember how eager I was, just a
year ago, to get to Germany ? Well, if I
had never gone there, I might this day
have been the proud holder of the Paxton.
I never told you, Morton, what happened
to me at Leipsic, but I don't mind telling
you now."

Well, what happened to you there ?"

"Various adventures. One of them was
with a rich stockbroker, who had a daughter.
I fell in love with the daughter, and stated

the case to the stockbroker. I suppose I
must have been mad ; he evidently thought
so. The situation in itself was not novel, but
he made it so by his excessive candour."

What did he say to you ?"

He paid me the compliment of saying
that I was the most remarkable young man
he had ever met, and that I would yet go far.
The thing I spoke of was of course impossible,
and did not need to be discussed. But he
would be very pleased to regard my visit as a
friendly call, and to learn my views on the
state administration of railways. Being unable
to enlighten him on this question, I took
my leave."

Well !"— ejaculated Mr. Morton.

"The curious thing is — I learned it only
the other week, when I was at Shawkirk —
that this man Arden was once a clerk, or
something, in my father's employment."

Arden ? Oh, I have heard of him before.
They say he means to stand for the Boroughs,
as soon as Fletcher retires."

So I heard'

And what did the girl herself say to all
this?"

I never had the chance of speaking to her
again. Two days after my interview with
the stockbroker, they left the place together."

*^ Well, you seem to have got over it now,
anyhow. When a fellow can joke about a
thing, as you do, it shows he can't be very
far gone."

You think so ? I suppose that people do
get over those things. All the same, it cost
me the scholarship."

'how?"

'' How ? Because for a month after I didn't
open a book — because I could think of nothing
else than that girl — because I can think of
nothing else still. Do you suppose it is the
loss of the scholarship that has made me such
a cheerful companion ?"

Well, I did think it would be a serious
thing for you."

'' It is a serious thing — but I tell you,
Morton, at this moment I seem past caring
for that or for anything else. Why, only the

other day my uncle told me things that would
have made me as dismal as himself, a year ago.
But I didn't seem to mind them a bit. I believe
my calmness disappointed him horribly."

What things did he tell you ?"

That, as you would put it, I haven't a red
cent in the world. All the money my poor
father left me, it appears, is now gone."

'' What ? Do you mean to say that you
had no notion of that before ? Did your
uncle never tell you how your affairs stood ?"

Not a word, till I came back from Germany."


There, it seems to me, he did very wrong."

I'm not sure of that. I don't believe I
should have lived my life a bit differently,
even if I had known. As for my uncle, it is
his opinion that my present lack of means is a
Blessing. So long as I have any money to
fall back on, he pointed out, I shall do nothing
to become 'self-supporting'"

*' How does he mean you to support yourself,
now ? — What else did he say to you ?"

First of all, he gave me what he called an

account of his stewardship. He brought out
a lot of papers with figures on them, and told
me to look over them, and add them up. But
I said it was no use — I could do nothing with
figures. Then he gave me a lecture — an uncommonly
mild one, by the way — about the
responsibilities of life."

That wouldn't do you much good, I
reckon."

No. Then he became very mysterious. In
fact, he displayed a power of imagination for
which I would never have given him credit.
He said I had many things to learn. Even
supposing I had a fortune, what would I do
with it? It didn't seem a very practical sort of
question, but I gave it serious consideration.
I said I should go to the Val d'Arno, where
the Etruria shades are. My uncle does not
known where the Val d'Arno is, but he concluded
it must be a place where men do no
work, and he did not like the suggestion. It
was afterwards arranged between us that I
should take up my abode for the present not
at Florence, but — at Shawkirk."

What on earth will you do there ?"

"Well, you see, I must do something.
You know Macritchie of Bridged ? It seems
he is in want of a tutor for his sons, and
failing a better, would take me. My uncle
has arranged it all."

You don't mean to say, Lynn, you're
going to take a berth of that kind, after — "

*' After what ? After failing to take my
degree ? A fellow in my position can't pick
and choose — he has just to take whatever
offers. It won't last long, you know ; and it
will do as well as anything else in the meantime."


It seems to me, Lynn, you are throwing
yourself away. I know the young cubs you'll
have to teach. You won't like it, I can tell
you."

That can't be helped. — But hadn't I better
keep her away a bit ? We'll fetch Sprayton
easy, on the next board."

Yes, — give her a bit more of the sheet,
and let her go through the water."

Meanwhile, from the end of the Sprayton

pier, a group of people had been watching
the progress of Mr. Morton's cutter. These
were Miss Inglebyby, her sister Caroline, and a
third young lady, who were seated on the
low parapet-wall ; while Dick Inglebyby, with
his hands in his pockets and a briar-root pipe
in his mouth, straddled across one of the
pollards.'

Mr. Morton will come to the good 
in less than a quarter of an hour,
see if I'm not right !" — said Caroline, who
plumed herself on her knowledge of things
nautical.

'' How she is bending over ! Don't you
think it is very dangerous ?"

What nonsense, Camilla ! I only wish I
were on board !"

Mr. Morton knows how to manage a
boat," said Gertrude. " He's a professional
sailor, you know. He gave up the sea only
a few months ago."

Why did he do that ?" — asked the young
lady called Camilla.

I'm sure I don't know," said Gertrude.

A Coincidence. 113

I'm sure you do," said Caroline ; at which
pleasantry Dick began to laugh.

Eeally, Camilla, you don't need to be
frightened," said Caroline ; and indeed the
girl's face, as she watched the approach of
the yacht, wore an expression that might
have been taken for one of intense anxiety.

Gertrude Inglebyby had by this time reached
what may be called the waist-encircling stage
of a young lady's friendship with Camilla
Arden. They had met in London, whither
Mr. Inglebyby, going on business, had taken
his daughter on pleasure. Mr. Inglebyby had
met Mr. Arden there. At that particular
time, Mr. Arden had his own reasons for
doing the civil,' as he called it, to his
former fellow-townsmen. He had done the
civil to Mr. Inglebyby ; and Miss Arden had
shown the sights of London to Mr. Inglebyby's
daughter. The friendship between the two
girls, thus begun in London, had led to the
invitation which accounted for Miss Arden's
presence on the Sprayton pier.

How curious, Camilla," said Caroline,

VOL. I. u

that you should meet Arthur here, after
meeting him at Leipsic! It shows, as somebody
says, how small the world is."

*' The world of Leipsic was certainly very
small. I don't see that there is anything
specially curious in it."

Still, it's a coincidence, you know. Anyhow,
I'm glad Arthur is coming at last. I
wonder why he would not come sooner."

'' Humph," said Dick. " If I'd done what
he's done, I'd have been jolly shy of showing
up before the Governor, I can tell you."

Camilla looked at the young gentleman on
the mooring-post with some interest. Thus
encouraged, Dick went on in his character of
Censor : —

I always told the Governor that a fellow
like him should never have been let go abroad.
No good could come of it ; I said so at the
time. And now that he's gone and got himself
plucked, and wasted all his money, what's
he going to do with himself ? — that's what I'd
like to know !"

"Dick!" — said Gertrude indignantly — "if

you are capable of thinking such things, you
should at least have the grace not to say
them. You would not, if you had any self-respect
!"

I don't see there's anything to make you
flare up like that, Gerty," said Dick, sulkily.
You're always taking Arthur's part, whether
he's right or wrong."

"Look!" — cried Caroline — sphere is Mr.
Morton taking in his staysail ! They'll let
go the anchor directly."

They saw Mr. Morton let go his anchor
and stow his mainsail ; after which the two
young men got into the dingy, and rowed
leisurely towards the pier.

That was rather smartly done, wasn't
it?" — said Caroline, turning to Miss Arden.
But Camilla did not answer. She did not
seem even to have heard the question. Her
face had lost its colour, and the hand that
held her sunshade trembled. She seemed for
the moment unconscious of her surroundings.
First she drew back from the edge
of the pier, where the others had taken their

stand. Then, as if by an effort, she came
forward again, and stood a few steps behind
them. The boat was now at the foot of the
stairs.

*well, I've brought him back to you at
last!" — said Morton, as he preceded his
companion up the steps. — "Arthur, make fast
the painter to that ring, will you? The
tide's falling still." Then there were greetings
between Morton, and Gertrude and
Caroline Inglebyby.

"Mr. Morton," said Gertrude, "let me
introduce you to a friend of ours — Miss
Arden."

Morton almost forgot to bow. He turned
towards Lynn, who had now reached the
top of the steps. Gertrude watched him in
surprise, his embarrassment was so obvious.
Then she looked at her cousin, as if seeking
an explanation. Lynn stood without speaking
or moving, as if rooted to the ground.

"Arthur," she said, "you are forgetting
to shake hands with me."

"How are you, Gertrude? — How are you.

Caroline ?" — said Lynn ; and he shook hands
with them, almost mechanically.

Camilla came forward. Her face was very
pale, and she had not been able to banish
from it every trace of discomposure.

"Arthur," said Gertrude, "you have met
Miss Arden before, I believe. I don't need
to introduce you."

"No," said Lynn; "no, you do not" — and
he took Camilla's proffered hand.

The tone in which he uttered these commonplace
words was such that they brought
a constraint upon the whole party. Even
Caroline was silent, and opened her blue
eyes very wide. Gertrude looked at her
cousin's face, then at her friend's. She saw
on both an expression that puzzled her with
its vague suggestiveness. It seemed to conjure
up a past in which there had been more
than a chance acquaintanceship between these
two. Lynn was not an adept at concealing
his emotions ; and now his agitation was
almost painfully apparent. Women generally
come through these social crises more

successfully than men ; but though Miss
Arden had her feelings under better control,
even she for the moment found nothing to
say.

"Hallo, you fellows!" said Dick — whose
interposition was, for once, generally welcomed
— " so you're not drowned yet, eh ?
Now, if you'll take a piece of advice from
me, you'll not stand loafing about this pier,
and staring at one another without a word
to say. You've riled the Governor already,
I can tell you, by being behind time. I
think you had better toddle up to the house,
right away,"

Again Miss Arden turned a look of interest
on the speaker. Dick noted the glance, and
set it down as an involuntary tribute to his
powers of fascination.

"Oh, Mr. Morton," said Caroline, "I'm
dying for a sail ! Do you think there will
be a wind to-night ?"

I'm afraid not," said Morton ; "it looks
like going down with the ebb."

Lynn, still silent, was walking at Gertrude's

side ; Dick had attached himself to Miss
Arden.

"Are you going out to sail to-night?" —
he said ; "/'m not. I don't care about sailing
in the Chloe—\hQ ' Old Clos,' I call her"
he added, with a glance at his companion
which seemed to say : — '' And you, you
London girl, do you see that f — or is it too
fine for the Southern intellect ?"

In this order the party walked through
the village to Laurel Bank, Mr. Inglebyby's
cottage by the sea.

Chapter V.

SUNDAY AT Drayton.

The next day was Sunday, but no one at
Laurel Bank went to church, Mr. Inglebyby's
sect not having a place of worship in the
vicinity of Sprayton. And there was no
sailing ; for Mr. Inglebyby neither wished his
daughters to be drowned, nor his faith in
Providence to be shaken by their safe
return from a marine excursion on the
Sabbath.

During the day Miss Arden tried his
temper sorely. She spoke of " seeing a
Scotch Sunday " as if it had been a local
curiosity. She contrasted the Scottish with
the Continental manner of spending the Day
of Rest, as if they had been different methods
of cooking eggs. And she related blood-curdling

tales of Sunday opera-going with
a serenity that almost maddened Mr. Inglebyby.
He was perplexed, even alarmed, by Camilla
Arden. He had met the young lady
but once, before her visit to Sprayton, when
he had dined at Mr. Arden's house in London.
On that occasion he had failed to detect
the lack of earnestness now so painfully
obvious in her character. But his daughter
had seen Miss Arden frequently, and had
talked with enthusiasm of her new friend's
goodness, cleverness, and beauty. How Gertrude
could have been so deceived was a
cause of astonishment to Mr. Inglebyby. He
now regretted the imprudent invitation that
had brought Mr. Arden's daughter under his
roof. She must, of course, be treated with
the consideration due to a guest ; but Mr.
Inglebyby felt strongly tempted at times to
break through all canons of hospitality, and
put on record his disapproval of her ways.
He could not understand her ; and Mr. Inglebyby
always disliked what he did not understand.
The girl said the reverse of what she believed.

That was her wit. She touched mockingly on
serious topics. That was her originality. She
was the slave of whim. And that was her
pretty playfulness. He had a dim idea that
she was somehow an incarnation of the forces
that make against dissenting chapels. There
was, he felt, something dangerous and * uncanny'
in her peculiar type of loveliness.
Mr. Peter Inglebyby was not imaginative ; but
he half-believed that hers was the kind of
beauty possessed by satanic temptresses of
whom he had heard or read — women nth
the flash of the Pit in their dark eyes, who
lure men's souls to perdition by their silken
phrases and baleful charms. He said to
himself that she was ' a Moabitish woman ; '
and the phrase pleased him so much that
it became to him a new proof of the soundness
of his suspicions.

During those days at his uncle's house,
Lynn felt for the first time the advantage
of losing a scholarship. But for the fact
that his pre-occupation and unwonted seriousness
were set down by his friends to the

score of the Paxton episode, they would
certainly have asked questions which he
would have found difficult to answer. So
keenly did he realise the falseness of his
position, that he might perhaps have left
Sprayton at once, but for the curious inquiries
which such a step would have called
forth. So, at least, he told himself; and
there was in truth no hour of the day that
he did not feel the awkwardness of living
in the same house with Camilla Arden, after
all that had come and gone. But it maybe
questioned whether, in deciding to remain,
he was not as much swayed by the
lurking hope that this unexpected meeting
with his former sweetheart might lead to
something — what, he did not seek to define.

It was the hand of Destiny, he told himself,
that had brought them together again, and
of all places at Sprayton, in his uncle's house.
He forgot that Destiny is not a dramatist,
and cares nothing for effective situations.

As for Miss Arden, she neither avoided
Lynn nor sought his society. Her demeanour

puzzled him greatly. At times he was
fain to ask himself whether he had not first
met her yesterday — whether this was really
the same Camilla from whom he had been
parted a few months before. Gertrude also,
he thought, was changed to him. There
seemed an end of the cousinly confidence
which had almost passed into a tenderer
feeling. This was the way in which Lynn
now represented to himself his previous relations
with his cousin.

The Sunday dinner at Sprayton was nota
lively meal. Ashen it was over, Mr. Inglebyby
stated that it was his invariable habit, at the
sea-side, to read one of Mr. Surgeon's sermons
to his household on the Sabbath afternoon.
Thereon Mr. Morton declared that, on
account of 'the young flood,' he must goat
once aboard the Chloe, to * give the
cutter more chain ' ; and that Lynn must
accompany him, as this could not be done
single-handed. Mr. Inglebyby did not understand
what he meant, and would not have
believed him if he had. As the young men

made their escape from the room, he muttered
something about Sabbath desecration,
took down his Surgeon, and began to read.

*' Thank you," said Miss Arden, as Mr.
Inglebyby concluded with a passage on the
subject of penal fire. " Thank you very
much, Mr. Inglebyby. The reading has been
very nice. It has made the afternoon pass
quite pleasantly."

Mr. Inglebyby was inexpressibly shocked, and
looked so ; but refrained himself, and made
no remark.

Have I said anything very wicked, dear ?"
asked Miss Arden afterwards, as she was
walking with Gertrude outside. " I thought
Mr. Inglebyby looked terribly displeased just
now."

Oh, no — but you see, father is so strict in
some of his views. You can't understand us — ■
I'm afraid you must find it all very tiresome."
*' No, not at all. It is quite a change from
my own home, you know. — I don't think,"
she added, " that Mr. Morton is ' giving the
cutter chain,' or whatever it was — indeed,

they both seem to be sitting on board, doing
nothing."

I suppose he merely wished to escape
father's reading. Mr. Morton has a very
lively imagination."

You don't seem to like Mr. Morton. Now,
I think that is odd — in you."

Why should you think so, Camilla ?"

"Well — perhaps it is because I like him
myself. I like his frankness, and I like his
sailor stories. And I think he has a good
heart. How fond he is — of your cousin ! "

Most people are, I believe."

"Yes. At Leipsic, I remember, Mr. Lynn
was a favourite with everyone. Mrs. Overend
used to say he was ^ magnetic'"

"Who was Mrs. Overend, dear?"

Camilla betrayed just the slightest trace of
embarrassment.

Mrs. Overend," she said, " was an American
lady, a widow, whom I knew at
Leipsic."

I suppose you saw a great deal of my
cousin there ? "

My dear Gertrude, everybody in the English
colony there saw a great deal of everybody
else — that is, if they happened to be
in the same set. There was always something
going on — pic-nics up the river, parties
at Bonorand's to hear the music, and in winter
we had the English dances once a month. It
was a very pleasant time. Mrs. Overend
chaperoned us — she was delightful. Oh, yes !
I met Mr. Lynn quite a number of times."

Gertrude said nothing, but she drew her
own conclusions. She remembered that in
London Camilla had never mentioned Arthur
Lyons name, nor alluded to her having
known him. She remembered also various
reports, set afloat through the agency of Mr.
Stronach, about a young lady with whom
Lynn was said to have * carried on at a
great rate ' abroad. As she thought of these
things — and of the scene at the end of the
pier — she felt that Camilla had treated her
with a certain want of frankness. Up to this
time she had been eager in Camilla's praise ;
but the latter's admission that she had seen

Lynn * quite a number of times,' taken in
connection with her previous reticence on the
subject, worked a change in their relations.
It was the opening of the little rift, destined
to grow rapidly wider.

In the evening Mr. Inglebyby was left alone
with his wife, the others, despite his tacit
protest, setting out for a walk along the shore.
Dick again managed to inflict himself on
Miss Arden, who showed less reluctance to
accept his escort than might have been expected.
Lynn found himself walking by his
cousin's side, a little way behind Caroline and
Morton.

"You seem to have been avoiding me,
Gertrude," he said ; "I have scarcely had a
word with you all day."

Oh, no, Arthur — I have not been avoiding
you. On the contrary, there is something I
wish to say to you."

*' What is it, Gertrude?"

*' It is about the tutorship," said Gertrude.
Lynn was conscious of a certain relief. There
were other topics on which he would have

found it less easy to converse with his
cousin.

You know how you have always disliked
Shawkirk, Arthur. Do you think you will
like it any better now ? "

I don't care about these things, now,"
said Lynn. " Any place will do for me."

'' That is not the way you used to speak.
You know very well that this kind of work is
far below your powers. Don't you remember
what you said before, dien father wished you
to become a tutor ? "

Is that the tutorship you people are
discussing ?" — said Caroline, whose sense of
hearing was acute. " Of course, Arthur, you
aren't going to take it ?"

I have taken it already."

You have ! Oh, dear, I hope it won't
make me too proud to have my cousin tutor
to the Macritchies' ! What a life you will
have, Arthur ! Old Macritchie will introduce
you to his friends as 'My tutor, sir' — and
perhaps you will be allowed to turn over
Fanny Macritchie's music for her — and, who

VOL. I. I

kiioNAS, if you are very good, tlieyll give you
thick bread and butter to tea ? Isn't that
^Yhat they always give tutors, in the story-books?"


"Such," said Lynn, "is, I believe, the
invariable diet of the hardy tutor."

Seriously, Arthur," said Gertrude, " I can
understand your being downcast just now,
about the scholarship, and — and about other
things, for what I know. But if I were you,
I would not give up my ambition. Can
it be that you no longer wish to go to
London ?"

Of course I wish it, but you must know
very well that it is impossible. I have not
the means."

"You have friends, Arthur."

"My uncle? — but it was he who decided
that I must become — a tutor."

Well, go to him and tell him that he has
made a mistake. The work is quite unsuited
to you ; it leads to nothing ; it is an utter
waste of time. Go to father, and tell him all
that."

*' This is strange advice to come from you,
Gertrude'

'' You know I never counselled you to go
against him before, but I do now. I cannot
bear to think of your throwing away your
chances like this, Arthur. And besides — there
is another thing I want to say to you. If you
go to father, and tell him plainly what you
want, I believe he will give you what help he
can.

Why should he do that ?"

*' I don't know, but I am certain that he
has been much — well, much milder of late
when speaking about you. You know, Arthur,
that with all his strictness, he always
wished you well. He was quite unhappy on
your account, when you did not come back
from Leipsic in October, and he was not
hearing from you regularly."

Did he not say savage things of me when
I lost the scholarship ? "

"No, he did not. He did not say a harsh
word of you to me, nor to any one, I believe.
He was sorry about it, of course, as we all were."

'' You certainly surprise me, Gertrude. Do
you mean to say you think he would listen tome,
if I spoke to him about going to London,
and reading for the bar ? "

I do not know, but you ought to try. I
don't know anything about the bar, nor does
father. But I hope, at all events, that you will
give up this idea of the tutorship. Shawkirk
is no place for you. Go to father, and tell
him plainly and firmly what you want. I
believe he would see reason in it."

Gertrude," said Lynn, "it is just like you
to take thought for me and my affairs. Yes,
I will do what you say. I am glad to find
that you still believe in me, after all."

"I do believe in your abilities, Arthur,"
said the girl gravely. " You have had no fair
chance as yet, but I hope you will soon."

Meantime, in the parlour at Laurel Bank,
while Mrs. Inglebyby slumbered over a ' good
book,' Mr. Inglebyby stood at the window absorbed
in thought. Mr. Inglebyby was very
angry. The immediate occasion of his wrath
was the Sabbath profanation involved in an

evening walk. But besides, he had the feeling
that all things were going against him ;
and he resented that.

One glance he took at the placid face of his
sleeping spouse. The perfect repose, the utter
oblivion to all trouble which Mrs. Inglebyby's
features expressed filled her husband with a
kind of envious indignation. It seemed to
him a positive injustice that she should thus
entice the dewy-feathered sleep,' while he
was groaning under the heavy load of care.
Mr. Inglebyby regarded his wife not in the light
of a sympathiser, but of an audience. He
felt that he must have an audience now.

** Matilda!" — he said ; whereat Mrs. Inglebyby
awoke with a start.

'matilda," went on Mr. Inglebyby, "the
book you have on your lap is, I see, Baxter
s ' Saints' Best.' If you will sleep after
dinner on the Sabbath-day, I think you
might do so without having that volume before
you. It is an insult to the good man
who wrote it."

"I — I was not sleeping ! " — said Mrs.

Inglebyby, letting Baxter fall to the ground in
her confusion.

*' You are, at any rate, awake now, and in a
condition to attend to what I shall say. Perhaps
you can tell me, Matilda, when that man
whom you invited here intends to go away ?"

Wh — what man ? " — asked Mrs. Inglebyby.

What man ? That man Morton, of course.
He has been here, it seems to me, too long
already."

*why, he only came yesterday!" — expostulated
Mrs. Inglebyby.

That is not to the point. I do not care
when he came. I asked you when he was
going away. He is not a fit companion for
my nephew, as I have told you all along."

Arthur Lynn, it may be noted, was always
my nephew ' to Mr. Inglebyby now. He had
always been ' your nephew ' before.

Why, what harm do we know of Mr.
Morton ? " — asked Mrs. Inglebyby. " You remember
you told me, when I told you I
thought he was getting fond of dear Gerty,
that your objection to him was that he went

to sea. And yoii know how lie left it, just
because he thought that would please you,
and is never going to sea any more."

"Please me!" — exclaimed Mr. Inglebyby.
How, I put it to you — how can such conduct
as his please any right-thinking man ?
No sooner had he ^ left the sea,' as you call it,
than he gave up all work of any description.
He has wasted his money on the purchase
of this vessel, in which he insists on sleeping
every night, like a — like a smuggler !"

This climax left Mrs. Inglebyby prostrate, and
her lord resumed.

And there is that girl, whom you have
chosen as an associate for your daughters — "

Miss Arden ? — Why, what is there wrong
with her ? "

I do not wish to judge her with undue
severity. But she is, I fear, a dangerous
young woman. She seems to me to be without
Eeligion ; and to be given over to Frivolity
and Vanity. She is extravagant in her
dress. And she has picked up a way of
speaking on serious things of which I cannot

approve. I was strongly inclined to rebuke
her for it at the dinner-table to-day. It is
most unseemly."

*'Do you know" — said Mrs. Inglebyby — "I
think that Arthur may possibly be fond of
Miss Arden ? "

That is madness," said Mr. Inglebyby, with
curt indifference.

Why should it be madness ? She is very
clever, and I'm sure she has the most lovely
dark eyes ! "

How can my nephew possibly be in love
with a woman whom he never saw in his life
until yesterday ? You have been dreaming,
Matilda. You are continually making discoveries
of this kind — mares-nests I might
cal them."

I am not dreaming," said Mrs. Inglebyby.
"And he has met her before. He knew her at
Leipsic — Caroline told me so."

''What!"— gasped Mr. Inglebyby. 'knew
her at Leipsic ! Think what you are saying ! "
and he stood as if deprived for the moment
of further power of speech.

Oh yes," went on Mrs. Inglebyby, pursuing
her advantage — " and do you know, I think
Miss Arden must be the very same young
lady that Mr. Stronach used to write about —
she that was seen with Arthur everywhere,
you know. Would not that be such a strange
coincidence ? Caroline thinks so. She told
me that, too."

I tell you it is impossible !" — cried Mr.
Inglebyby, in a frenzy of emotion that would
have brought apoplexy on a stouter man. — " I
tell you it cannot be ! "

You don't need to shout at me, I'm
sure," said Mrs. Inglebyby. " I thought you
would have been glad to hear it. She will
have lots of money, being an only child ; and
poor Arthur, you know, has none."

That is not the point !" — vociferated Mr.
Inglebyby, while his wife looked on in mild
alarm. ^' Such a thing would be my nephew's
ruin. I tell you it is not to be thought of,
and I trust you will never refer to it again."

Why, you said the very same thing about
.arthur and Gertrude — when you sent him

away to Germany. Oh dear, how I wish you
had never done that ! The poor boy is looking
so pale and thin ! I am quite sorry for him.
And if he had not gone there, I'm sure he
would have taken the scholarship."

"The scholarship!" — repeated Mr. Inglebyby
"that is nothing! — nothing at all!" — and
the expression of his face was such that Mrs.
Inglebyby durst not ask him the meaning of
this extraordinary statement.

For some time Mr. Inglebyby paced up and
down the room, muttering to himself at intervals.


"That would be terrible!" — he said at
length, pursuing the train of his reflections —
terrible ! He must leave this at once. I
will write to Macritchie to-night — that is,"
he added, correcting himself — " the first thing
tomorrow morning."

CHAPTER VI.

BY THE SEA.

The following days passed very pleasantly
for all at Laurel Bank — for all but Mr.
Inglebybybyby. Mr. Inglebybybyby had come to Spray-ton
for the purpose of taking a holiday.
A holiday was a painful thing to him at the
best of times. It seemed an insult to his
intelligence that he should be expected to
moon about the woods, and loaf along the
shore. His heart was in Shawkirk, at the
Works ; the daily bulletins from which lent,
as a rule, the one feature of interest to his
villeggiatura.

But on the occasion of this present holiday,
Mr. Inglebyby had a subject of interest more
engrossing, and at the same time less agreeable,
than the daily bulletins. This was the

conduct of the guests now under his roof.
The result of his wife's revelations had been
to make him watchful of things to which he
had never given the smallest heed before.
He watched Miss Arden and his nephew ; but
could see nothing in their manner towards
each other to show that they had ever been
more than friends. He watched Morton and
his daughter, and perceived — or thought he
did, for Mr. Inglebyby admitted to himself his
fallibility in such matters — that Morton was
paying those attentions to Gertrude which a
young man pays to the girl with whom he
is in love. He was aware that his wife had
given Morton a certain degree of encouragement.
What his daughter's feelings were he
did not know ; but he wished very much
that Morton would go away, and that Miss
Arden had never come.

Morton, however, showed no signs of going.
His movements, it appeared, depended on
those of Arthur Lynn. He talked of making
a cruise on the West Coast of Scotland in
his yacht, with Lynn for a companion. Mr.

Inglebyby did not intend that his nephew
should go on any such voyage. According
to his ideas, the sooner Lynn took up his
new work at Shawkirk, the better it would
be for all concerned. That would withdraw
the young man from the dangerous influence
of Miss Arden. It would deprive Morton of
a pretext for prolonging his stay at Laurel
Bank.

Mr. Inglebyby, in those days, laboured under
a strong sense of personal ill-usage. The
time for his ' English journey' was rapidly
drawing near. He had set out on this
journey on the same day of the same month
for the last twenty years. Must the sacred
routine be broken through because of mere
matters of sentiment? Must he choose
between neglecting his business, and leaving
those dangerously-assorted guests under a
supervision no wiser than his wife's ? It
was not a pleasant holiday for Mr. Inglebyby.

One day followed another, and still Lynn
put off going to his uncle, as Gertrude had
advised him to do. Her counsel had at first

seemed to him good. But as he considered
it, one objection started up after another,
and inclined him to delay. Then, on a
certain morning after breakfast, Mr. Inglebyby
took him aside, and showed him a letter from
Mr. Macritchie. The letter stated that Mr.
Lynn might come to Shawkirk as soon ashe
pleased ; that his pupils were ready for
him ; and that every arrangement would be
made to suit his comfort. Mr. Inglebyby
certainly gave Lynn to understand that, in
his opinion, there should be no delay intaking
up his new duties. But he did so
without the stern insistence to which his
nephew was accustomed. Lynn could not
but think his uncle changed, and for the
better. He had dropped his use of the
imperative. He seemed to shrink from saying
anything that might wound Lynn's feelings,
by making him suppose that his presence
at Laurel Bank was no longer desired.
And this encouraged Lynn to postpone the
day of his departure.

"I shall go, of course," he said. "This

tutorship, uncle, is not what I had looked
forward to. But beggars have no choice
in these matters. Only, I think I'll put
off going for a day or two, if you don't
mind."

Life cannot be one long holiday, Arthur,"
said Mr. Inglebyby.

"I have found out that already. But I
think one is the better of a short holiday,
now and then. And I have really been
working hard — though my work has not
been successful."

I do not question that," said Mr. Inglebyby ;
and this way of alluding to the lost scholarship
took Lynn by surprise. Now was the
time, he thought, to act on Gertrude's advice.
His uncle seemed to be in what was
for him a melting mood ; and the opportunity
was too good to be lost. But the first
mention of London worked a total change
in Mr. Inglebyby's manner. He stiffened almost
visibly, and his face became stern and
resolved. His remarks on metropolitan life
and manners were such that Lynn felt it

would be quite useless to argue the matter
further. So he abandoned the project ; and
with only a modified disappointment. He
had never relished the idea of asking pecuniary
help from his uncle. And by this
time he was becoming reconciled to Laurel
Bank, with Camilla Arden as an inmate.
He had for the present no wish to go away,
either to Shawkirk or anywhere else.

Camilla's manner towards him had changed,
yet it still perplexed him. There was a reserve
in its frankness, and a shy graciousness
in its reserve. The ' society' air with
which she had at first received him, passed
gradually away, during days spent in sailing
on the frith or gypsying in the woods. She
no longer seemed to ignore the past, by treating
him as an acquaintance of yesterday. But
neither did she make the faintest allusion to
what there had been between them.

Why was it that he never, by any chance,
found himself alone with her ? It seemed
a matter of course that, in their walks,
Morton should go off with Gertrude, and

leave him between Caroline and Camilla.
He could not make out whether this was
by accident or design.

Of one thing he was certain, that his feelings
towards Camilla had undergone no change.
He had never blamed her in his thoughts for
the unfortunate issue of their Leipsic romance.
No choice had been left her ; she had only
done her father's bidding ; she had been the
victim of his sordid, selfish views of life.
Nor would Lynn's indignation against Mr.
Arden have been so keen as it was, if only
that gentleman had treated his proposal ina
serious spirit. He freely owned that he
himself, from the social and pecuniary point
of view, was not such a suitor as Mr, Arden
had a right to expect for his daughter. But
Mr. Arden might have said so without making
his answer an insult. He might at least
have listened, even if, after listening, he had refused.
Had he done so, Lynn would have
felt himself bound in honour to give up his
suit there and then. Mr. Arden might with-vol.

L K

out much difficulty have drawn such a promise
from him; he would have asked but
one last interview with Camilla, and bidden
her farewell for ever. So he told himself.
But Mr. Arden had not thought it
worth his while to demand any such promise.
And since he had not done so — since
he had chosen to take up an attitude of
contemptuous indifference — Lynn did not
feel himself at all obliged to consult his
wishes in the matter. He looked on Mr.
Arden as an enemy, to be treated as an
enemy. The decision would lie with Camilla.
If she bade him go, then he would
go, and not return. If she encouraged him
to hope, he would never abandon the effort
to win her. He would say that to her, now
that they had been thus strangely brought
together. He would seize the first opportunity
of telling her that he loved her still ;
and by her answer — given freely, as from
herself — he would abide. Day by day, ashe
watched Camilla, he became more confident
that all would, somehow, go well. Day

by day he awaited his opportunity. At last
it came.

They had gone, on a certain evening —
Camilla and Gertrude, Morton and himself
to visit the ruins of an old castle, which
stand on the shore about two miles above
Sprayton. On the way homeward, Lynn
found himself by Camilla's side. Gertrude
and Morton had gone on in advance of
them. It was the first time since his coming
to Sprayton that he had had Camilla
to himself — that he had been able to speak
with her save in the presence of others.
Now, at least, she had not avoided him.
She had seemed to acquiesce in the tacit
arrangement which left her with him, alone.

It was a still, beautiful evening. Not a
leaf stirred in the windless air. Down the
frith, the smoke of the steamers trailed behind
them for miles in motionless, dingy
wreaths. Eastwards, sea and sky were veiled
in a heat-haze of silver-grey, through which
the sun-light flashed momently on the white
topsail of a becalmed ship, lying like a thing

of phantasy amid the misty shimmer. The
steep cliffs which rose at the extremity of
the bay were duplicated with all their rich
tints — russet, orange and golden-brown — in
the sea that pulsed languidly beneath. The
clear, emerald water rose and sank with
scarcely a foam-bell along the side of the
sheer, rocky wall. The path was screened
with foliage ; and through the green lattice-work
the sun, now nearing the horizon, shot
shafts of light that reddened the tree-trunks.
No sound broke the stillness, save the creak
of oars from a fishing-boat, slowly moving
from the shadow of the western headland.

The calm beauty of the evening affected
Lynn more, perhaps, than he was aware. It
evoked a longing for emotion in keeping
with the magic of the scene and hour. In
his uncle's house, Camilla might seem oblivious
of the past. But out in the summer
evening, in the hushed woods and beside
the sleeping sea, surely he would find her
what he had found her before their parting.
And yet, he scarcely ventured to speak, It

was to him sufficient happiness to be walking
once more by Camilla's side, amid surroundings
which recalled to him their meetings
in former days. A single luckless word,
he felt, might break the spell.

Don't you think Mr. Morton almost painfully
prosaic?" said Miss Arden at last, a
little abruptly.

I don't know that poetry is his strong
point," said Lynn ; " but he is a thoroughly
good fellow, for all that."

These were the first words they had exchanged
since leaving the ruins of the castle ;
and the reference was to certain depreciatory
remarks of Morton's, in connection
with ancient strongholds and modern gunnery.


"Who is Mr. Morton?" said Camilla, after
a pause. *' He has never been properly explained
to me. How comes it that he is a
sailor, and yet does not go to sea — except in a
yacht?"

*' You seem to take quite an interest in
Morton."

That is no answer to my question, Mr.
Lynn."

He is a Shawkirk man. His brothers
have a factory there, and Morton has a share
in the concern. He took to a sea-faring
life because he liked it, not because he
needed to. That is his history, so far as I
am aware."

Then you don't know why he has given
up his profession, and taken to living on
shore?"

I fancy because he is tired of the sea.
He never gave me any other reason."

And yet, you are such fast friends !"

"Oh, yes, we are very good friends. We
were at school together, and have known each
other ever since." Lynn was growing somewhat
impatient of Morton as a subject of
conversation ; and, perhaps, let his impatience
appear. But Miss Arden either did not observe
this, or chose to disregard it.

Your cousin and he are also friends — very
good friends," she said.

Lynn started ever so slightly ; and, at the

same moment, became conscious that Camilla
was observing him.

"Have you — why do you think so?" he
asked.

Look at them," said Camilla, " and you
will see."

Lynn looked at the two figures on the footpath
in front. Gertrude and Morton seemed
engaged in very earnest conversation. Lynn
saw his cousin lay her hand for an instant
on her companion's arm ; then withdraw it.
The gesture made him wince. He was not
in love with his cousin — could not be ; and
therefore was, of course, incapable of jealousy.
But Camilla's suggestion pained him, he could
scarce tell why. During those last days at
Sprayton, he had been too deeply absorbed in
his own affairs to bestow much attention on
the affairs of other people. But he had previously
thought it not unlikely that there
might be ' something ' between his cousin
and his friend. If the same idea had occurred
to Camilla, it was most probably true.

I should not have thought they would

have had much in common," said Camilla,
with a glance at Lynn s face which showed her
that she had interpreted his thoughts aright.
But I suppose there is no accounting for
such things."

I suppose not," said Lynn.

Mr. Morton is no favourite with your
uncle," Camilla went on, — " any more than I
am."

Surely you are mistaken in that ! "

Oh, no. I don't generally make mistakes
in such matters. Mr. Inglebyby does not like
Mr. Morton at all — nor does he like me. I
am quite sure of that. And your cousin will
have to know her own mind, Mr. Lynn, if
she means to be made happy at last."

Gertrude generally does know her own
mind, I think," said Lynn.

Then she is to be envied," said Camilla.

For some minutes there was a silence between
them. Lynn seemed lost in thought.
Camilla glanced at him from time to time.
Of whom was he thinking ? — of Gertrude, or
of her ?

They were now crossing the sands, which
lay wet and gleaming from the ebb-tide, and
still flushed with the crimson of the afterglow,
for the sun had gone do^oi. Gertrude
and Morton had already regained the path,
and were lost to sight among the trees.

At last Lynn raised his head, and looked
Camilla in the face.

You are very skilful," he said, " in reading
the hearts of others. Are you sure that
you understand your own ? "

Camilla did not answer. She had turned
away her head, and seemed to be gazing out
to sea.

Camilla," said Lynn — and his voice softened
as he named her name — " does it seem
real to you, that we should be walking together
here, at this moment, you and I ? —
does it not seem to you too strange, almost,
to be real, as it seems to me ?"

It does — seem strange," the girl answered.

I feel that more to-night," continued Lynn,
than I have felt it since — since meeting you
again. I could almost fancy myself, now.

walking with you in the Essential or the
Scheibenholz — as I used to do."

But for the sea," said Camilla.

But for that, of course — and other things.
Camilla, do you remember the last time I
saw you, before seeing you here ?"

Yes. It was in the foyer of the theatre.
You should not have come there. It was
cruel to me. You should have known — "

Cruel to you ! — I did not mean that,
Camilla. I wanted to see you — only to see
you again. That was why I went there.
And I did see you — with your father. But
you did not seem to feel my cruelty much.
At all events, you did not show it."

"It is unjust of you to say that, or to
think it. You should remember how things
were with me, then. What could I do,
but—"

Bow and pass on. I know. That was,
however, at least as cruel to me as it could
have been to you."

I can see how you have blamed me !
You have not been generous enough to make

allowance. You have thought me unfeeling
and — and false."

No, Camilla. I have tried to think of
you, as well as of myself, and I have made
allowance. But can you wonder if I doubted
you ? Did not you promise me, that
night on the river, that you would never
change ?"

'' Yes. I said that."

And you promised also that you would
say to your father what you had said tome?"


"And I kept my promise. But he would
not listen. He made light of all I said, until
he saw that I was in earnest. Then he
reasoned with me."

** And converted you to his views ? — you
don't answer, Camilla. Whatever you say, I
shall not seek to blame you. But at least
let there be truth between us, if there be
nothing else ! Did you agree with your
father when he said I had no right to speak
to you of love, because — because I was
poor i

One may have to obey, without agreeing."
Camilla," said Lynn, " let me say this
to you. If you loved me then, no one — not
even your own father — had a right to come
between us. If you love me now, no one has
that right. I shall take my answer only from
you. By a word you can bind me to you, or
by a word you can send me away. . I had
made up my mind to say this to you, if ever
I met you again. Now that we have met,
by this strange chance, you will give mean
answer — will you not ?"

They had now left the sands, and were
following the path which skirted the bay.
The tide had turned, and a chill wind, bringing
the mist with it, had set in from the east
with the beginning of the flow. A red light
still burned low in the west ; but the soft
flush had changed to an angry glow. The
red light rested for a moment on Camilla's
face, and the wind played freely with her
dark hair. It seemed to Lynn as if her
beauty changed, in some subtle way, with the
changes of nature. He thought there was a

spiritual, ' sky-commercing' look in her eyes,
such as he had never seen there before.

"Yes," she said — and her voice was very
low — " yes. Since you have asked me, I will
answer."

"Then, tell me, Camilla — I know you
loved me then. Do you love me now ?"

I have always loved you," said Camilla ;
I have not changed." She looked him
bravely in the face ; and he caught her to his
heart. For a moment she allowed her head
to rest on his shoulder,

"My darling!" he cried. "Had I been
rich, I could never have known you loved meas
I do now. Now I know that you love
me for myself — as I love you for yourself,
alone!"

The girl shivered, and shrank back from
him as he spoke.

"Camilla!" he cried in quick alarm — "had
you forgotten that I was poor ? Has this
horrible poverty thrown its shadow over us
again ? The very word frightens you. I can
see it I"

How can you think so of me, and yet
say you love me ? Will you not believe me
when I tell you that I care for you — only for
you ? It is not that ! — If only papa had not
spoken as he did ! All would have been so
different ! — Arthur," she cried passionately,
will you believe this — now, always, whatever
happens — that I loved you for yourself?
that whatever I did I did for the best — the
best for you as well as for me ? Arthur, will
you promise me to believe this ?"

Promise to believe that you loved me
for myself? Why, what else could you love
me for? I don't understand you, Camilla."

Why do you speak in that way about
your poverty ? — as if you were certain to be
always poor ? I know — that is, I don't see
why you should. Besides, you are no poorer
now than you were at Leipsic — and you never
spoke of poverty then !"

Your father had not spoken of money
then. Besides, as it happens, I am poorer

now\'^

You seem to have lost confidence in yourself.

I remember low hopeful you used to
be ! — what ambitions you used to tell me of !
And there was none of them beyond you,
Arthur!"

"Alas!" said Lynn; "you don't know the
end of all my ambitions !"

"Yes, I do. Gertrude told me all about
it. About Shawkirk, and your uncle's plans."

That is out of the question now, of
course," said Lynn. " After this night I am
not going to Shawkirk. , . . Yes, Gertrude was
right. I must go to London. . I have still
to win you, Camilla, I know that. I must be
near you, and I must make my way."

Did Gertrude advise you against going to
Shawkirk?"

She did. And now I shall follow her
advice."

Not if you want to please me, Arthur. . . .
If you care to make me happy, you will go to
Shawkirk — you will do as your uncle wishes.
It need not be for long. Say that you will
go!"

You know I would do anything to please

you — but why would you have me go
there?"

Camilla did not answer for a moment.
Then she said : —

"You will meet papa at Shawkirk, Arthur."

"AtShawkirk?"

Yes. He is going there, soon, to give an
address, about politics. . I know he regrets
what he said to you. If he asks you to
forget it, you won't be — revengeful, Arthur ?
You will meet him half-way, for my sake ?"

'* But why should your father wish me to
forget what he said at Leipsic ? Why should
he want to meet me half-way? What has
happened since then to make any difference
in him — or in me ? "

There was a pause ; then Camilla said, ina
low voice, and speaking as if with an
effort : —

I can't explain it to you, Arthur ; but
papa can. Won't you trust me so far ? —
won't you do this little thing for me ? — Believe
me, Arthur, he does regret the things he
said ; I know he does. He wishes you to

become his friend — and you will, Arthur,
won't you, for my sake ?"

Whatever I can do, without being untrue
to myself, I shall do to win you, Camilla. I
don't say that I understand you, but since
you wish it, I shall go to Shawkirk. I wonder
where I would not go, if you bade me !"

And by-and-bye you will come to London,
and all will be well ! Then you will understand
why I wanted you to go to Shawkirk !
And now, Arthur, there must be no more
talk of money between us. After all, you are
not the Squire of low degree, and I am not
the King's Daughter of Hungary ! "

She looked up at him with a smile ; but
Lynn saw how pale her face was and that
there were tears in her eyes.

My own love !" he said. " Think no more
about those last days at Leipsic. I see how
the remembrance of them pains you. I shall
never speak of them again. Why do you
allow the thought of them to vex you so ? "

The hand she had laid on his arm was
trembling ; and she held down her head.

VOL. I, L

Arthur," she said, " you will not speak toto
anyone here of what has passed between
us ? Until you have been to Shawkirk, and
seen papa, that will be best, will it not ? — and
you will do as your uncle wishes, and go from
here at once ? "

But not while you remain !" said Lynn.

I am going — almost immediately. I had
a letter from papa this morning ; he wishes to
have me at home. So, you see, wee shall very
soon be separated."

'but not for long!" said Lynn. "Ah,
Camilla, who shall say it was Chance that
brought us together again ? "

To this, however, Camilla made no reply ;
nor did she speak many words in answer to
her lover, as they made their way back to
Sprayton through the now fast-thickening
mist. Had Lynn thought of it at all, he
would have told himself that happiness made
her silent. But he did not think of it.

His own happiness was complete. Even
under the spell of those Leipsic days, he had
been vaguely conscious of a certain touch of

the fantastic in his relations with Camilla. He
had known that he loved her ; he had thought
that she returned his love. But he had
been unable to divest himself of the idea
that there was something illusory in the
course of their love-making. It had been all
too romantic, their intercourse in the foreign
town, under the easy conditions of a holiday
life. It had been a fair day-dream, to be
followed, perhaps, by some rude awaking.
But now, after what had passed between
them on the Sprayton shore, he thought
differently. There had been an earnestness
in Camilla's words, still more in her manner,
which made him, somehow, feel surer of her than
he had ever done before. Looking back over
that Leipsic chapter of romance, he fancied
that they had been, in a manner, only playing
at love. But now and henceforth, their love
was and would be a serious thing. The story
had become real, now that it had been broken
off and taken up again.

Yes. He would go to Shawkirk, and at
once. It would not do to idle away his time.

while Camilla was yet to be won. He must
certainly be up and doing. . . . Shawkirk, it was
true, did not promise much in the way of a
future. But it would be a first step to London.
Even if nothing came of that meeting
with Mr. Arden, on which Camilla had seemed
to lay so much stress — and Lynn did not see
that much could come of it — still there was
his uncle to fall back on. And Mr. Inglebyby
would no doubt be more willing to lend him
a helping hand afterwards, if he yielded to his
wishes now.

Mr. Inglebyby was equally surprised and
gratified when, next morning, his nephew
announced his intention of leaving for Shaw-kirk
that very day, and at once taking up his
new duties. His surprise and gratification,
however, were sensibly lessened when his
wife informed him that Miss Arden had received
a letter calling her home, and would
take leave of them on the morrow.

This was the letter which Miss Arden had
received : — " My dear Camilla, Don't you think
you have been with these people long enough

uo\Y ? I want to see you, before going down
to Scotland. Mallory tells me the seat maybe
vacant any day, and of course I should
have to be on the spot at once. Find out if
you can how Inglebyby is disposed. I hope you
have made yourself agreeable to him, as he
has a lot of influence in Shawkirk. So young
Lynn has been there 1 I suppose there is no
need to tell you to make yourself agreeable to
him. Wire to me by what train you travel,
and I shall send the brougham. — Yours, Eobt.
Arden."

This letter was the means of breaking up
the party at Laurel Bank. Lynn and Morton
took their departure on the same day ; and
when Mr. Inglebyby set forth on his English
journey, he left his house clear of embarrassing
guests. But Mr. Inglebyby had nevertheless
his own causes of anxiety.

Chapter VII.

THE HAPPY VALLEY.

The sorrows of the rustic whom Fate leads
from the country to the town have often
been the theme of pensive comment. We
all know how he pines in the city for the
daisies fields and willowy brooks from which
he can no longer escape to the village alehouse.
But the sorrows of the city-bred
youth, forced to exchange urban for rural
surroundings, remain without the meed of
a melodious tear. Yet his lot — though one
which might well move the compassionate
is Elysian compared with life in most
country-towns. And when a country-town
happens to be a seat of manufacture, then life
there becomes to some men well-nigh not
worth living. It certainly seemed so to Arthur

Lynn, that summer evening when he returned
to his birth-place.

Shawkirk is situated in a circular valley,
which once resembled a deep emerald cup,
veined with the silver of many rills. Nowadays
it rather resembles a witches' cauldron ;
for the hills, no longer green but drab, prevent
the smoke from the town's many stalks
from readily dispersing ; and through the
dun cloud that generally overhangs the place
sound the rumbling and groaning of machinery,
the clang of the factory-bell, and the sustained
screech of the steam-whistle.

Smoke-blackened, many-windowed factories
line the banks and pollute the waters of
the Fala, a shallow stream which rushes
turbulently down the valley. The inhabitants,
for the most part, dwell in two-storied,
white-washed houses, all seemingly constructed
from the same design. These houses have no
gardens. No green thing relieves the eye,
as you walk in the fierce summer glare past
the blinding white walls which line the yellow,
dusty roadway. Shawkirk is a place from

which the beautiful has been carefully eliminated.
There all is modern, prosaic, ugly;
a symphony in soot and whitewash. The
churches have no architectural dignity. The
chief building in the town is the castellated
tannery of Mr. Turpie, which appeals most
powerfully to the pilgrim's sense of smell.
The only signs of the presence of art in
Shawkirk are the portraits of the Prime
Minister, which gaze at you from the shop-windows
as if they would stare the Toryism
from your heart.

The inhabitants are all Liberals, or nearly
all. In their youth they become members
of Good Templar Lodges, and parade the
streets wearing mystic insignia, flaunting
flags, and preceded by brass bands. Having
thus shown how needless it is for men
to drink beer in order to make themselves
ridiculous, they generally drift into other
courses. Instead of waving s3niibolic bunting
on the Saturday afternoons, they gather
in the many bars of Shawkirk, and wax
sarcastic over their successors in the I. 0. G. T.

The banner-bearer of yesterday outgrows his
love of the spectacular, and passes into the
scoffer and bar-haunter of to-day by a recognised
process of evolution.

In Shawkirk, the monotony of the country
is combined with the dirt and din of a large
manufacturing town. Without gaining the
sharpness of the city workman, the factory
hands have lost the grand bovine manner of
the uncorrupted rustic. They are quite as
dull as he; but their dulness is apt to bubble
muddily into vulgarity. When freed from toil,
they lounge at the street-corners, exchanging
badinage with one another, or sneering at the
wandering alien. Except the street-corner,
there is no place of amusement in Shawkirk.

It was evening when Arthur Lynn arrived
at this Happy Valley. It had been arranged
that he should spend his first night in Shaw-kirk
at Deloraine House — for such was the
name of Mr. Macritchie's abode — and thither
accordingly he was borne in Mr. Macritchie's
claret-coloured dog-cart, drawn by Mr. Mac-ritchie's
showy black mare.

Deloraine House was a glaring brand-new
mansion, built in the style known as the
Scottish Baronial. It stood some way out
of Shawkirk, in a treeless space covered
with ruddy gravel and blazing flower-beds,
and enclosed by massive iron railings, gorgeous
with red paint and lavish gilding.

Mr. Macritchie greeted Lynn with almost
oppressive geniality. His welcome conveyed
a suggestion of the feudal lord, receiving at
his castle-gates some trusted retainer ; it was
so grandly seignorial, so condescending in its
cordiality. An ample white waistcoat and
checked trousers seemed positive anachronisms
in such a man. His demeanour, his attitude
on the door-step at once carried Lynn's fancy
back to the historic past ; and he half-expected
to hear Mr. Macritchie, with a ''Ho,
there. Warder ! " — command his vassals tolet
fall the portcullis.

Mr. Macritchie was a wealthy mill-owner,
whose favourite rule in life was that of the
Fine Old Border Baron. He was stout and
rubicund in appearance ; gave good dinners ;

and had an idea that he should at all times
ply his guests with champagne. He was one
of those political oracles whose chosen tripod
is the domestic hearth-rug. The joy and
pride of his life was to stand with his back
to the fire and a glass of wine in his hand,
and tell you with exultant emphasis that
The Radicals, sir, have ruined the country."
He became very angry indeed with anyone
who sought to maintain a less gloomy conclusion.


Of all the Shawkirk magnates, it was
allowed that Mr. Macritchie lived in greatest
style.' His wife and daughter took the air
in a barouche as resplendent as paint, varnish,
heraldry, and a blue-liveried coachman could
make it. His hall was hung with auction-bought
armour, and the antlers of * stags often'
which had not fallen to Mr. Macritchie's
rifle. The Lord of Deloraine House was an
ardent worshipper of the Past. To him, the
most sacred of names was that of one
'Eichie o' the Hags Muir,' who — according
to the Macritchie Legend — had stolen cattle

extensively about the middle of the fifteenth
century, and whom Mr. Macritchie claimed
as an ancestor. Mrs. Macritchie had a
faith in the family Legend as implicit as her
husband's ; but she went beyond him in
claiming kinship with the neighbouring noble
house of Leaderdale, which traced its descent
from the same mythical reiver.

At dinner Lynn met only Mr. and Mrs.
Macritchie and their daughter Fanny. Mrs.
Macritchie was a formidable person, who
regarded herself as the great lady of Shaw-kirk
; a position to which, as she believed,
the length of her husband's purse and pedigree
alike entitled her. Miss Macritchie was
a duplicate of her mother, allowance being
made for the difference in their years. She
had the same red hair, sharp shoulder-blades,
and cold eyes of no particular colour ; but
while Mrs. Macritchie's bearing was rigid to
all alike, Miss Fanny would at times assume a
languid hauteur, which she believed to be
peculiarly characteristic of the titled ones of
earth.

I am glad," said Mr. Macritchie, as Lynn
allowed himself to be helped to sherry, " to
see that you have not taken up your uncle's
teetotal views, Mr. Lynn — ' look not upon the
wine when it is red,' and that kind of thing,
you know."

That would not apply to sherry," said
Lynn.

Ha, ha ! very good — very good, my dear
sir!" — said Mr. Macritchie; while Mrs. Mac-ritchie
looked at Lynn with an expression
which he could not at first understand. He
afterwards, however, observed that this look
crossed the lady's face whenever he attempted
a pleasantry ; and came to the conclusion that
she must regard joking as a liberty not to betaken
by tutors.

'' Yes," continued Mr. Macritchie, '' I look
with grave apprehension on the progress
which Good Temporis is making in this
borough. Radicalism and Teetotalism always
go hand in hand. I am relieved to think,
Mr. Lynn, that my sons will imbibe no anti-conservative
ideas from you."

I don't profess to teach politics — only
syntax," said Lynn.

That is quite right," said Mr. Macritchie ;
*' I have the fullest confidence in your discretion."


Then the conversation centred itself on the
subject of local politics, as it did in those
days at every dinner-table in Shawkirk.

"Poor old Fletcher !"— said Mr. Macritchie.
He will have to resign the seat before long,
I fear. The doctors give him no hope that he
will be able to winter again in this climate.
And I regret it, sir, — old Fletcher was at
bottom a Whig. If he did no good, at least
he did not do much harm."

Is there likely to be a contest for the
seat ?" — asked Lynn.

I fear not," answered his host ; *' I fear
there is no hope for us. I believe that
in twenty years, sir, it will be as impossible
to find a good Tory as it will be to get
a good claret. (Try that, Mr. Lynn, by the
way. It's as old as yourself, I daresay — I got
it, sir, when your father's cellar was sold.)

That man Arden, I suppose, will go in without
opposition."

'you think so?"

Yes ; he has been working for it this
many a day. He made some money down
here — in your father's time, Mr. Lynn — and
of late he has been paying it back. Gratitude,
no doubt!" — and Mr. Macritchie
chuckled.

"You don't mean to say there has been
anything underhand, or — or unfair?"

"I simply say this, sir, that he has been
cooking the borough !"

"James !" — said Mrs. Macritchie warningly.

I don't care who hears me ! I say Arden
has been warming this place for the last three
years. When he came down here first, after
making his pile, he was too grand to know
his old friends. But, bless you ! — that is all
changed now. I knew he must be after no
good, when he came off his high horse. That
kind of man is never affable for nothing.
Does your uncle mean to support him, Mr.
Linn?"

"I don't know," said Lynn ; "he's not in
the habit of asking my advice on such
matters."

'' It won't look well — excuse me, Mr. Lynn,
but I like to be frank — it won't look well for
your uncle to stand by Arden. People here
will think it strange."

"Why should they"— said Lynn. "I
don't understand."

Well, you know, there was more than a
suspicion that Arden hadn't done the clean
thing by your father, when he was manager
at the Lynnfield Works."

I never heard a whisper of that."

No, you were too young. Your father's
views were not my views, Mr. Lynn, but heat
all events was an honest man — he really
did mean well. Everyone respected him, and
was sorry when he came to grief — at least,
almost everyone. But it's all nonsense, of
course, trying to raise the working-classes, as
your father did. What you have to do is
to give them coals and blankets. They will
probably pawn the blankets, and they won't

be grateful for the coals. Never mind — give
them more. It may cool their Radicalism,
and at any rate it shows you can forgive
them."

You would be a wet blanket to them
politically, and you would heap coals of fire
on them morally ? "

Ha, ha ! — very good, sir, very good ! But
what, I put it to you, can this London
speculator care for the borough ? Why, sir,
at any moment any foreign state may be of
far more consequence to him than his own
country. It all depends on the markets, sir."

There is no doubt, I suppose, that Mr.
Arden is a very rich man ?"

You never can tell whether or not that
kind of man is rich. He is merely a gambler
on a big scale. It is one satisfaction, of
course, that these men generally burst, in
the long-run. He has no Birth, sir" — said
the descendant of Eichie o' the Hag s Muir.

"I have heard, James," said Mrs. Mac-ritchie,
" that his grandfather was in the
retail line."

VOL. I. M

"Very likely," said Mr. Macritchie. "It
is terrible to think that a man of that stamp
should represent the Boroughs, when we might
have as our member such an one as Lord
Elvan — a young man of singular abilities,
an eloquent speaker, and the scion of a noble
house."

And a kinsman of our own," added Mrs.
Macritchie. Now Lord Elvan was the eldest
son of the Earl of Leaderdale, the great pillar
of Conservatism in these parts.

I shall regret it exceedingly," said Mr.
Macritchie, " if my friend Inglebyby lends the
weight of his support to such a man. And
yet, it would almost seem as if such were
to be the case. I know he visited Arden in
London ; and I believe I am correct in sang,
Mr. Lynn, that he has Miss Arden staying
with him now ? "

Yes," said Lynn ; " Miss Arden was still
at Spray ton when I left."

Both Mrs. Macritchie and her daughter
looked at him somewhat curiously as he spoke.

"I am told," remarked Mrs. Macritchie,

that the girl has the manners of a play-actress."


*' And that she is dark as a Creole," said
Miss Macritchie ; "Mr. Stronach told us so."

Lynn stared involuntarily at the speaker ;
and the contrast between Camilla's rich, dusky
beauty and Miss Fanny Macritchie's red hair
and freckles made him violently inclined to
laugh.

"Now, my dear sir," said Mr. Macritchie,
I have a meeting to attends Council
meeting. I am the only Conservative in the
Council, you know, and it won't do for me
to be away. Make yourself at home until I
come back. Fanny will give you some music,
and I expect your old acquaintance Stronach
will be calling this evening at Deloraine
House. But first — come with me to the
smoking-room, and have a cigar before you go
upstairs."

He's in lo'?e with that girl, jnamma," said
Miss Macritchie ; " I am sure of it. Did you
see how he looked, when we were speaking
about her ? "

He must be a very foolish young man,"
said Mrs. Macritchie, " to think that he has
any chance in that quarter."

"He is really very good-looking," said the
daughter.

He is as poor as Job," said the mother.
And much too independent," she added.
I told your papa that it would never do.
He has no true sense of his position in this
house. He seems quite to forget that he is
a Tutor."

He must be quite off with Gertrude
Inglebyby now, I should fancy," said Miss Mac-ritchie.


Quite," assented her mother. " Indeed, I
don't know that there was ever very much
in it. Mrs. Inglebyby, poor creature, used to
hint at such a thing, but of course the girl's
father would not have allowed it — even if
Gertrude had wanted to make a fool of
herself."

She is quite capable of it, I believe," said
the young lady.

She has not your good sense, my dear,"

said Mrs. Macritchie. 'rand indeed, I never
saw what there was in her to make people
think her good-looking. She has no style.
A stuck-up thing ! "

At this point Lynn joined the ladies.
His appearance at once checked the flow of
conversation. Mrs. Macritchie had no intention
of falling into her husband's mistake,
and being too amiable and communicative with
the tutor.' Whatever topic Lynn touched
upon, she was frigidly irresponsive ; and so
there were great gaps of silence, during which
the ticking of the large gilt clock became
painfully audible. Miss Macritchie, busied
over some fancy-work, seemed with difficulty
to restrain a tendency to giggle. Lynn
vowed that he would never again accept an
invitation to ' make himself at home ' in
Deloraine House. And he never did.

At last the Eev. Mr. Stronach was announced.
Lynn had not met this divine
since their Leipsic days, and was somewhat
surprised to find him on such friendly terms
with the Macritchies, For Mr, Stronach was

a Free Church minister ; and Mr. Macritchie
professed to hold all Dissenters in abhorrence.
But Mr. Stronach had various points in his
favour. He was young, and unmarried ;
whereas the parish minister was a snuffy old
man, duly provided with a wife and family,
and having nothing to recommend him in
feminine eyes. Then Mr. Stronach, when not
among Dissenters, made no parade of his
Dissent. He resembled the great Apostle in
being all things to all men. He visited at
Mr. Inglebyby's, who esteemed him highly for
his Sabbatarian views. He visited at Mr.
Macritchie's, who was accustomed to say that
Stronach, sir, is at bottom a Tory."

Lynn had never liked Mr. Stronach ; but
now, in his conversational straits, the appearance
of the young clergyman was as welcome
as the flowers in May. Mr. Stronach was a
long, flaccid young man, with black hair, a
dull eye, and a damp hand. He smiled on
the company with seraphic superciliousness ;
and at that smile the ladies awoke into animation
as the birds break into song on the

advent of rosy-fingered morn. Where all lead
been ice and indifference, there was now
sweetness and sunshine.

Mr. Stronach spoke in a low, measured
voice, as if conscious that his words were
pearls of too great price to be carelessly
dropped on an regarding world. He let
them slip from him with a tender solicitude,
as if himself awed by a sense of their exceeding
preciousness.

*'Ah, yes," he said; ''I fear, Mr. Lynn,
you will find this place very quiet, very dull,
after the gaieties of Leipsic. We are a staid,
sober people here — not like those giddy Continentals.
It will take some little time, I
doubt not, before you are reconciled to the
change."

Lynn reminded Mr. Stronach that he had
been born and bred in Shawkirk, and knew
the manners of the place as well as Mr.
Stronach himself.

''Ah, yes," said that gentleman; 'eyes, it
is true. I had forgotten. But still, Mr. Lynn,
you will feel it a change. We moved in very

different spheres at Leipsic" — to this statement
Lynn assented with a smile — " very
different spheres. But I know you had distractions
there which you can scarcely expect
to meet with in Shawkirk."

Here Miss Macritchie lifted her eyes from
her fancy-work, and took an observation of
Lynn's face.

Yet methinks," continued Mr. Stronach
blandly, " our Shawkirk ladies need not fear a
comparison with the bright butterflies of any
foreign city. My own experience is, Mr.
Lynn, that the finest and truest type of
female beauty is ever to be found at home !"

Here Miss Macritchie drooped her eyes, and
plied her needle busily.

Mr. Stronach then alluded patronisingly to
Lynn's duties as a tutor, predicting that he
would find * the dear boys' all that an instructor
of youth could desire. A cushion
which Miss Macritchie was making for a forthcoming
bazaar in connection with Mr. Stronach's
church — and the sight of which might have
driven the Kyle Society to despair — formed

the staple of conversation until the return of
Mr. Macritchie. Thereafter the night was
beguiled by Mr. Macritchie's account of certain
stirring scenes in the local senate — in
which, to judge from his own narrative, he
had himself borne the foremost part.

Next day Lynn took lodgings in the house
of one David Messer, who had formerly
been a hand in his father's employment at
Lynnfield. There was no need to exercise
choice as to locality, for the streets in Shaw-kirk
are all alike. And in all such houses as
Mr. Messer's — the houses, that is to say, of the
smaller shop-keepers and better-class artisans
there is an apartment which is swept and
garnished solely to honour and delight the
visitor, and which is spoken of as ' the room'
par excellence. As ' the room' in all such
houses is furnished almost exactly as Lynn's
was, a description of that chamber comes to
have a kind of historic value.

There was a carpet, glowing with red and
yellow birds and flowers, all woven out of the
weaver's brain ; and a wall-paper to match

the carpet. The mantel-piece was adorned
with two peacock's feathers, several glossily
pink shells, and a few nondescript objects of
tertii, which made the beholder indulge in
strange longings for an invasion of the Vandals.
The fire-place was filled with a crisp,
glittering material, relieved by arabesques in
pink and green paper. Opposite the fire-place
stood a ponderous chest of drawers, which had
such a sombre, old-world aspect, that Lynn
fancied it must have been hewn out of gopher-wood.
Atop of this relic were set a cracked
mirror with a tarnished gilt frame, a Family
Bible, and an album whose hideousness, as
one quickly discovered on opening it, was not
confined to its binding. In one corner was a
small book-stand with ' good books,' among
which were conspicuous Boston's " Fourfold
State," Pollock's " Course of Time," and 's
" Golden Treasury." Art was represented
on the walls by three German prints,
and by two engravings — one of Burns sparing
the national emblem, and the other of John
Knox by no means sparing Queen Mary. It

may be added that there was a strong odour
of peppermint in the apartment, when Lynn
became its inmate.

The Messers, who seldom entered 'the
room associated it in a vague way with
Church and the Sunday — partly on account
of the ' good books partly on account of the
peppermint — the Presbyterian incense. It
was a rude shock to Mrs. Messer when her
lodger began to re-arrange the domestic
shrine, stuck pipes where ornaments had been,
and filled the sacred chamber with tobacco-smoke.
Lynn used to say that he would
have died of this room, if he had not contrived
to make a joke of it.

Sometimes L3mn was glad, in the dearth
of other companionship, to join his landlord's
family circle. Old Mr. Messer was disposed
at first to stand rather in awe of his former
master's son ; but the feeling soon wore off,
when he found that the young man had, ashe
expressed it, " nae pride about him ava."
From Mr. Messer Lynn learned more than he
had known before of his father's schemes, and

the ruin in which they had resulted. Mr.
Lynn, it appeared, had, like other reformers,
become popular after his death. His memory
was honoured among the workmen of Shaw-kirk.
Writhing, as they pictured themselves,
beneath the iron heel of Capital, they looked
fondly back to Mr. Lynn of Lynnfield, and
wished that there were more like him.

To Lynn, living in the Messer household,
there was presented a side of Shawkirk life
which he had never had the chance of
observing before. He derived some amusement
from studying its humours. He found,
for instance, that in a certain stratum of
Shawkirk society, poaching gives to existence
its sole zest, its fillip of romance. Mr. Messer
had two sons, Tam and Wattie, who worked
in Mr. Macritchie's factory by day, and went
to 'the water' by night. They were not
shy of informing Lynn that they indulged in
the illicit capture of fish. In their eyes,
no stigma attached to poaching, provided it
was not followed as a profession. When
Lynn once ventured to demur to Mr. Messer's

advanced views on this question, the old
man mildly but firmly observed that "the
auld riding' fluid maun foot." He further explained
that the salmon was the best fish in
the sea; and that this, conjoined with the fact
of its being sent by Providence up the rivers,
clearly showed that man was intended to take
it and eat thereof. Both Tam and Wattie
belonged to a ^ gang,' or fraternity which
collected funds for the purchase of nets,
cleeks,' and tridents ; and also for an insurance
against fines, in the case of members
who might chance to fall into the hands of
the water-bailiffs. The latter were about as
popular in Shawkirk as care-takers in the
County Kerry. They were regarded as
pariahs by the respectable, fish-consuming
class ; and were generally believed to spend
many hours a prey to the darkest remorse.

Another object of interest to Lynn in those
days was an individual known as ^ the
Infidel.' Next to the water-bailiffs, this was
the most unpopular person in Shawkirk. His
other name, if he had one, was never mentioned

; and his precise phase of unbelief
must remain unknown. The Messers pointed
him out to Lynn with a kind of shuddering
awe. *' See, Mester Lynn !" — they would cry
'there he gangs! Yon's the Infidel!" —
and they gazed after the lonely man as if
they expected to see tongues of fire spurt
from the heels of his boots. The Infidel's
appearance was against him. He was a tall,
dark, spare man, who wore a black cloak, and
walked always with a swift step. As he sped
through the town, Lynn thought of the poet
in"Alastor" — the wild-eyed wanderer whose
coming struck awe to the hearts of the cottagers,
and from whose face infants turned
trembling to their mothers' bosoms. The
Infidel lived in a brick house outside of the
town. Lynn afterwards discovered that this*
victim of popular prejudice was a retired Postoffice
clerk, who had no children and did not
go to church — two facts which were quite
sufficient to give him the character he bore in
the estimation of orthodox Shawkirk.

Even these traits, however, failed to enliven

the tedium of Lynn's life in Shawkirk. He
found it even drearier than he had anticipated.
Morton, he heard, was away yachting
on the West Coast. Mr. Inglebyby was absent
on his English journey. Mr. Macritchie had
signified that the portals of Deloraine House
were ever open to him ; but he felt no wish
again to enter there as a guest. He was absolutely
without companionship. Neither was
he able to find the slightest pleasure in his
work. His pupils, whom he endeavoured to
teach for five hours daily, scarcely bore out
Mr. Stronach's encomiums. They proved to
be incorrigibly lazy and irredeemably dull.
When Lynn, in his present surroundings,
thought of Sprayton, of Camilla — they almost
seemed parts of some beautiful, tantalising
dream, dreamt in an irrecoverable past.

He found himself looking forward to Mr.
Arden's appearance in Shawkirk, as to a
pleasurable interlude in this hum-drum life.
A meeting with Mr. Arden might lead to
nothing ; indeed, might never come to pass
at all, for the first step to it would not betaken

by himself — on that he was determined.
But even to see Camilla's father would be a
kind of excitement — a welcome break in the
monotony of his present existence. So, as
the weeks passed on, he began to wonder
more and more when this visit was to be —
whether it was to be at all.

One morning, on his way to Deloraine
House, Lynn's doubts were set at rest. The
blank walls and hoardings of Shawkirk were
blazoned with large yellow posters ; which
announced that "Eobert Arden, Esquire, of
Copthall Court and Hartington Gardens,
London," on the invitation of the Liberal
Committee of Shawkirk, would deliver at an
early date an Address on ^' Tories and Turks."

Camilla's words had taught him to expect
great things from the visit thus publicly
proclaimed. He would soon know, now, what
the result of it was to be — if, indeed, it could
have any result at all.

CHAPTEK Vii

A GRATEFUL FRIEND.

One evening — it was the evening before that
fixed for the delivery of Mr. Arden's Address
Lynn walked up the valley towards what
had once been his father's works, and was
now his sole patrimonial possession.

As he drew near the Factory of the Future,
the moon rose — a red, humid disk — from
behind a shoulder of the hills ; and in her
light the shadows of the tall chimneys ran
out, black and definite, towards him. He
crossed the stream by a rickety bridge, and
entered a grass-grown courtyard, strewn with
heaps of brick and stone and rusty iron. In
one corner there was a green, slimy pool;
and in another an old crane, with an end

VOL. I, N

of chain dangling from it, rose spectral and
gibbet-like in the vague light. The metals
of the branch line of railway which had run
into the Lynnfield works were now red with
rust ; and the weeds had pushed rank and
thick round the rotting sleepers. The brick
walls of the disused factory were cracked
in places, and there was not an unbroken
pane of glass in its whole frontage. The
doors and windows of the Hall had been
boarded up, and of the flag-staff on its turret-top
only the stump remained. Above the
entrance of the Hall Lynn could read the
motto placed there by his father : — Labor
omnia vinci.

In these surroundings, Lynn's thoughts
at once took a fancifully saturnine colour.
These ruins were his heritage ; the ground
he stood on was his own. There was something
romantic in the idea, but it was doubtful
whether anyone would see the romance
but himself. When the dispossessed heir
revisits the crumbling castle of his fathers,
he swears to win it back, and to re-gild the

old escutcheon of his line. But allusions to
Poictiers and Palestine would be out of all
keeping with a factory ; the Dispossessed
would have to swear, if he swore at all, by
his ancestral boilers and the shuttles of his
sires. To revive the glories of Lynnfield
might be a worthy ambition ; but a knowledge
of elementary book-keeping would be
requisite in making the attempt ; and Lynn
knew his own deficiencies. " Had the factory,
now, been a tower," he thought — " the dam
there a moat, this girder a bit of old armour
I should have been looked on with respect.
But as these walls are only tokens
of an attempt to do good to the people,
I am despised as the son of the man
who built them ! "Who thinks the better
of my poor father for all his benevolent
scheming ? The people here regard him as
having been at best a kind of gentle lunatic
a man who threw away his fortune for a
fad ! " Lynn rather enjoyed such reflections
as these. He thought of Eastignac in Balzac's
great novel, looking down upon Paris

from the cemetery in which a martyr to
kindliness had been laid, and swearing that
thenceforth there should be war between the
city and him. It is true that Lynn registered
no such vow, as he looked down on Shawkirk
from the Factory of the Future. But he
thought to himself that it was a most objectionable
place, especially for a poor man ;
and that the sooner he could get out of it
the better. It must be said of Lynn that
no reproachful feeling ever mingled with
his thoughts about his dead father. He had
heard a good deal said of Mr. Lynn of Lynn-field
from first to last, and little that was
not depreciatory. But he had never spoken
his mind on this subject save to one person
his cousin, Gertrude Inglebyby. And to her
he had always spoken of his scarce-remembered
father with a pity and regret that
were quite unselfish.

Lynn's meditations were interrupted by
the sound of footsteps. Turning his eyes
to the entrance of the court-yard, he saw
^ gentleman advancing towards him, He

recognised the gentleman at once. It was
Mr. Arden.

Mr. Arden came forward with an easy
and confident step. The associations connected
with the ruined factory had evidently
no such effect on his mind as they had on
Arthur Lynn's. He did not even look around
him, but came forward with a pleasant smile
on his face.

Mr. Arden held out his hand to Lynn,
who feigned not to see it. Then he said,
in the most affable way : —

Mr. Lynn ! I am so glad to have found
you. I called at your rooms, and learned
that you had walked out in this direction.
So I took the liberty of following you
here, as I wish to have a few words with
you."

Mr. Arden smiled again as he said this.
There was something in the smile, and in
the tones of the musical voice, that reminded
Lynn of Camilla, and softened him towards
Camilla s father.

You surprise me very much," he said ;

'' I should not have supposed that you could
have anything to say to me — anything more,
I mean."

"You allude to our last interview, Mr.
Lynn, and I do not wonder at it. I am
aware that I showed myself then in a very
ungracious light. It is a painful subject for
both of us — more especially, perhaps, forme."


For you ? " — said Lynn. " Pardon me,
but I don't quite understand."

I know that I must have seemed to you
then — well, let us say, curt."

'' That word will do as well as another."

"Not rude"— said Mr. Arden ; "I hope
I was not rude ? That would indeed add
to the poignancy of my regret. But I know
that at our last unfortunate interview, Mr.
Lynn, I did show a want of consideration
for your — feelings. I freely own it. A man
at my time of life is so aj)t to be wanting
in sympathy with a younger man. No
sooner had you left me than I began to
regret my words. But how was my self-reproach

increased, when I found out the
fact about you which is the cause of my coming
here to-night ! "

"What fact"— said Lynn. "The last
time we met, Mr. Arden, I had no difficulty
in understanding you. But I confess I have
now."

When we met in Leipsic, Mr. Lynn, I did
not know in the least who you were. I did
not find out until afterwards that you were
the son of one to whom I owe a great debt of
gratitude — Mr. Lynn of Lynnfield. You may
perhaps have heard that I was once manager
here ? " — and Mr. Arden indicated by a wave
of his hand the ruins around him.

I have heard it," said Lynn, " since my
return from Germany. I am glad to think
you did not know before whose son I was."

I did not," said Mr. Arden earnestly. " Tome
your father was a benefactor. I owe my
success in life, such as it has been, in great
measure to his kindness and liberality. Your
father was a man, Mr. Lynn, whom no one
could know without loving."

I believe that is true."

'* Yes — and so it grieves me more than I
can say to think that I should have given
pain, even unwittingly, to the son of one
whose memory I shall always reverence. I
should like you to forget what has passed
between us. It was, believe me, the result
of a mistake."

It is not easy to forget such things," said
Lynn.

*' You must make allowance for the feelings
of a father. I put it to you now, as a
man of sense and — honour, how could I have
acted otherwise than as I did ? I trust that
you will not allow the recollection of that unfortunate
— episode, to prevent my numbering
the son of Mr. Lynn of Lynnfield among my
friends ?"

Mr. Arden spoke with apparent feeling.
Lynn had no reason to doubt his sincerity.
He was conciliated almost in spite of himself.

*' If I am ever to be a friend of yours, Mr.
Arden," he said, " you must first understand
that I hope your daughter may one day be

something more than a friend to me. I wish,
you see, to be straightforward with you, as
you have been with me."

Mr. Arden looked very grave. He was
silent for a moment ; then he said, as if with
difficulty concealing his annoyance : —

That is very right — very right, Mr. Lynn.
But I could have wished, I must say, that
you had not introduced my daughter s name
into our talk — at least, not now. Believe
me, it distresses me deeply to have to say
anything which might pain the son of my
old friend. But I must not allow my feelings
of gratitude to blind me to my daughter's
interests."

I trust I should never ask you to do anything
of the kind."

I know you would not ; but you and I
very naturally look at this matter from different
points of view. I hope I am neither
ambitious nor mercenary in my views for
my daughter. I may tell you that there is
no one to whom I should confide her future
more willingly than to the son of my old

master — that is, if I found he had inherited
his father's heart and brain."

Lynn bowed and looked gratified. He began
to think that he had been judging Mr.
Arden harshly.

But there is one thing I must ask you,
Mr. Lynn — which perhaps I should have asked
you when we met at Leipsic — What career
in life have you marked out for yourself?
What profession do you intend to follow?"

Lynn set forth his views in regard to the
English Bar ; and as he could not on this
occasion envelop the theme in the usual
glowing vagueness, he realised, perhaps for
the first time, how disagreeably indefinite his
prospects were.

I think I have some power of writing,"
he added modestly ; *' and I believe that if I
were once in London, I might be able to do
something with my pen."

It is, of course, impossible," said Mr.
Arden, " that you can go on as you are doing
here. My daughter tells me that it was your
uncle who persuaded you to take this tutorship.

I cannot imagine what could be his
motive. Have you yourself any notion of it,
Mr. Lynn?"

Oh yes — he really thought it would bethe
best thing I could do, in the meantime."

That, of course, is nonsense," said Mr.
Arden. '' As for the English Bar, it is sheer
insanity to think of that, unless one has an
independence."

Lynn smiled. " In that case," he said, " I
am afraid the Bar will have to do without
me."

But you tell me you can write," went
on Mr. Arden. *' Well, there is journalism ;
and if you have your father's instinct for
politics, I think that would suit you. It
was your father who first turned my attention
to politics. There can be no doubt
that newspaper men at the top of the tree
have a position such as mere money cannot
command. And if you really thought of
journalism as a profession, I might be able to
give you a helping hand. You are, no doubt,
familiar with the name of Mr. Mallory ?"

Now Mr. Mallory was an author who had
been one of Lynn's favourite luminaries. He
answered that he had studied Mr. Mallory 's
writings, and, in particular, his Martyred
Humanity with peculiar interest and admiration.


"I know Mallory well," said Mr. Arden;
*' we belong to the same club. He edits the
Forum now. It occurs to me that he maybe
able to give you a start somehow. At
least, I could, if you wish, speak to him about
you."

I should be only too grateful," said Lynn.

'' You will find him a fine fellow" — said Mr.
Arden, who liked to speak of the great Editor
as a ' fine fellow' — " a very fine fellow indeed.
I suppose you could come to town on
a few days' notice ?"

'' Certainly. There would be no difficulty
about that."

Very good," said Mr. Arden. " I leave
this place at the end of the week — I am to
deliver a political address tomorrow night, as
you may have noticed. After I see Mallory,

if he seems able to do anything for you, I
shall write you, and shall arrange for your
meeting him at Hartington Gardens — at my
house. You can do no good by remaining a
day longer than is necessary in this horrible
place" — and Mr. Arden looked with a face of
disgust on the dingy piles, the blackened
stalks and murky canopy of smoke that made
up the view of Shawkirk.

As they walked towards the town, Mr.
Arden conversed pleasantly, touching lightly
on the leading questions and statesmen of the
day. His tacit assumption that his companion
must be quite familiar with these topics had
the effect of putting Lynn in a good humour
with himself; and his opinion of Mr. Arden
continued to rise.

Good-bye, my dear sir," said Mr. Arden,
when they had come to Mr. Messer's house —
Good-bye. I hope we shall see you in London
before long. And as for that other matter
of which you spoke to me — let it lie for
the present in abeyance. That is all I shall
ask of you."

Lynn promised to do so, and they parted
the best of friends.

He talks a good deal about what he
doesn't understand," said Mr. Arden to himself;
as he strolled leisurely in the direction
of his hotel ; " how few of those young men
know when to hold their tongues ! He has a
dash of his father's craziness, that is very
evident ; but he is, on the whole, saner. And
yet, I don't know — I don't know ! The idea
of marrying on what he can earn by his
pen ! — the impertinence of his innocence is
appalling. He has some cleverness, I can
see ; though he's not quite the genius that
Camilla makes him out. However, I might
have expected that. But it will do — yes, on
the whole, it will do. The main thing is to
get him up to London, and at once."

Lynn's reflections were of a somewhat
different cast. He felt grateful to Mr. Arden,
and more hopeful about the future than
he had been. The disagreeable incident at
Leipsic might be forgotten, now that it had
been explained. Mr. Arden, he thought, was

charming. There had seemed to come with
him a breath from the great world, in which
such celebrities as the author of Martyred
Humanity lived and moved ; and this, to
one who had been living in the stifling atmosphere
of a narrow provincialism, was grateful
as perfumed gales of Araby. Lynn could not
but respect the man to whom the great
Mallory appeared in the light of a ' fine
fellow.' He was flattered by the interest
shown in him, quite as much as he was
surprised. And he was pleased by the way
in which Mr. Arden had spoken of his father.
The words of gratitude and respect had
seemed to come from the man's heart ; and
they quite dissipated in Lynn's mind any
disagreeable impression that had been left
by Mr. Macritchie's innuendos.

Only one unpleasant thought mingled with
his reflections. Had he been quite fair — he
asked himself — quite open and above-board
with Mr. Arden, as Mr. Arden had been
with him? He had certainly not informed
Camilla's father as to what had happened at

Sprayton ; he had found it, somehow, difficult
to speak to Mr. Arden on this subject as he
would have liked to speak. He must strive
to make what reparation he could for having
thus far been forced to act frankly towards
the generous and grateful gentleman. One
thing he might do in the meantime. It was
an open secret that Mr. Arden's address on
Tories and Turks " was merely a ' feeler,'
preparatory to his standing for the Shawkirk
Boroughs, as soon as the seat became vacant.
He might therefore do a little amateur canvassing
on Mr. Arden's behalf, among the
Messers and their friends. He knew that they
liked him, and would be disposed to listen
to anything he might say. With this idea,
he knocked at the kitchen-door, and was
received by old Mr. Messer with sad civility.
There were several strangers in the kitchen,
but neither Tam nor Wattie was present.
A serious misfortune, as Lynn knew, had
befallen the latter, and made a temporary
blank in the domestic circle. Wattie, having
been captured on the previous night in

possession of all his gear, as also of a large
salmon gashed in a frightful manner with
the ' cleek ' — was now the tenant of a prison
cell.

This is a nephew o' mine, Jimmie Laicl-
law frae Yetholm ways," said Mr. Messer to
Lynn, indicating one of the strangers ; *' an'
this is Calder, a friend' o' the loose, an' yon's
Carr. We were just cracking' over the ill turn
things hae ta'en."

Lynn nodded, to express his sympathy and
condolence.

Ye see, Mester Lynn," continued the old
man, ** I'm no' myself' the night ava'. Ye
can easy understand' that it's a sir thing for
ane at ma time o' life tae see ane o' his sons
gain sae far astray. I never thocht he'd
hae come to this. I think I could hae bore
it better gin he'd 'listed, or ta'en tae tramping'
wi' the tinklers — but noo, I cinna ken hoo
I'll ever look his auld mates i' the face
again !"

I think you're taking it too much to

heart, Mr. Messer," said Lynn. " There will
vol. I. o

be no difficulty about the fine, I suppose.
The whole thing will blow over in a day or
two, and no one will think a bit the worse
of Wattie for it."

"Wattie?" — said the old man, who, with
Laidlaw and Calder, had listened as if doubting
whether he heard aright — " Wha was
speaking' o' Wattie, Mester Lynn?"

'why, is it not Wattie that's to be tried
for poaching ? I was told so."

Wattie ? Tried for poaching' ? Aye, that's
right eneuch," said Mr. Messer ; while Jimmie
Laidlaw and the others stared at Lynn in
breathless amazement. " But, Lord, that's
nathan'! It's little Wattie's case wad hae
fashed me. It's Tam — he's gave avb turned
a water-rat !"

'' Turned a what f "

A water-rat, sir — a water-baillie — we ca'
them water-rats here, ye ken — them that
watches the water o' nights, an' claps their
ban's on an honest lad that's takin' foot a bit
fish at an ora time. Heh me ! — tae think
that ever a bairn o' mine should turn again'

his aiild mates, and tak tae trapping' this ain
flesh and fluid !"

The matter was plain enough to Lynn now.
Mr. Messer and his friends looked upon one
of their class who became a water-bailiff much
as the Crusaders would have regarded a Recross
Knight, who had deserted to the Soldan
and become a Paynim Emir. Lynn sought to
soften down their wrath against the renegade,
but in vain. The mistake under which he
had laboured, however, in supposing that
Wattle's misadventure could be to them a
cause of shame or sorrow, restored their self-complacency,
and even diffused a quiet mirthful
feeling through the group.

Lynn began to speak of Mr. Arden, delivering
a warm eulogy upon that gentleman,
and urging his hearers to be present at the
delivery of the address on "Tories and
Turks."

Wasna' you since near killed wi' a Turk,
Calder?" — said Mrs. Messer to one of her
guests.

*ray," said Calder, an engineer who in

early life had made a voyage up the Mediterranean
on board a steamer — 'ray, but that
wasna' in Turkey, Mrs. Messer. That was at
a place card Athens."

Called what f^—a^ked Lynn.

Athens, sir," repeated the engineer.
'' It's a place we touched at afore we ran
up the Marmot. I mind," he added, " there
was a guide slant there. That's a kind o'
sailors' public-loose, ye ken."

Athens — ay, that's whaup Paul
preached," said Mrs. Messer, by way of
elevating the conversation in deference to
her lodger. But Lynn reverted to the excellences
of Mr. Arden.

'' I'm thinking," observed Mr. Messer, " he'll
be gain tae stan' for the Boroughs, when auld
Fletcher va-cates the seat. Sandy Tennant —
he's just a slater, Mester Lynn, but he's a
gran' han' at the politics — was saying' sae,
but Sandy's no' just a'thegither sir if he's
soon. I'm jalousin' it'll no' be lang or we
hae an election, noo."

I'll be over then," said Mr. Laidlaw with

animation ; " I'll be over then, an' auld
Turnbull's coming' wi' me."

He's no' gotten a vote, the spiteful' body,
has he ?" — asked the matron.

*' That's what I said til' him," answered Mr.
Laidlaw. " An' says he tae me, * No' yet,
the mair's the pity,' says he — ^ hut it's
no' illa day ive can get tae hiss a gentleman!'
I thocht it was gey an guide o' the
auld man."

"I'm thinking," said Mr. Messer, "that
what Tammas Turnbull diana' ken about the
politics is no' earth kennin'. Ay — we maun
hae him over, to help us wi' the hecklin'."

Sandy Tennant was saying," observed
Mr. Calder, " that Coal Eob had been wanting'
tae bring in Bailie Trotter for the Boroughs,
if Arden hanna' been coming' forrat. There's
some thinks, ye see, that the Bailie has mair
claim on us, like."

"Ay, ay! — Bailie Trotter !" — said Mr.
Messer. " I've heard tell he's turned a gran'
han' at the politics, in town. I mind fine
when he was a young man here — an' that's

mair nor five-an'-twenty years syne — he was
a gran ban' at the fish o' nights. There was
ne'er a baillie among them a' could get a group
o' him. Mony's the braw saumon him an'
me's ta'en foot o' the years's water ! An he
was the deadliest shot at the patrick forbye."


These reminiscences seemed to create a
strong feeling in Bailie Trotter's favour. It
was as if they had shed a new light on the
political situation.

I've heard tell the Bailie was a fair deil,
faith at the fish an' the birds," said Mr.
Laidlaw. " I causa' Sandy Tennant was
right — he has mair claim on us than the likes
o' Arden."

'maybe he has," said Mr. Messer; 'but
we maun wait an' hear what Coal Eob an' the
Saumon lads' hae to say about it. I coot,
though, that the Bailie's turned teetotal. He
wasna' that since — saur frae't ; but I've heard
tell that he's come to that, i' the town."

If," said Mr. Calder with sudden vehemence,
"if he comes here preaching' teetotalism,

I'll gang did again' him. I'd aimer see a Tory
in for the Boroughs than a Teetotaler, ony
day!"

Whisht, man, Calder!" — said Mr. Messer
reproachfully; 'that's no' a right way to
speak ava'. I ken ye cinna' mean what ye
say, but I canna' thole tae hear ye. I'm no
saying' I'm fond o' Teetotalism myself', but
there's mair nor that in the politics. Wad
ye see the Boroughs disgracing' theirs's i'
the been o' William Ewart Gladstone for the
sake o' the drink?"

"When William Ewart Gladstone was
here," said Mr. Calder, " I got a shake o' his
han."

An yet ye could speak o' voting' for a
Tory!" — exclaimed Mr. Messer. "I got a
shake o' his han' myself," he added, and there
was a proud ring in his voice — " An' I might
hae gotten to shake ban's wi' Mistress Gladstone
tae, gin I'd been a wee thing quicker
forrat."

At this point the clock struck, and the
third stranger, who had been sleeping peacefully

during the political discussion, awoke
with a start.

*' I thocht that was 'shunt for fast'" — he
cried, as he stared wildly around him.

*' Carr's a signalman on the railway-line,
Mester Lynn," Mrs. Messer explained, seeing
her guest's look of astonishment. " We'd be
thinking' the clock was the bell i' your box,
na', Carr? — Man, ye're just 'killing' yourself'
for the want o' sleep !"

*' He'll kill mair nor himsel' yet, the way
he's dein'" — said Mr. Calder portentously.
"Ye're over after at the water at night,
Carr" — he added, sternly — "when ye're on
the day-shift. It's no' right — there'll be a
fine smash foret, some o' the days !"

"It's no' right," Mr. Messer concurred;
man, Carr, ye're just defrauding' the Company
o' your sleep."

I can aye waken when the bell rings,"
said Mr. Carr with a touch of indignant
pride. " I'm a licht sleeper. Nae fear o' me,
nor o' the trains neither !"

The Signalman and the Engineer then

entered into a technical discussion on the
subject of 'flying shunts;' and as Lynn did
not see that he could materially advance Mr.
Arden's cause that night, he soon after betook
himself to his own room.

CHAPTER IX.

THE VIEWS OF MR. MALLORY.

The fact is, Mallory, I sometimes think I
shall never be able to go through with it. I
don't understand the kind of thing they want.
If I did, of course I should be only too pleased
to say it."

The canker of hedonism must be burned
out of you, Arden," said Mr. Mallory, who
was seated with Mr. Arden in his room at the
Forum office, discussing the coming election
at Shawkirk. " You will warm to the work
by-and-bye, when once you have tasted the
delights of successful oratory — 'wielding at
will that fierce democracy.' "

I had to taste a great deal too much bad
wine when I was last down there," said Mr,
Arden,

"Ah — the port and sherry of the British
Philistine — I know ;" and Mr. Mallory shook
his head S5niipathisingly.

I don't know how I am to hit it off with
those people in Shawkirk," said Mr. Arden ;
and he seemed lost in a rueful retrospect.
It is hard on a man who only wants to
please them. But they ask the most singular
questions. They've got a slater down there "
he went on plaintively — " who knows a
great deal more about the incidence of taxation,
and perpetual pensions, and friendly
societies — and that kind of thing, than is good
for him — or for me."

Wisdom crieth aloud upon the housetops,"
said Mr. Mallory.

"It is no matter for joking, I can assure
you. I wish you had to harangue them
yourself. I tried them with some of your pet
notions, you know."

"Yes?"

Yes — and I had invariably to mention
Mr. Gladstone's name afterwards to stop the
hissing."

The admiration for Mr. Gladstone is, I
know, a cult in those regions," said the Editor,
apparently unmoved. " It is a thing I do not
quite understand. I cannot reconcile it with
the national worship of Burns."

"Neither can I," said Mr. Arden "But
look at this. When I was down there, I
learned that a number of these people were
sent to prison for poaching — "

The neighbouring proprietors, as usual,
demoralising the townsmen by their preserves?"


That is what I said. I said there should
neither be preserves nor game-laws. Well,
somehow that did not seem to satisfy them.
I fancy, you know, they want the game
without the laws. I believe they would be
satisfied by the mere abolition of gamekeepers."


Excuse me, Arden," said Mr. Mallory
with a touch of asperity, " but you don't go
into this election in the proper spirit. You
really must eschew flippancy in politics. The
flippant politician — as I have remarked in my

Martyred Humanity — is the gnat that stings
the slumbering lion of Democracy. Now, why
do you want this seat ? Not that you may
have the entry to the House's smoking-room ?
Nor because the letters 'M.P.' after one's
name are a thing to conjure with on mining
prospectuses ? Of course not."

Mr. Arden, hearing his motives for desiring
the seat thus accurately defined, said, " Of
course not " — with almost angry emphasis.

That is obvious," continued the Editor.
And when a man embraces politics — unless
he is a nobleman, or an adventurer — he must
be actuated by a desire to benefit his fellow-citizens."


That is perfectly true, no doubt," said
Mr. Arden. " It reminds me that there is
one of our fellow-citizens whom I should like
you to help me to benefit. Indeed, that was
my chief reason for calling on you to-day."

Mr. Mallory's countenance darkened. For
the first time, he did not respond promptly.

He is a young man " — Arden went on —
*' rather clever, I should say. I knew his

father well. He ruined himself, through philanthropy."


In spite of your warnings, I presume ?" —
said Mr. Mallory.

"Well — yes," said Mr. Arden. "He was
an enthusiast — one of those people, you
know, who are said to be too good for this
world."

'rit is the people who are too good for
this world who fill me with terror of the
next"— said Mr. Mallory; "at least," he
added, correcting himself, " they did so, before
I had outgrown the theological phase
of thought."

Well, this young fellow wishes to get
money by writing, and I thought — "

Number Forty-nine ! " — said the Editor,
and he sighed deeply.

What do you mean by Number ,
Mallory ? "

I ? — Oh, nothing — nothing at al] ! I
knew it was coming. Only this. Since I
took up this paper, a year ago, I have had
forty-eight Young Men of Genius introduced

to me — to provide for them. Every week
my dear friends bring up relays of budding
Fonblanques. They guide them into my
room — forcing the consign — and make speeches
about them. Generally these youths carry
samples of their wares with them, which
they lay in piles upon that table. It is
in vain I indicate by a glance that the
waste-basket is at their disposal. .It is hard
on the porter — but it is killing me. Does
your young friend happen to be Scotch ? "

He does," said Mr Arden.

*' Ah — a large number of these youths are
so — fearfully and wonderfully Scotch. These
are a haughty race, and esteem themselves
so many Admirable Crichton. Look at
that ! " — cried the Editor, producing a voluminous
MS. from his desk — " look at that !
That, sir, is the work of Number Forty-eight
— a Young Man of Genius. Genius, I
may remark, I now define as an infinite
capacity for giving pains. The writing, you
observe, is ghastly. Parts of it are illegible.
These are by far the best parts. I have no

doubt that the writer of this has been led
into his evil courses by some novel, in
which an impossible idler scribbles himself
into affluence. Such stories are as wild asa
fairy tale, or a missionary tract. They
are generally the work of women, who ought
to be forbidden by law to perpetrate such
pestilent trash."

^'Why, Mallory," said Mr. Arden, "I
thought you were a staunch upholder of
Woman's Eights ? "

Of course I am. I believe that, were
the other professions thrown open to women,
they would scribble less — and that is in itself
a sufficient reason for their emancipation.
There are certain characters in fiction on
which a duty should be levied. And I should
allow no female fictionist to introduce the
young successful author, without paying the
heaviest of all such imposts."

So the long and the short of it is, that
you can't give young Lynn a trial ?"

*' Not as a writer. He would not suit meat
first, unless he were the very blue dahlia of

journalists. And, of course, I have no time to
form him. But I might do this for him —
your young friend, I think you said, is from
the North?"

eyes. From Shawkirk."

'' Ah ! — The promising son of a prospective
constituent ?"

Mr. Arden did not seek to improve on this
theory of his motives.

"Is the young man ambitious?" — the
Editor went on.

I don't know. I suppose he is. At any
rate, he wants very much to come to London."

"Not an uncommon trait," said Mr. Mallory.
"Well, I can do this for him — solely
on your account, Arden. One of my creditors
has broken down — night work, you
know ; eyes and lungs, and that kind of
thing. Of course, if this were known, I
should be at once deluged with applications.
Now, I don't mind giving this young mana
trial at poor Wicks's desk, if that will be
of any service to you in your candidature.
And as for the young man himself — if we suit

VOL. I. p

each other, and he can do the work, and
stand it out for a few years, and is adaptable
he may rise eventually to a fair position."

I suppose that will be the best thing
for him," said Mr. Arden, a little doubtfully.

'' Certainly," said the Editor ; " certainly.
It is much better, indeed, than he has any
right to expect."

Well — you might dine with me on Thursday
of next week, and I shall ask Lynn to
meet you. You won't object to that, I suppose
?"

The apostle of social equality looked as if
he objected to it very strongly. He did not
wish to dine with his sub-editor about to be.
He would sooner have dined with a bishop —
much sooner, indeed. Before, however, he
could impart an air of realism to the fiction
of a prior engagement, Mr. Arden had added
that he would also meet at his table an
Anglo-Indian millionaire, who had an intimate
knowledge of Indian affairs.

I shall be very glad to meet your — ah —
young friend," said Mr. Mallory. " And your

Anglo-Indian," he added, "may, perhaps, be
able to augment the facts on which I base
my contention that we ought to abandon
India, at once and for ever."

Very likely he may," said Mr. Arden.
Then we shall see you on Thursday" — and
the Editor took up his pen as his visitor
departed.

The gentleman whom Mr. Arden had thus
approached in Lynn's interests held a high
place in the world of letters. He was the
most eloquent and thorough-going of iconoclasts.
He maintained that England was at
present an Inferno, in which a few men clad in
purple and fine linen surveyed from a safe
height the suffering myriads beneath. By
repeating that this country was a very bad
place, he had made it a very pleasant place
for himself to live in. He was regarded as a
singularly earnest reformer ; and it is questionable
whether he would have been led to
give up his political projects even by permission
to carry them into effect. His love
of the working-classes was apparently disinterested,

for none of them ever read any
of his books, which were studied only by the
classes he denounced and despised. He
prided himself, and with justice, on being
a practical man. Had he met the father of
Hamlet on the moon-lit terraces of Elsinore,
he would at once have begun mentally to
draft a bill for extending the franchise to
ghosts, and the hours of polling to cockcrow.
He wrote vigorously, often brilliantly;
his words being at times tipped with a
peculiar, grave, exasperating irony ; and if
ever the shadow of a doubt flitted across his
mind, it was never reflected in the clear
mirror of his style. He had shown high
editorial ability ; and by dint of sheer, deft
crotchetiness had made his paper both an
influential political organ and a financial
success.

Mr. Mallory was a tall, handsome man, of
about forty-five years of age. He had sharply-cut
features, which suggested the face of
Voltaire ; dark hair, keen bright eyes, and a
silvery voice. Unfortunately, he spoke in an

affectedly indifferent manner ; and this, combined
with his habit of pausing and arching
his eyebrows before answering a question,
provoked in many otherwise staid and meek
men a violent desire to strangle him.

Mr. Mallory went a great deal into society,
where he was regarded as a kind of Apollyon
become viveur, and was much courted and
admired. He never refused an invitation from
Dives or My Lord — if Dives were sufficiently
rich, and My Lord sufficiently exclusive. At
these entertainments, Mr. Mallory contrived
to put a strong curb on his ethics-political
feelings, and surveyed the silver, the liveries
and the flowers without so much as murmuring
a ^a ira. He professed to hold the
Philistines and their vulgar pomp in equal
horror and contempt ; but, when it suited
him, could be ' eyeless in Gaza.' He had,
indeed, a wonderful gift of modulating his
manners and conversation to the society in
which he found himself for the time being.
His favourite style, however, was that of a
Tribune of the People, in whom roughness had

become brusquerie, and who let a certain disregard
for the conventional appear in the
plainness of his language and the dictatorial
expression of his opinions.

At Mr. Arden's table Mr. Mallory was a
frequent guest. Mr. Arden gave good dinners,
and passed for being rich. His banquets,
however, were not so Lucullus, nor was his
fortune so colossal, that these things alone
would have brought the Editor of the Forum
at such frequent intervals to Hartington
Gardens.

CHAPTER X.

FATHER AND DAUGHTER.

A FEW days after the delivery of the address
upon '' Tories and Turks," and the departure
of Mr. Arden for London, Arthur Lynn received
a letter from that gentleman, stating
the result of his interview with the great
Editor. '^ A chance such as this," Mr. Arden
wrote, " may not occur twice in a lifetime.
An opening on the staff of the Forum is
quickly and easily filled up. I should recommend
you, therefore, to leave Shawkirk at
once, and make sure of an appointment which
to many men would seem so desirable."

The receipt of this letter filled Lynn with
an almost ecstatic joy. He wished to shake
the dust of Shawkirk there and then from the
soles of his feet, No mode of conveyance

hitherto invented would have been sufficiently
rapid to meet . his desires. He pictured to
himself the office of the Forum besieged by
swarms of hungry applicants, and the great
Mallory holding them at bay, waiting for him,
Arthur Lynn — yes, positively, for him ! Had
he been free to consult his own wishes, he
would have started for London by the next
express. That, however, was scarcely possible.


Mr. Macritchie offered no objection to his
going ; was sorry to lose the services of so
able a tutor for his sons, but would not stand
in the young man's light. He looked very
grave, however, on hearing the name of Mr.
Mallory's paper, which he described as " a vile
organ, sir ; a vile Eadical organ, — the sworn
foe of our most cherished institutions." Personally,
he wished Lynn well ; but could
not congratulate him on such a start in
life. He concluded by filling up a cheque ;
which was of more consequence to Lynn at
the moment than Mr. Macritchie's advice or
opinions.

Lynn next went to the Victoria Dye-works.
He learned, at the counting-house
there, that his uncle was still in the North of
England, but was expected to return to
Sprayton at the end of the week. " I shall
write to him there," thought Lynn, "from
London — that will do just as well." Dick
Inglebyby, for whom he inquired, was out ;
he was nearly always out, the cashier said.
Lynn was thus denied the satisfaction of
bidding his cousin good-bye. For this, however,
he felt no very poignant regret.

On his last day at Shawkirk, Lynn became
almost reconciled to the grimy monotony of
the place. There was something characteristic,
he felt, in its utter want of the beautiful. He
would not have had the chimneys belch out a
less dense and murky cloud, nor the stream
run a less purple and malodorous course.
Shawkirk would be unique, impressive,
Dantesque — to look back upon.

He had no farewell visits to make, before
taking his departure. Mr. Lynn of Lynn-field
had once been a great man in. the

borough ; but the Shawkirk capitalists had
consistently turned the cold shoulder towards
Arthur Lynn, the heir of his father's
misfortunes. In the absence of his uncle's
family, he had not a friend in the place — with
the single exception of the Messers.

The Messers, indeed, were sincerely grieved
by the departure of their lodger. They felt
that he was going far away, very far — farther,
in a sense, than even New Zealand or Manitoba.
Neighbours of their own who had
removed to those regions had sent home letters
and newspapers to their friends, which
proved them to be at any rate still alive.
But London ! — when once a man went thither
he was lost, swallowed up for ever ; he became
a memory and nothing more. On Lynn's
last night in Shawkirk, old Mr. Messer cast a
gloom over the whole circle by relating how a
cousin of his own had betaken himself in quest
of fortune to the metropolis, and had there
mysteriously vanished from mortal ken.

Mr. Messer and his son Wattie, now released
from durance, accompanied Lynn to

the station next morning, bearing his portmanteau
between them. Their manner towards
him was mournfully affectionate ; and
they bade him a farewell as sad and solemn as
though they never thought to look upon his
face again.

Ye see, Wattie," observed Mr. Messer
sententiously, as they left the station, '' what
it is tae hae silver i' your porch, an' what it is
tae hae name. I've seen the day when auld
Mester Lynn had friend's by the dizen ; an'
noo, when the lad's setting' aff the Lord kens
whaup, there's no ane to see the last o' him
but the likes o' you an' me !"

So little comment had Arthur Lynn's departure
from Shawkirk excited, that no hint
of it reached the Inglebys at Sprayton, until
there came a letter from Lynn himself. The
letter was addressed to Mr. Inglebyby, and bore
the postmark of London.

The letter and its postmark threw Mrs.
Inglebyby and her daughters into a flutter of
excitement. During the weeks that had
passed since Arthur Lynn left Sprayton, they

had been speaking of him every day, picturing
to themselves the dreary routine of his
life in Shawkirk, and hoping that it might
soon come to an end. Now, as it appeared,
it had come to an end ; but in a way that
seemed to them inexplicable, and made them
feel anxious. They knew that Lynn's hopes
had always pointed to London ; but he
had said no word to indicate a purpose of
going there immediately. That he should
have left Shawkirk thus suddenly, in his
uncle's absence, and without seeking assistance
or advice, was a thing they could not understand.
Then, he had no money, or next to
none — they all knew that by this time ; and
the thought of her nephew cast adrift almost
penniless in London — '* where everything,
you know, is so dear, and all the people cheat
you" — filled Mrs. Inglebyby's bosom with affright.
Within half-an-hour after the receipt
of Lynn s letter, his aunt had seen him starving
in a cheerless attic, and had gone with
him, in spirit, to the pawnbroker's, with a
view to pledging his watch.

Whatever Gertrude thoughts may have
been, she did not utter them. But Caroline
spoke out freely. Mrs. Inglebyby had been
remarking, for about the hundredth time,
that she could not think what it all meant,
and, Oh dear! — she hoped there might not
be anything wrong.

Mamma," said Caroline, " you don't need
to put yourself in a state. 711 tell you what
it means. It means that Arthur has gone off
after that girl — that is all."

My dear," said Mrs. Inglebyby, looking
fearfully round the room, " you must not say
such things, when — "

Oh, Gerty isn't here. I would not have
said it if she had been. She always did
keep herself to herself, but I can see that
she is very — anxious, about Arthur. I don't
think Arthur has behaved well to Gerty,
mamma."

You must not say such things, Caroline —
you must not indeed !"

Why not ? Gerty has always been his
best friend — and all the time that English

girl was here, lie had neither a word nor a
look for anyone else."

She is so pretty I " — said Mrs. Inglebyby ;
and so clever ! "

*' Pretty ! " — said Caroline ; " she is perfectly
lovely, I know that. But I don't think
she is true, mamma. I daresay she is in love
with Arthur — "

Do you really think so, Caroline ? "

'* Yes, I do. I believe, now, that she came
down here just on purpose to meet him."

"How you run on, child ! The things you
say quite take away my breath ! "

I can't help that, mamma. But I feel
sure that she has told Arthur to come to
London, and that Arthur has just gone.
That's the whole mystery."

"Oh dear !"— wailed Mrs. Inglebyby— " oh
dear ! What will your father say ? He was
so pleased with Arthur for taking the tutorship,
and now this will only set him against
him ! "

The question. What would Mr. Inglebyby
say ? — agitated the minds of his wife and

daughters during the next three days. Arthur
Lynn's letter had come on the Thursday morning,
and Mr. Inglebyby was expected home from
his English journey on the Saturday night.
They laid the letter with the London postmark
uppermost on the writing-table in Mr.
Inglebyby's room, among the rest of his correspondence
— and waited.

Say nothing to your father about it,
girls " — so Mrs. Inglebyby counselled her daughters,
as the hour of her husband's arrival drew
near — '* say nothing to him about it, until
he has had his tea. It would only vex him,
and make him unfit to take his food."

Mr. Inglebyby came by the evening boat,
and was met by his daughters on the quay.
Mr. Inglebyby was, for him, in excellent spirits.
He had had a good journey ; trade had
been active ; bad debts and bills wanting
renewal unwontedly few. At the tea-table,
he entertained his family with details of an
enormity which had come under his own
notice, and which seemed to afford him the
liveliest satisfaction. A Bishop, somewhere

in the Midlands, had preached a sermon ina
theatre — " Yes, positively in a theatre, a
common play-house ! " — a scandal from which
Mr. Inglebyby argued that the Anglican Establishment
must be tottering to its fall. His
wife and daughters appeared to be hanging
on his words with rapt interest. In reality,
they were thinking of the letter which lay
on the writing-table upstairs. Not a word
had yet been said regarding Arthur Lynn
and his affairs.

"Have any letters come for me during
my absence ? " — at length asked Mr. Inglebyby.

'' They are in your own room, papa," said
Caroline. Then Mr. Inglebyby went upstairs.

Mrs. Inglebyby and her daughters sat in the
parlour, hushed into that silence which means
that an explosion is expected. The minutes
passed ; still no sound came from the room
above. Then Mr. Inglebyby's footsteps were
heard. Mr. Inglebyby's manner of pacing a
room was an infallible index to his mood.
A slow step meant cogitation ; a medium
step, uneasiness ; a swift step, anger, or some

other strong emotion. Now, his tread began
by expressing fury ; gradually slowing down
into the heavy, measured tramp that denoted
extreme anxiety of mind. Then the sound
of his footfalls ceased. An hour had passed ;
and the suspense, to Mrs. Inglebyby and her
girls, was becoming almost more than they
could bear. The news about Arthur must
surely be very bad, since it had thus so
completely ' upset ' Mr. Inglebyby.

I think I shall go up to him," said Gertrude
at last, " and see what it is that is
wrong."

Yes, do " — said Mrs. Inglebyby and Caroline
together. " And be sure to come back again
immediately " — added the latter.

Gertrude opened the door very softly, and
looked in. Mr. Inglebyby was sitting at the
table, with his head bowed down, and his
face resting on his hands. The attitude
filled his daughter with alarm, it was so
unlike Mr. Inglebyby. Her first instinctive
fear was that he had been taken suddenly

m.

VOL. L Q

Father ! " — she said, laying lier hand upon
his shoulder — "you are not unwell? What
is it ?— tell me, father ! "

Then Mr. Inglebyby lifted up his head, and
looked at his daughter. She had never seen
such a look upon his face before. The
combativeness, the self-assertion, the lofty
sense of being always in the right which
Mr. Inglebyby's features commonly expressed
were, for the moment, gone. He seemed
so cast down, so absolutely crushed with
anxiety, that his daughter pitied him. Mr.
Inglebyby, in the whole course of his life, had
probably never been an object of pity
before.

"Tell me, father dear" — the girl repeated
" tell me what is wrong ! "

"Everything," replied Mr. Inglebyby succinctly.
"My dear, everything is wrong."

The accent of despair in which Mr.
Inglebyby uttered the word "everything" —
the extreme gentleness with which he said
my dear " — heightened his daughter's
anxiety.

Is it — is it about Arthur ? " — she asked,
almost in a whisper.

Mr. Inglebyby responded by a groan.
Then—

"There is his letter," he said. "Sit down
and read it for yourself."

Gertrude sat down, and read her cousin's
letter. It was a good letter, which Lynn
had taken some pains to compose. It
told of the opening which had suddenly
presented itself on the staff of the Forum
newspaper, through Mr. Arden's influence
with Mr. Mallory. Had it been possible,
Lynn said, he would have taken counsel
with his uncle before throwing up the tutorship,
and leaving Shawkirk for London.
But it had not been possible. Vacancies
of that sort were too easily filled up to
admit of his waiting ; he had felt that it
would be unwise to throw such a chance
away ; and he could only trust that his
uncle would approve of the step which he had
taken.

Mr. Inglebyby watched his daughter as she

read, and saw that her face brightened as she
went on.

Why ! " — she exclaimed at last — " this is
not bad news at all 1 You made me expect
something terrible, but this — this is really-good
! "

'not had news'' — repeated Mr. Inglebyby
very slowly; 'really good? Do you know,
Gertrude, what you are saying ? "

*' Yes," said Gertrude. 'sit is good news
to me that Arthur has at last got the chance
of showing what he is, and what he can do.
I have wished for that so long, and now I
am glad that it has come. You know, father,
you said to Arthur yourself that the tutorship
was to be only for a time, till something
better offered. And surely this is something
better?"

*' Better?" — said Mr. Inglebyby — "you are
speaking in ignorance, Gertrude — you are
pronouncing a judgment on things which
you do not, and indeed cannot understand."

Mr. Inglebyby's voice and manner as he said
this were all his own. Contradiction had the

invariable effect of a tonic on Mr. Inglebyby.
It braced him up, even when prostrated by
the shrewdest blow of Fate, or Providence.

"Better!" — he went on — "do you know
anything, may I ask, of this man Mallory,
whose hireling Arthur has become ?"

"No — nothing beyond his name."

Or of this newspaper, and the doctrines
it disseminates ?"

"I have never even seen it."

Then, until you know these things,
you had better keep silence about them.
Your cousin, I tell you, is standing now on
the brink of perdition — in saying that, I
am not putting the case by one jot or one
tittle too strongly. I certainly fail to see
what there is in that to make you feel
glad.' You should rather mourn and
lament, and pray that he be not utterly
undone !"

Mr. Inglebyby, in saying this, was not consciously
exaggerating. He was familiar with
the name of Mr. Mallory. Though he had
not seen the Forum newspaper more than

once or twice in his life, he had heard of it,
and heard no good. Though he had never
read a page of any of Mr. Mallory's books,
he was thoroughly acquainted with their
tendencies ; at least, he thought and said
so. Mr. Mallory himself he regarded as a
soul-destroying Terror, the worst of all the
Belial of Unbelief. Hitherto, however, Mr.
Mallory had been to him a kind of abstraction,
a far-off Ahriman, an incomprehensible
agent of evil ; whose existence in this world
was simply inexplicable, like the origin of
Evil itself. Now, it seemed as if he were
suddenly brought into contact with this
mystery of iniquity. There was contamination
in the thought. His nephew, as it seemed
to him, could never be wholly purged of the
taint of this association. Mr. Inglebyby had
received no such shock since Arthur Lynn's
father had started the Factory of the Future.

Gertrude said nothing by way of answer
to her father's rebuke. No one understood
Mr. Inglebyby and his ' ways' so well as his
elder daughter. She was quite aware that

his evident emotion had not yet been fully
accounted for — that there was something
more to tell. She knew also that to ask a
question at that moment might have the
effect of checking a revelation.

Mr. Inglebyby looked at his daughter, as she
sat thus quietly waiting until he should
choose to speak. Then he began again to
pace the room, with a slow, deliberate step.
Gertrude knew what was passing in his mind,
just as well as he did himself. She knew that
he was inly debating the question, '' Shall I
tell her, or shall I not ? "

For nearly five silent minutes Mr. Inglebyby
discussed this question within himself. His
nephew's letter had been a heavy blow to
him — how heavy, none knew but himself.
That Arthur Lynn should now be writing
articles for the paper of the impious Mallory
was bad, very bad; but this other thing, of
which his daughter as yet knew nothing, was
infinitely worse. And the hardest thing Mr.
Inglebyby had to bear was the reflection that.
all this had been the outcome of his own

diplomacy. If he had not induced Arthur
to go to Shawkirk as a tutor — for his own
good — he would not thus have fallen into
the toils. Mr. Inglebyby could not but groan
in spirit over this instance of the irony
of Providence. In the case of any of his
friends, such a thing would have been a
Judgment. In his own case, it was a Trial —
for Mr. Inglebyby could discriminate.

Should he tell his daughter, or should he
not ? — it was a question not easy to determine.
He had a high opinion of Gertrude s
good-sense, and of her firmness of character.
On the rare occasions when Mr. Inglebyby
wanted advice, it was from Gertrude he
asked it. Now, he did not want advice —
did not see that it could do any good, in face
of such a catastrophe. Neither did he want
approbation ; the applause of his own conscience
was quite enough for him. And it
was also present to Mr. Inglebyby's mind in a
vague shadowy way, that if anyone were to
be told this thing, it should be Arthur Lynn
himself; and not, in any case, his own

daughter. But Mr. Inglebyby, at that moment,
sorely felt the need of being contradicted.
Up to this point he had done his Duty,
sustained by the mere conviction that it was
his Duty. But Duty had led him into a
very quagmire of difficulties, from which he
could see no way of getting out. It might
be that the stimulus of a little contradiction
would clear his faculties and invigorate his
will ; and that Gertrude would supply the
stimulus. Mr. Inglebyby did not shape his
conclusions so definitely as this. He was
not given to analysing the feelings either of
himself, or of other people. But he wanted
very much to feel quite sure that he had been
in the right ; and nothing could make him so
sure of that as to be told by someone else
that he had clearly been in the wrong. So he
decided that the great secret might now, with
propriety and advantage, be disclosed to his
daughter.

Gertrude," he said at last, " this step
which Arthur has taken is to me a terrible
blow. You cannot realise it, because you do

not know all. If you did, you would share
the feelings of cruel anxiety — I had almost
said, despair — with which I regard your
cousin's future."

'' How, father ?" — asked Gertrude, in a voice
which she strove to make as steady as possible,
but which, in spite of her, shook. Her father's
look and manner, more even than his words,
made her fear what he might have to say.
What dreadful thing could Arthur be accused
of, that her father should wear an expression
of such utter hopelessness and gloom ? She
felt herself trembling all over ; and even Mr.
Inglebyby, wrapt in his own troubles as he was,
noticed how the blood had rushed from her
cheeks, and left them ashen pale.

My dear," he said, " you need not be
frightened. Arthur has done nothing morally
wrong. Indeed, he is to be pitied, rather than
blamed. In the conduct of others there has
been — or at any rate there may have been — a
want of principle which I can only describe as
iniquitous and — and dastardly in the extreme.
But Arthur, whatever his failings, is candour

itself. On that score, I have never had the
slightest reason to reproach him."

Gertrude gave a little sigh of relief. She
had not misdoubt her cousin for a moment ;
but she had feared that her father might have
heard some story to his disadvantage, and
believed it. That, at all events, was not the
case.

Gertrude," Mr. Inglebyby went on, speaking
very slowly and solemnly, " you have always
been accustomed to look on your cousin
Arthur Lynn as a poor man — a man who
must earn by his own labour the wherewithal
to support himself in the world ? "

Gertrude signified that it was so.

Well," continued Mr. Inglebyby, *' now and
henceforth that is — changed. Arthur is no
longer poor — on the contrary , he is a rich
man. I cannot give you the exact figures,
but I know — "

'' Arthur a rich wan'' — exclaimed Gertrude
; and looked at her father in amazement,
as if unsure whether this might not
be a ponderous attempt at pleasantry on the

part of Mr. Inglebyby. But one glance at her
father's face reassured her on this point.

I repeat it, Gertrude, your cousin is now
rich— richer than ever his father was — richer,
by far, than I am."

'' But — but are you sure of it ? I can't
take it in — it bewilders me — it seems all
like a dream, what yon say ! Is there no
doubt about it ? — is it really true ?"

So far as I am aware — and the circumstances
are probably better known to me than
to anyone — there is not a shadow of a doubt
about it. Yes — it is certainly true."

Oh, I am so glad ! I do not understand
it — but if Arthur is no longer poor, I am so
glad ! I have always thought that was what
Arthur ought to be — a man with — with independent
means. Tell me all about it ! —
how did it happen, and when, and why have
you not told us before ?"

*' I cannot answer in one word such a
multitude of questions, Gertrude," said Mr.
Inglebyby, who had never before seen his elder
daughter betray such excitement. " Nor do

I think that anything connected with mere
money — the treasure that perished ! — need
have thrown your mind off its balance, as it
appears to have done."

Gertrude felt this reproof to be a little
unreasonable, in view of the emotion previously
shown by Mr. Inglebyby himself; but
she did not say so. She kept silent for some
moments, thinking ; then gave her thoughts
expression.

Father, did you know of this when you
made Arthur go to Shawkirk ?"

^' Certainly I knew of it," said Mr. Inglebyby.

*rand did Arthur know of it then? — but
I need not ask that. Does he know of it
now ?"

''He does not," said Mr. Inglebyby. "At
least," he added, "not from me."

Tell me about it, father. Now that you
have said so much, you must let me know the
whole."

It is a long story," said Mr. Inglebyby. " It
begins at a time when Arthur and you were
both children — more than twenty years ago.

You have heard me speak of your uncle, what
kind of man he was — weakly generous, as I
have always thought and said. There was
a man in his employment to whom he did
a great kindness — a foolish kindness — at least,"
added Mr. Inglebyby, " it seemed so at the time.
This man's name was Hume — Gilbert Hume."

eyes?"

This Hume went away from Shawkirk,
and for twenty years nothing more was heard
of him. Then he came back — a man of good
character, and great wealth. His wealth was
destined, every penny of it — for Arthur Lynn.
He came to me one day at my office, and told
me so."

"What else did he say to you ?"

^' He said," replied Mr. Inglebyby abstractedly
" he said, among other things, that he was
glad I had now shaken hands with him — "

What did he mean by that ?"

He referred, I apprehend, to an — episode
in our previous intercourse, which has nothing
whatever to do with the matter we are talking
of. The main fact is, that he had made a

large fortune out in Australia, and that your
cousin was to be his heir."

When was all this ? — and why did he not
go to Arthur, instead of coming to you ?"

It was in January of this year, while
Arthur was still on the Continent. And he
very properly came to me, assuming that I,
as Arthur's guardian since his boyhood, must
be able to inform him better than anyone else
as to the young man's character and prospects
as to the probable effect on him of so
sudden and total a change in his circumstances."


And what did you say to him ? Surely
you did not speak against Arthur to this
man who wished him well ? "

Gertrude ! " — cried Mr. Inglebyby very
angrily — " I did not expect to hear such
words spoken by you to me ! You have
always been given to taking your cousin's
part, even against your father, to whom, as I
should imagine, your highest obligation is
due."

Father ! — I will take no one's part against

you ! I know you would do nothing and say
nothing that you did not think to be right.
But you make me afraid — I cannot help
it. What did you say to this man about
Arthur?"

I told him the truth. I said what my
Conscience dictated, and nothing more. Had
Arthur come back from Leipsic in October,
as he promised to do, and busied himself
with his studies, as he ought to have done
he would himself have met Mr. Hume, and
all might have been different. But instead of
that, he seemed to have given up all thought
of serious work in life. There he was,
loitering about the Continent, misspending
his time and wasting his money — letting the
future take care of itself, whilst he enjoyed
the present — dangling at the skirts of that
girl, who — "

Father ! — you should not say such things
without being sure that they are true."

True ? — of course they are true ! Did
not Mr. Stronach tell us that Arthur had
never opened a book — at least, none that

could do him any good — and that he went
about with that girl everywhere ? "

"Mr. Stronach is an ill-natured, malicious
man. He dislikes Arthur, because he is
cleverer than himself, a hundred times. He
has simply tried to blacken Arthur's character."


I am surprised to hear such an opinion
from you, Gertrude. It is not mine — and
remember. Judge not, that ye be not judged.
But, apart from that altogether, the result
spoke for itself. You cannot deny that
he failed to pass an examination which I
understand is childishly easy, to anyone who
has worked for it in a reasonable way."

"I do not know about that — we do not
understand these things, you and I. But
the point is — did you tell all this to Mr.
Hume?"

"I did," said Mr. Ingieby. ''1 felt it
my duty to say so, and I said it. I expressed
my strong opinion that Arthur was
not yet fitted to have the absolute control
of great sums of money in his own hands.

VOL. I. R

I had no apprehension that he would waste
his substance in riotous living — God be
thanked, he has never given me cause to
fear that. But I did fear that he would
live idly and spend foolishly — that he would
give up all earnestness of purpose, and think
only of adorning the tent of this earthly
pilgrimage — that money would be a curse
to him, and not a blessing. I did fear that,
and I said it."

'' And Mr. Hume believed you ? "

"He did. He knew what the father had
been, and understood what the son might
become. He acted on my advice, and in
that I think he did well."

"Then he has not seen Arthur? Where
is he now ? "

"I do not know where he is," said Mr.
Inglebyby, sinking his voice, and speaking very
slowly ; "I do not know where he is now.
He is dead."

"Dead!"

"Yes. He died suddenly in London,
whither he went, after seeing me, in order

to arrange his affairs. That was in March
• — a month before Arthur came back from
Leipsic. He was a mere wreck when he
came to me in Shawkirk. Indeed, I did
not think he had many days or weeks to
live, then."

And Arthur does not know ?"

"He does not. When he shall know depends
on me. Mr. Hume, by the will he
executed after seeing me, left that entirely
to my discretion — with a proviso. It is a
heavy responsibility, and I feel it so. But
I trust I shall find strength to bear the
burden."

*rand you let Arthur go to Shawkirk,
knowing all this ! You sent him to earn
his bread as a tutor, without saying a word
to him about this fortune that is his own !"

Gertrude," said Mr. Inglebyby more in
sorrow than in anger, 'rit does not, I think,
become you to bring this railing accusation
against me. What I did was done, in part at
least, for your sake — that is," he went on hurriedly,
" for Arthur's true and highest interests.

I let him go to Shawkirk — nay, if you will
have it so, I sent him there — to undergo
the discipline of the poor man working for
his daily bread. I told him that the money
left him by his father was expended, all of
it, which was strictly and literally true. I
did not tell him of the money that had been
left him by this stranger — the terms of
Hume's will authorised, I will even say constrained
me to keep silent. But I did seek
to ascertain what was his frame of mind —
what prospect there might be of his using
his wealth to any good and wise purpose.
And I was grievously disappointed in the
result''

'^ What did he say to you, father ? How
was it that he disappointed you ?"

'' I spoke to him of Self Help. He informed
me that Self Help, he had found,
commonly meant helping yourself. I said that
we knew not what a day might bring forth
—that we sailed under sealed orders in this
world. He said that was so ; and when we
opened them, we found as a rule nothing

inside. I asked him — by way of sounding
him — what he would do in the event of his
coming into money. He mentioned the name
of some foreign place — some haunt of the
idle and luxurious — and said that he should
probably take up his dwelling there. That
was all the satisfaction I got from him. It
was not, I repeat, encouraging."

You do not understand Arthur, father —
you have never understood him."

I not understand him !" — cried Mr. Inglebyby
— " when he has grown up from childhood
under my own eyes — when he was entrusted
to my guardianship by his father — when he
has never wanted money without coming tome
to get it ! Gertrude, what do you
mean?"

*' Father, you have made a great mistake.
I tremble to think of it. Arthur is a man,
and you are treating him as a child. You
have meant to do what is best, but believe
me, only harm will come of it. You may
wreck his happiness and ruin his life, before
all is done 1"

Mr. Inglebyby stared at his daughter, as if
he thought she had taken leave of her senses.
He remained for some moments speechless ;
then he found breath to say : —

What — what do you mean ? What would
you have me do ?"

Do ! — I would have you go to Arthur
now, this minute, if it were possible, and
tell him the truth ! He ought to have
known it at once, and the longer you leave
him in ignorance, the worse it will be.
Father, you know what has come of it
already — you have been the means of sending
him to London, and throwing him into
a kind of work which you say is bad. And
if you do not tell him, you mil end in setting
him against you — against us all ! Oh, father,
listen to me — tell him, tell him now ! "

Mr. Inglebyby looked at his daughter again.
She had risen from her chair, and come
forward to where he was standing. Her
cheeks were flushed now, and her eyes
sparkled, as she made this appeal ; she had
stretched out her hands, as if to enforce it.

The earnestness of her conviction, the eagerness
of her words, impressed Mr. Inglebyby
in spite of himself A chill came over him,
as he thought what this almost impassioned
advocacy might mean — for Mr. Inglebyby had
a heart, hidden away somewhere in the recesses
of his being.

"Gertrude," he said, gravely and kindly,
"you do not think what you are asking
me to do. I had a motive in keeping the
knowledge of all this from Arthur while he
was still in Germany — and, again, during
the days he spent with us here. The same
motive is stronger with me now. If Arthur
had this money at his disposal, now, what
do you think he would do with it, and with
himself?"

I — I do not know," said Gertrude faintly.

But I know," said Mr. Inglebyby — " at least,
I can guess too well. He would go straightway
and cast himself at the feet of that
vain and worldly girl — that — that Moabitish
woman, who — "

Oh, stop, father, stop — I cannot bear it ! "

The girl's voice was sharp with pain, she
trembled from head to foot, and her eyes
had a look of wildness in them which her
father had never seen there, nor thought to
see. Then Mr. Inglebyby knew it all ; and
a pang of self-reproach, terrible to such a
man, pierced him like a knife. This, then,
was the fruit of his scheming ! This was
the penalty he must pay for Duty done —
not, as he now recognised, with the pure
unselfishness he had made his boast. Mr.
Inglebyby had been accustomed to talk slightingly
of the love of young men and maidens ;
seeing his daughter, pale and suffering, before
him, he did not think that he would ever talk
so again.

Gertrude !" — he said, in a kind of awestricken
whisper — "' what is it, my dear ?
What is it you cannot bear ? "

Oh, father, I love him so ! — I love him
so !" — Then there was a rush of tears ; and
Mr. Inglebyby, his own eyes wet and his handshaking,
had folded his daughter in his arms.
The Man of Duty was lost in the Father.

He clasped her slender form closely to him ;
he stroked her dark, silky hair ; he called her
his dear Gertrude, his own girl, his best-beloved
child — exhausting the resources of a
vocabulary for which no one would have given
Mr. Inglebyby credit. Sore-stricken at heart
as the girl was, it was a consolation to her
even then to find how dear she really was to
this undemonstrative father.

I have been to blame !" — said Mr. Inglebyby.
I have been to blame !"

No, no, father — do not say that ! What
you have done has been for the best. Do
not accuse yourself — I will never accuse

you."

Still I have been to blame," repeated Mr.
Inglebyby. " Not as regards my standing between
Arthur and his immediate possession of
this money — for therein I did well, and would
do it again. But as regards other things —
yes, I have been to blame."

His daughter knew to what he referred, and
said nothing. Had her father not come betwixt
Arthur Lynn and herself, they might

have been affianced lovers at that hour. But
she would not reproach him.

Gertrude — my dear girl " — said Mr.
Inglebyby — " calm yourself, I beseech you.
Sit down, and let us think what it is most
fitting that we should do. You shall be judge
in the matter. I shall do whatever you think
right."

Then go to Arthur, father, and tell him
all. I still think — I know that that is what
you ought to do."

Never !" — cried Mr. Inglebyby, starting up
from his chair, and resuming his march
through the room, this time with swift, decided
step. " Never ! — I will not do it !
Gertrude, how can you suggest such a thing,
knowing what the result would be ?"

It is because I know it that I ask you —
nay, beg of you to do this ! Arthur's whole
happiness in life may be in your hands just
now. He will hold you answerable, if — "

I cannot help that," said Mr. Inglebyby.
"It is not to him that I must answer finally
for what I do. I am not of those who love

the praise of men, or who care for their disapproval,
so long as I have done what the
voice within nie declares to be right. I am
not thinking of your interests at this moment,
Gertrude — no, as the Lord liveth, I am not
thinking of myself or you ! I am thinking
of the young man himself, and of the frightful
peril in which he stands ! "

'* I think you speak too strongly, father.
I think — I know you are wrong."

*' Not so," said Mr. Inglebyby ; 'not so.
Wedded with such an one as this girl, I should
regard my nephew as a lost and fallen man !"

Father ! — do not say such things. You
have judged her harshly, I am sure of it."

How ? Harshly ! — It is true that her
ways are not our ways ; that her views of
life, her tone in conversation, even her dress,
in fact, everything about her, are to me unfamiliar
and displeasing — I might almost say
repugnant. But not for these things would I
blame her ; she is, I doubt not, what her circumstances
and training have made her — a
slave to the lust of the eyes and the pride of

life. It is her conduct towards Arthur that I
cannot forgive — that is, I shall be unable to
forgive it, if it has been as I think, and fear."

Her conduct towards Arthur ? Why, it
is for that I think well of her — even admire
her. I believe that she — that she loves him,
father. I saw that — I could not but see it,
while they were together here. She came tous,
I feel certain, on his account — on the bare
chance of meeting him. What there may
have been between them I do not know, but
of that I am almost quite convinced."

And you think such conduct to be admired
?"

I do. It shows that she is disinterested
that she loves him only for himself If
that is so, she would not ruin his life, father.
He would be happy with her."

Gertrude," said Mr. Inglebyby, " you are
very guileless — God forbid that you should
ever be less so, or that I should teach you to
distrust your fellow-men. But I am, I confess,
less disposed to believe in such disinterestedness
than you. If that young lady

came here for the purpose of meeting Arthur
under my roof — and that she may have done
so is, I apprehend, by no means improbable —
I should be inclined to draw another inference
from her proceedings. I should look elsewhere
for her motives either in coming here, or in
drawing Arthur after her to London."

Surely, father, you do not think — "

'' I think nothing !" — exclaimed Mr. Inglebyby
with vehemence ; " I know nothing ! But I
have my suspicions, and I fear they may not
prove altogether groundless. Why did this
man Arden — a man who is mercenary to the
core, whose one thought in life is to get
money, and whose way in the world has been
made by pitting his own craft against other
people's simplicity — why, I say, did he seek
out Arthur in Shawkirk, and do the things
for him that he has done ? How, I say,
are yoa to account for such behaviour?"

Arthur says in his letter, does he not,
that it was out of gratitude to my uncle
Lynn?"

That explanation may satisfy Arthur, but

it does not satisfy me. I never was of those
who blamed this Arden for your uncle's ruin
his own mad projects, taken up in spite of
all my warnings, were quite sufficient to
account for that. But nothing that I know
of the man — and my acquaintance with him
did not begin yesterday — would lead me to
believe strongly in his gratitude. He is not,
I am afraid, one of those who do good and
lend, hoping for nothing again. If he makes
himself useful to Arthur — if he encourages
him as a suitor for his daughter — it will befor
a purpose of his own. He will expect to
be repaid — and not in gratitude."

"I see what you mean. But I will not
believe it."

And why, may I ask ? — Why should you
not believe it?"

'' Because that would be to make Camilla
Arden a heartless schemer — the partner in a
plot to get Arthur's money ; and I will not
believe that of her. And besides, how can
these people know, when Arthur does not
know himself as yet ?"

"As to that I can say nothing," replied Mr.
Inglebyby ; " but if it indeed be as I am almost
induced to suppose, then — "

What Mr. Inglebyby would do in that event
he did not say aloud ; but the tone of sombre
menace in which he spoke, the frown which
furrowed his brow and drew his thick bushy
eye-brows together, pointed to the conclusion
that it would be something terrible. Mr.
Inglebyby's melting mood had passed quite
away at the bare thought of this possible
conspiracy to get possession of Hume's heir
and his inheritance ; and the galling sense of
his own powerlessness in the matter made
him, for the moment, oblivious to his
daughter's suffering,

I can do nothing !" — he said at last, after
some minutes of gloomy thought — " nothing !
If I say to Arthur, ' All this money is yours '
his first step would be to ally himself with
that pernicious young woman. If I say to
him, ' This man is selfish and cunning, and
his daughter is as bad as he ; they have
known all along what you know now, and

they have used their knowledge to defraud
and befool you' — he will ask me to prove my
words, and that I cannot do — yet. They
would deny it, and he would take their assertion
against mine. I can do nothing — nothing!"


But you may be quite wrong in this idea,
father. It may not be as you say. I will
not think it of Camilla !"

Think of her what you please," said Mr.
Inglebyby ; " but for the present say not a word
to any one about what I have told you. Tolet
Arthur know the truth at this moment
would be folly, sheer folly ; a little calm
reflection will, I think, show you that. Were
I to do so, indeed, I should be running
counter to the purpose of the man who left
his riches to my nephew. His desire was —
it is expressly stated in his will — that a life
of happiness and usefulness might be opened
to the son of his benefactor ; that he might
have the opportunity of doing some good
work in his day and generation, freed from
the restraints of poverty, and alive to the

responsibilities of wealth. That object — and
a most praiseworthy one it is — that object
would be defeated, were Arthur to fall under
the influence of such as this man Arden and
his daughter. I will not do it, Gertrude — no,
my Duty forbids me, and I will not do it ; on
that I am resolved. I shall wait, and keep
silence ; and I must request, even command,
that you do the same. The time may come"
added Mr. Inglebyby, with another minatory
scowl — " when I shall have the opportunity of
interposing with effect — when I shall be able
to lay bare this iniquitous conspiracy — if such
it be — and to come forward with the evidence
of what I only suspect just now. When that
time comes, I shall know what to do. And
now, Gertrude, let us go downstairs."

VOL. I.

CHAPTER XL

AT Harrington GARDENS.

The morning after his arrival in London,
Lynn found himself wandering about the
South Kensington district, in a mood that
was half-joyous, half-despondent. He was in
London, and Camilla also was there — that
accounted for the joy. But he had come
from a modest, not to say mean, hotel in
the neighbourhood of the Strand, to find
his sweetheart somewhere in this region of
rich men's houses — and that accounted for
the despondency. This latter feeling gained
upon him, as he drew nearer to Hartington
Gardens.

The houses in Hartington Gardens are
very large and grand. Lynn had hoped to
find Mr. Arden's house one of the smallest ;

but it proved to be among the most imposing.
It stood some way back from the street, with
a garden in front of it — or rather, a crescent-shaped
plot of well-trimmed turf, bordered
with flowers and shrubs, and skirted by the
carriage-drive. The house itself was built in
the style of an Italian villa, with a loggia
running round it, and a pillared portico,
approached by a flight of low, broad steps.
Lynn went up those steps in some trepidation,
now that he had seen Camilla's home.

The door was opened to him by an
impassive-looking man in black, who took
his card, cast one swift glance at it, and
asked Lynn to follow him upstairs. This
gave Lynn the idea that his visit had not
been unexpected.

He passed through a hall lined with blue
tiles and black marble, where the sunshine
rested duskily on the tesselated pavement.
The light streamed softly through the painted
windows ; his feet sank noiselessly into the
thick-piled carpets ; the servant glided before
him like a shade.

The signs of wealth and luxury around him
made Lynn feel uncomfortable. He was
ashamed of the feeling, but he could not help
it. It has been said that it is best to make
love in a palace. That is a point which it is
difficult to decide from experience. At that
moment, Lynn felt that he would have much
preferred to meet his sweetheart in a log-hut.


His silent guide paused at a door whence
came the sound of music, announced his
name, and retired. A girl who was seated
at a piano at the further end of the great
room arose with a little cry of surprise, and
came fluttering towards him, in a dress that
seemed all ripple and shimmer.

'' Oh, Arthur ! At last !" — she said ; and ina
moment she was in his arms. Lynn forgot
all his misgivings at the sight of the beautiful
girl before him. She drooped her head at
his ardent gaze. "How he loves me!" — she
thought ; "I might tell him all now — it
would not matter."

A minute after, L3rQn found himself sitting

on a couch by Camilla's side, answering a fire
of questions.

You cannot think," she said, '' how I
have longed for your coming ! I have
counted the days. And I am so glad that
you have made it up with Papa. He has
told me all about it."

*' Your father has been more than kind tome,
Camilla," said Lynn. " Indeed, when I
think of what he has done, I almost doubt
whether I ought to be here."

'why ? — what can you mean by that,
Arthur?"

Lynn did not answer directly, but his eye
wandered over Mr. Arden's drawing-room,
and back to Camilla's dress, which spoke
of Paris in every ruche and fold.

I see what you are thinking of," said
Camilla. " Do not, if you want to please me,
do not say — what you were going to say !"

How can I help feeling so, Camilla ?
And if I feel it, is it not better to say it ?
Should we have any thoughts that we cannot
tell to each other ?"

I know what is vexing you, Arthur" —
the girl said, a little hurriedly. "It is your
old fear of being always poor. Why should
you think such things of yourself? I know
that it will not always be so ; that — that you
will yet make your way in the world. You
are in London — you are friends with Papa
oh, Arthur, in the meantime let us be
happy together !"

I am happy," said Lynn ; " perfectly
happy, just now."

'' And but a few months ago, how far from
being happy we were ! — at least, I was. You
should think of that, Arthur."

I do think of it, dearest. I shall never
forget the dark days I passed, after you left
Leipsic — how I wandered round all the old
familiar places, thinking how strange they
looked without you."

But all that is over now."

Yes — it is over. But even after that
night on the sea-shore— even now, Camilla —
I torment myself with the thought that my
love for you has made me selfish. I seem to

be taking all, and giving nothing. How
different it is with you !"

"Arthur!" cried the girl, with an agitation
that was manifest — " I will not have you say
such things. You are all the world to me.
I only care to have you beside me — I keep
myself from thinking of what may be afterwards."


My love !" — said Lynn. "I have a perfect
faith in you. I have never misdoubt you —
even when you left me, I did not blame you
in my thoughts. But I cannot forget what
I am, and what you are. I know what the
world would say of such a suit as mine. And
now that your father has treated me with
such kindness, I feel almost as if I were
guilty of ingratitude in seeking you for my
own."

"Don't talk of ingratitude. What he has
done for you is a mere trifle. Perhaps — if you
knew all — you would not think so much of it."

"Knew all, Camilla? How? What can
you mean?"

"I mean — that my visit to Sprayton was

not carried through so easily as you may
have thought."

"Then it was to see me again that you
went there?"

Camilla blushed. "Yes, Arthur," she said
" I did hope that I might meet you again.
I don't see why I should not tell you that.
I was always thinking of you — Papa knew
that quite well."

Lynn rose from the couch, and began to
pace restlessly up and down the room.

Camilla," he said, " after this, I must not
lose you a second time ! I could not bear it.
I think I could face anything, sooner than
that!"

"Arthur!" — cried Camilla — "do sit down
anywhere ! Here is my — "

Just then the door opened, and there
appeared a sallow, sharp-featured, elderly
lady, clad in the weeds of widowhood. This
was Mrs. Chevenix, Camilla's aunt, who
regulated Mr. Arden's household affairs, and
exercised a shadowy duennaship over his
daughter.

I did not know you had a visitor,
Camilla," remarked this lady, with a glance
at Lynn which said unmistakably : — "So you
are the young man !"

"Arthur— Mr. Lynn"— said Camilla, "let
me introduce you to my aunt, Mrs. Chevenix.
Did French not tell you, Aunt Elizabeth,
that Mr. Lynn was here ? "

"He did not," replied Mrs. Chevenix.
Then she sat down, and said no more.

Lynn marvelled at the swiftness and ease
with which Camilla, on the advent of Mrs.
Chevenix, had assumed the mask of society.
Her voice and manner had changed in an
instant. Instead of the blushing, impulsive
girl, he saw now the bright-witted woman of
the world. He resented the intrusion which
had brought about this transformation. Mrs.
Chevenix, he could see, was not likely to
favour his suit.

Camilla at once began to talk to him about
his prospects in connection with the Forum
newspaper. At the first mention of the name
of Mallory, he observed Mrs. Chevenix shake

her head mournfully, till every bugle in her
coiffure trembled.

Aunt Elizabeth does not like Mr. Mallory,"
explained Miss Arden.

I look upon him as an Iconoclast," said
Mrs. Chevenix, pronouncing the word as
though it were a summary of all evil.

Indeed ? And what is your opinion of
him, Miss Arden ? You know I take a special
interest in him now."

I believe there are more Mr. Alloys
than one," said Miss Arden. " The Mr. Mallory
who dines here has two styles in conversation.
He talks tomorrow's paper at
those whom he despises, and he talks yesterday's
paper at those whom he despises still
more."

Then you dislike him ?"

Oh, he is too great a man to be disliked.
But I detest him. He talks of nothing but
Humanity, you know. I don't quite understand
it, but I think Humanity is so good that
we are to fall down and worship it — no, it's
so bad that it must be pitied, and taken down

and made up again — I forget which it is.
But I wish they'd do something for it, or with
it, for I know it gives me a headache every
time Mr. Mallory comes."

This is discouraging," said Lynn.

Oh, I must not poison your mind against
the Editor ! He is a friend of PajDa s, and we
all hope he's going to do great things for you,
Mr. Lynn. — Besides, perhaps your Mr. Mallory
won't talk Humanity 1"

Camilla," said Mrs. Chevenix, " do you
know that the gong will sound for lunch in
less than half-an-hour ? And do you remember
that Mr. Dulcimer is coming?"

Oh, yes. Aunt Elizabeth, and I'm not
going to dress for Mr. Dulcimer, if that is
what you mean. Of course, Mr. Lynn, you
will stay lunch ? Papa will expect to see
you."

Lynn did not see that Mrs. Chevenix's
gloomy silence need prevent his accepting
this invitation.

"You will meet one of our living poets,"
said Camilla — " a poet who publishes."

"Mr. Dulcimer," said Mrs. Chevenix, "is a
young man of great talent, who has already
made his mark in literature."

Lynn began to speculate whether, when
the living poet appeared, he would not devote
himself to Mrs. Chevenix, who seemed to be
one of his admirers. That would be the next
best thing to Mrs. Chevenix taking herself off
altogether, and allowing him to resume his
tete-astute with Camilla.

A few minutes later Mr. Dulcimer was
shown into the room. Mr. Dulcimer was a
tall young man, dark and pale-faced, a year
or two older than Lynn. He walked with
a slight stoop, peering the while through
his pince-nez as if he were exceedingly shortsighted.
There was nothing dishevelled about
Mr. Dulcimer. The fit of his stout was
perfect; he wore a camellia at his button-hole;
and a faint odour of stephanotis accompanied
him whithersoever he moved. Lynn remembered
having read somewhere that you
can always judge of a man from his hands
and his feet. He looked at the poet's pearl-grey

gloves and small shiny boots, and
thought that he had 'taken the measure' of
Mr. Dulcimer. He had, however, reason to
think afterwards that this generalization had
been somewhat rash.

Mr. Dulcimer shot one glance at Lynn,
which was not that of a short-sighted man ;
then dropped with elaborated languor into a
chair.

You seem exhausted, Mr. Dulcimer," said
Mrs. Chevenix. " The heat to-day is certainly
oppressive."

"Yes," said Mr. Dulcimer — "oh, yes. But
it is not the heat. The truth is, I have just
passed through an Ordeal — an Ordeal, Mrs.
Chevenix."

Every one looked at Mr. Dulcimer — Mrs.
Chevenix sympathetic. Miss Arden amused,
Lynn amazed.

"I think you have met Floyd, the seascape
painter. Miss Arden?" — the poet went
on — " Yes ? — I have been with him this morning;.
He drew me into his studio. And it
haunts me."

"Were Mr. Floyd's pictures so overpoweringly
beautiful ? " — asked Miss Arden.

I am sorry for poor Floyd," Mr. Dulcimer
continued. " His life is one long, hopeless
struggle with pigments. And his friends
suffer for it. But I have myself to blame.
I should not have allowed myself to be drawn
in thither. I ought to have known what I
should behold in that Chamber of Horrors."

"But what did you see, Mr. Dulcimer?"
asked Mrs. Chevenix. " Was it wax-works ?
They do make them very horrible, sometimes."

There was a sea," said Mr. Dulcimer,
speaking even more slowly and sadly than
before — " a green sea, with a red sun. I
thought the picture represented a billiard-table,
with a billiard-ball on it. But no ; it
was a sea. It had once been liquid, no doubt.
But it had become solid, when I saw it."

He sank back in his chair, as if exhausted
by the delivery of this epigram. Lynn looked
at Miss Arden and Mrs. Chevenix, to see how
this style of monologue affected them. Neither
showed any sign of surprise ; and he concluded

that this must merely be Mr. Dulcimer's
way.

"Yes," continued the poet musingly, "it
was an Ordeal — a cruel Ordeal. There was
poor Floyd, gazing now at me, now at that
green horror — yearning for praise, and I could
not utter a word. I stood as one petrified.
What do you think of it ? ' — said poor Floyd.
'Think of it?' I said, 'I shall dream of it ! '
What do you mean ? ' — said poor Floyd.
Floyd,' I said, ' words are weak. Reds and
greens are strong. Let me go now.' And I
passed from that place. But it haunts me."

You move us to pity, Mr. Dulcimer," said
Miss Arden with veiled satire. Then she
turned the conversation to the subject of
Lynn's first impressions of London. This
theme reduced Mr. Dulcimer to silence for
the time. He seemed overwhelmed by the
thought that a man, not outwardly a savage,
should have reached Lynn's years without
once beholding the metropolis.

By the way, Miss Arden," he said at last,
in an interval of the talk, " I did not see you

at that garden-party at Chadwick, yesterday ?
I was glad — yes, glad, that you were not
there."

Thanks," said Miss Arden.

"For your sake, I mean," went on the
poet. "It was a dread gathering" — here
he smiled faintly. " These people have
absolutely no idea of EejDose. Can you
guess, Miss Arden, what was the original
feature of this entertainment ? They went
out into a meadow, with rakes, and made
hay. They did, I assure you."

I should think that must have been very
nice," said Miss Arden.

Oh, no, no — you cannot think so — you
cannot indeed ! — Now, I have an idea fora
little gathering, of quite another kind,
at that place of mine up the river. I call
it a Sylvan Reunion. There will be no hay-making
there."

But won't it have an original feature,
Mr. Dulcimer ? "

"Oh, yes — yes. There all will be Repose.
My guests shall be a chosen few — among

whom, Miss Arden, I trust you will let
yourself be numbered — and my idea was
that we might take among us the parts of
those story-tellers in the Roses of Shares — "

"You must know, Mr. Lynn," said Miss
Arden, " that that is the name of Mr Dulcimer's
book."

*^ It is a dream of the South," Mr. Dulcimer
explained — " the dream of one to whom the
North is eternally uncongenial. Have you,
Mr. Lynn, never felt this longing for the
South ? "

"Well, yes. But then, you see, London
is the South to me."

Ah, yes. True. I forgot. Of course, it
must be so to Scotchmen. To me, Mr. Lynn,
Italy is the South. In that little book of
mine, I take my readers thither. I have
sought to bathe my verses in the glow and
languor of the South. And I have striven
to chisel every line after the manner of my
Master."

How ? Your master, Mr. Dulcimer ? I
don't understand — " said Mrs. Chevenix.

VOL. I. T

'' I call Tlieopliile Gautier Master," said
Mr. Dulcimer. " But the setting of my story-resembles
that of the Delamere. The scene
is laid in a garden — the garden of Then,
Then is the lover of Autonoe, the tyrannic
Archon's daughter. The Archon permits the
youth to wed Autonoe, on condition that he
dies ten days after the nuptials. The youth
accepts these terms, and with Autonoe and
his friends whiles away the allotted interval
in story-telling, among the myrtles and roses
of Sybaris. My idea was, Miss Arden, that
we — my friends, that is, and myself — might
take among us the parts of those story-tellers,
reading in turns from my little
book."

Yes, I see," said Miss Arden. '' But
what is the end of it all, Mr. Dulcimer ?
Does the cruel Archon relent, or is the poor
young man really killed ? "

Mr. Dulcimers face became rueful. Fora
moment or two he did not answer ; and
when he spoke, his voice had completely
lost its supercilious suavity.

*' I — I tlioiiglit," lie stammered, '' that —
that you would have read the book. I sent
you the volume, I remember — indeed, I see
it there" — and he turned his gaze towards
;a table where lay a copy of the Hoses of
Shares, splendid in purple plush and
ivory.

Miss Arden had evidently forgotten having
sever received the volume. Lynn was glad
:at that. Yet he could not help compassion-acting
the poet, he looked so crestfallen.
Miss Arden, however, showed herself equal
to the emergency.

Did not you yourself tell me, Mr. Dulcimer,"
she answered with a sweet smile, " that
poetry — and especially such poetry as yours
must be read with a ' lingering slowness ' ?
On second thoughts — don't tell me the end
just now. That would spoil the interest. —
You yourself, I suppose, will take the part
of Then ? "

That," said Mr. Dulcimer, " depends upon
the Autonoe. I had hoped. Miss Arden,
that — "

The confession of Mr. Dulcimer's hopes
however, was frustrated by the simultaneous,
sounding of the gong and entrance of Mr.
Arden.

Mr. Arden greeted Lynn with much cordiality.


So, Mr. Lynn," he said, as he shook
hands, "you have escaped from the house
of bondage ! I am so pleased to see you
here ! "

Mr. Dulcimer noted the empressement of
Mr. Arden's manner, and drew his own conclusions
from it.

Next time I go do^Ti to Shawkirk," Mr.
Arden went on, " and see your friends there,,
I shall be able to tell them that you are on
the high road to fame and fortune ! "

Mr. Dulcimer was completely puzzled.
This young Scotchman, then, had his fortune
still to make ! Mr. Dulcimer had never
met a poor young man in that house before.

After lunch, host and guests went out to
smoke a cigar in the loggia. The drawing-room
windows opened into the loggia ; and

Lynn, hearing the sound of a piano, was
not long in making his way within. Mrs.
Chevenix was off duty, and the tete-astute
was resumed.

What do you think of Mr. Dulcimer,
Arthur ? " — asked Camilla at length.

"Well," said Lynn, "at first, you know,
I thought he was a foolish man pretending
to be clever ; but now I'm not sure that he is
not a clever man affecting to be a fool."

Just then Mr. Arden and the poet came
into the room through the open window.
Lynn's ear distinctly caught the words ' carry-over'
and 'contango.' The voice was Mr.
Dulcimer's ; and Lynn, though he did not
know the precise meaning of those terms,
was quite sure that they could have nothing
to do with dithyrambus.

I hope you are free on Thursday, Mr.
Lynn"— said Mr. Arden. "That is the
day when Mallory dines here, and I want
you very much to meet him. Will you
join us. Dulcimer ? — It is a small party, quite
sans f agon, you know."

Mr. Dulcimer was altogether of Legouve's
opinion, that " le diner sans wagon n'est qu une
perfidie." But he knew the capabilities of
Mr. Arden's chef, and accepted, as did Lynn.

"You will enjoy Mallory's society," said
Mr. Arden. " He has a wonderful flow of
conversation."

END OF VOL. I.

Printed by Frank Murray, 9 and xx Young Street., Edinburgh.

3 0112 0795631 Ain

2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/myducatsmydaught02hunt

FRANK MURRAY, 9 & 11 YOUNG STREET,

EDINBURGH.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. II.

LONDON
KEGAN PAUL, Trench & CO., 1 PATERNOSTER SQUARE



CONTENTS OF VOL. II.

CHAPTER XII.

COMPROMISE.

"Have you seen to-day's Forum?" — Mr.
Arden asked his daughter, on the day on
which Lynn was to meet the great Mallory at
Hartington Gardens.

I never read it, you know," said Miss
Arden. " Has anything happened ?"

Something very disagreeable has happened."


Something about shares ?"

"No — something about poetry. There is
a notice in that paper of Dulcimer's book
the ' Roses,' or whatever he calls the
stuff."

vol. n, A

/

Which does not do justice to Mr. Dulcimer's
genius ?"

"It is merciless, atrocious, really too bad.
And, of course, Dulcimers friends will have
shown it him, without fail. It is very pleasant
for me, seeing that he and Mallory are
both to dine here to-night."

Mr. Dulcimer will hardly suspect you of
having written it, will he ?"

I wish you would cultivate a little sympathy
with others, Camilla. Dulcimer asked
me to speak about his ' Roses ' to Mallory, to
make sure that it would be noticed. Naturally,
I forgot all about it. It has been noticed,
with a vengeance. That would, of course, have
been a matter of perfect indifference to me, if
both men had not been coming here to-night."

Perhaps they won't."

Oh, yes, they will. In such cases they
always do."

What made you ask Mr. Dulcimer at all ?
There are enough without him."

The force of habit, my dear. Did not you
yourself say that I was never to ask Mallory

to dine here without asking Dulcimer as
well ? But I forgot — the presence of two
suitors at one time will be a little embarrassing;,
no doubt."

"You have no right to speak in that way."

Of course I haven't. But that reminds
me of the very thing I meant to say to you.
About that young fellow — I wish you would
either put that affair upon a proper footing, or
else allow me to do it for you."

You put that ' affair ' on a proper footing
before, did you not ?"

I saved you from apparent misery, if that
is what you mean."

And now I require to be saved again, you
think?"

I wish you would give up that habit of
constantly carping about what happened at
Leipsic. I say that in acting as I did there
I saved you from what promised to be lifelong
wretchedness. And in justice to your
good-sense, my dear girl, I must say you were
not unwilling to be saved."

What do you wish me to do now ? "

"Why not tell him the whole story and have
done with it ? It is quite simple. When he
was penniless, you gave him up in obedience
to your father's wishes. Now, circumstances
are altered. I have withdrawn my objection
you can begin being happy ever after — and
really, it seems to me, the sooner you begin
the better. Put all the blame on me — I don't
mind. If Lynn cares for you — and if ever
I saw a man in love, he is — he can't think
less of you for being a dutiful daughter."

Do you know, I don't think you quite
understand Arthur Lynn ? "

I know I don't understand you. Your
conduct is so inconsistent. First of all, you
were ready to pull me in pieces to get down
to the Inglebys. I agreed, though I must
say I thought your going there, under the
circumstances, rather — ah — strong. However,
you went. You saw the young fellow, and I
suppose you found he was still in love with
you, and so on. Very well. Then you got
me to bring him up here — and to go to Mallory
about him — a kind of thing I detest

doing — and now, after all I have done, you
won't put the affair on a proper business-like
footing. I don't understand you, Camilla — I
don't, indeed ! "

Do you not think, now, that after the
1 business-like footing ' we put the ' affair ' on
at Leipsic, it would look rather ' strong ' to
tell Arthur Lynn the whole story? We
should have to point out to him, you know,
that though of course we could have nothing
to say to him while he was poor, still, now
that he is rich, we are ready to forgive him
for not having been so before. Might not
that look just a trifle mercenary ? You see,
he does not understand business. He might
not see the compliment we were paying him.
Some people are so obtuse, you know."

I wonder you can raise such flimsy objections.
That young fellow is one of the easiest
people to lead I ever saw. He seems absolutely
without back-bone. There is no reason
that I know of why you should not marry
him tomorrow. You need have no anxiety
the money is there."

The money is the thing that makes me
anxious, I admit."

It need not, my dear girl — it need not, I
assure you. Hume made at least £80,000 out
there — by thieving, of course. Nobody makes
£80,000 out there except by thieving. — However,
we've nothing to do with the way the
money was made."

Oh, no. All we have to consider is how
it is invested."

Oh, the investments are all sound enough.
Hume consulted me about the most of them.
Now, Camilla, look here. My own instinctive
notion is this, that either you or I should tell
Lynn what we know. But since you won't
have that, here is my suggestion. Next time
I'm down in that infernal borough, I'll drop a
quiet hint to his old bore of an uncle, and
then—"

Whatever you do, you must not do that !"
said Camilla, with an energy that almost
startled Mr. Arden.

Camilla," he said, " I think you are going
mad. You seem bent on bringing misery on

yourself, and on this young fellow, and —
and on me. It is too bad. He is a simple,
kindly lad, whom you could twine round your
little finger. ' The poor fellow is over head and
ears in love with you — anyone can see that
and you should really consider his feelings."

Oh, dear ! I thought we had agreed not to
consider them?"

Don't be affected, my dear. This is too
serious a matter for affectation."

"It is. But at what income do people
begin to have feelings ? "

What's the good of that kind of talk ?—
The long and the short of it is this — I want
to know when this shilly-shallying and carping
and nonsense are to come to an end.
Depend upon it, my dear, the plain, straightforward
way is the best."

I am glad, I'm sure, that you have found
it so."

Camilla, you are acquiring an ironical
style of speaking to your father which I don't
like. I don't care much about these things —
I am not like a number of men — but I don't

think it is quite becoming. You have been
intolerably fretful since you came back from
these people. And I suppose you do care for
Lynn as much as ever, though your way of
showing it is certainly peculiar. The end of
it all will be that old Inglebyby will get his
nephew into his hands again. I have no
doubt the young man's cousins will manage to
console him. What kind of girl, now, is that
elder daughter of Inglebyby's ? "

I believe Gertrude Inglebyby is a good girl."
Is that your way of calling her plain ? "
No, you know quite well that she is not
plain."

I don't want to know how good she is.
She may be as good as she thinks necessary.
I have no objection to that. Is she attractive ?
Is she the kind of girl likely to fascinate a
romantic youth ? "

"I suppose romantic youths are easily
fascinated."

They are — and easily offended. There is
a capriciousness about your treatment of that
young fellow which it is very painful for me

to witness — I don't in the least see what
there is to laugh at in that. From what
your aunt tells me, I infer that you have
been flirting again with Dulcimer, while that
young fellow was looking on. And yet you
say he is clever — "

"Who? Mr. Dulcimer?"

"No, not Mr. Dulcimer. I have warned
you before about Dulcimer, Camilla. He is
not a marrying man. He is by no means
such a fool as he looks. I should be sorry —
I mean, of course, I should be glad, if all my
clients had a tithe of his shrewdness. Well,
as to Lynn — he may be clever or not ; I don't
mind. So far as that goes, he may have
genius ; he can afford it. The point I look
to is, that he suits you, and has money."

And a rich son-in-law — not so shrewd as
Mr. Dulcimer — might be convenient to you
at this moment?"

Certainly," answered Mr. Arden with
placid candour; "just now, if I had a son-in-law
with eighty thou', who was tractable, and
could be got to see his own interests — why,

it would be a good thing for him, and — I
don't deny it — for me. And that is a thing
I think you really ought to consider."

Is not that rather a coarse way of looking
at the 'affair'"

"My dear, after your very sensible behaviour
abroad, and your very remarkable
journey to Spray ton, I think your dislike
of plain-speaking is a trifle — strained. I can
assure you, when Lynn seeks an interview
with me I shall offer no objections to the
match. You would not have to play long at
poverty."

He is not very likely to go to you after
what has passed. You see, you convinced
him so clearly before of his wickedness in
being poor. But, of course, you could refuse
nothing to the son of your benefactor — the
man who founded your fortune and first led
you into politics — "

So the young fellow has been telling
you about our meeting down there. I see
you think the ironical style suits you. It is
an effective style in high comedy, no doubt,

but that kind of thing is best behind the
footlights. If there were anyone else hereto
admire it, I should not mind ; but between
our two selves, my clear, it is rather ridiculous.
I don't say it's unfilial, and all that.
But I do say it is ridiculous. It wastes time.
You had much better say plainly what you
mean and what you want."

Very well, I shall try to answer plainly,"
said the girl, speaking with a quiet ferocity
that astonished Mr. Arden. " What I want
is to escape from the humiliation you are
bringing on me."

Oh, come !" — interjected Mr. Arden.

"You interfered once before between
Arthur Lynn and me, and I was weak enough
to treat him as badly as you wished. Then
you allowed me — you encouraged me — to go
down to Sjxrayton, to decoy him up here
that you might make money out of him.
Oh, yes — that is the truth ! I did not
see it then — if I had, do you think I should
have gone ? You have used such words to
him that he can never ask me to — to marry

him, until he knows of his fortune. And
when he does know of it, he will discover
how he has been deceived. I realise it all
now as I did not before. I thought only of
meeting him again. Don't you see now what
is there'd of all your scheming ? "

This is madness — sheer midsummer madness,"
said Mr. Arden. " It seems to me,
Camilla, that you are making a Sphinx of
this youth quite unnecessarily. Just look,
now, at the plain facts. Old Inglebyby, of
course, knows all about it — he is one of the
trustees under Hume's will. And it was he
who got Hume to tie up the money in this
absurd way — keeping the young man in
ignorance of his fortune, until it suited him
to tell. I said that was nonsense at the time,
when Hume told me about it; but Inglebyby,
it seems, thought his nephew would make
ducks and drakes of the money, and play his
father's game over again. I'm sure I could
advise him better than that ! "

I'm sure you could !"

Yes. Well, what puzzles me is, why the

deuce Inglebyby hasn't told him before this
time ? I know it was left to him entirely —
whenever he speaks the word, Lynn steps into
his fortune. I can't make out why he hasn't
told. But it is most unfair to the young
man. Fancy sending the poor lad to be
tutor to that man in Shawkirk ! — a fellow
with £80,000 ! But he is a deep card, is
Inglebyby — as cunning as a fox, in spite of all
his Covenanting humbug. You may depend
upon it, he has a game to play — and you are
helping him to play it, my dear, let me tell
you. I should not be at all surprised if the
daughter had something to do with it. But
I don't intend to let him have it all his own
way."

"Kemember this," Camilla broke in, speaking
very fast, "if I find you in any way
trying to — to make money out of Arthur
Lynn, I shall at once — "

"My dear girl, there's no need for your
going into heroics. I was merely reminding
you that I've had a deal of trouble in this
matter, first and last and that it would be

rather hard on me if it all went for nothing.
In the meantime, I have no objection to doing
as you wish — though my instinct tells me
you are wrong. Let us agree to say nothing
at all about it, for the present. Have him
here as much as you like, and limit your
flirtations — at least, when he is looking on.
After all, his uncle must let it out, sooner or
later ; and they can't keep a cent from the
lad — that is satisfactory, so far."

The result of this interview — which was by
no means the first of its kind — proved agreeable
neither to Miss Arden nor to her amiable
parent. Camilla's feelings were embittered,
and her anxiety was sharpened. When her
father assumed that she cared only for Arthur
Lynn's money, he had, as she knew, only too
good warrant for his cynical inferences. At
Leipsic, she had agreed to break with Lynn
partly because of her father's urgency, partly
because she herself could see no way of combining
happiness and poverty. Then she
had discovered, as she thought, that the
happiness of her life was really bound up

with the man she had renounced. Her lover
himself, and not his riches, had been the
magnet that drew her to Sprayton. She had
even intended to tell him all she knew, whenever
an opportunity presented itself. But
she had found it very difficult to frame such
a confession ; her courage had failed her ;
and she had allowed the golden moments to
slip away unused. Now, she could only hope
that the man who had her heart in keeping
might never discover that at one time her
knowledge of his fortunes had exceeded his
own.

Had Mr. Inglebyby divulged the secret — as
Mr. Arden and his daughter had expected he
would have done ere now — all might have
gone well. But Mr. Inglebyby persisted in
keeping silent, for reasons which perplexed
Camilla herself much less than they did her
father. There was one way, indeed, of making
Mr. Inglebyby speak — that favoured by Mr.
Arden — the dropping of a casual hint that
others besides himself were acquainted with
the story of Hume's legacy. But this course

would defeat its own purpose ; since Mr.
Inglebyby, while informing his nephew of the
change in his fortunes, would be careful to
explain to him what must have been the
motives of Miss Arden's visit to Sprayton,
and of her father's excessive complaisance at
Shawkirk. Would Lynn's regard for her survive
the disclosure of her insincerity ? If he
saw in her a heartless fortune-hunter, could
she blame him, however different she might
know the reality to be ?

The truth was, there were two sides to
Camilla Arden's nature — one, passionate and
impulsive ; the other, shrewd and pleasure-loving.
Now the obverse and now the reverse
came uppermost ; so that there were times
when she might do something romantically
rash, and times when she might show herself
coldly calculating. Mr. Arden quite understood
this dualism in his daughter's character,
and played on either string as it suited him.
When it came to breaking off an imprudent
love-affair, like that into which she had been
drawn at Leipsic, he had appealed, and successfully,

to her almost physical shrinking
from poverty and its concomitants. When
it suited him that the broken threads of her
attachment to Arthur Lynn should he knotted
together again, he had taken advantage of
what he considered her sentimental weakness,
and had encouraged her to visit the
Inglebys at Sprayton.

Mr. Arden was only half-satisfied with
the result of his manoeuvring. Lynn, rich
and pliant, would be the ideal son-in-law for
whom he had long been seeking ; and now,
when the whole matter — so far as he could
see — might be arranged in five minutes' conversation,
Camilla would neither move herself,
nor allow him to do so. Mr. Arden
admired his daughter, for her beauty ; respected
her, for her cleverness ; perhaps feared
her a little, for her high spirit and temper.
He was firmly resolved that Camilla should
not ' throw herself away' — that is, should
not bestow her hand in a marriage otherwise
than convenient to himself. But he knew
that if he drove her into a corner, she was

VOL. II. b

capable of doing something fearfully inconsiderate
— ending the game by upsetting the
board. Like a skilful tactician, he had
accordingly shifted his ground. Since Camilla
was so obstinately opposed to an immediate
explanation, he would consent, in the meantime,
to leave things as they were — that is,
to leave things as they were, so far as she was
concerned. For Mr. Arden — looking at ' the
affair' from the purely commercial standpoint
was quite determined that the trouble he
had taken in the matter should not go without
its reward. He had, indeed, a little plan of
his own, based on two pieces of knowledge
he had acquired — his knowledge of Lynn's
fortune, and his knowledge of Lynn's character.
Mr. Arden, musing on his little plan,
experienced the mellow satisfaction of one
who has hit upon a ' sure thing.'

Chapter XIII.

A PLEASANT Party.

No one at Mr. Arden's table that evening felt
altogether comfortable — except, indeed, the
Anglo-Indian millionaire and the Editor of the
Forum, who sat down in the peace of a good
conscience to the enjoyment of an excellent
dinner. The others were sensible, more or
less, of a certain restraint in the conversation.
Mr. Arden looked forward with dread to
an allusion to The Roses of Sybaris. Mrs.
Chevenix felt ill at ease in Mr. Mallory's
presence, as she always did. Dulcimer, still
writhing under the satire of the review, cast
occasionally a menacing glance in the direction
of the unconscious Editor. Camilla's pleasure
in her lover's society was marred by the recollection
of her father's words — especially by

his reference to her ' flirtation' with Dulcimer,
now seated vis-a-vis to Arthur Lynn. As for
Lynn, he felt abashed in the presence of Mr.
Mallory. His introduction to this great man
to which he had been looking forward so
long — had passed off in quite a commonplace
manner. " How do you do, Mr. Lynn ?" — the
Editor had said — " pleased to make your
acquaintance; when did you come to town?"
Lynn was conscious of a pair of keen eyes
fixed upon him — so keen, they seemed to
pierce him through and through. He thought
he had never seen a face of power before,
until seeing that clean-cut, clean-shaven face
of Mr. Mallory's. The words were nothing ;
but the voice ! — liquid, silvery, sonorous ; a
voice of command ! Lynn could not overcome
a feeling of awe for the first celebrity
he had ever met — the man whose works he
had studied and admired. In such a presence,
he felt, it would not do to talk trivialities ;
and as nothing of a brilliant or weighty character
occurred to him to say, he did not contribute
much to the conversation. Mr. Arden,

who liked a lively party with plenty of talk,
began to despair of his present guests, and
told himself that it was " going to be an infernal
grind."

But Mr. Mallory came presently to the
rescue, having reached that point in the menu
at which he began to feel that he had dined.
Opposite him was seated Mr. Ericson, the
Anglo-Indian millionaire. Mr. Mallory always
enjoyed the society of Anglo-Indians. He
liked to probe and to exhibit their ignorance
of India, and to crush them by his superior
knowledge. This he generally did by assuming
them to be, as a matter of course, intimately
acquainted with knotty financial and
social problems connected with their land of
exile.

Mr. Ericson was an elderly gentleman who
had lived all his life at the court of an Indian
Rajah, and had made an immense fortune out
of timber contracts. He had white hair and
a white moustache, which heightened by contrast
the extreme swarthiness of his complexion
— a half-caste lady had been Mr.

Ericson's mother. He had lately come to
London on business, and was one of Mr.
Arden's most esteemed clients.

Mr. Mallory set himself to ' draw ' the
Anglo-Indian, feigning a desire for information
which Mr. Ericson was pleased to gratify.
This, however, was only preliminary. Mr.
Ericson having finished his third tiger-story,
the Editor leant back in his chair, assumed his
1 tribune ' manner, and began, in a tone which
at once made everybody listen.

There are few questions," he observed,
on which I feel more strongly than I do on
this of India. To me, Mr. Ericson, the name
of Plassey is a name of shame. I bracket the
name of Hastings with the name of the dead
tyrant of France, and I regard the failure of
Olive's essay in suicide as one of the worst
evils that ever befel Humanity."

"What!" — exclaimed the astounded Ericson;
" Hastings! — Olive! Why, they founded
our Indian Empire ! "

Precisely," said Mr. Mallory, with biting
emphasis. " Yes, Mr. Ericson, but a day of

reckoning will come for England's treatment
of the Zulu and the Hindu — the wretched
African and the wretched Asiatic — the blackman
and the brown man. I am convinced of
that sombre truth, and this is a subject on
which I have thought deeply."

I think I read something like that in
some newspaper or other, at my club to-day,"
remarked Mr. Ericson.

Camilla shot a glance down the table to
Lynn, who could not help smiling.

Very likely," said Mr. Mallory with unruffled
composure ; <( I am pleased to think
that these enlightened opinions spread apace.
If France, Mr. Ericson, is haunted by a Need
Spectre, England is haunted by a Black
Spectre. That Spectre is India — that swarthy
incubus" — here Mr. Ericson started, and
muttered something in Hindustan — " which
is looming up, big with the ruin of Britain —
for it is a swarthy incubus, however we may
try to hide it by the glittering dust of
rhetoric, or deck it with the baubles of Imperialist
servility. I have no doubt, Mr.

Ericson, that you, as a resident in that land of
misfortune, must have been pained by the
spectacle of these wretched Hindus living in a
state of chronic starvation — crying aloud for a
handful of rice ? Have you ever thought how
their lot is to be bettered ?"

I have shot a good many man-eating tigers
in my time, sir," said the old gentleman ;
that did a little good, you know. I am no
politician ; but the simple fact, I take it, is
that there are too many people. That's all I
know about it."

I should preserve the tiger, promote infanticide,
and revive suttee" said Mr. Arden,
languidly.

The suggestion is pious, but immature,"
said the Editor. " The fact is, were it not
that I cannot trench at present on religious
topics" — here Mr. Mallory bowed slightly
towards the head of the table, where Mrs.
Chevenix sate bolt upright, a figure of incarnate
Rebuke — " I could show, I believe, how it
is only through the spread of Positivism that
India can cease to be a deadening excrescence

to England, and England can cease to be a
curse to India."

"Positivism?" — said the now thoroughly
mystified Ericson ; " excuse me, but I don't
quite understand?"

Positivism, sir, some of us believe, will
be the future religion of our planet. I cannot
explain it at present — but take this one fact.
In the Calendar which our Master, Auguste
Comte, drew up for those of the Religion, you
will find that one of the months is named after
Moses. Now, the weeks in the month Moses
are associated with the names of Numb,
Buddha, Confucius and Mahomet. Again, the
days in that month are sacred to Fo-hi and
Abraham, to Solomon and Semiramis, to
Zoroaster and Isaiah, to Samuel and Hercules,
to Ossian, Orpheus, John the Baptist, and
others whom I need not name."

But I can't see what all that has to do
with India," said Mr. Ericson.

I shall show you," said Mr. Mallory. " We
gather together in our Calendar and in our
Creed the names of the far-shining men of

every land. These, and these alone, we venerate.
Our religion, therefore, appeals to all
men — red and white, black and brown. We
do not repel them by the obtrusion of an alien
cult — we bind them to us by the bonds of an
eclectic pathology. We would build up the
federation of the world on the basis of a purely
human religion. We honour the great kings
and prophets, the great statesmen and patriots,
of the East and West — the Decii and the Benedicts,
the Luther and the Metallic, the Gregory
and the Cantons, the Theocratic of Japan and
the Theocratic of Tibet. We can venerate all
faiths — we see good even in the dancing dervish
and the weeping Wesleyan — we embrace
them all in a glorious synthesis — and thus
we, and only we, can claim for our Eeligion
that grandest of all names, the name of
Catholic I"

The effect of this speech was to convince
Mrs. Chevenix that Mr. Mallory had become a
Jesuit as well as an Infidel. She had always
esteemed him a dangerous man, but she was
horror-stricken to find that he had achieved

this composite perfection of iniquity. Rising
from her place as Mr. Mallory perforated, she
gave the signal to Miss Arden, and retreated
from the room. Lynn noticed with amusement
how she gathered her crape about her in
passing the Editor, as though his touch would
be contamination.

Mr. Arden showed but faint interest in
Positivism as a topic for table-talk ; but
neither did he show any surprise at Mr. Mallory's
outburst, having, indeed, heard much
the same thing from him before. It left Lynn
and Ericson equally bewildered. But on
Mr. Dulcimer the Editor's harangue had an
exhilarating effect. It seemed to him that
Mr. Mallory had been making a fool of himself;
a man must be crazy, he thought, to talk like
that. He was burning with rage against the
instigator, if not the perpetrator, of the fell
onslaught on The Roses of Sybaris. He no
longer dreaded entering the lists against his
persecutor. So he drank off a glass of wine,
passed the decanters, and roused him for the
fray.

I hear, Mr. Lynn," he began, " that you
have embraced journalism as a profession?"

Lynn answered that he should, if journalism
would embrace him.

Oh ! — surely there can be no doubt as to
that," said Mr. Dulcimer ; " surely not ! I
have been told," he continued, "that the first
task entrusted to those who aspire to contribute
to the — ah — penny press, is the reviewing
of books. Now it has always seemed to mea
whimsical thing that a man — or youth —
should be assumed to be capable of * criticising
as it is called, the works of the greatest writers
of ' crowned historians and poets above
crowning ' — to borrow that marmoreal phrase
of Landor's — "

That what"— asked Mr. Mallory.

Marmoreal," the poet repeated blandly.
It has, as I was saying, always seemed inexplicable
to me that they should be deemed
capable of discussing the greatest works of the
day, before they are held fit to discuss commonplace
characters and everyday incidents."

"The system you object to," said Mr. sailors,

"is in reality sound enough. The leader-writers
of a paper have to reflect the opinions
of their readers. Before they can do that,
they must have studied what these opinions are.
But the readers have, of course, no opinions
about books ; and so it does not signify in the
least what the paper says about them. The
readers don't know, and don't want to know,
whether the reviews are just or unjust."

This confession was soothing to Mr. Dulcimer.
He observed that he was surprised at
such candour on the part of an editor.

I am not speaking, of course, of my
own paper" — Mr Mallory hastened to explain.
" That is conducted on very different
principles. I am speaking of the vast majority
of papers — such as, for example, that

sorry rag, the . Most papers, you know,

reflect and distort, instead of forming and
guiding, public opinion. What I do with
the books which come to me for notice — "

Yes ? " — interjected Mr. Dulcimer.

"Is this," the Editor went on. "I first
glance through them, and form an estimate

of their excellence, or inanity. Such as can
only be judged by specialists, I assign to
specialists. Such as are imbecile, and call
for — ah — piquant treatment" — here Mr. Dulcimer's
face paled — " I assign to competent
members of my staff. And in all cases I
endeavour to correct any undue acerbity,
or leniency, in the notices."

Here Mr. Arden made an attempt to turn
the conversation to certain casks of wine
which he was sending on a voyage round
the Cape. But Mr. Dulcimer was not to be
diverted from his purpose.

I am often inclined to think," he said,
when I read newspaper reviews, that no
one should be allowed to criticise contemporary
verse until he has shown that he
can produce verse himself."

On the principle, I suppose, that we
should set a thief to catch a thief ? "

No, Mr. Mallory — I speak of poets, not
plagiarists. But on the principle that only
they who create the beautiful can appreciate
beauty."

Ah ! You think men should pass through
poetry as an apprenticeship to journalism ?
It is a compliment to the profession, Mr.
Dulcimer, but I fear if your suggestion were
carried out, the public might think it had
to pay too dearly for its papers."

This blasphemy Mr. Dulcimer disdained
to answer directly. "In no case," he said,
can I accept the penny-aliter s comments
upon poetry."

I never accept anything from him at
all," said the Editor of the Forum. " But
seriously, Mr. Dulcimer, unless poets will
be content to make copy in the wilderness
unless they will go and dwell beside the
springs of Dove — and I am sorry to say
they seem to prefer the banks of Thames —
they must be content to unlearn in suffering
what they have taught in song. The
evolution of civilisation is marked by the
gradual disuse of verse. Science, philosophy,
history, and in a great measure fiction, are
now embodied in prose — and not, as was
the case when they were comparatively

worthless, in verse. Rhymes after all, Mr.
Dulcimer, are only jingling fetters on truth."

I cannot accept your metaphor," said
Mr. Dulcimer dreamily ; "I should rather
compare each of the Poet's rhymed lines
to a Wave — a lucid Wave from the Infinite
Ocean of Beauty and Truth, falling in music
upon what Shelley calls ' the light sands of
consciousness.' "

I know nothing about the Ocean you
mention," said Mr. Mallory drily. "But I
do know that there is a pernicious swarm
of versifiers who are constantly adding to
the Ink Ocean of Literature. And that is
an Ocean " — he went on — " you will find
the observation in my Martyred Humanity
which very often seems to swell under
lunar influence, and which very seldom casts
up a pearl upon the Sands of Time."

By Jove, Mallory ! " — exclaimed Mr.
Arden — " why, that sounds like poetry !
You are rivalling Dulcimer himself!"

"It is exceedingly kind of you to say so,
Arden. But no one knows what I have had

to endure from the metromaniacs — it would
take a new Duncan to do justice to the
theme. Now, for example, take that book
of verse noticed in to-day's issue — "

Oh, don't let us take that now, Mallory,"
interposed Mr. Arden hastily — "pass that — "
but Mr. Dulcimer cut him short. The poet's
eyes flashed and his brow darkened, as he
said in a voice tremulous with passion —
I, sir, am the author of the volume you
speak of!"

Now the fat's in the fire !"— muttered Mr.
Arden below his breath; " confound the fellow."
But whether he referred to the poet or the
editor, Lynn, who overheard him, was left
to conjecture.

Mr. Mallory did not wince. He had
hitherto only vaguely suspected Mr. Dulcimer
of verse-guiltiness ; and had he known who
was the author of the anonymous ' Roses,'
he might have selected the strains of some
other singer to point his moral. He had
been somewhat surprised by Mr. Dulcimer's
deliberate effort to provoke him ; now that was

VOL. II, c

explained. The mistake did not cause Mr.
Mallory any very poignant grief. He knew
he had been brusque with Dulcimer, almost
to the verge of rudeness. That gentleman's
sneers had not irritated him in the very
least ; and as for arguing seriously with a
poet, Mr. Mallory would as soon have dreamt
of arguing with a poodle. But at Mr. Arden's
table, the editor of the Forum was accustomed
to play the tribune in his most pronounced
what those who knew, and hated him,
called his ' barricade ' — manner. He had
merely been doing so on the present occasion,
and Mr. Dulcimer had chanced to bethe
victim. That was all.

Only Mr. Mallory, however, was unembarrassed
for the moment. There was an
awkward gap in the conversation, which the
host hastened desperately to bridge over.
Addressing himself to the offended poet,
and beginning with the usual formula —
Try that claret " — Mr. Arden rushed again
into the unfailing topic of Wine. This time
he met with a response.

When the Editor next spoke, he addressed
himself to Lynn.

I should very much like, Mr. Lynn," he
began, " if you could give me the results of
your observation of the religious Revival, as
they term it, which has of late flared and
foamed in the North."

Lynn stated that in Shawkirk the people
had apparently been occupied for the most
part with politics, in view of the approaching
election.

That is, so far, good," said Mr. Mallory ;
but the present divorce of politics from Religion
is nevertheless, in my estimation, a
perilous thing."

"Religion?" — queried Lynn, remembering
his uncle Mr. Inglebyby, and the Editor's
own remarks at an earlier period of the
evening.

When I speak of Religion," explained
Mr. Mallory, " I speak, of course, of Positivism
; and no man is more deeply convinced
than I that it is only by a religious movement
that Society can be saved. Otherwise,

as things at present are, it will simply commit
suicide in an orgy of money-making."

Here Mr. Dulcimer saw an opportunity to
differ from his late antagonist, and to show
that he had not been crushed in their previous
encounter.

Goethe, now," he said, musingly, " held —
and I agree with Goethe — that Art must take
the place of Religion in moulding and ennobling
our modern life. Have you no faith, Mr.
Mallory, in the influence of culture ? "

True religion includes culture," said the
Editor. " What is commonly labelled ' culture'
is merely the lisping languor of the
dilettante plus the impudence of the prig. Do
you for one moment think, Mr. Dulcimer, that
you can lighten the lives of the suffering army
of toilers by the cooing of a love-sick troubadour
? That may do for the knights and
ladies, but what of the peasants of Provence ?
Politics, Mr. Dulcimer, are not a thing of
sonnets — a tissue of madrigals. And they are
no longer a May-game for aristocrats — the
gilded ephemera which still flutter amid the

debris of feudalism. Now they are lifted
above that, yet still they want to be touched
and inspired by the breath of religion. Positivism
— "

Here Mr. Mallory set forth his favourite
ideas at considerable length. He next went
on to discuss the policy pursued by Britain in
Ireland, South Africa, and the East — or, as he
chose to describe it, the Irish Crime, the
African Crime, and the Indian Crime — to his
own great satisfaction, and the utter confusion
of Mr. Ericson, who had ventured to express
a less pessimistic view.

Mr. Mallory showed no alacrity to join
the ladies; and lingered behind, when the
others went, to smoke a cigar with Mr. Arden.
Drawing-rooms he professed to regard with
contempt. People, he said, met to converse —
in other words, to listen to him — not to make
a pretence of listening to bad music. The
drawing-room was an institution which would
speedily be swept away by the car of progress
but which, in the meantime, was a check to
the cause of Woman's Eights.

When at last Mr. Mallory came upstairs,
Miss Arden smiled upon him with seeming
delight.

You are just in time," she said. " Mr.
Dulcimer has promised to sing us a serenade —
one he has translated himself, and set to a
Spanish air. I know you would be sorry to
have missed it."

Mr. Mallory started, bowed, gave a ghastly
smile — and then, suppressing his emotion with
a strong effort, betook himself to the extreme
end of the room. It was little better than an
insult to ask him, the Tribune, the Editor and
Philosopher, the builder of the social edifice,
to sit silent and listen to the warbling of this
pitiful poetaster.

Mr. Dulcimer, who had a really fine and
highly-trained voice, began his song. Lynn
thought he looked a supremely ridiculous
figure, bending over Camilla at the piano, and
peering at the music through his eye-glass.
Mr. Mallory, to judge from his face, held a
similar opinion.

Mr. Dulcimer repeatedly adjured the moon of

the summer night to shine through the lattice
of a certain chamber, and awake the fair one
slumbering within. The orange-groves, he
said, wafted their perfume ; the myrtles lay in
dark shadow ; he, outside in the white moonshine,
awaited but a sign from his mistress's
hand, as the guerdon of his song. Mr. Mallory
listened for a moment with a look of
disgust ; then turned to Lynn, who was
standing near him.

I should like you to call on me at the
office tomorrow, Mr. Lynn," he said ; " three
o'clock will suit you ? — very good. We shall
have a talk, and see if we are to suit one
another. Of course we may not suit one
another at all — but I hope we shall. It depends
on yourself entirely. By the way, Mr.
Lynn, do you happen to have given much
thought at any time to the questions connected
with the present political effacement of Spain ?"

Lynn's heart leaped within him. The
Editor, he imagined, must be going to entrust
him with an article on Spanish politics, as his
first piece of work on the Forum.

Oh, yes," he said ; " I have read a good
deal about it — and written, too." Lynn
bethought him of a certain Prize Essay on
'The Lapse of Spain.' He did not like,
however, to mention this work to Mr.
Mallory. He was not quite certain how
much value the Editor would put on a Prize
Essay.

"Because — " Mr Mallory went on, not
appearing to notice Lynn's response — " it has
just occurred to me that here we have some
additional light thrown on this interesting
question. He" — indicating Dulcimer — "is, it
appears, singing a serenade — a Spanish serenade.
What else can you expect of a nation
which produces and tolerates such things,
except that it should inevitably slide back
into social sloth and political impotence ?
Can you wonder, listening to such stuff as
that, that Spain is at this moment a constitutional
monarchy — a country where they
collect the watches, instead of the tickets, of
railway passengers at their roadside stations —
and where they have a newspaper called La

Mariana — yes, sir, positively called La Mariana
— The To-morrow /"

Mr. Mallory had raised his voice somewhat
at the close of his remarks ; and a distinct
Hush !" came from the lips of Mrs. Chevenix.
The Editor glared around him ; and as Mr.
Dulcimer had now finished his last invocation
of the orb of night, departed for the office of
the Forum.

I am deeply grateful to you for this
evening," he observed to Mr. Arden, on his
way downstairs. " We had really a most
curious menu of character — the poor Anglo-indian
with his untutored mind ; a poet ina
fine frenzy ; and a silent Hyperborean.
The Hyperborean was, on the whole, the least
objectionable."

Then you think my young friend will do ?"
asked Mr. Arden.

I cannot answer, Arden, for your young
friend. He is one of the impulsive youths
who think they can open the world-oyster
with a pen — an interesting phenomenon, 'so
fresh and green in this old world of ours.' I

will take him on trial — only on trial, of
course ; that is understood. He is coming to
see me tomorrow. Good-night — thanks, I
ivill take a cigar."

Mr. Arden, returning to the drawing-room,
began to talk about Mallory to Lynn, whose
brain was still bewildered by the Editor's
wild and whirling declamations.

I am thunder-struck," said Lynn, " by Mr.
Mallory's religious opinions. They seemed so
strangely like nonsense, you know. And I
should think them utterly at variance with
his character — as they are with the tone of
his paper, and with his views on other things."

"Mallory might be a Christian," said Mr.
Arden, "so far as allowing his 'religion' to
interfere with his daily work is concerned. I
suppose he must find this craze about Positivism
pay him in some way. Besides, he
likes to take people's breath away by his
statements, and to make them talk a lot
about him."

But is it not indiscreet to avow the
opinions he does ?"

It would be set down as madness — or,
what is worse, as bad form — if lie were not
known to be a clever and influential man.
As it is, I fancy that kind of talk makes him
more of a personage in society. Which is
what Mallory wants."

Then you don't think he believes it himself?"


I think he believes in it. I fancy he finds
it a relief from his serious work. We like to
kick up our heels somewhere, as a change
from the mill-round, you know. But in
reality, there is nothing fantastic about
Mallory. There is no shrewder, sharper man
going — he is a man of the world to his fingertips."


Lynn had not much speech with Camilla
that evening. Mr. Dulcimer claimed her presence
at the piano, and hovered about her
with watchful pertinacity. But to make up
for this, Mr. Arden's manner to Lynn was
of the most friendly kind. He gave him
much good advice, of a worldly character ;
and expressed the warmest hopes for his success

on the Forum. The references he made
to his roof were now altogether hospitable.

I trust you will consider this house always
open to you, now you are in London," he said
to the young man when bidding him goodnight.
" Come to us whenever you have
nothing better to do. I shall always be
pleased to see you — and my daughter — that,
I suppose, goes without saying I"

Lynn expressed his gratitude. He considered
this last playful remark of Mr.
Arden's highly significant — as, indeed, it was
and went off, elated, to his hotel in the
Strand.

CHAPTER XIV.

THE FORUM.

Is there a more enviable being in all the
realm of Fancy than the average young
author of fiction ? We all know him ; we
have all watched him climb Fame's templed
steep, swift and sure-footed — spurning probability
and tossing fact aside with a gay
regardlessness peculiarly his own. Wonderful
as a poet, wonderful as a novelist, he is,
perhaps, most wonderful of all as a journalist.
He has only to lose his money in order to
master the art of writing prose. He has
only to spend his days in idlers, languid or
boisterous, in order to become an adept in
all political lore. Who has not marvelled at
that knowledge, which springs up in a night,
like the Prophet's gourd ? — at that wit,

which makes even editors bland, yet never
escapes into dialogue ? — at that style, so
promptly and laboriously acquired, and
yet so ripe withal, so bright and telling, that
it might almost do justice to the subject of
its possessor's miraculous career ?

True, the young journalist of fiction is not
always such an one as this. Sometimes he
does really appear to merit his success.
What he says does not invariably beget
distrust of what is said about him. But be
he what he may — and this is his unvarying
characteristic — he seems always able to go
where he likes, and to do what he likes. You
may find him anywhere, provided it be only
far enough from newspaper offices. In many
cases, he appears to spend half his days in
the country ; and, in general, he is always
willing, and at any moment able, to make a
run across to the Continent. Happy, happy
mortal ! He knows no more of the nightly
mill round of the press than the gods that
lie beside their nectar.

Arthur Lynn was familiar with the ways of

this fortunate youth. He admitted to himself
that the picture might be somewhat fanciful ;
that the work might be harder, the reward
less solid, the editor less pliant in the real
world, than in the world as it wags in three
volumes. Still, he was fain to believe that
there must be " something in it." He did
not realise that the choice of journalism as a
profession meant the final renunciation of his
cherished Gospel of Leisure. At college, he
had won prizes for his essays and verses. At
the Philopolemic debating society, he had
been reckoned an especially fluent exponent
of politics. Lynn was still sufficiently young
to remember those academic triumphs. Other
men whom he had heard of — men who had
taken no prizes whatsoever at college, only a
paltry degree — had succeeded in those paths
on which he was about to enter. Barring an
incapacity for understanding, or even feigning
to understand, statistics, he was surely better
equipped than they.

Mr. Mallory, in speaking to him of his
work' as the successor to the martyred

Wicks, had left the nature of that work
clothed in mystery. 'you'll have a lot of
copy to read, you know" — he had explained
to Lynn, at their interview the day after Mr.
Arclen's dinner-party — " and summaries to
write, and so on. Sugden — he is our chief
sub-editor — will show you all about it. You
won't be of much use to us for a time, you
know. And it is just possible, Mr. Lynn,
let me say to you, that we may not suit each
other after all. Everyone has not the newspaper
instinct, and you are very young. But
we shall see. Come along on Monday night,
between seven and eight o'clock — we begin to
set at half-past seven. That is all, I believe.
Good morning."

It was on Friday that Lynn had his interview
with the Editor. The intervening days
he devoted to a study of the Forum —
especially of the leading articles. Now, the
peculiar thing about a good leading article
is this, that everyone thinks he could write
it if he tried, and that almost nobody can.
Lynn was not at first very greatly impressed

by the articles in the Forum. Some of them,

he owned, were above his powers at present —

but not immeasurably so. Others he believed

were by no means better than he could

himself produce ; that was, of course, with

time — a good deal of time. In one he

detected an incorrect allusion to a play of

Moliere's. That was encouraging. He would

not commit errors such as that, at least.

Still, as the Monday evening drew nigh,

Lynn somehow felt less buoyant than he had

expected. He began to remember that those

essays which had won him so much applause

had wanted a good deal of re-writing and

re-polishing before they were submitted to

their judges. He reflected on the mental

travail which certain periods had cost him

before they were rounded to his liking. The

reflection was slightly perturbing. He had

often pictured himself dashing off brilliant

articles at dead of night, and going home

tranquilly to sleep, while men were talking

of them everywhere. But now it seemed,

somehow, as if there might be a good deal
vol. ii. d

less dash and a good deal more effort about
the performance. Indeed, it might be well,
after all, if Mr. Mallory did not ask him to
write an article that very night, before he had
gained a little insight into the ways and
working of the paper. Thus reflecting, he
set out for the office of the Forum.

The office of the Form — a large dingy
building, with the name of the paper painted
in huge letters across its front — stood in one
of the narrow streets which run down from
the Strand to the river. As Lynn approached
the scene of his future labours, he began to
realise that there were drawbacks in the life
of the actual journalist. It was a beautiful
summer evening ; and he felt inclined to
envy the numerous young men he met on
his way, released from toil, and obviously
bent on pleasure. When he came near the
office, he thought he would not go in, just
yet ; he would enjoy his freedom a little
longer. As he sauntered along the Embankment,
a fresh soft wind was ruffling the
river, and a few stars were twinkling in

the misty green of the western sky. That
wind and that sky tantalised him. He
wished that he were ' stepping westward.'
It was an evening when he ought certainly
to be floating, with Camilla, down some
shady, glassy reach of the river. The incompatibility
between twilight meetings and
work on a morning paper had not previously
occurred to his mind. Just about this time,
too, Morton would probably be running across
the frith in the Chloe, with some of their
old friends on board, for one of the quaint,
red-roofed fishing towns on the Sprayton
shore. No doubt they would have a merry
evening. Of course, these were trivial things ;
and he — had he not planted his foot on the
ladder at last ? was he not about to ' begin life,'
by helping to mould the opinion of the great
British public ? Still, Lynn felt a trifle
melancholy as half-past seven chimed from
spire to spire, and he turned him away from
the river to the abodes of nightly toil.

The Forum office was a rather confined
place, and the air in it felt uncomfortably

ueRtfrt .^uunovs

close. Lamps were burning within, as Lynn
entered the dark passage, and made his way
upstairs. He found himself at a long counter,
behind which several men were seated at
desks, writing. A pert youth informed him
that Mr. Mallory was out, and that it was
uncertain when he would return. When he
had set forth the object of his visit, the
pert youth led him to the room of the subeditor,
who was expected to arrive immediately.


Though without it was still daylight, the
blinds were drawn, and several gas-jets were
burning in the room. The furniture consisted
of two heavy, leather-covered tables
with desks, three chairs, a map of Europe,
a stand with the file of the Forum, and
two large, empty baskets, placed on the
floor near the desks. On one of the tables
lay a considerable pile of papers ; and behind
it was a hollow wooden pillar, with a small
hoist in it, communicating with the 
above.

Lynn sat down, and looked curiously about

him. The room was unventilated, and the
gas made it uncomfortably hot. At first
no sound was audible, save a faint clicking
noise which came through the partition.
Then a Voice made itself heard. It repeated
one word — the word " Copy," with the first
syllable much prolonged — in a tone at once
earnest and reproachful. The Voice, Lynn
discovered, came from a speaking-tube, also
communicating with the regions upstairs.

Presently a tall young man and a short
young man entered. They stared at Lynn ;
laughed, and exchanged inanities ; and, having
shown how thoroughly they were at their
ease, departed. As they went, Lynn caught
the words, " the new sub " — and their use of
the contraction jarred upon him. He began
to feel the situation growing irksome. The
clicking sound from the telegraphic instruments
next door continued ; the hoist rattled
inside its pillar, vainly jerked up and down
by impatient hands above ; and the sepulchral
Voice at intervals called "Copy!" — down the
tube.

Then the rattling and the calling; ceased :
and there appeared a thin, dark, melancholy
man, in his shirt-sleeves. He gazed fixedly
at Lynn, who sat doing nothing ; turned over
the papers on the table ; seized some of them,
and departed muttering gloomily. The purport
of his remarks appeared to be that all
thing's were against him, and that the Forum
could by no possibility appear on the morrow
morning. This saturnine individual, as Lynn
afterwards found, was the foreman printer,
ravenous for manuscript, so that he might
make a good start with the ' setting ' of the
paper.

At last — when Lynn had been seated solitary
in the room for about twenty minutes,
which seemed sixty — a man rushed in, hot
and breathless. This was Mr. Sugden, who
had come late, and was eager to make up
for lost time.

"You are Mr. Lynn?" — he panted; "I
shall show you — about the work — by-and-bye.
I've been kept behind time a bit, you
see, and it will be a big paper to-night —

Gladstone, you know" — he shook his head
and sighed as he said this — " great speech

at L . There will be a terrible crush.

I must send something up to the men at
once, but — "

"Copy!" — moaned the Voice. Mr. Sugden
said no more, but sat down at his desk, and
went to work upon the pile of manuscript
before him.

Mr. Sugden was about thirty years of age,
but his hair was already sprinkled with grey,
and his eyes had lost their lustre. His
features were commonplace ; his face was
pale ; and his expression betokened a kind
of stolid shrewdness.

Lynn watched him closely as he worked,
but could not understand what he was doing.
He lifted a pile of broad, rustling sheets,
glanced over them, wrote and scored on them
with a pencil — then packed them into the
hoist, and sent them flying aloft. He seemed
to skim through masses of manuscript with a
rapidity that was nothing short of miraculous.
It made Lynn almost giddy to watch

him. Sheet after sheet was crumpled up
and tossed into the waste-basket — bundle
after bundle was unfolded, its contents read
and apparently altered and condensed, and
so despatched upwards. Very soon the table
was partially cleared. Lynn had sat for
nearly an hour, silent, idle, and wondering.

Keep your hand well on the copy, Sudden,"
— said a peremptory voice behind him.
Lynn turned, and saw Mr. Mallory.

"How are you?" — said the Editor, nodding
to him. " Sugden, give Mr. Lynn something
to do, will you — by-and-bye ; some of the
paragraphs. What are you getting?"

Gladstone. He's coming in on two
wires," said Mr. Sugden, going on steadily
with his work. " Vaughan's at him" — he
added.

Ah ! — all right. What are they taking
in the next room ?"

Crisis in Paris."

"Very good. I'm going to write about that.
Tell them to send it to me, Now, remember,
Sugden — the measurement is high already ;

sit well down on the copy — just keep him
going, that's all. Keep your hand on it."

Mr. Sugden, to whom this injunction was
delivered nightly, answered no word ; and
the Editor departed to his own room.

Lynn was struck with the difference between
Mr. Mallory's manner within and without
the office. Without, he discoursed in a
style of slow volubility, and treated his
listeners to what might be termed a species
of ornate impertinence. Within, he eschewed
the epigrammatic ; was curt, unaffected, and
thoroughly practical. He spoke sharply and
quickly, and even dispensed with arching
his eyebrows.

Look here, Mr. Lynn," said Sugden after
a time — "you might take these 'whimsies
and cut them down to about a half. Put
them right, you know, and give the different
paragraphs headings. Don't bother over
them — they aren't worth much to us."

"You mean I am to improve the style, if
I can, and abridge them ?"

"Just so. We've got to boil everything

down to the bare bones to-night. Fire ahead
cut and carve — you'll soon come into the
thing."

Lynn took the ' whimsies ' — the thin, grey,
rustling sheets of telegrams which he had seen
Sudden disposing of with such apparent ease.
He deciphered them with extreme difficulty.
The composition was certainly wordy and
slovenly. Lynn questioned if it were possible
to correct and condense the paragraphs without
re-writing each — and, plainly, there was
no time for that. How Sugden could deal
with these sheets as he did seemed inexplicable
to Lynn. How long it took him to read,
correct, and curtail these ' whimsies ' he never
knew ; but he knew that he had never had
such hard work in his life before.

And this was sub-editing ! This was journalism
! In none of his visions had Lynn ever
prefigured anything like this. No lecturing of
statesmen, no barking of phrases against the
foes to progress, no interweaving of the satiric
with the didactic ! In whatever department
of the Forum office that portion of the work

might be carried on, it was evidently not in
Mr. Sugden's room.

Lynn at last returned the paragraphs to
Sugden, with some diffidence. " I don't know
if they are right, yet," he said — " I'm sure I
wish I could help you," he added, noticing the
heavy additions made within the last hour or
so to Sugden's paper deposits.

Oh, you'll soon do that," said the subeditor
quite cheerfully ; " you'll drop into it,
never fear. I'm quite fit to tackle all that's
coming. But look here, now. You are too
particular, you know. We haven't time to
cut the stuff down that way."

Here Sugden took one of the paragraphs,
drew his pencil down half the sheet, wrote
two words at the top, and sent it from him.
Another, which Lynn had almost entirely
rewritten, and that with no small care, he had
the pleasure of seeing consigned to the fast-filling
basket — with the remark that it was
worth nothing to the Forum — nothing at
all."

Sugden give him another batch of 'Aim-sees,'

with which he suffered and toiled as he
had with the former. Now and then a reporter
would enter and talk to Sugden, who answered
without raising his head or ceasing to ply his
pencil. But the conversation distracted Lynn
grievously.

The hours crept on, and the office became
busier. Reporters passed in and out ; telegraph
messengers appeared and disappeared.
Then the foreman printer entered, planted
himself opposite Sugden's desk, and made a
speech. He stated that two of his men were
down with fever; that he was short-handed ;
that he could not stand this kind of
work any longer ; and that the Forum would
certainly not appear on the morrow. Mr.
Sugden wrote on unmoved. The foreman, he
knew, was a pessimist ; and he had heard his
jeremiad before.

It seemed as if twelve o'clock would never
come. Lynn had studied hard in his day, but
he had never had a night's work such as this.
He felt the urgent need of getting through the
copy, and he wished to help Sugden all he could.

But he made what seemed to him very little
progress. His head ached with the constant
strain of trying to read the almost illegible
writing on the 'whimsies.' The contractions
employed by the telegraph clerks bewildered
him ; the composition was an outrage on his
sense of style ; he found himself for ever being
baffled in the attempt to decide what should
and what should not ' go in.' He began to
wonder how men could get through this ordeal
nightly, without losing their reason. He
looked at Sugden, driving through his work
with the placid regularity of a machine, and
told himself that he would never, never make
an efficient sub-editor. He began to have a
strong fellow-feeling with Wicks, his predecessor
in office. The work, he felt, was beyond
his range. And yet, Lynn had been accredited
with a fine intellect. His old admirers — who
had been as ignorant as himself of that branch
of journalism known as sub-editing — would
have been strangely surprised could they have
known of his sufferings that first night on the
Forum.

And yet Lynn felt that, after all, there
might be a fascination in the life. As the night
wore on, he became aware that a fierce fight
was going on in the office of the Forum — a
fight with time. Every one seemed hurried
and driven, from the telegraph clerks who sat
scribbling desperately in the next room, to the
Editor himself, who occasionally looked in,
uttered some remark in a jargon which Lynn
did not understand, and vanished. He himself
caught the excitement of it all, and felt
that he was not altogether non-combatant.
There is indeed a stirring charm about night-work
in a newspaper office, which falls even on
the sub-editor, if he has any imagination at
all ; and in this quality Lynn was not deficient.
In that little world of brightness, and noise,
and bustle, he could fancy himself sharing in
the making of great events — helping, while
other men were sleeping, to work the machinery
that drives society along the grooves of
change. There was something in the atmosphere
of heat and hurry, the continual
passing to and fro, the rattling of the

hoists, the breathless ' click-click ' of the
instruments, the chance-medley of voices in
rapid talk — that seemed to lift one away from
the hum-drum world wherein the mass of men
are fain to plod, and chaffer, and drowse.
There was something inspiriting in the sense of
helping to fight the battle which was being
steadily won in the office of the Forum. The
others, too, seemed to do their fighting blithely.
They all, except the Editor and the foreman
printer, joked and chatted as they hurried to
and fro.

Sometime after midnight, the building began
to vibrate with the rumbling of the steam-press.


They're throwing off the outside sheet,
now," said Sugden. " That last measurement
" — he added, looking at a scrap of paper
that had been sent him down the hoist — " was
devilish high. There will be a row directly, I
should not wonder."

And there was. Down came the night-foreman,
frantic and perspiring, his shirt-sleeves
rolled above his elbows.

The paper is over-set !" — he cried. "You
see what you've done. Now, then, what am I
to do ? Tell me. How am I to get to press ?
I knew how it would be, the way the copy's
been coming up ! Do you want this paper out
tomorrow, or do you not ? What am I to
take off? When are you coming up to show
me?"

Then the Editor entered.

You've done it again," he said ; " you've
gone and over-set the paper. I hope you're
happy now. Get down all the copy that's
gone out of this room in the last half-hour !
Get it down at once, I say, and cut it to
pieces ! Tear that copy into ribbons, Sugden,
do you hear ? Put every one of your d — d
paragraphs into lines — do you understand ? —
literally into lines ! Good God ! — how is he to
get to press if you go on in this way ? It's
not sub-editing, Sugden — a ploughman could
sub-edit as well with a pitch-fork. Haven't
I been telling you all night to sit well down
on that copy ? It's monstrous — simply monstrous
1"

Mr. Sugden, than whom an abler sub-editor
never sat at a desk, and who was not, in point
of fact, responsible for the over-setting of the
paper, rose with an unmoved face, and proceeded
upstairs to see what he could ' take
off.' The foreman followed, still prophesying
dark things. The Editor continued to rail
against his staff in general, in terms which
showed an equal disregard for Lynn's presence
and for the Eeligion of Humanity.

In the midst of this denunciation a sharp-featured,
bright-looking man entered, with his
hat on his head, and a cigar between his lips.
This was Mr. Vaughan, one of the leader-writers,
who had been devoting his mind
to a criticism of the Prime Minister's provincial
oratory.

Mr. Mallory turned upon him.

Do you think this place is a smoking-room,
A 7 vaughan ? You'll drive me mad
among you. I've been interrupted in the
pleasing task of restoring your article to
sanity — putting in ' noes' and ' not' before
all the verbs and adjectives, you know — "

VOL. II. e

Mr. Vaughan nodded, and smiled approvingly.


I've been interrupted," Mr. Mallory went
on, " by the news that the sub-editors have
gone and over-set the paper. Look here, now
in your article, you have that allusion to
the Old Man of the Sea again. I'm getting
tired of that old man — this is the third time
of late you've dragged him into a leader. I
wish you'd drown him, and have done with it.
Can't you rack your brains, now — make a
supreme effort — and get something that will
do instead, for once ?"

It was the Old Man with the Ass this
time, I think you'll find" — said Mr. Vaughan
blandly. " Still, toujours perdrix, of course."

You know as well as I do, Vaughan,
that what the public like is an allusion they
don't understand — at least, they like it now
and then. Now, will you just buckle to, and
give Sugden a hand to cut down the infernal
rubbish he's been pitch-forking upstairs all
night ? — and be as sharp as you can about
it!"

How silver-sweet sound editors' tongues
at night ! " — murmured Mr. Vaughan, as his
Chief departed. " Ever met Mallory in society,
Mr. Lynn ?"

Yes — once."

Ah. Now you are getting a front view
of him, and I hope you like it."

How do you mean ?"

I mean that here, in the office, he doesn't
put on side. I must introduce myself, since
the Chief hasn't thought it worth his while —
my name is Vaughan. I have heard about
you. I hope we shall be friends."

Lynn, who was much taken by Vaughan's
frank, easy manner, was responding to these
advances, when Mr. Sugden re-entered with a
mass of manuscript. Vaughan took part of
it ; and they fell upon it, tooth and nail.
Lynn sat watching them in amazement. Very
soon the copy was cut down to what Mr.
Mallory had metaphorically described as 'ribbons.'
Presently a dull, heavy sound made
itself heard above.

They're stereotyping now," Vaughan explained

to Lynn ; " that's the last roar of the
heavy artillery, at the end of the battle ! The
battle's over and won — the penny-aliter has
gone to the basket, where all good penny-lines
go — we have struck with the pencil and
slain with the shears, and the heart of the
sub-editor is glad !"

She's away!" — cried the foreman down
the tube.

She's away I" — said Sugden, as he lighted
his pipe, and a smile, for the first time that
night, rested on his visage.

She's away !" — echoed Vaughan — " she's
away ! — may her circulation never be less in
the land ! Now, Mr. Lynn, tell us truly — is
not this life more sweet than that of painted
pomp V

From this night forth," said Lynn, " I
abjure the society of duchesses. I believe I
am solely answerable for six lines — certainly
not more than ten, in to-day's issue. A proud
thought!" — he added, smiling; "but I feel
my responsibility. I am not sure that there
isn't something wrong in them."

You've got to go through the mill, you
know," said Vaughan, seating himself on the
table, and lighting another cigar. " I've been
through it. It's not a life of lilies and
languor, but to my mind there's no life like
it. There's Sugden, now" — indicating that
gentleman with a flourish of his cigar — " he
is never happy away from that desk of his —
that butcher's block, where he hacks and hews
at the poor correspondents. He is bringing
their wives and little ones to the workhouse,
and themselves to paupers' graves. By the
waters of Fleet Street they sit down and
weep, but they cannot soften that fell Fury
with the abhorred shears ! "

Mr. Sugden smoked on in silence. Then
he removed his pipe from between his teeth,
and observed with gravity : —

It was the War did it. He had to try to
reconcile the war-telegrams with the map, for
his summary. He can't recover (of course,
you can see that), but we let him run about
the office. He is quite harmless ; and the
Chief felt that was the least thing he could

do, seeing it was in his service he had lost it
his reason, you know ! "

Surge, Carnifex!" — laughed Mr. Vaughan,
alighting from the table. " A breath of morning
moves — like the planet of love, I am
beginning to faint — let us tear ourselves from
these festal scenes 1"

Already the night-porter was putting out
the lights. As they went downstairs, Vaughan
remembered that he had left a book in his
room, which he had meant to dispose of that
day. The others went back with him.

This is my den, you see," he observed ;
a poor one, but mine own. And here's the
book — a volume of trash I had to write about
the other day — The Roses of Sybaris. There's
an elegy in it, Mr. Lynn, which would make
any ordinary mortal in love with death.
Now then, let us go — you have seen the desk
from which the bolts are hurled."

Lynn glanced at the desk in question.
There was a sheet of paper lying on it,
covered with Mr. Vaughan's hand writing.
It was not, however, part of any leading

article. It was the rough draft of an address
to the electors of Shawkirk, calling upon
them to return as their representative Robert
Arden, Esquire, of etc., etc. — if they would
not prove false to the great and glorious principles
of Peace, Retrenchment and Reform.

CHAPTER XV.

AT THE BOROUGH.

At last the announcement was made to
which Shawkirk and its sister boroughs had
long been looking forward. Mr. Fletcher,
the member, having been exiled for life to
the Elvira by his doctors, had applied for
the Stewardship of the Chiltern Hundreds.

Mr. Arden's Shawkirk agent, Mr. HislojD,
was not taken unawares. A contested election
was always possible, and he had made
his arrangements accordingly. But his hope
was that a contest might be avoided, by securing
for his client the undivided support
of the Party — in other words, of the Liberal
Committee.

Shawkirk, it should be explained, is the
centre of an electoral group of boroughs,

which look to it for light and leading. It
would be impossible to conceive of a Liberalism
more sturdy, more healthy, more robust
such were the epithets by which party
speech makers from without described it —
than that of Shawkirk. The children in the
Board Schools were brought up to revere the
name of Mr. Gladstone. Reminiscences of
that statesman's visit to the place formed the
staple of conversation at all social gatherings.
He was constantly referred toby a familiar
sobriquet, or else by his name in full. The
tea-cup from which he had drunk tea at the
Provost's house was exhibited under a glass
shade in that dignitary's drawing-room. The
piece of drugget on which he had stood while
delivering his great speech in the Corn
Exchange was regarded by good Shawkirkers
much as the Holy Carpet is by pious Mussulman.
It had been put up to auction, and
sold, after a spirited competition, for a long
figure.

There were a few Tories in Shawkirk, but
they were rather liked than otherwise there.

So few they were, so impotent, so ludicrously
out of their element, that a half-pitying, half-contemptuous
kindness was accorded them
by the robust generality. It was scarcely
thought worth while even to point at them
with the finger of scorn. A kind of antiquarian
interest attached to them — such as might
attach to specimens of a lower race dying out
in the midst of a new civilisation. They did
not even answer the purpose which the Helots
did in ancient Lacedaemon, since young
Shawkirk needed no such warning. " Ay,"
the burgesses would say with honest pride —
"ay; there's no' mony Tories can live here"
as if the climate of the Happy Valley were
fatal to certain kinds of vermin. In Shaw-kirk,
even the publicans were Eadical.

They had a Liberal Committee in Shaw-kirk,
consisting of forty members, with whom
lay the duty of selecting a representative
and bringing him before the constituency.
Mr. Macritchie and the Tory residuum were
accustomed to refer to this organisation as
the Radical Caucus, sir" — but everyone else

called it the Liberal Committee. Perfect
harmony reigned in the Committee so far as
devotion to the great leader and to the
principles of Liberalism was concerned. But
the Shawkirk Liberals, with all their enlightenment,
were yet human ; and local jealousies
and rival ambitions would break out to
trouble the peace of the chosen Forty,
though hitherto these had not marred their
unanimity of action. Two men were prominent
in the municipal politics of Shawkirk
Mr. Inglebyby of the Victoria Dyeworks,
and Mr. Turpie of the Townhead Tannery.
Between these two men, the most considerable
personages in Shawkirk society, a bitter feud
had raged for years. It had arisen out of the
river pollution question. Mr. Inglebyby, as an
employer of labour, claimed the right to dye
the stream that ran beside his works in
any colour he pleased. Mr. Turpie, who was
an enthusiastic angler, and through whose
grounds the stream ran, sought an interdict
against Mr. Inglebyby. The latter, developing
a sudden interest in sanitation, discovered

that the odour from the TWnhead Tannery
was extremely hurtful to the health of those
living near it ; and sought an interdict against
Mr. Turpie. Fierce was the strife that broke
out between these powers of water and of air
at every meeting of the local senate. At first,
Shawkirk looked on, wondering what the end
would be. Then sides were taken ; each of
the antagonists had his following, and each
sought to thwart his rival in every possible
way. The Provost of Shawkirk had been for
many years a respectable nonentity ; since
Mr. Inglebyby and Mr. Turpie regularly veto'd
each other's appointment to that coveted post.
They carried their antagonism into every
public question that arose, every movement
that was set on foot — save into the sacred
cause of Liberalism. But even in the bosom
of the Liberal Committee — of which neither
was chairman, and could not be, without the
other's consent — their rivalry had made itself
felt before, and might again.

Mr. Turpie was looked on as Mr. Arden's
chief supporter. He had presided at the

meeting before which the presumptive candidate
had delivered his address on " Tories
and Turks." He had gone about for months
past chaunting Mr. Arden's praise — lauding
his wealth, his liberality, and his Liberalism
to the skies. It was understood that he
would use his influence to have Mr. Arden
selected as the nominee of the Liberal Committee.
Mr. Inglebyby w r as also regarded as a
friend of Mr. Arden's, though less pronounced
in his friendship. When questioned on the
subject, he had of late been wont to reply
that he took very little interest in the
present election, and did not intend going
out of his way to interfere. Still, it was
generally understood that Arden's candidature
had the support of both the rival
leaders, and was consequently almost certain
of success.

No sooner, however, was the fact of Mr.
Fletcher's resignation formally announced,
than an element of uncertainty was imported
into the situation. The Council of Forty was
not the only political organisation existing in

Shawkirk. There was a working-men's club,
which met weekly at the Salmon Inn, for the
discussion of Imperial politics over whiskey-antipater.
Among the members of this
society were the leading men of the trades-unions.
Sandy Tennant the slater was a
conspicuous figure there — being, indeed, the
recognised mouth-piece of the club at election
times, — the "healer," par excellence, of Shaw-kirk.
It was the function of Sandy Tennant
to epitomise the debates of the club, throwing
them into the form of questions, to which " Yes"
or "No" must be answered by the unfortunate
candidate. This he did with the skill begotten
of long practice ; and the honour of
representing the Shawkirk Boroughs in the
House of Commons could not be gained without
passing through the ordeal of Mr. Tennant's
cross-examination. A political meeting
at Shawkirk would have been judged incomplete
without the presence of the inquisitorial
slater, just as one at Tiverton would have
been, without that of Lord Palmerston's
butcher.

The ' Saumon lads,' as they were familiarly
termed, constituted the extreme left wing of
the Liberal Party in Shawkirk. The Danton
of this Mountain, and a man of mark in the
town, was Mr. Eobert Sanderson ; known
from his avocation, which was that of a coal-merchant,
as " Coal Kob." No one who had
studied the political life of Shawkirk needed
any further sign of a coming election than
this, that Mr. Sanderson appeared in the
streets having his face washed, and wearing
his Sunday clothes. " Eh, see tae Coal Eob !"
the burgesses would say at such times ; and
then would fall to speculating on the probable
movements of this political leader.

No sooner had the news of Mr. Fletcher's
resignation reached Shawkirk, than Mr. Sanderson
shut up the box at the railway in which
he transacted business, stabled his two horses,
removed the grime from his face, and donned
his Sunday attire. His features, revealed to
the public gaze only on such rare occasions as
this, wore an expression of awful mystery*
His bearing was that of one who is consciously

rising to the occasion ; his thoughts were
apparently too deep for speech. Two clays
were spent by Mr. Sanderson in making a
round of the Shawkirk bars. There he stood
poised on one leg and resting his left elbow
on the bar-counter, while in his right hand he
held a tumbler of whiskey-ands water — saying
nothing, apparently observing nothing ; only
looking straight forward into infinity, — sphinx-like,
inscrutable. The silent homage of the
multitude, the whispered tributes paid to his
powers of speechlessness, left Mr. Sanderson
apparently unmoved. Men durst not speak
to him ; durst only stand him drinks. The
dumbness of the oracle fell upon his votaries.
There was a general feeling that the eyes of
Europe were at present fixed on Mr. Sanderson
; that the hour had come, and the man
with it. His proceedings were generally construed
in a sense unfavourable to the prospects
of Mr. Arden.

This view was fully borne out by what
transpired on the evening of the second day.
The Liberal Committee met. The cipher who

was Provost for the time presided ; Mr. Inglebyby
was absent. Mr. Turpie, in an eulogistic
speech, submitted Mr. Arden's name to the
meeting, and moved that he should be selected
by the Committee as their candidate. This
was duly seconded. Then Mr. Sanderson
arose, and broke his forty-eight hours' silence.
He had, he said, nothing to urge against Mr.
Arden, except (l) that the working-men of
Shawkirk wanted as their representative a
tried and proved sympathiser with the Workingmen
; and (2) that the working-men of
Shawkirk wanted a representative who knew
everything about every political question,
which Mr. Arden, as they had every reason to
believe, did not. Mr. Sanderson dilated on
these points at considerable length ; and ended
by proposing that Bailie Trotter should bethe
nominee of the Liberal Committee. Mr.
Sanderson was outvoted in the Committee by
a majority of four to one. He then rose a
second time, and made another speech, calmly
ignoring the Chairman's call to order. He

YOL. II, F

had expected no other treatment, he said,
from a self-constituted body which was benton
filching the rights of the electors. If
Capital rallied round Mr. Arden, Labour
would rally round ' the Bailie ; ' and in all
such contests, as Mr. Sanderson begged to
remind the meeting, Labour invariably got its
own way. They might nominate whomsoever
they pleased, but the choice of the constituency
would be found in the ballot-box. He
Sanderson — withdrew from the Committee
in disgust ; he was ashamed at having ever
been enrolled among its members. He had no
doubt at all that Bailie Trotter would contest
the seat as an Independent Eadical Labour
candidate. He had as little doubt as to
what the result would be. After which remarks
Mr. Sanderson, accompanied by Sandy
Tennant and six other friends, left the room
amid uproar, and adjourned to the Salmon
Inn.

Mr. Hislop at once telegraphed to his
client: — "Opposition threatened. Contest
more than probable. Come at once"

Next day Mr. Arden's Address — which had
been lying for some time all ready in his
agent's hands — appeared in the Border Warden
newspaper, and was placarded through
the town. Below it, in the columns of the
newspaper, and on every wall and hoarding
in Shawkirk, appeared another Address, signed
Jabez Trotter, in which that gentleman offered
himself to the constituency, as a candidate
for the honour of representing in the British
Parliament the most literate, progressive, and
enlightened of all boroughs. Bailie Trotter's
address surpassed Mr. Arden's in its wealth
of local reminiscence and allusion. Politically,
the difference between them was this, that
where the Advanced Eadical Arden made
one stride forward, the Advanced Eadical
Trotter took two jumps in the same direction.

Mr. Hislop despatched another telegram : —
Trotter has issued address. Goes farther
than yours. Will have to make it up in
speeches. Come at once

The person thus chosen to represent the
Shawkirk Mountain was one in whom the

very Genius of Radicalism could scarcely
have found a hero. Of politics as a science
he knew nothing ; of the national history
he was equally ignorant ; had he been
'heckled' as to the date of the Repeal of
the Corn Laws, it is questionable if he could
have given a satisfactory answer. But he
could stand up with brazen effrontery in face
of a crowded meeting, and repeat — until he
himself was hoarse, and his audience nearly
deaf — that the working-man was the very
salt of the earth, the pink of creation ;
wronged, cheated, and trampled down, but
noble in his sufferings, great in his toils, and
terrible in his demand for justice, freedom,
equal rights, shorter hours and more pay.
By saying these things often enough and
loudly enough, Bailie Trotter had won for
himself a certain reputation.

Bailie Trotter was a native of Shawkirk.
He had left that town in his boyhood for the
neighbouring city, where he had shouldered
and jostled his way upward in the social
scale. He was now proprietor of an establishment

called the Mastodon Warehouse — one
of those emporiums with glaring red fronts,
covered all over with gigantic black lettering,
where everything is sold, from a potto
a piano ; where the purchaser passes in
between colonnades formed of rolls of carpet,
under festoons of chairs and bannerets of
flaming hearth rugs, and finds himself amid
a multifarious assortment of beds, tables,
wash-stands, etc., which have overflowed the
premises, and poured out pell-mell upon the
pavement. The Bailie contrived to throw
the glamour of politics over his very business
; he ' sold cheap ' out of pure disinterested
love for the working-man ; as a workingmen
himself, he knew what were the
wants of his class, and how to cater for
them ; his sole aim and aspiration, in keeping
open the Mastodon Warehouse, was to
free the workingmen from the iniquitous
extortion of the middle-class retailer.

There were many who believed that Bailie
Trotter was an orator. In the city, he had
become something of a celebrity, and had

won his way to municipal honours. At
ward-meetings where the proletarian element
mustered strong, the Bailie was the most
popular of speakers. A roar of delight would
break from the crowd of toilers, as the well-known
burly figure lumbered to the front
of the platform ; as the coarse red face, set
in a fringe of sandy-red hair, beamed upon
the auditory ; and the Bailie, with his arms
revolving like the sails of a windmill — his
idea of rhetorical gesture — and in a voice
alternately raucous and strident — his idea of
modulation — shrieked and bellowed and ranted
in praise of the Demos, and in denunciation
of the classes which toil not, neither do they
spin. Among the working-men of the city,
Bailie Trotter was looked on as a great
champion of the masses, a heaven-sent politician,
a " pillar of the people's hopes."
There were but two sections of the populace
which had seen fit to modify their views on
this point. One section was the Bailie's
employed, who soon discovered in his service
the distinction between theory and practice.

The other was the Bailie's customers. The
articles sold at the Mastodon were cheap ;
but this was, unfortunately, their only merit.
Hence it resulted that as the Bailie's business
extended, his popularity waned ; since he
never found a purchaser for his wares without
losing a supporter of his opinions.

These things were, however, unknown to
the people of Shawkirk, who had watched
the Bailie's career with fond satisfaction,, and
had thronged to hear him on all occasions
when he addressed public meetings in their
town. Manhood Suffrage, Disestablishment,
Free Education — on suchlike themes as these
the Bailie had harangued his townsmen. Only
on the Temperance Question he never touched
at Shawkirk, reserving that for the clique to
which he belonged in the city. Mr. Sanderson
professed himself confident that Bailie Trotter
would ' go in.' Together with his colleagues
of the Salmon Club, he began an active canvass
; secured the help of Mr. Smail, editor
and proprietor of the Border Warden; who,
like the Bailie, was a Baptist in religion, and

who, refusing the proffered subsidies of Mr.
Hislop, threw all the weight of his paper
into the Independent Eadical Labour scale.
An article forthwith appeared in the Warden,
casting grave doubt on the reality and sincerity
of Mr. Arden's Liberalism ; reflecting
on his alien origin and his Southern sympathies
; and issuing as the mot ordre to
the constituency — " A Shawkirk man for
Shawkirk!"

Mr. Sanderson, in his private communications
with the Independent candidate, did
not exhibit the same buoyant confidence
which he professed in public. Unless by
some means certain of the leading employers
in the town could be won over from Arden's
side, there was every probability that the
nominee of ' the clique ' — under this name of
contumely Mr. Sanderson now referred to
the organisation of which he had lately been
a member — would end by carrying the seat.
Turning over these things in his deep mind,
Mr. Sanderson bethought him of Mr. Inglebyby.
That gentleman had great influence in the

borough ; had never declared himself strongly
in Arden's favour, though he was understood
to be his friend ; had been significantly absent
from the meeting of the Caucus ; finally, was
the known rival and foe of Mr. Turpie, Arden's
chief supporter. Mr. Sanderson had an interview
with Mr. Inglebyby, but did not receive
from him any encouragement. All Mr. Inglebyby
's instincts, as a capitalist and employer
of labour, went dead against "that firebrand
Trotter," as he chose to describe the Independent
candidate. " He had a letter in his favour
from the Prime Minister, had he ? — well, in
spite of that, he (Mr. Inglebyby) was not going
to support him. He did not meditate taking
any active part in the coming election ; and
Mr. Sanderson would be good enough to
regard this answer as final."

This Mr. Sanderson had perforce to do, and
turned his energy into other channels. But
now there ran a fresh rumour through the
town, which fed the growing excitement of the
Shawkirk electorate. At first it was regarded
as a fiction too wild for credence — a bit of

riotous fun played off by some mirthful spirit
on the constituency. A Tory, it was reported,
had been asked to stand for the seat. Such
a thing had not happened since the Shawkirk
Boroughs first returned a member to the
reformed House of Commons. No Tory had
ever thought of wasting his money in such an
utterly hopeless attempt ; none had dared to
force a contest on the constituency, and then to
face its righteous and openly-expressed indignation.
The Liberal Committee — the club at
the Salmon Inn — the political orators at the
various bars, greeted this rumour with sceptical
and derisive laughter. But presently, from
one quarter and another, the rumour received
confirmation. The name of the Conservative
candidate was mentioned. Finally, it was
currently reported that he had agreed to stand.
The feelings of the Roman cives in view of a
servile revolt might faintly represent those of
the Shawkirk Liberals at the bare thought of
such a movement on the part of their opponents.
It was a matter, they felt, that had its
serious, as well as its ludicrous side. The mere

fact that a Tory had been nominated in Shaw-kirk
— much less had gone to the poll — would
be a blot on the hitherto unsullied escutcheon
of the Boroughs. The condescending tolerance
which the robust Liberalism of Shawkirk had
extended to the harmless minority in its midst
was changed all at once into an attitude of
ferocious antagonism.

Encouraged by the division in the ranks of
their opponents, Mr. Macritchie and the few
who thought with him had resolved on doing
what they had long desired to do — to show
fight in the interests of Conservatism. This
was the first instance in Shawkirk of a Eadical
split ; and therefore the first opportunity
given to Mr. Macritchie and his friends of
brinonno; forward a candidate without courting
such a defeat as would injure their cause more
seriously than complete inaction. They had
no hope of Shawkirk itself; but in another of
the boroughs they might count on a respectable
number of votes. If two Radicals went
to the poll, they might not make such a bad
appearance ; at all events, the attempt would

give an impulse to Conservatism ; it would
show to the world that that political creed
was not extinct, even in Shawkirk ; finally, it
w T ould " rile the Eats, sir " — so Mr. Macritchie
put it — and be " something to have done."
All they wanted was a candidate — and they
had been fortunate in securing the very man
for their purpose.

There were two noblemen who had seats and
estates in the neighbourhood of Shawkirk —
the Earls of Primavere and Leaderdale. Lord
Primavere was a young man, comparatively —
clever, ' pushing,' and Eadical — much thought
of by the Shawkirk Liberals, who forgave him
his coronet in consideration of his principles.
Lord Leaderdale was an elderly peer, who had
held a minor office in more than one Conservative
Administration. Lord Leaderdale was not
popular in Shawkirk. He entertained a profound
dislike for his noble neighbour, whom
he considered " an ambitious, unscrupulous
young man," and " a traitor to his Order."

El van Hall, Lord Leaderdale's family seat,
stands about three miles out of Shawkirk, in a

spacious well-timbered park, through which
the river flows. The river had been the glory
of the park, in days before Shawkirk grew into
a manufacturing town. Since then, it had run
in various shades of yellow, indigo, purple, and
occasionally iris-hued ; preserving, however, a
constant uniformity of odour.

Fierce war had raged over this unlucky
stream between the feudal superior of Shawkirk
and his quondam vassals. Lord Leaderdale
and the mill owners fought it out in the Court
of Session. Neither litigant gained his end.
The angry Earl would have shut up every millon
the stream. The Shawkirk mill-owners
claimed their right to flood it at all times and
seasons with whatever abominations they
pleased. The towns-people sided with Capital
in this struggle against Land. There were
other streams besides the Fala whereon the
poacher might ply his gentle craft ; and, as
good Radicals, they rather approved of the
disfigurement of anything so useless as a park.
The decision of the Court, however, compelled
Mr. Inglebyby and his brother manufacturers to

take measures for abating their pollution of
the waters. Chemistry came to their aid, and
showed them processes which actually made
purification pay. This latter fact did not
diminish their resentment against their noble
opponent. Lord Leaderdale, on his part, took
a strong prejudice against Shawkirk and its
neighbourhood. At last, during one of his
morning walks, he found the corpses of three
poisoned fish, lying, white belly uppermost, on
the bank. This ghastly sight goaded him into
fury. He swore to live no longer beside "this
unsavoury ditch," and " the nest of Radicals "
that had defiled it. Elvan Hall saw its proprietor
no more. Some years after, a real live
fish was taken from the Fala below Shawkirk.
They had the animal stuffed, and put under a
glass case in the local museum — a well-merited
tribute to its powers of vitality. But even this
lusus naturae failed to tempt Lord Leader-dale
from his absenteeism. Members of his
family occasionally resided at Elvan Hall — he
himself, never.

Lord Elvan, the Earl's eldest son, was better

known in Shawkirk than his father, and was
much more popular. He had commanded the
local Volunteer corps, and had feasted officers
and men at the annual training. He acted as
steward at the race meeting ; and on one occasion
had carried off the Town Plate, riding his
own horse. Among the younger members of
Shawkirk society — the manufacturers' sons —
Lord Elvan was a hero. The zoological collection
in the museum was chiefly composed of
victims which had fallen to his rifle in the
Soudan and beyond ' the Bodies.' He was a
favourite with the ladies, because he was so
good-looking ; with some of the men, because
he was so affable ; with others, because he was
famous on the Turf. Lord Primavere enjoyed
the same kind of renown, but not in Shaw-kirk.
He never ran any * plates' there —
only talked politics ; and did it with such a
reasoned gravity, such an air of ripe and sober
statesmanship, that the Shawkirk people somehow
never pictured this sage, deeply-thinking
young man, this future Minister — who
knew all about political economy, and was the

chosen friend of a great statesman to whom a
horse was only an animal with four legs — as a
sporting peer,' a steward of the Jockey
Club, and a shining light at Tattersall's. At
Shawkirk, they reverenced Lord Primavere for
his political lore ; but they liked Lord Elvan
who had never said a word on politics in
their hearing — because he shot elephants and
other game, nodded to them in the street, and
had won the Manchester Cup with a horse
called Shawkirk.

Lord Elvan, as it happened, was residing at
Elvan Hall when the election burst upon
Shawkirk. He had come there with a friend
for a few days' partridge-shooting on his way
from the moors to Doncaster. The thoughts
of Mr. Macritchie and the heads of the Party
at once turned to him, as the only candidate
who had the ghost of a chance of success.
After the jarring note in the Eadical counsels
made itself heard, there were communications
between Mr. Macritchie and Mr. Haig, Lord
Leaderdale's man of business — between Mr.
Haig and Lord Leaderdale — between Lord

Leaderdale and his son. The result of these
was that on a certain evening Mr. Macritchie
and five other gentlemen drove out in a waggonette
to Elvan Hall — as a deputation to
Lord Elvan.

The arrival of the deputation found Lord
Elvan and his friend, the Hon. Mr. Whiffing-ton,
deep in the study of a report which had
just been received from the former's trainer at
Newmarket. This report discussed the condition
and prospects of his Lordship's colt Van
Diemen — popularly known as ' the Demon'
at present a hot favourite for the St. Leger.
The colt, his Lordship was informed, stood
his preparation to a marvel, and could at present
" give tons to anything in the stable."
But — and then followed a disquisition on
certain points connected with the course on
the Town Moor, and the cult's power to ' stay'
it ; together with a criticism of some recent
performances of his great rival, Belle Poule
the filly with which Lord Primavere had
that year won the Oaks.

Called away from these weighty matters to

VOL. II. g

the question of politics, Lord Elvan gave the
deputation a gracious reception. He had been
prepared for their coming. That morning he
had received a letter from his father, urging
him to stand, now that discord had broken
out among the adversaries ; offering to pay all
expenses; and putting it to him as a matter of
duty, in the interests of " our Order," and as
against the Primavere influence in Shawkirk.
I don't mind if I do," the young Lord had
remarked to his friend Mr. Whittington,
after reading the paternal missive.

You'll find it no end of a bore, Elvan,"
Mr. Whiffington had said.

I don't know. There's any amount of fun
to be got out of these Shawkirk people. On
the whole — since my father has set his heart
on it, and is prepared to find the money, and
since Primavere won't like it, and it won't
interfere with the September meeting — I think,
Whiffington, that I'll stand."

The deputation being ushered in, and introduced
by Mr. Haig the lawyer, Mr. Macritchie
delivered an elaborately-prepared speech —

during which his friends muttered " Hear,
hear" at intervals, and Mr. Whiffington became
absorbed in a surreptitious study of
Bell's Life. Lord Elvan observed in reply
that he had long reflected deeply on these
matters ; that his earliest ambition had been
to serve his Party and his country ; and that
the only doubt which troubled him was this,
Was he worthy to represent them in the present
crisis ? Mr. Macritchie and his colleagues
hastened to reassure his Lordship on this point ;
the Party, they said, would rally round him
as one man — in which statement, no doubt,
Mr. Macritchie somewhat underrated its
strength — and supporters would flock to him
from the broken ranks of their opponents.
Thereon Lord Elvan placed himself without
reserve in their hands, and ordered champagne.
Having drunk success to the Cause, Mr. Mac-ritchie
and his co-deputationists departed in
high spirits ; and in this way a Conservative
candidate was procured for Shawkirk.

Mr. Hislop did not attach much importance
to this new phase of the contest. But he was

seriously alarmed on discovering that ' Coal
Kob' had relapsed into silence, and was making
another round of the Shawkirk bars, with
that air of abstraction and mystery which
presaged some diabolical manoeuvre.

Again Mr. Hislop telegraphed to his client :
Tories will run a candidate. Lord Elvan.
That of course nothing. But other side looking
dangerous and evidently up to something.
Trotter will take the field tomorrow. You
must not be behind him. Get that letter if
you can. Important."

Chapter XVI.

THE LONE PEAK.

There was a time when the hopes of many
men centred in the Lone Peak silver mine in
Nevada. There was a time when Mr. Eobert
Arden, who had the honour to be one of
the mine's promoters and directors, never
uttered the words ' Lone Peak ' save in the
tones of honest pride. That was in the happy
days when monthly dividends at the rate of
30 per cent, per annum — all out of the 
capital — were allotted to the fortunate
shareholders ; when the manager — and vendor
— Mr. Cleveland, held converse with Nature
in her sublimest moods, and wandered among
the mountains like a Far West Wordsworth.
Mr. Cleveland's reports on the condition

and prospects of the Lone Peak Mine showed
the influence of the superb scenery amid which
they were penned. Their forecasts were wild
and grand as the Nevada crests ; their florid
word-pictures seemed, as it were, steeped in
the rich glow of the Nevada sunsets. Endless
trains of waggons, groaning under silver
loads, rolled over the reams of his foolscap.
For months the shareholders were dazzled with
the sheen of imaginary ingots, and made
dizzy by the whirling of visionary wheels.
For Mr. Cleveland was careful to describe the
vast machinery he had set to work in his
inner consciousness, as well as the treasures he
had dug out of Dreamland. He was determined
that the shareholders should have the
best bulletins he could give them. They had
paid well for them ; and it would not be his
fault if they did not have good value for their
money. And so, along with tales of treasure
told a la Scheherazade, he took care to furnish
passages made mystical with the polysyllables
of the geologist and the technicalities of the
engineer. For some months Mr, Cleveland

excelled all living authors in adding to the
gaiety of nations by his pen.

Then the day came when the shareholders
were told that the enjoyment of monthly
dividends at the rate of 30 per cent, per
annum must, for the present, be deferred. A
fortuitous Earthquake, Mr. Cleveland explained,
had shattered the machinery, filled
up the workings, and displaced the lode.
Fresh capital was an imperative necessity ;
since the work must be done over again
from the beginning, if the mine were ever to
pay.

The name ' Lone Peak ' at once became a
scoffing among men. City editors said cruel
things about Mr. Cleveland ; angry correspondents
wrote to the newspapers. The
shares rushed below par with a frightful
velocity ; and the shareholders went about
imploring High Heaven to shower down
blessings on the heads of vendors, promoters,
and directors alike.

Now the fact was that Mr. Arden had
always believed in the future of this mine,

It may have been that the name ' Lone
Peak' affected him through a latent vein of
poetry in his nature. Or his almost sentimental
preference for this venture may have
been merely one of those curious weaknesses
in the characters of great men which baffle
the seeker after ideal consistency. Or it may
have been that Mr. Arden had received private
information concerning the mine, beyond what
appeared in Mr. Cleveland's reports. It was,
at all events, the case, that on none of his
speculative schemes did his thoughts dwell so
fondly as upon that distant shaft, sunk deep
into the rich heart of the West." When
Mr. Cleveland cabled of " working contacts
between the limestone and the porphyry" — of
galleries lined with crystals of silver — of veins
whence 70 tons of ore might be brought up
daily, and of assays ranging from 60 to 80 percent,
pure silver — Mr. Arden had believed it
all, or nearly all. When Mr. Cleveland cabled
succinctly: "Mine ruined: all up" — his confidence
remained unshaken. He went on
believing in his pet mine, firmly — as firmly

as Mr. Inglebyby believed in the Bottomless
Pit.

At last there came advices — private — from
Nevada, which convinced Mr. Arden that he
had done well to hope. According to these,
Mr. Cleveland's earthquake had actually happened
; but had done very little damage to
machinery, there being very little machinery
to damage. So far from ruining the mine,
however, it had, by upheaving a lode of silver,
made the Lone Peak for the first time a really
valuable property.

When he read this report, Mr. Arden did
what Byron says the Alps appeared to do — he
rejoiced o'er a young earthquake's birth."
The winds and the tides, observes Gibbon,
are on the side of the ablest navigator. The
earthquakes, thought Mr. Arden, are on the
side of the ablest speculator. He may preserve
a Catholic calm amid the wreck of matter
and the crash of shares ; he may find a profit
even in the cataclysm.

Mr. Arclen's proceedings after he had received
this intelligence were swift and decisive.

Mr. Cleveland had vanished. A
branch railway and a stamp mill which he
had constructed in his reports were found
non-existent — hence his disappearance. Before
there was any chance of the mine yielding
the very smallest return, a preliminary outlay
on a great scale must be faced. Mr. Arden,
sure of his information, did not hesitate. A
movement to sell the property for what it
would fetch, and wind up the company, was
successfully resisted. A proposal to issue
fresh stock, with a view to ' developing ' the
mine, was carried by sheer weight of proxies
in face of all opposition. The services of a
new manager, less poetically gifted than the
former one, were secured. A glowing prospectus
was issued to the shareholders.

But none of these things sufficed to restore
any measure of confidence in the Lone Peak
mine. There was no demand for the new
stock, either among the present shareholders
or the general public. Mr. Arden and his co-directors
took up the stock, but almost
no one else did, Mr. Arden remained unshaken

in his conviction that several colossal
fortunes might yet be made out of ' Lone
Peaks ' — if only this expenditure at the outset
could be got over. But how to raise the
money ? — that was the question chiefly debated
in those days at meetings of the Lone
Peak Board of Directors.

Mr. Arden's thoughts were divided, at this
time, between the prospects of the Neva-dan
silver mine and those of the Shawkirk
election. Telegrams from his agent ' out
West ' claimed his attention alternately with
telegrams from his electioneering agent in
Scotland. Both of these important affairs
were weighing on his mind, as, one fine
summer evening, instead of going straight
home from the City to dine, he betook him to
the office of the Forum.

"Is Lynn here?" — he asked the Editor;
can I see him ?"

He has not come yet, I believe," said Mr.
Mallory, " but no doubt he will presently. You
may wait here, if you like, Arden. Sit down."

Thanks. How is he doing ?"

Mr. Mallory shook his head.

"I'm afraid," he said, "he has not got the
newspaper instinct."

"I am very sorry to hear that," said Mr.
Arden ; "I fancied he would have been good
at writing, you know."

Perhaps he may be. But he has not got
the journalist's love of facts. I don't want
him to write. There is Sugden, now — he has no
more sense of style than an English peasant
or a Scotch professor, and yet he is a model
sub-editor — to me, simply invaluable."

I don't understand about these things,"
said Mr. Arden.

Of course not," said Mr. Mallory. " What
we want in a sub-editor is plodding industry,
combined with lynx-eyed vigilance in the
detection of errors. Now, your friend has
not got that. He was never meant for a
sub-editor's room. He is the kind of man, I
should say, who ought to be living in idleness
on a thousand a year. I'm afraid he is a
dreamer. All men who have the dreamy
look and the kind of mouth he has must goto

the wall. It is merely a question of time
with them. Go they must."

I hope there may be a few exceptions,"
said Mr. Arden ; whereat the Editor shook his
head more ominously than before.

Mr. Arden hastened to change the subject.

By the way, Mallory," he said, " I wanted
to ask you — have you seen Lord Primavere ?
about that letter, you know?"

Yes, Arden, I have seen him ; and it is
no good, I assure you. Primavere spoke
about it to the Whips. They say they have
put their foot in it — such was the expression
used — more than once already, that way.
And from a party point of view, they don't
see any necessity for it in the present case."

"I understand," said Mr. Arden, bitterly.
They don't care whether the party is divided
or not. Anywhere else than in that beastly
place, they would not have been so cock-sure
of it, with two Liberals going to the poll.
Perhaps they are just a little too sure, on the
whole."

That is absurd, Arden," said Mr. Mallory

severely. "A man should rely on his own
powers, and not on what the party managers
can do for him. You ought not to be up hereat
this moment, suing for testimonials from
any statesman, however popular in those
regions — you ought to be down there, on the
field of action. You should deliver your
credentials from the public platform."

"That is all very well," Mr. Arden
rejoined ; " and I am going clown the moment
my business will let me. But that brute
Trotter, I understand, is going about saying
he has a letter from Gladstone in his pocket,
recommending his candidature. I consider
it most unfair to a man who has spent so
much — time about the seat as I have. I
am sick of the very name of their infernal
borough. I hate the whole thing. If I had
thought there was going to be a contest, I
should never have had anything to do with
it."

"There you are wrong, Arden, permit me
to say. A contest down there must be looked
at from a national, as well as from a personal

point of view. After all, you know, it will
do good, if it brings out vividly the fussy
impotence of the Tories — the Shareholders in
Darkness."

It will cost me a great deal of money,"
said Mr. Arden ; " I know that."

"No doubt. But you will have the
certainly gratia. What kind of a candidate,
now, will this Lord Elvan make? Is he likely
to prove a foeman worthy of your — ah —
gold?"

His claims to the seat," said Mr. Arden,
"rest, I believe, upon the fact that he is one
of the best judges of a horse in England. He
is a trite — what they call, in their abominable
gambling jargon, a 'plunger"

Ah — one of our lawgivers who, like the
poet, are born, not made. Now, Arden, as
to your mode of conducting the campaign.
You start, let me tell you, with the advantage
of an excellent Address. I question if so
good an Address has ever yet been issued to
a Scotch constituency."

Very likely not," said Mr. Arden.

You must follow up the lines of that
Address in your speeches. Your first speech
will be very important. You must devote it to
a survey of the whole position, in a broad and
statesmanlike style. You had better agree
on all points with Gladstone — yes, I should
certainly say, on all points — save one."

"I shall do nothing of the kind!" — cried
Mr. Arden with sudden energy. " I dare not
do it, Mallory — I dare not, I assure you ! I
must agree with Gladstone on all points — in
everything."

U I do not think so," said Mr. Mallory.
If you differ from him, respectfully, on one
point — it need not be a large matter — it will
be more artistic. It will show your independence.
It will add weight to your concurrence
with him upon all other subjects."

I dare not do it, Mallory. Such a thing
would be fatal. I know these people better
than you. They all swear by him. They
all say the same thing of him. And they
will all take their stand on what they have
said."

Their accent is probably broad enough,"
said Mr. Mallory.

Of course it all seems simple enough up
here," Mr. Arden went on, " but down there
you meet men holding such inconsistent
opinions about churches, and public-houses,
and such things — it is terribly difficult to
discover what will conciliate most of them.
ind I'm sure," he concluded fretfully, " I
never studied anything harder."

Theoretically, you know, Arden — theoretically,
a candidate is not bound to reflect all
the electors' prejudices. Theoretically, he is
expected to mould, not merely to mirror,
public opinion."

If I," said Mr. Arden, " have correctly
grasped the principle of the Caucus and the
Closure, it is my duty, as a Delegate, to say
whatever they want in the borough, and
nothing whatever in the House."

The crudity — the lack of earnestness in
your way of putting things, Arden, are simply
excruciating. However — as to your speech. In
your speech, you had better not be too fluent."

VOL. II H

"There will be no difficulty about that,"
said Mr. Arden.

It is a great thing to have confidence in
one's powers," said Mr. Mallory. " You see,
there is a curious fallacy which lurks in the
vacuum known as the Philistine mind —
namely, that a clumsy speaker is a shrewd
and safe politician. Now, you must avoid any
approach to the glibness of the worldling. Of
course, you will be fluent at times ; but that
will be because you are carried away by a
fiery wave of conviction — by your love of the
working classes, and your hatred of the parasites
of industry. It is indignation that makes
you fluent — that must be clearly brought out."

I shall think on the wines of my chief
supporters," said Mr. Arden, " and that will
make me indignant enough."

You will gain fluency from the wine-cup
very well. Then, you had better give them
plenty of figures. They like that. They
associate that somehow with a reduction of
taxation. And you should prove that Scotland
receives too little out of the revenue."

I have got that all right," said Mr. Arden.

And you must attack Centralisation — the
system under which the Ked Tape-worm of
officialism gnaws the vitals of the body-politic.
Call London an octopus, or an ulcer — anything
of that kind will do. Then you should
throw out a sneer at the thing which is
humorously known as the Upper House. The
House of Commons, you might say, represents
the Middle Classes ; the House of Lords, the
Middle Ages. In your peroration, you had
better be solemn."

I shall be solemn enough before then,"
said Mr. Arden.

In your peroration," Mr. Mallory continued,
" you should quote a verse from a
Scottish song — something about brown
heather, or thistles, or being ' leal,' whatever
that is — I am unfamiliar myself with the
pipings of the Doric reed. And I should
interweave a Scriptural phrase or two. The
pious peroration is in fashion just now."

It seems to take," said Mr, Arden — " that
line."

Yes," mused the Editor ; " it is strange
how for so many the pill of Progress must be
smothered in Pecksniffian treacle."

No doubt. But it would scarcely do forme
to say that in Shawkirk. What I'm
specially perplexed about, Mallory, is Disestablishment.
The leading man on my side is a
Churchman. But then, you see, the Liberation
Society will go for Trotter, if I don't
attack the Church."

You must attack the Church — an institution
which gives birth to Bitualism is doomed.
Formerly, it took nine tailors to make a man.
Now, it takes one tailor to make a religion.
Do you know, Arden, you might say that ? "

You forget — it is the Church of Scotland
I'm concerned about."

Ah — yes — of course. You couldn't try
them with my scheme for Ke-Establishment ?"

There's nothing about that in my Address,
is there ? " — asked Mr. Arden with sudden
anxiety.

No — we thought they might not be quite
ripe for that, yet, But you might explain it,

without committing yourself to it. It would
at least be sowing the seed."

I don't seem quite to remember what the
scheme is," said Mr. Arden.

The scheme is perfect in its simplicity.
In each benefice of the Church as by law established,
I, first of all, displace the present
incumbent. In his stead I set an official
chosen by competitive examination, whom I
name the Lector. Lector, you will notice, hasa
soothing resemblance to the old word Rector.
The Lector will deliver weekly addresses on
political economy, the origin of species, sociology,
and kindred subjects. He will likewise
arrange for the delivery of lectures, in the
buildings at present monopolised by the priesthood,
by men of all shades of opinion, from the
Agnostic down to the Calvinist."

I don't think that is quite the kind of
thing they want in Shawkirk," said Mr.
Arden.

Tant pis pour Shawkirk," said Mr. Mallory.
" For thus, you see, the sting of Sectarianism
is drawn, and a new development is

given to the great principle of competitive
examination. At the same time, we avoid
the breaking up of a superb organisation
transmitted to us from the Past. Remember
this, Arden — you must always reverence the
Past."

"As a Radical, now," said Mr. Arden languidly,
"as a Radical, and Reformer, I thought
I was allowed to reverence nothing before the
passing of the Reform Bill ?"

Not at all. It is a shallow and a spurious
Radicalism which flouts the labours of the
Past — the Past whence we are sprung. And
in dealing with old endowments, we must
shun rash iconoclasm. The Candle that was
lighted at Ridley's death will soon be extinguished
in the Electric Light of Science. The
problem is, how to retain the old organisation
in the interests of the new truth. Only let
us have science fitly endowed, and she will
quickly silence the yelping of the sects ! — And
now, Arden, that I have dropped into your
mind all the hints that occur to me at the
moment, perhaps you will leave me to the

composition of my leading article. I have to
show myself to-night at Lady Primavere's,
and my time is rather limited. I see " — he
added, opening the door and looking into the
sub-editors' room — " that your young friend
has arrived."

Perhaps you could spare him to me for
an hour or two ?"

"Oh, certainly," said the Editor; " certainly.
Good-bye, Arden — take my advice, and you
will be on the spot without delay. Primavere
tells me that this man Trotter is likely to
find support. You should not leave the field
open to him a day longer than you can help."

Mr. Arden nodded a placid assent, and
passed into the sub-editors' room. He greeted
Lynn with affectionate cordiality.

"Take your hat," he said, "and come outwith
me for a minute. I want to speak
to you — that was my reason for coming here."

When they came out into the street, Mr.
Arden passed his arm under Lynn's with
easy familiarity, and began to saunter slowly
westward.

"Why have you not been to see us?" —
he asked, in a tone of gentle reproach. "Did
I not say that you were not to wait for
formal invitations, and that kind of thing ?
We thought you must have forgotten the
way to Hartington Gardens !"

Lynn felt a thrill of pleasure at Mr. Arden's
use of the plural. But the question embarrassed
him. He did not care to confess his
true reason for avoiding Mr. Arden's house.

The truth was that a week on the Forum
newspaper had left Lynn completely disenchanted.
Sub-editing, he now feared, was
a task for ever beyond his powers ; and even
had Mr. Mallory permitted him to attempt
a leading article — of which there was obviously
not the slightest chance — Lynn was
obliged to acknowledge to himself that the
faculty of skimming through a heap of ill-written
telegrams at midnight, of detecting
the salient points in the intelligence they
contain, and producing thereon a lively and
finished article before the paper goes to press
is neither a natural gift nor a trick to be

swiftly acquired. Lynn felt that he was
proving anything but a success on the Forum,
and the sensation was not comfortable. The
false position in which he stood towards Mr.
Arden was exceedingly galling to him. He
felt no inclination to go to Camilla, and
inform her to whom he had told his brightest
dreams that she must now regard her lover
as a failure. He had consequently refrained
from visiting Hartington Gardens, since the
night of the dinner-party more than a week
ago.

Mr. Arden observed the young man's confusion,
and made a fairly good guess at its
cause.

You must atone for your neglect of us,"
he said, " by dining with us to-night — oh,
it's all right about the paper ! Mallory
doesn't mind — I asked him. Besides, you
can be back before eleven o'clock. I leave
tomorrow morning for Shawkirk, and this
is the last chance I shall have for some time
of seeing you."

Lynn would fain have declined this invitation,

tempting, in one respect, as it was. But
Mr. Arden would listen to no refusal.

We shall have a talk over the election,"
he said. "And besides, Mr. Lynn, I am
going to ask you to do me a service."

"To do you a service?" — queried Lynn,
wonderingly.

Yes — a small matter of business. We
can talk it over after dinner — five minutes'
time will be enough. Here is a hansom.
Jump in ! — we shall be late as it is."

And so, almost before he realised what
had come about, Lynn found himself being
whirled off to Hartington Gardens.

On the way thither, Mr. Arden, who noticed
his companion's depression, began to talk
pleasantly about his work on the Forum.
Lynn found it a relief to unbosom himself
to such a sympathising listener. He made
no attempt to conceal the fact that he had
been painfully disillusioned as to journalism,
and as to Mr. Mallory.

When I hear him shouting in that office
in the morning," he said, "I can hardly

believe he is the man whose Martyred
Humanity I used to study with such admiration.
It's like the story of Mokannah
I've seen the Prophet without his Veil ! "

"Oh, you mustn't compare Mallory to
Mohammed," said Mr. Arden, whose range
of study had not embraced Alla JRookh —
he's not quite so bad as that, you know."

The greeting which Lynn received from
Camilla was all that lover could desire. The
little party of four at Mr. Arden's table that
evening was infinitely more agreeable than
the banquet which Mr. Mallory had adorned
with his presence. Lynn forgot his cares,
and grew animated — even evoking from Mr.
Arden the mental observation that "the
young fellow was by no means a fool after
all — at least, not in some things."

After the ladies were gone, Mr. Arden
deftly and airily introduced his ' small matter
of business.' Nothing could have been more
delicate, more flattering, more caressing, than
his allusion to the ' service ' which Lynn
might do him — a ' service ' he might have

asked of anyone, of his own clerk — but which
it would please him to think had been rendered
by Arthur Lynn. The young man
saw in this another proof of Mr. Arden's
fine feeling — he wished to lighten the burden
of obligation which Lynn might feel, by
putting in his way the chance of making
this small return. Lynn did not, in truth,
give much thought to the matter. He had
Mr. Arden's word that it was all right ; and
he wanted very much to be in the drawing-room.
The transaction was speedily completed,
to the mutual satisfaction of host
and guest.

You had better not say anything about
this matter to anyone, Mr. Lynn — not even
to my daughter" — said Mr. Arden as they
went upstairs. " In any case, it's not worth
mentioning — but my experience is that the
less women hear about business the better."

Three facts stood forth in Lynn's retrospect
of this happy evening, snatched from the
dreary drudgery of the Forum. That he
had heard for the first time of the Lone

Peak Silver Mine, Nevada. That he had
subscribed his name to a printed form which
he had not read. That Camilla was more
beautiful than ever, and as kind.

Chapter XVII.

SUNDAY IN LONDON.

Don't you ever go to church now, Arthur?"
Camilla had asked her lover, in the course of
a whispered confidence in Mr. Arden's .
" Now, I always go — to St. Stul-
titian's — not to matins, you know, because that
is too early, but every Sunday forenoon. And
Aunt Elizabeth has to go with me, though she
hates poor Mr. Gargoyle, because he is so
high."

Lynn did not fail to act on this hint, the
following Sunday. He had promised to lunch
on that day with Mr. Vaughan, between
whom and himself something of .a friendship
had sprung up during their nights on the
Forum, The morning he would devote to
visiting Miss Arden's chosen shrine.

The Eev. Mr. Gargoyle, incumbent of St.
Stultitia's, shared with another divine the
distinction of having the ' highest' church in
London. Nevertheless, the Rev. Mr. Gargoyle
was a disappointed man. True, he had
wrestled with the World, the Flesh, and the
Bishop. But, though he had assiduously
courted martyrdom for years, he had hitherto
failed to win the coveted crown — a disappointment
which was only partially made
up to Mr. Gargoyle by the acquisition of a
fashionable congregation.

The service at St. Stultitia's was attended
principally by ladies. Nothing could have
been more reverential than the manner of
these fair petits. Their eyes were never
uplifted from their prayer-books, except to
gaze on the meagre white-stole form of Mr.
Gargoyle. The male minority, as Lynn observed,
was much less devout. They seemed
absorbed, for the most part, in a study of
those summer bonnets and the faces under
them which made a sunshine in that shaded
place. Lynn joined in this scrutiny, and was

not long in singling out Camilla where she
sat. He remarked with satisfaction the absence
of the funereal head-gear affected by
Mrs. Chevenix.

The service he beheld and listened to was
as ' high ' as Mr. Gargoyle could make it.
Lynn could not help speculating upon what
Mr. Inglebyby would have thought and said,
could he have known where his nephew was
seated, that Sunday morning. To Mr. Inglebyby
who regarded the introduction of organs
into churches with abhorrence — St. Stultitia's,
with the flowers and candles, the white-robed
choristers, the music and tinted lights — would
have been about as congenial as the Venusberg
to St. Antony.

I always walk home from church," said
Miss Arden, for whom Lynn waited — " when
my aunt is not with me, and the weather is
fine. She had a headache this morning, and
could not face Mr. Gargoyle."

I suppose I ought to be very regretful."

Of course you ought. And now, Arthur,
what do you propose to do ?"

I propose to walk with you, if you will
allow me."

Well, as a reward for your good behaviour
in going to church, you may come — so far.
Let us go through the Gardens — that is my
favourite way."

This reminds me of our Sundays in Leipsic,
Camilla, when we walked round the promenades
after the English service — and all the
students and officers stared at you. You ' remember
?"

Yes," said Camilla ; and for a time neither
spoke. There was a feeling in the minds of
both that the charm of those days had somehow
slipped from them, and could never be
conjured back again.

I hadn't to go to a newspaper office at
eight o'clock every night then," said Lynn at
last, moodily, pursuing the train of his reflections.


Oh, Arthur, you won't have to do that
long ! — I mean, you will soon make your way
up, you know. But it is such a pity that your
work should be so hard in the meantime !"

VOL. II. I

Understand me, Camilla. I don't object
to the work because it is hard. I would work
like a slave to gain the end I have in view,
and I would not complain. But I am not fit
for the work — that is the thing which cuts
me."

Not fit for the work, Arthur !"

Perhaps, if you knew all, you would say
that the work is not fit for me. But I prefer to
put it the other way. The man for my place
would have to be a duller man than I, and at
the same time far cleverer. I'm afraid that
does not make the matter clear to you ?"

It does not. But I am very sorry to see
that the Forum has disappointed you. Papa
thought it would be such a good opening ! I
know that Mr. Mallory told him so."

No doubt. But the Mr. Mallory 's idea
of a ' good opening' is something quite different
from your father's — or from mine. You
spoke a minute ago of my ' making my way
up.' Of course, I still hope to do that. But I
shall never do it as a sub-editor under Mr.
Mallory."

He is an odious man!" said Camilla.
After this, I shall detest him more than
ever!"

Oh, Mr. Mallory is not to blame. The
fault is not his at all. He gives a certain rate
of pay for a certain kind of work, and I know
he could get it better done, for the same
money, than it is by me. I shall therefore
not take Mr. Mallory's money a day longer
than I can help. What I shall do is to find
out some other line of work for which I am
suited, and throw myself into it heart and
soul."

Oh, Arthur, why should you do that ?"

Why?" repeated Lynn — " do you ask me,
Camilla ? You must know the reason as
well as I do. Surely I do not need to tell
you!"

There was a silence for some moments between
them. Lynn felt himself puzzled, and
perhaps a little vexed, by the seeming indifference
with which Camilla had received
his discouraging account of that ' opening'
on the Forum, from which they had both

expected such great things. The matter was
one of vital moment to him, and therefore
should have been to her. But she had not
seemed so to regard it. When next she spoke
it was to change the subject.

Tell me, Arthur, have you heard of late
from your friends in the North ? "

I had a letter only yesterday from Morton.
He writes from Liverpool. He sails
this week as first officer of the Bidassoa, and
expects to be away for more than a year."

Ah ! — Your uncle, at least, will be pleased
at that. — But have you heard nothing from
your friends at Shawkirk ?"

My uncle has not cooled down enough to
write me, as yet. But I have had letters,
since I came here, from my aunt and from
Gertrude."

Then you correspond with Gertrude ?"

We have always written to each other,"
said Lynn.

They must be very anxious on your account,
of course."

My aunt is. She begs me to take care of

myself, and to go to church regularly — as I
shall, after to-day. My uncle, it appears,
groans whenever my name is mentioned."

That must be very nice for them all. And
Gertrude — what does she say ? "

Very little — except, by the way, that if
I don't like my work on the Forum, I am to
write to my uncle at once, and he will enable
me, somehow, to dispense with it. Of course,
that is out of the question. Gertrude is a
generous girl, but she forgets that her father
is not a millionaire. Nor, if he were, would
I ask such a favour from him."

Was that all that Gertrude said in her
letter?"

Yes, that was all. It was very kindly
meant, I know, but — well, it struck me as
being rather a juvenile kind of letter for my
cousin to have written."

"Juvenile?"

In this way. She knows as well as I do
that I have not just now a penny in the
world. And yet she seems to assume that I
would not hesitate to throw up the post your

father was so good as get for me — in other
words, to take money from my uncle. I suppose
she must have been thinking of the Bar.
But my uncle would not hear of that ; and,
in any case, I have no intention of living on
his bounty. Gertrude might certainly have
known that."

Camilla said nothing ; and Lynn, glancing
at her face, saw on it a look of distress and
alarm which he could not understand. Her
manner perplexed him more and more. He
had expected from her some word of sympathy
and encouragement. But she had
spoken no such word ; had said nothing to
indicate that she took any special interest in
his plans for the future. And now, she had
relapsed once more into silence. — In reality,
the thought that filled the girl's mind was
this — and she repeated the words once or
twice under her breath — " Gertrude knows''

As they walked through the bright, sunshiny
Gardens, along the paths patterned by
the dancing leaves, Lynn felt the cold shadow
of a coming change stealing over him. It was

always so with them. They set forth laughing
and loving : then something was said, by
mere chance apparently, that seemed to place
them miles apart. Lynn could think of only
one thing as the cause of it ; and his doubts
returned upon him with added bitterness.

Suddenly Camilla laid her hand on his arm.
He could have sworn that at that moment
she shivered as if with cold.

Arthur," she said, speaking eagerly and
hurriedly, " will you listen to me ? I have
something — something to tell you."

Something to tell me ?"

Yes — something that should have been
told you long ago. Arthur, I have deceived
you. I must — "

At that moment a gentleman rose from a
seat, and came towards them — a tall gentleman,
accurately dressed — Mr. Dulcimer. He
smiled sweetly as he advanced, though the
instant before he had been scowling in a way
that would scarcely have discredited Lara.
Lynn remembered Camilla's remark about her
favourite way lying through the Gardens.

He was not disposed to consider it an accident
that Mr. Dulcimer should be found sitting at
that particular hour, on that particular bench.
Camilla's abrupt speech, broken off on Mr.
Dulcimer's appearance — her manifest agitation
had taken him completely by surprise. He
connected them now with Mr. Dulcimer ; and
walked on in silence, consumed with the fires
of jealousy.

His anger was increased by Miss Arden's
manner towards the poet. She had greeted
him at first with a curious blending of impatience
and relief, and now she seemed
actually to find pleasure in his drivelling
compliments, and to encourage his fatuous
talk ! At no time was Mr. Dulcimer's society
agreeable to Lynn ; but in his present mood
it almost maddened him. They walked on
through the Gardens, Mr. Dulcimer discoursing
eloquently the while on the subject of his
Sylvan Reunion, and Camilla listening with
apparent interest. At last Lynn's patience
was exhausted. He took out his watch, and
muttered something about an engagement.

Camilla held out her hand to him. " You
will come soon — to see us ?" she said.

I don't know," Lynn answered, hurriedly.
I have my work — my time is not my own."

True !" murmured Mr. Dulcimer sympathisingly
— " true !"

Lynn turned sharp round on the poet, and
gave him one contemptuous look. Then he
raised his hat, and left them.

He went on his way in a mood of angry
bewilderment. What was he to make of
Camilla ? — of her fluctuations between frank
affection and chill reserve ? What had she
meant by saying that she had ' deceived '
him ? — that there was something being kept
from him which he ought to know ? Hitherto
his own poverty had seemed to him the only
bar between them. There must, it now
appeared, be something else ; and Lynn could
think only of Mr. Dulcimer. He did think
of that gentleman, with mingled fury and
scorn, all the way to Mr. Vaughan's.

You seem out of sorts, Lynn," said Mr.
Yaughan, whom he found smoking and drinking

brandy and soda-water in company with
Sugden. — " How have you spent the morning
hours ? In your own society ? "

No," said Lynn ; "I have been to church.
Perhaps that may account for it."

To church !" said Vaughan. " Well, well !
Young men will be young men ! I too have
heard the chimes at mid-clay. We ivill do
wild reckless things, when all the world is
young, lad, and all the leaves are green ! But
don't do it again. Depend upon it, sir, the
steady, sober, slow-going way is the best in
the long-run. Ask Sugden — he will tell you
the same !"

Mr. Sugden set down his glass.

It's the bells," he said with gravity.
When you know him a little better, Lynn,
you'll find he's always like this on Sundays.
He thinks they're his maiden aunt's wedding-bells,
you know, and that she'll cut off his
allowance, when she's married. Humour him,
Lynn, humour him. The Chief thinks we
shall not have him long."

During lunch and after it, Mr. Vaughan

drank freely, and became even more voluble
than was his wont. By-and-bye he and Sudden
fell to discussing, with the utmost candour,
the working and the tone of the Forum
newspaper ; from that they diverged into
general journalistic talk. At another time,
Lynn would have listened eagerly to such
conversation. But to-day he was moody and
pre-occupied. His thoughts went back over
his forenoon with Camilla, which had begun
so brightly and ended so badly. In seeking,
vainly, for a clue to her altered demeanour, he
became for the time unmindful of his companions.


Two words, let fall by Vaughan, suddenly
arrested his notice, and drew him from his
reverie. They were the words "Lone Peak."

And to think," Vaughan was saying,
that, after all, I had to write the fellow's
election address ! Mallory made such a point
of it, I did not see how to refuse, though I'd
rather have written his last speech to the
hangman. I dropped on it, Sugden, just
,£450 — the savings of honest industry!"

You might have known better," observed
Sugden.

So might five hundred other people'
rejoined Yaughan, " and Mallory among them.
The Chief held two hundred shares."

The Chief doesn't often put his pile on the
wrong thing."

Well, he did that time, anyhow. And to
think I've set that fellow on the way to
tagging M.P. after his name ! He can't lose
the seat, after an address like the one I wrote
for him — all about Retrenchment, and the
other party whoops. Confound him, he's
forced me to retrench!" And Mr. Yaughan
solaced himself with a prolonged draught of
brandy and soda-water.

Is that the Lone Peak Silver Mine you're
talking of?" asked Lynn, who had not lost
a word of this conversation.

It is," said Yaughan ; " and I wish I had
never heard its name !"

But is it not a — well, I mean, is it not
all right ? Sound, you know, and so forth ? "

Sound!" repeated Mr. Yaughan expressively.

" My dear fellow, you don't read the
City articles, else you would not ask that
question."

It's a mere bubble," said Sugden.

Blown from peculiarly dirty water," said
Vaughan. " Like most American mines, it
has simply been a big hole to throw English
money into. That man Arden — you may
have seen him about the office — was at the
bottom of it. By Jove, I wish he were, literally!"


"But it's going on still, is it not?" asked
Lynn, now seriously disquieted.

Oh, yes, it's going on — and will go on
perennially, I suppose, so long as a fool is left
with money to chuck away. Why, only yesterday
I got a new prospectus — the usual
tissue of lies — shafts, galleries, smelters, assays,
all the old jargon re-hashed in the old style.
Here is the precious document, I believe."

Mr. Vaughan, who evidently felt his wrongs
acutely and liked to dilate on them, took from
a table near him a mining prospectus, with
another document folded within it.

This," he went on, holding up the latter,
is an invitation to all the people who have
lost their money already to show their wisdom
by coming and losing more !"

Lynn glanced at the paper. He fancied he
had seen it before.

May I look at it ?" he said.

Oh, certainly. But don't be tempted.
It's very alluring, on paper, I know that."

One glance at the document showed Lynn
that he had seen it before. It was headed
Form of Application for Shares. To the
Directors of the Lone Peak Silver Mining
Company (Limited) — and proceeded thus : —
Gentlemen, having paid to you the sum of

Pounds, being £2 per Share, I hereby

request that you will allot me Shares

of £10 each in the Lone Peak Silver Mining
Company (Limited), and I hereby agree to
accept such Shares or any smaller number
that you may allot to me, and to pay the further
sum of £3 per Share on allotment, and
the balance of £5 per Share two months after
allotment ; and I authorise you to place my

name upon the Register of Shareholders for
Shares so allotted. I am, Gentlemen, Your
obedient Servant" — and then followed certain
dotted lines, over each of which Lynn remembered
having written his signature, his name
in full, his residence, his profession, and the
date.

Lynn read and re-read the form of application
carefully. He had not done so before,
while ' going through the formality ' of
putting his name to it at Mr. Arden's dinner-table.
He had thought only of doing a
service to one who had shown much kindness
to him. He had felt grateful for the
opportunity which Mr. Arden, with so much
tact and delicacy, had put in his way. He
had never for a moment suspected Mr. Arden's
honour and probity. Vaughan and Sugden
knew nothing of his intimacy with the stockbroker.
Their conversation showed him, at
least, that all men did not repose that perfect
confidence in Mr. Arden which he had done.
It was an unpleasant revelation.

Lynn did not seek any further enlightenment

from Vaughan and Sugden on the subject
of the Lone Peak mine. His reflections,
after parting with them, were of the most
disagreeable kind. He knew nothing, save in
the vaguest and most theoretical way, about
stocks and men's dealings in them. But he
had some notion of what was meant by a
bubble company and a bogus stockholder.
There were but two opinions he could hold
about Mr. Arden — either that he was among
the most generous and high-principled of men,
or else that he was an accomplished humbug.
After the talk in Vaughan's rooms, it came for
the first time into his mind that gratitude to
his (Lynn's) father, and an unselfish desire to
make two lovers happy, did not exhaust the
possible motives for Mr. Arden's extreme complaisance.


That evening, before going down to the office,
Lynn sat in his room, up three pair of stairs in
Southampton Kow, trying to read — in reality,
thinking over these and other things. His
utter ignorance of all that is comprehended
under the term ' business ' made him feel

utterly helpless, in face of his present difficulty.
The transaction to which Mr. Arden
had committed him might be explained in
some excessively simple way ; that was possible.
But it might also be put in a very
ugly light. It might be said that he had
been used by Mr. Arden as a ' man of straw

He was now amazed at his own imprudence
in doing so lightly what he had done. And
yet — he had had such absolute confidence in
the man ! He had believed him so implicitly
when he declared the signing of the printed
form a ' mere formality!' And to him Mr.
Arden had been, above all things, Camilla's
father.

Lynn felt the need of an adviser, sorely.
He might, in his present mood, have gone
straight to Mr. Arden ; but Mr. Arden was
now down at Shawkirk, electioneering. The
one person to whom he had always gone for
advice on matters connected with ' business'
was his uncle, Mr. Inglebyby. Acting partly on
impulse, partly spurred on by his feeling of
extreme mental discomfort, Lynn sat down

VOL. II. K

and wrote to Mr. Inglebyby a letter, in which,
without mentioning Mr. Arden's name, he
explained what he had done, and asked his
uncle's opinion and advice.

Having finished his letter, Lynn began to
debate within himself whether or not he
should send it. His uncle would certainly
think him a most egregious fool — well, he
thought that already, so far as ' business '
was concerned. Again it seemed to him, now
that the whole thing was set forth in black
and white, that he was making much ado
about nothing. Then Vaughan's remarks
came to his mind, and he felt less sure about
that. On the whole, however, he was disposed
to keep the letter back for a day or two.
That would give him time to ponder the affair,
and perhaps to glean some further information.

Thus minded, Lynn set out at his usual
hour for the Forum office. He had to wait in
Lowborn for a 'bus to take him down to the
Strand ; and it chanced that his place of waiting
was directly opposite the West Central
post-office. Acting on another impulse, he

crossed the street, and posted his letter to
Mr. Inglebyby.

He was nearing the office of the Forum,
when suddenly Camilla's words that day started
up before his mind — " Arthur, I have deceived
you !" — Could there be a connection between
these words and the friendly service which
Mr. Arden had asked at his hands ? Lynn's
blood ran cold at the thought — next moment,
he had dismissed it. And before long he
had been obliged to forget all his troubles,
while elaborating, from the material afforded
by the ' whimsies,' a summary of the speeches
delivered at a great meeting held in the
Midlands with the view of raising the puddle
to his true position in the social scale.

CHAPTEK XVIII.

TAKEN TO TASK.

Mr. Arden arrived at Shawkirk — to ' open
the campaign,' as his supporters said — in a
temper the reverse of pleasant. To begin
with, he had had, on the morning of his
departure from London, a most unsatisfactory-conversation
with his daughter. He had only
meant to give Camilla a few hints as to her
behaviour towards Arthur Lynn during his
absence, and the girl had 'flared up' — so Mr.
Arden expressed it — in the most unaccountable
way. She had even dropped a word
which showed that she suspected him of not
holding to his part of their bargain ; and
credited him with the intention of inveigling
Lynn into some of his financial projects. Mr.
Arden was irritated by his daughter's ' unfilial

obstinacy' ; bored with the hot and dusty
day-journey down to Scotland ; disgusted
with the prospect that lay before him — the
speeches, the committee-meetings, the canvassing
— the courtesies he must exchange,
the dinners he must eat, the money he must
spend. It consequently required a considerable
effort on Mr. Arden's part to respond
with fitting cordiality to the greetings given
him by Mr. Turpie and other members of his
committee, whom he found waiting his arrival
on the platform of the Shawkirk station.

In Mr. Turpie's carriage, and accompanied
by that gentleman and by Mr. Hislop, his
agent, the candidate was driven in state to
the Cross Keys Hotel, which was to be his
headquarters during the contest. Mr. Turpie
whom Mr. Arden privately hated, as a bore
of the first water — would cheerfully have sat
up all night, talking over the state of affairs.
Mr. Arden got rid of him for the time on the
plea of fatigue, after fixing the hour when he
should address his Committee on the morrow.
When Turpie was gone, Mr. Arden proceeded

to make himself comfortable. Taught by
previous experience, he had brought down
with him his own wine and cigars. He now
ordered a bottle of Heidseck, lit a Havana,
gave another to Mr. Hislop, and set himself
to have a confidential talk with the lawyer.

"Well, Hislop," Mr. Arden began, " this is
a devil of a mess you've got me into, down
here."

The contest, you mean ?"

Of course I do. If I had thought there
was to be a contested election, my face would
never have been seen here, I can assure you.
You must have managed infernally badly."

I don't see it. We got you chosen by the
Committee. That's the strong point in your
favour, Mr. Arden, and I have no doubt about
the result, unless the unexpected happens.
But you will have to show fight, you know."

Of course I shall, now that I am in for it.
But it's going to be very expensive."

Certainly," assented Mr. Hislop.

And very troublesome. That brute Trotter
seems to have found supporters."

Only among the hands and the small
shop-keepers. Not a single master has taken
his side, and I don't expect any will, either,
as long as the Bailie proposes to amend the
Factory Act in the workmen's interest.
Sanderson — yon remember Sanderson, the
coal-merchant who insisted on shaking hands
with yon, last time you were down? — is his
main prop. Then there's Tennant, the slater.
You remember him ?"

Mr. Arden groaned.

These, and some more of the same kidney,
are the men Trotter has on his committee.
Then there's the Eu. minister, and the
Baptist minister, and Smail of the Warden.
They're going about calling you an Episcopalian.
You'll have to contradict that."

"Oh, certainly," said Mr. Arden. "As
long as they only ask me what I'm not, I
don't mind."

They can make a lot of noise," said Mr.
Hislop, "but that's all. They've no real
influence behind them, as we have."

"Then what did you mean by saying in

your last telegram that the other side was
looking dangerous?"

Oh, that's another thing altogether. I
thought Sanderson was up to some dirty trick
or other, and I must say I think so still.
That fellow wants looking after. He's as
'cute as any electioneering agent could be.
What do you think he did the other day ?
Brought out a caricature of his own candidate!"


"Really?"

"Yes — as if it came from us, you know.
There was a picture of a fellow with a salmon
in one hand and a ' cleek' in the other, and a
water-bailiff collaring him. The fellow with
the ' cleek' was an exact portrait of Trotter,
and the bailiff had a certain resemblance to —
you!

By way of representing my supposed
views on the Game Laws ?"

Precisely. That caricature was a clever
move — it gained a certain amount of popular
sympathy for Trotter. You see, they are all
poachers here — Trotter himself was a notorious

one, as a young man. That's where his
real strength lies — he's what they call a
Shawkirk chief,' born and bred, and he
makes the most of it. By the way, have you
brought that letter ?"

No," said Mr. Arden curtly.

"That's a pity. To hear the other side,
you'd think they'd got a holograph letter from
Gladstone, commending Trotter to the constituency.
In reality, I'm told it's only a
post-card with ten words on it, about some
Local Option resolution that Trotter had sent
up to him. But properly worked, it does
very well."

"What line are they taking on the drink
question?"

Trotter says as little about it as he can.
He's cunning enough to hold his tongue, when
speaking out would damage his chance. But
there you have him. He's identified with
Teetotalism, and that will not go down
here. They don't want Local Option in
Shawkirk."

"And about the Church?"

Say you'll do whatever the majority want,
and bring in Hartington. You can't do better.
The Bailie would have it pulled down, right
away, but you mustn't go so far as that.
You will have to be guarded, you know.
Turpie is an elder in the Parish Church,
and there's a number of Liberal Churchmen
it won't do to offend. But I'll post you
up in these things before your speech comes
off. Your first big meeting won't be till
after the nomination. I've engaged the
Corn Exchange — same place Gladstone spoke
in."

By the way," remarked Mr. Arden, as
Hislop rose to go, "I don't think you've
said anything about the Tories, and the
man they're running?"

Oh, the Tories ? — my dear sir, you don't
need to trouble yourself about them. The
people here look upon it quite as a joke.
Macritchie likes to make a fuss, and Lord
Leaderdale hates Primavere — that's the explanation
of the whole thing. Lord Elvan
is popular enough here, in his way, but

politics aren't his way, you see. I'm told
he couldn't make a speech to save his life.
Haig is coaching him night and day, but
I hear he makes uncommon little of it.
They're afraid to face a public meeting.
No doubt they will get votes at Bewick, where
two-thirds of the people are the Earl's tenants.
But that won't give them even a respectable
minority, you'll find. As I told you before,
Mr. Arden, the candidate that carries Shaw-kirk
carries the seat. It is here you'll have
to put your best foot foremost."

I know," said Mr. Arden, suppressing a
yawn.

"Here is a list of names" — continued Mr.
Hislop, producing a closely-written sheet of
foolscap from his breast-pocket — " of people
you will have to call on. Trotter — "

"Put the d — d thing out of my sight!"
cried Mr. Arden with sudden vehemence.
"I mean" — he added hastily, noticing the
look of astonishment which this outburst of
emotion called forth on his agent's face —
hand it over, and I'll look at it tomorrow.

I'm too fagged for this kind of thing
to-night."

"Very well," said the lawyer. "Trotter,
I was going to observe, has had three days'
start of you, Mr. Arden, and you'll have to
make up for lost time. These are all names
of people who won't promise you their votes
unless you go and ask them yourself. You
should begin tomorrow, and make a regular
round."

"All right," said Mr. Arden, sinking back
into his chair as the lawyer left the room.
There were, he knew, eleven days of this
kind of thing before him, for the writ had
now been issued and the polling-day was
fixed. He knew precisely the nature and
amount of the evil which the morrow, and
each succeeding day, was bringing with it.
On the morrow he must dine with Turpie
an ordeal to which Mr. Arden looked
forward with dread — do a lot of canvassing,
and address his committee. The following
day must be spent in canvassing and
speech-making in another of the boroughs.

On the day after that there were the nomination,
another dinner, more canvassing and
more oratory. Then came the great meeting
in the Corn Exchange. The prospect
of making a speech did not grievously oppress
Mr. Arden, who had the faculty of keeping
cool on a public platform, and of always
finding something to say. But after the
speech would come the ' heckling ' ; and
what that meant, he knew by experience.

I question if it's worth all this purgatory,"
he said to himself, tossing the end of his last
cigar into the grate. "And yet, I don't
know." And there rose up before Mr. Arden's
mind's eye a pleasing vision of his
name, with the two magical letters after it,
as it would appear on the Lone Peak
and other prospectuses. "Yes," he said,
"it is worth it — it's the most serviceable
cachet in the world."

Mr. Arden had to fall back on this reflection
many times during the two days which
followed, else he would have given up the
conflict in sheer disgust. His throat was

dry and his voice hoarse with much speaking
; his wrist was stiff with many hand-clasps
; Mr. Turpie's wine had given him a
headache, as he knew it would. He had
been on the whole well received, and his
partisans expressed themselves sanguine of
success. But this could not make him forget
the sufferings of the moment. Once, in the
Shawkirk market-place, Mr. Arden chanced
to meet Bailie Trotter, red-faced and perspiring,
waving his arms and talking in a
shout to his henchmen who were with him.
The rival candidates bowed stiffly to each
other ; their respective suites exchanged
glances of scorn and defiance. " That's the
very man for the brutes ! " — thought Mr.
Arden, as he contemplated his opponent.
The fellow seems positively to like it!" —
and indeed the Bailie's loud harsh laugh,
heard all over the square, seemed to tell
that he toyed in the work of electioneering.
The eve of the nomination day found Mr.
Arden in his private room at the Cross Keys
Hotel, alone. He had dined well — at least,

fairly well. On the table by his side were
a bottle of wine, a box of choice cigars, the
London newspapers, and a heap of letters
and telegrams. Mr. Arden was lazily opening
these last, and glancing over their contents.
This was Mr. Arden's way of enjoying
the only respite he had from the misery of
his present existence as a candidate. When
his series of public meetings began, even those
placid evening hours would be lost to him.

Mr. Hislop was announced, and entered so
close on the waiter's heels, that he might
almost have overheard his client's fervent
"Confound it!" The lawyers face was unusually
solemn.

Good Heavens, Hislop," cried Mr. Arden
fretfully, "what is it now? You don't
mean to say you want me to go out and
do something, at this time of night, after
dinner?"

Oh no, you don't need to come out. I
want to have a few minutes' talk with you."

About something disagreeable, of course ?"

Well, not exactly pleasant, You haven't

seen this afternoon's Warden ? No ? Then
I cant do better than let you read the article
for yourself" — and Mr. Hislop handed to his
client a copy of the local journal, with the
leading article marked.

Arden read the article through, using
strong language at intervals under his breath.
It was a personal attack on himself, clumsily
put together, hideously written, and grotesque
in its laboured innuendoes. The allusions to
ambitious financiers who seek to enter Parliament
for gain — to London carpet-daggers who
woo Scottish constituencies, and, having won
them, are seen of them no more — the contrast
drawn between the broad-minded Trotter, with
his rich political lore and his deep disinterested
love for the workingmen, and the
shallow, selfish worldling, the unsympathetic
stranger, Arden — were just what might have
been expected, neither better nor worse. The
sting of the article lay in the double insinuation
with which it closed. There was a reference
to the Lone Peak silver mine, and
a touch of pathos about the ruin it had

brought on the widow and the orphan. There
was further a retrospective glance over Mr.
Arden's personal history, his early connection
with Shawkirk ; and a hint, not very delicately
conveyed, that his proceedings had
contributed to the misfortunes of " our noble-minded
and philanthropic fellow-townsman,
the late lamented Mr. Lynn."

"This is infamous, atrocious!" — exclaimed
Mr. Arden in high wrath, as he reached
the end of the leading article. " Why, ita
libel — it's a gross, offensive libel ! Have
you any notion, Hislop, who the infernal
scoundrel is that wrote it?"

Oh yes — it's Smail himself. I know his
style."

I shall certainly prosecute the ruffian — I
shall have him indicted for libel ! Did you
ever see anything more slanderous in print ?
more mendacious and more — abominable ?
It's a parcel of rascally lies, and the villain
deserves a thorough good horse-whipping !"

I should not advise you to take the law
into your own hands " — said Mr. Hislop drily;

VOL. II, l

nor perhaps, for that matter, to put it in
motion at all. But that you can think over,
and decide on deliberately. What I want to
speak to you about is the use this fellow makes
of the name of the late Mr. Lynn. The fact
is, Mr. Arden — you don't mind my speaking
plainly, I hope ? "

Not at all. Come to the point."
Well, the fact is there have been some
ugly reports floating about here recently in
connection with your — services to the late Mr.
Lynn. The very men who fleeced him and
laughed at him, when he was alive, are quite
ready, of course, to make him out a martyr,
now that he is dead. The masters got the better
of the hands, in a row they had last year about
wages, and since then they've been regretting
Lynn all the more. Of course, you and I
know that he ruined himself for a fad, but the
hands don't see it in that light. This article
only puts in Smail's English what a lot of
these fellows have been saying to each other
for weeks back. You'll have to counteract
this attempt to damage us."

"How?"

By your speech in the Corn Exchange.
Naturally, you'll have a reference to your early
life in Shawkirk — you'll have to come the
local strong, you know — and there you can
bring in something neat about Lynn and his
philanthropic craze — the help you gave him in
working out the scheme — the opposition it met
with from narrow-minded capitalists, which was
the true cause of its failure — and so on, and
so on. I don't need to tell you what to say."

No," said Mr. Arden reflectively ; " I see
what you mean. You did quite right, Hislop,
in telling me of these disgraceful slanders.
And as to the speech, you are right there also.
That is what I shall do."

I thought it my duty, as your agent, tolet
you know what was being said."

Certainly," said Mr. Arden, " certainly.
Quite right. And as for the blackguard
who—"

Mr. Arden's threat of vengeance was interrupted
by a knock at the door. The waiter
announced that Mr. Inglebyby was below in the

commercial room, and wished to have five
minutes' conversation with Mr. Arden.

Say to Mr. Inglebyby that Mr. Arden will
see him directly " — said Hislop to the waiter ;
and then to Arden, as the man closed the
door : — « Excuse my officiousness, but this is
a great chance, and I don't want you to lose
it. I am not saying too much when I say that
Inglebyby' s support would make the seat yours
to a certainty. He has great influence here,
especially among the Dissenters — "

But I thought he had promised me his
support ? "

Well, no — so far, I should say, he has
been standing neutral. He and Turpie are
sworn foes, you know, and that may have kept
him from joining your committee. But his
calling on you now looks as if he were going to
sink all that. Humour him, Mr. Arden — for
Heaven's sake, humour him ! Remember, it is
very important, especially after this article in
the Warden, If the people see Inglebyby taking
your side, they'll know what to think of
all these stories,"

All right," said Mr. Arden. " Leave him
to me. My acquaintance with Mr. Inglebyby
didn't begin yesterday. I know which way to
stroke him down."

I hope you do," rejoined the lawyer, "for
really, as I said before, it's most important to
make sure of Inglebyby. That's the one thing
but we must not keep him waiting. He
hates that. Good-night, sir, good-night — yes,
keep that copy of the Warden ; and do
humour Inglebyby — he wants a deal of humouring,
you know — "

Oh, it's all right. Tell the man to show
him up."

Mr. Inglebyby paused on the threshold of the
room, and his face wore an expression that did
not suggest a friendly visit. He hated
tobacco-smoke, and the aroma of Mr. Arden's
cigar was strong. Mr. Arden himself, seen
through the thin bluish haze, in a loose velvet
coat, his white fingers sparkling with rings, a
cigar between his teeth and a champagne
bottle at his elbow — was not an object likely
to please Mr. Inglebyby 's eye.

Mr. Arden got up from his easy-chair.

Charmed to see you, Inglebyby," he said.
So kind of you to look me up. I had intended
calling on you before this, but my time
is not my own here, you know — that confounded
fellow Hislop seems to have taken
possession of me, body and soul. Won't you
take a seat ? "

Thank you," said Mr. Inglebyby, frigidly;
as what I have to say to you, Mr. Arden,
will of necessity occupy some time, I will,
with your permission, take a chair." And Mr.
Inglebyby, selecting the hardest and straightest-backed
chair in the room, sat down, grasping
his hat in one hand and his umbrella in the
other. " You won't have a cigar ?" — said Mr.
Arden.

Thank you. I do not smoke," said Mr.
Inglebyby.

Or a glass of wine ?"

Thank you. I do not drink," said Mr.
Inglebyby. Then there was a pause. " The
man means to have a row," said Mr. Arden to
himself; and indeed Mr. Inglebyby's look, his

tone of voice, his attitude as lie sate bolt upright
on his chair, seemed quite to warrant the
inference.

"Trade brisk just now?" — said Mr. Arden
at length, breaking the silence. " I should
think you will be glad when this election
uproar gets quieted down. By the way,
Ingieby, I was disappointed at not seeing your
name on my committee-list. After the talk
we had in London, last year, I fully expected
to have your support. Hislop tells me — "

My purpose, sir, in coming here, was not
to discuss your election prospects " — said Mr.
Ingieby.

Then what was your purpose ? Be good
enough to come to the point."

I shall endeavour to do so. I can assure
you, sir, that duty, and not inclination, has
made me trouble your — leisure to-night."

That's frank, anyhow," said Mr. Arden
with a laugh.

A duty disagreeable to myself," continued
Mr. Ingieby, " but from which I shall not
shrink. On the occasion of your last visit to

Shawkirk, you induced my nephew to leave
this place for London — contrary to my wish,
and in direct opposition to the plans I had
formed for his future."

I beg your pardon. I ' induced ' your
nephew to do nothing of the sort. He was,
strange to say, dissatisfied with the highly
honourable and lucrative post you had secured
for him. He asked me to assist him, and I
did so. That is all, so far as I am aware."

No, sir," said Mr. Inglebyby, repressing his
indignation by an obvious effort — " that is
not all, permit me to say. You encouraged
my nephew, for purposes of your own, to set
at naught the wishes of his nearest relative,
and his — trustee."

You puzzle me," said Mr. Arden. " I
know that you were appointed a trustee under
the father's will. But the young man is of
age. Your interest in his affairs must now, I
should think, be purely sentimental — not legal."

You know better than that, sir," said Mr.
Inglebyby; " you do not deceive me by this show
of ignorance. My suspicions, I confess, were

aroused when you enticed my nephew to
London — out of ' gratitude ' to my late
brother-in-law. I am now as certain of the
facts as I can be of anything."

What facts ?"

That you were acquainted with the late
Mr. Hume — that you met him after his — his
return to this country."

"Hume? Certainly I met him — several
times. What then?"

And that you have all along been cognisant
of the disposition which Mr. Hume made of
his fortune. I say that you have known it all
along, sir ! You have taken advantage of my
nephew's simplicity, his inexperience, to throw
him among the men who write for that godless
newspaper, to keep him hanging about
your house — for an end which I need not
particularise. You have traded on your own
knowledge of his true position, and his ignorance
of it."

My dear sir," said Mr. Arden, with unruffled
composure, " you are unreasonable —
you do me something less than justice. I

don't, of course, admit that there is any truth
in your random assertions. But in any case,
was it my part to tell the young man about
his windfall ? I am not his relative — nor his
trustee. If it suited you to keep him in the
dark, was it my business to interfere ?"

I do not need to care for that insinuation,"
said Mr. Inglebyby, "nor to repel it. What I
have done has been done in the exercise of that
discretion vested in me by Mr. Hume, when
drawing up his will — and also, I can honestly
say, with a single eye to my nephew's true
interests."

You might find it troublesome to make
other people believe that, you know."

"I do not care for the opinion of other
people. I have the approbation of my own
conscience in what I have done."

Oh, don't let us have any talk about
conscience, if you please. We all know what
that means. It seems to me, Mr. Inglebyby, that
we can do no good by continuing this conversation.
You evidently do not understand — "

I understand perfectly, sir — indeed, too

well. And I have no doubt, sir, that the young
lady your daughter understands too. In such
matters, if I may express my opinion, I should
say she is by no means wanting in discernment."

You may say what you please," rejoined Mr.
Arden, placidly. " As Mr. Lynn's relative — ■
and trustee — you have a right to know that he
has asked my permission to pay his addresses
to my daughter, and that I have given it. I
can understand your disappointment. It is
most natural. I do not doubt that you had
other views — of course, with a single eye to
your nephew's interests ! "

Mr. Inglebyby, in his trouble of mind, scarcely
noticed the taunt which Mr. Arden's words
conveyed. He had no doubt that the man
was speaking truly — that his nefarious scheme
had succeeded, and that this unfortunate
young man had been taken in the toils. Injustice
to Mr. Inglebyby it must be said that at
that moment he did not think of Arthur Lynn
as a possible husband lost to his own daughter
but as his nephew and ward, to whom,
mated with such an one as Camilla Arden,

life would never again appear as a serious and
solemn thing.

That is a matter," said Mr. Inglebyby at
last, rising from his chair as he spoke —
which, I opine, need not be discussed between
us. My nephew will, of course, choose
for himself — "

Of course he will," said Mr. Arden cheerfully.


— Though not until I shall have enlightened
him as to certain points of which, as yet, he
has no suspicion. But there is another matter
to which I must make reference. The pecuniary
interests of this young man, at all events,
are still under my charge. I shall continue to
protect them so far as it is in my power,
against all mercenary schemes whatsoever. It
shall be my endeavour to save this young man
from the dangers to which his ignorance of
money matters may expose him."

Very proper, I'm sure," said Mr. Arden.

That, sir, is sheer effrontery on your part,
permit me to — "

"Have a care, sir!" — said Arden angrily;

11 do not go too far. I have listened to your
balderdash long enough already."

"You will have to listen a little longer, sir,
whether you will or not. I shall not go " —
Mr. Arden also had now risen from his chair,
and laid his hand on the bell-pull — " I say I
shall not go, until I have said what I came
here to say. I have heard about your precious
plan — the ' mere formality ' you persuaded
my nephew to go through. You may have
thrown dust in his eyes, but you cannot in
mine."

So the young man has been writing to
you about our little transaction ? " — said
Arden, inwardly cursing this turn of affairs, but
showing no outward sign of discomposure.
If so, he has put you up to a good thing."

He has written to me, sir," said Mr. Inglebyby,
and with an anxiety to know the possible consequences
of his imprudence which I can very
well understand. You are yourself, I am informed,
a director of this concern, and no one
can know better than yourself what is its true
character."

That is so," said Mr. Arden.

It is a Yankee swindle," continued Mr.
Inglebyby, " floated on lies — a second Emma
mine — an undertaking that will pay the promoters,
and ruin every other individual that
has to do with it ! "

Oh, this is too much !" — cried Mr. Arden
with genuine indignation. " You are talking
arrant nonsense, sir, and you ought to know
it!" — It was characteristic of Mr. Arden that
while he had listened unmoved to Mr. Inglebyby's
unflattering allusions to his daughter, he
was instantly roused by these aspersions on
his favourite mine. — " Your nephew, by my
advice, has taken shares in what will be the
most profitable enterprise of the century.
From what I know of him, I am sure that he
will meet his engagements. And I am equally
sure that he will not regret having done so."

"We shall see," said Mr. Inglebyby wrathfully.
" AYhat action may yet be taken in the
matter, I do not know ; but action shall betaken
— that I promise you. You can judge
for yourself what construction will be put on

your conduct, when it is represented in its true
colours. I shall make it my business to do so,
and that at the earliest possible moment."

As you please," said Mr. Arden, with
affected indifference. "And now, perhaps,
you will have the goodness to — "

I am going, sir," said Mr. Inglebyby sternly.
I shall not trouble you by expressing to you
any opinion on your proceedings. But I shall
do so to others, freely."

"You had better keep yourself beyond
reach of the law."

I shall endeavour to do so, I hope successfully.
I might, in return give you the same
advice. And, sir, if I possess any influence in
this borough — and I do not say that my
influence is altogether without weight — I give
you notice it shall be used against you in the
present contest. I shall certainly do my
utmost to prevent the return for a Scottish
constituency of one who — "

Do it !" — cried Mr. Arden in a fury, tugging
violently at the bell-rope — " do it and bed—
d!"

Mr. Inglebyby stood for a moment, as if
petrified by this awful imprecation. He
raised his hands to the ceiling — with his hat
still clutched in one, and his umbrella in the
other — in the attitude of a Hebrew prophet
invoking celestial fire. Then, without another
word, he fled from that atmosphere of profanity
and cigars.

The Town Hall clock was striking ten, as
Mr. Inglebyby left the Cross Keys Hotel. A
walk of fifteen minutes would have taken him
home, yet it was not until after midnight that
he appeared in the bosom of his family — an
irregularity without precedent in the annals of
the Inglebyby household.

Supper was laid as usual on the parlour
table, and beside the plates were certain Bibles
and psalm-books, ready for family worship.
As the time passed on, and still Mr. Inglebyby
did not return, his wife became very anxious
on his account, ever and again laying down
her knitting-needles, to ask some question of
her daughters.

Where do you think he can have gone.

girls ?" — she said for the twentieth time ; "he
never stayed out so late at night before ! Oh,
dear, I hope nothing has happened to him !
Where do you think he can be ?"

You had better ask Gertrude, mamma,"
said Caroline at last — " she is the one most
likely to know. Wasn't there a letter from
Arthur to-day, Gertrude ? "

Don't fret yourself, mamma," said Gertrude,
ignoring this last sally ; " father will
be here presently. He will tell you all about
it himself."

"Oh, dear!" said Mrs. Inglebyby; "I hope
there is nothing wrong about Arthur again !
What do you think can be the matter,
Gertrude?"

I don't know, mamma, any more than
you. Let us have patience until father
comes."

Mr. Inglebyby had not shown his daughter
Lynn's letter, nor acquainted her with its
contents. But he had let her see that these
were of a satisfactory nature. Indeed, they
had seemed to inspire her father with a kind

VOL. II. m

of fierce delight. " He is given into my
hands!" — Mr. Inglebyby had said — "Into the
pit which he has digged for another shall he
fall ! This letter, Gertrude, is what I have
been waiting for. It contains the proofs —
yes. I may say the proofs, of that man's craft
and guile." — As the pioneer might stand,
match in hand, at the end of his countermine,
and listen gleefully to the pick-strokes of the
unsuspecting enemy — so stood Mr. Inglebyby,
with Lynn's letter in his hand. — "At last," he
went on, "I shall be able to lay bare his
treachery ! I shall let Arthur see in his true
colours the man whom he has trusted, almost
to his ruin !" — Gertrude, of course, knew well
who was the ' man' referred to ; and could guess
at the errand on which her father had gone.

When Mr. Inglebyby did at length appear, he
produced such a sensation in that quiet, well-ordered
household as it had certainly never
known before. His look and demeanour
showed what was, for him, the most violent
excitement. He stalked up and down the
room, glaring fiercely the while, until Mrs.

Inglebyby became quite nervous with the
thought that reason must have fled its lofty
throne. Family worship was forgotten. Instead
of conducting the usual * exercises,' Mr.
Inglebyby broke into a hot invective against
the traitor Arden — and from that passed to a
full account of the change in Arthur Lynn's
circumstances, and how it had been brought
about.

I had not meant," he concluded, " to tell
him, or you, or anyone of this, until the time
appointed had expired. But now that this
man and his daughter — these" (etc., etc.) —
have got possession of the secret, it is right,
it is even necessary, that you should know.
An effort must be made to bring Arthur down
here — anywhere — out of the hands of these
unscrupulous adventurers, who will never rest
until they have drained his purse to the last
penny, and beggared him in body and — and
in soul !"

The effect produced by Mr. Inglebyby's revelation
was almost histrionic. The members of
his family sat round him, positively hushed

into awe and wonder. Mrs. Inglebyby remained
speechless and motionless, her knitting-needles
suspended in mid-air, and the mental struggle
required to comprehend it all plainly expressed
on her features. Dick, recovering from the
first shock of amazement, was seized with a
violent longing to fall on his cousin's neck,
and at once borrow £5. "Five!" he said
within himself; " I suppose he could as easily
make it fifty ! It would be all the same to
him. What a tremendous stroke of luck !"

I'm so glad !" cried Caroline. " Won't
it be nice to have a cousin as rich as that !
Only fancy papa knowing about it all the
time, and never saying a word ! / couldn't
have done that. Why, it's just like one of
the story-books ! — it's like Great Expectations
! "

What is that, may I ask?" inquired Mr.
Inglebyby.

It's a novel, papa — all about an old mana
convict or something, that leaves all his
money to a young man — "

I have not read the work you mention,"

said Mr. Inglebyby severely ; " nor should I,
from your description, conceive it to be at all
of an edifying character."

But, my dear," said Mrs. Inglebyby to her
husband, at last regaining her powers of speech
" why, when you knew Arthur had all this
money, why did you let him go as a tutor to
the Macritchies ? I do not understand you at
all."

I did not expect you would," said Mr.
Inglebyby, with difficulty keeping his temper.
I explained all that just now, but you are
still too much flurried by your astonishment
to take in the sense of what I say. Gertrude
will be able to tell you what my motives were,
and how they have been thwarted."

"Then Gerty knew all about it!" — cried
Caroline, " Well, I never !" — and Mrs.
Inglebyby lifted up her hands in increased
amazement.

"Father," said Gertrude, "what do you
mean to do now ?"

"Do!" exclaimed Mr. Inglebyby— " I shall
go myself to London, partly to get at the

bottom of all this villainy, and partly to see
whether something may not yet be done, before
it is too late, to reclaim this unfortunate
young man ! "

"Unfortunate?" said Dick — " Oh, come,
you know, that's — " at which point the youth
was cut short by an angry "Silence, sir!"
from his father.

But the excitement kindled by Mr. Inglebyby's
tale was not to be repressed.

Why," said Mrs. Inglebyby, desperately
clinging to a concrete idea amid the chaos of
fancies that drove her almost to distraction —
why, Arthur will be able to come here now
and to live in a house with a Lodge !"

To Mrs. Inglebyby, the Lodge was the analogue
in the loftiest social sphere of the gig
of respectability. The idea of the Lodge was
the high-water mark of her imagination.
Having risen to this conception, the flood-tide
of thought began slowly to subside. And
then there came before Mrs. Inglebyby's inward
eye a vision of herself and her daughters
passing through her nephew's gilded gates ;

and she even allowed herself to speculate
whether Mr. Inglebyby might not at last ' setup'
a carriage, so that they might approach
Arthur's dwelling befittingly. It would be
so strange to walk humbly past the Lodge,
and up the avenue of their honoured kinsman
!

Caroline's fancy had meanwhile fluttered
away to a ball in her cousin's mansion — to
which Miss Macritchie was not invited — while
Dick's had folded its pinions above a billiard-table
in the same splendid abode. Suddenly,
however, Dick's face became overcast.

Oh, confound it !" he cried, " I know
what Arthur will do ! He'll buy a big yacht,
and go off to Norway, or Naples, or some of
those places — yes, that's what he'll do !"

"Richard!" exclaimed Mr. Inglebyby, "if
you cannot be sensible, I insist on your remaining
silent. These idle and worldly
remarks are simply disgraceful at a moment
when your cousin's fortune — the happiness of
his life, even — are at stake ; when he is still
in the hands of those unprincipled schemers."

But, Peter," said Mrs. Inglebyby, timidly,
I don't understand it, yet. Why should
Mr. Arden want to cheat Arthur, you know,
when Arthur is going to marry his daughter ? "

"You are worse than Eichard !" cried her
husband. " Will you never understand,
Matilda, that the thing you speak of is impossible
? — that it must not be ? Have I
not told you that this young woman is one
who — " and here Mr. Inglebyby gave a vigorous
sketch of a female character, apparently
compounded of Delilah and Manor Descant.

I always said Camilla Arden was cunning
and deceitful!" remarked Caroline. "Did I
not tell you so, Gertrude, from the very first ?"

You have no right to judge others uncharitably,
Caroline," said Mr. Inglebyby. " Such
conduct is most unbecoming in one of your
years. — Eichard ! Leave this room ! — I will
not permit you, nor any of my family, to
laugh at my words. — Leave this room, sir,
at once ! "

All right, I'll go," said Dick. " But oh !
I say, won't Arthur make the money spin ! "

He is a fool — a perfect hopeless fool!"
said Mr. Inglebyby. " I always told you what
he would be !" — and he glared at his wife, as
though she were the person solely responsible
for the melancholy fact.

You will go to London at once, father ?"
said Gertrude. " You won't let Arthur hear
the story from any one but yourself?"

Such is my intention, Gertrude," said Mr.
Inglebyby. " But I have a Duty — a Public Duty
of paramount importance to perform. When
that is done, I shall attend to Arthur's interests.
I shall leave for London by the mail
tomorrow night."

Next day, which was that of the Nomination,
Mr. Inglebyby performed his Public
Duty. Before the amazed and almost incredulous
eyes of Shawkirk, there was driven
slowly to the Court-House an open carriage,
wherein Bailie Trotter and Mr. Inglebyby appeared
sitting side by side, with Mr. Robert
Sanderson as their vis-a-vis. The Bailie was
all nods and backs and wreathed smiles ; his
broad red face glowed with self-complacence ;

and he kept waving his large dirty hands to
the shouting populace on either side. Mr.
Sanderson lounged on his seat with his hands
in his pockets, to the admiration of the Shaw-kirk
' chiefs,' who were more accustomed to
see the great Leader perched on the tram of a
coal-cart, and marvelled at the ease and grace
with which he accommodated himself to circumstances.
The Saumon lads and others
of the working-men made up a kind of informal
escort ; while the youth of Shawkirk,
following in the rear of the carriage, rent the
air with their cries. But Mr. Inglebyby sat
erect and unmoving, his eyes fixed on the
small of the coachman's back, his lips tightly
compressed, and his brow frowning, with all
the air of a Martyr to Duty — about as cheerful
an object as the slave in the triumphal
car of a Roman imperator.

Many were the comments, free and loudly-spoken,
called forth by Mr. Inglebyby's public
appearance as the Bailie's right-hand man.
Wha's yon wi' him i' the machine ?" — " It's
never auld Inglebyby?" — "Ay, but it's just

him, mates ! He's gain tae nominate the
Bailie"— "Aye, it's Coal Kob that's don't !
It's him that's gotten over the auld man !
Eh, lads, there's name like him ! "— " Who'd
ha' thocht o' seen' auld Inglebyby forefather'
with the working-man?" — these and such-like
ejaculations must certainly have reached Mr.
Inglebyby's ear ; but whatever he may have
thought, he made no sign.

The arrival of the carriage at the Courthouse
produced quite a sensation. Several of
Mr. Inglebyby's personal friends, first thunderstruck,
then indignant at this unparalleled
treachery to the cause of Capital, remonstrated
with him, interrogated, implored —
but in vain. Turpie was furious ; Hislop,
puzzled and uneasy ; Arden, seemingly indifferent.
Mr. Macritchie and the members of
the Conservative Committee, on the other
hand, could not conceal their elation. "That's
something like a split !" they said to each
other, and smiled gleefully, and rubbed
their hands. " So he's found out that
plausible swindler at last, has he?" remarked

Mr. Macritchie. " Well, of the two, Trotter's
not the worse. But they're not a nice pair
to have to choose between."

At one o'clock, there was affixed to the outer
door of the Court-House a notice-paper, with
the names of the candidates and their respective
nominators and seconders — Eobert Arden,
Stock-broker, Copthall Court and Hartington
Gardens, London, nominated by Mr. Turpie ;
Sholto Douglas Hepburn Eichie, commonly
called Lord Elvan, by Mr. James Macritchie ;

and Jabez Trotter, Warehouseman, , by

Mr. Peter Inglebyby.

The news ran through Shawkirk like wildfire,
that " auld Inglebyby had no-minaret the
Bailie." Nothing since the beginning of the
contest had so fanned the public excitement
as Mr. Inglebyby's coup de theatre. It made
him popular, for the first time in his life, with
the working-men, and his own hands at the
Victoria Works began to dream wild dreams
of a speedy ' rise.' Mr. Arden's supporters,
on the other hand, went about denouncing
Mr. Inglebyby as a turn-coat, a rat, a renegade,

a demagogue more dangerous than even the
Bailie himself. There was much speculation
in Shawkirk as to the reason of Mr. Inglebyby's
advocacy of the man whom he had been
known to refer to as " that incendiary
Trotter." Various theories were started, but
none of a convincing kind. Dick Inglebyby
found himself beguiled that clay into one bar
after another, where drinks were ' stood ' him,
and questions asked. By way of answer,
Dick dropped sundry dark hints, in a confidential
whisper, as to a mysterious Something
which he might reveal if he chose ; but
further than that he could not be tempted.
He reached home, late that night, in a
somewhat dishevelled and excited state.
Fortunately for Dick, however, Mr. Inglebyby
was already gone. His Public Duty performed,
he had left for London; and while
Shawkirk yet rang with praise, and abuse,
of him, was rushing southward in the night
express.

CHAPTER XIX.

ELECTIONEERING.

On the evening of the Nomination day, a
great man made his entry into Shawkirk.
On that evening a small band of politicians
among whom Calder the engineer, Sandy
Tennant the slater, and Mr. David Messer
were conspicuous — might have been seen at
the railway station, awaiting the arrival of one
of the local trains. These men spoke seldom,
and their faces wore an expression of solemn
expectancy. When the train drew up to the
platform they crowded eagerly in front of a
third-class compartment, whence the countenance
of Mr. Laidlaw from Yetholm protruded,
flushed and exultant.

' I've got him, Calder ! " shouted Mr. Laidlaw,
as he sprang to the platform — then,

turning to the compartment — " Hoo are ye
feeling' yersel', Tammas?"he asked anxiously.
Come awa',> man, come your ways ! Here's
Mester Messer and the Saumon lads waiting' on
ye ! — Man, Calder, but he's in gran' fettle,
the auld man ! As canty as ever !"

Two collie dogs, models of sedateness, next
came forth from the carriage. Then there
appeared an old, old man, with a wrinkled,
puckered, ill-natured face, a shaggy white
beard, a grey ' maud,' and a shepherd's
crook. Calder and the others crowded round
to shake him by the hand, but the old man
took no notice of their greetings. He stood
for some time in the centre of his admirers,
taking snuff with a spoon, and coughing
violently an asthmatic cough. Then Messrs.
Laidlaw and Calder placed him between them ;
the two collie dogs followed at his heels ;
the rest of the deputation closed in behind ;
and the procession thus formed set out for
Mr. Messer's abode. That night it was
known throughout Shawkirk that the Saumon
lads had "brocht over auld Trumbull" — -

and speculation was rife as to the political
movement thereby foreshadowed.

Mr. Thomas Turnbull had at one time been
a dweller in Shawkirk. He had been cordially
disliked in the borough as a cantankerous
niggard, whose sole joy lay in the propagation
of scandal. He had a positive genius for
sifting out ugly secrets regarding his neighbours.
If a man had a skeleton in his cupboard,
Mr. Turnbull was sure to make the
grisly thing rattle its bones in the marketplace.
Thus it came to pass that in the
fulness of time Mr. Turnbull made the
borough too hot to hold him, and was fain
to betake him to the solitude of a pastoral
life. Thenceforward he dwelt in one of those
lone green valleys where the traveller hears
no sound save the wail of the wind and the
plash of the burn over the grey boulders,
the 'whistling of plover and bleating of
sheep' — where he half-expects to come upon
the still glowing embers of a Covenanters'
fire. There Mr. Turnbull brooded deeply
over men and things. There his memory

kept fresh and green the scandals of a past
generation, until the rolling years brought
about a revulsion of opinion among his former
fellow-townsmen. The Solitary came to be
regarded as a Sage. Men who had visited
him in his lonely vale came back to proclaim
at the bar and the street-corner the profound
things the recluse had said on politics, and
the strange and racy revelations he had made
concerning Shawkirk's mightiest. At last,
during an election, he had emerged from
his retirement, and become a ' voice ' at
various political meetings — a voice which
covered speakers with confusion, and thrilled
their hearers with delight. Thereafter his
reputation was established. He was looked
upon by the most advanced thinkers in the
borough as a living repository of social and
political lore. It was they who had despatched
Mr. Laidlaw to bring him forth
from his seclusion, as Eumenides the Cretan
was brought forth of old, when a crisis had
arisen in the haunts of Hellenic men.

VOL. II. n

It required no urgent solicitation to bring
Mr. Turnbull to his native town. The present
contest offered a specially tempting field
for the exercise of his peculiar gifts. To bea
' voice ' was no longer within his power,
as his asthma had become chronic, and he
was unable to speak above a husky half-whisper.
But at least he could inspire other
voices ; ' for which purpose, indeed, Messrs.
Laidlaw and Calder had sought his aid.

It was necessary to husband Mr. Turnbull's
strength, and likewise to isolate him, so far
as possible, from the madding crowd, which
might in its rashness have sullied the clear
well of truth. So they watched over him
with more than filial care ; and took as much
pains to secure him from public attention as
if he had been a Russian Czar or a Derby
favourite. It had been arranged that the
old man should sojourn, during the election,
under Mr. Messer's hospitable roof. There
they stayed him with flagons, and eagerly
awaited the exposition of his views. But
1 Tarn mas ' — as he was addressed by his

familiars — proved to be crustily reticent, to
the disappointment of the conclave in Mrs.
Messer's kitchen.

We'd be wondering Tammas, I've warrant
ye," observed Mr. Messer, " when ye heard
tell about auld Inglebyby ? Wasna' that a
queer gate for him tae gang, takin' up withe
Bailie, yon way ?"

Tammas vouchsafed no answer.

I could' believe my ain been," said
Calder, " when I saw the auld man sitting'
yonder wi' his glow'rin' face aside the Bailie,
after a' that's come an' gave. I'm thinking',
noo, Tammas, that Arden an' him maun hae
cuist foot ? I've wager ye ken mair about it
yersel' than ony o' us."

Mr. Turnbull took snuff with a spoon, but
said nothing.

I'm thinking' Coal Eob had something' tae
dae wit," remarked Mr. Laidlaw. " He's a
clever man, Mester Hislop, but Coal Bower
mony for him."

"Ay," assented Mr. Messer, "what Coal
Eob diana' ken about the politics is no earth

kennin'. It was an ill day for Arden when
he gazed again' him."

He's no dune wi' Arden yet," said Sandy
Tennant oracularly.

This remark, coming from such an authority,
was followed by an interval of silence.
Then Mr. Calder gave expression to the
general curiosity.

"What's he gain tae dae, Sandy?" he
said. " Tell us a' about it, man ! We're a'
friend's here."

"Nae coot," replied the slater; "but ye
mauna' speer at me. Bide a bit, lads, an'
ye'll see for yersel's. It's something' by
ordinary', though — the like o't hanna' been
seen in the borough ! "

"I thocht sae," said Mr. Calder. "I saw
Coal Eob at the Saumon Inn the day. an'
thinks I tae myself', 'Ay, my man, gif ye
speak foot a' that's in your thoughts, we'd put
the fear o' death on some folks!' — He diana'
say muckle, Coal Eob, but he's aye thinking.
He'll dae for Arden yet, an' that ye'll see !"

Arden was cain' here the day," observed

Mr. Messer, between two puffs of his clay-pipe
— " an' Hislop wi' him, seeking' ma vote
an' interest."

"Ay? An' what did he say til' ye?"
inquired Mr. Laidlaw.

"He's a real weevil-spoken gentleman," put
in Mrs. Messer.

"They're aye that at election times, his
kind," said her husband. " He shook ban's
wi' me, an' the mistress, an' said I was an
auld friend' o' his. He minded me fine when
I was in Lynn's works."

"An what did ye say til' him, David?"
asked Calder.

Oh, I said I wadna' promise tae vote for
him — no' that I had anything' again' him,
but I thocht that the Bailie was a better
man for the likes o' us. Then he begot
tae crack wi' me about young Mester Lynn.
They're unco' chief, tae believe him, up thar
whaup he comes frae,"

That's gey an' queer," remarked Calder.
Did ye see yon in the Warden, David ?
If a' yon's true, or the half o't, he canna'

be the right Men for young Mester Lynn,
I'm thinking."

"Mebbe it's true," said Mr. Messer, "an'
mebbe it's no'. It'll no' dae tae lippen tae
a' ye hear at election times. — Man, he
was a real fine lad, young Mester Lynn !
Ye min' hoo he used to sit here an' give
us his crack ? An' tae think o' him haein
tae learn yon twa laddies their letters, an'
his father the richest man, since, in the
borough !"

His father was a grand man," said Sandy
Tennant ; " a true friend' o' the working-man.
There's mony a ane in Shawkirk rues the
day when the Lynnfleld works was stopped.
I'm thinking' ye'll no fin' a maister among
them a', noo, that 'ud put his han' in his
pocket for the guide o' the working-man. Ita'
sat speaking' nowadays, an' ne'er a sax-pence
tae come foot o't."

That's what I like about the Bailie," said
Mr. Caller. "He diana' give ye a lot o' big
words, like Arclen, but just gangs straight
tae the pint. He card on me the other day

tae seek for my vote, an' says he tae me,
'Weel, Calder, hoo's a' thing wi' ye?' says
he. ' No' weel ava,' says I, ' times is bad,
Bailie.' 'Aye,' says he, 'but we'll sure hae
them made better. There's over muckle
clash in the Parliament already,' says he,
an' gin ye want mair, ye'll just hae tae put
in the other man. But gin ye want your
wages up, ye'll hae tae put in me. Ye maun
strengthen the han's o' William Ewart Gladstone,'
says he."

"Ay," said Mr. Messer approvingly, "that
was right. We maun strengthen his han's.
The masters hae had it a' their ain way lang
eneuch. But we'll see a change yet — eh,
Tammas ?"

Tammas,' however, continued irresponsive.
It was in vain that they sought to
decoy the Border Apemantus either into general
political debate, or into criticism of the
candidates. The oracle was as mute as the
oaks of Dodona ; and the conversation turned
next to the public meetings of the morrow,
and to the ' dressing ' which, as it appeared,

Mr. Arden was to receive at the hands of the
redoubtable Sandy.

The following day was one of increased excitement
in Shawkirk. Wherever men congregated,
their talk was of the election, and of
nothing else. All manner of rumours flew
about the town, not a few of them connected
with the name of Mr. Inglebyby. Everyone in
Shawkirk took a keen interest in the affairs
of everyone else ; and various theories were
started to account for Mr. Inglebyby's singular
proceedings. It was felt that something very
unusual must have occurred, to draw him away
from the borough at the height of a contested
election. But Mr. Inglebyby had impressed on
his household the duty of secrecy ; and had
laid on all gossip so strict an embargo that it
was vain for Mrs. Macritchie to cross-question
Mrs. Inglebyby and the ' dear girls ' — or for the
young men on the various committees to waylay
Dick, and inveigle him into bars. Try as
they might, they could glean no certain information
; only vague and tantalising hints as
to surprises yet in store.

No man ever knew what trials were endured,
what labours accomplished by Mr. Hislop in
those days. It was his to counteract, so far as
possible, the adverse influence of Mr. Inglebyby's
sudden antagonism ; and to keep a watchful
eye on the doings of Mr. Sanderson, whose
repertory of political tricks was, as he believed,
not yet exhausted. But the hardest of his
tasks was to keep his client, as he phrased it,
up to the scratch." The tidings of Mr.
Inglebyby's hasty departure had filled Mr. Arden
with a consuming desire to follow straightway
on his trail. His dislike of Shawkirk grew
into positive loathing, as he thought of himself
tied down to that abominable place, while his
adversary, up in London, was working against
him unopposed. If only he were within reach
of Lynn's ear, Mr. Inglebyby would not find it so
easy to poison the young man's mind against
him. That, however, could not be, so long as
the election was in progress ; and in the meantime,
there was no saying what harm might be
done. Twice he had written to his daughter,
without receiving an answer ; a circumstance

which added to his uneasiness. For Camilla's
influence was now the only thing he had to
trust to, as against Mr. Inglebyby's malign
interference.

Mr. Arden spoke to his agent about leaving
the contest to go on for forty-eight hours without
him, while he made a flying visit to the
metropolis on urgent private affairs. But Mr.
Hislop shook his head. " It would be fatal,"
he said; "it would infallibly lose you the seat."
Now Mr. Arden did not wish to lose the seat,
after spending so much money and enduring
so much tribulation to gain it. So he gave up
the idea of pursuing Mr. Inglebyby, wrote
another letter to his daughter, and persevered
in his hateful task — not, however, without
certain cold fits and shirking of the disagreeable
which added to Mr. Hislop's troubles.

You must do these things, my dear sir,"
the agent would say to him, " if you want to
sit for a Scotch borough. You must go to
them hat in hand. After they elect you, you
know, you can put on your hat, and walk
away."

But if they don't elect me ?"

Whatever you do, you must not breathe a
doubt of that. Besides, I honestly think you
will go in. Inglebyby has done us some harm,
but nothing that may not be retrieved. They
can't stomach Trotter, a lot of the people here.
The masters hate him, because he's a Socialist,
or next to it — and the men, that is, the most
of them, because he's a Permissive Bill-ite.
The Teetotalers, of course, will go for him
solid, but certainly no other class in the
borough."

Not the Liberationists ?"

I don't think so. Besides, the Church is
stronger here than you would suppose. I tell
you what it is, Mr. Arden — I have been pretty
nearly all round to-day, and I think our prospects
are looking bright, sir — decidedly bright.
There's a great number of people suspending
their judgment — they will be swayed by your
big speech to-night either one way or the
other. You know well enough what to say.
Once get you on the platform, Mr. Arden, and
I've no fear for the upshot. The Bailie can

make a row, but they're used to him, you see.
Now, there's something fresh in your style,
something novel, and all that. It takes with
the people here, I assure you. It's a God's
mercy, Mr. Arden, that you can speak, at all
events."

Thanks," said Mr. Arden.

The Corn Exchange at Shawkirk was a large
oblong building, with a vaulted roof, rows of
tall windows, and an asphalted floor. At one
end was a spacious platform ; facing that, a
small gallery. Long before the hour of Mr.
Arden's meeting the hall was packed with
electors and non-electors, who had come in
their hundreds to test — and expand — the candidate's
knowledge of politics. The gallery
had been taken possession of by the 'Saumon
lads ' and their sympathisers, whose demeanour
made it evident, even before the proceedings
began, that the meeting would be a
lively one. There, in the most conspicuous seat
of the gallery, just over the clock, a place had
been found for the Sage ; and round him were
gathered Laidlaw, Calder, Wattie Messer, and

other kindred spirits. There, also, was seated
Sandy Tennant, not joining in the jest and
short, but wearing a look of grave pre-occupation,
as became one whose function at an
election meeting was known and recognised.
There, also, was the great leader, Coal Eob
himself, seated by his lieutenant's side. His
presence in the Corn Exchange gave rise to
some comment, for Bailie Trotter was also to
address a public meeting that night ; and there
was no known reason in Mr. Sanderson's case,
as there was in Sandy Tennant's, why he
should not have been there to back up his own
candidate. No one, however, ventured to ask
Mr. Sanderson what he was doing in that
gallery, nor why he fixed such an anxiously
expectant gaze on the side-door from which
Mr. Arden and his supporters would emerge
on the platform.

At last the candidate appeared. He was
received with a thunder of plaudits from the
body of the hall ; and, from the gallery, with
a chorus of sounds locally known as ' boone.'
Mr. Arden was followed by Mr. Turpie, Mr,

Hislop, and the members of his Committee.
As the great men of Shawkirk one by one
appeared, they were saluted with appropriate
cries. These cries came chiefly from the
front of the gallery, whence Laidlaw, Calder,
and their friends gave publicity to the personalities
croaked forth by the Sage. " What
wull 'oo cry tae this ane, Tammas?" — they
asked, as the Shawkirk notables were in turn
recognised. Then the aged man — his eyes
blinking with malign glee, and his withered
face lit up with impish animation — would tell
them things, Doric and pungent, rankling
and mystical — the essence of the scandals of
the days of old — which no one could hear
said of him and remain unabashed.

But Mr. Sanderson sat silent amid the din,
his gaze still fixed on the platform-door. All
at once his features relaxed, and his eyes
glistened. Among the last of Mr. Arden's
committee, still defiling from the ante-room,
a tall, spare, dark man in a black cloak had
suddenly appeared. Those on the platform,
busied in finding themselves seats, did not at

first understand the reason of the hush which
fell upon the crowded hall. But presently a
low, significant murmur arose in Mr. Sanderson's
neighbourhood, and gradually spread
until it reached the platform itself. Mr.
Sanderson had risen to his feet in manifest
excitement, grasping Sandy Tennant by the
sleeve. " It's him, Sandy" he said ; " it's the
Infidel, praise the Lord! Man, but this is
gran! I was fearing' that mebbe Cooper had
bungled the job after a', but ye see he's gotten
him ! Noo, I maun be aff tae look after the
Bailie — ye're got the questions wi' ye ? — ye'll
mak' it a' right wi' Arden?" Mr. Tennant
said nothing. He only nodded, and smiled
grimly.

Mr. Hislop had by this time observed with
fury and dismay the advent of the Pariah
among his client's supporters. Raising his
eyes to the gallery, he saw Mr. Robert
Sanderson hurrying forth from the hall ; and
knew at once from what quarter this underhand
blow had come. Some surprise of the
kind he had looked for, but nothing so startling

and original as this. A feeling of secret
admiration mingled itself with Mr. Hislop's
wrath against the rival party manager.

This was the stroke of diplomacy which has
made the name of Coal Eob immortal in
the Shawkirk Boroughs — in which, as all men,
whether friends or foes, acknowledged, that
great leader reached the high water mark,
the ne "plus ultra of electioneering strategy.
Knowing well the odium that would cling to
any cause publicly espoused by the Man in
the Cloak, Mr. Sanderson had set himself to
solve this problem : — How to get the Infidel
on Mr. Arden's side, and on Mr. Arden's
platform ? After drinking deeply on the
subject, and preserving a silence of three
days, Mr. Sanderson had despatched an
emissary to the Infidel's abode, with the
request that he would allow his name to be
added to Mr. Arden's committee-list, and give
that gentleman his support on the platform
at the Corn Exchange. The Infidel had
consented, and the thing was done, with a
result which quite answered Mr. Sanderson's

expectations. The appearance of a water-bailiff
on that platform could hardly have
been more prejudicial to Mr. Arden's interests.
The orthodox Liberals of Shawkirk were hors
to find such an ally in their ranks.
One of the U.P. and one of the Free Kirk
ministers, who held conspicuous places by the
candidate's side, shuddered at the sight and
were afraid ; knowing well what allusions
would be made to them by Mr. Smail, in his
next leader in the Border Warden. A
number of the waverers, who had come
to Mr. Arden's meeting to have their minds
made up, began to question whether they
could conscientiously vote for the candidate
round whom incarnate Atheism had thus
rallied. So far, Mr. Sanderson's intrigue had
been brilliantly successful.

Attention was diverted from the Infidel, for
the present at least, by the moving of Mr.
Turpie, of the Townhead Tannery, into the
chair. Mr. Turpie introduced the candidate
whom he referred to as " my honourable
friend" — in the fragments of an eloquent

VOL. II. o

speech, which he had delivered with much
fluency to the chairs and tables of his sitting-room
on at least twelve previous occasions.
Who, pensioned the air for the pair folk ?" —
shouted a Voice, in the middle of Mr. Turpie's
most ornate period. " It's a lie!" shouted
back Mr. Turpie, whom this often-tried insinuation
never failed to ' draw' — " I tell you, I
never — " the remainder of the defence being
lost in a roar of laughter from the audience.
Allusions to the odorous side of the leather
industry were frequent during the rest of Mr.
Turpie's performance ; and as the speaker invariably
stopped to notice these and to repel
them, he became exceedingly hot and flustered
before resuming his seat.

Then Mr. Arden stepped to the front of
the platform. He was to all appearance perfectly
cool ; and waited with quiet deliberation
until the alternate storms of applause
and hissing had spent themselves, before
beginning his speech. Mr. Arden had a
pleasant voice, which could be distinctly
heard in every part of the hall ; so that

though they shouted " Speak up !" to him,
the exhortation was understood to be merely
formal. Some critics, it is true, were disappointed
by the want of breadth in his
accent — it was so unlike the 'large utterance'
of the Bailie. Mr. Messer's sense of justice,
however, constrained him to remind those
cavillers that Mr. Gladstone himself had
spoken "just that way." This, of course,
settled the matter ; further objection, after
that, would have seemed frivolous — almost
profane.

Mr. Arden, acting on his agent's hint, began
his speech by a high-pitched reference to his
early life in Shawkirk. He spoke of his
intimacy with and regard for the late Mr.
Lynn of Lynnfield — a man than whom, as
many in that hall knew, the working-men of
Scotland had never had a truer friend. It
was a privilege to have known such a man —
to have held converse with him — to have
helped him, were it never so humbly, in
working out his great designs. His own
attention had been first turned to politics,

and especially to the fundamental, crucial
question of the Eights of Labour, by that
large-hearted, high-souled, self-sacrificing man
one of the very noblest of Scottish philanthropists
— whose misfortune and glory it
was to have marched too far in advance of
his generation.

Here the Sage, who had been listening eagerly
to each word as it dropped from Mr. Arden's
lips, seemed to struggle with an inspiration —
as the Pythoness struggled, when inspired and
mastered by the god. " Ay, Tammas?" said
Calder anxiously, "foot wit — what isn't, man?"
"Cry til' him" — whispered the Sage — "Cry,
1 Aha plucked the auld man ? ' " — and here Mr.
Turnbull was seized with a prolonged and
violent fit of coughing. Then Calder cried
with an exceeding cry : — " Wha plucked the
auld man?" — " Tae feather his ain nest,"
croaked the Sage. — " Tae feather his ain
nest ?" — bellowed Mr. Laidlaw — and then the
flow of oratory ceased, and for some time
confusion reigned in the hall.

The Sage's shot was not wasted. It spoiled

the effect of Mr. Arden's tremolo passage,
which had so far been highly effective. It
obviously disconcerted the speaker ; and gave
the Lotteries an opportunity of saying
"Ah, ha!" — in a meaning way that made
Mr. Arden's supporters feel somewhat uncomfortable.


At length order was restored, and Mr. Arden
went on with his speech, eschewing further
reference to his studies in philanthropy at
Lynnfield. All through his harangue he had
to reckon with Mr. Laidlaw, Mr. Calder and
the Saumon lads, who interjected their questions
— usually introduced by the formula
What about" — at frequent and deftly-chosen
intervals. All through the night the
Sage went back into the * moonlight of
memory,' and brought forth jewels rich and
rare of reminiscence, to be hurled at the
heads of the candidate and his chief supporters.
But Mr. Arden proved himself a
match for his assailants. Most of their
thrusts he ignored ; some he parried with an
apparent good-humour that won the favour of

the audience ; others he turned skilfully to
his own advantage. Mr. Hislop sat behind
his client's chair, rubbing his hands, and murmuring,
" Capital ! capital !" — at all the good
points. Mr. Arden's peroration, in particular,
was allowed to have been one of the best
things in oratory that Shawkirk had ever
heard. It was solemn, dignified, impressive ;
and as it consisted for the most part of a
panegyric on the Prime Minister, it could not,
of course, be interrupted as other portions of
the speech had been. Mr. Arden sat down
amid a clamour of applause, with the proud
consciousness of having ' scored.' The sounds
of disapproval from the gallery were swallowed
up and lost in the mighty cheering that arose
from the body of the hall. The gentlemen
on the platform stood up, waving their hats ;
the audience followed suit. A son of toil
near the front of the platform mounted on
the back of a seat, and held out a dirty hand
to Mr. Arden, who leant forward and grasped
warmly the fingers of his admirer. This bit
of bye-play evoked much enthusiasm. Then

some one on the platform called for " Three
cheers for our future member ! " — and the
cheers were given with full effect. It seemed
to Mr. Arden, at that moment of exultation,
as if the election were virtually won — as if he
had already taken his seat for the Shawkirk
Boroughs.

Mr. Arden was, however, promptly recalled
to a sense of his true position. The Chairman
intimated that any elector who wished
to put a question to the candidate would now
have the opportunity of doing so. Then
there was a pause ; for no elector in all that
assemblage would have violated the unwritten
code which assigned the pas to the arch-healer
of Shawkirk. At last Mr. Tennant
rose in the front of the gallery; every face
was at once turned towards him, and many
voices gave him greeting. Mr. Tennant opened
his mouth to speak, but his first words were
lost in a great shout of " Platform ! Platform !"
which rose from all parts of the hall. Then
there was some laughter, with jocular cries of
Come wa' toon, man !" — " Speel over the

gallery !" — " Whaup's your leader ?" — etc.
Mr. Tennant, resisting these blandishments,
made his way by the staircase to the body of
the hall, and was at once passed on to the
platform. There he stood, looked Mr. Arden
steadily, almost truculently, in the face, and
put one hand in his trousers pocket. This
was to show how cool he was. In his other
hand he held out before him a dirty scrap of
paper. Thus he stood for some moments,
statuesque and silent, and the attitude roused
the audience to enthusiasm. Macaulay tells
us how the banished cavaliers felt an emotion
of national pride when they saw a brigade of
the old companions of Cromwell, outnumbered
by foes and abandoned by friends, drive before
it in headlong rout the finest infantry of
Spain. Thus it was that even Mr. Arden's
warmest supporters felt when they saw their
townsman standing forth — grimy, moleskin-clad,
and imperturbable — to give this rich and
ambitious Londoner a lesson in politics. It
was a proud moment for Mr. Tennant.
Heckle him weel, Sandy ! Heckle him

weel!" — roared the audience. The catechist
accepted the ovation as his due, smiled menacingly
on Mr. Arden, coughed artistically,
took a glance at his scrap of paper, and began.
Mr. Arden had a very bad quarter of an
hour with Sandy Tennant — in fact, the worst
of the many bad quarters of an hour he had
had since the contest opened. He was asked
his opinion about obscure clauses in bills of
which he had never heard. He was asked
whether he would vote for or against certain
private members' motions, of whose drift he
was profoundly ignorant. Had Mr. Tennant
catechised him about the Church question or
the Drink question, about the Equalisation of
the Borough and County Franchise, the Extension
of the hours of polling, or the Abolition of
Entail — Mr. Arden would have had his answer
ready. But Mr. Tennant knew better than
that. He did not ask a question which was
not a trap. His object was, not to test the
candidate's knowledge, nor even to ascertain
his opinions, but simply to expose his ignorance.
It would have taken a far cleverer man

than Mr. Arden to win this game, in which
all the advantage lay with his opponent.
Would you" — asked Mr. Tennant, beginning
with his usual formula — " if returned as member
for the Shawkirk Boroughs, support an
amendment on the Ballot Act, with the view
of making canvassing illegal ? " — "Certainly,"
said Mr. Arden with cordial emphasis, thinking
that an affirmative answer was wanted, and
remembering his own experiences of the last
few days. But this reply was received with a
howl of disapprobation ; the Shawkirk electorate,
it appeared, had no idea of being represented
in Parliament by one who had not sued
for its suffrages, hat in hand ; and Mr. Tennant
smiled on his victim a pitying smile. This slip
taught Mr. Arden caution. To other questions
he answered that he had not yet decided on this
point — that he would give it his most careful
consideration — that he would be guided in his
vote by the opinion of his constituents. But
Mr. Tennant would have no shuffling. He
had put a plain question, and he would have a
plain answer — "Yes or No?" — "Ay, that's

right, Sanely," roared the audience again,
that's fair — Yes or No?" — Then the Chairman
intervened to put down Mr. Tennant, and Mr.
Tennant promptly put down the Chairman.
He stood upon his rights. He would not have
the candidate prompted by any man on that
platform (Mr. Hislop having been detected at
this point whispering words of counsel to his
client). He would put the question again, he
said sternly ; and demanded an answer, " Yes
or No." Mr. Arden still declining to commit
himself, fierce cries of disapproval rose from
the hall. " Ay, that's . fair ! "— " Yes or No ?"
" Slate him, Sandy !"— " Heckle him weel !"
" He's got a slate lose, I'm thinking'" — the
allusions to the catechist's lofty calling being
followed by roars of laughter. Mr. Tennant
wound up his string of questions by some of a
distinctly personal kind, dealing with the candidate's
religious opinions, his business, his
relations with the party managers, and his preference
for London over Shawkirk as a place of
residence. These questions the Chairman —
who had been feeling himself for the time a

very inferior person to Mr. Tennant — pronounced
out of order ; and then interfered to
end the torture. A show of hands was called
for, and was given very greatly in Mr. Arden's
favour. Then a gentleman rose to his feet to
make a speech about the Chairman, and the
audience rose to theirs to make their way to
the door — amid cheers for "Arden," "the
Bailie," and " Mester Gladstone."

That's over, anyhow," said Mr. Arden,
when he had got back to his hotel along with
Mr. Hislop, after receiving the congratulations
of his friends and committee-men.

"And well over, sir," said Mr. Hislop. " It
was a good speech, Mr. Arden — a very good
speech. That bit about Mr. Lynn was Al —
and your finish up with Gladstone, you know,
was excellent. Could not have been better."

"They seemed to interrupt a good deal,"
said Mr. Arden, a little doubtfully.

Oh, that was nothing — they always do.
Trotter will have to go through the mill just
the same — and as for the heckling, it's a
mere bit of comedy, you know. The meeting

would not have been right, without it. Nobody
could have answered that rascal slater's
questions. You did as well as any man could
have done."

"Glad you think so, I'm sure. Now, I'll
just have one cigar, and then turn in. You
don't need to come for me before eleven o'clock
tomorrow, Hislop — I never felt so thoroughly
fagged out, all my life before."

Chapter XX.

WEARY OF FEIGNING.

The longer Arthur Lynn reflected on Camilla's
behaviour towards him that Sunday
in Kensington Gardens, the more perplexed
and anxious he became. He repeated to
himself that her changed manner could not
possibly be due to the influence of Mr.
Dulcimer. None the less would he have
been pleased to learn that Mr. Dulcimer
had left town for the Sunny South, or any
other region. It certainly looked suspicious,
his lingering on in Camilla's neighbourhood,
after the London season was over.

The Lone Peak Silver Mine, also, was still
a cause of uneasiness to Lynn. It was, on
the whole, a relief to him that he had sent
that letter to his uncle ; though at times he

told himself that he had been wrong in so
doing — that he had shown himself too ready
to think evil of Mr. Arden, who had so
warmly befriended him. But the seeds of
mistrust had been sown ; and though a
moment's calm reflection had convinced him
that Camilla could have no hand in any
such matter, and that her few broken words
about " deceiving " him, whatever they referred
to, could not have referred to that
still, so far as Mr. Arden himself was
concerned, Lynn was disposed to suspend
his judgment. He always read the City
articles now, and the things he saw there
did not tend to reassure him. The Forum,
in its references to Lone Peaks, was
guarded, but on the whole not adverse. But
there was another journal wherein certain
angry letters appeared, signed " Victim,"
accusing Mr. Arden and his co-directors of
buying in the shares of their own company,
in order to force up the market value of
the new stock. Then another correspondent
wrote in defence of the directors, insinuating

that " Victim " was an impostor, who only
wanted to ' bear ' the stock for his own base
purposes. The result of the controversy, sofar
as Lynn was concerned, was to leave
him in utter confusion of mind, but not to
strengthen his faith in the Lone Peak as a
sound commercial undertaking.

Between these two sources of trouble, Lynn
was scarcely competent to bring to his work
on the Forum that concentration of thought
and strict attention to minutiae which efficient
sub-editing demands. He was haunted by
Camilla's face, with the look of pain and
pleading it had worn when he saw it last.
That face came between him and his paragraphs
continually, drawing him away from
the railway accidents, Irish murders, and
Salvation Army riots that ought to have
engaged his mind. He felt that he could
bear it no longer. He resolved that he would
see Camilla once more. Then, surely, he
would find that he had been exaggerating a
passing coldness, giving undue weight to a
moment's pique,

Lynn accordingly called at Hartington
Gardens — and was informed by the impassive
French that Miss Arden was "not at
home." He called again on the following
day, and met with the same reception. Lynn
was now sure that he was being deceived
not by Camilla — no, he would not for a
moment suspect her — but by Mrs. Chevenix.
This was, no doubt, her idea of diplomacy.
She had looked on him from the first, ashe
well knew, with extreme disfavour ; and
was now, presumably, trying with vulgar
malice to prevent him from seeing Camilla
in Mr. Arden's absence.

But Lynn was determined that he should
not be baulked by Mrs. Chevenix. That
lady was capable of directing a servant to
lie ; but she would scarcely dare to intercept
a letter. He wrote to Camilla a brief
note of the playfully tender, gently reproachful
type — to which the appropriate answer
would have been "Come!" This missive
remained unanswered, and Lynn concluded

VOL. II. p

that Camilla must be out of town. One
afternoon, however, he saw her in the Park.
She was riding along the now almost deserted
Kow ; and her cavalier was Mr. Dulcimer.
Lynn went home in a fury of jealousy.
He did not contribute greatly that night to
the bringing out of the Forum.

The next day Lynn rose early — about
noon — and determined to work off his depression,
if possible, by a row up the river.
But a pull of ten miles in the rain did
not make him feel any the more cheerful ;
and he came back to his lodgings thoroughly
out of spirits. There the maid-of-all-work
informed him that a gentleman had called
during his absence, who desired to see
him on pressing business, and would return
for that purpose about five. It did
not seem likely to Lynn that any business
which concerned him could be particularly
pressing, and he went out before five o'clock,
forgetting all about this unknown visitor.
A solitary dinner in a Fleet Street chophouse
— coffee and a cigar afterwards in a

neighbouring divan — left him as depressed
as ever. He ought, of course, to have found
a solace in Work, according to the maxims
of all the preachers. But it seemed to Lynn
quite certain that the preachers must have
known nothing about sub-editing.

Indeed, as he walked along to the office
that night, he felt quite convinced that in
his present mood he would do no good either
to himself or to the Forum. He was conscious
of a strong impulse to hasten at once
to Mr. Arden's house. The evening was
certainly tempting. The freshness of recent
rain was in the air ; a cool, light wind
was sweeping away the clouds ; the western
sky was radiant with flying colour. Lynn
looked into the dark entrance of the Forum
office. The black passage, with the dim
lamp burning in it — the oily odour — the
thought of the room above, stifling, gas-lit,
vocal with the war-cry of the foreman —
these things, he felt, were too much for
him, just then. No — come of it what might,
he could not go in there at that moment.

Besides, the ' copy ' would not come in heavily
for some time yet, and Sugden, he knew,
would be quite fit to ' tackle ' it till he
returned. Sugden had nothing on his mind.
Meanwhile, he would see Camilla. He would
learn the truth from her lips, and return to
the house of bondage either definitely knowing
the worst, or having his doubts melted
into air. On the whole, Lynn leant to the
latter hypothesis, as he turned him from
the now hateful office, and set his face to
the West.

It is a sad confession to have to make
regarding one who entered upon life with
Lynn's opportunities. For to begin poor, ashe
had begun, is to have the chance of
raising oneself into riches ; and to do that
is, of course, to achieve the modern equivalent
of heroism. But then, that was not exactly
in Lynn's way. It must be owned, moreover,
that though he felt two or three conscientious
twinges as he left the Forum office further
behind him, the sense of truanting gave a not
unpleasant spice of excitement to his reflections.

His spirits rose as he approached
Hartington Gardens. The wet, gleaming
streets, the tossing trees, the windy pale-blue
sky overhead, the long lamp-lit vistas with
the glimpses of sunset beyond — seemed the
fore warrant of some charming romantic incident.
He would not put that in peril by
going prosaically to the door of Mr. Arden's
house, possibly to meet with another rebuff.
He would reconnoitre.

Lynn accordingly turned down the lane that
separated Mr. Arden's from the adjoining property,
and led to the stables behind. He had
reason to congratulate himself on this flank
movement, for, glancing through the railings,
he had a glimpse of a white dress fluttering
among the shrubs beyond. Lynn did not
doubt that this must be Camilla; he knew
that she often walked there. He tried the side
gate, found it unlocked, and at once entered
the garden.

There was a privet hedge on either side of
him, and in front a shaded walk. It was dusk ;
the air was moist and full of fragrance ; the

trees were shining and dripping after the
recent shower. He heard the sound of
Camilla's footstep on the gravel, as she came
slowly down the walk towards the side-path
where he was standing. Then he saw her pass
before him. Even in the twilight he fancied
that she looked unusually pale ; and so deep
in thought she seemed, that she would have
gone by without noticing him if he had not
spoken.

Camilla !" he said, softly.

She started, looked up, and saw him, but
there was no smile of recognition on her face.

My darling !" he cried; " have I frightened
you ? I should not have come at this
time and in this way, but how else was I to
see you ? And I must see you, Camilla !"

You have — startled me, a little," she said,
drawing back from him.

Camilla," he said at last, " there is something
wrong. Something — or someone — has
come between us. Are you displeased at my
coming here ? Shall I go without saying
another word to you ?"

No — I am not displeased at your coming.
Perhaps it is better that you have come. I
have sought to avoid you, but that was mere
weakness on my part."

You have sought to avoid me ?" repeated
Lynn slowly.

Yes."

And you left my letter unanswered ?"

Yes."

"Camilla," said Lynn, "what does this
mean ? Tell me what has happened within
these few weeks to change you so ? Is it anything
that I have said or done ? — anything
that has made you angry with me ?"

Nothing — nothing ! It is not I who have
any cause to be angry."

Then, what is it ? What are you keeping
from me ? Remember, we cannot afford to
have lovers' quarrels. It is only the people
for whom everything has been made smooth
who can."

This is not a lovers' quarrel. It need not
be a quarrel at all. I wish — yes, I wish it
were that, and nothing more !"

Camilla, let me know the worst ! Whatever
it is, I must know it some time — and I
wish to know it now."

I — I cannot tell you," she said at last.
You will know soon enough. But I cannot
tell you."

Has your father spoken against me ?"
persisted Lynn. "Is it he who has prompted
you to — to — "

No, no ! He has not spoken against you.
He would be angry with me if — if he heard
me now. No one has prompted me to do
what I am doing. It is all of my own freewill."


Is it because . . . because I am poor ?
Is it the old story over again, Camilla ? Are
you going to sacrifice the happiness of both of
us to the miserable dread. . . . No, no ! Forgive
me. I had forgotten what I promised
you. I know it is not that."

You are right. It is not that."

Then, Camilla — you force me to ask it —
and if you wish me to go at once and for ever,
you have only to say ' Yes' — is there any one

you care for, more than you used to care forme?"


For a little while she did not speak. At last
her answer came. It was a scarcely audible
"No."

I knew it !" cried Lynn ; " I was sure of
it! Oh, my love" — he went on, with an
inconsistency of which he was unconscious —
what a load you have lifted from my mind !
Did you not say that you would care for me,
always — whatever my position in the world
might be ?"

You must not say such things to me" —
she exclaimed. " I must not hear them
from you ! How can I make you understand!"


By telling me plainly, if there is anything
to be told."

I cannot — I cannot ! It has been all a
mistake from the beginning — a dreadful mistake.
I did wrong in speaking to you as I
did at Sprayton — I have done wrong ever
since. There must be an end to this, Arthur
for your sake, there must. Nothing but

misery, for you and for me, has come of
it."

Camilla," said Lynn, very gravely, " are
you speaking in earnest ? You spoke of having
deceived me — "

"And I say so still."

"What that means I do not know, and do
not care to know. You did not deceive me
that night by the sea-shore at Sprayton —
whatever you may say now. Have you
changed to me since then ? You don't know
yourself, Camilla, if you think so ! "

You are right," she said, slowly. " I have
not changed since that night at Sprayton — not
at all."

I knew that," said Lynn ; " and until you
tell me that you have, I shall never give you
up."

You don't understand me. It is what I
did that night I would undo if I could — yes,
that is the truth !" she said, almost defiantly.
I did a wicked, foolish thing then that I
have regretted ever since. I cannot explain
it — I cannot ask you to forgive me now — but

I have told you the truth, and nothing can
make me unsay it !"

You regret what passed between us ? You
deceived me that night at Sprayton ?"

Yes, I did — I deceived you then. More
than that, I went there knowing that I must
deceive you."

Camilla, what you are saying cannot be
true. That you had grown tired of me, because
I was poor, or because you had learned
to care for someone else, that I might have
understood. But I cannot believe that you
were so heartless as to do that other thing."

"No? I am surprised at that, since you
can believe so much. Perhaps, after all," she
added with a mirthless smile, "you don't quite
understand me."

"I do not," he said, the irony in her tone
increasing his bewilderment. " You told me
this very night that you cared for no one
but me — that my position in the world had
nothing to do with — "

Ah, there again I have deceived you.
Believe me, it is your position that has made

me resolve to clo what I have done. I know
that sounds very mercenary, as well as contradictory
— I cannot help it — it is true.
Some day you will take the same view of it
as I do now — oh, yes, you will ! You may
not understand me, but I understand myself
too well. You must go, now. You must
never come again."

I shall not go," said Lynn, " until you tell
me plainly what this thing is that you have
done."

Since you force it from me, I shall tell.
I am about to be married — to Mr. Dulcimer."


Lynn started as if he had been struck ; and
at once turned to go. But having taken a
few steps, came back again to where she
stood.

I used to wonder," he said, " how, after
I had lost you — for I told myself that I must
lose you — I used to wonder how I should
look back, long years after, on the days when
we were dear to one another. But now — you
have not left me a memory that is not hateful.

You have made the past as empty and bitter
for me as the future must be !"

You will not find the future so very-bitter,
after a time. You will meet with consolation."


Even now I cannot bring myself to believe
it ! Camilla, say it is not true !"

I cannot. It is true."

Then I pray to God that we may never meet
again ! So, this was what you wanted, when
you bade me come to London ! I see it all
now. But was it worth, Camilla ? — was the
thing you have gained worth what you have
done to gain it?"

I do not know what you mean."

I shall not repeat that man's name — you
cannot help knowing what I mean. But was
there no other way ? — could none other than
your old lover have served your purpose ?"

The girl's face flushed for a moment. She
could not reasonably blame Lynn for missing
the double sense of her answers. But that he
should think her capable of beguiling him to
London to aid her in the enslavement of

Mr. Dulcimer — the blow was cruel, and it
stung her to anger in the midst of her self-abasement.


No," she answered, " no one so well. No
one else would have understood me so quickly
and easily as you have done. Your question
shows it !"

Lynn looked at her as she spoke, and
thought that she had never seemed lovelier.
Her anger was to her as fire is to a jewel — it
made her beauty sparkle more brightly. But
her loveliness did not then re-awaken his
yearning to call her his own.

"The next time," he said at last, "that you
seek to break a man's heart, let him in mercy
be some one for whom the world has been less
hard than it has been for me. Between you
and me, there is no more to be said. You
have ruined my life. And the worst of it all
to me is this, that the wrong you have done
yourself is greater than the wrong you have
done me."

Next minute he was gone. She heard the
clang of the iron gate. That sound seemed

to mark the end of the fairest chapter in her
life.

She turned towards the house, but did not
at once go in. There was a stone seat in the
loggia ; she sat down on that, her head drooping,
her hands clasped on her lap — in an
attitude of utter dejection. The momentary
anger that had enabled her to meet her lover's
reproaches with what seemed heartless irony
had passed quite away. All that she realised
now was the aching sense of an irretrievable
loss. She had hoped nothing from an interview
with Arthur Lynn, and yet she was
disappointed. Surely, even though he did
not understand, he need not have so misunderstood
her. Yet, could she blame him ?
Before long he would learn the truth, but that
could make no difference now. He was gone
beyond recall. Had it been in her power, she
would not have sought to recall him. Let
him go — to Gertrude ; it was better so, for
him.

Camilla had given Lynn to understand that
she was engaged to be married to Mr. Dulcimer.

In reality, things had not gone so far
as that. It was, however, the case that Mr.
Dulcimer had spoken ; and was now awaiting
an answer which he had reason to think would
be favourable.

But for Lynn's appearance on the scene,
the poet would never, in all probability, have
come to the point of a proposal. The position
of dangler-inches to Miss Arden would have
contented this latter-day Onward ; but, with
Lynn for a rival, that part became impossible.
Of late Mr. Dulcimer had grown quite serious
in his pursuit of Camilla. He called it a ' passion
;' and so it was, for vanity was a passion
with Mr. Dulcimer. Mrs. Chevenix had clone
her best to bring him to a declaration; and
had hinted, without seeming to do so, that if
he did not speak at once, he would be left out
in the cold. The thought of being left out
in the cold was intolerable to Mr. Dulcimer ;
and, accordingly, he spoke.

Had Mr. Dulcimer possessed the gift of
omniscience, he could not have chosen a more
opportune moment for pressing his suit.

Miss Arden had just received a letter from
her father, written from Shawkirk after his
interview with Mr. Inglebyby. Mr. Arden had
hesitated between writing this letter, and
allowing things to drift. But it had occurred
to him that the story of Arthur Lynn's connection
with the Lone Peak Mine would
certainly reach his daughter's ears ; and, as
related by Mr. Ingieb}^, in a form not flattering
to himself. He preferred that she — and,
through her, Lynn — should have his version
of the affair. She must understand that he
had been acting in Lynn's interests, which
were being criminally neglected by his uncle
and guardian ; that an opening for the investment
of capital, such as might not occur
twice in a century, having suddenly presented
itself, he had put Lynn on the way of probably
doubling his fortune. He had been
obliged by circumstances, it was true, to do
this indirectly ; but none the less had it been
done effectually, and the result would show
who had been the young man's truest and
warmest friend.

VOL. II. Q

The state of mind into which Camilla was
thrown by this letter was eminently favourable
to Mr. Dulcimer's pretensions. This
that her father had done was the one thing
needed to make her position utterly unbearable.
When the whole story was told — and
it might be any day — it was possible, just
possible, that Arthur himself might still
believe in her, understand her, and forgive.
But his friends — what would be their
judgment on her conduct? And could she
be sure that Lynn himself, after hearing his
uncle's opinion, would not be shaken in his
trust of her ? It made the girl writhe to
think of it. She could not bring herself to
face Lynn or to write to him. The shame
and disgrace that had come upon her overpowered
her so, that she even forgot to be
angry with the author of it all.

Then came Mr. Dulcimer's proposal. At
another time, she would have laughed at it ;
now, she almost leapt at it. Here was a way
of saving, not her self-respect, but what was
of perhaps as much consequence — appearances.

By accepting Mr. Dulcimer, she could at
least show Gertrude Inglebyby that she had not
deliberately set herself to entrap Lynn, rich,
after jilting him, poor. Nothing short of
this, she felt, could deliver her from the
consequences of her fault at Leipsic — the
only real fault, she believed, which she had
committed, whatever her mistakes might have
been. She knew very well what would bethe
general opinion of her father's conduct in
the matter ; and the cruel thing was, that she
could not dissociate herself from her father.
Lynn's money would not have been drawn
into this speculation unless he had come to
London ; he would not have come to London
unless she had first gone to Sprayton. Lynn
might be brought to believe that, in going
there, the desire to meet him again had been
uppermost in her thoughts. That was only
the truth ; but assuredly, no one else would
believe it.

All these things had passed through her
mind, while Mr. Dulcimer was making her
the offer of his hand, and while she gave him

an answer that was not negative. She
thought of them now, sitting crushed and
still after that sudden, unexpected, interview
with the lover she loved, yet had
sent from her in anger and sorrow. Her
reflections were very bitter. This second
parting with Arthur Lynn was worse than
the first had been. And it was, it must be,
final ; she told herself that, again and yet
again. When he came to know the truth, he
would pity her ; that she believed. But pity
after worship ! — it was more than she could
endure. Better say Yes to Mr. Dulcimer.
She had sacrificed her happiness ; at least she
would save her pride. Mr. Dulcimer would have
his answer — that night, if he came to seek it.

"Mrs. Chevenix bade me say to you, Miss,
that Mr. Dulcimer is in the drawing-room.
Dinner is served."

It was French who spoke. He had come
along the terrace, unheard, to where she sat.

Camilla rose. She drew her hand across
her brow, as if to efface the signs' of agitation ;
then passed slowly into the house.

CHAPTER XXL

DISCLOSURE.

Mr. Inglebyby, having arrived in London, lost
no time in setting about the business that had
brought him there. Before ten o'clock, he
was in the office of a certain firm of lawyers in
Lincoln's Inn. The senior partner had not yet
appeared ; and Mr. Inglebyby was kept waiting
for nearly an hour, much to his displeasure.
At last, however, he had his interview with
the lawyer, and it proved to be a lengthy
one. When it was over, he hastened to
Southampton Row. " Not at home," was
the answer he received, on asking for Mr.
Lynn.

I shall call again," said Mr. Inglebyby, taken
somewhat aback ; "I shall call between four
and five this afternoon, You may say to Mr,

Lynn that the business is most urgent. That,
I should suppose, will be sufficient."

It was not sufficient, however, as Mr. Inglebyby
discovered when he came back at the
appointed hour, to find that his nephew had
again gone out without waiting for him, or
leaving any message. The utter irregularity
of this conduct seemed ominous of evil to Mr.
Inglebyby. He had had, that afternoon, a second
interview by appointment with the lawyer ;
from whom he had learned certain facts that
still further inflamed his wrath against Mr.
Arden, and correspondingly increased his desire
to see his nephew without delay. " Nevertheless,
I shall wait," he said, when they told
him that Mr. Lynn would almost certainly goto
the office without returning to his rooms.

Mr. Inglebyby did wait, for nearly two hours,
most impatiently. Then he went out, and
walked for some time up and down Southampton
Row, and round Bloomsbury Square,
vainly scanning the faces of the passers-by.
At last, unable to bear the suspense any longer,
he hailed a passing cab, and bade the man

drive him to the office of the Forum. If need
were, he would beard the man Mallory where
he sat plying his profane pen, and drag that
misguided youth from the monster's very
jaws. This measure was not, however, necessary.
Mr. Inglebyby ascertained at the office —
after threading the mazes of passage and staircase
as though he expected momently to be
Tugged — that his nephew had not yet come.
So, more anxious now than ever, he made his
way from the Strand back to Southampton
Kow.

There Lynn's landlady informed this persistent
stranger that her lodger had not come
in ; but that, as one of the gentlemen belonging
to his paper was waiting for him upstairs,
he might perhaps do so before going to his
office.

"lam Mr. Lynn's uncle," said Mr. Inglebyby.
I have come up from Scotland to see him on
business of importance, and I shall wait in his
room until he return. At what hour, may I
ask, does he usually come home from his —
office?"

Sometimes it's two in the morning," said
the landlady, " sometimes it's nearer three.
He lets himself in with his latch-key."

The idea of his nephew keeping such hours
was repellent to Mr. Inglebyby in the extreme.

I shall wait for him," he said, " until he
return, no matter how late that may be." —
And Mr. Inglebyby's way of saying this was such
as to make the landlady at once conclude
that her lodger must be running either into
debt, or into matrimony with a barmaid.

Mr. Inglebyby by no means relished the prospect
of a tete-astute with one of Mr. Mallory's
pupils in profanity. For he believed the
Forum to be a daily bulletin from Tophet —
a sheet foul with libels on all things held
sacred by the good. He did not know that
Mr. Mallory kept his irreligion carefully within
cloth-bindings, and never allowed it to exude
into his paper. Mr. Inglebyby's face, therefore,
wore its grimmest look as he was shown into
Lynn's sitting-room, where Mr. Vaughan was
awaiting the possible return of his fellow-journalist.


"Do all blackguards smoke cigars?" — pondered
Mr. Inglebyby, remembering bow be bad
lately discovered Mr. Arden seated in the same
easy attitude and swathed in the same odorous
haze as the man now before him. Unlike Mr.
Arden, however, Mr. Vaughan laid down his
cigar, and apologised for the fragrant condition
of the atmosphere.

"I did not expect," he said, "that Mr.
Lynn would have a visitor at this hour."

"lam Arthur Lynn's uncle ; I have arrived
this day from Shawkirk" — said Mr. Inglebyby.
I believe that you are employed at the
same place with my nephew, and I should be
obliged if you could tell me when he is likely
to return — as it is of the gravest importance
that I should see him at once."

I am sorry I can't tell you that," said
Mr. Vaughan. " I expected to see him at the
office, but he was not there. I am going off
duty myself for a day or two — a little holiday
and if Lynn does not come here soon, I
shall leave a note for him, with what I wanted
to say."

I trust there may be nothing wrong," said
Mr. Inglebyby.

Oh, there's no fear of that," said Vaughan,
who was not, however, by any means so sure
of this as he feigned to be. " Something has
turned up, no doubt, to make him a little late
for the office. Most likely he is there now.
If so, you will have a goodish time to wait for
him, you know."

Mr. Inglebyby bowed.

It has been a fine day," at length remarked
Mr. Vaughan.

It has rained almost incessantly since
morning," said Mr. Inglebyby.

So it has," said Vaughan ; " but it's a fine
night now."

"I do not think so," said Mr. Inglebyby —
bent on making a stand for Truth, and selecting
the safe ground of meteorology. " Pray
do not interrupt your reading on my account"
he added, with a glance at the book which
lay open before Vaughan on the table.

Not at all," said Vaughan. " I was merely
glancing over some books I had been speaking

of to your nephew. They are" — he added,
noticing the look of interest on Mr. Inglebyby's
face — " Borrow's Bible in Spain, and his
Wild Wales."

Mr. Inglebyby was surprised, even mollified,
by the titles of these works. One of them, he
concluded, must be a record of missionary
enterprise in a country which wanted badly to
be evangelised ; the other, most probably, depicted
the agonies of the lost. The gloom on
his face was therefore perceptibly lightened.

I hope," he said, " that he is reading these
works not as a mocker — not in a scoffing, buta
serious spirit ?"

Oh, yes" — answered Vaughan — " yes, certainly.
The fact is, he intends writing a
magazine article on George Borrow and his
works. ' Lavengro' will make a good subject.
It was about that I wanted to see Lynn tonight
— I may be able to do something for him
with the publishers. You see, I don't think
his present work on the Forum is altogether
the thing for him — its influences require to be
counteracted,"

Certainly" — assented Mr. Inglebyby, who
did not, of course, understand that Vaughan
was speaking from the purely literary standpoint
— " certainly. These influences do require
to be counteracted, there can be no
doubt of that. But I am, I confess, surprised
to hear you, sir, make such an admission."

Mr. Vaughan stared. He felt himself getting
out of his depth, and decided to change
the subject.

You are having an election in your town
just now," he said.

"We are," said Mr. Inglebyby.

"I see from the telegrams that Mr. Arden
has had a most successful meeting. I suppose
he is sure to go in ?"

That, sir," said Mr. Inglebyby, " is not yet,
I hope, a certainty."

Mr. Inglebyby said this in such a tone as to
give Mr. Vaughan the impression that he must
have the misfortune to be either a shareholder
in one of Mr. Arden's companies, or a
specimen — the first he, Vaughan, had ever
seen — of the Scottish Conservative.

You are opposed to Arclen ?" — lie said.

I am. I feel that it is a Duty I owe to
my fellow-townsmen — that it is a Public Duty
to oppose, and to expose, such a man." Mr.
Inglebyby was inclined to insist on the public
nature of this duty, being inwardly doubtful
whether the sense of his private wrongs might
not have carried him too far, in his championship
of the incendiary Trotter.

Mr. Arden," continued Mr. Inglebyby, " has
come before the constituency under false pretences.
He has issued such an address as no
honest man would have penned."

Dear me 1" — ejaculated Mr. Vaughan.

That is so. From what I know of this
man privately, I have no hesitation, sir, in
saying that his return for any Scottish constituency
would be a public misfortune, and a
crying political wrong."

There I quite agree with you," said Mr,
Vaughan.

May I ask, sir," said Mr. Inglebyby, " if
you happen to be acquainted with this —
speculator?"

Only slightly with him — but only too well
with one of his speculations."

Mr. Inglebyby began to soften still more towards
his companion. A man who read books
about missionaries in Spain, and who disliked
Mr. Arden, could not be utterly depraved.

I know of him," Vaughan went on, " in
connection with a mine — the Lone Peak Silver
Mine, Nevada — the kind of thing, you know,
that brings ruin on the widow and the
orphan."

That, sir, is very true."

Yes — unfortunately, it has brought ruin
on people who belong to neither of these interesting
classes."

It has been an iniquitous swindle from
first to last," said Mr. Inglebyby. "Might I
ask, sir, if your acquaintance with this man
Arden extends to his family ? — if you know
anything about his — connections ?"

No," replied Mr. Vaughan. " I only
know that, like Jephthah, Judge of Israel, he
has one fair daughter, and no more."

Sir !" — cried Mr. Inglebyby, shocked beyond

measure by the levity of the comparison — " I
do not think that the names of Jephthah and
his daughter need have been introduced in
such a connection."

I did not mention the daughter's name,"
said Mr. Vaughan ; "in fact, I don't know
what it was. However, if my remark offended
you, I beg your pardon."

That is needless," said Mr. Inglebyby with
solemnity ; " do not beg pardon of me. But,
talking of this man Arden — you have seen a
good deal of my nephew, I presume, during
the time he has been in London ?"

Oh, yes. We have been very good
friends."

Then, perhaps, you may know something
of Arthur's intimacy with this Arden — whether
he has frequented his house, and been much
in his society?"

No — I know nothing at all about it. I
did not even know that your nephew was acquainted
with Arden — he never said so. But
I should think he can have had very little
time to frequent anyone's house. A pressman's

life, Mr. — ah, yes, Inglebyby — is a hard
one, you know."

It is a life from which my nephew will be,
I trust, soon — that is, immediately — freed."

Indeed ? You disapprove, then, of his
choice of a profession ? "

I believe it is not in the ways of God,"
said Mr. Inglebyby.

This was such a novel view of his calling
that Mr. Vaughan felt for a moment perplexed.

Yes, no doubt" — he said, after a pause ;
that is, you dislike the tone of the Forum ? "

Since you have asked me, sir, I must say
that I regard it as a newspaper which is doing
an evil work in this land. It is trying to
weaken men's belief in a Higher Power. It is
teaching them to war against Capital."

Serving neither God nor Mammon, you
think?" said Mr. Vaughan.

Well, yes," assented Mr. Inglebyby a little
doubtfully. " To me it has been a most sorrowful
reflection that a nephew of mine, who
was brought up in a truly Christian home —
indeed, in my own— should now be engaged in

writing revolutionary, and mayhap impious,
matter for such an organ."

Mr. Vaughan was not in the least degree
irritated by these pronounced opinions on his
paper and his profession. He could not understand
Mr. Inglebyby; but he was interested in
him as a type he had never met with before,
in all his experience of humankind.

I can assure you," he said, " that your
nephew has done nothing of the kind, as yet.
His work hitherto has been severely didactic
coldly matter-of-fact — absolutely untinged
by political or other sentiment."

I am deeply relieved to hear that such is
the case," said Mr. Inglebyby. " I am rejoiced
to learn that my nephew has had the strength
of mind to resist the influence of the man
Mallory — that he has left to others — but I
beg your pardon, sir. I forgot that your own
work may possibly differ from Arthur's."

It does," said Mr. Vaughan, bent on
soothing his interlocutor in the interests of
psychological research ; " but I'm not at all
proud of my work, I assure you. Even a

VOL. II. R

journalist, you know, may keep a conscience ;
and I really feel ashamed at times, when I'm
asked to reconcile the Premier with himself."

Mr. Inglebyby's face became very grave. " Am
I to infer from that remark," he asked, " that
you, sir, disapprove of Mr. Gladstone as a
Statesman ? "

I am not a keen politician," said Mr.
Vaughan — and this was undoubtedly true.
Mr. Vaughan regarded beliefs and opinions of
all kinds from the purely artistic point of view.
He looked on them as a sculptor might look
on his lump of clay. They existed to supply
material for his creative genius — in other
words, as subjects for leading articles. Beyond
that he did not seek to carry his analysis. — " I
am not a keen politician, but of course I can
see what Gladstone is doing."

And what, in your opinion, is he doing ?"

Bringing in Socialism under a mist, you
know" — and Mr. Vaughan looked to Mr.
Inglebyby for approval.

"Sir!" — said Mr. Inglebyby — "I have been
young, and now am old, but nothing that I

have heard, in the course of a long life-time,
has given me such a shock of surprise as what
you have just said !"

Then you are not Conservative in your
politics ?" — said Mr. Vaughan. " I thought,
you know, from your remarks on the Forum,
that you might be."

Conservative !" — exclaimed Mr. Inglebyby,
rising in his wrath — " no, sir ; and I am at a
loss to know what can have given birth to
such a hallucination in your mind. I should
have thought — "

Here Mr. Inglebyby stopped abruptly. Lynn's
voice was heard in the lobby below, and
then his foot on the stair. The look on Mr.
Inglebyby's face changed at once. It ceased to
be controversial, and became anxious instead.
Mr. Vaughan noticed his perturbation ; and
from that, coupled with the fact that Lynn
was not at the office, drew the conclusion that
there must be something amiss.

Here he is at last " — he said — " and as your
business with him is probably more important
than mine, I think I shall say Good night."

Goodnight, my clear sir," said Mr. Inglebyby,
who had now apparently forgotten all about
politics — " Good night. I have been much
interested in your conversation. I trust we
may meet at some future time. For the present,
you will understand — "

Oh, perfectly" — said Vaughan. Half-puzzled,
half-amused, he shook hands with
Mr. Inglebyby and departed, exchanging a few
hurried words with Lynn on the stair.

"Arthur!" — exclaimed Mr. Inglebyby, as his
nephew entered the room — " my dear Arthur !
So you have come at last ! "

Then uncle and nephew stood for some
moments without speaking ; and looked at
each other with a certain degree of curiosity.
Lynn was surprised to find his uncle there at
all, and still more surprised by his affectionate
greeting. He was not accustomed to hear
himself styled "my dear Arthur" by Mr.
Inglebyby ; and he missed the look of stern reprobation
which Mr. Inglebyby's face ought certainly,
under the circumstances, to have worn.
Mr. Inglebyby, for his part, was struck by the

change that had come over his nephew since
last he had seen him. Lynn looked pale and
care-worn. He had lost that gay indifferentism
of voice and manner which had caused
so much anxiety to his guardian in former
days. He seemed, somehow, to have become
older by years, within the last few months.
Mr. Inglebyby put this down to ' life in London.'
That was, he knew, a trying and
perilous ordeal for even the staidest and unprincipled
of young men. But what must it
have been in the case of one so easy-going as
his nephew — of one who had entered on it
under the auspices of Mr. Arden and Mr.
Mallory ! " He is certainly changed" — said
Mr. Inglebyby to himself; and his conscience
smote him. But for his well-meant interference,
Arthur Lynn need never have been
exposed to the temptations of the Evil City.
This reflection did not make the task that
now lay before Mr. Inglebyby seem any the
more easy. Neither did the quiet gravity of
Lynn's bearing. The truth was, that Lynn
now felt himself in the position of one to

whom Fate has clone its worst, and who can
afford to be indifferent with regard to minor
troubles. Mr. Inglebyby, of course, did not
know this. His nephew's manner of receiving
him, he thought, seemed to say that the days
of pupilage were over.

Sit down, uncle" — said Lynn. " I am
glad to see you."

And I am glad to see you, Arthur," said
Mr. Inglebyby ; " very glad. I have been in
great anxiety on your account."

About that letter I wrote you ? — well, I
was uneasy myself, at the time. But I hope
that has not been the only thing that brought
you up to town? You might have written
anything there was to say. That would have
done just as well, you know."

Arthur" — said Mr. Inglebyby, in a tone of
such solemnity that Lynn was almost startled
by it — " it was, in a sense, your letter that
brought me here. But I have things to say
to you that could not have been said in writing.
The time has come, I feel, when I cannot
longer remain silent, without incurring

such a load of responsibility as I am unwilling
to bear. You must prepare yourself, Arthur,
to learn what will certainly amaze — it may be,
overwhelm you for the moment. You must
bring yourself to contemplate a complete and
sudden change in your position and views of
life."

Oh, I know it's not so bad as that I" said
Lynn, to whom it seemed as if Mr. Inglebyby's
words were meant to foreshadow a felon's cell
" I have been foolish, no doubt ; but there
was nothing dishonest on my part, much less
criminal. You are taking a most exaggerated
view of the matter, uncle."

I am not now referring to the subject of
your letter, Arthur," said Mr. Inglebyby, with
increased solemnity. " That is certainly a
serious thing, which I must discuss with you
later ; but at present it is subsidiary. The —
communication I have to make to you is one
of the utmost moment — "

Won't it keep ?"— asked Lynn.

Keep !" — exclaimed Mr. Inglebyby, reverting
for an instant to his more familiar manner

— " for what reason do you ask such a
thing?"

Well, the fact is I am rather out of sorts
to-night — I don't feel equal to a long talk.
If you have something disagreeable to say tome,
uncle, I wish you'd let it stand over till
tomorrow morning. I really wish you
would."

What I have to say to you, Arthur,"
replied Mr. Inglebyby, " cannot stand over —
neither, I should think, will you find it disagreeable.
When I tell you that on your
account I have absented myself from business
at a most inconvenient time of the year — that
I have left home in the midst of such a critical
election as the one now going on — that I have
travelled four hundred miles, and hunted allover
London to find you — you will perhaps
realise in some measure how grave the circumstances
are. You will not ask me to let anything
' stand over.' "

You have always been a good friend tome,"
said Lynn ; " I know that, though we
have not always agreed."

I have always sought to do my Duty by
you, Arthur — humbly and prayerfully, according
to my lights. As regards your coming
here, and joining yourself with the band of
men who write for that godless newspaper, I
have never concealed my opinion. I could
not have grieved over that more deeply, had
you been my own son."

Don't let us talk about that now, uncle,"
said Lynn, wearily. " It can do no good. This
much I will say to you — it would have been
better, ten thousand times better for me if I
had never come here at all. And as for the
Forum, I am not likely to be on it much
longer, I imagine."

What do you mean by that f"— asked Mr.
Inglebyby very sharply. " Has any one been — "

I only mean that I don't like the work,
and that the work doesn't like me. For the
latter reason, I shall probably soon be freed
from it. The other objection I might have
got over, on account of the bread and butter,
you know."

"I am relieved — nay, rejoiced to hear you

speak thus," said Mr. Inglebyby. " I had not,
Arthur, I confess it — I had not expected to
find you in such a frame of mind. I had feared
the worst, from your associations of the last
few months — from your intimacy with the man
Mallory, and with — with others. I am inexpressibly
thankful to Providence that you have
been brought as gold through the furnace, and
that you have come at last to see with me eye to
eye. It lightens the task that lies before me."

What task ?" — inquired Lynn, whose curiosity,
dulled at first by the sense of his own
troubles, was now being awakened more and
more. He could not think what to make of
Mr. Inglebyby, he was so strangely subdued and
unlike himself. Never before had Lynn found
his uncle so mildly despotic, so gently arrogant,
so affectionately overbearing. He began
to reflect that there must be a reason for the
change. Further, that his uncle would scarcely
have come all the way to London with a single
eye to sermonising. — "What task ?" he said.
I cannot in the least think what you mean."

I shall tell you," said Mr. Inglebyby, drawing

his chair nearer to the table that stood in
the centre of the room, and looking across at
Lynn, who sat opposite. The situation reminded
Lynn of one of those ' conferences '
he had been used to have with his uncle, and
of which he did not cherish an agreeable
recollection. But now there was a difference.
He felt, though he could not define it.

Arthur," said Mr. Inglebyby, after a somewhat
prolonged pause, " do you remember
having heard, at any time, the name of Gilbert
Hume?"

Not to my knowledge."

That does not surprise me, seeing he left
Shawkirk while you were a mere child — before
your father's — misfortune."

Who was this Hume you speak of, and
what has he to do with me ?"

He was," said Mr. Inglebyby, " when I knew
him, a young man, a traveller in your father's
employment. What he has to do with you,
this letter will show. I do not, of course,
know its contents, but I can partly guess them.
I should tell you that the man who wrote this

letter is no more. He died in March of this
year — before you had returned from Germany.
Head it, my dear Arthur — then I shall know
what there is left for me to explain."

This was the letter which Lynn received in
wonderment from Mr. Inglebyby's hand, and
read in wonderment still greater : —

My Dear Arthur Lynn, — If this letter
should ever come into your hands, it will
mean that I who write it am no longer in
the land of the living. I have looked forward
for long to meeting you, and speaking
with you face to face, and saying many
things to you which I cannot put down in
writing. But I am warned not to cherish
this hope. The doctors here profess themselves
astonished that I have reached this
country alive ; and if what they say is true,
there are but a few weeks left to me in this
world. I have therefore placed this letter
in your uncle's hands, to be given you on
your twenty-fifth birthday, or at such time
before that as he may think advisable. Its

contents will no doubt take you by surprise.
My name is probably unknown to you ; but
yours is, and always has been, very dear tome.
Your father did to me as great a service
as one man could render to another. If
you wish to know more particularly the
nature of that service, your uncle Mr.
Inglebyby will be able to tell you ; but it is
enough to say that I was worse than foolish,
and he was better than merciful. Twenty
years and more have come and gone since
then, but I have never forgotten it. I have
prospered greatly in that new country where
your father's generosity enabled me to make
a fresh start in life. My wealth shall be
yours after I am gone. I have neither kith nor
kin in the wide world; and there is none so
near my heart as my old master's only son.
When the news of your father's misfortunes
and of his death came to me, I had a pleasure
in saying to myself, Now I shall be able to
repay my debt in part — for it is, I feel, only
a partial repayment. I will not think that
you have ever reproached your father, even

1 in your thoughts, because his great love for
his fellow-men, and his devotedness to what
he thought just and right, have left you poor
in respect of this world's goods. But if ever
such a thought has crossed your mind, you
will know now that one at least of your
father's deeds of kindness has not been forgotten,
and that it has made you rich. I
will not say more. There is, I fear, but
little chance of my meeting you on this side
1 of the grave. I have held you in my arms
in your childhood ; and one reason of your
father's great goodness to me was, as he told
me, the affection which I had shown for
you, and which you, in your baby way, had
1 seemed to return. And now I write the
Good-bye which, in all probability, I shall
not be spared to say to you. I do not say,
Follow your father's example in all things ;
for this world is not for such as him. But I
do say, Copy his transparent truthfulness,
his belief in the better side of human nature,
and his constant gentleness in word and
deed. I have known both poverty and

riches ; and I know that it is better to be
rich than to be poor. My money has been
honestly made, that I can say without fear,
1 looking back over my past from the threshold
of the grave ; by hard work and self
denial. You need not scruple to take it,
since no one has so good a right to it as you.
1 But do not let it make you selfish, careless
of others, satisfied only to be rich ; else you
will turn into evil the good which your
■ father has done. I do not fear for you ; I
need not have written thus ; but since it is
1 written, let it stand. You will know that I
wish you well. The thought that my wealth
will make you happy, that it will place you
above those temptations to which, as I know
by dear-bought experience, a man who is
1 young, and poor, may be exposed — will be a
consolation to me at my closing hour. I
sign myself, in all the meaning of the words,
Yours affectionately, Gilbert Hume."

There was also a postscript to the letter.
Briggs and Barnard, Lincoln's Inn, have the

duplicate of my will ; and Mr. John Ayres,
late of Brisbane, now of Waltham, Kent, one
of the trustees, will give you all information
as to the estate. The other trustees are
Mr. Malcolm of Coorabinda, Queensland, my
partner in the sheep-runs ; and your uncle,
Mr. Inglebyby. All arrangements have been
made with a view to the probability that
I shall not be alive, when you return from
Germany. In that case, you are to be informed
by your uncle, Mr. Inglebyby, and by
him alone, as to the contents of my will.
The time when this disclosure shall be made
is left, in terms of my will, to his discretion ;
with the proviso that you shall not pass your
twenty-fifth year without being told. You
have a right to know the reasons that have
led me to take this course. I am acting
on the advice of Mr. Inglebyby, and can only
hope that his advice is good. My sole
anxiety has been to secure your well-being
in the world, so far as wealth can do that ;
and though I do not agree with all that Mr.
Inglebyby has to say on the subject of poverty

as a moral discipline, I have not thought
it fitting to ignore his counsel. He was
the guardian chosen by your father ; he has
known you all your life ; and after the strong
opinion he expressed to me, and the statements
he made when I saw him at Shaw-kirk,
I have determined, though not without
hesitation, to leave this matter in his hands.
What those statements were, you will be able
to learn from himself. I can only trust that
all has been for the best. I have greatly
wished to see you, to press your hand, to
talk to you of your father, and all he did
for me. But that, I fear, is not to be. As
with my latest breath, I say May God bless
you and keep you, my dear Arthur Lynn !

G. H."

When Lynn had finished reading this letter,
there were tears in his eyes. He had not
yet realised the fact that a great fortune had
been left him. But he did realise the pathos
of those lines, written by a hand now still
for ever. This man, at any rate, had ap-vol.

II. s

predicated and honoured his father, whom he
had been used to hear spoken of by others
with, at best, a kind of pitying condescension.
This man, of whom he knew nothing beside,
had loved him for his father's sake — from
no selfish motives, had sought his welfare.
To Arthur Lynn, in his present mood, Hume's
letter was as a spring of water in a thirsty land.

"And he is dead!" — These were the first
words he spoke, and they astonished Mr.
Inglebyby, who had been watching his nephew
intently while he read the letter. Mr. Inglebyby
had not expected that Lynn would take the
revelation so quietly ; nor that he would
waste much time in mourning the loss of
one who was to him, after all, a stranger
even by name.

"Yes," he said; "certainly, he is dead.
There is no doubt about that. He died, as
I already mentioned to you, more than six
months ago, while you were still abroad."

"And you never told me!" — exclaimed
Lynn, looking towards his uncle with an
expression of mingled wonder and reproach.

May I ask you, Arthur, what he says in
that letter?" — Mr. Inglebyby looked as if he
expected Lynn to hand him the letter for
perusal. But Lynn did not do so. He set
himself to read the letter again, and left
his uncle's question unanswered.

Then the truth burst upon him in all its
fulness. He was rich ! — an hour ago he had
been almost penniless ; now, he found himself
the heir to a great fortune. So the
letter said, and he did not doubt it. But
if a shadow of uncertainty had crossed his
mind, there was his uncle, sitting opposite
him at the table ; and Mr. Inglebyby's very
presence in those London lodgings was
sufficient confirmation, had such been needed,
of the tale.

A few weeks, even a few days before, the
tidings of such a change in his lot would
probably have thrown Lynn into a state of
violent excitement. So long as the money
left him by his father had lasted, even his
uncle's repeated warnings had failed to keep
him constantly in mind of the fact that he

was poor. Without being actually extravagant,
he had by no means been given to
thrift ; and he had been accustomed, much
to Mr. Inglebyby's sorrow, to make a jest of
the name of Mr. Samuel Smiles. But since
his return from the Continent, and especially
since the beginning of his career in London,
Lynn had been forced to realise the inconveniences
of poverty. As Mr. Macritchie's
tutor, as Mr. Mallory's sub-editor, — and,
above all, as Camilla Arden's lover, his
want of means had been brought home to
him in many painful ways. And so, had
his uncle come to him a fortnight sooner,
and said to him, "Arthur, you are no longer
poor" — he would have worn in Lynn's eyes
the aspect of an angel of light. But Mr.
Inglebyby had come with his tidings a little
too late for that. There was nothing of
that rapturous delight, that wild exaltation
of spirits about Lynn, for which Mr. Inglebyby
had been prepared. He was, in truth, completely
puzzled by his nephew's manner of
receiving the news. There was no opening,

so far as he could see, for that role of the
judicious adviser, the benevolent mentor,
toning down the first transports of joy of
the suddenly-enriched young man — to which
Mr. Inglebyby had looked forward as his own.
He could not tell from Lynn's face whether
he were glad or sorry. But he saw that
his nephew was thinking the matter out ;
and waited till the first word came from
him.

Did you know this man, uncle ?" — asked
Lynn at length.

I had not seen him for twenty years
and more, until he came to me at Shaw-kirk,
last January."

"And what was this service that my father
did him ? — but no, I will not ask you that !
Don't answer me !" — he added hastily, noticing
the peculiar look that crossed his uncle's
face, and instantly connecting it with Hume's
allusion to his own " dear-bought experience "
of the temptations which assail young men
who are poor.

You are right, Arthur," said Mr. Inglebyby

with gravity, " quite right in not asking me
that. Be it sufficient for you that this man
whose whole conduct in the matter has
been, as I consider it, deserving of all praise
has left you absolute master of great wealth
for it is great. Remember that yesterday
you were poor, and that to-day you are rich.
Think on the responsibilities involved in such
a change. Bear in mind, my dear Arthur,
that a man's life consisted not in the
abundance of the things that he possesses ;
and that — "

"Uncle," said Lynn abruptly, "you say
that yesterday I was poor. Now, that is a
point I should like you to explain to me.
So far as I can make out from this letter,
Mr. Hume's fortune passed to me at his
death?"

Certainly."

And is mine at this moment ?"

Certainly. There can be no doubt as to
that."

It was therefore mine in March of this
year, when Mr. Hume's death took place ?"

"In a sense, my dear Arthur — in a sense
it was. In a sense it became yours whenever
the will was proved. The other gentlemen
whom Mr. Hume appointed as trustees understand
the position clearly. From the day
when the contents of Mr. Hume's will are
divulged to you, the property becomes absolutely
your own."

That is the point, uncle. Why was not
all this made known to me six months ago,
instead of being kept back until now ?"

Does this letter not explain all that ? I
should have supposed — "

Mr. Inglebyby had stretched his hand across
the table, as if to take the letter. But Lynn
himself took it, and glanced at it again.

This letter," he said, looking Mr. Inglebyby
full in the face, " speaks of certain statements
made by you, uncle, to Mr. Hume. What
were they? — I am to ask that question, it says
here, of yourself."

I shall tell you, Arthur, since you desire
to know. I do not need to defend myself in
this matter — though your tone in addressing

me would almost make it seem as if you
thought so."

"No, no. Do not misunderstand me. I say
again, uncle, what I said before — that you
have always been a friend to me — in your
intentions. I know it."

I thank you, Arthur, for saying that. It
is indeed no more than the truth. When Mr.
Hume came to me, it was to seek my counsel
and co-operation in carrying out his purpose
with regard to you. His first intention had
been to make over to you a large part of his
fortune at once. I advised him against that,
strongly."

On what grounds ?"

On these — " answered Mr. Inglebyby; and
then set forth at considerable length his
favourite theories on the poor man's lot as
the school of earnestness, industry, and self-reliance
; and on wealth, unearned by labour,
as a foe to all those things. Lynn heard him
out with seeming patience.

But that was not all you told him, uncle,"
he said, as Mr. Inglebyby came to a pause. " I

assume you gave him your opinions about me ?
about my character, and conduct?"

I did," said Mr. Inglebyby. " I spoke the
truth in love, Arthur ; as I have always
spoken to yourself, so I spoke to him."

Then I need not be surprised at what has
been done !"

You might have spared me that taunt, I
think," said Mr. Inglebyby. "You must not
forget that I had good reason, at the time, for
speaking as I did to Mr. Hume."

"How?"

I refer to your manner of life in that
foreign city. It is not my wish to go back on
the past, in search of grounds whereon to
accuse you. But you must yourself be aware
of the painful anxiety, the deep distress of
mind, which your conduct occasioned me at
that time. The day of your examination
passed, and you had not returned. Your
letters became infrequent, and most — unsatisfactory.
Indeed, there was a request for money
in every one of them. You were spending
three or four times as much as you did

during the first months of your sojourn abroad.
I was driven to conclude that you had relinquished
all thought of serious effort, and abandoned
yourself to a life of pleasure. Indeed, I
learned that such was unhappily the case, from
a source which I had no reason to question."

And it was on the strength of those
miserable stories that you stood between me
and the man who wished me well ? You do
not know, uncle, what you have done !"

What I have done ? Yes, I know it. I
have prevented you, Arthur — you force me to
say it — from stepping at once into a position
for winch I considered you totally unfit. I
have been obliged by — by circumstances to
modify my plans. But I cannot see what
injury can have been done you, by six months'
delay in acquainting you with your good
fortune."

No — you cannot see it ; I know that !
But you have done me an injury, uncle — a
frightful injury. It is not your sending me to
Shawkirk as — a tutor, nor your letting me
come up here to find a living as I might — it

is not those things that I complain of. Even
your having kept me from seeing this mans
face, and thanking him with my own lips —
even that I might have forgiven. But this
other and worse thing — no, it is too late !
That cannot be undone ! "

Arthur' began Mr. Inglebyby, " I do not, I
confess, understand you. When you speak tome
of forgiveness, I can only infer" — but here
Mr. Inglebyby, observing the look of almost
agony on his nephew's face, dropped the tone
of lofty self-assertion, and said, quite mildly : —
What is it, Arthur? Tell me what is wrong I"

There is no good in my telling you," said
Lynn. "It is my concern, and mine alone.
The wrong has been done, and can never be
made right again — never !"

Not at all !" — said Mr. Inglebyby briskly.
You are taking much too dark a view of the
affair, my dear Arthur, I assure you. I stated
the case to-day to Mr. Barnard, and he agrees
with me in thinking that you will not lose a
penny. The transaction would not stand the
light of clay for a moment — a court of law

would make short work of that, if it ever went
so far, which it will not."

What are you talking of, uncle, in Heaven's
name \

Of those shares, of course, which that —
that—"

Then Lynn broke into a laugh, which was
not exactly pleasant for Mr. Inglebyby to hear.

And so you actually think that those
paltry shares — "

Paltry shares !" — cried Mr. Inglebyby —
paltry shares ? — Why, do you know what
they amount to ?"

I was not thinking of them," said Lynn.
"I am past caring for such things."

Then what is it that is troubling you,
Arthur ? Perhaps I might be able to advise
you — to — "

No, you cannot advise me, or help me in
any way. It has been a fatal mistake. You
have gone far to ruining my life for me — and all
because you have wished to keep me in leading-strings
— because you have treated me as if I
were a child, and not a man,"

"Gertrude's very words!" — said Mr. Inglebyby,
speaking in his bewilderment rather to himself
than to his nephew.

So Gertrude knew of it !" — cried Lynn.
I see you have all been in the plot against
me! I have been deceived by those I trusted.
But I have learned a lesson. I shall never
trust again !"

Lynn spoke in great excitement, and emphasised
the word ' never ' by striking his hand
upon the table. Mr. Inglebyby was amazed,
almost frightened, by his nephew's manner.
He had thought it possible that Lynn
iniodit resent the action he had taken. But
surely his nephew would give him credit for
the excellence of his intentions ; and in any
case, the flood of joy called forth by the
revelation he had to make would be certain to
sweep away any unpleasantness. But things
had not turned out as he had expected.
Arthur had been much too quiet at first, and
was much too angry and agitated now. Mr.
Inglebyby could think of no reason for any such
display of emotion.

Arthur," he said, " you are saying these
things in your haste, and you will regret
them. There has been no plot against you
or rather, there has been a plot, but none
in which your cousin and myself have had
part or share. She knew nothing of this
until a few weeks ago — and, indeed, her
opinion was that you should be told without
delay. In that I thought, and still think,
that she was wrong. For myself, I have
simply used the discretion given me by Mr.
Hume. I, at least, have held fast mine
integrity ; I can look you or any man in
the face, and say that I have done honestly
what I have done. I may have erred — for
we see but a step in front of us, and are
compassed about with infirmities. But I do
not think I have. Indeed, I may say to you
at the risk of giving you offence — that I
would not be here this night, to tell you
what I have told, unless I had been forced todo
so by the craft and guile of others — whom
there is no need that I should name to you."
What am I to understand bv that ?

Kemember, I must have the whole truth
now."

When I saw that man Arden in Shawkirk,
Arthur, he told me that — that you were to
marry his daughter ?"

It is not the case," said Lynn.

"I am delighted to hear it!" — cried Mr.
Inglebyby joyfully. " My dear Arthur, you
have taken a load of care from off my mind !
Now I may speak to you freely — now I may
say to you what I think. Since I saw
through the designs of that young lady and
her father — "

Leave her name out of the conversation,
uncle," said Lynn sternly. " I shall not
allow you to speak freely, as you call it,
about her"

Mr. Inglebyby looked at his nephew in blank
amazement. He was not accustomed to bespoken
to in such a tone. Cut short thus abruptly
in his diatribe, he knew not what to say.

You spoke of seeing through ' designs,' "
continued Lynn — " designs of Mr. Ardent.
What were they ? — What is it you mean ?"

"Is it possible, Arthur," said Mr. Inglebyby,
after a pause, " that you can be still blind to
the true character and purposes of that man ?
Do you not see now what end he has had in
view, in — in connecting himself with you and
your affairs ? He has known all along of the
fortune left you by Mr. Hume — "

"What?"

He has known it, I say all along. He
is a man of brazen effrontery, and seems
actually to glory in what he has done. When
he sought you out at Shawkirk — when he
tempted you hither and found employment
for you on the paper of the man Mallory —
when he lied you into taking shares in that
accursed mine — an act of flagrant dishonesty
for which he shall yet pay dear ! — when he
did all those things, it was your money he
wanted — that, and only that ! And his
daughter — I shall say it, for it is the truth
his daughter has been his confederate in
this precious scheme !"

"It is false!" cried Lynn, starting from
his chair in violent agitation. "It is false as

hell ! I will not believe it — I will not hear of
such a thing !"

"It is true," said Mr. Inglebyby, also rising
from his seat — " It is true, and you know it.
For what else, do you think, did she comedown
to Sprayton, but for the purpose of
meeting you there ? And for what purpose
should she have sought to meet you,
unless — "

"Stop!" — said Lynn. "You have said
enough. You may stop now."

Words, looks, trivial incidents of the past
crowded upon his memory, and in the light
of this revelation took a new and sinister
meaning. He seemed to hear her say : —
"Arthur, I have deceived you!" — Yes; he had
been deceived.

"It is true!" — he said at last — "God pity
me, it is true I"

Then, turning his back on Mr Inglebyby, he
leant his arms on the mantel, and buried his
face in his hands.

Mr. Inglebyby knew not what to do or say.
He felt sorry for his nephew, though only

VOL. II. T

imperfectly divining the extent of his trouble.
He would have liked to administer consolation
; but could not imagine what form it
ought to take. He felt his position somewhat
embarrassing, as the minutes passed, and still
Lynn neither moved nor spoke.

At last he drew near, and laid his hand on
the young man's shoulder. Still Lynn made
no sign.

"Arthur," said Mr. Inglebyby, "I think I
shall leave you now. I have yet many things
to say to you, and tomorrow I shall come
again. But for the present I shall go. I do
not wonder that all this should be to you asa
dream when one awake. After a little
calm reflection, your way will seem more clear.
Good night, my dear Arthur — Good night !"

But still Lynn said nothing ; and Mr.
Inglebyby — walking as quietly as though he
had been leaving a sick-room — took himself
away.

END OF VOL. II.

Printed by Frank Murray, 9^11 Young Street, Edinburgh.

KEG AN PAUL, TRENCH & Co's
PUBLICATIONS.

5- 84

London.

A LIST OF

KEGAN PAUL, TRENCH & Co's

PUBLICATIONS.

CONTENTS

General Literature.
Parchment Library .
Pulpit Commentary .
International Scientific
Series .

PAGE







PAGE

Military Works. , .31

Poetry 32

Works of Fiction . . 39
Books for the Young , 40

GENERAL LITERATURE,

ADAMSON, H. T., B.D.—The Truth as it is in Jesus. Crown
8vo, &s. 6d.

The Three Sevens. Crown 8vo, $s. 6d.

The Millennium ; or, The Mystery of God Finished. Crown
8vo, 6s.

A. K. H. B. — From a Quiet Place. A Volume of Sermons.
Crown 8vo, 5-r.

ALLEN, Rev. R., M.A.— Abraham ", his Life, Times, and
Travels, 3800 years ago. With Map. Second Edition.
Post 8vo, 6s.

Allies, T. W., M.A.—Vev Crucem ad Luce. The Result of a
Life. 2 vols. Demy 8vo, 25^.

A Life's Decision. Crown 8vo, 7-y. bd.

AMOS, Professor S/ieldon.—Th.e History and Principles of the
Civil Law of Rome. An aid to the Study of Scientific and
Comparative Jurisprudence. Demy 8vo. 16s.

Anderson, Rev. W. H.— Fasti Apostolic ; a Chronology of the
Years between the Ascension of our Lord and the Martyrdom
of SS. Peter and Paul. Second Edition. Enlarged. Square
8vo, 5*.
Evenings with the Saints. Crown 8vo, 5*.

ANDERSON, David.— "Scenes" in the Commons. Crown 8vo, 5^

ARMSTRONG, Richard A., B.A.— Latter-day Teachers. Six
Lectures. Small crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

Alberti, J. J.—K Flight to Mexico. With Seven full-page
Illustrations and a Railway Map of Mexico. Crown 8vo, Js. 6d.

BADGER, George Percy, D.C.L.— An English-Arabic Lexicon.
In which the equivalent for English Words and Idiomatic
Sentences are rendered into literary and colloquial Arabic.
Royal 4to, soy.

BAGEHOT, Walter.— .The English Constitution. New and
Revised Edition. Crown 8vo, *js. 6d.

Lombard Street. A Description of the Money Market. Eighth
Edition. Crown 8vo, Js. 6d.

Essays on Parliamentary Reform. Crown 8vo, Ss.

Some Articles on the Depreciation of Silver, and Topics
connected with it. Demy 8vo, 5J.

Vaginal, Philip If.— The American-Irish and their Influence
on Irish Politics. Crown 8vo, $s.

BAGOT, Alan, C.E.— Accidents in Mines: their Causes and
Prevention. Crown 8vo, 6s.

The Principles of Colliery Ventilation. Second Edition,
greatly enlarged. Crown 8vo, $s.

BAKER, Sir Shelton, Bart. — The Laws relating to Quarantine.
Crown 8vo, \2s. 6d. ■

BALDWIN, Copt. J. #:— The Large and Small Game of
Bengal and the North Western Provinces of India.
With 20 Illustrations. New and Cheaper Edition. Small 4to,
1 or. 6d.

BALLIN, Ada S. and F. L.—A Hebrew Grammar. With
Exercises selected from the Bible. Crown 8vo, *]s. 6d.

BARCLAY, Edgar.— Mountain Life in Algeria. With numerous
Illustrations by Photogravure. Crown 410, i6.r.

BARLOW, James H.— The Ultimatum of Pessimism. An
Ethical Study. Demy 8vo, 6s.

BARNES, William.— Outlines of Redecraft (Logic). With
English Wording. Crown 8vo, 3J.

Bar, Ferdinand, Dr. Ph.— A Philological Introduction to
Greek and Latin for Students. Translated and adapted
from the German, by C. Began Paul, M.A., and E. D.
Stone, M.A. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s.

BELLA RS, Rev. W.— The Testimony of Conscience to the
Truth and Divine Origin of the Christian Revelation.
Burney Prize Essay. Small crown 8vo, "$s. 6d.

Bellingham, Henry, M. P. —Social Aspects of Catholicism
and Protestantism in their Civil Bearing upon
Nations. Translated and adapted from the French of M. le
Baron DE Vaudeville. With a preface by His Eminence
Cardinal Manning. Second and Cheaper Edition. Crown
8vo, 3-r. 6d.

BELLINGHAM, H. Benches Graham.— XS^s> and Downs of
Spanish Travel. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, $s.

Been, Alfred W.~ The Greek Philosophers. 2 vote. Demy
8vo, 2Ss.

BENT, J. Theodore.— Genoa'. How the Republic Rose and Fell.
With 18 Illustrations. Demy 8vo, \2>s.

Blacker, Rev. W. S— Essays on Pauperism. imo. Cloth,
is. 6d. ; sewed, is.

Buckley, Henry. — Socrates and the Athenians: An
Apology. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

BLOOMFIELD, The Lady.— Reminiscences of Court and Diplomatic
Life. With 3 Portraits and 6 Illustrations. Sixth
Edition. 2 vols., 8vo, cloth, 28 s.
%* New and Cheaper Edition. With Frontispiece. Crown 8vo, 6s.

BLUNT, The Ven. Archdeacon. — The Divine Patriot, and other
Sermons. Preached in Scarborough and in Cannes. New
and Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo, 4s. 6d.

BLUNT, Wilfred 6".— The Future of Islam. Crown 8vo, 6s.

BOOLE, Mary.— Symbolical Methods of Study. Crown 8vo, $s.

BOUVERIE-PVSEY, S. E. ^.—Permanence and Evolution.
An Inquiry into the Supposed Mutability of Animal Types.
Crown 8vo, $s.

B GIVEN, H. C., M.A.— Studies in English. For the use of Modern
Schools. Seventh Thousand. Small crown 8vo, is. 6d.

English Grammar for Beginners. Cap. 8vo, is.

BRADLEY, F. H.—The Principles of Logic. Demy 8vo, 16s.

BRIDGE TT, Rev. T. £.— History of the Holy Eucharist in
Great Britain. 2 vols. Demy 8vo, 18s.

BRODRICK, the Hon. G. C.— Political Studies. Demy 8vo, 14s.

BROOKE:, Rev. S. ,4.— Life and Letters of the Late Rev. F. W.
Robertson, M.A. Edited by.

I. Uniform with Robertson's Sermons. 2 vols. With Steel

Portrait. 7^. 6d.
II. Library Edition. With Portrait. 8vo, I2.r.
III. A Popular Edition. In 1 vol., Svo, 6s.

BROOKE, Rev. S. A.— Continued.

The Fight of Faith. Sermons preached on various occasions.
Fifth Edition. Crown 8vo, Js. 6c/.

The Spirit of the Christian Life. New and Cheaper Edition.
Crown 8vo, $s.

Theology in the English Poets.— Cowper, Coleridge, Wordsworth,
and Burns. Fifth and Cheaper Edition. Post 8vo, $s.

Christ in Modern Life. Sixteenth and Cheaper Edition.
Crown Svo, 5^.

Sermons. First Series. Thirteenth and Cheaper Edition. Crown

8vo, S s -
Sermons, Second Series. Sixth and Cheaper Edition. Crown

8vo, Sj.

BROWN, Rev. J. Baldwin, B. A.— The Higher Life. Its Reality,
Experience, and Destiny. Sixth Edition. Crown Svo, $s.

Doctrine of Annihilation in the Light of the Gospel of
Love. Five Discourses. Fourth Edition. Crown Svo, 2s. 6d.

The Christian Policy of Life. A Book for Young Men of
Business. Third Edition. Crown Svo, $s. 6d.

BROWN, S. Boston, B.A.—The Fire Baptism of all Flesh;
or, The Coming Spiritual Crisis of the Dispensation. Crown
Svo, 6s.

BROWN, Horatio F.— Life on the Lagoons. With two Illustrations
and Map. Crown 8vo, 6s.

BROWNBILL, John.— Principles of English Canon Law.
Part I. General Introduction. Crown Svo, 6s.

BROWNE, W. R.— The Inspiration of the New Testament.
With a Preface by the Rev. J. P. Norris, D.D. Cap. 8vo, 2s. 6d.

Burnett, Henry C— Hints in Sickness— Where to Go and
What to Do. Crown 8vo, is. 6d.

BURTON, Mrs. Ric/iard.—The Inner Life of Syria, Palestine,
and the Holy Land. Cheaper Edition in one volume.
Large post Svo. Js. 6d.

BUSBECQ, Osier Ghiselin de. — His Life and Letters. By Charles
Thornton Forster, M.A., and F. H. Blackburn Daniell,
M.A. 2 vols. With Frontispieces. Demy Svo, 24^.

CARPENTER, W. B., LL.D., M.D., F.R.S., etc.— The Principles
of Mental Physiology. With their Applications to the
Training and Discipline of the Mind, and the Study of its Morbid
Conditions. Illustrated. Sixth Edition. 8vo, \2s.

Catholic Dictionary. Containing some account of the Doctrine,
Discipline, Rites, Ceremonies, Councils, and Religious Orders of
the Catholic Church. By William E. Addis and Thomas
Arnold, M.A. Second Edition. Demy 8vo, 2\s.

CERVANTES.— Journey to Parnassus. Spanish Text, with^Trans-
nation into English Tenets, Preface, and Illustrative Notes, by
James Y. Gibson. Crown 8vo, izs,

Cheyne, Rev. T. K.— The Prophecies of Isaiah. Translated
with Critical Notes and Dissertations. 2 vols. Third Edition.
Demy Svo, 25^.

CLAIR A UT. — Elements of Geometry. Translated by Dr.
Haines. With 145 Figures. Crown Svo, 45-. 6a 7 .

Laden, P. W.— England under Lord Beaconsfield. The
Political History of the Last Six Years, from the end of 1873 to
the beginning of 1880. Second Edition, with Index and continuation
to March, 1880. Demy 8vo, 16s.
Samuel Sharpe. Egyptologist and Translator of the Bible.
Crown Svo, 6s.

CLIFFORD, Samuel— What Think Ye of the Christ? Crown
Svo, 6s.

Cloud, Edward, F.R.A.S.— The Childhood of the World : a

Simple Account of Man in Early Times. Seventh Edition.
Crown 8vo, 3s.

A Special Edition for Schools, is,

The Childhood of Religions. Including a Simple Account of
the Birth and Growth of Myths and Legends. Eighth Thousand.
Crown 8vo, $s.

A Special Edition for Schools, is, 6d.

Jesus of Nazareth. With a brief sketch of Jewish History to the
Time of His Birth. Small crown 8vo, 6s.

Cochran, J. Cole, D.D.— The Modern Pharisee and other
Sermons. Edited by the Very Rev. H. H. Dickinson, D.D.,
Dean of Chapel Royal, Dublin. New and Cheaper Edition.
Crown 8vo, >]s. 6d.

COLERIDGE, Sara.— Memoir and Letters of Sara Coleridge.

Edited by her Daughter. With Index. Cheap Edition. With
Portrait. Js. 6d.

Collects Exemplified. Being Illustrations from the Old and New
Testaments of the Collects for the Sundays after Trinity. By the
Author of " A Commentary on the Epistles and Gospels." Edited
by the Rev. Joseph Jackson. Crown Svo, $s.

Cromwell, A. K. — Discontent and Danger in India. Small
crown 8vo, 3^. 6d.

The Economic Revolution of India. Crown 8vo, 4s. 6d.

Cry, William. — A Guide to Modern English History. Part I.
MDCCCXV.-MDCCCXXX. Demy Svo, gs. Part II.—
MDCCCXXX.-MDCCCXXXV., 15*.

COTTERILL, II. B.—An Introduction to the Study of Poetry.
Crown 8vo, Js. 6d.

COX, Rev. Sir George W., M.A., Bart.— A History of Greece from
the Earliest Period to the end of the Persian "War.

New Edition. 2 vols. Demy 8vo, scythe

Mythology of the Aryan Nations. New Edition.
Demy Svo, stales

of Ancient Greece. New Edition. Small crown 8vo, 6s.

A Manual of Mythology in the form of Question and

Answer. New Edition. Cap. 8vo, 3s.

An Introduction to the Science of Comparative Mythology
and Folk-Lore. Second Edition. Crown Svo. *js. 6d.

COX, Rev. Sir G. TV., M.A., Bart., and JONES, Eustace Linton.—
Popular Romances of the Middle Ages, Third
Edition, in 1 vol. Crown Svo, 6s.

COX, Rev. Samuel, D.D. — Salvator Mundi *, or, Is Christ the Saviour
of all Men ? Eighth Edition. Crown 8vo, 5x.

The Genesis of Evil, and other Sermons, mainly expository.
Third Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s.

A Commentary on the Book of Job. With a Translation.
Demy 8vo, 15J.

The Larger Hope. A Sequel to " Salvator Mundi." imo, is.

CRA Even, Mrs.— A Year's Meditations. Crown 8vo, 6s.

Crawford, Oswald.— Portugal, Old and New. With Illustrations
and Maps. New and Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s.

CROZIER, John Bertie, M.B.—The Religion of the Future.
Crown 8vo, 6s.

DANIELL, Claremont.— The Gold Treasure of India. An Inquiry
into its Amount, the Cause of its Accumulation, and the Proper
Means of using it as Money. Crown 8vo, $s.

Darkness and Dawn : the Peaceful Birth of a New Age. Small
crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

DAVIDSON', Rev. Samuel, D.D., LL.D.— Canon of the Bible;

Its Formation, History, and Fluctuations. Third and Revised
Edition. Small crown 8vo, $s.

The Doctrine of Last Things contained in the New Testament
compared with the Notions of the Jews and the Statements
of Church Creeds. Small crown Svo, 3s. 6d.

DAVIDSON, Thomas.— The Parthenon Frieze, and other Essays.
Crown 8vo, 6s.

DAWSON, Geo., M.A. Prayers, with a Discourse on Prayer.

Edited by his Wife. First Series. Eighth Edition. Crown
8vo, 6s.

Prayers, with a Discourse on Prayer. Edited by George
St. Clair. Second Series. Crown 8vo, 6s,

DAWSON, Geo., M. A. —continued.

Sermons on Disputed Points and Special Occasions.
Edited by his Wife. Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s.

Sermons on Daily Life and Duty. Edited by his Wife.
Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s.

The Authentic Gospel, and other Sermons. Edited by
George St. Clair. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s.

Three Books of God : Nature, History, and Scripture.

Sermons edited by George St. Clair. Crown 8vo, 6s.

DE JONCOURT, Madame Marie.— Wholesome Cookery. Second
Edition. Crown 8vo, 3-y. 6d.

DE LONG, Lieut. Com. G. TV.— The Voyage of the Jeannette.
The Ship and Ice Journals of. Edited by his Wife, Emma
De Long. With Portraits, Maps, and many Illustrations on
wood and stone. 2 vols. Demy 8vo, 36s.

Desires, Philip S., B.D.— Daniel and John ; or, The Apocalypse
of the Old and that of the New Testament. Demy 8vo, \zs.

DEVEREUX, TV. Cope, Ren., E.R.G.S.— Fair Italy, the Riviera,
and Monte Carlo, Comprising a Tour through North and
South Italy and Sicily, with a short account of Malta. Crown
8vo, 6s.

DOTVDEN, Edward, LL.D.— Shakspere : a Critical Study of his
Mind and Art. Seventh Edition. Post 8vo, \2s.

Studies in Literature, 1 789-1 877. Third Edition. Large
post 8vo, 6s.

DUFFIELD, A. J.— Don Quixote : his Critics and Commentators.
With a brief account of the minor works of Miguel de
Cervantes Saavedra, and a statement of the aim and end of
the 'greatest of them all. A handy book for general readers.
Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d.

DU MONCEL, Count.— The Telephone, the Microphone, and
the Phonograph. With 74 Illustrations. Second Edition.
Small crown 8vo, ^s.

Duly, Victor.— History of Rome and the Roman People.
Edited by Prof. Mahaffy. With nearly 3000 Illustrations. 4to.
Vol. I. in 2 parts, 30J.

EDGEWORTH, F. V.— Mathematical Psychic. An Essay on
the Application of Mathematics to Social Science. Demy 8vo,
Js. 6d.

Educational Code of the Prussian Nation, in its Present
Form. In accordance with the Decisions of the Common Provincial
Law, and with those of Recent Legislation, Crown 8vo,
is. 6d.

Education Library. Edited by Philip Magnus :—

An Introduction to the History of Educational
Theories. By Oscar Browning, M.A. Second Edition.
3x, 60.

Old Greek Education. By the Rev. Prof. Mahaffy, M.A.
Second Edition. 3^. 6d.

School Management. Including a general view of the work
of Education, Organization and Discipline. By Joseph London.
Third Edition. 6s.

Eighteenth Century Essays. Selected and Edited by Austin
Dobson. With a Miniature Frontispiece by R. Caldecott.
Parchment Library Edition, 6s. ; vellum, Js. 6d.

ELSDALE, Henry. — Studies in Tennyson's Idylls. Crown 8vo, $s,

ELYOT, Sir Thomas. — The Boke named the Governour. Edited
from the First Edition of 1531 by Henry Herbert Stephen
Croft, M.A., Barrister-at-law. With Portraits of Sir Thomas
and Lady Elyot, copied by permission of her Majesty from Holbein's
Original Drawings at Windsor Castle. 2 vols. Cap. 4to,
Sos.

Enoch the Prophet. The Book of. Archbishop Laurence's Translation,
with an Introduction by the Author of ' ' The Evolution of
Christianity." Crown 8vo, 5.?.

Uranus. A Collection of Exercises in the Alcaic and Sapphic Metres.
Edited by F. W. Cornish, Assistant Master at Eton. Second
Edition. Crown 8vo, ar.

EVANS, Mark-the Story of Our Father's Love, told to
Children. Sixth and Cheaper Edition. With Four Illustrations.
Cap. 8vo, is. 6d.

A Book of Common Prayer and Worship for Household
Use, compiled exclusively from the Holy Scriptures.
Second Edition. Cap. 8vo, is.

The Gospel of Home Life. Crown 8vo, 4^. 6d.

The King's Story-book. In Three Parts. Cap. 8vo, is. 6d.
each**

Parts I. and II. with Eight Illustrations and Two Picture Maps,
now ready.

"Fan Kwae" at Canton before Treaty Days 1825-1844.

By an old Resident. With Frontispiece. Crown 8vo, 5.C

Flicker, Rev. Believer. — Scripture Onomatology. Being Critical
Notes on the Septuagint and other Versions. Second Edition.
Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d.

Florence, W. H.—K Month among the Mere Irish. Small
crown 8vo, $s.

Fowls, Rev. T. J¥.—*Ihe Divine Legation of Christ. Crown
8vo, fs.

FULLER, Rev. Morris.— The Lord's Day ", or, Christian Sunday.
Its Unity, History, Philosophy, and Perpetual Obligation.
Sermons. Demy 8vo, ior. 6d.

GARDINER, Samuel R., and J. BASS Milliner, M.A.—
Introduction to the Study of English History. Second
Edition. Large crown 8vo, gs,

GARDNER, Dorset. — Quatre Bras, Ligne, and Waterloo. A
Narrative of the Campaign in Belgium, 1815. With Maps and
Plans. Demy 8vo, 16s.

Genesis in Advance of Present Science. A Critical Investigation
of Chapters I-IX. By a Septuagenarian Beneficed Presbyter,
Demy 8vo. 10s. 6d.

Genoa, is. — Irresponsible Philanthropists. Being some
Chapters on the Employment of Gentlewomen. Small crown
8vo, 2s. 6d.

GEORGE, Henry. — Progress and Poverty : An Inquiry into the
Causes of Industrial Depressions, and of Increase of Want with
Increase of Wealth. The Remedy. Fifth Library Edition.
Post 8vo, *]s. 6d. Cabinet Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. Also a
Cheap Edition. Limp cloth, is. 6d. Paper covers, is.

Social Problems. Fourth Thousand. Crown 8vo, 5^. Cheap
Edition. Sewed, is.

GIBSON, James Y. —Journey to Parnassus. Composed by Miguel
de Cervantes Saavedra. Spanish Text, with Translation into
English Tenets, Preface, and Illustrative Notes, by. Crown
8vo, 1 2 s.

Glossary of Terms and Phrases. Edited by the Rev. H. Percy
Smith and others. Medium 8vo, 125-.

GLOVER, F., M.A.— Exempla Latina. A First Construing Book,
with Short Notes, Lexicon, and an Introduction to the Analysis
of Sentences. Second Edition. Cap. 8vo, 2s.

Goldsmith, Sir Francis Henry, Bart., Q.C., 31. F.— Memoir of.
With Portrait. Second Edition, Revised. Crown 8vo, 6s.

GOODENOUGH, Commodore J. £.— Memoir of, with Extracts from
his Letters and Journals. Edited by his Widow. With Steel
Engraved Portrait. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, 5-y.

GOSSE, Edmund W. — Studies in the Literature of Northern
Europe. With a Frontispiece designed and etched by Alma
Tadema. New and Cheaper Edition. Large crown 8vo, 6s.

Seventeenth Century Studies. A Contribution to the History
of English Poetry. Demy 8vo, 10s. 6d.

GOULD, Rev. S. Baring, 31. A.— Germany, Present and Past.
New and Cheaper Edition. Large crown 8vo, Js. 6d.

GO WAN, Major Walter E.—K. Ivanoff's Russian Grammar.
(16th Edition.) Translated, enlarged, and arranged for use of
Students of the Russian Language. Demy 8vo, 6s.

GOWER, Lord Ronald. My Reminiscences. Second Edition,
2 vols. With Frontispieces. Demy 8vo, 30^.

*** Also a Cheap Edition. With Portraits. Large crown 8vo, *js. 6d.

GRAHAM, William, Af.A.—The Creed of Science, Religious, Moral,
and Social. Second Edition, Revised. Crown 8vo, 6s.

GRIFFITH, Thomas, A.M.— The Gospel of the Divine Life : a
Study of the Fourth Evangelist. Demy 8vo, 14J.

Grimly, Rev. H. N., M.A.— Tremadoc Sermons, chiefly on
the Spiritual Body, the Unseen World, and the
Divine Humanity. Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s.

G. S. B.—A Study of the Prologue and Epilogue in English
Literature from Shakespeare to Dryden. Crown
8vo, $s.

GUSTAFSON, A.— The Foundation of Death. Crown 8vo.

HAECKEL, Prof. Ernst.— The History of Creation. Translation
revised by Professor E. Ray Lankester, M.A., F.R.S. With
Coloured Plates and Genealogical Trees of the various groups
of both Plants and Animals. 2 vols. Third Edition. Post
8vo, 32s.

The History of the Evolution of Man. With numerous
Illustrations. 2 vols. Post 8vo, 32s.

A Visit to Ceylon. Post 8vo, *]s. 6d.

Freedom in Science and Teaching. With a Prefatory Note
by T. H. Huxley, F.R.S. Crown 8vo, $s.

Half-crown Series : —

A Lost Love. By Anna C. Ogle [Ashford Owen].

Sister Dora : a Biography. By Margaret Lonsdale.

True Words for Brave Men : a Book for Soldiers and Sailors.
By the late Charles Kingsley.

Notes of Travel : being Extracts from the Journals of Count Von

MOLTKE.

English Sonnets. Collected and Arranged by J. Dennis.

London Lyrics. By F. Locker.

Home Songs for Quiet Hours. By the Rev. Canon R. II .
Barnes.

Harrow, Robert.— Bolingbroke. A Political Study and Criticism.
DemySvo, 14^.

HART, Rev. J. W. T— The Autobiography of Judas Iscariot.

A Chai-after Study. Crown 8vo, 3.C 6d.

II A WE 'IS, Rev. H. R., M. A.— Current Coin. Materialism— Tl
Devil — Crime — Drunkenness — Pauperism — Emotion — Recreate
The Sabbath. Fifth and Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo $s.

Arrows in the Air. Fifth and Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo, 5
Speech in Season. Fifth and Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo, 5
Thoughts for the Times. Thirteenth and Cheaper Edition:
Crown 8vo, $s.

Sectarian Family Prayers. New and Cheaper Edition
Cap. 8vo, is. 6d.

HAWKINS, Edwards Comfort.— Spirit and Form. Sermon
preached in the Parish Church of Leatherhead. Crown 8vo, 6s

HAWTHORNE, N'athaniel.—'WovKs. Complete in Twelve Volume
Large post 8vo, Js. 6d. each volume.

Vol. I. Twice-told Tales.

II. Mosses from an Old Manse.

III. The House of the Seven Gables, and The Sno

Image.

IV. The Wondered, Castlewood Tales, and Gran

father's Chair.
V. The Scarlet Letter, and The Blithely Romane
VI. The Marble Faun. [Transformation.]

^IJ;- 1 Our Old Home, and English Note-books.

IX. American Note-books.
X. French and Italian Note-books.
XI. Septimius Felon, The Deliver Romance, Bashaw
and, in an Appendix, The Ancestral Footstep
XII. Tales and Essays, and other Papers, with a Bi
graphical Sketch of Hawthorne.

HA YES, A. A., >wr.-New Colorado, and the Santa Fe Trait

Map and 60 Illustrations. Square 8vo, gs.

IIENNESSY, Sir John Pope.— Ralegh in Ireland. With his Lett,
on Irish Affairs and some Contemporary Documents. Large crop
8vo, printed on hand-made paper, parchment, 10s. bd.

HENRY, Philip.— Diaries and Letters of. Edited by Mattie
Henry Lee, M.A. Large crown 8vo, p. 6d.

HIDE, Albert-the Age to Come. Small crown Svo, 2s. 6d.

Him, Major H. W. L., R.A.— Magnetism ; A Protest. Crop
8vo, 2s. 6d.

Linton, J.— Life and Letters. Edited by Ellice Hopkins, wi
an Introduction by Sir W. W. Gull, Bart., and Port
engraved on Steel by C. H. Teens. Fourth Edition. Crop
8vo, 8s. 6d.

Philosophy and Religion. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 5

The Law Breaker. Crown 8vo.

ons.

Linton, J.— continued.

The Mystery of Pain. New Edition. Cap. 8vo, is,

Hodson of Hodson's Horse ; or, Twelve Years of a Soldier's Life
in India. Being extracts from the Letters of the late Major
W. S. R. Hodson. With a Vindication from the Attack of Mr.
Bosworth Smith. Edited by his brother, G. H. Hodson, M.A.
Fourth Edition. Large crown 8vo, 5-y.

Waltham i E. G— Eight Years in Japan, 1873-1881. Work,
Travel, and Recreation. With three Maps. Large crown 8vo, 9-f.

HOOPER, Mary. — Little Dinners : How to Serve them with
Elegance and Economy. Eighteenth Edition. Crown
8vo, 2s. 6d.

Cookery for Invalids, Persons of Delicate Digestion,
and Children. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. ,

Every-Day Meals. Being Economical and Wholesome Recipes
for Breakfast, Luncheon, and Supper. Fifth Edition. Crown
8vo, 2s. 6d.

HOPKINS, EUice.—lAiQ and Letters of James Linton, with an
Introduction by Sir W. W. Gull, Bart., and Portrait engraved
on Steel by C. H. Teens. Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo, 8s. 6d.

"Work amongst Working Men. Fifth Edition. Crown
8vo, 3.?. 6d.

HOSPPPALIER, £.-The Modern Applications of Electricity.
Translated and Enlarged by Julius Maier, Ph.D. 2 vols.
Second Edition, Revised, with many additions and numerous
Illustrations. Demy 8vo, \2s. 6d. each volume.
Vol. I. — Electric Generators, Electric Light.
Vol. II. — Telephone : Various Applications : Electrical
Transmission of Energy.

Household Readings on Prophecy. By a Layman. Small
crown 8vo, 3-r. 6d.

HUGHES, Henry.— The Redemption of the World. Crown 8vo,
3^. 6d.

1WNTINGFORD, Rev. E., D.C.L.— The Apocalypse. With a
Commentary and Introductory Essay. Demy 8vo, tes.

Sutton, Arthur, M.A. — The Anglican Ministry : Its Nature
and Value in relation to the Catholic Priesthood. With a Preface
by His Eminence Cardinal Newman. Demy svo, 14s.

Sutton, Rev. C. ^.—Unconscious Testimony ; or, The Silent
Witness of the Hebrew to the Truth of the Historical Scriptures.
Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

Hangman, H. M.— The Historical Basis of Socialism in
England. Large crown 8vo, 8s. 6d.

IM THURN, Everard K— Among the Indians of Guiana.
Being Sketches, chiefly anthropology, from the Interior of British
Guiana. With 53 Illustrations and a Map. Demy 8vo, i8j.

Jaunt in a Junk ". A Ten Days' Cruise in Indian Seas. Large crown
8vo, 7s. 6d.

JENKINS, E., and RAYMOND, J.— The Architect's Legal
Handbook. Third Edition, Revised. Crown 8vo, 6s.

JENNINGS, Mrs. VaugAan.—'RsLhel : Her Life and Letters. Large
post 8vo, *js. 6d.

JERVIS, Rev. W. Henley. — The Gallican Church and the
Revolution. A Sequel to the History of the Church of
France, from the Concordat of Bologna to the Revolution.
Demy 8vo, iSs.

JOEL, L. — A Consul's Manual and Shipowner's and Shipmaster's
Practical Guide in their Transactions
Abroad. With Definitions of Nautical, Mercantile, and Legal
Terms ; a Glossary of Mercantile Terms in English, French,
German, Italian, and Spanish ; Tables of the Money, Weights,
and Measures of the Principal Commercial Nations and their
Equivalents in British Standards ; and Forms of Consular and
Notarial Acts. Demy 8vo, 12s.

Johnston, C. F, M.A.— Historical Abstracts: being Outlines
of the History of some of the less known States of Europe.
Crown 8vo, p. 6d.

JOLLY, William, F.R.S.E., etc.— The Life of John Duncan,
Scotch Weaver and Botanist. W r with Sketches of his
Friends and Notices of his Times. Second Edition. Large
crown 8vo, with etched portrait, gs.

JONES, C. A.— The Foreign Freaks of Five Friends. With 3c
Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 6s.

JOYCE, P. TV., LL.D., etc.— Old Celtic Romances. Translated
from the Gaelic. Crown 8vo, fs* 6d.

Jones, J. L.— The Adventures of a Tourist in Ireland,

Second edition. Small crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

KAUFMANN, Rev. M., B.A.— Socialism : its Nature, its Dangers,
and its Remedies considered. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

Utopias ; or, Schemes of Social Improvement, from Sir Thomas:
More to Karl Marx. Crown 8vo, $s.

KAY, David, F.R.G.S. — Education and Educators. Crown 8vo
7s. 6d.

KAY, Joseph.— Tree Trade in Land. Edited by his Widow. With
Preface by the Right Hon. John Bright, M.P. Seventh
Edition. Crown 8vo, $s.

KEMPIS, Thomas a.—Ol the Imitation of Christ. Parchment
Library Edition. — Parchment or cloth, 6s. ; vellum, Js. 6d. The
Red Line Edition, cap. 8vo, red edges, 2s. 6d. The Cabinet
Edition, small 8vo, cloth limp, is. ; cloth boards, red edges, is. 6d.
The Miniature Edition, red edges, 32mo, is.
%* All the above Editions may be had in various extra bindings.

KENT, C. — Corona Catholic ad Petri successors Pedes
Oblata; De Summit Pontifical Leonis XIII. assumption
Epigrams. In Quinquaginta Linguist. Cap.
4to, i$s.

KETTLE IVELL, Rev. S.— Thomas a Kempis and the Brothers
of Common Life. 2 vols, With Frontispieces. Demy 8vo,
30^.

KIDD, Joseph, M.D.— The Laws of Therapeutics ; or, the Science
and Art of Medicine. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s.

KINGSEORD, Anna, M.D-the Perfect Way in Diet. A
Treatise advocating a Return to the Natural and Ancient Food of
our Race. Small crown 8vo, 2s.

KINGSLEY, Charles, M.A.— Letters and Memories of his Life

Edited by his Wife. With two Steel Engraved Portraits, and
Vignettes on Wood. Fourteenth Cabinet Edition. 2 vols. Crown
8vo, 1 2 s.
%* Also a People's Edition, in one volume. With Portrait. Crown
8vo, 6s.

All Saints' Day, and other Sermons. Edited by the Rev. W.
Harrison. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, Js. 6d.

True Words for Brave Men. A Book for Soldiers' and
Sailors' Libraries. Tenth Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

KNOX, Alexander A. — The New Playground ", or, Wanderings in
Algeria. New and cheaper edition. Large crown 8vo, 6s.

London, Joseph.— School Management ", Including a General View
of the Work of Education, Organization, and Discipline. Third
Edition. Crown 8vo, 6^.

LAURIE, S. S. —The Training of Teachers, and other Educational
Papers. Crown 8vo, *js. 6d.

LEE, Rev. F. G., D.C.L.— The Other World ", or, Glimpses of the
Supernatural. 2 vols. A New Edition. Crown 8vo, i$s.

Letters from a Young Emigrant in Manitoba. Second Edition.
Small crown 8vo, 3^. 6d.

LEWIS, Edward Dillon.— A Draft Code of Criminal Law and
Procedure. Demy 8vo, 21s.

Lille, Arthur, M.R.A.S.—The Popular Life of Buddha,

Containing an Answer to the Hubert Lectures of 1881, With
Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 6s.

LLOYD, IVal/cr.—The Hope of the World : An Essay on Universal
Redemption. Crown 8vo, $s.

LONSDALE, Margaret.— Sister Dora : a Biography. With Portrait.
Twenty-seventh Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

Louisburg, Thomas R. —James Fenimore Cooper. Crown
8vo, 5-r.

Lower, Charles.— & Biography. By the Author of " St. Teresa."
New and Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo. With Portrait. y. 6d,

LYTTON, Ed-ward Buller, Lord.—JAfe, Letters and Literary
Remains. By his Son, the Earl of Lytton. With Portraits,
Illustrations and Facsimiles. Demy 8vo. Vols. I. and II., 32^.

MAC AULA Y, G. C— Francis Beaumont : A Critical Study. Crown

8vo, 5*.
MAC CALLUM, M. J^".— Studies in Low German and High

German Literature. Crown 8vo, 6s.
MACDONALD, George. — Donald Grant. A New Novel. 3 vols.

Crown 8vo, 31J. 6d.
Machiavelli, Mccold.-L.ife and Times. By Prof. Villars.

Translated by Linda Villars. 4 vols. Large post, 8vo, 48s.

Machiavelli, Niccolo. — Discourses on the First Decade of
Titus Livius. Translated from the Italian by Ninian Hill
Thomson, M.A. Large crown 8vo, \2s.
The Prince. Translated from the Italian by N. H. T. Small
crown 8vo, printed on hand-made paper, bevelled boards, 6s.

Mckenzie, Alexander. — How India is Governed. Being an

Account of England's Work in India. Small crown 8vo, 2s.
MACNAUGHT, Rev. John.— Scena Domini : An Essay on the Lord's

Supper, its Primitive Institution, Apostolic Uses, and Subsequent

History. Demy 8vo, 14^.
MACWALTER, Rev. G. S. —Life of Antonio Rosmini Serai

(Founder of the Institute of Charity). 2 vols. Demy 8vo.

[Vol. I. now ready, price lis*

MAGNUS, Mrs.— About the Jews since Bible Times. From the
Babylonian Exile till the English Exodus. Small crown 8vo, 6s.

MAIR, R. S., M.D., F.R.C.S.E.— The Medical Guide for Anglo-indians.
Being a Compendium of Advice to Europeans in
India, relating to the Preservation and Regulation of Health.
With a Supplement on the Management of Children in India,
Second Edition. Crown 8vo, limp cloth, 3^. 6d.

MALDEN, Henry Elliot— Vienna, 1683. The History and Consequences
of the Defeat of the Turks before Vienna, September
1 eth, 1683, by John Sobieski, King of Poland, and Charles
Leopold, Duke of Lorraine. Crown 8vo, 4s. 6d.

Many Voices. A volume of Extracts from the Religious Writers of
Christendom from the First to the Sixteenth Century. With
Biographical Sketches. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, red edges, 6s.

MARKHAM, Capt. Albert Hastings, J?. AT.— The Great Frozen Sea :
A Personal Narrative of the Voyage of the Alert during the Arctic
Expedition of 1875-6. With 6 Full-page Illustrations, 2 Maps,
and 27 Woodcuts. Sixth and Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s.

A Polar Reconnaissance : being the Voyage of the Inborn
to Novaya Zemlya in 1879. With 10 Illustrations. Demy 8vo, i6j.

Marriage and Maternity ; or, Scripture Wives and Mothers. Small
crown Svo, 4s. 6d.

MARTINEAU, Gertrude.— Outline Lessons on Morals. Small
crown Svo, 3s. 6d.

Audley, H, M.D.— Body and Will. Being an Essay concerning
Will, in its Metaphysical, Physiological, and Pathological
Aspects. 8vo, \2s.

McGRATH, Terence. — Pictures from Ireland. New and Cheaper
Edition. Crown Svo, 2s.

MEREDITH, M.A.— Theotokos, the Example for Woman.
Dedicated, by permission, to Lady Agnes Wood. Revised by
the Venerable Archdeacon Venison. 32mo, limp cloth, is. 6d.

MILLER, Edward. — The History and Doctrines of Irvingism ;

or, The so-called Catholic and Apostolic Church. 2 vols. Large
post 8vo, 25-r.

The Church in Relation to the State. Large crown Svo,
<]s. 6d.

Machin, J. G.— Bulgaria since the War : Notes of a Tour in
the Autumn of 1879. Small crown 8vo, 3-r. 6d.

MITCHELL, Lucy M.—A History of Ancient Sculpture. With
numerous Illustrations, including 6 Plates in Prototype. Super
royal 8vo, dissections

from Ancient Sculpture. Being a Portfolio containing
Reproductions in Prototype of 36 Masterpieces of Ancient
Art to illustrate Mrs. Mitchell's " History of Ancient Sculpture."
iSs.

Meteor, Bertram.— Through the Zulu Country. Its Battlefields
and its People. With five Illustrations. Demy Svo, 14J.

Muckle, E. — A Grammar of the Baloochee Language, as
it is spoken in Makran (Ancient Gedrosia), in the Persia Arabic
and Roman characters. Cap. Svo, $s.

MOLES WORTH, Rev. W. Nassau, M.A.— History of the Church
of England from 1660. Large crown 8vo, Js. 6d.

Morel, J. ^.—Euclid Simplified in Method and Language.
Being a Manual of Geometry. Compiled from the most important
French Works, approved by the University of Paris and the
Minister of Public Instruction. Cap. 8vo, 2s. 6d.

C

MORRIS, George.— The Duality of all Divine Truth in our
Lord Jesus Christ. For God's Self-manifestation in the Impartation
of the Divine Nature to Man. Large crown 8vo, Js. 6d.

MORSE, E. S., Ph.D.— First Book of Zoology. With numerous
Illustrations. New and Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

MURPHY, John Nicholas.— The Chair of Peter ; or, The Papacy
considered in its Institution, Development, and Organization, and
in the Benefits which for over Eighteen Centuries it has conferred
on Mankind. Demy 8vo, 18s.

My Ducats and My Daughter. A New Novel. 3 vols. Crown
8vo, 3 1 s. bd.

NELSON, J. H. t M.A.—K Prospectus of the Scientific Study
of the Hindu Law. Demy 8vo, gs.

NEWMAN, Cardinal— Characteristics from the Writings of.
Being Selections from his various Works. Arranged with the
Author's personal Approval. Sixth Edition. With Portrait,
Crown 8vo, 6s.
*** A Portrait of Cardinal Newman, mounted for framing, can
be had, 2s. 6d.

NEWMAN, Francis William.— 'Essays on Diet. Small crown Svo,

cloth limp, 2s.
New Truth and the Old Faith : Are they Incompatible ? By a

Scientific Layman. Demy 8vo, 10s. 6d.
New Werther. By Loki. Small crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.
NICHOLSON, Edward Byron.— The Gospel according to the

Hebrews. Its Fragments Translated and Annotated, with a

Critical Analysis of the External and Internal Evidence relating

to it. Demy Svo, gs. 6d.

A New Commentary on the Gospel according to
Matthew. Demy 8vo, 12s.

NICOLS, Arthur, F.G.S., F.R.G. S.— Chapters from the Physical
History of the Earth : an Introduction to Geology and
Palaeontology. With numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo, $s.

NO PS, Marianne. — Class Lessons on Euclid. Part I. containing
the First Two Books of the Elements. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

Notes on St. Paul's Epistle to the Galatians. For Readers of
the Authorized Version or the Original Greek. Demy 8vo, 2s. 6d.

Duces : Exercises on the Syntax of the Public School Latin
Primer. New Edition in Three Parts. Crown 8vo, each is.
# * The Three Parts can also be had bound together, 3J.

OATES, Frank, F.R.G.S.— Matabele Land and the Victoria
Falls. A Naturalist's Wanderings in the Interior of South
Africa. Edited by C. G. Oates, B.A. With numerous Illustrations
and 4 Maps. Demy 8vo, 2\s.

OGLE, W., M.D., Fer. Cap.— Aristotle on the Parts of Animals.
Translated, with Introduction and Notes. Royal 8vo, 12s. 6d.

0" HAG AN, Lord, LT.P. — Occasional Papers and Addresses.
Large crown 8vo, ?s. 6d.

Open, Lorenz, Life of. By Alexander Necker. With Explanatory
Notes, Selections from Open's Correspondence, and Portrait of the
Professor. From the German by Alfred Talk. Crown 8vo, 6s.

O'MEARA, Kathleen. — Frederic Ozanam, Professor of the Sorbonne :
His Life and Work c Second Edition. Crown 8vo, Js. 6d.

Henri Perceive and his Counsels to the Sick. Small
crown 8vo, 5-r.

OSBORNE, Rev. W. A.— The Revised Version of the New Testament.
A Critical Commentary, with Notes upon the Text.
Crown 8vo, 5*,

OTTLEY, H. Bicherslelh.—The Great Dilemma. Christ His Own
Witness or His Own Accuser. Six Lectures. Second Edition.
Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d.

Our Public Schools— Eton, Harrow, Winchester, Rugby,
Westminster, Marlborough, The Charterhouse.
Crown 8vo, 6s.

GIVEN, F. M.— John Keats : a Study. Crown 8vo, 6s.

Across the Hills. Small crown 8vo, is. 6d.

OWEN, Rev. Robert, B.D.— Anchorage Catholicon ; or, Book of
Saints. With Notes, Critical, Exegetical, and Historical. Demy
8vo, 1 8 s.

OXENHAM, Rev. F. Nutcombe.—VJYiZLX is the Truth as to Everlasting
Punishment. Part II. Being an Historical Inquiry,
into the Witness and Weight of certain Anti-organist Councils.
Crown 8vo, is. 6d.

OXONIENSIS. — Romanism, Protestantism, Anglicanism.
Being a Layman's View of some questions of the Day. Together
with Remarks on Dr. Littledale's "Plain Reasons against joining
the Church of Rome." Crown 8vo, y. 6d.

PALMER, the late William.— Notes of a Visit to Russia in
1840-1841. Selected and arranged by John H. Cardinal
Newman, with portrait. Crown 8vo, 8s. 6d.

Early Christian Symbolism. A Series of Compositions from
Fresco Paintings, Glasses, and Sculptured Sarcophagi. Edited
by the Rev. Provost Northcote, D.D., and the Rev. Canon
Brownlow, M.A. In 8 Parts, each with 4 Plates. Folio, $s.
coloured ; 3^. plain.

Parchment Library. Choicely Printed on hand-made paper, limp
parchment antique or cloth, 6s. ; vellum, Js. 6d. each volume.

The Book of Psalms. Translated by the Rev. T. K. Cheyne,

M.A.

Parchment Library — continued.

The Vicar of Wakefield. With Preface and Notes by Austin

Dobson.
English Comic Dramatists. Edited by Oswald Crawford.
English Lyrics.
The Sonnets of John Milton. Edited by Mark Patterson.

With Portrait after Vertue.

Poems by Alfred Tennyson. 2 vols. With miniature frontispieces
by W. B. Richmond.

French Lyrics. Selected and Annotated by George Saintsbury.
With a miniature frontispiece designed and etched by
H. G. Glindoni.

Fables by Mr. John Gay. With Memoir by Austin Dobson,
and an etched portrait from an unfinished Oil Sketch by Sir
Godfrey Kneller.

Select Letters of Percy Bysshe Shelley. Edited, with an
Introduction, by Richard Garnett.

The Christian Year. Thoughts §n Verse for the Sundays and
Holy Days throughout the Year. With Miniature Portrait of the
Rev. J. Keble, after a Drawing by G. Richmond, R.A.

Shakspere's Works. Complete in Twelve Volumes.

Eighteenth Century Essays. Selected and Edited by Austin
Dobson. With a Miniature Frontispiece by R. Caldecott.

Q. Horatio Flaccid Opera. Edited by F. A. Cornish, Assistant
Master at Eton. With a Frontispiece after a design by L. Alma
Tadema, etched by Leopold Lowenstam.

Edgar Allan Poe's Poems. With an Essay on his Poetry by
Andrew Lang, and a Frontispiece by Linley Tambourine.

Shakspere's Sonnets. Edited by Edward Bowden. With a
Frontispiece etched by Leopold Lowenstam, after the Death Mask.

English Odes. Selected by Edmund W. Gosse. With Frontispiece
on India paper by Hame Thornycroft, A. R.A.

Of the Imitation of Christ. By Thomas a Kempis. A

revised Translation. With Frontispiece on India paper, from a

Design by W. B. Richmond.
Tennyson's The Princess : a Medley. With a Miniature

Frontispiece by H. M. Paget, and a Tailpiece in Outline by

Gordon Browne.
Poems : Selected from Percy Bysshe Shelley. Dedicated to

Lady Shelley. With a Preface by Richard Garnett and a

Miniature Frontispiece.
Tennyson's In Memoriam. With a Miniature Portrait

in eau-forte by Le Rat, after a Photograph by the late Mrs.

Cameron**
The above volumes may also be had in a variety of leather bindings.

Parson, Joseph.— Out Railways. Sketches, Historical and
Descriptive. With Practical Information as to Fares and Rates,
etc., and a Chapter on Railway Reform. Crown 8vo, 6s.

PAUL, Alexander. — Short Parliaments. A History of the National
Demand for frequent General Elections. Small crown 8vo, 3^. bd.

PAUL, C. Began. — Biographical Sketches, Printed on hand-made
paper, bound in buckram. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, *]s. 6d.

PEARSON, Rev. S.— Week-day Living. A Book for Young Men
and Women. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 5s.

Perched, Dr. Oscar— The Races of Man and their Geographical
Distribution. Second Edition. Large crown
8vo, gs.

PETERS, F. //.—The Nicomachean Ethics of Aristotle. Translated
by. Crown 8vo, 6s.

PH/PSON, £.— The Animal Lore of Shakspeare's Time.
Including Quadrupeds, Birds, Reptiles, Fish and Insects. Large
post 8vo, gs.

Pigeon, D.—An Engineer's Holiday ; or, Notes of a Round
Trip from Long. o° to 0°. New and Cheaper Edition. Large
crown 8vo, Js. 6d.

POPE, J. Buckingham. — Railway Rates and Radical Rule*
Trade Questions as Election Tests. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

Price, Prof. Bonny. — Chapters on Practical Political
Economy. Being the Substance of Lectures delivered before
the University of Oxford. New and Cheaper Edition. Large
post 8vo, 5*.

Pulpit Commentary, The. (Old Testament Series.) Edited by the
Rev. J. S. Exell, M.A., and the Rev. Canon H. D. M. Spence.

Genesis. By the Rev. T. Whitelaw, M.A. With Homilies by
the Very Rev. J. F. Montgomery, D.D., Rev. Prof. R. A.
Redford, M.A., LL.B., Rev. F. Hastings, Rev. W.
Roberts, M.A. An Introduction to the Study of the Old
Testament by the Venerable Archdeacon Farrar, D.D., F.R.S. ;
and Introductions to the Pentateuch by the Right Rev. H. Cot-thrill,
D.D., and Rev. T. Whitelaw, M.A. Eighth Edition.
1 vol., 15^.

Exodus. By the Rev. Canon Rawlinson. With Homilies by
Rev. J. Orr, Rev. D. Young, B.A., Rev. C. A. Goodhart,
Rev. J. Urquhart, and the Rev. H. T. Robjohns. Fourth
Edition. 2 vols., lys.

Leviticus. By the Rev. Prebendary Merrick, M.A. With
Introductions by the Rev. R. Collins, Rev. Professor A. Cave,
and Homilies by Rev. Prof. Redford, LL.B., Rev. J. A.
Macdonald, Rev. W. Clarkson, B.A., Rev, S. R. Abridge,
LL.B., and Rev. Cheyne Edgar. Fourth Edition. \$s.

Pulpit Commentary, The—contiuued.

Numbers. By the Rev. R. Winterbotham, LL.B. With
Homilies by the Rev. Professor W. Minnie, D.D., Rev. E. S.
Prout, M.A., Rev. D. Young, Rev. J. Waite, and an Introduction
by the Rev. Thomas Whitelaw, M.A. Fourth
Edition. i$s.

Deuteronomy. By the Rev. W. L. Alexander, D.D. With
Homilies by Rev. C. Elegance, D.D., Rev. J. Orr, B.D.,
Rev. R. M. Edgar, M.A., Rev. D. Davies, M.A. Third
edition. 15^.

Joshua. By Rev. J. J. Lias, M.A. With Homilies by Rev.
S. R. Abridge, LL.B., Rev. R. Glover, Rev. E. de
Presence, D.D., Rev. J. Waite, B.A., Rev. W. F. Adeney,
M.A. ; and an Introduction by the Rev. A. Plummer, M.A.
Fifth Edition. 12s. 6d.

Judges and Ruth. By the Bishop of Bath and Wells, and
Rev. J. Morrison, D.D. With Homilies by Rev. A. F. Muir,
M.A., Rev. W. F. Adeney, M.A., Rev. W. M. Statim, and
Rev. Professor J. Thomson, M.A. Fourth Edition, 10s. 6d.

\ Samuel. By the Very Rev. R. P. Smith, D.D. With Homilies
by Rev. Donald Fraser, D.D., Rev. Prof. Chapman, and
Rev. B. Dale. Sixth Edition. 15J.

1 Kings. By the Rev. Joseph Hammond, LL.B. With Homilies
by the Rev. E. de Presence, D.D., Rev. J. Waite, B.A.,
Rev. A. Rowland, LL.B., Rev. J. A. Macdonald, and Rev.
J. Urquhart. Fourth Edition. 15^.

Ezra, Nehemiah, and Esther. By Rev. Canon G. Rawlinson,
M.A. With Homilies by Rev. Prof. J. R. Thomson, M.A., Rev.
Prof. R. A. Redford, LL.B., M.A., Rev. W. S. Lewis, M.A.,
Rev. J. A. Macdonald, Rev. A. Mackennal, B.A., Rev. W.
Clarkson, B.A., Rev. F. Hastings, Rev. W. Dinwiddie,
LL.B., Rev. Prof. Rowland, B.A., Rev. G. Wood, B.A.,
Rev. Prof. P. C. Barker, M.A., LL.B., and the Rev. J. S.
Exell, M.A. Sixth Edition. 1 vol., 12s. 6d.

Jeremiah. By the Rev. T. K. Cheyne, M.A. With Homilies
by the Rev. W. F. Adeney, M.A., Rev. A. F. Muir, M.A.,
Rev. S. Conway, B.A., Rev. J. Waite, B.A., and Rev. D.
Young, B.A. Vol. I., 15s.

Pulpit Commentary, The. (New Testament Series.)

St. Mark. By Very Rev. E. Bickersteth, D.D., Dean of Lichfield.
With Homilies by Rev. Prof. Thomson, M.A., Rev. Prof.
Given, M.A., Rev. Prof. Johnson, M.A., Rev. A, Rowland,
B.A., LL.B., Rev. A. Muir, and Rev. R. Green. 2 vols.
Fourth Edition. 21s.

The Acts of the Apostles. By the Bishop of Bath and Wells,
With Homilies by Rev, Prof. P. C. Barker, M.A., LL.B., Rev.
Prof. E. Johnson, M.A., Rev. Prof. R. A. Redford, M.A.,
Rev. R. Tuck, B.A., Rev. W. Clarkson, B.A. 2 vols., 21s,

Pulpit Commentary, The— continued.

1 Corinthians. By the Ven. Archdeacon Farrar, D. D. With

Homilies by Rev. Ex-Chancellor Lipscomb, LL.D., Rev.

David Thomas, D.D., Rev. D. Fraser, D.D., Rev. Prof.

J. R. Thomson, M.A., Rev. J. Waite, B.A., Rev. R. Tuck,

B.A., Rev. E. Hurndall, M.A., and Rev. H. Premier, B.D.

Price 15.C
PUSEY, Dr.— Sermons for the Church's Seasons from

Advent to Trinity. Selected from the Published Sermons

of the late Edward Bouverie Pusey, D.D. Crown 8vo, $s.

Quarter, Harry—" The Academy," 1872-1882. 1*.

Radcliffe, Frank R. K— The New Politics. Small crown 8vo,
2s. 6d.

Range, Leopold von. — Universal History. The oldest Historical

Group of Nations and the Greeks. Edited by G. W. Brother.

Demy 8vo, 16s.
Realities of the Future Life. Small crown 8vo, is. 6d.
Wendell, J. M.— Concise Handbook of the Island of

Madeira. With Plan of Funchal and Map of the Island. Cap.

8vo, is. 6d.

REYNOLDS, Rev. J. IV.— The Supernatural in Nature. A
Verification by Free Use of Science. Third Edition, Revised
and Enlarged. Demy 8vo, i<\s.
The Mystery of Miracles. Third and Enlarged Edition.

Crown 8vo, 6s.
The Mystery of the Universe ; Our Common Faith. Demy
8vo, 14J.
RIBOT, Prof. Th — Heredity : A Psychological Study on its Phenomena,
its Laws, its Causes, and its Consequences. Second Edition.
Large crown 8vo, 9*.
ROBERTSON, The late Rev. F. JV., M.A.— Life and Letters of.
Edited by the Rev. Stafford Brooke, M.A.
I. Two vols., uniform with the Sermons. With Steel Portrait.
Crown 8vo, 7*. 6d.
II. Library Edition, in Demy 8vo, with Portrait. 12s.
III. A Popular Edition, in I vol. Crown 8vo, 6s.
Sermons. Four Series. Small crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. each.
The Human Race, and other Sermons. Preached at Cheltenham,
Oxford, and Brighton. New and Cheaper Edition. Small
crown 8vo, 3^. 6d.
Notes on Genesis. New and Cheaper Edition. Small crown 8vo,

3-r. 6d.
Expository Lectures on St. Paul's Epistles to the

Corinthians. A New Edition. Small crown 8vo, 5s.
Lectures and Addresses, with other Literary Remains. A New
Edition, Small crown 8vo, 5?.

ROBERTSON, The late Rev. F. W., M. A.— continued.

An Analysis of Mr. Tennyson's " In Memoriam."
(Dedicated by Permission to the Poet-laureate.) Cap. 8vo, 2s.
The Education of the Human Race. Translated from the
German of Foothold Ephraim Lessing. Cap. 8vo, 2s. 6d.
The above Works can also be had, bound in half morocco,,
%* A Portrait of the late Rev. F. W. Robertson, mounted for framing,
can be had, 2s. 6d.

ROMANES, G. J. — Mental Evolution in Animals. With a
Posthumous Essay on Instinct by Charles Darwin, F.R.S.
Demy Svo, 12s.

Rossini SERB ATI, A., Founder of the Institute of Charity. Life.
By G. Stuart MacWalter. 2 vols. 8vo.

[Vol. I. now ready, \2S.

Rosmini's Origin of Ideas. Translated from the Fifth Italian
Edition of the Nuovo Saggio S11W origine delle idee. 3 vols.
Demy 8vo, cloth. [Vols. I. and II. now ready, i6j. each.

Rosmini's Philosophical System. Translated, with a Sketch of
the Author's Life, Bibliography, Introduction, and Notes by
Thomas Davidson. Demy 8vo, \6s.

RULE, Martin, M.A. — Thee Life and Times of St. Anselm,
Archbishop of Canterbury and Primate of the
Britain. 2 vols. Demy Svo, 32J.

SAL VA TOR, ArchdttheLtidzvig.—'LevKosia, the Capital of Cyprus.

Crown 4to, 10s. 6d.
SAMUEL, Sydney M.— Jewish Life in the East. Small crown

Svo, 3.r. 6d.
Sauce, Rev. Archibald Henry. — Introduction to the Science of

Language. 2 vols. Second Edition. Large post 8vo, unscientific

Layman. The New Truth and the Old Faith : are they
Incompatible ? Demy 8vo, vos. 6d.

Scenes, W. Baptiste.—'FoMY Centuries of English Letters :
A Selection of 350 Letters by 150 Writers, from the Period of the
Pastor Letters to the Present Time. Third Edition. Large
crown 8vo, 6s.

SH1LLIT0, Rev. Joseph.— Womanhood : its Duties, Temptations,
and Privileges. A Book for Young Women. Third Edition.
Crown 8vo, 3^. 6d.

SHIPLEY, Rev. Orbs, M.A.— Principles of the Faith in Relation
to Sin. Topics for Thought in Times of Retreat.
Eleven Addresses delivered during a Retreat of Three Days to
Persons living in the World. Demy 8vo, \2s.

Sister Augustine, Superior of the Sisters of Charity at the St.
Johannes Hospital at Bonn. Authorised Translation by Hans
Tiara, from the German "Memorials of Amalie yon
Lasaulx." Cheap Edition. Large crown Svo, 45-. 6d.

SKINNER, James.— A Memoir. By the Author of "Charles Lower. "
With a Preface by the Rev. Canon Carter, and Portrait.
Large crown, 7*. 6d.

SMITH, Edward, M.D., LL.B., F.R.S.— Tubercular Consumption
in its Early and Remediable Stages. Second
Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s.

Spending, James. — Reviews and Discussions, Literary,
Political, and Historical not relating to Bacon. Demy
8vo, 12s. 6d.

Evenings with a Reviewer ; or, Bacon and Macaulay.
With a Prefatory Notice by G. S. Enables, Q.C. 2 vols.
Demy 8vo 18s.

Stiffer, Paul. — Shakspeare and Classical Antiquity :
Greek and Latin Antiquity as presented in Shakspeare's Plays.
Translated by Emily J. Carey. Large post 8vo, \2s.

STEVENSON, Rev. W. R— Hymns for the Church and Home.

Selected and Edited by the Rev. W. Fleming Stevenson.

The Hymn Book consists of Three Parts : — I. For Public
Worship. — II. For Family and Private Worship. — III.
For Children.
%* Published in various forms and prices, the latter ranging from Sd.
to 6s,

Stray Papers on Education, and Scenes from School Life. By B. H.
Second Edition. Small crown 8vo, 3-f. 6d.

STREATFE1LD, Rev. G. S., M, ^.—Lincolnshire and the Danes,
Large crown 8vo, js. 6d.

Streamers Siliceous.— Organic Chemistry. Translated and
Edited, with Extensive Additions, by W. R. Hodgkinson,
Ph.D., and A. J. Greenaway, F.I.C. Demy 8vo, 21s.

Study of the Prologue and Epilogue in English Literature.
From Shakespeare to Dryden. By G. S. B. Crown 8vo, 5-r.

SULLY, James, M.A. — Pessimism : a History and a Criticism.
Second Edition. Demy 8vo, 14-r.

SWEDENBORG, Eman.—T>e Cultus et More Dei ubi Igitur
de Tellers ort, Paradise et Vivario, turn de Primogeniture
Seu Adam Facilitate Infanta, et More.
Crown 8vo, 6s.

Some, David.— Representative Government in England. Its
Faults and Failures. Second Edition. Large crown 8vo, 6s.

TAYLOR, Rev. Isaac.— The Alphabet. An Account of the Origin
and Development of Letters. With numerous Tables and
Facsimiles. 2 vols. Demy 8vo, 36^.

TAYLOR, Sedley. — profit Sharing between Capital and
Labour. To which is added a Memorandum on the Industrial
Partnership at the Westwood Collieries, by Archibald and
Henry Briggs, with remarks by Sedley Taylor. Crown 8vo,
2s. 6d.

Thirty Thousand Thoughts. Edited by the Rev. Canon Spence,
Rev. J. S. Exell, Rev. Charles Neil, and Rev. Jacob
Stephenson. 6 vols. Super royal 8vo.

[Vols. I. and II. now ready, 16s. each.

Thai, J. Hamilton-laws of Life after the Mind of Christ.
Second Edition. Crown 8vo, Js. 6d.

THOMSON, J. Trumbull— Social Problems ; or, An Inquiry into
the Laws of Influence. With Diagrams. Demy 8vo, vos. 6d.

Tinman, Paul P.— Gold and Silver Money. Part I.— A Plain
Statement. Part II. — Objections Answered. Third Edition.
Crown 8vo, is.

TIPPLE, Rev. S. ^4.— Sunday Mornings at Wormwood. Prayers
and Sermons. Crown 8vo, 6s.

TODHUNTER, Dr. J.— A. Study of Shelley. Crown 8vo, 7s.

TREMENHEERE, Hugh Seymour, Cab.— K Manual of the
Principles of Government, as set forth by the Authorities
of Ancient and Modern Times. New and Enlarged Edition.
Crown 8vo, $s. 6d.

Ture, Daniel Hack, M.D., Pap. C. P.— Chapters in the History
of the Insane in the British Isles. With 4 Illustrations.
Large crown 8vo, 12s.

TWINING, Louisa. — "Workhouse Visiting and Management
during Twenty-five Years. Small crown 8vo, 2s.

TYLER, J.— The Mystery of Being: or, What Do We
Know ? Small crown 8vo, ^s. 6d.

UPTON, Major R. D.— Gleanings from the Desert of Arabia.
Large post 8vo, 10s. 6d.

Vacuum VIATOR.— Flying South. Recollections of France and
its Littoral. Small crown 8vo, 3s. 6d.

VAUGHAN, H. Halford.—'N ew Readings and Renderings of
Shakespeare's Tragedies. 2 vols. Demy 8vo, 2$s.

Villars, Professor.— Niccolo Machiavelli and his Times.
Translated by Linda Villars. 4 vols. Large post 8vo, 48J.

VILLI Hers, The Right Hon. C. P.— Free Trade Speeches of.
With Political Memoir. Edited by a Member of the Cobden
Club. 2 vols. With Portrait. Demy 8vo, 25^.
%* People's Edition. 1 vol. Crown 8vo, limp cloth, 2s. 6d.

Volt, Lieut-Col. Hermann.— The Egyptian War of 1882.

A translation. With Map and Plans. Large crown 8vo, 6s.

VOLCKXSOM, E. W. v.— Catechism of Elementary Modern
Chemistry. Small crown 8vo, p.

VYNER, Lady Mary.— Every Day a Portion. Adapted from the
Bible and the Prayer Book, for the Private Devotion of those
living in Widowhood. Collected and Edited by Lady Mary
Vyner, Square crown 8vo, $s.

WALDSTEIN, Charles, Ph.D.— The Balance of Emotion and
Intellect ; an Introductory Essay to the Study of Philosophy.
Crown 8vo, 6s.

WALLER, Rev. C. B.—The Apocalypse, reviewed under the Light
of the Doctrine of the Unfolding Ages, and the Restitution of All
Things. Demy 8vo, 12s.

WALPOLE, Chas. George.— History of Ireland from the Earliest
Times to the Union with Great Britain. With 5 Maps
and Appendices. Crown 8vo, los. 6d.

Walsh, Walter Hale, M.D.— Dramatic Singing Physiologically
Estimated. Crown 8vo, 3*. 6d.

WARD, William George, Ph.D.— Essays on the Philosophy of
Theism. Edited, with an Introduction, by Wilfred Ward.
2 vols. Demy 8vo, 21s.

WEDDERBURN, Sir David, Bart., M.P.—lAiz of. Compiled from his
Journals and Writings by his sister, Mrs. E. H. Percival. With
etched Portrait, and facsimiles of Pencil Sketches. Demy 8vo, les.

WEDMORE, Frederick-the Masters of Genre Painting. With

Sixteen Illustrations. Post 8vo, p. 6d.

Wheel, William, D.D.— His Life and Selections from his
Correspondence. By Mrs. Stair Douglas. With a Portrait
from a Painting by Samuel Laurence. Demy 8vo, 21s.

WHITNEY, Prof. William Dwight. — Essentials of English
Grammar, for the Use of Schools. Second Edition. Crown
8vo, 2 s - 6d,

WILLIAMS, Rowland, D.D. — Psalms, Litanies, Counsels, and
Collects for Devout Persons. Edited by his Widow. New
and Popular Edition. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d.

Stray Thoughts Collected from the Writings of the
late Rowland 'Williams, D.D. Edited by his Widow.
Crown 8vo, 3^. 6d.

WILSON, Sir Erasmus. — The Recent Archaic Discovery of
Egyptian Mummies at Thebes. A Lecture. Crown 8vo,
is. 6d.

WILSON, Lieut Col. C. T. — The Duke of Berwick, Marshal
of France, 1702-1734. Demy 8vo, 15*.

WILSON, Mrs. R. F.—The Christian Brothers. Their Origin and
Work. With a Sketch of the Life of their Founder, the Ven.
Jean Baptiste, de la Salle. Crown 8vo, 6s.

WOLTMANN, Dr. Alfred, and Hermann, Dr. Karl.— History
of Painting. Edited by Sidney Colin. Vol. I. Painting
in Antiquity and the Middle Ages. With numerous Illustrations.
Medium 8vo, 2.%s. ; bevelled boards, gilt leaves, 30J.

Word was Made Flesh. Short Family Readings on the Epistles for
each Sunday of the Christian Year. Demy 8vo, 10s. 6d.

WREN, Sir CJu-istopher.—ttis Family and His Times. With
Original Letters, and a Discourse on Architecture hitherto unpublished.
By Lucy Fillmore. Demy 8vo, ior. 6d.

Romans, Eliza A.— First Book of Botany. Designed to
Cultivate the Observing Powers of Children. With 300
Engravings. New and Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d,

Romans, Edward Z., M.D.—A Class Book of Chemistry, on
the Basis of the New System. With 200 Illustrations. Crown
8vo, S s >

THE INTERNATIONAL SCIENTIFIC SERIES.

I. Forms of Water : a Familiar Exposition of the Origin and

Phenomena of Glaciers. By J. Tyndall, LL.D., F.R.S. With
25 Illustrations. Eighth Edition. Crown 8vo, $s.

II. Physics and Politics ; or, Thoughts on the Application of the

Principles of "Natural Selection " and " Inheritance " to Political
Society. By Walter Bagehot. Sixth Edition. Crown 8vo, 4-r.

III. Foods. By Edward Smith, M.D., LL.B., F.R.S. With numerous

Illustrations. Eighth Edition. Crown 8vo, 5^.

IV. Mind and Body : the Theories of their Relation. By Alexander

Bain, LL.D. With Four Illustrations. Seventh Edition. Crown
8vo, 4s.

V. The Study of Sociology. By Herbert Spencer. Eleventh

Edition. Crown 8vo, 5-s - .

VI. On the Conservation of Energy. By Balfour Stewart, M.A.,

LL.D., F.R.S. With 14 Illustrations. Sixth Edition. Crown
8vo, 5-r.

VII. Animal Locomotion ; or Walking, Swimming, and Flying. By

J. B. Pettigrew, M.D., F.R.S., etc. With 1 30 Illustrations.
Third Edition. Crown 8vo, $s.

VIII. Responsibility in Mental Disease. By Henry Audley,

M.D. Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo, 5^.

IX. The New Chemistry. By Professor J. P. Cooke. With 31

Illustrations. Seventh Edition. Crown 8vo, 5s.

X. The Science of Law. By Professor Sheldon Amos. Fifth Edition.

Crown 8vo, $s.

XI. Animal Mechanism : a Treatise on Terrestrial and Aerial Locomotion.

By Professor E. J. Marey. With 117 Illustrations.
Third Edition. Crown 8vo, $s.

XII. The Doctrine of Descent and Darwinism. By Professor

Oscar Schmidt. With 26 Illustrations. Fifth Edition. Crown
8vo, $s.

XIII. The History of the Conflict between Religion and

Science. By J. W. Draper, M.D., LL.D. Eighteenth Edition.
Crown 8vo, $s.

XIV. Fungi : their Nature, Influences, Uses, etc. By M. C. Cooke,

M.D., LL.D. Edited by the Rev. M. J. Berkeley, M.A., F.L.S.
With numerous Illustrations. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, $s.

XV. The Chemical Effects of Light and Photography. By

Dr. Hermann Vogel. Translation thoroughly Revised. With
100 Illustrations. Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo, $s.

XVI. The Life and Growth of Language. By Professor William

Dwight Whitney. Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo, 5^.

XVII. Money and the Mechanism of Exchange. By W.

Stanley Jevons, M.A., F.R.S. Sixth Edition. Crown 8vo, $s.

XVIII. The Nature of Light. With a General Account of Physical
Optics. By Dr. Eugene Pommel. With 188 Illustrations and a
Table of Spectra in Chromo-lithography. Third Edition. Crown
8vo, 5j.

XIX. Animal Parasites and Messmates. By Monsieur Van

Bender. With 83 Illustrations. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, $s.

XX. Fermentation. By Professor Schutzenberger. With 28 Illustrations.

Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo, $s.

XXI. The Five Senses of Man. By Professor Bernstein. With

91 Illustrations. Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo, $s.

XXII. The Theory of Sound in its Relation to Music. By Professor

Pietro Blaserna. With numerous Illustrations. Third
Edition. Crown 8vo, $s.

XXIII. Studies in Spectrum Analysis. By J. Norman Lockyer,
F.R.S. With six photographic Illustrations of Spectra, and
numerous engravings on Wood. Third Edition. Crown 8vo,
6s. 6d.

XXIV. A History of the Growth of the Steam Engine. By

Professor R. H. Thornton. With numerous Illustrations. Third
Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s. 6d.

XXV. Education as a Science. By Alexander Bain, LL.D. Fourth

Edition. Crown 8vo, $s,

XXVI. The Human Species. By Professor A. de Quatrefages. Third

Edition. Crown 8vo, $s.

XXVII. Modern Chromatics. With Applications to Art and Industry.
By Ogden N. Rood. With 130 original Illustrations.
Second Edition. Crown 8vo, $s.

XXVIII. The Crayfish : an Introduction to the Study of Zoology. By
Professor T. H. Huxley. With 82 Illustrations. Third Edition.
Crown 8vo, $s.

XXIX. The Brain as an Organ of Mind. By H. Charlton Bastian,
M.D. With numerous Illustrations. Third Edition. Crown
8vo, $s.

XXX. The Atomic Theory. By Prof. Wurtz. Translated by G.

Cleminshaw, F.C.S. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, $s.

XXXI. The Natural Conditions of Existence as they affect
Animal Life. By Karl Semper. With 2 Maps and 106
Woodcuts. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, 5^.

XXXII. General Physiology of Muscles and Nerves. By Prof.
J. Rosenthal. Third Edition. With Illustrations. Crown 8vo,
xxxiii.

Sight : an Exposition of the Principles of Monocular and
Binocular Vision. By Joseph le Conte, LL.D. Second Edition.
With 132 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, gfc

XXXIV. Illusions : a Psychological Study. By James Sully. Second
Edition. Crown 8vo, $s;

XXXV. Volcanoes : what they are and what they teach.
By Professor J. W. Judd, F.R.S. With 92 Illustrations on
Wood. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, $s.

XXXVI. Suicide : an Essay in Comparative Moral Statistics. By Prof.
E. Morsel. Second Edition. With Diagrams. Crown 8vo, 5^.

XXXVII. The Brain and its Functions. By J. Lays. With
Illustrations. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, $s.

XXXVIII. Myth and Science : an Essay. By Tito Vignoli. Second
Edition. Crown 8vo, 5^.

XXXIX. The Sun. By Professor Young. With Illustrations. Second
Edition. Crown 8vo, 5^.

XL. Ants, Bees, and Wasps : a Record of Observations on the
Habits of the Social Hymenoptera. By Sir John Lubbock, Bart.,
M.P. With 5 Chromo-lithographic Illustrations. Sixth Edition.
Crown 8vo, Jr.

XLI. Animal Intelligence. By G. J. Romanes, LL.D., F.R.S.
Third Edition. Crown 8vo, $s.

XLII. The Concepts and Theories of Modern Physics. By
J. B. Stalls. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, xliii.

Diseases of the Memory ; An Essay in the Positive Psychology.
By Prof. Th. Ribot. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 5x.

XLIV. Man before Metals By N. Holy, with 148 Illustrations.
Third Edition. Crown 8vo, $s.

XLV. The Science of Politics. By Prof. Sheldon Amos. Second
Edition. Crown 8vo, $s.

XLVI. Elementary Meteorology. By Robert H. Scott. Second
Edition. With Numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo, ^s.

XLVII. The Organs of Speech and their Application in the
Formation of Articulate Sounds. By George Hermann
Von Meyer. With 47 Woodcuts. Crown 8vo, gii

XLVIII. Fallacies. A View of Logic from the Practical Side. By
Alfred Sedgwick. Crown 8vo, $s.

MILITARY WORKS.

BARRINGTON, Cap. J. T— England on the Defensive ; or, the
Problem of Invasion Critically Examined. Large crown 8vo,
with Map, Js. 6d.

Brandenburg, Col C. B., R.A. — Military Handbooks for
Regimental Officers.

I. Military Sketching and Reconnaissance. By Col.
F. J. Hutchison and Major H. G. MacGregor. Fourth
Edition. With 15 Plates. Small crown 8vo, $s.

II. The Elements of Modern Tactics Practically
applied to English Formations. By Lieut-col.
Wilkinson Shaw. Fourth Edition. With 25 Plates and
Maps. Small crown 8vo, 9.?.

III. Field Artillery. Its Equipment, Organization and Tactics.

By Major Sisson C. Pratt, R.A. With 12 Plates. Second
Edition. Small crown 8vo, 6s.

IV. The Elements of Military Administration. First

Part : Permanent System of Administration. By Major
J. W. Buxton. Small crown 8vo. fs. 6d.

V. Military Law : Its Procedure and Practice. By Major

Sisson C. Pratt, R.A. Second Edition. Small crown 8vo,
4J-. 6d.

BROOKE, Major, C. K.—K. System of Field Training. Small
crown 8vo, cloth limp, 2s.

Clergy, G, Lieut-col— Minor Tactics. With 26 Maps and Plans.
Sixth and Cheaper Edition, Revised. Crown 8vo, gs.

Delvile, Clients-Col. C. F— Military Tribunals. Sewed, 2s. 6d

Crawford, Lieut. H.J.— Suggestions for the Military Training
of a Company of Infantry. Crown 8vo, is, 6d,

HARRISON, Lieut Col. R.— The Officer's Memorandum Book
for Peace and War. Third Edition. Oblong 32mo, roan,
with pencil, y. 6a 7 .

Notes on Cavalry Tactics, Organisation, etc. By a Cavalry
Officer. With Diagrams. Demy 8vo, 12.SV

PARR, Capt. H. Hallam, C.M.G.—Tlie Dress, Horses, and
Equipment of Infantry and Staff Officers. Crown
8vo, is.

SCI/AW, Col. JI.—The Defence and Attack of Positions and
Localities. Second Edition, Revised and Corrected. Crown
8vo, 3J-. 6d.

SHAD WELL, Maj-Gen., Cab.— Mountain Warfare. Illustrated
by the Campaign of 1799 in Switzerland. Being a Translation of
the Swiss Narrative compiled from the Works of the Archduke
Charles, Domini, and others. Also of Notes by General H.
Dufour on the Campaign of the Valentine in 1635. With Appendix,
Maps, and Introductory Remarks. Demy 8vo, 16s.

WILKINSON, H. Spenser, Capt. 20th Lancashire R. V. — Citizen
Soldiers. Essays towards the Improvement of the Volunteer
Force. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

POETRY.

ADAM OF ST. VICTOR.— The Liturgical Poetry of Adam of
St. Victor. From the text of Gautier. With Translations into
English in the Original Metres, and Short Explanatory Notes,
by Digby S. Wrangham, M.A. 3 vols. Crown 8vo, printed
on hand-made paper, boards, 21s.

AUCHMUTY,A. C— Poems of English Heroism : From Brunan-
burn to Lucknow ; from Athelstan to Albert. Small crown 8vo,
is. 6d.

A VIA. — The Odyssey of Homer. Done into English Verse by.
Cap. 4to, 15-r.

BANKS, Mrs. G. L. —Ripples and Breakers : Poems. Square

8vo, 5-r.
BARING, T. C, M.A., M.P.— The Scheme of Epicurus. A

Rendering into English Verse of the Unfinished Poem of Lucretius,

entitled " De Rerum Natura " (the Nature of Things).

Cap. 4to.

BARNES, William.— Voexns of Rural Life, in the Dorset
Dialect. New Edition, complete in one vol. Crown 8vo,
8s. 6d.

Baines, Ret: Canon H. ^.-Home Songs for Quiet Hours.
Fourth and Cheaper Edition. Cap. 8vo, cloth, 2s. bd.
%* This may also be had handsomely bound in morocco with
gilt edges.

BEND ALL, Gerard. — Musa Silvester. imo, is. 6 J.

Bennington, L. S.— Key Notes. Small crown 8vo, 5*.

Bills, C. y.— The Athenians of Aristophanes. Crown
8vo, 3s. 6d.

BLUNT, Wilfred Scion. — The Wind and the Whirlwind-demy
8vo, is. 6d.

BO WEN, H. C, M.A.— Simple English Poems. English Literature
for Junior Classes. In Four Parts. Parts I., II., and III., 6d.
each, and Part IV., is. Complete, 3s.

Rasher, Alfred.— Sophia ; or, the Viceroy of Valencia. A Comedy
in Five Acts, founded on a Story in Scarron. Small crown 8vo,
2J. 6d.

BRYANT, W. C— Poems. Cheap Edition, with Frontispiece. SmaH
crown Svo, 3^. 6d.

Byrne, E. Fairfax.— Diligent : a Poem. Small crown 8vo, 6s.

Galliard, Emma Marie. — Charlotte Corday, and other Poems.
Small crown 8vo, y. 6d.

Caldron's Dramas: the Wonder Working Magician — Life is a
Dream — the Purgatory of St. Patrick. Translated by Denis
Florence MacCarthy. Post 8vo, 10s.

Camoens Lysias. — Portuguese Text, with Translation by J. J.
Aubert. Second Edition. 2 vols. Crown 8vo, 12s.

CAMPBELL, Lewis.— Sophocles. The Seven Plays in English Verse.
Crown 8vo, "]s. 6d.

Castilian Brothers (The), Chateaubriand, Waldemar : Three
Tragedies ; and The Rose of Sicily : a Drama. By the
Author of " Ginevra," etc. Crown 8vo, 6s.

Chronicles of Christopher Columbus. A Poem in 12 Cantos.
By M. D. C. Crown Svo, js. 6d.

Avarice, Mary Cobden. — Honey from the Weed. Verses.
Crown Svo, Js.

Cosmo de Medici; The False One; Agramont and Beaumont:
Three Tragedies; and The Deformed : a Dramatic
Sketch. By the Author of " Ginevra," etc., etc. Crown 8vo, $j.

d

Godhead, Ethel.— Birds and Babies. Imp. imo. W'jth 33
Illustrations. Gilt, 2s. 6d.

David Rizzio, Bothwell, and the Witch Lady : Three
Tragedies. By the author of " Ginevra," etc. Crown 8vo, 6s.

DAVIE, Gas., A/./).— The Garden of Fragrance. Being a complete
translation of the Boston of Sadi from the original Persian
into English Verse. Crown 8vo, Js. 6d.

DA VIES, T. Hart.— Catullus. Translated into English Verse. Crown
8vo, 6s.

DENNIS, J.— English Sonnets. Collected and Arranged by. Small
crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

DE VERE, Aubrey.— Poetical Works.

I. The Search after Proserpine, etc. 6s.
II. The Legends of St. Patrick, etc. 6s.
III. Alexander the Great, etc. bs.

The Foray of Queen Leave, and other Legends of Ireland's

Heroic Age. Small crown 8vo, 5^.
Legends of the Saxon Saints. Small crown Svo, 6s.
DILLON, Arthur-river Songs and other Poems. With 13

autotype Illustrations from designs by Margery May. Cap. 4to,

cloth extra, gilt leaves, ior. 6d.
DOBELL, Mrs. Horace. — Whetstone, Evening, and other Poems.

Crown 8vo, 6s.
DOBSON, Austin.— Old World Idylls and other Poems. Third

Edition. imo, cloth extra, gilt tops, 6s.
Domes, Alfred.— Ranolf and Amelia. A Dream of Two Lives.

New Edition, Revised. 2 vols. Crown Svo, \2s.

Dorothy : a Country Story in Elegiac Verse. With Preface. Demy
8vo, $s.

Bowden, Edward, LL.D. — Shakspere's Sonnets. With Introduction
and Notes. Large post Svo, 'js. 6d.

Duty, Toru.—K Sheaf Gleaned in French Fields. New Edition.
Demy 8vo, vos. 6d,

EDMONDS, E. TV.— Hesperus. Rhythm and Rhyme. Crown 8vo, 4^.

ELDRYTH, Maud.— Margaret, and other Poems. Small crown 8vo,
y. 6d.
All Soul's Eve, " No God," and other Poems. Cap. 8vo, 3s. 6d.

ELLIOTT, Ebenezer, The Com Law Rhymer.— Poems. Edited by his
son, the Rev. Edwin Elliott, of St. John's, Antigua. 2 vols.
Crown 8vo, \2>s.

English Odes. Selected, with a Critical Introduction by Edmund W.
Gosse, and a miniature frontispiece by Hame Thornycroft,
A.R.A. Elzevir 8vo, limp parchment antique, or cloth, 6s. ;
vellum, Js, 6d.

English Verse. Edited by W. J. Linton and R. H. Standard.
5 vols. Crown Svo, cloth, 51. each.
I. Chaucer to Burns.
II. Translations.

III. Lyrics of the Nineteenth Century.

IV. Dramatic Scenes and Characters.
V. Ballads and Romances.

EVANS, Anne. — Poems and Music. With Memorial Preface by
Ann Thackeray Ritchie. Large crown 8vo, 7s.

GOSSE, Edmund f^.-New Poems. Crown Svo, *js. 6d.

GRAHAM, William. Two Fancies, and other Poems. Crown 8vo, 5*.

GRINDROD, Charles. Plays from English History. Crown
Svo, 7s. 6d.
The Stranger's Story, and his Poem, The Lament of Love : An
Episode of the Malvern Hills. Small crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

GURNEY, Rev. Alfred.— The Vision of the Eucharist, and other
Poems. Crown Svo, 5^.

Pelion, II. G.— Daphnis : a Pastoral Poem. Small crown Svo,
3*. 6d.

HENRY, Daniel, June.— Under a Fool's Cap. Songs. Crown Svo,

cloth, bevelled boards, $s.
Herman Waldgrave : a Life's Drama. By the Author of ll Ginevra,"

etc. Crown 8vo, 6s.

Dickey, E. II— A Sculptor, and other Poems. Small crown
8vo, 5-r.

HONE Wood, Pally.— Poems. Dedicated (by permission) to Lord
Wolsey, G.C.B., etc. Small crown Svo, 2s. bd.

Ingram, Parson, C. J. — Daemon's Vision, and other Poems.
Small crown 8vo, 5-r.

JENKINS, Rev. Canon.— Alfonso Petrucci, Cardinal and Conspirator:
an Historical Tragedy in Five Acts. Small crown 8vo,
3-r. 6d.

JOHNSON; Erne S. IV.— Ilaria, and other Poems. Small crown 8vo,
3*. 6d.

KEA TS, John.— Poetical Works. Edited by W. T. Arnold. Large
crown Svo, choicely printed on hand-made paper, with Portrait
in eau-forte. Parchment, \2s. ; vellum, 15^.

KING, Edward. — Echoes from the Orient. With Miscellaneous
Poems. Small crown 8vo, 3^. 6d.

KING, Mrs. Hamilton-the Disciples. Sixth Edition, with Portrait
and Notes. Crown 8vo, $s.

A Book of Dreams. Crown 8vo, i>s. 6d.

KNOX, The Hon. Mrs. O. A 7 ".— Four Pictures from a Life, and
other Poems. Small crown Svo, $s. 6d.

LANG, A.— XXXII Ballades in Blue China. Elzevir 8vo,

parchment, $s.
Lawson, Right Hon. Mr. fusiue.—'Hymnl Usitati Latine

Reddish : with other Verses. Small 8vo, parchment, $s.
Blessings Nathan the Wise. Translated by Eustace K. Corbett.

Crown 8vo, 6s.
Life Thoughts. Small crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

Living English Poets MDCCCLXXXII. With Frontispiece by
Walter Crane. Second Edition. Large crown 8vo. Printed on
hand-made paper. Parchment, 12s. ; vellum, \$s.

LOCKER, F.— London Lyrics. A New and Cheaper Edition.
Small crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

Love in Idleness. A Volume of Poems. With an etching by W. B.
Scott. Small crown 8vo, $s.

Love Sonnets of Proteus. With Frontispiece by the Author. Elzevir
8vo, 5^.

Ramsden, Lieut-col. LL W.— Beowulf : an Old English Poem.

Translated into Modern Rhymes. Second and Revised Edition.

Small crown 8vo, $s.
Lyre and Star. Poems by the Author of " Ginevra," etc. Crown

8vo, 5-r.

MAGNUSSON, Eirikr, M.A., and PALMER, E. H, M.A.— John
Ludwig Runeberg's Lyrical Songs, Idylls, and Epigrams.
Cap. 8vo, s s -

M.D.C. — Chronicles of Christopher Columbus. A Poem in
Twelve Cantos. Crown 8vo, ys. 6d.

Meredith, Owen [The Earl of Lytton.— Lucile. New Edition.
With 32 Illustrations. imo, 3*. 6d. Cloth extra, gilt edges,
4s. 6d.

Morals, Lewis. — Poetical Works of. New and Cheaper Editions,
with Portrait. Complete in 3 vols., $s. each.
Vol. I. contains "Songs of Two Worlds." Ninth Edition. Vol. II.
contains "The Epic of Hades." Seventeenth Edition. Vol.HI.
contains " Gwen " and " The Ode of Life." Fifth Edition.

The Epic of Hades. With 16 Autotype Illustrations, after the
Drawings of the late George R. Chapman. 4to, cloth extra, gilt
leaves, 21s.

The Epic of Hades. Presentation Edition. 4to, cloth extra,
gilt leaves, 10;. 6d.

Songs Unsung. Fourth Edition. Cap. 8vo, 6s.

MORSLIEAD, E. D. ^.-The House of Atreus. Being the
Agamemnon, Libation-Bearers, and Furies of aeschylus. Translated
into English Verse. Crown 8vo, Js.
The Suppliant Maidens of aeschylus. Crown 8vo, 3.C 6d.

Laden, Constance IV. — Songs and Sonnets of Spring Time.
Small crown Svo, 5^.

NEWELL, E. J.— The Sorrows of Simon and Lyrical
Verses. Small crown Svo, y. 6a.

NOEL, The Han. Rode. — A Little Child's Monument. Third
Edition. Small crown Svo, y. 6d.

The Red Flag, and other Poems. New Edition. Small crown
8vo, 6s.

&IIAGAN, >///;.— The Song of Roland. Translated into English
Verse. New and Cheaper Edition. Crown Svo, 5s.

PFEIFFER, Emily.— The Rhyme of the Lady of the Lock,

and How it Grew. Small crown 8vo, 3*. 6d.

Gerard's Monument, and other Poems. Second Edition.
Crown Svo, 6s.

Under the Aspens : Lyrical and Dramatic. With Portrait.
Crown Svo, 6j.

Pitt, J. J.— Idols and Lyrics of the Ohio Valley. Crown
Svo, 5j.

TOE, Edgar Allan. — Poems. With an Essay on his Poetry by Andrew
Lang, and a Frontispiece by Linley Tambourine. Parchment
Library Edition. — Parchment or cloth, 6s. ; vellum, Js. 6d.

RAFFALOVICH, Mark Andre. — Cyril and Lionel, and other
Poems. A volume of Sentimental Studies. Small crown Svo,
3-r. 6d.

Rare Poems of the 16th and 17th Centuries. Edited W. J.
Linton. Crown Svo, y.

Rhodes, James— T\\e Georgic of Virgil. Translated into
English Verse. Small crown Svo, $s.

Robinson, A. Mary F.—A Handful of Honeysuckle. Cap.
Svo, $s. 6d.

The Crowned Hippolytus. Translated from Euripides. With
New Poems. Small crown Svo, $s.

Schiller's Mary Stuart. German Text, with English Translation on
opposite page by Needham White. Crown Svo, 6s.

SCOTT, George F. ^.—Theodora and other Poems. Small
crown Svo, 3*. 6d.

SEAL, W. H. — lone, and other Poems. Crown 8vo, gilt tops, $s.

SELKIRK, J. B.— Poems. Crown Svo, 7s. 6d.

Shakspere's Sonnets. Edited by Edward Bowden. With a Frontispiece
etched by Leopold Lowenstam, after the Death Mask.
Parchment Library Edition. — Parchment or cloth, 6s. ; vellum,
7-r. 6d.

Shakspere's 'Works. Complete in 12 Volumes. Parchment Library
Edition.— Parchment or cloth, 6s. each; vellum, "js. 6d. each.

SHAW, W. F., La. — Juvenal, Perseus, Martial, and Catullus.
An Experiment in Translation. Crown 8vo, 5-f.

SHELLEY, Percy Bysshe. — Poems Selected from. Dedicated to
Lady Shelley. With Preface by Richard Garnett. Parchment
Library Edition. — Parchment or cloth, 6s. ; vellum, *js. 6d.

Six Ballads about King Arthur. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt

edges, 3*. 6d.
SKINNER, II. J.— The Lily of the Lyn, and other Poems. Small

crown 8vo, 3-r. 6d.
Laden, Douglas B. — Frithjof and Ingebjorg, and other

Poems. Small crown 8vo, $s.
SMITH, J. W. Gilbert.— The Loves of Vandyke. A Tale of Genoa.

Small crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.
Sophocles ; The Seven Plays in English Verse. Translated by Lewis

Campbell. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

SPLCER, Henry. — Haska ", a Drama in Three Acts (as represented
at the Theatre Royal, Drury Lane, March 10th, 1877). Third
Edition. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d.

TAYLOR, Sir H— "Works. Complete in Five Volumes. Crown
8vo, soo.
Philip Van Artevelde. Cap. 8vo, p. 6d.
The Virgin Widow, etc. Cap. 8vo, 3s. 6d.
The Statesman. Cap. 8vo, $s. 6d.
TAYLOR, Augushis.—VoQTCis. Cap. 8vo, $s.

Tennyson Birthday Book, The. Edited by Emily Shakespear.
321T10, limp, 2.s. ; cloth extra, y.
%* A superior Edition, printed in red and black, on antic-ue paper,
specially prepared. Small crown 8vo, extra, gilt leaves, \s. ;
and in various calf and morocco bindings.

THORNTON, L. M.—The Son of Shelomith. Small crown 8vo,

3*. 6d.
TODHUNTER, Dr. J.— Laurels, and other Poems. Crown 8vo,
6s. 6d.
Forest Songs. Small crown 8vo, 3.5-. 6d.
The True Tragedy of Rienzi : a Drama. $s. 6d.
Alcestis : a Dramatic Poem. Extra cap. 8vo, $s.

WALTERS, Sophia Lydia.—K Dreamer's Sketch Book. With 21
Illustrations by Percival Skelton, R. P. Leith, W. H. J. Boot, and
T. R. Pritchett. Engraved bye. D. Cooper. Cap. 4to, 12^. 6d.

WA TTS, Alaric Alfred and Anna Mary Hewitt. — Aurora. A Medley
of Verse. Cap. 8vo, bevelled boards, $s.

U r Eastern Augusta. — In a Day : a Drama. Small crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

Disguises : a Drama. Small crown Svo, 5^.

Wet Days. By a Farmer. Small crown 8vo, 6s.

WILLIAMS, J.—K Story of Three Years, and other Poems. Small
crown Svo, 3s. 6d.

Wordsworth Birthday Book, The. Edited by Adelaide and
Violet Wordsworth. 321110, limp cloth, ij. 6d. ; cloth extra, 2s.

Young, Ella Sharfc. — Paphos, and other Poems. Small crown 8vo,
3s. (yd.

WORKS OF FICTION IN ONE VOLUME.

BANKS, Mrs. G. L.— God's Providence House. New Edition.
Crown 8vo, 3^. 6d.

Angelo, Jean.— OH the Swellings : a Novel. With Frontispiece.
Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s.

MACDONALD, C?.— Castle Warlock. A Novel. New and Cheaper
Edition. Crown Svo, 6s.

Malcolm. With Portrait of the Author engraved on Steel. Sixth
Edition. Crown Svo, 6s.

The Marquis of Lassie. Fifth Edition. With Frontispiece.
Crown 8vo, 6s.

St. George and St. Michael. Fourth Edition. With Frontispiece.
Crown Svo, 6s.

Palsgrave, W. ft/^.-Hermann Agha ". an Eastern Narrative.
Third Edition. Crown Svo, 6s.

SUA W, Flora L.— Castle Blair ; a Story of Youthful Days. New and
Cheaper Edition. Crown Svo, 3*. 6d.

Stratton, Herba.— Through a Needle's Eye : a Story. New
and Cheaper Edition, with Frontispiece. Crown Svo, 6s.

TAYLOR, Col. Meadows, C.S.I. , M.R.I.A.—Seeta.: a Novel. New
and Cheaper Edition. With Frontispiece. Crown Svo, 6s.

Tippoo Sultan : a Tale of the Mysore War. New Edition, with
Frontispiece. Crown Svo, 6s.

Ralph Darrell. New and Cheaper Edition. With Frontispiece.
Crown 8vo, 6s.

A Noble Queen. New and Cheaper Edition. With Frontispiece.
Crown Svo, 6s.

The Confessions of a Thug. Crown Svo, 6*.

Tara : a Mahratta Tale. Crown Svo, 6s.

Within Sound of the Sea. New and Cheaper Edition, with Frontispiece.
Crown 8vo, 6s,

BOOKS FOR THE YOUNG.

Brave Men's Footsteps. A Book of Example and Anecdote for
Young People. By the Editor of "Men who have Risen." With
4 Illustrations by C. Doyle. Eighth Edition. Crown Svo, 3-r. 6d.

Godhead, Ethel.— Birds and Babies. Imp. imo. With 33
Illustrations. Cloth gilt, 2s. bd.

DA VIES, G. Christopher. — Rambles and Adventures of our
School Field Club. With 4 Illustrations. New and Cheaper
Edition. Crown 8vo, 3^. 6d.

EDMONDS, Herbert. — 'Well Spent Lives ". a Series of Modern Biographies.
New and Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d.

EVANS, Marh.—The Story of our Father's Love, told to Children.
Sixth and Cheaper Edition of Theology for Children. With 4
Illustrations. Cap. 8vo, is. 6d.

JOHNSON, Virginia £T.— The Catskill Fairies. Illustrated by
Alfred Fredericks. 5-r.

MAC Senna, S. J. —Plucky Fellows. A Book for Boys, With
6 Illustrations. Fifth Edition. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d.

REANEY, Mrs. G. S. — "Waking and "Working ; or, From Girlhood
to Womanhood. New and Cheaper Edition. With a Frontispiece.
Crown 8vo, 3J. 6d.
Blessing and Blessed : a Sketch of Girl Life. New and

Cheaper Edition. Crown Svo, 3s. 6d.
Rose Gurney's Discovery. A Book for Girls. Dedicated to

their Mothers. Crown 8vo, 3^. 6d.
English Girls ". Their Place and Power. With Preface by the

Rev. R. W. Dale. Fourth Edition. Cap. Svo, 2s. 6d.
Just Anyone, and other Stories. Three Illustrations. Royal

imo, is. 6d.
Sunbeam "Willie, and other Stories. Three Illustrations. Royal

imo, is. 6d.
Sunshine Jenny, and other Stories. Three Illustrations. Royal
imo, is. 6d.

STOCKTON, Frank R.—K Jolly Fellowship. W T with 20 Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, $s.

STORR, Francis, and TURNER, Hawes — Canterbury Chimes;
or, Chaucer Tales re-told to Children. W r with 6 Illustrations from
the Ellesmere MS. Third Edition. Cap. Svo, $s. 6d.

Stratton, Herba.— David Lloyd's Last "Will. With 4 Illustrations.
New Edition. Royal imo, 2s. 6d.

Tales from Ariosto Re-told for Children. By a Lady. With 3
Illustrations. Crown Svo, 4s. 6d.

WHITAKER, Florence.— Christy's Inheritance. A London Story.
Illustrated. Royal imo, is. 6d.

PUNTED BY WILLIAM Closes AND SONS, LIMITED, LONDON AND Eccles.

T>

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS-URBANA

3 0112 079563133

#

M

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/myducatsmydaught03hunt

(I

FRANK MURRAY, 9 & 11 YOUNG STREET,

EDINBURGH.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. III.

LONDON
KEGAN PAUL, TRENCH & CO., 1 PATERNOSTER SQUARE



CONTENTS OF VOL. III.

CHAPTER PAGE



XXII. Vox POPULI .

XXIII. An Anxious Father

XXIV. A Dress Reception
XXV. Festal Oratory

XXVI. An Escapade

XXVII. Further Views of Mr. Mallory

XXVIII. The Prodigal

XXIX. Mediation . . . ,









XXX. The Factory of the Past . . 276

Chapter XXII.

vox Populi

Mr. Inglebyby went down from London to
Scotland boiling with rage against Mr. Arden,
/ and quoting freely from the Vindictive Psalms.
He had spent two days with his nephew,
arguing, ]leading, expostulating — but in vain.
It had been ascertained that stock to the
respectable amount of £40,000 stood against
Lynn's name in the register of Lone Peak
shareholders. But nothing would induce
Lynn to repudiate the transaction, to make
the matter public, and crush '* that plausible
swindler" by the exposure. Mr. Inglebyby
could not understand it. His nephew had

VOL. HI. A

assured him that he no longer aspired to be
Mr. Arden's son-in-law — why, then, should
any feeling of delicacy enter into the matter ?
Lynn told his uncle that even though the
money were lost, he would still, as it appeared,
have enough to live on ; and that
what he intended to do, in the meantime,
was — nothing. There was a quiet determination
in his way of saying this which made
Mr. Inglebyby rather afraid of his nephew.
He had not suspected that Arthur was capable
of so much obstinacy. It was quite
evident that he meant to take his own way
henceforward, right or wrong ; and Mr. Inglebyby,
recognising this fact with sorrow, ceased
from his persuasions. It was some consolation
to him that Mr. Barnard the lawyer, and Mr.
Ayres his co-trustee, took the same view of the
matter as he did himself. It was arranged
that Lynn should have an interview with
these gentlemen ; and Mr. Inglebyby could only
hope that their representations might have
more weight with his nephew than his own.
Mr. Inglebyby, looking back on those two

days spent with his nephew, could not regard
them as at all satisfactory. After the agitation
of that first interview, Lynn had not
spoken to him another word of reproach.
His manner, when they met next morning,
had been calm and composed. He had
seemed, outwardly, in the proper frame of
mind for receiving good advice. But Mr.
Inglebyby, on proceeding to offer good advice,
had very soon discovered that it would
not be followed. There was, indeed, something
guarded and reserved about Lynn's
way of taking his counsel which he felt to
be far worse than open defiance. Mr. Inglebyby
had to draw what comfort he could from the
fact that his nephew had now broken with
Miss Arden; and that he had promised to
visit his relatives in Shawkirk some time
after the election should be over, and his
own affairs definitely arranged. Against
this, however, must be set his refusal to
declare open war on Mr. Arden ; and his
express determination to go on with his
work at the Forum office, until another

sub-editor should be found to take his place.
This latter resolve was very terrible to Mr.
Inglebyby. It added fuel to his wrath against
Mr. Arden. It intensified his longing to beat
Shawkirk ; it made him grudge every
minute of his absence from the scene of
strife. Three clear days would be left him,
wherein to strain every nerve in opposition
to the man who dared to come before a
Scottish constituency, after inveigling Arthur
Lynn into the Lone Peak swindle, and introducing
him to the infidel Mallory.

When Mr. Inglebyby reached the borough,
he was amazed to find his son Eichard the
hero of the hour. Men everywhere were
talking of the 'great speech' which Dick
had delivered on the previous evening, and
of the powerful influence it was likely to
have on the issue of the election. When
Mr. Inglebyby heard where this speech had
been made, he was, for a time, dumb with
fury. But when he learned what its tenour
had been, a certain feeling of satisfaction
mingled itself with his anger.

Mr. Inglebyby had been in trouble of mind
about his son, before his departure for London.
It had seemed good to Dick to adopt a political
creed of his own — and that creed was
the Tory one.

"Yes, I'm going to support Elvan," he
had said to his father, when sternly questioned
on the subject. "You say yourself
that Arden s a swindler, and as for Trotter,
what's he ? — a low cad in trade. Now,
Elvan's a gentleman. He's got a stake in
the country, and all that, you know. If I
had a vote, I'd vote for him. Anyhow, I
mean to help him all I can."

"Eichard," Mr Inglebyby had replied, "you
shall do nothing of the sort. Understand
clearly, once for all, that I forbid it. Your
'support' cannot, I should imagine, materially
affect the reckless young nobleman you
have mentioned. But I will not have you
interfere in these matters at all. Neither
will I permit you to speak in that way of
Bailie Trotter. I do not agree with all of
Bailie Trotter's views, but in the present

crisis — when we are menaced by a Lord,
who, I am informed, spends his life in
running races on horseback, and by a Gambler,
whose political opinions are derived
from an Infidel Republican in London — in
the present crisis I have felt it my Duty
to nominate Bailie Trotter, and to do all
I can to secure his return. As for you,
you had better keep close to your desk at
the Works, and leave politics alone until
you have acquired the rudiments of a commercial
education."

This rebuke had reduced Dick to silence
for the time, but had not changed his political
views. And he had taken advantage of his
father's absence to make public profession of
his Conservatism. The Tory partisans had
welcomed Dick among them, on account of
the name he bore ; and invited him in flattering
terms to appear on the platform at one
of Lord Elvan's meetings.

It was not the spell of oratory that drew
a crowd to the meetings of the Conservative
candidate, Lord Elvan was not eloquent.

Neither had Mr. Haig and his other mentors
found it easy to imbue him with political
lore. When they sought to fix in his memory
the dates of the chief measures aimed in recent
times against his Order, he would answer,
*Yes, that was in Favonius's year' — or, 'All
right ; I'll remember ; Riser s year ' — dating
by the Derby, as the Greeks dated by the
Olympic Games. His speeches were written
for him. Parts of them were very fiery
and impassioned; and as Lord Elvan read
on without the faintest flicker of interest
or animation, the contrast between his manner
and matter was curious, and in its way
effective. At times he was plainly unable to
decipher his MS., and this told greatly in his
favour. It put the Liberal section of the
audience into good-humour. It seemed to
show them the sad results of hereditary
Toryism. But the great attraction at Lord
Evans meetings was the scope given for
the exercise of the native wit. Whoever
aspired to be a 'voice' had there his opportunity.
To ' hiss a gentleman ' is much ; but

to 'chaff' a lord is a joy for ever. It was
rapture to be able to offer the noble candidate
to " tak' sax tae ane about the Demon "
or to inform him in a quasi-confidential
manner that his colt had no chance for the
Leger "against the Bell-pull." The 'heckling,'
however, was but a poor affair. The touch
of the Master's hand was wanting. Sandy
Tennant was elsewhere, operating on Mr.
Arden ; for which duty he had been specially
told off during the contest. Mr. M'Cand-
wish, the Evangelical Union pastor, was allowed
to be only a cold and feeble paradise of the
inimitable slater. Lord Elvan, who appeared
to better advantage in answering or declining

o o o

to answer questions than in making speeches,
contrived even to turn the laugh against the
reverend gentleman.

It was at the very close of the meeting that
Dick Ingieby made his memorable appearance.
No one had called on him to propose a motion
or to make a speech ; no one knew for what
object he had risen from his chair, and come
to the front of the platform, Dick, apparently,

knew just as little as anyone else what he was
about to say. During the last two days he
had been in a state of abnormal excitement,
and the champagne with which some of his
new Tory friends had plied him freely that
very evening, had carried the election fever
to his head. The Liberals in the hall, being
most of them under the impression that he
was going to move an amendment on the resolution
in Lord Elvan's favour, received him
with laughter and applause. But Dick soon
undeceived them. 'look here, I'm a Tory," he
began ; " proud . . . give my support to . . ."
Then a burst of laughter, loud and long, broke
from the audience ; and a Voice made itself
heard : — '' Eh, laddie, what's your father
say?" — followed by more laughter. "Don't
care for that !" — cried Dick, in a voice which
was audible enough, though the articulation
was a little thick — " man must have his own
convictions . . . can't help it . . . free country,
you know " — at which point another shout of
laughter drowned his words. But Dick had now
got hold of a definite idea, and was manifestly

struggling to body it forth in speech. A few
'Hear, hears' from some mirthful spirits on
the platform incited him to proceed. He was
heard to say something about " gentleman " —
"stake in the country" — "always safe to
back " — " low cad in trade " — and then to
utter the word " swindler'' This stirred up a
great commotion. There were shouts of
"Withdraw !"—" Speak up !"— "Gang wa'
hame, man!" — "Go on!" — groans and derisive
cheers. Then a voter got up excitedly
in the body of the hall, and fiercely demanded
to know whom Mr. Inglebyby Junior was calling
a " swindler." " I'll tell you that !"— shrieked
Dick ; and an interval of comparative silence
encouraged him to make the revelation. He
appealed to the audience whether they did not
know his cousin, Arthur Lynn ? With engaging
frankness, he took them into his confidence
with regard to Lynn and his affairs. He told
them about Lynn's fortune, which he estimated
roughly at between two and three
millions sterling. The ' Shawkirk chiefs,' to
all of whom the name of Lynn was familiar,

listened open-mouthed and eager. But Dick's
first introduction of Mr. Arden's name, in this
connection, caused a renewal of the uproar.
Stop the fellow, I say " — said Lord Elvan to
Mr. Macritchie, who was in the chair, and who
had been following Dick's disjointed harangue
with manifest interest and satisfaction. — *^ No,
no, my Lord," expostulated Mr. Macritchie;
*' let him go on ! This is all in your Lordship's
favour, and besides, I'm sure he's telling
the truth." — " That doesn't matter," said his
Lordship ; "stop him, all the same. This isn't
fair fighting, you know." — But the audience
declined to have Dick stopped. He had said
enough to whet their curiosity, and intensify
their thirst for further personalities. "Nana
!" — they shouted as Mr. Macritchie rose to
call Dick to order — " Let him alone ! Foot
wit, man ! Tell us a' about it !" — and before
the speaker could be stopped, he had conveyed
to the minds of his hearers a distinct impression
that the Liberal candidate had done something
' shady,' in connection with Arthur
Lynn's newly-inherited wealth. Dick resumed

his seat, flushed, and, on the whole, triumphant
; but not without some inward qualms
when he thought of the paternal wrath, as also
of certain possibilities under the law of libel.
Lord Elvan's meeting broke up in some confusion.
Mr. Macritchie and his friends did not
mind that. They professed deeply to deplore
the ' importation of such private and personal
matters into the contest ;' and expressed loud
regret that the meeting should have insisted
on ' hearing young Inglebyby out,' despite the
Chairman's endeavour to silence him. But
Dick's oration afforded them, none the less, a
secret delight. It might safely be left to the
other side — the Trotter faction — to make the
most of this revelation ; and they had a great
and not unfounded confidence in Mr. Small of
the Border Warden.

These things were fully recounted to Mr.
Inglebyby, within half an-hour of his return
to Shawkirk. Mr. Inglebyby's feelings were
divided, as has been said, between anger with
his renegade offspring, and satisfaction at the
injury that had been done to Mr. Arden's

candidature. He found himself assailed with
questions, but was very cautious in his replies.
Yes ; it was true that his nephew had come
into a fortune. As to the other matter, he
declined to express an opinion. He was opposed
to Mr. Arden on public grounds — and
that was enough.

Mr. Inglebyby took the chair that same evening
at a meeting of Bailie Trotter's supporters,
which was held in the Baptist Chapel. His
manner towards the Bailie was coldly reserved ;
and he positively refused to hold converse with
Mr. Eobert Sanderson. The Independent
Eadical candidate and the ' Saumon lads,' however,
could afford to overlook this. Mr.
Ingieby's presence among them was all they
desired. They did not expect him to be
enthusiastic.

The meeting in the Baptist Chapel was made
up almost entirely of the Bailie's partisans.
The proceedings might even have proved
monotonous, but for one circumstance — Mr.
Laidlaw and the Sage were there. Mr. Laid-laws
looked upon the contest and the candidates

from a strictly impartial standpoint. He did
not greatly care who should prevail. But he
was determined to drink deep of the cup of
joy which only an election could offer. If he
could not prevent one of the candidates from
carrying the seat, he would at least do all that
in him lay to make them suffer in the meantime.
So he led his eldritch monitor from hall
to hall, from meeting to meeting, to supply
him with biting gibes and discomfiting questions,
to be scattered broadcast and irrespective
of party.

Bailie Trotter ascended the pulpit, and
began his speech. His manner showed at first
a certain constraint ; he seemed somehow to
have lost his usual glibness and command of
inflammatory rhetoric. This was due to the
presence of Mr. Inglebyby in the chair. To
curse Capital would be to offend Mr. Inglebyby ;
to bless it, would alienate the Mountain. The
Bailie therefore dwelt as short a time, and in
as vague language as possible, on the Rights
of Labour ; and passed on to topics where he
felt himself safe. Chief among these was the

Drink Question, for the Bailie had now definitely
cast in his lot with Teetotalism. Mr.
Laidlaw meanwhile looked on, until he saw
the speaker warming to his work, and embarked
on the full flood of oratory. Then, he
knew, was the time for an effective interruption.
The Bailie had taken a large blue-book
with him up to the pulpit, and was pounding
this as if it had been a Moderate Liberal or a
moderate drinker, while declaiming with tremendous
energy on the evils wrought by the
accursed thing. " Wha shot the hodie
— suddenly shouted Mr. Laidlaw, as
the orator paused to draw breath. What this
cry meant — to what episode in the shadowy
past it referred — was apparently a secret between
the Sage, who had prompted it, and
the Bailie himself. It had the effect, however,
of exciting Olympian laughter, and rendering
the Demagogue's face as dark as the bird
alluded to. But he soon recovered himself,
and went on with his tirade more fiercely than
before. " And on that day," he bawled, " I
stood with the deputation before the Home

Secretary — and I never stood before a nobler
man — no, nor a man whose words — " Here
Mr. Turnbull was again seized with Delphic
gasping. "Ay, Tammas?" — whispered Mr.
Laidlaw — " what isn't ? Foot wit, man ! Quick 1"
and he stooped his ear to the Sage's lips.
*' Cry til' him, Jimmy — cry, * What about the
Sierra', an' his words, when ye stood afore
him f — " Mr. Laidlaw * cried' accordingly ;
and again inextinguishable laughter made the
roof ring and the Bailie cease to roar. The
audience appeared to relish these interpolations
quite as much as they did the candidate's
eloquence. But when the speech was ended,
and a show of hands was called for, they gave
it unhesitatingly in Bailie Trotter's favour.

Mr. Inglebyby's family saw very little of
him during the two following days. From
morning to night, he was engrossed in the
work of electioneering. Mr. Ingieby, indeed,
was indefatigable, and proved himself a terrible
opponent. In whatsoever quarter he had any
influence, it was used in favour of Trotter —
or, at all events, against Arden. There was a

sombre earnestness in his denunciations and

appeals which brought many waverers to a

decision, and even shook the resolve of others

who had hitherto stood fast in their allegiance.

His two days' canvass, as Mr. Sanderson freely

acknowledged, did more for the Independent

Radical side than all their previous efforts,

even with the Infidel thrown in.

Mr. Inglebyby found the soil in a manner

prepared for him by his son's celebrated

speech, and the article in the Warden by

which it had been followed up. Mr. Arden's

friends went about talking furiously, but

vaguely, of ' outrageous slanders' and ' odious

calumnies.' Mr. Hislop would have had his

client seek legal redress. But Mr. Arden,

who had been all for such strong measures on

a former occasion, seemed, for some reason, to

shrink from them now. In reply to his

agent's suggestions, he advanced the general

principle that *rit is always better to let

such trumped-up stories die a natural death"

an aphorism from which Mr. Hislop drew

his own conclusions.

VOL. in. B

At last the eventful day dawned upon the
Happy Valley. Feeling in the town ran high ;
higher, as was natural, between the adherents
of the two Liberals than between the Liberals
and the Tories. A terrible fear lurked in the
minds of the former that, through the unholy
rupture in the ranks of light, the Boroughs
might be eternally degraded in History. The
thing did not seem likely ; nevertheless, it
was possible. The bare thought of Shawkirk
being misrepresented in Parliament by a foe of
the great Statesman who had carried away its
heart and a sample of its woollens, was intolerable
alike to the Liberal Committee and the
Mountain. Madness that way lay. They
tried to dismiss the ghastly dread, but in vain.
It spoiled for them the fierce delights of political
warfare. They could not enjoy the
election-day as they had hitherto been wont
to do.

All through the polling-day, from dawn to
dewy eve, the Shawkirk streets were in a roar.
No man spoke in his usual voice ; he-either
shouted or whispered. There were crowds

around the committee-rooms, at the street-corners,
in the bars. But the polling-booth
was, of course, the focus of excitement. It
was there that the great heart of Shawkirk
beat the loudest ; that the personalities were
most fully-flavoured ; that the ' Saumon lads'
yelled the fiercest, and jostled the voter most
spiritedly. It was there that Sandy Tennant
kept hovering about — repeating at intervals in
his loudest tones the mystic words — " Else the
poll, my lads ! Else the poll !" It was there
that Mr. Hislop, Mr. Haig, and Mr. Sanderson
took up their position, anxiously counting their
pledges as they came up to vote.

At four o'clock the poll closed. The ballot-boxes
were brought from the other boroughs
to Shawkirk by swift horses and special trains.
It was expected that the result would be declared
before seven o'clock. Lord Elvan and
Mr. Arden, at least, hoped fervently that it
might. They were both most anxious to leave
for the South by that night's express. They
both looked forward with interest to the morrow
— the one, as the first day of the Doncaster

Meeting ; the other, as settling-day on the
Stock Exchange.

Each of the three parties declared itself
confident of success. Each had exhibited,
during the day, conjectural or imaginary states
of the poll, claiming a greater or less majority.
Mr. Hislop, however, told his client in private
that he feared things had gone against them.
With the ballot, he said, there was only one
thing a man could be sure of, and that was
the attentions. Now he knew it as a fact
that a considerable number of Mr. Arden's
pledged supporters had stayed away from
the poll. He thought it on the whole most
likely that Trotter would go in by a narrow
majority — perhaps between twenty and thirty
votes.

Mr. Hislop was somewhat surprised at the
composure with which his client received these
discouraging statements. For this there were
several reasons. In the first place, Mr. Arden
could not bring himself to believe that he
would really lose the election — that such an
one as Bailie Trotter would actually be preferred

to him. Then, his loathing for Shaw-kirk
and its inhabitants had now reached such
a pitch that the near prospect of leaving the
borough for ever gave him the liveliest satisfaction
— and would do so, he thought, even
in defeat. But the chief cause of Mr. Arden's
good-humour — which had been proof even
against the trials of the polling-day — was a
communication he had received that morning
from a certain legal firm in Lincoln's Inn.
Messrs. Briggs and Barnard begged to state to
Mr. Arden that their client, Mr. Arthur Lynn,
had instructed them to pay into the London
and Westminster Bank the sum of £8000,
being the allotment money on 4000 shares in
the Loan Peak Silver Mining Company,
Limited. This news gratified Mr. Arden very
much indeed. He was not quite sure what
to make of Lynn's action in the matter. He
would have preferred to have heard directly
from Lynn himself, rather than from his
lawyers. Neither had he gained any information
on the subject from his daughter, who, for
some reason, had left his letters unanswered.

But this refunding of the money he had
advanced' for the purchase of the shares
looked well — very well. It showed that
Inglebyby's efforts to get possession of the
young man and his fortune must have failed.
Had that " sanctimonious old libeller" — so Mr.
Arden now described his opponent — regained
his former ascendancy over his nephew, Lynn
would certainly have repudiated, or sought to
repudiate, the transaction. That he had not
done so showed how much influence Camilla
had over the young man, if only she would be
sane, and exercise it properly. For Mr.
Arden did not disguise it from himself that
the ' transaction' needed to be explained — not
defended, but certainly explained. Well, a
quarter of an hour's talk with Arthur Lynn
would suffice for that, he flattered himself.
Meanwhile, there was the gratifying certainty
that Lynn had paid the money and taken up
the shares.

Mr. Arden and Bailie Trotter awaited the
declaration of the poll with equal anxiety.
The Bailie had polled all the Teetotalers ; and

his disestablishment views, together with Mr.
Inglebyby's championship, had gained him the
majority of the dissenters. But in Shawkirk,
Eadical as it was, the Church was exceedingly
strong ; and the support of the Liberal Churchmen,
in every forecast of the election, had
been reckoned a sure thing for Mr. Arden. It
was among this class that so many had abstained
from voting. The appearance of the
Infidel on Mr. Arden's platform — the insinuations
of the Border Warden as to his connection
with Mr. Lynn of Lynnfield — the
reports so industriously circulated that, in
some way or other not clearly understood, he
had defrauded or tried to defraud Mr. Lynn of
Lynnfield's son — any one of these things, by
itself, might have been passed over. But,
taken together, they shook men's confidence in
the candidate. There was something about it,
they said, ' no' right ;' and this feeling gathered
strength as the statements made by Dick
Inglebyby remained unnoticed and uncontradicted.
Mr. Inglebyby's exertions did the rest ;
and Mr. Arden lost the election. The figures

as exhibited in front of the Sheriff Courthouse
were

Trotter, . . . 1215

Arden, . . . . 1180
Elvan, 749

It was the smallest poll ever known in
Shawkirk. There had been defections from
the Tottering ranks also, due to the Bailie's
pronounced Teetotalism, which had alienated
from him many of the hands. The Tories had,
as usual, polled every man ; and never had
they come so near to victory.

Mr. Arden's disappointment was bitter and
his anger fierce at the ingratitude of the Shaw-kirk
electorate. He bluntly declined to satisfy
Mr. Turj)ie's sense of the becoming by haranguing
his rejectors. Indeed, his manner to
his supporters changed sharply, after the declaration
of the poll. It became such as
greatly to lessen their chagrin at the result of
the contest.

The Conservative candidate accepted the
decision of the Boroughs with the imperturbable

coolness lie had shown throughout. Mr.
Macritchie and his friends were enthusiastic ;
to have been beaten by so small a number
was a triumph for the Cause. But Lord Elvan
did not share their elation. He seemed to
regard the whole thing from an impersonal
standpoint. " Won by a neck, Elvan a good
third," he said ; " I fancy a roarer always does
pull these things off, down here." Like Mr.
Arden, his Lordship refused to speak to the
people. He showed himself in the streets,
however, and the people spoke to him.

Bailie Trotter bellowed his valediction from
a window of the Temperance Hotel. Mr.
Inglebyby was not there ; but Messrs. Sanderson
and Tennant, with the other leaders of the
Mountain, were gathered around the victorious
candidate. It was, said the Bailie, a great
night for Shawkirk. It was a great night for
Scotland — perhaps the greatest night since the
return of the Prime Minister himself. It was
a great night for the army of toilers throughout
the land. Henceforth there was a Voice
to proclaim their wrongs in the high place of

the nation — a Voice that would not be silenced
until redress had been wrung from the oppressors,
and the old abuses swept everlastingly
away. And the pale-faced girls and "flaccid
youths who were wearily emerging, just about
this time, from the Mastodon Warehouse,
would certainly have agreed with the Bailie
that one section of the toilers, at any rate,
wanted a Voice of the kind very badly indeed.
Deep into the night the Valley rang with
the paeans of victory and the shouts of conflict.
A quarter of a mile of Lord Leaderdale's
park-paling was torn down to form a bon-fire
in the market-place ; and round this the young
men chased the glowing hours, knit in dance
with the gay-kirtle maids of the mill. That
night no weaver lifted gun or spear. The
birds rested quiet in the dreaming woods, the
fishes in the silver stream — and the water-bailiff*
gladdened in his heart.

Chapter XXIII.

AN ANXIOUS FATHER.

"Now, my dear," said Mr. Arden to his
daughter, the evening after his return from
Shawkirk, "let us have a quiet talk. There
is no denying that the result of this election
has been a great disappointment to me.
But for that old fanatic Inglebyby, and his cub
of a son, I should now have been member for
that horrible place. But it serves me right.
It all comes of mixing up business and
sentiment."

I am afraid," said Camilla, " I cannot
enter into your feelings."

I did not expect any sympathy from you.
It was your own affairs I wanted to talk over.
Why did you not answer my letters ?"

"Because I might have been sorry afterwards

for having written what I thought of
them."

May I ask what you did think ?"
I had rather not answer that question."
Mr. Arden stared at his daughter with unfeigned
surprise.

Upon my word," he said, " you are a most
ungrateful girl ! It seems to me that since
you became entangled with that egregious
young man, you have been bewitched ! You
act and speak like a being bereft of reason.
You seem utterly unconscious of the sacrifice I
have made for you. What on earth, Camilla,
do you mean ?"

That was what I was about to ask you.
How have you made a sacrifice ?"

*good Heavens!" — cried Mr. Arden —
don't you see that I have lost a seat in the
House solely through my foolish anxiety to
promote your happiness ?"

No. I must confess I do not see that."
That is because you consider nothing but
your own desires and caprices. Can't you see
that but for this love-making, and tomfoolery,

and — and madness of yours, I should never
have been mixed up with these wretched
Inglebys ? But for you, that canting old
miser would never have gone about as he did,
moving heaven and earth to get men to vote
against me by his abominable calumnies. I
have consulted others' interests in place of my
own, and, as a matter of course, I have reaped
nothing but abuse and ingratitude. Of course,
I should have known better. But I must say
I did expect a different kind of treatment from
my daughter !"

What made you expect me to be grateful
to you for bringing a — friend to ruin ?"

To — to ruin f — Did you say to ruin f "

"Yes. You know it is that."

Oh, this is too much !" — cried Mr. Arden.
You refer to the Lone Peak ? — to the shares
which your — friend took in it, on my advice ?
Well, it seems your friend is of a different
opinion from you. He might have backed
out of that transaction — at least, he might
have tried to do so. But he has been better
advised. He has shown his confidence in

the undertaking by holding his shares — all of
them. He has acted in a most straightforward
and honourable manner, that I will say. He
has paid up like a man."

The girl's face became very white ; but
Mr. Arden observed nothing.

"Kuhn !" — he continued — "why, have I not
told you on my honour that that Mine will
make the fortunes of all connected with it ?
How can you understand such things ? — Now,
just look at this. I shall take the trouble to
make this matter clearer to you — "

I don't want it made clearer. It is too
clear to me already. I hate to speak of it.
It sickens me."

"Camilla, I solemnly declare that you will one
day bitterly regret the folly and injustice of
your words to me. I shall convince you that
you are ludicrously wrong about that mine. —
Now, just look here, at these papers — "
and Mr. Arden pulled forth a large blue
envelope from his pocket. — On the subject
of the Lone Peak, and on that alone, Mr.
Arden was a fanatic. But his daughter

refused to look at the contents of the blue
envelope, or to listen to his explanations.

"Very well," he said, in a tone of gentle
resignation; "it only proves how unjust you
are. — Now, my dear, when did you see that
fortunate youth last ? When are you to see
him again ?"

"I do not expect to see him again. There
is no longer anything between us."

"What"— cried Mr. Arden. "Do you
know what you are saying ? Nothing between
you ! — Oh, that is ridiculous ! After
all I have done for you ! Come, come, my
dear. You know all that is rank nonsense.
There must be something between you.
There inst, I say."

"It is a thing I shall not discuss — it is
worse than idle for you to speak of it to me.
You have made it impossible for me ever to
marry Arthur Lynn. Besides — why should
you wish me to do so — now f "

My dear, I am afraid I have misled you
by the way I have sometimes spoken of that
young man. I really believe you would be

happy with him — happier than you would be
with a clever man."

"A clever man?"

Yes — not that I mean he is a fool. I
have no doubt he has talents — no doubt
whatever. Now, if you have quarrelled, the
best thing you can do is to make it up at
once. He is fortunately the most plastic,
trusting creature I ever saw. — "

"I do not want him back, nor, if I did,
would he come. I wish you would never
speak of him to me again."

My dear, you are nearly crying, I can see
that. My poor, mad girl I — I am really more
grieved than angered by you. Tell me
plainly what you have done and what you
want — after all, you know, I am your father
and I'm sure I shall do anything for you —
that is, anything in reason."

'you can do nothing. — You know you
have sacrificed too much abbacy. — No," she
added fiercely, "there is one thing you can
do — never mention his name, Arthur Lynn's
name to me again ! — But if you must, whatever

you do, don't defend him — unless you
wish to drive me mad !"

Camilla, don't become hysterical. It is
terrible to have to deal with a girl like you.
If you will only be sane, all will be well — I
shall pay out that snuffling old hypocrite yet !
Have you no spirit — no self-respect — that you
can allow that milk-and-water Miss — that
daughter of Inglebyby's — to catch — that is, to
marry her cousin ? Good Heavens ! Is he
not — is he not the — the man of your heart?"
Mr. Arden felt a twinge of shame as he
forced himself to utter this sentimentalism. —
Don't smile in that ridiculous, ironical way.
Ill simply go to Lynn and bring him straight
here again — "

"You shall not."

"Why not?"

Because, I tell you, he would not come."

Oh, stuff !— Only let me try him 1"

"I see I may as well tell you. Mr.
Dulcimer has asked me to marry him."

Mr. Arden uttered a low, long-drawn
ejaculation. His opinion of Dulcimer fell,

VOL. III.

there and then; and his daughters conduct
became at once natural and intelligible.

Oh !" — he said ; " I understand it all now.
But why didn't you tell me about Dulcimer
before ? — I should never have believed it of
Dulcimer ! — Eeally, Camilla, you have not
acted fairly in this matter — fairly to your
father. If I had known that you cared more
for Dulcimer than for Lynn, I should never
have taken the trouble I have. — Of course,
you accepted him ?"

"Well, no. Not exactly. I said he must
wait."

"He must do nothing of the sort. You
must say 'yes' or 'no' — though, of course, I
see it will be 'yes' — like a rational woman. —
Dulcimer!" he repeated, "I would never have
believed it of Dulcimer — never ! — Do you
know, Camilla, I thought you were mad?"

"Yes?"

"Yes. But I see now you have been very
clever. Of course, I cannot attempt to force
your inclinations, but I confess I am disappointed.
I wish you had taken the other

man. On the whole, I should have preferred
him — as a son-in-law."

I can believe that. But I have not yet
said I shall ' take ' anybody."

"My dear Camilla," said Mr. Arden, "I
am not going to have any more nonsense
understand that. I am not s^oinsr to have
Dulcimer unfairly used. There's a limit to
that kind of thing, you know. And remember
this — you won't find Dulcimer so pliable
as the other fellow was ; not by a long
way."

Mr. Arden recalled how far from pliable
he had found the poet in matters of finance.
Mr. Dulcimer was rich, certainly; but then
he knew so well how to take care of his
money, that it was little likely he would
ask Mr. Arden to take care of it for him.
And he would, no doubt, demand a settlement
— perhaps, even, money down. Mr.
Arden felt that Dulcimer could never be
to him what Arthur Lynn might have been.
He was by no means the ideal son-in-law ;
he would not lend himself to exploits.

Reflecting on all these things, Mr. Arden
felt it incumbent on him to give his daughter
a moral lesson.

It's rather an ugly thing you've done,
you know," he began ; ''I question if Dulcimer
is worth it. You've done your best
to break that young man's heart, and you've
cost me a seat in the House. I have thought
too little of myself, Camilla, and too much of
you, all along — "

Were you thinking of me when you got
Arthur Lynn to take those shares you wrote
about?"

'' I was — most certainly I was. Whatever
was good for him must be good for you —
that was how I looked at it, then. You
have made me a poor return — but you
mustn't repeat the performance. There must
be no mistake about your preference, this
time. I won't have it."

Camilla rose to her feet. Mr. Arden said
to himself that she was in " one of her tempers."
She was, indeed, very angry ; but
with the anger that is akin to tears.

"Oh, this is more than I can bear!" — she
cried. " My preference! — Are you only trying
to torture me, or do you really not understand
why I have done what I have done ?"

'camilla, don't be violent. It's no good.
No, I certainly don't understand you. I gave
up trying to, long ago."

"Then I will tell you. You have forced
me. I have given up the man I love — yes,
that I love ! — rather than see him ruined,
sacrificed to your selfishness through his love
for me 1"

"Camilla," said Mr. Arden, "I will not
allow you to use such language to me. It
is most unjust, and — and unbecoming in a
daughter. Ruined, indeed ! — when I have
doubled the man's income ! But it is quite
impossible to talk with you in your present
mood. You had better go — "

But Camilla was already gone. She had
fled to her own room ; and there, deserted
by her pride, crushed by the sense of loss
and of retribution, she gave way to a wild
outburst of weeping.

Meanwhile Mr. Arclen betook himself to
his club. " I suppose," he said to himself,
I had better get it over. It has to begone
through some time. Only I hope
Mallory is not there — I don't think I could
stand much of his infernal insolence to-night.
That girl seems positively crazed. Well, I'm
sorry for Dulcimer ! "

At the club, Mr. Arden underwent torture
by condolence very creditably. He did not
affect to deny that he was disappointed, but
outwardly he was neither bitter nor despondent.
He was bland, philosophic, judiciously
regretful, at times even mildly humorous.
Unfortunately, the Editor of the Forum appeared
while he was still in the smoking-room
of the Eclectic.

Don't overdo the indifference, Arden," was
Mr. Mallory's first remark. " That is an error
one is very apt to commit in these cases."

Mr. Arden thought Mr. Mallory was decidedly
overdoing the impertinence. His look
said as much plainly ; whereupon the Editor
proceeded to soothe his ill-starred friend.

There is one view, you know, Arden," he
said, " which you ought to take of this
election, and which is, after all, truly inspiriting."


"Indeed?" — said Mr. Arden.

Certainly. This election has shown, as
the mere return of a Radical over a Exactions
never could have shown, that the
Tory in those regions is now an exploded
feebleness, and will soon be as extinct as
the Whig — the dodo of politics. Yes, I
regard this Shawkirk election as an exhilarating
proof of the strength of the Party."

"Oh, d — n the Party," said Mr. Arden.
I've had enough of the Party."

Some people, now, might think you had
not had enough of it. But, of course, I can
excuse a certain random perversity of speech
on your part while this wound is still rankling.
No doubt, this election has cost you
a great deal."

It has," said Mr. Arden.

The result, I must own, has been a surprise
to me," continued the Editor. "You

had certainly the advantage of an admirable
Address — and I do think that, on the whole,
you had sound guidance."

'' If you refer to the advice you gave me,
Mallory," said Mr. Arden, " I can only say
that it was, in the circumstances, the worst
advice that one white man could give another
— to be perfectly frank with you."

I know that frankness is ingrained in your
nature, Arden. But you must not be too
hard upon me — I have no recollection of
having at any time advised you to enter
into politics. I always said you had a genius
for finance — but that is another sphere."

"The ungrateful boors!" — said Mr. Arden
" after all I have done for them, and spent
on them !"

You refer, I suppose, to the cup you gave
for their race-meeting ?"

"That, and fifty other things. We shall
see what that bellowing brute they've elected
will give them !"

"You were wrong about that cup, Arden.
I said so at the time. It must have been

offensive to many earnest people with votes.
You should never have stooped to countenance
a demoralising system of gambling."

'' Seeing that you countenance it yourself
daily," said Mr. Arden, "how in the name
of Creation can you speak in that way ?"

"What in the name of — ah — Evolution,
do you mean by that extraordinary remark?"
and Mr. Mallory stared at Mr. Arden in
seemingly genuine astonishment.

"Why, don't you keep a sporting Prophet
on that paper of yours ? — To be sure, he
is always wrong. If any human beings are
mad enough to 'follow' him, they will
very soon be cured of their passion for
gambling."

"Then, you see, that is altogether as it
should be," said Mr. Mallory, making, at
the same time, a mental note to have an
earnest talk, on the first opportunity, with
the unhappy seer.

"Yes," pursued Arden; "up in this room
you can hear the men all laughing at him,
any night after a big race."

These singular demonstrations have hitherto
escaped my notice' said Mr. Mallory.
But if there is no other defect you wish to
indicate at present in the working of 'that
paper of mine ' — it is not mine, by the way,
but that is a detail — there is another thing I
should like to speak of. Is it true, what I
hear of Mr. Lynn ?"

'what have you heard about my young
friend?"

I am told that he has come into a fortune.
Is it the case ? You ought to know."

I heard about it when I was down in
Shawkirk — indeed, next to the election, it was
the chief subject of conversation there."

"And have you seen the young man

J)

smce f

No," said Mr. Arden, curtly.

Ah — I suppose you will drop him, now he
has ceased to be poor ? — To-day a sub-editor,
tomorrow a plutocrat !" — He paused, then
added bitterly : — " It is enough to make one
believe in Providence, to see how preposterously
money is disallowed in this world !"

"But," said Mr. Arden, "I can't see why
you should regret my young friend's good
luck ? I suppose you will be able to fill up
his place on the paper?"

The paper will continue to come out," said
Mr. Mallory; "at least, that is the present
arrangement. But I do hope, Arden, that
this melodramatic affair will be a warning
to you."

I don't quite catch the insinuation," said
Mr. Arden pleasantly.

In the event of your again suffering from
a seizure of philanthropy, and utilising the
Forum to further your — ah — charitable designs,
you must be more circumspect in your
choice of a protege. You must know him
longer — so that there can be no mistake about
his indigence. The surest and simplest plan
will be to select him from among — ah — certain
shareholders."

You seem to think I committed a crime in
trying to assist the son of an old friend.
Does the Religion of Humanity forbid you to
believe in gratitude ?"

It forbids me to believe in miracles," said
Mr. Mallory.

Look here, Mallory, we understand one
another pretty well by this time, and you had
much better let me know, straight off, what
you are driving at. I don't want a speech,
you know."

As a holder of Lone Peak stock," said Mr.
Mallory, shaking his head and arching his
eyebrows, " I am painfully aware that speech
is not silver. In that respect, I can fully
sympathise with you."

"Man alive!" — cried Mr. Arden, "do you
know what you are saying ? Sit down here —
sit down for just five minutes, and I will drove
to you conclusively the folly, the — the stupendous
folly and — and criminality of such talk !
One glance over these reports" — here Mr.
Arden drew from his pocket the same papers
in their blue envelope which his daughter had
treated with such disdain — " one glance, I say,
over these reports weill show you the utter
madness of saying clever things about the
Lone Peak Mine!"

Indeed ?" — said Mr. Mallory ; and, seating
himself at a table, he ran his eye over the
documents which Mr. Arden laid before him.

When did this — ah — this communication
reach you, Arden ?"

Only this morning. You are the first to
whom I have shown it, Mallory. And of course
you will regard it as strictly confidential."

Oh, certainly. And you have, I presume,
every confidence in your correspondent?"

'' He is an expert in such matters — a man
who never failed me yet."

'' What he says here is — ah — significant,
Arden. There is no denying that. It will
have its effect on the stock, undoubtedly."

It will," said Mr. Arden — " when I disclose
it. You will see those shares at twenty of a
premium yet, or I am much mistaken."

Mr. Arden' s blue envelope had the effect of
a talisman. It averted the threatened rupture
between the two friends. It sent Mr. Mallory
away from the Eclectic that night a gladder
and a wiser man — with a revived confidence in
Mr. Arden's genius for finance.

Chapter XXIV.

A Dress RECEPTION.

A FEW days before Arthur Lynn again visited
his birth-place, the following paragraph appeared
in the Border Warden newspaper : —

"A Romance IN Eel LiFE.

"It is our grateful task to announce to our
readers that a gentleman whom the inhabitants
of Shawkirk must regard with feelings of the
deepest interest contemplates taking up his
residence amongst us under circumstances
which we may justly designate as romantic.
The gentleman we allude to is Arthur Lynn,
Esq., the only son of our late esteemed fellow-townsman,
William Lynn, Esq. of Lynnfield,
whose beneficent endeavours to ameliorate the
condition of our proletariat are still fresh and

green in the memories of all Fall-side men.
We are in a position authoritatively to confirm
the reports which have been already circulated
that the son of our late philanthropic townsman
has become the inheritor of a magnificent
fortune, by the bequest of an Australian millionaire,
the late Gilbert Hume, Esq. of Coora-
bind, Queensland, a gentleman who was atone
time in the employment of the late Mr.
William Lynn, to whose generous intervention,
we believe, Mr. Hume was partially indebted
for his auspicious initiation into the commercial
world of Australia. The fortunate
inheritor is, we have no hesitation in saying,
a worthy scion of his noble-hearted father.
He has been an earnest and successful student
both at home and abroad, and has given
evidence that he is possessed with the genuine
poetic fire, as our readers will admit upon
perusing the following lines from a poem entitled
Perseus and Andromeda, describing an
episode of ancient Woman history, for which Mr.
Lynn gained the coveted laurel at one of his
alma matters." [Here followed an extract from

the Prize Poem which had once brought sorrow
on the soul of Mr. Tngleby.] " The gifted
author of these melodious lines at one time
occupied, we understand, the position of tutor
in the family of one of our most prominent
citizens and genial civic councillors. Subsequently
he has embarked with eminent success
on the arena of metropolitan journalism, having
previously to his accession to affluence
occupied a prominent post on the staff of our
contemporary the Forum. We believe Mr.
Lynn's talents to be of a very brilliant description,
while that he has inherited his late
father s political proclivities is evidenced by
his journalistic career. In his native town he
will find an eminently congenial environment
for the development alike of his talents and
his riches. We shrink from soaring into rash
vaticination. But while we are in every way
gratified by the wise choice of the Shawkirk
Boroughs at the recent election, and while we
look with well-grounded confidence on our
present earnest and broad-minded member,
nevertheless when we hint that on some future

occasion this constituency may find a worthy
successor to the Bailie in the gentleman to
whose advent among us we have adverted, we
believe that our suggestion is calculated to
obtain very general endorsement."

For the facts thus gracefully set forth the
editor of the Warden had been indebted to
Dick Inglebyby, with whom Mr. Small had
sought several interviews since the evening on
which Dick had made his debut as an orator.
From Dick, also, Mr. Small had obtained a copy
of the Prize Poem, with some of whose feeblest
lines he had garnished his own Attic prose.

Mr. Small' s paragraph aroused a certain
degree of excitement in the Happy Valley.
It confirmed the vague rumours already
floating about. The inhabitants of Shaw-kirk,
in their Grammar of Assent, classified
the different orders of Truth thus — Spoken
Truth, Written Truth, Printed Truth— in an
ascending scale. Now that Lynn's wealth was
guaranteed by typography, they had no longer

any doubt on the matter.

VOL. ni. D

The mill-owners and other employers of
labour were not elated by the Wardens announcement.
A mad-cap millionaire, fresh
from a coterie of red-hot London revolutionists,
was coming among them to revive his father s
crusade against Capital, and with powers for
evil far greater than his father's had ever
been. The prospect filled them with disgust
and dread. " From what I've heard of this
young fellow Lynn," said Mr. Turpie of the
Townhead Tannery, " I take it he doesn't
know whether he's standing on his head or
his heels. And he seems to have got so much
money that he may do no end of mischief
here, before he smashes. Why can't he stay
and write nonsense in London, instead of
coming down here to make a row ?" — But Mr.
Macritchie took another view of his ex-tutor's
future. " He is a thorough gentleman, sir,"
said Mr. Macritchie ; "all that about his
philanthropy is a slander — a low Eadical
dodge of that low Eadical paper, sir. I have
had frequent opportunities of conversing with
Mr. Lynn on politics, and I know that when

the time comes, he will be found on the right
side — the right side, sir. He must settle here
like a Scottish Gentleman — a Scottish Border
Gentleman — and marry into a good family, a
family with good blood, sir. And I have no
doubt whatever that that is what he will do."
And the matrons of Shawkirk, as they
glanced at their daughters, and the daughters,
as they glanced at their mirrors, were quite ascertain
as Mr. Macritchie that this was Arthur
Lynn's duty, if he could only be induced to
see it.

He'll marry his cousin, mamma, and that
you'll see," said Miss to Mrs. Macritchie, in
discussing the topic of the hour — " what else
would he be coming down here for ? And I'm
sure she has waited most patiently for him —
more so than / should have done !"

I don't know," said Mrs. Macritchie a
little doubtfully ; "I never thought there
was very much in that story — though of
course things are different now. But it
was always said, you know, that young
Morton — "

LIBRARY

• •^•i.ir-nni-n/ r\r II I Kirtle

The sailor !"— said Miss Macritchie— " Oh,
no ! He got his answer before he went to sea
again, last July. I know that much. Of
course, after all those dreadful stories, he
must be off with that London girl. And
now he's coming here to make it up again
with Gertrude Inglebyby, or else I'm much mistaken."


It would be a great catch for Gertrude
Inglebyby," observed Mrs. Macritchie. " The
newspaper said a Million ! "

Money's not everything, mamma," replied
Miss Fanny. " And anyhow, papa has
plenty" — she added. Now Miss Macritchie
had been wooed, and recently won, by the
Rev. Mr. Stronach.

At last the night came whereon Lynn was
expected to return to his kinsfolk. Mr.
Inglebyby went alone to the station to meet
him. Dick had not offered to accompany his
father. He was not quite easy in his own mind
as to his cousin's sentiments towards him.
Though secretly proud of his election speech
and its results, he felt a little uncertain as to

how Lynn might regard that oratorical display,
supposing the thing to have come to his
knowledge.

Mrs. Inglebyby had insisted on making rather
obtrusive preparations in honour of her
nephew's arrival. She had decked her parlour
with muslin curtains, flowers, and china
ornaments, which seemed oddly incongruous
with its dark mahogany and dingy walls.
She had put on her best brocaded silk, and
further adorned her person with brooches,
touches, and flame-coloured ribbons. Caroline,
also, had ' dressed' for the occasion ; and Dick
had assumed a tight-fitting suit of glossy
black, which gave him the aspect of a sunday's
butcher. Thus they all sat, awaiting
the coming of their kinsman — Mrs. Inglebyby,
in a manifest flutter, now glancing at the
effect of her decorations, now appealing to
Caroline as to the ' sit' of her cap, and anon
remonstrating with her elder daughter, who
had refused to make an elaborate toilet.

Mamma, dear," said Gertrude, " I don't
think Arthur will like all this ceremony. We

never dressed for his cording before. Why
should we do so now ?"

But, Gerty dear," said Mrs. Inglebyby,
we mustn't forget that Arthur is not the
same to us as he was before. He can't be —
that is, I mean, he will be quite the same tous,
no doubt, but we can't be quite the same
to hi77i. This is such a change — you must
remember that."

"I do remember it," said Gertrude. " I
know that Arthur cannot be one of us, as he
used to be. Of course he will go away from
here, and live in another world — among
people like himself. But while he is here,
I don't think we should seem to stand in
awe of him. Nothing would give Arthur less
pleasure than that. We should try to be
just the same to him as we should have been
had he come back to us poor, instead of rich."

Bosh !" — remarked Dick.

I'm sure I don't see what harm there is
in doing one's best not to look dowdy ! " —
said Caroline, with an indignant glance at her
sister's dark coloured dress.

Oh, Caroline, for shame !" — cried Mrs.
Inglebyby.

You'd better stop squabbling, you girls,"
said Dick ; " that's the Governor's ring. Here
they are, and no mistake 1" — Then they all
rose and moved towards the door.

Dick was obviously nervous. He had his
own reasons for desiring to stand well with
his cousin ; and he had pondered deeply over
the form his greeting ought to take. It must
be at once dignified and conciliatory ; and
Dick had decided on the frank and manly
style as being most proper to the occasion.
So — " How are you, old man?" — he cried, as
Lynn appeared at the door ; but he did it
with an effort, and became at once incoherent
and abashed. Gertrude, coming behind her
mother and sister, saw a shade of annoyance
cross her cousin's face, as Dick's loud tones
fell on his ear and Mrs. Inglebyby' s bravery met
his eye. It passed instantly ; but it dispelled
the look of glad kindliness which the girl's
face had worn the moment before. Like her
father, she was startled by the change which

the months had wrought on Arthur Lynn.
He seemed to have aged suddenly; he had
lost the old, frank, eager expression ; even his
voice, she thought, had a different ring.

In the parlour, they all tried to seem at
their ease ; and they all failed. Lynn was
most anxious to be to his kinsfolk what he
had ever been. But this very anxiety helped
to defeat itself. There was a bitter sorrow at
the young man's heart — an aching sense of loss
and of wrong. Nor could he rid himself of the
recollection that those in whom he had placed
firmest trust had deceived him, one and all.
And the manner of his reception jarred upon
him. The old parlour, with which he had been
familiar from his earliest years, looked no
longer homelike in his eyes. The newly-draped
windows, the unwonted flowers on the
mantel, struck him with a sense of strangeness ;
he tried not to think that they had been put
there on his account. He was very fond of his
aunt ; he knew she was all goodness ; but he
did wish that she had received him in her
plain stuff" gown. There was a diffidence, a

suggestion almost of awe, in her manner of
accosting him which made him feel profoundly
uncomfortable. It was the same with Caroline
and Dick. Gertrude — well, she was different
from the others ; but then, she was different also
from the Gertrude who had been his friend, his
confidante, his monitress in other days. Why
could they not receive him as of old ? Even Mr.
Inglebyby, without being in the slightest degree
obsequious, spoke with a certain reserve and
dubiety of tone altogether new in their intercourse.
Lynn wished that his uncle would
begin to reproach and lecture him, as he had
been wont to do. The conversation flagged
lamentably. It was impossible to discuss
either the recent election or Lynn's London
experiences without touching on matters that
were taboo. And so, from one cause and
another, Lynn had seldom felt himself duller
or less at ease than he did on that evening of
his return to Shawkirk.

Things were no better at supper. Mrs.
Inglebyby waited until her husband had asked a
blessing upon the viands placed on the table.

Then she signed to Caroline, who rose, walked
to the side-board, and producing therefrom a
bottle of port, placed it at her cousin's
side. Mr. Inglebyby started, stared at his
wife, then at the bottle — and then, suppressing
a groan, averted his gaze from the
evil object.

You will remember, Arthur, I daresay,"
said Mrs. Inglebyby, trembling at her deed yet
proud of her temerity, "that we never take
wine nor such things ourselves. But I said to
Caroline that you would be used to having
such things, now — and so we thought we
might get this for you. It was the best the
man had."

** That was very kind of you, my dear
aunt," said Lynn ; " but really, I'm not so bad
as you suppose. I can do without such —
luxuries, perfectly well. Indeed, I have had
to do without them." — He was perplexed by
his uncle's face of woe, and by his own desire
to avoid wounding his aunt's feelings. The
thing was, he felt, ridiculous in a way; but
he was not in the least inclined to laugh. —

I know' he went on, " that my uncle dislikes
seeing anything of this kind on his
table. But as you've taken all this trouble,
aunt, and as I do like wine, I shall take
just one glass, and then we shall put it
away."

"You are well aware, Arthur," said Mr.
Inglebyby, " what my views have ever been in
regard to Stimulants. But I should not,
since your aunt has thought fit to provide —
this, I should not wish you to refrain from
taking what you may have been accustomed
to take. Though I hope that we may yet
come to be at one on this highly important
question."

Lynn thereupon sipped a glass of port, Mrs.
Inglebyby watching him the while as though
she dreaded a Bacchic outburst. The bottle
was then solemnly removed, followed by a
lingering wistful gaze from the disappointed
Dick.

I suppose, Arthur," observed Mrs. Inglebyby,
it must seem very strange to find yourself
back in this quiet old house again, after all

the grand people and fine rooms you have
seen?"

My dear aunt, I have seen no grand people
or fine rooms. A sub-editor on a daily paper
is not, as a rule, dragged into society."

But, Arthur, at Mr. Arden's " — began
Mrs. Inglebyby ; then stopped short, confused
and silent. Caroline came promptly to the
rescue.

Oh, Arthur," she said, " you'll never guess
what happened last Sunday. Fancy ! — Mr.
M'Candlish made you the text of his sermon !"

"Caroline !" — said Mr. Inglebyby — "be silent;
I will not tolerate that tone of jest on such
a theme. Mr. M'Candlish's sermons are not
things to be treated lightly."

They are not," murmured Lynn.

"Mr. M'Candlish," pursued Mr. Inglebyby,
alluded to you, Arthur, fervently — and, to
my mind, touchingly — in a passage of his
forenoon discourse, last Sabbath."

As a brand snatched from the burning —
that kind of thing?"

No — not that kind of thing. He spoke of

you, Arthur, as one who might yet become,
under Providence, a helpful toiler in the vineyard
— a powerful Instrument for the furthering
of the good work."

I have no doubt he meant well," said
Lynn, a little wearily, for the thought of being
made a subject for Sabbath edification was not
much to his taste — " but the difficulty nowadays
seems to be to discover what the good
work is."

I trust and pray that you may yet be
brought to see clearly what it is. The
talents are not given us to be laid up in a napkin.
This great good has been vouchsafed
you, Arthur, to be wisely used. You have, I
doubt not, reflected seriously on all this. You
may, perhaps, during these past weeks, have
come to a decision ?"

Well, no. I have scarcely realised what
it means, as yet."

"The Warden" said Mr. Inglebyby, "has
been discussing your coming to Shawkirk.
You had better read the paragraph. Here
it is."

Lynn took the paper from his uncle's hand,
and as he read his face grew harder.

It appears," he said, as he laid down the
sheet, " that I have become a poet, a politician,
and a philanthropist. What have I done to
deserve all this ?"

"I'm sure, Arthur, you do deserve it —
every word of it ! " — said Mrs. Inglebyby.

"You will see, Arthur," said Mr. Inglebyby
who had been watching Lynn narrowly,
almost anxiously, as he read — " that the
writer of this seems to take it for granted
that you will settle down here, in your
native town."

Yes. And that I shall spend my money
after the manner of the Philanthropist. Well,
that would be one way of adding to the happiness
of the people here !"

"Arthur," cried Mr. Inglebyby, "what do
you mean ? I have neither the right nor
the desire to dictate what your future course
shall be, but I do trust — "

"I meant that if I particularly wanted to
add to the gaiety of Shawkirk, I should merely

have to set about losing all I possess. But
don't be uneasy. I have no present intention
of seeking ruin through benevolence."

But surely you are coming to settle among
us ?" — said Mrs. Inglebyby in undisguised alarm.
I have told all the people you were — and,
oh dear ! — if you don't, Arthur, we shall —
that is, I shall — look so stupid ! And Caroline
and I had fixed on the very place for
you to build a villa — and I think — though
no doubt you know far more about those
things than I do — still, I do think you should
have a house with a Tower."

If ever I build a house here, aunt"'
said Lynn, " it shall have a very high tower.
What I intend doing in the meantime,"
he added, turning to Mr. Inglebyby, "is — to
travel."

Lir. Inglebyby cast a furtive glance in the
direction of his elder daughter. Then he
said sadly :

"I suppose there are no reasons why you
should not, Arthur — for a time. But I shall
look forward anxiously to your entering on

a career of earnest, useful activity at home.
You cannot spend your life in travelling.
You have now great, singularly great
opportunities for good. These I hope — nay,
I believe, you will not cast away. To none
of us, whatever our riches — to none of us
is it permitted to stand idle in the Marketplace."


No one was permitted to stand idle on
the ForvmJ' said Lynn ; "I can answer for
that. But I don't intend to be altogether
idle, even on the Continent."

That is well," said Mr. Inglebyby.

I mean to do something in the way of
writing," said Lynn. Gertrude looked up
with a bright glance in her cousin's face.
But over Mr. Ligleby's countenance there
passed a shade of disappointment.

*' Writing !" — he said. " And what, may
I ask, do you intend to write about ?"

Nothing very great," said Lynn. " It
is a series of articles which I have promised
to write from Berlin and Vienna, for the
paper."

"The paper!" — cried Mr. Inglebyby, grasping
the arms of his chair, and half-rising in his
anger and dismay — "the paper? Not that
impious — not the paper of the man Mallory ?"

"Why, yes. I am sorry if it pains you
to hear that, uncle."

"It does pain me — it pains me more than
I can say. I certainly thought, Arthur, that
you had shaken yourself free from that —
yes, from that evil association. I thought
that you had come to see clearly the selfishness,
and hypocrisy, of that — that man.
Your own words to me in London led me
to suppose so. Have you changed since
then ? — or has he ?"

I was once told, I remember, by — by a
very clever friend of mine, that there were
several Mr. Alloys. I find that to be
true."

"Oh, dear!" — exclaimed Mrs. Inglebyby.

"Yes. And the Mr. Mallory I last metis
very deeply interested in my welfare, I
assure you."

VOL. m. E

*sand do you not see the real motive of
his 'interest' in you, Arthur?" — said Mr.
Inglebyby. "Do you suppose that, but for
this change in your circumstances — "

Lynn looked at his uncle. It was a peculiar
look, and had the immediate effect of
reducing Mr. Inglebyby to silence.

'you are a little hard on Mr. Mallory,
uncle," he said quietly. " You must not
judge him, after all, as if he were a Christian.
He is consistent enough. His aim is, you
know, to raise the poor and humble the
rich. Consequently, he must not waste his
energies in seeking to aid poor men. But
when poor men become rich, he sees that
they may be helpful toilers in the Vineyard
powerful Instruments for the Good Work.
Therefore, it is his duty to guide them, and
utilise them."

"I can but partly grasp your meaning.
But I can see, to my sorrow, that whether
or not you are speaking in a serious spirit,
your heart is filled with the gall of bitterness.
It is not right, Arthur — it is not

right that it should be so. You have been
the receiver of a special bounty of Providence,
and yet you speak as one who sees no distinction
between the things that are lovely and
of good report, and things which in the eyes
of the Just—"

Oh, hush ! " — cried Mrs. Inglebyby — " you
will offend Arthur, if you speak like that !"

"There is no fear of that, aunt — not the
very slightest," said Lynn, who indeed rather
liked this return to his uncle's wonted manner.
It refreshed him ; it made him feel
himself for the first time at home.

"Arthur," said Gertrude, "you have not
told us yet what you are going to write
about. You should tell us that, you
know."

"What I am going to write," said Lynn,
is merely a series of articles on the life
of the Continental workingmen — his wages
and houses and holidays, and so on. You
don't think there is any special harm in that,
do you, Gertrude ?"

"No," said Gertrude; "I don't see why

there should be. I think it might be useful
useful for the workmen here to know about
those things, perhaps."

Gertrude," said Mr. Inglebyby gloomily,
"these are matters on which no young girl
is competent to form an opinion. Those
articles of which you speak, Arthur, maybe
innocent in themselves ; I do not question
it. It is your continued association
with that unrighteous newspaper that I deplore.
I cannot bring myself to believe
that that man will exact any service which
is not, in some way, perilous to the soul."

"It's not for me to try to advise, I'm
sure," said Mrs. Inglebyby; "but you know,
Arthur, your father always went to church
it was the Established Church, to be sure,
but still — well, I mean I don't think your
poor father would have liked you to have
anything to do with this dreadful man—
at least, that is, I suppose he is an Infidel.
I always forget his name."

Let us say no more about it, aunt. You
may depend on this, that I shall write nothing

that need offend any one of you. And
now, if you don't mind, I shall take a stroll
down my dear native Shawkirk — my own
romantic town. I want to call on my good
friends the Messers — the only friends I had
in the days we went a-tutoring — "

Mr. Inglebyby shook his head ; Dick just
managed to suppress an ejaculation ; Caroline
opened her blue eyes to their widest.

"Arthur, now — I don't know, you know,"
said Mrs. Inglebyby, "and of course you know
best — but do you really think you should call
on the Messers? Of course, they are very
decent, honest people — but still — "

Oh, don't do me the injustice to imagine
that I am going out of pure friendship ! I
mean to make a short study of this place and
its people — and I think I shall begin with the
Messers. It's simply as a study, I assure you
to satisfy my own curiosity."

Arthur," said Mr. Inglebyby, " I should like
you to be with us to-night at Worship. We
shall wait for you. Do you think you can be
back in, say, an hour?"

"Certainly, uncle," said Lynn; "I'll be
back in that time, without fail."

As Lynn rose to go, Dick also rose. All
through the evening meal, Dick had scarcely
spoken; but he had seemed to hang with
rapt interest on his cousin's every word, and
had watched with stealthy eagerness all the
changes of his face. His expression and
bearing now showed a certain nervous anxiety
which Lynn knew how to interpret. " I'll
walk so far with you, Arthur, if you don't
mind" — he said, in a voice which strove to be
easy and familiar ; and betrayed the effort.
Then they left the house together.

"How changed he is!" — cried Mrs. Inglebyby,
as the door closed. "There is something
wrong with him — I don't know what it is, but
I'm sure there's something wrong. Do you
think, Gertrude, that / can have said anything
to annoy or — or offend him ?"

No, no, mamma. You don't need to vex
yourself by thinking that. It's not anything
that you have said or done that has made
Arthur different."

"Oh dear!" lamented Mrs. Inglebyby — "oh
dear ! He has made me feel so unhappy !
He is not the same to us at all !" And tears
stood in the good lady's eyes.

"It's all that girl that has done it !" — said
Caroline. "I always told you what she
was — "

"Caroline!" — broke in Mr. Inglebyby, who
had been sitting in his arm-chair silent, and
apparently a prey to the gloomiest reflections
"I forbid you to speak in that fashion of
your cousin, or of that — that other person.
Indeed, you had better, I think, drop the
subject. It is one altogether profitless to
discuss."

Soon after, Mrs. Inglebyby and her younger
daughter made their retreat from the enforced
silence of the parlour. Gertrude was left
alone with her father. She looked at him, as
if expecting him to speak. But Mr. Inglebyby
said never a word. He sat there, gaunt and
rigid, his shoulders bent, his hands resting on
his knees, looking straight into the glow of
the fire from under the shaggy pent-house of

his brows. His face was dark with thought ;
now and again his lips moved, as though he
muttered inwardly to himself; he seemed
unconscious of his daughter s presence.

Presently Dick appeared. His face was
now as smiling and joyous as it had been
clouded and anxious half-an-hour before.
There was an air of chastened triumph about
Dick that told its own tale to his sister, and
made her feel sick at heart.

"Well," he remarked cheerfully, "I went
along with Arthur to the Messers'. Old
Messer got himself hurt in the mill to-day,
and Arthur's gone off for the doctor, and to
buy things. He told me I needn't wait.
Queer fellow, Arthur !"

Mr. Inglebyby showed not the faintest interest
in this intelligence. It seemed as if he had
not heard. Dick stared at his father in
amazement.

"What's up with the Governor now?" —
he whispered to Gertrude. "Is it me, this
time?"

"No," said Gertrude.

"Then, of course, it's Arthur. I say,
Gerty" — he went on in a confidential undertone,
carefully pitched so as not to reach Mr.
Inglebyby's ear — " Arthur's a trump ! I've
always said it, and I'll say it again. He's
got me out of the deepest hole I've been
in yet. He's made it all right about the
bill!"

Then you've begged the money from him ?
You've broken your promise ?"

"I never promised," whispered Dick, sulkily;
and I didn't beg the money — I borrowed it.
I offered to pay him the interest — I did, I
assure you ! Arthur's not so soft as he was,
though. He gave me no end of a jawing —
said this must be the last time, and, by Jove !
I think he meant it. — Well, money does
make a difference on a fellow — there's no
denying that."

Lynn returned in time for Worship. Mr.
Inglebyby's manner of conducting the family devotions
that night was peculiarly solemn and
impressive. The passage of Scripture which
he chose for reading was the Tenth Psalm. It

was soon made apparent to every one that Mr.
Inglebyby had selected this particular Psalm
with a purpose. He read it in a slow, deliberate
way that was not ineffective, dwelling
on its stronger passages with an emphasis that
gave to each the force of a personal application.
There could be no doubt in the minds of those
who heard him that the ' man of the earth' — the
heathen ' — the * lion in his den ' — the wicked
under whose tongue is mischief and vanity '
was, according to Mr. Inglebyby's exegesis, the
editor of the Forum; and that the person
taken in his devices, drawn into his net, deceived
by his crouching humility and so undone
— was none other than Arthur Lynn.
Lynn knew his uncle too well to be offended.
Neither did he find it difficult to restrain his
inclination to smile; Mr. Inglebyby was so obviously
in earnest.

"Arthur," said Mr. Inglebyby, when at last
Worship was over, and good-nights were being
exchanged — " I should like to have a few
words of conversation with you — that is, if
you are not too fatigued."

Lynn professed his willingness to talk with
his uncle as long as he pleased.

"You will have your old room, Arthur,"
said Mrs. Inglebyby; "and I do hope you will
find yourself comfortable. We have tried to
make everything nice for you, as well as we
could. And oh, Arthur — " Mrs. Inglebyby did
not finish her sentence ; but the beseeching
pressure of her hand said the rest. She was
plainly afraid lest her husband should speak
his mind too freely, and her nephew should
take offence. Lynn would willingly have
reassured her, had it been in his power. Gertrude's
manner of saying good-night to him
was, he thought, cold and constrained. Mr.
Inglebyby he could understand; his aunt and
Caroline were quite transparent; but he did
not know what to make of Gertrude. It was
as if some trouble weighed upon her mind —
some trouble which she sought to screen from
himself and from all beside. Lynn fancied
that he knew what this trouble of hers must
be ; and that he might do something to remove
it.

Mr. Inglebyby's conversation with his nephew
lasted for a full hour. After they parted, and
Lynn had retired, Mr. Inglebyby went slowly
upstairs to his daughter's room, and knocked.
Gertrude opened the door, as though she had
expected him. She was in her dressing-gown;
her rich-brown hair fell back on her
shoulders. The calm sweetness of her face
contrasted with the look of sombre care that
sat on the brow of Mr. Inglebyby.

"Gertrude," he said, "I have had a long
and serious talk with your cousin. And the
result of it has filled me with bitter sorrow.
He listens to my counsel, but I can see he will
follow his own."

You have asked him not to write for that
paper?"

I have entreated him to abandon his connection
with that man in London. And, I
grieve to say, I have entreated in vain."

"You should not press that — indeed you
should not. Let Arthur take his own way,
and don't misjudge him. Don't make him
think that you are his enemy."

"His enemy!" cried Mr. Inglebyby, "No, his
enemy .is to be sought elsewhere. That is
what I have tried to make him see, and he
will not see it."

"But, father, Arthur told you to-night
what he is going to do. He wishes to do
some good in the world — not to live in idleness,
as many would in his position. I
know that is what he means, though he makes
little of himself, as he always did. He is not
going to write as you say this Mr. Mallory
writes."

"I do not know that," said Mr. Inglebyby.
This has not been a pleasant home-coming
of his, Gertrude. It has not been pleasant
for him, nor for me, nor, I fear, for you. I
feel — yes, I cannot hide it from myself — I
feel he can never be to us as he once was.
My confidence in him is shaken."

Don't say that, father ! You are mistaken
about Arthur — I feel sure you are."

I fear not," said Mr. Inglebyby ; "I greatly
fear not. Your cousin has changed grievously.
He is soured."

No, no — he is not that ! I know he does
not really mean any of the things that seem
bitter to you. I understand him — at least, 'I
think I do."

He spoke to me to-night of you, Gertrude,"
said Mr. Inglebyby gravely.

Gertrude started slightly, and at once became
silent.

*she mentioned your name in connection
with that of — of Mr. Morton. He seemed
to imagine that — that — well, that I was
standing in the way of your happiness —
that I had forbidden you to think of that
young man. He began to praise his friend
to me."

"And — and what did you say, father ?"

I said nothing," replied Mr. Inglebyby. " I
let him go on, but I said nothing. I thought
that was best, my dear."

Thank you, father," said Gertrude. " You
have been very thoughtful for me."

Mr. Inglebyby, at these simple words, turned
away his head for a moment. Then — " Gertrude,
my dear girl," he said, "you know I

would do anything I might in duty to spare
you pain?"

'eyes— I know that."

"But I must try to make you see clearly
wherein your duty as well as mine lies.
You must not — I am forced to say it for
your sake — you must no longer think of
your cousin as you have been used to
think. Indeed, the less you think of him,
the better it will be for yourself and for all
of us."

I shall always think of him as my dear,
kind, clever cousin — and never as anything
else."

"And I," said Mr. Inglebyby, "if he allies
himself, as he seems bent on doing, with the
man Mallory — if he seats himself, as I fear
he will, in the seat of the scornful — shall
think of him as one who has bartered his soul
for this world's praise — for the sound of the
tinkling cymbals !"

Father — you are doing him a wrong in
saying such things !"

You cannot change the truth, Gertrude,

by denying it. I tell you, I would rather he
had come back bent on such schemes as ruined
his father — I would rather see him scattering
his wealth broadcast, as I once feared he would
do — than have found him such as he appears !
You heard how he sneered at benevolence — at
religion ! He spoke to me to-night of being
earnest! — I would rather, far rather, he had
come back with his old carelessness, than in
this bitter, sceptical spirit."

"But, don't you see how his actions contradict
his words ? Remember, he has come
through a great grief — and carries it about
with him still. But I know that he is as true
at heart as ever."

"If," went on Mr. Inglebyby unheeding, " if
he unites himself with this proud and evil
scoffer — this Fool who has said in his heart.
There is no God — if he does this thing, he
shall be to me as a lost and fallen man — one
whom I could not permit to sojourn under my
roof, in the midst of my family — "

Oh, father ! — Do not say such things!"

One whom I should bid a daughter of

mine pluck from her heart — were his wealth
greater than it is ten thousandfold. What
shall it profit a man if he gain the whole
world, and lose his own soul ?"

VOL. III.

CHAPTER Xxv.

FESTAL ORATORY.

For about a week after his return to Shaw-kirk,
Arthur Lynn had every morning to
wade through a mass of manuscript which recalled
his labours as a sub-editor. Letters of
all sorts showered in upon him. There were
circulars from every tradesman in Shawkirk,
and appeals on behalf of charitable institutions,
far and near. The broker and the
moon-struck crotchets seemed alike to regard
him as their natural prey. Whether men
wanted a steeple or a soup-kitchen, cattle-troughs
or revivalist tracts, music for the
people or missionaries for the Jews, they one
and all cried out to Lynn to give them what
they desired. To judge from a certain section
of the begging letters, there was quite
a large class of men in Shawkirk who had

worked for Lynn's father, and had never
worked since. One of two things had befallen
each of these unfortunates. Either he had
been deprived of an arm (the right) by the
Lynnfield machinery, or he had found it impossible
to gain employment on account of
the prejudice against such as had shared in a
scheme of co-operation. Then there was a
host of letters from the ' relatives ' of the
late Mr. Hume, whose family seemed to have
been as the locust in its increase. Each of
these applicants had been led to believe that
Mr. Hume had intended to execute a will in
his or her favour, or at least to ' remember '
them in a codicil. Nevertheless, they were
far from viewing Lynn with malice. They
expressed a firm confidence in his generosity
and sense of justice. In some cases, they
were even willing to leave the precise amount
of their annuities to his discretion.

One morning, as Lynn was sifting the usual
pile of correspondence, his eye was attracted
by a large envelope with armorial bearings to
match, and the motto " Riclit marcs rich aye''

The envelope contained an invitation card of
imposing dimensions, a glittering imitation of
mother-of-pearl, which conveyed to Ljmn, inlarge
gilt letters, the information that Mrs.
James Macritchie of Deloraine House would
be At Home on the evening of the 18th, and
in smaller characters — that there would be
dancing. Lynn smiled, put aside the card,
and went on with his labours.

Meanwhile, in the parlour downstairs, the
Macritchie invitation was causing much anxiety
and excitement. Dick, Gertrude and Caroline
had each received a card ; and the question of
acceptance or refusal had, of course, to be referred
to Mr. Inglebyby.

"What is this?" inquired Mr. Inglebyby, as
Caroline laid the missive before him.

It's an invitation, papa. Gertrude and
Dick have each got one, too."

Indeed," said Mr. Inglebyby. Then he took
up the card and looked at it, handling it as
gingerly as if it had been a dynamite cartridge.
As he read, his features wore an expression
of blended indignation and disgust.

"What" — he said at last — "what, may I
ask, is the meaning of those letters in the
corner— the letters K.S.Y.P.?"

"That means," faltered Caroline — "that —
that they want an answer, papa."

"Then your answer will be No," said Mr.
Inglebyby decisively. " This woman, it appears,
is to be at home on the evening of the 18th.
You cannot, it seems to me, do better than
follow her example."

Oh, papa — " began Caroline appealingly.

You will understand that my decision is
final," said Mr. Inglebyby. " You will not say
that you have another engagement, for that
would be to write the thing which is untrue.
But you may state, if you think it necessary,
that I have bidden you decline this absurd
invitation." And so saying, Mr. Inglebyby
took himself off to the Victoria Dye-works.

Caroline listened to this fiat in silent
anguish. No sooner was her father gone,
than she stole upstairs to Lynn's room, and
timidly opened the door.

"May I come in, Arthur?" she said.

''Of course, come in. But what's the
matter with you, Carry?" — said Lynn, noticing
the look of trouble on his cousin's face.

Caroline's eyes were at once fixed on the
large envelope with the Macritchie arms,
which lay at Lynn's elbow.

"Oh, Arthur!" she cried; "so you've got
one too ! But, of course, I knew you would.
It was not likely they'd pass you over !"

One what f " asked Lynn.

A card ! — an invitation to the Macritchies'
ball ! I got one, and Gerty and Dick — and
—and—"

"AVell, Carry?"

Papa says we are not to go ! He says
dancing is wicked, and that we are to stay at
home !" — and Caroline's blue eyes filled with
tears.

Sit down. Carry, and let us talk it over.
So you want very much to go to this ball ?"

Oh, Arthur, you know how dull it is here,
and how few chances one has of meeting —
people, and how little amusement of any kind
Gertrude and I have — "

"Does Gertrude want to go as much as
you, Carry?"

Of course she wants to go, but not as
much as I do — that's impossible. Arthur, if
we are made to stay away, I think I shall
tier

"Is He to be there, Carry?" asked Lynn.

Caroline blushed, and smiled through her
tears.

I think so," she almost whispered.

"What is his name. Carry, and who is
he?"

"Mr. Carstairs," said Caroline, still covered
with blushes — "he's a lawyer — a solicitor,
they call it. He is so good-looking, Arthur,
and so clever ! He has a very good position
already, though he's only thirty — and I'm sure
he'll be at the Macritchies' ball. Are you
going, Arthur?"

I did not intend to."

"Then we have no chance," said Caroline
in despair. " If you were only to say you
were going, and that you should like us to go
with you, papa might allow us. He listens to

you more than to any one, since — since you
came home."

I don't think he'd listen to me, when we
came to talk about dancing. Have you forgotten
the arguments we used to have about
that, long ago?"

Oh, no ! — and do you remember the afternoon
he caught us waltzing in the diningroom
? What fun that was ! And what a
rage he was in !"

I remember it very well. Carry." — And
there came back to Lynn the vision of the
dingy room embellished with Christmas holly
the snow driving against the windows —
Caroline seated at the piano — and Gertrude
gliding with him through that stolen waltz in
the dusk. How curiously distinct the picture
was ! The touch of his arm on his cousin's
waist, the droop of her head to his shoulder,
the red flicker of the firelight in her brown
hair — Caroline's mingled music and laughter
Gertrude's shy enjoyment — the sudden and
awful appearance of Mr. Inglebyby on the scene
he remembered all. And yet, how long

ago it seemed ! There had been no thought
of Morton, of Camilla Arden, in those days,
when he and his cousins had talked and read
and laughed together, making the dull old
house cheerful, in despite of Mr. Inglebyby.
Everything was changed now, and he felt
half-disposed to regret it.

Oh, Arthur, say you'll go !" — exclaimed
Caroline, unable any longer to endure the
suspense of waiting.

Lynn looked at his cousin, and her face of
appeal decided the matter. It was quite true
what she had said, that festivities did not
often come in her and Gertrude's way. He
had meant to decline Mrs. Macritchie's invitation.
But if his cousins' acceptance depended
on his, he would not disappoint them. That
would be too cruel.

All right, Carry, I'll go — that is, if you
go. And look here" — checking his cousin's
demonstrations of joy — " I've brought you
something to wear at the ball — something I
hope you'll like."

Lynn opened his desk, and took from it

two caskets, of which he gave one to Caroline.
It contained a pendant and bracelet
in pearls and brilliant. Caroline held her
breath as she gazed at the jewels. Words
failed her, for perhaps the first time in her
life.

This other is for Gertrude," said Lynn ;
'' do you think she will wear them ?"

Why shouldn't she?" said Caroline. ''I
know / shall ! Oh, Arthur, they are too
lovely ! How kind — '*

Don't say anything more, until we find
out whether it is to be ' go' or ' stay.' "

But you'll talk papa over, Arthur ? You
know you can, if you like ! "

I don't know that at all, Carry. But I'll
try. And meanwhile, give those to Gertrude,
with — with my love."

Arthur, do you know what we all thought,
that first night you came home ? We all
thought you were changed''

Did you, indeed ?"

Yes. But now I see we were quite wrong.
You are not changed a bit — only you're ever

SO much nicer, because — because — well, you
know what I mean !"

Yes, Carry — I think I know what you
mean."

If I'm not allowed to go now'' said Caroline,
while her eyes devoured the sparkling
gems — '' do you know, Arthur, I hnoio I shall
die''

Lynn laughed, and hoped there would be
no occasion for any such tragedy.

"I had three invitations to-day," he said
that evening to Mr. Inglebyby. " One was from
Mr. Stronach."

"From Mr. Stronach?"

Yes. He invites me to * open the first
day of his bazaar,' as he puts it. He wants
me to make a speech, in memory of our early
friendship."

"Will you go?"

I think not. My memory is scarcely good
enough for a speech like that. The next invitation
is from a Mr. Alexander Tennant,
Secretary of the Shawkirk Working Man's
Advancement Society."

'well, now!" said Mrs. Inglebyby, "there's
a piece of presumption for you ! A man of
that kind — a common slater — to write to you
at all, Arthur !"

Why, it's a compliment, don't you see,
aunt ? Mr. Tennant, in the name of his advancing
brethren, asks me to deliver the
Inaugural Address of their session. The
Society makes this request merely on account
of my well-known sympathy with Labour."

'' They are a gang of malcontents and ,"
said Mr. Inglebyby. " I trust,
that you have sent this man a firm and
pointed refusal?"

Not yet," said Lynn. " Do you know, I
rather like the notion of haranguing them?
It would be a variety. And were not these
men all supporters of Trotter, like yourself,
uncle?"

That," said Mr. Inglebyby, " was an accident.
This Tennant is one of those blind
leaders of the blind, who have only too much
power for harm in this place. His Society is
simply a focus of discontent. I trust, Arthur,

that you will do nothing to countenance these
firebrands."

We shall see," said Lynn ; " one ought to
go somewhere, you know. But I have a third
invitation — this time, to a ball."

From that absurd woman, who sent those
cards here this morning ?"

The same, I believe," said Lynn. " The
girls seem to think that you don't want them
to go, uncle?"

** I have distinctly bidden them decline
this ridiculous invitation," said Mr. Inglebyby.
You, Arthur, must of course decide for yourself."


I think of going to Deloraine House,
do you know?" said Lynn. "It will be a
study."

A most profitless one, I should imagine,"
said Mr. Inglebyby. " Did these people ever
ask you to any of their gatherings before ?"

Never — I must do them that justice."

And do you not see for what reason they
ask you now ? — that it is merely because your
position is altered ?"

No doubt," said Lynn ; *rebut we need not
discuss that, uncle. After all, why blame Mrs.
Macritchie because she has modified her views ?
She has as much right to do that, I suppose,
as you or I."

Mr. Inglebyby let the subject of Mrs. Mac-ritchie's
motives drop, and diverged into a
general statement of his views on the question
of dancing. These were of a nature to make
Caroline despair.

Lynn said no more for the present, but left
it to his aunt and cousins to work on Mr.
Inglebyby's mind, which they did assiduously
during the next three days. Caroline did her
part by assuming an air of meek sufferance,
which she had never known to fail with her
father, in the long-run. Mrs. Inglebyby at first
based her appeal on the ground that the *' poor
girls should have a * chance,' like their neighbours."
But * Arthur' was Mrs. Inglebyby's
main prop in all her arguments and persuasions.
Arthur wished to go ; but would not,
without the girls. Arthur, she was sure,
would give up the idea of addressing these

horrid working-men, if Mr. Inglebyby yielded to
him on this point. How could they expect
Arthur to endure the humdrum life of Shaw-kirk,
without some occasional distraction such
as the Macritchie ball would be? This last
argument had its weight with Mr. Inglebyby.
As to life in Shawkirk not being good enough
for Arthur, that was, of course, absurd. But
if this invitation were accepted, it would detain
Arthur among his relatives for another
week ; whereas, if it were rejected, the young
man might depart next morning for London —
and Mr. Mallory. Mr. Inglebyby had not yet
despaired of his nephew's reclamation. Arthur
had seemed more reasonable, more open to
advice, since their last talk together on the
subject. Much might be done in a week to
wean him from that ruinous association. Mr.
Inglebyby resolved on making another attempt.
It was not in accordance with his views of life
that his daughters should go to a dancing-party.
But Mr. Inglebyby was prepared to
stretch a point, if thereby aught could be
done to redeem his nephew from the thraldom

of the Forum, When Lynn, urged on by-caroline,
again broached the subject to his
uncle, he found himself, to his own surprise,
successful in his suit. An acceptance was accordingly
sent to Mrs. Macritchie, and a
refusal to Mr. Alexander Tennant.

Lynn found the days before the ball hang
somewhat heavy on his hands. His aunt and
Caroline were preoccupied with the great question
of Dress. Gertrude's behaviour towards
him perplexed, and even pained him. She
was, as she had ever been, quietly thoughtful
for his wants, interested in his interests,
and ready to listen to him whenever he chose
to talk. But he noticed that she never gave
him the opportunity of being alone with her.
It seemed as if an end had come to all their
pleasant, cousinly intercourse. Lynn was conscious
of no change in his own feelings with
regard to Gertrude. He had looked forward
to dropping into their old, easy, familiar relationship
; to giving her his fullest confidence ;
to seeking her sympathy and counsel. But her
strange reserve, her evident shrinking from all

allusion to the past, the way in which she kept
him, as it were, at arm's-length, at first puzzled,
then piqued him. Even in the midst of his own
troubles, which gave him sufficient material
for reflection, Lynn found himself engaged
in making a study of Gertrude, watching her
with a kind of sorrowful interest. She must,
he thought, have some trouble on her mind —
a trouble akin to his own. Morton's sudden
return to a sea-faring life was the only thing
he could think of, by way of explanation. He
would scarcely have thought Morton the man
likely to win the love of such a girl as Gertrude
Ingleb}^ He recognised all Morton's
good qualities ; but he did think that his
cousin would have sought something more from
a lover than Morton could give. Still, as
Lynn reflected, d priori reasoning is of no
use in questions where a woman's heart is
concerned. It must be Morton, for the simple
reason that it could be no one else.

What could be the reason of his cousin's
unhappiness? — for that she was unhappy he

VOL. HI. G

could see. A lovers' misunderstanding? —
that was scarcely probable between these
two. More likely Mr. Inglebyby had interfered.
Already, in talking with his uncle, he had
sought to find out whether it were so ; and
Mr. Inglebyby's way of putting the question by
had seemed to give colour to his suspicions.
A deep pity for his cousin filled Lynn's mind
as he came to this conclusion. He himself,
in a similar case, could seek distraction in
work, in change of scene, in mingling with the
world. But she would have to bear her heart-sorrow
as best she might through the dull
routine of life in a provincial town, where the
slow days dragged their length monotonously
on, and such a thing as this Macritchie ball
became an event of the first magnitude.
Yes, he was sorry for Gertrude. Sometimes
he forgot his own unhappiness in thinking of
hers.

For Lynn, in those days, was unhappy.
No doubt, wealth had brought to him its
consolations. The power to dispose of one's
own life in one's own way, unconditioned

by the need of what Mr. Inglebyby called
bread winning,' had a charm of which the
young man was fully conscious. He had
realised that on the very morning after Mr.
Inglebyby's revelation ; if ever he entered the
Forum office again, it was solely because he
chose to do it — not because he had to earn
a livelihood by sub-editing. And the advantages
of his new position became more
evident each day.

But the thought of his lost love embittered
the novel and pleasurable sensation
of being rich and free. Again and again
he went over in his memory that last interview
with Camilla in the garden. To
what extent had she been in her father's
secrets, and in his plot ? Had the girl been
harden's accomplice, his decoy and confederate,
or only — as he himself had been — his
dupe ?

Sometimes Lynn was disposed to take
the more charitable, sometimes the harsher,
view. Yet either supposition, he felt, left
her conduct, her words, to some extent

enigmatic. She had dismissed him, poor ;
she had called him back to her, rich — so
much at least was certain. And she had
thrown him over in the end — for Mr. Dulcimer.
That he could not understand. Mr.
Dulcimer was no doubt a man of fashion,
who dressed well, went into good society,
and had a certain air of distinction and
superiority which might impose on a silly
girl. But Camilla, whatever she might be,
was no silly girl ; and he had heard her
laugh too often and too genuinely at the
poet's affectations to think it possible that
these could have won her heart.

The other alternative was to suppose that she
meant to marry Mr. Dulcimer for his money.
That would have been Lynn's conclusion, but
for the fact that Camilla had known about
his fortune before he knew about it himself.
Why, if she were utterly heartless and mercenary,
had she not played out her game
to a successful end, as it had been in her
power to do ? Arguing thus with himself,
Lynn came to take a somewhat more lenient

view of his former sweetheart's behaviour
towards him.

Of Mr. Arden he thought only with indignation
and disgust. The parade which
that gentleman had made of his ' gratitude
his professions of disinterested friendship,
his simulation of kindly interest
and regard, angered and outraged Lynn
more even than the ' transaction ' which
had made him a principal holder of Lone
Peak stock. He wanted to be done with
Mr. Arden at any price. Father than be
mixed up with him and his affairs — rather
than have the use which he had made of
his own daughter discussed and exposed —
Lynn had risked the loss of a considerable
portion of his newly-inherited wealth. He
did not regret the sacrifice, which he had
made in part on Camilla's account — to the
complete mystification of Mr. Inglebyby and
of his legal advisers.

He wished to forget, if possible, all that had
happened since that night when Mr. Arden
had come to him amid the ruins of his father's

factory. But in this he failed. He could not
forget Camilla. Neither could he forget the
plausible phrases and calculated kindnesses by
which he had been beguiled and fooled.
His faith in the better side of human nature
had received a rude and painful shock.
Often, during his London days, it had pleased
while it somewhat surprised him to find how
good everyone was to him in spite of his
poverty. Now that the true motives of such
goodness stood revealed — now that he knew
himself and was known to be rich — he was
inclined to look with suspicion on every
manifestation of good will.

His experience of Shawkirk had not tended
to restore his confidence in human kind.
He had become, in truth, heartily sick of
the place and its people. He did not class
his relatives among the sycophants whom his
wealth had drawn around him. But neither
did he feel himself comfortably at home in
his uncle's house, as he had been wont to
feel. He knew that his uncle meant to say
something more to him on the subject of

the Forum letters ; and that, not improbably,
they would have a quarrel over it. He did
not want to quarrel with Mr. Inglebyby ; but
he had no intention of giving up the plan
which seemed the only definite thing in his
immediate future. But for the fact that
his going would have deprived his cousins
of a rare enjoyment, he would have left
Shawkirk ere now. Each day he became
more impatient to depart. He resolved that
the day after the Macritchie ball would be
his last in Shawkirk, at any rate for the
present.

As they drove up to Deloraine House on
the eventful evening, they beheld that mansion
in a blaze of light, from the basement
to the topmost chamber in the tower. They
stepped out on a red cloth, which had been
laid over the gravel of the ' approach' ; passed
through the hall, where lighted candles flickered
among the armour and the antlers, and
bowers of evergreens and exotics had been
symmetrically arranged at regular intervals ;
and so up the great staircase.

Isn't Macritchie doing the thing in style !"
said Dick, as he and Lynn waited on the
handing for the two girls. '' It's quite nobby,
don't yoii know?" he added, surveying the
magnificence around him. " And all in your
honour, old man ! If you hadn't come to
Shawkirk, there would have been no ball.
Everybody says so."

These remarks filled Lynn with dread.
Were they going to ^ lionize ' him ? He
had not discounted this possibility, and
began to regret the hour when he had consulted
Caroline's wishes rather than his
own.

His reflections were cut short by the appearance
of his cousins. Gertrude, in her ball-dress,
almost startled him. He had never
before thought her exactly beautiful ; but
now he saw that she was so — not with a
haute de diable, but with a winning loveliness,
a simple unconscious grace of manner
and carriage — that beauty which lingers in
the memory like a strain of music or the
perfume of a flower. For long after, Lynn

recalled his cousin as she appeared to him
just then — the coils of rich-brown hair round
the shapely head ; the veiled lustre of the
dark eyes ; the red lips that seemed redder
from the slight paleness of the face, parted
in a smile of animation and expectancy, for
this was the girl's first ball. Lynn was glad
to see that she was wearing his jewels ;
he scarcely knew why. He no longer regretted
having accepted Mrs. Macritchie's
invitation. Giving Gertrude his arm, he
passed through the lace-curtained doorway
into the drawing-room, while Caroline followed
with her brother.

Dancing had not yet begun. A string-band
from the city, ensconced among evergreens
on a platform in one corner of the
room, sat with their music before them,
ready to strike up. The ladies were ranged
on red-cushioned forms round the room ; the
men stood grouped together here and there ;
they all seemed to be waiting for something.
Mrs. Macritchie, enthroned on her
chair of state, had also the air of one

who waits. Lynn became dimly conscious
of all this — of a hush that fell upon the
guests, and a concentration of eyes upon
himself — as he passed up the room, with
Gertrude on his arm, to make his bow to
their hostess.

No sooner had that ceremony been gone
through, than Mr. Macritchie bore down
upon him, and his worst fears were more
than realised. Mr. Macritchie positively
bubbled over with geniality. He stood for
some minutes shaking Lynn by the hand,
expressing the joy it gave him to see Lynn
under his roof, "on this festive occasion"
to see him "restored to his true position
in Society." There were quite a number
of people in the room, said Mr. Macritchie,
whom he really must introduce to Mr. Lynn ;
people who had come to this ball expressly
to meet him. There was Turpie of the Town-head
Tannery, and Purdie of the Cambridge
Mills, and various others — the magnates of
Shawkirk society; men who had known Lynn's
father in former days, and now yearned to

make the acquaintance of Lynn himself. All
this was bad enough, Lynn thought ; but
there was worse to come.

We have been waiting for you, Mr.
Lynn," went on Mr. Macritchie, passing
his arm affectionately under his guest's.
Will you open the ball with Fanny — with
my daughter? That will be the proper thing,
you know."

Lynn started, looked round him in alarm,
and said something about appreciating the
compliment, and having intended to dance
the first dance with his cousin.

Oh, you will have lots of chances of
dancing with your cousin before the night's
over, Mr. Lynn ! And besides, I see you are
forestalled. That's young Purdie with Miss
Gertrude — a very decent fellow, young Purdie ;
not bad-looking, and a partner in his father's
concern already. Excellent position in society,
young Purdie's. And there's Miss Caroline
off with young Carstairs — know young Carstairs
? Second son of Carstairs of Ladywell,
the Was. — place near here — splendid legal

connection, that. Fine-looking fellow, isn't
he ? Seems very attentive to Miss Caroline,
doesn't he ? — ha ! ha ! Now, Mr. Lynn, come
along. You haven't seen Fanny yet, and you
must open the ball with her. There is an
etiquette in these matters, you know — a
custom, I may say, handed down to us from
our forefathers. Your position, my dear sir,
in a way imposes, yes, imposes this — shall I
say, duty? — upon you. Noblesse oblige, you
know," said Mr. Macritchie, exhausting his
French ; "my dear sir, noblesse oblige''

Lynn resigned himself to his fate, and
walked through a quadrille with Miss Mac-ritchie.
Thereafter he had the Shawkirk
notabilities presented to him by Mr. Mac-ritchie
; and then their wives and daughters
by themselves. Lynn's sufferings during this
levee were very great. One stout old man after
another was led up to him, saluted him with
profound respect, and congratulated him on
his accession to wealth, just as if he had done
something very grand and heroic. Some of
them made allusion to their acquaintance with

Lynn's father in former days ; and this jarred
upon the young man more than anything else
in the proceedings. The impression which hein
his turn made on Shawkirk society was not
altogether favourable. His manner was felt
to be 'haughty.' This, however, helped to
confirm the exaggerated reports as to the
magnitude of Lynn's fortune. The young
man who could afford to treat a personage like
Mr. Turpie so cavalierly must be, at least, a
Millionaire.

After dancing with one or two partners
provided for him by Mr. Macritchie, Lynn
began to think he had had enough of it. He
looked about for his cousins. Caroline was
being whirled through a waltz ; Gertrude was
just rising to dance. He made his way towards
her.

"Will you give me the next waltz,
Gertrude ?" he said.

Gertrude looked at her card. Every dance
was initiated. Lynn cursed his own negligence
in not making his request before. Now
that he saw his cousin among the other young

ladies of Shawkirk, he began to wonder why
he had not done so.

I'll sit out the dance before supper with
sou, if you like, Arthur," said Gertrude; 'Til
make some excuse — it's Mr. Purdie, and I've
danced with him before. Will that do ?"

That will do very well, Gertrude. Then
I shall have the waltz after supper with you.
And now I shall have to dance with the
young lady that Mr. Macritchie is bringing
along — the young lady in the dress ' like the
sound of a trumpet.' You see her ?"

Gertrude laughed; and next moment was
rapt away from him in her partner's arms.

Lynn danced with the young lady in
scarlet, and with many other young ladies.
To do so was his only way of escape from Mr.
Macritchie, Mr. Stronach, and the Tories
and Parties, who hovered about, eager for the
honour of addressing him. At last came the
dance before the supper.

Gertrude," he said, " this room is insufferably
hot. Let us go down into the hall,
where the greenery is."

Gertrude took his arm, and they seated
themselves in one of the bowers, where they
were screened from observation.

"It is the instinct of the hunted animal
that has brought me here," said Lynn ; " this
seems a pretty good covert, do you know ?"

"Tm afraid you have not been enjoying
yourself very much, Arthur."

At any rate, I am now — if only our host
does not unearth me. I know he means to
set me some dreadful task ; probably to take
in Mrs. Macritchie to supper. Now, I think
I did my share in ' opening the ball.' I don't
want to take in Mrs. Macritchie. I'd much
rather take in you, Gertrude. May I ?"

'' Of course you may, Arthur, if you
wish."

"I do wish," said Lynn. He had taken
Gertrude's fan, and was fanning her as she
lay back on the settee. How different she
looked, he thought, from the quiet girl, in the
dark stuff gown, whom he had watched moving
about his uncle's house during these last
days ! What was it that had changed her —

that had made her beauty appear ? Not only
the dress, the jewels, the flowers in her hair.
It was the excitement of the ball that had
brought the colour to her face, the sparkle
into her limpid grey eyes ; that gave to her
every motion the vivacity that had been
wanting before. What might not Gertrude
be, he thought, if only she were taken out
of her dull surroundings — if only she were
permitted to see and to enjoy a fuller and
richer life ! He began, half-consciously, to
compare her with Camilla. Both were beautiful,
though in a very different style of beauty.
Both were, as to character, very much what
circumstances had made them ; he might
plead that in Camilla's defence. But Gertrude
could not have been guilty of deceit, however
tempted ; he felt sure of that. How different
things might have been with him, if —

"Arthur, you are forgetting to fan me.
How deep in meditation you are !"

Lynn looked into the girl's face, so earnestly
that her eyes drooped beneath his
gaze.

'' I was thinking about you," he said. " You
have quite puzzled me to-night. You are
transformed !"

How do you mean ?"

"Well, you seem quite another person
from the demure young lady I've been used
to of late. — Now, why don't you ask me
which I like best ? Any other girl than you
would have done that !"

Well, I will ask you."

I think I like you better as you are now.
Do you know, Gertrude, I thought you had
been — well, distant, rather, to me, since I
came back to Shawkirk ? You made me think
I had said or done something to offend you ?"

How could you think that ? You don't
know how glad I was to see you that night
when you came in with father, and found
us all waiting to receive you ! And you have
been so good and kind, and patient, with all
of us."

Don't say that, Gertrude."

But it is true. About Dick—"

VOL. Ill, H

"Oh, don't speak of that!"

"No, I will not. It makes me ashamed.
But I am so grateful to you, for all that !
And though I'm afraid I did not thank you
properly for your lovely present — "

Lynn took his cousin's hand, and looked at
the bracelet that encircled her arm.

Do you know," he said, " I felt quite
relieved when I saw you wearing this? I was
afraid that you might not — might not have
liked to take it?"

Why should I not, Arthur?"

Oh, I don't know. It was an absurd
notion, of course."

Lynn did not explain to his cousin that he
had thought it possible she might not care to
deck herself with the jewels which had not
been given her by her lover.

"I took them," said Gertrude, "just as if
they had come from my own brother. Just as
Caroline did."

Of course," said Lynn. " Yes, that was
right. I should like to talk with you, Gertrude,
just as we used to talk in the old

days. I have had no chance until now, and
this is likely to be my last."

'your last?"

Yes. I leave Shawkirk tomorrow. I
have had a letter from Mr. Mallory. He
wishes to see me, and I shall go. Your father,
I know, will not like it, but I think it the
right thing for me to do."

You must do what you think right. It
would be selfish to wish to keep you here."

I want to do something," said Lynn ; "or,
at any rate, to try. I find that having a
fortune left one is not an unmixed good.
The people here seem to think that simply to
have money is quite enough. They have
dinned that into my ears until I am sick
of it."

I know it is not enough for you."

"I hope not — I do hope not. I used to
have ambitions, as you know. I used to think
a great deal, and to speak sometimes, about
what they call a Career. Am I to give ups
all that, just because I don't need to work any
longer for my daily bread ?"

Surely not. I do like to hear you speak
in that way, Arthur !"

I know that you will understand me. My
uncle does not, and perhaps never will, though
I know he means me well. If ever there was
a time when I needed to be doing something
when I could not sit down and enjoy the
mere use of money and the sensation of being
rich — that time is now. Of course you know
what I mean ?"

Yes," said Gertrude.

'' But I don't want to talk about myself. I
want to talk about you."

"About me?"

Yes. I have eyes to see, Gertrude, and
they say that sympathy makes us clear-sighted.
I don't want to force your confidence.
But it has seemed to me that you must
have a trouble like — like my own. I have no
right to speak to you about such a thing ; I
know that. But I thought — I thought that I
might be of service to you. You know how
willing I should be ! "

Gertrude did not speak. Lynn fancied

that she shrank from him, as if displeased.
She had taken her fan, and now raised it so as
to screen her face from his view. Lynn began
to feel sorry for having spoken ; but thought it
best, since he had begun, to go on.

I thought, you know, that if there were
any misunderstanding, I might do something
to clear it up — or if there were any — any
objections, I might do something to remove
them. I have not made you angry with me,
Gertrude?"

Oh, no. You have not done that."
That is what I meant to say, though not
the way I meant to say it. But can't you make
use of me in any way ? Is there nothing —
nothing that I can do ?"

Nothing !" she said — " nothing !"
But," persisted Lynn, now more certain
than ever that he had been right in his conjecture,
" if you want help at any time, Gertrude,
you will come to me ? — you will send
for me ? Remember, I would go anywhere to
serve you. I should like you to promise me
that."

Don't — don't talk of it any more. I cannot
promise you — but you must not think me
ungrateful. Indeed, indeed, I am not that ! —
See ! There they come downstairs to the
supper-room. Let us go."

Lynn, without a word more, gave her his
arm, and led her forth. He was sorry now
that he had spoken ; he could have wished his
words unsaid. He feared that he had given
Gertrude pain, instead of comfort, as he had
intended. He could not but remark how the
gaiety had quite gone from her look and
manner, since his unlucky reference to her
relations with Morton. He had been wrong
thus to spoil her enjoyment of the present
hour — to make their last talk together, perhaps
for long, a thing she could not remember with
pleasure. He set himself, while ministering
to her wants at table, to win back the smile
to her face, and in a measure succeeded. But
it was, he felt, only in a measure.

At supper, Lynn noticed a curious change
pass over Mr. Macritchie. The champagne
flowed like water, and the jest and laughter

grew loud around him. But Mr. Macritchie
sat silent and preoccupied ; and his hand
shook as he raised the wine-glass at frequent
intervals to his lips. A dark suspicion of
what those symptoms might portend crossed
Lynn's mind.

Gertrude," he said, " have you marked our
host of late ? Do you notice anything peculiar
about him ? "

'eyes. How pale he is ! Do you think he
can be unwell?"

I fear not. I may be mistaken, but I
gravely fear he is about to have a relapse of
oratory. It all comes of the election, I suppose.
Only observe him ! — "

Mr. Macritchie, with cheeks ghastly pale,
and lips tightly compressed, gazed for some
moments abstractedly into space. Then he
drank two glasses of champagne in swift succession,
rapped on the table, and rose. It was
even as Lynn had foreseen.

'good Heavens!" said Mr. Carstairs to
Caroline — "the man is going to make a
speech /"

The talk and laughter ceased at once. Mr.
Macritchie coughed an overture, and began : —

'' Ladies and Gentlemen : There are occasions
in a man's life when he cannot remain
silent — when he is compelled to give inadequate
expression — I mean, expression however
inadequate — to the sentiments within his
breast. This, Ladies and Gentlemen, is one of
those occasions."

Here Mr. Macritchie stopped abruptly, and
there was for some moments a tingling silence
in the room. At last the orator resumed, with
striking glibness : —

It will no doubt be as agreeable for you to
fulfil the request I have to make of you as it
is agreeable to me to make it. And I have no
doubt that the sentiments I am about to
express will prove to be vibrating in harmony
with those of all those whom I now see before
me."

A burst of applause rewarded this effort,
and Mr. Macritchie became absorbed in a

study of the champagne bottle, whose neck
he had grasped mechanically in his right
hand. He strove, for some time in vain, to
recall the sentence at the top of the second
page of the speech in his pocket ; and again
sought inspiration from the wine-cup.

'' We all know. Ladies and Gentlemen, what
the Poet says — that — well, that there are
flying hours, and that we are to — well, to
chase them, you know — with — with glowing
feet, But why should I detain you from the
giddy dance with these reminiscences ? There
is one thing, and only one, which I shall ask
you to do — to unite with me in paying a well-merited
honour to the gentleman whom I am
proud — yes, proud to see at my Board tonight.
Mr. Lynn—"

Here Gertrude, finding her own fears thus
realised, cast a glance at her cousin's face.
Lynn sat motionless, looking, fixedly and
grimly, straight before him. She glanced at
him from time to time during the remainder
of Mr. Macritchie's speech ; but he took no

notice of her or of any one, and his expression
and attitude never changed.

Mr. Macritchie halted and stammered
through about five minutes' speaking ; referring
to Lynn's talents and his wealth ; to the
distinctions he had won in his university
career ; to his place in the world of letters ;
his auspicious return to his native town, and
the pure joy it gave him, Mr. Macritchie, in
common with all who now heard him, to welcome
back, elevated to his true rank in society,
the son of one whom many of them had
known and respected. He would not dilate
on this subject. He would conclude — and
Mr. Macritchie' s relief on reaching a coherency
was obvious — he would conclude by asking
them to drink to the health of Mr. Arthur
Lynn.

Mr. Macritchie sat down amid loud applause,
and the toast was duly honoured. Then Lynn
rose to reply. There was an evident curiosity
to hear him, especially among the Tories and
the Parties — who imagined that Lynn might
take the opportunity which Mr. Macritchie's

reference to this father's schemes had afforded
him, to developed his own views on philanthropy,
co-operation, and kindred subjects.
He was so rich ! And he could do, if so
minded, such a lot of harm !

Outwardly Lynn seemed as cool and self-possessed
as Mr. Macritchie had been the
reverse. Inwardly, he was execrating his own
mistake in ever going to Deloraine House, and
his blindness in not forecasting the manner of
his reception. His speech should be short ;
and his exit thereafter immediate. He would
leave Shawkirk next morning ; he would go
somewhere, among people who did not know
of his money, or would forget about it ; he
would not stand this kind of thing for another
day. His irritation and annoyance were no
doubt greater than the occasion warranted ;
but he felt as if all his trials of the past fortnight
had culminated in Mr. Macritchie' s
speech.

Mr. Macritchie, Ladies and Gentlemen,"
he said, " I have been trying to discover to

what I can be indebted for the honour of having
been selected as the victim of this solitary
toast. No one of you can be better aware
than I am that it is not due to any merits of
my own — that it is not in recognition of anything
that I have done ; because, as those of
you who know anything at all about me must
know, I have consistently done nothing. It
is true, as our host has said, that I have gone
through the antiquated course of studies still
prescribed at our Universities. But these
studies cannot, of course, be regarded as Work
in the now recognised meaning of the word,
being totally opposed to the spirit of the age,
and having no pecuniary results worth mentioning.
All earnest men, we know, mean by
work the production of money ; and I should
be insulting your common sense if I supposed
you capable of accepting any less practical
definition." — " What does the fellow mean by
that?" here whispered Mr. TurjDie to his
neighbour. — " Casting about me for some
reason," continued Lynn, " for the honour
you have done me, I have come to the conclusion

that it must be on account of the
name I bear. In the very flattering speech of
our host, and the equally flattering reception
you gave it, I see a proof of your sympathy
with the efforts of Philanthropy." — Here Mr.
Turpie started violently, and emitted an ejaculation
which reached Lynn's ears, and gave
him a cue. — '^ Some of you," he went on,
may have heard that, through no efforts of
my own, I have become the unworthy possessor
of — well, of a sum of money sufficient
to insure me independence — in other words,
idleness. Various suggestions have been made
to me regarding the disposal of this sum of
money. Numerous outlets for capital have
been presented to my choice. As yet I have
not decided on the matter ; but one may be
allowed to have one's dreams. I was standing
to-day among the ruined walls which my
father built ; and the thought came to me —
What if these walls could be raised again ? —
if the machinery could once more throb and
pulse within them? — and if the name of
Lynnfield could prove to the world that the

interests of the employer and the employed
are one?" — At this Mr. Turpie groaned
audibly, and Mr. Purdie's face grew pale. —
It was, I know, a dream and nothing more.
But though I do not pledge myself to carry
out those philanthropic schemes which have
failed once, but might succeed again, the
reception you have given me to-night is an
incitement and an encouragement. I shall
never forget it, and I thank you for it from
my heart."

There was loud applause as Lynn resumed
his seat ; but the faces of his audience wore,
for the most part, an expression of anxious
bewilderment. The general impression of the
capitalists was that Lynn had shown traces of
a crazy ambition to woo poverty after the
manner of his father. They felt a certain
resentment against Mr. Macritchie. He had
always assured them that the younger Lynn
had quite escaped the taint of philanthropy.
He had led them into drinking Lynn's health
under false pretences.

Capital speaker, your cousin," said Mr.
Carstairs to Caroline, as they returned
to the ball-room. "He has given them a
fright. They quite missed the irony, you
know."

Oh, it's only his chaff," said Dick, when
questioned as to his cousin's intentions by
some of his intimates. " There's nothing in
it. He's not such a precious fool."

As for Lynn himself, his one desire now
was to get out of the house, and to escape
from Shawkirk. This latest episode had put
the finishing-touch to his irritation. In his
angry impatience, he forgot to claim the waltz
which Gertrude had promised him.

Gertrude," he said, " good-night — and
good-bye. I am going."

But why say good-bye, Arthur?"

Because I shall have left Shawkirk before
you come down to breakfast tomorrow — or
rather, this morning. Say good-bye for me
to Caroline. I suppose I may trust to Dick
to bring you home ?"

Oh, yes. Good-bye, Arthur."

Good-bye, Gertrude. I shall write you,
whenever I have anything to say. Now,
dance on and be happy. Good-bye."

And he passed downstairs, and out of the
house.

CHAPTEK Xxvi

AN ESCAPADE.

Lone Peaks ' were now rising in the market,
and with them rose Mr. Arden's financial
reputation. There had been a time — while
the Shawkirk election was in progress, and the
prospects of the mine were at their gloomiest
when 'whispers' had made themselves heard
in certain circles, concerning Mr. Arden and
his affairs. But now these were silenced ; or
rather, changed into a murmur of applause.
The reports of which Mr. Mallory had enjoyed
a private view, issued later in the form of a
circular to the shareholders, brought about the
belief that the mine was a real mine, with
veritable ore. So much faith men had in Mr.
Arden's ' expert,' who was a man of note in
VOL. in. I

his way, and had plainly stated what his eyes
had seen. But the circular, by itself, was not
sufficient to send up Lone Peak stock. The
mine, no doubt, was there ; but the money to
work it was not — so at least people said. The
expert had spoken of splendid possibilities ;
but without money these could not be
realised ; and where was the money to come
from ? The capital had been all expended,
and fruitlessly ; so much was known. The
new stock had at no time been in demand;
and it was not thought that Mr. Arden and
his co-directors either would or could throw
capital into the undertaking sufficient to make
it pay. Thus even the reports which Mr.
Mallory had pronounced ' significant ' left the
stock much as it had been before.

Then it oozed out that in some way money
real money — had been put into the concern
; and that the mine was being developed.
Humour had it that a great Capitalist, who
had been to Nevada and had visited the mine,
had shown his confidence in its success by
taking shares to the extent of forty — fifty —

a hundred thousand pounds. Mr. Arden did
not contradict these statements ; he only
smiled, and declared them to be ' exaggerated.'
^ Lone Peaks ' came gradually into demand.
A sale of ore was talked of, to be followed by
a dividend at the rate of 15 — 20 — 25 — x percent.
Mr. Arden smiled, and said that these
forecasts also were 'exaggerated;' and his manner
of saying so heightened, in whomsoever
heard him, the desire to become possessed of
Lone Peak stock. Each day saw the stock
quoted at a higher figure. At last it stood at
par. Then Mr. Arden felt that he had
triumphed — with the help of Arthur Lynn.

The Lone Peak silver mine had ever held
the first place in Mr. Arden's affections, and
did so still. But there was a more recent
Project which had come to stand second in his
regards, and on which he was now bestowing
the utmost of his energy. The suggestion of
this project had come from no less a person
than Mr. Mallory. And it necessitated a meeting
between the Editor of the Forum and Mr.
Bonnamy Fowler, M.P.

Mr. Fowler was a well-known City man, and
a director in sundry solidly-established companies.
Financially, he was spoken of as ' a
tower of strength'; so specially, indeed, had
this epithet become his own, that he was
known among his intimates as ' Old Babel.'
Mr. Fowler sat for a rotten borough in the
South of England, which had frequently fallen
under the editorial scourge of Mr. Mallory.
But Mr. Fowler bore the wielder of the scourge,
personally, no malice ; and Mr. Mallory, for
his part, was quite prepared to sink the
Member in the (City) Man.

Mr. Fowler was a man of middle age, and
something more. His hair was black, his eyes
were cavernous. He never spoke in the
House, and rarely out of it. When he did
speak, his words boomed away from his lips
as if his voice were a thing entirely beyond his
control. The meaning of his speech seemed
to dwindle cloudily in the volume of superfluous
sound. To deliver an epigram with
such a voice would have been as idly ineffective
as the discharge of a needle from an Armstrong

gun. But Mr. Fowler never spoke in
epigrams.

Mr. Mallory and Mr. Fowler were to meet
for the first time, on the common ground of
finance, at Mr. Arden's dinner-table. It was
to be one of Mr. Arden's ' little dinners.' The
ladies of Mr. Arden's family knew well what a
little dinner ' meant. It meant, as a rule,
almost no conversation during the repast, and
a late appearance of the gentlemen in the
drawing-room afterwards — sometimes no such
appearance at all. It was understood that
business on these occasions preoccupied the
guests and made them silent, until the ladies
had retired. But with Mr. Mallory at the
table, there was not much risk of silence.

Mr. Mallory sat down to dinner in his
worst temper. The first person he had seen,
on entering Mr. Arden's drawing-room, had
been Mr. Dulcimer. That Mr. Dulcimer
should be of the party was more than he could
tamely bear. He had not come there to listen
to sickly nothings ; he had come to talk confidentially
with two financiers on a matter

which then lay nearer his heart than all others.
He looked on Mr. Dulcimer's presence as a
distinct breach of faith on the part of Mr.
Arden ; and took no great pains to conceal his
ire.

Mr. Arden himself was quite as much
annoyed as the Tribune by this untoward addition
to his guests. He could not, under present
circumstances, be otherwise than civil to
Mr. Dulcimer ; but he owned to himself that
he had [of late had a good deal more of that
gentleman's society than he could enjoy. Mr.
Dulcimer was there that evening on the invitation
of Mrs. Chevenix, not on his ; had he
known of it, he would have dined the M.P.
and the Editor at his club, instead of at his
house. Mr. Arden swore, inwardly, at the
meddling old fool ' — Mrs. Chevenix. It was
she who had placed him in this false position
who had compromised him in the eyes of
Mr. Mallory and Mr. Fowler. Had he designed
to play a practical joke upon them,
there would have been need of nothing more.

Mr. Fowler, for his part, was deeply perplexed

by finding Mr. Dulcimer in that house.
He had heard from Mrs. Chevenix that the
young man was a poet. Poets he believed to
be, as a class, dishevelled and insane. Mr.
Dulcimer was the reverse of dishevelled ; but
he seemed, at all events, to possess the latter
qualification. But what was Arden, of all
men, doing with one of these unfortunates at
his table ? What operation of preternatural
subtlety could this portend ? There were, he
reflected, such things as rhymed advertisements.
Could it be that Arden had decided
on carrying this idea into his mining and
other prospectuses ? Could this strange youth
have been retained to sing up shares in the
market ?

During dinner, the Editor's wrath was
fanned by Miss Arden s persistence in addressing
him. She seemed resolved that the conversation
should be general — that Mr. Dulcimer
should not have the chance of whispering
honeyed trivialities in her ear, under cover of
the thunder of Mr. Fowler s voice, and the
silvery cadences of Mr. Mallory's.

Few things gave Mr. Mallory less pleasure
than Miss Arden's remarks. He disliked her,
because he could not despise her. She ought
to have been a fool, and was not. She had
opinions of her own, which was bad. And,
what was almost as bad, she did not believe
in woman's rights — in other words,
did not care for the right of listening reverentially
to him, Mr. Mallory, while he declaimed
on woman's wrongs. On various
occasions she had offered to sing or play to
him, as if he had been a lovesick appealing
an offence not to be forgiven. And she
had discovered a chink in the editorial
armour. Of music and all that appertains
thereunto Mr. Mallory was intimately ignorant.
He was well aware, of course, that this
reflected great credit on himself But he
did not like to have it discovered that there
was anything under heaven which he had
not carefully weighed before finding it wanting.
Now Miss Arden seemed to find a
malicious pleasure in beseeching his opinion
on matters musical.

"To talk"— said Mr. Mallory, thus assailed
"to talk of extracting any meaning from
music is absurd. You might as well talk
of extracting money from moonlight. I look
upon a musician as a social fungus. There
is a deep truth in the old myth which
represented — ah — well, an Individual who
once had a great fall in society — as the
First Violinist. This worship of sound merely
deafens its devotees to the world-wail of
Humanity."

I don't think I should like to hear that,"
said Miss Arden ; "I fancy the street-organs
are preferable, after all."

It lulls men into oblivion of their wrongs,"
Mr. Mallory swept on. " Look at the Italians
when they wished to allay a revolution at
Naples, they had merely to bid the bands
play. Look at the Germans — no people has
sung more songs about liberty, and no people
has ever had less of it. Music ! — it is a social
narcotic — a Lethe-flood of sound for the Serfs
to lave in. There may be talent among
the music-lovers — I do not know; but they

have, at all events, ' small talent for freedoms'"


"They didn't allay a revolution with the
Marseillaise, did they?" — inquired Miss Arden
innocently.

"As for that man "Wagner of whom you
spoke," Mr. Mallory went on, "I heard his
Trilogy at Bayreuth — and all I can say of
it is this, that it almost made me a good —
ah — Catholic."

"How — how was that?" — inquired Mrs.
Chevenix, startled by the word.

It converted me, madam, for the moment
to a belief in the Catholic — ah — Inferno.
Amid that chaos of discordant sounds — that
braying of the trumpet and the kettle-drum
I actually thought myself there''

Mrs. Chevenix shivered. She did not
express the thought which Mr. Mallory's
words had suggested.

The Editor was for a time silent, considering
what topic was most likely to prove unpleasant
to, at least, any two of the party.
At last he spoke.

"By the way, Arden, I saw a friend of
yours to-day — my late — ah — sub-editor, Mr.
Lynn."

"Indeed," said Mr. Arden. "I thought
he had vanished altogether. Did he tell
you where he had been ?"

Mr. Mallory saw that the topic was disagreeable
to four of his auditors, and naturally
pursued it.

"He has been at — ah — Shawkirk, Arden
his native town, you know. He calledon
me at my office to-day, and we had a
most interesting conversation. I was deeply
gratified by that young man's demeanour.
He has very greatly improved."

It would be strange if , he had not,"
said Mr. Arden, "with all that money left
him."

"You think so?" — said Mr. Mallory.

Lynn ? — money ?" — thundered Mr. Fowler
"that's not the same man who holds that
big lot of Lone Peaks, Arden? Man was
speaking to me about him in the City,
to-day."

"The same," said Mr. Arden, with something
less than his usual suavity.

"Must be a clever fellow, that," continued
Mr. Fowler. "Went into the thing at the
right time. Should like to meet that fellow.
Perhaps we may see him in the City, one of
these days."

"That is unlikely," said Mr. Mallory. "If
you want to meet this young man, Mr. Fowler,
you will have to go to Charing Cross an hour
or two hence — he leaves to-night for Paris.
He intends to travel, in the meantime."

Looking out for investments ?" — suggested
Mr. Fowler.

No — he has had enough of that. Do you
know, Arden, I was really impressed by the
broadening effect of riches on your — ah —
young friend ? I spoke to him of his future
career— of his making an entrance into the
literary and political world. Yes — he is a
young man who will yet go far."

How far does Mr. Lynn intend going ?" —
asked Mr. Dulcimer.

"On the Continent," replied the Editor,

"he proceeds by Paris to Vienna. You
might meet him there, Mr. Dulcimer, in,
say, a fortnight. In literature, he will proceed,
I believe, to the first rank. You will
ah — hear of his arriving there, Mr. Dulcimer,
some ten years hence or so. In the
meantime, he and I have resumed our old
relations. He has re-enlisted under the inky
flag of journalism."

Mr. Arden shot an admiring glance in the
direction of Mr. Mallory, and a smile crept
round the corners of his mouth. Mr. Mallory,
with that Project in his view, must be playing
the same game that he — Arden — had
played. But Mr. Mallory' s way of going
to work was, he felt, "a cut above him"
there was a finesse, a depth, a delicacy
of touch about it, to which he could not
aspire. Mr. Arden owned that to himself,
and honoured the great Editor.

But Mr. Dulcimer was far from smiling.
The one thing that could have deepened his
abhorrence of the Editor had been done. Had
not Mr. Mallory sung the praises of his —

Mr. Dulcimers — former rival in the presence
of Camilla? And had not Camilla
seemed to hang with rapt interest on the
Editor's words ? Mr. Dulcimer became pale
with rage.

"So soon!" — he sighed; "so soon! You
pain me, Mr. Mallory, more than I can
say. Poor Mr. Lynn ! "

"I am sorry to have pained you, Mr.
Dulcimer," said the Editor, "as I fear I
have done by my reference to Mr. Lynn.
But — pardon my dulness — I don't quite see
what it is that makes Mr. Lynn an object
of compassion in your eyes ? "

Can it be " — went on the Poet — " can
it be that he has already lost his all ?"

"If you mean his money, permit me to
point out to you that, in Mr. Lynn's case,
money is not his all. Neither, so far as I
know, has he yet lost it."

You relieve me," said Mr. Dulcimer, " but
without lessening my surprise. I did not
think it possible that any human being,
however — eccentric, should have gone back

to the bondage of journalism while possessing
an independence. That was my meaning.
It may have been a fancy — a vain
fancy of mine. But it came to me."

My dear sir," said the Editor soothingly,
'you must not give way to those sorts of
fancies — you really must not. The collective
sense of Humanity has, on such questions as
this of journalism, pronounced a Fiat against
which there is no appeal. In face of that Fiat,
an individual prejudice is as impotent as the
thistledown against the granite. No one, for
example, understands why he should be consigned
to a mad-house. Still, his prejudice is
of no avail against the decision of the sane
majority. — I need not say, of course, that I
adduce this merely as an instance."

"Talking of mad-houses," interposed the
deep-voiced Fowler, " I did very well in a
mad-house, very well indeed."

Mr. Dulcimer shuddered. Mrs. Chevenix
turned icy cold, and fixed a fascinated gaze on
Mr. Fowler's knife.

"Yes," continued the M.P.; "did I ever

tell you, Arden, about that mad-house they
started down in Hampshire, that I went into ?
I'm out of it now, you know — got out of it in
the nick of time, but it was a good thing while
it lasted. Father a queer story, that — " and
Mr. Fowler then proceeded to relate his lucrative
experience as shareholder in a joint-stock
private asylum. The conversation went on
for some time on the same lines ; but before
the ladies rose, Mr. Mallory had contrived
to revert to the talents, fortune, and bright
prospects of his late sub-editor. Mr. Mallory
was speaking now with a purpose in view beyond
that of exasperating Mr. Dulcimer.

"Mr. Lynn, you see, Arden, will not be
idle abroad," said Mr. Mallory.

Indeed," said Mr. Arden. Mr. Arden was
prepared to stand a good deal from Mr. Mallory,
but the Editor's tacit assumption that he
must be deeply interested — still — in Lynn's
fortunes, was trying to his patience.

"No," went on Mr. Mallory, "he will not
be idle. He intends to make a study of the
working-classes in the great foreign towns, and

we have arranged for a series of letters in the
Forum, regarding the various stages of vice
and wretchedness in which their rulers compel
them to exist. These letters will afterwards
be published in a volume, which will no doubt
be prized by all earnest political students.
There is just one slight obstacle in the way.
Mr. Lynn tells me that his German is not so
good as it might have been. I am afraid that
when he lived on the Continent, he made a too
common mistake — frequented the society of
his countrymen and — ah — countrywomen,
more than was — ah — for his good."

Mr. Mallory, as he spoke, glanced across
the table at Miss Arden. The glance was
almost imperceptible, but Camilla knew that
Mr. Mallory was watching her, and, for some
reason of his own, had been talking at her.
Slowly the blood mantled on her cheeks.
Despite herself, she raised her head, and
looked for an instant with a kind of defiance
at Mr. Mallory. Then Mr. Mallory felt quite
sure that he had not been talking in vain.
He allowed the subject to drop ; and con-vol.

III. K

descended to listen for a time to Mr. Fowler's
financial reminiscences.

Camilla," said Mrs. Chevenix, as they went
into the drawing-room, " what is wrong with
you to-night ? You were looking quite flushed
a minute ago, and now you are as white asa
statue. Are you unwell ?"

Oh, I don't know. I suppose I must be.
That man always gives me a headache."

*' I don't wonder at it. But Mr. Dulcimer
was there, my dear."

"I think I shall go upstairs. Aunt Elizabeth,
and bathe my face. I know I am looking
a perfect fright. I can hardly keep my
eyes open."

"A cup of strong tea" — began Mrs.
Chevenix.

"Yes, yes. I shall be down in a few
minutes. You can keep Mr. Dulcimer amused,
aunt, until — until I come."

Don't be long, my dear. These men will
be talking their horrid business for an hour to
come, and Mr. Dulcimer will expect you to
give him some music."

Camilla went upstairs to lier own room.
She was trembling all over, and the throbbing
of her temples was almost a pain. She cast
one glance at the reflection of her face in the
mirror ; it was white as a statue, as her aunt
had said.

With eager haste she took the jewels from
her wrists and throat, slipped the rings from
her fingers, and exchanged her dinner-dress fora
plainer garment. Over all she threw a
mantle lined with fur — the same she had worn
that winter at Leipsic, and in which she had
walked, driven, skated, along with Arthur Lynn.

Was there time ? — Dinner had been served
at an earlier hour than usual, to suit Mr.
Mallory : and Mrs. Chevenix had understood
too well what was required of her, to sit long
over dessert. It was now not much after
eight o'clock. — Charing Cross, that man had
said. She had no very distinct idea of the
time it might take to drive there. But there
was at least an hour to spare — more, perhaps,
for she had some notion that the train left
between nine and ten. — Yes, there was time.

Silently she hurried downstairs, and past
the door of the dining-room. She could hear
the voices from within. In the hall there was
only French, the impassive. She made a sign
to the man, who opened the door for her — as
if she were doing the most natural thing in the
world, in going out unattended at that hour —
without a word or a look of surprise. But
when the door was shut, French gave expression
to his thoughts in a long-drawn, significant
whistle ; and retired forthwith to the servants'
hall, big with news.

The night was frosty, but not clear. A
vaporous haze filled the air, and gave it a
chill clammy feeling that made Camilla shiver
in her furs. She dropped her veil over her
face, and almost ran down the garden. Then
she walked swiftly eastwards.

A hansom passed her before she had gone
a hundred yards, but she could not summon
up courage to hail it. Trembling with excitement,
almost terrified by the strangeness of
her situation — for she had never before found
herself alone in the London streets by night —

she hastened on, choosing her way almost at
random.

Presently another cab appeared — a four-wheeler
this time, crawling along close by the
kerb. One thing was plain to Camilla — that
if she was to carry out the purpose she had
formed, she must not go on any longer on foot.
Time and strength alike were failing her, and
already she had lost her way. She stopped the
cab, and bade the man drive her to Charing
Cross station — fast.

Up to this point she had acted altogether
on impulse, unthinking, careless of consequences.
Day by day since she had parted
from Lynn the longing to see him again had
grown upon her. Mr. Mallory had seemed
to her the mouthpiece of Destiny. Those
chance words of his, lightly spoken, were asa
call which she must obey. Lynn was to
be near her that night, before going beyond
her reach, perhaps for ever. The prompting
to seek him, to meet him once more, had
become irresistible. She had not sought to
resist it.

But now she began to hesitate. She was
being driven very slowly towards her fate.
All right, miss" — the man had said, when
she had bidden him drive his fastest ; but
his fastest proved to be a tardy trot. She
doubted whether it were possible to reach the
station in time. One touch on the check-string
— and she might be home again before
her flight had been discovered. Her aunt
would be still asleep in the drawing-room —
her father would be talking business over his
wine — Mr. Dulcimer — no, she could not go
back to Mr. Dulcimer. His attentions had
become to her at all times little short of torture
; and that evening they had been specially
marked. She dropped the check-string,
which she had taken in her hand. No, she
would not go back ; come of it what might,
she would act on her impulse. However cold
Lynn might be, he could not, knowing her ashe
did, despise her more deeply because she
had come to bid him farewell, and to ask his
forgiveness. One thing at least she could tell
him — that never, never would she marry Mr.

Dulcimer — and that, in parting from himself,
she had been striving to expiate rather than
to heighten the wrong she had done him. —
How would he receive her ? What would he
say? — She kept herself from thinking about
that. And yet, when she had wrapt herself
in those Leipsic furs, when she had slipped
the jewels from her fingers, a wild hope had
flashed across her mind that made her cheeks
burn, as she strove to crush it down and hide
it from herself. If he had suffered, had not
she suffered too ? Was her offending past
forgiveness or forgetting ? Might not his happiness,
after all, be bound up inseparably with
hers ? — She strove to banish such thoughts
from her mind. It was no such anticipation,
she told herself, that was taking her now to
where she might see him and speak with him ;
but simply an impulse which she could not
control. — Her father had told her she was
mad. Well, she was giving him reason to say
so. He would be angry, furiously angry, she
knew that. And Mr. Dulcimer ? — She began
to think of what, even now, might be happening

at Hartington Gardens. Would they
guess whither she had gone ?

What happened at Hartington Gardens,
after Camilla's departure, was this.

Mr. Dulcimer had not dallied long over his
wine, after the ladies retired. " Thank Heaven,
he's off at last !" — Mr. Arden had said, as his
intended son-in-law muttered something about
music," and quitted the room — " now we
can talk that business over at our ease. I
think, Fowler, we had better let Mallory explain
his project. Then you can ask him, orme,
any questions that occur to you."

When Mr. Dulcimer entered the drawing-room,
he found only Mrs. Chevenix, sleeping
peacefully in an easy chair before the fire.
This was, as Mr. Dulcimer knew, her habit on
all occasions when he was there ; and he
glanced approvingly at his slumbering ally,
without the slightest desire to awaken her.
The piano stood open, with a music-book on
it ; doubtless Camilla would immediately appear.
There was a portrait of her in the
room — a head in crayons, exquisitely done —

and before that Mr. Dulcimer took his stand,
in an attitude of traced adoration. Ever
and again his head was raised towards the
picture ; but as the minutes passed fruitlessly
on, an expression of impatience began to alternate
with the look of dreamy rapture which
Mr. Dulcimer's features promptly assumed, at
each fancied sound of a footstep or opening of
a door. Camilla ought certainly to come, and
at once, to witness this proof of his devotion.
She did not come, however, and the Poet's
mood passed from surprise into irritation.
The pose was effective, but fatiguing; and
finally he had to give it up.

Mr. Dulcimer was now very angry. He did
not wish to arouse Mrs. Chevenix, as Camilla
might appear at any moment. So he sat in
silence, and nursed his wrath. This was not
the kind of treatment which Mr. Dulcimer
considered his due. He was in love with
Camilla — very much in love, he thought. But
he was not going to tolerate her caprices beyond
a certain limit. She had come near that limit
on sundry occasions abbacy ; now, decidedly,

she had overstepped it. Mr. Dulcimer knew
his own value ; the usage that might do for
such as " that fellow Lynn," would not do at
all for him. Camilla must be made to see
that. He had been, perhaps, too tamely subservient
; he had accepted his fair lady's
whims too much in the courtier spirit. That
must henceforth be changed. He would show
her that he still laid claim to his liberty. He
would threaten her with the loss of what she
thought herself to hold so securely. He
would bring her to her senses. — How should he
make manifest his high displeasure ? Should
he quit the house there and then, without saying
a word to anyone ? Would that be a
dignified manner of proceeding ? — Mr. Dulcimer
thought that, on the whole, it would.
Nearly an hour had passed since he came upstairs
; he had already waited far too long —
he would wait no longer. — He rose to go — and,
as he rose, the other gentlemen entered the
room. Mrs. Chevenix awoke with a start.

'what, Dulcimer"— said Mr. Arden— " all
alone? Why, where's Camilla?"

The Poet did not answer. Mrs. Chevenix,
with a startled look which everyone noticed,
said something about going to see what had
become of her — and went. The minutes
passed ; a general feeling that something was
wrong began to pervade the group in the
drawing-room ; still Mrs. Chevenix did not
return. Presently French glided into the
room, and said to Mr. Arden that Mrs.
Chevenix desired to see him.

One would think the house was bewitched
!" — said Mr. Arden angrily. He
apologised to his guests, and hurried upstairs.
In his daughter's room he found Mrs. Chevenix,
now on the verge of hysterics.

Now, then," he cried, " will you tell me
what the Devil you mean ? What have you
done with that mad girl ? What's the matter
now?"

'' Oh, Eobert !" — murmured Mrs. Chevenix,
did I not warn you ? Did I not warn you
against that man ?"

What man ?— Where's Camilla ? That's
what I want to know !"

That— that Infidel ! It's all the doing of
that wicked man downstairs ! — that unbeliever
! — that " —

Oh, confound it !" — broke in Mr. Arden.
Once more, I ask you, where's my — "

Here his glance fell on Camilla's dinner-dress,
lying a crushed heap of white drapery
on the floor ; and on the rings and bracelets
that were scattered about the dressing-table.
"By Heaven!" — he cried — "she's gone off
with the other fellow, after all !"

Yes — that's what she has done ! Oh,
dear 1 What will Mr. Dulcimer say !"

"D — n Mr. Dulcimer," said Mr. Arden.
Mrs. Chevenix put her fingers to her ears.

Mr. Arden did not speak for some minutes.
He was inwardly reviewing the situation.

"Where do you suppose she has gone?" —
he said at last. "Be rational, now. Don't
stand gibbering like a lunatic, but just tell me
what you know — and be sharp about it !"

Did you not hear what that wicked wretch
said at your own table — I believe on purpose
to make mischief — about the train from

Charing Cross, for Paris ? — and about that —
that insolent Scotchman, that you would
bring here ?"

"Lynn?"

"Yes — Lynn. She has run away with him,
I know it ! — She has brought disgrace upon
us all !"

Stuff"— said Mr. Arden. " It takes two
to run away, and that young fellow is not
mad, though she is. But you ve made a nice
mess of it, between you ! — Now, look here,
this is what I shall do. I shall go after her,
and bring her back quietly. This must be
hushed up at all costs, and if I find you letting
out a word of what you know, by the Lord — "

But what am I to tell these people downstairs
? What am I to say ?"

Tell them any lie you please," said
Mr. Arden. "But stay — you'd better leave
Dulcimer to me. Send him out to me — 111
make it right with him. Now, will you look
sharp? — It's nine now, and the train leaves
at nine twenty-five. There's not a moment
to spare !"

But it was too late to " make it right" with
Mr. Dulcimer. That gentleman had already
left the house, after exchanging a few words
with French in the hall — left it, not intending
to return. Mr. Arden surmised as much ;
and set forth, furious, in quest of his runaway
daughter.

A few minutes afterwards, Mr. Mallory and
Mr. Fowler left Hartington Gardens together.
Mr. Mallory, without much difficulty, had
elicited the facts of the case from Mrs. Chevy
In her agitation, she had even let it be
seen what share in the matter she ascribed to
Mr. Mallory.

Mr. Mallory's enjoyment of the recent
incident was tempered by the thought that,
should this scandal get into the society
journals, his name might possibly be mixed
up with it. This was the view suggested to
him by Mr. Fowler.

"Say!" — boomed Mr. Fowler, who had not
neglected his host's wines — '' know what they'll
say ? They'll say you were the young people's
go-between ! Never thought of that before !"

"I don't see why you should think of it
now," said Mr. Mallory.

"Well, the old lady seems to have got
some notion of that kind into her head, you
know. And I do remember your saying
something about the station, and this Linton,
or whatever his name is, going away. These
newspaper fellows get hold of everything
nowadays. Shouldn't wonder a bit if they
said you'd a hand in it."

Mr. Mallory shuddered. "It is a topic I
cannot discuss," he said frigidly.-^" A !
Good God !" — muttered the Tribune
to himself, as he walked away to his office,
after bidding Mr. Fowler adieu.

Meanwhile Camilla had reached the station.
She had come too soon, and the necessity of
waiting took away from her all the courage of
impulse. Passing into the white glare of the
electric lights, she was seized with a nervous
dread of recognition. It seemed to her
excited fancy as though the place had been
lit up expressly that all eyes might behold
her in her humiliation. For she felt it now a

humiliation to have come to such a place on
such an errand ; and yet, having come, she
found herself unable to give up her purpose,
and go back. She was scared by the spectral
brilliance, confused by the hurry and noise,
by the throng of moving figures and their
shadows, black and defined. She shrank
away from the crowd to a quiet place, by herself
; and waited, trembling.

The time passed on, and the stir on the
platform increased. She made a resolve.
She would find out the train ; go once and
back again along the line of carriages ; then,
if this search proved fruitless, she would
return home — abased only in her own eyes.

This she did ; moving along the line of
carriages, but without finding in any of them
the face she sought. The impulse which
urged her to be gone was now as strong upon
her as ever that which had brought her from
her father's house had been. She turned, and
walked swiftly away from the platform.

Two gentlemen came straight towards her,
walking leisurely, arm-in-arm. They were

talking and laughing together. Camilla's
heart gave a wild leap within her. She
had recognised one of them. It was Lynn
himself.

"And as I was telling you, Vaughan" —
she heard him say — " I had to open the ball
with the man's daughter — "

The words were a shock to Camilla, in her
present mood. Instinctively, she turned aside
her head, and drew her veil more closely over
her face. She would not have him recognise
her ; and yet — with an inconsistency of which
she was scarcely aware — she made a little
pause. Lynn's glance fell upon her ; he knew
her at once, in a moment. He started
violently ; the words died upon his lips ; and
he stood motionless before her.

'good God"— he said. "Is it you—
Camilla?"

Mr. Vaughan dropped his friend's arm, and
walked slowly down the platform.

I — I came to say good-bye " — faltered
Camilla. " I heard only to-night, by chance,

VOL. III. L

that you were going away. I wanted to see
you again, to say — good-bye."

** Good-bye " — said Lynn ; but she did not
offer him her hand, and neither of them
moved.

"And there is something more I wanted
to say to you — something I have wished to
ask you, ever since that night when I . . . .
Oh, Arthur, do you think you will ever —
not now, but after — be able to forgive me ?"

"I have done it," said Lynn. "The last
time we met, Camilla, I thought too much
of myself. I said things that I was sorry
for afterwards — "

"They were true — all true !"

"Perhaps, but I should not have said
them. Since then — during these last weeks
I have thought more of you."

"How — how have you thought of me,
Arthur?" — The tone in which she asked
this question was so low he scarcely heard
it. He could see that she was trembling.

"Why did you come here to-night, Camilla?
— why did you come? You do not

know how much harder you make it forme
to bear — what I have to bear !"

"I came because I must. I could not
help it. Are you angry with me for coming?
— Do you despise me more deeply than
you did before ? — Say what you will — I
cannot blame you."

•'' Camilla — you wring my very heart when
you say such things ?"

"I had to see you — if only for once —
after. . . . Arthur, you cannot think I knew
of it ? — that I knew what — what my father
had done?"

"If you say you did not, I shall believe
you."

"I did not — I could say that if it were
with my latest breath ! I have been wicked
mercenary — I have deceived you. But that
of that I was innocent ! . . . . Say that you
believe me, Arthur, for pity's sake !"

In her agitated pleading, she had laid her
unloved hand on his sleeve. Lynn could
feel how it was shaking ; and a great compassion
for her filled his heart.

I do believe you," lie said. It was all he
could trust himself to say.

I could not bear to have you think that
I had a share in — in robbing you, Arthur.
Oh, yes — that is what it comes to — let me
call it by its proper name 1 . . . . That was
why I said those things to you, the last night
we met. I never meant to marry that man
I do not mean to marry him, or — or anyone.
The shame of it all had made me mad,
I think. I wanted to send you away from
me, so that you would never come back —
never care to see me again. I thought myself
stronger than I am, you see — else I
would not be here. You told me that
night that I had made the past as bitter to
you as the future must be. Did you mean
that? — Do you say so still?"

"How can I say otherwise? Is it not
too true ? "

"And do you think that I, too, have not
suffered ? — that the future is not as likely to
be bitter for me as for you ?"

What do we know about the future ?

It may be that neither you nor I shall ever
find happiness again — or it may not be. But
it can do no good, Camilla, to me, nor to you,
to speak of what has been between us in the
past."

*' No good?"

"None. You know what you once were
to me — what you once made my life forme.
I shall never know anything so sweet
as the old days were — that I will tell you.
But I look on those days as gone — past
recalling."

Past recalling ? — Arthur, I see you are
unhappy — as I am. You used to'' tell me I
was very proud ? — See what I have come to !
I am shamed in my owen eyes. I am shamed
in yours."

No — a thousand times no !"

'arthur, I have done you a great wrong.
I have deceived you — I have twice sent you
from me — but I loved you through it all ! If
you could see into my heart, you would
believe it — you would know it ! . . . . Yes, it
is right that I should sacrifice my pride. I

do it for your sake, believe me, more than for
my own. — Arthur, can't you understand me ?"

Camilla," said Lynn, speaking very gently,
and in a voice as low as her own had been,
"if I offered you my love again, and you
took me at my word, I could not, Camilla,
I could not trust myself. It would not bethe
old love. It would be another passion,
and in time it might bring great sorrow onus
both. This may seem to you hard and
cold — but it is true. Do you know, at this
moment I feel I could give all I have —
all this money that has lost me you — if we
could only be to one another as we were
when I was a penniless student ? If you
had been less to me in the past — I don't
know — it might have been otherwise. But
I have loved you too well, too dearly — to let
me offer you the only love I could offer now."

"That is enough," said Camilla; "goodbye.
I was told lately that I had gone
mad. After what I have done to-night
I begin to believe it. — Oh, no, no !" — she
cried in a changed voice — " I have no right

to speak so — I have deserved it all ! But
I had to see you again, Arthur — and now
you understand me better, a little better
than you did — don't you ? You won't think
so meanly of me, when you think of the past
at all?"

^' I shall think of you as you were on the
day we first met — floating down that quiet
German river in the twilight — when I looked
into your eyes, and knew. . . . No, I cannot
bear the thought of it ! Camilla, why — why
did you not trust me fully, as I trusted you ?
If you had, we should not now be saying
farewell !"

He took her hand in his ; and the mere
touch of it roused a feeling within him that
threatened to sweep away the barrier of his
self-control. The dusky splendour of her
eyes, now languorous, now burning — the
music of her voice, that had once thrilled
his very being — the subtle fragrance that
hung about her — the very furs she wore —
how well he knew them ! — was not this the
Camilla of the old days — the same Camilla ?

Where was the change ? He did not release
her hand, and a great wave of emotion began
to swell within him. To reject her, now
that she had come back to him thus — would
it not be an act at once cold-blooded and
quixotic ? — Why should he choose a cold and
colourless life, because he knew that his love
could be no longer the exalting, spiritual
passion it had once been ? Why should he
sacrifice the real to the ideal? — It was true
that Camilla had deceived him, that his faith
in her could never be restored. But was it
not worth his while to take the risk of being
deceived again, for the sake of possessing
such a deceiver? — As he stood drinking in
her dark loveliness, inhaling the perfume of
her very presence, a new light came into his
eyes. He began to draw her towards him.
But she shrank back, and her face crimsoned
deeply under his gaze.

"Arthur!" — she said — 'rafter the words
you have spoken, if you hold my hand an
instant longer, it will be an insult ! Arthur,
you are cruel — you make me feel myself degraded

! Let me go — have mercy, and let
me go !"

Lynn stood for a moment, still holding her
hand. There was a struggle plainly written
on his face ; his lips moved, but no words
came. Then lingeringly, very lingeringly, he
released the hand he had been holding tight in
his. At last — "Yes, go!" — he said — "There
is yet time !"

She broke from him, and passed swiftly
through the crowd. Lynn stood looking after
her. She had not gone far before he saw a
gentleman hasten up to her — a flushed, excited
gentleman, whose loose top-coat was flung
back so that his evening-dress was shown —
Mr. Arden. Lynn saw Mr. Arden catch his
daughter's arm, and hurry her away through
the crowd. He stood looking after them till
they were lost to view. Then Yaughan tapped
him on the shoulder. " Time's all but up, my
dear fellow," he said ; " I've secured a place
for you, and seen to your luggage. You have
not a moment to spare." Lynn followed him
mechanically towards the train.

'have you come to take me home?" — said
Camilla to her father. "You don't need to
seize hold of me like that — I am quite ready
to go now."

"Are you not afraid to speak to me?" —
panted Mr. Arden, almost inarticulate, between
haste and fury. " Home ? You don't deserve
one ! Come away out of this at once ! —
Where's a cab ? — You unnatural, ungrateful,
shameless girl ! Do you know what you have
done?"

Yes. I have said what I came here to say."

And the young man didn't say what you
wanted him to say ! He didn't ask you to
take a trip abroad with him ?"

You forget — he is a gentleman."

At any rate, I know now he isn't a fool.
I can't say the same of you. What view do
you suppose Dulcimer will take of this nice
escapade of yours?"

I don't care much about Mr. Dulcimer's
views."

The man you are going to marry ? — at
least, if he'll take you now, which I must say

is not likely. I for one could not hold him
to his bargain, after this !"

"You will not need. I am not going to
marry Mr. Dulcimer."

So this is another of your cursed caprices ?
But you've kicked over the traces once too
often, I can tell you. I shan't have you any
longer on my hands, disgracing me before my
friends ! I know the proper person to look
after you — not a born fool like your Aunt
Elizabeth. You'll go off to a very different
sort of house — and you'll go with a character ! "

'' You can't let me go too soon."

Your Aunt Katherine's the proper person
to have charge of you. Yes, you shall go to
Langford — it's the dullest hole in all England,
by God ! — You won't find any young men
there to jilt one day and run after the next.
She']\. look well after you. There's no male
creature ever enters her door !"

I tell you again, you can't send me too
soon."

You shall go tomorrow, my dear. But
you'll very soon change that tune. Before a

week's over, you'll be crying your eyes out to
get back again — and, mark my words, you
shan't get ! — Come, get into tke cab. I won't
have you make an exhibition of me any longer,
i've still got a reputation to keep up, you
know!"

Lynn took his seat as the train was on the
point of starting. Vaughan made no allusion
to the curious scene of which he had chanced
to be the witness.

Write me from Vienna," he said ; " and
remember, we look for rattling letters — short
sentences with a fact in each — and we'll ' lead
out ' the first half-column ! There's something
to live for ! — Good-bye, my dear fellow. Have
a good time, if you can — and, remember, our
expectations are high !"

Before he reached Dover Lynn told himself
that he had that night won a victory over which
he might congratulate himself, dear as it had
cost him. He could not, in his present state of
feeling, foresee a day when he would be able
to think of Camilla Arden with indifference.

More than that, he could not believe that he
would ever know real happiness without her.
But he saw that, had they not parted as they
had done, a worse thing than either had known
as yet might have befallen both of them. A
love such as Lynn's had been for Camilla —
when no longer consecrated by such perfect
trust, such reverence for the ideal as his had
been — is as a flower that becomes poisonous
when it has lost its perfume.

CHAPTEK XXVII.

FURTHER VIEWS OF MR. MALLORY.

During his second visit to the Continent,
Lynn worked hard at the letters he had promised
to write for the Forum. Indeed, he
was surprised by his own industry, when he
remembered how differently he had passed
his time in Germany a year ago. Then, his
head had been full of song and legend and
clair de lime. Now, his thoughts ran on such
matters as wages, hours of labour, rent, taxes,
and strikes.

His new studies were, perhaps, as hard as
ever he had found exact science. But then,
he could neglect them without jeopardising his
future. He might be as idle as he could endure,
and the voice of the homilist would never
be uplifted. No one could constrain him to

visit a manufactory rather than a picture
gallery ; or to go to a workman's club in preference
to the opera. So he cheerfully went
through tasks which would have seemed irksome
to the last degree in the days when work
had been imperative.

He received from Mr. Mallory more than
one letter, congratulating him on his communications
to the Forum. "The writing,"
said Mr. Mallory, " is very good indeed. You
have the journalist's love of facts, and the
artist's selective faculty Your letters on
The War of Tendencies and Bureaucracy
against Democracy have a more than passing
interest. Those you have entitled The Tax
of Blood and Disbarrack ! are, in their way,
admirable ; indeed, I have made them, as you
will see, the basis of a leading article. Your
letters should be expanded and issued in a
volume, which would, no doubt, be highly
prized by all earnest political thinkers."

The day when such words would have
thrilled Lynn with joy had passed. For him,
wealth had depreciated the currency of compliment.

No doubt the outward signs of love
and friendship — hand-clasps and tender glances
and soft whispers, kind words of praise and
brave words of comfort — must have a higher
value to the man with a hundred a year than
to the man with a hundred thousand. The
latter cannot feel so sure of his market when
he seeks to buy the things that are to be bought
only without money and price. Now Lynn
was eccentric enough to have this feeling, and
to be troubled by it. He was in no way
elated by Mr. Mallory's words of praise ; he
took them for what they were worth ; but, at
the same time, they gave him a certain satisfaction.
There was, then, a kind of work
which he could do ; in which, with time, he
might even come to excel. The thought was
comforting to Lynn, in his present state of
mind. " The problem before me," he said to
himself, "is this — Can I gain for myself a
position in which I shall be regarded as something
more than Hume's legatee ? Am I to
rise superior to my wealth, or is it to drag me
down? Because I am rich in pocket, must I

be poor in heart and soul ? — sceptical of admiration,
of sympathy, of love — of all save
what the hands can touch and the eyes see ?

Lynn very soon had proof, if such were
needed, that from his relatives at least no
obsequious overtures would come. There was
a letter of his with which he felt more than
usually satisfied, when he re-read it in the
columns of the Forum. As it was mainly
descriptive, Lynn thought he would send the
paper in which it appeared to his cousin Gertrude.
Gertrude had always sympathised
with him in his dreams of literary success.
She was, indeed, the only one of all his friends
who had ever done so. — Camilla had at no
time shown any such interest or sympathy.
Lynn remembered that now ; and there
passed through his mind one of those comparisons
which are swift, almost, as an intuition.
"Yes," he said to himself, " that bit about
the Judengasse does not read badly. And my
uncle is much interested in the Jews. And I
think Gertrude would like it. Yes, I'll send
her the paper."

VOL. III. M

Lynn awaited an answer from this cousin
with more eagerness than he might have cared
to admit. But no answer came. " Gertrude is
offended' thought Lynn. " Her pride is hurt.
She will not write to me because of what
passed at that miserable ball." And Lynn
owned to himself that the manner of his leave-taking
on that occasion had been such as
might have given any ordinary girl some
cause of offence. But Gertrude ! — he had
thought that she understood him — that she
had felt with him in that overmastering sense
of irritation which had driven him forth from
Mr. Macritchie's house. It was not like Gertrude
to take offence ; it was still less like her
to be unforgiving. Lynn's thoughts came
back to this point somewhat frequently, during
the days that passed without bringing any
answer from his cousin.

At last a letter came — a letter from Mr.
Inglebyby, so curt and frigid as to be almost a
message of renunciation. Mr. Inglebyby stated
that he had felt it to be his Duty to consign
the Forum which Lynn had sent, unread, to

the flames. He forbade his nephew to send
another copy of that journal to his, Mr. Inglebyby's,
house. In conclusion, he expressed a
wish that, so long as Lynn did the work of
the man Mallory, all correspondence between
himself and his relatives should cease.

This letter at once pleased Lynn, and
pained him. It pleased him inasmuch as it
explained the reason of Gertrude's silence ; and
also because it so fully exonerated his uncle
of any disposition to truckle to his, Lynn's,
wealth. It pained him because it seemed to
cut him adrift so completely from his only
kinsfolk. At the same time, he had no intention
of sacrificing his own ambition to his
uncle's prejudice. What had Mr. Inglebyby to
osier him, in exchange for all he must give up
in breaking with Mr. Mallory ?

When his uncle's letter came to him, Lynn
had been abroad for nearly three months. A
like interval passed before he again found
himself in London, and during that time he
had heard no tidings of his relatives in Shaw-kirk.


One of the first things which he did on
returning to town was to call at the office of
the Forum. In the sub-editor's room he found
his former colleagues, Vaughan and Sugden,
who gave him welcome. The aspect of the
place seemed pleasantly familiar to Lynn — now
that he was no longer compelled to breathe
that gaseous atmosphere, or toil through those
heaps of ' whimsies ' which littered the table as
of yore. Vaughan and Sugden, too, were
unchanged in their manner towards him ; they
greeted him as one of the brotherhood, and
nothing more. As he stood talking with them,
however, he fancied that a change had, somehow,
come over the spirit of the scene. The
Forum office seemed pervaded by a feeling of
repose to which he had been quite unaccustomed
during his nights of suffering there.
The hoist remained quiescent in its wooden
pillar. The reporters came and went with a
dignified slowness. The night-foreman still
demanded ' copy,' but without threatening or
reproach. From the room on one side of
Sugden' s came a sound as of men laughing

together ; and from that on the other side was
heard one who whistled an operatic air.
Everything seemed to betoken a relaxation of
the rigid discipline of other days. Mr. Sudden
seemed unusually disposed to neglect his
copy ' for conversation ; and Mr. Vaughan
had a lighted cigar between his lips. Now in
Lynn's day to have smoked in that room at
that hour would have been well-nigh as insensate
a deed as to have smoked in a powder-mill
or a cathedral.

Is this the Forum office ?" said Lynn ; "oris
the Editor away on a very long holiday ?
The porter told me that he was in his room."

He told you truly," said Yaughan. " The
Chief — I should rather say the Captain — is at
present engaged in an important duty. He is
scuttling the ship. That, as you are aware, is
always an operation of extreme delicacy. On
this occasion, however, we believe it will be
performed to the satisfaction of all — even, I
may say, of the under writers."

"Do you mean by that that Mallory is
giving ups the Forum f "

Ay, ay, sir ! We are, I tell you, scuttling
the old craft, before we hoist the Jolly Eager
on a new one."

"Have you not heard, Lynn?" said Sudden.
" There's to be a new paper."

It is to attack everything and everybody,"
continued Vaughan. "We — the Chief, Sudden,
and myself — are to transfer to it our
invaluable services. The British Constitution,
I believe, is to come down ; but my salary is to
go up."

Lynn had already sent in his card to Mr.
Mallory ; and at this point was summoned to
the Editor's room.

He was received by Mr. Mallory in a
manner suggestive of deep but restrained
satisfaction. The lowered tone and significant
inflection of Mr. Mallory' s voice, the
grave gladness of his countenance, the firm
clasp of his hand — all indicated an appreciation
of Lynn's services, a gratification at his
return, as at a long-looked for event which
brought a positive relief to the editorial mind
too profound to be expressed, but which

such an one as Lynn could, of course, be
trusted to infer.

Then Mr. Mallory made a little speech. He
hoped that Lynn would at once act upon his
suggestion regarding those singularly able
letters. They should certainly be re-published
in book-form. He had no hesitation in saying
that the author of those letters would yet
become a Literary Force which would have to
be reckoned with. To which remarks Lynn
replied that he was quite satisfied with the
publicity already given to his articles, and had
no wish to seek to extend it ; whereon Mr.
Mallory shook his head, raised his eyebrows,
and shifted the conversation.

After a brief interchange of opinions — that
is, of phrases — on Continental politics, Lynn
rose to take his leave. But Mr. Mallory
detained him.

'' Stay a moment, Mr. Lynn," he said. "I
should like to have some private conversation
with you — not here, where I am constantly
being intruded on, and have my hands filled
with work. I should like to have a talk

Avitli you on certain affairs of, I venture
to think, more than personal importance —
a talk at leisure. Could you breakfast with
me at my chambers, on Saturday, at eleven
o'clock?"

Lynn accepted the invitation ; and made a
note of Mr. Mallory's address.

"I shall be delighted to see you, delighted
indeed," said Mr. Mallory. "Must
you go now ? Ah, well, I shall not seek
to detain you — the fact is, at this juncture
I have scarcely a moment I can call
my own. This paper is engrossing my attention
at present. Good-bye, my dear sir,
good-bye."

Left scuttling," thought Lynn, as he
returned to Mr. Sugden's room. There he
learned a good deal more from Yaughan and
Sugden regarding Mr. Mallory's new departure.
Mr. Mallory had of late, as Yaughan
phrased it, " been going in for the Free Lance
lay." The Government had not done what he
had said they would do. They had proved
him a false prophet, and so made it his duty

to prove them false legislators. Accordingly,
the Fonnn appeared daily with a fresh attack
on one or another member of the Cabinet.
An exuberantly moral oration of the Prime
Minister's was described by Mr. Mallory as
the Carmagnole of Cant. A certain Secretary
of State was alluded to as a Boabdil-Pecksniff ;
while one of this statesman's colleagues was
reminded that the Whig element in a Liberal
Administration is merely the lead ballast
which enables the ship to carry more canvas
and sail closer to the wind. All this was
trying to the proprietors of the Forum, one
of whom was Lord Primavere, the young
noble still in his Radical stage, beloved of the
men of Shawkirk. Now Lord Primavere had
a deeper admiration of the Prime Minister
than of any living creature, with the exception
of the flying Belle Poule. And the
Whig who had been rebuked for declining
to see himself in the light of ballast was a
particular friend of Lord Primavere's. And
Lord Primavere himself had of late dreamt
dreams of a prospective Under-Secretaryship.

And his connection with the Forum was an
open secret ; a fact which greatly increased
his alarm and indignation at the new attitude
taken up by the paper. To all protests,
however, the Editor turned a deaf ear ; and
when the proprietors exchanged the tone of
remonstrance for one of command, Mr. Mallory
at once resigned his office. He could not,
however, be immediately got rid of ; and as he
scouted the idea of writing against his convictions
until the expiry of his term of power,
Lord Primavere's life was for some weeks
made well-nigh a burden unto him. Each
morning he opened the Forum with a shudder,
and read it with a groan. That it should
appear daily with fresh gibes at the great
Leader — that its utterances should be quoted
with approving, but sardonic, comments in
the Tory journals — was hard to bear. But
that was not the worst. A day was drawing
nigh whereon Lord Primavere was to open a
Liberal Club, and expound politics to a provincial
audience. And as Mr. Mallory would
not be severed from the Forum before that

day came, there seemed every likelihood of his
Lordship's speech being subjected to satire in
the columns of his Lordship's paper. How
often had Lord Primavere rejoiced in Mr.
Mallory's command of irony, when the
common enemy had been under the lash !
Now he trembled, as he bethought him of its
sting.

As for Mr. Mallory, he was in no way
annoyed at the rupture brought about by
what he called his Independence. For sometime
back he had clearly seen that something
of the kind must happen. He had spoken of
it months ago to Mr. Arden and certain other
of his friends as a 'contingency;' and had
taken all his measures to meet it. He could
do perfectly well without the Forum ; but he
did not think that the Forum could continue
to exist without him. During the last fortnight
of his reign he relaxed somewhat the
stringency of his discipline in the office ; but
he himself worked as hard as ever to the end.
When Mr. Vaughan described his Chief as
occupied in 'scuttling the ship,' he, perhaps,

did Mr. Mallory less than justice. The
articles which then adorned the Forum were,
it is true, audaciously inconsistent with its
previous utterances. But then Mr. Mallory
never wrote a thing because he believed it.
He believed it because he had written it.
That any product of his ]Den could do aught
but good, was an idea he was incapable of
grasping. It was possible that his articles
might compromise the Forum. It was impossible
that they could fail to advance the cause
of Progress and Truth.

"You observe that sole, Mr. Lynn?" said
Mr. Mallory to his guest, as breakfast on the
appointed Saturday was drawing to a close.
Because the former proprietor of that sole is
at present one of the proprietors of the
Forum, You may have heard his name —
Mr. Billing."

I have — seen the name," said Lynn ;
but I did not know until now that its owner
had any connection with the paper."

"There were reasons — ah — why it should
not be obtruded on public attention. The

man is a fishmonger — a Philistine — ah —
naturally, a worshipper of Dagon. The other
proprietors, as you may be aware, are
Lord Primavere, poor fellow, and Mr. Ho-season,
the bill-broker. You wonder why I
should trouble you with these details, Mr.
Lynn?"

I don't doubt you have a good reason for
doing so," said Lynn.

^'I have," said Mr. Mallory. "These details
have an important bearing on the matter I
wish to discuss with you. — Well, to return to
our — ah — proprietors. My relations with this
curiously assorted trio, I may say to you,
have been until lately of a satisfactory nature.
However, some few weeks ago they did me
the honour of calling upon me together. And
what do you suppose was the object of this
visit ? It was to expostulate — yes, actually
to expostulate with me in regard to the
attitude taken up by the Forum towards the
Government !"

Lynn expressed due surprise at this heinous
conduct, and Mr. Mallory resumed : —

The interview, I believe, was a painful one
for some of those present. I had, you see, to
point out to this grotesque triumvirate the
impossibility of satisfying the wishes of each
of its members. ' You, Lord Primavere,' I observed,
' desire that the paper should contain
verbatim reports of each and all of your
speeches, along with articles — ah — explanatory
of their merits. You, Mr. Billing, wish the
paper to retain a large circulation. Clearly,
then, your object is incompatible with your
partners. Then again, Mr. Billing,' I said,
you wish the Forum to support the Government
in all things ; whereas Mr. Season
wishes to render it a great advertising medium,
with no more political influence than Holloway's
pills. Do I interpret your views correctly,
Mr. Season?' — I said to him. Mr.
Season said with a kind of enthusiasm that
I interpreted his views perfectly; and Mr.
Billing became impassioned, raising his voice
and dropping his H's as if they had been his
old friends. The result of the interview has
been — but possibly you may have heard of

that already, Mr. Lynn, since your return to
town?"

I have heard," said Lynn, " that you are
about to give up the editorship."

You have been correctly informed. In a
few days I shall cease to edit the Forum. I
do not regret it. Indeed, I have all along
been troubled by doubts as to the propriety of
any connection with a member of the Hereditary
Chamber. But enough of the past ;
what I wish to talk of with you, Mr. Lynn, is
the future. I intend shortly to assume the
editorship of a new paper. It will be named
the London, and will be absolutely unfettered
by the bonds of party. Now, Mr. Lynn, it
has occurred to me that the founding of this
new paper may exercise a weighty influence
upon your career."

In what way, Mr. Mallory ?"

In this way. The proprietors of the ncAV
organ will be myself and a few of my friends
men who trust me too well, and, I may
say, know me too well for any ]Possibility of
discord to arise. Among those friends, Mr.

Lynn, I should be gratified to include yourself.
I have, I may tell you, perfect confidence
in the future of the London

"I have no doubt your confidence will be
justified," said Lynn.

"Nor have I," said Mr. Mallory ; "none
whatever. Nor have those friends of mine, of
whom I spoke to you. They have thrown
their money into this undertaking, expecting
a return — a large return ; and they will not
be disappointed. But that, Mr. Lynn, is not
the inducement I would hold out to you."

That would be no inducement to me," said
Lynn.

I know it," said Mr. Mallory. " I do not
talk to you as I would to the Billings or
Seasons. You have wealth, but you have
also brains."

Lynn had to restrain an inclination to smile.
Mr. Mallory, he knew, would as soon have
thought of complimenting a mere sub-editor
on his ' brains ' as he would of asking him to
breakfast.

I intend to be very frank with you," the

Editor went on ; "I shall show you my whole
hand. My desire is to associate you with
what I believe will be one of the great Forces
of the Future. If I were to say that I was
prompted in that desire by pure friendship,
by a single-eyed interest in your success, you
might, perhaps, suspect me of insincerity ?"

I might, perhaps," said Lynn.

And therefore," said Mr. Mallory, ^'I do
not say it. No, Mr. Lynn. When a man
has devoted his life, as I have done, to the
Cause of the People, he learns to repress his
natural feelings in the case of individuals who
may awaken his interest. So I tell you
frankly that I make this suggestion to you
for the sake of the Cause I have at heart.
I recognise in you one who might be an
adherent of the first importance."

Lynn shook his head. " I fear you are
mistaken in me," he said. " I really can't discover
what my own views are. You have something
in your leading article this morning
about 'flaccid solids' and * viscous fluids' — "

VOL. Ill, N

"The phrase is not mine," said Mr. Mallory
; " still, it is good."

It describes with something like accuracy
the state of my political opinions. I used to
be a fiery Eadical, but I have lost that fine
frenzy now. And I'm afraid I differ from you,
Mr. Mallory, with regard to the treatment of
individuals. I don't believe any longer in
doing good en bloc. If I can help a man here,
and another man there, it will content me.
I have my father's fate to warn me against
philanthropic projects."

Such projects are foredoomed to failure,"
said Mr. Mallory. ''If you try to stop the
driving-wheel of Industrialism by your own
unaided strength, you will, of course, be pulverised.
You must act on the engineer. In
other words, we must act by the Press and
the Platform — and especially by the Press —
on our legislators. And we, who have given
ourselves to the service of Humanity, must
see to this — that our sympathy is not dissipated.
We must not allow our energy and
ardour to be frittered away in isolated deeds

of charity — in petty inventions to this or
that individual. It is painful to resist the
temptation — that I know well. But the impulse
must be crushed, if we would really
benefit the mass of our fellows."

I don't know that I have given myself
to the service of Humanity," said Lynn. " I
should like, of course, to do what little I
could to make people happier, if I knew how.
But I don't pretend to understand this idea
of Humanity as a thing to be worshipped. I
must say I find most men rather selfish,
thoroughly commonplace, and not a little
tiresome — as I have no doubt most men find
me."

"A man may be a democrat without being
a demophile," said Mr. Mallory drily. " That,
however, is beside the point. Your wish, Mr.
Lynn, I assume to be this — to discover a line
of work congenial to your tastes, and adapted
to your new position ?"

That is my wish, most certainly."

"Naturally. All men — that is, all men
who are not mere appendages to an eyeglass —

really care nothing for what is called ' pleasure.'
What they really care for is Work — and
Power. Now, Mr. Lynn, when you came to
town you looked forward, I doubt not, to
finding a joy in fighting your way upward ?"

I did," said Lynn. " I knew a happiness
then which I have not known since. I feel,
since this money came to me, as if the ground
were cut away beneath my feet. I feel myself
a poorer man, by so many thousand pounds.
It is as if Fortune had given with her right
hand, and taken away with her left — and
more than she gave. You have read me
correctly, Mr. Mallory."

I judged you from myself," said the
Editor. " You feel as if an accident had
deprived you of your aim in life. It is not
so, as I shall show you. Suppose, now, that
you were to connect yourself with the London,
and to devote yourself to political writing in
its columns, and elsewhere. In a few years,
you would become known as an independent
thinker and a powerful controversialist. You
would form the acquaintance of men whom it

is an honour to know. And you would have
the consciousness that you were engaged in
the highest work to which a man can devote
himself."

"Party polemics, Mr. Mallory?"

"No — the vindication of the oppressed
classes. For my part, Mr. Lynn, I do not
take a high view of literature divorced from
politics and sociology. Indeed, I believe that
even the work of the poet will come to be
recognised as of distinctly lower value than
the work of the publicist."

"I can't go with you so far as that," said
Lynn. "I rather hold, with Sir Philip Sidney,
that 'the poet is the monarch of all
sciences.' — By poetry, of course, I don't mean
the fruits of that 'culture' which has cut
itself off from both deep thought and practical
life."

We have seen, both of us," said Mr. Mallory,
" a melancholy instance of the 'culture'
you speak of, in that unhappy dweller in the
sty of Epicurus — Dulcimer, I think his name
was ? — Yes, Dulcimer. Let me make the laws

of a people, Mr. Lynn, and he shall certainly
not make its songs ! — By the way, your friend
Arden— "

He is not a friend of mine."

No ? — Your — ah — former friend Arden
has lost the poet for a son-in-law, have you
heard?"

I have heard so," said Lynn.

'' The young lady has returned to town,"
went on Mr. Mallory, with a quick look at
Lynn's face, which the latter met unmoved.

Indeed," he said.

"Yes. I met her the other day at her
father s house. She is as — ah — ornamental as
ever. She seems by no means inconsolable

for the loss of — ah — Mr. Dulcimer But

to come back to the subject of your own
career, Mr. Lynn. A few years hence, you
may enter Parliament."

That is not in the least likely. It is an
ambition I have never set before me."

"Perhaps not. Because you cannot as yet
have awakened to all the possibilities, and
responsibilities, of your new position. And,

conceivably, you may never care to woo a
constituency. There are, no doubt, even at
present, a few men outside the House — men
whom I may term Creative Publicists — who
have refused to tie themselves to the wheels
of Party, and whose decisions on the vital
questions of the day carry quite as great
weight as if they came from recognised Parliamentary
leaders. Now, I could quite understand,
Mr. Lynn, that if you were one
day to occupy — as you very well may — a
position of that kind, you might be reluctant
to hazard your influence by taking part in the
Parliamentary hurly-burly. ' '

"You speak from experience, Mr. Mallory ?"
In part I do. I have felt, I will own
it to you, that I could not afford at present
to accept a seat in the House. Were I todo
so, it might compromise me in the eyes
of the People. — But your path may differ
from mine, though we are conscious of the
same motive, and keep the same goal in
view. And if you ever did choose to enter
the House, you would find it, I need scarcely

say, an inestimable advantage to be connected
with such an organ as the London will doubtless
become. Of course, while I am as I now
am, it would matter less. But at any moment
the man who has given his life to the People,
in the way I have done, may succumb to the
heat and burden of the day. And whatever
might befall me, the paper would, of course,
endure."

Mr. Mallory paused, as if expecting an
answer. But for some time Lynn did not
speak ; he seemed immersed in thought.

*'I see all the advantages of your offer,"
he said; "but you must not wonder if I
hesitate. It is not as if you asked me merely
to invest a certain sum of money at a certain
rate of interest — "

Certainly not," said Mr. Mallory ; " I ask
of you much more than that. To those other
friends of mine of whom I spoke, I showed
certain rows of figures; and they, on the
strength of those figures, and of my reputation
in the world of letters, have thrown their
capital into the new enterprise. I myself

shall throw into it my money and my brains.
I invite you to join in it on a precisely similar
footing. I desire that you may become my
partner, and my — ah — coadjutor."

"That is why I hesitate," said Lynn, 'ras
would not, if it were merely a question
of money. The issue is, to me, all-important.
My decision may very probably give
its shape to my whole after-life. — Tell me,
Mr. Mallory, do you think there is not an
alternative between living in absolute idleness,
and entering actively into politics ?"

In your case — none. You could not, of
course, even if you tried, enjoy what is called
pleasure' now-a-days by young men. On the
other hand, my dear sir, you are too eager,
too ardent — ah — you have too much red blood
in your veins, ever to be mummified into the
inutility known as a scholar."

"Surely that is heresy from you, Mr.
Mallory !"

"How — heresy?"

I thought you were a firm believer in
Mill, you know?"

I regard Mill as the light-bringer par
excellence of this generation. I believe that
Avignon will be lastingly associated in the
minds of men with the Logic of Mill — not
with the strumming of Petrarch. Eeally, I
don't see the drift of your remark, Mr. Lynn."

Was it not Mill who preached the Gospel
of Leisure ? And do you not think it possible
for a man to turn his life to some
account by devoting it to quiet study, without
rushing into the ' hurly-burly ' of practical
politics, as you yourself called it a moment
ago?"

"Not in the case of such a man as you.
If you attempted it, you would speedily make
the acquaintance of the Demon of Ennui which
haunts great libraries. You must have excitement
; that is obvious. Mr. Lynn, would you
make of your intellect a rusty rake to disturb
the dust-heaps of the Past, when you might
use it as a shining sword in the battle-fields of
the Present?"

I am not vain enough to think that I
have any such weapon at command."

"My dear sir," said Mr. Mallory, with a
smile more flatteringly significant than words,
I know you better than you know yourself.
What a career — what a future lies before a
man with independent means and the dialectic
gift, who, with youth on his side, devotes
himself to the Cause of the People ! His
efforts after self-culture are freed from the
taint of egoism. He knows that as his mind
ripens, as his style takes a keener edge, he
is making himself a more finely-tempered
instrument for the redressing of Wrong.
Even if the Fates should not 'heap up his
moments with fame,' they will 'triple his
pulses with life.' — And yet there are writers
who, forsooth, would have us believe that
it is a finer thing to flutter a girl's heart,
than to thrill a mighty concourse of men !
When I think of these imbecilities, I see
more and more clearly the deep wisdom of
Plato in excluding poets from his Republic."

Would not that prohibition have shut out
Plato himself?"

"It might. But I sympathise with him.

nevertheless. There is nothing, Mr. Lynn,
nothing in the gamut of human folly, that
saddens me so profoundly as the reading of
what are termed 'love-poems!"

"I should not have thought you would
have taken such things so seriously, Mr.
Mallory."

"I do take them seriously, and I will
tell you why. But first of all, I hope you
will not suspect me of cynicism — a thing
which, above all others, I despise."

Cynicism is better than hypocrisy, is it
not?"

It almost invariably is hypocrisy. I
despise a cynic as I do a dogmatist. Your
dogmatist is a man who says the same thing
over and over again, because he has nothing
to say in support of it. Your cynic is a
man — in nine cases out of ten — who says
he loves no one, because someone will not
permit him to say that he loves he7\ Now,
on what subject have more 'cynical' things
been said than on any other ?"

On love and marriage, I should suppose."

'that is so. And, of course, when you
hear any individual airing such flippancies
as — ah — let us say, for example, this — 'If
love is the wine of life, marriage is the headache
in the morning' — you know exactly
what to expect. You know that on the
earliest opportunity that individual will act
as if the chief end of man were to prove
himself only a little lower than the ringdoves.
— You were surprised that I should
take such things as those 'love-poems' seriously,
Mr. Lynn?"

I should like to know your reason," said
Lynn.

"You shall have it," said Mr. Mallory.
Now, is it not the case that just as young
men, when they have attained the age of
unwisdom, think themselves poets and accordingly
make themselves ridiculous — so, at
the same stage, they believe the time has
come for them to ' fall in love ' — delude themselves
into the notion that they have really
done so — and think that they have thereby
achieved something very fine indeed ? That

is what happens ; and in the case of average
men it need do no great harm. But the sad
the infinitely deplorable thing which we
owe to poets and story-tellers is this. They
have be-rhymed and be-lectured many into
the belief that this thing called 'love' is
the one thing worth living for below 'the
visiting moon' — that it is an exalting, intoxicating
and imperishable joy, which all
may know. To the average man this, of
course, does no harm. But the men of the
finest fibre, the men who are born to be the
champions and benefactors of their fellows
from their glowing sensitiveness — their ever-vibrating
sympathy with all victims of Wrong
these men are thereby led to seek an outlet
for their emotions in a direction which is
almost infallibly ruinous. — I do not, remember,
deny that there may have been and may bea
few — a very few — individuals who have
known this 'love' of which we read. But
the thing is so rare, so exceptional, that to
know it is little short of a miracle. And
yet — thanks to poets and novelists and such

people — men are taught to believe that this
divine joy is to be gained by whomsoever
will keep his eyes open and his heart un-chilled
! The select few of whom I spoke,
they also go in search of it — with the result
that, after a course of idealising folly, they
are jilted, or married ; becoming, of course,
in either case disillusioned and soured. Thus,
we lose the very men whose passionate force
would otherwise spend itself in promoting
the emancipation of Humanity. It is a terrible
price to pay for mellifluous mendacities !"

"Again you go beyond me, Mr. Mallory,"
said Lynn, as the Editor paused. "Your
atmosphere is too rare for me to breathe it
freely. Some time I may reach your heights
but, at present, I am still only ascending."

You are yet young," said Mr. Mallory with
a smile. " But one day I think you will come
to see with me — and I can wish you no better
wish than that. You must not suppose that
I in any way contemn sentiment ; on the contrary,
I revere it. But the question is, in
what channel shall your sentiment flow forth ?

in the runlet or the river ? You must make
your choice."

Between the vivre pour autrui and the
egoism a deux f "

'' Unquestionably. I say to you, Mr. Lynn,
that the men most richly dowered with noble
emotion, if they give up to an individual what
was meant for mankind, are certain — almost
certain — to end in misery. A single vase cannot
hold the water of a flowing fountain — that
is all. In the case of a man such as you or
myself, marriage would be a dereliction of
duty. For one thing, marriage almost inevitably
deadens a man's interest in the things of
the spirit — in the great movements of the
day. If the marriage is a happy one, he sinks
into square-toed domesticity and tea-pot humdrum.
And, of course, in the case of a man
whose intellect is daily developing through
study, marriage can scarcely ever be happy.
You choose, say at twenty-two or twenty-five,
the companion who suits you at that stage.
Ten years afterwards your tastes have altered,
they have matured ; but your consort is

unchanged, save by corpulence. At one time
a human being likes candy ; at another, claret.
The man who marries in his youth will be
forced to content himself with molasses — not
to say vinegar — when his educated palate
craves for Lafitte."

Mr. Mallory paused, and glanced across the
table at his guest. Lynn said nothing. He
appeared, however, to be listening with close
attention ; and the Editor resumed : —

And there is another thing which you, in
your present position, ought to consider. For
the married man, the pleasure of Society
is robbed of its most delicate aroma. So
long as you remain single, you will inhale a
subtle fragrance of romance in every .
Every beautiful girl will be of
interest to you, as you will be to her. In
that you will find relaxation — innocent but
piquant — from your serious labour. But once
you are married — the air will be no longer
stirred for you by the wings of invisible
amoris. No — you will have lost the choicest

bouquet of social intercourse. You will
VOL. ni. o

stagnate, vegetate — what you will ; anything,
but live."

Then," said Lynn, " you do not counsel
me against poetry, after all, if only it stop
short of matrimony ?"

'^ It is a fair retort," said Mr. Mallory with
a smile. ^' Nevertheless, you must see clearly
what I mean — and, as regards yourself, I trust
your views may harmonise with my own.
And now, Mr. Lynn, let us descend from sentiment
to business — our conversation has
wandered somewhat from the matters I intended
to discuss with you."

Mr. Mallory' s business talk lasted some time.
It was devoted entirely to the subject of the
London; and led up to a distinct, tangible
offer made to Lynn of certain terms, on which
he might become one of the proprietors, while
joining the staff, of the new paper. It was too
important a matter, the Editor said, to be
settled off-hand. At the same time, his
arrangements must be speedily completed ;
and he could not, in justice to others, leave
the question open for a lengthened period.

He must request Lynn to bear that in mind,
and to give him his final answer at the earliest
possible moment.

By the way," he said, as Lynn rose to go,
I proposed you for the Wayfarers', Mr.
Lynn, as I promised to do before you left for
the Continent. And at the ballot the other
day you were duly admitted. You will find
it an excellent club in every way, and you will
meet a number of men there whom it is desirable
that you should know. I hope to have
the pleasure of introducing you to some of

them. C and S and D " (here

Mr. Mallory named certain celebrities in the
literary and political worlds) " are members of
the Wayfarers."

Lynn thanked Mr. Mallory for his good
offices ; and took his leave, after making an
appointment to dine with the Editor at the
club on an early day.

This interview gave Lynn sufficient food for
thought. He had enjoyed Mr. Mallory's conversation
greatly, but it had been with a
purely intellectual enjoyment. Nothing could

have been more complimentary than Mr.
Mallory's way of playing the Mentor — his 
manner — his assumption
that they two, kindred spirits, stood
alone upon a height above the mass of men.
But Lynn's eyes had been opened. He saw
through the flattery, to which, in his former
days of happy tremulousness, he might have
fallen a victim. Mr. Mallory had sought to
play upon his vanity. It had been a singularly
clever performance ; but it had failed.

The proposal with regard to the new paper,
however, was a matter quite distinct from all
that talk about Humanity, love, marriage, the
conduct of life, and such things. It was a
definite offer, which he might either accept or
refuse.

Lynn had no doubt as to the financial success
of the new paper. And he himself had
abundance, super-abundance of money. There
seemed every prospect of his being clear of
the Lone Peak in a very short time, without
the loss of a shilling. And according to
advices from Mr. Malcolm, his partner in

Queensland, the property there had risen, from
accidental causes, to nearly double its former
value within the last six months. It was not
therefore for any reason connected with money
that he hesitated as to saying Yes to Mr.
Mallory.

But he recognised the fact that if he joined
himself with the Editor of the London, he
would have to break definitely with his own
past. There was no reason why he should give
his money to this new venture, unless he gave
himself with it. Making all allowance for Mr.
Mallory's desire to be agreeable, Lynn was
quite aware that his power as a writer had its
value in the Editor's estimation — a value much
less considerable, indeed, than his money, but
still worth taking into account. He did
think, without vanity, that he could make
himself felt in the working of the London.
And Mr. Mallory had certainly touched the
chord of ambition within him. What he
might yet aim at was uncertain ; but, undeniably,
to have an influential journal at one's
back is a Teat things.

o o

Nevertheless, Lynn did hesitate. And the
reason of his hesitation, as he found on analysing
his own feelings, was simply the fact
that if he cast in his lot with Mr. Mallory, his
estrangement from his kinsfolk at Shaw^kirk
would thenceforth be final. He knew his
uncle too well to think otherwise ; what Mr.
Inglebyby had said, he would certainly do. But
was this a sufficient reason for throwing away
such a chance as that now offered him ? — the
very chance that he had desired to find — that
of striking out a line for himself, in which his
wealth would play only a secondary part ?
Reflecting on the matter, Lynn did not think
that it was a sufficient reason. Nevertheless,
he hesitated still. His thoughts ran a good
deal, in those days, on Mr. Mallory's philosophy
of life. There had been truth in the
Editor's words, no doubt. His love for
Camilla Arden — that, indeed, might have been
such a passion as Mr. Mallory had described —
an idealising of folly — a thing that would not
have been helpful to him in his life, but the
reverse. Even granting that, however, he did

not feel at all disposed to station himself on a
height with Mr. Mallory, and thence look
down on love as an illusion that promises
everything, and has nothing to give. He
knew better than that. He knew that if —
and his thoughts went back to Shawkirk ; and
still he put off the day of his decision.

On the evening appointed, he dined at the
Wayfarers' with Mr. Mallory. Two or three
celebrities were of the party ; and the London
was not so much as mentioned.

In the club smoking-room, after dinner, a
gentleman came forward aid accosted Mr.
Mallory. Lynn heard this gentleman, who
spoke in a voice by no means subdued, ask to
be introduced to him. He fancied that a
shade of annoyance crossed the Editor's brow,
as if he did not quite like having to go through
this ceremony. The gentleman was, however,
presented to Lynn by Mr. Mallory — as Mr,
Bonnamy Fowler, M.P.

CHAPTER XXYIIL

THE PRODIGAL.

In all the speculations regarding his relatives
in which Lynn had indulged since his departure
from Shawkirk, he had pictured them
to himself as living on in the dull routine
which he knew so well — continuing to do
and say just the same things he had left
them doing and saying. He did not as yet
know of a certain great Event, which had
broken the monotony of the family existence.

This was nothing less than Caroline's engagement.
Mr. Carstairs had prospered in
his wooing ; had obtained Mr. Inglebyby's approval
; and pushed on matters with such
ardour, that now the wedding-day was fixed.

The prospect of a marriage worked an
immediate change in the domestic economy

of the Inglebybybys. Mr. Inglebyby's womankind
promptly took the upper hand, and shook
off the discipline which he had imposed
upon them. They never consulted him ;
only asked him for cheques. They made
the house such that he wandered through
it like a Eip Van Winkle awakened. The
funereal parlour was littered with snippets
of cloth and ends of thread, with articles
of feminine attire, and gauds and gewgaws
such as Mr. Inglebyby had never beheld before.
There was a ceaseless influx of parcels in brown
paper, which were opened amid ejaculations
of delight. Mrs. Inglebyby and her daughters
appeared to be constantly engaged in the
purchase of hostilities or superfluities ; in
anxious deliberation over the veriest trifles.
The matching of colours, the adjustment of
tags and bows, the regulating of shillings and
fringes, seemed to fill up their minds to the
exclusion of all serious thought.

All this made Mr. Inglebyby feel ill at ease.
He could not regard it as a fitting preparation
for holy wedlock. And yet, he could

not assert himself; for once, in his own
household, he felt himself tacitly ignored.
The marriage itself he was prepared to view
with satisfaction, tempered by regret at the
loss of the bright little girl, who had fluttered
round him like a butterfly round a boulder
of granite. But he wished to imbue his
family with a sense of the responsibilities
of marriage — and they seemed to care for
naught but the philosophy of clothes.

Mrs. Inglebyby spent her days between
millinery and tears. Gertrude was sincerely
glad ; showing not a sign of irritation at a
position of affairs which has been known
to sour the sweetest sisterly affection. Caroline
strove vainly to assume the grave dignity
befitting a bride of twenty. Never before
had she so fully realised the depth and
complexity of the Dress Problem ; and the
working out of this, together with the visits
of her betrothed, almost filled up the measure
of her happiness. Almost — for even in those
halcyon days, Caroline had her vexations.

One of these was the conduct of Dick,

which had latterly undergone an inexplicable
change. He had become taciturn and
morose. For the first time in his life, he
seemed to find no anodyne in the wine-cup.
He appeared quite to have altered his habits.
He never went out of nights now, but spent
the evenings with the family in the parlour,
where he sat silent, moody, and unsympathetic.
When Caroline expressed her opinion
of this unnatural gloom — which she did
frequently and with acid frankness — Dick
never retorted in his customary vein. He
contented himself with dropping dark hints
to the effect that "they might all laugh
in the meantime ; they little knew what was
in store for them " — that " sometimes things
didn't come off as people expected" — and
sundry muttering of the like ominous kind.

"It is too bad of Dick," said Caroline.
"The idea of him going about like a — like
an undertaker just before his sister's marriage!
The last time Edward was here, I declare he
was barely civil to him. I think, mamma, it
really is too bad !

The poor boy is ill," said Mrs. Inglebyby.
"He has been working beyond his strength,
and needs a holiday. Of course I know, my
dear, that we should all be happy at your
marrying — and marrying so well, too ! — I'm
sure I cried half last night to think of your
leaving us — but nobody, you know, can help
feeling ill. You must have noticed how pale
Dick is ! He has lost his appetite. He is
just pining away."

And that Dick had lost his complexion and
his appetite was a fact patent to all. Gertrude
had some idea of what those symptoms might
mean. She questioned him on the subject,
but without avail. Dick stated that he
wished he were dead ; but beyond that would
impart to her no definite information.

Caroline's other anxiety was more grievous
to her than even Dick's unbrotherly behaviour.
She had set her heart on having Lynn present
at her marriage. It was not only that she
had a genuine affection for her cousin ; she
felt that if he were not there the ceremony
would be shorn of half of its splendour. And

such had been the words and looks of Mr.
Inglebyby, on the rare occasions when Lynn's
name had been mentioned in that household
of late, that Caroline feared there was
scant likelihood of his receiving an invitation.


I think it's a shame, mamma," she said.
I won't feel like being ]properly married, if
Arthur isn't there. The things papa says
are perfectly horrid. Why, what harm has
Arthur done?"

"I'm sure I don't know, my dear," said
Mrs. Inglebyby ; "I never did understand what
it was all about, nor why Arthur went away
from us in such a hurry. But you had better
speak to your father yourself. Perhaps he
will listen to you, now."

Caroline accordingly did speak, when they
were within about a fortnight of the all-important
day, and still Mr. Inglebyby had
made no sign.

"Oh, papa," she said, as the family were
gathered at the supper - table, "don't you
think it is time we let Arthur know what

is going to happen ? He may have arrangements
to make before he can get away from
London."

Caroline had decided on this as her best
opening move — to assume her cousin's coming
as a matter of course. That failing, the air of
pensive resignation might be tried.

"I do not intend to write to your cousin,"
answered Mr. Inglebyby, '' regarding your approaching
union with Mr. Carstairs. Nor do
I suppose that such intelligence would interest
him, in the sphere which he has chosen for his
own."

"Oh, how can you say that?" cried Mrs.
Inglebyby — " when Arthur has always taken
the greatest interest in the girls ! And I'm
sure that he will be more than pleased to have
Mr. Carstairs for a — for a cousin-inlaw. I
suppose that would be the relationship ? — And
you know he said that Mr. — well, Edward, I
mean, but it seems all so strange yet ! — that
Edward was a — what was it. Carry ? — Oh, yes !
A ' capital fellow' — that was it."

Your cousin, Caroline," said Mr. Inglebyby,

*' has, of his own free will, severed himself
from those who should have been dearest to
him, to join himself with men who earn their
daily bread by sapping the foundations of
religion and morality."

Father !" protested Gertrude — '' is not
that a little too strong ?"

It is not," said Mr. Inglebyby. " I do not
speak without warrant. I have been reading
the book of the man Mallory — the book which
is called Martyred Humanity. Its contents
have filled me with horror. They exceed anything
I could have believed possible, even in
these days of pernicious doctrine and rampant
heresy."

Oh, papa, have you really read it ?" cried
Caroline. '' What is it like ? I do so wish
you would let me see it !"

I shall certainly do nothing of the kind,"
said Mr. Inglebyby ; " it is not a volume, so far
as I understand these things, to be placed in
the hands of Youth." — Mr. Inglebyby, indeed,
had the ' volume' locked carefully away in his
desk. — " When you ask me, Caroline, to invite

your cousin to your marriage, I cannot
forget that lie is at this moment allied with a
man to whom Marriage itself is — not a solemn
ordinance, an awful obligation girt round with
sacred sanctions — but a mere social contract, a
civil institution. I cannot forget that your
cousin, at this moment, may possibly be speaking
or writing, as a scoffer, against Christian
Wedlock."

Mrs. Ingieby and Caroline would fain have
pled further ; but the lurid picture called up
before them by these words reduced them to
inarticulate sorrow. But help) came from an
unexpected quarter.

What !" cried Dick, rousing himself from
his now habitual silence, and speaking in a
tone of genuine alarm — " not have Arthur at
his cousin's marriage ? Oh, you can't mean
it ! You must ask him — you inst, I say !
Why, you'll make people think he has quarrelled
with us ! It would be a downright
shame, not to ask him — a shame and a sin !
That's what it would be."

Sir !" exclaimed Mr. Ingieby in high wrath

but before he could go further, Caroline had
interposed.

Well, I must say, though I done think
Dick has been behaving of late to me — and to
Edward — as a brother should — still, I must
say I think he has spoken both nicely and
sensibly just now."

Caroline !" cried Mr. Inglebyby ; but Caroline
was not to be repressed.

** I suppose, papa, that a girl who is about to
make a marriage which is approved of by her
family should have some say as to the people
who are to be asked to the ceremony. It will
be unkind of you, papa — it won't be like you
one bit — if you don't let me have Arthur
down !" — Then, passing suddenly from the reproachful
to the appealing — " Oh, papa, think
of this ! This will be the last thing I shall
ask you to do for me before I go away !
Surely you won't refuse me, when I am going
away so soon, and you won't have your little
girl to tease you any more ! Don't be unkind
now, papa ! Do ask Arthur to come !"

The tears came into Caroline's eyes as she

VOL. III. p

Spoke, and Mrs. Inglebyby wept aloud. Gertrude
watched in manifest anxiety her father's
face ; and Dick continued to utter ejaculations
of excited protest.

Caroline," said Mr. Inglebyby at last — and
his face was paler than its wont, and his voiceless
firm — " Caroline, my little girl — my dear
little girl — I would do much to make you
happy, even at a sacrifice to myself, now when
you are leaving me, and all of us — forsaking
father and mother, to take up the duties of a
new estate. You know that, Caroline ?"
Yes, papa," sobbed Caroline.
I trust, my dear, that you have chosen
wisely — as I o^ti I think you have — and I
have prayed nightly that the new life on
which you are about to enter may be one
of happiness. But this thing I cannot do.
If it were a question of seeming to humble
myself in your cousin's eyes — if it were
that alone — I would do even as you wish.
But I cannot take into my house and home
one who has deliberately set himself to do the
work of those who are doing the work of the

Adversary. It would lie heavy on my soul
were I to have one who has leagued himself
with the Infidel associating with my daughters
and — and with my son."

Here Dick gave vent to an audible groan.

Do not misunderstand me," continued Mr.
Inglebyby. " I have still a hope that if I abide
by my decision, and hold no converse with
Arthur Lynn, he may yet turn away from
the false teachers — those wells without water,
those wandering stars, for whom is reserved
the blackness of darkness for ever. Even yet,
I say, his heart may yearn for his kindred —
for that he has a kind heart I know."

He has," interjected Dick ; " there's no
doubt about that !"

But until that comes to pass, there can be
no welcome for him here. He has chosen his
path, and it shall not cross with yours. So
honos as he continues where and what he is,
he shall be — I say it with sorrow, aye, bitter
sorrow, but none the less am I resolved — he
shall be to me and mine as a heathen man and
a publican !"

This finale put an end to protests and
supplications. The evening had been robbed
of its cheerfulness for all. But amid the
general depression, no observer could have
failed to note the despairing, the agonised woe
betrayed by the countenance of Dick. His
manner in taking leave of his mother and
sisters for the night was something more than
peculiar.

Good-night," he said in sepulchral tones ;
good-night, all of you. Don't say I haven't
done my best. Whatever happens, don't say
I'm to blame. Good-night, Carry ; I'm sure
I hope you'll be happy — but you'll all be
sorry Arthur wasn't asked ; you will, mark
my words. Good-night again, mother — goodnight,
Gerty. Yes, the governor-ell be sorry
yet for what he's done to-night. You'll
see.

'poor dear boy!" said Mrs. Inglebyby.
How fond he is of his cousin ! Well, well
I suppose your father must be right. But
it is such a disappointment !"

Next morning, the mysterious significance

of Dick's good-night was explained. He did
not come down to prayers ; and, on search
being made, it was discovered that he had
not passed the night under his father s roof.
Further inquiries elicited the fact that he had
been seen in the refreshment-room of the
railway station, equipped for travelling. All
was uncertain, save the fact that Dick had
fled the town ; and dire was the consternation
which reigned in the Inglebyby household.

On the evening of the day after Dick's
flight from Shawkirk, Arthur Lynn spent
some time at the Wayfarers' Club, of which
he was now a habitue. Club-life was new
to him, and he entered into it with some
zest. What a contrast it was to the old
life at Shawkirk ! How far away it all
seemed from Mr. Inglebyby's dingy parlour,
where the shadow of impending homily
seemed ever to brood ! At that hour Mr.
Inglebyby would be summoning his household
to prayer. How irksome the nights in Shaw-kirk
had been ! — and yet, had he found them
so in the time before his first journey to

the Continent ? Lynn confessed to himself
that he had not. He knew what had given
life, even Shawkirk life, its charm in those
days ; he knew what had robbed it of that
charm since. Again the feeling of dissatisfaction
with his present — the vague sense of
incompleteness and insufficiency — came over
him. It made him feel uncomfortable. Why
could he not let himself go with the current,
and take the world lightly, like other
men?

As he stood musing, a loud voice broke
upon his reverie — the voice of Mr. Bonnamy
Fowler, M.P.

"Seen Mallory to-day, Mr. Lynn?" boomed
the financier. " No ? Thought I might find
him here — Wednesday night, you know —
no sitting to-night. Mallory's friend The
O'Mourdoch talked out the bill. Bad lot,
The O'Mourdoch — ever met him? I say" —
and here Mr. Fowler's voice sank to muffled
thunder — " I am glad to hear we are going in
together. Very glad indeed. I have no fear
myself — none whatever."

"'We?'" said Lynn. "Who are 'we Mr.
Fowler?"

Why, you and Arden and myself, to begin
with. Hope it will turn out as well as your
last operation, Mr. Lynn. Splendid coup that,
and no mistake ! You and Arden worked
it well between you. Met him lately ?"

No," said Lynn ; " indeed, not since the
coup''

"This will be different from opening in a
lively stock, of course," continued Mr. Fowler.
But it's a sure thing, I take it. No ' unloading'
needed in this, eh ?"

In the London ? — that is what you mean,
I suppose ?"

Of course it is."

I did not know until now that Mr. Arden
had any concern in the new paper."

No ? Thought you would. (Suspect I've
spoken too soon," reflected Mr. Fowler ; and
he determined to say no more to Lynn on the
floating of the London.) " I did hear something
about his being in the syndicate, but
you must know as much about the whole

tiling at this stage as I do — very likely more.
Want me to take a hand, some men here
do. See you again to-night, perhaps."

One moment, Mr. Fowler — you seem to
be under a false impression about me. I amas
yet, in no way bound with regard to this
new paper of Mr. Mallory's. He has talked
the matter over with me, but that is all.
And as to the coup you spoke of, Mr. Arden
deserves all the credit of that. I should be
most unwilling to rob him of it."

"Most proper, I'm sure" — murmured Mr.
Fowler.

"Unfortunately, I could not explain the
matter without exposing an ignorance of —
well, of business, that would seem to you
incredible. But I may inform you that I am
no longer a partner in the Lone Peak company.
My brokers had instructions to sell
out whenever the stock touched par. And
they did so yesterday."

Mr. Fowler betook him to his rubber in the
belief that he had somehow 'put his foot in
it.' His opinion of Lynn was gone ; but Mr.

Arden stood even higher in his estimation
than before.

Lynn walked back to his rooms in Jermyn
Street, vexed and ill at ease. He was annoyed
at the thought of the Lone Peak transaction
being represented as it plainly had been to
Mr. Fowler, and, no doubt, to others. He
was angry with Mr. Mallory for having concealed
from him, thus far, the fact of Mr.
Arden's pecuniary connection with the new
paper. He could not look on this as a chance
omission. He had no doubt that Mr. Fowler s
first statement was true.

Till now, Lynn had been halting between
two opinions with regard to Mr. Mallory' s
proposal. The temptations to agree to it
were strong ; the advantages it offered were
obvious. To reject these, for the reasons that
had hitherto swayed his mind, would be like
casting away the substance for the shadow.
Still, he had felt a certain disinclination to
bind himself to Mr. Mallory; and had from
day to day postponed taking the step from
which he could not go back. He felt glad

now that he had done so. The discovery he
had made through Mr. Fowler decided him.
It furnished him with a reason, quite satisfactory
to himself, for having nothing to do
with Mr. Mallory's project. He had long
ago made up his mind that at no price
should he again become involved in any way
with Mr. Arden. He would certainly stand
by that resolve.

Another, and not less disagreeable, surprise
was in store for him, when he entered his
sitting-room. There, at the table, sat Dick
Inglebyby, with white face and blood-shot eyes
looking the wreck of his former self. His
checked Tweed suit, his massive double watch-chain,
his crimson neck-tie and far-flashing
breast-pin, gave, as it were, an ironic setting
to his misery. He looked the picture of grief,
but of grief in a hoiiffon masquerade. The
first thought that flashed through Lynn's
mind, as he gazed at his relative, was that he
had witnessed the same scene in a farce.
Dick's look and attitude were such that he
might have stood for a low comedian's study

of woe. But this impression passed in a
moment ; and a great fear seized upon Lynn
of what his cousin's coming might forebode.

Good God !" he cried ; " what's the matter
with you ? What brings you here ? — there's
nothing wrong with Gertrude ? — with any of
them at Shawkirk?"

'' Everything's wrong at Shawkirk," moaned
Dick ; and he sank his head and made a helpless
movement with his hands — " at least,
everything will be, soon. It's all up, Arthur.
Oh, this is awful ! — awful !"

What is awful ? — Is anyone ill, or — what
is wrong ? Can't you speak, man ? Why
have you come here ?"

Nobody's ill at Shawkirk. It's worse than
that, by a long chalk. I'll tell you all about
it — I came here just for that — but give a
fellow some time to — to recover himself —
You see, Arthur, there's to be a marriage in
our family."

A marriage !" said Lynn, and he stood for
some time silent. He was conscious of a sinking
of the heart ; a sensation almost of giddiness.

which made him see Dick for the moment as
it were through a mist. '' So," he thought,
'that is over. Morton has carried his point."
And in that instant Lynn knew that he loved
his cousin Gertrude.

'who is to be married?" he asked, almost
mechanically.

Caroline, of course," said Dick. " She's
to be married to Carstairs, the lawyer. — At
least, she was to have been, but all that's at
an end now, of course."

Caroline 1" said Lynn; and in the gladness
the news brought him his irritation at
Dick's behaviour was very sensibly lessened.
"Now then, Dick," he went on, "you say
something dreadful has happened, about you
and about your sister's marriage — and that it
is to be and is not to be. Just come to the
point, will you, and try to tell your story like
a rational human being ?"

I wanted them to ask you to the marriage,
Arthur — I tried to make them, I did indeed.
But the governor wouldn't, for all I could say.
It wasn't my fault, anyhow."

'' I don't want to hear about that. You've
got something to say, Dick, and you're afraid,
or ashamed, to say it. You really don't need
to beat about the bush with me."

It was all Lord Primavere did it, Arthur !
It was all through him !"

What in Heaven's name do you mean?"
asked Lynn ; and he began to think that
his cousin's brain must be giving way.

You see there's what they call ' forestalling,'
you know. Well, Primavere was always
dead against that, and he was ' forestalled'
about Belle Poule, and couldn't get his price
because the public money was on, and so, you
see—"

Oh, cut all that. You mean, in short,
that you've been at your old work — gambling
on the turf. That's what you've come to tell
me, I suppose?"

I wasn't gambling," said Dick piteously ;
*' I haven't touched cards for I don't know how
long — I haven't, I'll swear it ! I was only
following Primavere's horses — got the straight
tip — but I lost a bit of money, you know.

Not what a fellow like you would call much"
and Dick glanced round the luxuriously-furnished
room — " but a good bit for a fellow
like me."

*' What did you mean by talking about your
sister's marriage? What have your betting
losses to do with that ?"

Fm coming to that — only give a fellow
time. But I want you to understand, Arthur,
how I got into this mess. You see, it's this
way ; when an owner is ' forestalled' — "

Have you been borrowing from Carstairs ?"

Not I," said Dick, with a touch of his old
manner ; " not likely. He's a different sort
from you, Arthur. He can't sympathise with
a fellow."

No, I should think not. Now, look here,
Dick. If you drop that ridiculous slang, and
let me hear exactly how you are placed, I shall
listen to you. If not, you can't take yourself
off too soon. Understand that."

*' Well, this is how it was. I lost a lot of
money over Belle Poule to a blackguard Niven
- — and — "

"Well?"

Well — it's not nice, you see, for a man to
marry a girl whose brother can't pay his debts
of honour. You can hardly expect him, you
know."

Oh, that's it ? You think I did not mean
what I said to you at Shawkirk, when I took
up that bill of yours ? You are trying to
impose on me again, under cover of your
sister's marriage ?"

No, no, Arthur — it's not that — it is not, I
swear. I'm not lying this — I mean, I'm not
lying to you now. There's nobody to help
me if you won't ; and if you don't, it will be
all through the town — and, of course. Carstairs
won't have Carry then."

'' What will be all through the town ? Understand
this, Dick — if you don't make an end
of all this shuffling and groaning, and speak
out like a man, I shall not listen to you any
longer. I'm sick of your wretched stories.
I've heard them all before."

It's not about betting this time, Arthur.
If that were all ! — but it's worse, far worse !

It will kill my mother if it comes out. Oh,
it's awful — awful ! I wish I were dead !"

Once more, will you make a clean breast
of it, or will you not ? What have you been
doing ? And what do you want of me ?"

Want ?" repeated Dick. " This is what I
want, Arthur. I want to get away !"

To get away ? — where ?"

Anywhere," said Dick. " I don't mind, so
long as it's far enough. Manitoba — New
Zealand — the Cape — it's all one. Perhaps the
Cape would be best — it's furthest, isn't it ? —
and I knew a fellow that was sent there by his
governor. If you'll only pay my passage out,
Arthur, and give me a trifle to start with, it's
all I'll ask. And you'll never see me anymore,
you know."

That is absurd, Dick. Tell me the whole
truth — if you can — or else stop talking altogether."


'* I will — yes, I'll tell you the truth — the
whole truth !" said Dick, with a flaccid attempt
at a manly bearing. " I will, so help
me ! And then, perhaps, you'll give me the

money to get clear away. As I told you, I
owed money to that scoundrel Niven — "

'who is he?"

'' Niven ? — He's a — a publican at Shawkirk.
It wasn't much to begin with, but it ran up at
last to about £200. At least, he said it did.
But, of course, he has swindled me ; I know
that."

How did you come to owe this man
money ? Betting, I suppose ?"

'' He put it on for me, with the bookmakers,
you know. At least, so he said. And I
always lost, and put on some more to clear
myself. But it was no good — everything
went against me. Oh, Arthur, if you knew
what a life that man has led me ! I didn't
want to win anything — only to clear myself —
that's the truth ! He dunned me morning,
noon, and night. He'd come up to the "Works,
and hang about till he saw me. Once he came
to the office. At last he said he'd go to the
governor, and demand payment from him.
He put the screw on me most awful. Oh,
you've no idea of it — none !"

VOL. Ill, Q

And what did you do ? — for I see you've
done something."

He said if I'd give him a hundred and
twenty, down, he'd give me back all my
I. 0. U.'s. What was I to do ? He'd got my
last quarter's allowance already, and wouldn't
wait for the next one — besides, that wouldn't
come to thirty pounds. He wouldn't hear of a
bill — what he wanted was a cheque for the
amount, or else the cash — one or other. Of
course I had no cash, and so — and so — I —
I got him the cheque."

From your father ?"

Well, no. Not exactly. You see, Arthur,
it was this way. Niven said he wouldn't
present the cheque — only keep it, as a kind
of guarantee the money would be paid. If
I gave him the cheque, he'd give me time to
pay up ; that was the bargain. I believed
him. I thought it was all done on the square,
you know. I did it just to gain time."

"Did what? Signed the cheque yourself?"


"Well, no. Not that, exactly. I haven't

got a bank account, you know. I didn't put
my own name to it — "

Then you forged your father's name ?"

Oh, Arthur, don't call it that— for God's
sake, don't ! It wasn't forgery — not common
forgery, I mean. The cheque was never to be
presented — you know I told you that, Arthur !"

Oh, you fool 1" said Lynn ; '' you fool ! —
and worse than fool !"

Here Dick began to cry bitterly, and Lynn
perceived the uselessness of such upbraiding.

Finish your story," he said, after a pause.
"Goon."

After he got the cheque," continued Dick,
still in tears, "the ruffian was worse to me
than ever. He swore he wasn't going to lie
out of his money any longer. He would go to
the bank next day, unless I paid him up what
I owed in full — in full, mind you — and a
hundred pounds into the bargain !"

For hush-money ?"

"Of course he knew I didn't want it to
come out. It would bring disgrace on us all,
you know."

And where did he think you were to get
the money?"

From my father, or — or from — from — "

"From me?"

Well, everybody in Shawkirk knows how
rich you are, Arthur. You can't wonder at
that, can you? — That was why I wanted
them to ask you to the marriage. I couldn't
write to you about it, but I thought that if
I saw you, and — and explained the thing, you
would — "

"Did this man Niven know that you had
forged your father's name ?"

Oh, he was too precious 'cute for that —
he shammed not to, you know. He asked
me once before another man how I got the
cheque, and of course I had to say I got it
from my father — I said it was in payment
of my screw — my salary, I mean. And the
impudent rascal said that a cheque with old
Inglebyby's name on it was as good as a banknote,
any day. He knew how it was, all the
time, just as well as I did. But you could never
bring it home to him. He's too deep for that."

"Is that everything?" asked Lynn. "Are
you keeping nothing back ?"

"Nothing!" said Dick; "no, I've made a
clean breast of it, I have!" — And he seemed
actually to feel a glow of returning self-respect,
as if dimly conscious that his wrongdoing
had been in some way expiated by
confession. — " I've told you all, Arthur.
Nobody can say I've tried to hide my
mistakes."

"And now, what do you want me to do ?"

"To pay my passage out, Arthur! Only
that — to pay my passage out ! Do that, and
I'll turn over a new leaf, see if I don't ! I'll
make a fresh start. Yes, I'll rough it like a
man — I'll go to the backwoods — anywhere.
I'm not afraid" — and Dick actually felt himself
growing heroic as he spoke.

"And so," said Lynn, "if I were to 'pay
your passage out' — whatever you mean by
that — you would leave your family to face
all the shame and misery you have brought
upon them ? You would have this man goto
your father, and tell him what you have

done ? Upon my word, Dick, nothing you
have told me to-night makes me think so
little of you as that does !"

"But what am I to do?" moaned Dick,
again prostrated. " It's a case of going to
prison, unless I get clear away in time. My
father will never pay for me, I know that, and
I shall be sent to jail ! Much good it will
do my people to have me sent to jail ! It
would kill them, and it would kill me. I
couldn't stand it — you know I couldn't !"

And at this point Dick became incoherent
and hysterical.

"Have your people any notion of where
you are ?" asked Lynn.

Not unless they guess. I didn't tell them
where I was going. In fact, I didn't tell
them I was going at all."

Lynn sat for some time silent and in
thought, furtively observed meanwhile by
Dick. At last he spoke.

I'm not going to lecture you," he said,
on what you have done. But T tell you
frankly that your conduct has been so selfish

and so shameful, I would not lift a finger to
help you, if the punishment of it was to fall
only on you. You are a forger, and the place
for a forger is a prison."

Oh, Arthur, don't be so rough on a fellow !
Don't call me that — for God's sake, don't !"

"This is what I mean to do. I shall
telegraph to-night to your father that you
are here."

Dick shuddered.

And tomorrow I shall take you with me
down to Shawkirk."

What ?— Go back to Shawkirk ?— Never !
I couldn't look my father in the face — I
couldn't do it ! I would rather kill myself,
than go back ! Yes, I would !"

"Do you think I am going to help you
to skulk away like a coward from the consequences
of your crime ? I say you shall
go back to your father, and confess what you
have done, or, at least, authorise me to do that
for you."

"Never!" cried Dick; "never! Oh, why
are you so hard ? Oh, I wish I were dead !"

That's what you must do, Dick. It's your
only chance. Your father has been kept in
ignorance about you far too long — there must
be an end of that now. I can see that there's
no hope for you, so long as you're allowed to
escape the penalties of your own folly and
wickedness. You will simply end as a tout
or a billiard-marker, if not a jail-bird, if you
are let off now."

Again Dick wept copiously. "I'd much
rather go away," he said — '' anywhere, out of
the country. Oh, won't you pay my passage
out? It's the last thing you'll ever have todo
for me !"

I shall do nothing of the kind. After
you have gone down with me to Shawkirk,
and done all you can to get your father's
forgiveness, I may be able to assist you, but
not tiU then. That's final, Dick."

He'll never forgive me. He'll say terrible
things, I know he will !"

I should think he will, but, all the same,
you'll have to go. Otherwise, I simply wash
my hands of you and your affairs."

But will you see that blackguard Niven ?
Will you buy the scoundrel off?"

"Yes."

"And will you tell the governor about it,
and soften him down all you can ? "

Yes, if you have not the manliness to doit
yourself. Now, Dick, is that settled ? Or
are you going to take yourself off?"

"I can't do that," whined Dick; "where
am I to go to ? I haven't got a shilling in
the world ! — All right, Arthur !" — with a
fresh assumption of the heroic — " I'll do it !
You may wire to-night, and I'll go down with
you tomorrow. There's my hand on it !"

Lynn took his cousin's hand, not without a
qualm ; and so the matter was arranged.

CHAPTER XXIX.

MEDIATION.

Mr. Inglebyby's first proceeding, after learning
of his son's flight, was to go up to his office,
and make a careful scrutiny of the books and
cash which had been under Dick's charge.
He found no trace of any defalcation, and
this was a relief to him, so far. Then he
took his cashier, a shrewd and trustworthy
man, into his confidence ; and commissioned
him to make private inquiry after the fugitive
in the town. But no clue to Dick's
movements was found ; nothing beyond the
fact that he had certainly left Shawkirk.
The cashier, however, in making this report
to his employer, conveyed to him a much
clearer notion than he had had before of his
son's mode of life, and the kind of company

he had been keeping. Mr. Inglebyby's feeling
in regard to Dick became one of indignation,
rather than of alarm. He began to think it
not unlikely that Dick had gone off on some
mission in the cause of Vice. He would not,
at all events yet awhile, raise the hue and
cry after the runaway. He would wait, and
see what the day might bring forth. Mr.
Inglebyby accordingly waited ; but the day
brought forth nothing.

This was by far the saddest time the 
had ever known. The house had become
a house of mourning. All that Gertrude could
devise to assuage her mother's almost frantic
grief she had done, but with little avail. In
the intervals of her paroxysms of weeping and
wailing, Mrs. Inglebyby gave herself up to
visions of the ghastly-grotesque, which were
worse than the paroxysms themselves. She
beheld Dick's corpse under every imaginable
circumstance of horror. Now he had been
cut to pieces by an express train ; now done
to death, in a wood, by gypsies ; now he lay,
stark and stiff, at the bottom of a coal-pit ;

and now, drowned in the Fala, was being
drifted inanimate to the sea. To this last
idea Mrs. Inglebyby recurred most persistently.
The Fala was then in flood ; and she vehemently
besought her husband to go forth on
the instant, and have the river dragged. Mr.
Inglebyby did not stir ; and this proof of callous
indifference to the lost one's fate drove Mrs.
Inglebyby into hysterics. Caroline meanwhile
was wrapt up in the sense of her personal
wrongs. That such a thing should happen
within a fortnight of one's wedding-day —
that one's happiness, when so near, should
be imperilled by one's own brother — for that
Dick had done something dreadful she was
sure — was hard, very hard to bear. It was
all very well for Gertrude to be composed
and collected ; Gertrude was not in her, Caroline's,
position, and could not know what her
feelings were. Mr. Inglebyby, for his part, made
no lamentation. He took up his cross — not,
indeed, meekly, but with a grim patience,
a kind of half-stoical resignation. Only when
Caroline exclaimed against her cruel, cruel

lot, did Mr. Inglebyby give utterance to words
of grave and almost stern admonition. If,
he said, it should be found that Eichard had
fled on account of some dishonourable act —
and he did not conceal from them that there
was reason for the supposition — then it should
be his Duty to lay a statement of the case
before Mr. Carstairs. Whatever the consequences,
that must certainly be done; and
it was as well that Caroline should know
it now. Whereon Caroline departed in tears,
and shut herself up in her own room.

When Lynn's telegram arrived next morning,
it relieved Mrs. Inglebyby's mind, but hers
alone, of all anxiety. Such confidence had
she in her nephew, that the mere fact of Dick's
having gone to him seemed to prove conclusively
that nothing could be wrong. '^ To think
of our being in such anxiety," she said in her
joy, " and my poor boy with Arthur all the
time ! To think that they will both be here
this very night ! Come, girls, let us go and
make everything ready for them ! Oh, I
thought I should have died when I saw the

telegram, but now ! — It's so like Arthur ! How
good he always has been to me ! What a load
he has taken from my mind I"

Lynn's message had merely stated that Dick
had been with him in London, and that together
they would reach Shawkirk that night.
This did not reassure either Mr. Inglebyby or his
daughters. They were quite aware that some
motive more powerful than cousinly affection
must have prompted Dick to visit the metropolis.
They dreaded to think what that
might be.

When your cousin arrives, Gertrude," said
Mr. Inglebyby to his elder daughter, '' let him
be shown up to my room. I shall await his
coming there. He must see and speak with
me, before meeting any of you."

"Won't that seem very cold to Arthur,
father?" said Gertrude.

Let it be as I say," rejoined Mr. Inglebyby ;
and so it was. When Lynn reached the
house, somewhat late that evening, he missed
the joyous greeting to which he had been
accustomed — and to which, perhaps, he had

looked forward. He was taken to the small
room upstairs, used by Mr. Inglebyby when he
desired his own companionship, or had brought
home ' work' with him from the office. There
Lynn found his uncle, who rose as he entered,
but spoke no word of welcome.

You are alone V he said.

Yes. But he came with me to Shawkirk.
I left him at the hotel."

Mr. Inglebyby seated himself at the table,
and signed to his nephew to take a place opposite
him.

"What has he done?" he said; and his
face wore a look of deeper care than it had
worn since the discovery of Dick's flight. " I
know that you have come as the bearer of no
good news of him."

Lynn took the forged cheque from his
pocket, and laid it before his uncle on the
table.

That is his writing," he said, pointing to
the signature. " He admits it."

Mr. Inglebyby lifted the cheque, and held it
for some moments to the light, as though he

could not read it distinctly. Then lie laid it
down, without a word or a groan ; but his
nephew knew well what must be the struggle
within. For a little he rested his head on his
hands, and Lynn believed he was praying for
strength to bear the blow. At last he raised
his face, and said in a voice hoarse but unshaken
—

Tell me how you came into possession of
this."

Lynn told as briefly as might be of Dick's
arrival in London, and confession of his crime.
He made no attempt to extenuate the act.
To have done so then would, he felt, have
been no better than a mocking of his uncle's
anguish.

^' As soon as we came to Shawkirk," he said,
in ending his story, " and after I had seen him
safe in the hotel, I went to this scoundrel
Niven. He was at first fawning, then insolent.
However, I gained my end, and you may rest
assured that, for his own interests, he will
keep silent."

You have given this man a bribe ?" said

Mr. Inglebyby, who during the telling of Lynn's
story had not uttered a word.

I have. I know you will say that I
should not have done so. The idea of purchasing
his silence will seem to you like
bargaining with sin. But I think you will
by-and-bye see that it was the only way.
We must think of others — of your wife and
your daughters. To have defied this man
would have been to make them pay the penalty
of others' wickedness."

You have judged me rightly," answered
Mr. Inglebyby. " I should not have treated
with that man, not though the streets of this
town had rung with the shame that has fallen
on me — not though the writer of that had
been dragged from a court of justice to a
felon's cell. Hand nor finger should I have
raised — no, not as God shall judge me. And
even yet, I do not know that I should not do
well to take it back to the wretch you bought
it of, and bid him do his worst."

*' Uncle, can you bear to listen to me a
little longer ? I shall not speak more lightly

VOL. III. R

of what your son has done than you would
yourself. But we have now to consider what
is best to be done for each and all of us. One
thing is plain. For every one's sake, Dick
must leave this place without delay."

Lynn paused, but Mr. Inglebyby said nothing.
He sat with white, tightly-compressed lips
and hard eyes, gazing fixedly at his nephew.
Since he had read the forged cheque, his face
had been as a mask of stone.

For the sake of your wife and daughters,"
went on Lynn, " Dick must be sent away from
Shawkirk at once. He dared not himself face
your anger, but this is his confession I am
making to you — for him, I ask your forgiveness."


Still Mr. Inglebyby did not speak.

I have been thinking the matter over,"
Lynn resumed, *' and I have a suggestion to
make, which I hope you will agree to."

He shall never enter this house again,"
said Mr. Inglebyby ; "he shall speak with none
of its inmates. Further than that, I have
nothing to say of him. Whether he stays

here or goes, it is the same. If you choose to
speak of him, I shall listen this night — but
this night only. Now and hereafter, he is
and must be to me as one who is dead."

Do you remember," said Lynn, " the letter
you gave me in London ? — the letter which
was written to me by the man to whom I owe
all that I have ?"

'' I remember the letter," said Mr. Inglebyby.

In that letter Hume told how, when he
was a young man in this town, he fell into
temptation — and how his life would have been
ruined, but for the mercy my father showed
him. He told how from the same kindly
hand he received the aid which enabled him
to rise to wealth in a new country. That he
was not a bad man — that he was an able, and
a generous and grateful man — you and I know
well. Had my father been unforgiving — had
he even been just and nothing more than just
where should I have been to-day ? I do
not say that Hume ever sinned as your son
has — nor that your son would prosper in a
new country as Hume did. But unless he

has the chance given him, he will simply ruin
himself, body and soul. If a day were to
come when you heard of him standing as a
felon in the dock, could you free yourself from
blame if you had refused now to hold out a
helping hand to him ?"

What he has done," said Mr. Inglebyby,
cannot be undone ; neither can it be glossed
over with empty words. My forgiveness ! —
what would that be to him ? An idle speech
a warrant to him to sin again, and heap
disgrace on my grey hairs ! "

He seems really humbled. I trust — I believe
that he is penitent."

Penitent ! Do not name the word to me.
I cannot pardon him in my heart. He has
darkened what of this brief life is yet left tome.
He has clothed me with dishonour ; he
has covered my face with shame. Shall I
ever again hold up my head among men ?
Shall I ever take in public affairs the part
that I have taken ? He that knows not how
to rule in his own house, shall he presume to
rule without it ? His deeds have brought me

down to the dust, and shall I forgive him because
of his words ?

He is your son."

"He that begetteth a fool, doth it to his
sorrow. That is the truth, and you cannot
change it. With any plans you may have
formed, I cannot interfere. But do for him
what you will, he will turn against you, as he
has turned against me."

I want you to agree to this. Let him go
out at once to Queensland. I will give him a
letter to Mr. Malcolm, Hume's old partner —
he is my partner now. Malcolm is one of the
best men in the colony. He will look after
him. He will see that he is placed in a position
removed as far as may be from temptation.
I have spoken of this to him ; he is
willing, even eager, to go. And, uncle — his
mother and sisters must never know what he
has done — "

Because he has sinned," said Mr. Inglebyby,
you would have me sin also, and fill my
mouth with lies ? "

Forgive me, uncle, but your laws of life

are too strict for such a world as this is.
Even with myself, I think you may one day
see that you have been somewhat over-severe."


I have," said Mr. Inglebyby ; " and to-night
you have heaped coals of fire on my head.
I have not thanked you, Arthur, and I cannot
thank you to-night as I should. But I see
how you have thought for us all. I had
feared, I own, that wealth had rendered you
worldly and vain and cold of heart. But I
have erred — I have grievously erred. Yes,
Gertrude was right in what she ever said of
you. She was right, and I was wrong."
"What has Gertrude always said of me ?"
That you were one of those who ought to
be rich, and not poor. That the possession of
great wealth would bring out all the goodness of
your nature. And therein I misjudged you.
But even now, Arthur — when my teachings in
my own family have borne the fruit you see
when you have come hither doing all that
may be done for us — nay rather the more
because of your kindness in this the hour of

our need — would I say to you, Abjure that
man ! Live where you will and as you will,
but do not live in daily communion with that
Arch-Infidel, and those who, under him, are
doing the work of the Devil !"

"I have ceased to write for the Forum,"
said Lynn. "And I may tell you that I shall
never write again in a paper edited by Mr.
Mallory."

"Now God be thanked!" exclaimed Mr.
Inglebyby, with unaffected fervour. "What
you have said rejoices my heart, even in the
midst of this my affliction. I have been hard
to you, Arthur — I should not have spoken to
you and written to you as I did — but it was
my fear for your soul's safety that made me
hard. You will do me that justice, I know."

"The misunderstanding was all on your
side, uncle. I never wronged you in my
thoughts. I know that what you did was
done out of a true desire for my welfare."

It was," said Mr. Inglebyby.

"And now there is but one thing more.
The knowledge of this thing must be kept

from all save you and me. I shall — if you
will allow me — tell my aunt and my cousins
all they need ever know."

"May God in His goodness reward you,
Arthur, for all you have done and still would
do for me and mine ! Had you not come.
Heaven help me, I know not what evil I
might not have wrought in my anger. I
might — yes, I might have killed his poor
mother. Tell her and my daughters what
you think fitting. I shall say nothing; I
leave the matter in your hands. More than
that I cannot do. — Now, go to them. I could
not make a feigned countenance before them
to-night. There is a bitterness of the heart with
which a man's nearest may not intermeddle.
For me, I shall turn my face to the wall."

Lynn accordingly went down to the parlour,
where his aunt and cousins had been counting
the minutes till he came. He received a
welcome in which joy, wonder and anxiety
were all blended; then the questions began.
Where was Dick ? — At the Cross Keys Hotel.
Why had he not come to the house — to his

mother? — At this point Lynn felt the full
difficulty of his undertaking. He had to
spare his aunt's feelings, and yet make it clear
to her that Dick must go. The first mention of
Queensland filled Mrs. Inglebyby with anguish
and terror. Why must her darling boy go sofar
? — right to the other side of the world ?
What had he done to be thus banished from
home and country ? Lynn could not, of
course, explain to her what Dick had done ;
and had to fall back on a liberal use of rose-colour.
Only Mrs. Inglebyby's almost touching
confidence in him enabled Lynn to go through
his task. The thing must be right, because
Arthur had said it ; and though she did not
understand it, she would take it on trust.
And Lynn's word-painting of colonial life was
not without its effect ; so that through the
mist of her tears Mrs. Inglebyby began to have
glimmering visions of her son holding high
sway over tattooed myriads ; and returning to
his native land — after a few years' absence —
rich in honour and in gold. When, however,
the time of Dick's departure came to be

mentioned, the storm of Mrs. Inglebyby's grief
broke out afresh. Had it been a year — six
months hence, she might have borne it ; but
tomorrow ! — it was too much to ask of her —
it was cruel ! Lynn compassionate the poor
mother profoundly ; he knew not what to say.
He looked to Gertrude ; who alone, all through
the interview, had refrained from asking him
any question, as if divining the difficulty of
his task. He saw that she understood the
look. Gently she drew her mother away.

Gertrude," he whispered to her as she was
leaving the room with Mrs. Inglebyby, " try to
make her understand that it must be. There
is nothing else for it. It must be as I have
said."

Lynn found himself left alone with Caroline,
whose wonder and grief on her brother's
account were swept quite away in the joy
with which she learned that his misdemeanour
whatever it might be — was not to stand in
the way of her marriage. To have a listener
at that moment — and that listener her cousin,
Arthur Lynn — was sufficient to complete Caroline's

happiness. After hearing an infinity of
details regarding "Edward" — his words and
ways, his talents and his virtues — Lynn was
called on to view and admire his cousin's
wedding-gifts. Caroline kept to the last what
she evidently regarded as the most precious.

"Aren't they lovely, Arthur?" she said,
uncovering a toilet service beautifully filigreed
in silver. "Where do you think that came
from?"

From India, I should say. It is beautiful.
Why, it would do for the dressing-table of the
Grand Mogul himself!"

Would it ? Well, who do you think sentit
? — Your old friend Mr. Morton, all the way
from Kurrachee. Wasn't it nice of him ?"

"It was, Carry. How did he come to
know of the Great Event ? — Through you —
or Gertrude, I suppose?"

No, not from us. We have not written
him since — I mean, not for a long time. It
must have been from his friends in Shawkirk.
I wanted to write and tell him, but I didn't
like. And, of course, Gerty couldn't."

Gertrude couldn't ? — Carry, will you tell
me this ? I had the notion, when I was last
down here, that Gertrude was being made
unhappy about something. I could think of
no reason for that, unless Morton had something
to do with it. Was I right in thinking
so, or" was I wrong ?"

"You were quite wrong, Arthur," said
Caroline ; "most certainly you were wrong."

Was I ? So much the better ! — You see,
I had fancied that your father might be making
some objection — "

"Oh! You thought that !"

And I tried to make Gertrude understand,
the last time I saw her until to-night, that
she might count on me to do anything I
could—"

You said that to her ? — Oh, you shouldn't
have said that ! Indeed, you shouldn't !"

So I begin to think. Tell me this. Carry
I am not asking it, believe me, for Gertrude's
sake, nor for Morton's, but for my own.
The answer is everything to me — don't you
understand ? Was there ever anything between

Gertrude and Morton ? — is there anything
now?"

Caroline lifted her head, and glanced at
him. He thought there was a half-sly, half-pleased
twinkle in her blue eyes.

I think you are very inquisitive, Arthur,"
she said.

I know I am very anxious. Carry."

I believe you are. You do look it !" —
archly. "Well, now, I'll tell you — but it is
a great secret, you know. Do you remember
that night at Sprayton, when you all went
off, without me, to see a stupid old castle?"

I shall forget many things before I forget
that night."

Yes ? — I don't know if I should tell you,
after all. I didn't find it out till ever so long
after, and then Gerty made me promise never
to breathe a word of it. — Still, I think I may
to you, Arthur. Yes, I will — " and she whispered
: — '' that night Mr. Morton proposed to
Gertrude."

And she refused him ?" "

Of course she did. You know there never

could be any affinity between them," said
Caroline with dignity. " No doubt, Mr. Morton
is very nice, and good-looking, and all that,
but then, he is not a man of intellect I know /
would never marry anyone who was not that —
and I do think you should have known Gertrude
better than to suppose she would, either."

'perhaps I should. I don't know much
about his ' intellect,' but I know that Morton is
a thoroughly good fellow — and I hope he will
get a good girl to be his wife — the very best
girl in the world, Carry, so long as it isn't
Gertrude !"

Do you ? Why, you are quite excited
about it, Arthur ! Now, remember, you must
never tell Gertrude what I have told you.
She would never forgive me !"

I shan't tell her to-night, at all events,"
said Lynn with a laugh. " Now, I am going
upstairs to bid your father good-night, before
I go."

What ! Are you not going to stay with
us, Arthur?"

*'I am going back to the hotel to-night,

and tomorrow Dick and I leave for Liverpool."


"But you will be here in time for my
marriage?"

Without fail, Carry."

Oh, Arthur, I'm so happy !" said Caroline.
I know I oughtn't to be, but I can't help it.
You must not think me selfish, Arthur — at
least, I don't mea7i to be — and I iii sorry for
Dick, and for poor Mamma ! But when I
think how the marriage might have been put
off — and how it is to go on now, and you are
to be there — I can't be so sorry as I ought !
Do you think it very wrong to feel so ?"

Of course, be happy," said Lynn, " and
if you are sorry for Dick, don't show it. Remember,
he will have a chance of making his
way in the new country such as comes to very
few young men. He has only to keep steady,
in order to succeed. Try to make your mother
see his going in that light. Speak of him
brightly and hopefully. That is the best thing
you can do for her, and for all."

Lynn went up to his uncle's room, knocked,

and entered. Mr. Ingieby was sitting as he
had left him ; but now there lay before him
on the table an open Bible.

I have told them," said Lynn. " They
know that he is going, and they do not know
why."

"How did she bear it ?" said Mr. Ingieby.

She is in great distress. And it will be
worse with her tomorrow, when he goes."

"May God pity her!" said Mr. Ingieby.
Thus are the iniquities of the children visited
upon the parents. It were better for her, aye,
better, did she mourn as Rachel mourned in
Eamah !"

"Do not say that, uncle. Do not harden
your heart against him. Believe me, that
cannot be right."

"I do not seek to do so, now," said Mr.
Ingieby ; and he laid his hand upon the open
Bible. "Already this night I have said in
my haste things that a father should not have
said, however grievously his son had erred. —
When you spoke to me of Hume, Arthur, I
was reminded how I had sought to make your

father treat him, with justice, indeed, but not
with mercy. And now, I see and acknowledge
that therein, too, I was wrong. — But all
this has shaken me, more, perhaps, than it
should. The lights by which I had been used
to walk seemed to have gone out, and left mein
darkness. It may be that I have been
over-strict in my ways. It may be that too
much of carnal pride has mingled with my
desire to keep my name untarnished among
my fellow-men. When I spoke those bitter
words about my unhappy son, I was, perchance,
thinking more than I should have
thought of the things seen and temporal. — It
is a warning to me. I have been humbled in
my own eyes. And it is well."

'' Then," said Lynn, " will you not see him
before he goes ? Will you not let him, with
his own lips, ask your pardon ?"

"No," said Mr. Inglebyby ; "no. That is
more than I can bring myself to do. Tell
him, if you should speak with him of contrition
and forgiveness, that well-doing is the
kind of repentance which has weight with me."

VOL. Ill, s

"I shall tell him SO."

'nothing could be better," continued Mr.
Ingieby, " than the plans you have formed for
his future. Most cordially and most gratefully
I accept your offer. I leave all to your
discretion. There is but one condition on
which I shall insist — that you give me an
exact statement of all monies you may expend
in connection with this matter. I am able to
refund that portion, at least, of my debt to

you."

It shall be as you wish," said Lynn.

''He must bid his mother farewell," said
Mr. Ingieby. "Let him come to the house
tomorrow. I shall not be here."

So be it," said Lynn. " We shall leave
for Liverpool tomorrow, and I shall remain
with him till the vessel sails. And now,
uncle, good-night. For Caroline's sake, if for
nothing else, I know you will strive to bear
up against this sorrow. Who knows what
good may not yet spring from it, after aU ?"

Good-night, my dear Arthur," said Mr.
Ingieby. " I cannot declare to you the gratitude

I feel. To make any return for all you
have done lies, as you know well, no longer
within my power."

You may have the chance of showing your
confidence in me sooner than you think,"
said Lynn. "It is no time to speak of such
things now — but I may yet have to ask you
for what will make the happiness of all my
life!"

Mr. Inglebyby clasped his nephew's hand.
He looked into Lynn's eyes, with a kind of
wistful look ; his lips moved, though no words
came. And, albeit they parted without
further speech, Lynn knew that his hint had
not, at all events, added to his uncle's sorrows.

CHAPTER XXX.

THE FACTORY OF THE PAST.

No, Arthur, you can't make me believe you
have not done us all a great service. While
you were away, father let me know so much,
at least — even if I had not guessed it myself
before. And since he told me, I feel I have
not been so sorry for poor Dick as I ought.
It has made me so glad to think that my
father has come to understand you, at last !"

Really, Gertrude, you need not be sad
on your brother's account. For my part, I
have some hope of Dick, now."

Have you, indeed, Arthur?"

Yes. I believe now that your father did
a wise thing in not seeing him before he left.
Dick felt that more than I should have expected.
He is bent on winning back his

father's good opinion. He is making his fresh
start with far more than the usual chances of
success. And he will be looked after — more
closely than he has ever been before. Everything
is in his favour, and I do think he will
make his way."

I hope so — how I hope so ! — When you
came back last night, I wanted to tell you
how grateful I felt. But I could not say
what I wished to say, before the others."

There was nothing to be said. But I
wanted to tell you, Gertrude, how happy I felt
last night at being among you all again. It
was so different from the evening we spent
when I first came back from London. Do you
remember?"

'* Yes, I remember it very well."

How was it you were all so different then
from what you were last night ? Last night I
felt at home once more — as I had not felt for
years. But when I saw you all again that
other time, I seemed to be a stranger come
among you. — And do you know, Gertrude, I
thought you yourself were — well, cold, and

constrained to me ? I thought you had
changed. I began to fear we should never be
on our old terms with one another ao-ain. Do
you wonder that I should have thought so ?"

No — I can scarcely wonder at it."

Then, why was it ? What made you seem
so — changed ? "

I suppose it was because you had become
so rich — "

Oh ! That was the reason !"

'' — And yet, I knew you would not be
changed by riches. But I could not bear to
have you think that we cared more for you,
rich, than we had done for you while you were
poor."

That was pride, Gertrude !"

I suppose it was. I know, at any rate, it
was a very foolish feeling. But I could not
help it. You see, the people here seem all
so ready to worship money — and then, mother
and Carry hould talk of your coming as if you
were a distinguished guest — and then, Arthur,
you know you were changed yourself."

I was. I had just awakened from a dream."

I did feel for you, Arthur, though I could
not tell you, as I should have liked to do."

It was the evening of the day before that
fixed for Caroline's wedding. Arthur Lynn
had returned on the previous night from
Liverpool, after seeing the last of the exiled
Dick. With Gertrude, he had made his escape,
towards evening, from the tumult of preparation
that filled Mr. Inglebyby's house. They
had walked as far as Lynnfield, and were now
standing within the space encircled by its
ruined walls.

'' When I came back to you all that time,"
Lynn continued, " I had just made a discovery.
I had just discovered that I had been making
a fool of myself. I may tell you, Gertrude —
for it is a thing you are never likely to learn
from experience — that that is not a pleasant
discovery to make. I had just found out that
the people who, as I had been pleased and proud
to think, cared for me for my own sake, had
been treating me as a simpleton, and a tool."

Oh, Arthur, surely you don't mean —

No, I don't mean your father. Of course.

I think lie was wrong in what he did — and I
shall never forget that you pled with him, ashe
told me, to do the thing that was right.
But I understand his motives, and respect
them. And now, indeed, I ought to be very
grateful to him for acting as he did."

*' I don't understand ?"

'' You may, perhaps, — afterwards. But at
the time, I did not feel grateful to him. Indeed,
I felt very miserable, and very bitter.
And then, you know, I thought how some of
my good friends would expect me to behave in
my new circumstances, and I determined todo
the reverse of what they would look for."

You could not deceive — those who really
kncAv you ! "

It is kind of you to say that. Do you
know what I thought, when I went to the
jposte restante at one town after another, and
found no letter from you ?"

No. What did you think ?"

I thought you must be angry with me,
because — because I did not claim that waltz
you promised me !"

'' Oh, how could you be so — so foolish ! —
I wonder," she went on, a little hurriedly,
'' what Caroline will think of Shawkirk,
when she comes back from Paris ? What
a contrast it will seem ! — Do you remember
the arguments you had long ago with father,
about our valley here and the Valdarno — and
which was the better place to live in ?"

I remember I talked a great deal of nonsense
in those days. I know now that one
may travel without finding the road to
happiness."

I think if I had my choice I should rather
visit Italy than any other country. Don't you
wish any longer to see Florence — now that you
can go where you please ?"

On the contrary — my fondest hope is to
see it very soon."

If you do, you won't send more letters to
Mr. Mallory, will you?"

"No, certainly not. If I do go, my time
will be very differently employed. — Do you
know, Gertrude, I have been seeing a good
deal of Mr. Mallory lately? I had a most

interesting conversation with him, not long
before I came down here from London."

'what kind of man is Mr. Mallory? Is
he really as bad as father makes him out to
be?"

'' Oh, scarcely !" said Lynn with a smile,
as he thought of certain Biblical quotations.
He is amazingly clever, that is certain. He
is by far the ablest man I ever met, or ever
hope to meet. Do you know, he paid me a
very high compliment — and meant it, so far ?
He has given up the Forum, you know, and
is to start a new paper."

"Yes?"

And he wished me to go into the undertaking.
I was to give my brains, and, above
all, my money. But the leading columns were
to be opened to me — he promised that, among
other things. It was, of course, an inducement."

"And you?"

"Refused the offer — for reasons. Whether
I shall regret doing so or not, remains to
be proved. But in the meantime, I don't
regret it."

"I am glad of that, Arthur. But you
have not told me yet what kind of man
Mr. Mallory is ?"

He is a cynic, in speech and practice.
I fancy that all cynicism is affectation, more
or less. But Mr. Mallory s is the most genuine
affectation imaginable. He talked to me a
great deal about ' doing good.' He does not
believe in trying to do good to individuals
that is only a waste of emotion, and money.
His principle is to do good on the largest
possible scale to oneself, which, he says, must
infallibly result in doing good on the largest
possible scale to Humanity. What do you
think of that as a principle, Gertrude ?"

I don't admire it."

They were standing now under the entrance
of the Lynnfield Hall, from which point the
view was shut in by the gaunt brick wall
of the factory, with its rows of shattered
windows. Not a sound save that of their
own voices was heard. And now both were
silent for a time, while they looked at the
scene of ruin and decay around them.

I should not like to come here with Mr.
Mallory," said Lynn ; ''he would be much
too epigrammatic. — Indeed, I should not care
to come here with any one, Gertrude, unless
it were with you."

You used to say, Arthur, that none of
the ruined castles you had seen abroad ever
gave you so much to think about as this ruin,
here, of your own ?"

That was true. But now I never come
here without very mingled feelings. I can't
but think how high and generous my father's
aims were. I can't but remember that all I
have is, in a sense, owing to his kindness to
others. And then I feel that I should be
untrue to his memory if I did not try in
some way to carry out what was the main
purpose of his life. You understand that
feeling, I know."

Oh, yes— so well !"

'' But then — when I look at the ruin his
schemes ended in — when I think of the ingratitude,
the malice, the ridicule he earned
and that, too, from the very men for whom

he sacrificed his all — I find my heart hardening.
My reason sides with Mr. Mallory. And
then, it is so difficult, so seemingly impossible,
to find the true way to work in ! Why, the
very word ' philanthropy' seems to bring irony
with it as its shadow — so that at times I feel
tempted to cease from troubling over it
all—"

"You will never do that — never! When
I first heard how you had become rich,
I thought, ' now Arthur will be able to
take up his father's work ! Now he will
be able to do good, as my uncle tried todo
!' — I have thought so often about him !
I have come here so often alone when —
when you were away, and have thought how
far he was above the other people here, and
how sad the end of it was ! — and I felt proud
to think that now you would be able to carry
out what he had given his life to in vain. —
I don't mean in the way he tried — I don't
understand about these things — but there
must be many other ways ! Are there not ?
And you will find one, Arthur, if you seek

for it ! — or — or am I speaking foolishly ?" and
she stood silent and blushing at the excitement
into which she had been betrayed.

You are speaking as I would have a —
cousin of mine to speak," said Lynn — and he
marvelled more than ever how he could even
for a day have deemed his cousin cold. " I
don't need to tell you, Gertrude," he went on,
that I have gone through a good deal, since
this money came to me, to make me doubtful
about the things I used to believe in most
firmly. Both here and — and elsewhere, I
found out that your fortune or want of fortune
makes a wonderful difference in other
people's estimation of you. Of course, I knew
all that before, theoretically. But it is another
thing to learn it by experience. I don't know
which is worse — to find that those who have
been, as you thought, unselfishly kind, were
mercenary all the while — or that those who
were most selfishly unkind, before, are ready
to take you to their heart of hearts, now. I
have had my eyes opened, and my old illusions
pretty thoroughly dispelled. But I

think — I do think I have been saved, thus
far, from the other extreme. I know I have
been very near that other extreme, often,
during those months that have passed since
the night when I left you so — so hurriedly.
Two things, I think, kept me from it."

What were they, Arthur ?"

^' One was the remarkably plain-spoken
letter your father sent me. That letter refreshed
me, more than I can tell you. Of
course, I regretted that he should have put a
stop to our correspondence. But the letter
was like a tonic to me, at the time. — The
other thing was that same conversation with
Mr. Mallory, of which I have been telling

you."

How was that, Arthur ? Did he not try
to persuade you — "

He tried to persuade me that darkness
was light, and conversely. And I don't deny
that his words influenced me, though not in
the way that he intended. I might have
struck a bargain with Mr. Mallory, but it
would have been quite an everyday kind of

bargain — I had no thought of ' selling my
soul,' as your father feared I had done or
might do. But what he said brought many
things into my mind. — I will tell you, Gertrude,
what was almost the first thing I did,
after leaving Mr. Mallory. I went to my
rooms, took out from my desk that letter of
Hume's, and read it again. You have heard
about the letter, I daresay?"

Yes. I have heard about it."

It came to me, as you know, a message
from the dead. I know nothing about Hume,
except what that letter tells me, but it tells me
enough. It seemed to me, as I read it that
day, almost prophetic. It put everything ina
quite different light from Mr. Mallory's."

Tell me what he said to you ?"

He said very much what 5^ou have been
saying to-night. He spoke of my father.
He bade me copy his belief in the better
side of human nature. He warned me
against letting my riches make me selfish,
careless of others, and content only to be
rich."

" You did not need any such advice, I
know !"

*' I am not quite sure about that. At all
events, that is the advice which I shall follow.
You are right, Gertrude — there are ways,
many ways, of using this money that has
come to me for an end such as would have
rejoiced my father's heart — and, with help —
yes, with help — I think I shall find one of
them. But first, I hope to make that long-talked
of visit to the Valdarno. — And now that
I have confessed to you, Gertrude — now let us
see what Shawkirk is doing to the sunset."

They went into what had once been the
outer court of the Lynnfield Works, whence
they could see straight down the valley to the
murky walls and many stalks of Shawkirk.
It was not a beautiful view — in front, a bare
valley gashed with a railway which crossed
the winding stream on numerous iron viaducts
; beyond, mean, dingy houses huddled
together on either hill-side, with soot-begrimed
church-spires rising above them ; on the river-banks,
the dirty-red, many-windowed piles,

VOL. ni. T

whose tall chimneys blackened out the crimson
of the West.

Gertrude, leaning on the broken wall with
her head resting on her hand, looked down the
valley, as Lynn thought, somewhat wistfully.
And in truth, the girl's heart was full. Her
brother, whom she had loved despite his
faults, had gone away. To-morrow, Caroline,
who had been to her what one sister of two is
to another, would have left the house for ever.
Her cousin, who — she could not hide it from
herself — was far dearer to her than brother or
sister — would, in a few days at most, have
gone in search of more congenial surroundings,
and who could tell when she might see him
again ? The old house would be duller, now,
than ever it had been. Her mother was still
inconsolable for the loss of her favourite ; and
her father seemed still well-nigh crushed by
the blow which Dick's misconduct had inflicted.
Her own duty lay plain before her.
She must do all she might to help her parents
in their grief. She must not add to their
sorrow by showing any sign of despondency.

She would do her best to brighten their lives ;
but she had to confess that her own life would
henceforth be hopelessly vapid and dreary.
It now appeared as if Shawkirk must be for
her the world ; and life at Shawkirk had of
late seemed narrower and bleaker than ever.
It only took light and colour on the days when
Arthur Lynn was among them. — There had
for long been an aching pain at her heart ; and
she felt at the moment as if it would henceforth
be more than she could bear. Then she
humbled herself. What right had she to be
discontented with her lot — to dream foolish
dreams ? And on the eve of Caroline's marriage,
was it not wicked of her to yield to
such selfish sadness, when she ought to be
happy in her sister s happiness ? This washer
world, and she must go through it with
a brave spirit and a smiling face. — Nevertheless,
as she gazed down the valley, her eyes
filed with tears.

Lynn's reflections, meanwhile, were of a
somewhat different cast. He had asked
Gertrude to walk with him that evening —

he had led their steps, of all places, to the
Factory of the Past — designing to tell her
of his love. But now, when the moment
for speaking had come, he shrank from requiring
the answer that must decide his
future.

He could scarcely account for his own
hesitation. He had been conscious of no
such shrinking, in making his declaration to
Camilla Arden. With her, he had been
swept away by a torrent of passion in which
thought had scarcely mingled. That passion,
when he had allowed himself to think of it
with any calmness, he had owned to be at
war with the serious purpose of his life. But
it had been so strangely sweet, so potent in its
witchery, that even the sacrifice of his highest
aims had seemed a cheap price to pay for its
joys, however transient and illusive. But the
glamour had faded. He was a stronger man
now, and his love was a stronger love. That
very power over it of which he was conscious
the power to control its expression — assured
him that there was a depth, an obligingness in

his affection for Gertrude, which had been
wanting in that passion of his romantic days.

It seemed to him now as if his love for
Gertrude had been an undercurrent flowing
T\dthout interruption through his whole life —
a thing so much a part of himself that he had
been scarce able to realise it. But of late,
since he had been separated from her, he
had come to realise it. Of late, her image
had been constantly with him. The thought
that her heart might be given to another had
pained him, with a dull sense of pain ; that
moment of mistake, in which he had seen her
set for ever beyond his reach, had revealed
to him, as it were in a flash, the force and
intensity of his love for her.

He knew now that all along he had been
mistaken ; that her heart had been given, if
not to him, at least to no other ; and yet he
almost feared to speak. She, if she loved him
now, must have loved him always. But he ! —
he could not osier her a virgin heart. If she
loved him — then he had been untrue to her.
If she did not love him, what would his life

be worth ? His love for her, he felt, was inwoven
with his most earnest thoughts, his
strongest purposes, his highest hopes. If it
must perish, could these endure ?

"Gertrude," he said at last, *when I was
in London — before I went abroad — I saw
Camilla Arden."

Gertrude started, and turned towards him.
His face was averted from her, so that she
could not see its expression ; but she thought
from the tone of his voice that he was forcing
himself to say what he would rather have left
unsaid — what he was almost ashamed to say.
In her highly-wrought state of feeling, this
abrupt mention of Camilla Arden's name was
like a sting to her. The fire of woman's
jealousy, though but a flash that passed as
quickly as it came, dried the tears that had
gathered in her eyes, and lent her for the
moment an almost feverish energy of voice
and gesture.

I thought so !" she said. " I was sure of
it, when you came back so happy, and so — so
like what you used to be And you

forgave her ! Oh, she must love you ! She
cannot but love you now ! . . . And now, at
last, you will be happy — happy with her
after aU !"

She spoke with tremulous eagerness ; her
hands were clasped tightly together ; her grey
eyes seemed to darken and dilate with new
light. The thought of what this excitement
might betoken filled Lynn with a sudden
humiliation. He felt, as he had never felt
before, the unworthiness of all he could offer
in exchange for Gertrude's love. The very
strength of his love for her impelled him to
lay bare — even to unconsciously magnify — his
own weakness and blindness in the past.

Gertrude," he said, " you are strangely
mistaken. I did forgive Camilla Arden, but
at the same time I bade her farewell for ever.
I do not know that I have a right to speak
of forgiving. When I look back on it all, I
feel that I, at least, have no right to reproach
her. At Leipsic, I told myself again and
again that I was following a path that could
never lead to happiness. In London, it was

the same. I never felt sire of her, even in
the days when I thought I could not live
without seeing her. I tormented myself, and
her, with my doubts — I could never believe ina
happy end to it all — sometimes I even felt
afraid of what might befall us both, if she

ever did become mine You know the

whole story. No doubt, she was to blame ;
but it is not for me to blame her — I myself
am not free from reproach. I should have
known — certainly I should have known ! —
. . . I have been very blind — very blind
and very foolish. I want you to know that
I am at least aware how weak I have been
because — because I love you as I never
loved before. It seems to me now as if I
must have loved you always. Yes, I have
come to my senses at last. That is the
thing I wanted to say to you — I brought
you here that I might say it. Tell me,
Gertrude — it is not too late?"

She did not speak ; he could not see her
face. But he saw that she made a slight,
impulsive movement towards him ; he caught

her hands, and drawing her closer to him,
looked into her eyes.

"Gertrude," he said, "you are crying!
My own — my dearest ! Now, indeed, you
are mine ! "

I have always been yours, Arthur," she
whispered; and next moment he had taken
her into his arms, and strained her to his
heart.

And thus the affection that had taken root
in the dawn of their lives, that had strengthened
with the years and made fragrant the
chambers of the past — about which clustered
so many memories of sisterly tenderness, of
eager sympathy, of shy solicitude — was
crowned at last with the magical flower
around which 'all the muses sing.'

THE END.

Printed by Frank Murray, 9 6^ ii Young Street Edinburgh.

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS-URBANA

3 0112 079563125

t^^
