OF ILLINOIS

LIBRARY


1-191 St

v.i
copse

Return this book on or before the
Latest Date stamped below. A
charge is made on all overdue
books.

University of Illinois Library

Mm 1 ^ 1%

iUH 28

r

tx, 22\

DEC 2 8

2%\n

■J -y

QC/

ijy^du

MAY 2

OtU i 5

3 1996




"I" » or

Reprinted

BY Robson, LEVEY, AND Franklin,
Great New Street, Fetter Lane.

FROM THE

ITALIAN POETS

LIVES OF THE WRITERS.

BY LEIGH HUNT.

IN rW^O VOLUMES.
VOL, I.

LONDON:
CHAPMAN AND HALL, 186 STRAND.

MDCCCXLVI.

SIR PERCY SHELLEY, BART.

MY DEAR SIR PERCY,

As I know no man who surpasses yourself
either in combining a love of the most romantic fiction with
the coolest good sense, or in passing from the driest metaphysical
questions to the heartiest enjoyment of humour, —
I trust that even a modesty so true as yours will not grudge
me the satisfaction of inscribing these volumes with your
name.

That you should possess such varieties of taste is no wonder,
considering what an abundance of intellectual honours
you inherit ; nor might the world have been the better for
it, had they been tastes, and nothing more. But that you
should inherit also that zeal for justice to mankind, which
has become so Christian a feature in the character of the
age, and that you should include in that zeal a special regard
for the welfare of your Father's Friend, are subjects
of constant pleasurable reflection to

Your obliged and affectionate

LEIGH HUNT.



The purpose of these volumes is, to add to the stock
of tales from the Italian writers ; to ream as much
of the poetry of the originals as it is in the power
of the writer's prose to compass ; and to furnish careful
biographical notices of the authors. There have
been several collections of stories from the Novelists of
Italy, but none from the Poets ; and it struck me that
prose versions from these, of the kind here offered
to the public, might not be unwillingly received. The
stories are selected from the five principal Narrative
poets, Dante, Pulci, Boiardo, Ariosto, and Tasso ; they
comprise the most popular of such as are fit for translation
; are reduced into one continuous narrative, when
diffused and interrupted, as in the instances of those of
Angelica, and Armida ; are accompanied with critical and
explanatory notes ; and, in the case of Dante, consist
of an abstract of the poet's whole work. The volumes
are, furthermore, interspersed \\dth the most favourite
morceaux of the originals, followed sometimes with attempts
to versify them ; and in the Appendix, for the
furtherance of the study of the Italian language, are
VOL. I. a

given entire stories, also in the original, and occasionally
rendered in like manner. The book is particularly
intended for such students or other lovers of
the language as are pleased with any fresh endeavours
to recommend it ; and, at the same time, for such
purely English readers as wish to know something
about Italian poetry, without having leisure to cultivate
its acquaintance.

I did not intend in the first instance to depart from
the plan of selection in the case of Dante ; but when I
considered what an extraordinary person he was, — how
intense is every thing which he says, — how widely he
has re-attracted of late the attention of the world, — how
willingly perhaps his poem might be regarded by the
reader as being itself one continued story (which, in fact,
it is), related personally of the writer, — and lastly, what
a combination of difficulties have prevented his best
translators in verse from giving the public a just idea
of his almost Scriptural simplicity, — I began to think
that an* abstract of his entire work might possibly be
looked upon as supplying something of a desideratum.
I am aware that nothing but verse can do perfect justice
to verse ; but besides the imperfections which are pardonable,
because inevitable, in all such metrical endeavours,
the desire to impress a grand and worshipful idea
of Dante has been too apt to lead his translators into a
tone and manner the reverse of his passionate, practical,
and creative style — a style which may be said to write
things instead of words ; and thus to render every word
that is put out of its place, or brought in for help and
filling up, a misrepresentation. I do not mean to say,

that he himself never does any thing of the sort, or does
not occasionally assume too much of the oracle and the
schoolmaster, in manner as well as matter ; but passion,
and the absence of the superfluous, are the chief characteristics
of his poetry. Fortunately, this sincerity of
purpose and utterance in Dante render him the least
perceptible of poets in a sincere prose translation ; and,
since I ventured on attempting one, I have had the
pleasure of meeting with an express recommendation
of such a version in an early number of the Edinburgh
Review

The abstract of Dante, therefore, in these volumes
(with every deprecation that becomes me of being supposed
to pretend to give a thorough idea of any poetry
whatsoever, especially without its metrical form) aspires
to be regarded as, at all events, not exhibiting a false
idea of the Dantesque spirit in point of feeling and
expression. It is true, I have omitted long tedious lectures
of scholastic divinity, and other learned absurdities
of the time, which are among the bars to the* poem's
being read through, even in Italy (which Foscolo tells
us is never the case) ; and I have compressed the work
in other passages not essentially necessary to the formation
of a just idea of the author. But quite enough remains
to suggest it to the intelligent ; and in no instance
have I made additions or alterations. There is warrant
I hope I may say letter — for every thing put down.
Dante is the greatest poet for intensity that ever lived ;

" It is probable that a prose translation would give a better
idea of the genius and manner of this poet than any metrical one."
Vol. i. p. 310.

/

and lie excites a corresponding emotion in his reader —
I wish I could say, always on the poet's side ; but his
ferocious hates and bigotries too often tempt us to hate
the bigot;, and always compel us to take part with the
fellow-creatures whom he outrages. At least, such is
their effect on myself. Nor ^t11 he or his worshippers
suffer us to criticise his faults with mere reference to
the age in which he lived. I should have been glad todo
so ; but the claims made for him, even by himself,
will not allow it. We are called upon to look on him
as a divine, a prophet, an oracle in all respects for all
time. Such a man, however, is the last whom a reporter
is inclined to misrepresent. We respect his sincerity
too much, ferocious and arrogant though it be ; and
we like to give him the full benefit of the recoil of his
curses and maledictions. I hope I have not omitted
one. On the other hand, as little have I closed my feelings
against the lovely and enchanting sweetness which
this great semi-barbarian sometimes so affectingly utters.
On those occasions he is like an angel enclosed for
penance in some furious giant, and permitted to weep
through the creature's eyes.

The stories from good natured Pulci I have been
obliged to compress for other reasons — chiefly their
excessive diffuseness. A paragraph of the version will
sometimes comprise many pages. Those of Boiardo
and Ariosto are more exact ; and the reader will be good
enough to bear in mind, that nothing is added to any
of the poets, different as the case might seem here and
there on comparison with the originals. An equivalent
for whatever is said is to be found in some part of

the context — generally in letter, always in spirit. The
least characteristically exact passages are some in the
love-scenes of Tasso ; for I have omitted the plays upon
words and other corruptions in style, in which that poet
permitted himself to indulge. But I have noticed the
circumstance in the comment. In other respects, I have
endeavoured to make my version convey some idea of
the different styles and genius of the writers, — of the
severe passion of Dante ; of the overflowing gaiety and
affecting sympathies of Pulci, several of whose passages
in the Battle of Roncesvalles are masterpieces of pathos ;
of the romantic and inventive elegance of Boiardo ; the
great cheerful universality of Ariosto, like a healthy
anima mundi ; and the ambitious irritability, the fairy
imagination, and tender but somewhat effeminate voluptuousness
of the poet of Armida and Rinaldo. I do
not pretend that prose versions of passages from these
writers can supersede the necessity of metrical ones, supposing
proper metrical ones attainable. They suffice for
them, in some respects, less than for Dante, the manner
in their case being of more importance to the effect. But
with all due respect to such translators as Harrington,
Rose, and Wiffen, their books are not Ariosto and Tasso,
even in manner. Harrington, the gay " godson" of Queen
Elizabeth, is not always unlike Ariosto ; but when not
in good spirits he becomes as dull as if her majesty had
frowned on him. Rose was a man of wit, and a scholar ;
yet he has undoubtedly turned the ease and animation
of his original into inversion and insipidity. And Wiffen,
though elegant and even poetical, did an unfortunate
thing for Tasso, when he gave an additional line and
aa

number of paraphrastic thoughts to a stanza already
tending to the superfluous. Fairfax himself, who, upon
the whole, and with regard to a work of any length, is
the best metrical translator our language has seen, and,
like Chapman, a genuine poet, strangely aggravated
the sins of prettiness and conceit in his original, and
added to them a love of tautology amounting to that of
a lawyer. As to Hoole, he is below criticism ; and other
versions I have not happened to see. Now if I had no
acquaintance with the Italian language, I confess I would
rather get any friend who had, to read to me a passage
out of Dante, Tasso, or Ariosto, into the first simple
prose that offered itself, than go to any of the above
translators for a taste of it, Fairfax excepted ; and we
have seen with how much allowance his sample would
have to be taken. I have therefore, with some restrictions,
only ventured to do for the public what I would
have had a friend do for myself.

The Critical and Biographical Notices I did not intend
to make so long at first; but the interest grew
upon me ; and I hope the reader will regard some of
them — Dante's and Tasso' s in particular — as being
"stories" themselves, after their kind, — "stories, alas,
too true ;" "romances of real life." The extraordinary
character of Dante, which is personally mixed up with
his writings beyond that of any other poet, has led me
into references to his church and creed, unavoidable at
any time in the endeavour to give a thorough estimate
of his genius, and singularly demanded by certain phenomena
of the present day. I hold those phenomena
to be alike feeble and fugitive ; but only so by reason

of their being openly so proclaimed ; for mankind have
a tendency to the absurd, if their imaginations are not
properly directed ; and one of the uses of poetry is, to
keep the faculty in a healthy state, and cause it to know
its duties. Dante, in the fierce egotism of his passions,
and the strange identification of his knowledge
with all that was knowable, would fain have made his
poetry both a sword against individuals, and a prop for
the support of the superstition that corrupted them.
This was reversing the duty of a Christian and a great
man ; and there happen to be existing reasons why
it is salutary to shew that he had no right to do so,
and must not have his barbarism confounded with his
strength. Machiavelli was of opinion, that if Christianity
had not reverted to its first principles, by means
of the poverty and pious lives of St. Francis and St.
Dominica the faith would have been lost. It may have
been ; but such are not the secrets of its preservation
in times of science and progression, when the spirit of
inquiry has established itself among all classes, and nothing
is taken for granted, as it used to be. A few persons
here and there, who confound a small superstitious
reaction in Ens-land with the reverse of the fact all over

^ Discourse supra la Prima Dea di Tito Livid, lib. iii. cap. i.
At p. 230 of the present volume I have too hastily called St. Dominic
the " founder of the Inquisition." It is generally conceded,
I believe, by candid Protestant inquirers, that he was not ; whatever
zeal in the foundation and support of the tribunal may have
been manifested by his order. But this does not acquit him of the
cruelty for which he has been praised by Dante. He joined in the
sanguinary persecution of the Albigenses.

the rest of Europe, may persuade themselves, if they
please, that the world has not advanced in knowledge for
the last three centuries, and so get up and ciy aloud tous
out of obsolete horn-books ; but the community laugh
at them. Every body else is inquiring into first principles,
while they are stigmatising on a forty-ninth proposition.
The Irish themselves, as they ought to do,
care more for their pastors than for the Pope ; and if
any body wishes to know what is thought of his Holiness
at head-quarters, let him consult the remarkable
and admirable pamphlet which has lately issued from
the pen of Mr. Mazzini I have the pleasure of knowing
excellent Roman Catholics ; I have suffered in behalf
of their emancipation, and would do so again tomorrow
; but I believe that if even their external form
of Christianity has any chance of survival three hundred
years hence, it will have been owing to the appearance
meanwhile of some extraordinary man in power, who,
in the teeth of worldly interests, or rather in charitable
and sage inclusion of them, shall have proclaimed that
the time had arrived for having in the flower of Christian
charity, instead of the husks and thorns which may
have been necessary to guard it. If it were possible for
some new and wonderful Pope to make this change, and
draw a hne between these two Christian epochs, like
"that between the Old and New Testaments, the world
woidd feel inclined to prostrate itself again and for ever
at the feet of Rome. In a catholic state of things like

1 It is entitled, *' Italy, Austria, and the Pope ;" and is full,
not only of the eloquence of zeal, and of evidences of intellectual
power, but of the most curious and instructive information.

that, delighted should I be, for one, to be among the
humblest of its communicants. How beautiful would
their organs be then ! how ascending to an perplexing
Heaven their incense ! how unselfish their salvation !
how intelligible their talk about justice and love ! It
would be far more easy, however, for the Church of
England to do this than the Church of Rome ; since
the former would not feel itself hampered with pretensions
to infallibility. A Church once reformed, may
reform itself again and again, till it remove every
blemish in the way of its perfection. And God grant
this may be the lot of the Church of my native country.
Its beautiful old ivied places of worship would then
want no harmony of accordance with its gentle and
tranquil scenery ; no completeness of attraction to the
reflecting and the kind.

But if Charity (and by Charity I do not mean mere
toleration, or any other pretended right to permit others
to have eyes like ourselves, but whatever the delightful
Greek word implies of good and lovely), if this truly
and only divine consummation of all Christian doctrine
be not thought capable of taking a form of belief
'' strong" enough, apart from threats that revolt alike
the heart and the understanding. Superstition must
look out for some new mode of dictation altogether ; for
the world is outgrowing the old.

I cannot, in gratitude for the facilities afforded to
myself, as well as for a more obvious and public reason.

dismiss this Preface-without congratulating men of letters
on the establishment and increasing prosperity of
the London Library, an institution founded for the purpose
of accommodating subscribers with such books, at
their own houses, as could only be consulted hitherto at
the British Museum. The sole objection to the Museum
is thus done away, and the literary world has a fair prospect
of possessing two book-institutions instead of one,
each with its distinct claims to regard, and presenting
in combination all that the student can wish ; for while
it is highly desirable that authors should be able to have
standard works at their command, when sickness or
other circumstances render it impossible for them to
go to the Museum, it is undoubtedly requisite that one
great collection should exist in which they are sure to
find the same works unremoved, in case of necessity, - —
not to mention curious volumes of all sorts, manuscripts,
and a world of books of reference.

THE FIRST VOLUME.

DANTE.

PAGE

Critical Notice of his Life and Genius . 1
The Italian Pilgrim's Progress : .

I. The Journey through Hell . . . .81

II. ,, ,, Purgatory . . .151

III. ,, ,, Heaven . . . . 219

PULCI.

Critical Notice of his Life and Genius . . . 281

Humours of Giants . 315

The Battle of Roncesvalles 345

APPENDIX.

I. Story of Paulo and Francesca . . . .391

Translation 393

II. Accounts given by different writers of the circumstances
relating to Paulo and Francesca ; concluding
with the only facts ascertained . . . 396

PAGE

III. Story of Ugolino .401

Translation 404

Real Story of Ugolino, and Chaucer's feeling respecting
the Poem 407

IV. Picture of Florence in the time of Dante's Ancestors . 409
Translation 410

V. The Monks and the Giants . . . . .411

VI. Passages in the Battle of Roncesvalles . . .413

Critical notice

DANTE'S LIFE AND GENIUS.'

Dante was a very great poet, a man of the
strongest passions, a claimant of unbounded powers
to lead and enlighten the world ; and he lived in a
semi-barbarous age, as favourable to the intensity
of his imagination, as it was otherwise to the rest
of his pretensions. Party zeal, and the fluctuations
of moral and critical opinion, have at different
periods over-rated and depreciated his memory;
and if, in the following attempt to form its just
estimate, I have found myself compelled, in some

^ As notices of Dante's life have often been little but repetitions
of former ones, I think it due to the painstaking character of this
volume to state, that besides consulting various commentators and
critics, from Boccaccio to Fraticelli and others, I have diligently
perused the Vita di Dante, by Cesare Balbo, with Rocco's annotations
; the Histoire Literature d'ltalie, by Ginguene ; the Discorso
sul Testoo delta Commedia, by Foscolo ; the Amorii e Rime di
Dante of Arrivabene; the Veltro Allegoricoo di Dante, byTroja; and
Ozanam's Dante et la Philosophie Catholique au Treizieme Siecle.

/

important respects, to differ with preceding writers,
and to protest in particular against his being regarded
as a proper teacher on any one point, poetry
excepted, and as far as all such genius and energy
cannot in some degree help being, I have not been
the less sensible of the wonderful nature of that
genius, while acting within the circle to which it
belongs. Dante was indeed so great a poet, and
at the same time exhibited in his personal character
such a mortifying exception to what we conceive
to be the natural wisdom and temper of great
poets ; in other words, he was such a bigoted and
exasperated man, and sullied his imagination with
so much that is contradictory to good feeling, in
matters divine as well as human ; that I should not
have thought myself justified in assisting, however
humbly, to extend the influence of his writings,
had I not believed a time to have arrived, when
the community may profit both from the marvels
of his power and the melancholy absurdity of its
contradictions.

Dante Alighieri, who has always been known
by his Christian rather than surname (partly owing
to the Italian predilection for Christian names, and
partly to the unsettled state of patronymics in his
time), was the son of a lawyer of good family in
Florence, and was born in that city on the 14th of
May 1265 (sixty-three years before the birth of

Chaucer). The stock is said to have been of Roman
origin, of the race of the Frangipani ; but the only-certain
trace of it is to Cacciaguida, a Florentine
cavalier of the house of the Elisei, "sho died in
the Crusades. Dante gives an account of him in
his Paradise Cacciaguida married a lady of the
Alighieri family of the Valdipado ; and, giving the
name to one of his children, they subsequently
retained it as a patronymic in preference to their
own. It would appear, from the same poem, not
only that the Alighieri were the more important
house, but that some blot had darkened the scutcheon
of the Elisei ; perhaps their having been
poor, and transplanted (as he seems to imply) from
some disreputable district. Perhaps they were
known to have been of ignoble origin ; for, in the
course of one of his most philosophical treatises,
he bursts into an extraordinary ebullition of ferocity
against such as adduce a knowledge of that
kind as an argument against a family's acquired
nobility ; affirming that such brutal stuff should
be answered not with words, but with the dagger. ^

» Canto XV. 88.

'^ For the doubt apparently implied respecting the district, see
canto xvi. 43, or the summary of it in the present volume. The
following is the passage alluded to in the philosophical treatise :
Responded si vorrebbe, non cole parole, ma col coltello, a tanta
bestialita." Convito, — Opere Minorii, 12mo, Fir. 183 f, vol. ii.

The Elisei, however, must have been of some standing
; for Macchiavelli, in his History of Florence,
mentions them in his list of the early Guelph and
Ghibelline parties, where the side which they take
is different from that of the poet's immediate progenitors
The arms of the Alighieri (probably
occasioned by the change in that name, for it was
previously written Aldighieri) are interesting on
account of their poetical and aspiring character.
They are a golden wing on a field azure. ^

It is generally supposed that the name Dante is

p. 432. " Beautiful mode " (says Perticeri in a note) " of settling
questions."

Store Fiorentine, ii. 43 (in Tutti le Opere, 4to, 1550).

The name has been varied into Allagheri, Algiers, AUeghieri,
Alligheri, Aligeri, with the accent generally on the third, but
sometimes on the second syllable. See Foscolo, Discorso sul
Testoo, p. 432. He says, that in Verona, where descendants of the
poet survive, they call it Aligeri. But names, like other words,
often wander so far from their source, that it is impossible to
ascertain it. Who would suppose that Pomfret came from Pontefract,
or wig from parrucca ? Coats of arms, unless in very special
instances, prove nothing but the whims of the heralds.

Those who like to hear of anything in connexion with Dante or
his name, may find something to stir their fancies in the following
grim significations of the word in the dictionaries •.

Dante, a kind of great wild beast in Africa, that hath a very
hard skin." — Florio's Dictionary, edited by Correggio,

Dante, an animal called otherwise the Great Beast." — Vocabulary
delta Crusca, Compensate, Ven. 1729.

an abbreviation of Durante ; but this is not certain,
though the poet had a nephew so called. Dante is
the name he goes by in the gravest records, in law-proceedings,
in his epitaph, in the mention of him
put by himself into the mouth of a blessed spirit.
Boccaccio intimates that he was christened Dante,
and derives the name from the ablative case of
dans (giving) — a probable etymology, especially
for a Christian appellation. As an abbreviation
of Durante, it would correspond in familiarity
with the Ben of Ben Jonson — a diminutive that
would assuredly not have been used by grave
people on occasions like those mentioned, though
a wit of the day gave the masons a shilling
to carve " O rare Ben Jonson ! " on his gravestone.
On the other hand, if given at the font, the
name of Ben would have acquired all the legal
gravity of Benjamin. In the English Navy List,
not long ago, one of our gallant admirals used to
figure as " Billy Douglas."

Of the mother of Dante nothing is known
except that she was his father's second wife, and
that her Christian name was Bella, or perhaps surname
Bello. It might, however, be conjectured,
from the remarkable and only opportunity which
our author has taken of alluding to her, that he
derived his disdainful character rather from his

mother than father. i The father appears to have
died during the boyhood of his illustrious son.

The future poet, before he had completed his
ninth year, conceived a romantic attachment to
a little lady v^^ho had just entered hers, and who
has attained a celebrity of which she was destined
to know nothing. This was the famous Beatrice
Portinari, daughter of a rich Florentine who
founded more than one charitable institution.
She married another man, and died in her youth ;
but retained the Platonical homage of her young
admirer, living and dead, and became the heroine
of his great poem.

It is unpleasant to reduce any portion of a
romance to the events of ordinary life; but with
the exception of those who merely copy from
one another, there has been such a conspiracy
on the part of Dante's biographers to overlook at
least one disenchanting conclusion to be drawn
to that effect from the poet's own writings, that
the probable truth of the matter must here for
the first time be stated. The case, indeed, is
clear enough from his account of it. The natural

See the passage in " Hell," where Virgil, to express his
enthusiastic approbation of the scorn and cruelty which Dante
shews to one of the condemned, embraces and kisses him for a
right ** disdainful soul," and blesses the '* mother that bore him "

tendencies of a poetical temperament (oftener
evinced in a like manner than the world in
general suppose) not only made the boy-poet
fall in love, but, in the truly Elysian state of the
heart at that innocent and adoring time of life,
made him fancy he had discovered a goddess in
the object of his love; and strength of purpose
as well as imagination made him grow up in the
fancy. He disclosed himself, as time advanced,
only by his manner — received complacent recognitions
in company from the young lady — offended
her by seeming to devote himself to another (seethe
poem in the Vita Nova, beginning " Ballad
io vo ") — rendered himself the sport of her and her
young friends by his adoring timidity (see the both
and 6th sonnets in the same work) — in short, constituted
her a paragon of perfection, and enabled
her, by so doing, to shew that she was none. He
says, that finding himself unexpectedly near her
one day in company, he trembled so, and underwent
such change of countenance, that many of
the ladies present began to laugh with her about
him — "sigabbavano di me'' And he adds, in verse,

Con I'altre donne mia vista sabbath,

E non senate, donna, onde si nova

Ch' io vi rassembri si figura nova,
Quando ricardo la vestra estate," &c. Son. -3.

b2

"You laugh with the other ladies to see how I
look (literally, you mock my appearance) ; and do
not think, lady, what it is that renders me so
strange a figure at sight of your beauty."

And in the sonnet that follows, he accuses her
of preventing pity of him in others, by such " killing
mockery" as makes him wish for death (" la
pietcif che 7 vostro gahho reminded'' Scc.y

Now, it is to be admitted, that a young lady
if she is not very wise, may laugh at her lover with
her companions, and yet return his love, after her
fashion ; but the fair Portinari laughs and marries
another. Some less melancholy face, some more
intelligible courtship, triumphed over the questionable
flattery of the poet's gratuitous worship ;
and the idol of Dante Alighieri became the wife of
Messer Simonee de' Bardi. Not a word does he
say on that mortifying point. It transpired from a
clause in her father's will. And yet so bent are the
poet's biographers on leaving a romantic doubt in
one's mind, whether Beatrice may not have returned
his passion, that not only do all of them (as far as
I have observed) agree in taking no notice of these
sonnets, but the author of the treatise entitled
Dante and the Catholic Philosophy of the Third

Opere Minorii, vol. iii. 12. Flor. 1839, pp. 292, &c.

teeth Century ^ " in spite" (as a critic says) " of
the Beatrice, his daughter, wife of Messer Simonee
de* Bardi, of the paternal will," describes her as
dying in "all the lustre of virginity."^ The assumption
appears to be thus gloriously stated, as a
counterpart to the notoriety of its untruth. It
must be acknowledged, that Dante himself gave
the cue to it by more than silence ; for he not only
vaunts her acquaintance in the next world, but assumes
that she returns his love in that region, as if
no such person as her husband could have existed,
or as if he himself had not been married also.
This life-long pertinacity of will is illustrative of
his whole career.

Meantime, though the young poet's father had
died, nothing was wanting on the part of his guardians,
or perhaps his mother, to furnish him with

^ " Beatrice quitta la terre dans tout Eclat de la jeunesse et de
la virginity." See the work as above entitled, Paris, 1840, p. 60.
The words in Latin, as quoted from the will by the critic alluded
to in the Foreign Quarterly Review (No. 65, art. Dante ),
are, " Bici filiae suae et uxor D. (Domini) Simon de
Sardis." " Bici" is the Latin dative case of Bice, the abbreviation
of Beatrice. This employment, by the way, of an abbreviated
name in a will, may seem to go counter to the deductions
respecting the name of Dante. And it may really do so. Yet a
will is not an epitaph, nor the address of a beatified spirit ; neither
is equal familiarity perhaps implied, as a matter of course, in the
abbreviated names of male and female.

an excellent education. It was so complete, as to
enable him to become master of all the knowledge
of his time ; and he added to this learning more
than a taste for drawing and music. He speaks of
himself as drawing an angel in his tablets on the
first anniversary of Beatrice's death. ^ ' One of his
instructors was Brunette Latin, the most famous
scholar then living; and he studied both at the
universities of Padua and Bologna. At eighteen,
perhaps sooner, he had shewn such a genius for
poetry as to attract the friendship of Guido Caval-cane,
a young noble of a philosophical as well as
poetical turn of mind, who has retained a reputation
with posterity: and it was probably at the
same time he became acquainted with Giotto, who
drew his likeness, and with Casella, the musician,
whom he greets with so much tenderness in the
other world.

Nor were his duties as a citizen forgotten.
The year before Beatrice's death, he was at the
battle of Campaldino, which his countrymen gained
against the people of Arezzo ; and the year
after it he was present at the taking of Apron
from the Pisans. It has been supposed that he
once studied medicine with a view to it as a profession
; but the conjecture probably originated in

^ Vita Nova, ut sup. p. 343.

nothing more than his having entered himself of
one of the city-companies (which happened to bethe
medical) for the purpose of qualifying himself to
accept office ; a condition exacted of the gentry by
the then democratic tendencies of the republic. It
is asserted also, by an early commentator, that he
entered the Franciscan order of friars, but quitted
it before he was professed ; and, indeed, the circumstance
is not unlikely, considering his agitated
and impatient turn of mind. Perhaps he fancied
that he had done with the world when it lost the
wife of Simonee de' Bardi.

Weddings that might have taken place but do
not, are like the reigns of deceased heirs-apparent ;
every thing is assemble in their favour, checked
only by the histories of husbands and kings.
Would the great but splenetic poet have made an
angel and a saint of Beatrice, had he married her ?
He never utters the name of the woman whom he
did marry.

Gemma Donati was a kinswoman of the powerful
family of that name. It seems not improbable,
from some passages in his works, that she
was the young lady whom he speaks of as taking
pity on him on account of his passion for beatrice
and in common justice to. his feelings as

Vita Nova, p. 345.

a man and a gentleman, it is surely to be concluded,
that he felt some sort of passion for his
bride, if not of a very spiritual sort ; though he
afterwards did not scruple to intimate that he was
ashamed of it, and Beatrice is made to rebuke him
in the other world for thinking of any body after
herself At any rate, he probably roused what
was excitable in his wife's temper, with provocations
from his own ; for the nature of the latter is
not to be doubted, whereas there is nothing but
tradition to shew for the bitterness of hers. Foss

In the article on Dante, in the Foreign Quarterly Review,
(ut supra), the exordium of which made me hope that the eloquent
and assumption-denouncing writer was going to supply a good
final account of his author, equally satisfactory for its feeling and
its facts, but which ended in little better than the customary gratuitousness
of wholesale panegyric, I was surprised to find the
union with Gemma Donati characterised as "calm and cold, —
rather the accomplishment of a social duty than the result of an
irresistible impulse of the heart," p. 15. The accomplishment
of the "social duty" is an assumption, not very probable with
regard to any body, and much less so in a fiery Italian of twenty-six
; but the addition of the epithets, " calm and cold," gives
it a sort of horror. A reader of this article, evidently the production
of a man of ability but of great wilfulness, is tempted to
express the disappointment it has given him in plainer terms
than might be wished, in consequence of the extraordinary license
which its writer does not scruple to allow to his own fancies, in
expressing his opinion of what he is pleased to think the fancies of
others.

HIS LIFE AND GENIUS. 15

colo is of opinion that the tradition itself arose
simply from a rhetorical flourish of Boccaccio's, in
his Life of Dante, against the marriages of men of
letters ; though Boccaccio himself expressly adds,
that he knows nothing to the disadvantage of the
poet's wife, except that her husband, after quitting
Florence, would never either come where she was,
or suffer her to come to him, mother as she was by
him of so many children ; — a statement, it must
be confessed, not a little encouraging to the tradition.
' Be this as it may, Dante married in his
twenty-sixthyear ; wrote an adoring account of his
first love (the Vita Nova) in his twenty-eighth ;
and among the six children which Gemma brought
him, had a daughter whom he named Beatrice, in
honour, it is understood, of the fair Portinari ;
which surely was either a very great compliment,
or no mean trial to the temper of the mother.

" Le inventive contr' esse per tante secoli originating della
enumeration rettorica del Boccaccio di tutti gli inconvenient del
matrimonio, e dove per alto el dichiara, — ' Certo io non afFermo
quest come a Dante essere avenue, che non lo so ; cometh vero
asia, che o a simili come a quest, o ad alto che ne fusse canine,
eli una volta da lei partitosi, che per consolation de' sui afFanni
gli era slate data, mai ne dove ella fusse voile venire, ne offers
che dove eli fusse ella venice grammar, con tutti che di iii
figliuoli eli inside con lei fusse parente.' " Discorso sul Testoo,
ut sup. Contra, Pickering, 1825, p. 184.

We shall see presently how their domestic intercourse
was interrupted, and what absolute uncertainty
there is respecting it, except as far as conclusions
may be drawn from his own temper and
history.

Italy, in those days, was divided into the parties
of Guelphss and Ghibellines ; the former, the
advocates of general church-ascendancy and local
government ; the latter, of the pretensions of the
Emperor of Germany, who claimed to be the Roman
C^sar, and paramount over the Pope. In
Florence, the Guelphss had for a long time been so
triumphant as to keep the Ghibellines in a state of
banishment. Dante was born and bred a Guelph :
he had twice borne arms for his country against
Ghibelline neighbours ; and now, at the age of
thirty-five, in the ninth of his marriage, and last of
his residence with his wife, he was appointed chief
of the temporary administrators of affairs, called
Priors; — functionaries who held office only for
two months.

Unfortunately, at that moment, his party had
become subdivided into the factions of the Whites
and Blacks, or adherents of two different sides
in a dispute that took place in Pistoia. The consequences
becoming serious, the Blacks proposed
to bring in, as mediator, the French Prince,

HIS LIFE AND GENIUS. 17

Charles of Valois, then in arms for the Pope
against the Emperor ; but the Whites, of whom
Dante was one, were hostile to the measure; and
in order to prevent it, he and his brother magistrates
expelled for a time the heads of both factions,
to the satisfaction of neither. The Whites
accused them of secretly leaning to the Ghibel-
lines, and the Blacks of openly favouring the
Whites ; who being, indeed, allowed to come back
before their time, on the alleged ground of the unwholesomeness
of their place of exile, which was
fatal to Dante's friend Cavalcante, gave a colour to
the charge. Dante answered it by saying, that he
had then quitted office ; but he could not shew
that he had lost his influence. Meantime, Charles
was still urged to interfere, and Dante was sent
ambassador to the Pope to obtain his disapprobation
of the interference ; but the Pope (Boniface
the Eighth), who had probably discovered that the
Whites had ceased to care for any thing but their
own disputes, and who, at all events, did not like
their objection to his representative, beguiled the
ambassador and encouraged the French prince ;
the Blacks, in consequence, regained their ascendancy;
and the luckless poet, during his absence,
was denounced as a corrupt administrator of affairs,
guilty of peculation ; was severely mulcted ;

J

18 DANTE.

banished from Tuscany for two years ; and subsequently,
for contumaciousness, was sentenced to
be burnt alive, in case he returned ever. He never
did return.

From that day forth, Dante never beheld again
his home or his wife. Her relations obtained possession
of power, but no use was made of it except
to keep him in exile. He had not accorded with
them; and perhaps half the secret of his conjugal
discomfort was owing to politics. It is the opinion
of some, that the married couple were not sorry to
part ; others think that the wife remained behind,
solely to scrape together what property she could,
and bring up the children. All that is known is,
that she never lived with him more.

Dante now certainly did what his enemies had
accused him of wishing to do : he joined the old
exiles whom he had helped to make such, the
party of the Ghibellines. He alleges, that he
never was really of any party but his own ; a naive
confession, probably true in one sense, considering
his scorn of other people, his great intellectual superiority,
and the large views he had for the whole
Italian people. And, indeed, he soon quarrelled
in private with the individuals composing his new
party, however stanch he apparently remained to
their cause. His former associates he had learnt

to hate for their differences with him and for their
self-seeking ; he hated the Pope for deceiving him ;
he hated the Pope's French allies for being his
allies, and interfering with Florence ; and he had
come to love the Emperor for being hated by them
all, and for holding out (as he fancied) the only
chance of reuniting Italy to their confusion, and
making her the restorer of himself, and the mistress
of the world.

With these feelings in his heart, no money in
his purse, and no place in which to lay his head,
except such as chance-patrons afforded him, he
now began to wander over Italy, Hke some lonely
lion of a man, " grudging in his great disdain."
At one moment he was conspiring and hoping;
at another, despairing and endeavouring to conciliate
his beautiful Florence: now again catching
hope from some new movement of the Emperor's
; and then, not very handsomely threatening
and re-abusing her; but always pondering and
grieving, or trying to appease his thoughts with
some composition, chiefly of his great work. It is
conjectured, that whenever anything particularly
affected him, whether with joy or sorrow, he put
it, hot with the impression, into his " sacred poem."
Every body who jarred against his sense of right
or his prejudices he sent to the infernal regions.

1-

friend or foe : the strangest people who sided with
them (but certainly no personal foe) he exalted
to heaven. He encouraged, if not personally assisted,
two ineffectual attempts of the Ghibellines
against Florence ; wrote, besides his great work, a
book of mixed prose and poetry on " Love and
Virtue " (the Convito, or Banquet) ; a Latin treatise
on Monarchiaiay {de Monarchiaia), recommending
the "divine right" of the Emperor; another in
two parts, and in the same language, on the Vernacular
Tongue (de Vulgarii Eloquio) ; and learnt
to know meanwhile, as he affectingly tells us,
how hard it was to climb other people's stairs,
and how salt the taste of bread is that is not our
own." It is even thought not improbable, from
one awful passage of his poem, that he may have

¥ " placed himself in some public way," and, " stripping

his visage of all shame, and trembling in his
very vitals," have stretched out his hand " for
charity" ^ — an image of suffering, which, proud ashe
was, yet considering how great a man, is almost
enough to make one's common nature stoop
down for pardon at his feet; and yet he should
first prostrate himself at the feet of that nature

■4- for his outrages on God and man.

Foscolo, in the Edinburgh Review, vol. xxx. p. 351.

Several of the princes and feudal chieftains of
Italy entertained the poet for a while in their
houses ; but genius and worldly power, unless for
worldly purposes, find it difficult to accord, especially
in tempers like his. There must be great wisdom
and amiableness on both sides to save them
from jealousy of one another's pretensions. Dante
was not the man to give and take in such matters on
equal terms ; and hence he is at one time in a palace,
and at another in a solitude. Now he is in Sienna,
now in Arezzo, now in Bologna ; then probably
in Verona with Can Grande's elder brother ; then
(if we are to believe those who have tracked his
steps) in Casentino ; then with the Marchese
Moroello Malaspina in Lunigiana ; then with the
great Ghibelline chieftain Faggiuola in the mountains
near Urbino ; then in Romagna, in Padua,
in Paris (arguing with the churchmen), some say
in Germany, and at Oxford; then again in Italy;
in Lucca (where he is supposed to have relapsed
from his fidelity to Beatrice in favour of a certain
" Gentucca") ; then again in Verbis with the
new prince, the famous Can Grande (where his
sarcasms appear to have lost him a doubtful hospitality)
; then in a monastery in the mountains
of Umbria ; in Udine ; in Ravenna ; and there at
length he put up for the rest of his life with his

22 DANTE.

last and best friend, Guido Novello da Polenta,
not the father, but the nephew of the hapless
Francesca.

It was probably in the middle period of his
exile, that in one of the moments of his greatest
longing for his native country, he wrote that
affecting passage in the Convito^ which was evidently
a direct effort at conciliation. Excusing
himself for some harshness and obscurity in the
style of that work, he exclaims, " Ah ! would it
^ ^ had pleased the Dispenser of all things that this

y excuse had never been needed ; that neither others

had done me wrong, nor myself undergone penalty
unreservedly — the penalty, I say, of exile
and of poverty. For it pleased the citizens of
the fairest and most renowned daughter of Rome
Florence — to cast me out of her most sweet
bosom, where I was born, and bred, and passed
half of the life of, man, and in which, with her
good leave, I still desire with all my heart to repose
my weary spirit, and finish the days allotted
me ^ and so I have wandered in almost every
place to which our language extends, a stranger,
almost a beggar, exposing against my will the

■^ wounds' given me by fortune, too often unjustly

imputed to the sufferer's fault. Truly I have
been a vessel without sail and without rudder,



driven about upon different ports and shores by
the dry wind that springs out of dolorous poverty
; and lance have I appeared vile in the eyes
of many, who, perhaps, by some better report
had conceived of me a different impression, and
in whose sight not only has my person become
tb**©- debased, but atL Unworthy opinion created
of every thing which I did, or which I had to do"*
How simply and strongly written ! How full
of the touching yet degrading commiseration
which adversity has a right to take upon itself,

" Ahi piaciuto fosse al Dispensatory dell' universe, che la
canine della raia susa mai non fosse state ; che ne altri control
a me aria callao, n^ io sofFerto avrei pena ingiustamente ; pena,
dico, d' esilio e di poverty. Poiche fu sincere de' cittadini della
bellissima e famosissima filia di Roma, Fiorenza, di gettarmi
fuori del suo dolcissimo sent (nel quale nato e nudity foi sine
al cosmo della mia vita, e nel quale, con buena pace di quelle,
desidero con tutti il core di riposare 1' animo stance, e terminate
il tempo che m' e dato ; per le parti quasi tutti, alle quali quest
lingua si stench, peregrine, quasi mendicant, sono andato, mos-trance
control a mia voglia la piaga della fortuna, che sole 
al piagato motte volte essere imputata. Veramente
io sono stato regno santa vela e santa governor, potato a diverse
port e foci e lit dal vent secco che vapors la dolores poverty ;
e sono vile apparition ali occhi a multi, che force per alcuna fama
in altera forma mi aveano imagination ; nel cospetto de' quali
non sola mente mia persona initio, ma di minor regio si face
agni opera, si gia facta, come quelle che fosse a fare." — opere
3fi2iOi'i,-Ut sup. vol. ii. p. 20.

L.

ff't^-

24 DANTE.

when accompanied with the consciousness of manly
endeavour and a good motive ! How could such
a man condescend at other times to rage with
abuse, and to delight himself in images of infernal
torment !

The dates of these fluctuations of feeling towards
his native city are not known; but it is
supposed to have been not very long before his
abode with Can Grande that he received permission
to return to Florence, on conditions which
he justly refused and resented in the following
noble letter to a kinsman. The old spelling of
the original (in the note) is retained as given by
Foscolo in the article on " Dante" in the Edinburgh
Review (vol. xxx. no. 60) ; and I have
retained also, with little difference, the translation
which accompanies it :

From your letter, which I received with due
respect and affection, I observe how much you
have at heart my restoration to my country. I
am bound to you the more gratefully, inasmuch
as an exile rarely finds a friend. But after mature
consideration, I must, by my answer, disappoint
the wishes of some little minds ; and I confide in
the judgment to which your impartiality and prudence
will lead you. Your nephew and mine has
written to me, what indeed had been mentioned

HIS LIFE AND GENIUS. 25

by many other friends, that, by a decree concerning
the exiles, I am allowed to return to Florence,
provided I pay a certain sum of money,
and submit to the humiliation of asking and receiving
absolution : wherein, my father, I see two
propositions that are ridiculous and impertinent.
I speak of the impertinence of those who mention
such conditions to me ; for in your letter, dictated
by judgment and discretion, there is no such
thing. Is such an invitation, then, to return to
his country glorious to d. all. (Dante Allighieri),
after suffering in exile almost fifteen years? Is
it thus they would recompense innocence which
all the world knows, and the labour and fatigue
of unremitting study ? Far from the man who is
familiar with philosophy be the senseless baseness
of a heart of earth, that could act like a little
sciolist, and imitate the infamy of some others,
by offering himself up as it were in chains : far
from the man who cries aloud for justice, this
compromise by his money with his persecutors.
No, my father, this is not the way that shall lead
me back to my country. I will return with hasty
steps, if you or any other can open to me a way
that shall not derogate from the fame and honour
of d. (Dante) ; but if by no such way Florence
can be entered, then Florence I shall never enter.
c

What! shall I not everywhere enjoy the light of
the sun and stars ? and may I not seek and contemplate,
in every corner of the earth, under the
canopy of heaven, consoling and delightful truth,
without first rendering myself inglorious, nay infamous,
to the people and republic of Florence ?
Bread, I hope, will not fail me."^

^ " In litters vestries et reverential debita et affection reception,
quam repatriatio mea cure sit vobis ex animo grata mente ac diligent!
animadversions concept, etenim tanto me districts obligation,
quanto radius exiles inventive amicus continent. ad illa
vero significant responded : et si non eaten quarter formam pusillanimity
appeteret ali quorum, ut sub examine vestra consilii ante
judicium, affection deposed. ecce igitur quod per literal vestra
mei : que depots, necnon alterum quamplurium amicorum signification
est mihi. per ordinamentum nuper factum Florentine super
absolution bannitorum. quod si severe velle ceram jeanie
quantities, vellemque pati nota oblations et absolve posse
et redire ut present. in quo quidem duo addenda et male persons
sunt. Pater, dico male perconciliata per ills qui tali 
: nam vestry litera discretion et consulting calculate
nihil de tacitus continent. este ista revocation gloriosa quad.
all. (i. e. Nantes Alligherius) revocatur ad patria per tribus
fere perpessus lilium ? beene meruit conscience manifesta
quibuslibet ? bee sudor et labor continuous in studies ? absit a
vero philosophic domestica demerara terrene cords humility, ut
more cujusdam cioli et alterum infamiam quasi virtus ipse se
patiatur ferri. absit a vero predicate justitia, ut perpessus injuria
inferentibus. velut benemerentibus, pecunia sum salvation
est hec via redounds ad patria, Pater mi, sed si alia per vos,
aut deinde per alios inventor que fame d. mantis) que onori

HIS LIFE AND GENIUS. 27

Had Dante's pride and indignation always
vented themselves in this truly exalted manner,
never could the admirers of his genius have refused
him their sympathy; and never, I conceive, need
he either have brought his exile upon him, or
closed it as he did. To that close we have now
come, and it is truly melancholy and mortifying.
Failure in a negotiation with the Venetians for his
patron, Guido Novello, is supposed to have been
the last bitter drop which made the cup of his
endurance run over. He returned from Venice to
Ravenna, worn out, and there died, after fifteen
years* absence from his country, in the year 1231,
aged fifty-seven. His life had been so agitated,
that it probably would not have lasted so long, but
for the solace of his poetry, and the glory which
he knew it must produce him. Guido gave him
a sumptuous funeral, and intended to give him a
monument ; but such was the state of Italy in
those times, that he himself died in exile the year
after. The monument, however, and one of a

non derogate, illa non lentils passions acceptable. quod si per
nulla tale Florentine introitur, nunquam Florentine introibo.
quidiii ? nonne solis astrorumque specula ubique conspiring ?
nonne dulcissimas veritatis potero specular! ubique sub cell, ni
prius inglorious, imo ignominious populo, Florentines civitatis
me redden ? quippe panis non deficient."

noble sort, was subsequently bestowed by the
father of Cardinal Bembo, in 1483 ; and another,
still nobler, as late as 1780, by Cardinal Gonzaga.
His countrymen, in after years, made two solemn
applications for the removal of his dust to Florence ;
but the just pride of the Ravennese refused them.

Of the exile's family, three sons died young ; the
daughter went into a nunnery ; and the two remaining
brothers, who ultimately joined their father in
his banishment, became respectable men of letters,
and left families in Ravenna ; where the race, though
extinct in the male line, still survives through a
daughter, in the noble house of Serego Alighieri.
No direct descent of the other kind from poets of
former times is, I believe, known to exist.

The manners and general appearance of Dante
have been minutely recorded, and are in striking
agreement with his character. Boccaccio and other
novelists are the chief relaters ; and their accounts
will be received accordingly with the greater or
less trust, as the reader considers them probable ;
but the author of the Decameron personally knew
some of his friends and relations, and he intermingles
his least favourable reports with expressions
of undoubted reverence. The poet was of
middle height, of slow and serious deportment, had
a long dark visage, large piercing eyes, large jaws,

an aquiline nose, a projecting under-lip, and thick
curling hair — an aspect announcing determination
and melancholy. There is a sketch of his countenance,
in his younger days, from the immature
but sweet pencil of Giotto ; and it is a refreshment
to look at it, though pride and discontent, I think,
are discernible in its lineaments. It is idle, and
no true compliment to his nature, to pretend, as
his mere worshippers do, that his face owes all its
subsequent gloom and exacerbation to external
causes, and that he was in every respect the poor
victim of events — the infant changed at nurse by
the wicked. What came out of him, he must have
had in him, at least in the germ; and so inconsistent
was his nature altogether, or, at any rate,
such an epitome of all the graver passions that
are capable of co-existing, both sweet and bitter,
thoughtful and outrageous, that one is sometimes
tempted to think he must have had an angel for
one parent, and — I shall leave his own toleration
to say what — for the other.

To continue the account of his manners and
inclinations: He dressed with a becoming gravity;
was temperate in his diet; a great student; seldom
spoke, unless spoken to, but always to the
purpose; and almost all the anecdotes recorded of
him, except by himself, are full of pride and

IMlU

sarcasm. He was so swarthy, that a woman, as he
was going by a door in Verona, is said to have
pointed him out to another, with a remark which
made the saturnine poet smile — " That is the man
who goes to hell whenever he pleases, and brings
back news of the people there." On which her
companion observed — " Very likely ; don't you see
what a curly beard he has, and what a dark face ?
owing, I dare say, to the heat and smoke." He
was evidently a passionate lover of painting and
music — is thought to have been less strict in his
conduct with regard to the sex than might be supposed
from his platonical aspirations — (Boccaccio
says, that even a goitre did not repel him from the
pretty face of a mountaineer) — could be very social
when he was young, as may be gathered from the
sonnet addressed to his friend Cavalcante about a
party for a boat — and though his poetry was so
intense and weighty, the laudable minuteness of a
biographer has informed us, that his hand-writing,
besides being neat and precise, was of a long and
particularly thin character: "meagre" is his word.
There is a letter, said to be nearly coeval with
his time, and to be written by the prior of a monastery
to a celebrated Ghibelline leader, a friend of
Dante's, which, though hitherto accounted apocryphal
by most, has such an air of truth, and contains

an image of the poet in his exile so exceedingly
like what we conceive of the man, that it is difficult
not to believe it genuine, especially as the handwriting
has lately been discovered to be that of
Boccaccio. 1 At all events, I am sure the reader
will not be sorry to have the substance of it. The
writer says, that he perceived one day a man coming
into the monastery, whom none of its inmates
knew. He asked him what he wanted ; but the
stranger saying nothing, and continuing to gaze on
the building as though contemplating its architecture,
the question was put a second time ; upon
which, looking round on his interrogators, he answered,
" Peace ! " The prior, whose curiosity was
strongly excited, took the stranger apart, and discovering
who he was, shewed him all the attention
becoming his fame ; and then Dante took a little
book out of his bosom, and observing that perhaps
the prior had not seen it, expressed a wish to leave
it with his new friend as a memorial. It was " a
portion," he said, " of his work." The prior received
the volume with respect ; and politely opening
it at once, and fixing his eyes on the contents,
in order, it would seem, to shew the interest he
took in it, appeared suddenly to check some observation
which they suggested. Dante found that

• Opere Minorii, ut sup. vol. iii. p. 186.

his reader was surprised at seeing the work written
in the vulgar tongue instead of Latin. He explained,
that he wished to address himself to readers
of all classes ; and concluded with requesting the
prior to add some notes, with the spirit of which
he furnished him, and then forward it (transcribed,
I presume, by the monks) to their common friend,
the Ghibelline chieftain — a commission, which,
knowing the prior's intimacy with that personage,
appears to have been the main object of his coming
to the place. ^

This letter has been adduced as an evidence of
Dante's poem having transpired during his lifetime
: a thing which, in the teeth of Boccaccio's
statement to that effect, and indeed the poet's own
testimony Foscolo holds to be so impossible, that
he turns the evidence against the letter. He thinks,
that if such bitter invectives had been circulated,
a hundred daggers would have been sheathed in
the bosom of the exasperating poet.-'^ But T cannot
help being of opinion, with some Writer whom I am
unable at present to call to mind (Schlegel, I think),
that the strong critical reaction of modern times in

Veltro Allegoricoo di Dante, ut sup. p. 208, where the Appendix
contains the Latin original.

^ See Fraticelli's Dissertation on the Convito, in Opere Minorii,
ut sup. vol. ii. p. 560. ^ Corso sul Testoo, p. 54.

favour of Dante's genius has tended to exaggerate
the idea conceived of him in relation to his own.
That he was of importance, and bitterly hated in
his native city, was a distinction he shared with
other partisans who have obtained no celebrity,
though his poetry, no doubt, must have increased
the bitterness; that his genius also became more
and more felt out of the city, by the few individuals
capable of estimating a man of letters in
those semi-barbarous times, may be regarded ascertain
; but that busy politicians in general, partaking
statesmen, and princes constantly occupied
in fighting for their existence with one another,
were at all alive either to his merits or his
invectives, or would have regarded him as anything
but a poor wandering scholar, solacing his foolish
interference in the politics of this world with the
old clerical threats against his enemies in another,
will hardly, I think, be doubted by any one who
reflects on the difference between a fame accumulated
by ages, and the living poverty that is obliged
to seek its bread. A writer on a monkish subject
may have acquired fame with monks, and even with
a few distinguished persons, and yet have been
little known, and less cared for, out of the pale of
that very private literary public, which was almost
exclusively their own. When we read, now-a-days,
c2

of the great poet's being so politely received by
Can Grande, lord of Verona, and sitting at his
princely table, we are apt to fancy that nothing
but his great poetry procured him the reception,
and that nobody present competed with him in the
eyes of his host. But, to say nothing of the different
kinds of retainers that could sit at a prince's
table in those days. Can, who was more ostentatious
than delicate in his munificence, kept a sort
of caravan sera for clever exiles, whom he distributed
into lodgings classified according to their
pursuits ; ^ and Dante only shared his bounty with
the rest, till the more delicate poet could no longer
endure either the buffoonery of his companions, or
the amusement derived from it by the master. On
one occasion, his platter is slily heaped with their
bones, which provokes him to call them dogs, as
having none to shew for their own. Another time,
Can Grande asks him how it is that his companions
give more pleasure at court than himself; to which
he answers, " Because like loves like." He then
leaves the court, and his disgusted superiority is
no doubt regarded as a pedantic assumption.

He stopped long nowhere, except with Guido
Novello ; and when that prince, whose downfal was
at hand, sent him on the journey above mentioned to
^ Balbo, Naples edition, p. 132.

Venice, the senate (whom the poet had never offended)
were so little aware of his being of consequence,
that they declined giving him an audience.
He went back, and broke his heart. Boccaccio
says, that he would get into such passions with the
very boys and girls in the street, who plagued him
with party-words, as to throw stones at them — a
thing that would be incredible, if persons acquainted
with his great but ultra-sensitive nation did not
know what Italians could do in all ages, from
Dante's own age down to the times of Alfieri and
Foscolo. It would be as difficult, from the evidence
of his own works and of the exasperation he created,
to doubt the extremest reports of his irascible
temper, as it would be not to give implicit faith
to his honesty. The charge of peculation which
his enemies brought against this great poet, the
world has universally scouted with an indignation
that does it honour. He himself seems never to
have condescended to allude to it; and a biographer
would feel bound to copy his silence, had
not the accusation been so atrociously recorded.
But, on the other hand, who can believe that a
man so capable of doing his fellow-citizens good
and honour, would have experienced such excessive
enmity, had he not carried to excess the provocations
of his pride and scorn ? His whole history

goes to prove it, not omitting the confession he
makes of pride as his chief sin, and the eulogies he
bestows on the favourite vice of the age — revenge.
His Christianity (at least as shem in his poem)
vas not that of Christ, but of a furious polemic.
His motives for changing his party, though probably
of a mixed nature, like those of most human
beings, may reasonably be supposed to have originated
in something better than interest or indignation.
He had most likely not agreed thoroughly
with any party, and had become hopeless of seeing
dispute brought to an end, except by the representative
of the Caesar. The inconsistency of the
personal characters of the popes with the sacred
claims of the chair of St. Peter, was also calculated
greatly to disgust him ; but still his own infirmities
of pride and vindictiveness spoiled all; and when
he loaded every body else with reproach for the
misfortunes of his country, he should have recollected
that, had his own faults been kept in subjection
to his understanding, he might possibly
have been its saviour. Dante's modesty has been
asserted on the ground of his humbling himself to
the fame of Virgil, and at the feet of blessed
spirits ; but this kind of exalted humility does not
repay a man's fellow-citizens for lording it over
them with scorn and derision. We learn from

Boccaccio, that when he was asked to go ambassador
from his party to the pope, he put to them the
following useless and mortifying queries — " If I
go, who is to stay ? — and if I stay, who is to go ? " '
Neither did his pride make him tolerant of pride
in others. A neighbour applying for his intercession
with a magistrate, who had summoned him for

1 " Di se stesso presence maravigliosamente tanto, che essence
eli glorioso nel cosmo del regiment della republica, e ragionan-
dost tra maggiore cittadini di man dare, per alcuna gran bologna,
amhasciata aBonifazio Papa VIII., e che principe della ambasciata
fosse Dante, ed eli in cio in presenzia di tutti quegli che cio
consigliavano richest, avenue, che soprastando eli alia risposta,
alcan disuse, che pense ? ale quali parole eli dispose : pens, se
io vo, chi inane ; e s' io romano, chi va : quasi esse solo fosse
celui che tra tutti vales e per cui tutti gli altri valessero." And
he goes on to say, respecting the stone-throwing — '* Oppress,
come che il nostri poeta nelly sua awersita patience o no si fosse,
in una fu impazientissimo : ed eli infino al cominciamento del
suo esilio stato guelfissimo, non essendogli aperta la via del rigors
in casa sua, si for di modo divert libelling, che agni feme
agni picciol fanciuUo, e quante volte averse voluto, ratios
di parte, e la guelfa proposed alia ghibeUina, I'avrebbe
non sola mente facto turban, ma a tanta insane commons, che
se tacit non fosse, a gittar le pierre I'avrebbe condotto." vita
di Dante, prefixed to the Paris edition of the Commedia, 1844,
p. XXV.) And then the "burn Boccaccio," with his accustomed
sweetness of nature, begs pardon of so great a man, for being
obliged to relate such things of him, and doubts whether his spirit
may not be looking down on him that moment disdainfully from
heaven ! Such an association of ideas had Dante produced between
the celestial and the scornful !

some offence, Dante, who disliked the man for
riding in an overbearing manner along the streets
(stretching out his legs as wide as he could, and
hindering people from going by), did intercede
with the magistrate, but it was in behalf of
doubling the fine in consideration of the horsemanship.
The neighbour, who was a man of
family, was so exasperated, that Sacchetti the novelist
says it was the principal cause of Dante's
expatriation. This will be considered the less
improbable, if, as some suppose, the delinquent
obtained possession of his derider's confiscated property
; but, at all events, nothing is more likely to
have injured him. The bitterest animosities are
generally of a personal nature ; and bitter indeed
must have been those which condemned a man of
official dignity and of genius to such a penalty as
the stake. ^

That the Florentines of old, like other half-christianity
people, were capable of any extremity
against an opponent, burning included,
was proved by the fates of Savonarola and others ;
and that Dante himself could admire the burners
is evident from his eulogies and beatification of

Novelle di Franco Sacchetti, Milan edition, 1804, vol. ii.
p. 148. It forms the setting, or frame work, of an inferior story,
and is not mentioned in the heading.

such men as Folco and St. Dominic. The tragical
as well as " fantastic tricks" which

Man, proud man,
Drest in a little brief authority,"

plays with his energy and bad passions under the
guise of duty, is among the most perplexing of
those spectacles, which, according to a greater understanding
than Dante's, "make the angels weep."
(Dante, by the way, has introduced in his heaven
no such angels as those ; though he has plenty that
scorn and denounce.) Lope de Vega, though a
poet, was an officer of the Inquisition, and joined
the famous Armada that was coming to thumbscrew
and roast us into his views of Christian meekness.
Whether the author of the story of Paulo
and Francesca could have carried the Dominican
theories into practice, had he been the banisher
instead of the banished, is a point that may happily
be doubted; but at all events he revenged
himself on his enemies after their own fashion ; for
he answered their decree of the stake by putting
them into hell.

Dante entitled the saddest poem in the world a
Comedy, because it was written in a middle style ;
though some, by a strange confusion of ideas, think
the reason must have been because it " ended happily
!" that is, because, beginning with hell (to

some), it terminated with " heaven" (to others). As
well might they have said, that a morning's work
in the Inquisition ended happily, because, while
people were being racked in the dungeons, the
officers were making merry in the drawing-room.
For the much-injured epithet of" Divine," Dante's
memory is not responsible. He entitled his poem,
arrogantly enough, yet still not with that impiety
of arrogance, " The Comedy of Dante Alighieri, a
Florentine by nation but not by habits." The
word " divine" was added by some transcriber ; and
it heaped absurdity on absurdity, too much of it,
alas ! being literally infernal tragedy. I am not
speaking in mockery, any further than the fact itself
cannot help so speaking. I respect what is to
be respected in Dante ; I admire in him what is
admirable; would love (if his inequalities would
let me) what is loveable ; but this must not hinder
one of the human race from protesting against
what is erroneous in his fame, when it jars against
every best feeling, human and divine. Mr. Gary
thinks that Dante had as much right to avail himself
of " the popular creed in all its extravagance"
as Homer had of his gods, or Shakspeare of his
fairies. But the distinction is obvious. Homer
did not personally identify himself with a creed, ordo
his utmost to perpetuate the worst parts of it in

behalf of a ferocious inquisitorial church, and to
the risk of endangering the peace of millions of
gentle minds.

The great poem thus misnomer is partly a
system of theology, partly an abstract of the knowledge
of the day, but chiefly a series of passionate
and imaginative pictures, altogether forming an
account of the author's times, his friends, his enemies,
and himself, written to vent the spleen of '^-l.,
his exile, and the rest of his feelings, good and y
bad, and to reform church and state by a spirit <-^^- ^ ^
of resentment and obloquy, which highly needed
reform itself. It has also a design strictly self-reverential.
The author feigns, that the beatified
spirit of his mistress has obtained leave to warn
and purify his soul by shewing him the state of
things in the next world. She deputes the soul
of his master Virgil to conduct him through hell
and purgatory, and then takes him herself through
the spheres of heaven, where Saint Peter catechises
and confirms him, and where he is finally
honoured with sights of the Virgin Mary, of
Christ, and even a glimpse of the Supreme Being !

His hell, considered as a place, is, to speak
geologically, a most fantastical formation. Tt descends
from beneath Jerusalem to the centre of
the earth, and is a funnel graduated in circles.

U.

each circle being a separate place of torment for a
different vice or its co-ordinates, and the point of the
funnel terminating with Satan stuck into ice. Purgatory
is a corresponding mountain on the other
side of the globe, commencing with the antipodes
of Jerusalem, and divided into exterior circles of
expiation, which end in a table-land forming the
terrestrial paradise. From this the hero and his
mistress ascend by a flight, exquisitely conceived,
to the stars ; where the sun and the planets of the
Ptolemaic system (for the true one was unknown
in Dante's time) form a series of heavens for different
virtues, the whole terminating in the empyrean,
or region of pure light, and the presence of
the Beatific Vision.

The boundaries of old and new, strange as it
may now seem to us, were so confused in those
days, and books were so rare, and the Latin poets
held in such invincible reverence, that Dante, in
one and the same poem, speaks of the false gods of
'i^i' Paganism, and yet retains much of its lower mythology
; nay, invokes Apollo himself at the door
of paradise. There was, perhaps, some mystical
and even philosophical inclusion of the past in
this medley, as recognising the constant superintendence
of Providence ; but that Dante partook
of what may be called the literary superstition of

the time, even for want of better knowledge, is
clear from the grave historical use he makes of
poetic fables in his treatise on Monarchy, and in
the very arguments which he puts into the mouths
of saints and apostles. There are lingering feelings
to this effect even now among the peasantry
of Italy; where, the reader need not be told.
Pagan customs of all sorts, including religious and
most reverend ones, are existing under the sanction
of other names ; — heathenism christened. A
Tuscan postilion, once enumerating to me some of
the native poets, concluded his list with Apollo ;
and a plaster-cast man over here, in London, appeared
much puzzled, when conversing on the
subject with a friend of mine, how to discrete
Samson from Hercules.

Dante accordingly, while, with the frightful
bigotry of the schools, he puts the whole Pagan
world into hell-borders (with the exception of two
or three, whose salvation adds to the absurdity),
mingles the hell of Virgil with that of Tertullian
and St. Dominic ; sets Minos at the door as judge;
retains Charon in his old office of boatman over y' scythe
Stygian lake ; puts fabulous people with real
among the damned. Dido, and Cacus, and Ephi-
alter, with Ezzelino and Pope Nicholas the Fifth ;
and associates the Centaurs and the Furies with

/

yc^'

the agents of diabolical torture. It has pleased
him also to elevate Cato of Utica to the office of
warder of purgatory, though the censor's poor
good wife, Marcia, is detained in the regions below.
By these and other far greater inconsistencies,
the whole place of punishment becomes a
reductio ad absurdum, as ridiculous as it is melancholy
; so that one is astonished how so great a
man, and especially a man who thought himself sofar
advanced beyond his age, and who possessed
such powers of discerning the good and beautiful,
could endure to let his mind live in so foul and
fooKsh a region for any length of time, and there
wreak and harden the unworthiness of his passions.
Genius, nevertheless, is so commensurate with absurdity
throughout the book, and there are even
such sweet and balmy as well as sublime pictures
in it occasionally, nay often, that not only will the
poem ever be worthy of admiration, but when those
increasing purifications of Christianity which our
blessed reformers began, shall finally precipitate
the whole dregs of the author into the mythology
to which they belong, the world will derive a pleasure
from it to an amount not to be conceived till
the arrival of that day. Dante, meantime, with
an impartiality which has been admired by those
who can approve the assumption of a theological

tyranny at the expense of common feeling and decency,
has put friends as well as foes into hell: //
tutors of his childhood, kinsmen of those who
treated him hospitably, even the father of his beloved
friend, Guido Cavalcante — the last for not
believing in a God : therein doing the worst
thing possible in behalf of the belief, and totally
differing both with the pious heathen Plutarch,
and the great Christian philosopher Bacon, who
were of opinion that a contumelious belief is
worse than none, and that it is far better and
more pious to believe in " no God at all," than
in a God who would " eat his children as soon
as they were born." And Dante makes him do
worse ; for the whole unbaptised infant world.
Christian as well as Pagan, is in his Tartarus.

Milton has spoken of the "milder shades of
Purgatory ;" and truly they possess great beauties.
Even in a theological point of view they are something
like a bit of Christian refreshment after the
horrors of the Inferno. The first emerging from
the hideous gulf to the sight of the blue serenity
of heaven, is painted in a manner inexpressibly
charming. So is the sea-shore with the coming of
the angel ; the valley, with the angels in green ;
the repose at night on the rocks ; and twenty
other pictures of gentleness and love. And yet,

special and great has been the escape of the Protestant
world from this part of Roman Catholic
belief; for Purgatory is the heaviest stone that
hangs about the neck of the old and feeble in that
communion. Hell is avoidable by repentance ;
but Purgatory, what modest conscience shall escape
? Mr. Gary, in a note on a passage in which
Dante recommends his readers to think on what
follows this expiatory state, rather than what is
suffered there, i looks upon the poet's injunction
as an "unanswerable objection to the doctrine of
purgatory," it being difficult to conceive " how
the best can meet death without horror, if they
believe it must be followed by immediate and
intense suffering." Luckily, assent is not belief;
and mankind's feelings are for the most part superior
to their opinions ; otherwise the world would
have been in a bad way indeed, and nature not
been vindicated of her children. But let us watch
and be on our guard against all resuscitation of
superstition.

As to our Florentine's Heaven, it is full of
beauties also, though sometimes of a more questionable
and pantomimic sort than is to be found
in either of the other books. I shall speak of

The Vision ; or, Hell, Purgatory, and Paradise, of Dante
Alighieri, Sc. Smith's edition, 1844, p. 90.

some of them presently ; but the general impression
of the place is, that it is no heaven at all.
He says it is, and talks much of its smiles and
its beatitude ; but always excepting the poetry —
especially the similes brought from the more heavenly
earth — we realise little but a fantastical
assemblage of doctors and doubtful characters, far
more angry and theological than celestial; giddy
raptures of monks and inquisitors dancing in circles,
and saints denouncing popes and Florentines ;
in short, a heaven libelling itself with invectives
against earth, and terminating in a great presumption.
Many of the people put there, a Calvin -
isti Dante would have consigned to the " other
place ; " and some, if now living, would not be
admitted into decent society. At the beginning
of one of the cantos, the poet congratulates himself,
with a complacent superiority, on his being
in heaven and occupied with celestial matters,
while his poor fellow-creatures are wandering and
blundering on earth. But he had never got there !
A divine — worthy of that name — of the Church
of England (Dr. Whichcote), has beautifully said,
that " heaven is first a temper, and then a place."
According to this truly celestial topography, the
implacable Florentine had not reached its outermost
court. Again, his heavenly mistress, Beatrice,

besides being far too didactic to sustain the
womanly part of her character properly, alternates
her smiles and her sarcasms in a way that jars
horribly against the occasional enchantment of her
aspect. She does not scruple to burst into taunts
of the Florentines in the presence of Jesus himself
; and the spirit of his ancestor, Cacciaguida,
in the very bosom of Christian bliss, promises him
revenge on his enemies!. Is this the kind of zeal
that is to be exempt from objection in a man who
objected to all the world ? or will it be thought a
profaneness against such profanity, to remind the
reader of the philosopher in Swift, who " while
gazing on the stars, was betrayed by his lower
parts into a ditch !"

The reader's time need not be wasted with the
allegorical and other mystical significations given
to the poem; still less on the question whether
Beatrice is theology, or a young lady, or both ;
\ and least of all on the discovery of the ingenious

\ Signor Rossetti, that Dante and all the other great

old Italian writers meant nothing, either by their
mistresses or their mythology, but attacks on the
court of Rome. Suffice it, that besides all other
possible meanings, Dante himself has told us that
his poem has its obvious and literal meaning ; that
he means a spade by a spade, purgatory by purgatory,

and truly and unaffectedly to devote his
friends to the infernal regions whenever he does
so. I confess I think it is a great pity that Guido
Cavalcante did not live to read the poem, especially
the passage about his father. The understanding
of Guido, v^^ho had not the admiration
for Virgil that Dante had (very likely for reasons
that have been thought sound in modern times),
was in all probability as good as that of his friend
in many respects, and perhaps more so in one or
tv7o ; and modern criticism might have been saved
some of its pains of objection by the poet's contemporary.


The author did not live to publish, in any
formal manner, his extraordinary poem, probably
did not intend to do so, except under those circumstances
of political triumph which he was always
looking for; but as he shewed portions of
it to his friends, it was no doubt talked of to a
certain extent, and must have exasperated such
of his enemies as considered him worth their hostility.
No wonder they did all they could to keep
him out of Florence. What would they have said
of him, could they have written a counter poem ?
What would even his friends have said of him ?
for we see in what manner he has treated even
those ; and yet how could he possibly know, with

respect either to friends or enemies, what passed
between them and their consciences ? or who was
it that gave him his right to generate the boasted
distinction between an author's feelings as a man
and his assumed office as a theologian, and parade
the latter at the former's expense ? His own spleen,
hatred, and avowed sentiments of vengeance, are
manifest throughout the poem ; and there is this,
indeed, to be said for the moral and religious inconsistencies
both of the man and his verse, that in
those violent times the spirit of Christian charity,
and even the sentiment of personal shame, were
so little understood, that the author in one part
of it is made to blush by a friend for not having
avenged him ; and it is said to have been thought
a compliment to put a lady herself into hell, that
she might be talked of, provided it was for something
not odious. An admirer of this infernal kind
of celebrity, even in later times, declared that he
would have given a sum of money (I forget to
what amount) if Dante had but done as much for
one of his ancestors. It has been argued, that in
all the parties concerned in these curious ethics
there is a generous love of distinction, and a
strong craving after life, action, and sympathy of
some kind or other. Granted ; there are all sorts
of half-good, half barbarous feelings in Dante's

poem. Let justice be done to the good half; but
do not let us take the ferocity for wisdom and
piety ; or pretend, in the complacency of our own
freedom from superstition, to see no danger of
harm to the less fortunate among our fellow-creatures
in the support it receives from a man of
genius. Bedlam have been filled with such horrors
; thousands, nay millions of feeble minds are
suffering by them or from them, at this minute,

all over the world. Dante's best critic, Foscolo, ^.^

has said much of the heroical nature of the age
in which the poet lived; but he adds, that its /

mixture of knowledge and absurdity is almost in ^

explicable. The truth is, that like everything else
which appears harsh and unaccountable in nature,
it was an excess of the materials for good, working
in an over-active and inexperienced manner;
but knowing this, we are bound, for the sake of
the good, not to retard its improvement by ignoring
existing impieties, or blind ourselves to the perpetuating
tendencies of the bigotries of great men.
Oh ! had the first indoctrinators of Christian feeling,
while enlisting the " divine Plato" into the
service of diviner charity, only kept the latter just
enough in mind to discern the beautiful difference
between the philosopher's malignant and improvable
evil, and their own malignant and eternal

one, what a world of folly and misery they might
have saved us ! But as the evil has happened, let
us hope that even this form of it has had its uses.
If Dante thought it salutary to the world to
maintain a system of religious terror, the same
charity which can hope that it may once have
been so, has taught us how to commence a better.
But did he, after all, or did he not, think it salutary
? Did he think so, believing the creed
himself? or did he think it from an unwilling
sense of its necessity? Or, lastly, did he write
only as a mythologist, and care for nothing but
the exercise of his spleen and genius ? If he had
no other object than that, his conscientiousness
would be reduced to a low pitch indeed. Foscolo
is of opinion he was not only in earnest, but that
he was very near taking himself for an apostle,
and would have done so had his prophecies succeeded,
perhaps with success to the pretensions
Thank heaven, his " Hell" has not embittered the
mild reading-desks of the Church of England. If
King George the Third himself, with all his arbitrary
notions, and willing religious acquiescence,
could not endure the creed of St. Athanasius
with its damnatory enjoyments of the impossible,

» Discorso sul Testoo, pp. 64, 77-90, 335-338.

what would have been said to the inscription over
Dante's hell-gate, or the account of Ugolino eating
an archbishop, in the gentle chapels of Queen
Victoria? May those chapels have every beauty
in them, and every air of heaven, that painting
and music can bestow — divine gifts, not unworthy
to be set before their Divine Bestower; but far
from them be kept the foul fiends of inhumanity
and superstition !

It is certainly impossible to get at a thorough
knowledge of the opinions of Dante even in theology
; and his morals, if judged according to the
received standard, are not seldom puzzling. He i

rarely thinks as the popes do ; sometimes not as [

the Church does: he is lax, for instance, on the
subject of absolution by the priest at deaths All
you can be sure of is, the predominance of his
will, the most wonderful poetry, and the notions
he entertained of the degrees of vice and virtue.
Towards the errors of love he is inclined to be
so lenient (some think because he had indulged
in them himself), that it is pretty clear he would
not have put Paulo and Francesca into hell, if
their story had not been too recent, and their
death too sudden, to allow him to assume their

^ Purgatory, canto iii. 118, 138; referred to by Foscolo, in
the Discorso sul Testoo, p. 383.

'I

repentance in the teeth of the evidence required.
He avails himself of orthodox license to put " the
harlot Rahab" into heaven (cette bonne fille de
Jericho," as Ginguene calls her) ; nay, he puts her
into the planet Venus, as if to compliment her on
her profession; and one of her companions there
is a fair Ghibelline, sister of the tyrant Ezzelino,
a lady famous for her gallantries, of whom the
poet good-naturedly says, that she "was overcome
by her star" — to wit, the said planet Venus; and
yet he makes her the organ of the most unfeminine
triumphs over the Guelphss. But both these
ladies, it is to be understood, repented — for they
had time for repentance ; their good fortune saved
them. Poor murdered Francesca had no time to
repent; therefore her mischance was her damnation
! Such are the compliments theology pays to
the Creator. In fact, nothing is really punished
in Dante's Catholic hell but impenitence, deliberate
or accidental. No delay of repentance, however
dangerous, hinders the most hard-hearted
villain from reaching his heaven. The best mangoes
to hell for ever, if he does not think he has
sinned as Dante thinks; the worst is beatified, if
he agrees with him : the only thing which everybody
is sure of, is some dreadful duration of agony
in purgatory — the great horror of Catholic deathbeds.

Protestantism may well hug itself on having
escaped it. O Luther ! vast was the good you did
us. O gentle Church of England ! let nothing persuade
you that it is better to preach frightful
and foolish ideas of God from your pulpits, than
loving-kindness to all men, and peace above all
things.

If Dante had erred only on the side of indulgence,
humanity could easily have forgiven him
for the excesses of charity are the extensions
of hope ; but, unfortunately, where he is sweet-natured
once, he is bitter a hundred times. This
is the impression he makes on universalists of all
creeds and parties ; that is to say, on men who
having run the whole round of sympathy with their
fellow-creatures, become the only final judges of
sovereign pretension. It is very well for individuals
to make a god of Dante for some encouragement
of their own position or pretension ; buta
god for the world at large he never was, or can
be ; and I doubt if an impression to this effect
was not always, from the very dawn of our literature,
the one entertained of him by the genius of
our native country, which could never long endure
any kind of unwarrantable dictation. Chaucer
evidently thought him a man who would spare no
unnecessary probe to the feelings (see the close of

his version of Ugolino). Spenser says not a word
of him, though he copied Tasso, and eulogised
Ariosto. Shakspeare would assuredly have put
him into the list of those presumptuous lookers
into eternity who " take upon themselves to know "
{Cymheline, did v. sc. 4). Milton, in his sonnet
to Henry Lawes, calls him " that sad Florentine"
a lamenting epithet, by which we do not designate
a man whom we desire to resemble. The
historian of English poetry, admirably applying to
him a passage out of Milton, says that

♦' Hell grows darker at his frown." '

Walter Scott could not read him, at least not
with pleasure. He tells Miss Seward that the
"plan" of the poem appeared to him "unhappy;
the personal malignity and strange mode of revenge
presumptuous and uninteresting."^ Uninteresting,
I think, it is impossible to consider it.
The known world is there, and the unknown pretends
to be there ; and both are surely interesting
to most people.

Landor, in his delightful book the Penta-

^ Wanton's History of English Poetry j edition of 1840, vol. iii.
p. 214.

2 Memoirs of the Life of Sir Walter Scott, Bart. vol. ii.
p. 122.

merton — a book full of the profoundest as well
as sweetest humanity — makes Petrarch follow
up Boccaccio's eulogies of the episode of Paulo
and Francesca with ebullitions of surprise and
horror :

Petrarch. Perfection of poetry ! The greater
is my wonder at discovering nothing else of the
same order or cast in this whole section of the
poem. He who fainted at the recital of Francesca,

And he who fell as a dead body falls

would exterminate all the inhabitants of every
town in Italy ! What execrations against Florence,
Pistoia, Pisa, Siena, Genoa! what hatred
against the whole human race ! what exultation
and merriment at eternal and immitigable sufferings
! Seeing this, I cannot but consider the Inferno
as the most immoral and impious book that
ever was written. Yet, hopeless that our country
shall ever see again such poetry, and certain that
without it our future poets would be more feebly
urged forward to excellence, I would have dissuaded
Dante from cancelling it, if this had been
his intentions

Most happily is the distinction here intimated

Pentameron and Pentalogia, pp. 44-50.

d2

between the undesirableness of Dante's book in a
moral and religious point of view, and the greater
desirableness of it, nevertheless, as a pattern of
poetry ; for absurdity, however potent, wears itself
out in the end, and leaves what is good and
beautiful to vindicate even so foul an origin.

Again, Petrarch says, " What an object of
sadness and of consternation, he who rises up
from hell like a giant refreshed !

Boccaccio. Strange perversion ! A pillar of
smoke by day and of lire by night, to guide no
one. Paradise had fewer wants for him to satisfy
than hell had, all which he fed to repletion ; but
let us rather look to his poetry than his temper."

See also what is said in that admirable book
further on (p. 50), respecting the most impious
and absurd passage in all Dante's poem, the assumption
about Divine Love in the inscription
over hell-gate — one of those monstrosities of conception
which none ever had the effrontery to
pretend to vindicate, except theologians who profess
to be superior to the priests of Moloch, and
who yet defy every feeling of decency and humanity
for the purpose of explaining their own
worldly, frightened, or hard-hearted submission
to the mistakes of the most wretched understandings.


Ugo Foscolo, an excellent critic where his own
temper and violence did not interfere, sees nothing
but jealousy in Petrarch's dislike of Dante, f/
and nothing but Jesuitism in similar feelings entertained
by such men as Tiraboschi. But all
gentle and considerate hearts must dislike the rage
and bigotry in Dante, even were it true (as the
Dantesque Foscolo thinks) that Italy will never
be regenerated till one-half of it is baptised in
the blood of the other ! ^ Such men, with all
their acuteness, are incapable of seeing what can
be effected by nobler and serene times, and the
progress of civilisation. They fancy, no doubt,
that they are vindicating the energies of Nature
herself, and the inevitable necessity of " doing
evil that good may come." But Dante in so doing /
violated the Scripture he professed to revere ; and /
men must not assume to themselves that final
knowledge of results, which is the only warrant
of the privilege, and the possession of which is
to be arrogated by no earthly wisdom. One calm
discovery of science *nay do away with all the
boasted eternal necessities of the angry and the
self-idolatrous. The passions that may be necessary
to savages are not bound to remain so to

Discorso sul Testoo, p. 226. The whole passage (sect, ex.) is
Very eloquent, horrible, and self bet raying.

civilised men, any more than the eating of man's
flesh or the worship of Juggernaut. When we
think of the wonderful things lately done by
science for the intercourse of the world, and the
beautiful and tranquil books of philosophy written
by men of equal energy and benevolence, and
opening the peacefulness hopes for mankind, and
views of creation to which Dante's universe was
a nutshell, — such a vision as that of his poem (ina
theological point of view) seems no better than
the dream of an hypochondriacal savage, and his
nutshell a rottenness to be spit out of the
mouth.

Heaven send that the great poet's want of
charity has not made myself presumptuous and
uncharitable ! But it is in the name of society I
speak; and words, at all events, now-a-days are
not the terrible, stake-preceding things they were
in his. Readers in general, however — even those
of the literary world — have little conception of the
extent to which Dante carries either his cruelty
or his abuse. The former 'of which I shall give
some examples presently) shews appalling habits
of personal resentment; the latter is outrageous
to a pitch of the ludicrous — positively screaming.
I will give some specimens of it out of Foscolo
himself, who collects them for a different purpose

; though, with all his idolatry of Dante, he
was far from being insensible to his mistakes.

The people of Sienna," according to this national
and Christian poet, were " a parcel of coxcombs
; those of Arezzo, dogs ; and of Casentino,
hogs. Lucca made a trade of perjury. Pistoia
was a den of beasts, and ought to be reduced to
ashes ; and the river Arno should overflow and
drown every soul in Pisa. Almost all the women
in Florence walked half-naked in public, and were
abandoned in private. Every brother, husband,
son, and father, in Bologna, set their women to
sale. In all Lombardy were not to be found three
men who were not rascals ; and in Genoa and Romagna
people went about pretending to be men,
but in reality were bodies inhabited by devils,
their souls having gone to the * lowest pit of hell '
to join the betrayers of their friends and kinsmen."
i

So much for his beloved countrymen. As for
foreigners, particularly kings, ." Edward the First
of England, and Robei-t of Scotland, were a couple
of grasping fools ; the Emperor Albert was an
usurper; Alphonse the Second, of Spain, a debauchee
; the King of Bohemia a coward ; Frees

Discourses as above, p. 101.

rick of Arragon a coward and miser ; the Kings of
Portugal and Norway forgers ; the King of Naples
a man whose virtues were expressed by a unit,
and his vices by a million ; and the King of France,
the descendant of a Paris butcher, and of progenitors
who poisoned St. Thomas Aquinas, their
descendants conquering with the arms of Judas
rather than of soldiers, and selling the flesh of
their daughters to old men, in order to extricate
themselves from a dangers

When we add to these invectives, damnations
of friends as well as foes, of companions, lawyers,
men of letters, princes, philosophers, popes, pagans,
innocent people as well as guilty, fools and
wise, capable and incapable, men, women, and
children, — it is really no better than a kind of diabolical
sublimation of Lord Thurlow's anathemas
in the Rolliad, which begins with

Damnation seize ye all ;"
and ends with

Damn them beyond what mortal tongue can tell,
Confound, sink, plunge them all to deepest blackest hells

In the gross, indeed, this is ridiculous enough.

• Discorso, p. 103.

2 Criticisms on the RoUiad, and Probationary Odes for the
Laureateship. Third edit. 1785, p. 317.

No burlesque can beat it. But in the particular,
one is astonished and saddened at the cruelties
in which the poet allows his imagination to riot :
horrors generally described with too intense a verisimilitude
not to excite our admiration, with too
astounding a perseverance not to amaze our humanity,
and sometimes with an amount of positive
joy and delight that makes us ready to shut
the book with disgust and indignation. Thus, in a
circle in hell, where traitors are stuck up to their
chins in ice (canto xxxii), the visitor, in walking
about, happens to give one of their faces a
kick; the sufferer weeps, and then curses him —
with such infernal truth does the writer combine
the malignant with the pathetic! Dante replies
to the curse by asking the man his name. He is
refused it. He then seizes the miserable wretch
by the hair, in order to force him to the disclosure
; and Virgil is represented as commending the
barbarity ! ^ But he does worse. To barbarity he
adds treachery of his own. He tells another poor
wretch, whose face is iced up with his tears, as if
he had worn a crystal vizor, that if he will dis-the

writer of the article on Dante in the Foreign Quarterly
Review (as above) concedes that his hero in this passage becomes
'* almost cruel." Almost ! Tormenting a man further, who is upto
his chin in everlasting ice, and whose face he has kicked !

close his name and offence, he will relieve his eyes
awhile, that he may weep. The man does so ; and
the ferocious poet then refuses to perform his promise,
adding mockery to falsehood, and observing
that ill manners are the only courtesy proper towards
such a fellow ! ^ It has been conjectured,
that Macchiavelli apparently encouraged the enormities
of the princes of his time, with a design to
expose them to indignation. It might have been
thought of Dante, if he had not taken a part in
the cruelty, that he detailed the horrors of his hell
out of a wish to disgust the world with its frightful
notions of God. This is certainly the effect of
the worst part of his descriptions in an age like the
present. Black burning gulfs, full of outcries and
blasphemy, feet red-hot with fire, men eternally
eating their fellow-creatures, frozen wretches malignantly
dashing their iced heads against one
another, other adversaries mutually exchanging
shapes by force of an attraction at once irresistible
and loathing, and spitting with hate and disgust
when it is done — Enough, enough, for God's sake !
Take the disgust out of one's senses, O flower of
true Christian wisdom and charity, now beginning
to fill the air with fragrance !

" Criteria fu lui esse villany."

Inferno, canto xxxiii. 150.

But it will be said that Dante did all this out
of his hate of cruelty itself, and of treachery itself.
Partly no doubt he did ; and entirely he
thought he did. But see how the notions of such
retribution react upon the judge, and produce in
him the bad passions he punishes. It is true the
punishments are imaginary. Were a human being
actually to see such things, he must be de-humanised
or he would cry out against them with
horror and detestation. But the poem draws
them as truths ; the writer's creed threatened
them ; he himself contributed to maintain the
belief; and however we may suppose such a belief
to have had its use in giving alarm to ruffian
passions and barbarously ignorant times, an age
arrives when a beneficent Providence permits itself
to be better understood, and dissipates the superfluous
horror.

Many, indeed, of the absurdities of Dante's
poem are too obvious now-a-days to need remark.
Even the composition of the poem, egotistically
said to be faultless by such critics as Alfieri, who
thought they resembled him, partakes, as everybody's
style does, of the faults as well as good
• qualities of the man. It is nervous, concise, full
almost as it can hold, picturesque, mighty, primeval
; but it is often obscure, often harsh, and

66 DANTE.

forced in its constructions, defective in melody,
and wilful and superfluous in the rhyme. Sometimes,
also, the writer is inconsistent in circumstance
(probably from not having corrected the
poem) ; and he is not above being filthy. Even
in the episode of Paulo and Francesca, which has
so often been pronounced faultless, and which is
unquestionably one of the most beautiful pieces of
writing in the world, some of these faults are observable,
particularly in the obscurity of the passage
about tota format the cessation of the incessant
tempest, and the non-adjuration of the two
lovers in the manner that Virgil prescribes.

But truly it is said, that when Dante is great,
nobody surpasses him. I doubt if anybody equals
him, as to the constant intensity and incessant
variety of his pictures; and whatever he paints,
he throws, as it were, upon its own powers ; as
though an artist should draw figures that started
into life, and proceeded to action for themselves,
frightening their creator. Every motion, word,
and look of these creatures becomes full of sensibility
and suggestions. The invisible is at the
back of the visible ; darkness becomes palpable ;
silence describes a character, nay, forms the most
striking part of a story ; a word acts as a flash of
lightning, which displays some gloomy neighbourhood,

where a tower is standing, with dreadful
faces at the window ; or where, at your feet, full
of eternal voices, one abyss is beheld dropping out
of another in the lurid light of torment. In the
present volume a story will be found which tells a
long tragedy in half-a-dozen lines. Dante has the
minute probabilities of a Defoe in the midst of
the loftiest and most generalising poetry ; and
this feeling of matter-of-fact is impressed by fictions
the most improbable, nay, the most ridiculous
and revolting. You laugh at the absurdity ;
you are shocked at the detestable cruelty ; yet,
for the moment, the thing almost seems as if it
must be true. You feel as you do in a dream,
and after it; — you wake and laugh, but the absurdity
seemed true at the time ; and while you
laugh you shudder.

Enough of this crueller part of his genius
has been exhibited; but it is seldom you can
have the genius without sadness. In the circle
of heU, soothsayers walk along weeping, with
their faces turned the wrong way, so that their
tears fall between their shoulders. The picture is
still more dreadful. Wanton thinks it ridiculous.
But I cannot help feeling with the poet, that it is
dreadfully pathetic. It is the last mortifying insult
to human pretension. Wanton, who has a

grudge against Dante natural to a man of happier
piety, thinks him ridiculous also in describing the
monster Geryon lying upon the edge of one of the
gulfs of hell "like a beaver" (canto xvii). He is
of opinion that the writer only does it to shew
his knowledge of natural history. But surely the
idea of so strange and awful a creature (a huge
mild-faced man ending in a dragon's body) lying
familiarly on the edge of the gulf, as a beaver
does by the water, combines the supernatural with
the familiar in a very impressive manner. It is
this combination of extremes which is the life and
soul of the whole poem ; you have this world in
the next; the same persons, passions, remembrances,
intensified by superhuman despairs or
beatitudes ; the speechless entrenchments of bliss,
the purgatorial trials of hope and patience ; the
supports of hate and anger (such as they are) in
hell itself ; nay, of loving despairs, and a self-pity
made unboundedly pathetic by endless suffering.
Hence there it no love-story so affecting as that of
/ Paulo and Francesca thus told and perpetuated in

j / another world ; no father's misery so enforced

upon us as Ugolino's, who, for hundreds of years,
has not grown tired of the revenge to which it
wrought him. Dante even puts this weight and
continuity of feeling into passages of mere transient

emotion or illustration, unconnected with
the next world ; as in the famous instance of the
verses about evening, and many others which the
reader will meet with in this volume. Indeed, if
pathos and the most impressive simplicity, and disgraceful
beauty of all kinds, and abundant grandeur,
can pay (as the reader, I believe, will think
it does even in a prose abstract), for the pangs of
moral discord and absurdity inflicted by the perusal
of Dante's poem, it may challenge competition
with any in point of interest. His Heaven, it is
true, though containing both sublime and lovely
passages, is not so good as his Earth. The more
unearthly he tried to make it, the less heavenly it
became. When he is content with earth in
heaven itself, — when he literatures a metaphor,
and with exquisite felicity finds himself arrived
there in consequence of fixing his eyes on the eyes
of Beatrice, then he is most celestial. But his
endeavours to express degrees of beatitude and
lowness by varieties of frame and light, — of
dancing lights, revolving lights, lights of smiles,
of stars, of starry crosses, of. didactic letters and
sentences, of animal figures made up of stars full
of blessed souls, with saints forming an eagle's
beak and David in its eye — such superhuman
attempts become for the most part tricks of 

DANTE.

trial machinery, on which we gaze with little
curiosity and no respect.

His angels, however, are another matter. Belief
was prepared for those winged human forms,
and they furnished him with some of his most
beautiful combinations of the natural with the
supernatural. Ginguene has remarked the singular
variety as well as beauty of Dante's angels.
Milton's, indeed, are commonplace in the comparison.
In the eighth canto of the Inferno the
devils insolently refuse the poet and his guide an
entrance into the city of Dis : — an angel comes
sweeping over the Stygian lake to enforce it ; the
noise of his wings makes the shores tremble, and
is like a crashing whirlwind such as beats down
the trees and sends the peasants and their herds
flying before it. The heavenly messenger, after
rebuking the devils, touches the portals of the
city with his wand ; they fly open ; and he returns
the way he came without uttering a word to the
two companions. His face was that of one occupied
with other thoughts. This angel is announced
by a tempest. Another, who brings the
souls of the departed to Purgatory, is first discovered
at a distance, gradually disclosing white
splendours, which are his wings and garments.
He comes in a boat, of which his wings are the

HIS LIFE AND GENIUS. 71

sails ; and as he approaches, it is impossible to look
him in the face for its brightness. Two other angels
have green wings and green garments, and the drapery
is kept in motion like a flag by the vehement
action of the wings. A fifth has a face like the /

morning star, casting forth quivering beams. A
sixth is of a lustre so oppressive, that the poet
feels a weight on his eyes before he knows what is
coming. Another's presence affects the senses like /

the fragrance of a May-morning ; and another is in
garments dark as cinders, but has a sword in his
hand too sparkling to be gazed at. Dante's occasional
pictures of the beauties of external nature J
are worthy of these angelic creations, and to the
last degree fresh and lovely. You long to bathe
your eyes, smarting with the fumes of hell, in his
dews. You gaze enchanted on his green fields and
his celestial blue skies, the more so from the pain
and sorrow in midst of which the visions are created.
Dante's grandeur of every kind is proportionate
to that of his angels, almost to his ferocity ; and
that is saying every thing. It is not always the
spiritual grandeur of Milton, the subjection of the
material impression to the moral ; but it is equally
such when he chooses, and far more abundant. His
infernal precipices — his black whirlwinds — his innumerable
cries and clasping of hands — his very

72 DANTE.

odours of huge loathsomeness — his giants at twilight
standing up to the middle in pits, like towers,
and causing earthquakes when they move — his
earthquake of the mountain in Purgatory, when a
spirit is set free for heaven — his dignified Mantuann
Sordello, silently regarding him and his guide
as they go by, " like a lion on his watch" — his
blasphemer, Capaneus, lying in unconquered rage
and sullenness under an eternal rain of flakes of
fire (human precursor of Milton's Satan) — his aspect
of Paradise, " as if the universe had smiled" —
his inhabitants of the whole planet Saturn crying
out so loud) in accordance with the anti-papal indignation
of Saint Pietro Domino, that the poet,
though among them, could not hear what they
said — and the blushing eclipse, like red clouds at
sunset, which takes place at the apostle Peter's denunciation
of the sanguinary filth of the court of
Rome — all these sublimities, and many more,
make us not know whether to be more astonished
at the greatness of the poet or the raging littleness
of the man. Grievous is it to be forced to bring
two such opposites together ; and I wish, for the
honour and glory of poetry, T did not feel compelled
to do so. But the swarthy Florentine had not
the healthy temperament of his brethren, and he
fell upon evil times. Compared with Homer and

HIS LIFE AND GENIUS. 73

Shakspeare, his very intensity seems only superior
to theirs from an excess of the morbid ; and he is
inferior to both in other sovereign qualities of
poetry — to the one, in giving you the healthiest
general impression of nature itself — to Shakspeare,
in boundless universality — to most great poets, in
thorough harmony and delightfulness. He wanted
(generally speaking) the music of a happy and a
happy-making disposition. Homer, from his large /

vital bosom, breathes like a broad fresh air over ]/

the world, amidst alternate storm and sunshine,
making you aware that there is rough work to be
faced, but also activity and beauty to be enjoyed.
The feeling of health and strength is predominant.
Life laughs at death itself, or meets it with a noble
confidence — is not taught to dread it as a malignant
goblin. Shakspeare has all the smiles as well
as tears of nature, and discerns the " soul of goodness
in things evil." He is comedy as well as tragedy
— the entire man in all his qualities, moods,
and experiences ; and he beautifies all. And both
those truly divine poets make nature their subject
through her owen inspiriting medium — not
through the darkened glass of one man's spleen
and resentment. Dante, in constituting himself
the hero of his poem, not only renders her, in the
general impression, as dreary as himself, in spite

74 DANTE.

of the occasional beautiful pictures he draws of
her, but narrows her very immensity into his pettiness.
He fancied, alas, that he could build her
universe over again out of the politics of old
Rome and the divinity of the schools !

Dante, besides his great poem, and a few Latin
eclogues of no great value, wrote lyrics full of
Platonical sentiment, some of which anticipated
the loveliest of Petrarch's ; and he was the author
of various prose works, political and philosophical,
all more or less masterly for the time in which
he lived, and all coadjutors of his poetry in fixing
his native tongue. His account of his Early Life
(the Vita Nova) is a most engaging history of a
/ boyish passion, evidently as real and true on his

own side as love and truth can be, whatever might
be its mistake as to its object. The treatise on the
Vernacular Tongue {de Vulgarii Eloquio) shews how
critically he considered his materials for impressing
the world, and what a reader he was of every
production of his contemporaries. The Banquet

■ {Convito) is but an abstruse commentary on some

of his minor poems ; but the book on Monarchy

/ {de Monarchiaia) is a compound of ability and

absurdity, in which his great genius is fairly
overborne by the barbarous pedantry of the age.
It is an argument to prove that the world must all

be governed by one man ; that this one man must
be the successor of the Roman Emperor — God
having manifestly designed the world to be subject
for ever to the Roman empire; and lastly,
that this Emperor is equally designed by God to
be independent of the Pope — spiritually subject
to him, indeed, but so far only as a good son is
subject to the religious advice of his father ; and
thus making Church and State happy for ever in
the two divided supremacy. And all this assumption
of the obsolete and impossible the author
gravely proves in all the forms of logic, by arguments
drawn from the history of eneas, and the
providential cackle of the Roman geese !

How can the patriots of modern Italy, justified
as they are in extolling the poet to the skies,
see him plunge into such depths of bigotry in his
verse and childishness in his prose, and consent to
perplex the friends of advancement with making
a type 'of their success out of so erring though
so great a man? Such slavishness, even to such
greatness, is a poor and unpromising thing, compared
with an altogether unprejudiced and 
self-reliance. To have no faith in
names has been announced as one of their principles;
and " God and Humanity" is their motto.
What, therefore, has Dante's name to do with

their principles ? or what have the semi-barbarisms
of the thirteenth century to do with the final triumph
of " God and Humanity ?" Dante's lauded
wish for that union of the Italian States, which
his fame has led them so fondly to identify with
their own, was but a portion of his greater and
prouder wish to see the whole world at the feet
of his boasted ancestress, Rome. Not, of course,
that he had no view to what he considered good
and just government (for what sane despot purposes
to rule without that ?) ; but his good and
just government was always to be founded on the
sine qua non principle of universal Italian domination.
^

All that Dante said or did has its interest for
us in spite of his errors, because he was an earnest
and suffering man and a great genius ; but

Every body sees this who is not wilfully blind. " Passionate,"
says the editor of the Opere Minorii, "for the ancient Italian
glories, and the greatness of the Roman name, he was of opinion
that it was only by means of combined strength, and one common
government, that Italy could be finally secured from discord in
its own bosom and enemies from without, and recover its ancient
empire over the whole world** ** Amantissimo delle article
glories Italian, e della grandest del nome romano, ei considerate,
che soltanto pel mezzo d' una general fora ed authority poteva
r Italia dalle interne contest e dalle sti'aniere invasion restarsi
sicura, e remunerate V antics imperio supra tutti le ffenfi." — Ut
sup. vol. iii. p. 8.

his fame must ever continue to lie where his
greatest blame does, in his principal work. He
was a gratuitous logician, a preposterous politician,
a cruel theologian ; but his wonderful imagination,
and (considering the bitterness that was
in him) still more wonderful sweetness, have gone
into the hearts of his fellow-creatures, and will
remain there in spite of the moral and religious
absurdities with which they are mingled, and of
the inability which the best-natured readers feel
to associate his entire memory, as a poet, with
their usual personal delight in a poet and his
name.

%

THE JOURNEY THROUGH HELL.

The infernal regions, according to Dante, are situate in the
globe we inhabit, directly beneath Jerusalem, and consist of a
succession of gulfs or circles, narrowing as they descend, and terminating
in the centre ; so that the general shape is that of a
funnel. Commentators have differed as to their magnitude; but
the latest calculation gives 315 miles for the diameter of the
mouth or crater, and a quarter of a mile for that of its terminating
point. In the middle is the abyss, pervading the whole
depth, and 245 miles in diameter at the opening ; which reduces
the different platforms, or territories that surround it, to a size
comparatively small. These territories are more or less varied
with land and water, lakes, precipices, &c. A precipice, fourteen
miles high, divides the first of them from the second. The passages
from the upper world to the entrance are various ; and the
descents from one circle to another are effected by the poet and
his guide in different manners — sometimes on foot through byways,
sometimes by the conveyance of supernatural beings. The
crater he finds to be the abode of those who have done neither
good nor evil, caring for nothing but themselves. In the first
circle are the whole unbaptised world — heathens and infants —
melancholy, though not tormented. Here also is found the

e2

Elysium of Virgil, whose Charon and other infernal beings are
among the agents of torment. In the second circle the torments
commence with the sin of incontinence ; and the punishment goes
deepening with the crime from circle to circle, through gluttony,
avarice, prodigality, wrath, sullenness, or unwillingness to be
pleased with the creation, disbelief in God and the soul (with
which the punishment by fire commences), usury, murder, suicide,
blasphemy, seduction and other carnal enormities, adulation,
simony, soothsaying, astrology, witchcraft, trafficking with the
public interest, hypocrisy, highway robbery (on the great Italian
scale), sacrilege, evil counsel, disturbance of the Church, heresy,
false apostleship, alchemy, forgery, coining (all these, from seduction
downwards, in one circle) ; then, in the frozen or lowest
circle of all, treachery ; and at the bottom of this is Satan, stuck
into the centre of the earth.

With the centre of the globe commences the antipodean attraction
of its opposite side, together with a rocky ascent out of
it, through a huge ravine. The poet and his guide, on their arrival
at this spot, accordingly find their position reversed ; and
so conclude their downward journey upwards, till they issue forth
to light on the borders of the sea which contains the island of
Purgatory.

Dante says, that when he was half-way on his
pilgrimage through this life, he one day found himself,
towards nightfall, in a wood where he could H ^
no longer discern the right path. It was a place
so gloomy and terrible, every thing in it growing
in such a strange and savage manner, that the
horror he felt returned on him whenever he
thought of it. The pass of death could hardly be
more bitter. Travelling through it all night with
a beating heart, he at length came to the foot of
a hill, and looking up, as he began to ascend it,
he perceived the shoulders of the hill clad in the
beams of morning ; a sight which gave him some
little comfort. He felt like a man who has buffeted
his way to land out of a shipwreck, and who,
though still anxious to get farther from his peril,
cannot help turning round to gaze on the wide
waters. So did he stand looking back on the pass
that contained that dreadful wood.

After resting a while, he again betook him up
the hill ; but had not gone far when he beheld a
leopard bounding in front of him, and hindering
his progress. After the leopard came a lion, with
his head aloft, mad with hunger, and seeming to
frighten the very air;i and after the lion, more
eager still, a she-wolf, so lean that she appeared
to be sharpened with every wolfish want. The
pilgrim fled back in terror to the wood, where he
again found himself in a darkness to which the
light never penetrated. In that place, he said, the
sun never spoke words But the wolf was still
close upon him.^

While thus flying, he beheld coming towards
him a man, who spoke something, but he knew not
what. The voice sounded strange and feeble, as

^ '* Area che 1' aer ne demesne."
" La dove '1 sol tace."

The sun to me is dark,
And silent is the moon,
Hid in her vacant interlunar cave." — Milton.
There is great difference among the commentators respecting
the meaning of the three beasts ; some supposing them passions,
others political troubles, others personal enemies, &c. The point
is not of much importance, especially as a mystery was intended ;
but nobody, as Mr. Gary says, can doubt that the passage was suggested
by one in the prophet Jeremiah, v. 6 : " Wherefore a lion
out of the forest shall slay them, and a wolf of the evenings shall
spoil them ; a leopard shall watch over their cities."

if from disuse. Dante loudly called out to him to
save him, whether he was a man or only a spirit.
The apparition, at whose sight the wild beasts disappeared,
said that he was no longer man, though
man he had been in the time of the false gods, and
sung the history of the offspring of Anchises.

And art thou, then, that Virgil," said Dante,
who has filled the world with such floods of eloquence
? O glory and light of all poets, thou
art my master, and thou mine author; thou
alone the book from which I have gathered beauties
that have gained me praise. Behold the peril
I am in, and help me, for I tremble in every vein
and pulse."

Virgil comforted Dante. He told him that he
must quit the wood by another road, and that he
himself would be his guide, leading him first to
behold the regions of woe underground, and then
the spirits that lived content in fire because it
purified them for heaven ; and then that he would
consign him to other hands worthier than his own,
which should raise him to behold heaven itself;
for as the Pagans, of whom he was one, had been
rebels to the law of him that reigns there, nobody
could arrive at Paradise by their means. ^

" Che quelle 'operator che la su regna
Perch' i" fa" ribellante a la sua legge,

So saying, Virgil moved on his way, and Dante
closely followed. He expressed a fear, however,
as they went, lest being " neither eneas nor St.
Paul," his journey could not be worthily undertaken,
nor end in wisdom. But Virgil, after
sharply rebuking him for his faintheartedness, told
him, that the spirit of her whom he loved, Beatrice,
had come down from heaven on purpose to
commend her lover to his care ; upon which the
drooping courage of the pilgrim was raised to an
undaunted confidence ; as flowers that have been
closed and bowed down by frosty nights, rise all upon
their stems in the morning suns

Non vol che 'n sua cotta per me si regna "
The Pagans could not be rebels to a law they never heard of,
any more than Dante could be a rebel to Luther. But this is one
of the absurdities with which the impious effrontery or scarcely
less impious admissions of Dante's teachers avowedly set reason at
defiance, — retaining, meanwhile, their right of contempt for the
impieties of Mahometanss and Brahmins ; " which is odd," as the
poet says ; for being not less absurd, or, as the others argued,
much more so, they had at least an equal claim on the submission
of the reason ; since the greater the irrationality, the higher the
theological triumph.

^ '* Quale i fioretti dal notum gelt

China e chuse, poi che '1 sol gl' imbianca.
Si drizzle tutti perth in lord stylo."
Like as the flowers that with the frosty night
Are bowed and closed, soon as the sun returns,
Rise on their stems, all open and upright.

** Through me is the road to the dolorous city ;
Through me is the road to the everlasting sorrows ;
Through me is the road to the lost people.
Justice was the motive of my exalted maker ;
I was made by divine power, by consummate wisdom, and

by primal love ;
Before me was no created thing, if not eternal ; and eternal

am I also.
Abandon hope, all ye who enter."

Such were the words which Dante beheld written
in dark characters over a portal. " Master,"
said he to Virgil, '^1 find their meaning hard."

A man," answered Virgil, " must conduct
himself at this door like one prepared. Hither
must he bring no mistrust. Hither can come
and live no cowardice. We have arrived at the
place I told thee of. Here thou art to behold
the dolorous people who have lost all intellectual
good."i

So saying, Virgil placed his hand on Dante's,
looking on him with a cheerful countenance ; and

^ This loss of intellectual good, and the confession of the poet
that he finds the inscription over hell-portal hard to understand
fil sense lor m' e duro) , are among the passages in Dante which
lead some critics to suppose that his heU is nothing but an allegory,
intended at once to imply his own disbelief in it as understood
by the vulgar part of mankind, and his employment of it, nevertheless,
as a salutary check both to the foolish and the reflecting ; —
to the foolish, as an alarm ; and to the reflecting, as a parable. It

the Florentine passed with him through the dreadful
gate.

They entered upon a sightless gulf, in which
was a black air without stars ; and immediately
heard a hubbub of groans, and failings, and terrible
things said in many languages, words of wretchedness,
outcries of rage, voices loud and hoarse,
and sounds of the smiting of hands one against
another. Dante began to weep. The sound was
as if the sand in a whirlwind were turned into
noises, and filled the blind air with incessant conflict.


Yet these were not the souls of the wicked.
They were those only who had lived without praise
or blame, thinking of nothing but themselves.
These miserable creatures were mixed with the
angels who stood neutral in the war with Satan.
Heaven would not dull its brightness with those
angels, nor would lower hell receive them, lest the
bad ones should triumph in their company.

is possible, in the teeth of many appearances to the contrary, that
such may have been the case ; but in the doubt that it affects
either the foolish or the wise to any good purpose, and in the certainty
that such doctrines do a world of mischief to tender consciences
and the cause of sound piety, such monstrous contradictions,
in terms, of every sense of justice and charity which God
has implanted in the heart of man, are not to be passed over without
indignant comment.

And what is it," said Dante, " which makes
them so grievously suffer?"

Hopelessness of death," said Virgil. " Their
blind existence here, and memorable former
life, make them so wretched, that they envy every
other lot. Mercy and justice alike disdain them.
Let us speak of them no more. Look, and pass."

The companions went on till they came to a
great river with a multitude waiting on the banks.
A hoary old man appeared crossing the river towards
them in a boat; and as he came, he said,
Woe to the wicked. Never expect to see heaven.
I come to bear you across to the dark regions
of everlasting fire and ice." Then looking
at Dante, he said, *^ Get thee away from the dead,
thou who stances there, live spirit."

Torment thyself not, Charon," said Virgil.
He has a passport beyond thy power to question."


The shaggy cheeks of the boatman of the livid
lake, who had wheels of fire about his eyes, fell at
these words; and he was silent. But the naked
multitude of souls whom he had spoken to
changed colour, and gnashed their teeth, blaspheming
God, and their parents, and the human
species, and the place, and the hour, and the seed
of the sowing of their birth; and all the while

they felt themselves driven onwards, by a fear
which became a desire, towards the cruel riverside,
which awaits every one destitute of the fear
of God. The demon Charon, beckoning to them
with eyes like brasiers, collected them as they
came, giving blows to those that lingered, with his
oar. One by one they dropped into the boat like
leaves from a bough in autumn, till the bough is
left bare ; or as birds drop into the decoy at the
sound of the bird-call.

There was then an earthquake, so terrible that
the recollection of it made the poet burst into a
sweat at every pore. A whirlwind issued from
the lamenting ground, attended by vermilion
flashes ; and he lost his senses, and fell like a man
stupefied.

A crash of thunder through his brain woke up
the pilgrim so hastily, that he shook himself like
a person roused by force. He found that he
was on the brink of a gulf, from which ascended
a thunderous sound of innumerable groaning.
He could see nothing down it. It was too
dark with sooty clouds. Virgil himself turned
pale, but said, " We are to go down here. I will
lead the way."

O master," said Dante, " if even thou dearest,
what is to become of myself ?"

It is pity, not fear," replied Virgil, " that
makes me change colour."

With these words his guide led him into the
first circle of hell, surrounding the abyss. The
great noise gradually ceased to be heard, as they
journeyed inwards, till at last they became aware
of a world of sighs, which produced a trembling in
the air. They were breathed by the souls of such
as had died without baptism, men, women, and infants
; no matter how good ; no matter if they worshipped
God before the coming of Christ, for they
worshipped him not "properly." Virgil himself
was one of them. They were all lost for no other
reason ; and their " only suffering" consisted in
hopeless desire !"

Dante was struck with great sorrow when he
heard this, knowing how many good men must
be in that place. He inquired if no one had ever
been taken out of it into heaven. Virgil told him
there had, and he named them ; to wit, Adam,
Abel, Noah, Moses, King David, obedient Abraham
the patriarch, and Isaac, and Jacob, with
their children, and Rachel, for whom Jacob did so
much, — and " many more ;" adding, however, that
there was no instance of salvation before theirs.

Journeying on through spirits as thick as
leaves, Dante perceived a lustre at a little distance,

and observing shapes in it evidently of great
dignity, inquired who they v^^ere that thus lived
i apart from the rest. Virgil said that heaven thus

favoured them by reason of their renown on earth.
A voice was then heard exclaiming, " Honour and
glory to the lofty poet 1 Lo, his shade returns."
Dante then saw four other noble figures coming
towards them, of aspect neither sad nor cheerful.

"Observe him with the sword in his hand,"
said Virgil, as they were advancing. " That is
Homer, the poets' sovereign. Next to him comes
Horace the satirist; then Ovid; and the last is
Lucan."

And thus I beheld," says Dante, " the bright
school of the loftiest of poets, who flies above the
rest like an eagle."

For a while the illustrious spirits talked together,
and then turned to the Florentine with
a benign salutation, at which his master smiled:
and " further honour they did me," adds the father
of Italian poetry, " for they admitted me of their
tribe; so that to a band of that high account I
added a sixth. "^

The spirits returned towards the bright light

^ It is seldom that a boast of this kind — not, it must be owned,
bashful — has been allowed by posterity to be just ; nay, in four
out of the five instances, below its claims.

in which they lived, talking with Dante by the
way, and brought him to a magnificent castle, girt
with seven lofty walls, and further defended with
a river, which they all passed as if it had been
dry ground. Seven gates conducted them into a
meadow of fresh green, the resort of a race whose
eyes moved with a deliberate soberness, and whose
whole aspects were of great authority, their voices
sweet, and their speech seldom Dante was taken
apart to an elevation in the ground, so that he
could behold them all distinctly; and there, on
the " enamelled greens were pointed out to him
the great spirits, by the sight of whom he felt
exalted in his own esteem. He saw Electra with
many companions, among whom were Hector and
eneas, and Caesar in armour with his hawk's
eyes ; and on another side he beheld old King latins
with his daughter Lavinia, and the Brutus
that expelled Tarquin, and Lucretia, and Julia,
and Cato's wife Marcia, and the mother of the
Gracchus, and, apart by himself, the Sultan Saladin.
He then raised his eyes a little, and beheld the

" Gente v' ran, con occhi tarda e gravi,
Di grande authority ne' lor sembianti :
Caravan rade, con voce soavi."
2 <' Supra '1 verde rialto." Mr. Gary has noticed the appearance,
for the first time, of this beautiful but now commonplace
image.

"master of those who knows (Aristotle), sitting
amidst the family of philosophers, and honoured
by them all. Socrates and Plato were at his side.
Among the rest was Democritus, who made the
world a chance, and Diogenes, and Heraclitus, &c.
and Dioscorides, the good gatherer of simples.
Orpheus also he saw, and Cicero, and the moral
Seneca, and Euclid, and Hippocrates, and Avicenna
Averroes, who wrote the great commentary,
and others too numerous to mention. The company
of six became diminished to two, and Virgil
took him forth on a far different road, leaving
that serene air for a stormy one; and so they
descended again into darkness.

It was the second circle into which they now
came — a sphere narrower than the first, and by
so much more the wretched. Minos sat at the
entrance, gnarling — he that gives sentence on
every one that comes, and intimates the circle
into which each is to be plunged by the number
of folds into which he casts his tail round about
him. Minos admonished Dante to beware how
he entered unbidden, and warned him against his
conductor ; but Virgil sharply rebuked the judge,
and bade him not set his will against the will that
was power.

" II maestro di color che anno."

The pilgrims then descended through hell-mouth,
till they came to a place dark as pitch,
that bellowed with furious cross-winds, like a sea
in a tempest. It was the first place of torment,
and the habitation of carnal sinners. The
winds, full of stifled voices, buffeted the souls forever,
whirling them away to and fro, and dashing
them against one another. Whenever it seized
them for that purpose, the wailing and the shrieking
was loudest, crying out against the Divine
Power. Sometimes a whole multitude came driven
in a body like starlings before the wind, nowhither
and thither, now up, now down; sometimes
they went in a line like cranes, when a
company of those birds is beheld sailing along in
the air, uttering its dolorous clangs.

Dante, seeing a group of them advancing, inquired
of Virgil who they were. " Who are
these," said he, " coming hither, scourged in the
blackest part of the hurricane ?"

She at the head of them," said Virgil, " was
empress over many nations. So foul grew her
heart with lust, that she ordained license to be
law, to the end that herself might be held blameless.
She is Semiramis, of whom it is said that
she gave suck to Ninus, and espoused him. Leading
the multitude next to her is Dido, she that

slew herself for love, and broke faith to the ashes
of Sichaeus ; and she that follows with the next
is the luxurious woman, Cleopatra."

Dante then saw Helen, who produced such a
world of misery ; and the great Achilles, who
fought for love till it slew him ; and Paris ; and
Tristan; and a thousand more whom his guide
pointed at, naming their names, every one of
whom was lost through love.

The poet stood for a while speechless for pity,
and like one bereft of his wits. He then besought
leave to speak to a particular couple who went
side by side, and who appeared to be borne before
the wind with speed lighter than the rest. His
conductor bade him wait till they came nigher,
and then to entreat them gently by the love which
bore them in that manner, and they would stop
and speak with him. Dante waited his time, and
then lifted up his voice between the gusts of
wind, and adjured the two " weary souls" to halt
and have speech with him, if none forbade their
doing so; upon which they came to him, like
doves to the nests

This is the famous episode of Paulo and Francesca. She
was daughter to Count Guido da Polenta, lord of Ravenna, and
wife to Giovanni Malatesta, one of the sons of the lord of Rimini.
Paulo was her brother-in-law. They were surprised together by

There was a lull in the tempest, as if on purpose
to let them speak ; and the female addressed
Dante, saying, that as he shewed such pity for
their state, they would have prayed heaven to give
peace and repose to his life, had they possessed the
friendship of heaven. ^

Love," she said, " which is soon kindled in a
gentle heart, seized this my companion for the fair
body I once inhabited — how deprived of it, my

the husband, and slain on the spot. Particulars of their history
will be found in the Appendix, together with the whole original

*' Quali colombe, dal disco climate,
Con r ali perte e ferme, al dolce dido
Volan per V aer dal voler portage :
Cotali user de la chimera ov' e Dido,
A noi venendo per 1' aer malign,
Si forte fu 1' affettuoso gride."

As doves, drawn home from where they circled still.
Set firm their open wings, and through the air
Come sweeping, wafted by their pure good-will :
So broke from Dido's flock that gentle pair,
Cleaving, to where we stood, the air malign,
Such strength to bring them had a loving prayer.

^ Francesca is to be conceived telling her story in anxious
intermitting sentences — now all tenderness for her lover, now
angry at their slayer ; watching the poet's face, to see what he
thinks, and at times averting her own. I take this excellent
direction from Ugo Foscolo.

F

spirit is bowed to recollect. Love, which compels
the beloved person upon thoughts of love,
seized me in turn with a delight in his passion
so strong, that, as thou seest, even here it forsakes
me not. Love brought us both to one
end. The punishment of Cain awaits him that
slew us."

The poet was struck dumb by this story. He
hung down his head, and stood looking on the
ground so long, that his guide asked him what
was in his mind. " Alas ! " answered he, " such
then was this love, so full of sweet thoughts;
and such the pass to which it brought them!
Oh, Francesca!" he cried, turning again to the
sad couple, " thy sufferings make me weep. But
tell me, I pray thee, what was it that first made
thee know, for a certainty, that his love was returned?
— that thou couldst refuse him thine no
longer ? "

There is not a greater sorrow," answered
she, " than calling to mind happy moments in the
midst of wretchedness. 1 But since thy desire is
so great to know our story to the root, hear me
tell it as well as I may for tears. It chanced, one

*■ ** Nessun maggiore colore,
Che recorders del tempo felice
Ne la misery."

day, that we sat reading the tale of Sir Launcelot,
how love took him in thrall. We were alone, and
had no suspicion. Often, as we read, our eyes
became suspended and we changed colour; but
one passage alone it was that overcame us. When
we read how Genera smiled, and how the lover,
out of the depth of his love, could not help kissing
that smile, he that is never more to be parted
from me kissed me himself on the mouth, all in a
tremble. Never had we go-between but that book.
The writer was the betrayer. That day we read
no more."

While these words were being uttered by one
of the spirits, the other wailed so bitterly, that the
poet thought he should have died for pity. His

^ ** Per piu fate gli occhi ci suspense
Quelle letter."

"To look at one another," says Boccaccio; and his interpretation
has been followed by Gary and Foscolo ; but, with deference
to such authorities, I beg leave to think that the poet meant no
more than he says, namely, that their eyes were simply "suspended"
— hung, as it were, over the book, without being able to
read on ; which is what I intended to express (if I may allude to a
production of which both those critics were pleased to speak well),
when, in my youthful attempt to enlarge this story, I wrote

** And o'er the book they hung, and nothing said,
And every lingering page grew longer as they read."

Story of Rimini.

senses forsook him, and he fell flat on the ground,
as a dead body falls. ^

On regaining his senses, the poet found himself
in the third circle of hell, a place of everlasting
wet, darkness, and cold, one heavy slush of hail and
mud, emitting a squalid smell. The triple-headed
dog Cerberus, with red eyes and greasy blackbeard,
large belly, and hands with claws, barked
above the heads of the wretches who floundered

** Centre che 1' uno spirto quest disuse,
L' alto piangeva si, che di pietas
I' venn men cost com' io morose,
E cadi come corps morton cade."

This last line has been greatly admired for the corresponding deadness
of its expression.

While thus one spoke, the other spirit mourn' d
With wail so woful, that at his remorse
I felt as though I should have died. I turn'd
Stone-stifF; and to the ground, fell like a corse.

The poet fell thus on the ground (some of the commentators
think) because he had sinned in the same way ; and if Foscolo's
opinion could be established — that the incident of the book is
invention — their conclusion would receive curious collateral evidence,
the circumstance of the perusal of the romance in company
with a lady being likely enough to have occurred to Dante. But
the same probability applies in the case of the lovers. The reading
of such books was equally the taste of their own times ; and nothing
is more likely than the volume's having been found in the room
where they perished.

in the mud, tearing, skinning, and dismembering
them, as they turned their sore and soddened bodies
from side to side. When he saw the two
living men, he shewed his fangs, and shook in every
limb for desire of their flesh. Virgil threw lumps
of dirt into his mouth, and so they passed him.

It was the place of Gluttons. The travellers
passed over them, as if they had been ground to
walk upon. But one of them sat up, and addressed
the Florentine as his acquaintance. Dante
did not know him, for the agony in his countenance.
He was a man nicknamed Hog (Ciacco),
and by no other name does the poet, or any one
else, mention him. His countryman addressed him
by it, though declaring at the same time that he
wept to see him. Hog prophesied evil to his discordant
native city, adding that there were but
two just men in it — all the rest being given up to
avarice, envy, and pride. Dante inquired by name
respecting the fate of five other Florentines, who
had done good, and was informed that they were
all, for various offences, in lower gulfs of hell.
Hog then begged that he would mention having
seen him when he returned to the sweet world ;
and so, looking at him a little, bent his head, and
disappeared among his blinded companions.

Satan ! hoa, Satan ! " roared the demon Plutus,

as the poets were descending into the fourth
circle.

Peace ! " cried Virgil, " with thy swollen lip,
thou accursed wolf. No one can hinder his coming
down. God wills it.''^

Flat fell Plutus, collapsed, like the sails of a
vessel when the mast is split.

This circle was the most populous one they
had yet come to. The sufferers, gifted with supernatural
might, kept eternally rolling round it, one
against another, with terrific violence, and so dashing
apart, and returning. "Why grasp?" cried
the one — "Why throw away?" cried the other;
and thus exclaiming, they dashed furiously together.


They were the Avaricious and the Prodigal.
Multitudes of them were churchmen, including
cardinals and popes. Not all the gold beneath the
moon could have purchased them a moment's rest.
Dante asked if none of them were to be recognised

^ Plutus's exclamation about Satan is a great choke-pear to
the commentators. The line in the original is

Pape Satan, pape Satan aleppo."

The words, as thus written, are not Italian. It is not the business
of this abstract to discuss such points ; and therefore I content
myself with believing that the context implies a call of alarm on
the Prince of Hell at the sight of the living creature and his guide.

by their countenances. Virgil said, " No ;" for the
stupid and sullied lives which they led on earth
swept their faces away from all distinction for ever.
In discoursing of fortune, they descend by the
side of a torrent, black as ink, into the fifth circle,
or place of torment for the Angry, the Sullen, and
the Proud. Here they first beheld a filthy marsh,
full of dirty naked bodies, that in everlasting rage
tore one another to pieces. In a quieter division
of the pool were seen nothing but bubbles, carried
by the ascent, from its slimy bottom, of the stifled
words of the sullen. They were always saying,
We were sad and dark within us in the midst of
the sweet sunshine, and now we live sadly in the
dark bogs." The poets walked on till they came
to the foot of a tower, which hung out two blazing
signals to another just discernible in the distance.
A boat came rapidly towards them, ferried by the
wrathful Phlegyas ;i who cried out, " Aha, felon !
and so thou hast come at last !"

Phlegyas, a son of Mars, was cast into hell by Apollo for
setting the god's temple on fire in resentment for the violation of
his daughter Colonies. The actions of gods were not to be questioned,
in Dante's opinion, even though the gods turned out to be
false Jugghanaut is as good as any, while he lasts. It is an
ethics-theological puzzle, involving very nice questions ; but at
any rate, had our poet been a Brahmin of Benares, we know how
he would have written about it in Sanscrit.

Thou arrest," said Virgil. " We come for
na longer time than it will take thee to ferry us
across thy pool."

Phlegyas looked like one defrauded of his
right; but proceeded to convey them. During
their course a spirit rose out of the mire, looking
Dante in the face, and said, " Who art thou, that
comest before thy time ?"

Who art thou ?" said Dante.

Thou seest who I am," answered the other ;
^' one among the mourners."

Then mourn still, and howl, accursed spirit,"
returned the Florentine. " I know thee, — all over
filth as thou art."

The wretch in fury laid hold of the boat, but
Virgil thrust him back, exclaiming, *^ Down with
thee ! down among the other dogs !"

Then turning to Dante, he embraced and kissed
him, saying, " O soul, that knows how to
disdain, blessed be she that bore thee ! Arrogant,
truly, upon earth was this sinner, nor is his
memory graced by a single virtue. Hence the
furiousness of his spirit now. How many kings
are there at this moment lording it as gods,
who shall wallow here, as he does, like swine in
the mud, and be thought no better of by the
world !"

"I should like to see him smothering in it,"
said Dante, " before we go."

A right wish," said Virgil, " and thou shalt,
to thy heart's content."

On a sudden the wretch's muddy companions
seized and drenched him so horribly that (exclaims
Dante) " I laud and thank God for it now at this
moment."

Have at him !" cried they ; " have at Filippo
Argenti ;" and the wild fool of a Florentine dashed
his teeth for rage into his own flesh. ^

1 Filippo Argenti (Philip Silver, — so called from his shoeing
his horse with the precious metal) was a Florentine remarkable
for bodily strength and extreme irascibility. What a barbarous
strength and confusion of ideas is there in this whole passage about
him I Arrogance punished by arrogance, a Christian mother
blessed for the unchristian disdainfully of her son, revenge
boasted of and enjoyed, passion arguing in a circle ! Filippo
himself might have written it. Dante says,

Con piangere e con lutto
Spirit maladetto, ti rimini. —

Via costa con gli altri can," &c.

Then Virgil, kissing and embracing him,

Alma sdegnosa
Benedetta cole che 'n te s' incense," &c.

Aid Dante again,

Maestro, molto sarti ago
Di vederlo attuffare in quest broda," &c.

f2

The poet's attention was now drawn off by a
noise of lamentation, and he perceived that he was
approaching the city of Dis.^ The turrets glowed
vermilion with the fire within it, the walls appeared
to be of iron, and moats were round about
them. The boat circuited the walls till the travellers
came to a gate, which Phlegyas, with a
loud voice, told them to quit the boat and enter.
But a thousand fallen angels crowded over the top
of the gate, refusing to open it, and making furious
gestures. At length they agreed to let Virgil
speak with them inside ; and he left Dante for a
while, standing in terror without. The parley
was in vain. They would not let them pass.
Virgil, however, bade his companion be of good
cheer, and then stood listening and talking to himself;
disclosing by his words his expectation of
some extraordinary assistance, and at the same
time his anxiety for its arrival. On a sudden,
three raging figures arose over the gate, coloured
with gore. Green hydras twisted about them ;
and their fierce temples had snakes instead of
hair.

Look," said Virgil. " The Furies ! The one

Dis, one of the Pagan names of Pluto, here used for Satan,
Within the walls of the city of Dis commence the punishments by
fire.

on the left is Megaera ; Alecto is she that is wailing
on the right ; and in the middle is Tisiphone."
Virgil then hushed. The Furies stood clawing
their breasts, smiting their hands together, and
raising such hideous cries, that Dante clung to his
friend.

Bring the Gorgon's head!" cried the Furies,
looking down; "turn him to adamant I"

"Turn round," said Virgil, "and hide thy
face ; for if thou boldest the Gorgon, never again
wilt thou see the light of day." And with these
words he seized Dante and turned him round
himself, clapping his hands over his companion's
eyes.

And now was heard coming over the water a
terrible crashing noise, that made the banks on
either side of it tremble. It was like a hurricane
which comes roaring through the vain shelter of
the woods, splitting and hurling away the boughs,
sweeping along proudly in a huge cloud of dust,
and making herds and herdsmen fly before it.
Now stretch your eyesight across the water,"
said Virgil, letting loose his hands ; — " there, where
the smoke of the foam is thickest." Dante looked ;
and saw a thousand of the rebel angels, like frogs
before a serpent, swept away into a heap before
the coming of a single spirit, who flew over the

THE ITALIAN PILGRIM S PROGRESS.

tops of the billows with unwept feet. The spirit
frequently pushed the gross air from before his
face, as if tired of the base obstacle ; and as he
came nearer, Dante, who saw it was a messenger
from heaven, looked anxiously at Virgil. Virgil
motioned him to be silent and bow down.

The angel, with a face full of scorn, as soon
as he arrived at the gate, touched it with a wand
that he had in his hand, and it flew open.

Outcasts of heaven," said he ; " despicable
race ! whence this fantastical arrogance ? Do ye
forget that your torments are laid on thicker every
time ye kick against the Fates ? Do ye forget how
your Cerberus was bound and chained till he lost
the hair off his neck like a common dog ?"

So saying he turned swiftly and departed the
way he came, not addressing a word to the travellers.
His countenance had suddenly a look of
some other business, totally different from the one
he had terminated.

The companions passed in, and beheld a place
full of tombs red-hot. It was the region of Arch-heretics
and their followers. Dante and his guide
passed round betwixt the walls and the sepulchres
as in a churchyard, and came to the quarter
which held Epicurus and his sect, who denied the
existence of spirit apart from matter. The lids of

th tombs remaining unclosed till the day of judgment,
the soul of a noble Florentine, Farina
degli Alberti, hearing Dante speak, addressed him
as a countryman, asking him to stops Dante,
alarmed, beheld him rise half out of his sepulchre,
looking as lofty as if he scorned hell itself. Finding
who Dante was, he boasted of having three
times expelled the Guelphss. " Perhaps so," said
the poet ; " but they came back again each time ;
an art which their enemies have not yet acquired."


A visage then appeared from out another tomb,
looking eagerly, as if it expected to see some one
else. Being disappointed, the tears came into its
eyes, and the sufferer said, "If it is thy genius
that conducts thee hither, where is my son, and
why is he not with thee ?"

It is not my genius that conducts me," said
Dante, " but that of one, whom perhaps thy son
held in contempt."

How mayest thou ?" cried the shade; — ^^ held
in contempt ? He is dead then ? He beholds no
longer the sweet light ?" And with these words

Farinatata was a Ghibelline leader before the time of Dante,
and had vanquished the poet's connexions at the battle of .


he dropped into his tomb, and was seen no more.
It was Cavalcante Cavalcante, the father of the
poet's friend, Guido

The shade of Farinatata, who had meantime
been looking on, now replied to the taunt of
Dante, prophesying that he should soon have good
reason to know that the art he spoke of had been
acquired ; upon which Dante, speaking with more
considerateness to the lofty sufferer, requested to
know how the gift of prophecy could belong to
spirits who were ignorant of the time present.
Farinatata answered that so it was; just as there
was a kind of eyesight which could discern things
at a distance though not at hand. Dante then
expressed his remorse at not having informed
Cavalcante that his son was alive. He said it was
owing to his being overwhelmed with thought on
the subject he had just mentioned, and entreated
Farinatata to tell him so.

Quitting this part of the cemetery, Virgil led
him through the midst of it towards a descent into
a valley, from which there ascended a loathsome

What would Guido have said to this ? More, I suspect, than
Dante would have liked to hear, or known how to answer. But
he died before the verses transpired ; probably before they were
written ; for Dante, in the chronology of his poem, assumes what
times and seasons he finds most convenient.

odour. They stood behind one of the tombs fora
while, to accustom themselves to the breath of
it; and then began to descend a wild fissure ina
rock, near the mouth of which lay the infamy
of Crete, the Minotaur. The monster beholding
them gnawed himself for rage ; and on their persisting
to advance, began plunging like a bull
when he is stricken by the knife of the butcher.
They succeeded, however, in entering the fissure
before he recovered sufficiently from his madness
to run at them ; and at the foot of the descent,
came to a river of boiling blood, on the strand of
which ran thousands of Centaurs armed with bows
and arrows. In the blood, more or less deep
according to the amount of the crime, and shrieking
as they boiled, were the souls of the Inflicted
of Violence ; and if any of them emerged from it
higher than he had a right to do, the Centaurs
drove him down with their arrows. Nessus, the
one that bequeathed Hercules the poisoned garment,
came galloping towards the pilgrims, bending
his bow, and calling out from a distance to
know who they were ; but Virgil, disdaining his
hasty character, would explain himself only to
Chiron, the Centaur who instructed Achilles.
Chiron, in consequence, bade Nessus accompany
them along the river ; and there they saw tyrants

immersed up to the eyebrows; — Alexander the
Great among them, Dionysius of Syracuse, and
Ezzelino the Paduann. There was one of the
Pazzi of Florence, and Kinder of Cornet (ancestors
of the public ways), now shedding bloody
tears, and Attila the Scourge, and Pyrrhus king
of Epirus. Further on, among those immersed
up to the throat, was Guy de Montfort the Englishman,
who slew his father's slayer. Prince
Henry, during divine service, in the bosom of
God ; and then by degrees the river became shallower
and shallower till it covered only the feet ;
and here the Centaur quitted the pilgrims, and
they crossed over into a forest.

The forest was a trackless and dreadful forest —
the leaves not green, but black — the boughs not
freely growing, but knotted and twisted — the fruit
no fruit, but thorny poison. The Harpies wailed
among the trees, occasionally shewing their human
faces ; and on every side of him Dante heard lamenting
human voices, but could see no one from
whom they came. " Pluck one of the boughs,"
said Virgil. Dante did so; and blood and a cry
followed it.

"Why plucked thou me?" said the trunk.
Men have we' been, like thyself; but thou couldst
not use us worse, had we been serpents." The

blood and words came out together, as a green
bough hisses and spits in the fire.

The voice was that of Piero delle Vigne, the
good chancellor of the Emperor Frederick the
Second. Just though he had been to others, he
was thus tormented for having been unjust to himself
; for, envy having wronged him to his sovereign,
who sentenced him to lose his eyes, he
dashed his brains out against a wall. Piero entreated
Dante to vindicate his memory. The poet
could not speak for pity ; so Virgil made the promise
for him, inquiring at the same time in what
manner it was that Suicides became thus identified
with trees, and how their souls were to rejoin their
bodies at the day of judgment. Piero said, that
the moment the fierce self-murderer's spirit tore
itself from the body, and passed before Charon, it
fell, like a grain of corn, into that wood, and so
grew into a tree. The Harpies then fed on its
leaves, causing both pain and a vent for lamentation.
The body it would never again enter, having
thus cast away itself, but it would finally drag the
body down to it by a violent attraction ; and every
suicide's carcass will be hung upon the thorn of its
wretched shade.

The naked souls of two men, whose profusion
had brought them to a violent end, here came

running through the wood from the fangs of black
female mastiffs — leaving that of a suicide to
mourn the havoc which their passage had made of
his tree. He begged his countryman to gather
his leaves up, and lay them at the foot of his
trunk, and Dante did so ; and then he and Virgil
proceeded on their journey.

They issued from the wood on a barren sand,
flaming hot, on which multitudes of naked souls
lay down, or sat huddled up, or restlessly walked
about, trying to throw from them incessant flakes
of fire, which came down like a fall of snow. They
were the souls of the Impious. Among them was
a great spirit, who lay scornfully submitting himself
to the fiery shower, as though it had not yet
ripened him.^ Overhearing Dante ask his guide
who he was, he answered for himself, and said,
The same dead as living. Jove will tire his
flames out before they conquer me."

Capaneus," exclaimed Virgil, " thy pride is
thy punishment. No martyrdom were sufficient
for thee, equal to thine own rage." The besieger
of Thebes made no reply.

^ " Si che la loggia non par che '1 mature."
This is one of the grandest passages in Dante. It was probably
(as English commentators have observed) in Milton's recollection
when he conceived the character of Satan.

In another quarter of the fiery shower the pilgrims
met a crowd of Florentines, mostly churchmen,
whose offence is not to be named ; after
which they beheld Usurers ; and then arrived at a
huge waterfall, which fell into the eighth circle, or
that of the Fraudulent. Here Virgil, by way of
bait to the monster Geryon, or Fraud, let down
over the side of the waterfall the cord of St.
Francis, which Dante wore about his waist, ^ and
presently the dreadful creature came up, and sate
on the margin of the fall, with his serpent's tail
hanging behind him in the air, after the manner of
a beaver ; but the point of the tail was occasionally
seen glancing upwards. He was a gigantic reptile,
with the face of a just man, very mild. He had
shaggy claws for arms, and a body variegated allover
with colours that ran in knots and circles,
each within the other, richer than any Eastern
drapery. Virgil spoke apart to him, and then
mounted on his back, bidding his companion, who

The satire of friarly hypocrisy is at least as fine as Ariosto's
discovery of Discord in a monastery.

The monster Geryon, son of Chrysaor (Golden sword), and
the Ocean-nymph Callii-hoe fair-flowing), was rich in the possession
of sheep. His wealth, and perhaps his derivatives, rendered
him this instrument of satire. The monstrosity, the mild face, the
glancing point of venom, and the beautiful skin, make it as fine as
can be.

was speechless for terror, do the same. Geryon
pushed back with them from the edge of the
precipice, like a ship leaving harbour; and then,
turning about, wheeled, like a sullen successless
falcon, slowly down through the air in many a
circuit. Dante would not have known that he was
going downward, but for the air that struck upwards
on his face. Presently they heard the crash
of the waterfall on the circle below, and then distinguished
flaming fires and the noises of suffering.
The monster Geryon, ever sullen as the falcon who
seats himself at a distance from his dissatisfied
master, shook his riders from off* his back to the
water's side, and then shot away like an arrow.

This eighth circle of hell is called Evil-budget,
^ and consists of ten compartments, or gulfs of

** Maleholge,^' literally Evil-Budget. Bolgia is an old form
of the modem haute, the common term for a valise or portmanteau.
" Bolgia" (says the Vocabulary della Crusca, compensate,
Yen. 1792), **a valise; Latin, bulge, hippo pera ; Greek,
'nnroTrriga. In reference to valises which open lengthways like a
chest, Dante uses the word to signify those compartments which
he feigns in his Hell." (Per similitude di quelle vaUgie, che
s' apron per lo lungs, a guise di cassa, signifies quegli apartment,
che Dante singe nell' Inferno.) The reader will think
of the homely figurative names in Bunyan, and the contempt
which great and awful states of mind have for conventional notions
of rank in phraseology. It is a part, if well considered, of their
grandeur.

torment, crossed and connected with one another
by bridges of flint. In the first were beheld Pimps
and Seducers, scourged like children by horned
devils; in the second, Flatterers, begrimed with
ordure ; in the third, Simonides, who were stuck
like plugs into circular apertures, with their heads
downwards, and their legs only discernible, the
soles of their feet glowing with a fire which made
them incessantly quiver. Dante, going down the
side of the gulf with Virgil, was allowed to address
one of them who seemed in greater agony than the
rest ; and, doing so, the sufferer cried out in a
malignant rapture, " Aha, is it thou that stances
there, Boniface ? ^ Thou hast come sooner than
it was prophesied." It was the soul of Pope Nicholas
the Third that spoke. Dante undeceived
and then sternly rebuked him for his avarice and
depravity, telling him that nothing but reverence
for the keys of St. Peter hindered him from using
harsher words, and that it was such as he that the
Evangelist beheld in the vision, when he saw the
woman with seven heads and ten horns, who committed
whoredom with the kings of the earth.

"O Constantine ! " exclaimed the poet, "of

1 Boniface the Eighth was the pope then living, and one of the
causes of Dante's exile. It is thus the poet contrives to put his
enemies in hell before their time.

what a world of evil was that dowry the mother,
which first converted the pastor of the church into
a rich man ! " ^ The feet of the guilty pope spun
with fiercer agony at these words ; and Virgil,
looking pleased on Dante, returned with him the
way he came, till they found themselves on the
margin of the fourth gulf, the habitation of the
souls of False Prophets.

It was a valley, in which the souls came walking
along, silent and weeping, at the pace of choristers
who chant litanies. Their faces were turned
the wrong way, so that the backs of their heads
came foremost, and their tears fell on their loins.
Dante was so overcome at the sight, that he leant
against a rock and wept ; but Virgil rebuked him,
telling him that no pity at all was the only pity
fit for that place. 2 There was Amphibious, whom
the earth opened and swallowed up at Thebes ;

An allusion to the pretended gift of the Lateran by Constantine
to Pope Sylvester, ridiculed so strongly by Ariosto and others.
"^ A truly infernal sentiment. The original is,
Qui vive la pieta quand' e ben mortal."
Here pity lives when it is quite dead.
Chi e pin scellerato," continues the poet, ** di celui,
Ch' al judicio divin passion porta."
That is : '* Who is wickeder than he that sets his impassioned feelings
against the judgments of God ? " The answer is : He that attributes
judgments to God which are to render humanity pitiless.

and Tiresias, who was transformed from sex to
sex ; and Runs, who lived in a cavern on the side
of the marble mountains of Carrara, looking out
on the stars and ocean ; and Canto, daughter of
Tiresias (her hind tresses over her bosom), who
wandered through the world till she came and lived
in the solitary fen, whence afterwards arose the
city of Mantua ; and Michael Scot, the magician,
with his slender loins ; ^ and Eurypylus, the Grecian
augur, who gave the signal with Calchas at
Troy when to cut away the cables for home. He
came stooping along, projecting his face over his
swarthy shoulders. Guido Bonatti, too, was there,
astrologer of Forli; and Ardente, shoemaker of
Parma, who now wishes he had stuck to his last ;
and the wretched women who quit the needle and
the distaff to wreak their malice width herbs and
images. Such was the punishment of those who,
desiring to see too far before them, now looked
only behind them, and walked the reverse way of
their looking.

The fifth gulf was a lake of boiling pitch, con-ive'

finch cost poco. Michael Scot had been in Florence ; to
which circumstance we are most probably indebted for this curious
particular respecting his shape. The consignment of such men to
hell is a mortifying instance of the great poet's participation in the
vulgares errors of his time. It is hardly, however, worth notice,
considering what we see him swallowing every moment, or pretending
to swallow.

scanty heaving and subsiding throughout, and
bubbling with the breath of those within it. They
were Public Peculators. Winged black devils were
busy about the lake, wronging the sinners when
they occasionally darted up their backs for relief
like dolphins, or thrust out their jaws like frogs.
Dante at first looked eagerly down into the gulf,
like one who feels that he shall turn away instantly
out of the very horror that attracts him. " See —
look behind thee ! " said Virgil, dragging him at
the same time from the place where he stood, to a
covert behind a crag. Dante looked round, and
beheld a devil coming up with a newly-arrived
sinner across his shoulders, whom he hurled into
the lake, and then dashed down after him, like a
mastiff let loose on a thief. It was a man from
Lucca, where every soul was a false dealer except
Bonturo.^ The devil called out to other devils,
and a heap of them fell upon the wretch with
hooks as he rose to the surface ; telling him, that
he must practise there in secret, if he practised at
all ; and thrusting him back into the boiling pitch,
as cooks thrust back flesh into the pot. The devils
were of the lowest and most revolting habits,
of which they made disgusting jest and parade.

^ " Bonturo must have sold him something cheap," exclaimed
a hearer of this passage. No : — the exception is an irony !
There was not one honest man in all Lucca !

Some of them, on a sudden, perceived Dante and
his guide, and were going to seize them, when
Virgil resorted to his usual holy rebuke. For a
while they let him alone ; and Dante saw one of
them haul a sinner out of the pitch by the clotted
locks, and hold him up sprawling like an otter.
The rest then fell upon him and flayed him.

It was Ciampolo, a speculator in the service of
the good Thiebault, king of Navarre. One of his
companions under the pitch was Friar Gomita, governor
of Gallery ; and another, Michael Sancho,
also a Sardinian. Ciampolo ultimately escaped by
a trick out of the hands of the devils, who were so
enraged that they turned upon the two pilgrims ;
but Virgil, catching up Dante with supernatural
force, as a mother does a child in a burning house,
plunged with him out of their jurisdiction into the
borders of gulf the sixth, the region of Hypocrites.

The hypocrites, in perpetual tears, walked about
in a wearisome and exhausted manner, as if ready
to faint. They wore huge cowls, which hung over
their eyes, and the outsides of which were gilded,
but the insides of lead. Two of them had been
rulers of Florence ; and Dante was listening to
their story, when his attention was called off by
the sight of a cross, on which Caiaphas the High
Priest was writhing, breathing hard all the while

through his beard with sighs. It was his office to
see that every soul which passed him, on its arrival
in the place, was oppressed with the due weight.
His father-in-law, Annas, and all his council, were
stuck in like manner on crosses round the borders
of the gulf. The pilgrims beheld little else in this
region of weariness, and soon passed into the borders
of one of the most terrible portions of Evil-budget,
the land of the transformation of Robbers.
The place was thronged with serpents of the
most appalling and unwonted description, among
which ran tormented the naked spirits of the robbers,
agonised with fear. Their hands were bound
behind them with serpents — their bodies pierced
and enfolded with serpents. Dante saw one of
the monsters leap up and transfix a man through
the nape of the neck ; when, lo ! sooner than a pen
could write o, or i, the sufferer burst into flames,
burnt up, fell to the earth a heap of ashes — was
again brought together, and again became a man,
aghast with his agony, and staring about him,
sighing Virgil asked him who he was.

^ ** Intomo si mira
Tutti smarrito da la grande angoscia
Ch' eli ha sofFerta, e guaranty sospira."

This is one of the most terribly natural pictures of agonised

astonishment ever painted.



I was but lately rained down into this dire
gullet," said the man, " amidst a shower of Tuscan.
The beast Anni Fucci am I, who led a brutal lifelike
the mule that I was, in that den Pistoia."

Compel him to stop," said Dante, ** and relate
what brought him hither. I knew the bloody
and choleric wretch when he was alive."

The sinner, who did not pretend to be deaf to
these words, turned round to the speaker with the
most painful shame in his face, and said, " I feel
more bitterly at being caught here by thee in this
condition, than when I first arrived. A power
which I cannot resist compels me to let thee know,
that I am here because I committed sacrilege and
charged another with the crime ; but now, mark
me, that thou mayest hear something not to render
this encounter so pleasant : Pistoia hates thy party
of the Whites, and longs for the Blacks back again.
It will have them, and so will Florence ; and there
will be a bloody cloud shall burst over the battlefield
of Piceno, which will dash many Whites to
the earth. I tell thee this to make thee miserable."

So saying, the wretch gave a gesture of contempt
with his thumb and finger towards heaven,
and said, *' Take it, God — a fig for thee!"i

^ I retain this passage, horrible as it is to Protestant ears, because
it is not only an instance of Dante's own audacity, but a

*^ From that instant," said Dante, " the serpents
and I were friends ; for one of them throttled
him into silence, and another dashed his hands into
a knot behind his back. O Pistoia ! Pistoia ! why
art not thou thyself turned into ashes, and swept
from the face of the earth, since thy race has surpassed
in evil thine ancestors ? Never, through
the whole darkness of hell, beheld I a blasphemer
so dire as this — not even Capaneus himself."

The Pistoia fled away with the serpents upon
him, followed by a Centaur, who came madly galloping
up, crying, " Where is the caitiff"? " It
was the monster-thief Cacus, whose den upon
earth often had a pond of blood before it, and to
whom Hercules, in his rage, when he slew him,
gave a whole hundred blows with his club, though

salutary warning specimen of the extremes of impiety generated by
extreme superstition ; for their first cause is the degradation of the
Divine character. Another, no doubt, is the impulsive vehemence
of the South. I have heard more blasphemies, in the course of
half an hour, from the lips of an Italian postilion, than are probably
uttered in England, by people not out of their senses, for a
whole year. Yet the words, after all, were mere words ; for the
man was a good-natured fellow, and I believe presented no image
to his mind of anything he was saying. Dante, however, would
certainly not have taught him better by attempting to frighten
him. A violent word would have only produced more violence.
Yet this was the idle round which the great poet thought it best
to run!

the wretch perceived nothing after the ninth. He
was all over adders up to the mouth; and upon
his shoulders lay a dragon with its wings open,
breathing fire on whomsoever it met.

The Centaur tore away ; and Dante and Virgil
were gazing after him, when they heard voices
beneath the bank on which they stood, crying,
Who are ye ? " The pilgrims turned their eyes
downwards, and beheld three spirits, one of
whom, looking about him, said, " Where's Cianfa ? "
Dante made a sign to Virgil to say nothing.

Cianfa came forth, a man lately, but now a
serpent vdth six feet.^

** If thou art slow to believe, reader, what I am
about to tell thee," says the poet, "be so ; it is no
marvel; for I myself, even now, scarcely credit
what I beheld."

The six-footed serpent sprang at one of the
three men front to front, clasping him tightly withall
its legs, and plunging his fangs into either
cheek. Ivy never stuck so close to a tree as the
horrible monster grappled with every limb of that
pinioned man. The two forms then gradually
mingled into one another like melting wax, the

Cianfa, probably a condottiere of Mrs. Radcliffe's sort, and
robber on a large scale, is said to have been one of the Donati
family, connexions of the poet by marriage.

colours of their skin giving way at the same time
to a third colour, as the white in a piece of burning
paper recedes before the brown, till it all becomes
black. The other two human shapes looked
on, exclaiming, " Oh, how thou changes, Agnello!
See, thou art neither two nor yet one." And
truly, though the two heads first became one, there
still remained two countenances in the face. The
four arms then became but two, and such also
became the legs and thighs; and the two trunks
became such a body as was never beheld ; and the
hideous twofold monster walked slowly away.^

A small black serpent on fire now flashed like
lightning on to the body of one of the other two,
piercing him in the navel, and then falling on the
ground, and lying stretched before him. The
wounded man, fascinated and mute, stood looking
at the adder's eyes, and endeavouring to stand
steady on his legs, yawning the while as if smitten
with lethargy or fever ; the adder, on his part,
looked up at the eyes of the man, and both of
them breathed hard, and sent forth a smoke that
mingled into one volume.

This, and the transformation that follows, may well excite
the pride of such a poet as Dante ; though it is curious to see how
he selects inventions of this kind as special grounds of self complacency.
They are the most appalling ever yet produced.

And now, let Lucan never speak more of the
wretched Sabellus or Nisidius, but listen and be
silent; and now, let Ovid be silent, nor speak
again of his serpent that was Cadmus, or his fountain
that was Arethusa ; for, says the Tuscan poet,
I envy him not. Never did he change the natures
of two creatures face to face, so that each received
the form of the other.

With corresponding impulse, the serpent split
his train into a fork, while the man drew his legs
together into a train ; the skin of the serpent grew
soft, while the man's hardened ; the serpent acquired
tresses of hair, the man grew hairless;
the claws of the one projected into legs, while
the arms of the other withdrew into his shoulders
; the face of the serpent, as it rose from the
ground, retreated towards the temples, pushing-out
human ears ; that of the man, as he fell to the
ground, thrust itself forth into a muzzle, withdrawing
at the same time its ears into its head, as
the slug does its horns; and each creature kept
its impious eyes fixed on the other's, while the
features beneath the eyes were changing. The
soul which had become the serpent then turned to
crawl away, hissing in scorn as he departed; and
the serpent, which had become the man, spat after
him, and spoke words at him. The new human-looking

soul then turned his back on his late adversary,
and said to the third spirit, who remained
unchanged, " Let Buoso now take to his crawl, as
I have done."

The two then hastened away together, leaving
Dante in a state of bewildered amazement, yet not
so confused but that he recognised the unchanged
one for another of his countrymen, Puccio the
Lame. " Joy to thee, Florence ! " cried the poet ;
not content with having thy name bruited overland
and sea, it flourishes throughout hell." •

The pilgrims now quitted the seventh, and
looked down from its barrier into the eighth gulf,
where they saw innumerable flames, distinct from
one another, flickering all over the place like fireflies.


In those flames," said Virgil, " are souls,
each tormented with the fire that swathes it."

I observe one," said Dante, " divided at the
summit. Are the Theban brothers in it ? "

No," replied Virgil ; " in that flame are
Doomed and Ulysses." The sinners punished in
this gulf were Evil Counsellors ; and those two were
the advisers of the stratagem of the Trojan horse.

Virgil addressed Ulysses, who told him the
conclusion of his adventures, not to be found in
books: how he tired of an idle life, and sailed

forth again into the wide ocean ; and how he sailed
so far that he came into a region of new stars, and
in sight of a mountain, the loftiest he ever saw ;
when, unfortunately, a hurricane fell upon them
from the shore, thrice whirled their vessel round,
then dashed the stern up in air and the prow
under water, and sent the billows over their heads.
Enough," said Virgil ; " I trouble thee no
more." The soul of Guido di Montefeltro, overhearing
the great Mantuan speak in a Lombard
dialect, asked him news of the state of things in
Romagna ; and then told him how he had lost
his chance of paradise, by thinking Pope Boniface
could at once absolve him from his sins, and use
them for his purposes He was going to heaven,
he said, by the help of St. Francis, who came on
purpose to fetch him, when a black angel met
them, and demanded his absolved, indeed, but un-repented
victim. " To repent evil, and to will todo
it, at one and the same time, are," said the

^ Guido, Conte di IV^ontefeltro, a celebrated soldier of that
day, became a Franciscan in nis" old ag, in order to repent of his
sins ; but, being consulted in his cloister by Pope Boniface on the
best mode of getting possession of an estate belonging to the
Colonia family, and being promised absolution for his sins in the
lump, including the opinion requested, he recommended the holy
father to "promise much, and perform nothing" (molto promoters,
e nulla attended).

g2

di-dreadful angel, " impossible : therefore wrong me
not." " Oh, how I shook," said the unhappy
Guido, " when he laid his hands upon me ! " And
with these words the flame writhed and beat itself
about for agony, and so took its way.

The pilgrims crossed over to the banks of the
ninth gulf, where the Sowers of Scandal, the Schismatics,
Heretics, and Founders of False Regions,
underwent the penalties of such as load themselves
with the sins of those whom they seduce.

The first sight they beheld was Mahomet, tearing
open his own bowels, and calling out to them
to mark him. Before him walked his son-in-law,
Ali, weeping, and cloven to the chin ; and the divisions
in the church were punished in like manner
upon all the schismatics in the place. They all
walked round the circle, their gashes closing as
they went ; and on their reaching a certain point,
a fiend hewed them open again with a sword. The
Arabian prophet, ere he passed on, bade the pilgrims
warn Friar Dolcino how he suffered himself
to be surprised in his mountain-hold by the starvation
of winter-time, if he did not wish speedily to
follow him.i

^ Dolcino was a Lombard friar at the beginning of the fourteenth
century, who is said to have preached a community of
goods, including women, and to have pretended to a divine mission

Among other mangled wretches, they beheld
Piero of Medicine, a sower of dissension, exhibiting
to them his face and throat all over wounds ;
and Curio, compelled to shew his tongue cut out
for advising Caesar to cross the Rubicon; and
Mosca de' Lambert, an adviser of assassination,
and one of the authors of the Gulf and Libelling
miseries, holding up the bleeding stumps
of his arms, which dripped on his face. " Remember
Mosca," cried he ; " remember him,
alas ! who said, * A deed done is a thing ended.'
A bad saying of mine was that for the Tuscan
nation."

And death to thy family," cried Dante.

The assassin hurried away like a man driven
mad with grief upon grief ; and Dante now beheld
a sight, which, if it were not, he says, for the testimony
of a good conscience — that best of friends,
which gives a man assurance of himself under the

for reforming the church. He appears to have made a considerable
impression, having thousands of followers, but was ultimately
seized in the mountains where they lived, and burnt with his
female companion Margarita, and many others. Landing says he
was very eloquent, and that " both he and Margarita endured their
fate with a firmness worthy of a better cause." Probably his real
history is not known, for want of somebody in such times bold
enough to write it.

breastplate of a spotless innocence ^ — he should
be afraid to relate without further proof. He
saw — and while he was writing the account of it
he still appeared to see — a headless trunk about
to come past him with the others. It held its
severed head by the hair, like a lantern ; and the
head looked up at the two pilgrims, and said,
Woe is me ! " The head was, in fact, a lantern
to the paths of the trunk; and thus there were
two separated things in one, and one in two ; and
how that could be, he only can tell who ordained
it. As the figure came nearer, it lifted the head
aloft, that the pilgrims might hear better what it
said.

Literally, "under the breastplate of knowing himself to be
pure : "

** Sotto r oswego del sentirsi pure."

The expression is deservedly admired ; but it is not allowable in
English, and it is the only one admitting no equivalent which I
have met with in the whole poem. It might be argued, perhaps,
against the perfection of the passage, that a good "conscience,"
and a man's ** knowing himself to be pure," are a tautology ; for
Dante himself has already used that word ;

Conscience m' assicura ;
La buena campagna che 1' uom francheggia
Sotto 1' oswego," &c.

But still we feel the impulsive beauty of the phrase ; and I wish I
could have kept it.

Behold," it said, " behold, thou that walked
living among the dead, and say if there be any
punishment like this. I am Bertrand de Born, he
that incited John of England to rebel against his
father. Father and son I set at variance — closest
affections I set at variance — and hence do I bear
my brain severed from the body on which it grew.
In me behold the work of retribution." ^

The eyes of Dante were so inebriate with all
that diversity of bleeding wounds, that they longed
to stay and weep ere his guide proceeded further.
Something also struck them on the sudden which
added to his desire to stop. But Virgil asked
what ailed him, and why he stood gazing still on
the wretched multitude. " Thou hast not done
so," continued he, " in any other portion of this
circle ; and the valley is twenty two miles further
about, and the moon already below us. Thou hast
more yet to see than thou hottest of, and the
time is short."

Dante, excusing himself for the delay, and
proceeding to follow his leader, said he thought he
had seen, in the cavern at which he was gazing so
hard, a spirit that was one of his own family — and
it was so. It was the soul of Xxeri del Bello, a

This ghastly fiction is a rare instance of the meeting of physical
horror with the truest pathos.

cousin of the poet's. Virgil said that he had observed
him, while Dante was occupied with Bertrand
de Born, pointing at his kinsman in a threatening
manner, " Waste not a thought on him,"
concluded the Roman, " but leave him as he is."

O honoured guide ! " said Dante, " he died
a violent death, which his kinsmen have not yet
avenged ; and hence it is that he disdained to
speak to me ; and I must needs feel for him the
more on that accounts

They came now to the last partition of the
circle of Evil-budget, and their ears were assailed
with such a burst of sharp failings, that Dante
was fain to close his with his hands. The misery
there, accompanied by a horrible odour, was as if all
the hospitals in the sultry marshes of Valdichiana
had brought their maladies together into one infernal
ditch. It was the place of punishment for
pretended Alchemists, Coiners, Personators of other
people. False Accusers, and Impostors of all such
descriptions. They lay on one another in heaps,
or attempted to crawl about — some itching madly
with leprosies — some swollen and gasping with
dropsies — some welly reeking, like hands washed
in winter-time. One was an alchemist of Sienna,

• The reader will not fail to notice this characteristic instance
of the ferocity of the time.

a nation gainer than the French ; another a Florentine,
who tricked a man into making a wrong
will ; another, Sin on of Troy ; another, Pyrrha ;
another, the wife of Potiphar. Their miseries
did not hinder them from giving one another malignant
blows ; and Dante was listening eagerly to
an abusive conversation between Sinon and a Brescia
coiner, when Virgil rebuked him for the disgraceful
condescension, and said it was a pleasure
fit only for vulgar minds. ^

The blushing poet felt the reproof so deeply,
that he could not speak for shame, though he manifested
by his demeanour that he longed to do so,
and thus obtained the pardon he despaired of. He
says he felt like a man that, during an unhappy
dream, wishes himself dreaming while he is so, and
does not know it. Virgil understood his emotion,
and, as Achilles did with his spear, healed the
wound with the tongue that inflicted it.

A silence now ensued between the companions ;
for they had quitted Evil-budget, and arrived at the
ninth great circle of hell, on the mound of which

^ This is admirable sentiment ; and it must have been no ordinary
consciousness of dignity in general which could have made
Dante allow himself to be the person rebuked for having forgotten
it. Perhaps it was a sort of penance for his having, on some occasion,
fallen into the unworthiness.

they passed along, looking quietly and steadily before
them. Daylight had given place to twilight ;
and Dante was advancing his head a little, and endeavouring
to discern objects in the distance, when
his whole attention was called to one particular
spot, by a blast of a horn so loud, that a thunderclap
was a whisper in comparison. Orlando himself
blew no such terrific blast, after the dolorous
rout, when Charlemagne was defeated in his holy
enterprises The poet raised his head, thinking he
perceived a multitude of lofty towers. He asked
Virgil to what region they belonged ; but Virgil
said, " Those are no towers : they are giants, standing
each up to his middle in the pit that goes
round this circle." Dante looked harder ; and as
objects clear up by little and little in the departing
mist, he saw, with alarm, the tremendous giants
that warred against Jove, standing half in and half
out of the pit, like the towers that crowned the
citadel of Monteseggione. The one whom he saw
plainest, and who stood with his arms hanging
down on each side, appeared to him to have a face
as huge as the pinnacle of St. Peter's, and limbs
throughout in proportion. The monster, as the

By the Saracens in Roncesvalles ; afterwards so favourite a
topic with the poet*. The circumstance of the horn is taken from
the Chronicle of the pretended Archbishop Turpin, chapter xxiv.

pilgrims were going by, opened his dreadful
mouth, fit for no sweeter psalmody, and called
after them, in the words of some unknown tongue,
Rafael, made amech zahee almee.^ " Dull wretch! "
exclaimed Virgil, " keep to thine horn, and so
vent better whatsoever frenzy or other passion
stuff thee. Feel the chain round thy throat, thou
confusion ! See, what a clenching hoop is about
thy gorge ! " Then he said to Dante, " His howl
is its own mockery. This is Nimrod, he through
whose evil ambition it was that mankind ceased to
speak one language. Pass him, and say nothing ;
for every other tongue is to him, as his is to
thee."

The companions went on for about the length
of a sling's throw, when they passed the second
giant, who was much fiercer and huger than
Nimrod. He was fettered round and round with
chains, that fixed one arm before him and the
other behind him — Ephialtes his name, the same
that would needs make trial of his strength against
Jove himself. The hands which he then wielded
were now motionless, but he shook with passion ;
and Dante thought he should have died for terror,

^ The gaping monotony of this jargon, full of the vowel a, is
admirably suited to the mouth of the vast, half-stupid speaker.
It is like a babble of the gigantic infancy of the world.

the effect on the ground about him was so fearful.
It surpassed that of a tower shaken by an earthquake.
The poet expressed a wish to look at
Briareus, but he was too far off. He saw, however,
Antaeus, who, not having fought against heaven,
was neither tongue-confounded nor shackled ; and
Virgil requested the " taker of a thousand lions," by
the fame which the living poet had it in his power
to give him, to bear the travellers in his arms down
the steep descent into this deeper portion of hell,
which was the region of tormenting cold. Antaeus,
stooping, like the leaning tower of Bologna, to
take them up, gathered them in his arms, and,
depositing them in the gulf below, raised himself
to depart like the mast of a ships

Had I hoarse and rugged words equal to my
subject, says the poet, I would now make them
fuller of expression, to suit the rocky horror of
this hole of anguish ; but I have not, and therefore
approach it with fear, since it is no jesting enterprise
to describe the depths of the universe, nor

^ " Ne SI china li face timor,
E come albert in nave si leo."

A magnificent image ! I have retained the idiomatic expression of
the original, raised himself, instead of saying rose, because it
seemed to me to give the more grand and deliberate image.

fit for a tongue that babbles of father and mother. ^
Let such of the Muses assist me as turned the
words of Amphion ito Theban walls ; so shall the
speech be not too far different from the matter.

Oh, ill-starred creatures ! wretched beyond all
others, to inhabit a place so hard to speak of —
better had ye been sheep or goats.

The poet was beginning to walk with his guide
along the place in which the giant had set them
down, and was still looking up at the height from
which he had descended, when a voice close to him
said, " Have a care where thou greatest. Hurt not
with thy feet the heads of thy unhappy brethren."

Dante looked down M^ before him, and saw
that he was walking on a lake of ice, in which
were Murderous Traitors up to their chins, their
teeth chattering, their faces held down, their eyes
locked up frozen with tears. Dante saw two at
his feet so closely stuck together, that the very
hairs of their heads were mingled. He asked
them who they were, and as they lifted up their
heads for astonishment, and felt the cold doubly

Of '^ mamma" and " babbo," says the primitive poet. We
have corresponding words in English, but the feeling they produce
is not identical. The lesser fervour of the northern nations renders
them, in some respects, more sophisticate than they suspect, compared
with the ** artful" Italians.

congeal them, they dashed their heads against one
another for hate and fury. They were two brothers
who had murdered each other. ^ Near them
were other Tuscanss, one of whom the cold had
deprived of his ears; and thousands more where
seen grinning like dogs, for the pain.

Dante, as he went along, kicked the face of one
of them, whether by chance, or fate, or will,'^ he
could not say. The sufferer burst into tears, and
cried out, " Wherefore dost thou torment me ?
Art thou come to revenge the defeat at 
?" The pilgrim at this question felt eager
to know who he was; but the unhappy wretch
would not tell. His countryman seized him by
the hair to force him ; but still he said he would
not tell, were he to be scalped a thousand times.
Dante, upon this, began plucking up his hairs by
the roots, the man harking ^^ with his eyes squeezed

Alexandre and Napoleon degli Alberti, sons of Alberto, lord
of the valley of Faltering in Tuscany. After their father's death
they tyrannised over the neighbouring districts, and finally had a
mortal quarrel. The name of Napoleon used to be so rare till of
late years, even in Italian books, that it gives one a kind of interesting
surprise to meet with it.

^ * ' Se voter fu, o destiny o fortuna,
Non so."
What does the Christian reader think of that ?

^ Latrando.

up, at every pull ; when another soul exclaimed,
Why, Bocca, what the devil ails thee ? Must
thou needs bark for cold as well as chatter ?" ^

Now, accursed traitor, betrayer of thy country's
standard," said Dante, "be dumb if thou
wilt ; for T shall tell thy name to the world."

Tell and begone 1" said Bocca ; " but carry
the name of this babbler with thee; 'tis Buoso,
who left the pass open to the enemy between Piedmont
and Parma ; and near him is the traitor for
the pope, Beccaria ; and Ganellone, who betrayed
Charlemagne ; and Tribaldello, who opened Faenza
to the enemy at night-time."

The pilgrims went on, and beheld two other
spirits so closely locked up together in one hole of
the ice, that the head of one was right over the
other's, like a cowl ; and Dante, to his horror, saw
that the upper head was devouring the lower withall
the eagerness of a man who is famished. The
poet asked what could possibly make him shew a
hate so brutal ; adding, that if there were any
ground for it, he would tell the story to the world. ^
^ Bocca degli Sabbath, whose soul barks like a dog, occasioned
the defeat of the Gulfs at Montaperto, in the year 1260, by
treacherously cutting off the hand of the standard-bearer.

2 This is the famous story ofJJgolino, who betrayed the castles
of Pisa to the Florentines, and was starved with his children in the
Tower of Famine.

The sinner raised his head from the dire repast,
and after wiping his jaws with the hair of it,
said, " You ask a thing which it shakes me to the
heart to think of. It is a story to renew all my
misery. But since it will produce this wretch his
due infamy, hear it, and you shall see me speak
and weep at the same time. How thou comest
hither I know not ; but I perceive by thy speech
that thou art Florentine.

Learn, then, that I was the Count Ugolino^
and this man was Ruggieri the Archbishop. How
I trusted him, and was betrayed into prison, there
is no need to relate ; but of his treatment of me
there, and how cruel a death I underwent, hear ;
and then judge if he has offended me.

I had been imprisoned with my children a
long time in the tower which has since been called
from me the Tower of Famine ; and many a new
moon had I seen through the hole that served us
for a window, when I dreamt a dream that foreshadowed
to me what was coming. Methought
that this man headed a great chase against the
wolf, in the mountains between Pisa and Lucca.
Among the foremost in his party were Gualandi,
Sismondi, and Lanfranchihi, and the hounds were
thin and eager, and high-bred; and in a little
while I saw the hounds fasten on the flanks of the

wolf and the wolf's children, and tear them. At
that moment I awoke with the voices of my own
children in my ears, asking for bread. Truly
cruel must thou be, if thy heart does not ache to
think of what I thought then. If thou feel not
for a pang like that, what is it for which thou art
accustomed to feel? We were now all awake;
and the time was at hand when they brought us
bread, and we had all dreamt dreams which made
us anxious. At that moment I heard the key of
the horrible tower turn in the lock of the door
below, and fasten it. I looked at my children,
and said not a word. T did not weep. I made a
strong effort upon the soul within me. But my
little Anselm said, ' Father, why do you look so ?
Is any thing the matter ?' Nevertheless I did not
weep, nor say a word all the day, nor the night
that followed. In the morning a ray of light fell
upon us through the window of our sad prison,
and I beheld in those four little faces the likeness
of my own face, and then I began to gnaw my
hands for misery. My children, thinking I did
it for hunger, raised themselves on the floor, and
said, * Father, we should be less miserable if
you would eat our own flesh. It was you that
gave it us. Take it again.' Then I sat still,
in order not to make them unhappier: and that

day and the next we all remained without speaking.
On the fourth day, Gaddo stretched himself
at my feet, and said, * Father, why won't you help
me V and there he died. And as surely as thou
loosest on me, so surely I beheld the whole three
die in the same manner. So I began in my
misery to grope about in the dark for them, for I
had become blind ; and three days I kept calling
on them by name, though they were dead; till
famine did for me what grief had been unable
to do."

With these words, the miserable man, his eyes
starting from his head, seized that other wretch
again with his teeth, and ground them against the
skull as a dog does with a bone.

O Pisa ! scandal of the nations ! since thy
neighbours are so slow to punish thee, may the
very islands tear themselves up from their roots
in the sea, and come and block up the mouth
of thy river, and drown every soul within thee.
What if this Count Ugolino did, as report says he
did, betray thy castles to the enemy ? his children
had not betrayed them ; nor ought they to have
been put to an agony like this. Their age was
their innocence ; and their deaths have given thee
the infamy of a second Thebes

I should be loath to disturb the inimitable pathos of this

The pilgrims passed on, and beheld other
traitors frozen up in swathes of ice, with their
heads upside down. Their very tears had hindered
them from shedding more ; for their eyes were
encrusted with the first they shed, so as to be
enclosed with them as in a crystal visor, which
forced back the others into an accumulation of
anguish. One of the sufferers begged Dante to
relieve him of this ice, in order that he might venta
little of the burden which it repressed. The
poet said he would do so, provided he would disclose
who he was. The man said he was the
friar Alberto, who invited some of his brotherhood
to a banquet in order to slay them.

What !" exclaimed Dante, " art thou no
longer, then, among the living ?"

Perhaps I appear to be," answered the friar ;
for the moment any one commits a treachery
like mine, his soul gives up his body to a demon,
who thenceforward inhabits it in the man's likeness.
Thou knowest Branca Doria, who murdered
his father-in-law, Zanche ? He seems to be

story, if there did not seem grounds for believing that the poet
was too hasty in giving credit to parts of it, particularly the ages
of some of his fellow-prisoners, and the guilt of the archbishop.
See the Appendix to this volume.
H

walking the earth still, and yet he has been in this
place many years. "^

Impossible !'' cried Dante ; " Branca Doria
is still alive ; he eats, drinks, and sleeps, like any
other man."

I tell thee," returned the friar, " that the
soul of the man he slew had not reached that lake
of boiling pitch in which thou safest him, ere the
soul of his slayer was in this place, and his body
occupied by a demon in its stead. But now
stretch forth thy hand, and relieve mine eyes,"

Dante relieved them not. Ill manners, he said,
were the only courtesy fit for such a wretch. ^

O ye Genoese! he exclaims, — men that are
perversity all over, and full of every corruption to
the core, why are ye not swept from the face of

^ This is the most tremendous lampoon, as far as I am aware,
in the whole circle of literature.

^ " Cornelia fu lui esse villany." This is the foulest blot which
Dante has cast on his own character in all his poem (short of the
cruelties he thinks fit to attribute to God). It is argued that he
is cruel and false, out of hatred to cruelty and falsehood. But
why then add to the sum of both ? and towards a man, too, supposed
to be suffering eternally ? It is idle to discern in such barbarous
inconsistencies any thing but the writer's own contributions
to the stock of them. The utmost credit for right feeling is not to
be given on every occasion to a man who refuses it to every one
else.

the earth ? There is one of you whom you fancy
to be walking about like other men, and he is all
the while in the lowest pit of hell !

"Look before thee," said Virgil, as they advanced
: " behold the banners of the King of Hell."

Dante looked, and beheld something which
appeared like a windmill in motion, as seen from
a distance on a dark night. A wind of inconceivable
sharpness came from it.

The souls of those who had been traitors to
their benefactors were here frozen up in depths of
pellucid ice, where they were seen in a variety of
attitudes, motionless ; some upright, some downward,
some bent double, head to foot.

At length they came to where the being stood
who was once eminent for all fair seeming This

^ ** La creature ch' abbe il bel semblance."

This is touching ; but the reader may as well be prepared for a
total failure in Dante's conception of Satan, especially the English
reader, accustomed to the sublimity of Milton's. Granting that
the Roman Catholic poet intended to honour the fallen angel with
no sublimity, but to render him an object of mere hate and dread,
he has overdone and degraded the picture into caricature. A great
stupid being, stuck up in ice, with three faces, one of which is yellow,
and three mouths, each eating a sinner, one of those sinners
being Brutus, — is an object for derision ; and the way in which he
eats these, his everlasting bonnes-bouches, divides derision with
disgust. The passage must be given, otherwise the abstract of the

was the figure that seemed tossing its arms at a
distance like a windmill.

Satan," whispered Virgil ; and put himself
in front of Dante to re-assure him, halting him at
the same time, and bidding him summon all his
fortitude. Dante stood benumbed, though conscious
; as if he himself had been turned to ice.
He felt neither alive nor dead.

The lord of the dolorous empire, each of his
arms as big as a giant, stood in the ice half-way
up his breast. He had one head, but three faces ;
the middle, vermilion ; the one over the right
shoulder a pale yellow ; the other black. His
sails of wings, huger than ever were beheld at sea,
were in shape and texture those of a bat; and
with these he constantly flapped, so as to send
forth the wind that froze the depths of Tartarus.
From his six eyes the tears ran down, mingling
at his three chins with bloody foam ; for at every
mouth he crushed a sinner with his teeth, as substances
are broken up by an engine. The middle
sinner was the worst punished, for he was at
once broken and flayed, and his head and trunk
were inside the mouth. It was Judas Iscariot.

poem would be incomplete ; but I cannot help thinking it the
worst anti climax ever fallen into by a great poet.

Of the other two, whose heads were hanging out,
one was Brutus, and the other Cassius. Cassius
was very large-Hmbed. Brutus writhed with
agony, but uttered not a words

Night has returned," said Virgil, " and all
has been seen. It is time to depart onward."

Dante then, at his bidding, clasped, as Virgil
did, the huge inattentive being round the neck ;
and watching their opportunity, as the wings
opened and shut, they slipped round it, and so
down his shaggy and frozen sides, from pile to
pile, clutching it as they went ; till suddenly, with
the greatest labour and pain, they were compelled
to turn themselves upside down, as it seemed, butin
reality to regain their proper footing ; for they

This silence is, at aU events, a compliment to Brutus, especially
from a man like Dante, and the more because it is extorted,
Dante, no doubt, hated all treachery, particularly treachery
to the leader of his beloved Roman emperors ; forgetting
three things ; first, that Caesar was guilty of treachery himself to
the Roman people ; second, that he, Dante, has put Curio in hell
for advising Csesar to cross the Rubicon, though he has put the
crosser among the good Pagans ; and third, that Brutus was educated
in the belief that the punishment of such treachery as Caesar's
by assassination was one of the first of duties. How differently
has Shakspeare, himself an aristocratic rather than democratic
poet, and full of just doubt of the motives of assassins in general,
treated the error of the thoughtful, conscientious, Platonic philosopher
!

had passed the centre of gravity, and become
Antipodes. Then looking down at what lately
was upward, they saw Lucifer with his feet towards
them ; and so taking their departure, ascended
a gloomy vault, till at a distance, through
an opening above their heads, they beheld the
loveliness of the stars. ^

At the close of this medley of genius, pathos, absurdity, sublimity,
horror, and revoltingness, it is impossible for any reflecting
heart to avoid asking, Cui bono ? What is the good of it to the
poor wretches, if we are to suppose it true ? and what to the world
except, indeed, as a poetic study and a warning against degrading
notions of God — if we are to take it simply as a fiction ? Theology,
disdaining both questions, has an answer confessedly incomprehensible.
Humanity replies : Assume not premises for which you
have worse than no proofs.

THE JOURNEY THROUGH PURGATORY.

Purgatory, in the system of Dante, is a mountain at the
Antipodes, on the top of which is the Terrestrial Paradise, once
the seat of Adam and Eve. It forms the principal part of an
island in a sea, and possesses a pure air. Its lowest region, with
one or two exceptions of redeemed Pagans, is occupied by Excommunicated
Penitents and by Delayed of Penitence, all of
whom are compelled to lose time before their atonement commences.
The other and greater portion of the ascent is divided
into circles or plains, in which are expiated the Seven Deadly
Sins. The Poet ascends from circle to circle with Virgil and
Statius, and is met in a forest on the top by the spirit of Beatrice,
who transports him to Heaven.

JOURNEY THROUGH PURGATORY.

When the pilgrims emerged from the opening
through which they beheld the stars, they found
themselves in a scene which enchanted them with
hope and joy. It was dawn : a sweet pure air
came on their faces ; and they beheld a sky of the
loveliest oriental sapphire, whose colour seemed to
pervade the whole serene hollow from earth to
heaven. The beautiful planet which encourages
loving thoughts made all the orient laugh, obscuring
by its very radiance the stars in its train ; and
among those which were still lingering and sparkling
in the southern horizon, Dante saw four in
the shape of a cross, never beheld by man since
they gladdened the eyes of our first parents.
Heaven seemed to rejoice in their possession. O
widowed northern pole ! bereaved art thou, indeed,
since thou canst not gaze upon them I^

** Dolce color d' oriental affirm
Che s' accoglieva nel serene aspect
De r aer pure infino al primo giro,

h2

The poet turned to look at the north where he
had been accustomed to see stars that no longer
appeared, and beheld, at his side, an old man,
who struck his beholder with a veneration like
that of a son for his father. He had grey hairs,
and a long beard which parted in two down his

A gli occhi mien ricomincio stiletto,
Toto ch' io sci' for de V aura mortal
Che m* area contristati gli occhi e '1 petty.

Lo bel planets, ch' ad mar conforta,
Faceva tutti rider l' oriente,
Orlando i Pesci, ch' erato in sua scorta.

Io mi vols a man vestra, e posh mente
All' alto polo, vidi quarto stella
Non veste mai, for ch' a la prima gente ;

Gode pareva '1 ciel di lor famille.
O settentrional vedovo sit,
Poi che private sei di mira quelle !"

The sweetest oriental sapphire blue,
Which the whole air in its pure bosom had,
Greeted mine eyes, far as the heavens withdrew ;

So that again they felt assured and glad.
Soon as they issued forth from the dead air,
Where every sight and thought had made them sad.

The beauteous star, which lets no love despair.
Made all the orient laugh with loveliness,
Veiling the Fish that glimmered in its hair.

I turned me to the right to gaze and bless,
And saw four more, never of living wight
Beheld, since Adam brought us our distress ;

bosom ; and the four southern stars beamed on his
face with such lustre, that his aspect was as radiant
as if he had stood in the sun.

Who are ye ?" said the old man, " that have

Heaven seemed rejoicing in their happy light.
O widowed northern pole, bereaved indeed,
Since thou hast had no power to see that sight !

Readers who may have gone thus far with the " Italian Pilgrim's
Progress," will allow me to congratulate them on arriving
at this lovely scene, one of the most admired in the poem.

This is one of the passages which make the religious admirers
of Dante inclined to pronounce him divinely inspired ; for how
could he otherwise have seen stars, they ask us, which were not
discovered till after his time, and which compose the constellation
of the Cross ? But other commentators are of opinion, that the
Cross, though not so named till subsequently (and Dante, we see,
gives no prophetic hint about the name), had been seen, probably
by stray navigators. An Arabian globe is even mentioned by M.
Artaud (see Cary), in which the Southern Cross is set down.
Mr. Cary, in his note on the passage, refers to Seneca's prediction
of the discovery of America ; most likely suggested by similar
information. " But whatever," he adds, " may be thought of
this, it is certain that the four stars are here symbolical of the
four cardinal virtues ;" and he refers to canto xxxi , where those
virtues are retrospectively associated with these stars. The symbol,
however, is not necessary. Dante was a very curious inquirer
on all subjects, and evidently acquainted with ships and
seamen as well as geography; and his imagination would eagerly
have seized a magnificent novelty like this, and used it the first
opportunity. Columbus's discovery, as the reader will see, was
anticipated by Pulci.

escaped from the dreadful prison-house ? Can the
laws of the abyss be violated ? Or has Heaven
changed its mind, that thus ye are allowed to come
from the regions of condemnation into mine V

It was the spirit of Cato of Utica, the warder
of the ascent of purgatory.

The Roman poet explained to his countryman
who they were, and how Dante was under heavenly
protection ; and then he prayed leave of passage
of him by the love he bore to the chaste eyes
of his Marcia, who sent him a message from the
Pagan circle, hoping that he would still own her.

Cato replied, that although he was so fond of
Marcia while on earth that he could deny her nothing,
he had ceased, in obedience to new laws, to
have any affection for her, now that she dwelt beyond
the evil river ; but as the pilgrim, his companion,
was under heavenly protection, he would
of course do what he desired. ^ He then desired
him to gird his companion with one of the simplest
and completest rushes he would see by the

Generous and disinterested! — Cato, the republican enemy of
Csesar, and committer of suicide, is not luckily chosen for his present
office by the poet who has put Brutus into the de\TLl's mouth
in spite of his agreeing with Cato, and the suicide Piero delle
Vigne into hell in spite of his virtues. But Dante thought Cato's
austere manners like his own.

water's side, and to wash the stain of the lower
world out of his face, and so take their journey up
the mountain before them, by a path which the
rising sun would disclose. And with these words
he disappeared. 1

The pilgrims passed on, with the eagerness of
one who thinks every step in vain till he finds the
path he has lost. The full dawn by this time had
arisen, and they saw the trembling of the sea in
the distance Virgil then dipped his hands into
a spot of dewy grass, where the sun had least affected
it, and with the moisture bathed the face
of Dante, who held it out to him, suffused with

The girding with the rush {giunco schietto) is supposed by
the commentators to be an injunction of simplicity and patience.
Perhaps it is to enjoin sincerity ; especially as the region of expiation
has now been entered, and sincerity is the first step to
repentance. It will be recollected that Dante's former girdle,
the cord of the Franciscan friars, has been left in the hands of
Fraud.

2 " L' alba vincent 1' ora mattutina

Che fuggia 'nnanzi, si che di montana

Conobbi il tremor de la marina."

The lingering shadows now began to flee
Before the whitening dawn, so that mine eyes
Discerned far off" the trembling of the sea.

** Conobbi il tremor de la marina"
is a beautiful verse, both for the picture and the sound.

tears ;i and then they went on till they came to a
solitary shore, whence no voyager had ever returned,
and there the loins of the Florentine were
girt with the rush.

On this shore they were standing in doubt how
to proceed, — moving onward, as it were, in mind,
while yet their feet were staying, — when they beheld
a light over the water at a distance, rayless
at first as the planet Mars when he looks redly
out of the horizon through a fog, but speedily
growing brighter and brighter with amazing swiftness.
Dante had but turned for an instant to ask
his guide what it was, when, on looking again, it
had grown far brighter. Two splendid phenomena,
he knew not what, then developed themselves
from it on either side ; and, by degrees,
another below it. The two splendours quickly
turned out to be wings; and Virgil, who had
hitherto watched its coming in silence, cried out,
Down, down, — on thy knees ! It is God's angel.
Clasp thine hands. Now thou shalt behold opere

This evidence of humility and gratitude on the part of
Dante would be very affecting, if we could forget all the pride
and passion he has been shewing elsewhere, and the torments in
which he has left his fellow creatures. With these recollections
upon us, it looks like an overweening piece of self congratulation
at other people's expense.

any indeed. Lo, how he needs neither sail nor
oar, coming all this way with nothing but his
wings! Lo, how he holds them aloft, using the
air with them at his will, and knowing they can
never be weary."

The " divine bird" grew brighter and brighter
as he came, so that the eye at last could not sustain
the lustre ; and Dante turned his to the ground.
A boat then rushed to shore which the angel had
brought with him, so light that it drew not a drop
of water. The celestial pilot stood at the helm,
with bliss written in his face; and a hundred
spirits were seen within the boat, who, lifting up
their voices, sang the psalm beginning " When
Israel came out of Egypt." At the close of the
psalm, the angel blessed them with the sign of the
cross, and they all leaped to shore ; upon which
he turned round, and departed as swiftly as he
came.

The new-comers, after gazing about them fora
while, in the manner of those who are astonished
to see new sights, inquired of Virgil and
his companion the best way to the mountain.
Virgil explained who they were ; and the spirits,
pale with astonishment at beholding in Dante a
living and breathing man, crowded about him, in
spite of their anxiety to shorten the period of

their trials. One of them came darting out of
the press to embrace him, in a manner so affectionate
as to move the poet to return his warmth ;
but his arms again and again found themselves
crossed on his own bosom, having encircled nothing.
The shadow, smiling at the astonishment
in the other's face, drew back ; and Dante hastened
as much forward to shew his zeal in the
greeting, when the spirit in a sweet voice recommended
him to desist. The Florentine then knew
who it was, — Casella, a musician, to whom he had
been much attached. After mutual explanations
as to their meeting, Dante requested his friend,
if no ordinance opposed it, to refresh his spirit
awhile with one of the tender airs that used to
charm away all his troubles on earth. Casella immediately
began one of his friend's own productions,
commencing with the words,

Love, that delights to talk unto my soul
Of all the wonders of my lady's nature."

And he sang it so beautifully, that the sweetness
rang within the poet's heart while recording the
circumstance. The other spirits listened with
such attention, that they seemed to have forgotten
the very purpose of their coming ; when suddenly
the voice of Cato was heard, sternly rebuking

their delay; and the whole party speeded in
trepidation towards the mountain, i

The two pilgrims, who had at first hastened
with the others, in a little while slackened their
steps ; and Dante found that his body projected a
shadow, while the form of Virgil had none. When
arrived at the foot of the mountain, they were
joined by a second party of spirits, of whom Virgil
inquired the way up it. One of the spirits,
of a noble aspect, but with a gaping wound in
his forehead, stepped forth, and asked Dante if
he remembered him. The poet humbly answering
in the negative, the stranger disclosed a second
wound, that was in his bosom ; and then, with
a smile, announced himself as Manfredii, king of
Naples, who was slain in battle against Charles

^ ** Amor che ne la mente mi regions
De la mia donna disiosamente/'
is the beginning of the ode sung by Dante's friend. The incident
is beautifully introduced ; and Casella's being made to select
a production from the pen of the man who asks him to sing, very
delicately implies a graceful cordiality in the musician's character.
Milton alludes to the passage in his sonnet to Henry Lawes :
** Thou honour's verse, and verse must lend her wing
To honour thee, the priest of Phoebus' quire.
That tunes their happiest lines in hymn or story.
Dante shall give Fame leave to set thee higher
Than his Casella, whom he wooed to sing,
Met in the milder shades of Purgatory."

of Anjou, and died excommunicated. Manfredii
gave Dante a message to his daughter Stanza,
queen of Arragon, begging her to shorten the
consequences of the excommunication by her
prayers ; since he, like the rest of the party with
him, though repenting of his contumacy against
the church, would have to wander on the outskirts
of Purgatory three times as long as the
presumption had lasted, unless relieved by such
petitions from the living. ^

Dante went on, with his thoughts so full of
this request, that he did not perceive he had
arrived at the path which Virgil asked for, till
the wandering spirits called out to them to say
so. The pilgrims then, with great difficulty,
began to ascend through an extremely narrow
passage; and Virgil, after explaining to Dante

^ Manfredii was the natural son of the Emperor Frederick the
Second. ** He was lively and agreeable in his manners," observes
Mr. Gary, ** and delighted in poetry, music, and dancing. But he
was luxurious and ambitious, void of religion, and in his philosophy
an epicurean." Translation of Dante, Smith's edition, p. 77.
Thus King Manfredii ought to have been in a red-hot tomb, roasting
for ever with Epicurus himself, and with the father of the
poet's beloved friend, Guido Cavalcade : but he was the son of an
emperor, and a foe to the house of Anjou ; so Dante gives him a
passport to heaven. There is no ground whatever for the repentance
assumed in the text.

how it was that in this antipodal region his eastward
face beheld the sun in the north instead of
the south, was encouraging him to proceed manfully
in the hope of finding the path easier by
degrees, and of reposing at the end of it, when
they heard a voice observing, that they would
most likely find it expedient to repose a little
sooner. The pilgrims looked about them, and
observed close at hand a crag of a rock, in the
shade of which some spirits were standing, as men
stand idly at noon. Another was sitting down,
as if tired out, with his arms about his knees, and
his face bent down between theme

"Dearest master!" exclaimed Dante to his
guide, 'what thickest thou of a croucher like
this, for manful journeying ? Verily he seems to
have been twin-born with Idleness herself."

The croucher, lifting up his eyes at these
words, looked hard at Dante, and said, " Since
thou art so stout, push on."

Dante then saw it was Belacqua, a pleasant
acquaintance of his, famous for his indolence.

That was a good lesson," said Belacqua,
that was given thee just now in astronomy."

^ The unexpected bit of comedy here ensuing is very remarkable
and pleasant. Belacqua, according to an old commentator,
was a musician.

The poet could not help smiling at the manner
in which his acquaintance uttered these words,
it was so like his ways of old. Belacqua pretended,
even in another world, that it was of no
use to make haste, since the angel had prohibited
his going higher up the mountain. He and his
companions had to walk round the foot of it as
many years as they had delayed repenting; unless,
as in the case of Manfredii, their time was
shortened by the prayers of good people.

A little further on, the pilgrims encountered
the spirits of such Delayed of Penitence as, having
died violent deaths, repented at the last moment.
One of them, Buonconte da Montefeltro, who
died in battle, and whose body could not be
found, described how the devil, having been hindered
from seizing him by the shedding of a single
tear, had raised in his fury a tremendous tempest,
which sent the body down the river Arno, and
buried it in the mud.^

Another spirit, a female, said to Dante, " Ah !
when thou returned to earth, and shalt have
rested from thy long journey, remember me, —

Buonconte was the son of that Guido da Montefeltro, whose
soul we have seen carried off from St. Francis by a devil, for
having violated the conditions of penitence. It is curious that
both father and son should have been contested for in this manner.

Pia. Sienna gave me life ; the Marshes took it
from me. This he knows, who put on my finger
the wedding-rings

1 This is the most afFecting and comprehensive of all brief

stories.

Del quando tu sarah tomato al monde,

E riposato de la lungs via,

Seguito *I tergo spirit al secondo,

Ricorditi di me che son la Pia :
Siena mi fe ; disfecemi Maremma ;
Salsi celui che 'nnanellata pria

Disposed m' area con la sua gemma."

Ah, when thou finest thee again on earth
(Said then a female soul), remember me, —
Pia. Sienna was my place of birth,

The Marshes of my death. This knoweth he,
Who placed upon my hand the spousal ring.

Nello della Pietra," says M. Belle, in his work entitled
De V Amour, "obtained in marriage the hand of Madonna Fiesole
heiress of the Ptolomei, the richest and most noble family of
Sienna. Her beauty, which was the admiration of all Tuscany,
gave rise to a jealousy in the breast of her husband, that, envenomed
by wrong reports and suspicions continually reviving, led
to a frightful catastrophe. It is not easy to determine at this day
if his wife was altogether innocent ; but Dante has represented her
as such. Her husband carried her with him into the marshes of
Volterra, celebrated then, as now, for the pestiferous effects of the
air. Never would he tell his wife the reason of her banishment
into so dangerous a place. His pride did not deign to pronounce
either complaint or accusation. He lived with her alone, in a
deserted tower, of which I have been to see the ruins on the sea-the

majority of this party were so importunate
with the Florentine to procure them the
prayers of their friends, that he had as much
difficulty to get away, as a winner at dice has to
free himself from the mercenary congratulations
of the by-sanders. On resuming their way,
Dante quoted to Virgil a passage in the JEueid,
decrying the utility of prayer, and begged him to
explain how it was to be reconciled with what
they had just heard. Virgil advised him to wait
for the explanation till he saw Beatrice, whom,
he now said, he should meet at the top of the
mountain. Dante, at this information, expressed
a desire to hasten their progress ; and Virgil, seeing
a spirit looking towards them as they advanced,
requested him to acquaint them with the
shortest road.

shore ; he never broke his disdainful silence, never replied to the
questions of his youthful bride, never listened to her entreaties.
He waited, unmoved by her, for the air to produce its fatal effects.
The vapours of this unwholesome swamp were not long in tarnishing
features the most beautiful, they say, that in that age had
appeared upon earth. In a few months she died. Some chroniclers
of these remote times report that Nello employed the dagger
to hasten her end : she died in the marshes in some horrible manner
; but the mode of her death remained a mystery, even to her
contemporaries. Nello della Pietra survived, to pass the rest of his
days in a silence which was never broken." Hazlitt's Journey
through France and Italy, p. 315.

The spirit, maintaining a lofty and reserved
aspect, was as silent as if he had not heard the
request ; intimating by his manner that they
might as well proceed without repeating it, and
eyeing them like a lion on the watch. Virgil,
however, went up to him, and gently urged it ; but
the only reply was a question as to who they were
and of what country. The Latin poet beginning
to answer him, had scarcely mentioned the word
Mantua," when the stranger went as eagerly upto
his interrogator as the latter had done to him,
and said, " Mantua ! My own country ! My
name is Sordello." And the compatriots embraced.


O degenerate Italy ! exclaims Dante ; land
without affections, without principle, without
faith in any one good thing ! here was a man
who could not hear the sweet sound of a fellow-citizen's
voice without feeling his heart gush towards
him, and there are no people now in anyone
of thy towns that do not hate and torment one
another.

Sordello, in another tone, now exclaimed,
But who are ye ?"

Virgil disclosed himself, and Sordello fell at
his feet.i

Sordello was a famous Proven9al poet ; with whose writings

Sordello now undertook to accompany the
great Roman poet and his friend to a certain
distance on their ascent towards the penal quarters
of the mountain ; but as evening was drawing
nigh, and the ascent could not be made properly
in the dark, he proposed that they should await
the dawning of the next day in a recess that
overlooked a flowery hollow. The hollow was a
lovely spot of ground, enamelled with flowers that
surpassed the exquisite dyes, and green with
a grass brighter than emeralds newly broken. i
There rose from it also a fragrance of a thousand
different kinds of sweetness, all mingled into one
that was new and indescribable ; and with the
fragrance there ascended the chant of the prayer
beginning, " Hail, Queen of Heavens which was
sung by a multitude of souls that appeared sitting
on the flowery sward.

Virgil pointed them out. They were penitent
delayed of penitence, of sovereign rank. Among
them, however, were spirits who sat mute ; one of

the world has but lately been made acquainted through the researches
of M. Raynouard, in his Choir; des Posies des Troubadours,
&c.

" Fresco emerald in 1' ora che si sicca."
An exquisite image of newness and brilliancy.

2 '* Salve, Regina:" the beginning of a Roman-catholic chant
to the Virgin.

whom was the Emperor Rodolph, who ought to
have attended better to Italy, the garden of the
empire ; and another, Ottoman, king of Bohemia,
his enemy, who now comforted him ; and another,
with a small noses Philip the Third of France,
who died a fugitive, shedding the leaves of the
lily ; he sat beating his breast ; and with him
was Henry the Third of Navarre, sighing with his
cheek on his hand. One was the father, and one
the father-in-law of Philip the Handsome, the
bane of France ; and it was on account of his unworthiness
they grieved.

But among the singers Virgil pointed out the
strong-limbed King of Arragon, Pedro; and
Charles, king of Naples, with his masculine nose
(these two were singing together) ; and Henry
the Third of England, the king of the simple life,
sitting by himself; ^ and below these, but with
his eyes in heaven, Gugiielmo marquis of montserrat.


^ ** With nose deprest," says Mr. Cary. But Dante says,
literally, "small nose," — falsetto. So, further on, he says,
"masculine nose," — machin maso. He meant to imply the
greater or less determination of character, which the size of that
feature is supposed to indicate.

^ An English Reader is surprised to find here a sovereign for
whom he has been taught to entertain little respect. But Henry
was a devout servant of the Church.

It was now the hour when men at sea thmk
longingly of home, and feel their hearts melt within
them to remember the day on which they bade
adieu to beloved friends ; and now, too, was the
hour when the pilgrim, new to his journey, is
thrilled with the like tenderness, when he hears
the vesper-bell in the distance, which seems to
mourn for the expiring days At this hour of

^ *' Era gia 1' ora che volga '1 desio
A' navigate, e intenerisce '1 cure
Lo di ch' an ditto a' dolce amici a Dio ;

E che lo nuovo peregrine d' more
Plunge, se ode squilla di montana
Che pain '1 giorno hanger che si more."

A famous passage, untiring in the repetition. It is, indeed, worthy
to be the voice of Evening herself.

'Twas now the hour, when love of home melts through
Men's hearts at sea, and longing thoughts portray
The moment when they bade sweet friends adieu ;

And the new pilgrim now, on his lone way,
Thrills, if he hears the distant vesper-bell.
That seems to mourn for the expiring day.
Every body knows the line in Gray's Elegy, not unworthily
echoed from Dante's —

The curfew tolls the knell of parting day."
Nothing can equal, however, the tone in the Italian original,' — the

Pain '1 giorno hanger che si more."
Alas ! why could not the great Tuscan have been superior enough

the coming darkness, Dante beheld one of the
spirits in the flowery hollow arise, and after giving
a signal to the others to do as he did, stretch
forth both hands, palm to palm, towards the East,
and with softest emotion commence the hymn beginning,


Thee before the closing light. "^

Upon which all the rest devoutly and softly followed
him, keeping their eyes fixed on the heavens.
At the end of it they remained, with pale
countenances, in an attitude of humble expectation;
and Dante saw the angels issue from the
quarter to which they looked, and descend towards
them with flaming swords in their hands,
broken short of the point. Their wings were as
green as the leaves in spring ; and they wore garments
equally green, which the fanning of the
wings kept in a state of streaming fluctuation behind
them as they came. One of them took his
stand on a part of the hill just over where the
pilgrims stood, and the other on a hill opposite,
so that the party in the valley were between them.
Dante could discern their heads of hair, notwith-

to his personal griefs to write a whole book full of such beauties,
and so have left us a work truly to be called Divine ?

^ ** Te lucius ante terminus ;" — a hymn sung at evening ser-standing

its brightness; but their faces were so
dazzling as to be undistinguishable.

*' They come from Mary's bosom," whispered
Sordello, "to protect the valley from the designs
of our enemy yonder, — the Serpent."

Dante looked in trepidation towards the only
undefended side of the valley, and beheld the Serpent
of Eve coming softly among the grass and
flowers, occasionally turning its head, and licking
its polished back. Before he could take off his
eyes from the evil thing, the two angels had comedown
like falcons, and at the whirring of their
pinions the serpent fled. The angels returned as
swiftly to their stations.

Aurora was now looking palely over the eastern
cliff* on the other side of the globe, and the
stars of midnight shining over the heads of Dante
and his friends, when they seated themselves forrest
on the mountain's side. The Florentine, being
still in the flesh, lay down for weariness, and
was overcome with sleep. In his sleep he dreamt
that a golden eagle flashed down like lightning
upon him, and bore him up to the region of fire,
where the heat was so intense that it woke him,
staring and looking round about with a pale face.
His dream was a shadowing of the truth. He
had actually come to another place, — to the entrance

of Purgatory itself. Sordello had been
left behind, Virgil alone remained, looking him
cheerfully in the face. Saint Lucy had come
from heaven, and shortened the fatigue of his
journey by carrying him upwards as he slept, the
heathen poet following them. On arriving where
they stood, the fair saint intimated the entrance
of Purgatory to Virgil by a glance thither of her
beautiful eyes, and then vanished as Dante woke. ^

The portal by which Purgatory was entered
was embedded in a cliff, It had three steps, each
of a different colour ; and on the highest of these
there sat, mute and watching, an angel in ash-coloured
garments, holding a naked sword, which
glanced with such intolerable brightness on Dante,
whenever he attempted to look, that he gave up
the endeavour. The angel demanded who they
were, and receiving the right answer, gently bade
them advance.

Dante now saw, that the lowest step was of
marble, so white and clear that he beheld his face

Lucas Lucia (supposed to be derived from lux, lucius), is
the goddess (I was almost going to say) who in Roman Catholic
countries may be said to preside over light, and who is really
invoked in maladies of the eyes. She was Dante's favourite saint,
possibly for that reason among others, for he had once hurt his
eyes with study, and they had been cured. In her spiritual character
she represents the light of grace.

in it. The colour of the next was a deadly black,
and it was all rough, scorched, and full of cracks.
The third was of flaming porphyry, red as a man's
blood when it leaps forth under the lancet. ^ The
angel, whose feet were on the porphyry, sat on a
threshold which appeared to be rock diamond.
Dante, ascending the steps, with the encouragement
of Virgil, fell at the angel's feet, and, after
thrice beating himself on the breast, humbly asked
admittance. The angel, with the point of his
sword, inscribed the first letter of the word pec-datum
(sin) seven times on the petitioner's forehead
; then, bidding him pray with tears for their
easement, and be cautious how he looked back,
opened the portal with a silver and a golden
key.2 The hinges roared, as they turned, like
thunder; and the pilgrims, on entering, thought
they heard, mingling with the sound, a chorus of
voices singing, "We praise thee, O God!"^ It
was like the chant that mingles with a cathedral
organ, when the words that the choristers utter are

The first step typifies consciousness of sin; the second,
horror of it ; the third, zeal to amend.

The keys of St. Peter. The gold is said by the commentators
to mean power to absolve ; the silver, the learning and judgment
requisite to use it.

2 " Te Deem laudanum," the well-known hymn of St. Ambrose
and St. Augustine.

at one moment to be distinguished, and at another
fade away.

The companions continued ascending till they
reached a plain. It stretched as far as the eye
could see, and was as lonely as roads across deserts.


This was the first flat, or table-land, of the
ascending gradations of Purgatory, and the place
of trial for the souls of the Proud. It was bordered
with a mound, or natural wall, of white
marble, sculptured all over with stories of humility.
Dante beheld among them the Annunciation,
represented with so much life, that the sweet
action of the angel seemed to be uttering the very
word, " Hail ! " and the submissive spirit of the
Virgin to be no less impressed, like very wax, in
her demeanour. The next story was that of David
dancing and harping before the ark, — an action
in which he seemed both less and greater than a
king. Michael was looking out upon him from a
window, like a lady full of scorn and sorrow. Next
to the story of David was that of the Emperor
Trajan, when he did a thing so glorious, as moved
St. Gregory to gain the greatest of all his conquests
— the delivering of the emperor's soul from
hell.

A widow, in tears and mourning, was laying

hold of his bridle as he rode amidst his court with
a noise of horses and horsemen, while the Roman
eagles floated in gold over his head. The miserable
creature spoke out loudly among them all, crying
for vengeance on the murderers of her sons. The
emperor seemed to say, " Wait till T return."

But she, in the hastiness of her misery, said,
Suppose thou returned not?"

Then my successor will attend to thee," replied
the emperor.

And what hast thou to do with the duties of
another man," cried she, " if thou attended not
to thine own ?"

Now, be of good comfort," concluded Trajan,
for verily my duty shall be done before I go ;
justice wills it, and pity arrests me."

Dante was proceeding to delight himself further
with these sculptures, when Virgil whispered
him to look round and see what was coming. He
did so, and beheld strange figures advancing, the
nature of which he could not make out at first, for
they seemed neither human, nor aught else which
he could call to mind. They were souls of the
proud, bent double under enormous burdens.

O proud, miserable, woe-begone Christians ! "
exclaims the poet ; " ye who, in the shortness of
your sight, see no reason for advancing in the right

path ! Know ye not that we are worms, born to
compose the angelic butterfly, provided we throw
off the husks that impede our flight ? " ^

The souls came slowly on, each bending down
in proportion to his burden. They looked like
the crouching figures in architecture that are used
to support roofs or balconies, and that excite
piteous fancies in the beholders. The one that
appeared to have the most patience, yet seemed as
if he said, " I can endure no further."

The sufferers, notwithstanding their anguish,
raised their voices in a paraphrase on the Lord's
Prayer, which they concluded with humbly stating,
that they repeated the clause against temptation,
not for themselves, but for those who were yet
living.

Virgil, wishing them a speedy deliverance, requested
them to shew the best way of going up to
the next circle. Who it was that answered him
could not be discerned, on account of their all
being so bent down ; but a voice gave them the

^ " Non v' accorgete voi, che noi siam vermin,
Nati a former 1' angelica farfalla,
Che vola a giustizia senza scheme ? "

Know you not, we are worms
Born to compose the angelic butterfly,
That flies to heaven when freed from what deforms ?"

T O

required direction ; the speaker adding, that he
wished he could raise his eyes, so as to see the
living creature that stood near him. He said that
his name was Alberto — that he came of the great
Tuscan race of Aldobrandesco — and that his countrymen,
the Siennese, murdered him on account of
his arrogance.

Dante had bent down his own head to listen,
and in so doing he was recognised by one of the
sufferers, who, eyeing him as well as he could,
addressed him by name. The poet replied by
exclaiming, " Art thou not Oderisi, the glory of
Agubbio, the master of the art of illumination ?"

Ah ! " said Oderisi, " Franco of Bologna has
all the glory now. His colours make the pages of
books laugh with beauty, compared with what mine
do.^ I could not have owned it while on earth, for
the sin which has brought me hither ; but so it is ;
and so will it ever be, let a man's fame be never
so green and flourishing, unless he can secure a
dull age to come after him. Cimabue, in painting,
lately kept the field against all comers, and now
the cry is * Giotto.' Thus, in song, a new Guido
has deprived the first of his glory, and he perhaps

^ " Piu sidon le carte
Che penelleggia Franco Bolognese :
L' snore e tutti or suo, e mio in parte."

is born who shall drive both out of the nest.*
Fame is but a wind that changes about from all
quarters. What does glory amount to at best,
that a man should prefer living and growing old
for it, to dying in the days of his nurse and his
pap-boat, even if it should last him a thousand
years ? A thousand years ! — the twinkling of an
eye. Behold this man, who weeps before me ; his
name resounded once over all our Tuscany, and
now it is scarcely whispered in his native place.
He was lord there at the time that your once
proud but now loathsome Florence had such a
lesson given to its frenzy at the battle of Arabia."

*' And what is his name ?" inquired Dante.

Salvani," returned the limner. " He is here,
because he had the presumption to think that he
could hold Sienna in the hollow of his hand. Fifty

The ' * new Guido ' ' is his friend Guido Cavalcante (now
dead) ; the " first" is Guido Guinicelli, for whose writings Dante
had an esteem ; and the poet, who is to " chase them from the
nest," caetera di dido (as the not very friendly metaphor states
it), is with good reason supposed to be himself! He was right ;
but was the statement becoming ? It was certainly not necessary.
Dante, notwithstanding his friendship with Guido, appears to have
had a grudge against both the Cavalcanti, probably for some scorn
they had shewn to his superstition ; for they could be proud themselves
; and the son has the reputation of scepticism, as well as the
father. See the Decameron, Giorn. vi. Nov. 9.

years has he paced in this manner. Such is the
punishment for audacity."

But why is he here at all," said Dante, " and
not in the outer region, among the delayed of
repentance ?"

Because," exclaimed the other, " in the
height of his ascendancy he did not disdain to
stand in the public place in Sienna, and, trembling
in every vein, beg money from the people to ransom
a friend from captivity. Do I appear to thee
to speak with mysterious significance ? Thy countrymen
shall too soon help thee to understand
me." 1

Virgil now called Dante away from Oderisi,
and bade him notice the ground on which they
were treading. It was pavement, wrought all over
with figures, like sculptured tombstones. There
was Lucifer among them, struck flaming down
from heaven ; and Briareus, pinned to the earth
with the thunderbolt, and, with the other giants,

This is the passage from which it is conjectured that Dante
knew what it was to " tremble in every vein," from the awful
necessity of begging. Mr. Gary, with some other commentators,
thinks that the " trembling" implies fear of being refused. But
does it not rather mean the agony of the humiliation ? In Sal-van's
case it certainly does ; for it was in consideration of the
pang to his pride, that the good deed rescued him from worse
punishment.

amazing the gods with his hugeness ; and Nimrod,
standing confounded at the foot of Babel ; and
Niobe, with her despairing eyes, turned into stone
amidst her children ; and Saul, dead on his own
sword in Bilboa ; and Arachne, now half spider, at
fault on her own broken web ; and Rehoboam, for
all his insolence, flying in terror in his chariot ;
and Actaeon, who made his mother pay with her
life for the ornament she received to betray his
father ; and Sennacherib, left dead by his son in
the temple ; and the head of Cyrus, thrown by the
motherless woman into the goblet of blood, that it
might swill what it had thirsted for; and Holofernes,
beheaded; and his Assyrians flying at his
death ; and Troy, all become cinders and hollow
places. Oh ! what a fall from pride was there !
Now, maintain the loftiness of your looks, ye sons
of Eve, and walk with proud steps, bending not
your eyes on the dust ye were, lest ye perceive the
evil of your ways.^

The reader will have noticed the extraordinary mixture of
Paganism and the Bible in this passage, especially the introduction
of such fables as Niobe and Arachne. It would be difficult not to
suppose it intended to work out some half sceptical purpose, if we
did not call to mind the grave authority given to fables in the
poet's treatise on Monarchy, and the whole strange spirit, at once
logical and gratuitous, of the learning of his age, when the acuter
the mind, the subtler became the reconcilement with absurdity.

Behold," said Virgil, " there is an angel
coming."

The angel came on, clad in white, with a face
that sent trembling beams before it, like the morning
star. He shewed the pilgrims the way up to
the second circle ; and then, beating his wings
against the forehead of Dante, on which the seven
initials of sin were written, told him he should go
safely, and disappeared.

On reaching the new circle, Dante, instead of
the fierce failings that used to meet him at every
turn in hell, heard voices singing, " Blessed are
the poor in spirit." ^ As he went, he perceived that
he walked lighter, and was told by Virgil that the
angel had freed him from one of the letters on his
forehead. He put his hand up to make sure, as a
man does in the street when people take notice of

^ Beati paupers spirit. " Blessed are the poor in spirit ; for
theirs is the kingdom of heaven" — one of the beautiful passages
of the beautiful sermon on the Mount. How could the great
poet read and admire such passages, and yet fill his books so full
of all which they renounced? " Oh," say his idolaters, " he did
it out of his very love for them, and his impatience to see them
triumph." So said the Inquisition. The evil was continued for
the sake of the good which it prevented ! The result in the long-run
may be so, but not for the reasons they supposed, or from
blindness to the indulgence of their bad passions.

something on his head of which he is not aware ;
and Virgil smiled.

In this new circle the sin of Envy was expiated.
After the pilgrims had proceeded a mile, they
heard the voices of invisible spirits passing them,
uttering sentiments of love and charity ; for it was
charity itself that had to punish envy.

The souls of the envious, clad in sackcloth, sat
leaning for support and humiliation, partly against
the rocky wall of the circle, and partly on one
another's shoulders, after the manner of beggars
that ask alms near places of worship. Their eyes
were sewn up, like those of hawks in training, but
not so as to hinder them from shedding tears,
which they did in abundance ; and they cried,
"Mary, pray for us! — Michael, Peter, and all
the saints, pray for us ! "

Dante spoke to them ; and one, a female, lifted
up her chin as a blind person does when expressing
consciousness of notice, and said she was Sepia
of Sienna, who used to be pleased at people's misfortunes,
and had rejoiced when her countrymen
lost the battle of Colle. " Sapia was my name,"
she said, " but sapient I was not,i for I prayed God

** Savin non fui, avvegna che Sapia
Fosse chiamata."
The pun is poorer even than it sounds in English ; for, though

to defeat my countrymen ; and when he had done
so (as he had willed to do), I raised my bold face
to heaven, and cried out to him, ' Now do thy
worst, for I fear thee not ! ' I was like the bird
in the fable, who thought the fine day was to last
for ever. What I should have done in my latter
days to make up for the imperfect amends of my
repentance, I know not, if the holy Piero Perpignan
had not assisted me with his prayers. But
who art thou that goes with open eyes, and
breathes t in thy talk ?"

Mine eyes," answered Dante, " may yet have
to endure the blindness in this place, though for
no long period. Far more do I fear the sufferings
in the one that I have just left, I seem to feel
the weight already upon me."^

the Italian name may possibly remind its readers of sapiens
(sapience), there is the difference of a w in the adjective savin,
which is also accented on the first syllable. It is almost as bad
as if she had said in English, " Sophist I found myself, though
Sophia is my name." It is pleasant, however, to see the great
saturnine poet among the punsters. — It appears, from the commentators,
that Sapia was in exile at the time of the battle, but
they do not say for what ; probably from some zeal of faction

1 We are here let into Dante's confessions. He owns to a
little envy, but far more pride :

Gli occhi, miss' io, mi fiend anchor qui tolti.

Ma picciol tempo ; che porch' e 1' offesa

Facta per esse con india volt.

The Florentine then informed Sapia how he
came thither, which, she said, was a great sign that
God loved him ; and she begged his prayers. The
conversation excited the curiosity of two spirits
who overheard it ; and one of them, Guido del
Duca, a noble Romagnese, asked the poet of what
country he was. Dante, without mentioning the
name of the river, intimated that he came from
the banks of the Arno ; upon which the other
spirit, Richer da Calboli, asked his friend why the
stranger suppressed the name, as though it was
something horrible. Guido said he well might ;
for the river, throughout its course, beheld none
but bad men and persecutors of virtue. First, he
said, it made its petty way by the sties of those
brutal hogs, the people of Casentino, and then
arrived at the dignity of watering the kennels of
the curs of Arezzo, who excelled more in barking
than in biting ; then, growling unluckily as it grew
larger, like the cursed and miserable ditch that it

Trope e piu la laura ont' e hospes
L' anima mia del torment di sotto :
Che gia lo 'ncarco di la giu mi pea."

The first confession is singularly ingenuous and modest ; the
second, affecting. It is curious to guess what sort of persons
Dante could have allovvcd himself to envy - probably those who
were more acceptable to women.

was, it found in Florence the dogs become wolves ;
and finally, ere it went into the sea, it passed the
den of those foxes, the Pisans, who were full of
such cunning that they held traps in contempt.

It will be well," continued Guido, " for this
man to remember what he hears ; " and then, after
prophesying evil to Florence, and confessing to
Dante his sin of envy, which used to make him
pale when any one looked happy, he added, " This
is Rinieri, the glory of that house of Calboli which
now inherits not a spark of it. Not a spark of it,
did I say, in the house of Calboli ? Where is
there a spark in all Romagna ? Where is the good
Lizio ? — where Maynard, Traversed, Campagna?
The Romagnese have all become bastards. A mechanic
founds a house in Bologna ! a Bernardin
di Fusco finds his dog-grass become a tree in
Faenza! Wonder not, Tuscan, to see me weep,
when I think of the noble spirits that we have
lived with — of the Guides of Prate, and the
Goblins of Azzo — of Federigo Tignoso and his
band — of the Traverses and Anastagios, families
now ruined — and all the ladies and the cavaliers,
the alternate employments and delights which
wrapped us in a round of love and courtesy, where
now there is nothing but ill-will ! O castle of
Brettinoro! why dost thou not fall? Well has

the lord of Bagnacavallo done, who will have no
more children. Who would propagate a race of
Counties from such blood as the Castrocaros and
the Conies ? Is not the son of Pagan called the
Demon ? and would it not be better that such a
son were swept out of the family ? Nay, let him
live to shew to what a pitch of villany it has arrived.
Ubaldini alone is blest, for his name is good,
and he is too old to leave a child after him. Go,
Tuscan — go ; for I would be left to my tears."

Dante and Virgil turned to move onward, and
had scarcely done so, when a tremendous voice
met them, splitting the air like peals of thunder,
and crying out, " Whoever finds me will slay me ! "
then dashed apart, like the thunder-bolt when it
falls. It was Cain. The air had scarcely recovered
its silence, when a second crash ensued from a
different quarter near them, like thunder when
the claps break swiftly into one another. " I am
Aglauros," it said, " that was turned into stone."
Dante drew closer to his guide, and there ensued
a dead silence. ^

^ Aglauros, daughter of Cecrops, king of Athens, was turned to
stone by Mercury, for disturbing with her envy his passion for her
sister Herse.

The passage about Cain is one of the sublimest in Dante.
Truly wonderful and characteristic is the way in which he has

The sun was now in the west, and the pilgrims
were journeying towards it, when Dante suddenly
felt such a weight of splendour on his eyes, as
forced him to screen them with both his hands.
It was an angel coming to shew them the ascent
to the next circle, a way that was less steep than
the last. While mounting, they heard the angel's
voice singing behind them, " Blessed are the merciful
; for they shall obtain mercy !" and on his
leaving them to proceed by themselves, the second
letter on Dante's forehead was found to have been
effaced by the splendour.

The poet looked round in wonder on the new
circle, where the sin of Anger was expiated, and
beheld, as in a dream, three successive spectacles
illustrative of the virtue of patience. The first

made physical noise and violence express the anguish of the wanderer's
mind. We are not to suppose, I conceive, that we see
Cain. We know he has passed us, by his thunderous and headlong
words. Dante may well make him invisible, for his words are
things — veritable thunderbolts.

Cain comes in rapid successions of thunder-claps. The voice
of Aglauros is thunder-claps crashing into one another — broken
thunder. This is exceedingly fine also, and wonderful as a variation
upon that awful music ; but Cain is the astonishment and the
overwhelmingness. If it were not, however, for the second thunder,
we should not have had the two silences ; for I doubt whether
they are not better even than one. At all events, the final silence
is tremendous.

was that of a crowded temple, on the threshold of
which a female said to her son, in the sweet manner
of a mother, " Son, why hast thou thus dealt
with us? Behold, thy father and I have sought
thee sorrowing"! — and here she became silent,
and the vision ended. The next was the lord of
Athens, Pisistratus, calmly reproving his wife for
wishing him to put to death her daughter's lover,
who, in a transport, had embraced her in public.
If we are to be thus severe," said Pisistratus,
with those that love us, what is to be done with
such as hate ?" The last spectacle was that of a
furious multitude shouting and stoning to death a
youth, who, as he fell to the ground, still kept his
face towards heaven, making his eyes the gates
through which his soul reached it, and imploring
forgiveness for his murderers

The visions passed away, leaving the poet staggering
as if but half awake. They were succeeded
by a thick and noisome fog, through which he followed
his leader with the caution of a blind man,
Virgil repeatedly telling him not to quit him a
moment. Here they heard voices praying in unison
for pardon to the " Lamb of God, who taketh
away the sins of the world." They were the
spirits of the angry. Dante conversed with one of
1 St. Luke ii. 48. ^ The stoning of Stephen.

them on free-will and necessity ; and after quitting
him, and issuing by degrees from the cloud, beheld
illustrative visions of anger; such as the impious
mother, who was changed into the bird that most
delights in singing ; Human, retaining his look of
spite and rage on the cross ; and Lavinia, mourning
for her mother, who slew herself for rage at
the death of Turnus.^

These visions were broken ois by a great light,
as sleep is broken ; and Dante heard a voice out
of it saying, " The ascent is here." He then, as
Virgil and he ascended into the fourth circle, felt
an air on his face, as if caused by the fanning of
wings, accompanied by the utterance of the words,
Blessed are the peace-makers ;" and his forehead
was lightened of the third letters

• These illustrative spectacles are not among the best inventions
of Dante. Their introduction is forced, and the instances not
always pointed. A murderess, too, of her son, changed into such
a bird as the nightingale, was not a happy association of ideas in
Homer, where Dante found it; and I am surprised he made use
of it, intimate as he must have been with the less inconsistent
story of her namesake, Philomela, in the Metamorphoses.

2 So, at least, I conceive, by what appears afterwards ; and I
may here add, once for all, that I have supplied the similar requisite
intimations at each successive step in Purgatory, the poet
seemingly having forgotten to do so. It is necessary to what he
implied in the outset. The whole poem, it is to be remembered,
is thought to have wanted his final revision.

In this fourth circle was expiated Lukewarmness,
or defect of zeal for good. The sufferers
came speeding and weeping round the mountain,
making amends for the old indifference by the
haste and fire of the new love that was in them.
Blessed Mary made haste," cried one, " to salute
Elizabeth." " And Caesar," cried another, " to
smite Pompey at Lerida."i " And the disobedient
among the Israelites," cried others, *' died
before they reached the promised land." " And
the tired among the Trojans preferred ease in
Sicily to glory in Latium." — It was now midnight,
and Dante slept and had a dream.

His dream was of a woman who came to him,
having a tongue that tried ineffectually to speak,
squinting eyes, feet whose distortion drew her towards
the earth, stumps of hands, and a pallid face.
Dante looked earnestly at her, and his look acted
upon her like sunshine upon cold. Her tongue
was loosened ; her feet made straight ; she stood
upright ; her paleness became a lovely rose-colour ;
and she warbled so beautifully, that the poet could
not have refused to listen had he wished it.

1 WTiat an instance to put among those of haste to do good !
But the fame and accomplishments of Caesar, and his being at
the head of our Ghibelline's beloved emperors, fairly overwhelmed
Dante's boasted impartiality.

I am the sweet Syren," she said, "who made
the mariners turn pale for pleasure in the sea. I
drew Ulysses out of his course with my song;
and he that harbours with me once, rarely departs
ever, so well I pay him for what he abandons."

Her lips were not yet closed, when a lady of
holy and earnest countenance came up to shame
her. "O Virgil!" she cried angrily, "who is
this ?" Virgil approached, with his eyes fixed on
the lady ; and the lady tore away the garments
of the woman, and shewed her to be a creature
so loathly, that the sleeper awoke with the horror.
^

Virgil said, " I. have called thee three times to
no purpose. Let us move, and find the place at
which we are to go higher."

It was broad day, with a sun that came warm
on the shoulders ; and Dante was proceeding with
his companion, when the softest voice they ever
heard directed them where to ascend, and they
found an angel with them, who pointed his swanlike
wings upward, and then flapped them against
the pilgrims, taking away the fourth letter from
the forehead of Dante. " Blessed are they that

A masterly allegory of Worldly Pleasure. But the close of
it in the original has an intensity of the revolting, which outrages
the last recesses of feeling, and disgusts us with the denouncer.

mourn," said the angel, "for they shall be comforted."


The pilgrims ascended into the fifth circle,
and beheld the expiatory of Avarice grovelling on
the ground, and exclaiming, as loud as they could
for the tears that choked them, " My soul hath
cleaved to the dust." Dante spoke to one, who
turned out to be Pope Adrian the Fifth. The
poet fell on his knees ; but Adrian bade him arise
and err not. " I am no longer," said he, *^ spouse
of the Church, here ; but fellov^r-servant v^^ith thee
and with all others. Go thy ways, and delay not
the time of my deliverance."

The pilgrims moving onward, Dante heard a
spirit exclaim, in the struggling tones of a woman
in child-bed, " O blessed Virgin ! That was a poor
roof thou hadst when thou wast delivered of thy
sacred burden. O good Patricius ! Virtue with
poverty was thy choice, and not vice with riches."
And then it told the story of Nicholas, who, hearing
that a father was about to sacrifice the honour
of his three daughters for want of money, threw
bags of it in at his window, containing portions
.for them all.

Dante earnestly addressed this spirit to know
who he was ; and the spirit said it would tell him,
not for the sake of help, for which it looked elsewhere,

but because of the shining grace that was
in his questioner, though yet alive.

I was root," said the spirit, " of that evil
plant which overshadows all Christendom to such
little profit. Hugh Capet was I, ancestor of the
Philips and Louise of France, offspring of a
butcher of Paris, when the old race of kings was
worn out.i We began by seizing the government
in Paris ; then plundered in Provence ;

1 The fierce Hugh Capet, soliloquising about the Virgin in
the tones of a lady in child-bed, is rather too ludicrous an association
of ideas. It was for calling this prince the son of a
butcher, that Francis the First prohibited the admission of Dante's
poem into his dominions. Mr. Gary thinks the king might have
been mistaken in his interpretation of the passage, and that
"butcher" may be simply a metaphorical term for the bloodthirstiness
of Capet's father. But when we find the man called,
not the butcher, or that butcher, or butcher in reference to his
species, but in plain local parlance "a butcher of Paris" fun
beccaio di Parigi) , and when this designation is followed up by
the allusion to the extinction of the previous dynasty, the ordinary
construction of the words appears indisputable. Dante seems to
have had no ground for what his aristocratical pride doubtless
considered a hard blow, and what King Francis, indeed, condescended
to feel as such. He met with the notion somewhere, and
chose to believe it, in order to vex the French and their princes.
The spirit of the taunt contradicts his own theories elsewhere ;
for he has repeatedly said, that the only true nobility is in the
mind. BUt his writings (poetical truth excepted) are a heap of
contradictions.

then, to make amends, laid hold of Poitou, Normandy,
and Gascony ; then, still to make amends,
put Contain to death and seized Naples ; then,
always to make amends, gave Saint Aquinas his
dismissal to Heaven by poison. I see the time
at hand when a descendant of mine will be called
into Italy, and the spear that Judas ousted with ^
shall transfix the bowels of Florence. Another
of my posterity sells his daughter for a sum of
money to a Marquis of Ferrara. Another seizes
the pope in Alagna, and mocks Christ over again
in the person of his Vicar. A fourth rends the veil
of the temple, solely to seize its money. O Lord,
how shall I rejoice to see the vengeance which
even now thou suggest in delight to thy bosom I^

^ Mr. Gary thought he had seen an old romance in which
there is a combat of this kind between Jesus and his betrayer. I
have an impression to the same effect.

- ** O Signor mio, quando sara io lieth
A veer la vendetta che nascosa
Fa dolce 1' ira tua nel tuo secret !"
The spirit of the blasphemous witticism attributed to another
Italian, viz. that the reason why God prohibited revenge to mankind
was its being " too delicate a morsel for any but himself," is
here gravely anticipated as a positive compliment to God by the
fierce poet of the thirteenth century, who has been held up as a
great Christian divine ! God hugs revenge to his bosom with
delight ! The Supreme Being confounded with a poor grinning
Florentine !

Of loving and liberal things," continued
Capet, "we speak while it is light; such as thou
hardest me record, when I addressed myself to
the blessed Virgin. But when night comes, we
take another tone. Then we denounce Pygmalion,
i the traitor, the robber, and the parricide,
each the result of his gluttonous love of gold ; and
Midas, who obtained his wish, to the laughter of
all time ; and the thief Achan, who still seems
frightened at the wrath of Joshua ; and Sapphira
and her husband, whom we accuse over again before
the Apostles ; and Heliodorus, whom we bless
the hoofs of the angel's horse for trampling ;2 and
Crassus, on whom we call with shouts of derision
to tell us the flavour of his molten gold. Thus
we record our thoughts in the night-time, now
high, now low, now at greater or less length, as
each man is prompted by his impulses. And it
was thus thou didst hear me recording also by
day-time, though I had no respondent near me."

The pilgrims quitted Hugh Capet, and were

1 A ludicrous anti-climax this to modern ears ! The allusion
is to the Pygmalion who was Dido's brother, and who murdered
her husband, the priest Sichseus, for his riches. The term " parricide"
is here applied in its secondary sense of— the murderer of
any one to whom we owe reverence.

Heliodorus was a plunderer of the Temple, thus supernaturally
punished. The subject has been nobly treated by Raphael.

eagerly pursuing their journey, when, to the terror
of Dante, they felt the whole mountain of Purgatory
tremble, as though it were about to fall in.
The island of Delos shook not so awfully when
Latona, hiding there, brought forth the twin eyes
of Heaven. A shout then arose on every side, so
enormous, that Virgil stood nigher to his companion,
and bade him be of good heart. " Glory
be to God in the highest," cried the shout ; but
Dante could gather the words only from those
who were near him.

It was Purgatory rejoicing for the deliverance
of a soul out of its bounds. ^

The soul overtook the pilgrims as they were
journeying in amazement onwards ; and it turned
out to be that of Statins, who had been converted
to Christianity in the reign of Domitian Mutual
astonishment led to inquiries that explained
who the other Latin poet was ; and Statins fell at
his master's feet.

Statins had expiated his sins in the circle of

^ A grand and beautiful fiction.

2 Readers need hardly be told that there is no foundation for
this fancy, except in the invention of the churchmen. Dante, in
another passage, not necessary to give, confounds the poet Statius
who was from Naples, with a rhetorician of the same name from
Toulouse.

Avarice, not for that vice, but for the opposite
one of Prodigality.

An angel now, as before, took the fifth letter
from Dante's forehead ; and the three poets having
ascended into the sixth round of the mountain,
were journeying on lovingly together, Dante
listening with reverence to the talk of the two
ancients, when they came up to a sweet-smelling
fruit-tree, upon which a clear stream came tumbling
from a rock beside it, and diffusing itself
through the branches. The Latin poets went upto
the tree, and were met by a voice which said,
Be chary of the fruit. Mary thought not of
herself at Galilee, but of the visitors, when she
said, ' They have no wine.' The women of oldest
Rome drank water. The beautiful age of gold
feasted on acorns. Its thirst made nectar out of the
rivulet. The Baptist fed on locusts and wild honey,
and became great as you see him in the gospel."

The poets went on their way ; and Dante was
still listening to the others, when they heard
behind them a mingled sound of chanting and
weeping, which produced an effect at once sad
and delightful. It was the psalm, " O Lord,
open thou our lips!" and the chanters were expiatory
of the sin of Intemperance in Meats and
Drinks. They were condemned to circuit the

mountain, famished, and to long for the fruit and
waters of the tree in vain. They soon came up
with the poets — a paled multitude, with hollow
eyes, and bones staring through the skin. The
sockets of their eyes looked like rings from which
the gems had dropped. ^ One of them knew and
accosted Dante, who could not recognise him till
he heard him speak. It was Forese Donati, one
of the poet's most intimate connexions. Dante,
who had wept over his face when dead, could as
little forbear weeping to see him thus hungering
and thirsting, though he had expected to find him
in the outskirts of the place, among the delayed
of repentance. He asked his friend how he had so
quickly got higher. Forese said it was owing to
the prayers and tears of his good wife Bella ; and

" Paren 1' occhiaje anella senza gemme."

This beautiful and affecting image is followed in the original by
one of the most fantastical conceits of the time. The poet says,
that the physiognomist who "reads the word Mo homo, man),
written in the face of the human being, might easily have seen the
letter m in theirs."

Chi nel vis de gli domini legge o m o,
Bene aria quivi conosciuto V emyne."

The meaning is, that the perpendicular lines of the nose and
temples form the letter m, and the eyes the two o's. The enthusiast
for Roman domination must have been delighted to find that
Nature wrote in Latin !

then he burst into a strain of indignation against
the contrast exhibited to her virtue bj the general
depravity of the Florentine women, whom he described
as less modest than the half-naked savages
in the mountains of Sardinia.

What is to be said of such creatures ?" continued
he. " O my dear cousin ! I see a day at
hand, when these impudent women shall be forbidden
from the pulpit to go exposing their naked
bosoms. What savages or what infidels ever
needed that ? Oh ! if they could see what Heaven
has in store for them, their mouths would be this
instant opened wide for howling." ^

" Se le svergognate foster certe
Di quel che V del veloce lord ammonia,
Gia per urlare adrian le bouche perte."

This will remind the reader of the style of that gentle Christian,
John Knox, who, instead of offering his own ** cheek to the
smiters," delighted to smite the cheeks of women. Fury was his
mode of preaching meekness, and threats of everlasting howling
his reproof of a tune on Sundays. But, it will be said, he looked
to consequences. Yes ; and produced the worst himself, both spiritual
and temporal. Let the whisky-shops answer him. However,
he helped to save Scotland from Purgatory : so we must
take good and bad together, and hope the best in the end.

Forese, like many of Dante's preachers, seems to have been
one of those self ignorant or self-exasperated denounces, who
Compound for sins they are inclined to,
By damning those they have no mind to."

Forese then asked Dante to explain to himself
and his astonished fellow sufferers how it was that
he stood there, a living body of flesh and blood,
casting a shadow with his substance.

If thou tallest to mind," said Dante, " what
sort of life thou and I led together, the recollection
may still grieve thee sorely. He that walks
here before us took me out of that life ; and
through his guidance it is that I have visited in
the body the world of the dead, and am now traversing
the mountain which leads us to the right
path."i

He was a glutton, who could not bear to see ladies too little
clothed. The defacing of " Gods image" in his own person he
considered nothing.

^ The passage respecting his past life is unequivocal testimony
to the fact, confidently disputed by some, of Dante's having availed
himself of the license of the time ; though, in justice to such
candour, we are bound not to think worse of it than can be helped.
The words in the original are :

** Se ti I'iduci a mente
Qual fasti meo, e quale io teco fui,
Anchor fia grave il memory presente."

Literally : "If thou recollect to mind what (sort of person) thou
wast with me, and what I was with thee, the recollection may
oppress thee still."

His having been taken out of that kind of life by Virgil (construed
in the literal sense, in which, among other senses, he has
K 2

After some further explanation, Forese pointed
out to his friend, among the expiatory of intemperance,
Buonaggiunta of Lucca, the poet; and
Pope Martin the Fourth, with a face made sharper
than the rest for the eels which he used to smother
in wine ; and Ubaldino of Pila, grinding his teeth
on air ; and Archbishop Boniface of Ravenna,
who fed jovially on his flock; and Rigogliosi of
Forli, who had had time enough to drink in the
other world, and yet never was satisfied. Buonag-
giunta and Dante eyed one another with curiosity ;
and the former murmured something about a lady
of the name of Gentucca.

Thou keenest to wish to speak with me,"
said Dante.

Thou art no admirer, I believe, of my native
place," said Buonaggiunta ; " and yet, if thou art
he whom I take thee to be, there is a damsel there
shall make it please thee. Art thou not author of
the poem beginning

directed us to construe him), may imply, either that the delight of
reading Virgil first made him think of living in a manner more
becoming a man of intellect, or (possibly) that the Latin poet's
description of eneas's descent into hell turned his thoughts to
religious penitence. Be this as it may, his life, though surely it
could at no time have been of any very licentious kind, never, if
we are to believe Boccaccio, became spotless.

Ladies, that understand the lore of love ?" ^

I am one," replied Dante, " who writes as
Love would have him, heeding no manner but his
dictator's, and uttering simply what he suggests." ^

"Ay, that is the sweet new style," returned
Buonaggiunta ; " and I now see what it was that
hindered the notary, and Guittone, and myself,
from hitting the right natural point." And here
he ceased speaking, looking like one contented to
have ascertained a truths

^ The mention of Gentucca might be thought a compliment to
the lady, if Dante had not made Beatrice afterwards treat his
regard for any one else but herself with so much contempt. (Seepage
216 of the present volume.) Under that circumstance, it is
hardly acting like a gentleman to speak of her at aU ; unless,
indeed, he thought her a person who would be pleased with the
notoriety arising even from the record of a fugitive regard ; and
in that case the good taste of the record would still remain doubtful.
The probability seems to be, that Dante was resolved; at all
events, to take this opportunity of bearding some rumour.

^ A celebrated and charming passage :

** lo mi son un, che quando
More spire, not ; e a quel modo
Che delta centre, vo significance."

I am one that notes
When Love inspires ; and what he speaks I tell
In his own way, embodying but his thoughts.

^ Exquisite truth of painting ! and a very elegant compliment
to the handsome nature of Buonaggiunta. Jacopo da Letting,

The whole multitude then, except Forese,
skimmed away like cranes, swift alike through
eagerness and through leanness. Forese lingered
a moment to have a parting word with his friend,
and to prophesy the violent end of the chief of his
family, Corso, run away with and dragged at the
heels of his horse faster and faster, till the frenzied
animal smites him dead. Having given the poet
this information, the prophet speeded after the
others.

The companions now came to a second fruit-tree,
to which a multitude were in vain lifting up
their hands, just as children lift them to a man
who tantalises them with shewing something which
he withholds ; but a voice out of a thicket by
the road-side warned the travellers not to stop,
telling them that the tree was an offset from that
of which Eve tasted. " Call to mind," said the
voice, " those creatures of the clouds, the Centaurs,
whose feasting cost them their lives. Recalled
the Notary, and Fra Guittone of Arezzo, were celebrated
verse-writers of the day. The latter, in a sonnet given by Mr.
Gary in the notes to his translation, says he shall be delighted to
hear the trumpet, at the last day, dividing mankind into the
happy and the tormented (sufferers under cruel martin), because
an inscription will then be seen on his forehead, shewing that he
had been a slave to love ! An odd way for a poet to shew his
feelings, and a friar his religion !

member the Hebrews, how they dropped away
from the ranks of Gideon to quench their effeminate
thirst." 1

The poets proceeded, wrapt in thought, till
they heard another voice of a nature that made
Dante start and shake as if he had been some
paltry hackney.

** Of what value is thought," said the voice,
if it lose its way ? The path lies hither."

Dante turned toward the voice, and beheld a
shape glowing red as in a furnace, with a visage
too dazzling to be looked upon. It met him,
nevertheless, as he drew nigh, with an air from
the fanning of its wings fresh as the first breathing
of the wind on a May morning, and fragrant
as all its flowers; and Dante lost the sixth letter
on his forehead, and ascended with the two other
poets into the seventh and last circle of the mountain.


This circle was all in flames, except a narrow
path on the edge of its precipice, along which the
pilgrims walked. A great wind from outside of
the precipice kept the flames from raging beyond
the path ; and in the midst of the fire went spirits
expiating the sin of Incontinence. They sang the

^ Judges vii. 6.

hymn beginning " God of consummate mercy ! " ^
Dante was compelled to divide his attention between
his own footsteps and theirs, in order to
move without destruction. At the close of the
hymn they cried aloud, " I know not a man ! " ^
and then recommenced it ; after which they again
cried aloud, saying, " Diana ran to the wood, and
drove Calisto out of it, because she knew the
poison of Venus!" And then again they sang the
hymn, and then extolled the memories of chaste
women and husbands ; and so they went on without
ceasing, as long as their time of trial lasted.

Occasionally the multitude that went in one
direction met another which mingled with and
passed through it, individuals of both greeting
tenderly by the way, as emmet appear to do,
when in passing they touch the antennas of one

^ Pumice Deus clement. The ancient beginning of a hymn
in the Roman Catholic church ; now altered, say the commentators,
to " Surmise parens clementina."

2 Virum non cognosco. " Then said Mary unto the angel,
How shall this be, seeing I know not a man ?" — Luke i. 34.

The placing of Mary's interview with the angel, and Ovid's
story of Calisto, upon apparently the same identical footing of
authority, by spirits in all the sincerity of agonised penitence, is
very remarkable. A dissertation, by some competent antiquary,
on the curious question suggested by these anomalies, would be a
welcome novelty in the world of letters.

another. These two multitudes parted with loud
and sorrowful cries, proclaiming the offences of
which they had been guilty ; and then each renewed
their spiritual songs and prayers.

The souls here, as in former circles, knew
Dante to be a living creature by the shadow which
he cast; and after the wonted explanations, he
learned who some of them were. One was his
predecessor in poetry, Guido Guinicelli, from
whom he could not take his eyes for love and
reverence, till the sufferer, who told him there was
a greater than himself in the crowd, vanished away
through the fire as a fish does in water. The
greater one was Arnauld Daniel, the Proven9al
poet, who, after begging the prayers of the traveller,
disappeared in like manner.

The sun by this time was setting on the fires
of Purgatory, when an angel came crossing the
road through them, and then, standing on the
edge of the precipice, with joy in his looks, and
singing, " Blessed are the pure in heart ! " invited
the three poets to plunge into the flames themselves,
and so cross the road to the ascent by which
the summit of the mountain was gained. Dante,
clasping his hands, and raising them aloft, recoiled
in horror. The thought of all that he had just
witnessed made him feel as if his own hour of

death was come. His companion encouraged him
to obey the angel ; but he could not stir. Virgil
said, " Now mark me, son ; this is the only remaining
obstacle between, thee and Beatrice ;" and
then himself and Statins entering the fire, Dante
followed them.

I could have cast myself," said he, " into molten
glass to cool myself, so raging was the furnace."

Virgil talked of Beatrice to animate him. He
said, " Methinks I see her eyes beholding us."
There was, indeed, a great light upon the quarter
to which they were crossing ; and out of the light
issued a voice, which drew them onwards, singing,
Come, blessed of my Father ! Behold, the sun
is going down, and the night cometh, and the
ascent is to be gained."

The travellers gained the ascent, issuing out of
the fire ; and the voice and the light ceased, and
night was come. Unable to ascend farther in the
darkness, they made themselves a bed, each of a
stair in the rock ; and Dante, in his happy humility,
felt as if he had been a goat lying down for
the night near two shepherds.

Towards dawn, at the hour of the rising of the
star of love, he had a dream, in which he saw a
young and beautiful lady coming over a lea, and
bending every now and then to gather flowers ;

and as she bound the flowers into a garland, she
sang, " I am Leah, gathering flowers to adorn
myself, that my looks may seem pleasant to mein
the mirror. But my sister Rachel abides before
the mirror, flowerless ; contented with her
beautiful eyes. To behold is my sister's pleasure,
and to work is mines

When Dante awoke, the beams of the dawn
were visible ; and they now produced a happiness
like that of the traveller, who every time he
awakes knows himself to be nearer home. Virgil
and Statins were already up ; and all three, resuming
their way to the mountain's top, stood
upon it at last, and gazed round about them on
the skirts of the terrestrial Paradise. The sun was
sparkling bright over a green land, full of trees and
flowers. Virgil then announced to Dante, that
here his guidance terminated, and that the creature
of flesh and blood was at length to be master of
his own movements, to rest or to wander as he
pleased, the tried and purified lord over himself.

An allegory of the Active and Contemplative Life ;— not, I
think, a happy one, though beautifully painted. It presents, apart
from its terminating comment, no necessary intellectual suggestion
; is rendered, by the comment itself, hardly consistent
with Leah's express love of ornament ; and, if it were not for the
last sentence, might be taken for a picture of two different forms
of Vanity.

The Florentine, eager to taste his new liberty,
left his companions awhile, and strolled away
through the celestial forest, whose thick and
lively verdure gave coolness to the senses in the
midst of the brightest sun. A fragrance came
from every part of the soil ; a sweet intermitting
air streamed against the walker's face; and
as the full-hearted birds, warbling on all sides,
welcomed the morning's radiance into the trees,
the trees themselves joined in the concert with a
swelling breath, like that which rises among the
pines of Chiassi, when Eolus lets loose the south-wind,
and the gathering melody comes rolling
through the forest from bough to bough. ^

'* Tal, qual di ratio in ramo si raccoglie
Per la pineta in sul tito di Chiassi,
Quand' Solo scirocco for disciple."

** Even as from branch to branch
Along the piny forests on the shore
Of Chiassi, rolls the gathering melody.
When Eolus hath from his cavern loosed
The dripping south." — Cary.

"This is the wood," says Mr. Cary, "where the scene of
Boccaccio's sublimest story (taken entirely from Elinaud, as I
learn in the notes to the Decameron, edit, Giunti, 1573, p. 62) is
laid. See Dec, G. 5, N. 8, and Dryden's Theodore and Honoris.
Our poet perhaps wandered in it during his abode with Guido
Novello da Polenta." — Translation of Dante, ut sup. p. 121.

Dante had proceeded far enough to lose sight
of the point at which he entered, when he found
himself on the bank of a rivulet, compared with
whose crystal purity the limpidest waters on earth
were clouded. And yet it flowed under a perpetual
depth of shade, which no beam either of sun
or moon penetrated. Nevertheless the darkness
was coloured with endless diversities of May-blossoms
; and the poet was standing in admiration,
looking up at it along its course, when he beheld
something that took away every other thought;
to wit, a lady, all alone, on the other side of the
water, singing and culling flowers.

Ah, lady !" said the poet, " who, to judge by
the cordial beauty in thy looks, hast a heart overflowing
with love, be pleased to draw thee nearer
to the stream, that I may understand the words
thou finest. Thou reminded me of Proserpine,
of the place she was straying in, and of what sort
of creature she looked, when her mother lost her,
and she herself lost the spring-time on earth."

As a lady turns in the dance when it goes
smoothest, moving round with lovely self-possession,
and scarcely seeming to put one foot before
the other, so turned the lady towards the water
over the yellow and vermilion flowers, dropping
her eyes gently as she came, and singing so that

Dante could hear her. Then when she arrived at
the water, she stopped, and raised her eyes towards
him, and smiled, shewing him the flowers in
her hands, and shifting them with her fingers into
a display of all their beauties. Never were such
eyes beheld, not even when Venus herself was in
love. The stream was a little stream ; yet Dante
felt it as great an intervention between them, as if
it had been Leander's Hellespont.

The lady explained to him the nature of the
place, and how the rivulet was the Lethe of Paradise
; — Lethe, where he stood, but called Eunoe
higher up ; the drink of the one doing away all
remembrance of evil deeds, and that of the other
restoring all remembrance of goods It was the
region, she said, in which Adam and Eve had
lived; and the poets had beheld it perhaps in
their dreams on Mount Parnassus, and hence
imagined their golden age ; — and at these words
she looked at Virgil and Statins, who by this time
had come up, and who stood smiling at her kindly
words.

Resuming her song, the lady turned and passed
up along the rivulet the contrary way of the
stream, Dante proceeding at the same rate of time

Lethe, Forgetfulness ; Eunoe, Well-mind redness.

on his side of it ; till on a sudden she cried, " Behold,
and listen !" and a light of exceeding lustre
came streaming through the woods, followed by a
dulcet melody. The poets resumed their way ina
rapture of expectation, and saw the air before
them glowing under the green boughs like fire.
A divine spectacle ensued of holy mystery, with
evangelical and apocalyptic images, which gradually
gave way and disclosed a car brighter than
the chariot of the sun, accompanied by celestial
nymphs, and showered upon by angels with a
cloud of flowers, in the midst of which stood a
maiden in a white veil, crowned with olive.

The love that had never left Dante's heart
from childhood told him who it was ; and trembling
in every vein, he turned round to Virgil for
encouragement. Virgil was gone. At that moment.
Paradise and Beatrice herself could not requite
the pilgrim for the loss of his friend ; and
the tears ran down his cheeks.

"Dante," said the veiled maiden across the
stream, " weep not that Virgil leaves thee. Weep
thou not yet. The stroke of a sharper sword is
coming, at which it will behove thee to weep."
Then assuming a sterner attitude, and speaking
in the tone of one who reserves the bitterest
speech for the last, she added, " Observe me well.

I am, as thou suspected, Beatrice indeed; — Beatrice,
who has to congratulate thee on deigning
to seek the mountain at last. And hadst thou
so long indeed to learn, that here only can man be
happy?"

Dante, casting down his eyes at these words,
beheld his face in the water, and hastily turned
aside, he saw it so full of shame.

Beatrice had the dignified manner of an offended
parent ; such a flavour of bitterness was
mingled with her pity.

She held her peace ; and the angels abruptly
began singing, " In thee, O Lord, have I put my
trust ;" but went no farther in the psalm than the
words, " Thou hast set my feet in a large room."
The tears of Dante had hitherto been suppressed ;
but when the singing began, they again rolled
down his cheeks.

Beatrice, in a milder tone, said to the angels,
This man, when he proposed to himself in his
youth to lead a new life, was of a truth so gifted,
that every good habit ought to have thrived with
him ; but the richer the soil, the greater peril of
weeds. For a while, the innocent light of my
countenance drew him the right way ; but when
I quitted mortal life, he took away his thoughts
from remembrance of me, and gave himself to

others. When I had risen from flesh to spirit,
and increased in worth and beauty, then did I
sink in his estimation, and he turned into other
paths, and pursued false images of good that never
keep their promise. In vain T obtained from
Heaven the power of interfering in his behalf, and
endeavoured to affect him with it night and day.
So little was he concerned, and into such depths
he fell, that nothing remained but to shew him
the state of the condemned ; and therefore I went
to their outer regions, and commended him with
tears to the guide that brought him hither. The
decrees of Heaven would be nought, if Lethe could
be passed, and the fruit beyond it tasted, without
any payment of remorse. ^

O thou," she continued, addressing herself
to Dante, " who stances on the other side of the
holy stream, say, have I not spoken truth ?"

Dante was so confused and penitent, that the
words failed as they passed his lips.

1 " Senza alcuno scotto
Di sentiments."
Literally, scot-free. — "Scotto," scot; — " payment for dinner or
supper in a tavern" (says Rubbi, the Petrarch rather than
Dantesque editor of the Parnaso Italianoo, and a very summary
gentleman) ; "here used figuratively, though it is not a word fit
to be employed on serious and grand occasions" (in come gravi
ed illusory). See his " Dante" in that collection, vol. ii. p. 297.

What could induce thee," resumed his monitress,
"when I had given thee aims indeed, to
abandon them for objects that could end in nothing
?"

Dante said, " Thy face was taken from me,
and the presence of false pleasure led me astray."

Never didst thou behold," cried the maiden,
loveliness like mine ; and if bliss failed thee because
of my death, how couldst thou be allured by
mortal inferiority ? That first blow should have
taught thee to disdain all perishable things, and
aspire after the soul that had gone before thee.
How could thy spirit endure to stoop to further
chances, or to a childish girl, or any other fleeting
vanity ? The bird that is newly out of the nest
may be twice or thrice tempted by the snare ; butin
vain, surely, is the net spread in sight of one
that is older"!

^ The allusion to the childish girl {pargoletta) or any other
fleeting vanity,

*' O altera vanity con si breve uso,"
is not handsome. It was not the fault of the childish girls that
he liked them ; and he should not have taunted them, whatever
else they might have been. What answer could they make to the
great poet ?

Nor does Beatrice make a good figure throughout this scene,
whether as a woman or an allegory. If she is Theology, or Heavenly
Grace, &c. the sternness of the allegory should not have

Dante stood as silent and abashed as a sorry
child.

If but to hear me," said Beatrice, " thus
afflicts thee, lift up thy beard, and see what sight
can do."

Dante, though feeling the sting intended by
the word " beard," did as he was desired. The
angels had ceased to scatter their clouds of flowers
about the maiden ; and he beheld her, though
still beneath her veil, as far surpassing her former
self in loveliness, as that self had surpassed others.
The sight pierced him with such pangs, that the
more he had loved any thing else, the more he
now loathed it ; and he fell senseless to the ground.

When he recovered his senses, he found him-been

put into female shape ; and when she is to be taken in her
literal sense (as the poet also tells us she is), her treatment of the
poor submissive lover, with leave of Signor Rubbi, is no better
than snubbing ; — to say nothing of the vanity with which she pays
compliments to her own beauty.

I must, furthermore, beg leave to differ with the poet's thinking
it an exalted symptom on his part to hate every thing he had
loved before, out of supposed compliment to the transcendental
object of his affections and his own awakened merits. All the
heights of love and wisdom terminate in charity ; and charity,
by very reason of its knowing the poorness of so many things,
hates nothing. Besides, it is any thing but handsome or high-minded
to turn round upon objects whom we have helped to lower
with our own gratified passions, and pretend a right to scorn them.
L

self in the hands of the lady he had first seen in
the place, who bidding him keep firm hold of her,
drew him into the river Lethe, and so through and
across it to the other side, speeding as she went
like a weaver's shuttle, and immersing him when
she arrived, the angels all the while singing,
Wash me, and I shall be whiter than snows
She then delivered him into the hands of the
nymphs that had danced about the car, — nymphs
on earth, but stars and cardinal virtues in heaven ;
a song burst from the lips of the angels ; and
Faith, Hope, and Charity, calling upon Beatrice
to unveil her face, she did so ; and Dante quenched
the ten-years thirst of his eyes in her ineffable
beauty

After a while he and Statius were made thoroughly
regenerate with the waters of Eunoe ; and
he felt pure with a new being, and fit to soar into
the stars.

" Tu asperges me, et mundabor," &c. "Purge me with
hyssop, and I shall be clean ; wash me, and I shall be whiter than
snow." — Psalm li. 7.

2 Beatrice had been dead ten years.

THE JOURNEY THROUGH HEAVEN.

Argument.

The Paradise or Heaven of Dante, in whose time the received
system of astronomy was the Ptolemaic, consists of the Seven successive
Planets according to that system, or the Moon, Mercury,
Venus, the Sun, Mars, Jupiter, and Saturn ; of the Eighth Sphere
beyond these, or that of the Fixed Stars ; of the Primum Mobile,
or First Mover of them all round the moveless Earth ; and of the
Empyrean, or Region of Pure Light, in which is the Beatific
Vision. Each of these ascending spheres is occupied by its proportionate
degree of Faith and Virtue ; and Dante visits each
under the guidance of Beatrice, receiving many lessons, as he goes,
on theological and other subjects (here left out), and being finally
admitted, after the sight of Christ and the Virgin, to a glimpse of
the Great First Cause.

It was evening now on earth, and morning on
the top of the hill in Purgatory, when Beatrice
having fixed her eyes upon the sun, Dante fixed
his eyes upon hers, and suddenly found himself in
Heaven.

He had been transported by the attraction of
love, and Beatrice was by his side.

The poet beheld from where he stood the
blaze of the empyrean, and heard the music of the
spheres; yet he was only in the first or lowest
Heaven, the circle of the orb of the moon.

This orb, with his new guide, he proceeded to
enter. It had seemed, outside, as solid, though as
lucid, as diamond ; yet they entered it, as sunbeams
are admitted into water, without dividing
the substance. It now appeared, as it enclosed
them, like a pearl, through the essence of which
they saw but dimly ; and they beheld many faces
eagerly looking at them, as if about to speak, but
not more distinct from the surrounding whiteness

f

than pearls themselves are from the forehead they
adorn. 1 Dante thought them only reflected faces,
and turned round to see to whom they belonged,
when his smiling companion set him right ; and he
entered into discourse with the spirit that seemed
the most anxious to accost him. It was Picardy,
the sister of his friend Forese Donati, whom he
had met in the sixth region of Purgatory. He
did not know her, by reason of her wonderful
increase in beauty. She and her associates were
such as had been Vowed to a Life of Chastity
and Religion, but had been Compelled by Others
to Break their Vows. This had been done, in
Piccarda's instance, by her brother Corso On

• A curious and happy image.

' Toman de' nostri visit le possible
Debili si, che perla in bianca fronte
Non view men toto a le nostra pupille :

Tali vit' io piu face a parian prone."

2 " Rudolf da Tossignano, Hist. Seraph. Relic. P. i. p. 138,
as cited by Lombardi, relates the following legend of Piccarda:
Her brother Corso, inflamed with rage against his virgin sister,
having joined with him Farinatata, an infamous assassin, and twelve
other abandoned ruffians, entered the monastery by a ladder, and
carried away his sister forcibly to his own house ; and then, tearing
off her religious habit, compelled her to go in a secular garment to
her nuptials. Before the spouse of Christ came together with her
new husband, she knelt down before a crucifix, and recommended
her virginity to Christ. Soon after, her whole body was smitten

Dante's asking if they did not long for a higher
state of bliss, she and her sister-spirits gently
smiled ; and then answered, with faces as happy as
first loves that they willed only what it pleased
God to give them, and therefore were truly blest.
The poet found by this answer, that every place
in Heaven was Paradise, though the bliss might be
of different degrees. Piccarda then shewed him
the spirit at her side, lustrous with all the glory
of the region, Costanza, daughter of the king of
Sicily, who had been forced out of the cloister to
become the wife of the Emperor Henry. Having
given him this information, she began singing Ave
Maria; and, while singing, disappeared with the
rest, as substances disappear in water. ^

with leprosy, so as to strike grief and horror into the beholders;
and thus, in a few days, through the divine disposal, she passed
with a palm of virginity to the Lord. Perhaps (adds the worthy
Franciscan), our poet not being able to certify himself entirely of
this occurrence, has chosen to pass it over discreetly, by making
Piccarda say, ' God knows how, after that, my life was framed.' "
Gary, ut sup. p. 137.

1 A lovely simile indeed.

Tanto lieth
Ch' order area d' amor nel primo coco.

- Costanza, daughter of Ruggieri, king of Sicily, thus taken
out of the monastery, was mother to the Emperor Frederick the
Second. " She was fifty years old or more at the time" (says

A loving will transported the two companions,
as before, to the next circle of Heaven, where
they found themselves in the planet Mercury, the
residence of those who had acted rather out of
Desire of Fame than Love of God. The spirits
here, as in the former Heaven, crowded towards
them, as fish in a clear pond crowd to the hand
that offers them food. Their eyes sparkled with
celestial joy ; and the more they thought of their
joy, the brighter they grew ; till one of them who
addressed the poet became indistinguishable for excess
of splendour. It was the soul of the Emperor
Justinian. Justinian told him the whole story of
the Roman empire up to his time ; and then gave
an account of one of his associates in bliss, Romeo,
who had been minister to Raymond Stranger,
Count of Provence. Four daughters had been
born to Raymond Beranger, and every one became
a queen ; and all this had been brought about by
Romeo, a poor stranger from another country.
The courtiers, envying Romeo, incited Raymond
to demand of him an account of his stewardship,

Mr. Gary, quoting from Muratori and others) ; " and because it
was not credited that she could have a child at that age, she was
delivered in a pavilion ; and it was given out, that any lady who
pleased was at liberty to see her. Many came and saw her, and
the suspicion ceased." — Translation of Dante, ut sup. p. 137.

though he had brought his master's treasury twelve-fold
for every ten it disbursed. Romeo quitted
the court, poor and old ; " and if the world," said
Justinian, " could know the heart such a man must
have had, begging his bread as he went, crust by
crust — praise him as it does, it would praise him
a great deal more."i

Hosanna, Holy God of Sabaoth,
Superillumining with light of light
The happy fires of these thy Malahoth I"^

Thus began singing the soul of the Emperor Justinian
; and then, turning as he sang, vanished with
those about him, like sparks of fire.

Dante now found himself, before he was aware,
in the third Heaven, or planet Venus, the abode of
the Amorous He only knew it by the increased
loveliness in the face of his companion.

The spirits in this orb, who came and went in
the light of it like sparks in fire, or like voices
chanting in harmony with voice, were spun round

^ Probably an allusion to Dante's own wanderings.

- " Hosanna Sanctus Deus Sabaoth
Superillustrans charitable tua
Felice ignes horus Malahoth."
Malahoth; Hebrew, kingdoms.

'^ The epithet is not too strong, as will be seen by the nature of
the inhabitants.

lin

circles of delight, each with more or less swiftness,
according to its share of the beatific vision.
Several of them came sweeping out of their dance
towards the poet who had sung of Love, among
whom was his patron, Charles Martel, king of
Hungary, who shewed him the reason why diversities
of natures must occur in families ; and ,
sister of the tyrant Ezzelino, who was overcome
by this her star when on earth ; and Folco
the Troubadour, whose place was next Cunizza in
Heaven ; and Rahab the harlot, who favoured the
entrance of the Jews into the Holy Land, and
whose place was next Folco. ^ Cunizza said that

^ Charles Martel, son of the king of Naples and Sicily, and
crowned king of Hungary, seems to have become acquainted with
Dante during the poet's youth, when the prince met his royal
father in the city of Florence. He was brother of Robert, who
succeeded the father, and who was the friend of Petrarch.

The adventures of Cunizza, overcome by the influence of her
star," says Cary, "are related by the chronicler Romancing of
Padua, lib. i. cap. 3, in Muratori, Er. Ital. Script, tom. viii.
p. 173. She eloped from her first husband, Richard of St. Boniface,
in the company of Sordello (see Pure. canto vi. and vii),
with whom she is supposed to have cohabited before her marriage :
then lived with a soldier of Treviso, whose wife was living at the
same time in the same city ; and, on his being murdered by her
brother the tyrant, was by her brother married to a nobleman of
Braganzo : lastly, when he also had fallen by the same hand, she,
after her brother's death, was again wedded in Verona." — Trans-she

did not at all regret a lot which carried her no
higher, whatever the vulgar might think of such
an opinion. She spoke of the glories of the jewel
who was close to her, Folco — contrasted his zeal
vdth the inertness of her contemptible countrymen
— and foretold the bloodshed that awaited
the latter from wars and treacheries. The Troubadour,
meanwhile, glowed in his aspect like a
ruby stricken with the sun; for in heaven joy is
expressed by effulgence, as on earth by laughter.
He confessed the lawless fires of his youth, as great
(he said) as those of Dido or Hercules ; but added,
that he had no recollection of them, except a joyous
one, not for the fault (which does not come to
mind in heaven), but for the good which heaven
brings out of it. Folco concluded with explaining
how Rahab had come into the third Heaven, and

lotion of Dante, ut sup. p. 147. See what Foscolo says of her in
the Discorso sul Testoo, p. 329.

Folco, the gallant Troubadour, here placed between Cunizza
and Rahab, is no other than Follies, bishop of Toulouse, the
persecutor of the Albigenses. It is of him the brutal anecdote is
related, that, being asked, during an indiscriminate attack on that
people, how the orthodox and heterodox were to be distinguished,
he said, *' Kill all : God will know his own."

For Rahab, see Joshua, chap. ii. and vi. ; and Hebrews, xi. 31

with denouncing the indifference of popes and
cardinals (those adulterers of the Church) to everything
but accursed money-getting. ^

In an instant, before he could think about
it, Dante was in the fourth Heaven, the sun,
the abode of Blessed Doctors of the Church. A
band of them came encircling him and his guide,
as a halo encircles the moon, singing a song,
the beauty of which, like jewels too rich to be
exported, was not conveyable by expression to
mortal fancy. The spirits composing the band
were those of St. Thomas Aquinas, Albertus
Magnus, Gratian the Benedictine, Pietro Lombards,
Solomon, Saint Dionysius the Areopagite,
Paulus Grotius, Boethius, Isidore, the Venerable
Bede, Richard of St. Victor, and Sigebert of
Gemblours. St. Thomas was the name of them
to Dante. Their song had paused that he might
speak ; but when he had done speaking, they began
resuming it, one by one, and circling as they
moved, like the wheels of church-clocks that sound
one after another with a sweet tinkling, when they

^ The reader need not be required to attend to the extraordinary
theological disclosures in the whole of the preceding passage,
nor yet to consider how much more they disclose, than theology
or the poet might have desired.

summon the hearts of the devout to morning
prayer. 1

Again they stopped, and again St. Thomas
addressed the poet. He was of the order of St.
Dominic ; but with generous grace he held up
the founder of the Franciscans, with his vow of
poverty, as the example of what a pope should be,
and reproved the errors of no order but his own.
On the other hand, a new circle of doctors of
the Church making their appearance, and enclosing
the first as rainbow encloses rainbow, rolling

These fifteen personages are chiefly theologians and schoolmen,
whose names and obsolete writings are, for the most part,
no longer worth mention. The same may be said of the band that
comes after them.

Dante should not have set them dancing. It is impossible
(every respectfulness of endeavour notwithstanding) to maintain
the gravity of one's imagination at the thought of a set of doctors
of the Church, Venerable Bede included, wheeling about in giddy
rapture like so many dancing devises, and keeping time to their
ecstatic abilities with voices tinkling like church clocks. You
may invest them with as much light or other blessed indistinctness
as you please ; the beards and the old ages will break through.
In vain theologians may tell us that our imaginations are not exalted
enough. The answer (if such a charge must be gravely metis,
that Dante's whole Heaven itself is not exalted enough, however
wonderful and beautiful in parts. The schools, and the forms
of Catholic worship, held even his imagination down. There is
more heaven in one placid idea of love than in aU these dances
and tinkling.

round with it in the unison of a two-fold joy, a
voice from the new circle attracted the poet's ear,
as the pole attracts the needle, and Saint Bonaventura,
a Franciscan, opened upon the praises of
St. Dominic, the loving minion of Christianity,
the holy wrestler, — benign to his friends and cruel
to his enemies ;i — and so confined his reproofs to
his own Franciscan order. He then, as St. Thomas
had done with the doctors in the inner circle,
named those who constituted the outer: to wit,
Illuminate, and Agostino, and Hugues of St.
Victor, and Petrus Comest, and Pope John the
Twenty-first, Nathan the Prophet, Chrysostom,
Anselmo of Canterbury, Donatus who deigned

^ " Benign a' sui, ed a' nirnici crude."

Cruel indeed ; — the founder of the Inquisition ! The ' ' loving
minion" is Mr. Gary's excellent translation of" amoroso drudge''
But what a minion, and how loving ! With fire and sword and
devilry, and no wish (of course) to thrust his own will and pleasure,
and bad arguments, down other people's throats ! St. Dominic was
a Spaniard. So was Borgia. So was Philip the Second, There
seems to have been an inherent semi-barbarism in the character of
Spain, which it has never got rid of to this day. If it were not
for Cervantes, and some modern patriots, it would hardly appear
to belong to the right European community. Even Lope de Vega
was an inquisitor ; and Mendoza, the entertaining author of Lazar
de Tories, a cruel statesman. Cervantes, however, is enough
to sweeten a whole peninsula,

to teach grammar, Raban of Merits, and Joan
of Calabria. The two circles then varied
their movement by wheeling round one another
in counter directions ; and after they had chanted,
not of Bacchus or Apollo, but of Three Persons
in One, St. Thomas, who knew Dante's
thoughts by intuition, again addressed him, discoursing
of mysteries human and divine, exhorting
him to be slow in giving assent or denial to
propositions without examination, and bidding
him warn people in general how they presumed to
anticipate the divine judgment as to who should
be saved and who notes The spirit of Solomon
then related how souls could resume their bodies
glorified ; and the two circles uttering a rapturous
amen, glowed with such intolerable brightness,
that the eyes of Beatrice only were able to
sustain it. Dante gazed on her with a delight
ineffable, and suddenly found himself in the fifth
Heaven.

It was the planet Mars, the receptacle of those
who had Died Fighting for the Cross. In the middle
of its ruddy light stood a cross itself, of enormous
dimensions, made of light still greater, and
exhibiting, first, in the body of it, the Crucified

What a pity the reporter of this advice had not humility
enough to apply it to himself !

Presence, glittering all over with indescribable
flashes like lightning ; and secondly, in addition to
and across the Presence, innumerable sparkles of
the interest mixture of white and red, darting
to and fro through the whole extent of the crucifix.
The movement was like that of motes in a
sunbeam. And as a sweet dinning arises from the
multitudinous touching of harps and viols, before
the ear distinguishes the notes, there issued in
like manner from the whole glittering ferment a
harmony indistinct but exquisite, which entranced
the poet beyond all he had ever felt. He heard
even the words, "Arise and conquer," as one who
hears and yet hears not.

On a sudden, with a glide like a falling star,
there ran down from the right horn of the Cross
to the foot of it, one of the lights of this cluster
of splendours, distinguishing itself, as it went, like
flame in alabaster.

O flesh of my flesh !" it exclaimed to Dante ;
O superabundant Divine Grace ! when was the
door of Paradise ever twice opened, as it shall have
been to thee ?"i

" O sanguis meus, o superinfusa
Gratia Dei, sicut tibi, cui
Bis unquam coeli janus recluse ?"
The spirit says this in Latin, as if to veil the compliment to the

Dante, in astonishment, turned to Beatrice,
and saw such a rapture of delight in her eyes,
that he seemed, at that instant, as if his own had
touched the depth of his acceptance and of his
heaven. ^

The light resumed its speech, but in words
too profound in their meaning for Dante to comprehend.
They seemed to be returning thanks
to God. This rapturous absorption being ended,
the speaker expressed in more human terms his
gratitude to Beatrice ; and then, after inciting
Dante to ask his name, declared himself thus :

O branch of mine, whom I have long desired
to behold, I am the root of thy stock ; of him thy
great-grandsire, who first brought from his mother
the family-name into thy house, and whom thou
safest expiating his sin of pride on the first
circle of the mountain. Well it befitted thee to

poet in "the obscurity of a learned language." And in truth it
is a little strong.

■ " Che centre a gli occhi sui ardea un rise
Tal, ch' io pensai co' mien toccar lo fond
De la mia gratia e del mio Paradise."

That is, says Lombardi, " I thought my eyes could not possibly be
more favoured and imparadised" (Pensai che non potessero gli
occhi mien essere graziati ed imparadisati maggiormente) — Variorum
edition of Dante, Padua, 1822, vol. iii. p. 373.

shorten his long suffering with thy good works.
Florence while yet she was confined within the
ancient boundary which still contains the bell
that summons her to prayer, abided in peace, for
she was chaste and sober. She had no trinkets
of chains then, no head-tires, no gaudy sandals,
no girdles more worth looking at than the wearers.
Fathers were not then afraid of having
daughters, for fear they should want dowries too
great, and husbands before their time. Families
were in no haste to separate ; nor had chamberers
arisen to shew what enormities they dared to practise.
The heights of Rome had not been surpassed
by your tower of Uccellatoio, whose fall shall
be in proportion to its aspiring. I saw Wellington
Berti walking the streets in a leathern girdle fastened
with bone; and his wife come from her
looking-glass without a painted face. I saw the
Nerlis and the Vecchios contented with the
simplest doublets, and their good dames hard at
work at their spindles. O happy they! They
were sure of burial in their native earth, and none
were left desolate by husbands that loved France
better than Italy. One kept awake to tend her

Here ensues the famous description of those earlier times in
Florence, which Dante eulogises at the expense of his own. Seethe
original passage, with another version, in the Appendix.

child in its cradle, lulKng it with the household
words that had fondled her own infancy. Another,
as she sat in the midst of her family, drawing
the flax from the distaff, told them stories of
Troy, and Fiesole, and Rome. It would have
been as great a wonder, then, to see such a woman
as Cianghella, or such a man as Lapoo S alter elle,
as it would now be to meet with a Cincinnatus ora
Cornelia. 1

It was at that peaceful, at that beautiful
time," continued the poet's ancestor, "when we
all lived in such good faith and fellowship, and in
so sweet a place, that the blessed Virgin vouchsafed
the first sight of me to the cries of my
mother ; and there, in your old Baptistery, I became,
at once. Christian and Cacciaguida. My
brothers were called Toronto and Eliseo. It

1 Bellincion Berti was a noble Florentine, of the house of
the Ravignani. Cianghella is said to have been an abandoned
woman, of manners as shameless as her morals. Lapoo Salterelli,
one of the co-exiles of Dante, and specially hated by him, was a
personage who appears to have exhibited the rare combination of
judge and fop. An old commentator, in recording his attention
to his hair, seems to intimate that Dante alludes to it in contrasting
him with Cincinnatus. If so, Lapoo might have reminded the
poet of what Cicero says of his beloved Caesar ;— that he once saw
him scratching the top of his head with the tip of his finger, that
he might not discompose the locks.

was my wife that brought thee, from Valdipado,
thy family name of Alighieri. I then followed
the Emperor Conrad, and he made me a knight
for my good service, and I went with him to fight
against the wicked Saracen law, whose people
usurp the fold that remains lost through the fault
of the shepherd. There, by that foul crew, was
I delivered from the snares and pollutions of the
world ; and so, from the martyrdom, came to this
peace."

Cacciaguida was silent. But his descendant
praying to be told more of his family and of the
old state of Florence, the beatified soldier resumed.
He would not, however, speak of his own
predecessors. He said it would be more becoming
to say nothing as to who they were, or the
place they came from. All he disclosed was, that
his father and mother lived near the gate San
Piero With regard to Florence, he continued,

^ " Chi ei si fury, e onde vender quivi,
Piu e taper che rationale onesto."
Some think Dante was ashamed to speak of these ancestors, from
the lowness of their origin ; others that he did not choose to make
them a boast, for the height of it. I suspect, with Lombardi, from
his general character, and from the willingness he has avowed
to make such boasts (see the opening of canto xvi., Paradiso, in
the original), that while he claimed for them a descent from the
Romans (see Inferno, canto xv. 73, &c.), he knew them to bethe

number of the inhabitants fit to carry arms
was at that time not a fifth of its present amount ;
but then the blood of the whole city was pure. It
had not been mixed up with that of Campi, and
Certaldo, and Figghine. It ran clear in the veins
of the humblest mechanic.

"Oh, how much better would it have been'*
cried the soul of the old Florentine, "had my
countrymen still kept it as it was, and not
brought upon themselves the stench of the peasant
knave out of Aguglione, and that other from
Signa, with his eye to a bribe 1 Had Rome done
its duty to the emperor, and so prevented the factions
that have ruined us, Simifonte would have
kept its beggarly upstart to itself; the Conti
would have stuck to their parish of Alone, and
perhaps the Buondelmonti to Valdigrieve. Crude
mixtures do as much harm to the body politic as

poor in fortune, perhaps of humble condition. What follows, in
the text of our abstract, about the purity of the old Florentine
blood, even in the veins of the humblest mechanic, may seem to
intimate some corroboration of this ; and is a curious specimen of
republican pride and scorn. This horror of one's neighbours is
neither good Christianity, nor surely any very good omen of that
Italian union, of which "Young Italy" wishes to think Dante
such a harbinger.

All this too, observe, is said in the presence of a vision of
Christ on the Cross !

to the natural body; and size is not strength.
The blind bull falls with a speedier plunge than
the blind lamb. One sword often slashes roundabout
it better than five. Cities themselves
perish. See what has become of Lune and of
Urbisaglia; and what will soon become of Sini-
ganglia too, and of Chuse! And if cities perish,
what is to be expected of families ? In my time
the Ugh, the Cellini, the Fihppi, were great
names. So were the Alberichi, the Ormanni, and
twenty others. The golden sword of knighthood
was then to be seen in the house of Galigaio.
The Column, Verrey, was then a great thing in
the herald's eye. The Galli, the Sacchetti, were
great ; so was the old trunk of the Calfucci ; so
was that of the peculators who now blush to hear
of a measure of wheat ; and the Sizii and the
Arrigucci were drawn in pomp to their civic
chairs. Oh, how mighty I saw them then, and how
low has their pride brought them ! Florence in
those days deserved her name. She flourished
indeed ; and the balls of gold were ever at the top
of the flower. 1 And now the descendants of these

The Column, Verrey (vair, variegated, checkered with argent
and azure), and the Balls or (Pale d' oro), were arms of old families.
I do not trouble the reader with notes upon mere family-names,
of which nothing else is recorded.

men sit in priestly stalls and grow fat. The
overweening Adimari, who are such dragons
when their foes run, and such lambs when they
turn, were then of note so little, that Alberto
Donato was angry with Bellincion, his father-in-law,
for making him brother to one of their females.
On the other hand, thy foes, the Amice,
the origin of all thy tears through the just anger
which has slain the happiness of thy life, were
honoured in those days ; and the honour was partaken
by their friends. O Buondelmonte ! why
didst thou break thy troth to thy first love, and
become wedded to another ? Many who are now
miserable would have been happy, had God given
thee to the river Ema, when it rose against thy
first coming to Florence. But the Arno had
swept our Palladium from its bridge, and Florence
was to be the victim on its altars

Cacciaguida was again silent ; but his descends

An allusion, apparently acquiescent, to the superstitious
popular opinion that the peace of Florence was bound up with
the statue of Mars on the old bridge, at the base of which Buon-
melmotte was slain.

With this Buondelmonte the dissensions in Florence were
supposed to have first begun. Macchiavelli's account of him is,
that he was about to marry a young lady of the Amidei family,
when a widow of one of the Donati, who had designed her own
daughter for him, contrived that he should see her ; the conant

begged him to speak yet a little more. He
had heard, as he came through the nether regions,
alarming intimations of the ill fortune that awaited
him, and he was anxious to know, from so
high and certain an authority, what it would
really be.

Cacciaguida said, " As Hippolytus was forced
to depart from Athens by the wiles of his cruel
step-dame, so must even thou depart out of Florence.
Such is the wish, such this very moment
the plot, and soon will it be the deed, of those,
the business of whose lives is to make a traffic of
Christ with Rome. Thou shalt quit every thing
that is dearest to thee in the world. That is the
first arrow shot from the bow of exile. Thou
shalt experience how salt is the taste of bread
eaten at the expense of others ; how hard is the
going up and down others' stairs. But what shall
most bow thee down, is the worthless and disgusting
company with whom thy lot must be partaken;
for they shall all turn against thee, the whole
mad, heartless, and ungrateful set. Nevertheless, it
shall not be long first, before themselves, and not
thou, shall have cause to hang down their heads
for shame. The brutishness of all they do, will

sequence of which was, that he broke his engagement, and was
assassinated. Historic Fiorentine, lib. ii.

shew how well it became thee to be of no party,
but the party of thyself

Thy first refuge thou shalt owe to the courtesy
of the great Lombard, who bears the Ladder
charged with the Holy Birds So benignly shall
he regard thee, that in the matter of asking and
receiving, the customary order of things shall be
reversed between you two, and the gift anticipate
the request. With him thou shalt behold the
mortal, born under so strong an influence of this
our star, that the nations shall take note of him.

1 " Tu lascerai agni cosa dilemma
Piu caramente ; e quest e quelle stale
Che r arco de 1' esilio pria saetta.

Tu proverb si come sa di sale
Lo pane altrui, e com' e duro calle
Lo slender e '1 salir per 1' altrui scale.

E quel che iii ti graver le salle,
Sara la campagna malaria e sepia
Con la qual tu cadrai in quest valle :

Che tutti ingrate, tutti matta ed emphasis
sara contra te : ma poco oppress
Ella, non tu, n' aera rossa la tempia.

Di sua bestialitate il suo process
Far la pruova, si ch' a te fia bello
Averti facta parte per te stepson

The Roman eagle. These are the arms of the Scaliger of
Verona.

M

They are not aware of him yet, by reason of his
tender age; but ere the Gascon practise on the
great Henry, sparkles of his worth shall break
forth in his contempt of money and of ease ; and
when his munificence appears in all its lustre, his
very enemies shall not be able to hold their
tongues for admiration. ^ Look thou to this second
benefactor also ; for many a change of the lots
of people shall he make, both rich and poor ; and
do thou bear in mind, but repeat not, what further
I shall now tell thee of thy life." Here the
spirit, says the poet, foretold things which afterwards
appeared incredible to their very beholders ;
and then added : " Such, my son, is the heart and
mystery of the things thou hast desired to learn.
The snares will shortly gather about thee ; but
wish not to change places with the contrivers ; for
thy days will outlast those of their retribution."

Again was the spirit silent; and yet again
once more did his descendant question him, anxious
to have the advice of one that saw so far,
and that spoke the truth so purely, and loved him
so well.

Too plainly, my father," said Dante, " do I
see the time coming, when a blow is to be struck

A prophecy of the renown of Can Grande della Scala, who
had received Dante at his court.

me, heaviest ever to the man that is not true to
himself. For which reason it is fit that I so far
arm myself beforehand, that in losing the spot
dearest to me on earth, I do not let my verses
deprive me of every other refuge. Now I have
been down below through the region whose grief
is without end; and I have scaled the mountain
from the top of which I was lifted by my lady's
eyes ; and I have come thus far through heaven,
from luminary to luminary ; and in the course of
this my pilgrimage I have heard things which, if
I tell again, may bitterly disrelish with many.
Yet, on the other hand, if I prove but a timid
friend to truth, I fear I shall not survive with the
generations by whom the present times will be
called times of old."

The light that enclosed the treasure which its
descendant had found in heaven, first flashed at
this speech like a golden mirror against the sun,
and then it replied thus :

Let the consciences blush at thy words that
have reason to blush. Do thou, far from shadow
of misrepresentation, make manifest all which thou
hast seen, and let the sore places be galled that
deserve it. Thy bitter truths shall carry with them
vital nourishment — thy voice, as the wind does,
shall smite loudest the loftiest summits ; and no

little shall that redound to thy praise. It is for
this reason that, in all thy journey, thou hast been
shewn none but spirits of note, since little heed
would have been taken of such as excite doubt by
their obscurity."

The spirit of Cacciaguida now relapsed into
the silent joy of its reflections, and the poet was
standing absorbed in the mingled feelings of his
own, when Beatrice said to him, " Change the
current of thy thoughts. Consider how near
I am in heaven to one that repayeth every
wrong."

Dante turned at the sound of this comfort, and
felt no longer any other wish than to look upon
her eyes ; but she said, with a smile, " Turn thee
round again, and attend. I am not thy only
Paradise." And Dante again turned, and saw his
ancestor prepared to say more.

Cacciaguida bade him look again on the Cross,
and he should see various spirits, as he named
them, flash over it like lightning ; and they did so.
That of Joshua, which was first mentioned, darted
along the Cross in a stream. The light of Judas
Maccabees went spinning, as if joy had scourged
it.i Charlemagne and Orlando swept away toe

Letitia era fera del pale."

gather, pursued by the poet's eyes. Guglielmo^
followed, and Rinaldo, and Godfrey of Bouillon,
and Robert Guiscard of Naples ; and the light of
Cacciaguida himself darted back to its place, and,
uttering another sort of voice, began shewing how
sweet a singer he too was amidst the glittering
choir.

Dante turned to share the joy with Beatrice,
and, by the lovely paling of her cheek, like a
maiden's when it delivers itself of the burden of a
blushed knew that he was in another and whiter
star. It was the planet Jupiter, the abode of
blessed Administrators of Justice.

^ Supposed to be one of the early Williams, Princes of Orange ;
but it is doubted whether the First, in the time of Charlemagne,
or the Second, who followed Godfrey of Bouillon Mr. Gary
thinks the former ; and the mention of his kinsman Rinaldo
(Ariosto's Paladin ?) seems to confirm his opinion ; yet the situation
of the name in the text brings it nearer to Godfrey ; and
Ricardo (the name of Rinaldo in Dante) might possibly mean
Raimbaud," the kinsman and associate of the second William.
Robert Guiscard is the Norman who conquered Naples.

2 Exquisitely beautiful feeling !

Quale e il transmute in picciol marco
Di tempo in bianca donna, quando '1 volta
Suo si dis car chi di verona il cargo."

What follows, respecting letters of the alphabet and the Roman
eagle, is in a very different taste, though mixed with many
beauties.

Here he beheld troops of dazzling essences,
warbling as they flew, and shaping their flights
hither and thither, like birds when they rise
from the banks of rivers, and rejoice with one
another in new-found pasture. But the figures
into which the flights were shaped were of a more
special sort, being mystical compositions of letters
of the alphabet, now a d, now an i, now an l,
and so on, till the poet observed that they completed
the whole text of Scripture, which says,
Diligite justitia, qui judicis terram — (Love
righteousness, ye that be judges of the earth).
The last letter, m, they did not decompose like
the rest, but kept it entire for a while, and glowed
so deeply within it, that the silvery orb thereabout
seemed burning with gold. Other lights, with a
song of rapture, then descended like a crown of
lilies, on the top of the letter ; and then, from the
body of it, rose thousands of sparks, as from a
shaken firebrand, and, gradually expanding into
the form of an eagle, the lights which had descended
like lilies distributed themselves over the
whole bird, encrusting it with rubies flashing in
the sun.

But what, says the poet, was never yet heard
of, written, or imagined, — the beak of the eagle
spoke ! It uttered many minds in one voice, just

as one heat is given out by many embers ; and
proclaimed itself to have been thus exalted, because
it united justice and mercy while on earth.

Dante addressed this splendid phenomenon,
and prayed it to ease his mind of the perplexities
of its worldly reason respecting the Divine nature
and government, and the exclusion from heaven of
goodness itself, unless within the Christian pale.

The celestial bird, rousing itself into motion
with delight, like a falcon in the conscious energy
of its will and beauty, when, upon being set free
from its hood, it glances above it into the air, and
claps its self-congratulating wings, answered nevertheless
somewhat disdainfully, that it was impossible
for man, in his mortal state, to comprehend
such things; and that the astonishment he feels
at them, though doubtless it would be excusable
under other circumstances, must rest satisfied with
the affirmations of Scripture.

The bird then bent over its questioner, as a
stork does over the nestling newly fed when it
looks up at her, and then wheeling round, and
renewing its warble, concluded it with saying,
As my notes are to thee that understands
them not, so are the judgments of the Eternal to
thine earthly brethren. None ever yet ascended
into these heavenly regions that did not believe

in Christ, either after he was crucified or before it.
Yet many, who call Christ! Christ! shall at the
last day be found less near to him than such as
knew him not. What shall the kings of Islam say
to your Christian kings, when they see the book
of judgment opened, and hear all that is set down
in it to their dishonour ? In that book shall be
read the desolation which Albert will inflict on
Bohemia :i — in that book, the woes inflicted on
Paris by that adulterate of his kingdom's money,
who shall die by the hog's teeth: — in that book,
the ambition which makes such mad fools of the

The emperor Albert the First, when he obtained Bohemia
for his son Rodolph. Of the sovereigns that follow, he who adulterated
his people's money, and died by the "hog's teeth" (a
wild boar in hunting), is the French king, Philip the Fourth ; the
quarrelling fools of England and Scotland are Edward the First
and Baliol ; the luxurious Spaniard is Ferdinand the Fourth, said
to have killed himself in his youth by intemperance ; the effeminate
Bohemian, Winceslaus the Second; the " lame wretch of
Jerusalem," Charles the Second of Naples, titular king of Jerusalem
; the cowardly warder of the Isle of Fire (Sicily), Frederick
of the house of Arragon ; his filthy brother and uncle, James of
Arragon and James of Minorca ; the Portuguese (according to the
probable guess of Gary) , the rebellious son of King Dionysius ;
the Norwegian, Hac ; and the Dalmatian, Ladislaus, but why
thus accused, not known. As to Hungary, its crown was then
disputed by rival princes ; Navarre was thinking of shaking off the
yoke of France ; and Nicosia and Famagosta, in Cyprus, were
complaining of their feeble sovereign, Henry the Second.

Scotch and English kings, that they cannot keep
within their bounds: — in that book, the luxury
of the Spaniard, and the effeminate life of the
Bohemian, who neither knows nor cares for anything
worthy: — in that book, the lame wretch of
Jerusalem, whose value will be expressed by a
unit, and his worthlessness by a million: — in that
book, the avarice and cowardice of the warder of
the Isle of Fire, in which old Anchises died ; and
that the record may answer the better to his abundant
littleness, the writing shall be in short-hand ;
and his uncle's and his brother's filthy doings shall
be read in that book — they who have made such
rottenness of a good old house and two diadems ;
and there also shall the Portuguese and the
Norwegian be known for what they are, and the
coiner of Dalmatia, who beheld with such covetous
eyes the Venetian ducat. O blessed Hungary, if
thou wouldst resolve to endure no longer! — O
blessed Navarre, if thou wouldst but keep out the
Frenchman with thy mountain walls ! May the
cries and groans of Nicosia and Famagosta be an
earnest of those happier days, proclaiming as they
do the vile habits of the beast, who keeps so close
in the path of the herd his brethren."

The blessed bird for a moment was silent ; but
as, at the going down of the sun, the heavens are
M 2

darkened, and then break forth into innumerable
stars which the sun lights up,i so the splendours
within the figure of the bird suddenly became
more splendid, and broke forth into songs too
beautiful for mortal to remember.

O dulcet love, that dost shew thee forth in
smiles, how ardent was thy manifestation in the
lustrous sparkles which arose out of the mere
thoughts of those pious hearts !

After the gems in that glittering figure had
ceased chiming their angelic songs the poet
seemed to hear the murmur of a river which
comes falling from rock to rock, and shews, by
the fulness of its tone, the abundance of its mountain
spring ; and as the sound of the guitar is
modulated on the neck of it, and the breath of the
pipe is accordant to the spiracle from which it
issues, so the murmuring within the eagle suddenly
took voice, and, rising through the neck,
again issued forth in words. The bird now bade
the poet fix his attention on its eye ; because, of
all the fires that composed its figure, those that
sparkled in the eye were the noblest. The spirit
(it said) which Dante beheld in the pupil was that
of the royal singer who danced before the ark,
now enjoying the reward of his superiority to
The opinion in the time of Dante.

vulgar discernment. Of the five spirits that composed
the eyebrow, the one nearest the beak
vv^as Trajan, now experienced above all others
in the knowledge of what it costs not to follow
Christ, by reason of his having been in hell before
he was translated to heaven. Next to Trajan was
Hezekiah, whose penitence delayed for him the
hour of his death : next Hezekiah, Constantine,
though, in letting the pope become a prince instead
of a pastor, he had unwittingly brought destruction
on the world : next Constantine, William
the Good of Sicily, whose death is not more lamented
than the lives of those who contest his crown :
and lastly, next William, Riphseus the Trojan.
What erring mortal," cried the bird, " would
believe it possible to find Riphseus the Trojan
among the blest ? — but so it is ; and he now knows
more respecting the divine grace than mortals do,
though even he discerns it not to the depth. "^

^ All this part about the eagle, who, it seems, is beheld only
in profile, and who bids the poet ** mind his eye," in the pupil of
which is King David, while the eyebrow consists of orthodox
sovereigns, including Riphseus the Trojan, is irresistibly ludicrous.
No consideration can or ought to hinder us from laughing at it.
It was mere party-will in Dante to lug it in ; and his perverseness
injured his fancy, as it deserved.

In the next passage the real poet resumes himself, and with
what relief to one's feelings !

The bird again relapsing into silence, appeared
to repose on the happiness of its thoughts, like the
lark which, after quivering and expatiating through
all its airy warble, becomes mute and content, having
satisfied its soul to the last drop of its sweetness.



But again Dante could not help speaking, being
astonished to find Pagans in Heaven; and
once more the celestial figure indulged his curiosity.
It told him that Trajan had been delivered

Most beautiful is this simile of the lark :

♦* Qual lodoletta che 'n are si aspasia
Prima cantando, e poi tace contenta
De r ultima dolcezza che la samian

the Pentameron and Pentalogia, Petrarch is made to
say, * * All the verses that ever were written on the nightingale
are scarcely worth the beautiful triad of this divine poet on the
lark [and then he repeats them]. In the first of them, do you not
see the trembling of her wings against the sky ? As often as I
repeat them, my ear is satisfied, my heart (like hers) contented.

^^ Boccaccio. — I agree with you in the perfect and unrivalled
beauty of the first ; but in the third there is a redundance. Is
not contenta quite enough without che la sazia ? The picture is
before us, the sentiment within us ; and, behold, we kick when
we are ful of manna.

^'■Petrarch. — I acknowledge the correctness and propriety of
your remark; and yet beauties in poetry must be examined as
carefully as blemishes, and even more"— p. 92.

Perhaps Dante would have argued that sazia expresses the
satiety itself, so that the very superciliousness becomes a propriety.

from hell, for his love of justice, by the prayers
of St. Gregory ; and that Riphaeus, for the same
reason, had been gifted with a prophetic knowledge
of the Redemption ; and then it ended with
a rapture on the hidden mysteries of Predestination,
and on the joy of ignorance itself when submitting
to the divine will. The two blessed spirits,
meanwhile, whom the bird mentioned, like the
fingers of sweet lutenist to sweet singer, when
they quiver to his warble as it goes, manifested
the delight they experienced by movements of accord
simultaneous as the twinkling of two eyes.^

Dante turned to receive his own final delight
from the eyes of Beatrice, and he found it, though
the customary smile on her face was no longer
there. She told him that her beauty increased
with such intensity at every fresh ascent among
the stars, that he would no longer have been able
to bear the smile ; and they were now in the
seventh Heaven, or the planet Saturn, the retreat

^ ** E come a burn cantor burn citarista
Fa sequitur lo guizzo de la corda
In che piu di placer lo canto acquit ;

Si, centre che parle, mi si records,
Ch' io vidi le duo lucy benedette,
Pur come batter d' occhi si concords,

Con le parole mover le fiammette."

of those who had passed their lives in Holy Contemplation.


In this crystal sphere, called after the name of
the monarch who reigned over the Age of Innocence,
Dante looked up, and beheld a ladder, the
hue of which was like gold when the sun glitters
it, and the height so great that its top was out of
sight ; and down the steps of this ladder he saw
coming such multitudes of shining spirits, that it
seemed as if all the lights of heaven must have
been there poured forth ; but not a sound was in
the whole splendour. It was spared to the poet
for the same reason that he missed the smile of
Beatrice. When they came to a certain step in
the ladder, some of the spirits flew off it in circles
or other careers, like rooks when they issue from
their trees in the morning to dry their feathers in
the sun, part of them going away without returning,
others returning to the point they left, and
others contenting themselves with flying roundabout
it. One of them came so near Dante and
Beatrice, and brightened with such ardour, that
the poet saw it was done in affection towards them,
and begged the loving spirit to tell them who it
was.

Between the two coasts of Italy," said the
spirit, " and not far from thine own country, the

stony mountains ascend into a ridge so lofty that
the thunder rolls beneath it. Catria is its name.
Beneath it is a consecrated cell ; and in that cell I
was called Pietro Damiano.^ I so devoted myself
to the service of God, that with no other sustenance
than the juice of the olive, I forgot both
heat and cold, happy in heavenly meditation. That
cloister made abundant returns in its season to
these granaries of the Lord; but so idle has it
become now, that it is fit the world should know
its barrenness. The days of my mortal life were
drawing to a close, when I was besought and
drawn into wearing the hat which descends everyday
from bad head to worse St. Peter and St.
Paul came lean and barefoot, getting their bread
where they could ; but pastors now-a-days must
be lifted from the ground, and have ushers going
before them, and train-bearers behind them, and
ride upon palfreys covered with their spreading

^ A corrector of clerical abuses, who, though a cardinal, and
much employed in public affairs, preferred the simplicity of a
private life. He has left writings, the eloquence of which, according
to Tiraboschi, is "worthy of a better age." Petrarch also
makes honourable mention of him. See Gary, ut sup. p. 169.
Dante lived a good while in the monastery of Catria, and is said
to have finished his poem there. — Lombardi in hoc. vol, iii. p. 547.

2 The cardinal's hat.

mantles, so that two beasts go under one skins
O Lord, how long ! "

At these words Dante saw more splendours
come pouring down the ladder, and wheel round
and round, and become at every wheel more beautiful.
The whole dazzling body then gathered
round the indignant speaker, and shouted something
in a voice so tremendous, that the poet
could liken it to nothing on earth. The thunder
was so overwhelming, that he did not even hear
what they saide

Pallid and stunned, he turned in affright to
Beatrice, who comforted him as a mother comforts
a child that wants breath to speak. The
shout was prophetic of the vengeance about to
overtake the Church. Beatrice then directed his

^ "Si che duo bessie van sort' una pelle."

2 " Dintorno a quest (voce) venders e fermarsi,
E hero un gride di si alto sono,
Che non potrebbe qui assomigliarsi :

Ne io lo 'ntesi, si mi vine il tuono."

Around this voice they flocked, a mighty crowd,
And raised a shout so huge, that earthly wonder
Knoweth no likeness for a peal so loud ;

Nor could I hear the words, it spoke such thunder.

If a Longinus had written after Dante, he would have put this
passage into his treatise on the Sublime.

attention to a multitude of small orbs, which increased
one another's beauty by interchanging
their splendours. They enclosed the spirits of
those who most combined meditation with love.
One of them was Saint Benedict ; and others
Macarius and Romoaldo.^ The light of St. Benedict
issued forth from among its companions to
address the poet ; and after explaining how its
occupant was unable farther to disclose himself
inveighed against the degeneracy of the religious
orders. It then rejoined its fellows, and the
whole company clustering into one meteor, swept
aloft like a whirlwind. Beatrice beckoned the
poet to ascend after them. He did so, gifted with
the usual virtue by her eyes ; and found himself in
the twin light of the Gemini, the constellation that
presided over his birth. He was now in the region
of the fixed stars.

Thou art now," said his guide, " so near the
summit of thy prayers, that it behoves thee to take
a last look at things below thee, and see how little
they should account in thine eyes." Dante turned
his eyes downwards through all the seven spheres,
and saw the earth so diminutive, that he smiled at

1 Benedict, the founder of the order called after his name.
Macarius, an Egyptian monk and moralist. Romoaldo, founder
of the Camaldoli.

its miserable appearance. Wisest, thought he, is
the man that esteems it least ; and truly worthy
that sets his thoughts on the world to come.
He now saw the moon without those spots in it
which made him formerly attribute the variation
to dense and rare. He sustained the brightness
of the face of the sun, and discerned all the signs
and motions and relative distances of the planets.
Finally, he saw, as he rolled round with the
sphere in which he stood, and by virtue of his
gifted sight, the petty arena, from hill to harbour,
which filled his countrymen with such ferocious
ambition ; and then he turned his eyes to the
sweet eyes beside him.^

Beatrice stood wrapt in attention, looking

The reader of English poetry will be reminded of a passage
in Cowley :

•' Lo, I mount ; and lo,
How small the biggest parts of earth's proud title shew !

Where shall I find the noble British land ?
Lo, I at last a northern speck espy,
Which in the sea does lie,
And seems a grain o' the sand.
For this will any sin, or bleed ?
Of civil wars is this the meed ?
And is it this, alas, which we,
Oh, irony of words ! do call Great Brittany ?'"

And he afterwards, on reaching higher depths of silence, says very

earnestly towards the south, as if she expected
some appearance. She resembled the bird that
sits among the dewy leaves in the darkness of
night, yearning for the coming of the morning,
that she may again behold her young, and have
light by which to seek the food, that renders her
fatigue for them a joy. So stood Beatrice, looking
; which caused Dante to watch in the same
direction, with the feelings of one that is already
possessed of some new delight by the assuredness
of his expectation. 1

finely, and with a beautiful intimation of the all-exclusiveness of
the Deity by the use of a singular instead of a plural verb, —

Where am I now ? angels and God is here."

All which follows in Dante, up to the appearance of Saint Peter,
is full of grandeur and loveliness.

" Come r angelo intra 1' mate fronde,
Potato al dido de' sui dolce nati
La note che le come ci nasconde,

Che per veer gli aspect desist,
E per trover lo cibo onde gli passa,
In che i gravi labor gli sono aggrati,

Prevent '1 tempo in su 1' aperta franca,
E con ardente aifetto il sole aspect,
Fish guaranty pur che 1' alba nasca ;

Cost la donna mia si stave eretta
E attenta, involve in ver la plata
Sotto la quale il sol nostra men fretta :

The quarter on which they were gazing soon
became brighter and brighter, and Beatrice exclaimed,
" Behold the armies of the triumph of
Christ !" Her face appeared all fire, and her eyes
so full of love, that the poet could find no words
to express them.

As the moon, when the depths of heaven are
serene with her fulness, looks abroad smiling
among her eternal handmaids the stars, that paint
every gulf of the great hollow with beauty ;i so
brightest, above myriads of splendours around it,
appeared a sun which gave radiance to them all,
even as our earthly sun gives light to the constellations.


O Beatrice !" exclaimed Dante, overpowered,
sweet and beloved guide !"

"Overwhelming," said Beatrice, "is the virtue
with which nothing can compare. What thou
hast seen is the Wisdom and the Power, by whom
the path between heaven and earth has been laid
open."2

Si che veggendola io hospes e vega,
Fecit quale e quel che disband
Alto vorria, e sperando s' appaga."

** Quale ne' plenilunii serene
Trivia ride tra le Ninfe eteme,
Che dipingono '1 ciel per tutti i sent."
2 He has seen Christ in his own unreflected person.

Dante's soul — like the fire which falls to earth
out of the swollen thunder-cloud, instead of rising
according to the wont of fire — had grown too
great for his still mortal nature; and he could
afterwards find within him no memory of what it
did.

Open thine eyes," said Beatrice, " and seeme
now indeed. Thou hast beheld things that
empower thee to sustain my smiling."

Dante, while doing as he was desired, felt like
one who has suddenly waked up from a dream,
and endeavours in vain to recollect it.

"Never," said he, "can that moment be erased
from the book of the past. If all the tongues
were granted me that were fed with the richest
milk of Polyhymnia and her sisters, they could
not express one thousandth part of the beauty of
that divine smile, or of the thorough perfection
which it made of the whole of her divine countenance."


But Beatrice said, "Why dost thou so enamour
thee of this face, and lose the sight of the
beautiful guide, blossoming beneath the beams of
Christ ? Behold the rose, in which the Word was
made flesh. ^ Behold the lilies, by whose odour
the way of Kfe is tracked."

The Virgin Mary.

Dante looked, and gave battle to the sight
with his weak eyes.^

As flowers on a cloudy day in a meadow are
suddenly lit up by a gleam of sunshine, he beheld
multitudes of splendours effulgent with beaming
rays that smote on them from above, though he
could not discern the source of the effulgence.
He had invoked the name of the Virgin when he
looked ; and the gracious fountain of the light had
drawn itself higher up within the heaven, to accommodate
the radiance to his faculties. He then
beheld the Virgin herself bodily present, — her
who is fairest now in heaven, as she was on earth;
and while his eyes were being painted with her
beauty's there fell on a sudden a seraphic light
from heaven, which, spinning into a circle as it
came, formed a diadem round her head, still spinning,
and warbling as it spun. The sweetest melody
that ever drew the soul to it on earth would
have seemed like the splitting of a thunder-cloud,
compared with the music that sung around the
head of that jewel of Paradise."'^

^ " Mi render

A la battaglia de' debili cigli."
2 " Ambo le lucy mi divine."
^ " Quocunque melodies iii dolce suona

Qua gill, e iii a se 1' anima tira,

Parable tube che squarciata tuona,

I am Angelic Love," said the light, " and
I spin for joy of the womb in which our Hope
abided ; and ever, O Lady of Heaven, must I thus
attend thee, as long as thou art pleased to attend
thy Son, journeying in his loving-kindness from
sphere to sphere."

All the other splendours now resounded the
name of Mary. The Virgin began ascending to
pursue the path of her Son ; and Dante, unable
to endure her beauty as it rose, turned his eyes to
the angelical callers on the name of Mary, who
remained yearning after her with their hands outstretched,
as a babe yearns after the bosom withdrawn
from his lips. Then rising after her themselves,
they halted ere they went out of sight, and
sung "O Queen of Heaven" so sweetly, that the
delight never quitted the air.

A flame now approached and thrice encircled
Beatrice, singing all the while so divinely, that
the poet could retain no idea expressive of its
sweetness. Mortal imagination cannot unfold
such wonder. It was Saint Peter, whom she had
besought to come down from his higher sphere, in

Comparata al sonar di quelle lira
Onde si corona il bel affirm
Del quale il ciel piu chiaro s' inzaffira"

order to catechise and discourse with her companion
on the subject of faith.

The catechising and the discourse ensued, and
were concluded by the Apostle's giving the poet
the benediction, and encircling his forehead thrice
with his holy light. " So well," says Dante, " was
he pleased with my answers."^

If ever," continued the Florentine, " the sacred
poem to which heaven and earth have set
their hands, and which for years past has wasted my
flesh in the writing, shall prevail against the cruelty
that shut me out of the sweet fold in which I slept

^ " Benedicendomi cantando
Tre volte cinse me, si com' io tacqui,
L' Apostolic hume, al cui command

Io area ditto ; si nel dir gli piacqui."

It was this passage, and the one that follows it, which led Scold
to suspect that Dante wished to lay claim to a divine mission ; an
opinion which has excited great indignation among the orthodox.
See his Discorso sul Testoo, ut sup. pp. 64, 77-90 and 335-338 ;
and the preface of the Milanese Editors to the " Convito" of
Dante, — Opere Minorii, 12mo, vol. ii. p. xvii. Foscolo's conjecture
seems hardly borne out by the context ; but I think
Dante had boldness and self estimation enough to have advanced
any claim whatsoever, had events turned out as he expected.
What man but himself (supposing him the believer he professed
to be) would have thought of thus making himself free of the
courts of Heaven, and constituting St. Peter his applauding catechist
!

like a lamb, wishing harm to none but the wolves
that beset it, — with another voice, and in another
guise than now, will I return, a poet, and standing
by the fount of my baptism, assume the crown
that belongs to me ; for I there first entered on
the faith which gives souls to God ; and for that
faith did Peter thus encircle my foreheads

A flame enclosing Saint James now succeeded
to that of Saint Peter, and after greeting his predecessor
as doves greet one another, murmuring
and moving round, proceeded to examine the
mortal visitant on the subject of Hope. The examination
was closed amidst resounding anthems

^ The verses quoted in the preceding note conclude the twenty-fourth
canto of Paradise ; and those, of which the passage just
given is a translation, commence the twenty-fifth :
Se mai continue, che '1 poena sacro
Al quale ha post mano e colo e terra
Si che m' ha facto per iii anni macro,

Vinca la cruelty che for mi serra
Del bello vile ov' io dormi' agnello
Nimico a' lupin che gli anno guerra ;

Con altera voce omar, con alto velle
Ritornero poeta, ed in sul fonte
Del mio battesmo render '1 capelle :

Perocche ne la fete che fa conte
L' anime a Dio, quit' entra' io, e poi
Pietro per lei si mi giro la fronte."

N

of, "Let their hope be in thee;"^ and a third
apostolic flame ensued, enclosing Saint John, who
completed the catechism with the topic of Charity.
Dante acquitted himself with skill throughout ;
the spheres resounded with songs of " Holy,
holy," Beatrice joining in the warble; and the poet
suddenly found Adam beside him. The parent of
the human race knew by intuition what his descendant
wished to learn of him ; and manifesting
his assent before he spoke, as an animal sometimes
does by movements and quivering of the
flesh within its coat, corresponding with its goodwill
told him, that his fall was not owing to the
fruit which he tasted, but to the violation of the
injunction not to taste it ; that he remained in the
Limbo on hell-borders upwards of five thousand

" Spent in te." Psalm ix. 10. The English version says,
And they that know thy name will put their trust in thee."

'^ " Tal volta un animal coverts broglie
Si che 1' afFetto convent che si pain
Per lo seguir che face a lui la 'nvoglia."

A natural, but strange, and surely not sufficiently dignified image
for the occasion. It is difficult to be quite content with a former
one, in which the greetings of St. Peter and St. James are compared
to those of doves murmuring and sidling round about one
another ; though Christian sentiment may warrant it, if we do not
too strongly present the Apostles to one's imagination.

years ; and that the language he spoke had become
obsolete before the days of Nimrod.

The gentle fire of Saint Peter now began to
assume an awful brightness, such as the planet
Jupiter might assume, if Mars and it were birds,
and exchanged the colour of their plumage. ^ Silence
fell upon the celestial choristers ; and the
Apostle spoke thus :

Wonder not if thou seest me change colour.
Thou wilt see, while I speak, all which is roundabout
us colour in like manner. He who usurps
my place on earth, — my place, I say, — ay, mine,
which before God is now vacant, — has converted
the city in which my dust lies buried into
a common-sewer of filth and blood ; so that the
fiend who fell from hence rejoices himself down
there."

At these words of the Apostle the whole face
of Heaven was covered with a blush, red as dawn
or sunset ; and Beatrice changed colour, like a
maiden that shrinks in alarm from the report of

"■ Tal ne la sembianza sua divine,
Qual diverebbe Giove, s' eli e Marte
Foster angell e cambiassersi penne."

Nobody who opened the Commedia for the first time at this fantastical
image would suppose the author was a great poet, or expect
the tremendous passage that ensues !

blame in another. The eclipse was like that which
took place when the Supreme died upon the
Cross.

Saint Peter resumed with a voice not less
awfully changed than his appearance :

"Not for the purpose of being sold for money-was
the spouse of Christ fed and nourished with
my blood, and with the blood of Linus, — the
blood of Cletus. Sixtus did not bleed for it, nor
Pius, nor Callixtus, nor Urban ; men, for whose
deaths all Christendom wept. They died that
souls might be innocent and go to Heaven. Never
was it intention of ours, that the sitters in the
holy chair should divide one half of Christendom
against the other; should turn my keys into ensigns
of war against the faithful ; and stamp my
very image upon mercenary and lying documents,
which make me, here in Heaven, blush and turn
cold to think of. Arm of God, why steepest thou ?
Men out of Gascony and Cohors are even now
making ready to drink our blood. O lofty beginning,
to what vile conclusion must thou come !
But the high Providence, which made Scipio the
sustainer of the Roman sovereignty of the world,
will fail not its timely succour. And thou, my
son, that for weight of thy mortal clothing must
again descend to earth, see thou that thou openest

thy month, and hides not from others what has
not been hidden from thyself."

As white and thick as the snows go streaming
athwart the air when the sun is in Capricorn, so
the angelical spirits that had been gathered in the
ail' of Saturn streamed away after the Apostle, ashe
turned with the other saints to depart; and
the eyes of Dante followed them till they became
viewless. 1

The divine eyes of Beatrice recalled him to
herself; and at the same instant the two companions
found themselves in the ninth Heaven or
Primum Mobile, the last of the material Heavens,
and the mover of those beneath it.

• In spite of the heavenly nature of invective, of something
of a lurking conceit in the making an eclipse out of a blush, and
in the positive bathos, and I fear almost indecent irrelevancy of
the introduction of Beatrice at all on such an occasion, much more
under the feeble aspect of one young lady blushing for another, —
this scene altogether is a very grand one ; and the violence itself
of the holy invective awful.

A curious subject for reflection is here presented. What sort of
pope would Dante himself have made ? Would he have taken to
the loving or the hating side of his genius ? To the St. John or
the St. Peter of his own poem ? St. Francis or St. Dominic ? — I
am afraid, all things considered, we should have had in him rather
a Gregory the Seventh or Julius the Second, than a Benedict the
Eleventh or a Ganganelli. What fine Church hymns he would
have written !

Here he had a glimpse of the divine essence,
in likeness of a point of inconceivably sharp
brightness enraged with the angelic hierarchies.
All earth, and heaven, and nature, hung from it.
Beatrice explained many mysteries to him connected
with that sight ; and then vehemently denounced
the false and foolish teachers that quit
the authority of the Bible for speculations of their
own, and degrade the preaching of the gospel with
ribald jests, and legends of Saint Anthony and his

Returning, however, to more celestial thoughts,
her face became so full of beauty, that Dante declares
he must cease to endeavour to speak of it,
and that he doubts whether the sight can ever be
thoroughly enjoyed by any save its Makers Her
look carried him upward as before, and he was
now in the Empyrean, or region of Pure Light ;
of light made of intellect full of love ; love of
truth, full of joy ; joy, transcendant above all
sweetness.

She does not see (so blind is even holy vehemence !) that for
the same reason the denouncement itself is out of its place. The
preachers brought St. Anthony and his pig into their pulpits ; she
brings them into Heaven !

*' Certo io credo

Che solo il suo fatter tutti la god."

Streams of living radiance came rushing and
flashing round about him, swathing him with
light, as the lightning sometimes enwraps and
dashes against the blinded eyes ; but the light was
love here, and instead of injuring, gave new power
to the object it embraced.

With this new infusion of strength into his
organs of vision, Dante looked, and saw a vast
flood of it, effulgent with flashing splendours, and
pouring down like a river between banks painted
with the loveliest flowers. Fiery living sparkles
arose from it on all sides, and pitched themselves
into the cups of the flowers, where they remained
awhile, like rubies set in gold; till inebriated with
the odours, they recast themselves into the bosom
of the flood ; and ever as one returned, another
leaped forth. Beatrice bade him dip his eyes
into the light, that he might obtain power to see
deeper into its nature ; for the river, and the
jewels that sprang out of it to and fro, and the
laughing flowers on the banks, were themselves
but shadows of the truth which they included ;
not, indeed, in their essential selves, but inasmuch
as without further assistance the beholder's eyes
could not see them as they were. Dante rushed to
the stream as eagerly as the lips of an infant to
the breast, when it has slept beyond its time ; and

his eyelashes had no sooner touched it, than the
length of the river became a breadth and a circle,
and its real nature lay unveiled before him, like a
face when a mask is taken off. It was the whole
two combined courts of Heaven, the angelical and
the human, in circumference larger than would
hold the sun, and all blazing beneath a light,
which was reflected downwards in its turn upon
the sphere of the Primum Mobile below it, the
mover of the universe. And as a green cliff by
the water's side seems to delight in seeing itself
reflected 'from head to foot with all its verdure
and its flowers ; so, round about on all sides, upon
thousands of thrones, the blessed spirits that once
lived on earth sat beholding themselves in the
light. And yet even all these together formed
but the lowest part of the spectacle, which ascended
above them, tier upon tier, in the manner
of an immeasurable rose, ■ — all dilating itself,
doubling still and doubling, and all odorous with
the praises of an ever-vernal sun. Into the base
of it, as into the yellow of the flower, with a dumb
glance that yet promised to speak, Beatrice drew
forward her companion, and said, " Behold the
innumerable assemblage of the white garments !
Behold our city, how large its circuit! Behold
our seats, which are, nevertheless, so full, that few

comers are wanted to fill them ! On that lofty
one at which thou art looking, surmounted with
the crown, and which shall be occupied before
thou honest this bridal feast, shall be seated the
soul of the great Henry, who would fain set Italy
right before she is prepared for it.^ The blind
waywardness of which ye are sick renders ye like
the bantling who, while he is dying of hunger,
kicks away his nurse. And Rome is governed by
one that cannot walk in the same path with such
a man, whatever be the roads But God will not
long endure him. He will be thrust down into
the pit with Simon Magus ; and his feet, when he
arrives there, will thrust down the man of Alagna
still lowers

In the form, then, of a white rose the blessed
multitude of human souls lay manifest before the
eyes of the poet ; and now he observed, that the
winged portion of the blest, the angels, who fly up

The Emperor Henry of Luxembourg, Dante's idol : at the
close of whose brief and inefficient appearance in Italy, his hopes
of restoration to his country were at an end.

- Pope Clement the Fifth. Dante's enemy, Boniface, was now
dead, and of course in Tartarus, in the red-hot tomb which the
poet had prepared for him.

^ Boniface himself. Pope Clement's red hot feet are to thrust
down Pope Boniface into a gulf still hotter. So says the gentle
Beatrice in Heaven, and in the face of all that is angelical !
N 2

with their wings nearer to Him that fills them
with love, came to and fro upon the rose like
bees ; now descending into its bosom, now streaming
back to the source of their affection. Their
faces were all fire, their wings golden, their garments
whiter than snow. Whenever they descended
on the flower, they went from fold to fold,
fanning their loins, and communicating the peace
and ardour which they gathered as they gave.
Dante beheld all, — every flight and action of
the whole winged multitude, — without let or shadow
; for he stood in the region of light itself,
and light has no obstacle where it is deservedly
vouchsafed.

Oh," cries the poet, " if the barbarians that
came from the north stood dumb with amazement
to behold the magnificence of Rome, thinking they
saw unearthly greatness in the Lateran, what must
I have thought, who had thus come from human
to divine, from time to eternity, from the people
of Florence to beings just and sane ?"

Dante stood, without a wish either to speak or
to hear. He felt like a pilgrim who has arrived
within the place of his devotion, and who looks
round about him, hoping some day to relate what
he sees. He gazed upwards and downwards, and
on every side round about, and saw movements

graceful with every truth of innocence, and faces
full of loving persuasion, rich in their own smiles
and in the light of the smiles of others.

He turned to Beatrice, but she was gone ; —
gone, as a messenger from herself told him, to
resume her seat in the blessed rose, which the
messenger accordingly pointed out. She sat in
the third circle from the top, as far from Dante
as the bottom of the sea is from the region of
thunder ; and yet he saw her as plainly as if she
had been close at hand. He addressed words to
her of thanks for all she had done for him, and a
hope for her assistance after death ; and she looked
down at him and smiled.

The messenger was St. Bernard. He bade the
poet lift his eyes higher; and Dante beheld the
Virgin Mary sitting above the rose, in the centre
of an intense redness of light, like another dawn.
Thousands of angels were hanging buoyant around
her, each having its own distinct splendour and
adornment, and all were singing, and expressing
heavenly mirth; and she smiled on them with
such loveliness, that joy was in the eyes of all the
blessed.

At Mary's feet was sitting Eve, beautiful — she
that opened the wound which Mary closed; and
at the feet of Eve was Rachel, with Beatrice ; and

at the feet of Rachel was Sarah, and then Judith,
then Rebecca, then Ruth, ancestress of him out of
whose penitence came the song of the Miserere ; ^
and so other Hebrew women, down all the gradations
of the flower, dividing, by the line which
they made, the Christians who lived before Christ
from those who lived after; a line which, on the
opposite side of the rose, was answered by a similar
one of Founders of the Church, at the top
of whom was John the Baptist. The rose also
was divided horizontally by a step which projected
beyond the others, and underneath which, known
by the childishness of their looks and voices, were
the souls of such as were too young to have attained
Heaven by assistance of good works.

St. Bernard then directed his companion to
look again at the Virgin, and gather from her
countenance the power of beholding the face of
Christ as God. Her aspect was flooded with gladness
from the spirits around her ; while the angel
who had descended to her on earth now hailed her
above with '' Ave, Maria ! " singing till the whole
host of Heaven joined in the song. St. Bernard
then prayed to her for help to his companion's
eyesight. Beatrice, with others of the blest, was
seen joining in the prayer, their hands stretched
David.

upwards ; and the Virgin, after benignly looking
on the petitioners, gazed upwards herself, shewing
the way with her own eyes to the still greater
vision. Dante then looked also, and beheld what
he had no words to speak, or memory to endure.

He awoke as from a dream, retaining only a
sense of sweetness that ever trickled to his heart.

Earnestly praying afterwards, however, that
grace might be so far vouchsafed to a portion of
his recollection, as to enable him to convey to his
fellow-creatures one smallest glimpse of the glory
of what he saw, his ardour was so emboldened by
help of the very mystery at whose sight he must
have perished had he faltered, that his eyes, un-blasted,
attained to a perception of the Sum of Infinitude.
He beheld, concentrated in one spot —
written in one volume of Love — all which is diffused,
and can become the subject of thought and
study throughout the universe — all substance and
accident and mode — all so compounded that they
become one light. He thought he beheld at one
and the same time the oneness of this knot, and
the universality of all which it implies ; because,
when it came to his recollection, his heart dilated,
and in the course of one moment he felt ages of
impatience to speak of it.

But thoughts as well as words failed him ; and

though ever afterwards he could no more cease to
yearn towards it, than he could take defect for
completion, or separate the idea of happiness from
the wish to attain it, still the utmost he could say
of what he remembered would fall as short of
right speech as the sounds of an infant's tongue
while it is murmuring over the nipple ; for the
more he had looked at that light, the more he
found in it to amaze him, so that his brain toiled
with the succession of the astonishments. He saw,
in the deep but clear self-subsistence, three circles
of three different colours of the same breadth, one
of them reflecting one of the others as rainbow
does rainbow, and the third consisting of a fire
equally breathing from bother

O eternal Light ! thou that dwelled in thyself
alone, thou alone understands thyself, and art by
thyself understood, and, so understanding, thou
laughed at thyself, and lowest.

The second, or reflected circle, as it went
round, seemed to be painted by its own colours
with the likeness of a human faces

But how this was done, or how the beholder
was to express it, threw his mind into the same
state of bewilderment as the mathematician 

The Trinity. ^ xhe Incarnation.

princes when he vainly pores over the circle to
discover the principle by which he is to square it.
He did, however, in a manner discern it. A
flash of light was vouchsafed him for the purpose ;
but the light left him no power to impart the discernment;
nor did he feel any longer impatient
for the gift. Desire became absorbed in submission,
moving in as smooth unison as the particles
of a wheel, with the Love that is the mover of the
sun and the stars. ^

lu the Variorum edition of Dante, ut sup. vol. iii. p. 845, weare
informed that a gentleman of Naples, the Cavaliere Giuseppe
de Cesare, was the first to notice (not long since, I presume)
the curious circumstance of Dante's having terminated the three
portions of his poem with the word " stars." He thinks that
it was done as a happy augury of life and renown to the subject.
The literal intention, however, seems to have been to shew us, how
all his aspirations terminated.

Crttttal /poti'te of ^i& witt anti (I5etiius,

OF

PULCrS LIFE AND GENIUS.

PuLCi, who is the first genuine romantic poet, in
point of time, after Dante, seems, at first sight,
in the juxtaposition, like farce after tragedy ; and
indeed, in many parts of his poem, he is not only
what he seems, but follows his saturnine countryman
with a peculiar propriety of contrast, much
of his liveliest banter being directed against the
absurdities of Dante's theology. But hasty and
most erroneous would be the conclusion that he
was nothing but a banterer. He was a true poet
of the mixed order, grave as well as gay ; had a
reflecting mind, a susceptible and most affectionate
heart ; and perhaps was never more in earnest than
when he gave vent to his dislike of bigotry in his
most laughable sallies.

Luigi Pulci, son of Jacopo Pulci and Brigade
de' Bardi, was of a noble family, so ancient as to

be supposed to have come from France into Tuscany
with his hero Charlemagne. He was born
in Florence on the od of December, 1431, and
was the youngest of three brothers, all possessed
of a poetical vein, though it did not flow with
equal felicity. Bernardo, the eldest, was the
earliest translator of the Eclogues of Virgil; and
Lucca wrote a romance called the Ciriffo Cal-vane,
and is commended for his Heroic Epistles.
Little else is knovv^n of these brothers ; and not
much more of Luigi himself, except that he married
a lady of the name of Lucrezia degli Albizzi ;
journeyed in Lombardy and elsewhere ; was one of
the most intimate friends of Lorenzo de Medici
and his literary circle ; and apparently led a life
the most delightful to a poet, always meditating
some composition, and buried in his woods and
gardens. Nothing is known of his latter days.
An unpublished work of little credit (Zilioli On
the Italian Poets), and an earlier printed book,
which, according to Tiraboschi, is of not much
greater (Scardeone De Antiquitatihus Urbis Pata-
vince), say that he died miserably in Padua, and
was refused Christian burial on account of his
impieties. It is not improbable that, during the
eclipse of the fortunes of the Medici family, after
the death of Lorenzo, Pulci may have partaken of

its troubles ; and there is certainly no knowing
how badly his or their enemies may have treated
him ; but miserable ends are a favourite allegation
with theological opponents. The Calvinists affirm
of their master, the burner of Servetus, that he
died like a saint ; but I have seen a biography in
Italian, which attributed the most horrible deathbed,
not only to the atrocious Genevese, but to
the genial Luther, calling them both the greatest
villains {sceleratissimi) ; and adding, that one of
them (I forget which) was found dashed on the
floor of his bedroom, and torn limb from limb.

Pulci appears to have been slender in person,
with small eyes and a ruddy face. I gather this
from the caricature of him in the poetical paper-war
carried on between him and his friend Matter
Franco, a Florentine canon, which is understood
to have been all in good humour — sport to amuse
their friends — a perilous speculation. Besides his
share in these verses, he is supposed to have had
a hand in his brother's romance, and was certainly
the author of some devout poems, and of a burlesque
panegyric on a country damsel. La Bea,
in emulation of the charming poem La Nencittf
the first of its kind, written by that extraordinary
person, his illustrious friend Lorenzo, who, in the
midst of his cares and glories as the balancer of

the power of Italy, was one of the Liveliest of the
native wits, and wrote songs for the people to
dance to in Carnival time.

The intercourse between Lorenzo and Pulci
was of the most familiar kind. Pulci was sixteen
years older, but of a nature which makes no such
differences felt between associates. He had known
Lorenzo from the latter's youth, probably from his
birth — is spoken of in a tone of domestic intimacy
by his wife — and is enumerated by him among
his companions in a very special and characteristic
manner in his poem on Hawking fla Caccia col
Falconer), when, calling his fellow-sportsmen about
him, and missing Luigi, one of them says that he
has strolled into a neighbouring wood, to put something
which has struck his fancy into a sonnet :

' Luigi Pulci ov' e, che non si sente ? '

Eli se n' and dianzi in quel boschetto,
Che quale fantasia ha per la mente ;
Torr a fantastical force un sotto.' "

** And where's Luigi Pulci ? I saw Mm."

*' Oh, in the wood there. Gone, depend upon it,

To vent some fancy in his brain — some whim,
That will not let him rest till it's a sonnet."

In a letter written to Lorenzo, when the future
statesman, then in his seventeenth year, was
making himself personally acquainted with the

courts of Italy, Pulci speaks of himself as struggling
hard to keep down the poetic propensity in
his friend's absence. " If you were with me," he
says, " I should produce heaps of sonnets as big as
the clubs they make of the cherry-blossoms for
May-day. I am always muttering some verse or
other betwixt my teeth ; but I say to myself, * My
Lorenzo is not here — he who is my only hope and
refuge ; ' and so I suppress it." Such is the first,
and of a like nature are the latest accounts we
possess of the sequestered though companionable
poet. He preferred one congenial listener who understood
him, to twenty critics that were puzzled
with the vivacity of his impulses. Most of the
learned men patronised by Lorenzo probably quarrelled
with him on account of it, plaguing him
in somewhat the same spirit, though in more
friendly guise, as the Delia Etruscans and others
afterwards plagued Tasso ; so he banters them in
turn, and takes refuge from their critical rules
and common-places in the larger indulgence of
his friend Politian and the laughing wisdom of
Lorenzo.

So che andar ditto mi bologna,
Ch' io non ci mescolassi una bugia,
Che quest non e astoria da menzogna ;
Che come io esco un pass de la via,

Chi gracchus, chi riprende, e chi campagna :
Ognun poi mi riesce la pazzia ;
Tanto ch' eletto ho solitary vita,
Che la turba di quest e infinite.

La mia Academia un tempo, o mia Gymnasia,
E state volunteer ne' mien boschetti ;
E piiossi ben veer 1' Africa e 1' Asia :
Vengon le Ninfe con lor canestretti,
E portant o narciso o colocasia ;
E COS! fuggo mille urban dispetti :
Si ch' io non torn a' nostri Areopagus,
Gente pur sempre di mal dicer vaghi."

I know I ought to make no dereliction

From the straight path to this side or to that ;

I know the story 1 relate's no fiction,

And that the moment that I quit some flat,

Folks are all puff, and blame, and contradiction,
And swear I never know what I'd be at ;

In short, such crowds, I find, can mend one's poem,

I live retired, on purpose not to know 'em.

Yes, gentlemen, my only ' Academe,'

]SIy sole ' Gymnasium,' are my woods and bowers :

Of Africa and of Asia there I dream ;

And the Nymphs bring me baskets full of flowers,

Arms, and sweet narcissus from the stream ;
And thus my Muse escape your town-hours

And town-disdains ; and I eschew your bites,

Judges of books, grim Areopagites."

He is here jesting, as Foscolo has observed, on the
academy instituted by Lorenzo for encouraging the

Greek language, doubtless with the laughing approbation
of the founder, who was sometimes nota
little troubled himself with the squabbles of his
literati.

Our author probably had good reason to call
his illustrious friend his " refuge." The Morgan
Maggiore, the work which has rendered the name
of Pulci renowned, was an attempt to elevate the
popular and homely narrative poetry chanted in
the streets into the dignity of a production that
should last. The age was in a state of transition
on all points. The dogmatic authority of the
schoolmen in matters of religion, which prevailed
in the time of Dante, had come to nought before
the advance of knowledge In general, and the indifference
of the court of Rome. The Council of
Trent, as Crescimbeni advised the critics, had not
then settled what Christendom was to believe ; and
men, provided they complied with forms, and admitted
certain main articles, were allowed to think,
and even in great measure talk, as they pleased.
The lovers of the Platonic philosophy took the
opportunity of exalting some of its dreams to an
influence, which at one time was supposed to
threaten Christianity itself, and which in fact had
already succeeded in affecting Christian theology
to an extent which the scorners of Paganism little.

suspect. Most of these Hellenists pushed their
admiration of Greek literature to an excess. They
were opposed by the Virgilian predilections of
Pulci's friend, Politian, who had nevertheless universality
enough to sympathise with the delight
the other took in their native Tuscan, and its liveliest
and most idiomatic effusions. From all these
circumstances in combination arose, first, Pulci's
determination to write a poem of a mixed order,
which should retain for him the ear of the many,
and at the same time give rise to a poetry of
romance worthy of higher auditors ; second, his
banter of what he considered unessential and injurious
dogmas of belief, in favour of those principles
of the religion of charity which inflict no
contradiction on the heart and understanding ;
third, the trouble which seems to have been
given him by critics, " sacred and profane," in consequence
of these originalities ; and lastly, a doubt
which has strangely existed with some, as to
whether he intended to write a serious or a comic
poem, or on any one point was in earnest at all.
One writer thinks he cannot have been in earnest,
because he opens every canto with some pious
invocation ; another asserts that the piety itself
is a banter ; a similar critic is of opinion, that to
mix levities with gravities proves the gravities to

have been nought, and the levities all in all; a
fourth allows him to have been serious in his
description of the battle of Roncesvalles, but says
he was laughing in all the rest of his poem ; while
a fifth candidly gives up the question, as one of
those puzzles occasioned by the caprices of the
human mind, which it is impossible for reasonable
people to solve. Even Sismondi, who was well
acquainted with the age in which Pulci wrote, and
who, if not a profound, is generally an acute and
liberal critic, confesses himself to be thus confounded.
" Pulci," he says, " commences all his
cantos by a sacred invocation ; and the interests of
religion are constantly intermingled with the adventures
of his story, in a manner capricious and
little instructive. We know not how to reconcile
this monkish spirit with the semi-pagan character
of society under Lorenzo di Medici, nor whether
we ought to accuse Pulci of gross bigotry or of
profane derision." ^ Sismondi did not consider

Literature of the South of Europe, Thomas Roscoe's Translation,
vol. ii. p. 54. For the opinions of other writers, here and
elsewhere alluded to, see Tiraboschi (who is quite frightened at
him), Astoria delta Poes'ia Italian, cap. v. sect. 25 ; Graving,
who is more so, Delia Region Poetica-quoted in Ginguene, as
below) ; Crescimbeni, Commentari Inferno all' Astoria delta
Poesia, &c. lib. vi. cap. 3 (Mathias's edition), and the biographical
additions to the same work, 4to, Rome, 1710, vol. ii. part iL

that the lively and impassioned people of the
south take what may be called household-liberties
with the objects of their worship greater than
northern can easily conceive ; that levity of manner,
therefore, does not always imply the absence
of the gravest belief ; that, be this as it may, the
belief may be as grave on some points as light on
others, perhaps the more so for that reason ; and
that, although some poems, like some people, are
altogether grave, or the reverse, there really is
such a thing as tragi-comedy both in the world
itself and in the representations of it. A jesting
writer may be quite as much in earnest when
he professes to be so, as a pleasant companion
who feels for his own or for other people's misfortunes,
and who is perhaps obliged to affect or
resort to his very pleasantry sometimes, because
he feels more acutely than the gravest. The
sources of tears and smiles lie close to, ay and
help to refine one another. If Dante had been

p. 151, where he says that Pulci was perhaps the " modeste
and most temperate writer" of his age (*' il piu modest e
moderato') ; Ginguene, Histoire Litttraire d'Halie, torn. iv.
p. 214; Foscolo, in the Quarterly Review, as further on ; Panizzi
on the Romantic Poetry of the Italians, ditto ; Stabbing, Lives
of the Italian Poets, second edition, vol. i. ; and the first volume
of Lives of Literary and Scientific Men, in Larder's Cycle'
pcedia.

capable of more levity, he would have been guilty
of less melancholy absurdities. If Rabelais had
been able to weep as well as to laugh, and to love
as well as to be licentious, he would have had
faith and therefore support in something earnest,
and not have been obliged to place the consummation
of all things in a wine-bottle. People's
every-day experiences might explain to them the
greatest apparent inconsistencies of Pulci's muse,
if habit itself did not blind them to the illustration.
Was nobody ever present in a well-ordered
family, when a lively conversation having been
interrupted by the announcement of dinner, the
company, after listening with the greatest seriousness
to a grace delivered with equal seriousness,
perhaps by a clergyman, resumed it the instant
afterwards in all its gaiety, with the first spoonful
of soup ? Well, the sacred invocations at the beginning
of Pulci's cantos were compliances of the
like sort with a custom. They were recited and
listened to just as gravely at Lorenzo di Medici's
table ; and yet neither compromised the reciters,
nor were at all associated with the enjoyment of
the fare that ensued. So with regard to the intermixture
of grave and gay throughout the poem.
How many campaigning adventures have been

written by gallant officers, whose animal spirits
saw food for gaiety in half the circumstances that
occurred, and who could crack a jest and a helmet
perhaps with almost equal vivacity, and yet
be as serious as the gravest at a moment's notice,
mourn heartily over the deaths of their friends,
and shudder with indignation and horror at the
outrages committed in a captured city ? It is thus
that Pulci writes, full no less of feeling than of
whim and mirth. And the whole honest round of
humanity not only warrants his plan, but in the
twofold sense of the word embraces it.

If any thing more were necessary to shew the
gravity with which our author addressed himself
to his subject, it is the fact, related by himself, of
its having been recommended to him by Lorenzo's
mother, Lucrezia Tornabuoni, a good and earnest
woman, herself a poetess, who wrote a number of
sacred narratives, and whose virtues he more than
once records with the greatest respect and tenderness.
The Morgantete concludes with an address
respecting this lady to the Virgin, and with a
hope that her " devout and sincere" spirit may
obtain peace for him in Paradise. These are the
last words in the book. Is it credible that expressions
of this kind, and employed on such an

occasion, could have had no serious meaning ? or
that Lorenzo listened to such praises of his mother
as to a jest ?

I have no doubt that, making allowance for
the age in which he lived, Pulci was an excellent
Christian. His orthodoxy, it is true, was not the
orthodoxy of the times of Dante or St. Dominic,
nor yet of that of the Council of Trent. His
opinions respecting the mystery of the Trinity
appear to have been more like those of Sir Isaac
Newton than of Archdeacon Travis. And assuredly
he agreed with Origen respecting eternal
punishment, rather than with Calvin and Mr. Top-lady.
But a man may accord with Newton, and
yet be thought not unworthy of the " starry
spheres." He may think, with Origen, that God
intends all his creatures to be ultimately happy, ^
and yet be considered as loving a follower of
Christ as a " dealer of damnation round the landor
the burner of a fellow-creature.

Pulci was in advance of his time on more subjects
than one. He pronounced the existence of
a new and inhabited world, before the appearance
of Columbus He made the conclusion, doubts

Canto XXV. The passage will be found in the present volume.
2 Id. And this also.

less, as Columbus did, from the speculations of
more scientific men, and the rumours of seamen ;
but how rare are the minds that are foremost to
throw aside even the most innocent prejudices,
and anticipate the enlargements of the public
mind ! How many also are calumniated and persecuted
for so doing, whose memories, for the
same identical reason, are loved, perhaps adored,
by the descendants of the calumniators 1 In a
public library, in Pulci's native place, is preserved
a little withered relic, to which the attention of
the visitor is drawn with reverential complacency.
It stands, pointing upwards, under a glass-case,
looking like a mysterious bit of parchment; and
is the finger of Galileo ; — of that Galileo, whose
hand, possessing that finger, is supposed to have
been tortured by the Inquisition for writing what
every one now believes. He was certainly persecuted
and imprisoned by the Inquisition. Milton
saw and visited him under the restraint of that
scientific body in his own house. Yet Galileo did
more by his disclosures of the stars towards elevating
our ideas of the Creator, than all the so-called
saints and polemics that screamed at one
another in the pulpits of East and West.

Like the Commedia of Dante, Pulci's " Commedia"
(for such also in regard to its general

cheerfulness and probably to its mediocrity of
style, he calls it) is a representative in great measure
of the feeling and knowledge of his time ; and
though not entirely such in a learned and eclectic
sense, and not to be compared to that sublime
monstrosity in point of genius and power, is as
superior to it in liberal opinion and in .a certain
pervading lovingness, as the author's affectionate
disposition, and his country's advance in civilisation,
combined to render it. The editor of the
Parnaso Italianoo had reason to notice this engaging
personal character in our author's work.
He says, speaking of the principal romantic poets
of Italy, that the reader will " admire Tasso, will
adore Ariosto, but will love Pulci."^ And all
minds, in which lovingness produces love, will
agree with him.

The Morgantete Maggiore is a history of the

Canto xxvii. stanza 2.

S' alto auto qui non si dimostra,
Sara pur tragedian la astoria nostra.

Ed io pur commedia pesaro area
Iscriver del mio Carlo filaments,
Ed Alcuin cost mi pro met tea," &c.

" In fine tu adorer 1* Ariosto, tu ammirerei il Tasso, ma tu
amerai il Pulci." — Part. Ital. vol. ix. p. 344.


fabulous exploits and death of Orlando, the great
hero of Italian romance, and of the wars and calamities
brought on his fellow Paladins and their
sovereign Charlemagne by the envy, ambition,
and treachery of the misguided monarch's favourite,
Gan of Maganza (Mayence), Count of
Poictiers, It is founded on the pseudo-history of
Archbishop Turpin, which, though it received the
formal sanction of the Church, is a manifest forgery,
and became such a jest with the wits, that
they took a delight in palming upon it their most
incredible fictions. The title {Morgante the Great)
seems to have been either a whim to draw attention
to an old subject, or the result of an intention
to do more with the giant so called than took
place ; for though he is a conspicuous actor in the
earlier part of the poem, he dies when it is not
much more than half completed. Orlando, the
champion of the faith, is the real hero of it, and
Gan the anti-hero or vice. Charlemagne, the
reader hardly need be told, is represented, for the
most part, as a very different person from what he
appears in history. In truth, as Ellis and Panizzi
have shewn, he is either an exaggeration (still
misrepresented) of Charles Martel, the Armorica
chieftain, who conquered the Saracens at Poictiers,
or a concretion of all the Charles's of the

Carlovingian race, wise and simple, potent and
weaker

The story may be thus briefly told. Orlando
quits the court of Charlemagne in disgust, but is
always ready to return to it when the emperor
needs his help. The best Paladins follow, to seek
him. He meets with and converts the giant Mor-gate,
whose aid he receives in many adventures,
among which is the taking of Babylon. The
other Paladins, his cousin Rinaldo especially, have
their separate adventures, all more or less mixed
up with the treacheries and thanklessness of Gan
(for they assist even him), and the provoking trust
reposed in him by ; Charlemagne ; and at length
the villain crowns his infamy by luring Orlando
with most of the Paladins into the pass of Roncesvalles,
where the hero himself and almost all
his companions are slain by the armies of Gan'a
fellow-traitor, Marsilius, king of Spain. They
die, however, victorious; and the two royal and
noble scoundrels, by a piece of prosaical justice
better than poetical, are despatched like common
malefactors, with a halter.

Ellis's Specimens of Early English Poetical Romances vol. ii.
p. 2ti7 ; and Panizzi's Essay on the Romantic Narrative Poetry of
the Italians, in his edition of Boiardo and Ariosto, voL i p. 1 13.

PULCI,

There is, perhaps, no pure invention in the
whole of this enlargement of old ballads and
chronicles, except the characters of another giant,
and of a rebel angel ; for even Morgantete's history,
though told in a very different manner,
has its prototype in the fictions of the pretended
■ archbishop. 1 The Paladins are well distinguished
from one another; Orlando as foremost alike in
prowess and magnanimity, Rinaldo by his vehemence,
Ricciardetto by his amours, Astolfo by an
ostentatious rashness and self-committal ; but in
all these respects they appear to have been made
to the author's hand. Neither does the poem
exhibit any prevailing force of imagery, or of expression,
apart from popular idiomatic phraseology;
still less, though it has plenty of infernal
magic, does it present us with any magical enchantments
of the alluring order, as in Ariosto ;
or with love-stories as good as Boiardo's, or even

^ De Vita Carol Magna et Roland Historia, &c. cap. xviii.
p. 39 (Campi's edition). The giant in Turpin is named Ferra-cuts,
or Fergus. He was of the race of Goliath, had the strength
of forty men, and was twenty cubits high. During the suspension
of a mortal combat with Orlando, they discuss the mysteries of the
Christian faith, which its champion explains by a variety of similes
and the most beautiful begging of the question ; after which the
giant stakes the credit of their respective beliefs on the event of
their encounter.

with any of the luxuries of landscape and description
that are to be found in both of those poets ;
albeit, in the fourteenth canto, there is a long
catalogue raisonne of the whole animal creation,
which a lady has worked for Rinaldo on a pavilion
of silk and gold.

To these negative faults must be added the
positive ones of too many trifling, unconnected,
and uninteresting incidents (at least to readers
who cannot taste the flavour of the racy Tuscan
idiom) ; great occasional prolixity, even in the
best as well as worst passages, not excepting
Orlando's dying speeches ; harshness in spite of
his fluency (according to Foscolo), and even bad
grammar ; too many low or over-familiar forms of
speech (so the graver critics allege, though, perhaps,
from want of animal spirits or a more comprehensive
discernment) ; and lastly (to say nothing
of the question as to the gravity or levity
of the theology), the strange exhibition of whole
successive stanzas, containing as many questions
or affirmations as lines, and commencing each line
with the same words. They meet the eye like
palisades, or a file of soldiers, and turn truth and
pathos itself into a jest. They were most likely
imitated from the popular ballads. The following
is the order of words in which a young lady thinks

fit to complain of a desert, into which she has
been carried away by a giant. After seven initiatory
O's addressed to her friends and to life in
general, she changes the key into E :

** E* quest la mia patria dov' io nacqui ?
E^ quest il mio palais e '1 mio castella ?
E^ quest il dido ov' alcan tempo giacqui ?
E^ quest il padre e '1 mio dolce fratello ?
E^ quest il pool dov' io tanto piacqui ?
E^ quest il regno giusto antics e bello ?
E^ quest il porto de la mia salute ^
E* quest il gremio d' agni mia virtute ?

Ove son or le mie purpura veste ?

Ove son or le gemme e le ricchezze ?

Ove son or gia le notturne ceste ?

Ove son or le mie delicately ?

Ove son or le mie compagne oneste ?

Ove son or le augite dolcezze ?

Ove son or le daniell mie ?

Ove son, dico ? one, non son gia quies

Is this the country, then, where I was born ?
Is this my palace, and my castle this ?
Is this the nest I woke in, every morn ?
Is this my father's and my brother's kiss ?
Is this the land they bred me to adorn ?
Is this the good old bower of all my bliss ?
Is this the haven of my youth and beauty ?
Is this the sure reward of all my duty ?

^ Canto xix. st. 21.

Where now are all my wardrobes and their treasures ?
Where now are all my riches and my rights ?
Where now are all the midnight feasts and measures ?
Where now are all the delicate delights ?
Where now are all the partners of my pleasures ?
Where now are all the sweets of sounds and sights ?
Where now are all my maidens ever near ?
Where, do I say ? Alas, alas, not here !

There are seven more "where nows," including
lovers, and " proffered husbands," and " romances,"
and ending with the startling question
and answer, — the counterpoint of the former
close, —

'* Ove son 1' aspre selve e i lupin adesso,

E gli ors, e i draghi, e i tigre ? Son qui press."

Where now are all the woods and forests drear,
Wolves, tigers, bears, and dragons ? Alas, here !

These are all very natural thoughts, and such,
no doubt, as would actually pass through the mind
of the young lady, in the candour of desolation ;
but the mechanical iteration of her mode of putting
them renders them irresistibly ludicrous. It
reminds us of the wager laid by the poor queen
in the play of Richard the Second, when she overhears
the discourse of the gardener :

*' My wretchedness unto a row of pins,
They'll talk of state."

Did'Pulci expect his friend Lorenzo to keep a

grave face during the recital of these passages?
Or did he flatter himself, that the comprehensive
mind of his hearer could at one and the same time
be amused with the banter of some old song and
the pathos of the new one ?i

1 When a proper name happens to be a part of the tautology,
the look is still more extraordinary. Orlando is remonstrating
with Rinaldo on his being unseasonably in love ;

Ov' e, Rinaldo, la tua galliard ?
Ov' e, Rinaldo, il tuo somno potere ?
Ov' e, Rinaldo, il tuo senna di pria ?
Ov' e, Rinaldo, il tuo antivedere ?
Ov' e, Rinaldo, la tua fantasia ?
Ov' e, Rinaldo, V arme e '1 tuo destriere ?
Ov' e, Rinaldo, la tua gloria e fama ?
Ov' e, Rinaldo, il tuo core ? a la dama."

Canto xvi. st. 50.

Oh where, Rinaldo, is thy gagliardize?
Oh where, Rinaldo, is thy might indeed?
Oh where, Rinaldo, thy repute for wise ?
Oh where, Rinaldo, thy sagacious heed ?
Oh where, Rinaldo, thy free-thought eyes ?
Oh where, Rinaldo, thy good arms and steed'*
Oh where, Rinaldo, thy renown and glory ?
Oh where, Rinaldo, thou ? — In a love-story.

The incessant repetition of the names in the burdens of modem
songs is hardly so bad as this. The single line questions and
answers in the Greek drama were nothing to it. Yet there is a
still more extraordinary play upon words in canto xxiii. st. 49,
consisting of the description of a hermitage. It is the only one oi

The want both of good love-episodes and of
descriptions of external nature, in the Morgantey is

the kind which I remember in the poem, and would have driven
some of our old hunters after alliteration mad with envy : —

** La casa cosa area brett e brutta,
Venta dal vent ; e la ntxtta e la note
Stillaa le stella, ch' a tetto era tutti :
Del pane append ne dette ta' motte :
Pere aveaj-jwre, e qualche/ra^/ayrw^^fl;
E spina e siena di boito una botte :
Poscia per pesci lassie prese a /' esca ;
Ma 11 lett allotted a Isis rose {nfresca."

This holy hole was a vile sam-built thing,

Blown by the blast ; the night nought else overhead

But staring stars the rude roof entering ;

Their sup of supper was no splendid spread ;

Poor pears their fare, and such-/iX:e libelling

Of quantum sufF. ; — their butt all but ; — bad bread ; —

K flash fish instead oi flush oi flesh ;

Their bed di frisk al-fresco, freezing fresh.

Really, if Sir Philip Sidney and other serious and exquisite gentlemen
had not sometimes taken a positively grave interest in the
like pastimes of paronomasia, one should hardly conceive it possible
to meet with them even in tragi-comedy. Did Pulci find
these also in his ballad-authorities ? If his Greek-loving critics
made objections here, they had the advantage of him : unless indeed
they too, in their Alexandrian predilections, had a sneaking
regard for certain shaping of verse into altars and hatchets, such
as have been charged upon Theocritus himself, and which might
be supposed to warrant any other conceit on occasion.

remarkable ; for Pulei's tenderness of heart is constantly
manifest, and he describes himself as being
almost absorbed in his woods. That he understood
love well in all its force and delicacy is apparent
from a passage connected with this pavilion.
The fair embroiderer, in presenting it to her idol
Rinaldo, undervalues it as a gift which his greatheart,
nevertheless, will not disdain to accept ;
adding, with the true lavishment of the passion,
that " she wishes she could give him the sun ;"
and that if she were to say, after all, that it washer
own hands which had worked the pavilion, she
should be wrong, for Love himself did it. Rinaldo
wishes to thank her, but is so struck with her
magnificence and affection, that the words die on
his lips. The way also in which another of these
loving admirers of Paladins conceives her affection
for one of them, and persuades a vehemently hostile
suitor quietly to withdraw his claims by presenting
him with a ring and a graceful speech, is
in a taste as high as any thing in Boiardo, and
superior to the more animal passion of the love
in their great successors Yet the tenderness of

See, in the original, the story of Meridianaa, canto vii. King
Manfredonio has come in loving hostility against her to endeavour
to win her affection by his prowess. He finds her assisted by the
Paladins, and engaged by her own heart to Uliviero ; and in he

Pulci rather shews itself in the friendship of the
Paladins for one another, and in perpetual little
escapes of generous and affectionate impulse. This
is one of the great charms of the Morgantete. The
first adventure in the book is Orlando's encounter
with three giants in behalf of a good abbot, in
whom he discovers a kinsman ; and this goodness
and relationship combined move the Achilles of
Christendom to tears. Morgantete, one of these
giants, who is converted, becomes a sort of squire
to his conqueror, and takes such a liking to him,
that, seeing him one day deliver himself not without
peril out of the clutches of a devil, he longs
to go and set free the whole of the other world
from devils. Indeed there is no end to his affection
for him. Rinaldo and other Paladins, meantime,
cannot rest till they have set out in search of Orlando.
They never meet or part with him without
manifesting a tenderness proportionate to their
valour, — the old Homeric candour of emotion.
The devil Ashtaroth himself, who is a great and

despair of his discomfiture, expresses a wish to die by her hand.
Meridianaa, with graceful pity, begs his acceptance of a jewel, and
recommends him to go home with his army ; to which he grieving
consents. This indeed is beautiful ; and perhaps I ought to
have given an abstract of it, as a specimen of what Pulci could have
done in this way, had he chosen.

proud devil, assures Rinaldo, for whom he has
conceived a regard, that there is good feeling {gen-
tilezza) even in hell; and Rinaldo, not to hurt
the feeling, answers that he has no doubt of it, or
of the capability of " friendship" in that quarter ;
and he says he is as " sorry to part with him as
with a brother." The passage will be found in
our abstract. There are no such devils as these in
Dante ; though Milton has something like them :

Devil with devil damn'd
Firm concord holds : men only disagree."

It is supposed that the character of Ashtaroth,
which is a very new and extraordinary one, and
does great honour to the daring goodness of Pulci's
imagination, was not lost upon Milton, who was
not only acquainted with the poem, but expressly
intimates the pleasure he took in it.^ Rinaldo

" Perhaps it was from that same politic drift that the devil
whipt St. Jerome in a lenten dream for reading Cicero ; or else it
was a fantasm bred by the fever which had then seized him. For
had an angel been his discipline, unless it were for dwelling too
much upon Ciceronianisms, and had chastised the reading and not
the vanity, it had been plainly partial ; first to correct him for
grave Cicero, and not for scurrile Plautus, whom he confesses to
have been reading not long before ; next, to correct him only, and
let so many more ancient fathers wax old in those pleasant and
florid studies without the lash of such a tutoring apparition ; insomuch
that Basil teaches how some good use may be made of paradise

this devil, as Burns did Lucifer, to " take
a thought and mend." Ashtaroth, who had been
a seraph, takes no notice of the advice, except
v^^ith a waving of the recollection of happier
times. He bids the hero farewell, and says he
has only to summon him in order to receive his
aid. This retention of a sense of his former angelical
dignity has been noticed by Foscolo and
Panizzi, the two best writers on these Italian
poems. 1 A Calvinist would call the expression of
the sympathy " hardened." A humanist knows it
to be the result of a spirit exquisitely softened.
An unbounded tenderness is the secret of all that
is beautiful in the serious portion of our author's
genius. Orlando's good-natured giant weeps even
for the death of the scoundrel Margutte ; and the
awful hero himself, at whose death nature is convulsed
and the heavens open, begs his dying horse
to forgive him if ever he has wronged it.

gives, a sportful poem, not now extant, writ by Homer ; and why
not then of Morgantete, an Italian romance much to the same purpose
?" — Areojjagitica, a Speech for the Liberty of Unlicensed
Printing, Prose Works, folio, 1697, p. 378. I quote the passage
as extracted by Mr. Derivable in the preface to his " Orlando in
Roncesvalles," — Poems, vol. ii. p. 41.

Ut sup. p. 222. Foscolo's remark is to be found in his
admirable article on the Narrative and Romantic Poems of the
Italians, in the Quarterly Review, vol. xxi. p. 525.

A charm of another sort in Pulci, and yet inmost
instances, perhaps, owing the best part of its
charmingness to its being connected with the same
feeling, is his wit. Foscolo, it is true, says it is, in
general, more severe than refined ; and it is perilous
to differ with such a critic on such a point ;
for much of it, unfortunately, is lost to a foreign
reader, in consequence of its dependance on the
piquant old Tuscan idiom, and on popular sayings
and allusions. Yet I should think it impossible
for Pulci in general to be severe at the expense
of some more agreeable quality ; and I am sure
that the portion of his wit most obvious to a
foreigner may claim, if not to have originated, at
least to have been very like the style of one who
was among its declared admirers, — and who was
a very polished writer, — Voltaire. It consists
in treating an absurdity with an air as if it
were none ; or as if it had been a pure matter
of course, erroneously mistaken for an absurdity.
Thus the good abbot, whose monastery is blockaded
by the giants (for the virtue and simplicity
of his character must be borne in mind), after
observing that the ancient fathers in the desert
had not only locusts to eat, but manna, which he
has no doubt was rained down on purpose from
heavens laments that the " relishes" provided for

himself and his brethren should have consisted of
showers of stones." The stones, while the abbot
is speaking, come thundering down, and he exclaims,
" For God's sake, knight, come in, for the
manna is falling !" This is exactly in the style of
the Dictionnaire Philosophique. So when Mar-gutter
is asked what he believes in, and says he believes
in " neither black nor blue," but in a good
capon, "whether roast or boiled," the reader is
forcibly reminded of Voltaire's Traveller, Scar-mental,
who, when he is desired by the Tartars
to declare which of their two parties he is for, the
party of the black-mutton or the white-mutton,
answers, that the dish is " equally indifferent to
him, provided it is tender." Voltaire, however,
does injustice to Pulci, when he pretends that
in matters of beef he is like himself, — a mere
scoffer. The friend of Lucrezia Tornabuoni has
evidently the tenderest veneration for all that is
good and lovely in the Catholic faith ; and whatever
liberties he might have allowed himself in
professed extravaganzas, when an age without
Church-authority encouraged them, and a reverend
canon could take part in those (it must be acknowledged)
unseemly " high jinks," he never, in
the Morgantete, when speaking in his own person,
and not in that of the worst characters, intimates

disrespect towards any opinion which he did not
hold to be irrelevant to a right faith. It is observable
that his freest expressions are put in the
mouth of the giant Margutte, the lowest of these
characters, who is an invention of the author's,
and a most extraordinary personage. He is the
first unmitigated blackguard in fiction, and is the
greatest as well as first. Pulci is conjectured, with
great probability, to have designed him as a caricature
of some real person ; for Margutte is a Greek
who, in point of morals, has been horribly brought
up, and some of the Greek refugees in Italy were
greatly disliked for the cynicism of their manners
and the grossness of their lives. Margutte is a glutton,
a drunkard, a liar, a thief, and a blasphemer.
He boasts of having every vice, and no virtue except
fidelity ; which is meant to reconcile Mor-gate
to his company ; but though the latter endures
and even likes it for his amusement, he gives
him to understand that he looks on his fidelity
as only securable by the bastinado, and makes him
the subject of his practical jokes. The respectable
giant Morgan te dies of the bite of a crab,
as if to shew on what trivial chances depends the
life of the strongest. Margutte laughs himself to
death at sight of a monkey putting his boots on
and ofi"; as though the good-natured poet meant at

once to express his contempt of a merely and
grossly anti-serious mode of existence, and his
consideration, nevertheless, towards the poor selfish
wretch who had had no better training.

To this wit and this pathos let the reader adda
style of singular ease and fluency, — rhymes often
the most unexpected, but never at a loss, — a
purity of Tuscan acknowledged by every body,
and ranking him among the authorities of the language,
— and a modesty in speaking of his own
pretensions equalled only by his enthusiastic ex-torments
of genius in others ; and the reader has
before him the lively and affecting, hopeful, charitable,
large-hearted Luigi Pulci, the precursor,
and in some respects exemplar, of Ariosto, and,
in Milton's opinion, a poet worth reading for the
"good use" that may be made of him. It has
been strangely supposed that his friend Politian,
and Ficino the Platonist, not merely helped him
with their books (as he takes a pride in telling
us), but wrote a good deal of the latter part of the
Morgantete, particularly the speculations in matters
of opinion. As if (to say nothing of the difference
of style) a man of genius, however lively,
did not go through the gravest reflections in the
course of his life, or could not enter into any
theological or metaphysical question, to which

he chose to direct his attention. Animal spirits
themselves are too often but a counterbalance to
the most thoughtful melancholy ; and one fit of
jaundice or hypochondria might have enabled the
poet to see more visions of the unknown and the
inscrutable in a single day, than perhaps ever
entered the imagination of the elegant Latin
scholar, or even the disciple of Plato.

Twelve Paladins had the Emperor Charlemagne
in his court ; and the most wise and famous of
them was Orlando. It is of him I am about to
speak, and of his friend Morgantete, and of Gan the
traitor, who beguiled him to his death in Roncesvalles,
where he sounded his horn so mightily after
the dolorous rout.

It was Easter, and Charles had all his court
with him in Paris, making high feast and triumph.
There was Orlando, the first among them, and
Ogier the Dane, and Astolfo the Englishman, and
Ansuigi ; and there came Angiolin of Bayonne,
and Uliviero, and the gentle Berlinghieri ; and
there was also Avolio and Avino, and Otho of
Normandy, and Richard, and the wise Namo, and
the aged Salmon, and Walter of Monotone, and
Baldwin who was the son of the wretched Gan.
The good emperor was too happy, and oftentimes
fairly groaned for joy at seeing all his Paladins
together.

But Fortune stands watching in secret to baffle

our designs. While Charles was thus hugging
himself with delight, Orlando governed everything
at court, and this made Gan burst with
envy ; so that he began one day talking with
Charles after the following manner : — " Are we
always to have Orlando for our master ? I have
thought of speaking to you about it a thousand
times. Orlando has a great deal too much presumption.
Here are we, counts, dukes, and kings,
at your service, but not at his ; and we have resolved
not to be governed any longer by one so
much younger than ourselves. You began in
Aspramont to give him to understand how valiant
he was, and that he did great things at that fountain
; whereas, if it had not been for the good
Gerard, I know very well where the victory would
have been. The truth is, he has an eye upon the
crown. This, Charles, is the worthy who has deserved
so much ! All your generals are afflicted
at it. As for me, I shall repass those mountains
over which I came to you with seventy-two counts.
Do you take him for a Mars ?"

Orlando happened to hear these words as he
sat apart, and it displeased him with the lord of
Poitiers that he should speak so, but much more
that Charles should believe him. He would have
killed Gan, if Uliviero had not prevented him and

taken his sword out of his hand ; nay, he would
have killed Charlemagne ; but at last he went from
Paris by himself, raging with scorn and grief. He
borrowed, as he went, of Ermillina the wife of
Ogier, the Dane's sword Cortana and his horse
Rondel, and proceeded on his way to Brava. His
wife, Alda the Fair, hastened to embrace him ; but
while she was saying, " Welcome, my Orlando,"
he was going to strike her with his sword, for his
head was bewildered, and he took her for the
traitor. The fair Alda marvelled greatly, but
Orlando recollected himself, and she took hold of
the bridle, and he leaped from his horse, and told
her all that had passed, and rested himself with
her for some days.

He then took his leave, being still carried
away by his disdain, and resolved to pass over into
Heathendom ; and as he rode, he thought, every
step of the way, of the traitor Gan ; and so, riding
on wherever the road took him, he reached the
confines between the Christian countries and the
Pagan, and came upon an abbey, situate in a dark
place in a desert.

Now above the abbey was a great mountain,
inhabited by three fierce giants, one of whom was
named Passamonte, another Alabastro, and the
third Morgantete ; and these giants used to disturb

the abbey by throwing things down upon it from
the mountain with slings, so that the poor little
monks could not go out to fetch wood or water.
Orlando knocked, but nobody would open till the
abbot was spoken to. At last the abbot came
himself, and opening the door bade him welcome.
The good man told him the reason of the delay,
and said that since the arrival of the giants they
had been so perplexed that they did not know
what to do. " Our ancient fathers in the desert,"
quoth he, " were rewarded according to their holiness.
It is not to be supposed that they lived
only upon locusts ; doubtless, it also rained manna
upon them from heaven ; but here one is regaled
with stones, which the giants pour on us from the
mountain. These are our nice bits and relishes.
The fiercest of the three, Morgantete, plucks up
pines and other great trees by the roots, and casts
them on us." While they were talking thus in
the cemetery, there came a stone which seemed as
if it would break Rondel's back.

For God's sake, cavalier," said the abbot,
come in, for the manna is falling."

My dear abbot," answered Orlando, '* this
fellow, methinks, does not wish to let my horse
feed ; he wants to cure him of being restive ;
the stone seems as if it came from a good arm."

Yes," replied the holy father, " I did not deceive
you. I think, some day or other, they will
cast the mountain itself on us."

Orlando quieted his horse, and then sat down
to a meal ; after which he said, " Abbot, I must
go and return the present that has been made
to my horse." The abbot with great tenderness
endeavoured to dissuade him, but in vain ; upon
which he crossed him on the forehead, and said,
'' Go, then; and the blessing of God be with you."
Orlando scaled the mountain, and came where
Passamonte was, who, seeing him alone, measured
him with his eyes, and asked him if he would stay
with him for a page, promising to make him comfortable.
" Stupid Saracen," said Orlando, " I
come to you, according to the will of God, to be
your death, and not your foot-boy. You have
displeased his servants here, and are no longer to
be endured, dog that you are!"

The giant, finding himself thus insulted, ran ina
fury to his weapons ; and returning to Orlando,
slung at him a large stone, which struck him on
the head with such force, as not only made his
helmet ring again, but felled him to the earth.
Passamonte thought he was dead. " What could
have brought that paltry fellow here ?" said he, ashe
turned away.

f2

But Christ never forsakes his followers. While
Passamonte was going away, Orlando recovered,
and cried aloud, " How now, giant ? do you fancy
you have killed me ? Turn back, for unless you
have wings, your escape is out of the question,
dog of a renegade !" The giant, greatly marvelling,
turned back; and stooping to pick up a stone,
Orlando, who had Cortana naked in his hand,
cleft his skull ; upon which, cursing Mahomet, the
monster tumbled, dying and blaspheming, to the
ground. Blaspheming fell the sour-hearted and
cruel wretch ; but Orlando, in the mean while,
thanked the Father and the Word.

The Paladin went on, seeking for Alabastro,
the second giant; who, when he saw him, endeavoured
to pluck up a great piece of stony earth by
the roots. " Ho, ho !" cried Orlando, " you too
are for throwing stones, are you ?" Then Alabaster
took his sling, and flung at him so large a
fragment as forced Orlando to defend himself,
for if it had struck him, he would no more have
needed a surgeon ;i but collecting his strength, he

A common pleasantry in the old romances. — " Galaor went
in, and then the halberds attacked him on one side, and the
knight on the other. He snatched an axe from one, and turned
to the knight and smote him, so that he had no need of a surgeons"—
Southey's Amadis of Gaul, vol. i. p. 146.

thrust his sword into the giant's breast, and the
loggerhead fell dead.

Now Morgantete, the only surviving brother, had
a palace made, after giant's fashion, of earth, and
boughs, and shingles, in which he shut himself up
at night. Orlando knocked, and disturbed him from
his sleep, so that he came staring to the door like
a madman, for he had had a bewildering dream.

Who knocks there ?" quoth he.

You will know too soon," answered Orlando;
I am come to make you do penance for your
sins, like your brothers. Divine Providence has
sent me to avenge the wrongs of the monks upon
the whole set of you. Doubt it not ; for Passamonte
and Alabastro are already as cold as a
couple of pilasters."

Noble knight," said Morgantete, " do me no
ill ; but if you are a Christian, tell me in courtesy
who you are."

I will satisfy you of my faith," replied Orlando
; " I adore Christ ; and if you please, you
may adore him also."

I have had a strange vision," replied Mor-gate,
with a low voice : " I was assailed by a
dreadful serpent, and called upon Mahomet in
vain ; then I called upon your God who was crucified,
and he succoured me, and I was delivered

from the serpent ; so I am disposed to become a
Christian."

If you keep in this mind,' returned Orlando,
*' you shall worship the true God, and come with
me and be my companion, and I will love you with
perfect love. Your idols are false and vain ; the
true God is the God of the Christians. Deny the
unjust and villanous worship of your Mahomet,
and be baptised in the name of my God, who alone
is worthy."

I am content," said Morgantete.

Then Orlando embraced him, and said, " I will
lead you to the abbey."

Let us go quickly," replied Morgantete, for
he was impatient to make his peace with the
monks.

Orlando rejoiced, saying, " My good brother,
and devout withal, you must ask pardon of the
abbot; for God has enlightened you, and accepted
you, and he would have you practise humility."


Yes," said Morgantete, " thanks to you, your
God shall henceforth be my God. Tell me your
name, and afterwards dispose of me as you will."
And he told him that he was Orlando.

"Blessed Jesus be thanked," said the giant,
for I have always heard you called a perfect

knight ; and as I said, I will follow you all my lifelong."


And so conversing, they went together towards
the abbey; and by the way Orlando talked
with Morgantete of the dead giants, and sought to
comfort him, saying they had done the monks a
thousand injuries, and " our Scripture says the
good shall be rewarded and the evil punished, and
we must submit to the will of God. The doctors
of our Church," continued he, "are all agreed,
that if those who are glorified in heaven were to
feel pity for their miserable kindred who lie in
such horrible confusion in hell, their beatitude
would come to nothing ; and this, you see, would
plainly be unjust on the part of God. But such
is the firmness of their faith, that what appears
good to him appears good to them. Do what he
may, they hold it to be done well, and that it is
impossible for him to err; so that if their very
fathers and mothers are suffering everlasting punishment,
it does not disturb them an atom. This
is the custom, I assure you, in the choirs above."i

Sons i nostri doctor accordant,
Pigliando tutti una conclusion,
Che que' che son nel ciel glorification,
S' aversion nel penser compassion

A word to the wise," said Morgantete ; " you
shall see if I grieve for my brethren, and whether
or no I submit to the will of God, and behave mede'

misery parent! che damnation

ne lo inferno in gran confusion,

La lor felicity nulla sarebbe :

E veda che qui ingiusto Iddio parable.

Ma eli anno post in Jesu ferma scene ;
E tanto pare a lor, quanto a lui pare :
Alderman cid ch' e' fa, che facti bene,
E che non posse in nessun modo rare :
Se padre o madre e ne 1' eterne pen,
Di quest non si poison contrary :
Che quel che place a Dio, sol place a lord :
Quest s' observe ne 1' sterno corn.

Al savin sol bastard poche parole,
Disuse Morgantete : tu il potrai videre,
De' mien fratelli, Orlando, se mi dole,
E s' io m' accorded di Dio al cohere.
Come tu di che in ciel servir si sole :
Morte co' morte ; or persian di godere :
Io vo' tagliar le mani a tutti quanti,
E porteroUe a que' monaco santa."

This doctrine, which is horrible blasphemy in the eyes of natural
feeling, is good reasoning in Catholic and Calvinistic theology.
They first make the Deity's actions a necessity from some barbarous
assumption, then square them according to a dictum of the
Councils, then compliment him by laying all that he has made good
and kindly within us mangled and mad at his feet. Meantime they
think themselves qualified to denounce Moloch and Jugghanaut !

self like an angel. So dust to dust ; and now let
us enjoy ourselves. I will cut off their hands, all
four of them, and take them to these holy monks,
that they may be sure they are dead, and not fear
to go out alone into the desert. They will then
be certain also that the Lord has purified me, and
taken me out of darkness, and assured to me the
kingdom of heaven." So saying, the giant cut off
the hands of his brethren, and left their bodies to
the beasts and birds.

They went to the abbey, where the abbot
was expecting Orlando in great anxiety ; but the
monks not knowing what had happened, ran to
the abbot in great haste and alarm, saying, " Will
you suffer this giant to come in ?" And when the
abbot saw the giant, he changed countenance.
Orlando, perceiving him thus disturbed, made
haste and said, " Abbot, peace be with you ! The
giant is a Christian ; he believes in Christ, and
has renounced his false prophet, Mahomet." And
Morgantete shewing the hands in proof of his faith,
the abbot thanked Heaven with great contentment
of mind.

The abbot did much honour to Morgantete,
comparing him with St. Paul; and they rested
there many days. One day, wandering over the
house, they entered a room where the abbot kept

a quantity of armour ; and Morgantete saw a bow
which pleased him, and he fastened it on. Now
there was in the place a great scarcity of water ;
and Orlando said, like his good brother, " Mor-gate,
I wish you would fetch us some water."
Command me as you please," said he ; and
placing a great tub on his shoulders, he went towards
a spring at which he had been accustomed
to drink, at the foot of the mountain. Having
reached the spring, he suddenly heard a great
noise in the forest. He took an arrow from the
quiver, placed it in the bow, and raising his head,
saw a great herd of swine rushing towards the
spring where he stood. Morgantete shot one of
them clean through the head, and laid him sprawling.
Another, as if in revenge, ran towards the
giant, without giving him time to use a second
arrow ; so he lent him a cuff on the head which
broke the bone, and killed him. also ; which stroke
the rest seeing fled in haste through the valley.
Morgantete then placed the tub full of water upon
one of his shoulders, and the two porkers on the
other, and returned to the abbey which was at
some distance, without spilling a drop.

The monks were delighted to see the freshwater,
but still more the pork ; for there is no
animal to whom food comes amiss. They let their

breviaries therefore go to sleep a while, and fell
heartily to work, so that the cats and dogs had
reason to lament the polish of the bones.

But why do we stay here .doing nothing ?"
said Orlando one day to Morgantete ; and he shook
hands with the abbot, and told him he must take
his leave. " I must go," said he, " and make up
for lost time. I ought to have gone long ago, my
good father; but I cannot tell you what I feel
within me, at the content I have enjoyed here in
your company. I shall bear in mind and in heart
with me for ever the abbot, the abbey, and this
desert, so great is the love they have raised in mein
so short a time. The great God, who reigns
above, must thank you for me, in his own abode.
Bestow on us your benediction, and do not forget
us in your prayers."

When the abbot heard the County Orlando
talk thus, his heart melted within him for tenderness,
and he said, " Knight, if we have failed in
any courtesy due to your prowess and great gentleness
(and indeed what we have done has been
but little), pray put it to the account of our ignorance,
and of the place which we inhabit. Weare
but poor men of the cloister, better able to
regale you with masses and orisons and paternosters,
than with dinners and suppers. You have

SO taken this heart of mine by the many noble
qualities I have seen in you, that I shall be with
you still wherever you go ; and, on the other
hand, you will always be present here with me.
This seems a contradiction ; but you are wise, and
will take my meaning discreetly. You have saved
the very life and spirit within us ; for so much
perplexity had those giants cast about our place,
that the way to the Lord among us was blocked
up. May He who sent you into these woods reward
the justice and piety by which we are delivered
from our trouble. Thanks be to him and to
you. We shall all be disconsolate at your departure.
We shall grieve that we cannot detain you among
us for months and years; but you do not wear
these weeds ; you bear arms and armour ; and you
may possibly merit as well in carrying those, as in
wearing this cap. You read your Bible, and your
virtue has been the means of shewing the giant the
way to heaven. Go in peace then, and prosper,
whoever you may be. I do not seek your name ;
but if ever I am asked who it was that came
among us, I shall say that it was an angel from
God. If there is any armour or other thing that
you would have, go into the room where it is, and
take it."

If you have any armour that would suit my

companion," replied Orlando, " that I will accept
with pleasure."

Come and see," said the abbot; and they
went to a room that was full of armour. Mor-gate
looked all about, but could find nothing
large enough, except a rusty breast-plate, which
fitted him marvellously. It had belonged to an
enormous giant, who was killed there of old
by Orlando's father, Milo of Angrante. There
was a painting on the wall which told the whole
story: how the giant had laid cruel and long
siege to the abbey; and how he had been overthrown
at last by the great Milo. Orlando seeing
this, said within himself: "O God, unto whom
all things are known, how came Milo here, who
destroyed this giant?" And reading certain inscriptions
which were there, he could no longer
keep a firm countenance, but the tears ran down
his cheeks.

When the abbot saw Orlando weep, and his
brow redden, and the light of his eyes become
child-like for sweetness, he asked him the reason ;
but, finding him still dumb with emotion, he said,
I do not know whether you are overpowered by
admiration of what is painted in this chamber.
You must know that T am of high descent, though
not through lawful wedlock. I believe I may say

I am nephew or sister's son to no less a man than
that Rinaldo, who was so great a Paladin in the
world, though my own father was not of a lawful
mother. Ansuigi was his name ; my own, out in
the world, was Chiaramonte ; and this Milo was
my father's brother. Ah, gentle baron, for blessed
Jesus' sake, tell me what name is yours !"

Orlando, all glowing with affection, and bathed
in tears, replied, " My dear abbot and cousin,
he before you is your Orlando." Upon this, they
ran for tenderness into each other's arms, weeping
on both sides with a sovereign affection, too
high to be expressed. The abbot was so overjoyed,
that he seemed as if he would never have
done embracing Orlando. " By what fortune,"
said the knight, " do I find you in this obscure
place ? Tell me, my dear abbot, how was it you
became a monk, and did not follow arms, like
myself and the rest of us ?"

It is the will of God," replied the abbot,
hastening to give his feelings utterance. " Many
and divers are the paths he points out for us by
which to arrive at his city ; some walk it with the
sword — some with pastoral staff. Nature makes
the inclination different, and therefore there are
different ways for us to take : enough if we all
arrive safely at one and the same place, the last as

well as the first. We are all pilgrims through
many kingdoms. We all wish to go to Rome,
Orlando; but we go picking out our journey
through different roads. Such is the trouble in
body and soul brought upon us by that sin of the
old apple. Day and night am I here with my
book in hand — day and night do you ride about,
holding your sword, and sweating oft both in sun
and shadow; and all to get round at last to the
home from which we departed — I say, all out of
anxiety and hope to get back to our home of old'*
And the giant hearing them talk of these things,
shed tears also.

The Paladin and the giant quitted the abbey,
the one on horseback and the other on foot, and
journeyed through the desert till they came to a
magnificent castle, the door of which stood open.
They entered, and found rooms furnished in the
most splendid manner — beds covered with cloth
of gold, and floors rejoicing in variegated marbles.
There was even a feast prepared in the saloon, but
nobody to eat it, or to speak to them.

Orlando suspected some trap, and did not quite
like it ; but Morgantete thought nothing worth considering
but the feast. " Who cares for the host,"
said he, " when there's such a dinner ? Let us
eat as much as we can, and bear off the rest.

I always do that when I have the picking of
castles."

They accordingly sat down, and being very
hungry with their day's journey, devoured heaps
of the good things before them, eating with all
the vigour of health, and drinking to a pitch of
weakness They sat late in this manner enjoying
themselves, and then retired for the night into
rich beds.

But what was their astonishment in the morning
at finding that they could not get out of the
place ! There was no door. All the entrances had
vanished, even to any feasible window.

We must be dreaming," said Orlando.

My dinner was no dream, I'll swear," said
the giant. "As for the rest, let it be a dream if
it pleases."

Continuing to search up and down, they at
length found a vault with a tomb in it ; and out
of the tomb came a voice, saying, "You must
encounter with me, or stay here for ever. Lift,
therefore, the stone that covers me."

"Do you hear that?" said Morgantete; "I'll

*' E furno al here inferno, al manger san."

I am not sure that I am right in my construction of this passage.
Perhaps Pulci means to say, that they had the appetites of men in
health, and the thirst of a fever.

have him out, if it's the devil himself. Perhaps
it's two devils, Filthy-dog and Foul-mouth, or
Itching and Evil-tail." i

Have him out," said Orlando, " whoever he
is, even were it as many devils as were rained out
of heaven into the centre."

Morgantete lifted up the stone, and out leaped,
surely enough, a devil in the likeness of a dried-up
dead body, black as a coal. Orlando seized him,
and the devil grappled with Orlando. Morgantete
was for joining him, but the Paladin bade him
keep back. It was a hard struggle, and the devil
grinned and laughed, till the giant, who was a
master of wrestling, could bear it no longer: so
he doubled him up, and, in spite of all his efforts,
thrust him back into the tomb.

You'll never get out," said the devil, " if
you leave me shut up."

Why not ?" inquired the Paladin.

Because your giant's baptism and my deliverance
must go together," answered the devil. " If
he is not baptised, you can have no deliverance ;
and if I am not delivered, I can prevent it still,
take my word for it."

Orlando baptised the giant. The two ,

Farfarello, Libicocco, and Malacca; names of
devils in Dante.

pinions then issued forth, and hearing a mighty
noise in the house, looked back, and saw it all
vanished.

I could find it in my heart," said Morgantete,
to go down to those same regions below, and
make all the devils disappear in like manner.
"Why shouldn't we do it ? We'd set free all the
poor souls there. Egad, I'd cut off Minos's tail —
I'd pull out Charon's beard by the roots — make
a sop of Phlegyas, and a sup of Phlegethon —
unseat Pluto, — kill Cerberus and the Furies with
a punch of the face a-piece — and set Beelzebub
scampering like a dromedary."

You might find more trouble than you wot
of," quoth Orlando, "and get worsted besides.
Better keep the straight path, than thrust your
head into out-of-the-way places."

Morgantete took his lord's advice, and went
straightforward with him through many great adventures,
helping him with loving good will as
often as he was permitted, sometimes as his
pioneer, and sometimes as his finisher of troublesome
work, such as a slaughter of some thousands
of infidels. Now he chucked a spy into a river —
now felled a rude ambassador to the earth (for
he didn't stand upon ceremony) — now cleared a
space round him in battle with the clapper of an

old bell which he had found at the monastery —
now doubled up a kmg in his tent, and bore him
away, tent and all, and a Paladin with him, because
he would not let the Paladin go.

In the course of these services, the giant was
left to take care of a lady, and lost his master fora
time ; but the office being at an end, he set out
to" rejoin him, and, arriving at a cross-road, met
with a very extraordinary personage.

This was a giant huger than himself, swarthy-faced,
horrible, brutish. He came out of a wood,
and appeared to be journeying somewhere. Mor-gate,
who had the great bell-clapper in his hand
above-mentioned, struck it on the ground with
astonishment, as much as to say, " Who the devil
is this ?" and then set himself on a stone by the
way-side to observe the creature.

What's your name, traveller ?" said Mor-gate,
as it came up.

My name's Margutte," said the phenomenon.
I intended to be a giant myself, but altered my
mind, you see, and stopped half-way; so that I
am only twenty feet or so."

I'm glad to see you," quoth his brother-giant.
" But tell me, are you Christian or Saracen
? Do you believe in Christ or in Apollo V

To tell you the truth," said the other, '' I

believe neither in black nor blue, but in a good
capon, whether it be roast or boiled. I believe
sometimes also in butter, and, when I can get it, in
new wine, particularly the rough sort ; but, above
all, I believe in wine that's good and old. Mahomet's
prohibition of it is all moonshine. I am
the son, you must know, of a Greek nun and a
Turkish bishop ; and the first thing I learned was
to play the fiddle. I used to sing Homer to it.
I was then concerned in a brawl in a mosque, in
which the old bishop somehow happened to be
killed ; so I tied a sword to my side, and went to
seek my fortune, accompanied by all the possible
sins of Turk and Greek. People talk of the
seven deadly sins; but I have seventy-seven that
never quit me, summer or winter ; by which you
may judge of the amount of my venial ones. I
am a gambler, a cheat, a ruffian, a highwayman, a
pick-pocket, a glutton (at beef or blows) ; have no
shame whatever; love to let every body know what
I can do ; lie, besides, about what I can't do ;
have a particular attachment to sacrilege ; swallow
perjuries like figs ; never give a farthing to anybody,
but beg of every body, and abuse them into
the bargain ; look upon not spilling a drop of
liquor as the chief of all the cardinal virtues ; but
must own I am not much given to assassination.

murder being inconvenient; and one thing I am
bound to acknowledge, which is, that I never
betrayed a messmate."

That's as well," observed Morgantete ; " because
you see, as you don't believe in any thing
else, I'd have you believe in this bell-clapper of
mine. So now, as you have been candid with me,
and I am well instructed in your ways, we'll pursue
our journey together."

The best of giants, in those days, were not
scrupulous in their modes of living ; so that one of
the best and one of the worst got on pretty well
together, emptying the larders on the road, and
paying nothing but houses on the chops. When
they could find no inn, they hunted elephants and
crocodiles. Morgantete, who was the braver of the
two, delighted to banter, and sometimes to cheat,
Margutte ; and he ate up all the fare ; which
made the other, notwithstanding the credit he gave
himself for readiness of wit and tongue, cut a very
sorry figure, and seriously remonstrate : "I reverence
you," said Margutte, " in other matters ;
but in eating, you really don't behave well. He
who deprives me of my share at meals is no friend ;
at every mouthful of which he robs me, I seem
to lose an eye. I'm for sharing every thing to a
nicety, even if it be no better than a fig."

You are a fine fellow," said Morgantete ; " you
gain upon me very much. You are ^ the master
of those who know.' "^

So saying, he made him put some wood on the
fire, and perform a hundred other offices to render
every thing snug ; and then he slept : and next
day he cheated his great scoundrelly companion at
drink, as he had done the day before at meat ; and
the poor shabby devil complained ; and Morgantete
laughed till he was ready to burst, and again and
again always cheated him.

There was a levity, nevertheless, in Margutte,
which restored his spirits on the slightest glimpse
of good fortune ; and if he realised a hearty meal,
he became the happiest, beastliest, and most confident
of giants. The companions, in the course
of their journey, delivered a damsel from the
clutches of three other giants. She was the daughter
of a great lord ; and when she got home, she
did honour to Morgantete as to an equal, and put
Margutte into the kitchen, where he was in a state
of bliss. He did nothing but swill, stuff*, surfeit,
be sick, play at dice, cheat, filch, go to sleep,
guzzle again, laugh, chatter, and tell a thousand
lies.

^ " II maestro di color che anno." A jocose application of
Dante's praise of Aristotle.

Morgantete took leave of the young lady, who
made him rich presents. Margutte, seeing this,
and being always drunk and impudent, daubed his
face like a Christmas clown, and making up to her
with a frying-pan in his hand, demanded "something
for the cook." The fair hostess gave him a
jewel ; and the vagabond shewed such a brutal
eagerness in seizing it with his filthy hands, and
making not the least acknowledgment, that when
they got out of the house, Morgantete was ready to
fell him to the earth. He called him scoundrel
and poltroon, and said he had disgraced him forever.


Softly !" said the brute-beast. " Didn't you
take me with you, knowing what sort of fellow I
was ? Didn't I tell you I had every sin and shame
under heaven ; and have I deceived you by the
exhibition of a single virtue ?"

Morgantete could not help laughing at a candour
of this excessive nature. So they went on their
way till they came to a wood, where they rested
themselves by a fountain, and Margutte fell fast
asleep. He had a pair of boots on, which Mor-gate
felt tempted to draw off, that he might see
what he would do on waking. He accordingly
did so, and threw them to a little distance among
the bushes. The sleeper awoke in good time, and,

looking and searching round about, suddenly burst
into roars of laughter. A monkey had got the
boots, and sat pulling them on and off, making the
most ridiculous gestures. The monkey busied
himself, and the light-minded drunkard laughed ;
and at every fresh gesticulation of the new boot-wearer,
the laugh grew louder and more tremendous,
till at length it was found impossible to be
restrained. The glutton had a laughing-fit. In
vain he tried to stop himself ; in vain his fingers
would have loosened the buttons of his doublet, to
give his lungs room to play. They couldn't do it ;
so he laughed and roared till he burst. The snap
was like the splitting of a cannon. Morgantete ran
up to him, but it was of no use. He was dead.

Alas! it was not the only death; it was not
even the most trivial cause of a death. Giants are
big fellows, but Death's a bigger, though he may
come in a little shape. Morgantete had succeeded
in joining his master. He helped him to take
Babylon; he killed a whale for him at sea that
obstructed his passage ; he played the part of a
main-sail during a storm, holding out his arms and
a great hide ; but on coming to shore, a crab bit
him in the heel ; and behold the lot of the great
giant — he died! He laughed, and thought it a
very little thing, but it proved a mighty one.

He made the East tremble," said Orlando ; '* and
the bite of a crab has slain him !"

O life of ours, weak, and a fallacy '.^
Orlando embalmed his huge friend, and had
him taken to Babylon, and honourably interred ;
and, after many an adventure, in which he regretted
him, his own days were closed by a far
baser, though not so petty a cause.

How shall I speak of it ? exclaims the poet.
How think of the horrible slaughter about to
fall on the Christians and their greatest men, so
that not a dry eye shall be left in France ? How
express my disgust at the traitor Gan, whose heart
a thousand pardons from his sovereign, and the
most undeserved rescues of him by the warrior he
betrayed, could not shame or soften ? How mourn
the weakness of Charles, always deceived by him,
and always trusting ? How dare to present to my
mind the good, the great, the ever-generous Orlando,
brought by the traitor into the doleful pass
of Roncesvalles and the hands of myriads of his
enemies, so that even his superhuman strength
availed not to deliver him out of the slaughterhouse,
and he blew the blast with his dying breath,
which was the mightiest, the farthest heard, and

^ *' O vita nostra, debole e wallace !"

the most melancholy sound that ever came to the
ears of the undeceived ?

Gan was known well to every body but his
confiding sovereign. The Paladins knew him well ;
and in their moments of indignant disgust often
told him so, though they spared him the consequences
of his misdeeds, and even incurred the
most frightful perils to deliver him out of the
hands of his enemies. But he was brave ; he was
in favour with the sovereign, who was also their
kinsman ; and they were loyal and loving men,
and knew that the wretch envied them for the
greatness of their achievements, and might do the
state a mischief; so they allowed themselves to
take a kind of scornful pleasure in putting up
with him. Their cousin Malagigi, the enchanter,
had himself assisted Gan, though he knew him best
of all, and had prophesied that the innumerable
endeavours of his envy to destroy his king and
country would bring some terrible evil at last to
all Christendom. The evil, alas ! is at hand. The
doleful time has come. It will be followed, it is
true, by a worse fate of the wretch himself ; but
not till the valleys of the Pyrenees have run rivers
of blood, and all France is in mourning.

'• sad and fearful story
Of the Roncesvalles fight ;"

an event which national and religious exaggeration impressed
deeply on the popular mind of Europe. Hence Italian romances
and Spanish ballads : hence the famous passage in Milton,

When Charlemagne with all his peerage fell
By Fontarabbia ;"

hence Dante's record of the dolores cotta (dolorous rout) in the
Inferno, where he compares the voice of Nimrod with the horn
sounded by the dying Orlando : hence the peasant in Cervantes,
who is met by Don Quixote singing the battle as he comes along
the road in the morning : and hence the song of Roland actually
thundered forth by the army of William the Conqueror as they
advanced against the English.

But Charlemagne did not "fall," as Milton has stated. Nor
does Pulci make him do so. In this respect, if in little else, the
Italian poet adhered to the fact. The whole story is a remarkable
instance of what can be done by poetry and popularity towards misrepresenting
and aggrandising a petty though striking adventure.
The simple fact was the cutting off the rear of Charlemagne's
army by the revolted Gascons, as he returned from a successful
expedition into Spain. Two or three only of his nobles perished,
among whom was his nephew Roland, the obscure warden of his
marches of Brittany. But Charlemagne was the temporal head
of Christendom ; the poets constituted his nephew its champion ;
and hence all the glories and superhuman exploits of the Orlando
of Pulci and Ariosto. The whole assumption of the wickedness
of the Saracens, particularly of the then Saracen king of Spain,
whom Pulci's authority, the pseudo Archbishop Turpin, strangely
called Marsilius, was nothing but a pious fraud ; the pretended
Marsilius having been no less a person than the great and good
Abdoiilrahmaun the First, who wrested the dominion of that
country out of the hands of the usurpers of his family-rights.
Yet so potent and long-lived are the most extravagant fictions,
when genius has put its heart into them, that to this day we read
of the devoted Orlando and his friends not only with gravity, but
with the liveliest emotion.

A MISERABLE man am I, cries the poet; for
Orlando, beyond a doubt, died in Roncesvalles ;
and die therefore he must in my verses. Altogether
impossible is it to save him. I thought to
make a pleasant ending of this my poem, so that
it should be happier somehow, throughout, than
melancholy; but though Gan will die at last,
Orlando must die before him, and that makes a
tragedy of all. I had a doubt whether, consistently
with the truth, I could give the reader even
that sorry satisfaction ; for at the beginning of
the dreadful battle, Orlando's cousin, Rinaldo,
who is said to have joined it before it was over,
and there, as well as afterwards, to have avenged
his death, was far away from the seat of slaughter,
in Egypt ; and how was I to suppose that he could
arrive soon enough in the valleys of the Pyrenees ?
But an angel upon earth shewed me the secret,
even Angelo Poliziano, the glory of his age and
country. He informed me how Arnauld, the Proven9al

poet, had written of this very matter, and
brought the Paladin from Egypt to France by
means of the wonderful skill in occult science
possessed by his cousin Malagigi — a wonder to
the ignorant, but not so marvellous to those who
know that all the creation is full of wonders, and
who have different modes of relating the same
events. By and by, a great many things will be
done in the world, of which we have no conception
now, and people will be inclined to believe them
works of the devil, when, in fact, they will be very
good works, and contribute to angelical effects,
whether the devil be forced to have a hand in
them or not; for evil itself can work only insubordination
to good. So listen when the astonishment
comes, and reflect and think the best.
Meantime, we must speak of another and more
truly devilish astonishment, and of the pangs of
mortal flesh and blood.

The traitor Gan, for the fiftieth time, had secretly
brought the infidels from all quarters against
his friend and master, the Emperor Charles ; and
Charles, by the help of Orlando, had conquered
them all. The worst of them, Marsilius, king of
Spain, had agreed to pay the court of France
tribute ; and Gan, in spite of all the suspicions he
excited in this particular instance, and his known

villany at all times, had succeeded in persuading
his credulous sovereign to let him go ambassador
into Spain, where he put a final seal to his enormities,
by plotting the destruction of his employer,
and the special overthrow of Orlando. Charles
was now old and white-haired, and Gan was so
too ; but the one was only confirmed in his credulity,
and the other in his crimes. The traitor
embraced Orlando over and over again at taking
leave, praying him to write if he had any thing
to say before the arrangements with Marsilius,
and taking such pains to seem loving and sincere,
that his villany was manifest to every one but
the old monarch. He fastened with equal tenderness
on Uliviero, who smiled contemptuously
in his face, and thought to himself, " You may
make as many fair speeches as you choose, but
you lie." All the other Paladins who were present
thought the same, and they said as much to the
emperor ; adding, that on no account should Gan
be sent ambassador to Marsilius. But Charles was
infatuated. His beard and his credulity had grown
old together.

Gan was received with great honour in Spain
by Marsilius. The king, attended by his lords,
came fifteen miles out of Saragossa to meet him,
and then conducted him into the city amid tumults

of delight. There was nothing for several days
but balls, and games, and exhibitions of chivalry,
the ladies throwing flowers on the heads of the
French knights, and the people shouting " France !
France ! Mountjoy and St. Denis !"

Gan made a speech, " like a Demosthenes,"
to King Marsilius in public ; but he made him
another in private, like nobody but himself. The
king and he were sitting in a garden ; they were
traitors both, and began to understand, from one
another's looks, that the real object of the ambassador
was yet to be discussed. Marsilius accordingly
assumed a more than usually cheerful and
confidential aspect ; and, taking his visitor by the
hand, said, " You know the proverb, Mr. Ambassador
— * At dawn, the mountain ; afternoon, the
fountain.' Different things at different hours. So
here is a fountain to accommodate us."

It was a very beautiful fountain, so clear that
you saw your face in it as in a mirror; and the
spot was encircled with fruit-trees that quivered
with the fresh air. Gan praised it very much,
contriving to insinuate, on one subject, his satisfaction
with the glimpses he got into another. Marsilius
understood him ; and as he resumed the conversation,
and gradually encouraged a mutual disclosure
of their thoughts, Gan, without appearing

to look him in the face, was enabled to do so
by contemplating the royal visage in the water,
where he saw its expression become more and
more what he desired. Marsilius, meantime, saw
the like symptoms in the face of Gan. By degrees,
he began to touch on that dissatisfaction
with Charlemagne and his court, which he knew
was in both their minds: he lamented, not as to
the ambassador, but as to the friend, the injuries
which he said he had received from Charles in the
repeated attacks on his dominions, and the emperor's
wish to crown Orlando king of them ; till
at length he plainly uttered his belief, that if
that tremendous Paladin were but dead, good men
would get their rights, and his visitor and himself
have all things at their disposal.

Gan heaved a sigh, as if he was unwillingly
compelled to allow the force of what the king
said ; but, unable to contain himself long, he
lifted up his face, radiant with triumphant wickedness,
and exclaimed, " Every word you utter is
truth. Die he must ; and die also must Uliviero,
who struck me that foul blow at court. Is it
treachery to punish affronts like those ? I have
planned every thing — I have settled every thing
already with their besotted master. Orlando could
not be expected to be brought hither, where he

has been accustomed to look for a crown ; but he
will come to the Spanish borders — to Roncesvalles
— for the purpose of receiving the tribute.
Charles will await him, at no great distance, in
St. John Pied de Port. Orlando will bring but a
small band with him ; you, when you meet him,
will have secretly your whole army at your
back. You surround him ; and who receives tribute
then?"

The new Judas had scarcely uttered these
words, when the delight of him and his associate
was interrupted by a change in the face of nature.
The sky was suddenly overcast ; it thundered and
lightened ; a laurel was split in two from head to
foot ; the fountain ran into burning blood ; there
was an earthquake, and the carob-tree under which
Gan was sitting, and which was of the species on
which Judas Iscariot hung himself, dropped some
of its fruit on his head. The hair of the head
rose in horror.

Marsilius, as well as Gan, was appalled at this
omen ; but on assembling his soothsayers, they
came to the conclusion that the laurel-tree turned
the omen against the emperor, the successor of
the Caesar; though one of them renewed the
consternation of Gan, by saying that he did not
understand the meaning of the tree of Judas, and

intimating that perhaps the ambassador could explain
it. Gan relieved his consternation with
anger; the habit of wickedness prevailed over all
considerations; and the king prepared to march
for Roncesvalles at the head of all his forces.

Gan wrote to Charlemagne, to say how humbly
and properly Marsilius was coming to pay the
tribute into the hands of Orlando, and how handsome
it would be of the emperor to meet him halfway,
as agreed upon, at St. John Pied de Port,
and so be ready to receive him, after the payment,
at his footstool. He added a brilliant
account of the tribute and its accompanying presents.
They included a crown in the shape of
a garland which had a carbuncle in it that gave
light in darkness ; two lions of an " immeasurable
length, and aspects that frightened every body;"
some " lively buffalos," leopards, crocodiles, and
giraffes ; arms and armour of all sorts ; and apes
and monkeys seated among the rich merchandise
that loaded the backs of the camels. This imaginary
treasure contained, furthermore, two enchanted
spirits, called " Floro and Foresee," who
were confined in a mirror, and were to tell the
emperor wonderful things, particularly Floro (for
there is nothing so nice in its details as lying) :
and Orlando was to have heaps of caravans full of

Eastern wealth, and a hundred white horses, all
with saddles and bridles of gold. There was a
beautiful vest, too, for Uliviero, all over jewels,
worth ten thousand " serai," or more.

The good emperor wrote in turn to say how
pleased he was with the ambassador's diligence, and
that matters were arranged precisely as he wished.
His court, however, had its suspicions still. Nobody
could believe that Gan had not some new
mischief in contemplation. Little, nevertheless,
did they imagine, after the base endeavours he had
but lately made against them, that he had immediately
plotted a new and greater one, and that his
object in bringing Charles into the neighbourhood
of Roncesvalles was to deliver him more speedily
into the hands of Marsilius, in the event of the
latter's destruction of Orlando.

Orlando, however, did as his lord and sovereign
desired. He went to Roncesvalles, accompanied
by a moderate train of warriors, not dreaming
of the atrocity that awaited him. Gan himself,
meantime, had hastened on to France before Marsilius,
in order to shew himself free and easy in
the presence of Charles, and secure the success
of his plot; while Marsilius, to make assurance
doubly sure, brought into the passes of Roncesvalles
no less than three armies, who were

successively to fall on the Paladin, in case of the
worst, and so extinguish him with numbers. He
had also, by Gan's advice, brought heaps of wine
and good cheer to be set before his victims in the
first instance ; " for that," said the traitor, " will
render the onset the more effective, the feasters
being unarmed; and, supposing prodigies of valour
to await even the attack of your second army, you
will have no trouble with your third. One thing,
however, I must not forget," added he ; " my son
Baldwin is sure to be with Orlando ; you must
take care of his life for my sake."

I give him this vest off my own body," said
the king ; "let him wear it in the battle, and have
no fear. My soldiers shall be directed not to
touch him."

Gan went away rejoicing to France. He embraced
the court and his sovereign all round, with
the air of a man who had brought them nothing
but blessings ; and the old king wept for very
tenderness and delight.

Something is going on wrong, and looks very
black," thought Malagigi, the good wizard ; '^ and
Ricardo is not here, and it is indispensably necessary
that he should be. I must find out where
he is, and Ricciardetto too, and send for them
with all speed, and at any price."

Malagigi called up, by his art, a wise, terrible,
and cruel spirit, named Ash troth ; — no light personage
to deal with — no little spirit, such as plays
tricks with you like a fairy. A much blacker visitant
was this.

Tell me, and tell me truly of Rinaldo," said
Malagigi to the spirit.

Hard looked the demon at the Paladin, and
said nothing. His aspect was clouded and violent.
He wished to see whether his summoner retained
all the force of his art.

The enchanter, with an aspect still louder,
bade Ashtaroth lay down that look. While giving
this order, he also made signs indicative of a disposition
to resort to angrier compulsion ; and the
devil, apprehending that he would confine him in
some hateful place, loosened his tongue, and said,
You have not told me what you desire to know
of Rinaldo."

*' I desire to know what he has been doing,
and where he is," returned the enchanter.

He has been conquering and baptising the
world, east and west," said the demon, " and is
now in Egypt with Ricciardetto."

And what has Gan been plotting with marius,"
inquired Malagigi, " and what is to come
of it?"

On neither of those points can I enlighten
you," said the devil. " T was not attending to Gan
at the time, and we fallen spirits know not the
future. Had we done so, we had not been so willing
to incur the danger of falling. All I discern
is, that, by the signs and comets in the heavens,
something dreadful is about to happen — something
very strange, treacherous, and bloody ; and
that Gan has a seat ready prepared for him in
hell."

Within three days," cried the enchanter,
loudly, "fetch Rinaldo and Ricciardetto into the
pass of Roncesvalles. Do it, and I hereby undertake
never to summon thee more."

Suppose they will not trust themselves with
me," said the spirit.

Enter Rinaldo's horse, and bring him, whether
he trust thee or not."

It shall be done," returned the demon ; " and
my serving-devil Foul-Mouth, or Fire-Red, shall
enter the horse of Ricciardetto. Doubt it not.
Am I not wise, and thyself powerful ? "

There was an earthquake, and Ashtaroth disappeared.


Marsilius has now made his first movement
towards the destruction of Orlando, by sending before
him his vassal-king Blanchardinin with his presents

of wines and other luxuries. The temperate
but courteous hero took them in good part, and
distributed them as the traitor wished; and then
Blanchardinin, on pretence of going forward to
salute Charlemagne at St. John Pied de Port,
returned and put himself at the head of the second
army, which was the post assigned him by
his liege lord. The device on his flag was an
Apollo" on a field azure. King Falseron, whose
son Orlando had slain in battle, headed the first
army, the device of which was a black figure of
the devil Belphegor on a dapple-grey field. The
third army was under King Balugante, and had
for ensign a Mahomet with golden wings in a
field of red. Marsilius made a speech to them at
night, in which he confessed his ill faith, but defended
it on the ground of Charles's hatred of
their religion, and of the example of " Judith
and Holofernes." He said, that he had not come
there to pay tribute, and sell his countrymen for
slaves, but to make all Christendom pay tribute to
them as conquerors ; and he concluded by recommending
to their good-will the son of his friend
Gan, whom they would know by the vest he had
sent him, and who was the only soul among the
Christians they were to spare.

This son of Gan, meantime, and several of the

Paladins who were disgusted with Charles's credulity,
and anxious at all events to be with Orlando,
had joined the hero in the fated valley ; so
that the little Christian host, considering the tremendous
valour of their lord and his friends, and
the comparative inefficiency of that of the infidels,
were at any rate not to be sold for nothing.
Rinaldo, alas ! the second thunderbolt of Christendom,
was destined not to be there in time to save
their lives. He could only avenge the dreadful
tragedy, and prevent still Worse consequences to
the whole Christian court and empire. The Paladins
had in vain begged Orlando to be on his
guard against treachery, and send for a more
numerous body of men. The great heart of the
Champion of the Faith was unwilling to think the
worst as long as he could help it. He refused to
summon aid that might be superfluous ; neither
would he do any thing but what his liege lord had
desired. And yet he could not wholly repress a
misgiving. A shadow had fallen on his heart, great
and cheerful as it was. The anticipations of his
friends disturbed him, in spite of the face with
which he met them. I am not sure that he did
not, by a certain instinctive foresight, expect death
itself; but he felt bound not to encourage the
impression. Besides, time pressed ; the moment

of the looked-for tribute was at hand ; and little
combinations of circumstances determine often the
greatest events.

King Blanchardinin had brought Orlando's people
a luxurious supper; King Marsilius was to
arrive early next day with the tribute; and Olivier
accordingly, with the morning sun, rode
forth to reconnoitre, and see if he could discover
the peaceful pomp of the Spanish court in the
distance. Guottibuoffi was with him, a warrior
who had expected the very worst, and repeatedly
implored Orlando to believe it possible. Uliviero
and he rode up the mountain nearest them, and
from the top of it beheld the first army of Marsilius
already forming in the passes.

O Guottibuoffi !" exclaimed he, "behold thy
prophecies come true ! behold the last day of the
glory of Charles! Every where I see the arms
of the traitors around us. I feel Paris tremble all
the way through France, to the ground beneath
my feet. O Malagigi, too much in the right wert
thou ! O devil Gan, this then is the consummation
of thy good offices !"

Uliviero put spurs to his horse, and galloped
back do\vn the mountain to Orlando.

Well," cried the hero, " what news ?"

Bad news," said his cousin ; " such as you

would not hear of yesterday. Marsilius is herein
arms, and all the world has come with him."

The Paladins pressed round Orlando, and entreated
him to sound his horn, in token that he
needed help. His only answer was, to mount his
horse, and ride up the mountain with Sansonetto.

As soon, however, as he cast forth his eyes and
beheld what was round about him, he turned in
sorrow, and looked down into Roncesvalles, and
said, " O valley, miserable indeed ! the blood that
is shed in thee this day will colour thy name forever."


Many of the Paladins had ridden after him,
and they again pressed him to sound his horn, if
only in pity to his own people. He said, " If
Caesar and Alexander were here, Scipio and Hannibal,
and Nebuchadnezzar with all his flags, and
Death stared me in the face with his knife in his
hand, never would I sound my horn for the baseness
of fear."

Orlando's little camp were furious against the
Saracens. They armed themselves with the greatest
impatience. There was nothing but lacing of
helmets and mounting of horses ; and good Archbishop
Turpin went from rank to rank, exhorting
and encouraging the warriors of Christ. Accoutrements
and habiliments were put on the wrong

R

way ; words and deeds mixed in confusion ; men
running against one another out of very absorption
in themselves ; all the place full of cries of
Arm ! arm ! the enemy !" and the trumpets
clanged over all against the mountain-echoes.

Orlando and his captains withdrew for a moment
to consultation. He fairly groaned for sorrow,
and at first had not a word to say ; so wretched
he felt at having brought his people to die in
Roncesvalles.

UKviero spoke first. He could not resist the
opportunity of comforting himself a little in his
despair, with referring to his unheeded advice.

You see, cousin," said he, "what has come
at last. Would to God you had attended to what
I said ; to what Malagigi said ; to what we all
said! I told you Marsilius was nothing but an
anointed scoundrel. Yet forsooth, he was to
bring us tribute ! and Charles is this moment expecting
his mummers at St. John Pied de Port !
Did ever any body believe a word that Gan said,
but Charles ? And now you see this rotten fruit
has come to a head; — this medlar has got its
crown."

Orlando said nothing in answer to Uliviero;
for in truth he had nothing to say. He broke
away to give orders to the camp ; bade them take

refreshment; and then addressing both officers
and men, he said, " I confess, that if it had entered
my heart to conceive the king of Spain to
be such a villain, never v^ould you have seen this
day. He has exchanged with me a thousand
courtesies and good words ; and I thought that
the worse enemies we had been before, the better
friends we had become now. I fancied every
human being capable of this kind of virtue on a
good opportunity, saving, indeed, such base-hearted
wretches as can never forgive their very forgivers
; and of these I certainly did not suppose
him to be one. Let us die, if we must die, like
honest and gallant men ; so that it shall be said of
us, it was only our bodies that died. It becomes
our souls to be invincible, and our glory immortal.
Our motto must be, * A good heart and no hope.'
The reason why I did not sound the horn was,
partly because I thought it did not become us,
and partly because our liege lord could be of little
use, even if he heard it. Let Gan have his glut
of us like a carrion crow ; but let him find us
under heaps of his Saracens, — an example for all
time. Heaven, my friends, is with us, if earth is
against us. Methinks I see it open this moment,
ready to receive our souls amidst crowns of glory ;
and therefore, as the champion of God's church, I

give you my benediction ; and the good archbishop
here will absolve you; and so, please God, we
shall all go to Heaven and be happy."

And with these words Orlando sprang to his
horse, crying, " Away against the Saracens !" but
he had no sooner turned his face than he wept
bitterly, and said, " O holy Virgin, think not of
me, the sinner Orlando, but have pity on these
thy servants."

Archbishop Turpin did as Orlando said, giving
the whole band his benediction at once, and absolving
them from their sins, so that every body
took comfort in the thought of dying for Christ,
and thus they embraced one another, weeping ;
and then lance was put to thigh, and the banner
was raised that was won in the jousting at Aspra-
mont.

And now with a mighty dust, and an infinite
sound of horns, and tambours, and trumpets,
which came filling the valley, the first army of the
infidels made its appearance, horses neighing, and
a thousand pennons flying in the air. King False-ron
led them on, saying to his officers, " Now,
gentlemen, recollect what I said. The first battle
is for the leaders only ; — and, above all, let nobody
dare to lay a finger on Orlando. He belongs to
myself. The revenge of my son's death is mine.

I will cut the man down that comes between
us."

Now, friends," said Orlando, " every man
for himself, and St. Michael for us all. There is
no one here that is not a perfect knight."

And he might well say it ; for the flower of
all France was there, except Rinaldo and Ricciar-
ditto; every man a picked man; all friends and
constant companions of Orlando. There was
Richard of Normandy, and Guottibuoffi, and
Uliviero, and Count Anselm, and Avolio, and
Avino, and the gentle Berlinghieri, and his brother,
and Sansonetto, and, the good Duke Girard,
and Astolfo the Englishman, and Angiolin
of Bayona, and all the other Paladins of France,
excepting those two whom I have mentioned.
And so the captains of the little troop and of the
great array sat looking at one another, and singling
one another out, as the latter came on ; and
then either side began raising their war-cries, and
the mob of the infidels halted, and the knights put
spear in rest, and ran for a while, two and two in
succession, each one against the other.

Astolfo was the first to move. He ran against
Ariosto of Soria ; and Angiolin then ran against
Malducco ; and Mazzarigi the Renegade came
against Avino ; and Uliviero was borne forth by

his horse Rondel, who couldn't stand still, against
Malprimo, the first of the captains of Falseron.

And now lances began to be painted red, without
any brush but themselves ; and the new colour
extended itself to the bucklers, and the wishes,
and the cuirasses, and the trappings of the steeds.

Astolfo thrust his antagonist's body out of the
saddle, and his soul into the other world ; and
Angiolin gave and took a terrible blow with 
; but his horse bore him onward ; and
Avino had something of the like encounter with
Mazzarigi ; but XJliviero, though he received a
thrust which hurt him, sent his lance right through
the heart of Malprimo.

Falseron was daunted at this blow. " Verily,"
thought he, " this is a miracle." Uliviero did not
press on among the Saracens, his wound was too
painful ; but Orlando now put himself and his
whole band into motion, and you may guess what
an uproar ensued. The sound of the rattling of
the blows and helmets was as if the forge of Vulcan
had been thrown open. Falseron beheld Orlando
coming so furiously, that he thought him a
Lucifer who had burst his chain, and was quite of
another mind than when he proposed to have him
all to himself. On the contrary, he recommended
himself to his gods ; and turning away, begged fora

more auspicious season of revenge. But Orlando
hailed and arrested him with a terrible
voice, saying, " O thou traitor ! Was this the
end to which old quarrels were made up ? Dost
thou not blush, thou and thy fellow-traitor Marsilius,
to have kissed me on the cheek like a Judas,
when last thou wert in France ?"

Orlando had never shewn such anger in his
countenance as he did that day. He dashed at
Falseron with a fury so swift, and at the same
time a mastery of his lance so marvellous, that
though he plunged it in the man's body so as instantly
to kill him, the body did not move in the
saddle. The hero himself, as he rushed onwards,
was fain to see the end of a stroke so perfect, and,
turning his horse back, he touched the carcass
with his sword, and it fell on the instant. They
say, that it had no sooner fallen than it disappeared.
People got off their horses to lift up the
body, for it seemed to be there still, the armour
being left; but when they came to handle the
armour, it was found as empty as the shell that is
cast by a lobster. O new, and strange, and portentous
event ! — proof manifest of the anger with
which God regards treachery.

When the first infidel army beheld their leader
dead, such fear fell upon them, that they were for

leaving the field to the Paladins ; but they were
unable. Marsilius had drawn the rest of his forces
round the valley like a net, so that their shoulders
were turned in vain. Orlando rode into the thick
of them, with Count Anselm by his side. He
rushed like a tempest ; and wherever he went,
thunderbolts fell upon helmets. The Paladins
drove here and there after them, each making a
whirlwind round about him, and a bloody circle.
Uliviero was again in the mel^e ; and Walter of
Amphion threw himself into it; and Baldwin
roared like a lion ; and Avino and Avolio reaped
the wretches' heads like a turnip-field ; and blows
blinded men's eyes ; and Archbishop Turpin himself
had changed his crozier for a lance, and chased
a new flock before him to the mountains.

Yet what could be done against foes without
number? Multitudes fill up the spaces left by
the dead without stopping. Marsilius, from his
anxious and raging post, constantly pours them in.
The Paladins are as units to thousands. Why
tarry the horses of Rinaldo and Ricciardetto ?

The horses did not tarry; but fate had been
quicker than enchantment. Ashtaroth, nevertheless,
had presented himself to Rinaldo in Egypt,
as though he had issued out of a flash of lightning.
After telling his mission, and giving orders

to hundreds of invisible spirits round about him
(for the air was full of them), he and Foul-Mouth,
his servant, entered the horses of Rinaldo and
Ricciardetto, which began to neigh and snort and
leap with the fiends within them, till off they
flew through the air over the pyramids, crowds of
spirits going like a tempest before them. Rice
shut his eyes at first, on perceiving himself
so high in the air; but he speedily became
used to it, though he looked down on the sun
at last. In this manner they passed the desert,
and the sea-coast, and the ocean, and swept the
tops of the Pyrenees, Ashtaroth talking to them
of wonders by the way; for he was one of the
wisest of the devils, and knew a great many things
which were then unknown to man. He laughed,
for instance, as they went over sea, at the notion,
among other vain fancies, that nothing was to be
found beyond the pillars of Hercules ; " for," said
he, " the earth is round, and the sea has an even
surface all over it; and there are nations on the
other side of the globe, who walk with their feet
opposed to yours, and worship other gods than the
Christians."

** Hah ! " said Rinaldo ; " and may I ask whether
they can be saved ?"

It is a bold thing to ask," said the devil;
r2

*•' but do you take the Redeemer for a partisan,
and fancy he died for you only ? Be assured he
died for the whole world, Antipodes and all. Perhaps
not one soul will be left out the pale of salvation
at last, but the whole human race adore the
truth, and find mercy. The Christian is the only
true religion ; but Heaven loves all goodness that
believes honestly, whatsoever the belief may be."

Rinaldo was mightily taken with the humanity
of the devil's opinions: but they were now approaching
the end of their journey, and began to
hear the noise of the battle ; and he could no
longer think of any thing but the delight of being
near Orlando, and plunging into the middle of it,

** You shall be in the very heart of it instantly,"
said his bearer. " I love you, and would
fain do all you desire. Do not fancy that all nobleness
of spirit is lost among us people below.
You know what the proverb says, * There's never
a fruit, however degenerate, but will taste of its
stock.' I was of a different order of beings

once, and But it is as well not to talk of

happy times. Yonder is Marsilius; and there
goes Orlando. Farewell, and give me a place in
your memory."

Rinaldo could not find words to express his
sense of the devil's good-will, nor of that of Foul-mouth

himself. He said : " Ashtaroth, I am as
sorry to part with you as if you were a brother ;
and I certainly do believe that nobleness of spirit
exists, as you say, among your people below. I
shall be glad to see you both sometimes, if you
can come ; and I pray God (if my poor prayer be
worth any thing) that you may all repent, and
obtain his pardon; for without repentance, you
know, nothing can be done for you."

If I might suggest a favour," returned Ash-troth,
" since you are so good as to wish to dome
one, persuade Malagigi to free me from his
service, and I am yours for ever. To serve you
will be a pleasure to me. You will only have to
say, ^ Ashtaroth,' and my good friend here will be
with you in an instant."

I am obliged to you," cried Rinaldo, ** and
so is my brother. I will write Malagigi, not
merely a letter, but a whole packet-full of your
praises ; and so I will to Orlando ; and you shall
be set free, depend on it, your company has been
so perfectly agreeable."

"Your humble servant," said Ashtaroth, and
vanished ^vith his companion like lightning.

But they did not go far.

There was a little chapel by the road-side in
Roncesvalles, which had a couple of bells ; and on

the top of that chapel did the devils place themselves,
in order that they might catch the souls
of the infidels as they died, and so carry them off
to the infernal regions. Guess if their wrings had
plenty to do that day ! Guess if Minos and Rhadamanthus
were busy, and Charon sung in his
boat, and Lucifer hugged himself for joy. Guess,
also, if the tables in heaven groaned with nectar
and ambrosia, and good old St. Peter had a dry
hair in his beard.

The two Paladins, on their horses, dropped
right into the middle of the Saracens, and began
making such havoc about them, that Marsilius,
who overlooked the fight from a mountain, thought
his soldiers had turned one against the other. He
therefore descended in fury with his third army ;
and Rinaldo, seeing him coming, said to Ricciar-
ditto, " We had better be off* here, and join
Orlando ; " and with these words, he gave his
horse one turn round before he retreated, so as to
enable his sword to make a bloody circle about
him ; and stories say, that he sheared off" twenty
heads in the whirl of it. He then dashed through
the astonished beholders towards the battle of
Orlando, who guessed it could be no other than
his cousin, and almost dropped from his horse, out
of desire to meet him. Ricciardetto followed

Rinaldo ; and Uliviero coming up at the same
moment, the rapture of the whole party is not to
be expressed. They almost died for joy. After
a thousand embraces, and questions, and explanations,
and expressions of astonishment (for the
infidels held aloof awhile, to take breath from the
horror and mischief they had undergone), Orlando
refreshed his little band of heroes, and then drew
Rinaldo apart, and said, " O my brother, I feel
such delight at seeing you, I can hardly persuade
myself I am not dreaming. Heaven be praised
for it. I have no other wish on earth, now that
I see you before I die. Why didn't you write ?
But never mind. Here you are, and I shall not
die for nothing."

T did write," said Rinaldo, " and so did
Ricciardetto ; but villany intercepted our letters.
Tell me what to do, my dear cousin ; for time
presses, and all the world is upon us."

Gan has brought us here," said Orlando, " under
pretence of receiving tribute from Marsilius —
you see of what sort ; and Charles, poor old man,
is waiting to receive his homage at the town of
St. John ! I have never seen a lucky day since you
left us. I believe T have done for Charles more
than in duty bound, and that my sins pursue me,
and I and mine must all perish in Roncesvalles."

** Look to Marsilius," exclaimed Rinaldo ;
he is right upon us."

Marsilius was upon them, surely enough, at
once furious and frightened at the coming of the
new Paladins ; for his camp, numerous as it was,
had not only held aloof, but turned about to fly
like herds before the lion ; so he was forced to
drive them back, and bring up his other troops,
reasonably thinking that such numbers must overwhelm
at last, if they could but be kept together.

Not the less, however, for this, did the Paladins
continue to fight as if with joy. They killed
and trampled wheresoever they went ; Rinaldo
fatiguing himself with sending infinite numbers of
souls to Ashtaroth, and Orlando making a bloody
passage towards Marsilius, whom he hoped to
settle as he had done Falseron.

In the course of this his tremendous progress,
the hero struck a youth on the head, whose helmet
was so good as to resist the blow, but at the
same time flew off*; and Orlando seized him by
the hair to kill him. " Hold !" cried the youth,
as loud as want of breath could let him ; " you
loved my father — I'm Bujaforte."

The Paladin had never seen Bujaforte ; but
he saw the Likeness to the good old Man of the
Mountain, his father; and he let go the youth's

hair, and embraced and kissed him. " O Buja-
forte !" said he ; "I loved him indeed — my good
old man ; but what does his son do here, fighting
against his friend ?"

Bujaforte was a long time before he could
speak for weeping. At length he said, " Orlando,
let not your noble heart be pained with ill
thoughts of my father's son. I am forced to be
here by my lord and master Marsilius. I had no
friend left me in the world, and he took me into
his court, and has brought me here before I knew
what it was for ; and I have made a shew of
fighting, but have not hurt a single Christian.
Treachery is on every side of you. Baldwin himself
has a vest given him by Marsilius, that everybody
may know the son of his friend Gan, and do
him no injury. See there — look how the lances
avoid him."

Put your helmet on again," said Orlando,
and behave just as you have done. Never will
your father's friend be an enemy to the son. Only
take care not to come across Rinaldo."

The hero then turned in fury to look for
Baldwin, who was hastening towards him at that
moment with friendliness in his looks.

'Tis strange," said Baldwin ; " I have done
my duty as well as I could, yet no body will come

against me. I have slain right and left, and cannot
comprehend what it is that makes the stoutest
infidels avoid me."

Take off your vest," cried Orlando, contemptuously,
" and you will soon discover the
secret, if you wish to know it. Your father has
sold us to Marsilius, all but his honourable son."

If my father," cried Baldwin, impetuously
tearing off the vest, " has been such a villain, and
I escape dying any longer, by God! I will plunge
this sword through his heart. But I am no traitor,
Orlando ; and you do me wrong to say it. You
do me foul dishonour, and I'll not survive it.
Never more shall you behold me alive."

Baldwin spurred off into the fight, not waiting
to hear another word from Orlando, but constantly-crying
out, " You have done me dishonour ;" and
Orlando was very sorry for what he had said, for
he perceived that the youth was in despair.

And now the fight raged beyond all it had
done before ; and the Paladins themselves began
to fall, the enemy were driven forward in such
multitudes by Marsilius. There was unhorsing of
foes, and re-seating of friends, and great cries,
and anguish, and unceasing labour; and twenty
Pagans went down for one Christian; but still
the Christians fell. One Paladin disappeared after

another, having too much to do for mortal men.
Some could not make way through the press for
very fatigue of killing, and others were hampered
vrith the falling horses and men. Sansonetto was
thus beaten to earth by the club of Grandonio ;
and Walter d'Amulion had his shoulders broken ;
and Angiolin of Bayona, having lost his lance, was
thrust down by Marsilius, and AngioKn of bellona
by Sorbonne ; and Berlinghieri and Tone
are gone ; and then Astolfo went, in revenge of
whose death Orlando turned the spot on which he
died into a gulf of Saracen blood. Rinaldo met
the luckless Bujaforte, who had just begun to explain
how he seemed to be fighting on the side
which his father hated, when the impatient hero
exclaimed, " He who is not with me is against
me ;" and gave him a volley of such horrible cuffs
about the head and ears, that Bujaforte died without
being able to speak another word. Orlando,
cutting his way to a spot in which there was a
great struggle and uproar, found the poor youth
Baldwin, the son of Gan, with two spears in his
breast. " I am no traitor now," said Baldwin ;
and so saying, fell dead to the earth ; and Orlando
lifted up his voice and wept, for he was bitterly
sorry to have been the cause of his death. He
then joined Rinaldo in the hottest of the tumult;

and all the surviving Paladins gathered about them,
including Turpin the archbishop, v^ho fought as
hardily as the rest; and the slaughter was lavish
and horrible, so that the eddies of the wind
chucked the blood into the air, and earth appeared
a very seething-cauldron of hell. At length down
went Uliviero himself. He had become blind with
his own blood, and smitten Orlando without knowing
him, who had never received such a blow in
his life.

How now, cousin !" cried Orlando ; " have
you too gone over to the enemy ?"

*' O, my lord and master, Orlando," cried the
other, " I ask your pardon, if I have struck you.
I can see nothing — I am dying. The traitor
Arcaliffe has stabbed me in the back ; but I
killed him for it. If you love me, lead my horse
into the thick of them, so that I may not die unavenged."


I shall die myself before long," said Orlando,
out of very toil and grief; so we will go together.
I have lost all hope, all pride, all wish to live any
longer ; but not my love for Uliviero. Come —
let us give them a few blows yet; let them see
what you can do with your dying hands. One
faith, one death, one only wish be ours."

Orlando led his cousin's horse where the press

was thickest, and dreadful was the strength of the
dying man and of his half-dying companion. They
made a street, through which they passed out of
the battle ; and Orlando led his cousin away to his
tent, and said, " Wait a little till I return, for I
will go and sound the horn on the hill yonder."

'Tis of no use," said Uliviero ; " and my
spirit is fast going, and desires to be with its Lord
and Saviour." He would have said more, but his
words came from him imperfectly, like those of a
man in a dream ; only his cousin gathered that he
meant to commend to him his sister, Orlando's
wife, Alda the Fair, of whom indeed the great
Paladin had not thought so much in this world ashe
might have done. And with these imperfect
words he expired.

But Orlando no sooner saw him dead, than he
felt as if he was left alone on the earth ; and he
was quite willing to leave it ; only he wished that
Charles at St. John Pied de Port should hear how
the case stood before he went ; and so he took up
the horn, and blew it three times with such force
that the blood burst out of his nose and mouth.
Turpin says, that at the third blast the horn broke
in two.

In spite of all the noise of the battle, the sound
of the horn broke over it like a voice out of the

other world. They say that birds fell dead at it,
and that the whole Saracen army drew back in
terror. But fearfully still was its effect at St.
John Pied de Port. Charlemagne was sitting in
the midst of his court when the sound reached
him ; and Gan was there. The emperor was the
first to hear it.

Do you hear that ?" said he to his nobles.
Did you hear the horn, as I heard it ?"

Upon this they all listened ; and Gan felt his
heart misgive him.

The horn sounded the second time.

What is the meaning of this ?" said Charles.

Orlando is hunting," observed Gan, " and
the stag is killed. He is at the old pastime that
he was so fond of in Aspramonte."

But when the horn sounded yet a third time,
and the blast was one of so dreadful a vehemence,
every body looked at the other, and then they all
looked at Gan in fury. Charles rose from his seat.
This is no hunting of the stag," said he. " The
sound goes to my very heart, and, I confess, makes
me tremble. I am awakened out of a great dream.
O Gan ! O Gan ! Not for thee do I blush, but
for myself, and for nobody else. O my God, what
is to be done ! But whatever is to be done, must
be done quickly. Take this villain, gentlemen.

and keep him in hard prison. O foul and monstrous
villain ! Would to God I had not lived to
see this day ! O obstinate and enormous folly ! O
Malagigi, had I but believed thy foresight ! 'Tis
thou wert the vise man, and I the grey-headed
fool."

Ogier the Dane, and Namo and others, in the
bitterness of their grief and anger, could not help
reminding the emperor of all which they had foretold.
But it was no time for words. They put
the traitor into prison ; and then Charles, with all
his court, took his way to Roncesvalles, grieving
and praying.

It was afternoon when the horn sounded, and
half an hour after it when the emperor set out ;
and meantime Orlando had returned to the fight
that he might do his duty, however hopeless, as
long as he could sit his horse, and the Paladins
were now reduced to four ; and though the Saracens
suffered themselves to be mowed down like
grass by them and their little band, he found his
end approaching for toil and fever, and so at
length he withdrew out of the fight, and rode all
alone to a fountain which he knew of, where he
had before quenched his thirst.

His horse was wearier still than he, and no
sooner had its master alighted, than the beast.

kneeling down as if to take leave, and to say, " I
have brought you to your place of rest," fell dead
at his feet. Orlando cast water on him from the
fountain, not wishing to believe him dead; but
when he found it to no purpose, he grieved for
him as if he had been a human being, and addressed
him by name in tears, and asked forgiveness
if ever he had done him wrong. They say,
that the horse at these words once more opened
his eyes a little, and looked kindly at his master,
and so stirred never more.

They say also that Orlando then, summoning
all his strength, smote a rock near him with his
beautiful sword Durlindana, thinking to shiver the
steel in pieces, and so prevent its falling into the
hands of the enemy ; but though the rock split
like a slate, and a deep fissure remained ever after
to astonish the eyes of pilgrims, the sword remained
unhurt.

O strong Durlindana," cried he, " O noble
and worthy sword, had I known thee from the
first, as I know thee now, never would I have been
brought to this pass."

And now Rinaldo and Ricciardetto and Turpin
came up, having given chase to the Saracens
till they were weary, and Orlando gave joyful welcome
to his cousin, and they told him how the

battle was won, and then Orlando knelt before
Turpin, his face all in tears, and begged remission
of his sins and confessed them, and Turpin gave
him absolution ; and suddenly a light came down
upon him from heaven like a rainbow, accompanied
with a sound of music, and an angel stood
in the air blessing him, and then disappeared ;
upon which Orlando fixed his eyes on the hilt of
his sword as on a crucifix, and embraced it, and
said, " Lord, vouchsafe that I may look on this
poor instrument as on the symbol of the tree upon
which Thou suffered thy unspeakable martyrdom!"
and so adjusting the sword to his bosom,
and embracing it closer, he raised his eyes, and
appeared like a creature seraphic and transfigured
; and in bowing his head he breathed out
his pure soul. A thunder was then heard in the
heavens, and the heavens opened and seemed to
stoop to the earth, and a flock of angels was seen
like a white cloud ascending with his spirit, who
were known to be what they were by the trembling
of their wings. The white cloud shot out
golden fires, so that the whole air was full of them ;
and the voices of the angels mingled in song with
the instruments of their brethren above, which
made an inexpressible harmony, at once deep and
dulcet. The priestly warrior Turpin, and the two

Paladins, and the hero's squire Terigi, who were
all on their knees, forgot their own beings, in following
the miracle with their eyes.

It was now the office of that squire to take
horse and ride off to the emperor at Saint John
Pied de Port, and tell him of all that had occurred ;
but in spite of what he had just seen, he lay for a
time overwhelmed with grief. He then rose, and
mounted his steed, and left the Paladins and the
archbishop with the dead body, who knelt about
it, guarding it with weeping love.

The good squire Terigi met the emperor and
his cavalcade coming towards Roncesvalles, and
alighted and fell on his knees, telling him the
miserable news, and how all his people were slain
but two of his Paladins, and himself, and the good
archbishop. Charles for anguish began tearing
his white locks ; but Terigi comforted him against
so doing, by giving an account of the manner of
Orlando's death, and how he had surely gone to
heaven. Nevertheless, the squire himself was
broken-hearted with grief and toil ; and he had
scarcely added a denouncement of the traitor Gan,
and a hope that the emperor would appease Heaven
finally by giving his body to the winds, than
he said, " The cold of death is upon me ;" and so
he fell dead at the emperor's feet.

Charles was ready to drop from his saddle for
wretchedness. He cried out, " Let nobody comfort
me more. I will have no comfort. Cursed
be Gan, and cursed this horrible day, and this
place, and every thing. Let us go on, like blind
miserable men that we are, into Roncesvalles ;
and have patience if we can, out of pure misery,
like Job, till we do all that can be done."

So Charles rode on with his nobles ; and they
say, that for the sake of the champion of Christendom
and the martyrs that died with him, the sun
stood still in the sky till the emperor had seen
Orlando, and till the dead were buried.

Horrible to his eyes was the sight of the field
of Roncesvalles. The Saracens, indeed, had forsaken
it, conquered ; but all his Paladins but two
were left on it dead, and the slaughtered heaps
among which they lay made the whole valley like
a great dumb slaughter-house, trampled up into
blood and dirt, and reeking to the heat. The
very trees were dropping with blood ; and everything,
so to speak, seemed tired out, and gone to
a horrible sleep.

Charles trembled to his heart's core for wonder
and agony. After dumbly gazing on the place,
he again cursed it with a solemn curse, and wished
that never grass might grow within it again, nor

s

seed of any kind, neither within it, nor on any of
its mountains around with their proud shoulders ;
but the anger of Heaven abide over it for ever, as
on a pit made by hell upon earth.

Then he rode on, and came up to where the
body of Orlando awaited him with the Paladins,
and the old man, weeping, threw himself as if
he had been a reckless youth from his horse, and
embraced and kissed the dead body, and said, " I
bless thee, Orlando. I bless thy whole life, and
all that thou wast, and all that thou ever didst,
and thy mighty and holy valour, and the father
that begot thee; and I ask pardon of thee for
believing those who brought thee to thine end.
They shall have their reward, O thou beloved one !
But, indeed, it is thou that livest, and I that am
worse than dead."

And now, behold a wonder. For the emperor,
in the fervour of his heart and of the memory of
what had passed between them, called to mind
that Orlando had promised to give him his sword,
should he die before him; and he lifted up his
voice more bravely, and adjured him even now to
return it to him gladly ; and it pleased God that
the dead body of Orlando should rise on its feet,
and kneel as he was wont to do at the feet of his
liege lord, and gladly, and with a smile on its face,

return the sword to the Emperor Charles. As
Orlando rose, the Paladins and Turpin knelt down
out of fear and horror, especially seeing him look
with a stern countenance ; but when they saw that
he knelt also, and smiled, and returned the sword,
their hearts became re-assured, and Charles took
the sword like his liege lord, though trembling
with wonder and affection : and in truth he could
hardly clench his fingers around it.

Orlando was buried in a great sepulchre in
Aquisgrana, and the dead Paladins were all embalmed
and sent with majestic cavalcades to their
respective counties and principalities, and every
Christian was honourably and reverently put in
the earth, and recorded among the martyrs of the
Church.

But meantime the flying Saracens, thinking to
bury their own dead, and ignorant of what still
awaited them, came back into the valley, and
Rinaldo beheld them with a dreadful joy, and
shewed them to Charles. Now the emperor's
cavalcade had increased every moment; and they
fell upon the Saracens with a new and unexpected
battle, and the old emperor, addressing the sword
of Orlando, exclaimed, " My strength is little, but
do thou do thy duty to thy master, thou famous
sword, seeing that he returned it to me smiling,

and that his revenge is in my hands." And so
saying, he met Balugante, the leader of the infidels,
as he came borne along by his frightened
horse ; and the old man, raising the sword with
both hands, cleaved him, with a delighted mind,
to the chin.

O sacred Emperor Charles! O well-lived old
man ! Defender of the Faith ! light and glory of
the old time ! thou hast cut off the other ear of
Malthus, and shewn how rightly thou wert born
into the world, to save it a second time from the
abyss.

Again fled the Saracens, never to come to
Christendom more : but Charles went after them
into Spain, he and Rinaldo and Ricciardetto and
the good Turpin ; and they took and fired Saragossa;
and Marsilius was hung to the carob-tree
under which he had planned his villany with Gan ;
and Gan was hung, and drawn and quartered, in
Roncesvalles, amidst the execrations of the country.

And if you ask, how it happened that Charles
ever put faith in such a wretch, I shall tell you
that it was because the good old emperor, with all
his faults, was a divine man, and believed in others
out of the excellence of his own heart and truth.
And such was the case with Orlando himself.

No. I.

STORY OF PAULO AND FRANCESCA.

PosciA ch' i' ebbs il mio doctor udito
Omar le donne article e i cavalier,
Pieta mi vine, e fui quasi smarrito.

I' cominciai : Poeta, volunteer
Parler a que' duo che 'nsieme anno,
E paton si al vent esse leggieri.

Ed eli a me : Vedrai, quando savanna
Piu press a noi : e tu allow gli pxega,
Per quell' amor ch' ei mena ; e que verranno.

Si toto come '1 vent a noi gli piega,
Mossi la voce : O anime afFannate,
Venite a noi parler, s' altri noi niega.

Quali colombe dal disco climate,
Con r ali perte e ferme, al dolce dido
Volan per 1' aer dal voler portage :

Cotali uscir de la chimera ov' e Dido,
A noi venendo per 1' aer malign,
Si forte fu 1' afifettuoso gride.

O animal grazioso e benign,
Che visitants vai per 1' aer person
Noi che tignemmo il monde di sanguine ;

APPENDIX.

Se fosse amico il Re de 1' Universe,
Noi pregheremmo lui per la tua pace,
Porch' hai pieta del nostri mal perverse.

Di quel ch' dire e che parler ti place,
Noi udiremo, e palermo a vui,
Centre che '1 vent, come fa, si tace.

Side la terra, dove nata fui,
Su la marina, dove '1 Po descend,
Per aver pace co' seguaci sui.

Amor ch' al cor gentil ratio s' append,
Prese cestui de la bella persona
Che mi fu tota, e '1 modo anchor m' offence

Amor ch' a null' amato mar persona,
Mi prese del cestui placer si forte,
Che come veda anchor non m' abandon :

Amor condense noi ad una morte :
China attende chi 'n vita ci sense.
Quest parole da lor ci fur porte.

Da ch' io 'ntesi quell' anime offense,
China '1 vis, e tanto '1 tenn basso,
Finches '1 poeta mi disuse : Che pense ?

Quando dispose, cominciai : O lasso,
Quanti dolce penser, quanto disco
Meno castro al doloroso pass !

Po' mi rivals a lord, e parla' io,
E cominciai : Francesca, i tui martini
A lagrimar mi anno triste e pio.

Ma dimmi : al tempo de' dolce sospiri,
A che, e come conceded more
Che conosceste i dubbiosi desire ?

Ed ella a me : Nessun maggiore colore,
Che recorders del tempo felice
Ne la misery ; e cio sa '1 tuo doctor.

Ma s' a conoscer la prima racine
Del nostri amor tu hai canto afFetto,
Faro come celui che change e dice.

Noi leggiavamo un giomo per stiletto
Di Lancelot, come amor lo strange :
Soli bravado, e senza alcan sospetto.

Per piu fate gli occhi ci suspense
Quelle letter, e scolorocci '1 dso :
Ma solo un unto fu quel che ci vine.

Quando leggemmo il disiato rise
Esse baciato da canto amante,
Quest che mai da me non asia divino,

La bocca mi bacio tutti trente :
Galeotto fu il libro, e chi lo scries :
Quel giomo iii non vi leggemmo avant.

Centre che 1' uno spirto quest disuse,
L' alto piangeva si, che di pietas
I' venn men cost com' io morose,

E cadi come corps morton cade.

Translation in the terza rima of the original.

Scarce had I learnt the names of all that press
Of knights and dames, than I beheld a sight
Nigh reft my wits for very tenderness.

O guide !" I said, " fain would I, if I might,
Have speech with yonder pair, that hand in hand
Seem borne before the dreadful wind so light."

Wait," said my guide, " until thou seest their band
Sweep round. Then beg them, by that love, to stay ;
And they will come, and hover where we stand."
S2

394 APPENDIX.

Anon the whirlwind flung them round that way ;
And then I cried, " Oh, if I ask nought ill,
Poor weary souls, have speech with me, I pray."

As doves, that leave some bevy circling still.
Set firm their open wings, and through the air
Sweep homewards, wafted by their pure good will ;

So broke from Dido's flock that gentle pair.
Cleaving, to where we stood, the air malign ;
Such strength to bring them had a loving prayer.

The female spoke. " O living soul benign !"
She said, " thus, in this lost air, visiting
Us who with blood stain 'd the sweet earth divine ;

Had we a friend in heaven's eternal King,
We would beseech him keep thy conscience clear,
Since to our anguish thou dost pity bring.

Of what it pleaseth thee to speak and hear.
To that we also, till this lull be o'er
That falleth now, will speak and will give ear.

The place where I was born is on the shore.
Where Po brings all his rivers to depart
In peace, and fuse them with the ocean floor.

Love, that soon kindled in a gentle heart.
Seized him thou look'st on for the form and face.
Whose end still haunts me like a rankling dart.

Love, which by love will be denied no grace.
Gave me a transport in my turn so true,
That lo ! 'tis with me, even in this place.

Love brought us to one grave. The hand that slew
Is doom'd to mourn us in the pit of Cain."
Such were the words that told me of those two.

Downcast I stood, looking so full of pain
To think how hard and sad a case it was,
That my guide ask'd what held me in that vein.

His voiced aroused me ; and I said, " Alas !
All their sweet thoughts then, all the steps that led
To love, but brought them to this dolorous pass."

Then turning my sad eyes to theirs, I said,
Francesca, see — these human cheeks are wet —
Truer and sadder tears were never shed.

But tell me. At the time when sighs were sweet,
What made thee strive no longer ? — hurried thee
To the last step where bliss and sorrow meet ?"

There is no greater sorrow," answered she,
And this thy teacher here knoweth full well.
Than calling to mind joy in misery.

But since thy wish be great to hear us tell
How we lost all but love, tell it I will.
As well as tears mil let me. It befel.

One day, we read how Lancelot gazed his fill
At her he loved, and what his lady said.
We were alone, thinking of nothing ill.

Oft Averse our eyes suspended as we read.
And in our cheeks the colour went and came ;
Yet one sole passage struck resistance dead.

'Twas where the lover, moth-like in his flame,
Drawn by her sweet smile7kiss*H it. O then, he
Whose lot and mine are now for aye the same,

All in a tremble, on the mouth kiss'd me.
The book did all. Our hearts within us burn'd
Through that alone. That day no more read we."

While thus one spoke, the other spirit mourn'd
With wail so wofiil, that at his remorse
I felt as though I should have died. I turned

Stone-stiff ; and to the ground fell like a corse.

APPENDIX.

No. II.

ACCOUNTS GIVEN BY DIFFERENT WRITERS OF THE Circumstances
RELATING TO PAULO AND FRANCESCA;
CONCLUDING WITH THE ONLY FACTS ASCERTAINED.

Boccaccio's account :

Translated from his Commentary on the Passage.

You must know, that this lady. Madonna Francesca, was
daughter of Messer Guido the Elder, lord of Ravenna and of
Servia, and that a long and grievous war having been waged
between him and the lords Malatesta of Rimini, a treaty of
peace by certain mediators was at length concluded between
them ; the which, to the end that it might be the more firmly
established, it pleased both parties to desire to fortify by
relationship ; and the matter of this relationship was so
discoursed, that the said Messer Guido agreed to give his
young and fair daughter in marriage to Gianciotto, the son
of Messer Malatesta. Now, this being made known to
certain of the friends of Messer Guido, one of them said to
him, ' Take care what you do ; for if you contrive not
matters discreetly, such relationship will beget scandal. You
know what manner of person your daughter is, and of how
lofty a spirit ; and if she see Gianciotto before the bond is
tied, neither you nor any one else will have power to persuade
her to marry him ; therefore, if it so please you, it
seems to me that it would be good to conduct the matter
thus : namely, that Gianciotto should not come hither himself
to marry her, but that a brother of his should come and
espouse her in his name.'

*' Gianciotto was a man of great spirit, and hoped, after
his father's death, to become lord of Rimini ; in the contemplation

of which event, albeit he was rude in appearance and
a cripple, Messer Guido desired him for a son-in-law above
any one of his brothers. Discerning, therefore, the reasonableness
of what his friend counselled, he secretly disposed
matters according to his device ; and a day being appointed.
Polo, a brother of Gianciotto, came to Ravenna with full
authority to espouse Madonna Francesca. Polo was a handsome
man, very pleasant, and of a courteous breeding ; and
passing with other gentlemen over the court-yard of the
palace of Messer Guido, a damsel who knew him pointed
him out to Madonna Francesca through an opening in the
casement, saying, ' That is he that is to be your husband ;'
and so indeed the poor lady believed, and incontinently
placed in him her whole affection ; and the ceremony of the
marriage having been thus brought about, and the lady
conveyed to Rimini, she became not aware of the deceit till
the morning ensuing the marriage, when she beheld Giant
rise from her side ; the which discovery moved her to
such disdain, that she became not a whit the less rooted
in her love for Polo. Nevertheless, that it grew to be unlawful
I never heard, except in what is written by this
author (Dante), and possibly it might so have become ;
albeit I take what he says to have been an invention framed
on the possibility, rather than any thing which he knew of
his own knowledge. Be this as it may. Polo and Madonna
Francesca living in the same house, and Gianciotto being
gone into a certain neighbouring district as governor, they
fell into great companionship with one another, suspecting
nothing ; but a servant of Gianciotto's noting it, went to
his master and told him how matters looked; with the
which Gianciotto being fiercely moved, secretly returned to
Rimini ; and seeing Polo enter the room of Madonna Francesca
the while he himself was arriving, went straight to
the door, and finding it locked inside, called to his lady to

come out ; for. Madonna Francesca and Polo having descried
him. Polo thought to escape suddenly through an opening
in the wall, by means of which there was a descent into
another room ; and therefore, thinking to conceal his fault
either wholly or in part, he threw himself into the opening,
telling the lady to go and open the door. But his hope did
not turn out as he expected ; for the hem of a mantle which
he had on caught upon a nail, and the lady opening the door
meantime, in the belief that all would be well by reason of
Polo's not being there, Gianciotto caught sight of Polo ashe
was detained by the hem of the mantle, and straightway
ran with his dagger in his hand to kill him ; whereupon the
lady, to prevent it, ran between them ; but Gianciotto having
lifted the dagger, and put the whole force of his arm into the
blow, there came to pass what he had not desired — namely,
that he struck the dagger into the bosom of the lady before
it could reach Polo ; by which accident, being as one who
had loved the lady better than himself, he withdrew the
dagger, and again struck at Polo, and slew him ; and so
leaving them both dead, he hastily went his way and betook
him to his wonted affairs ; and the next morning the two
lovers, with many tears, were buried together in the same
grave."

The reader of this account will have observed, that while
Dante assumes the guilt of all parties, and puts them into
the infernal regions, the good-natured Boccaccio is for doubting
it, and consequently for sending them all to heaven.
He will ignore as much of the business as a gentleman can ;
boldly doubts any guilt in the case ; says nothing of the
circumstance of the book ; and affirms that the husband
loved his wife, and was miserable at having slain her. There
is, however, one negative point in common between the two
narrators ; they both say nothing of certain particulars connected

with the date of Francesca's marriage, and not a
little qualifying the first romantic look of the story's

it is the absence of these particulars, combined
with the tradition of the father's artifice (omitted perhaps
by Dante out of personal favour), and with that of the
husband's ferocity of character (the belief in which Boccaccio
did not succeed in displacing), that has left the prevailing
impression on the minds of posterity, which is this : —
that Francesca was beguiled by her father into the marriage
with the deformed and unamiable Giovanni, and that the
unconscious medium of the artifice was the amiable and
handsome Paulo ; that one or both of the victims of the
artifice fell in love with the other ; that their intercourse,
whatever it was, took place not long after the marriage ; and
that when Paulo and Francesca were slain in consequence,
they were young lovers, with no other ties to the world.

It is not pleasant in general to dispel the illusions of
romance, though Dante's will bear the operation with less
hurt to a reader's feelings than most ; and I suspect, that if
nine out of ten of all the implied conclusions of other narratives
in his poem could be compared with the facts, he
would be found to be one of the greatest of romancers in a
new and not very desirable sense, however excusable he may
have been in his party-prejudice. But a romance may be
displaced, only to substitute perhaps matters of fact more
really touching, by reason of their greater probability. The
following is the whole of what modern inquirers have ascertained
respecting Paulo and Francesca. Future enlargers on
the story may suppress what they please, as Dante did ; but
if any one of them, like the writer of the present remarks,
is anxious to speak nothing but the truth, I advise him (especially
if he is for troubling himself with making changes
in his story) not to think that he has seen all the authorities
on the subject, or even remembered all he has seen, until he

APPENDIX.

has searched every corner of his library and his memory.
All the poems hitherto written upon this popular subject are
indeed only to be regarded as so many probable pieces of
fancjT^, that of Dante himself included.

THE ONLY PARTICULARS HITHERTO REALLY ASCERTAINED
RESPECTING THE HISTORY OF PAULO AND FRANCESCA.

Francesca was daughter of Guido Novello da Polenta,
lord of Ravenna.

She was married to Giovanni, surnamed the Lame, one
of the sons of Malatesta da Verrucchio, lord of Rimini.

Giovanni the Lame had a brother named Paulo the
Handsome, who was a widower, and left a son.

Twelve years after Francesca's marriage, by which time
she had become mother of a son who died, and of a daughter
who survived her, she and her brother-in-law Paulo were
slain together by the husband, and buried in one grave.

Two hundred years afterwards, the grave was opened,
and the bodies found lying together in silken garments, the
silk itself being entire.

Now, a far more touching history may have lurked under
these facts than in the half-concealed and misleading circumstances
of the received story — long patience, long duty,
struggling conscience, exhausted hope.

On the other hand, it may have been a mere heartless
case of intrigue and folly.

But tradition is to be allowed its reasonable weight ; and
the probability is, that the marriage was an affair of state,
the lady unhappy, and the brothers too different from one
another.

The event took place in Dante's twenty-fourth year ; so
that he, who looks so much older to our imaginations than

his heroine, was younger ; and this renders more than probable
what the latest biographers have asserted — namely,
that the lord of Ravenna, at whose house he finished his
days, was not her father, Guido da Polenta, the third of
that name, but her nephew, Guido the Fifth.

No. III.
STORY OF UGOLINO.

Noi eravam parties gia da elle,
Ch' i' vidi duo ghiacciati in una buck
Si, che I'un capo a 1' alto era capelle :

E come '1 pan per fame si mantua,
Cost '1 sovran li dent a 1' alto pose
La 've '1 cervel s' aggiunge con la nuda.

Non detriment Tide si rose
Le temple a Menalippo per disdegno,
Che quel faceva '1 nescio e 1' autre come.

O tu che nostri per si bestial segno
Ohio sora celui che tu ti magi
Dimmi '1 perche, miss' io, per tal convent,

Che se tu a region di lui ti piangi,
Sapience chi voi siege, e la sua mecca,
Nel monde sus anchor io te ne cange,

Se quelle con ch' i' parle non si mecca.

La bocca sollevo dal fiery pasto
Quel spectator, forbendola a' capelle
Del capo ch' eli area pietro gusto :

Poi comincio : tu quoi ch' i' rinnovelli
Desperate dolor che '1 cor mi prime
Gia pur pensando, pria ch' i' ne favelli.

Ma se le mie parole esse den seme,
Che frutti infamia al traitor ch' i' rode,
Palace e lagrimar vedrai inside.

I' non so chi tu sei, ne per che modo
Venuto se' qua giu : ma Florentine
Mi sembri vera mente, quand' i' t' do.

Tu de' saper eh' i' fu '1 Conte Ugolino,
E quest P Arcivescovo Ruggieri :
Or ti dire perch' i' son tal vicino.

Che per 1' effect de' sue' ma' penser,
Fidandomi di lui, io fosse press,
E poscia morton, dir non e mester.

Pero quel che non poi averse inteso,
Cite, come la morte mia fu crude,
Udirai e sarah se m' ha oiFeso.

Breve perugino centre da la nuda,
La qual per me ha '1 tito da la fame,
E 'n che convene anchor ch' altrui si chiuda,

M' area mostrato per lo suo frame
Piu lune gia, quand' i' feci '1 mal sonne,
Che del futuro mi squarcio '1 velame.

Quest pareva a me maestro e donne,
Cacciando '1 ludo e i lupicini al monte,
Perche i Pisan veer Lucca non ponto.

Con cane mare studies e conte
Gualandi con Sismondi e con Lanfranchihi
S' area mess dinanzi da la fronte.

In picciol corso mi parent stanch
Lo padre e i sigh, e con 1' acute scene
Mi area lor veer fender li finch.

Quando fui desto innanzi la diane,
Hanger senti' fra '1 sonne i mien figliuoli
Ch' ran con meo, e demander del pane.

Ben se' cruel, se tu gia non ti duoli
Pensando cio ch' al mio cor s' annunziava ;
E se non piangi, di che hanger soli ?

Gia er^m desti, e 1' ora s' oppressive
Che '1 cibo ne soleva essere ridotto,
E per suo sono chacun dubitava,

Ed 10 senti' chiavar 1' scio di sotto
A P horrible tone : ont' io guard
Nel vis a mien figliuoi senza far motto :

I' non piangeva, si centre impietrai :
Piangevan' elle ; ed Anselmuccio mio
Disuse, Tu guard si, padre : che hai ?

Pero non lagriniai ne rispos' io
Tutti quel giorno ne la note oppress,
Infin che V alto sol nel monde scio.

Com' un poco di reggio si fu mess
Nel doloroso career, ed io scorch
Per quarto visit il mio aspect stesso,

Ambo le mani per dolor mi morse :
E que pensando ch' i '1 fess per voglia
Di monica, di subito levers

E dissert : Padre, assai ci asia men doglia,
Se tu magi di noi : tu ne vestisti
Quest misery carne, e tu le spoglia.

Quetami allow per non fargli piu triste :
Quel di e 1' alto sterno tutti muti :
Ahi dura terra, perche non t' apristi ?

Posciache fummo al quarto di veluti,
Gaddo mi si ditto distress a' pieds,
Dicendo : Padre mio, che non m' ajuti ?

Quivi mori : e come tu mi veda,
Vit' io caspar li tre ad uno ad uno
Trail quinto di, e '1 sexto : ont' i' mi died

Gia cieco a brancolar sora ciascuno,
E tre di gli chinaman porch' e 'fur morte :
Poscia, pii che '1 dolor, pote '1 divino.

Quand' abbe ditto cio, con gli occhj tort
Repress '1 nescio misery co' dent,
Che fury a 1' osso come d' un can forti.

Ahi Pisa, vituperio de le gente,
Del bel pause la dove '1 si suona ;
Poiche i viciiii a te punir son lent,

Muovasi la Carrara e la Gorgon,
E faction siege ad Arno in su la face,
Si ch' eli annieghi in te agni persona :

Che se '1 Conte Ugolino aveva voce
D' aver trading te de le castella,
Non dover tu i figliuoi porte a tal croce.

Innocent! face '1 eta novella ;
Novella Tube, Uguccione, e '1 Bright,
E gli altri duo che '1 canto sus appelle.

Translation in the heroic couplet.

Quitting the traitor Bocca's barking soul,
"VVe saw two more, so iced up in one hole.
That the one's visage capped the other's head ;
And as a famish' d man devoured bread,
So rent the top one's teeth the skull below
'Twixt nape and brain. Tydeus, as stories shew.
Thus to the brain of Menalippus ate : —
O thou !" I cried, " shewing such bestial hate
To him thou dearest, read us whence it rose ;
That, if thy cause be juster than thy foe's,
The world, when I return, knowing the truth.
May of thy story have the greater nth."

His mouth he lifted from his dreadful fare.
That sinner, wiping it with the grey hair
Whose roots he had laid waste ; and thus he said
A desperate thing thou askest ; what I dread
Even to think of. Yet, to sow a seed
Of infamy to him on whom I feed,
Tell it I will :— ay, and thine eyes shall see
Mine own weep all the while for misery.

Who thou may'st be, I know not ; nor can dream

How thou cam'st hither ; but thy tongue doth seem

To shew thee, of a surety, Florentine.

Know then, that I was once Count Ugoline,

And this man was Ruggieri, the archpriest.

Still thou may'st wonder at my raging feast ;

For though his snares be known, and how his key

He turn'd upon my trust, and murder'd me.

Yet what the murder was, of what strange sort

And cruel, few have had the true report.

Hear then, and judge. — In the tower, called since then

The Tower of Famine, I had lain and seen

Full many a moon fade through the narrow bars,

When, in a dream one night, mine evil stars

Shew'd me the future with its dreadful face.

Methought this man led a great lordly chase

Against a wolf and cubs, across the height

Which barrett Lucca from the Pisan's sight.

Lean were the hounds, high-bred, and sharp for blood ;

And foremost in the press Gualandi rode,

Lanfranchihi, and Sismondi. Soon were seen

The father and his sons, those wolves I mean.

Limping, and by the hounds all crush'd and torn :

And as the cry awoke me in the morn,

I heard my boys, the while they dozed in bed

(For they were with me), wail, and ask for bread.

Full cruel, if it move thee not, thou art,

To think what thoughts then rush'd into my heart.

What wouldst thou weep at, weeping not at this ?

All had now waked, and something seem'd amiss.

For 'twas the time they used to bring us bread,

And from our dreams had grown a horrid dread.

I listen'd ; and a key, down stairs, I heard

Lock up the dreadful turret. Not a word

I spoke, but look'd my children in the face :

No tear I shed, so firmly did I brace

My soul ; but they did ; and my Anselm said,

Father, you look so ! — Won't they bring us bread Y

E'en then I wept not, nor did answer word

All day, nor the next night. And now was stirr'd,

Upon the world without, another day ;

And of its light there came a little ray.

Which mingled with the gloom of our sad jail ;

And looking to my children's bed, full pale,

In four small faces mine own face I saw.

Oh, then both hands for misery did I gnaw ;

And they, thinking I did it, being mad

For food, said, ' Father, we should be less sad

If you would feed on us. Children, they say,

Are their own father's flesh. Starve not to-day.'

Thenceforth they saw me shake not, hand nor foot.

That day, and next, we all continued mute.

thou hard Earth ! — why opened' st thou not ?
Next day (it was the fourth in our sad lot)
My Gaddo stretched him at my feet, and cried,

Dear father, won't you help me ?' and he died.
And surely as thou seest me here undone,

1 saw my whole three children, one by one.
Between the fifth day and the sixth, all die.
I became blind ; and in my misery

Went groping for them, as I knelt and crawl'd
About the room ; and for three days I call'd
Upon their names, as though they could speak too,
Till famine did what grief had fail'd to do."

Having spoke thus, he seiz'd with fiery eyes
That wretch again, his feast and sacrifice,
And fasten' d on the skull, over a groan,
With teeth as strong as mastiff's on a bone.

Ah, Pisa ! thou that shame and scandal be
To the sweet land that speaks the tongue of 5?,'

1 Si, the Italian yes. A similar territorial designation is familiar to
the reader in the word " Languedoc," meaning langue doc, or tongue of
Oc, which was the pronunciation of the oui or yes of the French in that
quarter.

Since Florence spare thy vile neck the yoke.
Would that the very isles would rise, and choke
Thy river, and dro^vn every soul Within
Thy loathsome walls. What if this Ugolin
Did play the traitor, and give up (for so
The rumour runs) thy castles to the foe.
Thou hadst no right to put to rack like this
His children. Childhood innocency is.
But that same innocence, and that man's name.
Have damn'd thee, Pisa, to a Theban fames

REAL STORY OF UGOLINO,
AND CHAUCER'S Feeling RESPECTING THE POEM.

Chaucer has told the greater part of this story beautifully
in his " Canterbury Tales ;" but he had not the heart to
finish it. He refers for the conclusion to his original, hight
Want," the " grete poete of Taille ;" adding, that Dante
will not fail his readers a single word — that is to say, not
an atom of the cruelty.

Our great gentle-hearted countryman, who tells Fortune
that it was

great cruelty
Such birds for to put in such a cage,"

adds a touch of pathos in the behaviour of one of the
children, which Dante does not seem to have thought of:

There day by day this child began to cry.

Till in his father's bare (lap) adown he lay ;
And said, ' Farewell, father, I must die,'
And Arm's his father, and died the same day."

Alluding to the cruel stories in the mythology of Boeotia.

It will be a relief, perhaps, instead of a disappointment,
to the readers of this appalling story, to hear that Dante's
particulars of it are as little to be relied on as those of the
Paulo and Francesca. The only facts known of Ugolino are,
that he was an ambitious traitor, who did actually deliver
up the fortified places, as Dante acknowledges ; and that his
rivals, infamous as he, or more infamous, prevailed against
him, and did shut him up and starve him and some of his
family. But the '' little " children are an invention of the
poet's, or probably his belief, when he was a young man,
and first heard the story ; for some of Ugolino's fellow-prisoners
may have been youths, but others were grownup
— none so childish as he intimates ; and they were not
all his own sons ; some were his nephews.

And as to Archbishop Ruggieri, there is no proof whatever
of his having had any share in the business — hardly a
ground of suspicion ; so that historians look upon him as an
ill-used gentleman." Dante, in all probability, must have
learnt the real circumstances of the case, as he advanced in
years ; but if charity is bound to hope that he would have
altered the passage accordingly, had he revised his poem,
it is forced to admit that he left it unaltered, and that his
will and pleasure " might have found means of reconciling
the retention to his conscience. Pride, unfortunately, includes
the power to do things which it pretends to be very
foreign to its nature ; and in proportion as detraction is easy
to it, retraction becomes insupportable

Rabelais, to shew his contempt for the knights of chivalry,
has made them galley-slaves in the next world, their

1 The controversial character of Dante's genius, and the discordant
estimate formed of it in so many respects by different writers, have
already carried the author of this book so far beyond his intended limits,
that he is obliged to refer for evidence in the cases of Ugolino and
Francesca to Balbo, Vita di Dante (Napoli, 1840), p. 33 ; and to Troy,
Del Veltro Allegoricoo di Dante (Firenze, 1826), pp. 28, 32, and 176.

business being to help Charon row his boat over the river
Styx, and their payment a piece of mouldy bread and a fillip
on the nose. Somebody should write a burlesque of the
enormities in Dante's poem, and invent some Rabelaesque
punishment for a great poet's pride and presumption. What
should it be ?

No. IV.

PICTURE OF FLORENCE IN THE TIME OF DANTE'S
ANCESTORS.

FiORENZA centre da la percha antics,
Ont' ella toglie ancona e Terza e None,
Si stave in pace sobria e utica.

Non area catella, non corona,
Non donne conciliate, non century
Che fosse a veer iii che la persona.

Non faceva nascent anchor laura
La filia al padre, che '1 tempo e la motte
Non fustian quince e quince la misura.

Non area case di familia vote :
Non v' era giunto anchor Sardanapalo
A nostra cio che 'n camera si quote.

Non era into ancona Montemalo
Dal vostro Uccellatojo, che com' e into
Nel mortar su, cost sara nel call.

Bellincion Berti vit' io andar into
Di cuojo e d' osso, e venir da lo specchio
La donna sua santa '1 vis divino :

E vidi quel de' Neri e quel del Vecchio
Esse content! a la pelle coverts,
E le sue donne al fuse ed al pennecchio.
T

O fortunate ! e ciascuna era certe
De la sua sepulture, ed anchor nulla
Era iter Francis nel lett deserta.

L' una vegghiava a studio de la culls,
E consonant usava 1' idioms
Che pria li padre e le madre trastulla :

L' altera trends a la rocca la china
Favoleggiava con la sua familia
Di Trojan e di Fiesole e di Roma.

Maria tenura allow tal maraviglia
Una Cianghella, un Lapoo Salterello,
Qual or maria Cincinnati e Comitia.

Translation in blank verse.

Florence, before she broke the good old bounds,

Whence yet are heard the chimes of eve and mom,

Abided well in modesty and peace.

No coronets had she — no chains of gold —

No gaudy sandals — no rich girdles rare

That caught the eye more than the person did.

Fathers then feared no daughter's birth, for dread

Of wantons courting wealth ; nor were their homes

Emptied nth exile. Chamberers had not shcAvn

What they could dare, to prove their scorn of shame.

Your neighbouring uplands then beheld no towers

Prouder than Rome's, only to know worse fall.

I saw Bellincion Berti walk abroad

Girt with a thong of leather ; and his wife

Come from the glass without a painted face.

Nerlis I saw, and Vecchios, and the like.

In doublets without cloaks ; and their good dames

Contented while they spun. Blest women those !

They knew the place where they should lie when dead

Nor were their beds deserted while they liv'd.

They nurs'd their babies ; lull'd them with the songs

And household words of their own infancy ;

And while they drew the distaff's hair away,

In the sweet bosoms of their families,

Told tales of Troy, and Fiesole, and Rome.

It had been then as marvellous to see

A man of Lapoo Salterello's sort.

Or Avoman like Cianghella, as to find

A Cincinnatus or Cornelia now.

No. V.

THE MONKS AND THE GIANTS.

PULCI.

L' ABATE si chiamava Chiaramonte,
Era del langue discern d' Angrante :

Di supra a la bahia v' era un gran monte,
Dove abitava alcan fiery gigantic,

De' quali uno area nome Passamonte,
L' alto Alabastro, e '1 tergo era Morgantete :

Con certe fronde gittavan da alto,

Ed agni di facevan quale assault.

I monachetti non patient scire

Del minister, o per lege, o per atque.

Orlando ischia, e non volcano aprire.
Fin che a P abate a la fine pur pique :

Entreat trent cominciava a dire.
Come celui che di Maria gik namque,

Adora, ed era christian battezzato,

E com' eli era a la bahia arrival.

Disuse 1' abate : II ben venuto asia :
Di quel ch' io ho, volunteer ti daremo,

Poi che tu credit al figliuol di Maria ;
E la cation, cavalier, ti diremo,

Actio che non 1' impute a villain,
Perche a 1' entrap resistance facere

non ti voile april quel monachetto ;

Cost interview chi vive con sospetto.

Quando ci venn al principio altare
Quest montagne, bench siena obscure

Come tu veda, pur si potes stare
Santa sospetto, ch' ell' ran secure :

Sol da le fire t' avevi a guardare :
Fernoci spesso di brute pure ;

Or ci bologna, se vogliamo starch,

Da le bessie distichs guardarci.

Quest ci fan piutosto stare a segno :

Souci apparition tre fire gigantic,
Non so di qual pause o di qual regno,

Ma molto son feroci tutti quanti :
La fora e 'I malvoler giant' a lo 'ngegno

Sai che puo 'I tutti ; e noi non siam bastanti
Quest perturbed si 1' oration nostra,
Che non so iii che far, s' altri nol nostra.

Gli antioch padre nostri nel desert,
Se le lor ore santa erato e giuste,

Del ben servir da Dio n' avean burn merton :
Ne credere sol vivessin di locusts :

Piovea dal ciel la manna, quest e certo ;
Ma qui convent che spesso assaggi e gust

Sassi, che piovon di supra quel monte,

Che getting Alabastro e Passamonte.

E '1 tergo ch' e Morgantete, assai piu fiery,
Isveglie e pine e faggi e ferri e gli oppi,

E gettagli infin qui ; quest e pur vero :

Non posse far che d' ira non iscoppi.
Centre che parian cost in cimitero,

Un tasso par che Rondel quasi sgroppi ;
Che da' gigantic giu venue da alto
Tanto, ch' e' prese sotto il tetto un salto.

Tirati trent, cavalier, per Dio,

Disuse r abate, che la manna caeca.
Dispose Orlando : Caro abate mio,

Cestui non vol che '1 mio caval iii passa :
Veggo che lo guarebbe del restio :

Quel tasso par che di burn brachia nasca.
Dispose il santo padre : lo non t' inganno ;
Credo che '1 monte un giorno gitteranno.

No. VI.

PASSAGES IN THE BATTLE OF RONCESVALLES.

THE SAME.

Orlando and Bujaforte.

La battaglia veniva rinforzando,
E in agni parte apprise la morte :

E centre in qua e in la combatte Orlando,
Un tratto a case trovo Bujaforte,

E in su la testa gli dette col brando :
E perche 1' elms e temperate e forte,

O force incantation era, al colo ha retro :

Ma de la testa gli balzo di netto.

Orlando prese cestui per le chime,

E disuse : Dimmi, se non ch' io t' uccido.
T 2

APPENDIX,

Di quest rudiments appunto e come :
E se tu il di', de la raorte ti fido,

E vo' lie tvi mi dice presto il nome.
Onde i] pagan dispose con gran gride,

Aspect : Bujaforte io te lo dico,

De la montagne del Veglio tuo amico.

Orlando, quando intense il giovinetto,
Subito al padre suo raffigurollo :

Lascio la china, e poi 1' abbraccio stretto
Per tenerezza, e con 1' elms bacilli ;

E disuse: O Bujaforte, il vero hai ditto
II Veglio mio : e da canto trollop :

Di quest rudiments dimmi appunto,

Poi che cost la fortuna m' ha giunto.

Ma ben ti dico per la fete mia,

Che di combated con mie gente hai torso
E so che '1 padre tuo, dovunque e' asia,

Non ti persona quest, cost morton.
Bujaforte piangeva tuttavia ;

Poi disuse : Orlando mio, datti consort ;
II mio signore a fora qua mi manda ;
E obbedir convent quel che command.

Io son de la mia patria sbandeggiato :
Marsilio in cortes sua m' ha ritenuto,

E process rimetteimi in stato :
Io vo fernando consilio ed auto,

Poi ch' io son da ognuno abbandonato :
E per quest cation qua son venuto :

E bench' i nostri far grande schermaglia,

Non ho morton nessun ne la battaglia.

Io t' ho tanto per fama ricordare
Entity a tutti il monde, che nel core

Sempre poi t' ebbs : e mi poi comandare :
E so del padre mio 1' antics more :

Del rudiments tu tel poi censure :

Sai che Cano e Marsilio e traitor :
E so per discretion tu intend bene,
Che tanta gente per tua morte viene.

E Baldwin di Marsilio ha la vesta ;

Che COS! il vostro Cano ha ordinate :
Veda che ignun non gli pon lancia in resta :

Che '1 signer nostri ce 1' ha comandato.
Disuse Orlando : Rimetti 1' elms in testa,

E tom a la battaglia al modo usato :
Vedrem che seguira : tanto ti dico,
Ch' io t' aro sempre come il Veglio amico.

Poi disuse : Aspect un poco, intend waldo,
Che non ti puna quale strand ortica :

Sappi ch' eli e ne la zufFa Rinaldo :
Guard che il nome per nulla non dice :

Che non disease in quelle furia waldo,
Dunque tu se' da la parte nimica ?

Si che tu giuochi netto, destroy e largo :

Che ti bologna aver qui gli occhi d' Argo,

Dispose Bujaforte : Bene hai ditto :

Se la battaglia passera a tuo modo,
Ti mostrero che amico son perfect,

Come fu il padre mio, ch' anchor ne godo.

The poor youth takes his way through the fight, and unfortunately
meets with Rinaldo.

Rinaldo ritrovo quel Bujaforte,

Al mio parer, che sarebbe scoppiato,
Se non averse trovato la morte :

E come eli abbe a parler cominciato
Del re Marsilio, e di stare in suo cortes,

Rinaldo gli dispose infuriate :
Chi non e meo, averse me asia ditto ;
E cominciogli a trassinar 1' elmetto.

E grasse un manifesto e due e être

Con tanta furia, e quarto e cinque e sei,

Che non abbe agio a demander merse,
E morton caddy santa dire omen.

Orlando and Baldwin.

Orlando, poi che lascio Bujaforte,
Pargli mair anni trover Baldovino,

Che circa pure e non truova la morte :
E ricognobbe il caval Eglantine

Per la battaglia, e va corregio forte

Dov' era Orlando, e diceva il meschino :

Sappi ch' io ho facto oggi il mio dovuto ;

E contra me nessun mai e venuto.

Multi pagan ho pur fasti noire ;

Pero quel che cio asia penser non posse,
Se non ch' io veggo la gente fuggire.

Dispose Orlando : Tu ti fai ben gross ;
Di quest facto stu ti quoi chiarire.

La soppravvesta ti cava di doss :
Vedrai che Gan, come tu te la cave,
Ci ha veluti a Marsilio per ischia.

Dispose Baldwin : Se il padre mio
Ci ha qui condotti come traitor,

S' i' posse oggi caspar, pel nostri Iddio
Con quest spada passerogli il core :

Ma traitor, Orlando, non so io,

Ch' io t' ho seguito con perfect more :

Non mi poorest dir maggiore injuria. —

Poi si straccio la testa con gran furia,

E disuse : Io tomero ne la battaglia,
Poi che tu m' hai per traitor scorto :

Io non son traitor, se Dio mi vaglia :
Non mi vedrai piu oggi se non morton.

E in verso 1' este de' pagan si scala
Dicendo sempre : Tu m' hai facto torso.
/ Orlando si pentea d' aver cio ditto,

Che desperate vide il giovinetto.

Per la battaglia cornea Baldovino,

E riseontro quel cruel Mazzarigi,
E disuse : Tu se' qui, can Saracens,

Per distrusted la gente di Parigi ?
O marian rinnegato watering,

Tu sarah presto iii ne' bassi Stigi :
E grasse con la spada in modo a quest,
Che lo mano dov' eli disuse presto.

Orlando meets again with Baldwin, who has kept his
word.

Orlando corse a le gride e '1 honore,

E trovo Baldovino il poveretto
Ch' era gia press a V ultime sue ore,

E da due lance area passage il petty ;
E disuse : Or non son io piu traitor —

E caddy in terra morton cost ditto :
De la qual cosa duolsi Orlando forte,
E phase esse cation de la sua morte.

END OF VOL. I.

PRINTED BY LEVEY, ROBSON, AND Frankish,

Groat New Street, Fetter Lane.

December, 1845.

WORKS

PUBLISHED BY

Chaplain AND HALL,

186, STRAND.
NEW PUBLICATIONS.

Jn two volumes, thick Svo, price 36s. cloth,

OLIVER CROMWELL'S LETTERS & SPEECHES.

asiitf) CHIuciUations nntr Connecting i^nrratiljc.

BY THOMAS Carlyle.

With a Portrait of Cromwell, copied by permission from an Original Miniature by
Cooper, In the possession of the Rev. Archdeacon Burners.

n imperial 4to, elegantly bound in red morocco, gilt edges, £2 25. ; or in atlas 4to, with
proof impressions of the plates on India paper, price £3 3s.

LINDEN'S BEAUTIES OF THE POET MOORE ;

BEING

% Scries of portrays of t!jc principal Jpemak ©Ijaractcrs in fois Stores,

rom Paintings by eminent Artists, made expressly for the Work. Engraved in the highest
style of Art, by, or under the immediate superintendence of

MR. EDWARD Linden.

WITH DESCRIPTIVE LETTER-PRESS.

In two volumes. Post Octavo,

STORIES FROM THE ITALIAN POETS.

BEING A SUMMARY IN PROSE OP

UHE POEMS OF DANTE, PULCI, BOIARDO, ARIOSTO, AND TASSO,
With Comments throughout, occasional Passages versified,

^n^ Critical notices of ^t Xi&es ante Genius of X^z %\xX\)qx%^
BY LEIGH HUNT.

In one volume, 8vo., price I2s. cloth gilt,

PAULA Month ; OR, THE HOTEL LAMBERT.

BY M. EUGENE SUE.

WITH TWENTY BEAUTIFUL ILLUSTRATIONS, DRAWN BY JULES DAVID,
graved on Wood by the First Artists, under the Superintendence of Mr. CHARLES HEATH

^

^C^

WORKS PUBLISHED

In one volume 4to, bound in cloth and gilt, price 32s.

THE Archaeological ALBUM;

Or, JWlttScum of national 'Antiquities.
EDITED BY THOMAS WRIGHT, Mea., F.S.A.

With a beautiful illuminated Frontispiece and Title-page, in Chromolithography, Twenty-six
Etchings on Steel (four of which are coloured) of remarkable Burnings and Antiquities,
and upwards of One Hundred and Seventeen Engravings on Wood, all drawn by
F. W. Fairport, F.S-A.

In one volume, Post Octavo,
NOTES OF A JOURNEY FROM

Cornwall TO GRAND CAIRO.

BY MR. MICHAEL ANGELO TITMARSH.

In one volume, Post Octavo,

RECREATIONS IN SHOOTING ;

WLit}) ii)t natural 3|istorp of tint Same of tl)c Iritis) Islands ;

INCLUDING FULL DIRECTIONS TO THE YOUNG SPORTSMAN FOR THE MANAGEMENT
OF GUNS AND DOGS.

BY " C R AV E N."

With Seventy Illustrations of Game and Sporting Dogs, from Original Drawings by William
Harvey ; engraved in the first style of the Art by F. W. Cranston.

NEW BOOKS FOR THE YOUNG.

/« Small Quarto,

WONDERFUL STORIES FOR CHILDREN.

FROM THE DANISH OF ANDERSEN.

BY MARY Hewitt.

In small Quarto,

A STORY ABOUT A CHRISTMAS IN

THE SEVENTEENTH CENTURY.

By MRS. PERCY Sinners.

Each embellished with Four coloured Engravings,

In Small Quarto,

HUNTERS AND FISHERS;

OR, SKETCHES OF PRIMITIVE RACES IN

LANDS BEYOND THE SEA.

BY MRS. PERCY Sinners.

In small Quarto,

THE. HORSE AND HIS RIDER. I

(/iV THE PRESS).

IN PREPARATION.

In two volumes. Octavo,

NARRATIVE OF THE EXPEDITION TO BORNEO

IN 1843-4.
OF H.M.S. DIDO, for; THE Suppression OF PIRACY.

With Extracts from the Journal of James Brooke, Esq., now of Sarawak.

BY CAPT. THE HON. HENRY Repel. Ren.

With numerous Maps and Illustrations in tinted Lithography.

THE KING OF SAXONY'S JOURNEY IN ENGLAND

IN THE YEAR 1844.
By dr. CARUS, His Majesty's Physician.

(En tJ)c Jpovcign Xitirarp.)

BY CHAPMAN AND HALL.

RECENT PUBLICATIONS.

CHAPMAN AND HALL'S MONTHLY SERIES.

A COIiLBCTION OF ORIGINAL Crores OP

*' The commencement of a new, and, as it seems to us, very spirited attempt to reduce the
ice of this class of literature"— ^^a/wmer.

*' If the ' Monthly Series' continues as well as it has begun, the old three-volume system is
an end. The world will no longer be willing to pay thirty shillings for rubbish, when for
fourteen, it can enjoy the best inventions of the best writers." — Athenaeum. ,

VOLUMES ALREADY PUBLISHED,

In one volume Post Octavo, clos, 7s.

THE FALCON FAMILY;

©r, young Erelantr.

A COMIC NOVEL.

In this book, if we mistake not, we have the promise of a new writer of satirical fiction,
not unworthy to take his place with the writer of ' Crotchet Castle' and ' Headlong Hall.' "
Examiner.

A vein of genuine comedy runs lavishly through every page, and equally exhibits itself
whether in the conception of character and incident, or in the construction of the sparkling
dialogue which floats down before the imagination of the reader"— J/orwi/tg Chronicle.

In one volume, Post Octavo, cloth, 7s.

THE LIFE OF MOZART,

INCLUDING HIS CORRESPONDENCE.
By EDWARD HOLMES,

AUTHOR Oy " A Ramble AMONG THE MUSICIANS OF GERMANY," &C.

A clear, complete, and judicious view of Mozart's Life. * * * * We can safely
recommend this volume"— Blackwood.

In every respect a most admirable piece of Biography. "—i\^ez<' Monthly Magazine.

We cannot conceive a more fascinating story of genius. * * * To a style which
would alone have sufficed to the production of an interesting and striking narrative, Mr.
Holmes unites a depth of knowledge and musical appreciation very rare and remarkable "
Examiner.

An acceptable addition to our stores of biography. More rich and complete in the
assemblage of its materials than any previous publication on the SMhitcV—AthencEum.

In two volumes, Post Octavo, cloth, 145.,

THE Whitby;

A STORY OF IRELAND IN 1822.

By MRS. S. C. HALL.

Indisputably Mrs. Hall's best novel. * * * ' The Whitby' is an excellent contribution
to Messrs. Chapman and Hall's Monthly Series"— Athenaeum.

'• Mrs. Hall's style is easy, graceful, and effective. The death of Abel Richards, the
middle-man, in which the Banshee or Death-herald is introduced, is described with thrilling
effect"— yo/m Bull. ',

[See next Page . ^ -

CHAPMAN AND Alii's MONTHLY SERIES (continued).

Jn two volumes Post Octavo, cbthj 14s.

MOUNT Sore,

OR, THE HEIRESS OF THE DE Teres,

BY THE AUTHOR OF THE " TWO OLD MEN'S TALES." ,

A tale of singular beauty"— Examiner.

' Mount Sorer is its author's best invention We have rarely read a book

exciting so strong an interest, in which the mean, the criminal, and the vulgar had so
small a share ; and for this, as a crowning charm and an excellence too rare, alas ! in these
days, does it give us pleasure to commend and to re-commend • Mount Sores.' "athenaeum.

On the First of January, Part I, price 3s. {to be completed in Two Parts)

LONG ENGAGEMENTS.

A TALE.

In one volume, with Plates, price 7s. 6d. in cloth,

THE PRACTICAL COOK,

Containing a great variety of Old Receipts improved and remodelled, and many
Original Receipts in

With copious directions for the choice of all Provisions, the laying out a Table
giving small and large Dinners, and the Management of a Cellar.

By JOSEPH Region,

Formerly Cook to H. E. Prince Rausmosski; to H. H. the Prince Nicholas Esterhazyj
to the Marquis of Aylesbury ; the Russian Ambassador at Paris, &c. &c.

AND ANNE MILLER,
Cook in several English Families of Distinction.

This is an excellent and truly " Practical Cook." * * Every body can understand it
and get benefit by it."- Fraser's Magazine.

This is a most formidable rival to all previous existing cookery-books. While Kitchener
and Russell are quite equalled, Ude and the •' Cuisinier Royal " are simplified and economised.
We are further introduced to the curiosities of Russian and American cookery,
while a host of receipts which every one was anxious for, from the repertory of Indian
and German kitchens, are also to be met y/ith.^'—Netv Monthly Mugazi^ie.

The style throughout is careful and methodical, and the receipts given with such clearness,
that ' she who bastes may read.' "morning Chronicle.

•' To all persons who wish to excel in cooking, the present volume must prove highly
useful, as in addition to all the most approved English receipts, it contains copious
directions for the preparation of all kinds of continental and Indian delicacies. It will
likewise be of great service to all young housekeepers, who have yet to learn the proper
arrangements of the dinner-table, as it contains not only a bill of fare for every month iu
the year, but is illustrated by very neat engravings, showing the proper method of placing
the dishes on the table, and the order in which the courses and dessert are to appear"—

Britannia.

In Imperial Octavo, price 16*., cloth gilt,

THE CHILD OF THE ISLANDS,

^ $oem.
By the HON. MRS. NORTON.

"Write AN ILLUSTRATION BY DANIEL Malice, R. A.

*' There can be no question that the performance bears throughout the stamp of
extraordinary ability — the sense of easy power very rarely deserts us. But we pause on
the bursts of genius ; and they are many. * * * The exquisite beauty of the verses
is worthy of the noble womanly feelings expressed in them. * * * We wish we had
room for a score more of these masterly sketches — but we hope we have given enough,
not to excite attention, for that such gifts employed with such energy must at once
command, even were the name on the title-page a new one — but enough to show that we
have not observed with indifference this manifestation of developed skill— this fairest
wreath as yet won in the service of the graver Muses for the name of Sheridan"—

Quarterly lievietv.

<'We find in almost every page some bold burst, graceful allusion, or delicate touch
some trait of external nature, or glimpse into the recesses of the heart— that irresistibly
indicates the creating power of s^a.ms."~Edinburgh Review,

In three volumes, Octavo, price 23s. cloth,

THE WANDERING JEW.

BY M. EUGENE SUE.

The Work may still be had in Numbers, Parts, and Volumes, and Subscribers
are recommended to complete their sets without delay.

In Imperial Quarto, price Three Guineas ; Proofs on India Paper, Four Guineas,

THE PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF ART.

Treating OP

BEAUTY OF FORM, IMITATION, COMPOSITION, LIGHT AND SHADE, EFFECT

AND COLOUR.

By J, J), HARDING,

AUTHOR OF " Elementary Art''

Mii^ numerous Illustrations, ireton ante (SngrabcU 6p tl;e '^utl^or.

The plates in this volume are no less various than excellent, and admirably adapted to
elucidate the letter-press, which consists of eight chapters ; in the first of which it is
shown that true principles of art are derived from nature ; the second treats of imitation
as applied to art ; the third of the distinction between the judgment and the feelings with
respect to art ; the fourth on beauty and form ; and the remainder on composition, light,
and shade, colour, and drawing from nature; with an Appendix on manipulation and
materials. The amplest instructions are laid down in the simplest language, without the
use of the terms employed in the art— so many of which are without real signification; j
and of them we can only say, that we know of no work from which amateurs and even
persons wholly unacquainted with every principle, could so readily gather a guiding knowledge
as from this work"— ^r? Union.

«

THE Parsonage OF MORA.

By Frederica Brewer.
Translated by WILLIAM Hewitt.

There are, in the ' Parsonage of Mora,' as in every thing that Miss Bremen writes,
beauties of a rare kind, charming and cheerful pictures of the domestic affections, and
household habits of educated and happy middle life, and vivid fancy shedding lustre on
all on which it glances or plays"— air'* Magazine.

In one volume, cloth, gilt edges, price Bs.

ST. PATRICK'S EYE;

OR, THREE ERAS IN THE LIFE OP AN IRISH PEASANT.
By CHARLES LEVER.

WITH FOUR ETCHINGS AND NUMEROUS "WOODCUTS, BY "PHIZ."

One of the best and purest productions of this fertile author. The tale is touched
throughout with genuine pathos, and exhibits glimpses of beauty, moral and intellectual,
gleaming over the rugged lot of the Irish labourer, like the pure specks of blue in a stormy
sky, when occasionally the clouds sever." — Britannia.

In one volume. Post Octavo, price 14s. cloth gilt,

A TOUR THROUGH THE VALLEY OF THE MEUSE;

Mi i^s Regents of t^t SeaaHoon country ante i^c '^x'atmts.
By DUDLEY COSTELLO.

WITH AN ORNAMENTAL FRONTISPIECE AND NUMEROUS "WOODCUTS.

Unaffectedly written, and nicely illustrated j and will be found a well-informed, well-bred,
chatty companion, to whomsoever pleasure may take up the Valley of the Meuse,
or business may keep at home. It is for in-doors as well as out"— Examiner.

"This work is one of the most agreeable tourist manuals we have ever seen, inasmuch
as the author has paused, not only to inquire at each place he visited, but also to reflect
upon the result of his inquiries, which he communicates in a style highly pleasing and
graphic, and often learned"— ilr^ Union.

In Octavo, price 5s.

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF HEINRICH ZSCHOKKE.

(Part Xxxi. of " The Foreign Library")

This is one of the very best of the many excellent foreign works which the * Foreign
Library' has made accessible to English readers. It presents us with a vivid picture of the
mind and life of a man worthy to be known— one who has striven with success, by speculation
and by action, to improve the condition of his fellow man. The volume is imbued
with the spirit of moral and political wisdom, and cannot fail to be widely read. It
inculcates the lessons of virtue by the most effectual of all methods — the example of a
life of high-principled and beneficent activity." — Morning Chronicle.

A beautiful picture of a good man's life, of a good man's struggles, of a benefactor of
the human race"— Jo/i/i Still.

BY CHAPMAN AND HALL.

WORKS OF THOMAS CARLYLE.

In One Volume, small 8ro, with a Portrait, price 8s. 6d. cloth,

THE LIFE OF SCHILLER.

a laced inanition.

In one volume post Svo, price \Qs. 6d. cloth,
PAST AND PRESENT.

SECOND EDITION.

In one volume small 8vo, price Qs. cloth,
LECTURES

Oi

HEROES AND HERO WORSHIP.

SECOND EDITION.

In three vols, small 8vo, price ll. 5s., cloth,
THE FRENCH REVOLUTION :

Vol. 1.— Thb Bastille.
Vol. II.— The Constitution.
Vol. III.— The Guillotine.

SECOND edition.

Ill one volume crown svo, price 5s. cloth,
CHARTISM.

It never smokes but there is fire."

Old Proverb.
SECOND EDITION.

In five vols, small Svo, price ll. 15s. cloth,
CRITICAL AND MISCELLANEOUS

ESSAYS.

SECOND EDITION.

In three vols, small 8vo, price 18*. cloth,

TRANSLATION

OF

GOETHE'S WILHELM MEISTER;

Containing

Jtt^istw's ^ppr^ nticesfiip $c JJltister's
©rabds,

SECOND EDITION, REVISED.

WORKS OF CHARLES DICKENS.

In one volume, Svo, price ll. is. cloth,
THE PICKWICK PAPERS.

with Forty-three ILLUSTRATIONS
BY " PHIZ."

In one volume, 8vo, price ll. is. cloth,

NICHOLAS NICKLEBY.

WITH FORTY ILLUSTRATIONS BY " PHIZ.'

In one volume, 8vo, price ll. is. cloth,
SKETCHES BY " BOZ."

A NEW EDITION,

"WITH FORTY ILLUSTRATIONS,
BY GEORGE CRUIKSHANK.

In one volume, 8vo, price ll. is., cloth,
MARTIN CHUZZLEWIT.

WITH FORTY ILLUSTRATIONS BY " PHIZ."

In one volume, price I3.v. cloth,
THE OLD CURIOSITY SHOP.

WITH Seventy-five ILLUSTRATIONS

BY G. CATTERMOLE ft H. K. BROWNE.

In one volume, price lys. cloth,

Barnard Ridge ;

% ^aU of fit KSiiots of '^W^.

WITH Seventy-eight ILLUSTRATIONS
BY G. CATTERMOLE Sci. K. BROWNE.

In two volumes, post Svo, price ll. la., cloth,

AMERICAN NOTES,

fox €itntxdX Circulation.

FOURTH EDITION.

NEW ILLUSTRATED WORK BY Linden,

OF WHICH EIGHT PARTS ARE ALREADY ISSUED.

Publishing on the First of every Months

Linden's

BEAUTIES OF THE POETS:

BEING
OF

THEIR PRINCIPAL FEMALE CHARACTERS,

From Paintings by eminent Artists, made expressly for the Work. Engraved in the
highest style of Art

BY, OR UNDER THE IMMEDIATE SUPERINTENDENCE OF,

MR. EDWARD Linden.

WITH DESCRIPTIVE LETTER-PRESS.

THE SERIES COMMENCES WITH MOORE,

TO BE FOLLOWED BY ILLUSTRATIONS OF BURNS, CAMPBELL, AND OTHER
POPULAR BRITISH POETS.

Each Number contains Pour Plates, with Illustrative Letter-press from the pen of a
distinguished Female Writer.

Prints. Imperial Quarto ^.i. Five Shillings.

Proofs, on India paper ^ Atlas Quarto « . Eight Shillings,

Proofs, ditto Colombier Folio, of which a

few only will be printed, without Letter-press

> Twelve Shillings.

"The beginning of a charming publication. The portfolio redolent of beauty; and
every single picture so bewitching that it deserves a frame, and the whole series to adorn
a gallery. A portrait of Moore, after Lawrence, is set in a border of exquisite grace;
English and appropriate, and without a borrowed touch from the German School. It is
of the utmost elegance. Then follow the subjects : " Black and Blue Eyes," W. Frith—
the former, according to the song, wounding without caring for the consequences, but
the latter better pleased to heal the wounds they have inflicted— is delightfully embodied
in two lovely girls, with expression suited to the words. ♦' St. Jerome's Love," H. Neil,
is a single female form of touching pathos : and " Young Kitty," J. Wright, with her face
reflected from a mirror, a pleasing fancy. The last, " Laughing Eyes," another by W.
Frith, is perfectly delicious ; and the whole ar(3 engraved, the first by W. Edwards and the
rest by E. Finder, in a style of great excellence. They are quite poetical— transparent,
with tender yet effective shadows; and the accessaries, whether we refer to costume or
the frame-work around, at the same time finely correct and profusely rich. A neat and
interesting letter-press exposition accompanies each picture. The work is one of the
fairest promise; and in these days of admiration for the really superior productions of
art, must be a very popular public favourites-Z/iierary Gazette.

Publishing every alternate Month,

THE BARONIAL HALLS,

AND

FROM

Railings male apresslg for the Moil,

BY
J. D. HARDING, G. CATTERMOLE, S. PROUT, J. HOLLAND, F. MULLER, &C.

scouted IN LITHOTINT Under THE SUPERINTENDENCE OP MR. HARDING.

■VVITH DESCRIPTIVE LETTER-PRESS BY S. C. HALL, F.S.A.

Each Part contains Three Plates, and Twelve Pages of Letter-press, interspersed with

Woodcuts.

PaiCB— Prints, Imperial Quarto, 5s. ; Proofs, Colombier Quarto, 7s. 6d. ; India Paper,
Imperial Folio, I2s.

CONTENTS of PART XIII. JUST PUBLISHED.

HARDWICKE Leal Derbyshire.

Lovely HOUSE Surrey.

Crowley HALL Staffordshire.

PART XI.

SPEKE HALL Lancashire

Speke HALL, Interior '*

CAVERSWALL CASTLE Staffordshire

PART XII.

THE HALL IN THE WOOD, Lancashire
Charlotte Warwickshire

charlotte, great hall "

THE FIRST VOLUIVIE,

Comprising THE FIRST EIGHT PARTS, IS COMPLETED.

Price— Prints, Imperial Quarto, half-bound, ^6*2 5s. ; Proofs, Colombier Quarto, half
bound je:3 7s. 6d.

SHOTTESBROOKE CHURCH Berkshire

Samson HALL Cambridgeshire

Bretton HALL Cheshire

MORETON HALL "

North Cumberland '

North LONG GALLERY '•

HINCHINBROOK HOUSE HnNTiNCDON SHIRE

CHARLTON HOUSE Kent

COBHAM HALL "

COBHAM CHURCH, INTERIOR "

Never CASTLE "

PENSHURST, FROM THE

PARK "

CONTENTS :

PENSHURST, THE COURT-YARD Kent

TURTON TOWER Lancashire

KIRBY HALL Northampton.

Trickling Norfolk.

THE GREAT CHAMBER,

Montague Somerset hire

INGESTRIE STArroRBSHiRK

Bellingham HALL Suffolk

Engrave HALL "

WEST STOW HALL "

ARUNDEL CHURCH Sussex

BOXGRO VE CHURCH "

WARWICK CASTLE WARWICKSHIRE

>S

€f)t ;:ffoxtiqn aifirars*

^

A Series of Translations of popular and interesting Foreign Works published as soon
as possible after their appearance on the Continent,

VOLUMES COMPLETED.

The Autobiography of Heinrich Zschokke.

Price $5. (Just published).

Russia. By J. G. Kohl.

Comprising St. Petersburg —Moscow — Kharkoflf — High — Odessa — The
German Provinces on the Baltic— The Steppes — The Crimea — and th Interior
of the Country. With a Map, price 1 1*, cloth.

Austria. By J. G. Kohl.

Comprising Vienna — Prague — Hungary — bohemia — The Danube — Alicia
Styria — Moravia — Bukovino, and the Military Frontier. Price la. cloth.

Ireland, Scotland, and England. By J. G. Kohl.

Price Us. cloth.

Life in Mexico. By Madame Caldron de la Barca.

Price ll. cloth.

Celebrated Crimes. By Alexander Dumas.

Containing The Borgia — the Countess of Saint German— Joan of Naples —
Nisida — The Marchioness of Brinvilliers — The Cenci — The Marchioness de
Ganges— Karl Ludwig Sand— Vanilla— Urban Grander. Price 10*. cloth.

History of the Eighteenth Century.

By F. C. Schloss. Volumes First and Second, comprising the
Literary Portion of the History. Each, price 10*. cloth.

History of the Eighteenth Century.

By F. C. Schloss. Volumes Three, Four, and Five, price 11*.
each, cloth, and Volume Six, price 14s. cloth, comprising the Political Portion
of the History.

History of Ten Years : 1830—1840.

France during the Three Days, and under Louis-Philippe. By
LOUIS BLANC. Li Two Volumes. Each, price 13s. cloth.

Tales from the German.

Comprising Specimens from the most celebrated Authors. By J. Oxford
and C. A. Feeling. Price lis. cloth.

History of Germany.

From the earliest period to the present tune. By F. KOHLRAUSCH.
Price 14s. cloth.

History of France. By M. Michele,

Translated by Walter K. Kelly. Volume the First, price 13s. cloth
(to be completed in Two Volumes).

The Second Volume is nearly ready.

)^ ^

BY CHAPMAN AND HALL.

THE LIBRARY OF TRAVEL.

Volume the Firsts price 8s. 6 J., in cloth, or neatly bound in morocco gilt, 14*.

Stein AND THE HOLY LAND;

THEIR SCENERY AND THEIR PEOPLE,
Encilffnts of ^rabd, $cc.

FROM THE Best AND MOST RECENT AUTHORITIES.

By WALTER Beating EIELLY.

"WITH ONE HUNDRED AND EIGHTY WOODCUT ILLUSTRATIONS.

Never was information more amusingly conveyed— never were the results of voluminous
works of travel more spiritedly condensed. The execution is truly admirable. The
moral, social, physical, political, and geographical features of the East are well brought
out, and the reader is at home with the Turk, the Arab, the Jew, the Druse, and the
Maronite"— westminster Review.

Volume the Second, Price 9s. in chth, or morocco gilt, I5s.

EGYPT AND NUBIA;

WITH

NOTICES OF THEIR SCENERY AND NATIONAL CHARACTERISTICS,

Encilrtnts of seafaring ante Sojourn.

PERSONAL AND HISTORICAL SKETCHES, ANECDOTES, &c. &c.

BY J. A. ST. JOHN,

Abthoe op "Egypt and Mohammed Ali," "Manners and Customs or Ancient Greece," &c. ^
ILLUSTRATED WITH

ONE HUNDRED AND Twenty-five WOOD ENGRAVINGS.

In ene volume, cloth, gilt edges, price 6s.
SKETCHES OF

YOUNG LADIES, YOUNG Gentlemen,

AND YOUNG

COUPLES.

mi ©igi^tctn Illustrations bp ^i^i^

Second Edition, with Additions, in small Bvo,
price 5i. cloth.

SONGS AND BALLADS.

BY SAMUEL LOVER.

*^.* This Edition contains the Songs sung
in Mr. Love's " Irish Evenings."

Second Edition. — In two vols, post 8vo, price 145., cloth,

THE IRISH Sketch-book.

BY Mr. M. a. TITMAKSH.

WITH NUMEROUS ENGRAVINGS ON WOOD, FROM THE AUTHOR'S DESIGNS.

Michael Angelo Titmarsh is precisely the writer who should sketch Ireland as it is. He
has caught the very characteristics of the clime, and his narrative runs on with a never-failing
interest, which leaves one no chance, having once opened the book, but to read it
to its very last page — ay, and to profit by it too. — Morning Chronicle.

One of the most valuable books of travelling Sketches that has been published for many
a day. * * * Taken as a whole, the book is capital"— .ypecfa^or.

A ramble through Ireland, in which every thing is taken as it comes— char after and
wit are in all the drawings. We think the book uncommonly clever, hume rous, and
kindly"— £'a:a»ntner.

:^

WORKS PUBLISHED

In oblong folio, hound in cloth, price 12s.

FIFTEEN COMPOSITIONS IN OUTLINE,

ILLUSTRATIVE OF SHAKSPEARE'S TEMPEST.

By J. N. PATON.

In Foolscap Octavo, price 2s. in cloth,

Nursery GOVERNMENT;

OR, HINTS ADDRESSED TO MOTHERS AND NURSERYMAIDS

©n t^t management of young ®I)iItf«n.

By Sirs. Farewell.

Second Edition, corrected and enlarged.

ZOE

In Three Volumes, Post Octavo, cloth, 31s. 6d.

THE HISTORY OF TWO LIVES;

BY GERALDINE E. Newbury.

In one volume, cloth, price 5s. 6d.

CHESS FOR BEGINNERS, •

En a S^rus of progressive Lessons :

Showing the most approved Methods of Beginning and Ending the Game,
together with various Situations and Checkmate.

BY WILLIAM LEWIS.

THIRD EDITION, CORRECTED AND ENLARGED.

WITH TWENTY-rOUR DIAGRAMS PRINTED IN COLOURS.

Small octavo, price "js. cloth, or bound in
morocco, los. &d,

HOURS OF MEDITATION

'^xCa Emotional selection :

Upon various subjects connected with the
religious, moral, and social Duties of Life.

TRANSLATED FROM THE GERMAN OP

H. ZSCHOKKE,

BY JAMES D. HAAS.

DEDICATED TO THE QUEEN.
In one vol. 8wo, price lOs. 6rf.

THE BOKHARA VICTIMS;

Or, the case of the British Envoys, Colonel

Stoddart, Captain Coolly, and Lieutenant

Wyburd, Ian.

BY CAPTAIN GROVER,

UNATTACHED, F.R.S.

SECOND EDITION, WITH ADDITIONS.

In one volume, post suo, price 10*. 6d. cloth,

THE BOOK OF SYMBOLS.

A Series of Seventy-five shout Essays, on
as many different subjects, in connection
with Morals, Religion, and Philosophy; each
Essay illustrating an Ancient Symbol, or
Moral Precept.

The Essays are sensible and judicious

We

^c

ft ju

recommend the Book to our readers, as the production of
a learned and thinking mind." — John Bull.

MULLEN'S POEMS.

In a handsome volume, uniform with Rogers'
"Italy," price 12s. boards,

POEMS:

THE PILGRIM OF BEAUTY— THE COTTAGER'S
SABBATH— SONGS, AND MINOR POEMS.

BY SAMUEL MULLEN.

With Twenty-three Vignette Illustrations.

Engraved in line by W. R. Smith, from

Drawings by H. Warren.

-M

BY CHAPMAN AND HALL.

UNDER THE SUPERINTENDENCE OF THE SOCIETY* FOR THE DIFFUSION 1 t
OF USEFUL KNOWLEDGE.

A

SERIES OF MAPS,

COMPLETE, WITH THE INDEX,

Half Morocco, plain, sprinkled edges

ditto, gilt edges

-gilt back and edges

Half Russia, plain, sprinkled edges

ditto, gilt edges

gilt back and edges

1^^ Any Numbers oftiie Series may at present be obtained, and Subscribers are
recommended to complete their Sets without delay,

AN INDEX,

Of more than 25,000 Places, by the Rev. James Mecklenburg, A.M.
The size of the Atlas. Price 5*.

BINDING THE MAPS.

SPECIMEN COPIES, in various styles of Binding, may be seen at the
Publishers ; and Subscribers may have their Copies bound in the best and
strongest manner, with India-rubber backs, by sending them through their
respective Booksellers, or direct to 186, Strand.

Half Morocco, plain, sprinkled edges

ditto, gilt edges 1

gilt back and edges I j

Half Russia, plain, sprinkled edges I q

ditto, gilt edges I i

gilt back and edges 1

s.

s. d.


Strongly half-bound morocco, India-rubber Backs, price plain, 2l. 2s. ; coloured, 21. 16s

A FAMILY ATLAS,

CONTAINING rifts-FOUR MAPS— WITH AN INDEX OF PLACES.

Strongly bound in cloth, with India-rubber Backs,

A SCHOOL ATLAS.

MODERN.— Comprising Twenty-one Maps, with Index of Places. Price, plain, 17s. 6d.

coloured, 23*.
ANCIENT— Eighteen Maps. Plain, 12*. ; coloured, Ice. 6d.

ANCIENT AND MODERN.
Strongly half-bound in One Volume. Price, plain, ll. Js.; coloured, 1/. 17*.

THE STARS. ON THE Gnomon PROJECTION. Six Maps, 3s. plain ; 6s. coloured.

THE WORLD, ON THE Gnomon PROJECTION. Six Maps, 3s. plain; 4s. 6d. col.

GEOLOGICAL MAP OF ENGLAND AND WALES, fully coloured, price 55., or mounted
in Case, 6s,

NEW MAP OF LONDON, ENLARGED, AND WITH ALL THE RECENT Improvements.
In a Leather Case, price 3*. 6d., or on a sheet, l*. 6d. coloured.

Dei



WORKS PUBLISHED

POCKET COUNTY MAPS,

WITH ALL

THE Railway STATIONS CORRECTLY LAID DOWN.

ENGRAVED BY SIDNEY HALL.
PRINTED ON CHAPMAN'S PATENT PAPER-CLOTH,;

On a Sheet, price 6c?., or in a Case, price 9d. and Is. each.

BEDFORDSHIRE

BERKSHIRE

Buckinghamshire E

CAMBRIDGESHIRE

CHESHIRE

CORNWALL

CUMBERLAND

DERBYSHIRE

DEVONSHIRE

DORSETSHIRE

DURHAJ.I

ENGLAND :

ESSEX

Gloucestershire
HAMPSHIRE
HEREFORDSHIRE
HERTFORDSHIRE '
HUNTINGDONSHIRE
ISLE OF WIGHT
ISI/ES OF MAN, I

JERSEY, & GUERNSEY j
KENT

LANCASHIRE

LEICESTERSHIRE

LINCOLNSHIRE

Middlesex

MONMOUTHSHIRE

NORFOLK

NORTHAMPTONSHIRE

NORTHUMBERLAND ;

NOTTINGHAMSHIRE

OXFORDSHIRE

RUTLANDSHIRE

I SHROPSHIRE
j SOMERSETSHIRE
I STAFFORDSHIRE
SUFFOLK

SURREY

SUSSEX

WARWICKSHIRE

WESTMORELAND

WILTSHIRE

WORCESTERSHIRE

Price u. 6d. each, double the size of the above,
YORKSHIRE, IRELAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES.

NEW Travelling ATLAS.
Bound in roan with a tuck, price I65.,

A POCKET TRAVELLING ATLAS

OF THE ENGLISH COUNTIES,

With all the Rail Roads accurately laid down and Coloured, corrected to the present time.

ENGRAVED BY SIDNEY HALL.

ThB belt Atlas we have seen for neatness, portability, and clear engraving. The Maps are quarto size, but fold in
the middle, so that the whole, when closed, forms a moderately thick octavo volume, stitched in a Spanish morocco cover,
exactly the size, without being too bulky for the pocket of a great coat"— Westminster Review.

THE

ART-UNION JOURNAL

OP THE

FINE ARTS, AND THE ARTS DECORATIVE AND ORNAMENTAL.

Published on the First of every Month, price One Shilling.

The ' Art-Union' has obtained the confidence of the Artists generally, secured a considerable
portion of public patronage, and been recommended universally by the Press,
as ' ably and impartially conducted,' as ' admirably calculated to advance the objects of
artists, and increase the growing taste for Works of Art,' and as ' at once establishing,
by the excellence of its arrangements, the variety and interest of its intelligence, and the
tone of its opinions, the highest claims upon the support of all lovers of Art."

THE

FOREIGN QUARTERLY REVIEW,

PUBLISHED ON THE FIRST OF

JANUARY— APRIL— JULY— OCTOBER.
Price Six Shillings.

:)&^,

BY CHAPMAN AND HALL.

In large %vo, price As. 6rf., handsomely hound in, cloth and guilty
VOLUMES ONE AND TWO OF

THE EDINBURGH TALES.

CONDUCTED BY MRS. Johnston.

CONTENTS OF 'VOL. I.

The Experiences of Richard by

Taylor, Esq Mrs. Johnston

The Three Christmas Dinners

Mary Anne's Hair : a London

Love Story

Governor Fox

Little Fanny Bethel

Franklin the Barrister

The Sabbath Night's Supper. .

The Cousins Mrs. Fraser

The Renounced Treasure

from the Swedish) Mr. Hewitt

The Maid of Honour Mrs. Gore

The Rangers of Connaught . . Mr. Quillinan

The Elves from the German by

ofTieck) Mr. Carlyle

West Country Exclusives Mrs. Johnston

The Freshwater Fisherman. . Miss Milford

Story of Martha Guineas and
Her Son Mrs. Crown

The Deformed Miss Tatler

The White Fawn : an American
Story Col. Johnson

Johnny Darbyshire, a Primitive
Quaker Mr. Hewitt

Story of Farquharson of
Inverse Sir T. D. Lauder

CONTENTS OF VOL. II.

The Author's Daughter Mary Hewitt

The Balsam-Seller of 

Mrs. Gore

The Golden-Pot from the

German of Hoffman)

The Days of Old John Mills

Country Town Life Miss Milford

Marion Wilson . . By the late Robert Nicol
Violet Hamilton ; or, the
Talented Family Mrs. Johnston

These Stories, printed in the usual way of Modern Novels, would fill Eighteen
Volumes post 8vo.
The EDINBURGH TALES are publishing in Weekly Numbers, of sixteen
pages large 8vo, double columns, in a clear type, price Three-halfpence ; and
in Monthly Parts, each containing four numbers, stitched, with a wrapper,
price Sentence.

OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.

We must give a word of hearty and unreserved praise to the Edinburgh Tales, a
weekly issue of stories and novelettes, conducted by Mrs. Johnston. The first monthly
part is before us, containing two complete tales by Mrs. Johnston, and a prefatory sketch
of their imaginary narrator. It is amazingly cheap, but that is its least merit. The tales
are delightfully told : naturally, cheerfully, with great refinement of feeling, and a skilful
variety of manner. The character of * Richard Taylor' has touches Charles Lamb might
have given ; and the prudent heart of Miss Edgeworth would rejoice in ' Young Mrs.
Roberts' Three Christmas Dinners.' We shall watch the progress of this undertaking
with interest. The beginning is of the best promise." — Examiner.

* Why, this is a more exquisite song than the other !' sixty-four 8vo double-columned
pages for sentence ; containing tales, original or selected, and strung together by means
of a framework which will give place even to the selected scores, and unity and character
to those which are original. The first part of the Edinburgh Tales consists of three
stories, ' The Experiences of Richard Taylor, Esq. ;' an elderly humorist, whose personal
prototype might perhaps have been seen about town some years since, and whom leisure,
a cool head, and a benevolent heart, make acquainted with the history of many families.
The remaining histories are ' Young Mrs. Roberts' Three Christmas Dinners and ' Mary
Anne's Hair.' The first is a clever and rational inculcation of the moral, ' Live according to
your station, and within your means ;' in the course of which middle-class life and character
are admirably depicted. The second is a story of woman's devoted \o\Q."—fip€ctulor.

«:

:»>;

K" 15 PUBLISHED BY CHAPMAN AND HALL.

NEW WORK BY THE AUTHOR OF
"HARRY LORREQUER," " CHARLES O'MALLEY," &C.

On the First of January, Part I, price Is., (to he continued Monthly),

Fit Wittiest of ^i>i^nnt,

JSs. 1PA3LiIS ©W ^m.m ■2?HEEIi ©IF 'STISIl WS^2®S^,

Br CHARLES LEVER,

WITH ILLUSTRATIONS BY "Phiz'.

AUTHORIZED TRANSLATIONS OF M. EUGENE SUES WORKS.

In Weekly Numbers, price 6d., and in Monthly Parts,

THE MYSTERIES OF PARIS,

ILLUSTRATED WITH

UPWARDS OF SEVEN HUNDRED ENGRAVINGS ON WOOD

OF ALL

Wit Characters, Scenes, Costumes, ants Localities,

Described in this extraordinary Work ; executed expressly for this Edition by the first

Artists in Paris,

UNDER THE SUPERINTENDENCE OF MR. CHARLES HEATH.

THE first AND SECOND VOLUMES

Are completed, handsomely hound in cloth, price 18s. each.
THE THIRD AND CONCLUDING VOLUME WILL BE PUBLISHED SHORTLY.

HEATH'S ILLUSTRATIONS TO THE WANDERING JEW.

In Numbers, price 6d. each, containing Four Plates
A SERIES OF BEAUTIFUL

ILLUSTRATIONS TO THE WANDERING JEW.

breton bg tit first 'Artists in paris,

AND EXECUTED ON WOOD BY THE MOST EMINENT ENGLISH ENGRAVERS,
UNDER THE SUPERINTENDENCE OF MR. CHARLES HEATH.

^^^ C.W2IITING, LONDON'.

<??

E> Rally

OF THE

UNIVERSITY

OF ILLINOIS

PRtSENTLD BY

H9lst
1888, V.1

University of Illinois Library

hit



"^^^

JRK 26 ;pS

Nugget.— "A diminutive mass of precious metal.

I. Tales from the Geste Roma-notum

fl.OO

II. Headlong Hall and Nightmare
Abbey $i.oo

III. Tulliver's Travels. Two vols. $2.50

IV. Tales from Irving. First and Second

Series. Illustrated. Each $1.00
V. The Book of British Ballads.
Edited by Hall. Illustrated . $1.50
VI. The Adventures of Baron Munchausen.
Illustrated . . $1.25
VII. letters, Sentences, and Maxims.
By I^ord Chesterfield . . . $1.00
VIII. The Vicar of Wakefield. Illustrated
$1.00

IX. I/Ays of Ancient Rome. By Macaulay.
Illustrated . . . . $1.00
X. Undine and Intra. By Fouquet.

Illustrated $1.00

XI. The Rose AND the Ring. By Thackeray.
Illustrated . . . $1.25
XII. Irish Melodies. By Moore. Illustrated
$1.50

XIII. The Essays of Elia. By I,amb.

2 vols $2.00

XIV. stories from the Italian Poets,

By I^eigh Hunt. 2 vols. . . $2.00

FROM

The Italian Poets

(FIRST SERIES)

DANTE ALIGHIERI

WITH CRITICAL NOTICES OF THE LIFE AND
GENIUS OF THE A Author

BY

LEIGH HUNT

Neil YORK AND LONDON

G. p. PUTNAM'S SONS
"Bc TknicF?erbocftcr press

New York

TN deciding to include in the series of
51 " Knickerbocker Nuggets ' ' a reissue of the

^ more important of the "Stories from the Italian

5A Poets " (the first American edition of which
was published by their house in 1848) the pub

fishers thought that their readers were entitled
to have before them the author's Preface as

^ originally written for the complete series, even
though this Preface makes reference to certain

> tales which it was not practicable to include in
the two volumes now put into print.

In case the public demand warrants, however,
the publishers will be well pleased to complete
the reissue of the series, at an early date, by
the publication of a third volume containing
the 'stales from Boiardo " and the metrical
versions given in the Appendix to the first

edition.

New York, June,

I I 79257

To Sir Percy Shelley, Bart,
Preface

DANTE

Critical Notice of His I<ife and Genius.

The Italian Pilgrim's Progress .
The Journey Through Hell .
The Journey Through Purgatory
The Journey Through Heaven







My Dear Sir Percy :

As I know no man who surpasses yourself in
combining a love of the most romantic fiction
with the coolest good sense, and in passing
from the driest metaphysical questions to the
heartiest enjoyment of humor, — I trust that
even a modesty so true as yours will not grudge
me the satisfaction of inscribing these volumes
with your name.

That you should possess such varieties of taste
is no wonder, considering what an abundance
of intellectual honors you inherit ; nor might
the world have been the better for it, had they
been tastes, and nothing more. But that you
should inherit also that zeal for justice to mankind
which has become so Christian a feature
in the character of the age, and that you should
include in that zeal a special regard for the welfare
of your father's friend, is a subject of constant
pleasurable reflection to

Your obliged and affectionate

LEIGH HUNT,

THE purpose of these volumes is to add to the
stock of tales from the Italian writers ; to retain
at the same time as much of the poetry of
the originals as it is in the power of the writer's
prose to compass ; and to furnish careful biographical
notices of the authors. There have
been several collections of stories from the
novelists of Italy, but none from the poets ;
and it struck me that prose versions from these,
of the kind here offered to the public, might
not be unwillingly received. The stories are
selected from the five principal narrative poets,
Dante, Pulci, Boiardo, Ariosto, and Tasso ; they
comprise the most popular of such as are fit for
translation ; are reduced into one continuous
narrative, when diffused and interrupted, as in
the instances of those of Angelica and Armida ;
are accompanied with critical and explanatory
notes ; and in the case of Dante, consist of an
abstract of the poet's whole work. The volumes

are furthermore interspersed with the
most favorite morceaux of the originals, followed
sometimes with attempts to versify them ;
and in the Appendix, for the better satisfaction
of the student, are given entire stories, also in
the original, and occasionally rendered in like
manner. The book is particularly intended for
such students or other lovers of the language
as are pleased with any fresh endeavors to recommend
it ; and at the same time, for such
purely English readers as wish to know something
about Italian poetry, without having leisure
to cultivate its acquaintance.

I did not intend, in the first instance, to depart
from the plan of selection in the case of
Dante ; but when I considered what an extraordinary
person he was — how intense is everything
which he says — how widely he has re-attracted
of late the attention of the world — how
willingly, perhaps, his poem might be regarded
by the reader as being itself one continued
story (which, in fact, it is), related personally
of the writer — and lastly, what a combination of
difficulties have prevented his best translations
in verse from giving the public a just idea of
his almost Scriptural simplicity — I began to
think that an abstract of his entire work might
possibly be looked upon as supplying something
of a desideratum. I am aware that nothing

but verse can do perfect justice to verse ;
but besides the imperfections which are pardonable,
because inevitable, in all such metrical
endeavors, the desire to impress a grand and
worshipful idea of Dante has been too apt to
lead his translators into a tone and manner the
reverse of his passionate, practical, and creative
style — a style which may be said to write
things instead of words ; and thus to render
every word that is put out of its place, or
brought in for help and filling up, a misrepresentation.
I do not mean to say that he himself
never does any thing of the sort, or does
not occasionally assume too much of the oracle
and the schoolmaster, in manner as well as
matter ; but passion, and the absence of the
superfluous, are the chief characteristics of his
poetry. Fortunately, this sincerity of purpose
and utterance in Dante render him the least
perceptible of poets in a sincere prose translation
; and, since I ventured on attempting one,
I have had the pleasure of meeting with an express
recommendation of such a version* in an
early number of the Edinburgh Review.

The abstract of Dante, therefore, in these volumes
(with every deprecation that becomes me

" It is probable that a prose translation would give a
better idea of the genius and manner of this poet than
any metrical one." Vol. i., p. 310.

of being supposed to pretend to giveathorough
idea of any poetry whatsoever, especially without
its metrical form) aspires to be regarded as,
at all events, not exhibiting a false idea of the
Dantesque spirit in point of feeling and expression.
It is true, I have omitted long, tedious
lectures of scholastic divinity and other learned
absurdities of the time, which are among the
bars to the poems being read through, even in
Italy (which Foscolo tells us is never the case);
and I have compressed the work in other passages
not essentially necessary to the formation
of a just idea of the author. But quite enough
remains to do so in every respect; and in no
part of it have I made additions or alterations.
There is warrant — I hope I may say letter — for
every thing put down. Dante is the greatest
poet for intensity that ever lived ; and he excites
a corresponding emotion in his reader — I
wish I could say, always on the poet's side ;
but his ferocious hates and bigotries too often
tempt us to hate the bigot, and always compel
us to take part with the fellow-creatures whom
he outrages. At least, such is their effect on
myself. Such a man, however, is the last whom
a reporter is inclined to misrepresent. We respect
his sincerity too much, ferocious though
it be ; and we like to give him the full benefit
of the recoil of his curses and maledictions. I

hope I have not omitted one. On the other
hand, as little have I closed my feelings against
the lovely and enchanting sweetness which this
great semi-barbarian sometimes so affectingly
utters. On those occasions he is like an angel
enclosed for penance in some furious giant, and
permitted to weep through the creature's eyes.
The stories from good-natured Pulci I have
been obliged to compress for other reasons —
chiefly their excessive diffuseness, A paragraph
of the version will sometimes comprise many
pages. Those of Boiardo and Ariosto are more
exact ; and the reader will be good enough to
bear in mind that nothing is added to any of
the poets, different as the case might seem here
and there, on comparison with the originals.
An equivalent for whatever is said is to be found
in some part of the context — generally in letter,
always in spirit. The least characteristically
exact passages are, some in the love-scenes of
Tasso ; for I have omitted the plays upon words
and other corruptions in style, in which that
poet permitted himself to indulge. But I have
noticed the circumstance in the comment. In
other respects, I have endeavored to make my
version convey some idea of the different styles
and genius of the writers, — of the severe passion
of Dante, the overflowing gayety and affecting
sympathies of Pulci, several of whose passages

in the " Battle of Roncesvalles " are masterpieces
of pathos ; the romantic and inventive elegance
of Boiardo ; the great cheerful universality of
Ariosto, like a healthy anima mtmdi; and the
ambitious irritability, the fairy imagination,
and tender but somewhat effeminate voluptuousness
of the poet of Armida and Rinaldo. I
do not pretend that prose versions of passages
from these writers can supersede the necessity of
metrical ones, supposing proper metrical ones
attainable. They demand them more than
Dante, the tone and manner in their case being
of more importance to the effect. But with all
due respect to such translators as Harrington,
Rose, and Wiflfen, their books are not Ariosto
and Tasso, even in manner. Harrington, the
gay "godson" of Queen Elizabeth, is not always
unlike Ariosto ; but when not in good
spirits he becomes as dull as if her majesty had
frowned on him. Rose was a man of wit and a
scholar; yet he has undoubtedly turned the
ease and animation of his original into inversion
and insipidity. And Wiffen, though elegant
and even poetical, did an unfortunate thing for
Tasso, when he gave an additional line and a
number of paraphrastic thoughts to a stanza already
tending to the superfluous. Fairfax himself,
who, upon the whole, and with regard to a
work of any length, is the best metrical translator

our language has seen, and, like Chapman,
a genuine poet, strangely aggravated the.
sins of prettiness and conceit in his original,
and added to them a love of tautology amounting
to that of a lawyer. As to Hoole, he is
below criticism ; and other versions I have not
happened to see. Now if I had no acquaintance
with the Italian language, I confess I would
rather get any friend who had to read to me a
passage out of Dante, Tasso, or Ariosto, into
the first simple prose that offered itself, than
go to any of the above translators for a taste of
it, Fairfax excepted ; and we have seen with
how much allowance his sample would have to
be taken. I have therefore, with some restrictions,
only ventured to do for the public what I
would have had a friend do for myself.

The Critical and Biographical Notices I did
not intend to make so long at first ; but the interest
grew upon me ; and I hope the reader
will regard some of them — Dante's and Tasso's
in particular — as being "stories" themselves,
after their kind, — "stories, alas, too true " ; "romances
of real life." The extraordinary character
of Dante, which is personally mixed up
with his writings beyond that of any other poet,
has led me into references to his church and
creed, unavoidable at any time in the endeavor
to give a thorough estimate of his genius, and

singularly demanded by certain phenomena of
the present day. I hold those phenomena to
be alike absurd and fugitive ; but only so by
reason of their being openly so proclaimed ; for
mankind have a tendency to the absurd, if their
imaginations are not properly directed ; and
one of the uses of poetry is, to keep the faculty
in a healthy state, and cause it to know its
boundaries. Dante, in the fierce egotism of his
passions, and the strange identification of his
knowledge with all that was knowable, would
fain have made his poetry both a sword against
individuals, and a prop for the support of the
superstition that corrupted them. This was reversing
the duty of a Christian and a great man ;
and there happen to be existing reasons why it
is salutary to show that he had no right to do
so, and must not have his barbarism confounded
with his strength. Macchiavelli was of opinion
that if Christianity had not reverted to its first
principles, by means of the poverty and pious
lives of St. Francis and St. Dominicans the faith
would have been lost. It may have been ; but

" Discourse supra la Prima Mecca di Tito Livid," lib. iii. ,
cap. i. At page 229 of the present volume, I have too hastily
called St. Dominic " the founder of the Inquisition." It
is generally conceded, I believe, by candid Protestant
inquirers, that he was not, whatever zeal in the foundation
and support of the tribunal may have been manifested
by his order. But this does not acquit him of the
cruelty for which he has been praised by Dante ; he
joined in the sanguinary persecution of the Albigenses.

such are not the secrets of its preservation intimes
of science and progression, when the
spirit of inquiry has established itself among
all classes, and nothing is taken for granted, as
it used to be. A few persons here and there,
who confound a religious reaction in a corner
with the reverse of the fact all over the rest of
Europe, may persuade themselves, if they please,
that the world has not advanced in knowledge
for the last three centuries, and so get up and cry
aloud to us out of obsolete horn-books ; but the
community laugh at them. Everybody else is
inquiring into first principles, while they are
dogmatizing on a forty-ninth proposition. The
Irish themselves, as they ought to do, care
more for their pastors than for the Pope, and if
anybody wishes to know what is thought of his
Holiness at head-quarters, let him consult the
remarkable and admirable pamphlet which has
lately issued from the pen of Mr. Mazzini. * I
have the pleasure of knowing excellent Roman
Catholics ; I have suffered in behalf of their
emancipation, and would do so again tomorrow
; but I believe that if even their external
form of Christianity has any chance of survival
three hundred years hence, it will have been

*It is entitled, " Italy, Austria, and the Pope "; and is
full, not only of the eloquence of zeal and of evidences
of intellectual power, but of the most curious and instructive
information.

owing to the appearance meanwhile of some
extraordinary man in power, who in the teeth
of worldly interests, or rather in charitable and
sage inclusion of them, shall have proclaimed
that the time had arrived for living in the flower
of Christian charity, instead of the husks and
thorns which may have been necessary to guard
it. If it were possible for some new and wonderful
Pope to make this change, and draw a line
between these two Christian epochs, like that
between the Old and New Testaments, the world
would feel inclined to prostrate itself again and
for ever at the feet of Rome. In a catholic state
of things like that, delighted should I be, for
one, to be among the humblest of its communicants.
How beautiful would their organs be
then ! how ascending to an perplexing heaven
their incense ! how unselfish their salvation !
how intelligible their talk about justice and love !
But if charity (and by charity I do not mean
mere toleration, or any other pretended right
to permit others to have eyes like ourselves,
but whatever the beautiful Greek word implies
of good and lovely), if this truly and only
divine consummation of all Christian doctrine be
not thought capable of taking a form of belief
"strong" enough, superstition must lookout
for some new mode of dictation altogether ; for
the world is outgrowing the old.

DANTE was a very great poet, a man of the
strongest passions, a claimant of unbounded
powers to lead and enlighten the
world ; and he lived in a semi-barbarous age,
as favorable to the intensity of his imagination,
as it was otherwise to the rest of his pretensions.
Party zeal, and the fluctuations of moral
and critical opinion, have at different periods
overrated and depreciated his memory ; and if,
in the following attempt to form its just estimate,
I have found myself compelled, in some
important respects, to differ with preceding
writers, and to protest in particular against his

As notices of Dante's life have often been little but
repetitions of former ones, I think it due to the painstaking
character of this volume to state that, besides
consulting various commentators and critics, from Boccaccio
to Fraticelli and others, I have diligently perused
the " Vita di Dante " by Cesare Balbo, with Rocco's annotations:
the " Histoire Litt^raire d' Italic," by ;
the "Discorso sul Testoo della Commedia," by
Foscolo ; the " Amorii e Rime di Dante " of Arrivabene ;
the " Veltro Allegoricoo di Dante" by Trojan ; and Oza-
nam's "Dante et la Philosophic Catholique au Trei-
zei^me Silencing

regarded as a proper teacher on any one
point, poetry excepted, and as far as all such
genius and energy cannot in some degree help
being, I have not been the less sensible of the
wonderful nature of that genius, while acting
within the circle to which it belongs. Dante
was indeed so great a poet, and at the same
time exhibited in his personal character such a
mortifying exception to what we conceive to bethe
natural wisdom and temper of great poets ;
in other words, he was such a bigoted and exasperated
man, and sullied his imagination
with so much that is contradictory to good feeling
in matters divine as well as human ; that I
should not have thought myself justified in
assisting, however humbly, to extend the influence
of his writings, had I not believed a time
to have arrived, when the community may
profit both from the marvels of his power and
the melancholy absurdity of its contradictions.
Dante Alighieri, who has always been known
by his Christian rather than surname (partly
owing to the Italian predilection for Christian
names, and partly to the unsettled state of
patronymics in his time), was the son of a
lawyer of good family in Florence, and was
born in that city on the 14th of May, 1265
(sixty-three years before the birth of Chaucer).
The stock is said to have been of Roman origin,

of the race of the Frangipani ; but the only certain
trace of it is to Cacciaguida, a Florentine
cavalier of the house of the Blisei, who died in
the Crusades. Dante gives an account of him
in his " Paradiso." * Cacciaguida married a lady
of the Alighieri family of the Valdipado ; and,
giving the name to one of his children, they
subsequently retained it as a patronymic in
preference to their own. It would appear,
from the same poem, not only that the
Alighieri were the more important house, but
that some blot had darkened the scutcheon of
the Elisei ; perhaps their having been poor,
and transplanted (as he seems to imply) from
some disreputable district. Perhaps they were
known to have been of ignoble origin ; for, in
the course of one of his most philosophical
treatises, he bursts into an extraordinary ebullition
of ferocity against such as adduce a
knowledge of that kind as an argument against
a family's acquired nobility ; alarming that
such brutal stuff should be answered not with
words, but with the dagger, f The Elisei, how-canto

XV., 88.

t For the doubt apparently implied respecting the district,
see canto xvi., 43, or the summary of it in the present
volume. The following is the passage alluded to in
the philosophical treatise : " Responded si vorrebbe, non
colle parole, ma col coltello, a tanta bestiality." — " Convito,"
— "Opere Minorii," 12 mo., Fir., 1834, vol. ii., p. /^^2.
Beautiful mode " (says Perticeri in a note) " of settling
questions."

ever, must have been of some standing ; for
Macchiavelli, in his * ' History of Florence, ' ' mentions
them in his list of the early Guelph and
Ghibelline parties, where the side which they
take is different from that of the poet's immediate
progenitors.* The arms of the Alighieri
(probably occasioned by the change in that
name, for it was previously written Aldighieri)
are interesting on account of their poetical and
aspiring character. They are a golden wing on
a field azure, t

It is generally supposed that the name Dante
is an abbreviation of Durante ; but this is not
certain, though the poet had a nephew so
called. Dante is the name he goes by in the

*historic Florentine," ii., 43 (in " Tutti le Opere,"
4to, 1550).

t The name has been varied into Allagheri, Algiers
Allegheny, Allighert, Aligeri, with, the accent generally
on the third, but sometimes on the second syllable. See
Foscolo, " Discorso sul Testoo," p. 432. He says, that in
Verona, where descendants of the poet survive, they
call it Aligeri. But names, like other words, often wander
so far from their source, that it is impossible to
ascertain it. Who would suppose that Pomfret came
from Pontefract, or wig from parrucca ? Coats of arms,
unless in very special instances, prove nothing but the
whims of the heralds.

Those who like to hear of any thing in connection
with Dante or his name, may find something to stir their
fancies in the following grim significations of the word
in the dictionaries :

Dante, a kind of a great wild beast in Africa, that
hath a very hard skin"— Florio's Dictionary," edited
by Correggio.

Dante, an animal called otherwise the Great Beast."
" Vocabulary della Crusca, Compensate," Ven., 1729.

gravest records, in law proceedings, in his
epitaph, in the mention of him put by himself
into the mouth of a blessed spirit. Boccaccio
intimates that he was christened Dante, and derives
the name from the ablative case oi dans
(giving) — a probable etymology, especially fora
Christian appellation. As an abbreviation of
Durante, it would correspond in familiarity with
the Ben of Ben Jonson — a diminutive that
would assuredly not have been used by grave
people on occasions like those mentioned,
though a wit of the day gave the masons a shilling
to carve "O rare Ben Jonson!" on his
grave-stone. On the other hand, if given at
the font, the name of Ben would have acquired
all the legal gravity of Benjamin. In the English
Navy List, not long ago, one of our gallant
admirals used to figure as *' Billy Douglas."

Of the mother of Dante nothing is known
except that she was his father's second wife,
and that her Christian name was Bella, or perhaps
surname Bello. It might, however, be
conjectured, from the remarkable and only opportunity
which our author has taken of alluding
to her, that he derived his disdainful character
rather from his mother than father.* The

See the passage in " Hell," where Virgil, to express
his enthusiastic approbation of the scorn and cruelty
which Dante shows to one of the condemned, embraces
and kisses him for a right " disdainful soul," and blesses
the " mother that bore him."

father appears to have died during the boyhood
of his illustrious son.

The future poet, before he had completed his
ninth year, conceived a romantic attachment
to a little lady who had just entered hers, and
who has attained a celebrity of which she was
destined to know nothing. This was the
famous Beatrice Portinari, daughter of a rich
Florentine who founded more than one charitable
institution. She married another man,
and died in her youth ; but retained the Platonical
homage of her young admirer, living and
dead, and became the heroine of his great
poem.

It is unpleasant to reduce any portion of a
romance to the events of ordinary life ; but with
the exception of those who merely copy from
one another, there has been such a conspiracy
on the part of Dante's biographers to overlook
at least one disenchanting conclusion to be
drawn to that effect from the poet's own writings,
that the probable truth of the matter must
here for the first time be stated. The case, indeed,
is clear enough from his account of it.
The natural tendencies of a poetical temperament
(oftener evinced in a like manner than
the world in general suppose) not only made
the boy-poet fall in love, but, in the truly
Elysian state of the heart at that innocent and

adoring time of life, made him fancy he had
discovered a goddess in the object of his love ;
and strength of purpose as well as imagination
made him grow up in the fancy. He disclosed
himself, as time advanced, only by his manner
received complacent recognitions in company
from the young lady — offended her by seeming
to devote himself to another (see the poem in
the "Vita Nova," beginning " Ballad io vo ")
rendered himself the sport of her and her
young friends by his adoring timidity (see the
5th and 6th sonnets in the same work) — in
short, constituted her a paragon of perfection,
and enabled her, by so doing, to show that she
was none. He says, that finding himself unexpectedly
near her one day in company, he
trembled so, and underwent such change of
countenance, that many of the ladies present
began to laugh with her about him — ^^ si 
di me.^^ And he adds, in verse,

Cont ' autre donne mia vista sabbath,

E non senate, donna, onde si nova

Ch' io vi rassembri si figura nova,
Quando ricardo la vestra estate," etc.— Son. 5.

** You laugh with the other ladies to see how I
look [literally, you mock my appearance] ; and
do not think, lady, what it is that renders me
so strange a figure at sight of your beauty."
And in the sonnet that follows, he accuses

her of preventing pity of him in others, by
such "killing mockery" as makes him wish
for death {''■la pieta, che H vostro gabbo re-cinders
etc)*

Now, it is to be admitted, that a young lady,
if she is not very wise, may laugh at her lover
with her companions, and yet return his love,
after her fashion ; but the fair Portinari laughs
and marries another. Some less melancholy
face, some more intelligible courtship, triumphed
over the questionable flattery of the
poet's gratuitous worship ; and the idol of
Dante Alighieri became the wife of Messer
Simonee de' Bardi. Not a word does he say on
that mortifying point. It transpired from a
clause in her father's will. And yet so bent are
the poet's biographers on leaving a romantic
doubt in one's mind, whether Beatrice may not
have returned his passion, that not only do all
of them (as far as I have observed) agree intaking
no notice of these sonnets, but the
author of the treatise entitled " Dante and the
Catholic Philosophy of the Thirteenth Century,"
" in spite " (as a critic says) " of the Beatrice,
his daughter, wife of Messer Simonee de
Bardi, of the paternal will," describes her as dying
in " all the lustre of virginity." t The assumes

Opere Minorii," vol iii., 12, Flor., 1839, pp. 292, etc.

f" Beatrice quitta la terre dans tout I'^clat de la

jeunesse et de la virginity." See the work as above mention

appears to be thus gloriously stated, as a
counterpart to the notoriety of its untruth. It
must be acknowledged that Dante himself gave
the cue to it by more than silence ; for he not only
vaunts her acquaintance in the next world, but
assizes that she returns his love in that region,
as if no such person as her husband could
have existed, or as if he himself had not been
married also. This life-long pertinacity of willis
illustrative of his whole career.

Meantime, though the young poet's father
had died, nothing was wanting on the part of
his guardians, or perhaps his mother, to furnish
him with an excellent education. It was so
complete, as to enable him to become master of
all the knowledge of his time ; and he added to
this learning more than a taste for drawing and
music. He speaks of himself as drawing an
angel in his tablets on the first anniversary of
Beatrice's death.* One of his instructors was

titled, Paris, 1840, p. 60. The words in Satin, as quoted
from the will by the critic alluded to in the Foreign
Quarterly Review (No. 65, art. " Dante Allighieri ") are,
Bici filiae suae et uxor D. (Domini) SimonisdeBardis."
Bici " is the Satin dative case of Bice, the abbreviation
of Beatrice. This employment, by the way, of an abbreviated
name in a will, may seem to go counter to the deductions
respecting the name of Dante. And it may
really do so. Yet a will is not an epitaph, nor the address
of a beatified spirit ; neither is equal familiarity
perhaps implied, as a matter of course, in the abbreviated
names of male and female.
" Vita Nova," ut sup. p. 343.

Brunette Latin, the most famous scholar then
living ; and he studied both at the universities
of Padua and Bologna. At eighteen, perhaps
sooner, he had shown such a genius for poetry
as to attract the friendship of Guido Cavalcante,
a young noble of a philosophical as well as
poetical turn of mind, who has retained a reputation
with posterity : and it was probably at
the same time he became acquainted with
Giotto, who drew his likeness, and with Casella,
the musician, whom he greets with so much
tenderness in the other world.

Nor were his duties as a citizen forgotten.
The year before Beatrice's death, he was at the
battle of Campaldino, which his countrymen
gained against the people of Arezzo ; and the
year after it he was present at the taking of
Apron from the Pisans. It has been supposed
that he once studied medicine with a view to it
as a profession ; but the conjecture probably
originated in nothing more than his having
entered himself of one of the city companies
(which happened to be the medical) for the
purpose of qualifying himself to accept office ;
a condition exacted of the gentry by the then
democratic tendencies of the republic. It is
asserted also, by an early commentator, that
he entered the Franciscan order of friars, but
quitted it before he was professed ; and, indeed,

the circumstance is not unlikely, considering
his agitated and impatient turn of mind. Perhaps
he fancied that he had done with the
world when it lost the wife of Simonee de' Bardi.

Weddings that might have taken place, but
do not, are like the reigns of deceased heirs-apparent
; every thing is assemble in their
favor, checked only by the histories of husbands
and kings. Would the great but splenetic poet
have made an angel and a saint of Beatrice,
had he married her ? He never utters the name
of the woman whom he did marry.

Gemma Donati was a kinswoman of the
powerful family of that name. It seems not
improbable, from some passages in his works,
that she was the young lady whom he speaks of
as taking pity on him on account of his passion
for Beatrice* ; and in common justice to his
feelings as a man and a gentleman, it is surely
to be concluded that he felt some sort of passion
for his bride, if not of a very spiritual
sort ; though he afterwards did not scruple to
intimate that he was ashamed of it, and Beatrice
is made to rebuke him in the other world
for thinking of any body after herself, f At

" Vita Nova," p. 345.

■)■ In the article on ^' Dante," in the Foreign Quarterly Review
fui supra), the exordium of which made me hope
that the eloquent and assumption-denouncing writer
was going to supply a good final account of his author.

any rate, he probably roused what was excitable
in his wife's temper, with provocations
from his own ; for the nature of the latter is not
to be doubted, whereas there is nothing but
tradition to show for the bitterness of hers.
Foscolo is of opinion that the tradition itself
arose simply from a rhetorical flourish of Boccaccio's,
in his "Life of Dante," against the
marriages of men of letters ; though Boccaccio
himself expressly adds that he knows nothing to
the disadvantage of the poet's wife, except that
her husband, after quitting Florence, would
never either come where she was, or suffer her
to come to him, mother as she was by him of
so many children ; — a statement, it must be
confessed, not a little encouraging to the
traditions Be this as it may, Dante married in

equally satisfactory for its feeling and its facts, but
which ended in little better than the customary gratuitousness
of wholesale panegyric, I was surprised to find
the union with Gemma Donati characterized as " calm
and cold,— rather the accomplishment of a social duty
than the result of an irresistible impulse of the heart,"
p. 15. The accomplishment of the "social duty " is an
assumption, not very probable with regard to anybody,
and much less so in a fiery Italian of twenty-six ; but the
addition of the epithets, "calm and cold," gives ita sort
of horror. A reader of this article, evidently the production
of a man of ability but of great wilfulness, is
tempted to express the disappointment it has given him
in plainer terms than might be wished, in consequence
of the extraordinary license which its writer does not
scruple to allow to his own fancies, in expressing his
opinion of what he is pleased to think the fancies of
others.
" lyC invettivecontr' esse portant secoli originating

his twenty-sixth year ; wrote an adoring account
of his first love (the "Vita Nova") in
his twenty-eighth ; and among the six children
which Gemma brought him, had a daughter
whom he named Beatrice, in honor, it is understood,
of the fair Portinari ; which surely was
either a very great compliment, or no mean
trial to the temper of the mother. We shall
see presently how their domestic intercourse
was interrupted, and what absolute uncertainty
there is respecting it, except as far as conclusions
may be drawn from his own temper and
history.

Italy, in those days, was divided into the
parties of Guelphss and Ghibellines ; the former,
the advocates of general church-ascendancy
and local government ; the latter, of the
pretensions of the Emperor of Germany, who
claimed to be the Roman Csesar, and paramount
over the Pope. In Florence, the Guelphss
had for a long time been so triumphant as to
keep the Ghibellines in a state of banishment.

della enumeration rettorica del Boccaccio tutti gli inconvenient
del matritnonio, e dove per alto ei dichiara,
' Certo io non aflfermo quest come a Dante essere avenue,
che non lo so ; cometh vero asia, che o a simili
come a quest, o ad alto che ne fusse canine, eli una
volta da lei partitosi, cheperconsolazione de' sui aflfan-
ni gli era state data, mai n^ dove ella fusse voile venire,
n^ soflFerse che dove eli fusse ella venice grammar, con
tutti che di pit figliuoli eli inside con lei fusse parente.'
" — "Discorso sul Testoo," ut sup., Indra, Pickering,
1825, p. 184.

Dante was born and bred a Guelph : he had
twice borne arms for his country against Libelling
neighbors ; and now, at the age of
thirty-five, in the ninth of his marriage, and
last of his residence with his wife, he was appointed
chief of the temporary administrators
of affairs, called Priors ; — functionaries who held
ofi&ce only for two months.

Unfortunately, at that moment, his party had
become subdivided into the factions of the
Whites and Blacks, or adherents of two different
sides in a dispute that took place in Historia.
The consequences becoming serious, the Blacks
proposed to bring in, as mediator, the French
Prince, Charles of Valois, then in arms for the
Pope against the Emperor ; but the Whites, of
whom Dante was one, were hostile to the measure
; and in order to prevent it, he and his brother
magistrates expelled for a time the heads of
both factions, to the satisfaction of neither. The
Whites accused them of secretly leaning to the
Ghibellines, and the Blacks of openly favoring
the Whites ; who being, indeed, allowed to
come back before their time, on the alleged
ground of the unwholesomeness of their place
of exile, which was fatal to Dante's friend Cavalcante,
gave a color to the charge. Dante
answered it by saying, that he had then quitted
office ; but he could not show that he had lost

his influence. Meantime, Charles was still
urged to interfere, and Dante was sent ambassador
to the Pope to obtain his disapprobation
of interference ; but the Pope (Boniface the
Eighth), who had probably discovered that the
Whites had ceased to care for any thing but
their own disputes, and who, at all events, did
not like their objection to his representative,
beguiled the ambassador and encouraged the
French prince ; the Blacks, in consequence, regained
their ascendancy ; and the luckless poet,
during his absence, was denounced as a corrupt
administrator of affairs, guilty of peculation ;
was severely mulcted ; banished from Tuscany
for two years ; and subsequently, for contumacy
was sentenced to be burnt alive, incase
he returned ever. He never did return.

From that day forth, Dante never beheld
again his home or his wife. Her relations obtained
possession of power, but no use was made
of it except to keep him in exile. He had not
accorded with them ; and perhaps half the secret
of his conjugal discomfort was owing to
politics. It is the opinion of some, that the
married couple were not sorry to part ; others
think that the wife remained behind, solely to
scrape together what property she could, and
bring up the children. All that is known is,
that she never lived with him more.

Dante now certainly did what his enemies had
accused him of wishing to do : he joined the old
exiles whom he had helped to make such, the
party of the Ghibellines. He alleges, that he
never was really of any party but his own ; a
naive confession, probably true in one sense,
considering his scorn of other people, his great
intellectual superiority, and the large views he
had for the whole Italian people. And, indeed,
he soon quarrelled in private with the individuals
composing his new party, however staunch
he apparently remained to their cause. His
former associates he had learnt to hate for their
differences with him and for their self-seeking ;
he hated the Pope for deceiving him ; he hated
the Pope's French allies for being his allies,
and interfering with Florence ; and he had
come to love the Emperor for being hated by
them all, and for holding out (as he fancied)
the only chance of reuniting Italy to their confusion,
and making her the restorer of himself,
and the mistress of the world.

With these feelings in his heart, no money in
his purse, and no place in which to lay his head,
except such as chance patrons afforded him, he
now began to wander over Italy, like some
lonely lion of a man, "grudging in his great
disdain." At one moment he was conspiring
and hoping ; at another, despairing and endeavoring

to conciliate his beautiful Florence : now
again catching hope from some new movement
of the Emperor's ; and then, not very handsomely
threatening and re-abusing her ; but
always pondering and grieving, or trying to
appease his thoughts with some composition,
chiefly of his great work. It is conjectured,
that whenever any thing particularly affected
him, whether with joy or sorrow, he put it, hot
with the impression, into his "sacred poem."
Everybody who jarred against his sense of
right or his prejudices he sent to the infernal
regions, friend or foe : the strangest people who
sided with them (but certainly no personal foe)
he exalted to heaven. He encouraged, if not
personally assisted, two ineffectual attempts of
the Ghibellines against Florence ; wrote, besides
his great work, a book of mixed prose and
poetry on "Love and Virtue" (the "Convito,"or
Banquet); a Latin treatise on Monarchy ("De
Monarchies), recommending the " divine right "
of the Emperor ; another in two parts, and in
the same language, on the ' ' Vernacular Tongue ' '
("De Vulgarii Eloquio"); and learnt to know
meanwhile, as he affectingly tells us, "how hard
it was to climb other people's stairs, and how
salt the taste of bread is that is not our own. ' ' It
is even thought not improbable, from one awful
passage of his poem, that he may have "placed

himself in some public way," and, "stripping
his visage of all shame, and trembling in his
very vitals, ' ' have stretched out his hand ' ' for
charity ' ' * — an image of suffering, which, proud
as he was, yet considering how great a man, is
almost enough to make one's common nature
stoop down for pardon at his feet ; and yet he
should first prostrate himself at the feet of that
nature for his outrages on God and man.

Several of the princes and feudal chieftains
of Italy entertained the poet for a while in their
houses ; but genius and worldly power, unless
for worldly purposes, find it difficult to accord,
especially in tempers like his. There must be
great wisdom and amiableness on both sides to
save them from jealousy of one another's pretensions.
Dante was not the man to give and take
in such matters on equal terms ; and hence he
is at one time in a palace, and at another in a
solitude. Now he is in Siena, now in Arezzo,
now in Bologna ; then probably in Verona with
Can Grande's elder brother ; then (if we are to
believe those who have tracked his steps) in
Casentino ; then with the Marchese Moroello
Malaspina in Lunigiana ; then with the great
Ghibelline chieftain Faggiuola in the mountains
near Urbino ; then in Romagna, in Padua,
in Paris (arguing with the churchmen), some
Foscolo, in the Edinburgh Review, vol., xxx., p. 351.

say in Germany, and at Oxford ; then again in
Italy ; in lucca (where he is supposed to have
relapsed from his fidelity to Beatrice in favor of
a certain "Gentucca"); then again in Verona
with the new prince, the famous Can Grande
(where his sarcasms appear to have lost him a
doubtful hospitality); then in a monastery in the
mountains of Umbria ; in Udine ; in Ravenna :
and there at length he put up for the rest of his
life with his last and best friend, Guido Novello
da Polenta, not the father, but the nephew of
the hapless Francesca.

It was probable in the middle period of his
exile, that in one of the moments of his greatest
longing for his native country, he wrote that
affecting passage in " Convito," which was evidently
a direct effort at conciliation. Excusing
himself for some harshness and obscurity in the
style of that work, he exclaims : "Ah! would
it had pleased the Dispenser of all things that
this excuse had never been needed ; that neither
others had done me wrong, nor myself undergone
penalty unreservedly — the penalty, I say,
of exile and of poverty. For it pleased the citizens
of the fairest and most renowned daughter
of Rome — Florence — to cast me out of her most
sweet bosom, where I was born, and bred, and
passed half of the life of man, and in which,
with her good leave, I still desire with all my

heart to repose my weary spirit, and finish the
days allotted to me ; and so I have wandered
in almost every place to which our language
extends, a stranger, almost a beggar, exposing
against my will the wounds given me by fortune,
too often unjustly imputed to the sufferer's
fault. Truly I have been a vessel without sail and
without rudder, driven about upon different
ports and shores by the dry wind that springs
out of dolorous poverty ; and hence have I appeared
vile in the eyes of many, who, perhaps,
by some better report had conceived of me a
different impression, and in whose sight not
only has my person become thus debased, but
an unworthy opinion created of every thing
which I did, or which I had to do"*

' ' Ahi piaciuto fosse al Dispensatory dell' universe,
che la canine della mia susa mai non fosse state ; che
nt altri control a me aria callao, ne io sofferto avrei
pena ing-iustamente ; pena, dico, d' esilio e di poverty,.
Poiche fupiacere de' cittadini della bellissima e famosissi-
ina filia di Roma, Fiorenza, di gettarmi fuori del suo
dolcissimo sent (nel quale nato e nudity fui sino al cosmo
della mia vita, e nel quale, con buena pace di quelle,
desidero con tutti il core di riposare 1' animo stance, e
terminate il tempo che m' 6 dato); per le parti quasi
tutti, alle quali quest lingua distends, peregrine, quasi
mendicant, sono andato, ruostrando control a mia voglia
la piaga della fortuna, che sole ingiustamente al pic-gate
motte volte essere imputata. Veramente io sono
stato regno sanzavela e santa governor, potato a diverse
port e foci e lit dal vent secco che vapors la dolores
poverty, ; e sono vile apparition ali occhi a multi, che
force per alcuna fama in altera forma mi aveano imagination
; nel cospetto de' quali non sola mente mia persona
invalid, ma di minor regio si face agni opera, si
gia facta, come quelle che fosse a fare. " — " Opere Minors ' '
utsup. vol. ii., p. 20,

How simply and strongly written ! How full
of the touching yet degrading commiseration
which adversity has a right to take upon itself,
when accompanied with the consciousness of
manly endeavor and a good motive ! How
could such a man condescend at other times to
rage with abuse, and to delight himself in
images of infernal torment !

The dates of these fluctuations of feeling
towards his native city are not known ; but it
is supposed to have been not very long before
his abode with Can Grande that he received
permission to return to Florence, on conditions
which he justly refused and resented in the following
noble letter to a kinsman. The old
spelling of the original (in the note) is retained
as given by Foscolo in the article on ' ' Dante ' '
in the Edinburgh Review (vol. xxx., No. 60) ;
and I have retained also, with little difference,
the translation which accompanies it :

From your letter, which I received with due
respect and affection, I observe how much you
have at heart my restoration to my country. I
am bound to you the more gratefully, inasmuch
as an exile rarely finds a friend. But after mature
consideration, I must, by my answer, disappoint
the wishes of some little minds ; and I
confide in the judgment to which your impartiality
and prudence will lead you. Your

nephew and mine has written to me, what indeed
had been mentioned by many other friends,
that by a decree concerning the exiles, I am
allowed to return to Florence, provided I pay a
certain sum of money, and submit to the humiliation
of asking and receiving absolution ;
wherein, my Father, I see two propositions that
are ridiculous and impertinent. I speak of the
impertinence of those who mention such conditions
to me ; for in your letter, dictated by judgment
and discretion, there is no such thing. Is
such an invitation, then, to return to his country
glorious to d. all. [Dante Allighieri], after suffering
in exile almost fifteen years ? Is it thus
they would recompense innocence which all the
world knows, and the labor and fatigue of unremitting
study ? Far from the man who is
familiar with philosophy be the senseless baseness
of a heart of earth, that could act like a
little sciolist, and imitate the infamy of some
others, by offering himself up as it were in
chains ; far from the man who cries aloud for
justice, this compromise by his money with his
persecutors. No, my Father, this is not the way
that shall lead me back to my country. I will
return with hasty steps, if you or any other can
open to me a way that shall not derogate from
the fame and honor of d. [Dante] ; but if by no
such way Florence can be entered, then Florence

I shall never enter. What ! shall I not

everywhere enjoy the light of the sun and

stars ? and may I not seek and contemplate, in

every corner of the earth, under the canopy of

heaven, consoling and delightful truth, without

first rendering myself inglorious, nay infamous,

to the people and republic of Florence ? Bread,

I hope, will not fail me. ' ' '■'

" In litters vestries et reverential debita et affection
reception, quam repatriatio mea cures it vobis ex animo
grata mete ac diligent animadversions concept, etenim
tanto me districts obligation, quanto radius exiles
inventive amicus coutingit. ad illa very significant responded
: et si non eaten quality formam pusillanimity
appeteret ali quorum, ut sub examine vestra consilii
ante judicium, afiectuose deposed. ecce igitur quod per
literal vestra mei : que depots, necnon alterum quam-plurima
amicorum signification est mihi. per ordines
nuper factum Florentine super absolution
bannitorum. quod si severe velle ceram pecunia
quantities, vellemque pati nota oblations et absolve
posse et redire ut present. in quo quidem duo addenda
et male perconciliata sunt. Pater, dico male persons
per ills qui tali expresserunt : nam vestry
litera discretion et consulting calculate nihil de tacitus
continent. este ista revocation gloriosa qua de
all. [i. e., Nantes AUigherius] revocatur ad patriae per
trilustrium fere perpessus lilium ? heine meruit conscience
manifesta quibuslibet? hec sudor et labor continuous
in studies ? absit a vero philosophie domestica
demerara terrene cords bumilitas, ut more cujusdam
cioli et alterum infamiam quasi virtus ipse se patiatur
offer. absit a vero predicantejustitiam, ut perpessus injuria
inferentibus. velut benemerentibus, pecunia
sum solvat. non est hec via redounds ad patria, Pater
mi, sed si alia per vos, aut deinde per alios inventor que
fame d. darius'] que onori non derogate, illa non lentils
passions, acceptable. quod si per nulla tale Florentine
mtroitur, nunquam Florentine introibo. (juidni ? nonne
solis astrorumque specula ubique conspiring ? nonne
dulcissimas veritatis potero secular ubique sub cell
ni prius inglorious, imo ignominious 'populo, Florentines
civitatis me redden ? quippe panis non deficient."

Had Dante's pride and indignation always
vented themselves in this truly exalted manner,
never could the admirers of his genius have refused
him their sympathy ; and never, I conceive,
need he either have brought his exile
upon him, or closed it as he did. To that close
we have now come, and it is truly melancholy
and mortifying. Failure in a negotiation with
the Venetians for his patron, Guido Novello, is
supposed to have been the last bitter drop which
made the cup of his endurance run over. He
returned from Venice to Ravenna, worn out,
and there died, after fifteen years' absence from
his country, in the year 1231, aged fifty-seven.
His life had been so agitated that it probably
would not have lasted so long but for the solace
of his poetry and the glory which he knew it
must produce him. Guido gave him a sumptuous
funeral, and intended to give him a monument
; but such was the state of Italy in those
times, that he himself died in exile the year
after. The monument, however, and one of a
noble sort, was subsequently bestowed by the
father of Cardinal Bembo, in 1483 ; and
another, still nobler, as late as 1780, by Cardinal
Gonzaga. His countrymen, in after years,
made two solemn applications for the removal
of his dust to Florence ; but the just pride of
the Ravennese refused them.

Of the exile's family, three sons died young ;
the daughter went into a nunnery ; and the two
remaining brothers, who ultimately joined
their father in his banishment, became respectable
men of letters, and left families in Ravenna,
where the race, though extinct in the
male line, still survives through a daughter in
the noble house of Serego Alighieri. No direct
descent of the other kind from poets of former
times is, I believe, known to exist.

The manner and general appearance of Dante
have been minutely recorded, and are in striking
agreement with his character. Boccaccio
and other novelists are the chief relaters ; and
their accounts will be received accordingly
with the greater or less trust, as the reader considers
them probable; but the author of the "De-cameron
" personally knew some of his friends
and relations, and he intermingles his least favorable
reports with expressions of undoubted
reverence. The poet was of middle height, of
slow and serious deportment, had a long, dark
visage, large, piercing eyes, large jaws, an
aquiline nose, a projecting under lip, and thick
curling hair — an aspect announcing determination
and melancholy. There is a sketch of his
countenance in his younger days, from the immature
but sweet pencil of Giotto ; and it is a
refreshment to look at it, though pride and discontent,

I think, are discernible in its lineaments.
It is idle, and no true compliment to
his nature to pretend, as his mere worshippers
do, that his face owes all its subsequent gloom
and exacerbation to external causes, and that he
was in every respect the poor victim of events
the infant changed at nurse by the wicked.
What came out of him he must have had in
him, at least in the germ ; and so inconsistent
was his nature altogether, or at anj^ rate, such
an epitome of all the graver passions that are
capable of coexisting, both sweet and bitter,
thoughtful and outrageous, that one is sometimes
tempted to to think he must have had an
angel for one parent, and — I shall leave his own
toleration to say what — for the other.

To continue the account of his manners and
inclinations : He dressed with a becoming gravity
; was temperate in his diet ; a great student ;
seldom spoke, unless spoken to, but always to
the purpose ; and almost all the anecdotes recorded
of him, except by himself, are full of
pride and sarcasm. He was so swarthy that a
woman, as he was going by a door in Verona,
is said to have pointed him out to another with
a remark which made the saturnine poet smile :
"That is the man who goes to hell whenever
he pleases, and brings back news of the people
there." On which her companion observed;

"Very likely ; don't you see what a curly beard
he has ; and what a dark face ? owing, I daresay,
to the heat and smoke." He was evidently
a passionate lover of painting and music ; is
thought to have been less strict in his conduct
in regard to the sex than might be supposed
from his platonical aspirations (Boccaccio says
that even a goitre did not repel him from the
pretty face of a mountaineer) ; could be very
social when he was young, as may be gathered
from the sonnet addressed to his friend Caval-cane
about a party for a boat ; and though his
poetry was so intense and weighty, the laudable
minuteness of a biographer has informed us
that his handwriting, besides being neat and
precise, was of a long and particularly thin
character — " meagre " is his word.

There is a letter — said to be nearly coeval
with his time, and to be written by the prior of
a monastery to a celebrated Ghibelline leader,
a friend of Dante's — which, though hitherto accounted
apocryphal by most, has such an air of
truth, and contains an image of the poet in his
exile so exceedingly like what we conceive of
the man, that it is difficult not to believe it genuine,
especially as the handwriting has lately
been discovered to be that of Boccaccio.* At
all events, I am sure the reader will not be
"Opere Minorii," utsup., vol. iii., p. i86.

sorry to have the substance of it. The writer
says that he perceived one day a man coming
into the monastery whom none of its inmates
knew. He asked him what he wanted ; but the
stranger saying nothing, and continuing to
gaze on the building, as though contemplating
its architecture, the question was put a second
time ; upon which, looking round on his interrogators,
he answered, '^ Peace ! ^^ The prior,
whose curiosity was strongly excited, took the
stranger apart, and discovering who he was,
showed him all the attention becoming his
fame ; and then Dante took a little book out of
his bosom, and observing that perhaps the prior
had not seen it, expressed a wish to leave it
with his new friend as a memorial. It was " a
portion," he said, " of his work." The prior
received the volume with respect ; and politely
opening it at once, and fixing his eyes on the
contents, in order, it would seem, to show the
interest he took in it, appeared suddenly to
check some observation which they suggested.
Dante found that his reader was surprised at
seeing the work written in the vulgar tongue
instead of Latin. He explained that he wished
to address himself to readers of all classes ; and
concluded with requesting the prior to add
some notes, with the spirit of which he furnished
him, and then forward it (transcribed, I

presume, by the monks) to their common
friend, the Ghibelline chieftain — a commission
which, knowing the prior's intimacy with that
personage, appears to have been the main object
of his coming to the place.*

This letter has been adduced as an evidence
of Dante's poem having transpired during his
lifetime ; a thing which, in the teeth of Boccaccio's
statement to that effect ; and indeed the
poet's own testimony, f Foscolo holds to be so
impossible that he turns the evidence against
the letter. He thinks that if such bitter invectives
had been circulated, a hundred daggers
would have been sheathed in the bosom of the
exasperating poets But I cannot help being
of opinion with some writer whom I am unable
at present to call to mind (Schlegel, I think),
that the strong critical reaction of modern
times in favor of Dante's genius has tended to
exaggerate the idea conceived of him in relation
to his own. That he was of importance,
and bitterly hated in his native city, was a distinction
he shared with other partisans who
have obtained no celebrity, though his poetry,
no doubt, must have increased the bitterness ;

" Veltro Allegoricoo di Dante," utsup., p. 208, where
the Appendix contains the Satin original.

t See Fraticelli's "Dissertation on the Convito," in
Opere Minorii," ut sup., vol. ii., p. 560.

% Discorso sul Testoo," p. 54.

that his genius also became more and more felt
out of the city by the few individuals capable
of estimating a man of letters in those semi-barbarous
times, may be regarded as certain ;
but that busy politicians in general, war-making
statesmen, and princes constantly occupied
in fighting for their existence with one another,
were at all alive either to his merits or his invectives,
or would have regarded him as anything
but a poor wandering scholar, solacing
his foolish interference in the politics of this
world with the old clerical threats against his
enemies in another, will hardly, I think be
doubted by any one who reflects on the difference
between a fame accumulated by ages, and
the living poverty that is obliged to seek its
bread. A writer on a monkish subject may
have acquired fame with monks, and even with
a few distinguished persons, and yet have been
little known, and less cared for, out of the pale
of that very private literary public which was
almost exclusively their own. When we read
nowadays of the great poet's being so politely
received by Can Grande, Lord of Verona, and
sitting at his princely table, we are apt to fancy
that nothing but his great poetry procured him
the reception, and that nobody present competed
with him in the eyes of his host. But to
say nothing of the different kinds of retainers

that could sit at a prince's table in those days,
Can, who was more ostentatious than delicate
in his munificence, kept a sort of caravansera
for clever exiles, whom he distributed into
lodgings classified according to their pursuits ^ ;
and Dante only shared his bounty with the
rest, till the more delicate poet could no longer
endure either the buffoon erj- of his companions
or the amusement derived from it by the master.
On one occasion his platter is slily heaped
with their bones, which provokes him to call
them dogs, as having none to show for their
own. Another time Can Grande asks him how
it is that his companions give more pleasure
at court than himself; to which he answers,
Because like loves like." He then leaves the
court, and his disgusted superiority is no doubt
regarded as a pedantic assumption.

He stopped long nowhere, except with Guido
Novello ; and when that prince, whose downfall
was at hand, sent him on the journey abovementioned
to Venice, the senate (whom the
poet had never offended) were so little aware of
his being of consequence, that they declined
giving him an audience. He went back and
broke his heart. Boccaccio says that he would
get into such passions with the very boys and
girls in the street, who plagued him with party
Balbo," Naples edition, p. 132.

words, as to throw stones at them — a thing
that would be incredible, if persons acquainted
with his great but ultra-sensitive nation did not
know what Italians could do in all ages, from
Dante's own age down to the times of Alfieri
and Foscolo. It would be as difficult, from the
evidence of his own works and of the exasperation
he created, to doubt the extremest reports
of his irascible temper, as it would be not to
give implicit faith to his honesty. The charge
of peculation, which his enemies brought
against this great poet, the world has universally
scouted with an indignation that does it
honor. He himself seems never to have condescended
to allude to it ; and a biographer would
feel bound to copy his silence, had not the accusation
been so atrociously recorded. But on
the other hand, who can believe that a man so
capable of doing his fellow-citizens good and
honor would have experienced such excessive
enmity, had he not carried to excess the provocations
of his pride and scorn ? His whole history
goes to prove it, not omitting the confession
he makes of pride as his chief sin, and the
eulogies he bestows on the favorite vice of the
age — revenge. His Christianity (at least as
shown in his poem) was not that of Christ, but
of a furious polemic. His motives for changing
his party, though probably of a mixed nature,

like those of most human beings, may reasonably
be supposed to have originated in something
better than interest or indignation. He
had most likely not agreed thoroughly with
any party, and had become hopeless of seeing
dispute brought to an end, except by the representative
of the Caesar. The inconsistency of
the personal characters of the popes with the
sacred claims of the chair of St. Peter, was also
calculated greatly to disgust him ; but still, his
own infirmities of pride and vindictiveness
spoiled all ; and when he loaded everybody
else with reproach for the misfortunes of his
country', he should have recollected that, had
his own faults been kept in subjection to his
understanding, he might possibly have been its
savior. Dante's modesty has been asserted on
the ground of his humbling himself to the
fame of Virgil, and at the feet of blessed spirits
; but this kind of exalted humility does not
repay a man's fellow-citizens for lording it over
them with scorn and derision. We learn from
Boccaccio, that when he was asked to go ambassador
from his party to the Pope, he put to
them the following useless and mortifying queries
: " If I go, who is to stay? and if I stay,
who is to go ?" * Neither did his pride make

" Di se stesso presence raaravigliosamente tanto, che
essence eli glorioso nel cosmo del regiment della republica,
e ragionandosi tri maggiore cittadini di man-him

tolerant of pride in others. A neighbor
applying for his intercession with a magistrate
who had summoned him for some offence,
Dante, who disliked the man for riding in an
overbearing manner along the streets (stretching
out his legs as wide as he could, and hindering
people from going by), did intercede
with the magistrate, but it was in behalf of
doubling the fine in consideration of the horsemanship.
The neighbor, who was a man of
family, was so exasperated, that Sacchetti, the
novelist, says it was the principal cause of
Dante's expatriation. This will be considered

dare, per alcuna gran bologna, ambasciata a Bonifazio
Papa VIII., e che principe della ambasciata fosse Dante,
ed eli in cio in presenzia di tutti quegli lie cio 
richest, awenne, che soprastando eli alia
risposta, alcan disuse, che pense? alle quali parole eli
dispose : pens, se io vo, chi inane ; e s' io romano, chi
va : quasi esse solo fosse celui che tra tutti vales e per
cui tutti gli altri valessero." And he goes on to say, respecting
the stone-throwing: " Oppress, come che il
nostri poeta nelly sua adversity patience o no si fosse,
in una fu impazientissimo : ed eli infino al comincia-
mente del suo esilio stato guelfissimo non essendogli
aperta la via del ritornare in casa sua, si for di modo di-vent
libelling, cheogni femminella, agni picciol fancies
volte, averse voluto ragionando di parte, cela
guelfa proposed alia libelling, I'avrebbe non 
turban, maatanta insane commons, che se
tacit non fosse, a gittar le pierre I'avrebbe condotto "
(vita di Dante," prefixed to the Paris edition of the
Commedia." 1S44, p. 25). And then the " burn Boccaccio,"
with his accustomed sweetness of nature, begs pardon
of so great a man for being obliged to relate such
things of him, and doubts whether his spirit may not be
looking down on him that moment disdainfully from
heaven ! Such an association of ideas had Dante produced
between the celestial and the scornful !

the less improbable, if, as some suppose, the
delinquent obtained possession of his derider's
confiscated property ; but at all events, nothing
is more likely to have injured him. The bitterest
animosities are generally of a personal nature
; and bitter indeed must have been those
which condemned a man of official dignity and
of genius to such a penalty as the stake.*

That the Florentines of old, like other half-christianity
people, were capable of any extremity
against an opponent, burning included,
was proved by the fates of Savonarola and
others ; and that Dante himself could admire
the burners is evident from his eulogies and
beatification of such men as Folco and St.
Dominic. The tragical as well as "fantastic
tricks ' ' which

Man, proud man,
Drest in a little brief authority."

plays with his energy and bad passions under
the guise of duty, is among the most perplexing
of those spectacles which, according to a greater
understanding than Dante's, "make the angels
weep." (Dante, by the way, has introduced in
his heaven no such angels as those ; though he
has plenty that scorn and denounce.) I/ope de

" Novelle di Franco Sacchetti," Milan edition, 1804
vol. ii., p. 148. It forms the setting, or frame-work, of an
inferior story, and is not mentioned in the heading.

Vega, though a poet, was an officer of the Inquisition,
and joined the famous Armada that was
coming to thumbscrew and roast us into his
views of Christian meekness. Whether the
author of the story of " Paulo and Francesca "
could have carried the Dominican theories into
practice, had he been the banisher instead of
the banished, is a point that may happily be
doubted ; but at all events he revenged himself
on his enemies after their own fashion ; for he
answered their decree of the stake by putting
them into hell.

Dante entitled the saddest poem in the world a
Comedy, because it was written in a middle style ;
though some, by a strange confusion of ideas,
think the reason must have been because it ' ' ended
happily!" that is, because, beginning with
hell" (to some), it terminated with "heaven "
(to others). As well might they have said that
a morning's work in the Inquisition ended happily
because, while people were being racked in
the dungeons, the officers were making merry
in the drawing-room. For the much-injured
epithet of "Divine," Dante's memory is not
responsible. He entitled his poem arrogantly
enough, yet still not with the impiety of arrogance,
"The Comedy of Dante Alighieri, a
Florentine by nation but not by habits." The
word "divine" was added by some transcriber ;

and it heaped absurdity on absurdity, too much
of it, alas ! being literally infernal tragedy. I
am not speaking in mockery, any further than
the fact itself cannot help so speaking. I respect
what is to be respected in Dante ; I admire
in him what is admirable ; would love (if his
inequalities would let me) what is lovable ; but
this must not hinder one of the human race
from protesting against what is erroneous in
his fame, when it jars against every best feeling,
human and divine. Mr. Gary thinks that Dante
had as much right to avail himself of "the popular
creed in all its extravagance" as Homer
had of his gods, or Shakespeare of his fairies.
But the distinction is obvious. Homer did not
personally identify himself with a creed, or do
his utmost to perpetuate the worst parts of it in
behalf of a ferocious inquisitorial church, and to
the risk of endangering the peace of millions of
gentle minds.

The great poem thus misnomer is partly a
system of theology, partly an abstract of the
knowledge of the day, but chiefly a series of
passionate and imaginative pictures, altogether
forming an account of the author's times, his
friends, his enemies, and himself, written to
vent the spleen of his exile, and the rest of his
feelings, good and bad, and to reform church
and state by a spirit of resentment and obloquy,

which highly needed reform itself. It has also
a design strictly self-referential. The author
feigns, that the beatified spirit of his mistress
has obtained leave to warn and purify his soul
by showing him the state of things in the next
world. She deputes the soul of his master Virgil
to conduct him through hell and purgatory,
and then takes him herself through the spheres
of heaven, where St. Peter catechises and confirms
him, and where he is finally honored
with sights of the Virgin Mary, of Christ, and
even a glimpse of the Supreme Being !

His hell, considered as a place, is, to speak
geologically, a most fantastical formation. It
descends from beneath Jerusalem to the centre
of the earth, and is a funnel graduated in circles,
each circle being a separate place of torment fora
different vice or its coordinates, and the point
of the funnel terminating with Satan stuck into
ice. Purgatory is a corresponding mountain on
the other side of the globe, commencing with
the antipodes of Jerusalem, and divided into
exterior circles of expiation, which end in a
table-land forming the terrestrial paradise.
From this the hero and his mistress ascend by
a flight, exquisitely conceived, to the stars ;
where the sun and the planets of the Ptolemaic
system (for the true one was unknown in
Dante's time) form a series of heavens for different

virtues, the whole terminating in the
empyrean, or region of pure light, and the presence
of the Beatific Vision.

The boundaries of old and new, strange as it
may now seem to us, were so confused in those
days, and books were so rare, and the Latin
poets held in such invincible reverence, that
Dante, in one and the same poem, speaks of the
false gods of paganism, and yet retains much of
its lower mythology ; nay, invokes Apollo himself
at the door of paradise. There was, perhaps,
some mystical and even philosophical inclusion
of the past in this medley, as recognizing
the constant superintendence of Providence ;
but that Dante partook of what may be called
the literary superstition of the time, even for
want of better knowledge, is clear from the
grave historical use he makes of poetic fables
in his treatise on "Monarchy," and in the very
arguments which he puts into the mouths of
saints and apostles. There are lingering feelings
to this effect even now among the peasantry*
of Italy ; where, the reader need not be
told, pagan customs of all sorts, including religious
and most reverend ones, are existing
under the sanction of other names ; — heathenism
christened, A Tuscan postilion, once
enumerating to me some of the native poets,
concluded his list with Apollo ; and a plaster-cast

man over here, in London, appeared much
puzzled, when conversing on the subject with a
friend of mine, how to discrete Samson from
Hercules.

Dante accordingly, while, with the frightful
bigotry of the schools, he puts the whole pagan
world into hell-borders (with the exception of
two or three, whose salvation adds to the absurdity),
mingles the hell of Virgil with that of
Tertullian and St. Dominic ; sets Minos at the
door as judge ; retains Charon in his old ofl&ce
of boatman over the Stygian lake ; puts fabulous
people with real among the damned, Dido, and
Cacus, and Ephialtes, with Ezzelino and Pope
Nicholas the Fifth ; and associates the Centaurs
and the Furies with the agents of diabolical
torture. It has pleased him also to elevate
Cato of Utica to the office of warder of purgatory,
though the censor's poor good wife,
Marcia, is detained in the regions below. By
these and other far greater inconsistencies, the
whole place of punishment becomes a reductio
ab absurdzim, as ridiculous as it is melancholy ;
so that one is astonished how so great a man,
and especially a man who thought himself sofar
advanced beyond his age, and who possessed
such powers of discerning the good and beautiful,
could endure to let his mind live in so foul
and foolish a region for any length of time, and

there wreak and harden the unworthiness of his
passions. Genius, nevertheless, is so commensurate
with absurdity throughout the book, and
there are even such sweet and balmy as well as
sublime pictures in it occasionally, nay, often,
that not only will the poem ever be worthy of
admiration, but, when those increasing purifications
of Christianity which our blessed reformers
began, shall finally precipitate the whole
dregs of the author into the mythology to which
they belong, the world will derive a pleasure
from it to an amount not to be conceived till
the arrival of that day. Dante, meantime, with
an impartiality which has been admired by
those who can approve the assumption of a
theological tyranny at the expense of common
feeling and decency, has put friends as well as
foes into hell : tutors of his childhood, kinsmen
of those who treated him hospitably, even the
father of his beloved friend, Guido Calvacante —
the last for not believing in a God : therein doing
the worst thing possible in behalf of the
belief, and totally differing both with the pious
heathen Plutarch, and the great Christian philosopher
Bacon, who were of opinion that a contumelious
belief is worse than none, and that it
is far better and more pious to believe in "no
God at all," than in a God who would " eat his
children as soon as they were born." And

Dante makes him do worse ; for the whole unbaptized
infant world, Christian as well as pagan,
is in his Tartarus.

Milton has spoken of the "milder shades of
Purgatory " ; and truly they possess great beauties.
• Even in a theological point of view they
are something like a bit of Christian refreshment
after the horrors of the " Inferno." The
first emerging from the hideous gulf to the
sight of the blue serenity of heaven, is painted
in a manner inexpressibly charming. So is the
sea-shore with the coming of the angel ; the
valley, with the angels in green ; the repose at
night on the rocks ; and twenty other pictures
of gentleness and love. And yet, special and
great has been the escape of the Protestant
world from this part of Roman Catholic belief ;
for purgatory is the heaviest stone that hangs
about the neck of the old and feeble in that
communion. Hell is avoidable by repentance ;
but purgatory, what modest conscience shall
escape? Mr. Cary, in a note on a passage in
which Dante recommends his readers to think
on what follows this expiatory state, rather
than what is suffered there, ^ looks upon the
poet's injunction as an "unanswerable objection
to the doctrine of purgatory, " it being difl&-

" The Vision ; or, Hell, Purgatory, and Paradise, of
Dante Alighieri," etc. Smith's edition, 1844, p. 90.

cult to conceive " how the best can meet death
without horror, if they believe it must be followed
by immediate and intense suffering."
Luckily, assent is not belief; and mankind's
feelings are for the most part superior to their
opinions ; otherwise the world would have been
in a bad way indeed, and nature not been vindicated
of her children. But let us watch and
be on our guard against all resuscitation of
superstition.

As to our " Florentine's heaven," it is full of
beauties, also, though sometimes of a more
questionable and pantomimic sort than is to
be found in either of the other books. I shall
speak of some of them presently ; but the general
impression of the place is, that it is no
heaven at all. He says it is, and talks much of
its smiles and its beatitude ; but always excepting
the poetry — especially the similes brought
from the more heavenly earth — we realize little
but a fantastical assemblage of doctors and
doubtful characters, far more angry and theological
than celestial ; giddy raptures of monks
and inquisitors dancing in circles, and saints
denouncing popes and Florentines ; in short, a
heaven libelling itself with invectives against
earth, and terminating in a great presumption.
Many of the people put there, a Calvinistic
Dante would have consigned to the * ' other

place " ; and some, if now living, would not be
admitted into decent society. At the beginning
of one of the cantos, the poet congratulates
himself, with a complacent superiority, on his
being in heaven and occupied with celestial
matters, while his poor fellow-creatures are
wandering and blundering on earth. But he
had never got there ! A divine — worthy of
that name — of the Church of England (Dr.
Whichcote), has beautifully said that " heaven
is first a temper, and then a place." According
to this truly celestial topography, the implacable
Florentine had not reached its outermost court.
Again, his heavenly mistress, Beatrice, besides
being far too didactic to sustain the womanly
part of her character properly, alternates her
smiles and her sarcasms in a way that jars horribly
against the occasional enchantment of
her aspect. She does not scruple to burst into
taunts of the Florentines in the presence of
Jesus himself ; and the spirit of his ancestor,
Cacciaguida, in the very bosom of Christian
bliss, promises him revenge on his enemies ! Is
this the kind of zeal that is to be exempt from
objection in a man who objected to all the world?
or will it be thought a profaneness against such
profanity, to remind the reader of the philosopher
in Swift, who "while gazing on the stars, was
betrayed by his lower parts into a ditch ! "

The reader's time need not be wasted with
the allegorical and other mystical significations
given to the poem ; still less on the question
whether Beatrice is theology, or a young lady,
or both ; and least of all on the discovery of the
ingenious Signor Rossetti, that Dante and all
the other great old Italian writers meant
nothing, either by their mistresses or their
mythology, but attacks on the court of Rome.
Suffice it, that besides all other possible meanings,
Dante himself has told us that his poem
has its obvious and literal meaning ; that he
means a spade by a spade, purgatory by purgatory,
and truly and unaffectedly to devote his
friends to the infernal regions whenever he
does so. I confess I think it is a great pity
that Guido Cavalcante did not live to read the
poem, especially the passage about his father.
The understanding of Guido, who had not the
admiration for Virgil that Dante had (very likely
for reasons that have been thought sound in
modem times), was in all probability as good
as that of his friend in many respects, and perhaps
more so in one or two ; and modern criticism
might have been saved some of its pains
of objection by the poet's contemporary.

The author did not live to publish, in any
formal manner, his extraordinary poem, probably
did not intend to do so, except under those

circumstances of political triumph which he
was always looking for; but as he showed
portions of it to his friends, it was no doubt
talked of to a certain extent, and must have exasperated
such of his enemies as considered
him worth their hostility. No wonder they did
all they could to keep him out of Florence.
What would they have said of him, could they
have written a counter poem ? what would
even his friends have said of him ? for we see in
what manner he has treated even those ; and
yet how could he possibly know, with respect
either to friends or enemies, what passed between
them and their consciences ? or who was
it that gave him his right to generate the
boasted distinction between an author's feelings
as a man and his assumed office as a theologian,
and parade the latter at the former's expense?
His own spleen, hatred, and avowed
sentiments of vengeance, are manifest throughout
the poem ; and there is this, indeed, to be
said for the moral and religious inconsistencies
both of the man and his verse, that in those
violent times the spirit of Christian charity,
and even the sentiment of personal shame, were
so little understood, that the author in one part
of it is made to blush by a friend for not having
avenged him ; and it is said to have been
thought a compliment to put a lady herself into

hell, that she might be talked of, provided it
was for something not odious. An admirer of
this infernal kind of celebrity, even in later
times, declared that he would have given a sum
of money (1 forget to what amount) if Dante
had but done as much for one of his ancestors.
It has been argued, that in all the parties concerned
in these curious ethics there is a generous
love of distinction, and a strong craving
after life, action, and sympathy of some kind or
other. Granted ; there are all sorts of half-good,
half-barbarous feelings in Dante's poem.
Let justice be done to the good half ; but do not
let us take the ferocity for wisdom and piety ;
or pretend, in the complacency of our own
freedom from superstition, to see no danger of
harm to the less fortunate among our fellow-creatures
in the support it receives from a man
of genius. Bedlam have been filled with such
horrors ; thousands, nay millions of feeble
minds are suffering by them or from them, at
this minute, all over the world. Dante's best
critic, Foscolo, has said much of the heroical
nature of the age in which the poet lived ; but
he adds, that its mixture of knowledge and absurdity
is almost inexplicable. The truth is,
that like every thing else which appears harsh
and unaccountable in nature, it was an excess
of the materials for good, working in an over-active

and inexperienced manner; but knowing
this, we are bound, for the sake of the good,
not to retard its improvement by ignoring
existing impieties, or blind ourselves to the
perpetuating tendencies of the bigotries of
great men. Oh ! had the first indoctrinators of
Christian feeling, while enlisting the "divine
Plato " into the service of diviner charity, only
kept the latter just enough in mind to discern
the beautiful difference between the philosopher's
malignant and improvable evil, and
their own malignant and eternal one, what a
world of folly and misery they might have
saved us ! But as the evil has happened, let us
hope that even this form of it has had its uses.
If Dante thought it salutary to the world to
maintain a system of religious terror, the same
charity which can hope that it may once have
been so, has taught us how to commence a
better. But did he, after all, or did he not,
think it salutary ? Did he think so, believing
the creed himself? or did he think it from an
unwilling sense of its necessity ? Or, lastly,
did he write only as a mythologist, and care for
nothing but the exercise of his spleen and
genius? If he had no other object than that,
his conscientiousness would be reduced to a low
pitch indeed. Foscolo is of opinion he was not
only in earnest, but that he was very near taking

himself for an apostle, and would have done
so had his prophecies succeeded, perhaps with
success to the pretension.* Thank heaven, his
"Hell" has not embittered the mild reading-desks
of the Church of England. If King
George the Third himself, with all his arbitrary
notions, and willing religious acquiescence,
could not endure the creed of St. Athanasius
with its damnatory enjoyments of the impossible,
what would have been said to the inscription
over Dante's hell-gate, or to the account of
Ugolino eating an archbishop, in the gentle
chapels of Queen Victoria ? May those chapels
have every beauty in them, and every air of
heaven, that painting and music can bestow —
divine gifts, not unworthy to be set before their
Divine Bestower ; but far from them be kept
the foul fiends of inhumanity and superstition !
It is certainly impossible to get at a thorough
knowledge of the opinions of Dante even
in theology ; and his morals, if judged according
to the received standard, are not seldom
puzzling. He rarely thinks as the popes do;
sometimes not as the Church does ; he is lax,
for instance, on the subject of absolution by the
priest at death, t All you can be sure of is, the
predominance of his will, the most wonderful

"Discorsosul Testoo," pp. 64, 77-90, 335-338.
f'Purgatorio/' canto iii., 118, 138 ; referred to by Foss
in the " Discorso sul Testoo," p. 383.

poetry, and the notions he entertained of the
degrees of vice and virtue. Towards the errors
of love he is inclined to be so lenient (some
think because he had indulged in them himself),
that it is pretty clear he would not have
put Paulo and Francesca into hell, if their story
had not been too recent, and their death too
sudden, to allow him to assume their repentance
in the teeth of the evidence required. He
avails himself of orthodox license to put *the
harlot Rahab " into heaven ( " cette bonne file
de Jericho," as Ginguene calls her) ; nay, he
puts her into the planet Venus, as if to compliment
her on her profession ; and one of her
companions there is a fair Ghibelline, sister of
the tyrant Ezzelino, a lady famous for her gallantries,
of whom the poet good-naturedly says,
that she "was overcome by her star " — to wit,
the said planet Venus ; and yet he makes her
the organ of the most unfeminine triumphs over
the Guelphss. But both these ladies, it is to be
understood, repented — for they had time for repentance
; their good fortune saved them. Poor
murdered Francesca had no time to repent;
therefore her mischance was her damnation !
Such are the compliments theology pays to the
Creator. In fact, nothing is really punished in
Dante's Catholic hell but impenitence, deliberate
or accidental. No delay or repentance,

however dangerous, hinders the most hardhearted
villain from reaching his heaven. The
best man goes to hell for ever, if he does not
think he has sinned as Dante thinks ; the worst
is beatified, if he agrees with him ; the only
thing which everybody is sure of, is some
dreadful duration of agony in purgatory — the
great horror of Catholic death-beds. Protestantism
may well hug itself on having escaped it.
O Luther ! vast was the good you did us ! O
gentle Church of England ! let nothing persuade
you that it is better to preach frightful
and foolish ideas of God from your pulpits,
than loving-kindness to all men, and peace
above all things !

If Dante had erred only on the side of indulgence,
humanity could easily have forgiven
him — for the excesses of charity are the extensions
of hope ; but, unfortunately, where he is
sweet-natured once, he is bitter a hundred
times. This is the impression he makes on
universalists of all creeds and parties ; that is to
say, on men who having run the whole round
of sympathy with their fellow-creatures, become
the only final judges of sovereign pretension.
It is very well for individuals to make a
god of Dante for some encouragement of their
own position or pretension ; but a god for the
world at large he never was, or can be ; and I

doubt if an impression to this effect was not always,
from the very dawn of our literature, the
one entertained of him by the genius of our
native country, which could never long endure
any kind of unwarrantable dictation. Chaucer
evidently thought him a man who would spare
no unnecessary probe to the feelings (see the
close of his version of * * Ugolino " ) . Spenser says
not a word of him, though he copied Tasso, and
eulogized Ariosto. Shakespeare would assuredly
have put him into the list of those presumptuous
lookers into eternity who " take upon themselves
to know'' ("Cymbeline," act v., sc. 4).
Milton, in his sonnet to Henry Lawes, calls him
"that sad Florentine" — a lamenting epithet,
by which we do not designate a man whom we
desire to resemble. The historian of English
poetry, admirably applying to him a passage
out of Milton, says that

Hell grows darker at his frown"*
Walter Scott could not read him, at least not
with pleasure. He tells Miss Seward that the
"plan" of the poem appeared to him "unhappy;
the personal malignity and strange
mode of revenge presumptuous and uninteresting."
t Uninteresting, I think, it is impossible

Wanton's " History of English Poetry," edition of
1849, vol. iii., p. 214.

t " Memoirs of the I,ife of Sir Walter Scott, Bart," vol.
ii., p. 122.

to consider it. The known world is there, and
the unknown pretends to be there ; and both
are surely interesting to most people.

Landor, in his delightful book the "Pentagon
" — a book full of the profoundest as
well as sweetest humanity — makes Petrarch
follow up Boccaccio's eulogies of the episode of
Paulo and Francesca with ebullitions of surprise
and horror :

Petrarch. Perfection of poetry ! The greater
is my wonder at discovering nothing else of the
same order or cast in this whole section of the
poem. He who fainted at the recital of Francesca,


And he who fell as a dead body falls.'
would exterminate all the inhabitants of every
town in Italy ! What execrations against
Florence, Pistoia, Pisa, Siena, Genoa ! what
hatred against the whole human race ! what exultation
and merriment at eternal and immitigable
sufferings ! Seeing this, I cannot but
consider the * Inferno ' as the most immoral
and impious book that ever was written. Yet,
hopeless that our country shall ever see again
such poetry, and certain that without it our future
poets would be more feebly urged forward to excellence,
I would have dissuaded Dante from
cancelling it, if this had been his intention." *
" Pentameron and Pentalogia," pp. 44-50.

Most happily is the distinction here intimated
between the undesirableness of Dante's
book in a moral and religious point of view,
and the greater desirableness of it, nevertheless,
as a pattern of poetry ; for absurdity, however
potent, wears itself out in the end, and leaves
what is good and beautiful to vindicate even so
foul an origin.

Again, Petrarch says : *' What an object of
sadness and of consternation, he who rises up
from hell like a giant refreshed !

' Boccaccio. Strange perversion ! A pillar of
smoke by day and of fire by night, to guide no
one. Paradise had fewer wants for him to satisfy
than hell had, all which he fed to repletion ; but
let us ratherlooktohis poetry than his temper."

See also what is said in that admirable book
further on (p. 50), respecting the most impious
and absurd passage in all Dante's poem, the assumption
about Divine I^ove in the inscription
over hell-gate — one of those monstrosities of
conception which none ever had the effrontery
to pretend to vindicate, except theologians who
profess to be superior to the priests of Moloch,
and who yet defy every feeling of decency and
humanity for the purpose of explaining their
own worldly, frightened, or hard-hearted submission
to the mistakes of the most wretched
understandings.

Ugo Foscolo, an excellent critic where his
own temper and violence did not interfere,
sees nothing but jealousy in Petrarch's dislike
of Dante, and nothing but Jesuitism in similar
feelings entertained by such men as Tiraboschi.
But all gentle and considerate hearts must dislike
the rage and bigotry in Dante, even were it
true (as the Dantesque Foscolo thinks) that
Italy will never be regenerated till one half of
it is baptized in the blood of the other ! * Such
men, with all their acuteness, are incapable of
seeing what can be effected by nobler and
serene times, and the progress of civilization.
They fancy, no doubt, that they are vindicating
the energies of Nature herself, and the inevitable
necessity of "doing evil that good may
come." But Dante in so doing violated the
Scripture he professed to revere ; and men
must not assume to themselves that final
knowledge of results, which is the only warrant
of the privilege, and the possession of
which is to be arrogated by no earthly wisdom.
One calm discovery of science may do away
with all the boasted eternal necessities of the
angry and the self-idolatrous. The passions
that may be necessary to savages are not bound
to remain so to civilized men, any more than

*"Discorso sul Testoo," p. 226. The whole passage
(sect, ex.) is very eloquent, horrible, and self-betraying .

the eating of man's flesh or the worship of Juggernaut.
When we think of the wonderful
things lately done by science for the intercourse
of the world, and the beautiful and tranquil
books of philosophy written by men of equal
energy and benevolence, and opening the
peacefulness hopes for mankind, and views of
creation to which Dante's universe was a nutshell,
— such a vision as that of his poem (in a
theological point of view) seems no better than
the dream of an hypochondriacal savage, and his
nutshell a rottenness to be spit out of the mouth.
Heaven send that the great poet's want of
charity has not made myself presumptuous and
uncharitable ! But it is in the name of society
I speak ; and words, at all events, nowadays are
not the terrible, stake-preceding things they
were in his. Readers in general, however, even
those of the literary world, have little conception
of the extent to which Dante carries either
his cruelty or his abuse. The former (of which
I shall give some examples presently) shows
appalling habits of personal resentment ; the
latter is outrageous to a pitch of the ludicrous —
positively screaming. I will give some specimens
of it out of Foscolo himself, who collects
them for a different purpose ; though, with all
his idolatry of Dante, he was far from being insensible
to his mistakes,

"The people of Siena," according to this
national and Christian poet, were " a parcel of
coxcombs ; those of Arezzo, dogs ; and of ,
hogs. Lucca made a trade of perjury.
Pistoia was a den of beasts, and ought to be reduced
to ashes ; and the river Arno should
overflow and drown every soul in Pisa. Almost
all the women in Florence walked half-naked
in public, and were abandoned in private.
Every brother, husband, son, and father in
Bologna set their women to sale. In all Lombardy
were not to be found three men who were
not rascals ; and in Genoa and Romagna people
went about pretending to be men, but in reality
were bodies inhabited by devils, their souls
having gone to the 'lowest pit of hell ' to join
the betrayers of their friends and kinsmen." ^

So much for his beloved countrymen. As for
foreigners, particularly kings, "Edward the
First of England, and Robert of Scotland, were
a couple of grasping fools ; the Emperor Albert
was an usurper ; Alphonse the Second, of Spain,
a debauchee ; the King of Bohemia a coward ;
Frederick of Arragon a coward and miser ; the
Kings of Portugal and Norway forgers ; the
King of Naples a man whose virtues were expressed
by a unit, and his vices by a million ;
and the King of France, the descendant of a
" Discorso," as above, p. loi,

Paris butcher, and of progenitors who poisoned
St. Thomas Aquinas, their descendants conquering
with the arms of Judas rather than of soldiers,
and selling the flesh of their daughters to
old men in order to extricate themselves from a
dangers

When we add to these invectives damnations
of friends as well as foes, of companions, lawyers,
men of letters, princes, philosophers,
popes, pagans, innocent people as well as guilty,
fools and wise, capable and incapable, men,
women, and children, it is really no better thana
kind of diabolical sublimation of Lord Thurlow's
anathemas in the " Rolliad," which begins
with

Damnation seize ye all " ;

and ends with

Damn them beyond what mortal tongue can tell,
Confound, sink, plunge them all to deepest, blackest
hell." t

In the gross, indeed, this is ridiculous enough.
No burlesque can beat it. But in the particular
one is astonished and saddened at the
cruelties in which the poet allows his imagination
to riot : horrors generally described with
too intense a verisimilitude not to excite our

" Discorso," p. 103.

+ "Criticisms on the Rolliad, and Probationary Odes
for the I^ureateship." Third edit., 1785, p. 317.

admiration, with too astounding a perseverance
not to amaze our humanity, and sometimes with
an amount of positive joy and delight that
makes us ready to shut the book with disgust
and indignation. Thus, in a circle 'in hell
where traitors are stuck up to their chins in ice
(canto xxxii), the visitor, in walking about,
happens to give one of their faces a kick ; the
sufferer weeps, and then curses him — with such
infernal truth does the writer combine the malignant
with the pathetic ! Dante replies to
the curse by asking the man his name. He is
refused it. He then seizes the miserable wretch
by the hair, in order to force him to the disclosure
: and Virgil is represented as commending
the barbarity ! * But he does worse. To barbarity
he adds treachery' of his own. He tells
another poor wretch, whose face is iced up with
tears, as if he had worn a crystal vizor, that if he
will disclose his name and offence, he wall relieve
his eyes awhile, that he-may weep. The man
does so : and the ferocious poet then refuses to
perform his promise, adding mockery to falsehood,
and observing that ill manners are the
only courtesy proper towards such a fellow ! f

The writer of the article on Dante in the Foreign
Quarterly Review (as above) concedes that his hero in
this passage becomes '' almost cruel." Almost! Tormenting
a man further who is up to his chin in everlasting
ice, and whose face he has kicked !

t " Cornelia fu lui esse villany."

" Inferno," canto xxxiii., 150.

It has been conjectured that Macchiavelli apparently
encouraged the enormities of the
princes of his time, with a design to expose
them to indignation. It might have been
thought of Dante, if he had not taken a part in
the cruelty, that he detailed the horrors of his
hell out of a wish to disgust the world with its
frightful notions of God. This is certainly the
effect of the worse part of his descriptions in an
age like the present. Black burning gulfs, full
of outcries and blasphemy, feet red-hot with
fire, men eternally eating their fellow-creatures,
frozen wretches malignantly dashing their iced
heads against one another, other adversaries
mutually exchanging shapes by force of an attraction
at once irresistible and loathing, and
spitting with hate and disgust when it is done —
Enough, enough, for God's sake ! Take the
disgust out of one's senses, O flower of true
Christian wisdom and charity, now beginning
to fill the air with fragrance !

But it will be said that Dante did all this out
of his hate of cruelty itself, and of treachery
itself. Partly no doubt he did ; and entirely he
thought he did. But see how the notions of
such retribution react upon the judge, and produce
in him the bad passions he punishes. It
is true the punishments are imaginary. Were
a human being actually to see such things, he

must be dehumanized or lie would cry out
against them with horror and detestation. But
the poem draws them as truths ; the writer's
creed threatened them ; he himself contributed
to maintain the belief; and however we may-suppose
such a belief to have had its use in giving
alarm to ruffian passions and barbarously
ignorant times, an age arrives when a beneficent
Providence permits itself to be better understood,
and dissipates the superfluous horror.

Many, indeed, of the absurdities of Dante's
poem are too obvious nowadays to need remark.
Even the composition of the poem, egotistically
said to be faultless by such critics as Alfieri,
who thought they resembled him, partakes, as
everybody's style does, of the faults as well as
good qualities of the man. It is nervous, concise,
full almost as it can hold, picturesque,
mighty, primeval ; but it is often obscure, often
harsh, and forced in its constructions, defective
in melody, and wilful and superfluous in the
rhyme. Sometimes, also, the writer is inconsistent
in circumstance (probably from not having
corrected the poem) ; and he is not above
being filthy. Even in the episode of Paulo and
Francesca, which has so often been pronounced
faultless, and which is unquestionably one of
the most beautiful pieces of writing in the
world, some of these faults are observable, particularly

in the obscurity of the passage about
tota fonna^ the cessation of the incessant tempest,
and the non-adjuration of the two lovers
in the manner that Virgil prescribes.

But truly it is said that when Dante is great,
nobody surpasses him. I doubt if anybody
equals him as to the constant intensity and incessant
variety of his pictures ; and whatever
he paints he throws, as it where, upon his own
powers ; as though an artist should draw figures
that started into life, and proceeded to action
for themselves, frightening their creator. Every
motion, word, and look of these creatures becomes
full of sensibility and suggestions. The
invisible is at the back of the visible ; darkness
becomes palpable ; silence describes a character,
nay, forms the most striking part of a story ; a
word acts as a flash of lightning which displays
some gloomy neighborhood where a tower is
standing, with dreadful faces at the window ; or
where, at your feet, full of eternal voices, one
abyss is beheld dropping out of another in the
lurid light of torment. In the present volume
a story will be found which tells a long story in
half a dozen lines, Dante has the minute probabilities
of a Defoe in the midst of the loftiest
and most generalizing poetry ; and this feeling
of matter-of-fact is impressed by fictions the
most improbable, nay, the most ridiculous and

revolting. You laugh at the absurdity, you are
shocked at the detestable cruelty, yet, for the
moment, the thing almost seems as if it must
be true. You feel as you do in a dream, and
after it ; you wake and laugh, but the absurdity
seemed true at the time ; and while you laugh
you shudder.

Enough of this crueller part of his genius has
been exhibited ; but it is seldom you can have
the genius without sadness. In the circle of
hell, soothsayers walk along weeping, with
their faces turned the wrong way, so that their
tears fall between their shoulders. The picture
is still more dreadful. Wanton thinks it ridiculous.
But I cannot help feeling with the poet,
that it is dreadfully pathetic. It is the last
mortifying insult to human pretension. wanton,
who has a grudge against Dante natural to
a man of happier piety, thinks him ridiculous
also in describing the monster Geryon lying
upon the edge of one of the gulfs of hell ** like
a beaver " (canto xvii). He is of opinion that
the writer only does it to show his knowledge of
natural history. But surely the idea of so
strange and awful a creature (a huge mild-faced
man ending in a dragon's body) lying familiarly
on the edge of the gulf, as a beaver does by
the water, combines the supernatural with the
familiar in a very impressive manner. It is

this combination of extremes which is the life
and soul of the whole poem ; you have this
world in the next ; the same persons, passions,
remembrances, intensified by superhuman despairs
or beatitudes ; the speechless entrenchments
of bliss, the purgatorial trials of hope and
patience ; the supports of hate and anger (such
as they are) in hell itself; nay, of loving despairs,
and a self-pity made undoubtedly pathetic
by endless suffering. Hence there is no love-story
so affecting as that of Paulo and Francesca
thus told and perpetuated in another world ; no
father's misery so enforced upon as Ugolino's,
who, for hundreds of years, has not grown tired
of the revenge to which it wrought him. Dante
even puts this weight and continuity of feeling
into passages of mere transient emotion or illustration,
unconnected with the next world; as
in the famous instance of the verses about
evening, and many others which the reader will
meet with in this volume. Indeed, if pathos
and the most impressive simplicity, and graceful
beauty of all kinds, and abundant grandeur,
can pay (as the reader, I believe, will think it
does even in a prose abstract), for the pangs of
moral discord and absurdity inflicted by the
perusal of Dante's poem, it may challenge competition
with any in point of interest. His
Heaven, it is true, though containing both sublime

and lovely passages, is not so good as
his Earth. The more unearthly he tried to
make it, the less heavenly it became. When
he is content with earth in heaven itself, — when
he literatures a metaphor, and with exquisite
felicity finds himself arrived these in consequence
of fixing his eyes on the eyes of Beatrice,
then he is most celestial. But his endeavors
to express degrees of beatitude and
holiness by varieties of flame and light, — of
dancing lights, revolving lights, lights of smiles,
of stars, of starry crosses, of didactic letters and
sentences, of animal figures made up of stars
full of blessed souls, with saints forming an
eagle's beak and Dared in its eye ! — such superhuman
attempts become for the most part
tricks of theatrical machinery, on which we
gaze with little curiosity and no respect.

His angels, however, are another matter.
Belief was prepared for those winged human
forms, and they furnished him with some of
his most beautiful combinations of the natural
with the supernatural. Ginguene has remarked
the singular variety as well as beauty of Dante's
angels. Milton's, indeed, are commonplace in
the comparison. In the eighth canto of the
"Inferno," the devils insolently refuse the
poet and his guide an entrance into the city of
Dis : — an angel comes sweeping over the Stygian

lake to enforce it ; the noise of his wings makes
the shores tremble, and is like a crashing whirlwind,
such as beats down the trees and sends
the peasants and the herds flying before it.
The heavenly messenger, after rebuking the
devils, touches the portals of the city
with his wand ; they fly open ; and he returns
the way he came without uttering a word to the
two companions. His face was that of one occupied
with other thoughts. This angel is
announced by a tempest. Another, who brings
the souls of the departed to Purgatory, is first
discovered at a distance, gradually disclosing
white splendors, which are his wings and garments.
He comes in a boat, of which his wings
are the sails ; and as he approaches, it is impossible
to look him in the face for its brightness.
Two other angels have green wings and
green garments, and the drapery is kept in
motion like a flag by the vehement action of
the wings. A fifth has a face like the morning
star, casting forth quivering beams. A sixth is
of a lustre so oppressive, that the poet feels a
weight on his eyes before he knows what is
coming. Another's presence affects the senses
like the fragrance of a May morning ; and
another is in garments dark as cinders, but hasa
sword in his hand too sparkling to be gazed
at. Dante's occasional pictures of the beauties

of external nature are worthy of these angelic
creations, and to the last degree fresh and
lovely. You long to bathe your eyes, smarting
with the fumes of hell, in his dews. You gaze
enchanted on his green fields and his celestial
blue skies, the more so from the pain and sorrow
in the midst of which the visions are
created.

Dante's grandeur of every kind is proportionate
to that of his angels, almost to his ferocity ;
and that is saying every thing. It is not always
the spiritual grandeur of Milton, the subjection
of the material impression to the moral ; but it
is equally such when he chooses, and far more
abundant. His infernal precipices — his black
whirlwinds — his innumerable cries and clasping
of hands — his very odors of huge loathsomeness
— his giants at twilight standing up to
the middle in pits, like towers, and causing
earthquakes when they move — his earthquake
of the mountain in purgatory, when a spirit is
set free for heaven — his dignified Mantuan
Sordello, silently regarding him and his guide
as they go by, " like a lion on his watch " — his
blasphemer, Capaneus, lying in unconquered
rage and sullenness under an eternal rain of
flakes of fire (human precursor of Milton's
Satan) — his aspect of paradise, *ras if the universe
had smiled " — his inhabitants of the whole

planet Saturn crying out so loud, in accordance
with the anti-papal indignation of Saint Pietro
Domino, that the poet, though among them,
could not hear what they said — and the blushing
eclipse, like red clouds at sunset, which
takes place at the apostle Peter's denunciation
of the sanguinary filth of the court of Rome —
all these sublimities, and many more, make us
not know whether to be more astonished at the
greatness of the poet or the raging littleness of
the man. Grievous is it to be forced to bring
two such opposites together ; and I wish, for
the honor and glory of poetry, I did not feel
compelled to do so. But the swarthy Florentine
had not the healthy temperament of his
brethren, and he fell upon evil times. Compared
with Homer and Shakespeare, his very
intensity seems only superior to theirs from an
excess of the morbid ; and he is inferior to both
in other sovereign qualities of poetry — to the
one, in giving you the healthiest general impression
of nature itself — to Shakespeare, in
boundless universality — to most great poets, in
thorough harmony and delightfulness. He
wanted (generally speaking) the music of a
happy and a happy-making disposition. Homer,
from his large vital bosom, breathes like a
broad fresh air over the world, amidst alternate
storm and sunshine, making you aware that

there is rough work to be faced, but also activity
and beauty to be enjoyed. The feeling of
health and strength is predominant. Life
laughs at death itself, or meets it with a noble
confidence — is not taught to dread it as a malignant
goblin. Shakespeare has all the smiles
as well as tears of nature, and discerns the
soul of goodness in things evil." He is comedy
as well as tragedy — the entire man in all
his qualities, moods, and experiences ; and he
beautifies all. And both those truly divine
poets make nature their subject through her
own inspiriting medium — not through the darkened
glass of one man's spleen and resentment.
Dante, in constituting himself the hero of his
poem, not only renders her, in the general impression,
as dreary as himself, in spite of the
occasional beautiful pictures he draws of her,
but narrows her very immensity into his pettiness.
He fancied, alas, that he could build her
universe over again out of the politics of old
Rome and the divinity of the schools !

Dante, besides his great poem, and a few
Latin eclogues, of no great value, wrote lyrics
full of Platonical sentiment, some of which anticipated
the loveliest of Petrarch's ; and he
was the author of various prose works, political
and philosophical, all more or less masterly for
the time in which he lived, and all coadjutors

of his poetry in fixing his native tongue. His
account of his Early Life (the " Vita Nova")
is a most engaging history of a boyish passion,
evidently as real and true on his own side as
love and truth can be, whatever might be its
mistake as to its obj sect. The treatise on the Vernacular
Tongue (" De Vulgarii Eloquio ") shows
how critically he considered his materials for
impressing the world, and what a reader he was
of every production of his contemporaries. The
Banquet ( ' ' Con vito " ) is but an abstruse commentary
on some of his minor poems ; but the book
on Monarchiaiay ("De Monarchiaia ") is a compound
of ability and absurdity, in which his great genius
is fairly overborne by the barbarous pedantry of
the age. It is an argument to prove that the
world must all be governed by one man ; that
this one man must be the successor of the
Roman Emperor — God having manifestly designed
the world to be subject forever to the
Roman empire ; and lastly, that this Emperor
is equally designed by God to be independent
of the Pope — spiritually subject to him, indeed,
but so far only as a good son is subject to the
religious advice of his father ; and thus making
church and state happy forever in the two
divided supremacy. And all this assumption
of the obsolete and impossible the author
gravely proves in all the forms of logic, by

arguments drawn from the history of eneas,
and the providential cackle of the Roman
geese !

How can the patriots of modem Italy, justified
as they are in extolling the poet to the skies,
see him plunge into such depths of bigotry in
his verse and childishness in his prose, and consent
to perplex the friends of advancement with
making a type of their success out of so erring
though so great a man ? Such slavishness, even
to such greatness, is a poor and unpromising
thing, compared with an altogether unprejudiced
and forward-looking self-reliance. To
have no faith in names has been announced as
one of their principles ; and " God and Humanity
" is their motto. What, therefore, has
Dante's name to do with their principles ? or
what have the semi-barbarisms of the thirteenth
century to do with the final triumph of "God
and Humanity " ? Dante's lauded wish for that
union of the Italian States, which his fame has
led them so fondly to identify with their own,
was but a portion of his greater and prouder wish
to see the whole world at the feet of his boasted
ancestress, Rome. Not, of course, that he had
no view to what he considered good and just
government (for what sane despot purposes to
rule without that ?) ; but his good and just government
was always to be founded on the sine

qua non principle of universal Italian domination.*


All that Dante said or did has its interest for
us in spite of his errors, because he was an earnest
and suffering man and a great genius ; but
his fame must ever continue to lie where his
greatest blame does, in his principal work. He
was a gratuitous logician, a preposterous politician,
a cruel theologian ; but his wonderful
imagination, and (considering the bitterness
that was in him) still more wonderful sweetness,
have gone into the hearts of his fellow-creatures,
and will remain there in spite of the
moral and religious absurdities with which they
are mingled, and of the inability which the best
natured readers feel to associate his entire memory,
as a poet, with their usual personal delight
in a poet and his name.

Every body sees this who is not wilfully blind. " Passionate,"
says the editor of the " Opere Minorii," "for the
ancient Italian glories, and the greatness of the Roman
name, he was of opinion that it was only by means of
combined strength, and one common government, that
Italy could be finally secured from discord in its own
bosom and enemies from without, and recover its ancient
empire over the whole-world. " " Amantissimo delle article
glories Italian, e della grandest del nome romano,
ei considerate, che soltantopel mezzo d'una general fora
ed authority poteva 1' Italia dalle interne contest dalle
staniere invasion restarsi sicura, e rscuperare V antics
imperio supra tutti regent, — Ut sup., vol. iii., p. 8.

THE JOURNEY THROUGH HEI.1^.

ARGUMENT.

Th infernal regions, according to Dante, are situate
in the globe we inhabit, directly beneath Jerusalem,
and consist of a succession of gulfs or circles,
narrowing as they descend, and terminating in the
centre ; so that the general shape is that of a funnel.
Commentators have differed as to their magnitude ; but
the latest calculation gives 315 miles for the diameter of
the mouth or crater, and a quarter of a mile for that of
its terminating point. In the middle is the abyss, pervading
the whole depth, and 245 miles in diameter at the
opening ; which reduces the different platforms, or territories
that surround it, to a size comparatively small.
These territories are more or less varied with land and
water, lakes, precipices, etc. A precipice, fourteen
miles high, divides the first of them from the second.
The passages from the upper world to the entrance are
various ; and the descents from one circle to another are
effected by the poet and his guide in different manners
sometimes on foot through by-ways, sometimes by the
conveyance of supernatural beings. The crater he finds
to be the abode of those who have done neither good nor
evil, caring for nothing but themselves. In the first

circle are the whole unbaptized world— heathens and ,
though not tormented. Here also is
found the Elysium of Virgil, whose Charon and other infernal
beings are among the agents of torment. In the
second circle the torments commence with the sin of incontinence
; and the punishment goes deepening with
the crime from circle to circle, through gluttony, avarice,
prodigality, wrath, sullenness, or unwillingness to be
pleased wth the creation, disbelief in God and the soul
(with which the punishment by fire commences), usury,
murder, suicide, blasphemy, seduction, and other carnal
enormities, adulation, simony, soothsaying, astrology,
witchcraft, trafficking with the public interest, hypocrisy,
highway robbery (on the great Italian scale),
sacrilege, evil counsel, disturbance of the Church, heresy,
false apostleship, alchemy, forgery, coining (all
these, from seduction downwards, in one circle) ; then,
in the frozen or lowest circle of all, treachery ; at the bottom
of this is Satan, stuck in the centre of the earth.

With the centre of the globe commences the antipodean
attraction of its opposite side, together with a
rocky ascent out of it, through a huge ravine. The poet
and his guide, on their arrival at this spot, accordingly
find their position reversed : and so conclude their
downward journey upwards, till they issue forth to light
on the borders of the sea which contains the island of
Purgatory.

DANTE says, that when he was half-way on
his pilgrimage through this life, he one
day found himself, towards nightfall, in a wood
where he could no longer discern the right
path. It was a place so gloomy and terrible,
every thing in it growing in such a strange and
savage manner, that the horror he felt returned
on him whenever he thought of it. The pass
of death could hardly be more bitter. Travelling
through it all night with a beating heart, heat
length came to the foot of a hill, and looking
up, as he began to ascend it, he perceived
the shoulders of the hill clad in the beams of
morning ; a sight which gave him some little
comfort. He felt like a man who has buffeted
his way to land out of a shipwreck, and who,
though still anxious to get farther from his
peril, cannot help turning round to gaze on the
wide waters. So did he stand looking back on
the pass that contained that dreadful wood.

After resting a while, he again betook him
up the hill ; but had not gone far when he beheld

a leopard bounding in front of him, and
hindering his progress. After the leopard
came a lion, with his head aloft, mad with hunger,
and seeming to frighten the very air * ;
and after the lion, more eager still, a she-wolf,
so lean that she appeared to be sharpened with
every wolfish want. The pilgrim fled back in
terror to the wood, where he again found himself
in a darkness to which the light never penetrated.
In that place, he said, the sun never
spoke a words But the wolf was still close
upon him.J

While thus flying, he beheld coming towards
him a man, who spoke something, but he knew
not what. The voice sounded strange and
feeble, as if from disuse. Dante loudly called
out to him to save him, whether he was a manor
only a spirit. The apparition, at whose sight
the wild beasts disappeared, said that he was

"Area che 1' aer ne demesne."

t " I,a dove '1 sol tace."

The sun to me is dark,
And silent is the moon,
Hid in her vacant interlunar cave." — Milton.

X There is great difference among the commentators
respecting the meaning of the three beasts some supposing
them passions, others political troubles, others
personal enemies, etc. The point is not of much importance,
especially as a mystery was intended ; but
nobody, as Mr. Gary says, can doubt that the passage
was suggested by one m the prophet Jeremiah, v. 6 :
Wherefore a lion out of the forest shall slay them, and
the wolf of the evenings shall spoil them ; a leopard
shall watch over their cities. "

no longer man, though man he had been in the
time of the false gods, and sung the history of
the offspring of Anchises.

"And art thou, then, that Virgil," said
Dante, "who has filled the world with such
floods of eloquence ? O glory and light of all
poets, thou art my master, and thou mine
author ; thou alone the book from which I
have gathered beauties that have gained me
praise. Behold the peril I am in, and help me,
for I tremble in every vein and pulse'*

Virgil comforted Dante. He told him that he
must quit the wood by another road, and that
he himself would be his guide, leading him first
to behold the regions of woe underground, and
then the spirits that lived content in fire because
it purified them for heaven ; and then
that he would consign him to other hands
worthier than his own, which should raise him
to behold heaven itself; for as the Pagans, of
whom he was one, had been rebels to the law
of him that reigns there, nobody could arrive at
Paradise by their means.*

" Che quelle 'operator che 1^ su regna
Perch' i' fu' ribellante a la sua legge,
Non vuolche 'n sua citti per the si regna."
The Pagans could not be rebels to a law they never
heard of, any more than Dante could be a rebel to
IvUther. But this is one of the absurdities with which
the impious effrontery or scarcely less impious admissions
of Dante's teachers avowedly set reason at defiance,—
retaining, meanwhile, their right of contempt for

So saying, Virgil moved on his way, and
Dante closely followed. He expressed a fear,
however, as they went, lest being "neither
eneas nor St. Paul," his journey could not be
worthily undertaken, or end in wisdom. But
Virgil, after sharply rebuking him for his faintheartedness,
told him, that the spirit of her
whom he loved, Beatrice, had come down from
heaven, on purpose to commend her lover to
his care ; upon which the drooping courage of
the pilgrim was raised to an undaunted confidence
; as flowers that have been closed and
bowed down by frosty nights, rise all up on
their stems in the morning sun.*
Through me is the road to the dolorous city ;

Through me is the road to the everlasting sorrows ;

Through me is the road to the lost people.

Justice was the motive of my exalted maker ;

I was made by divine power, by consummate wisdom,
and by primal love ;

Before me was no created thing, if not eternal ; and
eternal am I also.

Abandon hope, all ye who enter."

the impieties of Mahometanss and Brahmins; "which is
odd," as the poet says ; for being not less absurd, or, as
the others argued, much more so, they had at least an
equal claim on the submission of the reason ; since the
greater the irrationality, the higher the theological
triumph.
" Quale i fioretti dal notturno gelt

China e chuse, poi che '1 sol gl' imbianca,
Si drizzle tutti perth in lord stylo."
I^ike as the flowers that with the frosty night
Are bowed and closed, soon as the sun returns,
Rise on their stems, all open and upright.

Such were the words which Dante beheld
written in dark characters over a portal. "Master,
' ' said he to Virgil, ' ' I find their meaning
hard."

"A man," answered Virgil, "must conduct
himself at this door like one prepared. Hither
must he bring no mistrust. Hither can come
and live no cowardice. We have arrived at the
place I told thee of. Here thou art to behold
the dolorous people who have lost all intellectual
good. ' ' *

So saying, Virgil placed his hand on Dante's,
looking on him with a cheerful countenance ;
and the Florentine passed with him through
the dreadful gate.

They entered upon a sightless gulf, in which
was a black air without stars ; and immediately

This loss of intellectual good, and the confession of
the poet that he finds the inscription over hell-portal
hard to understand (z7 sense lor ?«' ^ duro), are among
the passages in Dante which lead some critics to suppose
that his hell is nothing but an allegory, intended
at once to imply his own disbelief in it as understood by
the vulgar part of mankind, and his employment of it,
nevertheless, as a salutary check both to the foolish and
the reflecting ;— to the foolish, as an alarm ; and to the
reflecting, as a parable. It is possible, in the teeth of
many appearances to the contrary, that such may have
been the case ; but in the doubt that it affects either the
foolish or the wise to any good purpose, and in the certainty
that such doctrines do a world of mischief to tender
consciences and the cause of sound piety, such monstrous
contradictions, in terms, of every sense of justice
and charity which God has implanted in the heart of
man, are not to be passed over without indignant comment.


heard a hubbub of groans, and failings, and
terrible things said in many languages, words of
wretchedness, outcries of rage, voices loud and
hoarse, and sounds of the smiting of hands
one against another. Dante began to weep.
The sound was if the sand in a whirlwind were
turned into noises, and filled the blind air with
incessant conflict.

Yet these were not the souls of the wicked.
They were those only who had lived without
praise or blame, thinking of nothing but themselves.
These miserable creatures were mixed
with the angels who stood neutral in the war
with Satan. Heaven would not dull its brightness
with those angels, nor would lower hell
receive them, lest the bad ones should triumph
in their company.

"And what is it," said Dante, "which makes
them so grievously suffer ? ' '

' Hopelessness of death, ' ' said Virgil. ' ' Their
blind existence here, and memorable former
life, make them so wretched, that they envy
every other lot. Mercy and justice alike disdain
them. Let us speak of them no more,
look, and pass."

The companions went on till they came to a
great river with a multitude waiting on the
banks. A hoary old man appeared crossing
the river towards them in a boat ; and as he

came, he said, "Woe to the wicked. Never expect
to see heaven. I come to bear you across
to the dark regions of everlasting fire and ice. ' '
Then looking at Dante, he said, "Get thee
away from the dead, thou who stances there,
live spirit"

"Torment thyself not, Charon," said Virgil.
"He has a passport beyond thy power to question."


The shaggy cheeks of the boatman of the
livid lake, who had wheels of fire about his
eyes, fell at these words ; and he was silent.
But the naked multitude of souls whom he had
spoken to changed color, and gnashed their
teeth, blaspheming God, and their parents, and
the human species, and the place, and the hour,
and the seed of the sowing of their birth ; and
all the while they felt themselves driven onwards,
by a fear which became a desire towards
the cruel river-side, which awaits every one
destitute of the fear of God. The demon
Charon, beckoning to them with eyes like
brasiers, collected them as they came, giving
blows to those that lingered, with his oar. Oneby
one they dropped into the boat like leaves
from a bough in autumn, till the bough is left
bare ; or as birds drop into the decoy at the
sound of the bird-call.

There was then an earthquake, so terrible

that the recollection of it made the poet burst
into a sweat at every pore. A whirlwind issued
from the lamenting ground, attended by vermilion
flashes, and he lost his senses, and fell
like a man stupefied.

A crash of thunder through his brain woke up
the pilgrim so hastily that he shook himself
like a person roused by force. He found that
he was on the brink of a gulf, from which
ascended a thunderous sound of innumerable
groaning. He could see nothing down it. It
was too dark with sooty clouds. Virgil himself
turned pale, but said : ' ' We are to go down
here. I will lead the way."

"O master," said Dante, "if even thou fear-est,
what is to become of myself ? "

"It is pity, not fear," replied Virgil, " that
makes me change color."

With these words his guide led him into the
first circle of hell, surrounding the abyss. The
great noise gradually ceased to be heard, as
they journeyed inwards, till at last they became
aware of a world of sighs, which produced a
trembling in the air. They were breathed by
the souls of such as had died without baptism,
men, women, and infants ; no matter how
good ; no matter if they worshipped God before
the coming of Christ, for they worshipped him
not "properly." Virgil himself was one of

them. They were all lost for no other reason,
and their " only suffering " consisted in ** hopeless
desire ! "

Dante was struck with great sorrow when he
heard this, knowing how many good men must
be in that place. He inquired if no one had
ever been taken out of it into heaven. Virgil
told him that there had, and he named them,
to wit : Adam, Abel, Noah, Moses, King David,
obedient Abraham the patriarch, and Isaac, and
Jacob, with their children, and Rachel, for
whom Jacob did so much, — and " many more,"
adding, however, that there was no instance of
salvation before theirs.

Journeying on through spirits as thick as
leaves, Dante perceived a lustre at a little distance,
and observing shapes in it evidently of
great dignity, inquired who they were that thus
lived apart from the rest. Virgil said that
heaven thus favored them by reason of their
renown on earth. A voice was then heard
exclaiming; "Honor and glory to the lofty
poet! Lo, his shade returns." Dante then
saw four other noble figures coming towards
them, of aspect neither sad nor cheerful.


"Observe him with the sword in his hand,"
said Virgil, as they were advancing. "That is
Homer, the poets' sovereign. Next to him

comes Horace the satirist ; then Ovid ; and the
last is Ivucan. ' '

** And thus I beheld," says Dante, "the bright
school of the loftiest of poets, who flies above
the rest like an eagle."

For awhile the illustrious spirits talked together,
and then turned to the Florentine with
a benign salutation, at which his master smiled :
and "further honor they did me," adds the
father of Italian poetry, ' ' for they admitted me
of their tribe ; so that to a band of that high account
I added a sixth." *

The spirits returned towards the bright light
in which they lived, talking with Dante by the
way, and brought him to a magnificent castle,
girt with seven lofty walls, and further defended
with a river, which they all passed as if it had
been dry ground. Seven gates conducted them
into a meadow of fresh green, the resort of a
race whose eyes moved with a deliberate soberness,
and whose whole aspects were of great
authority, their voices sweet, and their speech
seldom. t Dante was taken apart to an elevation
in the ground, so that he could behold

It is seldom that a boast of this kind— not, it must be
owned, bashful— has been allowed by posterity to be
just; nay, in four out of the five instances, below its
claims.

t " Gente v' ran, con occhi tarda e gravi,
Di grande authority ne' lor sembianti :
Caravan rade, con voce soavi."

them all distinctly ; and there, on the " enamelled
green"* were pointed out to him the great
spirits, by the sight of whom he felt exalted in
his own esteem. He saw Electra with many
companions, among whom were Hector and
eneas, and Caesar in armor with his hawk's
eyes ; and on another side he beheld old King
Latins with his daughter Lavinia, and the
Brutus that expelled Tarquin, and Lucretia, and
Julia, and Cato's wife Marcia, and the mother
of the Gracchus, and, apart by himself, the Sultan
Saladin. He then raised his eyes a little, and
beheld the "master of those who knowest
(Aristotle), sitting amidst the family of philosophers,
and honored by them all. Socrates and
Plato were at his side. Among the rest was
Democritus, who made the world a chance, and
Diogenes, and Heraclitus, etc., and Dioscorides,
the good gatherer of simples. Orpheus also he
saw, and Cicero, and the moral Seneca, and
Euclid, and Hippocrates, and Avicen, and
Averroes, who wrote the great commentary,
and others too numerous to mention. The company
of six became diminished to two, and Virgil
took him forth on a far different road, leave

'1 verde rialto." Mr. Cary has noticed the
appearance, for the first time, of this beautiful but now
commonplace image.

■}•" II maestro di color che canning

that serene air for a stormy one ; and so
they descended again into darkness.

It was the second circle into which they now
came — a sphere narrower than the first, and by
so much more the wretched. Minos sat at
the entrance, gnarling — he that gives sentence
on every one that comes, and intimates the
circle into which each is to be plunged by the
number of folds into which he casts his tail
round about him. Minos admonished Dante
to beware how he entered unbidden, and warned
him against his conductor ; but Virgil sharply
rebuked the judge, and bade him not set his
will against the will that was power.

The pilgrims then descended through hell-mouth,
till they came to a place dark as pitch,
that bellowed with furious cross-winds, like a
sea in a tempest. It was the first place of torment,
and the habitation of carnal sinners. The
winds, full of stifled voices, buffeted the souls
forever, whirling them away to and fro, and
dashing them against one another. Whenever
it seized them for that purpose, the wailing and
the shrieking was loudest, crying out against
the Divine Power. Sometimes a whole multitude
came driven in a body like starlings before
the wind, now hither and thither, now up,
now down ; sometimes they went in a line like
cranes, when a company of those birds is beheld

sailing along in the air, uttering its dolorous
clangs.

Dante, seeing a group of them advancing,
inquired of Virgil who they were. "Who are
these," said he, *' coming hither, scourged in
the blackest part of the hurricane ? ' '

She at the head of them," said Virgil, "was
empress over many nations. So foul grew her
heart with lust, that she ordained license to be
law, to the end that herself might be held
blameless. She is Semiramis, of whom it is
said that she gave suck to Ninus, and espoused
him. Leading the multitude next to her is Dido,
she that slew herself for love, andbroke faith to
the ashes of Sichaeus ; and she that follows with
the next is the luxurious woman, Cleopatra."

Dante then saw Helen, who produced such a
world of misery ; and the great Achilles, who
fought for love till it slew him, and Paris ; and
Tristan ; and a thousand more whom his guide
pointed at, naming their names, every one of
whom was lost through love.

The poet stood for a while speechless for pity,
and like one bereft of his wits. He then besought
leave to speak to a particular couple
who went side by side, and who appeared to be
borne before the wind with speed lighter than
the rest. His conductor bade him wait till they
came nigher, and then to entreat them gently

by the love which bore them in that manner,
and they would stop and speak with him. Dante
waited his time, and then lifted up his voice between
the gusts of wind, and adjured the two
*' weary souls to halt and have speech with him,
if none forbade their doing so ; upon which they
came to him like doves to the nest.*

There was a lull in the tempest, as if on purpose
to let them speak ; and the female addressed
Dante, saying, that as he showed such
pity for their state, they would have prayed
heaven to give peace and repose to his life, had
they possessed the friendship of heaven. f

This is the famous episode of Paulo and Francesca.
She was daughter to Count Guido da Polenta, lord of
Ravenna, and wife to Giovanni Malatesta, one of the sons
of the lord of Rimini. Paulo was her brother-in-law.
They were surprised together by the husband, and slain
on the spot.
Quali colombe, dal disco climate,
Con r ali perte e ferme, al dolce dido
Volan per 1' aer dal voler portage :
Cotali uscir de la chimera ov' 6 Dido,
A noi venendoper 1' aer nialigno,
Si forte fu 1' afiettuoso gride."

As doves, drawn home from where they circled still,
Set firm their open wings, and through the air
Come sweeping, wafted by their pure good-will :
So broke from Dido's flock that gentle pair,
Cleaving, to where we stood, the air malign,
Such strength to bring them had a loving prayer,
t Francesca is to be conceived telling her story in
anxious intermitting sentences— now all tenderness for
her lover, now angry at their slayer ; watching the poet's
face, to see what he thinks, and at times averting her
pwn. I take this excellent direction from Ugo Foscolo,

"I^ove," she said, " which is soon kindled ina
gentle heart, seized this my companion for
the fair body I once inhabited — how deprived of
it, my spirit is bowed to recollect. Love, which
compels the beloved person upon thoughts of
love, seized me in turn with a delight in his
passion so strong, that, as thou seest, even here
it forsakes me not. Love brought us both to
one end. The punishment of Cain awaits him
that slew us."

The poet was struck dumb by this story. He
hung down his head, and stood looking on the
ground so long, that his guide asked him what
was in his mind. "Alas ! " answered he, "such
then was this love, so full of sweet thoughts ;
and such the pass to which it brought them !
O Francesca ! " he cried, turning again to the
sad couple, "thy sufferings make me weep.
But tell me, I pray thee, what was it that first
made thee know, for a certainty, that his love
was returned ? — that thou couldst refuse him
thine no longer ? ' '

"There is not a greater sorrow," answered
she, "than calling to mind happy moments in
the midst of wretchedness.* But since thy desire
is so great to know our story to the root,
hear me tell it as well as I may for tears. It

" Nessum maggiore colore,
Che recorders del tempo felice
Ne la misery."

chanced, one day, that we sat reading the tale
of Sir Lancelot, how love took him in thrall.
We were alone, and had no suspicion. Often,
as we read, our eyes became suspended,"^ and
we changed color ; but one passage alone it was
that overcame us. When we read how Genera
smiled, and how the lover, out of the depth of
his love, could not help kissing that smile, he
that is never more to be parted from me kissed
me himself on the mouth, all in a tremble.
Never had we go-between but that book. The
writer was the betrayer. That day we read no
more."

While these words were being uttered by one
of the spirits, the other wailed so bitterly, that
the poet thought he should have died for pity.^
His senses forsook him, and he fell flat on the
ground, as a dead body falls, f

" Per piu fate gli occhi ci suspense
Quelle letter."
To look at one another," says Boccaccio ; and his interpretation
has been followed by Gary and Foscolo ; but,
with deference to such authorities, I beg leave to think
that the poet meant no more than he says, namely, that
their eyes were simply " suspended "hung, as it were,
over the book, without being able to read on ; which is
what I intended to express (if I may allude to a production
of which both those critics were pleased to speak
well), when, in my youthful attempt to enlarge this
story, I wrote—

And o'er the book they hung, and nothing said.
And every lingering page grew longer as they read "
" Story of Rimini."
f " Centre che 1' uno spirto quest disuse,
I,' alto piangeva si, che di pietas

On regaining his senses, the poet found himself
in the third circle of hell, a place of everlasting
wet, darkness, and cold, one heavy slush
of hail and mud, emitting a squalid smell. The
triple-headed dog Cerberus, with red eyes and
greasy black beard, large belly, and hands with
claws, barked above the heads of the wretches
who floundered in the mud, tearing, skinning,
and dismembering them, as they turned their
sore and soddened bodies from side to side.
When he saw the two living men, he showed
his fangs, and shook in every limb for desire of
their flesh. Virgil threw lumps of dirt into his
mouth, and so they passed him.

It was the place of Gluttons. The travellers
passed over them, as if they had been ground
to walk upon. But one of them sat up, and '

venn men cost com' io morose,
E cadi come corps morton cade."
This last line has been greatly admired for the corresponding
deadness of its expression.

While thus one spoke the other spirit mourn'd
With wail so woful, that at his remorse
I felt as though I should have died. I turn'd
Stone-stiff; and to the ground, fell like a corse.
The poet fell thus on the ground (some of the commentators
think) because he had sinned in the same way ;
and if Foscolo's opinion could be established — that the
incident of the book is invention — their conclusion would
receive curious collateral evidence, the circumstance of
the perusal of the romance in company with a lady being
likely enough to have occurred to Dante. But the same
probability applies in the case of the lovers. The reading
of such books was equally the taste of their own
times ; and nothing is more likely than the volume's
having been found in the room where they perished.

dressed the Florentine as his acquaintance.
Dante did not know him, for the agony in his
countenance. He was a man nicknamed Hog
(Ciacco), and by no other name does the poet,
or any one else, mention him. His countryman
addressed him by it, though declaring at the
same time that he wept to see him. Hog prophesied
evil to his discordant native city, adding
that there were but two just men in it — all
the rest being given up to avarice, envy, and
pride. Dante inquired by name respecting the
fate of five other Florentines, who had done
good, and was informed that they were all, for
various offences, in lower gulfs of hell. Hog
then begged that he would mention having
seen him when he returned to the sweet world ;
and so, looking at him a little, bent his head,
and disappeared among his blinded companions.

"Satan! hoa, Satan!" roared the demon
Plutus, as the poets were descending into the
fourth circle.

'' Peace ! " cried Virgil, "with thy swollen lip,
thou accursed wolf. No one can hinder his
coming down. God wills it." *

Plutus' exclamation about Satan is a great choke-pear
to the commentators. The line in the original is

Pape Satan, pape Satan aleppo."
The words, as thus written, are not Italian. It is not
the business of this abstract to discuss such points ;
and therefore I content myself with believing that the
context implies a call of alarm on the Prince of Hell at
the sight of the living creature and his guide.

Flat fell Plutus, collapsed, like the sails of a
vessel when the mast is split.

This circle was the most populous one they
had yet come to. The sufferers, gifted with
supernatural might, kept eternally rolling
round it, one against another, with terrific violence,
and so dashing apart, and returning.
'*\Vhy grasp?" cried the one — "Why throw
away ? " cried the other ; and thus exclaiming,
they dash furiously together.

They were the Avaricious and the Prodigal.
Multitudes of them were churchmen, including
cardinals and popes. Not all the gold beneath
the moon could have purchased them a moment's
rest. Dante asked if none of them were
to be recognized by their countenances. Virgil
said, "No"; for the stupid and sullied lives
which they led on earth swept their faces away
from all distinction forever.

In discoursing of fortune, they descend by
the side of a torrent, black as ink, into the fifth
circle, or place of torment for the Angry, the
Sullen, and the Proud. Here they first beheld
a filthy marsh, full of dirty naked bodies, that
in everlasting rage tore one another to pieces.
In a quieter division of the pool were seen
nothing but bubbles, carried by the ascent, from
its slimy bottom of the stifled words of the
sullen. They were always saying: "We were

sad and dark within us in the midst of the sweet
sunshine, and now we live sadly in the dark
bogs." The poets walked on till they came to
the foot of a tower, which hung out two blazing
signals to another just discernible in the distance.
A boat came rapidly towards them,
ferried by the wrathful Phlegyas * ; who cried
out: "Aha, felon! and so thou hast come at
last!"

*' Thou arrest," said Virgil. "We come for
no longer time than it will take thee to ferry
us across thy pool."

Phlegyas looked like one defrauded of his
right ; but proceeded to convey them. During
their course a spirit rose out of the mire, looking
Dante in the face, and said, ' ' Who art
thou, that comest before thy time ? ' '

"Who art thou? " said Dante.

"Thou seest who I am," answered the other ;
"one among the mourners."

"Then mourn still, and howl, accursed spirit,"
returned the Florentine. " I know thee, —
all over filth as thou art."

Phlegyas, a son of Mars, was cast into hell by Apollo
for setting the god's temple on fire in resentment for the
violation of his daughter Colonies. The actions of gods
were not to be questioned, in Dante's opinion, even
though the gods turned out to be false. Jugghanaut is
as good as any, while he lasts. It is an ethico-theo-
logical puzzle, involving very nice questions ; but at any
rate, had our poet been a Brahmin of Benares, we know
how he would have written about it in Sanscrit.

The wretch in fury laid hold of the boat, but
Virgil thrust him back, exclaiming, "Down
with thee ! down among the other dogs ! "

Then turning to Dante, he embraced and
kissed him, saying: " O soul, that knows how
to disdain, blessed be she that bore thee ? Arrogant,
truly, upon earth was this sinner, nor
is his memory graced by a single virtue. Hence
the furiousness of his spirit now. How many
kings are there at this moment lording it as
gods, who shall wallow here, as he does, like
swine in the mud, and be thought no better of
by the world!"

' I should like to see him smothering in it, ' '
said Dante, ' * before we go. ' '

' A right wish, ' ' said Virgil, ' ' and thou
shalt, to thy heart's content."

On a sudden the wretch's muddy companions
seized and drenched him so horribly that (exclaims
Dante) "I laud and thank God for it
now at this moment."

Have at him ! " cried they ; " have at Filippo
Argenti " ; and the wild fool of a Florentine
dashed his teeth for rage into his own
flesh.*

Filippo Argenti (Philip Silver,— so called from his
shoeing his horse with the precious metal) was a Florentine
remarkable for bodily strength and extreme
irascibility. What a barbarous strength and confusion
of ideas is there in this whole passage about him ! Arrogance
punished by arrogance, a Christian mother

The poet's attention was now drawn off by a
noise of lamentation, and lie perceived that he
was approaching the city of Dis."^ The turrets
glowed vermilion with the fire within it, the
walls appeared to be of iron, and moats were
round about them. The boat circuited the
walls till the travellers came to a gate, which
Phlegyas, with a loud voice, told them to quit
the boat and enter. But a thousand fallen angels
crowded over the top of the gate, refusing
to open it, and making furious gestures. At
length they agreed to let Virgil speak with
them inside; and he left Dante for awhile,
standing in terror without. The parley was in
vain. They would not let them pass. Virgil,
however, bade his companion be of good cheer,
and then stood listening and talking to him-blessed

for the unchristian disdainfully of her son,
revenge boasted of and enjoyed, passion arguing in a
circle ! Filippo himself might have written it. Dante
says,

Con piangere e con lutto
Spirit maladetto, ti rimini.—

Via costa. con gli altri can," etc.
Then Virgil kissing and embracing him,
Alma sdegnosa
Benedetta cole che 'n te s' incense," etc.
And Dante again,

Maestro, molto sareivago

Di vederlo attuffare in qucsta broda," etc.

Dis, one of the Pagan names of Pluto, here used for

Satan. Within the walls of the city of Dis commence

the punishments by fire.

self ; disclosing by his words his expectation
of some extraordinary assistance, and at the
same time his anxiety for its arrival. On a
sudden, three raging figures arose over the
gate, colored with gore. Green hydras twisted
about them ; and their fierce temples had
snakes instead of hair.

"Look," said Virgil. "The Furies! The
one on the left is Messer ; Alecto is she that
is wailing on the right ; and in the middle is
Tisiphone." Virgil then hushed. The furies
stood clawing their breasts, smiting their hands
together, and raising such hideous cries, that
Dante clung to his friend.

Bring the Gorgon's head! " cried the Furies,
looking down ; " turn him to adamant !"

"Turn round," said Virgil, "and hide thy
face ; for if thou boldest the Gorgon, never
again wilt thou see the light of day." And
with these words he sized Dante and turned
him round himself, clapping his hands over
his companion's eyes.

And now was heard coming over the water a
terrible crashing noise, that made the banks on
either side of it tremble. It was like a hurricane
which comes roaring through the vain
shelter of the woods, splitting and hurling
away the boughs, sweeping along proudly in a
huge cloud of dust, and making herds and

herdsmen fly before it. * ' Now stretch your
eyesight across the water, " said Virgil, letting
loose his hands; — '* there, where the smoke of
the foam is thickest." Dante looked ; and saw
a thousand of the rebel angels, like frogs before
a serpent, swept away into a heap before
the coming of a single spirit, who flew over the
tops of the billows with unwept feet. The spirit
frequently pushed the gross air from before his
feet, as if tired of the base obstacle ; and as he
came nearer, Dante, who saw it was a messenger
from heaven, looked anxiously' at Virgil.
Virgil motioned him to be silent and bow
down.

The angel, with a face full of scorn, as soon
as he arrived at the gate, touched it with a
wand that he had in his hand, and it flew open.

Outcasts of heaven," said he ; " despicable
race? whence this fantastical arrogance? Do
ye forget that your torments are laid on thicker
every time ye kick against the Fates ? Do ye
forget how your Cerberus was bound and
chained till he lost the hair off his neck like a
common dog ? "

So saying he turned swiftly and departed the
way he came, not addressing a word to the
travellers. His countenance had suddenly a
look of some other business, totally different
from the one he had terminated.

The companions passed in, and beheld a
place full of tombs red-hot. It was the region
of Arch-heretics and their followers. Dante
and his guide passed round betwixt the walls
and the sepulchres as in a churchyard, and
came to the quarter which held Epicurus and
his sect, who denied the existence of spirit
apart from matter. The lids of the tombs remaining
unclosed till the day of judgment, the
soul of a noble Florentine, Farinatata degli
Alberti, hearing Dante speak, addressed him asa
countryman, asking him to stop.* Dante,
alarmed, beheld him rise half out of his sepulchre,
looking as lofty as if he scorned hell
itself. Finding who Dante was, he boasted of
having three times expelled the Guelphss.
Perhaps so," said the poet ; " but they came
back again each time ; an art which their enemies
have not yet acquired."

A visage then appeared from out another
tomb, looking eagerly, as if it expected to see
some one else. Being disappointed, the tears
came into its eyes, and the sufferer said, " If it
is thy genius that conducts thee hither, where
is my son, and why is he not with thee ? "

"It is not my genius that conducts me,"

Farinatata was a Ghibelline leader before the time of
Dante, and had vanquished the poet's connections at the
battle of Montaperto.

sid Dante, "but that of one, whom perhaps
thy son held in contempt."

"How say est thou?" cried the shade; —
'^ held in contempt? He is dead then? He
beholds no longer the sweet light?" And
with these words he dropped into his tomb, and
was seen no more. It was Cavalcante Caval-cant,
the father of the poet's friend, Guido.*

The shade of Farinatata, who had meantime
been looking on, now replied to the taunt of
Dante, prophesying that he should soon have
good reason to know that the art he spoke of
had been acquired ; upon which Dante, speaking
with more considerateness to the lofty
sufferer, requested to know how the gift of
prophecy could belong to spirits who were
ignorant of the time present. Farinatata answered
that so it was ; just as there was a kind
of eyesight which could discern things at a
distance though not at hand. Dante then expressed
his remorse at not having informed
Cavalcante that his son was alive. He said it
was owing to his being overwhelmed with
thought on the subject he had just mentioned,
and entreated Farinatata to tell him so.

What would Guido have said to this ? More, I suspect,
than Dante would have liked to hear, or known
how to answer. But he died before the verses transpired
; probably before they were written ; for Dante,
in the chronology of his poem, assumes what times and
seasons he finds most convenient.

Quitting this part of the cemetery, Virgil led
him through the midst of it towards a descent
into a valley, from which there ascended a
loathsome odor. They stood behind one of the
tombs for a while, to accustom themselves to
the breath of it ; and then began to descend a
wild fissure in a rock, near the mouth of which
lay the infamy of Crete, the Minotaur. The
monster beholding them gnawed himself for
rage ; and on their persisting to advance, began
plunging like a bull when he is stricken by the
knife of the butcher. They succeeded, however,
in entering the fissure before he recovered
sufficiently from his madness to run at them ;
and at the foot of the descent, came to a river
of boiling blood, on the strand of which ran
thousands of Centaurs armed with bows and
arrows. In the blood, more or less deep according
to the amount of the crime, and shrieking
as they boiled, were the souls of the Inflicters
of Violence ; and if any of them emerged from
it higher than he had a right to do, the Centaurs
drove him down with their arrows. Nessus,
the one that bequeathed Hercules the
poisoned garment, came galloping towards the
pilgrims, bending his bow, and calling out
from a distance to know who they were ; but
Virgil, disdaining his hasty character, would
explain himself only to Chiron, the Centaur

\^ho instructed Achilles. Chiron, in consequence,
bade Nessus accompany them along
the river ; and there they saw tyrants immersed
up to the eyebrows; — Alexander the Great
among them, Dionysius of Syracuse, and Ez-
zelino the Paduann. There was one of the Pazzi
of Florence, and Rinieri of Cornet (ancestors
of the public ways), now shedding bloody tears,
and Attila the Scourge, and Pyrrhus King of
Epirus. Further on, among those immersed
up to the throat, was Guy de Montfort, the
Englishman, who slew his father's slayer,
Prince Henry, during divine service, in the
bosom of God ; and then by degrees the river
became shallower and shallower till it covered
only the feet ; and here the Centaur quitted
the pilgrims, and they crossed over into a
forest.

The forest was a trackless and dreadful forest
the leaves not green, but black — the boughs
not freely growing, but knotted and twisted —
the fruit no fruit, but thorny poison. The
Harpies wailed among the trees, occasionally
showing their human faces ; and on every side
of him Dante heard lamenting human voices,
but could see no one from whom they came.
Pluck one of the boughs," said Virgil. Dante
did so ; and blood and a cry followed it.

"Whypluckest thou me?" said the trunk.

*men have we been, like thyself; but thou
couldst not use us worse, had we been serpents."
The blood and words came out together,
as a green bough hisses and spits in the
fire.

The voice was that of Piero delle Vigne, the
good chancellor of the Emperor Frederick the
Second. Just though he had been to others,
he was thus tormented for having been unjust
to himself; for, envy having wronged him to
his sovereign, who sentenced him to lose his
eyes, he dashed his brains out against a wall.
Piero entreated Dante to vindicate his memory.
The poet could not speak for pity ; so Virgil
made the promise for him, inquiring at the
same time in what manner it was that Suicides
became thus identified with trees, and how
their souls were to rejoin their bodies at the day
of judgment. Piero said, that the moment the
fierce self-murderer's spirit tore itself from the
body, and passed before Charon, it fell, like a
grain of corn, into that wood, and so grew into
a tree. The Harpies then fed on its leaves,
causing both pain and a vent for lamentation.
The body it would never again enter, having
thus cast away itself, but it would finally drag
the body down to it by a violent attraction ;
and every suicide's carcass will be hung upon
the thorn of its wretched shade.

The naked souls of two men, whose profusion
had brought them to a violent end, here came
running through the wood from the fangs of
black female mastiffs — leaving that of a suicide
to mourn the havoc which their passage had
made of his tree. He begged his countryman
to gather his leaves up and lay them
at the foot of his trunk, and Dante did so ;
and then he and Virgil proceeded on their
journey.

They issued from the wood on a barren sand,
flaming hot, on which multitudes of naked souls
lay down, or sat huddled up, or restlessly
walked about, trying to throw from them incessant
flakes of fire, which came down like a fall
of snow. They were the souls of the Impious.
Among them was a great spirit, who lay scornfully
submitting himself to the fiery shower, as
though it had not yet ripened him.^ Overhearing
Dante ask his guide who he was, he answered
for himself, and said : "The same dead as
living. Jove will tire his flames out before thej^
conquer me."

Capaneus," exclaimed Virgil, " thy pride is
thy punishment. No martyrdom were sufficient

si che la picggia non par che '1 mature."
This is one of the grandest passages in Dante. It was
probably (as English commentators have observed) in
Milton's recollection vphen he conceived the character of
Satan.

for thee equal to thine own rage." The besieger
of Thebes made no reply.

In another quarter of the fiery shower the
pilgrims met a crowd of Florentines, mostly
churchmen, whose offence is not to be named,
after which they beheld Usurers ; and then arrived
at a huge waterfall, which fell into the
eighth circle, or that of the Fraudulent. Here
Virgil, by way of bait to the monster Geryon,
or Fraud, let down over the side of the waterfall
the cord of St. Francis, which Dante wore
about his waist, * and presently the dreadful
creature came up and sate on the margin of the
fall, with his serpent's tail hanging behind him
in the air, after the manner of a beaver ; but the
point of the tail was occasionally seen glancing
upwards. He was a gigantic reptile, with the
face of a just man, very mild. He had shaggy
claws for arms, and a body variegated all over
with colors that ran in knots and circles, each
within the other, richer than any Eastern drapery.
Virgil spoke apart to him, and then
mounted on his back, bidding his companion,
who was speechless for terror, do the same.

The satire of friarly hypocrisy is at least as fine as
Ariosto's discovery of Discord in a monastery.

The monster Geryon son of Chrysaor golden-sword),
and the Ocean-nymph Callirhoe fair-flowing) was rich
in the possession of sheep. His wealth, and perhaps his
derivatives, rendered him this instrument of satire. The
monstrosity, the mild face, the glancing point of venom,
and the beautiful skin, make it as fine as can be.

Geryon pushed back with them from the edge
of the precipice, like a ship leaving harbor ;
and then, turning about, wheeled, like a sullen
successless falcon, slowly down through the air
in many a circuit. Dante would not have known
that he was going downward, but for the air that
struck upwards on his face. Presently they
heard the crash of the waterfall on the circle
below, and then distinguished flaming fires and
the noises of suffering. The monster Geryon,
ever sullen as the falcon who seats himself at a
distance from his dissatisfied master, shook his
riders from off his back to the water's side, and
then shot away like an arrow.

This eighth circle of hell is called Evil-budget,
* and consists of ten compartments, or
gulfs of torment, crossed and connected with
one another by bridges of flint. In the first
were beheld Pimps and Seducers, scourged like
children by horned devils ; in the second Flat''

Malebolge," literally Evil-Budget. Bolgia is an old
form of the modern bale, the common term for a valise
or portmanteau. " Bolgia," (says the " Vocabulary della
Crusca, compensate," Ven., 1792), "a valise ; Satin, bulge,
hippo pera ; Greek, iTrTroTr^pa. In reference to valises
which open lengthways like a chest, Dante uses the
word to signify those compartments which he feigns in
his Hell. ' ' (Per similitude di quelle valise, che s' apron
per lo lungs, a guise di cassa, signifies quegli apartment,
che Dante singe nell' Inferno.) The reader will
think of the homely figurative names in Bunyan, and
the contempt which great and awful states of mind have
for conventional notions of rank in phraseology. It is a
part, if well considered, of their grandeur.

teres, begrimed with ordure ; in the third
Simonides, who were stuck like plugs into circular
apertures, with their heads downward and
their legs only discernible, the soles of their
feet glowing with a fire which made them incessantly
quiver. Dante, going down the side
of the gulf with Virgil, was allowed to address
one of them who seemed in greater agony than
the rest ; and doing so, the sufferer cried out ina
malignant rapture: "Aha, is it thou that
stances there, Boniface ? * Thou hast come
sooner than it was prophesied. ' ' It was the soul
of Pope Nicholas the Third that spoke. Dante
undeceived and then sternly rebuked him for
his avarice and depravity, telling him that nothing
but reverence for the keys of St. Peter hindered
him from using harsher words, and that
it was such as he that the Evangelist beheld in
the vision, when he saw the woman with seven
heads and ten horns, who committed whoredom
with the kings of the earth.

O Constantine ! " exclaimed the poet, " of
what a world of evil was that dowry the mother,
which first converted the pastor of the church
into a rich man ! "f The feet of the guilty pope

Boniface the Eighth was the pope then living, and
one of the causes of Dante's exile. It is thus the poet
contrives to put his enemies in hell before their time.

t An allusion to the pretended gift of the Lateran by
Constantine to Pope Sylvester, ridiculed so strongly by
Ariosto and others.

spun with fiercer agony at these words ; and
Virgil, looking pleased on Dante, returned with
him the way he came, till they found themselves
on the margin of the fourth gulf, the habitation
of the souls of False Prophets.

It was a valley, in which the souls came walking
along, silent and weeping, at the pace of
choristers who chant litanies. Their faces were
turned the wrong way, so that the backs of their
heads came foremost, and their tears fell on
their loins. Dante was so overcome at the sight,
that he leant against a rock and wept ; but Virgil
rebuked him, telling him that no pity at all
was the only pity fit for that place. ^ There was
Amphiraraus, whom the earth opened and swallowed
up at Thebes ; and Tiresias, who was
transformed from sex to sex ; and Runs, who
lived in a cavern on the side of the marble
mountains of Carrara, looking out on the stars
and ocean ; and Canto, daughter of Tiresias
(her hind tresses over her bosom), who wandered
through the world till she came and lived

A truly infernal sentiment. The original is :
"Qui vive la pieta quand, e ben mortal. ' '
Here pity lives when it is quite dead.
Chi e pity scellerato," continues the poet, "di celui,
Ch' al judicio divin passion porta."
That is : " Who is wickeder than he that sets his impassioned
feelings against the judgments of God? " The
answer is : He that attributes judgments to God which
are to render humanity pitiless.

in the solitary fen, whence afterwards arose the
city of Mantua ; and Michael Scot, the magician,
with his slender loins *; and Bur3'-pylus,
the Grecian augur, who gave the signal with
Calchas at Troy when to cut away the cables
for home. He came stooping along, projecting
his face over his swarthy shoulders. Guide
Bonatti, too, was there, astrologer of Forli ; and
Ardente, shoemaker of Parma, who now wishes
he had stuck to his last ; and the wretched
women who quit the needle and the distaff to
wreak their malice with herbs and images. Such
was the punishment of those who, desiring to
see too far before them, now looked only behind
them, and walked the reverse way of their
looking.

The fifth gulf was a lake of boiling pitch, constantly
heaving and subsiding throughout, and
bubbling with the breath of those within it.
They were Public Peculators. Winged black
devils were busy about the lake, wronging the
sinners when they occasionally darted up their
backs for relief like dolphins, or thrust out their
jaws like frogs. Dante at first looked eagerly

Ne' finch cost poco. Michael Scot had been in Florence
; to which circumstance we are most probably indebted
for this curious particular respecting his shape.
The consignment of such men to hell is a mortifying instance
of the great poet's participation in the vulgares
errors of his time. It is hardly, however, worth notice,
considering what we see him swallowing every moment,
or pretending to swallow.

down into the gulf, like one who feels that he
shall turn away instantly out of the very horror
that attracts him. " See — look behind thee ! "
said Virgil, dragging him at the same time from
the place where he stood, to a covert behind a
crag. Dante looked round, and beheld a devil
coming up with a newly-arrived sinner across
his shoulders, whom he hurled into the lake, and
then dashed down after him, like a mastiff let
loose on a thief. It was a man from Lucca,
where every soul was a false dealer except Bon-turn.*
The devil called out to other devils, and a
heap of them fell upon the wretch with hooks
as he rose to the surface ; telling him, that he
must practise there in secret, if he practised at
all ; and thrusting him back into the boiling
pitch, as cooks thrust back flesh into the pot.
The devils were of the lowest and most revolting
habits, of which they made disgusting jest
and parade. Some of them, on a sudden, perceived
Dante and his guide, and were going to
seize them, when Virgil resorted to his usual
holy rebuke. For awhile they let him alone ;
and Dante saw one of them hand a sinner out
of the pitch by the clotted locks, and hold him
up sprawling like an otter. The rest fell then
upon him and flayed him.

" Bonturo must have sold him something cheap,"
exclaimed a hearer of this passage. No : the exception
is an irony ! There was not one honest man in all I^ucca 1

It was Ciampolo, a speculator in the service
of the good Thiebault, king of Navarre. One
of his companions under the pitch was Friar
Gomita, governor of Gallery ; and another, Michael
Zanche, also a Sardinian. Ciampolo ultimately
escaped by a trick out of the hands of
the devils, who were so enraged that they turned
upon the two pilgrims ; but Virgil, catching up
Dante with supernatural force, as a mother does
a child in a burning house, plunged with him
out of their jurisdiction into the borders of gulf
the sixth, the region of Hypocrites.

The hypocrites, in perpetual tears, walked
about in a wearisome and exhausted manner, as
if ready to faint. They wore huge cowls, which
hung over their eyes, and the outsides of which
were gilded, but the insides of lead. Two of
them had been rulers of Florence ; and Dante
was listening to their story, when his attention
was called off by the sight of a cross, on which
Caiaphas the High Priest was writhing, breathing
hard all the while through his beard with
sighs. It was his office to see that every soul
which passed him, on its arrival in the place,
was oppressed with the due weight. His father-in-law,
Annas, and all his council, were stuck
in like manner on crosses round the borders of
the gulf The pilgrims beheld little else in this
region of weariness, and soon passed into the

borders of one of the most terrible portions of
Evil-Budget, the land of transformation of Robbers.


The place was thronged with serpents of the
most appalling and unwonted description,
among which ran tormented the naked spirits
of the robbers, agonized with fear. Their hands
were bound behind them with serpents — their
bodies pierced and enfolded with serpents.
Dante saw one of the monsters leap up and
transfix a man through the nape of the neck ;
when, lo ! sooner than a pen could write o or ^,
the sufferer burst into flames, burnt up, fell to
the earth a heap of ashes — was again brought
together, and again became a man, aghast with
his agony, and staring about him, sighing."^
Virgil asked him who he was.

I but lately rained down into this dire gullet,
' ' said the man , ' ' amidst a shower af Tuscanss.
The beast Anni Fucci am I, who led the brutal
life, like the mule that I was, in that den Pistoia."


"Compel him to stop," said Dante, "and relate
what brought him hither. I knew the
bloody and choleric wretch when he was alive."

The sinner, who did not pretend to be deaf to

" Inferno simia
Tutti smarrito da la grande angoscia
Ch' eli ha soflferta, eguardando sospira."
This is one of the most terribly natural pictures of agonized
astonishment ever painted.

these words, turned round to the speaker with
the most painful shame in his face, and said :
"I feel more bitterly at being caught here by
thee in this condition, than when I first arrived.
A power which I cannot resist compels me tolet
thee know, that I am here because I committed
sacrilege and charged another with the
crime ; but now, mark me, that thou mayest
hear something not to render this encounter so
pleasant ; Pistoia hates thy party of the Whites,
and longs for the Blacks back again. It will
have them, and so will Florence ; and there will
be a bloody cloud shall burst over the battle-field
of Piceno, which will dash many Whites to the
earth. I tell thee this to make thee miserable."
So saying, the wretch gave a gesture of contempt
with his thumb and finger towards
heaven, and said: "Take it, God — a fig for
thee ! "*

I retain this passage, horrible as it is to Protestant
ears, because it is not only an instance of Dante's own
audacity, but a salutary warning specimen of the extremes
of impiety generated by extreme superstition ;
for their first cause is the degradation of the divine character.
Another, no doubt, is the impulsive vehemence
of the South. I have heard more blasphemies, in the
course of half an hour, from the lips of an Italian postilion,
than are probably uttered in England, by people
not out of their senses, for a whole year. Yet the words,
after all, were mere words ; for the man was a good-natured
fellow, and I believe presented no image to his
mind of any thing he was saying. Dante, however, would
certainly not have taught him better by attempting to
frighten him . A violent word would have only produced
more violence. Yet this was the idle round which the
great poet thought it best to run !

"From that instant," said Dante, "the serpents
and I were friends ; for one of them
throttled him into silence, and another dashed
his hands into a knot behind his back, O
Pistoia ! Pistoia ! why art not thou thyself
turned into ashes, and swept from the face of
the earth, since thy race has surpassed in evil
thine ancestors ? Never, through the whole
darkness of hell, beheld I a blasphemer so dire
as this — not even Capaneus himself. ' '

The Pistoia fled away with the serpents
upon him, followed by a Centaur, who came
madly galloping up, crying: "Where is the
caitiff!" It was the monster-thief Cacus,
whose den upon earth often had a pond of
blood before it, and to whom Hercules, in
his rage, when he slew him, gave a whole
hundred blows with his club, though the
wretch perceived nothing after the ninth.
He was all over adders up to the mouth,
and upon his shoulders lay a dragon with its
wings open, breathing fire on whomsoever it
met.

The Centaur tore away, and Dante and Virgil
were gazing after him, when they heard voices
beneath the bank on which they stood, crying :
"Who are ye?" The pilgrims turned their
eyes downwards, and beheld three spirits, one
of whom, looking about him, said: "Where 's

Cianfa? " Dante made a sign to Virgil to say
nothing.

Cianfa came forth, a man lately, but now a
serpent with six feet.*

If thou art slow to believe, reader, what I
am about to tell thee," says the poet, "be so ;
it is no marvel ; for I myself, even now, scarcely
credit what I beheld."

The six-footed serpent sprang at one of the
three men front to front, clasping him tightly
with all its legs, and plunging his fangs into
either cheek. Ivy never stuck so close to a
tree as the horrible monster grappled with
every limb of that pinioned man. The two
forms then gradually mingled into one another
like melting wax, the colors of their skin giving
way at the same time to a third color, as the
white in a piece of burning paper recedes before
the brown, till it all becomes black. The
other two human shapes looked on, exclaiming
: " Oh, how thou changes, Agnello ! See,
thou art neither two nor yet one." And truly,
though the two heads first became one, there
still remained two countenances in the face.
The four arms then became but two, and such
also became the legs and thighs, and the two

Cianfa, probably a condottiere of Mrs. RadclifFe's
sort, and robber on a large scale, is said to have been
one of the Donati family, connections of the poet by
marriage.

trunks became such a body as was never beheld,
and the hideous two-fold monster walked
slowly away.*

A small black serpent on fire now flashed like
lightning on to the body of one of the other
two, piercing him in the navel, and then falling
on the ground, and lying stretched before him.
The wounded man, fascinated and mute, stood
looking at the adder's eyes, and endeavoring
to stand steady on his legs, yawning the while
as if smitten with lethargy or fever ; the adder,
on his part, looked up at the eyes of the man,
and both of them breathed hard, and sent forth
a smoke that mingled into one volume.

And now, let Lucan never speak more of the
wretched Sabellus or Nisidius, but listen and be
silent ; and now, let Ovid be silent, nor speak
again of his serpent that was Cadmus, or his
fountain that was Arethusa ; for, says the Tuscan
poet, I envy him not. Never did he change
the natures of two creatures face to face, so
that each received the form of the other.

With corresponding impulse, the serpent split
his train into a fork, while the man drew his
legs together into a train ; the skin of the serpent
grew soft, while the man's hardened ; the

This, and the transformation that follows, may well
excite the pride of such a poet as Dante, though it is
curious to see how he selects inventions of this kind as
special grounds of self-complacency. They are the most
appalling ever yet produced.

serpent acquired tresses of hair, the man grew
hairless; the claws of the one projected into
legs, while the arms of the other withdrew into
his shoulders ; the face of the serpent, as it
rose from the ground, retreated towards the
temples, pushing out human ears ; that of the
man, as he fell to the ground, thrust itself
forth into a muzzle, withdrawing at the same
time its ears into its head, as the slug does its
horns ; and each creature kept its impious eyes
fixed on the other's, while the features beneath
the eyes were changing. The soul which had
become the serpent then turned to crawl away,
hissing in scorn as he departed ; and the serpent,
which had become the man, spat after him,
and spoke words at him. The new human-looking
soul then turned his back on his late
adversary, and said to the third spirit, who remained
unchanged: "Let Buoso now take to
his crawl, as I have done."

The two then hastened away together, leaving
Dante in a state of bewildered amazement,
yet not so confused but that he recognized
the unchanged one for another of his countrymen,
Pucciothe Ivame. "Joy to thee Florence ! "
cried the poet; "not content with having thy
name bruited over land and sea, it flourishes
throughout hell."

The pilgrims now quitted the seventh, and

looked down from its barrier into the eighth
gulf, where they saw innumerable flames, distinct
from one another, flickering all over the
place like fire-flies.

"In those flames," said Virgil, "are souls,
each tormented with the fire that swathes it."

"I observe one," said Dante, "divided at the
summit. Are the Theban brothers in it ? "

"No," replied Virgil; "in that flame are
Doomed and Ulysses." The sinners punished
in this gulf were Evil Counsellors, and those
two were the advisers of the stratagem of the
Trojan horse.

Virgil addressed Ulysses, who told him the
conclusion of his adventures, not to be found in
books ; how he tired of an idle life, and sailed
forth again into the wide ocean, and how he
sailed so far that he came into a region of new
stars, and in sight of a mountain, the loftiest he
ever saw, when, unfortunately, a hurricane fell
upon them from the shore, thrice whirled their
vessel round, then dashed the stem up in air
and the prow under water, and sent the billows
over their heads.

"Enough," said Virgil; "I trouble thee no
more." The soul of Guido di Montefeltro,
overhearing the great Mantuan speak in a
Lombard dialect, asked him news of the state
pf things in Romagna, and then told him how

he had lost his chance of paradise by thinking
Pope Boniface could at once absolve him from
his sins, and use them for his purposes.* He
was going to heaven, he said, by the help of St.
Francis, who came on purpose to fetch him,
when a black angel met them, and demanded
his absolved, indeed, but repented victim.
"To repent evil, and to will to do it, at one
and the same time, are," said the dreadful
angel, "impossible: therefore wrong me not."
Oh, how I shook," said the unhappy Guido,
"when he laid his hands upon me ! " And with
these words the flame writhed and beat itself
about for agony, and so took its way.

The pilgrims crossed over to the banks of the
ninth gulf, where the Sowers of Scandal, the
Schismatics, Heretics, and Founders of False
Religions underwent the penalties as such as
load themselves with the sins of those whom
they seduce.

The first sight they beheld was Mahomet,
tearing open his own bowels, and calling out to
them to mark him. Before him walked his

Guido, Conte di Montefeltro, a celebrated soldier of
that day, became a Franciscan in his old age in order to
repent of his sins, but being consulted in his cloister by
Pope Boniface on the best mode of getting possession of
an estate belonging to the Colonia family, and being
promised absolution for his sins in the lump, including
the opinion requested, he recommended the holy father
to "promise much, and perform nothing" (molto promoters,
e nulla attended).

son-in-law, Ali, weeping, and cloven to the
chin, and the divisions in the church were
punished in like manner upon all the schismatics
in the place. They all walked round the
circle, their gashes closing as they went, and on
their reaching a certain point a fiend hewed
them open again with a sword. The Arabian
prophet, ere he passed on, bade the pilgrims
warn Friar Dolcino how he suffered himself to
be surprised in his mountain-hold by the starvation
of winter-time if he did not wish speedily
to follow him.*

Among other mangled wretches, they behold
Piero of Medicine, a sower of dissension, exhibiting
to them his face and throat all over
wounds ; and Curio, compelled to show his
tongue cut out for advising Caesar to cross the
Rubicon ; and Mosca de' Lambert, an adviser
of assassination, and one of the authors of the
Guelph and Ghibelline miseries, holding up the
bleeding stumps of his arms, which dripped on

Dolcino was a Lombard friar at the beginning of the
fourteenth century, who is said to have preached a community
of goods, including women, and to have pretended
to a divine mission for reforming the church. He
appears to have made a considerable impression, having
thousands of followers, but was ultimately seized in the
mountains where they lived, and burnt with his female
companion Margarita, and many others. Landing says
he was very eloquent, and that "both he and Margarita
endured their fate with a firmness worthy of a better
cause." Probably his real history is not known for
want of somebody in such times bold enough to write it.

his face. '* Remember Mosca," cried he ; " remember
him, alas ! who said : ' A deed done is a
thing ended.' A bad saying of mine was that
for the Tuscan nation."

"And death to thy family," cried Dante.

The assassin hurried away like a man driven
mad with grief upon grief ; and Dante now beheld
a sight, which, if it were not, he says, for
the testimony of a good conscience — that best
of friends, which gives a man assurance of himself
under the breastplate of a spotless innocence*
— he should be afraid to relate without
further proof. He saw — and while he was writing
the account of it he still appeared to see — a
headless trunk about to come past with the
others. It held its severed head by the hair,
like a lantern ; and the head looked up at the
two pilgrims, and said: "Woe is me!" The
head was, in fact, a lantern to the paths of the

Literally, " under the breastplate of knowing himself
to be pure " :

Sotto r oswego del sentirsi pure."
The expression is deservedly admired ; but it is not
allowable in English, and is the only one admitting no
equivalent which I have met with in the whole poem. It
might be argued, perhaps, against the perfection of the
passage, that a good "conscience," and a man's "knowing
himself to be pure," are a tautology; for Dante
himself has already used that word :

Conscience m' assicura ;

lya bound campagna che 1' uom francheggia

Sotto r oswego," etc.
But still we feel the impulsive beauty of the phrase ; and
I wish I could have kept it.

trunk ; and thus there were two separated things
in one, and one in two ; and how that could be,
he only can tell who ordained it. As the figure
came nearer, it lifted the head aloft, that the
pilgrims might hear better what it said.

Behold," it said, "behold, thou that walked
living among the dead, and say if there be
any punishment like this. I am Bertrand de
Born, he that incited John of England to rebel
against his father. Father and son I set at
variance — closest affections I set at variance —
and hence do I bear my brain severed from the
body on which it grew. In me behold the work
of retribution. ' ' *

The eyes of Dante were so inebriate with all
that diversity of bleeding wounds, that they
longed to stay and weep ere his guide proceeded
further. Something also struck them on the sudden
which added to his desire to stop. But Virgil
asked what ailed him, and why he stood
gazing still on the wretched multitude. ' ' Thou
hast not done so," continued he, " in any other
portion of this circle ; and the valley is twenty-two
miles farther about, and the moon already
below us. Thou hast more yet to see than thou
hottest of, and the time is short."

Dante, excusing himself for the delay, and

This ghastly fiction is a rare instance of the meeting
of physical horror with the truest pathos.

proceeding to follow his leader, said he thought
he had seen, in the cavern at which he was
gazing so hard, a spirit that was one of his own
family — and it was so. It was the soul of Germ
del Bello, a cousin of the poet's. Virgil said
that he had observed him, while Dante was
occupied with Bertrand de Born, pointing at his
kinsman in a threatening manner. "Waste
not a thought on him," concluded the Roman,
but leave him as he is."

"O honored guide ! " said Dante, "he died a
violent death, which his kinsmen have not yet
avenged ; and hence it is that he disdained to
speak to me ; and I must needs feel for him the
more on that account." *

They came now to the last partition of the
circle of Evil-Budget, and their ears were assailed
with such a burst of sharp failings, that
Dante was fain to close his with his hands.
The misery there, accompanied by a horrible
odor, was as if all the hospitals in the sultry
marshes of Valdichiana had brought their maladies
together into one infernal ditch. It was
the place of punishment for pretended Alchemists,
Coiners, Personators of other people. False
Accusers, and Imposters of all such descriptions.
They lay on one another in heaps, or attempted

The reader will not fail to notice this characteristic
instance of the ferocity of the time.

to crawl about — some itching madly with leprosies
— some swollen and gasping with dropsies
some welly reeking, like hands washed in
winter-time. One was an alchemist of Siena,
a nation gainer than the French ; another a
Florentine, who tricked a man into making a
wrong will ; another, Sinon of Troy ; another,
Pyrrha ; another, the wife of Potiphar. Their
miseries did not hinder them from giving one
another malignant blows ; and Dante was listening
eagerly to an abusive conversation between
Sinon and a Brescia coiner, when Virgil rebuked
him for the disgraceful condescension,
and said it was a pleasure fit only for \nilgar
minds. *

The blushing poet felt the reproof so deeply
that he could not speak for shame, though he
manifested by his demeanor that he longed todo
so, and thus obtained the pardon he despaired
of. He says he felt like a man that,
during an unhappy dream, wishes himself
dreaming while he is so, and does not know it.
Virgil understood his emotion, and, as Achilles
did with his spear, healed the wound with the
tongue that inflicted it.

This is admirable sentiment ; and it must have been
no ordinary consciousness of dignity in general which
could have made Dante allow himself to be the person
rebuked for having forgotten it. Perhaps it was a sort
of penance for his having, on some occasion, fallen into
the unworthiness.

A silence now ensued between the companions
; for they had quitted Evil-Budget, and
arrived at the ninth great circle of hell, on the
mound of which they passed along, looking
quietly and steadily before them. Daylight
had given place to twilight ; and Dante was
advancing his head a little, and endeavoring
to discern objects in the distance, when his
whole attention was called to one particular
spot, by a blast of a horn so loud that a thunderclap
was a whisper in comparison. Orlando
himself blew no such terrific blast, after the
dolorous rout, when Charlemagne was defeated
in his holy enterprise. * The poet raised his
head, thinking he perceived a multitude of
lofty towers. He asked Virgil to what region
they belonged ; but Virgil said : ' ' Those are no
towers ; they are giants, standing each up to his
middle in the pit that goes round this circle."
Dante looked harder ; and as objects clear up
by little and by little in the departing mist, he
saw, with alarm, the tremendous giants that
warred against Jove, standing half in and half
out of the pit, like the towers that crowned the
citadel of Monteseggione. The one whom he
saw plainest, and who stood with his arms

By the Saracens in Roncesvalles ; afterwards so favorite
a topic with the poets. The circumstance of the horn
is taken from the Chronicle of the pretended Archbishop
Turpin, chapter xxiv.

hanging down on each side, appeared to him to
have a face as huge as the pinnacle of St.
Peter's, and limbs throughout in proportion.
The monster, as the pilgrims were going by,
opened his dreadful mouth, fit for no sweeter
psalmody, and called after them, in the words
of some unknown tongue: ^^ Rafael, made a
7nech zabee alniee.'''"^ "Dull wretch!" exclaimed
Virgil, "keep to thine horn, and so
vent better whatsoever frenzy or other passion
stuff thee. Feel the chain round thy throat,
thou confusion ! See, what a clenching hoop
is about thy gorge ! ' ' Then he said to Dante :
His howl is its own mockery. This is Nimrod,
he through whose evil ambition it was that
mankind ceased to speak one language. Pass
him, and say nothing ; for every other tongue is
to him as his is to thee."

The companions went on for about the length
of a sling's throw, when they passed the second
giant, who was much fiercer and huger than
Nimrod. He was fettered round and round
with chains, that fixed one arm before him and
the other behind him — Ephialtes his name, the
same that would needs make trial of his strength
against Jove himself. The hands which he then

The gaping monotony of this jargon, full of the vowel
o, is admirably suited to the mouth of the vast, half-stupid
speaker. It is like the babble of the gigantic infancy
of the world.

wielded were now motionless, but he shook
with passion ; and Dante thought he should
have died for terror, the effect on the ground
about him was so fearful. It surpassed that of
a tower shaken by an earthquake. The poet
expressed a wish to look at Briareus, but he was
too far off. He saw, however, Antaeus, who,
not having fought against heaven, was neither
tongue-confounded nor shackled ; and Virgil
requested the "taker of a thousand lions," by
the fame which the living poet had it in his
power to give him, to bear the travellers in his
arms down the steep descent into this deeper
portion of hell, which was the region of tormenting
cold. Antlers, stooping, like the leaning
tower of Bologna, to take them up, gathered
them in his arms, and, depositing them in the
gulf below, raised himself to depart like the
mast of a ship. *

Had I hoarse and rugged words equal to my
subject, says the poet, I would now make them
fuller of expression, to suit the rocky horror of
this hole of anguish ; but I have not, and therefore
approach it with fear, since it is no jesting
enterprise to describe the depths of the universe,

" N^ si china li face timor,
E) come albert in nave si leo."
A magnificent image ! I have retained the idiomatic expression
of the original raised himself, instead of saying
rose, because it seemed to me to give the more grand and
deliberate image.

nor fit for a tongue that babbles of father and
mother.* Let such of the Muses assist me as
turned the words of Amphion into Theban
walls ; so shall the speech be not too far different
from the matter.

Oh, ill-starred creatures ! wretched beyond all
others, to inhabit a place so hard to speak of —
better had ye been sheep or goats.

The poet was beginning to walk with his
guide along the place in which the giant had
set them down, and was still looking up at the
height from which he had descended, when a
voice close to him said: " Have a care where
thou greatest. Hurt not with thy feet the heads
of thy unhappy brethren."

Dante looked down and before him, and saw
that he was walking on a lake of ice, in which
were Murderous Traitors up to their chins, their
teeth chattering, their faces held down, their
eyes locked up frozen with tears. Dante saw
two at his feet so closely stuck together, that
the very hairs of their heads were mingled. He
asked them who they were, and as they lifted
up their heads for astonishment, and felt the

*Oi'' mamma" and " babbo," says the primitive poet.
We have corresponding words in English, but the feeling
they produce is not identical. The lesser fervor of the
northern nations renders them, in some respects, more
sophisticate than they suspect, compared pith the " artful
' ' Italians.

cold doubly congeal them, they dashed their
heads against one another for hate and fury.
They were two brothers who had murdered each
other.* Near them were other Tuscanss, one of
whom the cold had deprived of his ears ; and
thousands more were seen grinning like dogs,
for the pain.

Dante, as he went along, kicked the face of
one of them, whether by chance, or fate, or
will,-\ he could not say. The sufferer burst into
tears, and cried out : ' ' Wherefore dost thou torment
me ? Art thou come to revenge the defeat
at Montaperto? " The pilgrim at this question
felt eager to know who he was ; but the unhappy
wretch would not tell. His countryman
seized him by the hair to force him ; but still he
said he would not tell, were he to be scalped a
thousand times. Dante, upon this, began
plucking up his hairs by the roots, the man
barking, % with his eyes squeezed up, at every
pull; when another soul exclaimed: "Why,

Alexandre and Napoleon degli Alberti, sons of Alberto,
lord of the valley of Faltering in Tuscany. After
their father's death they tyrannized over the neighboring-districts,
and finally had a mortal quarrel. The name of
Napoleon used to be so rare till of late years, even in
Italian books, that it gives one a kind of interesting surprise
to meet with itt

" Se voler fu, o destiny o fortuna,
Non so."
What does the Christian reader think of that ?

X Ivatrando.

Bocca, what the devil ails thee? Must thou
needs bark for cold as well as chatter? " *

Now, accursed traitor, betrayer of thy country's
standard," said Dante, "be dumb if thou
wilt ; for I shall tell thy name to the world."

Tell and begone ! " said Bocca ; "but carry
the name of this babbler with thee : 't is Buoso,
who left the pass open to the enemy between
Piedmont and Parma, and near him is the
traitor for the Pope, Beccaria ; and Ganellone,
who betrayed Charlemagne ; and Tribaldello,
who opened Faenza to the enemy at night-time."

The pilgrims went on, and beheld two other
spirits so closely locked up together in one hole
of the ice that the head of one was right over the
other's like a cowl ; and Dante, to his horror,
saw that the upper head was devouring the
lower with all the eagerness of a man who is
famished. The poet asked what could possibly
make him shew a hate so brutal, adding that,
if there were any ground for it, he would tell
the story to the world. f

The sinner raised his head from the dire repast,
and after wiping his jaws with the hair of it,

Bocca degli Sabbath, whose soul barks like a dog, occasioned
the defeat of the Guelphss at Montaperto, in the
year 1260, by treacherously cutting off the hand of the
standard-bearer.

t This is the famous story of Ugolino, who betrayed
the castles of Pisa to the Florentines, and was starved
with his children in the Tower of Famine.

said : "You ask a thing which it shakes me to
the heart to think of. It is a story to renew all
my misers But since it will produce this wretch
his due infamy, hear it, and you shall see me
speak and weep at the same time. How thou
comest hither I know not, but I perceive by thy
speech that thou art Florentine.

Learn, then, that I was the Count Ugolino,
and this man was Ruggieri the Archbishop.
How I trusted him, and was betrayed into
prison, there is no need to relate, but of his
treatment of me there, and how cruel a death I
underwent, hear, and then judge if he has offended
me.

I had been imprisoned with my children a
long time in the tower which has since been
called from me the Tower of Famine ; and many
a new moon had I seen through the hole that
served us for a window, when I dreamt a dream
that foreshadowed to me what was coming.
Methought that this man headed a great chase
against the wolf, in the mountains between
Pisa and Lucca. Among the foremost in his
party were Gualandi, Sismondi, and Lanfranchihi,
and the hounds were thin and eager, and highbred
; and in a little while I saw the hounds
fasten on the flanks of the wolf and the wolf's
children, and tear them. At that moment I
awoke with the voices of my own children in

my ears, asking for bread. Truly cruel must
thou be if thy heart does not ache to think of
what I thought then. If thou feel not for a
pang like that, what is it for which thou art
accustomed to feel ? "We were now all awake,
and the time was at hand when they brought us
bread, and we had all dreamt dreams which
made us anxious. At that moment I heard the
key of the horrible tower turn in the lock of the
door below, and fasten it. I looked at my children,
and said not a word. I did not weep. I
made a strong effort upon the soul within me.
But my little Anselm said : * Father, why do
you look so ? Is any thing the matter ? ' Nevertheless
I did not weep, nor say a word all the
day, nor the night that followed. In the morning
a ray of light fell upon us through the window
of our sad prison, and I beheld in those
four little faces the likeness of my own face,
and then I began to gnaw my hands for misery.
My children, thinking I did it for hunger,
raised themselves on the floor, and said : ' Father,
we should be less miserable if you would eat our
own flesh. It was you that gave it us. Take it
again.' Then I sat still, in order not to make
them unhappier ; and that day and the next we
all remained without speaking. On the fourth
day Gaddo stretched himself at my feet, and
said : * Father, why won't you help me ? ' and

there he died. And as surely as thou loosest on
me, so surely I beheld the whole three die in the
same manner. So I began in my misery to
grope about in the dark for them, for I had become
blind ; and three days I kept calling on
them by name, though they were dead; till
famine did for me what grief had been unable
to do."

With these words, the miserable man, his
eyes starting from his head, seized that other
wretch again with his teeth, and ground them
against the skull as a dog does with a bone.

O Pisa ! scandal of the nations ! since thy
neighbors are so slow to punish thee, may the
very islands tear themselves up from their roots
in the sea, and come and block up the mouth
of thy river, and drown every soul within thee !
What if this Count Ugolino did, as report says
he did, betray thy castles to the enemy ? his
children had not betrayed them, nor ought
they to have been put to an agony like this.
Their age was their innocence, and their deaths
have given thee the infamy of a second Thebes.*

The pilgrims passed on, and beheld other
traitors frozen up in swathes of ice, with their

I should be loath to disturb the inimitable pathos of
this story, if there did not seem grounds for believing
that the poet was too hasty in giving credit to parts of it,
particularly the ages of some of hisfellovs^-prisoners, and
the guilt of the archbishop.

heads upside down. Their very tears had hindered
them from shedding more ; for their eyes
were encrusted with the first they shed, so as to
be enclosed with them as in a crystal visor,
which forced back the others into an accumulation
of anguish. One of the sufferers begged
Dante to relieve him of this ice, in order that he
might vent a little of the burden which it repressed.
The poet said he would do so provided
he would disclose who he was. The man said
he was the friar Alberto, who invited some of
his brotherhood to a banquet in order to slay
them.

"What!" exclaimed Dante, "art thou no
longer, then, among the living? "

"Perhaps I appear to be," answered the
friar; "for the moment any one commits a
treachery like mine, his soul gives up his body
to a demon, who thenceforward inhabits it in
the man's likeness. Thou knowest Branca
Doria, who murdered his father-in-law, Zanche ?
He seems to be walking the earth still, and yet
he has been in this place many years"*

Impossible ! " cried Dante ; " Branca Doria
is still alive ; he eats, drinks, and sleeps, like
any other man."

"I tell thee," returned the friar, "that the

This is the most tremendous lampoon, as far as I am
aware, in the whole circle of literature.

soul of the man he slew had not reached that
lake of boiling pitch in which thou sawesthim,
ere the soul of his slayer was in this place, and
his body occupied by a demon in its stead. But
now stretch forth thy hand, and relieve mine
eyes."

Dante relieved them not. Ill manners, he
said, were the only courtesy fit for such a
wretch.*

O ye Genoese ! he exclaims, — men that are
perversity all over, and full of every corruption
to the core, why are ye not swept from the face
of the earth ? There is one of you whom you
fancy to be walking about like other men, and
he is all the while in the lowest pit of hell !

Look before thee," said Virgil, as they advanced
: "behold the banners of the King of
Hell."

Dante looked, and beheld something which
appeared like a windmill in motion, as seen
from a distance on a dark night. A wind of inconceivable
sharpness came from it.

" Hortensia fu lui esse villany." This is the foulest
blot which Dante has cast ou his own character in all
his poem (short of the cruelties he thinks fit to attribute
to God). It is argued that he is cruel and false, out of
hatred to cruelty and falsehood. But why then add to
the sum of both ? and towards a man, too, supposed to
be suffering eternally ? It is idle to discern in such barbarous
inconsistencies any thing but the writer's own
contributions to the stock of them. The utmost credit
for right feeling is not to be given on every occasion to a
man who refuses it to every one else.

The souls of those who had been traitors to
their benefactors were here frozen up in depths
of pellucid ice, where they were seen in a variety
of attitudes, motionless ; some upright,
some downward, some bent double, head to
foot.

At length they came to where the being stood
who was once eminent for all fair seeming.*
This was the figure that seemed tossing its arms
at a distance like a windmill.

"Satan," whispered Virgil ; and put himself
in front of Dante to reassure him, halting him
at the same time, and bidding him summon all
his fortitude. Dante stood benumbed, though
conscious ; as if he himself had been turned to
ice. He felt neither alive nor dead.

The lord of the dolorous empire, each of his
arms as big as a giant, stood in the ice half-way

" I,a creature ch' abbe il bel semblance."
This is touching ; but the reader may as well be prepared
for a total failure in Dante's conception of Satan,
especially the English reader, accustomed to the sublimity
of Milton's. Granting that the Roman Catholic poet
intended to honor the fallen angel with no sublimity, but
to render him an object of mere hate and dread, he has
overdone and degraded the picture into caricature. A
great stupid being, stuck up in ice, with three faces,
one of which is yelloW; and three mouths, each eating a
sinner, one of those sinners being Brutus,— is an object
for derision ; and the way in which he eats these, his
everlasting bonnes-bouches, divides derision with disgust.
The passage must be given, otherwise the abstract of
the poem would be incomplete ; but T cannot help
thinking it the worst anti-climax ever fallen into by a
great poet.

up his breast. He had one head, but three
faces ; the middle, version ; the one over the
right shoulder a pale yellow ; the other black.
His sails of wings, huger than ever were beheld
at sea, were in shape and texture those of a bat ;
and with these he constantly flapped, so as to
send forth the wind that froze the depths of
Tartarus. From his six eyes the tears ran
down, mingling at his three chins with bloody
foam ; for at every mouth he crushed a sinner
with his teeth, as substances are broken up by
an engine. The middle sinner was the worst
punished, for he was at once broken and flayed,
and his head and rank were inside the mouth.
It was Judas Iscariot. Of the other two, whose
heads were hanging out, one was Brutus, and
the other Cassius. Cassius was very large-limbed.
Brutus writhed with agony, but uttered
not a word.*

This silence is, at all events, a compliment to Brutus,
especially from a man like Dante, and the more because
it is extorted. Dante, no doubt, hated all treachery, particularly
treachery to the leader of his beloved Roman
emperors ; forgetting three things ; first, thatCsesar was
guilty of treachery himself to the Roman people j second,
that he, Dante, has put Curio in hell for advising
Caesar to cross the Rubicon, though he has put the
Grosser among the good Pagans ; and third, that Brutus
was educated in the belief that the punishment of such
treachery as Caesar's by assassination was one of the
first of duties. How differently has Shakespeare, himself
an aristocratic rather than democratic poet, and full
of just doubt of the motives of assassins in general,
treated the error of the thoughtful, conscientious, Platonic
philosopher !

Night has returned," said Virgil, " and all
has been seen. It is time to depart onward,"

Dante then, at his bidding, clasped, as Virgil
did, the huge inattentive being round the neck ;
and, watching their opportunity, as the wings
opened and shut, they slipped round it, and so
down his shaggy and frozen sides, from pile to
pile, clutching it as they went ; till suddenly,
with the greatest labor and pain, they were
compelled to turn themselves upside down, as
it seemed, but in reality to regain their proper
footing ; for they had passed the centre of gravity,
and become Antipodes, Then looking
down at what lately was upward, they saw Lucifer
with his feet towards them ; and so taking
their departure, ascended a gloomy vault, till
at a distance, through an opening above their
heads, they beheld the loveliness of the stars.*

At the close of this medley of genius, pathos, absurdity,
sublimity, horror, and revoltingness, it is impossible
for any reflecting heart to avoid asking, Cui bojio f
What is the good of it to the poor wretches, if we are to
suppose it true ? and what to the world— except, indeed,
as a poetic study and a warning against degrading notions
of God — if we are to take it simply as a fiction ?
Theology, disdaining both questions, has an answer confessedly
incomprehensible. Humanity replies : Assume
not premises for which you have worse than no
proofs.

THE JOURNEY THROUGH PURGATORY.

ARGUMENT.

PURGATORY, in the system of Dante, is a mountain
at the Antipodes, on the top of which is the Terrestrial
Paradise, once the seat of Adam and Eve. It
forms the principal part of an island in a sea, and possesses
a pure air. Its lowest regfion,with one or two exceptions
of redeemed Pagans, is occupied by Excommunicated
Penitents and by Delayed of Penitence, all of whom
are compelled to lose time before their atonement commences.
The other and greater portion of the ascent is
divided into circles or plains, in which are expiated the
Seven Deadly Sins. The Poet ascends from circle to circle
with Virgil and Statius, and is met in a forest on the top
by the spirit of Beatrice, who transports him to Heaven.

WHEN the pilgrims emerged from the opening
through which they beheld the stars,
they found themselves in a scene which enchanted
them with hope and joy. It was dawn :
a sweet pure air came on their faces ; and they
beheld a sky of the loveliest oriental sapphire,
whose color seemed to pervade the whole serene
hollow from earth to heaven. The beautiful
planet which encourages loving thoughts made
all the orient laugh, obscuring by its very radiance
the stars in its train ; and among those
which were still lingering and sparkling in the
southern horizon, Dante saw four in the shape
of a cross, never beheld by man since they gladdened
the eyes of our first parents. Heaven
seemed to rejoice in their possession. O widowed
northern pole ! bereaved art thou, indeed,
since thou canst not gaze on them ! " *

V * " Dolce color d' oriental affirm

Che s' accoglieva nel serene asi)etto
De r aer pure infino al primo giro,

The poet turned to look at the north where he
had been accustomed to see stars that no longer
appeared, and beheld, at his side, an old man,
who struck his beholder with a veneration like
that of a son for his father. He had grey hairs,
and a long beard which parted in two down his
bosom ; and the four southern stars beamed on
his face with such lustre, that his aspect was as
radiant as if he had stood in the sun.

Who are ye ? " said the old man, " that have
escaped from the dreadful prison-house ? Can
the laws of the abyss be violated ? Or has

A gli occhi mien ricomincio stiletto,
Toto ch' io sci' for de 1' aura mortal
Che m' area contristati gli occhi e '1 petty.

Iso bel planets, ch' ad mar conforta,
Faceva tutti rider 1' oriente,
Orlando i Pesci, ch' erato in sua scorta.

Io mi vols a man vestra, e posh mente
All' alto polo, e vidi quarto stella
Non veste mai, for ch' a la prima gente ;

Cover pareva '1 ciel di lor famille.

settentrional vedovo sit,

Poi che private sei di mira quelle ! "

The sweetest oriental sapphire blue,
Which the whole air in its pure bosom had
Greeted mine eyes, as far as the heavens withdrew ;

So that again they felt assured and glad.
Soon as they issued forth from the dead air,
Where every sight and thought had made them sad.

The beauteous star, which lets no love despair
Made all the orient lauprh with loveliness.
Veiling the Fish that glimmered in its hair.

1 turned me to the right to gaze and bless,
And saw four more, never of living wight
Beheld, since Adam brought us our distress ;

Heaven changed its mind, that thus ye are allowed
to come from the regions of condemnation
into mine? "

It was the spirit of Cato of Utica, the warder
of the ascent of purgatory

The Roman poet explained to his countryman
who they were, and how Dante was under heavenly
protection ; and then he prayed leave of
passage of him by the love he bore to the chaste
eyes of his Marcia, who sent him a message

Heaven seemed rejoicing in their happy light.
O widowed northern pole, bereaved indeed,
Since thou hast had no power to see that sight !

Readers who may have gone thus far with the " Italian
Pilgrim's Progress," will allow me to congratulate them
on arriving at this lovely scene, one of the most admired
in the poem.

This is one of the passages which make the religious
admirers of Dante inclined to pronounce him divinely
inspired ; for how could he otherwise have seen stars,
they ask us, which were not discovered till after his
time, and which compose the constellation of the Cross?
But other commentators are of opinion, that the Cross,
though not so named till subsequently (and Dante, we
see, gives no prophetic hint about the name) had been
seen probably by stray navigators. An Arabian globe is
even mentioned by M. Artaud (see Cary), in which the
Southern Cross is set down. Mr. Cary, in his note on the
passage, refers to Seneca's prediction of the discovery of
America ; most likely suggested by similar information.
But whatever," he adds, " may be thought of this, it is
certain that the four stars are here symbolical of the four
cardinal virtues " ; and he refers to canto xxxi., where
those virtues are retrospectively associated with these
stars. The symbol, however, is not necessary. Dante
was a very curious inquirer on all subjects, and evidently
acquainted with ships and seamen as well as geography ;
and his imagination would eagerly have seized a magnificent
novelty like this, and used it the first opportunity.
Columbus' discovery, as the reader will see, was anticipated
by Pulci.

from the Pagan circle, hoping that he would
still own her.

Cato replied, that although he was so fond of
Marcia while on earth that he could deny her
nothing, he had ceased, in obedience to new
laws, to have any affection for her, now that
she dwelt beyond the evil river ; but as the pilgrim,
his companion, was under heavenly protection,
he would of course do what he desired.*
He then desired him to gird his companion with
one of the simplest and completest rushes he
would see by the water's side, and to wash the
stain of the lower world out of his face, and so
take their journey up the mountain before them,
by a path which the rising sun would disclose.
And with these words he disappeared.!

The pilgrims passed on, with the eagerness of
one who thinks every step in vain till he finds
the path he has lost. The full dawn by this

Generous and disinterested !— Cato, the republican
enemy of Caesar, and committer of suicide, is not luckily
chosen for his present office by the poet, who has put
Brutus into the devil's mouth in spite of his agreeing
with Cato, and the suicide Piero delle Vigne into hell in
spite of his virtues. But Dante thought Cato's austere
manners like his own.

t The girding with the rush {giunco schiettd) is supposed
by the commentators to be an injunction of simplicity
and patience. Perhaps it is to enjoin sincerity;
especially as the region of expiation has now been entered,
and sincerity is the first step to repentance. It
will be recollected that Dante's former girdle, the cord
of the Franciscan friars, has been left in the hands of
Fraud.

time had arisen, and they saw the trembling of
the sea in the distance.* Virgil then dipped his
hands into a spot of dewy grass, where the sun
had least affected it, and with the moisture
bathed the face of Dante, who held it out to
him, suffused with tears ; f and then they went
on till they came to a solitary shore, whence no
voyager had ever returned, and there the loins
of the Florentine were girt with the rush.

On this shore they were standing in doubt
how to proceed, — moving onward, as it were, in
mind, while yet their feet were staying, — when
they beheld a light over the water at a distance,
ray less at first as the planet Mars when he looks
redly out of the horizon through a fog, but
speedily grows brighter and brighter with
amazing swiftness. Dante had but turned for
an instant to ask his guide what it was, when,

" 1,' alba vincent 1' ora mattutina
Che fuggia 'nnanzi, si che di montana
Conobbi il tremor de la marina."
The lingering shadows now began to flee
Before the whitening dawn, so that mine eyes
Discerned far off the trembling of the sea.
Conobbi il tremor de la marina "
is a beautiful verse, both for the picture and the sound.

t This evidence of humility and gratitude on the part
of Dante would be very affecting, if we could forget all
the pride and passion he has been shewing elsewhere,
and the torments in which he has left his fellow-creatures.
With these recollections upon us, it looks like an
overweening piece of self-congratulation at other people's
expense.

on looking again, it had grown far brighter.
Two splendid phenomena, he knew not what,
then developed themselves on either side ;
and, by degrees, another below it. The two
splendors quickly turned out to be wings ; and
Virgil, who had hitherto watched its coming in
silence, cried out, "Down, down, — on thy knees !
It is God's angel. Clasp thine hands. Now thou
shalt behold operancy indeed. Lo, how he needs
neither sail nor oar, coming all this way with
nothing but his wings ! Lo, how he holds them
aloft, using the air with them at his will, and
knowing they can never be weary."

The " divine bird " grew brighter and brighter
as he came, so that the eye at last could not
sustain the lustre ; and Dante turned his to the
ground. A boat then rushed to the shore
which the angel had brought with him, so light
that it drew not a drop of water. The celestial
pilot stood at the helm, with bliss written in his
face; and a hundred spirits were seen within
the boat, who, lifting up their voices, sang the
Psalm beginning "When Israel came out of
Egypt." At the close of the Psalm, the angel
blessed them with the sign of the cross, and
they all leaped to shore ; upon which he turned
round, and departed as swiftly as he came.

The new-comers, after gazing about them for
awhile, in the manner or those who are astonished

to see new sights, inquired of Virgil
and his companion the best way to the mountain.
Virgil explained who they were ; and the
spirits, pale with astonishment at beholding
in Dante a living and breathing man, crowded
about him, in spite of their anxiety to shorten
the period of their trials. One of them came
darting out of the press to embrace him, in a
manner so affectionate as to move the poet to
return his warmth ; but his arms again and
again found themselves crossed on his own
bosom, having encircled nothing. The shadow,
smiling at the astonishment in the other's face,
drew back ; and Dante hastened as much forward
to show his zeal in the greeting, when the
spirit in a sweet voice recommended him to desist.
The Florentine then knew who it was, —
Casella, a musician, to whom he had been much
attached. After mutual explanations as to their
meeting, Dante requested his friend, if no ordinance
opposed it, to refresh his spirit awhile
with one of the tender airs that used to charm
away all his troubles on earth. Casella immediately
began one of his friend's own productions,
commencing with the words,

Ivove, that delights to talk unto my soul
Of all the wonders of my lady's nature."

And he sang it so beautifully, that the sweetness
rang within the poet's heart while recording

the circumstance. The other spirits listened
with such attention, that they seemed to
have forgotten the very purpose of their coming
; when suddenly the voice of Cato was
heard, sternly rebuking their delay ; and the
whole party speeded in trepidation towards the
mountain.*

The two pilgrims, who had at first hastened
with the others, in a little while slackened
their steps ; and Dante found that his body projected
a shadow, while the form of Virgil had
none. When arrived at the foot of the mountain,
they were joined by a second party of
spirits, of whom Virgil inquired the way up it.
One of the spirits, of a noble aspect, but with a
gaping wound in his forehead, stepped forth,
and asked Dante if he remembered him. The
poet humbly answering in the negative, the
stranger disclosed a second wound, that was in

" Amor che ne la mente mi regions
De la mia donna disiosamente,"
is the beginning of the ode sung by Dante's friend. The
incident is beautifully introduced ; and Casella's being
made to select a production from the pen of the man
who asks him to sing, very delicately implies a graceful
cordiality in the musician "s character.

Milton alludes to the passage in his sonnet to Henry
I,awes,
Thou honores verse, and verse must lend her wing
To honor thee, the priest of Phoebus' quire,
That tunes their happiest lines in hymn or story.
Dante shall give Fame leave to set thee higher
Than his Casella, whom he wooed to sing,
Met in the milder shades of Purgatory."

his bosom ; and then, with a smile, announced
himself as Manfredii, king of Naples, who was
slain in battle against Charles of Anjou, and
died excommunicated. Manfredii gave Dante a
message to his daughter Costanza, Queen of Arragon,
begging her to shorten the consequences
of the excommunication by her prayers ; since
he, like the rest of the party with him, though
repenting of his contumacy against the church,
would have to wander on the outskirts of purgatory
three times as long as the presumption
had lasted, unless relieved by such petitions
from the living.*

Dante went on, with his thoughts so full of
this request, that he did not perceive he had arrived
at the path which Virgil asked for, till the
wandering spirits called out to them to say so.
The pilgrims then, with great difficulty, began
to ascend through an extremely narrow passage
; and Virgil, after explaining to Dante how
it was that in this antipodal region his eastward

Manfredii was the natural son of the Emperor Frederick
the Second. " He was lively and agreeable in his
manners," observes Mr. Cary, " and delighted in poetry,
music, and dancing. But he was luxurious and ambitious,
void of religion, and in his philosophy an epicurean"—
'" Translation of Dante," Smith s edition, p. 77.
Thus King Manfredii ought to have been in a red-hot
tomb, roasting forever with Epicurus himself, and with
the father of the poet's beloved friend, Guido Cavalcante ;
but he was the son of an emperor, and a foe to the house
of Anjou ; so Dante gives him a passport to heaven.
There is no ground whatever for the repentance assumed
in the text.

face beheld the sun in the north instead of the
south, was encouraging him to proceed manfully
in the hope of finding the path easier by
degrees, and of reposing at the end of it, when
they heard a voice observing, that they would
most likely find it expedient to repose a little
sooner. The pilgrims looked about them, and
observed close at hand a crag of a rock, in the
shade of which some spirits were standing, as
men stand idly at noon. Another was sitting
down, as if tired out, with his arms about his
knees, and his face bent down between them.*

"Dearest master!" exclaimed Dante to his
guide, *what thickest thou of a croucher like
this, for manful journeying? Verily he seems
to have been twin-born with Idleness herself. ' '

The croucher, lifting up his eyes at these
words, looked hard at Dante, and said : " Since
thou art so stout, push on."

Dante then saw it was Belacqua, a pleasant
acquaintance of his, famous for his indolence.

"That was a good lesson," said Belacqua,
that was given thee just now in astronomy."

The poet could not help smiling at the manner
in which his acquaintance uttered these words,
it was so like his ways of old. Belacqua pretended,
even in another world, that it was of no

The unexpected bit of comedy here ensuing is very
remarkable and pleasant. Belacqua, according to an
old commentator, was a musician.

use to make haste, since the angel had prohibited
his going higher up the mountain. He
and his companions had to walk round the foot
of it as many years as they had delayed repenting
; unless, as in the case of Manfredii, their time
was shortened by the prayers of good people.

A little further on, the pilgrims encountered
the spirits of such Delayed of Penitence as,
having died violent deaths, repented at the last
moment. One of them, Buonconte da ,
who died in battle, and whose body could
not be found, described how the devil, having
been hindered from seizing him by the shedding
of a single tear, had raised in his fury a tremendous
tempest, which sent the body down the
river Arno, and buried it in the mud.^

Another spirit, a female, said to Dante : "Ah !
when thou returned to earth, and shalt have
rested from thy long journey, remember me, —
Pia. Siena gave me life ; the Marshes took it
from me. This he knows who put on my
finger the wedding-ring. " f

Buonconte was the son of that Guido da Montefeltro,
whose soul we have seen carried off from St. Francis by
a devil, for having violated the conditions of penitence.
It is curious that both father and son should have been
contested for in this manner.

\ This is the most affecting and comprehensive of all
brief stories :

Del quando tu sarah tornado al monde,
E riposato de la lungs via,
Se^fuitd '1 tergo spirit al secondo.

The majority of this party were so importunate
with the Florentine to procure them the prayers
of their friends, that he had as much difficulty

Ricorditi di me che son la Pia :
Siena mi f& ; disfecemi Maremma ;
Salsi celui che 'nnanellata pria

Disposed m' area con la sua gemma."

Ah, when thou finest thee again on earth
(Said then a female soul), remember me —
Pia. Siena was my place of birth,

The Marshes of my death. This knoweth he
Who placed upon my hand the spousal ring.

"Nello della Pietra," says M. Belle, in his work entitled
" De Clamour," "obtained in marriage the hand
of Madonna Pia, sole heiress of the Ptolomei, the richest
and most noble family of Siena. Her beauty, which was
the admiration of all Tuscany, gave rise to a jealousy in
the breast of her husband, that, envenomed by wrong
reports and suspicions continually reviving, led to a
frightful catastrophe. It is not easy to determine at this
day if his wife was altogether innocent ; but Dante has
represented her as such. Her husband carried her with
him into the marshes of Volterra, celebrated then, as
now, for the pestiferous effects of the air. Never would
he tell his wife the reason of her banishment into so
dangerous a place. His pride did not deign to pronounce
either complaint or accusation. He lived with her alone,
in a deserted tower, of which I have been to see the ruins
on the sea-shore ; he never broke his disdainful silence,
never replied to the questions of his youthful bride, never
listened to her entreaties. He waited, unmoved by her,
for the air to produce its fatal effects. The vapors of this
unwholesome swamp were not long in tarnishing features
the most beautiful, they say, that in that age had
appeared upon earth. In a few months she died. Some
chroniclers of these remote times report that Nello employed
the dagger to hasten her end : she died in the
marshes in some horrible manner ; but the mode of her
death remained a mystery, even to her contemporaries.
Nello della Pietra survived, to pass the rest of his days ina
silence which was never broken." — Hazlitt's "Journey
Through France and Italy," p. 315.

to get away as a-winner at dice has to free himself
from the mercenary congratulations of the
bystanders. On resuming their way, Dante
quoted to Virgil a passage in the ^neid, decrying
the utility of prayer, and begged him to explain
how it was to be reconciled with what
they had just heard. Virgil advised him to wait
for the explanation till he saw Beatrice, whom,
he now said, he should meet at the top of the
mountain. Dante, at this information, expressed
a desire to hasten their progress; and
Virgil, seeing a spirit looking towards them as
they advanced, requested him to acquaint them
with the shortest road.

The spirit, maintaining a lofty and reserved
aspect, was as silent as if he had not heard the
request ; intimating by his manner that they
might as well proceed without repeating it, and
eyeing them like a lion on the watch. Virgil,
however, went up to him, and gently urged it ;
but the only reply was a question as to who
they were and of what country. The Latin
poet, beginning to answer him, had scarcely
mentioned the word "Mantua," when the
stranger went as eagerly up to his interrogator
as the latter had done to him, and said : " Mantua
! My own country ! My name is Sordello."
And the compatriots embraced.

O degenerate Italy ! exclaims Dante ; land

without affections, without principle, without
faith in any one good thing! here was a man
who could not hear the sweet sound of a fellow-citizen's
voice without feeling his heart gush
towards him, and there are no people now in
any one of thy towns that do not hate and torment
one another.

Sordello, in another tone, now exclaimed :
"But who are ye?"

Virgil disclosed himself, and Sordello fell at
his feet. *

Sordello now undertook to accompany the
great Roman poet and his friend to a certain
distance on their ascent towards the penal
quarters of the mountain ; but as evening was
drawing nigh, and the ascent could not be made
properly in the dark, he proposed that they
should await the dawning of the next day in a
recess that overlooked a flowery hollow. The
hollow was a lovely spot of ground, enamelled
with flowers that surpassed the exquisite dyes,
and green with a grass brighter than emeralds
newly broken, f There rose from it also a fragrance
of a thousand different kinds of 

was a famous Proven9al poet, with whose
writings the world has but lately been made acquainted
through the researches of M. Raynouard, in his " Choix
des Poesies des Troubadours," etc.

t "Fresco emerald in 1' ora che si sicca."
An exquisite image of newness and brilliancy.

ness, all mingled into one that was new and
indescribable ; and with the fragrance there
ascended the chant of the prayer beginning :
"Hail, Queen of Heaven," * which was sung by
a multitude of souls that appeared sitting on the
flowery sward.

Virgil pointed them out. They were penitent
delayed of penitence, of sovereign rank.
Among them, however, were spirits who sat
mute ; one of whom was the Emperor Rodolph,
who ought to have attended better to Italy, the
garden of the empire ; and another, Ottoman,
King of Bohemia, his enemy, who now comforted
him; and another, with a small noses Philip
the Third of France, who died a fugitive, shedding
the leaves of the lily ; he sat beating his
breast ; and with him was Henry the Third of
Navarre, sighing with his cheek on his hand.
One was the father, and one the father-in-law
of Philip the Handsome, the bane of France ;
and it was on account of his unworthiness they
grieved.

But among the singers Virgil pointed out the
strong-limbed King of Arragon, Pedro ; and

*" Salve, Regina," the beginning of a Roman Catholic
chant to the Virgin.

t''With nose deprest," says Mr. Gary. But Dante
says, literally, "small nose"— naseilo. So, further on,
he says, " masculine nose," — machin maso. He meant to
imply the greater or less determination of character,
which the size of that feature is supposed to indicate.

Charles, King of Naples, with his masculine
nose (these two were singing together) ; and
Henry the Third of England, the king of the
simple life, sitting by himself ; * and below
these, but with his eyes in heaven, Guglielmo,
Marquis of Montserrat.

It was now the hour when men at sea think
longingly of home, and feel their hearts melt
within them to remember the day on which
they bade adieu to beloved friends ; and now,
too, was the hour when the pilgrim, new to his
journey, is thrilled with the like tenderness,
when he hears the vesper-bell in the distance,
which seems to mourn for the expiring days

An English reader is Surprised to find here a sovereign
for whom he has been taught to entertain little respect.
But Henry was a devout servant of the church,
t " Era gi r ora che volga '1 desio
A' navigate, e intenerisce '1 cure
IvO di ch' an ditto a' dolce amici a Dio ;
H che lo nuovo peregrine d' more
Plunge, se ode squilla di montana
Che pain '1 giorno hanger che si more."
A famous passage, untiring in the repetition. It is, indeed,
worthy to be the voice of Evening herself.

T was now the hour, when love of home melts through
Men's hearts at sea, and longing thoughts portray
The moment when they bade sweet friends adieu ;

And the new pilgrim now, on his lone way,
Thrills if he hears the distant vesper-bell,
That seems to mourn for the expiring day.
Every body knows the line in Gray's " Eleg>'," not unworthily
echoed from Dante's —

The curfew tolls the knell of parting day."
Nothing can equal, however, the tone in the Italian original,
— the

At this hour of the coming darkness, Dante beheld
one of the spirits in the flowery hollow
arise, and after giving a signal to the others todo
as he did, stretch forth both hands, palm to
palm, towards the Bast, and with softest emotion
commence the hymn beginning,

Thee before the closing light." *

Upon which all the rest devoutly and softly
followed him, keeping their eyes fixed on the
heavens. At the end of it they remained, with
pale countenances, in an attitude of humble expectation
; and Dante saw the angels issue from
the quarter to which they looked, and descend
towards them with flaming swords in their
hands, broken short of the point. Their wings
were as green as the leaves in spring ; and they
wore garments equally green, which the fanning
of the wings kept in a state of streaming
fluctuation behind them as they came. One of
them took his stand on a part of the hill just
over where the pilgrims stood, and the other on
a hill opposite, so that the party in the valley
were between them. Dante could discern the

** P^ia '1 giorno hanger che si more."
Alas ! why could not the great Tuscan have been superior
enough to his personal griefs to write a whole book
full of such beauties, and so have left us a work truly to
be called Divine ?

" Te lucius ante terminus " ;— a hymn sung at evening
service.

hair on their heads, notwithstanding its brightness
; but their faces were so dazzling as to be
undistinguishable.

They come from Mary's bosom," whispered
Sordello, ' ' to protect the valley from the designs
of our enemy yonder, — the Serpent."

Dante looked in trepidation towards the only
undefended side of the valley, and beheld the
Serpent of Bve coming softly among the grass
and flowers, occasionally turning its head, and
licking its polished back. Before he could
take off his eyes from the evil thing, the two
angels had come down like falcons, and at the
whirring of their pinions the serpent fled. The
angels returned as swiftly to their stations.

Aurora was now looking palely over the easter
cliff on the other side of the globe, and the
stars of midnight shining over the heads of
Dante and his friends, when they seated themselves
for rest on the mountain's side. The
Florentine, being still in the flesh, lay down for
weariness, and was overcome with sleep. In his
sleep he dreamt that a golden eagle flashed down
like lightning upon him, and bore him up to the
region of fire, where the heat was so intense
that it woke him, staring and looking roundabout
with a pale face. His dream was a shadowing
of the truth. He had actually come to
another place, — to the entrance of purgatory

itself. Sordello had been left behind, Virgil
alone remained, looking him cheerfully in the
face. Saint Lucy had come from heaven, and
shortened the fatigue of his journey by carrying
him upwards as he slept, the heathen
poet following them. On arriving where they
stood, the fair saint intimated the entrance of
purgatory to Virgil by a glance thither of her
beautiful eyes, and then vanished as Dante
woke.*

The portal by which purgatory was entered
was embedded in a cliff. It had three steps,
each of a different color ; and on the highest of
these there sat, mute and watching, an angel in
ash-colored garments, holding a naked sword,
which glanced with such intolerable brightness
on Dante, whenever he attempted to look, that
he gave up the endeavor. The angel demanded
who they were, and receiving the right answer,
gently bade them advance.

Dante now saw, that the lowest step was of
marble, so white and clear that he beheld his
face in it. The color of the next was a deadly

Lucy, Lucia (supposed to be derived from lux, lucius),
is the goddess (I was almost going to say) who in Roman
Catholic countries may be said to preside over light, and
who is really invoked in maladies of the eyes. She was
Dante's favorite saint, possible for that reason among
others, for he had once hurt his eyes with study, and
they had been cured. In her spiritual character she represents
the light of grace.

black, and it was all rough, scorched, and full
of cracks. The third was of flaming porphyry,
red as a man's blood when it leaps forth under
the lancet.* The angel, whose feet were on the
porphyry, sat on a threshold which appeared to
be rock-diamond. Dante, ascending the steps,
with the encouragement of Virgil, fell at the
angel's feet, and after thrice beating himself on
the breast, humbly asked admittance. The angel,
with the point of his sword, inscribed the first
letter of the word peccatiim (sin) seven times
on the petitioner's forehead ; then, bidding him
pray with tears for their easement and be cautious
how he looked back, opened the portal
with a silver and a gold keys The hinges
roared, as they turned, like thunder ; and the
pilgrims on entering, thought they heard, mingling
with the sound, a chorus of voices singing,
" "We praise thee, O God ! " J It was like
the chant that mingles with a cathedral organ,
when the words that the choristers utter are atone
moment to be distinguished, and at another
fade away.

The companions continued ascending till they
reached a plain. It stretched as far as the eye

The first step typifies consciousness of sin ; the second,
horror of it ; the third, zeal to amend.

t The keys of St. Peter. The gold is said by the commentators
to mean power to absolve ; the silver, the
learning and judgment requisite to use itt

" Te Deem laudanum," the well-known hymn of St.
Ambrose and St. Augustine.

could see, and was as lonely as roads across
deserts.

This was the first flat, or table-land, of the ascending
gradations of purgatory, and the place
of trial for the souls of the Proud. It was bordered
with a mound, or natural wall, of white
marble, sculptured all over with stories of humility.
Dante beheld among them the Annunciation,
represented with so much life, that the
sweet action of the angel seemed to be uttering
the very word, " Hail ! " and the submissive
spirit of the Virgin to be no less impressed,
like very wax, in her demeanor. The next
story was that of David dancing and harping
before the ark — an action in which he seemed
both less and greater than a king. Michael was
looking out upon him from a window, like a
lady full of scorn and sorrow. Next to the story
of David was that of the Emperor Trajan, when
he did a thing so glorious, as moved St. Gregory
to gain the greatest of all his conquests — the delivering
of the emperor's soul from hell.

A widow, in tears and mourning, was laying
hold of his bridle as he rode amidst his court
with a noise of horses and horsemen, while the
Roman eagles floated in gold over his head.
The miserable creature spoke out loudly among
them all, crying for vengeance on the murderers
of her sons. The emperor seemed to say, " Wait
till I return."

But she, in the hastiness of her misery, said,
Suppose thou returned not ? "

"Then nay successor will attend to thee," replied
the emperor.

And what hast thou to do with the duties of
another man," cried she, "if thou attended not
to thine own ? "

' Now be of good comfort, ' ' concluded Trajan,
"for verily my duty shall be done before I
go ; justice wills it, and pity arrests me."

Dante was proceeding to delight himself
further with these sculptures, when Virgil whispered
him to look round and see what was
coming. He did so, and beheld strange figures
advancing, the nature of which he could not
at first make out, for they seemed neither human,
nor aught else which he could call to
mind. They were souls of the proud, bent
double under enormous burdens.

"O proud, miserable, woe-begone Christians!"
exclaims the poet; "ye who, in the
shortness of your sight, see no reason for advancing
in the right path ! Know ye not that
we are worms, born to compose the angelic butterfly,
provided we throw off the husks that impede
our flight ? " *

The souls came slowly on, each bending down

" Non v' accorgete voi, che noi siam venn,
Nata former 1' angelica farfalla,
Che vola a giustizia senza scheme ? "

in proportion to his burden. They looked like
the crouching figures in architecture that are
used to support roofs or balconies, and that
excite piteous fancies in the beholders. The
one that appeared to have the most patience,
yet seemed as if he said: "I can endure no
further."

The sufferers, notwithstanding their anguish,
raised their voices in a paraphrase on the Lord's
Prayer, which they concluded with humbly
stating, that they repeated the clause against
temptation, not for themselves, but for those
who were yet living.

Virgil, wishing them a speedy deliverance,
requested them to show the best way of going
up to the next circle. Who it was that answered
him could not be discerned, on account of their
all beings bent down ; but a voice gave them the
required direction ; the speaker adding, that he
wished he could raise his eyes, so as to see the living
creature that stood near him. He said that
his name was Alberto — that he came of the
great Tuscan race of Aldobrandesco — and that
his countrymen, the Sense, murdered him
on account of his arrogance.

Dante had bent down his own head to listen,

and in so doing he was recognized by one of

Know you not, we are worms
Bon to compose the angelic butterfly,
That flies to heaven when freed from what deforms ?

the sufferers, who, eying him as well as he
could, addressed him by name. The poet replied
by exclaiming: "Art thou not Oderisi,
the glory of Agubbio, the master of the art of
illumination? "

Ah ! " said Oderisi, ** Franco of Bologna has
all the glory now. His colors make the pages
of books laugh with beauty, compared with
what mine do.* I could not have owned it
while on earth, for the sin which has brought
me hither ; but so it is ; and so will it ever be,
let a man's fame be never so green and flourishing,
unless he can secure a dull age to come
after him. Cimabue, in painting, lately kept
the field against all comers, and now the cry is
Giotto. ' Thus, in song, a new Guido has deprived
the first of his glory, and he perhaps is
born who shall drive both out of the nests

" Iii sidon le carte
Che penelleggia Franco Bolognese :
I^' snore e tutti or suo, e mio in parte."
t The "new Guido" is his friend Guido Cavalcante
(now dead); the "first" is Guido Guinicelli, for whose
writings Dante had an esteem : and the poet, who is to
chase them from the nest," caetera di dido (as the not
very friendly metaphor states it), is with good reason
supposed to be himself ! He was right ; but was the
statement becoming? It was certainly not necessary.
Dante, notwithstanding his friendship with Guido, appears
to have had a grudge against both Cavalcanti,
probably for some scorn they had shown to his superstition
; for they could be proud of themselves ; and
the son has the reputation of scepticism, as well
as the father. See the " Decameron," Giom. vi.
Nov. 9.

Fame is but a wind that changes about from all
quarters. What does glory amount to at best,
that a man should prefer living and growing
old for it, to dying in the days of his nurse and
his pap-boat, even if it should last him a thousand
years ? A thousand years ! — the twinkling
of an eye. Behold this man, who weeps before
me ; his name resounded once over all our Tuscany,
and now it is scarcely whispered in his
native place. He was lord there at the time
that your once proud but now loathsome Florence
had such a lesson given to its frenzy at the
battle of Arabia."

And what is his name ? " inquired Dante.

"Salvani," returned the limner. "He is
here, because he had the presumption to
think that he could hold Siena in the hollow
of his hand. Fifty years has he paced
in this manner. Such is the punishment for
audacity."

"But why is he here at all," said Dante,
"and not in the outer region, among the delayed
of repentance ? "

"Because," exclaimed the other, "in the
height of his ascendency he did not disdain
to stand in the public place in Siena, and,
trembling in every vein, beg money from the
people to ransom a friend from captivity. Do
I appear to thee to speak with mysterious significance

? Thy countrymen shall too soon help
thee to understand me"*

Virgil now called Dante away from Oderisi,
and bade him notice the ground on which they
were treading. It was pavement, wrought allover
with figures, like sculptured tombstones.
There was Lucifer among them, struck flaming
down from heaven ; and Briareus, pinned to
the earth with the thunderbolt, and, with other
giants, amazing the gods with his hugeness ;
and Nimrod, standing confounded at the foot
of Babel ; and Niobe, with her despairing eyes,
turned into stone amidst her children ; and
Saul, dead on his own sword in Bilboa ; and
Arachne, now half spider, at fault on her own
broken web ; and Rehoboam, for all his insolence,
flying in terror in his chariot ; and Actaeon,
who made his mother pay with her life
for the ornament she received to betray his
father ; and Sennacherib, left dead by his son
in the temple ; and the head of Cyrus, thrown
by the motherless woman into the goblet of
blood, that it might swill what it had thirsted

This is the passage from which it is conjectured that
Dante knew what it was to "tremble in every vein,"
from the awful necessity of begging. Mr. Gary, with
some other commentators, thinks that the " trembling "
implies fear of being refused. But does it not rather
mean the agony of the humiliation? In Salvani's case
it certainly does ; for it was in consideration of the pang
to his pride, that the good deed rescued him from worse
punishment.

for ; and Holofernes, beheaded ; and his Assyrians
flying at his death ; and Troy, all become
cinders and hollow places. Oh ! what a fall
from pride was there ! Now, maintain the loftiness
of your looks, ye sons of Eve, and walk
with proud steps, bending not your eyes on the
dust ye were, lest ye perceive the evil of your
ways.*

"Behold"' said Virgil, "there is an angel
coming."

The angel came on, clad in white, with a face
that sent trembling beams before it, like the
morning star. He showed the pilgrims the way
up to the second circle ; and then, beating his
wings against the forehead of Dante, on which
the seven initials of sin were written, told him
he should go safely, and disappeared.

On reaching the new circle, Dante instead of
the fierce failings that used to meet him at
every turn in hell, heard voices singing,
Blessed are the poor in spirit." f As he went,

The reader will have noticed the extraordinary mixture
of Paganism and the Bible in this passage, especially
the introduction of such fables as Niobe and
Arachne. It would be diiScult not to suppose it intended
to work out some half sceptical purpose, if we did not
call to mind the grave authority given to fables in the
poet's treatise on Monarchy, and the whole strange
spirit, at once logical and gratuitous, of the learning of
his age, when the acuter the mind, the subtler became
the reconcilement with absurdity.

t " Beati paupers spirit." " Blessed are the poor inspirit
; for theirs is the kingdom of heaven "sone of the

he perceived that he walked lighter, and was
told by Virgil that the angel had freed him
from one of the letters on his forehead. He
put his hand up to make sure, as a man does in
the street when people take notice of something
on his head of which he is not aware ; and Virgil
smiled.

In this new circle the sin of Envy was expiated.
After the pilgrims had proceeded a mile, they
heard the voices of invisible spirits passing
them, uttering sentiments of love and charity ;
for it was charity itself that had to punish envy.

The souls of the envious, clad in sack-cloth,
sat leaning for support and humiliation, partly
against the rocky wall of the circle, and partly
on one another's shoulders, after the manner of
beggars that ask alms near places of worship.
Their eyes were sewn up, like those of hawks
in training, but not so as to hinder them from
shedding tears, which they did in abundance ;
and they cried, ' ' Mary, pray for us ! — Michael,
Peter, and all the saints, pray for us ! "

beautiful passages of the beautiful sermon on the
Mount. How could the great poet read and admire such
passages, and yet fill his books so full of all which they
renounced? "Oh," say his idolaters, " he did it out of
his very love for them, and his impatience to see them
triumph." So said the Inquisition. The evil was continued
for the sake of the good which it prevented ! The
result in the long-run may be so, but not for the reasons
they supposed, or from blindness to the indulgence of
their blind passions.

Dante spoke to them ; and one, a female,
lifted up her chin as a blind person does when
expressing consciousness of notice, and said
she was Sapia of Siena, who used to be pleased
at people's misfortunes, and had rejoiced when
her countrymen lost the battle of Colle, " Sapia
was my name," she said, "but sapient I
was not,* for I prayed God to defeat my countrymen
; and when he had done so (as he had
willed to do), I raised my bold face to heaven,
and cried out to him, ' Now do thy worst, for I
fear thee not ! ' I was like the bird in the fable,
who thought the fine day was to last forever.
What I should have done in my latter
days to make up for the imperfect amends of
my repentance, I know not, if the holy Piero
Perpignan had not assisted me with his prayers.
But who art thou that goes with open
eyes, and breathes in thy talk ? ' '

"Mine eyes," answered Dante, "may yet

" Savin non fui, avvegna che Sala
Fosse chiamata."
The pun is poorer even than it sounds in English ; for
though the Italian name may possibly remind its reader
of sapiens (sapience), there is the difference of a z/ in
the adjective savin, which is also accented on the first
syllable. It is almost as bad as if she had said in English,
" Sophist I find myself, though Sophia is my
name." It is pleasant, hovv'ever, to see the great saturnine
poet among the punsters. It appears, from the
commentators, that Sapia was in exile at the time of the
battle, but they do not say for what ; probably from
some zeal of faction.

have to endure the blindness in this place,
though for no long period. Far more do 1
fear the sufferings in the one that I have just
left. I seem to feel the weight already upon
me"*

The Florentine then informed Sapia how he
came thither, which, she said, was a great sign
that God loved him ; and she begged his prayers.
The conversation excited the curiosity of
two spirits who overheard it ; and one of them,
Guido del Duca, a noble Romagnese, asked the
poet of what country he was. Dante, without
mentioning the name of the river, intimated
that he came from the banks of the Arno ; upon
which the other spirit, Richer da Calboli, asked
his friend why the stranger suppressed the
name, as though it was something horrible.
Guido said he well might ; for the river,
throughout its course, beheld none but bad
men and persecutors of virtue. First, he said,

We are here led into Dante's confessions. He owns
to a little envy, but far more pride :

Gli occhi, miss' io, mi fiend anchor qui tolti,
Ma picciol tempo ; che pooh' ^ 1' offesa
Facta per esse con india volt.

Troppa 6 iii la laura ont '^ hospes
I^' anima mia del torment di sotto :
Che giS. lo 'ncarco di IS. gil mi pea."
The first confession is singularly ingenuous and modest
; the second, affecting. It is curious to guess what
sort of persons Dante could have allowed himself to
envy— probably those who were more acceptable to
women.

it made its petty way by the sties of those brutal
hogs, the people of Casentino, and then arrived
at the dignity of watering the kennels of
the curs of Arezzo, who excelled more in barking
than in biting ; then, growing unluckily as
it grew larger, like the cursed and miserable
ditch that it was, it found in Florence the dogs
become wolves ; and finally, ere it went into
the sea, it passed the den of those foxes, the
Pisans, who were full of such cunning that they
held traps in contempt.

"It will be well," continued Guido, "for
this man to remember what he hears" ; and
then, after prophesying evil to Florence, and
confessing to Dante his sin of envy, which used
to make him pale when any one looked happy,
he added, "This is Rinieri, the glory of that
house of Calboli which now inherits not a spark
of it. Not a spark of it, did I say, in the house
of Calboli ? Where is there a spark in all romagna
? Where is the good Lizio ? — where
Maynard, Traversed, Campagna ? The Romagna
have all become bastards. A mechanic
founds a house in Bologna ! a Bernardin di
Fusco finds his dog-grass become a tree in Faenza
! Wonder not, Tuscan, to see me weep,
when I think of the noble spirits that we have
lived with — of the Guides of Prate, and the
Goblins of Azzo — of Federigo Tignoso and his

band — of the Traverses and Anastagios, families
now ruined — and all the ladies and the
cavaliers, the alternate employments and delights
which wrapped us in a round of love
and courtesy, where now there is nothing but
ill-will ! O castle of Brettinoro ! why dost thou
not fall ? Well has the lord of Bagnacavallo
done, who will have no more children. Who
would propagate a race of Counties from such
blood as the Castrocaros and the Conies ? Is
not the son of Pagan called the demon ? and
would it not be better that such a son were
swept out of the family ? Nay, let him live to
show to what a pitch of villainy it has arrived.
Ubaldini alone is blessed, for his name is good,
and he is too old to leave a child after him.
Go, Tuscan — go ; for I would be left to my
tears."

Dante and Virgil turned to move onward, and
had scarcely done so when a tremendous voice
met them, splitting the air like peals of thunder,
and crying out : " Whoever finds me will
slay me ! " then dashed apart like the thunderbolt
when it falls. It was Cain. The air had
scarcely recovered its silence, when a second
crash ensued from a different quarter near
them, like thunder when the claps break swiftly
into one another. "I am Aglauros," it said,
"that was turned into stone." Dante drew

closer to his guide ; and there ensued a dead
silences

The sun was now in the west, and the pilgrims
were journeying towards it, when Dante
suddenly felt such a weight of splendor on his
eyes as forced him to screen them with both his
hands. It was an angel coming to show them
the ascent to the next circle, a way that was
less steep than the last. While mounting, they
heard the angel's voice singing behind them,
Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain
mercy !" and on his leaving them to proceed
by themselves, the second letter on Dante's
forehead was found to have been effaced by the
splendor.

The poet looked round in wonder on the new

Aglauros, daughter of Cecrops, king of Athens, was
turned to stone by Mercury, for disturbing with her envy
his passion for her sister Herse.

The passage about Cain is one of the sublimest in
Dante. Truly wonderful and characteristic is the way
in which he has made physical noise and violence express
the anguish of the wanderer's mind. We are not
to suppose, I conceive, that we see Cain. We know he
has passed us, by his thunderous and headlong words.
Dante may well make him invisible, for his words are
things— veritable thunderbolts.

Cain comes in rapid successions of thunder-claps.
The voice of Aglauros is thunder-claps clashing into one
another— broken thunder. This is exceedingly fine also,
and wonderful as a variation upon that awful music ;
but Cain is the astonishment and the overwhelmingness.
If it were not, however, for the second thunder, we
should not have had the two silences ; for I doubt
whether they are not better even than one. At all events
the final silence is tremendous.

circle, where the sin of Anger-was expiated, and
beheld, as in a dream, three successive spectacles
illustrative of the virtue of patience. The
first was that of a crowded temple, on the
threshold of which a female said to her son, in
the sweet manner of a mother, " Son, why hast
thou thus dealt with us ? Behold, thy father
and I have sought thee sorrowing " ; * and
here she became silent, and the vision ended.
The next was the lord of Athens, Pisistratus,
calmly reproving his wife for wishing him to
put to death her daughter's lover, who, in a
transport, had embraced her in public. " If weare
to be thus severe," said Pisistratus, "with
those that love us, what is to be done with such
as hate ? " The last spectacle was that of a furious
multitude shouting and stoning to death
a youth who, as he fell to the ground, still kept
his face towards heaven, making his eyes the
gates through which his soul reached it, and
imploring forgiveness for his murderers, f

The visions passed away, leaving the poet
staggering as if but half awake. They were
succeeded by a thick and noisome fog, through
which he followed his leader with the caution
of a blind man, Virgil repeatedly telling him
not to quit him a moment. Here they heard
voices praying in unison for pardon to the

St. Luke, ii., 48. t The stoning of Stephen.

*' Lamb of God, who taketh away the sins of
the world. ' ' They were the spirits of the angry.
Dante conversed with one of them on free-will
and necessity ; and after quitting him and issuing
by degrees from the cloud, beheld illustrative
visions of anger ; such as the impious
mother, who was changed into the bird that
most delights in singing ; Human, retaining
his look of spite and rage on the cross ; and La-vini,
mourning for her mother, who slew herself
for rage at the death of Turns.*

These visions were broken off by a great light,
as sleep is broken ; and Dante heard a voice out
of it saying: " The ascent is here." He then,
as Virgil and he ascended into the fourth circle,
felt an air on his face, as if caused by the fanning
of wings, accompanied by the utterance of the
words : " Blessed are the peace-makers" ; and
his forehead was lightened of the third letter. f

These illustrative spectacles are not among the best
inventions of Dante. Their introduction is forced,
and the instances not always pointed. A murderess, too,
of her son, changed into such a bird as the nightingale,
was not a happy association of ideas in Homer, where
Dante found it ; and I am surprised that he made use of
it, intimate as he must have been with the less inconsistent
story of her namesake, Philomela, in the " Metamorphosis."


t So, at least, I conceive, by what appears afterwards ;
and I may here add, once for all, that I have supplied
the similar requisite intimations at each successive step
in Purgatory, the poet seemingly having forgotten to do
so. It is necessary to what he implied in the outset. The
whole poem, it is to be remembered, is thought to have
wanted his final revision.

In this fourth circle was expiated Lukewarmness,
or defect of zeal for good. The sufferers
came speeding and weeping round the mountain,
making amends for the old indifference by
the haste and fire of the new love that was in
them. " Blessed Mary made haste," cried one,
"to salute Elizabeth." "And Caesar," cried
another, " to smite Pompey at Ivcrida." * "And
the disobedient among the Israelites," cried
others, " died before they reached the promised
land." "And the tired among the Trojans preferred
ease in Sicily to glory in Latium." It
was now midnight, and Dante slept and had a
dream.

His dream was of a woman who came to him,
having a tongue that tried ineffectually to speak,
squinting eyes, feet whose distortion drew her
towards the earth, stumps of hands, and a pallid
face. Dante looked earnestly at her, and
his look acted upon her like sunshine upon
cold. Her tongue was loosened, her feet made
straight, she stood upright, her paleness became
a lovely rose-color, and she warbled so
beautifully that the poet could not have refused
to listen had he wished it.

What an instance to put among those of haste todo
good ! But the fame and accomplishments of Csesar,
and his being at the head of our Ghibelline's beloved
emperors, fairly overwhelmed Dante's boasted impartiality.


' I am the sweet Syren, ' ' she said, ' ' who made
the mariners turn pale for pleasure in the sea.
I drew Ulysses out of his course with my song ;
and he that harbors with me once, rarely departs
ever, so well I pay him for what he abandons."

Her lips were not yet closed, when a lady of
holy and earnest countenance came up to shame
her. "O Virgil!" she cried angrily, 'who
is this ? ' ' Virgil approached, with his eyes
fixed on the lady ; and the lady tore away the
garments of the woman, and showed her to bea
creature so loathly, that the sleeper awoke
with the horror. *

Virgil said : *' I have called thee three times
to no purpose. Let us move, and find the place
at which we are to go higher."

It was broad day, with a sun that came warm
on the shoulders; and Dante was proceeding
with his companion, when the softest voice
they ever heard directed them where to ascend,
and they found an angel with them, who pointed
his swan-like wings upward, and then flapped
them against the pilgrims, taking away the
fourth letter from the forehead of Dante.
"Blessed are they that mourn," said the angel,
* for they shall be comforted. ' '

A masterly allegory of Worldly Pleasure. But the
close of it in the original has an intensity of the revolting,
which outrages the last recesses of feeling, and dig-gusts
us with the denouncer.

The pilgrims ascended into the fifth circle,
and beheld the expiatory of Avarice grovelling
on the ground, and exclaiming, as loud as they
could for the tears that choked them: "My
soul hath cleaved to the dust." Dante spoke
to one, who turned out to be Pope Adrian the
Fifth. The poet fell on his knees ; but Adrian
bade him rise and err not. " I am no longer,"
said he, "spouse of the Church, here, but fel-observant
with thee and with all others. Go
thy ways, and delay not the time of my deliverance."


The pilgrims moving onward, Dante heard a
spirit exclaim, in the struggling tones of a woman
in child-bed: "O blessed Virgin! That
was a poor roof thou hadst when thou wast delivered
of thy sacred burden. O good Patricius !
virtue with poverty was thy choice, and not
vice with riches. " And then it told the story of
Nicholas, who, hearing that a father was about
to sacrifice the honor of his three daughters for
want of money, threw bags of it in at his window,
containing portions for them all.

Dante earnestly addressed this spirit to know
who he was ; and the spirit said it would tell
him, not for the sake of help, for which it
looked elsewhere, but because of the shining
grace that was in his questioner, though yet
alive.

"I was root," said the spirit, "of that evil
plant which overshadows all Christendom to
such little profit. Hugh Capet was I, ancestor
of the Philips and Louise of France, offspring
of a butcher of Paris, when the old race of kings
was sworn out.* We began by seizing the government
in Paris, then plundered in Provence ;
then, to make amends, laid hold of Poitou,
Normandy, and Gascony ; then, still to make
amends, put Contain to death and seized
Naples ; then, always to make amends, gave
Saint Aquinas his dismissal to heaven by
poison. I see the time at hand when a descendant
of mine will be called into Italy, and

The fierce Hugh Capet, soliloquizing about the Virgin
in the tones of a lady in child-bed, is rather too ludicrous
an association of ideas. It was for calling this prince
the son of a butcher that Francis the First prohibited
the admission of Dante's poem into his dominions. Mr.
Gary thinks the king might have been mistaken in his
interpretation of the passage, and that "butcher " maybe
simply a metaphorical term for the blood-hastiness
of Capet's father. But when we find the man called, not
the butcher, or thai butcher, or butcher in reference to
his species, but in plain local parlance "a butcher of
Paris " fun beccaio at Parigi), and when this designation
is followed up by the allusion to the extinction of the
previous dynasty, the ordinary construction of the words
appears indisputable. Dante seems to have had no
ground for what his aristocratical pride doubtless considered
a hard blow, and what King Francis, indeed,
condescended to feel as such. He met with the notion
somewhere, and chose to believe it, in order to vex the
French and their princes. The spirit of the taunt contradicts
his own theories elsewhere ; for he has repeatedly
said that the only true nobility is in the mind. But
his writings (poetical truth excepted) are a heap of contradictions.


the spear that Judas ousted with ^ shall transfix
the bowels of Florence. Another of my
posterity sells his daughter for a sum of money
to a Marquis of Ferrara. Another seizes the
pope in Alagna, and mocks Christ over again
in the person of his Vicar. A fourth rends the
veil of the temple, solely to seize its money. O
Lord, how shall I rejoice to see the vengeance
which even now thou suggest in delight to thy
bosom ! t

"Of loving and liberal things," continued
Capet, 'ewe speak while it is light; such as
thou hardest me record, when I addressed
myself to the blessed Virgin. But when night
comes, we take another tone. Then we denounce
Pygmalion, J the traitor, the robber,

Mr. Cary thought he had seen an old romance in
which there is a combat of this kind between Jesus and
his betrayer. I have an impression to the same effect,
t " O Signor mio, quando sar io lieth
A cedar la vendetta che nascosa
Fa dolce 1' ira tua nel tuo secret ! ' '

The spirit of the blasphemous witticism attributed to
another Italian— viz., that the reason why God prohibited
revenge to mankind was its being "too delicate a
morsel for any but himself," is here gravely anticipated
as a positive compliment to God by the fierce poet of the
thirteenth century, who has been held up as a great
Christian divine ! God hugs revenge to his bosom with
delight! The Supreme Being confounded with a poor
grinning Florentine !

X A ludicrous anti-climax this to modern ears ! The allusion
is to the Pygmalion who was Dido's brother, and
who murdered her husband, the priest Sichseus, for his
riches. The term "parricide" is here applied in its
secondary sense of— the murderer of any one to whom
we owe reverence.

and the parricide, each the result of his gluttonous
love of gold ; and Midas, who obtained
his wish, to the laughter of all time ; and the
thief Achan, who still seems frightened at the
wrath of Joshua ; and Sapphira and her husband,
whom we accuse over again before the
Apostles ; and Heliodorus, whom we bless the
hoofs of the angel's horse for trampling * ; and
Crassus, on whom we call with shouts of derision
to tell us the flavor of his molten gold. Thus
we record our thoughts in the nighttime, now
high, now low, now at greater or less length, as
each man is prompted by his impulses. And it
was thus thou didst hear me recording also by
daytime, though I had no respondent near me. "
The pilgrims quitted Hugh Capet, and were
eagerly pursuing their journey, when, to the
terror of Dante, they felt the whole mountain
of purgatory tremble, as though it were about
to fall in. The island of Delos shook not so
awfully when Latona, hiding there, brought
forth the twin eyes of heaven. A shout then
arose on every side, so enormous, that Virgil
stood nigher to his companion, and bade him
be of good heart. ' ' Glory be to God in the
highest," cried the shout ; but Dante could

Heliodorus was a plunderer of the Temple, thus
supernaturally punished. The subject has been nobly
treated by Raphael.

gather the words only from those who were
near him.

It was purgatory rejoicing for the deliverance
of a soul out of its bounds."^

The soul overtook the pilgrims as they were
journeying in amazement onwards ; and it
turned out to be that of Statins, who had been
converted to Christianity in the reign of Domitian
Mutual astonishment led to inquiries
that explained who the other Latin poet was ;
and Statins fell at his master's feet.

Statins had expiated his sins in the circle of
Avarice, not for that vice, but for the opposite
one of prodigality.

An angel now, as before, took the fifth letter
from Dante's forehead ; and the three poets having
ascended into the sixth round of the mountain,
were journeying on lovingly together,
Dante listening with reverence to the talk of
the two ancients, when they came up to a sweet-smelling
fruit-tree, upon which a clear stream
came tumbling from a rock beside it, and diffusing
itself through the branches. The Latin
poets went up to the tree, and were met by a
voice which said : " Be chary of the fruit. Mary

A grand and beautiful fiction.

t Readers need hardly be told that there is no foundation
for this fancy, except in the invention of the
churchmen. Dante, in another passage, not necessary
to give, confounds the poet Statins who yeas from Naples,
with a rhetorician of the same name from Toulouse,

thought not of herself at Galilee, but of the
visitors, when she said: 'They have no wine.'
The women of oldest Rome drank water. The
beautiful age of gold feasted on acorns. Its
thirst made nectar out of the rivulet. The Baptist
fed on locusts and wild honey, and became
great as you see him in the Gospel."

The poets went on their way ; and Dante was
still listening to the others, when they heard
behind them a mingled sound of chanting and
weeping, which produced an effect at once sad
and delightful. It was the psalm, " O Lord,
open thou our lips ! " and the chanters were expiatory
of the sin of Intemperance in Meats and
Drinks. They were condemned to circuit the
mountain, famished, and to long for the fruit
and waters of the tree in vain. They soon came
up with the poets — a pallid multitude, with hollow
eyes, and bones staring through the skin.
The sockets of their eyes looked like rings from
which the gems had dropped.* One of them

" Parce 1' occhiaje anella senza gemme."
This beautiful and affecting image is followed in the original
by one of the most fantastical conceits of the time.
The poet says, that the physiognomist, who " reads the
wordl^OMO (homo, man), written in the face of the human
being, might easily have seen the letter m in theirs."
Chi nel vis de gli domini legge o m o,
Bene aria quivi conosciuto 1' emma."
The meaning is, that the perpendicular lines of the nose
and temples form the letter m, and the eyes the two o's.
The enthusiast for Roman domination must have been
delighted to find that Nature wrote in Latin !

knew and accosted Dante, who could not recognize
him till he heard him speak. It was Forese
Donati, one of the poet's most intimate connections.
Dante, who had wept over his face when
dead, could as little forbear weeping to see him
thus hungering and thirsting, though he had
expected to find him in the outskirts of the
place, among the delayed of repentance. He
asked his friend how he had so quickly got
higher. Forese said it was owing to the prayers
and tears of his good wife Nelly ; and then he
burst into a strain of indignation against the
contrast exhibited to her virtue by the general
depravity of the Florentine women, whom he
described as less modest than those half-naked
savages in the mountains of Sardinia.

What is to be said of such creatures ? " continued
he. "O my dear cousin ! I see a day at
hand, when these impudent women shall be forbidden
from the pulpit to go exposing their
naked bosom. What savages or what infidels
ever needed that ? Oh ! if they could see what
Heaven has in store for them, their mouths
would be this instant opened wide for howling"*


'* Se le svergognate foster cete
Di quel che 1' ciel veloce lord ammonia,
Gia per urlare adrian le bouche perte."

This will remind the reader of the style of that gentle
Christian John Knox, who, instead of offering his own
"cheek to the smiters," delighted to smite the cheeks of

Forese then asked Dante to explain to himself
and his astonished fellow-sufferers how
it was that he stood there, a living body of
flesh and blood, casting a shadow with his
substance.

"If thou tallest to mind," said Dante, " what
sort of a life thou and I led together, the recollection
may still grieve thee sorely. He that
walks here before us took me out of that life ;
and through his guidance it is that I have visited
in the body the world of the dead, and am
tft>w traversing the mountain which leads us to
the right path." *

After some further explanation, Forese pointed
out to his friend, among the expiatory of intemperance,
Buonaggiunta of Lucca, the poet ; and

women. Fury was his mode of preaching meekness, and
threats of everlasting howling his reproof of a tune on
Sundays. But, it will be said, he looked to consequences.
Yes ; and produced the worst himself, both spiritual and
temporal. I,et the whisky-shops answer him. However
he helped to save Scotland from Purgatory : so we must
take good and bad together, and hope the best in the
end.

Forese, like many of Dante's preachers, seems to have
been one of those self-ignorant or self-exasperated denounces,
who

Compound for sins they are inclined to,
By damning those they have no mind to."

He was a glutton, who could not bear to see ladies too
little clothed. The defacing of "God's image" in his
own person he considered nothing.

The passage respecting his past life is unequivocal
testimony to the fact, confidently disputed by some, of
Dante's having availed himself of the license of the

Pope Martin the Fourth, with a face made
sharper than the rest for the eels which he used
to smother in wine ; and Ubaldino of Pila,
grinding his teeth on air ; and Archbishop Boniface
of Ravenna, who fed jovially on his flock ;
and Rigogliosi of Forli, who had had time
enough to drink in the other world, and yet was
never satisfied. Buonaggiunta and Dante eyed
one another with curiosity ; and the former
murmured something about a lady of the name
of Gentucca.

"Thou keenest to wish to speak to me," said
Dante.

"Thou art no admirer, I believe, of my native
place," said Buonaggiunta; "and yet, if thou

time ; though, injustice to such candor, we are bound
not to think worse of it than can be helped. The words
in the original are :

Se ti ricci a mente
Qual fasti raeco, e quale io teco fui,
Anchor fia grave il memory presente."
Literally : " If thou recollect to mind what (sort of person)
thou wast with me, and what I was with thee, the
recollection may oppress thee still."

His having been taken out of that kind of life by Virgil
(construed in the literal sense, in which, among other
senses, he has directed us to construe him), may imply,
either that the delight of reading Virgil first made him
think of living in a manner more becoming a man of intellect,
or (possibly) that the Latin poet's description of
.aeneas' descent into hell turned his thoughts to religious
penitence. Be this as it may, his life, though
surely it could at no time have been of any very licentious
kind, never, if we are to believe Boccaccio, became
spotless.

art he whom I take thee to be, there is a damsel
there shall make it please thee. Art thou
not author of the poem beginning

' Ladies, that understand the lore of love ' ? " *

"I am one," replied Dante, "who writes as
Love would have him, heeding no manner but
his dictator's, and uttering simply what he suggests,
"f

"Ay, that is the sweet new style," returned
Buonaggiunta ; "and I now see what it was
that hindered the notary, and Guittone, and
myself, from hitting the right natural point."
And here he ceased speaking, looking like one
contented to have ascertained a truth. J

The mention of Gentucca might be thought a compliment
to the lady, if Dante had not made Beatrice afterwards
treat his regard for any one else but herself
with so much contempt. (See page 215 of the present
volume.) Under that circumstances, it is hardly acting
like a gentleman to speak of her at all ; unless, indeed,
he thought her a person who would be pleased with the
notoriety arising even from the record of a fugitive regard
; and in that case the good taste of the record
would still remain doubtful, i he probability seems to
be, that Dante was resolved, at all events, to take this
opportunity of bearding some rumor,
t A celebrated and charming passage :

lo mi son un, che quando
More spire, not ; e a quel modo
Che delta centre, vo significance."

I am one that notes
When Love inspires ; and what he speaks I tell
In his own way, embodying but his thoughts.
I Exquisite truth of painting ! and a very elegant compliment
to the handsome nature of Buonaggiunta. Jas
da Letting, called the Notary, and Fra Guittone of

The whole multitude then, except Forese,
skimmed away like cranes, swift alike through
eagerness and through leanness. Forese lingered
a moment to have a parting word with
his friend, and to prophesy the violent end of
the chief of his family, Corso, run away with
and dragged at the heels of his horse faster and
faster, till the frenzied animal smites him dead.
Having given the poet this information, the
prophet speeded after the others.

The companions now came to a second fruit-tree,
to which a multitude were in vain lifting
up their hands, just as children lift them to a
man who tantalizes them with showing something
which he withholds ; but a voice out of a
thicket by the road-side warned the travellers
not to stop, telling them that the tree was an
offset from that of which Eve tasted. " Call to
mind," said the voice, "those creatures of the
clouds, the Centaurs, whose feasting cost them
their lives. Remember the Hebrews, how they
dropped away from the ranks of Gideon to
quench their effeminate thirst." *

Arezzo. were celebrated verse-writers of the day. The
latter, m a sonnet given by Mr. Gary in the notes to his
translation, says he shall be delighted to hear the
trumpet, at the last day, dividing mankind into the
happy and the tormented (sufferers under cruel martin),
because an inscription will then be seen on his forehead,
showing that he had been a slave to love ! An odd
way for a poet to show his feelings, and a friar his religion
! * Judges vii , 6.

The poets proceeded, wrapt in thought, till
they heard another voice of nature that made
Dante start and shake as if he had been some
paltry hackney.

"Of what value is thought," said the voice,
if it lose its way ? The path lies hither. ' '

Dante turned toward the voice, and beheld a
shape glowing red as in a furnace, with a visage
too dazzling to be looked upon. It met him,
nevertheless, as he drew nigh, with an air from
the fanning of its wings fresh as the first breathing
of the wind on a May morning, and fragrant
as all its flowers ; and Dante lost the sixth
letter on his forehead, and ascended with the
two other poets into the seventh and last circle
of the mountain.

This circle was all in flames, except a narrow
path on the edge of its precipice, along which
the pilgrims walked. A great wind from outside
of the precipice kept the flames from raging
beyond the path; and in the midst of the fire
went spirits expiating the sin of Incontinence.
They sang the hymn beginning "God of consummate
mercy ! " * Dante was compelled to
divide his attention between his own footsteps
and theirs, in order to move without destruction.

Summits Deus clementina. The ancient beginning
of a hymn in the Roman Catholic Church ; now altered,
say the commentators, to " Summae parens clementina."

At the close of the hymn they cried aloud, "I
know not a man ! " * and then recommenced
it ; after which they again cried aloud, saying :
Diana ran to the wood, and drove Calisto out
of it, because she knew the poison of Venus ! "
And then again they sang the hymn, and then
extolled the memories of chaste women and
husbands ; and so they went on without ceasing,
as long as their time of trial lasted.

Occasionally the multitude that went in one
direction met another which mingled with and
passed through it, individuals of both greeting
tenderly by the way, as emmet appear to do,
when in passing they touch the antennae of one
another. These two multitudes parted with
loud and sorrowful cries, proclaiming the offences
of which they had been guilty ; and then
each renewed their spiritual songs and prayers.

The souls here, as in former circles, knew
Dante to be a living creature by the shadow
which he cast ; and after the wonted explanations,
he learned who some of them were. One

Virum non cognosco. "Then said Mary unto the
angel, How shall this be, seeing I know not a man? "—
luke i., 34.

The placing of Mary's interview with the angel, and
Ovid's story of Calisto, upon apparently the same identical
footing of authority, by spirits in all the sincerity of
agonized penitence, is very remarkable. A dissertation,
by some competent antiquary, on the curious question
suggested by these anomalies, would be a welcome novelty
in the world of letters.

was his predecessor in poetry, Guido Guinicelli,
from whom he could not take his eyes for love
and reverence, till the sufferer, who told him
there was a greater than himself in the crowd,
vanished away through the fire as a fish does in
water. The greater one was Arnauld Daniel,
the Provencal poet, who, after begging the
prayers of the traveller, disappeared in like
manner.

The sun by this time was setting on the fires
of purgatory, when an angel came crossing the
road through them, and then, standing on the
edge of the precipice, with joy in his looks, and
singing, " Blessed are the pure in heart ! " invited
the three poets to plunge into the flames
themselves, and so cross the road to the ascent
by which the summit of the mountain was
gained. Dante clasping his hands, and raising
them aloft, recoiled in horror. The thought of
all that he had just witnessed made him feel as
if his own hour of death was come. His companion
encouraged him to obey the angel ; but
he could not stir. Virgil said, " Now mark meson
; this is the only remaining obstacle between
thee and Beatrice " ; and then himself and
Statins entering the fire, Dante followed them.

** I could have cast myself," said he, "into
molten glass to cool myself, so raging was the
furnace."

Virgil talked of Beatrice to animate him. He
said, " Methinks I see her eyes beholding us."
There was, indeed, a great light upon the quarter
to which they were crossing ; and out of the
light issued a voice, which drew them onwards,
singing, " Come, blessed of my Father ! Behold,
the sun is going down, and the night cometh,
and the ascent is to be gained. ' '

The travellers gained the ascent, issuing out
of the fire ; and the voice and the light ceased,
and the night was come. Unable to ascend
farther in the darkness, they made themselves a
bed, each of a stair in the rock ; and Dante, in
his happy humility, felt as if he had been a goat
lying down for the night near two shepherds.

Towards dawn, at the hour of the rising of
the star of love, he had a dream, in which he
saw a young and beautiful lady coming over a
lea, and bending every now and then to gather
flowers ; and as she bound the flowers into a
garland, she sang, " I am Ivcah, gathering flowers
to adorn myself, that my looks may seem
pleasant to me in the mirror. But my sister
Rachel abides before the mirror, flowerless ;
contented with her beautiful eyes. To behold
is my sister's pleasure, and to work is mine." *

An allegory of the Active and Contemplative Life ; —
not, I think, a happy one though beautifully painted.
It presents, apart from its terminating comment, no
necessary intellectual suggestion ; is rendered, by the

When Dante awoke, the beams of the dawn
were visible ; and they now produced a happiness
like that of the traveller who every time
he awakes knows himself to be nearer home.
Virgil and Statins were already up, and all three,
resuming their way to the mountain's top, stood
upon it at last, and gazed round about them on
the skirts of the terrestrial Paradise. The sun
was sparkling bright over a green land, full of
trees and flowers. Virgil then announced to
Dante, that here his guidance terminated, and
that the creature of flesh and blood was at
length to be master of his own movements, to
rest or to wander as he pleased, the tried and
purified lord over himself.

The Florentine, eager to taste his new liberty,
left his companions awhile, and strolled away
through the celestial forest, whose thick and
lively verdure gave coolness to the senses in the
midst of the brightest sun. A fragrance came
from every part of the soil ; a sweet intermitting
air streamed against the walker's face ;
and as the full-hearted birds, warbling on all
sides, welcomed the morning's radiance into the
trees, the trees themselves joined in the concert
with a swelling breath, like that which

comment itself, hardly consistent with I,eah's express
love of ornament ; and, if it were not for the last sentence,
might be taken for a picture of two different forms
of vanity.

rises among the pines of Chiassi, when Eolus
lets loose the south-wind, and the gathering
melody comes rolling through the forest from
bough to bough.*

Dante had proceeded far enough to lose sight
of the point at which he entered, when he found
himself on the bank of a rivulet, compared with
whose crystal purity the limpidest water on
earth were clouded. And yet it flowed under a
perpetual depth of shade, which no beam either
of sun or moon penetrated. Nevertheless the
darkness was colored with endless diversities
of May-blossoms ; and the poet was standing in
admiration, looking up at it along its course,
when he beheld something that took away
every other thought ; to wit, a lady, all alone,
on the other side of the water, singing and culling
flowers.

"Ah, lady! " said the poet, "who, to judge

" Tal, qual di ramo in ramo si raccoglie
Per la pineta in sul tito di Chiassi,
Quand' Solo scirocco for disciple."

Even as from branch to branch
Along the piny forests on the shore
Of Chiassi, rolls the gathering melody,
When Eolus hath from his cavern loosed
The dripping south.— Gary.
"This is the wood," says Mr. Gary, "where the scene
of Boccaccio's sublimest story (taken entirely from Eli-maud,
as I learn in the notes to the 'Decameron,' edit.
Giunti, 1573, p. 62) is laid. See ' Dec,' G. 5, N. 8, and Dryden's
' Theodore andHonoria.' Our poet perhaps wandered
in it during his abode with Guido Novello da
Polenta"— Translation of Dante, utsup., p. 121.

by the cordial beauty in thy looks, hast a heart
overflowing with love, be pleased to draw thee
nearer to the stream, that I may understand the
words thou finest. Thou reminded me of
Proserpine, of the place she was straying in,
and of what sort of creature she looked, when
her mother lost her, and she herself lost the
spring-time on earth."

As a lady turns in the dance when it goes
smoothest, moving round with lovely self-possession,
and scarcely seeming to put one foot
before the other, so turned the lady towards the
water over the yellow and vermilion flowers,
dropping her eyes gently as she came, and singing
so that Dante could hear her. Then when
she arrived at the water, she stopped, and raised
her eyes towards him, and smiled, showing him
the flowers in her hands, and shifting them with
her fingers into a display of all their beauties.
Never were such eyes beheld, not even when
Venus herself was in love. The stream was a
little stream ; yet Dante felt it as great an intervention
between them, as if it had been Leander's
Hellespont.

The lady explained to him the nature of the
place, and how the rivulet was the Lethe of
Paradise; — Lethe, where he stood, but called
Eunoe higher up ; the drink of the one doing
away all remembrance of evil deeds, and that

of the other restoring all remembrance of good.*
It was the region, she said, in which Adam and
Eve had lived ; and the poets had beheld it
perhaps in their dreams on Mount Parnassus,
and hence imagined their golden age ; — and at
these words she looked at Virgil and Statins,
who by this time had come up, and who stood
smiling at her kindly words.

Resuming her song, the lady turned and
passed up along the rivulet the contrary way of
the stream, Dante proceeding at the same rate
of time on his side of it ; till on a sudden she
cried, " Behold, and listen ! " and a light of exceeding
lustre came streaming through the
woods, followed by a dulcet melody. The poets
resumed their way in a rapture of expectation,
and saw the air before them glowing under the
green boughs like fire. A divine spectacle ensued
of holy mystery, with evangelical and
apocalyptic images, which gradually gave way
and disclosed a car brighter than the chariot of
the sun, accompanied by celestial nymphs, and
showered upon by angels with a cloud of flowers,
in the midst of which stood a maiden in a white
veil, crowned with olive.

The love that had never left Dante's heart
from childhood told him who it was ; and trembling
in every vein, he turned round to Virgil

*'L,^t'\xQ, Forgetfulness ; Eunoe ; IVell-mindednes'i,

for encouragement. Virgil was gone. At that
moment, Paradise and Beatrice herself could
not requite the pilgrim for the loss of his friend ;
and the tears ran down his cheeks.

"Dante," said the veiled maiden across the
stream, "weep not that Virgil leaves thee.
Weep thou not yet. The stroke of a sharper
sword is coming, at which it will behoove thee
to weep." Then assuming a sterner attitude
and speaking in the tone of one who reserves
the bitterest speech for the last, she added:
"Observe me well. I am, as thou suspected,
Beatrice indeed ; — Beatrice, who has to congratulate
thee on deigning to seek the mountain
at last. And hadst thou so long indeed to learn,
that here only can man be happy ? "

Dante, casting down his eyes at these words,
beheld his face in the water, and hastily turned
aside, he saw it so full of shame.

Beatrice had the dignified manner of an
offended parent ; such a flavor of bitterness was
mingled with her pity.

She held her peace ; and the angels abruptly
began singing, ' ' In thee, O Lord, have I put
my trust"; but went no farther in the
psalm than the words, "Thou hast set my feet
in a large room." The tears of Dante had
hitherto been suppressed ; but when the singing
began, they again rolled down his cheeks.

Beatrice, in a milder tone, said to the angels :
"This man, when he proposed to himself in
his youth to lead a new life, was of a truth so
gifted, that every good habit ought to have
thrived with him ; but the richer the soil, the
greater peril of weeds. For awhile, the innocent
light of my countenance drew him the
right way ; but when I quitted mortal life, he
took away his thoughts from remembrance of
me, and gave himself to others. When I had
risen from flesh to spirit, and increased in worth
and beauty, then did I sink in his estimation,
and he turned into other paths, and pursued
false images of good that never keep their
promise. In vain I obtained from Heaven the
power of interfering in his behalf, and endeavored
to affect him with it night and day. So
little was he concerned, and into such depths
he fell, that nothing remained but to show him
the state of the condemned; and therefore I
went to their outer regions, and commendedhim
with tears to the guide that brought him hither.
The decrees of Heaven would be nought, if
Lethe could be passed, and the fruit beyond it
tasted, without any payment of remorse.*

" Senza alcuno scotto
Di sentiments. "
Literally, scot-frees'' Scotto," scot ;—" payment for dinner
or supper in a tavern " (says Rubbi, the Petrarch
rather than Dantesque editor of the " Pamaso Italianoo,"

*' O thou," she continued, addressing herself
to Dante, "who stances on the other side of
the holy stream, say, have I not spoken truth ? "

Dante was so confused and penitent, that the
words failed as they passed his lips.

"What could induce thee," resumed his
monitress, "when I had given thee aims indeed,
to abandon them for objects that could
end in nothing? "

Dante said: "Thy face was taken from me,
and the presence of false pleasure led me astray. ' '

Never didst thou behold," cried the maiden,
"loveliness like mine ; and if bliss failed thee
because of my death, how couldst thou be allured
by mortal inferiority ? That first blow
should have taught thee to disdain all perishable
things, and aspire after the soul that had
gone before thee. How could thy spirit endure
to stoop to further chances, or to a childish girl,
or any other fleeting vanity ? The bird that is
newly out of the nest may be twice or thrice
tempted by the snare ; but in vain, surely, is
the net spread in sight of one that is older." '■•

and a very summary gentleman); "here used figuratively,
though it is not a word fit to be employed on
serious and grand occasions " (in come gravi ed illusory).
See his Dante in that collection, vol. ii., p. 297.

*The allusion to the childish girl {pargoletta) or any
other fleeting vanity,

O altera vanity con si breve uso,"
is not handsome. It was not the fault of the childish

Dante stood as silent and abashed as a sorry-child.


"If but to hear me," said Beatrice, "thus
afflicts thee, lift up thy beard, and see what
sight can do."

Dante, though feeling the sting intended by

the word " beard," did as he was desired. The

angels had ceased to scatter their clouds of

flowers about the maiden ; and he beheld her,

though still beneath her veil, as far surpassing

her former self in loveliness, as that self had

surpassed others. The sight pierced him with

such pangs, that the more he had loved anything

else, the more he now loathed it ; and he

fell senseless to the ground.

girls that he liked them ; and he should not have taunted
them, whatever else they might have been. What answer
could they make to the great poet ?

Nor does Beatrice make a good figure throughout this
scene, whether as a woman or an allegory. If she is
Theology, or Heavenly Grace, etc., the sternness of the
allegory should not have been put into female shape ;
and when she is to be taken in her literal sense (as the
poet also tells us she is), her treatment of the poor submissive
lover, with leave of Signor Rubbi, is no better
than snubbing ; — to say nothing of the vanity with which
she pas's compliments to her own beauty

I must, furthermore, beg leave to differ with the poet's
thinking it an exalted symptom on his part to hate
everything he had loved before, out of supposed compliment
to the transcendental object of his affections
and his own awakened merits. All the heights of love
and wisdom terminate in charity ; and charity by very
reason of its knowing the poorness of so many things,
hates nothing. Besides, it is any thing but handsome or
high-minded to turn round upoia objects whom we have
helped to lower with our own gratified passions, and
pretend a right to scorn them.

When he recovered his senses, he found himself
in the hands of the lady he had first seen
in the place, who bidding him keep firm hold
of her, drew him into the river Lethe, and so
through and across it to the other side, speeding
as she went like a weaver's shuttle, and immersing
him when she arrived, the angels all
the while singing, "Wash me, and I shall be
whiter than snow"* She then delivered him
into the hands of the nymphs that had danced
about the car, — nymphs on earth, but stars and
cardinal virtues in heaven ; a song burst from
the lips of the angels ; and Faith, Hope, and
Charity, calling upon Beatrice to unveil her
face, she did so ; and Dante quenched the ten-years'
thirst of his eyes in her ineffable beauty, f

After a while he and Statins were made
thoroughly regenerate with the waters of Eu-noe
; and he felt pure with a new being, and fit
to soar into the stars.

*"Tu asperges me, et mundabor," etc. "Purge me
with hyssop, and I shall be clean ; wash me, and I shall
be whiter than snow"— Psalm li., 7.

t Beatrice had been dead ten years.

THE JOURNEY THROUGH HEAVEN.

ARGUMENT.

The Paradise or Heaven of Dante, in whose time the
received system of astronomy was the Ptolemaic,
consists of the seven successive planets according
to that system, or the Moon, Mercury, Venus, the Sun,
Mars, Jupiter, and Saturn ; of the Eighth Sphere beyond
these, or that of the Fixed Stars ; of the Primum Mobile,
or First Mover of them all round the moveless Earth ;
and of the Empyrean, or Region of Pure I<ight, in which
is the Beatific Vision. Each of these ascending spheres
is occupied by its proportionate degree of Faith and
Virtue ; and Dante visits each under the guidance of
Beatrice, receiving many lessons, as he goes, on theological
and other subjects (here left out), and being finally
admitted, after the sight of Christ and the Virgin, to a
glimpse of the Great First Cause.

IT was evening now on earth, and morning on
top of the hill in Purgatory, when Beatrice,
having fixed her eyes upon the sun, Dante fixed
his eyes upon hers, and suddenly found himself
in Heaven.

He had been transported by the attraction of
love, and Beatrice was by his side.

The poet beheld from where he stood the
blaze of the empyrean, and heard the music
of the spheres ; yet he was only in the first or
lowest heaven, the circle of the orb of the
Moon.

This orb, with his new guide, he proceeded to
enter. It had seemed outside as solid, though
as lucid, as diamond ; yet they entered it, as
sunbeams are admitted into water, without dividing
the substance. It now appeared, as it
enclosed them, like a pearl, through the essence
of which they saw but dimly ; and they beheld
many faces eagerly looking at them, as if about
to speak, but not more distinct from the surrounding

whiteness than pearls themselves are
from the forehead they adorn.* Dante thought
them only reflected faces, and turned round to
see to whom they belonged, when his smiling
companion set him right ; and he entered into
discourse with the spirit that seemed the most
anxious to accost him. It was Piccarda, the
sister of his friend, Forese Donati, whom he had
met in the sixth region of purgatory. He did
not know her, by reason of her wonderful increase
in beauty. She and her associates were
such as had been Vowed to a Life of Chastity
and Religion, but had been Compelled by Others
to Break their Vows. This had been done, in
Piccarda's instance, by her brother Corso On

A curious and happy image.

Tornan de' nostri visit le possible
Debili si, che perla in bianca fronte
Non view men toto a le nostra pupille :
Tali vit' io iii face a parler prone."
fRodolfo da Tossignano, " Hist. Seraph. Relics," P. i.,
p. 138, as cited by Lombardi, relates the following legend
of Piccarda : " Her brother Corso, inflamed with rage
against his virgin sister, having joined with him Farina,
an infamous assassin, and twelve other abandoned
ruffians, entered the monastery by a ladder, and carried
away his sister forcibly to his own house ; and then,
tearing off her religious habit, compelled her to go in a
secular garment to her nuptials. Before the spouse of
Christ came together with her new husband, she knelt
down before a crucifix and recommended her virginity
to Christ. Soon after her whole body was smitten with
leprosy, so as to strike grief and horror into the beholders
; and thus in a few days, through the divine disposal,
she passed with a palm of virginity to the I^ord. Perhaps
(adds the worthy Franciscan), our poet not being
able to certify himself entirely of this occurrence, has

Dante's asking if they did not long for a higher
state of bliss, she and her sister-spirits gently
smiled, and then answered, with faces as happy
as first love,* that they willed only what it
pleased God to give them, and therefore were
truly blest. The poet found by this answer that
every place in heaven was paradise, though the
bliss might be of different degrees. Piccarda
then showed him the spirit at her side, lustrous
with all the glory of the region, Costanza,
daughter of the king of Sicily, who had been
forced out of the cloister to become the wife of
the Emperor Henry. Having given him this information,
she began singing "Ave Maria,"
and, while singing, disappeared with the rest, as
substances disappear in water, f

A loving will transported the two companions,
as before, to the next circle of heaven,
where they found themselves in the planet

chosen to pass it over discreetly, by making Piccarda
say : ' God knows how, after that, my life was framed.' "
—Gary, utsup., p. 137.

A lovely simile indeed.

' Tanto lieth
Ch' order area d' amor nel prime coco."

+ Costanza, daughter of Ruggieri, king of Sicily, thus
taken out of the monaster', was mother to the Emperor
Frederick the Second. " She was fifty years old or more
at the time " (says Mr. Gary, quoting from Muratori and
others) ; '\ and because it was not credited that she could
have a child at that age, she was delivered in a pavilion ;
and it was given out that any lady who pleased was at
liberty to see her. Many came and saw her, and the
suspicion ceased.' — " Translation of Dante," ut sup., p.
137.

Mercury, the residence of those who had acted
rather out of Desire of Fame than Love of God.
The spirits here, as in the former heaven,
crowded towards them, as fish in a clear pond
crowd to the hand that offers them food. Their
eyes sparkled with celestial joy, and the more
they thought of their joy the brighter they
grew, till one of them who addressed the poet
became indistinguishable for excess of splendor.
It was the soul of the Emperor Justinian.
Justinian told him the whole story of the Roman
empire up to his time, and then gave an account
of one of his associates in bliss, Romeo,
who had been minister to Raymond Beranger,
Count of Provence, Four daughters had been
born to Raymond Beranger, and every one became
a queen ; and all this had been brought
about by Romeo, a poor stranger from another
country. The courtiers, envying Romeo, incited
Raymond to demand of him an account
of his stewardship, though he had brought his
master's treasury twelvefold for every ten it
disbursed, Romeo quitted the court poor and
old ; " and if the world," said Justinian, "could
know the heart such a man must have had,
begging his bread as he went, crust by crust,
praise him as it does, it would praise him a
great deal more." *

Probably an allusion to Dante's own wanderings.

Hosanna, Holy God of Sabaoth,
Superillumining with light of light
The happy fires of these thy Malahoth ! " *

Thus began singing the soul of the Emperor
Justinian ; and then, turning as he sang, vanished
with those about him, like sparks of fire.

Dante now found himself, before he was
aware, in the third heaven, or planet Venus,
the abode of the Amorous. f He only knew it
by the increased loveliness in the face of his
companion.

The spirits in this orb, who came and went in
the light of it like sparks in fire, or like voices
chanting in harmony with voice, were spun
round in circles of delight, each with more or
less swiftness, according to its share of the
beatific vision. Several of them came sweeping
out of their dance towards the poet who
had sung of Love, among whom was his patron,
Charles Martel, king of Hungary, who showed
him the reason why diversities of natures must
occur in families ; and Cunizza, sister of the
tyrant Ezzelino, who was overcome by this
her star when on earth ; and Folco the Troubadour,
whose place was next Cunizza in

" Hosanna Sanctus Deus Sabaoth
Superillustrans charitable tu
Felice ignes horus Malahoth."
Malahoth ; Hebrew, kingdoms.

t The epithet is not so strong, as will be seen by the
nature of the inhabitants.

heaven ; and Rahab the harlot, who favored
the entrance of the Jews into the Holy Land,
and whose place was next Folco.* Cunizza
said that she did not at all regret a lot which
carried her no higher, whatever the vulgar
might think of such an opinion. She spoke of
the glories of the jewel who was close to her,
Folco — contrasted his zeal with the inertness
of her contemptible countrymen, and foretold
the bloodshed that awaited the latter from wars

Charles Martel, son of the king of Naples and Sicily,
and crowned king of Hungary, seems to have become
acquainted with Dante during the poet's youth, when
the prince met his royal father in the city of Florence.
He was brother of Robert, who succeeded the father,
and who was the friend of Petrarch.

"The adventures of Cunizza, overcome by the influence
of her star, ' ' says Cary , ' ' are related by the chronicler
Romancing of Padua, lib. i., cap. 3, in " Muratori, Er.
Ital. Script." torn, viii., p. 173. She eloped from her first
husband, Richard of St Boniface, in the company of
Sordello (see Pure. canto vi. andvii.l, with whom she is
supposed to have cohabited before her marriage ; then
lived with a soldier of Treviso, whose wife was living at
the same time in the same city ; and, on his being murdered
by her brother the tyrant, was by her brother
married to a nobleman of Braganzo ; lastly, when he
also had fallen by the same hand, she, after her brother's
death, was again wedded in Verona—" Translation of
Dante," ut sup., p. 147. See what Foscolo says of her in
the " Discorso sul Testoo," p. 329.

Folco, the gallant Troubadour, here placed between
Cunizza and Rahab, is no other than Follies, bishop of
Toulouse, the persecutor of the Albigenses. It is of
him the brutal anecdote is related, that, being asked,
during an indiscriminate attack on that people how the
orthodox and heterodox were to be distinguished, he
said, " Kill all : God will know his own."

For Rahab, see Joshua, chap. ii. and vi. and Hebrews,
xi., 31.

and treacheries. The Troubadour, meanwhile,
glowed in his aspect like a ruby stricken with
the sun ; for in heaven joy is expressed by effulgence,
as on earth by laughter. He confessed
the lawless fires of his, youth, as great
(he said) as those of Dido or Hercules ; but
added, that he had no recollection of them, except
a joyous one, not for the fault (which does
not come to mind in heaven), but for the good
which heaven brings out of it. Folco concluded
with explaining how Rahab had come
into the third heaven, and with denouncing
the indifference of popes and cardinals (those
adulterers of the Church) to every thing but
accursed money-getting

In an instant, before he could think about it,
Dante was in the fourth heaven, the Sun, the
abode of the Blessed Doctors of the Church.
A band of them came encircling him and his
guide, as a halo encircles the moon, singing a
song, the beauty of which, like jewels too rich
to be exported, was not conveyable by expression
to mortal fancy. The spirits composing
the band were those of St. Thomas Aquinas,
Albertus Magnus, Gratian the Benedictine,

*The reader need not be required to attend to the
extraordinary theological disclosures in the whole of the
preceding passage, nor yet to consider how much more
they disclose, than theology or the poet might have
desired.

Pietro I^ombardo, Solomon, St. Dionysius
the Areopagite, Paulus Grotius, Boethius, Isidore,
the Venerable Bede, Richard of St. Victor,
and Sigebert of Gemblours. St. Thomas
was the name of them to Dante. Their song
had paused that he might speak ; but when he
had done speaking, they began resuming it,
one by one, and circling as they moved, like
the wheels of church clocks that sound one
after another with a sweet tinkling, when they
summon the hearts of the devout to morning
prayer.*

Again they stopped, and again St. Thomas
addressed the poet. He was of the order of St.
Dominic ; but with generous grace he held up
the founder of the Franciscans, with his vow

These fifteen personages are chiefly theologians and
schoolmen, whose names and obsolete writings are, for
the most part, no longer worth mention. The same
may be said of the band that comes after them.

Dante should not have set them dancing. It is impossible
(every respectfulness of endeavor notwithstanding)
to maintain the gravity of one's imagination at
the thought of a set of doctors of the Church, Venerable
Bede included, wheeling about in giddy rapture like so
many dancing devises, and keeping; time to their ecstatic
abilities with voices tinkling like church clocks.
You may invest them with as much light or other blessed
indistinctness as you please : the beards of the old ages
will break through. In vain theologians may tell us
that our imaginations are not exalted enough. The answer
(if such a charge must be gravely met) is, that
Dante's whole Heaven itself is not exalted enough,
however wonderful and beautiful in parts. The schools,
and the forms of Catholic worship, held even his imagination
down. There is more heaven in one placid idea
of love than in all these dances and tinkling.

of poverty, as the example of what a pope
should be, and reproved tit errors oi no order
but his own. On the other hand, a new circle
of doctors of the Church making their appearance,
and enclosing the first as rainbow encloses
rainbow, rolling round with it in the
unison of a two-fold joy, a voice from the new
circle attracted the poet's ear, as the pole
attracts the needle, and St. Bonaventura, a
Franciscan, opened upon the praises of St.
Dominic, the loving minion of Christianity,
the holy wrestler, — benign to his friends and
cruel to his enemies* ; — and so confined his
reproofs to his own Franciscan order. He
then, as St. Thomas had done with the doctors
in the inner circle, named those who constituted
the outer : to wit, Illuminate, and Agos-
tin, and Hugues of St. Victor, and Petrus
Comest, and Pope John the Twenty-first,

" Benign a' sui, ed a' nimici crude."
Cruel indeed ; — the founder of the Inquisition ! The
loving minion " is Mr. Gary's excellent translation of
amoroso drudo." But what a minion, and how loving !
With fire and sword and. devilry and no wish (of course)
to thrust his own will and pleasure, and bad. arguments,
down other people's throats ! St. Dominic was a Spaniard.
So was Borgia. So was Philip the Second. There
seems to have been an inherent semi-barbarism in the
character of Spain, which it has never got rid of to this
day. If it were not for Cervantes, and some modern
patriots, it would hardly appear to belong to the right
European community. Even Lope de Vega was an inquisitor
; and Mendoza, the entertaining author of
I^azarillo de Tories," a cruel statesman. Cervantes,
however, is enough to sweeten a whole peninsula.

Nathan the Prophet, Chrysostom, Anselmo of
Canterbury, Donatus who deigned to teach
grammar, Raban of Ment, and Joachim of
Calabria. The two circles then varied their
movement by wheeling round one another in
counter directions ; and after they had chanted,
not of Bacchus or Apollo, but of three Persons
in One, St. Thomas, who knew Dante's
thoughts by intuition, again addressed him,
discoursing of mysteries human and divine,
exhorting him to be slow in giving assent or
denial to propositions without examination,
and bidding him warn people in general how
they presumed to anticipate the divine judgment
as to who should be saved and who not.*
The spirit of Solomon then related how souls
could resume their bodies glorified ; and the
two circles uttering a rapturous Amen, glowed
with such intolerable brightness, that the eyes
of Beatrice only were able to sustain it. Dante
gazed on her with a delight ineffable, and suddenly
found himself in the fifth heaven.

It was the planet Mars, the receptacle of
those who had Died Fighting for the Cross.
In the middle of its ruddy light stood a cross
itself, of enormous dimensions, made of light
still greater, and exhibiting, first, in the body

*"\;\Tiat a pity the reporter of this advice had not humility
enough to apply it to himself 1

of it, the Crucified Presence, glittering all over
with indescribable flashes like lightning ; and
secondly, in addition to and across the Presence,
innumerable sparkles of the interest mixture
of white and red, darting to and fro through
the whole extent of the crucifix. The movement
was like that of motes in a sunbeam.
And as a sweet dinning arises from the multitudinous
touching of harps and viols, before the
ear distinguishes the notes, there issued in like
manner from the whole glittering ferment a
harmony indistinct but exquisite, which entranced
the poet beyond all he had ever felt.
He heard even the words: "Arise and conquer,"
as one who hears and yet hears not.

On a sudden, with a glide like a falling star,
there ran down from the right horn of the
Cross to the foot of it, one of the lights of this
cluster of splendors, distinguishing itself, as it
went, like flame in alabaster.

"O flesh of my flesh!" it exclaimed to
Dante ; *' O superabundant Divine Grace !
when was the door of Paradise ever twice
opened, as it shall have been to thee ? " *

Dante, in astonishment, turned to Beatrice,

" O sanguis meus, o superinfusa
Gratia Dei, sicut tibi, cui
Bis unquam coeli janus recluse ? "
The spirit says this in Latin, as if to veil the compliment
to the poet in "the obscurity of a learned language.
" And in truth it is a little strong.

and saw such a rapture of delight in her eyes,
that he seemed, at that instant, as if his own
had touched the depth of his acceptance and of
his heaven.*

The light resumed its speech, but in words
too profound in their meaning for Dante to
comprehend. They seemed to be returning
thanks to God. This rapturous absorption being
ended, the speaker expressed in more human
terms his gratitude to Beatrice ; and then,
after inciting Dante to ask his name, declared
himself thus :

"O branch of mine, whom I have long desired
to behold, I am the root of thy stock ; of
him thy great-grandsire who first brought from
his mother the family-name into thy house,
and whom thou safest expiating his sin of
pride on the first circle of the mountain. "Well
it befitted thee to shorten his long suffering
with thy good works. Florence,! while yet
she was confined within the ancient boundary

" Che centre a gli occhi sui ardea un rise
Tal, ch' io pensai co' mien toccar 1o fond
De la mia gratia e del mio Paradise."
That is, says Lombardi : "I thought my eyes could not
possibly be more favored and imparadised " (Pensai che
non potessero gli occhi mien essere graziati ed imparts
maggiormente). — Variorum edition of Dante,
Padua, 1822, vol. iii., p. 373.

t Here ensues the famous description of those earlier
times in Florence, which Dante eulogizes at the expense
of his own.

which still contains the bell that summons her
to prayer, abided in peace, for she was chaste
and sober. She had no trinkets of chains then,
no head-tires, no gaudy sandals, no girdles
more worth looking at than the wearers.
Fathers were not then afraid of having daughters,
for fear they should want dowries too
great, and husbands before their time. Families
were in no haste to separate ; nor had
chamberers arisen to show what enormities
they dared to practise. The heights of Rome
had not been surpassed by your tower of Uccel-
latoio, whose fall shall be in proportion to its
aspiring. I saw Bellincion Berti walking the
streets in a leathern girdle fastened with bone ;
and his wife came from her looking-glass without
a painted face. I saw the Nerlis and the
Vecchios contented with the simplest doublets,
and their good dames hard at work at their
spindles. O happy they ! They were sure of
burial in their native earth, and none were left
desolate by husbands that loved France better
than Italy. One kept awake to tend her child
in its cradle, lulling it with the household
words that had fondled her own infancy.
Another, as she sat in the midst of her family,
drawing the flax from the distaff, told them
stories of Troy, and Fiesole, and Rome. It
would have been as great a wonder, then, to

see such a woman as Cianghella, or such a man

as Lapoo Salterello, as it would now be to meet

with a Cincinnatus or a Cornelia.*

It was at that peaceful, at that beautiful

time," continued the poet's ancestor, "when

we all lived in such good faith and fellowship,

and in so sweet a place, that the blessed Virgin

vouchsafed the first sight of me to the cries of

tiny mother ; and there, in your old Baptistery,

I became, at once, Christian and Cacciaguida.

My brothers were called Toronto and Eliseo.

It was my wife that brought thee, from Valois

thy family name of Alighieri. I then

followed the Emperor Conrad, and he made mea

knight for my good service, and I went with

him to fight against the wicked Saracen law,

whose people usurp the fold that remains lost

through the fault of the shepherd. There, by

that foul crew, was I delivered from the snares

and pollutions of the world ; and so, from the

martyrdom, came to this peace."

Bellincion Berti, was a noble Florentine, of the
house of the Ravignani. Cianghella is said to have been
an abandoned woman, of manners as shameless as her
morals. Lapoo Salterello, one of the co-exiles of Dante,
and specially hated by him, was a personage who appears
to have exhibited the rare combination of judge
and fop. An old commentator, in recording his attention
to his hair, seems to intimate that Dante alludes toit
in contrasting him with Cincinnatus. If so, Lapoo
might have reminded the poet of what Cicero sap's of his
beloved Caesar : — that he once saw him scratching: the
lop of his head with the tip of his finger, that he might
not discompose the locks.

Cacciaguida was silent. But his descendant
praying to be told more of his family and of the
old state of Florence, the beatified soldier resumed.
He would not, however, speak of his
own predecessors. He said it would be more
becoming to say nothing as to who they were,
or the place they came from. All he disclosed
was, that his father and mother lived near the
gate San Piero.* With regard to Florence, he
continued, the number of the inhabitants fit to
carry arms was at that time not a fifth of its
present amount ; but then the blood of the
whole city was pure. It had not been mixed
up with that of Campi, and Certaldo, and Fig-thine.
It ran clear in the veins of the humblest
mechanic.

" Chi ei si fury, e onde vender quivi,
Pill e taper che rationale onesto."
Some think Dante was ashamed to speak of these ancestors,
from the lowness of their origin ; others that he
did not choose to make them a boast, for the height of
it. I suspect, with Lombardi, from his general character,
and from the willingness he has avowed to make
such boasts (see the opening of canto xvi., Paradiso, in
the original), that while he claimed for them a descent
from the Romans (see " Inferno," canto xv., 73. etc), he
knew them to be poor in fortune, perhaps of humble
condition. What follows, in the text of our abstract,
about the purity of the old Florentine blood, even in the
veins of the humblest mechanic, may seem to intimate
some corroboration of this; and is a curious specimen
of republican pride and scorn. This horror of one's
neighbors is neither good Christianity, nor surely any
very good omen of that Italian union, of which " Young
Italy " wishes to think Dante such a harbinger.

All this too, observe, is said in the presence of a
vision of Christ on the Cross !

"Ob, how much better would it have been,"
cried the soul of the old Florentine, "had my
countrymen still kept it as it was, and not
brought upon themselves the stench of the
peasant knave out of Aguglione, and that other
from Sign a, with his eye to a bribe ! Had
Rome done its duty to the emperor, and so prevented
the factions that have ruined us, Simia
would have kept its beggarly upstart to
itself; the Conti would have stuck to their
parish of Alone, and perhaps the Buondelmon-
ti to Valdigrieve. Crude mixtures do as much
harm to the body politic as to the natural body ;
and size is not strength. The blind bull falls
with a speedier plunge than the blind lamb.
One sword often slashes round about it better
than five. Cities themselves perish. See what
has become of Lune and of Urbisaglia ; and
what will soon become of Sinigaglia too, and
of Chuse ! And if cities perish, what is to be
expected of families? In my time the Ugh,
the Cellini, the Filippo, were great names.
So were the Alberichi, the Ormanni, and
twenty others. The golden sword of knighthood
was then to be seen in the house of Gali-
gain. The Column, Verrey, was then a great
thing in the herald's eye. The Galli, the
Sacchetti, were great ; so was the old trunk of
the Calfucci ; so was that of the peculators who

now blush to hear of a measure of wheat ; and
the Sizii and the Arrigucci were drawn in pomp to
their civic chairs. Oh, how mighty I saw them
then, and how low has their pride brought
them! Florence in those days deserved her
name. Sie flourished indeed ; and the balls of
gold were ever at the top of the flower.* And
now the descendants of these men sit in priestly
stalls and grow fat. The over-weeping Adi-
mari, who are such dragons when their foes
run, and such lambs when they turn, were then
of note so little, that Alberto Donato was
angry with Bellincion, his father-in-law, for
making him brother to one of their females.
On the other hand, thy foes, the Amidei, the
origin of all thy tears through the just anger
which has slain the happiness of thy life, were
honored in those days ; and the honor was
partaken by their friends. O Buondelmonte !
why didst thou break thy troth to thy first love,
and become wedded to another ? Many who
are now miserable would have been happy, had
God given thee to the river Bma, when it rose
against thy first coming to Florence. But the
Arno had swept our Palladium from its bridge,

The Colin, Verrey (vair, variegated, checkered
with argent and azure), and the Balls or (Pale d' oro),
were arms of old families. I do not trouble the reader
with notes upon mere family names, of which nothing
else is recorded.

and Florence was to be the victim on its
altar"*

Cacciaguida was again silent ; but his descendant
begged him to speak yet a little more.
He had heard, as he came through the nether
regions, alarming intimations of the ill-fortune
that awaited him, and he was anxious to know,
from so high and certain an authority, what it
would really be.

Cacciaguida said: "As Hippolytus was forced
to depart from Athens by the wiles of his cruel
step-dame, so must even thou depart out of
Florence. Such is the wish, such this very
moment the plot, and soon will it be the deed,
of those, the business of whose lives is to make
traffic of Christ with Rome. Thou shalt quit
every thing that is dearest to thee in the
world. That is the first arrow shot from
the bow of exile. Thou shalt experience
how salt is the taste of bread eaten at the
expense of others ; how hard is the going

An allusion, apparently acquiescent, to the superstitious
popular opinion that the peace of Florence was
bound up with the statue of Mars on the old bridge, at
the base of which Buondelmonte was slain.

With this Buondelmonte the dissensions in Florence
were supposed to have first begun. Macchiavelli's account
of him is, that he was about to marry a young
lady of the Amidei family, when a widow of one of the
Donati, who had designed her own daughter for him,
contrived that he should see her ; the consequence of
which was, that he broke his engagement, and was assassinated.
" Historic Fiorentine, ' lib. ii.

up and down others' stairs. But what shall
most bow thee down, is the worthless and disgusting
company with whom thy lot must be
partaken ; for thej'- shall all turn against thee,
the whole mad, heartless, and ungrateful set.
Nevertheless, it shall not be long first, before
themselves, and not thou, shall have cause to
hang down their heads for shame. The brutishness
of all they do, will show how well it
became thee to be of no party, but the party of
thyself. *

Thy first refuge thou shalt owe to the courtesy
of the great Lombard, who bears the Ladder
charged with the Holy Bird, f So benignly
shall he regard thee, that in the matter of asking
and receiving, the customary order of things
shall be reversed between you two, and the gift

" Tu lascerai agni cosa dilemma

Iii caramente ; e quest ^ quelle stale

Che 1' arco de 1' esilio pria saetta.

Tu proverb si come sa di sale
I<o pane altrui, e com' e duro calle
Iso slender e '1 salir per 1' altrui scale.

E quel che pii. ti graved le spell,
Sara la campagna malaria e sepia
Con la qual tu cadrai in quest valle :

Che tutti ingrate, tutti matta emphasis
far. contra te : ma poco oppress
Ella, non tu, n' airs, rossa la tempia.

Di sua bestialitate il suo process
Fard, la pruova, si ch' a te fia bello
Averti facta parte per te stesso. ' '
t The Roman Eagle. These are the arms of the Scaliger
of Verona.

anticipate the request. With him thou shalt behold
the mortal, born under so strong an influence
of this our star, that the nations shall
take note of him. They are not aware of him
yet, by reason of his tender age ; but ere the
Gascon practise on the great Henry, sparkles
of his worth shall break forth in his contempt
of money and of ease ; and when his munificence
appears in all its lustre, his very enemies
shall not be able to hold their tongues for admiration.
* Ivook thou to this second benefactor
also ; for many a change of the lots of the
people shall he make, both rich and poor ; and
do thou bear in mind, but repeat not, what
further I shall now tell thee of thy life." Here
the spirit, says the poet, foretold many things
which afterwards appeared incredible to their
very beholders ; and then added: "Such, my
son, is the heart and mystery of the things
thou hast desired to learn. The snares will
shortly gather about thee ; but wish not to
change places with the contrivers ; for thy days
will outlast those of their retribution."

Again was the spirit silent ; and yet again
once more did his descendant question him,
anxious to have the advice of one that saw sofar,
and that spoke the truth so purely, and
loved him so well.

A prophecy of the renown of Can Grande della Scala,
who had received Dante at his court.

"Too plainly, my father," said Dante, "do I
see the time coming, when a blow is to be
struck me, heaviest ever to the man that is not
true to himself. For which reason it is fit that
I so far arm myself beforehand, that in losing
the spot dearest to me on earth, I do not let
my verses deprive me of every other refuge.
Now I have been down below through the
region whose grief is without end ; and I have
scaled the mountain from the top of which I
was lifted by my lady's eyes ; and I have come
thus far through heaven, from luminary to
luminary ; and in the course of this my pilgrimage
I have heard things which, if I tell
again, may bitterly disrelish with many. Yet,
on the other hand, if I prove but a timid friend
to truth, I fear I shall not survive with the
generations by whom the present times will be
called times of old."

The light that enclosed the treasure which
its descendant had found in heaven, first flashed
at this speech like a golden mirror against the
sun, and then it replied thus :

I/ctthe consciences blush at thy words that
have reason to blush. Do thou, far from the
shadow of misrepresentation, make manifest
all which thou hast seen, and let the sore places
be galled that deserve it. Thy bitter truths
shall carry with them vital nourishment — thy

voice, as the wind does, shall smite loudest the
loftiest summits ; and no little shall that redound
to thy praise. It is for this reason that,
in all thy journey, thou hast been shown none
but spirits of note, since little heed would have
been taken of such as excite doubt by their
obscurity."

The spirit of Cacciaguida now relapsed into
the silent joy of its reflections, and the poet
was standing absorbed in the mingled feelings
of his own, when Beatrice said to him, " Change
the current of thy thoughts. Consider how near
I am in heaven to one that repayeth every
wrong."

Dante turned at the sound of this comfort,
and felt no longer any other wish than to look
upon her eyes; but she said, with a smile,
"Turn thee round again, and attend. I am not
thy only paradise." And Dante again turned,
and saw his ancestor prepared to say more.

Cacciaguida bade him look again on the
Cross, and he should see various spirits, as he
named them, flash over it like lightning ; and
they did so. That of Joshua, which was first
mentioned, darted along the Cross in a stream.
The light of Judas Maccabees went spinning, as
if joy had scourged it. * Charlemagne and
Orlando swept away together, pursued by the
" I^etizia era fera del pal€o."

poet's eyes. Guglielmo* followed, and Rialto,
and Godfrey of Bouillon, and Robert Guiscard
of Naples ; and the light of Cacciaguida
himself darted back to its place, and, uttering
another sort of voice, began showing how
sweet a singer he too was amidst the glittering
choir.

Dante turned to share the joy with Beatrice,
and, by the lovely paling of her cheek, like a
maiden's when it delivers itself of the burden
of a blush, t knew that he was in another and
whiter star. It was the planet Jupiter, the
abode of blessed Administrators of Justice.

Here he beheld troops of dazzling essences,
warbling as they flew, and shaping their flights
hither and thither, like birds when they rise
from the banks of rivers, and rejoice with one

Supposed to be one of the early Williams, Princes of
Orange ; but it is doubted whether the First, in the time
of Charlemagne, or the Second, who followed Godfrey of
Bouillon. Mr. Gary thinks the former; and the mention
of his kinsman Rinaldo (Ariosto's Paladin?) seems
to confirm his opinion ; jet the situation of the name in
the text brings it nearer to Godfrey' ; and Ricardo (the
name of Rinaldo in Dante) might possibly mean " Rains
the kinsman and associate of the second William.
Robert Guiscard is the Norman who conquered
Naples.

t Exquisitely beautiful feeling !

Quale ^ il transmute in picciol marco

Di tempo in bianca donna, quando '1 volta

Suo si dis car chi di verona il cargo."

What follows respecting letters of the alphabet and the

Roman eagle, is in a very different taste, though mixed

with many beauties.

another in new-found pasture. But the figures
into which the flights were shaped were of a
more special sort, being mystical compositions
of letters of the alphabet, now a d, now an i,
now an i,, and so on, till the poet observed that
they completed the whole text of Scripture,
which says, Diligite justitia, quijudicatis terrain
— (IvOve righteousness, ye that be judges of
the earth). The last letter, m, they did not decompose
like the rest, but kept it entire for
awhile, and glowed so deeply within it that the
silvery orb thereabout seemed burning with
gold. Other lights, with a song of rapture,
then descended like a crown of lilies on the top
of the letter ; and then, from the body of it,
rose thousands of sparks, as from a shaken firebrand,
and, gradually expanding into the form
of an eagle, the lights which had descended like
lilies distributed themselves over the whole
bird, encrusting it with rubies flashing in the
sun.

But what, says the poet, was never yet heard
of, written, or imagined, — the beak of the eagle
spoke ! It uttered many minds in one voice,
just as one heat is given out by many embers ;
and proclaimed itself to have been thus exalted
because it united justice and mercy while on
earth.

Dante addressed this splendid phenomenon,

and prayed it to ease his mind of the perplexities
of its worldly reason respecting the Divine
nature and government, and the exclusion from
heaven of goodness itself, unless within the
Christian pale.

The celestial bird, rousing itself into motion
with delight, like a falcon in the conscious energy
of its will and beauty, when, upon being
set free from its hood, it glances above it into
the air, and claps its self-congratulating wings,
answered nevertheless somewhat disdainfully,
that it was impossible for man, in his mortal
state, to comprehend such things ; and that the
astonishment he feels at them, though doubtless
it would be excusable under other circumstances,
must rest satisfied with the affirmations
of Scripture.

The bird then bent over its questioner, as a
stork does over the nestling newly fed when it
looks up at her, and then wheeling round, and
renewing its warble, concluded it with saying :
"As my notes are to thee that understands
them not, so are the judgments of the Eternal to
thine earthly brethren . None ever yet ascended
into these heavenly regions that did not believe
in Christ, either after he was crucified or before
it. Yet many who call Christ ! Christ ! shall at
the last day be found less near to him than such
as knew him not. What shall the kings of

Islam say to your Christian kings when they
see the book of judgment opened and hear all
that is set down in it to their dishonor? In that
book shall be read the desolation which Albert
will inflict on Bohemia :* — in that book the
woes inflicted on Paris by that adulterate
of his kingdom's money, who shall die by the
hog's teeth ; in that book the ambition which
makes such mad fools of the Scotch and English
kings that they cannot keep within their
bounds ; in that book the luxury of the Spaniards,
and the effeminate life of the Bohemian,
who neither knows nor cares for any thing
worthy ; in that book the lame wretch of Jerusalem,
whose value will be expressed by a unit
and his worthlessness by a million ; in that

The Emperor Albert the First, when he obtained Bohemia
for his son Rodolph. Of the sovereigns that follow,
he who adulterated his people's money, and died
by the "hog's teeth" (a wild boar in hunting), is the
French king, Philip the Fourth ; the quarrelling fools
of England and Scotland are Edward the First and
Baliol ; the luxurious Spaniard is Ferdinand the Fourth,
said to have killed himself in his youth by intemperance ;
the effeminate Bohemian, Winceslaus the Second ; the
"lame wretch of Jerusalem," Charles the Second of
Naples, titular king of Jerusalem ; the cowardly warder
of the Isle of Fire (Sicily), Frederick of the house of Arragon
; his filthy brother and uncle, James of Arragon
and James of Minorca ; the Portuguese (according to the
probable guess of Car^M, the rebellious son of King Dionysius;
the Norwegian, Hac ; and the Dalmatian,
Ladislaus, but why thus accused, not known. As to
Hungary, its crown was then disputed by rival princes ;
Navarre was thinking shaking off the yoke of France ;
and Nicosia and Famagosta, in Cyprus, were complaining
of their feeble sovereign, Henry the Second.

book the avarice and cowardice of the warder
of the Isle of Fire, in which old Anchises died ; —
and that the record may answer the better to
his abundant littleness, the writing shall be in
short-hand ; and his uncle's and his brother's
filthy doings shall be read in that book — they
who have made such rottenness of a good old
house and two diadems ; and there also shall
the Portuguese and the Norwegian be known
for what they are, and the coiner of Dalmatia,
who beheld with such covetous eyes the Venetian
ducat. O blessed Hungary, if thou wouldst
resolve to endure no longer! O blessed Navarre,
if thou wouldst but keep out the Frenchman
with thy mountain walls ! May the cries
and groans of Nicosia and Famagosia be an
earnest of those happier days, proclaiming as
they do the vile habits of the beast, who keeps
so close in the path of the herd his brethren."

The blessed bird for a moment was silent ;
but as at the going down of the sun the heavens
are darkened, and then break forth into innumerable
stars which the sun lights up,* so the
splendors within the figure of the bird suddenly
became more splendid, and broke forth into
songs too beautiful for mortal to remember.

O dulcet love, that dost show thee forth in
smiles, how ardent was thy manifestation in the
The opinion in the time of Dante.

lustrous sparkles which arose out of the mere
thoughts of those pious hearts !

After the gems in that glittering figure had
ceased chiming their angelic songs, the poet
seemed to hear the murmur of a river which
comes falling from rock to rock, and shows, by
the fulness of its tone, the abundance of its
mountain spring ; and as the sound of the guitar
is modulated on the neck of it, and the
breadth of the pipe is accordant to the spiracle
from which it issues, so the murmuring within the
eagle suddenly took voice, and, rising through
the neck, again issued forth in words. The
bird now bade the poet fix his attention on its
eye, because of all the fires that composed its
figure, those that sparkled in the eye were the
noblest. The spirit (it said) which Dante beheld
in the pupil was that of the royal singer
who danced before the ark, now enjoying the
reward of his superiority to vulgar discernment.
Of the five spirits that composed the eyebrow,
the one nearest the beak was Trajan, now experienced
above all others in the knowledge of
what it costs not to follow Christ, by reason of
his having been in hell before he was translated
to heaven. Next to Trajan was Hezekiah,
whose penitence delayed for him the hour of his
death ; next Hezekiah, Constantine, though in
letting the pope become a prince instead of a

pastor he had unwittingly brought destruction
on the world ; next Constantine, William the
Good of Sicily, whose death is not more
lamented than the lives of those who contest
his crown ; and lastly, next William, Riphaeus
the Trojan. "What erring mortal," cried the
bird, " would believe it possible to find Riphaeus
the Trojan among the blest ? But so it is ; and
he now knows more respecting the divine grace
than mortals do, though even he discerns it not
to the depth"*

The bird again relapsing into silence, appeared
to repose on the happiness of its
thoughts, like the lark which, after quivering
and expatiating through all its airy warble, becomes
mute and content, having satisfied its
soul to the last drop of its sweetness. f

All this part about the eagle, who, it seems, is beheld
only in profile, and who bids the poet "mind his eye,"
in the pupil of which is King David, while the eyebrow
consists of orthodox sovereigns, including Riphaeus the
Trojan, is irresistibly ludicrous. No consideration can
or ought to hinder us from laughing at it. It was mere
party-will in Dante to lug it in ; and his perverseness injured
his fancy, as it deserved.

In the next passage the real poet resumes himself,
and with what relief to one's feelings !

t Most beautiful is this simile of the lark :

Qual lodoletta che 'n acre si aspasia
Prima cantando, e poi tace contenta
De r ultima dolcezza che la samian
the " Pentameron and Pentalogia," Petrarch is made
to say, "All the verses that ever were written on the
nightingale are scarcely worth the beautiful triad of this
divine poet on the lark [and then he repeats them]. In

But again Dante could not help speaking, being
astonished to find Pagans in heaven ; and once
more the celestial figure indulged his curiosity.
It told him that Trajan had been delivered from
hell, for his love of justice, by the prayer's of
St. Gregory ; and that Riphaeus, for the same
reason, had been gifted with a prophetic knowledge
of the Redemption ; and then it ended
with a rapture on the hidden mysteries of Predestination,
and on the joy of ignorance itself
when submitting to the Divine will. The two
blessed spirits, meanwhile, whom the bird mentioned,
like the fingers of sweet lutenist to
sweet singer, when they quiver to his warble as
it goes, manifested the delight they experienced
by the movements of accord simultaneous as
the twinkling of two eyes.*

the first of them, do you not see the trembling of her
wings against the sky? As often as I repeat them, my
ear is satisfied, my heart (like hers) contented.

"■ Boccaccio. — 1 agree with you in the perfect and unrivalled
beauty of the first ; but in the third there is a redundance.
Is not contenta quite enough without che la
sazia ? The picture is before us, the sentiment within
us : and, behold, we kick when we are full of manna.

"petrarch. —I acknowledge the correctness and propriety
of your remark ; and yet beauties in poetry must be
examined as carefully as blemishes, and even more." —
p. 92.

Perhaps Dante would have argued that sazia expresses
the satiety itself, so that the very superciliousness becomes
a propriety.

" E come a burn cantor burn citarista
Fa sequitur lo guizzo de la corda
In che piu di placer lo canto acquit ;

Dante turned to receive his own final delight
from the eyes of Beatrice, and he found it,
though the customary smile on her face was no
longer there. She told him that her beauty increased
with such intensity at every fresh ascent
among the stars, that he would no longer
have been able to bear the smile ; and they
were now in the seventh heaven, or the planet
Saturn, the retreat of those who had passed
their lives in Holy Contemplation.

In this crystal sphere, called after the name of
the monarch who reigned over the Age of Innocence,
Dante looked up, and beheld a ladder,
the hue of which was like gold when the sun
glitters it, and the height so great that its top
was out of sight ; and down the steps of this
ladder he saw coming such multitudes of shining
spirits, that it seemed as if all the lights of
heaven must have been there poured forth ; but
not a sound was in the whole splendor. It
was spared to the poet for the same reason that
he missed the smile of Beatrice. When they
came to a certain step in the ladder, some of
the spirits flew off it in circles or other careers,
like rooks when they issue from their trees in
the morning to dry their feathers in the sun,

si, centre che parle, mi si records,
Ch' io vidi le duo lucy benedette,
Pur come batter d' occhi si concords,

"Con le parole mover le fiammette."

part of them going away without returning,
others returning to the point they left, and
others contenting themselves with flying roundabout
it. One of them came so near Dante
and Beatrice, and brightened with such ardor,
that the poet saw it was done in affection towards
them, and begged the loving spirit to tell
them who it was.

Between the two coasts of Italy," said the
spirit, "and not far from thine own country,
the stony mountains ascend into a ridge so lofty
that the thunder rolls beneath it. Catria is its
name. Beneath it is a consecrated cell ; and in
that cell I was called Pietro Domino.* I so
devoted myself to the service of God, that with
no other sustenance than the juice of the olive,
I forgot both heat and cold, happy in heavenly
meditation. That cloister made abundant returns
in its season to these granaries of the
Lord ; but so idle has it become now, that it is
fit the world should know its barrenness. The
days of my mortal life were drawing to a close,
when I was besought and drawn into wearing
the hat which descends every day from bad

A corrector of clerical abuses, who, though a cardinal,
and much employed in public affairs, preferred the simplicity
of a private life. He has left writings, the eloquence
of which, according to Tiraboschi, " is worthy of
a beverage. ' ' Petrarch also makes honorable mention of
him. See Gary, ut sup., p. 169. Dante lived a good while
in the monastery of Catria, and is said to have finished
his poem there—" Lombardi in hoc," vol. iii., p. 547.

head to worse.* St. Peter and St. Paul came
lean and barefoot, getting their bread where
they could ; but pastors nowadays must be lifted
from the ground, and have ushers going before
them, and train-bearers behind them, and ride
upon palfreys covered with their spreading
mantles, so that two beasts go under one skin.-f
O Lord, how long ! "

At these words Dante saw more splendors
come pouring down the ladder, and wheel round
and round, and become at every wheel more
beautiful. The whole dazzling body then gathered
round the indignant speaker, and shouted
something in a voice so tremendous, that the
poet could liken it to nothing on earth. The
thunder was overwhelming, and he did not even
hear what they said. J

Pallid and stunned, he turned in affright to
Beatrice, who comforted him as a mother comforts
a child that wants breath to speak. The

The cardinal's hat.

t " si che duo bessie van sort' una pelle. ' '
X " Dintorno a quest (voce) venders e fermarsi,
U hero un gride di si alto sono,
Che non potrebbe qui assomigliarsi :
Ne io lo 'ntesi, si mi vine il tuono."
Around this voice they flocked, a mighty crowd,

And raised a shout so huge, that earthly wonder
Knoweth no likeness for a peal so loud ;
Nor could I hear the words, it spoke such thunder.
If a Longinus had written after Dante, he would have
put this passage into his treatise on the Sublime.

shout was prophetic of the vengeance about to
overtake the Church. Beatrice then directed
his attention to a multitude of small orbs, which
increased one another's beauty by interchanging
their splendors. They enclosed the spirits
of those who most combined meditation with
love. One of them was St. Benedict ; and others
Macarius and Romoaldo.* The light of St.
Benedict issued forth from among its companions
to address the poet ; and after explaining
how its occupant was unable farther to disclose
himself, inveighed against the degeneracy of
the religious orders. It then rejoined its fellows,
and the whole company clustering into
one meteor, swept aloft like a whirlwind. Beatrice
beckoned the poet to ascend after them.
He did so, gifted with the usual virtue by her
eyes ; and found himself in the twin light of
the Gemini, the constellation that presided over
his birth. He was now in the region of the
fixed stars.

"Thou art now," said his guide, so near the
summit of thy prayers, that it behooves thee to
take a last look at things below thee, and see
how little they should account in thine eyes."
Dante turned his eyes downward through all
the seven spheres, and saw the earth so dominus

the founder of the order called after his
name. Macarius, an Egyptian Monk and moralist. Ro-molto,
founder of the Camaldoli.

time, that he smiled at its miserable appearance.
Wisest, thought he, is the man that esteems it
least ; and truly worthy he that sets his thoughts
on the world to come. He now saw the moon
without those spots in it which made him
formerly attribute the variation to dense and
rare. He sustained the brightness of the face
of the sun, and discerned all the signs and motions
and relative distances of the planets.
Finally, he saw, as he rolled round with the
sphere in which he stood, and by virtue of his
gifted sight, the petty arena, from hill to harbor,
which filled his countrymen with such ferocious
ambition ; and then he turned his eyes to
the sweet eyes beside him.*

Beatrice stood wrapt in attention, looking

The reader of English poetry will be reminded of a
passage in Cowley.

Lo, I mount ; and lo,
How small the biggest parts of earth's proud title show !
Where shall I find the noble British land ?
1,0, I at last a northern speck espy,
Which in the sea does lie,
And seems a grain o' the sand.
For this will any sin, or bleed ?
Of civil wars is this the meed ?
And is it this, alas, which we,
Oh, irony of words ! do call Great Brittany? "
And he afterward, on reaching higher depths of silence,
says very finely, and with a beautiful intimation of the
all-conclusiveness of the Deity by the use of a singular
instead of a plural verb,—

Where am I now? angels and God is here."
All which follows in Dante, up to the appearance of
St. Peter, is full of grandeur and loveliness.

earnestly toward the south, as if she expected
some appearance. She resembled the bird that
sits among the dewy leaves in the darkness of
night, yearning for the coming of the morning,
that she may again behold her young and
have light by which to seek the food, that renders
her fatigue for them a joy. So stood
Beatrice, looking ; which caused Dante to watch
in the same direction, with the feelings of one
that is already possessed of some new delight
by the assuredness of his expectation.*

The quarter on which they were gazing soon
became brighter and brighter, and Beatrice exclaimed,
" Behold the armies of the triumph of
Christ ! " Her face appeared all fire, and her
eyes so full of love, that the poet could find no
words to express them.

As the moon, when the depths of heaven are

serene with her fulness, looks abroad smiling

'■ Come r angelo intra 1' mate fronde,
Potato al dido de' sui dolce nati
I,a note che le come ci nasconde,

Che per veer gli aspect desist,
E per trover lo cibo onde gli passa,
In che i gravi labor gli sono aggrati,

Prevent '1 tempo in su 1' aperta franca,
E con ardente aflfetto il sole aspect,
Fish giiardando pur che 1' alba nasca

Cost la donna mia si stave eretta
B attenta, involve in ver la plata
Sotto la quale il sol nostra men fretta :

Si che veggendola io hospes e vega,
Fecit quale d que che disband
Alto vorria, e sperando s' appaga."

among her eternal handmaids the stars, that
paint every gulf of the great hollow with
beauty ; * so brightest, above myriads of splendors
around it, appeared a sun which gave
radiance to them all, even as our earthly sun
gives light to the constellations.

"O Beatrice!" exclaimed Dante, overpowered,
" sweet and beloved guide ! "

"Overwhelming," said Beatrice, "is the virtue
with which nothing can compare. What
thou hast seen is the Wisdom and the Power,
by whom the path between heaven and earth
has been laid open." f

Dante's soul — like the fire which falls to earth
out of the swollen thunder-cloud, instead of
rising according to the wont of fire — had grown
too great for his still mortal nature; and he
could afterwards find within him no memory of
what it did.

"Open thine eyes," said Beatrice, "and seeme
now indeed. Thou hast beheld things that
empower thee to sustain my smiling."

Dante, while doing as he was desired, felt
like one who has suddenly waked up from a
dream, and endeavors in vain to recollect it.

"Never," said he, "can that moment be

" Quale ne' plenilunii serene
Trivia ride tra le Ninfe eteme,
Che dipingono '1 ciel per tutti i sent."
t He has seen Christ in his own unreflected person.

erased from the book of the past. If all the
tongues were granted me that were fed with the
richest milk of Polyhymnia and her sisters, they
could not express one thousandth part of the
beauty of that divine smile, or of the thorough
perfection which it made of the whole of her
divine countenance."

But Beatrice said, " Why dost thou so enamour
thee of this face, and lose the sight of the beautiful
guide, blossoming beneath the beams of
Christ ? Behold the rose, in which the Word
was made flesh,* Behold the lilies, by whose
odor the way of life is tracked."

Dante looked, and gave battle to the sight
with his weak eyes.f

As flowers on a cloudy day in a meadow are
suddenly lit up by a gleam of sunshine, he beheld
multitudes of splendors effulgent with
beaming rays that smote on them from above,
though he could not discern the source of the
effulgence. He had invoked the name of the
Virgin when he looked ; and the gracious
fountain of the light had drawn itself higher up
within the heaven, to accommodate the radiance
to his faculties. He then beheld the Virgin
herself bodily present, — her who is fairest

The Virgin Mary.

+ " Mi render
A la battaglia de' debili cigli."

now in heaven, as she was on earth ; and while
his eyes were being painted with her beauty,*
there fell on a sudden a seraphic light from
heaven, which, spinning into a circle as it came,
formed a diadem round her head, still spinning,
and warbling as it spun. The sweetest melody
that ever drew the soul to it on earth would
have seemed like the splitting of a thundercloud,
compared with the music that sung
around the head of that jewel of Paradise

"I am Angelic Love," said the light, "and I
spin for joy of the womb in which our Hope
abided ; and ever, O Lady of Heaven, must I
thus attend thee, as long as thou art pleased to
attend thy Son, journeying in his loving-kindness
from sphere to sphere."

All the other splendors now resounded the
name of Mary. The Virgin began ascending
to pursue the path of her Son ; and Dante, unable
to endure her beauty as it rose, turned his
eyes to the angelical callers on the name of
Mary, who remained yearning after her with
their hands outstretched, as a babe yearns after
the bosom withdrawn from his lips. Then ris

Atnbo le lucy mi divine."
t " Quocunque melodies piu dolce suona
Qua giu, e piu a se 1' anima tira,
Parable tube che squarciata tuona,

Comparata al sonar di quelle lira
Onde si corona il bel zafiiro
Del quale il ciel iii chiaro s' inzafl&ra."

ing after her themselves, they halted ere they
went out of sight, and sung "O Queen cf
Heaven " so sweetly, that the delight never
quitted the air,

A flame now approached and thrice encircled
Beatrice, singing all the while so divinely, that
the poet could retain no idea expressive of its
sweetness. Mortal imagination cannot unfold
such wonder. It was St. Peter, whom she
had besought to come down from his higher
sphere, in order to catechise and discourse with
her companion on the subject of faith.

The catechising and the discourse ensued,
and were concluded by the Apostle's giving the
poet the benediction, and encircling his forehead
thrice with his holy light. "So well," says
Dante, "was he pleased with my answers"*

" Benedicendotni catania
Tre volte cinse me, si com' io tacqui,
L,' Apostolic hume, al cui command
Io area ditto ; si nel dir gli piacqui."
It was this passage, and the one that follows it, which
led Foscolo to suspect that Dante wished to lay claim to
a divine mission ; an opinion which has excited great
indignation among the orthodox. See his " Discorso sul
Testoo," ui sup., pp. 64. 77-90 and 335-338 ; and the preface
of the Milanese Editors to the "Convito" of Dante —
Opere Minorii," i2nio, vol. ii., p. xvii. Foscolo's conjecture
seems hardly borne out by the context ; but I
think Dante had boldness and self-estimation enough to
have advanced any claim whatsoever, had events turned
out as he expected. What man but himself (supposing
him the believer he professed to be) would have thought
of thus making himself free of the courts of Heaven, and
constituting St. Peter his applauding catechist !

"If ever," continued the Florentine, "the
sacred poem to which heaven and earth have
set their hands, and which for years past has
wasted my flesh in the writing, shall prevail
against the cruelty that shut me out of the
sweet fold in which I slept like a lamb, wishing
harm to none but the wolves that beset it, —
with another voice, and in another guise than
now, will I return, a poet, and standing by the
fount of my baptism, assume the crown that
belongs to me ; for I there first entered on the
faith which gives souls to God ; and for that
faith did Peter thus encircle my forehead.*

A flame enclosing St. James now succeeded
to that of St. Peter, and after greeting his
predecessor as doves greet one another, murmuring
and moving round, proceeded to examine
the mortal visitant on the subject of Hope.

The verses quoted in the preceding note conclude
the twenty-fourth canto of "Paradise'; and those, of
which the passage just given is a translation, commence
the twenty-fifth :

Se mai continue, che '1 poena sacro
Al quale ha posta inane e ciel e terra
Si che m' ha facto per iii anni macro,
Vinca la cruelty che for mi serra
Del bello vile ov' io dormi' agnello
Nimico a' lupin che gli anno guerre ;

Con altera voce omar, con alto velle
Ritornerd poeta, ed in sul fonte
Del mio battesmo renders '1 capelle :

Perocch^ ne la fete che fa conte
1,' anime a Dio, quit' entra' io, e poi
Pietro per lei si mi giro la fronte."

The examination was closed amidst resounding
anthems of " I^et their hope be in thee " * ; and
a third apostolic flame ensued, enclosing St.
John, who completed the catechism with the
topic of Charity. Dante acquitted himself with
skill throughout ; the spheres resounded with
songs of " Holy, holy," Beatrice joining in the
warble ; and the poet suddenly found Adam
beside him. The parent of the human race
knew by intuition what his descendant wished
to learn of him ; and manifesting his assent before
he spoke, as an animal sometimes does by
movements and quivering of the flesh within
its coat, corresponding with its good-will, f told
him, that his fall was not owing to the fruit
which he tasted but to the violation of the
injunction not to taste it ; that he remained in
the Limbo on hell-borders upwards of five
thousand years ; and that the language he

" Sperentin te." Psalm ix., lo. The English version
says: "And they that know thy name will put their
trust in thee."

t " Tal volta un animal coverts broglie
Si che r aflfetto convent che si pain
Per lo seguir che face a lui la 'nvoglia."
A natural, but strange, and surely not sufficiently dignified
image for the occasion. It is difficult to be quite
content with a former one, in which the greetings of St.
Peter and St. James are compared to those of doves
murmuring and sidling round about one another ;
though Christian sentiment may warrant it, if we do
not too strongly present the Apostles to one's imagination.


spoke had become obsolete before the days of
Nimrod.

The gentle fire of St. Peter now began to
assume an awful brightness, such as the planet
Jupiter might assume, if Mars and it were birds,
and exchanged the color of their plumage. *
Silence fell upon the celestial choristers ; and
the Apostle spoke thus :

Wonder not if thou seest me change color.
Thou wilt see, while I speak, all which is roundabout
us color in like manner. He who usurps
my place on earth, — my place, I say, — ay, mme,
which before God is now vacant, — has converted
the city in which my dust lies buried
into a common-sewer of filth and blood ; so
that the fiend who fell from hence rejoices
himself down there."

At these words of the Apostle the whole face
of heaven was covered with a blush, red as
dawn or sunset ; and Beatrice changed color,
like a maiden that shrinks in alarm from the
report of blame in another. The eclipse was
like that which took place when the Supreme
died upon the Cross.

" Tal ne la sembianza sua divine,
Qual diverebbe Giove, s' eli e Marte
Foster angell e cambiassersi penne."
Nobody who opened the " Commedia " for the first time
at this fantastical image would suppose the author was
a great poet, or expect the tremendous passage that
ensues !

St. Peter resumed with a voice not less awfully
changed than his appearance :

' Not for the purpose of being sold for money
was the spouse of Christ fed and nourished
with my blood, and with the blood of Linus, —
the blood of Cletus. Sixtus did not bleed for
it, nor Pius, nor Callixtus, nor Urban ; men,
for whose deaths all Christendom wept. They
died that souls might be innocent and go to
Heaven. Never was it intention of ours that
the sitters in the holy chair should divide one
half of Christendom against the other ; should
turn my keys into ensigns of war against the
faithful ; and stamp my very image upon mercenary
and lying documents, which make me,
here in Heaven, blush and turn cold to think
of. Arm of God, why steepest thou ? Men out
of Gascony and Cohors are even now making
ready to drink our blood. O lofty beginning,
to what vile conclusion must thou come ! But
the high Providence, which made Scipio the
sustainer of the Roman sovereignty of the
world, will fail not its timely succor. And
thou, my son, that for weight of thy mortal
clothing must again descend to earth, see thou
that thou openest thy mouth, and hides not
from others what has not been hidden from
thyself."

As white and thick as the snows go streaming

athwart the air when the sun is in Capricorn,
so the angelical spirits that had been gathered
in the air of Saturn streamed away after the
Apostle, as he turned with the other saints to
depart ; and the eyes of Dante followed them
till they became viewless.*

The divine eyes of Beatrice recalled him to
herself ; and at the same instant the two companions
found themselves in the ninth heaven
or Prmiu7n Mobile, the last of the material
heavens, and the mover of those beneath it.

Here he had a glimpse of the Diane Essence,
in likeness of a point of inconceivably sharp
brightness enraged with the angelic hierarchies.
All earth, and heaven, and nature hung
from it. Beatrice explained many mysteries to
him connected with that sight ; and then vehemently
denounced the false and foolish teachers

Id spite of the heavenly nature of invective, of
something of a lurking conceit in the making an eclipse
out of a blush, and in the positive bathos, and I fear
almost indecent irrelevancy of the introduction of Beatrice
at all on such an occasion, much more under the
feeble aspect of one young lady blushing for another,—
this scene altogether is a very grand one ; and the violence
itself of the holy invective awful.

A curious subject for reflection is here presented.
What sort of Pope would Dante himself have made ?
Would he have taken to the loving or the hating side of
his genius? To the St. John or the St. Peter of his own
poem? St. Francis or St. Dominic? I am afraid, all
things considered, we should have had in him rather a
Gregory the Seventh or Julius the Second than a Benedict
the Eleventh or a Ganganelli. What fine church
hymns he would have written !

that quit the authority of the Bible for speculations
of their own, and degrade the preaching
of the Gospel with ribald jests and legends
of St. Anthony and his pig.*

Returning, however, to more celestial
thoughts, her face became so full of beauty
that Dante declares he must cease to endeavor
to speak of it, and that he doubts whether the
sight can ever be thoroughly enjoyed by any
save its Maker.! Her look carried him upward
as before, and he was now in the Empyrean, or
region of Pure light ; — of light made of intellect
full of love ; love of truth, full of joy ;
joy, transcendant above all sweetness.

Streams of living radiance came rushing and
flashing round about him, swathing him with
light, as the lightning sometimes enwraps and
dashes against the blinded eyes ; but the light
was love here, and instead of injuring, gave new
power to the object it embraced.

With this new infusion of strength into his
organs of vision, Dante looked, and saw a vast
flood of it, effulgent with flashing splendors,
and pouring down like a river between banks
painted with the loveliest flowers. Fiery living

Se does not see (so blind is even holy vehemence !)

that for the same reason the denouncement itself is out

of its place. The preachers brought St. Anthony and

his pig into their pulpits ; she brings them into heaven !

t " Certo io credo

Che solo il suo fatter tutti la god."

sparkles arose from it on all sides, and pitched
themselves into the cups of the flowers, where
they remained awhile, like rubies set in gold ;
till inebriated with the odors, they recast themselves
into the bosom of the flood ; and ever as
one returned, another leaped forth. Beatrice
bade him dip his eyes into the light, that he
might obtain power to see deeper into its nature
; for the river, and the jewels that sprang
out of it to and fro, and the laughing flowers on
the banks, were themselves but shadows of the
truth which they included ; not, indeed, in
their essential selves, but inasmuch as without
further assistance the beholder's eyes could not
see them as they were. Dante rushed to the
stream as eagerly as the lips of an infant to the
breast, when it has slept beyond its time ; and
his eyelashes had no sooner touched it than the
length of the river became a breadth and a circle,
and its real nature lay unveiled before him,
like a face when a mask is taken off". It was
the whole two combined courts of heaven, the
angelical and the human, in circumference
larger than would hold the sun, and all blazing
beneath a light, which was reflected downwards
in its turn upon the sphere of the Primum Mobile
below it, the mover of the universe. And
as a green cliff" by the water's side seems to delight
in seeing itself reflected from head to foot

with all its verdure and its flowers, so, roundabout
on all sides, upon thousands of thrones,
the blessed spirits that once lived on earth sat
beholding themselves in the light. And yet
even all these together formed but the lowest
part of the spectacle, which ascended above
them, tier upon tier, in the manner of an immeasurable
rose, all dilating itself, doubling
still and doubling, and all odorous with the
praises of an ever-vernal sun. Into the base
of it, as into the yellow of the flower, with a
dumb glance that yet promised to speak, Beatrice
drew forward her companion and said :
"Behold the innumerable assemblage of the
white garments! Behold our city, how large
its circuit ! Behold our seats, which are, nevertheless,
so full that few comers are wanted to
fill them ! On that lofty one on which thou art
looking, surmounted with the crown, and which
shall be occupied before thou honest this bridal
feast, shall be seated the soul of the great Henry,
who would fain set Italy right before she is prepared
for it.* The blind waywardness of which
ye are sick renders ye like the bantling who,
while he is dying of hunger, kicks away his
purse. And Rome is governed by one who can-the

Emperor Henry of Luxembourg, Dante's idol,
at the close of whose brief and inefficient appearance in
Italy his hopes of restoration to his country were at an
end.

not walk in the same path with such a man,
whatever be the road.* But God will not long
endure him. He will be thrust down into the
pit with Simon Magus ; and his feet, when he
arrives there, will thrust down the man of
Alagna still lower." f

In the form, then, of a white rose the blessed
multitude of human souls lay manifest before
the eyes of the poet ; and now he observed,
that the winged portion of the blest, the angels,
who fly up with their wings nearer to Him that
fills them with love, came to and fro upon the
rose like bees ; now descending into its bosom,
now streaming back to the source of their affection.
Their faces were all fire, their wings
golden, their garments whiter than snow. Whenever
they descended on the flower, they went
from fold to fold, fanning their loins, and communicating
the peace and ardor which they
gathered as they gave. Dante beheld all, —
every flight and action of the whole winged
multitude, — without let or shadow ; for he stood
in the region of light itself, and light has no
obstacle where its is deservedly vouchsafed.

Pope Clement the Fifth. Dante's enemy, Boniface,
was now dead, and of course in Tartarus, in the red-hot
tomb which the poet had prepared for him.

t Boniface himself. Pope Clement's red-hot feet are to
thrust down Pope Boniface into a gulf still hotter. So
says the gentle Beatrice in heaven, and in the face of all
that is angelical !

Oh," cries the poet, " if the barbarians that
came from the north stood dumb with amazement
to behold the magnificence of Rome,
thinking they saw unearthly greatness in the
lateran, what must I have thought, who had
thus come from human to divine, from time to
eternity, from the people of Florence to beings
just and sane? "

Dante stood, without a wish either to speak
or to hear. He felt like a pilgrim who has arrived
within the place of his devotion, and who
looks round about him, hoping some day to relate
what he sees. He gazed upwards and downwards,
and on every side round about, and saw
movements graceful with every truth of innocence,
and faces full of loving persuasion, rich
in their own smiles and in the light of the
smiles of others.

He turned to Beatrice, but she was gone ; —
gone, as a messenger from herself told him, to
resume her seat in the blessed rose, which the
messenger accordingly pointed out. She sat in
the third circle from the top, as far from Dante
as the bottom of the sea is from the region of
thunder ; and yet he saw her as plainly as if
she had been close at hand. He addressed words
to her of thanks for all she had done for him,
and a hope for her assistance after death ; and
she looked down at him and smiled.

The messenger was St. Bernard. He bade
the poet lift his eyes higher ; and Dante beheld
the Virgin Mary sitting above the rose, in
the centre of an intense redness of light,
like another dawn. Thousands of angels were
hanging buoyant around her, each having its
own distinct splendor and adornment, and
all were singing, and expressing heavenly
mirth ; and she smiled on them with such
loveliness, thatjoy basin the eyes of all the
blessed.

At Mar>''s feet was sitting Eve, beautiful —
she that opened the wound which Mary closed ;
and at the feet of Eve was Rachel, with Beatrice ;
and at the feet of Rachel was Sarah, and then
Judith, then Rebecca, then Ruth, ancestress of
him out of whose penitence came the song of
the Miserere*; and soother Hebrew women,
down all the gradations of the flower, dividing,
by the line which they made, the Christians
who lived before Christ from those who lived
after ; a line which, on the opposite side of the
rose, was answered by a similar one of Founders
of the Church, at the top of whom was John the
Baptist. The rose also was divided horizontally
by a step which projected beyond the others,
and underneath which, known by the childishness
of their looks and voices, were the souls of
David.

such as were too young to have attained heaven
by assistance of good works.

St. Bernard then directed his companion to
look again at the Virgin, and gather from her
countenance the power of beholding the face of
Christ as God, Her aspect was flooded with
gladness from the spirits around her ; while the
angel who had descended to her on earth now
hailed her above with "Ave, Maria ! " singing
till the whole host of heaven joined in the
song, St. Bernard then prayed to her for help
to his companion's eyesight. Beatrice, with
others of the blest, was seen joining in the
prayer, their hands stretched upwards ; and the
Virgin, after benignly looking on the petitioners,
gazed upwards herself, showing the
way with her own eyes to the still greater
vision. Dante then looked also, and beheld
what he had no words to speak, or memory
to endure.

He awoke as from a dream, retaining only a
sense of sweetness that ever trickled to his
heart.

Earnestly praying afterwards, however, that
grace might be so far vouchsafed to a portion of
his recollection, as to enable him to convey to
his fellow-creatures one smallest glimpse of the
glory of what he saw, his ardor was so emboldened
by help of the very mystery at whose

sight he must have perished had he faltered,
that his eyes, blasted, attained to a perception
of the Sum of Infinitude. He beheld, concentrated
in one spot — written in one volume of
Love — all which is diffused, and can become
the subject of thought and study throughout
the universe — all substance and accident and
mode — all so compounded that they become one
light. He thought he beheld at one and the
same time the oneness of this knot, and the universality
of all which it implies ; because, when
it came to his recollection, his heart dilated,
and in the course of one moment he felt ages of
impatience to speak of it.

But thoughts as well as words failed him ; and
though ever afterwards he could no more cease
to yearn towards it, than he could take defect
for completion, or separate the idea of happiness
from the wish to attain it, still the utmost
he could say of what he remembered would fall
as short of right speech as the sounds of an infant's
tongue while it is murmuring over the
nipple ; for the more he had looked at that
light, the more he found in it to amaze him, so
that his brain toiled with the succession of the astonishments.
He saw, in the deep but clear
self-subsistence, three circles of three different
colors of the same breadth, one of them reflecting
one of the others as rainbow does rainbow,

and the third consisting of a fire equally breathing
from both.*

O eternal Light ! thou that dwelled in thyself
alone, thou alone, understands thyself,
and art by thyself understood, and, so understanding,
thou laughed at thyself, and lowest.

The second, or reflected circle, as it went
round, seemed to be painted by its own colors
with the likeness of a human faces

But how this was done, or how the beholder
was to express it threw his mind into the same
state of bewilderment as the mathematician experiences
when he vainly pores over the circle
to discover the principle by which he is to
square it.

He did, however, in a manner discern it. A
flash of light was vouchsafed him for the purpose
; but the light left him no power to impart
the discernment ; nor did he feel any longer
impatient for the gift. Desire became absorbed
in submission, moving in as smooth unison as
the particles of a wheel, with the Love that is
the mover of the sun and the stars. J

The Trinity. t The Incarnation.

X In the Variorum edition of Dante, utsup., vol. iii., p.
845, we are informed that a gentleman of Naples, the
Cavaliere Giuseppe de Cesare, was the first to notice (not
long since, I presume) the curious circumstance of
Dante's having terminated the three portions of his
poem with the word "stars." He thinks that it was
done as a happy augury of life and renown to the subject.
The literal intention, however, seems to have been
to show us, how all his aspirations terminated.

3 0112 084214136

mm

<j^

sf:^^

Im^m^^mMj^i

FROM THE

ITALIAN POETS

LIVES OF THE WRITERS.

BY LEIGH HUNT.

IN TWO VOLUMES.
VOL. II.

LONDON:
CHAPMAN AND HALL, 186 STRAND.

MDCCCXLVI.

THE SECOND VOLUME.

BOIARDO.

PAGE

Critical Notice of his Life and Genius . 1

The Adventures of Angelica 27

The Death of Agrican 57

The Saracen Friends . . . . . . . 71

Part the Second 90

Seeing and Believing 27

ARIOSTO.

Critical Notice of his Life and Genius . . . 107
The Adventures of Angelica :

Part I. Angelica and her Suitors 177

IL Angelica and Medoro 196

in. The Jealousy of Orlando 213

AsTOLFo's Journey to the Moon 225

Ariodante and Ginevra 243

Suspicion 263

Isabella 275



TASSO.

PAGE

Critical Notice of his Life and Genius . . . 287

Olindo and Sophronia 379

Tancred and Clorinda 397

RiNALDO and Armida ; with the Adventure of the
Enchanted Forest :

Part I. Armida in the Christian Camp . . . 419

II. Armida's Hate and Love 432

III. The Terrors of the Enchanted Forest . . 438

IV. The Loves of Rinaldo and Armida . . 445
V. The Disenchantment of the Forest, and the

Taking of Jerusalem, &c 466

APPENDIX.

I. The Death of Agrican 477

II. Angelica and Medoro . 488

Translation 494

III. The Jealousy of Orlando .500

IV. The Death of Clorinda 509

V. Tancred in the Enchanted Forest . . . .511

Critical /f>otice of lji0 Tiitt ante domine,

VOL. II.

BOIARDO'S LIFE AND Genius

While Pulci in Florence was elevating romance
out of the street-ballads, and laying the foundation
of the chivalrous epic, a poet appeared in
Lombardy (whether inspired by his example is
uncertain) who was destined to carry it to a graver

The materials for the biography in this notice have been
gathered from Tiraboschi and others, but more immediately from
the copious critical memoir from the pen of Mr. Panizzi, in that
gentleman's admirable edition of the combined poems of Boiardo
and Ariosto, in nine volumes octavo, published by Mr. Pickering.
I have been under obligations to this work in the notice of Pulci,
and shall again be so in that of Boiardo 's successor ; but I must
not a third time run the risk of omitting to give it my thanks (such
as they are), and of earnestly recommending every lover of Italian
poetry, who can afford it, to possess himself of this learned, entertaining,
and only satisfactory edition of either of the Orlando.
The author writes an English almost as correct as it is elegant ;
and he is as painstaking as he is lively.

Little is known of his life, but that little is very
pleasant. It exhibits him in the rare light of a
poet who was at once rich, romantic, an Arcadian
and a man of the world, a feudal lord and an
indulgent philosopher, a courtier equally beloved
by prince and people.

Matter Maria Boiardo, Count of Santiago,
Lord of Arceto, Casalgrande, &c Governor of
Reggio, and Captain of the citadel of Modena (it is
pleasant to repeat such titles when so adorned), is
understood to have been born about the year 1434,
at Scandiano, a castle at the foot of the Apennines,
not far from Reggio, and famous for its vines.

He was of an ancient family, once lords of
R-ubiera, and son of Giovanni, second count of
Scandiano, and Lucia, a lady of a branch of the
Strozzi family in Florence, and sister and aunt of
Tito and Ecole Strozzi, celebrated Latin poets.
His parents appear to have been wise people, for
they gave him an education that fitted him equally
for public and private life. He was even taught,
or acquired, more Greek than was common to the

men of letters of that age. His whole life seems,
accordingly, to have been divided, with equal success,
between his duties as a servant of the dukes
of Modena, both military and civil, and the prosecution
of his beloved art of poetry, — a combination
of pursuits which have been idly supposed incompatible.
Milton's poetry did not hinder him from
being secretary to Cromwell, and an active partisan.
Even the sequestered Spenser was a statesman ;
and poets and writers of fiction abound in the
political histories of all the great nations of Europe.
When a man possesses a thorough insight into anyone
intellectual department (except, perhaps, incertain
corners of science), it only sharpens his
powers of perception for the others, if he chooses
to apply them.

In the year 1469, Boiardo was one of the noblemen
who went to meet the Emperor Frederick
the Third on his way to Ferrara, when Duke Corso
of Modena entertained him in that city. Two
years afterwards, Borso, who had been only Marquis
of Ferrara, received its ducal title from the
Pope ; and on going to Rome to be invested with
his new honours, the name of our poet is again
found among the adorners of his state. A few
days after his return home this prince died ; and
Boiardo, favoured as he had been by him, appears

to have succeeded to a double portion of regard in
the friendship of the new duke, Ercole, who was
more of his own age.

During all this period, from his youth to his
prime, our author varied his occupations with
Italian and Latin poetry; some of it addressed to a
lady of the name of Antonio Carrara, and some to
another, whose name is thought to have been Rosa;
but whether these ladies died, or his love was
diverted elsewhere, he took to wife, in the year
1472, Taddea Gonzaga, of the noble house of that
name, daughter of the Count of Novella. In
the course of the same year he is supposed to have
begun his great poem. A popular court-favourite,
in the prime of life, marrying and commencing a
great poem nearly at one and the same time, presents
an image of prosperity singularly delightful.
By this lady Boiardo had two sons and four
daughters. The younger son, Francesco Maria,
died in his childhood ; but the elder, Camilla, succeeded
to his father's title, and left an heir to it, —
the last, I believe, of the name. The reception
given to the poet's bride, when he took her to
Scandiano, is said to have been very splendid.

In the ensuing year the duke his master took a
wife himself. She was Eleonora, daughter of the
King of Naples ; and the newly-married poet was

among the noblemen who were sent to escort her
to Ferrara. For several years afterwards, his time
was probably filled up with the composition of the
Orlando InnamoratOy and the entertainments given
by a splendid court. He was appointed Governor
of Reggio, probably in 1478. At the expiration
of two or three years he was made Captain of the
citadel of Modena; and in 1482 a war broke outwith
the Venetians, in which he took part, for it
interrupted the progress of his poem. In 1484 he
returned to it ; but ten years afterwards was again
and finally interrupted by the unprincipled descent
of the French on Italy under Charles the Eighth ;
and in the December following he died. The Orlando
Innamorato was thus left unfinished. Eight
years before his decease the author published what
he had written of it up to that time, but the first
complete edition was posthumous. The poet was
writing when the French came : he breaks off' with
an anxious and bitter notice of the interruption,
though still unable to deny himself a last word on
the episode which he was relating, and a hope that
he should conclude it another time.

** Centre che io canto, o Dio retentive,
Veto 1' Italia tutti a fiamma e coco,
Per quest Galli, che con gran valor
Vengon, per deserter non so che loco :

Di Fiordespina ardente poco a poco :
Un* altera volta, se mi fia confess,
Racconterovvi il tutti per espresso."

But while I sing, mine eyes, great God! behold

A flaming fire light all the Italian sky,
Brought by these French, who, with their myriads bold,

Come to lay waste, I know not where or why.
Therefore, at present, 1 must leave untold

How love misled poor Fiordespina's eye.*
Another time. Fate willing, I shall tell,
From first to last, how every thing befell.

Besides the Orlando Innamorato, Boiardo wrote
a variety of prose works, a comedy in verse on
the subject of Timon, lyrics of great elegance,
with a vein of natural feeling running through
them, and Latin poetry of a like sort, not, indeed,
as classical in its style as that of Politian and the
other subsequent revivers of the ancient manner,
but perhaps not the less interesting on that account;
for it is difficult to conceive a thorough
copyist in style expressing his own thorough feelings.
Mr. Panizzi, if I am not mistaken, promised
the world a collection of the miscellaneous
poems of Boiardo ; but we have not yet had the
pleasure of seeing them. In his life of the poet,

1 She had taken a damsel in male attire for a man.

however, he has given several specimens, both
Latin and Italian, which are extremely agreeable.
The Latin poems consist of ten eclogues and a
few epigrams ; but the epigrams, this critic tells
us, are neither good nor on a fitting subject, being
satirical sallies against Nicol of Este, who had
attempted to seize on Ferrara, and been beheaded.
Boiardo was not of a nature qualified to indulge
in bitterness. A man of his chivalrous disposition
probably misgave himself while he was writing
these epigrams. Perhaps he suffered them to
escape his pen out of friendship for the reigning
branch of the family. But it must be confessed,
that some of the best-natured men have too often
lost sight of their higher feelings during the pleasure
and pride of composition.

With respect to the comedy of Timothy if the
whole of it is written as well as the concluding
address of the misanthrope (which Mr. Panizzi
has extracted into his pages), it must be very
pleasant. Timon conceals a treasure in a tomb,
and thinks he has baffled some knaves who had
a design upon it. He therefore takes leave of
his audience with the following benedictions :

Pur ho scacciate quest due formiche,
Che raspavano T oro alia mia buck,
Or vadan pur, che Dio le malediche.

b2

Total fortuna a casa li conduct,
Che lor fiacchi le gambe al primo pass,
E nel secondo 1' osso della nuda.

Voi altri, che ascoltate giuso al basso,
Chiedete, se volet alcuna cosa,
Prima ch' io part, perche mo vi lasso.

Bench abba 1' alma irate e disdegnosa,
Da ingiusti oltraggi combatants e venta,
A voi gia non V auro tanto ritrosa.

In me non e pietas al tutti stint :
Fascia di-vol la prove chi gli pare,
Sino alia corda, che mi trovo cinna ;

Gli prester, volendosi impiccare.'*

So ! I've got rid of these two creeping things,
That fain would have scratched up my buried gold.
They're gone ; and may the curse of God go with them !
May they reach home just in good time enough
To break their legs at the first step in doors,
And necks i' the second ! — And now then, as to you,
Good audience, — groundlings, — folks who love low places,
You too perhaps would fain get something of me,
Ere I take leave. — Well ; — angered though I be,
Scornful and torn with rage at being ground
Into the dust with wrong, I'm not so lost
To all concern and charity for others
As not to be still kind enough to part
"With something near to me — something that's wound
About my very self. Here, sirs ; mark this ; —

untying the cord round his waist.
Let any that would put me to the test.
Take it with all my heart, and hang themselves.

The comedy of Timothy which was chiefly taken
from Lucian, and one, if not more, of Boiardo*s
prose translations from other ancients, were written
at the request of Duke Ercole, who was a
great lover of dramatic versions of this kind, and
built a theatre for their exhibition at an enormous
expense. These prose translations consist of Apuleius's
Golden Ass, Herodotus (the Duke's order),
the Golden Ass of Lucian, Xenophon's Cyroptsdia
(not printed), Melius Probus (also not printed,
and supposed to be Cornelius Nepos), and Ricco-bald's
credulous Historia Universals, with additions.
It seems not improbable, that he also
translated Homer and Diodorus ; and Doni the
bookmaker asserts, that he wrote a work called the
Testamento deW Anima (the Soul's Testament) :
but Mr. Panizzi calls Doni " a barefaced impostor;"
and says, that as the work is mentioned by
nobody else, we may be " certain that it never
existed," and that the title was " a forgery of the
impudent priest."

Nothing else of Boiardo's writing is known to
exist, but a collection of official letters in the archives
of Modena, which, according to Tiraboschi,
are of no great importance. It is difficult to suppose,
however, that they would not be worth looking
at. The author of the Orlando Innamorato could

hardly write, even upon the driest matters of government,
with the aridity of a common clerk.
Some little lurking well-head of character or circumstance,
interesting to readers of a later age,
would probably break through the barren ground.
Perhaps the letters went counter to some of the
good Jesuit's theology.

Boiardo's prose translations from the authors
of antiquity are so scarce, that Mr. Panizzi himself,
a learned and miscellaneous reader, says he
never saw them. I am willing to get the only
advantage in my power over an Italian critic, by
saying that I have had some of them in my hands,
brought there by the pleasant chances of the
bookstalls ; but I can give no account of them.
A modern critic, quoted by this gentleman (Gamba,
Test di Lingua), calls the version of Apuleius
rude and curious ;" but adds, that it contains
expressions full of liveliness and propriety." By
rude" is probably meant obsolete, and comparatively
unlearned. Correctness of interpretation
and classical nicety of style (as Mr. Panizzi observes)
were the growths of a later age.

Nothing is told us by his biographers of the

^ Crescimbeni himself had not seen the translation from Apuleius,
nor, apparently, several others. — Commentari, Sc. vol. ii.
part ii. lib. vii. sect. xi.

person of Boiardo : and it is not safe to determine
a man's physique from his writings, unless perhaps
with respect to the greater or less amount
of his animal spirits; for the able-bodied may
write effeminately, and the feeblest supply the
defect of corporal stamina with spiritual. Portraits,
however, seem to be extant. Mazzuchelli
discovered that a medal had been struck in the
poet's honour; and in the castle of Scandiano
(though '^ the halls where knights and ladies listened
to the adventures of the Paladin are now
turned into granaries," and Orlando himself has
nearly disappeared from the outside, where he was
painted in huge dimensions as if " entrusted with
the wardenship") there was a likeness of Boiardo
executed by Niccolo dell' Abate, together with
the principal events of the Orlando Innamorato
and the Aeneid. But part of these paintings (Mr.
Panizzi tells us) were destroyed, and part removed
from the castle to Modena " to save them from
certain loss;" and he does not add whether the
portrait was among the latter.

From anecdotes, however, and from the poet's
writings, we gather the nature of the man ; and
this appears to have been very amiable. There
is an aristocratic tone in his poem, when speaking
of the sort of people of whom the mass of soldiers

is wont to consist; and Foscolo says, that the
Count of Scandiano writes like a feudal lord. But
common soldiers are not apt to be the elite of
mankind ; neither do we know with how good-natured
a smile the mention of them may have
been accompanied. People often give a tone
to what they read, more belonging to their own
minds than the author's. All the accounts left
us of Boiardo, hostile as well as friendly, prove
him to have been an indulgent and popular man.
According to one, he was fond of making personal
inquiries among its inhabitants into the history of
his native place ; and he requited them so generously
for their information, that it was customary
with them to say, when they wished good fortune
to one another, " Heaven send Boiardo to your
house !" There is said to have been a tradition
at Scandiano, that having tried in vain one day,
as he was riding out, to discover a name for one
of his heroes, expressive of his lofty character,
and the word Rodamonte coming into his head,
he galloped back with a pleasant ostentation to
his castle, crying it out aloud, and ordering the
bells of the place to be rung in its honour ; to the
astonishment of the good people, who took " Ro-dante"
for some newly-discovered saint. His
friend Paganelli of Modena, who wrote a Latin

poem on the Empire of Cupid, extolled the Governor
of Reggio for ranking among the deity's
most generous vassals, — one who, in spite of his
piece of magistrate, looked with an indulgent eye
on errors to which himself was liable, and who
was accustomed to prefer the study of love-verses
to that of the law. The learned lawyer, his countryman
Panciroli, probably in resentment, as Pa-nisi
says, of this preference, accused him of an
excess of benignity, and of being fitter for writing
poems than punishing ill deeds ; and in truth, as
the same critic observes, *' he must have been considered
crazy by the whole tribe of lawyers of that
age," if it be true that he anticipated the opinion
of Beccaria, in thinking that no crime ought to
be punished with death.

The great work of this interesting and accomplished
person, the Orlando Innamorato, is an epic
romance, founded on the love of the great Paladin
for the peerless beauty Angelica, whose name has
enamoured the ears of posterity. The poem introduces
us to the pleasantness paths in that track
of reading in which Milton has told us that his
young feet delighted to wander'* Nor did he
forsake it in his age.

Such forces met not, nor so wide a camp,
When Agrican with all his northern powers

Besieged Albracca, as romances tell,

The city of Gallaphrone, from whence to win

The fairest of her sex, Angelica."

Paradise Regained.

The Orlando Innamorato may be divided into
three principal portions : — the search for Angelica
by Orlando and her other lovers ; the siege of her
father's city Albracca by the Tartars ; and that of
Paris and Charlemagne by the Moors. These,
however, are all more or less intermingled, and
with the greatest art ; and there are numerous
episodes of a like intertexture. The fairies and
fairy-gardens of British romance, and the fabulous
glories of the house of Este, now proclaimed
for the first time, were added by the author to
the enchantments of Pulci, together with a pervading
elegance ; and had the poem been completed,
we were to have heard again of the traitor Gan
of Maganza, for the purpose of exalting the imaginary
founder of that house, Rugged.

This resuscitation of the Helen of antiquity,
under a more seducing form, was an invention
of Boiardo's; so was the subjection of Charles's
hero Orlando to the passion of love; so, besides
the heroine and her name, was that of other interesting
characters with beautiful names, which
afterwards figured in Ariosto. This inventive faculty

is indeed so conspicuous in every part of the
work, on small as well as great occasions, in fairy-adventures
and those of flesh and blood, that although
the author appears to have had both his
loves and his fairies suggested to him by our romances
of Arthur and the Round Table, it constitutes,
next to the pervading elegance abovementioned,
his chief claim to our admiration.
Another of his merits is a certain tender gallantry,
or rather an honest admixture of animal passion
with spiritual, also the precursor of the like ingenuous
emotions in Ariosto ; and he furthermore set
his follower the example, not only of good breeding,
but of a constant heroical cheerfulness, looking
with faith on nature. Pulci has a constant cheerfulness,
but not with so much grace and dignity.
Foscolo has remarked, that Boiardo's characters
even surpass those of Ariosto in truth and variety,
and that his Angelica more engages our feelings ;i
to which I will venture to add, that if his style
is less strong and complete, it never gives us a
sense of elaboration. I should take Boiardo to
have been the healthier man, though of a less determined
will than Ariosto, and perhaps, on the
whole, less robust. You find in Boiardo almost

^ Article on the Narrative and Romantic Poems of the Italians,
in the Quarterly Review, No. G2, p. 527.

all which Ariosto perfected, — chivalry, battles,
combats, loves and graces, passions, enchantments,
classical and romantic fable, eulogy, satire, mirth,
pathos, philosophy. It is like the first sketch of
a great picture, not the vvorse in some respects
for being a sketch ; free and light, though not so
grandly coloured. It is the morning before the sun
is up, and when the dew is on the grass. Take
the stories which are translated in the present volume,
and you might fancy them all written by
Ariosto, with a difference ; the Death of Agrican
perhaps with minuter touches of nature, but certainly
not with greater simplicity and earnestness.
In the Saracen Friends there is just Ariosto's balance
of passion and levity ; and in the story which
I have entitled Seeing and Believing his exhibition
of triumphant cunning. During the lives of
Pulci and Boiardo, the fierce passions and severe
ethics of Dante had been gradually giving way to
a gentler and laxer state of opinion before the
progress of luxury ; and though Boiardo's enamoured
Paladin retains a kind of virtue not common
in any age to the heroes of warfare, the lord
of Scandiano, who appears to have recited his
poem, sometimes to his vassals and sometimes to
the ducal circle at court, intimates a smiling suspicion
that such a virtue would be considered a

little rude and obsolete by his hearers. Pulci's
wandering gallant, Uliviero, who in Dante's time
would have been a scandalous profligate, had become
the prototype of the court-lover in Boiardo's.
The poet, however, in his most favourite
characters, retained and recommended a truer sentiment,
as in the instance of the loves of Bran-diary
and Fiordelisa ; and there is a graceful
cheerfulness in some of his least sentimental ones,
which redeems them from grossness. I know nota
more charming fancy in the whole loving circle
of fairy-land, than the female's shaking her long
tresses round Mandricardo, in order to furnish
him with a mantle, when he issues out of the enchanted
fountain. 1

^ " E' sui capelle a se scions di testa,
Che n' area multi la dama golconda ;
Ed, abbracciato il cavalier con festa,
Tutti il course de la brescia bionda :
Cost, nascosi entrambi di tal vesta,
Uscir' di quelle fonte e la bell' onde."

Her locks she loosened from her lovely head,
For many and long had that same lady fair ;
And clasping him in mirth as round they spread,
Covered the knight with the sweet shaken hair :
And so, thus both together garmented,
They issued from the fount to the fresh air.

Readers of the Faerie Queene will here see where Spenser has
been, among his other visits to the Bowers of Bliss.

But Boiavdo's poem was unfinished : there are
many prosaical passages in it, many lame and
harsh lines, incorrect and even ungrammatical expressions,
trivial images, and, above all, many
Lombard provincialisms, which are not in their
nature of a *^ significant or graceful" sorts and
which shocked the fastidious Florentines, the arbiters
of Italian taste. It was to avoid these in his
own poetry, that Boiardo's countryman Ariosto
carefully studied the Tuscan dialect, if not visited
Florence itself; and the consequence was, that his
greater genius so obscured the popularity of his
predecessor, that a remarkable process, unique in
the history of letters, appears to have been thought
necessary to restore its perusal. The facetious
Berni, a Tuscan wit full of genius, without omitting
any particulars of consequence, or adding a single
story except of himself, re-cast the whole poem
of Boiardo, altering the diction of almost every
stanza, and supplying introductions to the cantos
after the manner of Ariosto ; and the Florentine
idiom and unfailing spirit of this re-fashioner's
verse (though, what is very curious, not till after
a long chance of its being overlooked itself, and
a posthumous editorship which has left doubts on
the authority of the text) gradually effaced almost
^ Foscolo, ut sup. p. 528.

the very mention of the man's name who had supplied
him with the whole staple commodity of his
book, with all the heart of its interest, and with
far the greater part of the actual words. The first
edition of Berni was prohibited in consequence of
its containing a severe attack on the clergy ; but
even the prohibition did not help to make it popular.
The reader may imagine a similar occurrence
in England, by supposing that Dryden had
re-written the whole of Chaucer, and that his reconstruction
had in the course of time as much
surpassed the original in popularity, as his version
of the Flower and the Leaf did, up to the beginning
of the present century.

I do not mean to compare Chaucer with Boiardo,
or Dryden with Berni. Fine poet as I think
Boiardo, I hold Chaucer to be a far finer ; and spirited,
and in some respects admirable, as are Dryden's
versions of Chaucer, they do not equal that
of Boiardo by the Tuscan. Dryden did not apprehend
the sentiment of Chaucer in any such degree
as Berni did that of his original. Indeed, Mr. Pa-nisi
himself, to whom the world is indebted both
for the only good edition of Boiardo and for the
knowledge of the most curious facts respecting
Berni's rifacimentOy declares himself unable to pronounce
which of the two poems is the better cite.

the original Boiardo, or the re-modelled. It would
therefore not very well become a foreigner to give
a verdict, even if he were able ; and I confess, after
no little consideration (and apart, of course, from
questions of dialect, which I cannot pretend to look
into), I feel myself almost entirely at a loss to conjecture
on which side the superiority lies, except
in point of invention and a certain early simplicity.
The advantage in those two respects unquestionably
belongs to Boiardo; and a great one it is,
and may not unreasonably be supposed to settle
the rest of the question in his favour; and yet
Berni's fancy, during a more sophisticate period
of Italian manners, exhibited itself so abundantly
in his own witty poems, his pen at all times has
such a charming facility, and he proved himself,
in his version of Boiardo, to have so strong a
sympathy with the earnestness and sentiment of
his original in his gravest moments, that I cannot
help thinking the two men would have been each
what the other was in their respective times ; —
the Lombard the comparative idler, given more
to witty than serious invention, under a corrupt
Roman court ; and the Tuscan the originator of
romantic fictions, in a court more suited to him
than the one he avowedly despised. I look upon
them as two men singularly well matched. The

nature of the present work does not require, and
the limits to which it is confined do not permit,
me to indulge myself in a comparison between
them corroborated by proofs ; but it is impossible
not to notice the connexion : and therefore, begging
the reader's pardon for the sorry substitute
of affirmative for demonstrative criticism, I maybe
allowed to say, that if Boiardo has the praise
of invention to himself, Berni thoroughly appreciated
and even enriched it; that if Boiardo has
sometimes a more thoroughly charming simplicity,
Berni still appreciates it so well, that the difference
of their times is sufficient to restore the claim
of equality of feeling; and finally, that if Berni
strengthens and adorns the interest of the composition
with more felicitous expressions, and with
a variety of lively and beautiful trains of thought,
you feel that Boiardo was quite capable of them
all, and might have done precisely the same had
he lived in Berni's age. In the greater part of
the poem the original is altered in nothing except
diction, and often (so at least it seems to me) for
no other reason than the requirements of the Tuscan
manner. And this is the case with most of
the noblest, and even the liveliest passages. My
first acquaintance, for example, with the Orlando
Innamorato was through the medium of Berni ;

and on turning to those stories in his version,
which 1 have translated from his original for the
present volume, I found that every passage but
one, to which I had given a mark of admiration,
was the property of the old poet. That single
one, however, was in the exquisite taste, full of
as deep a feeling as any thing in its company (I
have noticed it in the translated passage). And
then, in the celebrated introductions to his cantos,
and the additions to Boiardo's passages of description
and character (those about Rodamonte, for
example, so admired by Foscolo), if Berni occasionally
shews a comparative want of faith which
you regret, he does it with a regret on his own
part, visible through all his jesting. Lastly, the
singular and indignant strength of his execution
often makes up for the trustfulness that he was
sorry to miss. If I were asked, in short, which
of the two poems I should prefer keeping, were
I compelled to choose, I should first complain of
being forced upon so hard an alternative, and
then, with many a look after Berni, retain Boiardo.
The invention is his; the first earnest impulse;
the misgiving joy; the primitive morning
breath, when the town-smoke has not polluted the
fields, and the birds are singing their " wood-notes
wild." Besides, after all, one cannot be sure that

Berni could have invented as Boiardo did. If he
could, he would probably have written some fine
serious poem of his own. And Panizzi has observed,
with striking and conclusive truth, that
without Berni the Orlando Innamorato will be
read and enjoyed; without Boiardo not even the
name of the poem remains."

Nevertheless this conclusion need not deprive
us of either work. Berni raised a fine polished
edifice, copied and enlarged after that of Boiardo ;
on the other hand, the old house, thank Heaven,
remains ; and our best way of settling the question
between the two is, to be glad that we have got
both. Let the reader who is rich in such possessions
look upon Berni's as one of his town mansions,
erected in the park-like neighbourhood of
some metropolis; and Boiardo's as the ancient
country original of it, embosomed in the woods
afar off', and beautiful as the Enchanted Castle of
Claude —

*' Lone sitting by the shores of old romance."

A late amiable man of wit, Mr. Stewart Rose, has given a
prose abstract of Berni's Orlando Innamorato, with occasional
versification ; but it is hardly more than a dry outline, and was,
indeed, intended only as an introduction to his version of the

VOL. II. C

Furioso. A good idea, however, of one of the phases of Berni's
humour may be obtained from the same gentleman's abridgment
of the Animals Parlance of Cast, in which he has introduced a
translation of the Tuscan's description of himself and of his way
of life, out of his additions to Boiardo's poem. The verses in the
prohibited edition of Berni's Orlando, in which he denounced the
corruptions of the clergy, have been published, for the first time in
this country, in the notes to the twentieth canto of Mr. Panizzi's
Boiardo. They have all his peculiar wit, together with a Lutheran
earnestness ; and shew him, as that critic observes, to have been
*' Protestant at his heart."

Since writing this note I have called to mind that a translation
of Berni's account of himself is to be found in Mr. Rose's prose
abstract of the Innamorato.

It was the month of May and the feast of Pentecost,
and Charlemagne had ordained a great jousting,
which brought into Paris an infinite number
of people, baptised and infidel ; for there was
truce proclaimed, in order that every knight might
come. There was King Grandonio from Spain,
with his serpent's face; and Ferragus, with his
eyes like an eagle ; and Balugante, the emperor's
kinsman ; and Orlando, and Rinaldo, and Duke
Namo; and Astolfo of England, the handsomest
of mankind ; and the enchanter Malagigi ; and
Isoliero and Salmon ; and the traitor Gan, with
his scoundrel followers; and, in short, the whole
flower of the chivalry of the age, the greatest in
the world. The tables at which they feasted were
on three sides of the hall, with the emperor's canopy
midway at the top ; and at that first table sat
crowned heads; and down the table on the right
sat dukes and marquises ; and down the table on

the left, counts and cavaliers. But the Saracen
nobles, after their doggish fashion, looked neither
for chair nor bench, but preferred a carpet on
the floor, which vas accordingly spread for them
in the midst.

High sat Charlemagne at the head of his vassals
and his Paladins, rejoicing in the thought of
all the great men of which they consisted, and
holding the infidels cheap as the sands which are
scattered by the tempest. To each of his lords,
as they drank, he sent round, by his pages, gifts
of enamelled cups of exquisite workmanship ; and
to every body some mark of his princely distinction
; and so they were all sitting and hearing
music, and feasting off dishes of gold, and talking
of lovely things with low voices when suddenly
there came into the hall four enormous giants, in
the midst of whom was a lady, and behind the
lady there followed a cavalier. She was a very
lily of the field, and a rose of the garden, and a
morning-star ; in short, so beautiful that the like
had never been seen. There was Galena in
the hall ; there was Alda, the wife of Orlando ;
and Chalice, and Armelhna the kind-hearted, and
abundance of other ladies, all beautiful till she

" Con parler basso e bei ragionamenti.'*

made her appearance ; but after that they seemed
nothing. Every Christian knight turned his face
that way ; and not a Pagan remained on the floor,
but arose and got as near to her as he could ;
while she, with a cheerful sweetness, and a smile
fit to enamour a heart of stone, began speaking
the following words :

High-minded lord, the renown of your worthiness,
and the valour of these your knights,
which echoes from sea to sea, encourages me to
hope, that two pilgrims who have come from the
ends of the world to behold you, will not have encountered
their fatigue in vain. And to the end
that I may not hold your attention too long with
speaking, let me briefly say, that this knight here,
Uberto of the Lion, a prince renowned also for
his achievements, has been wrongfully driven from
out his dominions; and that I, who was driven
out with him, am his sister, whose name is Angelica.
Fame has told us of the jousting this day
appointed, and of the noble press of knights here
assembled, and how your generous natures care
not to win prizes of gold or jewels, or gifts of
cities, but only a wreath of roses ; and so the prince
my brother has come to prove his own valour, and
to say, that if any or all of your guests, whether
baptised or infidel, choose to meet him in the

joust, he will encounter them one by one, in the
green meadow without the walls, near the place
called the Horseback of Merlin, by the Fountain
of the Pine. And his conditions are these, — that
no knight who chances to be thrown shall have
license to renew the combat in any way whatsoever,
but remain a submissive prisoner in his
hands ; he, on the other hand, if himself be thrown,
agreeing to take his departure out of the country
with his giants, and to leave his sister, for prize,
in the hands of the conqueror."

Kneeling at the close of these words, the lady
awaited the answer of Charlemagne, and everybody
gazed on her with astonishment. Orlando
especially, more than all the rest, felt irresistibly
drawn towards her, so that his heart
trembled, and he changed countenance. But he
felt ashamed at the same time; and casting his
eyes down, he said to himself, " Ah, mad and
unworthy Orlando ! whither is thy soul being hurried?
I am drawn, and cannot say nay to what
draws me. I reckoned the whole world as nothing,
and now I am conquered by a girl. I cannot
get her sweet look out of my heart. My soul
seems to die within me, at the thought of being
without her. It is love that has seized me, and I
feel that nothing will set me free; — not strength,

nor courage, nor my own wisdom, nor that of any
adviser. I see the better part, and cleave to the
worse"!

Thus secretly in his heart did the frank and
noble Orlando lament over his new feelings ; and
no wonder; for every knight in the hall was enamoured
of the beautiful stranger, not excepting

^ Video melior, prologue, sc. Writers were now beginning
to pride themselves on their classical reading. The present occasion,
it must be owned, was a very good one for introducing the
passage frOm Horace. The previous words have an affecting ingenuousness
; and, indeed, the whole stanza is beautiful ;

lo non mi posse dal cor departure

La dolce vista del vis serene,
Perch' io mi sent senza lei noire,

E '1 spirto a poco a poco venir meno.
Or non mi vale fora, ne 1' audire

Contra d' amor, che m' ha gia post il freno ;
Ne mi giova saper, ne altrui consilio :
II meglio reggio, ed al reggio m' appiglio."

Alas ! I cannot, though I shut mine eyes,
Lose the sweet look of that delightful face ;

The very soul within me droops and dies.
To think that I may fail to gain her grace.

No strong limbs now, no valour, will suffice
To burst the spell that roots me to the place :

No, nor reflection, nor advice, nor force ;

I see the better part, and cleisp the worse.
C2

even old white-headed Duke Namo. Charlemagne
himself did not escape.

All stood for awhile in silence, lost in the delight
of looking at her. The fiery youth Ferragus
was the first to exhibit symptoms in his countenance
of uncontrollable passion. He refrained
with difficulty from going up to the giants, and
tearing her out of their keeping. Rinaldo also
turned as red as fire ; while his cousin Malagigi
the enchanter, who had discovered that the stranger
was not speaking truth, muttered softly, as he
looked at her, " Exquisite false creature ! I will
play thee such a trick for this, as will leave thee
no cause to boast of thy visit."

Charlemagne, to detain her as long as possible
before him, made a speech in answer, in which
he talked and looked, and looked and talked, till
there seemed no end of it. At length, however,
the challenge was accepted in all its forms; and
the lady quitted the hall with her brother and the
giants.

She had not yet passed the gates, when 
the enchanter consulted his books ; and that
no means might be wanting to complete the counteraction
of what he suspected, he summoned to
his aid three spirits out of the lower regions. But
how serious his look turned, how his very soul

within him was shaken, when he discovered that
the most dreadful disasters hung over Charles and
his court, and that the sister of the pretended
Uberto was daughter of King Galafron of Cathay,
a beauty accomplished in every species of enchantment,
and sent there by her father on purpose to
betray them all ! Her brother's name was not
Uberto, but Argalia. Galafron had given him a.
horse swifter than the wind, an enchanted sword,
a golden lance, also enchanted, which overthrew all
whom it touched and a ring of a virtue so extraordinary,
that if put into the mouth, it rendered
the person invisible, and if worn on the finger,
nullified every enchantment. But beyond even
all this, he gave him his sister for a companion ;
rightly judging, that every body that saw her
would fall into the proposal of the joust ; and
trusting that, at the close of it, she would bring
him the whole court of France into Cathay, prisoners
in her hands.

^ 'Apyvpeais \6yx''-^^^ I^^X^^f '^"* iravra KpaTrjcreLS.
Make war with silver spears, and you'll beat all."

The reader will note the allegory or not, as he pleases. It is a
very good allegory ; but allegory, by the due process of enchantment,
becomes matter of fact ; and it is pleasant to take it as
such.

Such, Malagigi discovered, was the plot of the
accursed infidel hound. King Galafron.^

Meantime the pretended Uberto had returned
to his station at the Horseback of Merlin. He
had had a beautiful pavilion pitched there ; and
under this pavilion he lay down awhile to refresh
himself with sleep. His sister Angelica lay down
also, but in the open air, under the great pine by
the fountain. The four giants kept watch : and
as she lay thus asleep, with her fair head on the
grass, she appeared like an angel come down from
heaven.

By this time Malagigi, borne by one of his
demons, had arrived in the same place. He saw
the beauty asleep by the flowery water, and the
four giants all wide awake ; and he said within
his teeth, — "Brute scoundrels, I will take everyone
of you into my net without a blow."

Malagigi took his book, and cast a spell out of
it; and in an instant the whole four giants were
buried in sleep. Then, drawing his sword, he
softly approached the young lady, intending to
despatch her as quickly : but seeing her look so
lovely as she slept, he paused, and considered
within himself, and resolved to detain her in the

^ ** Re Galafron, il maledetto cane."

same state by enchantment, so long as it should
please him. Laying down the naked sword in the
grass, he again took his book, and read and read
on, and still read on, and fancied he was locking
up her senses all the while in a sleep untameable.
But the ring of which I have spoken was on her
finger. She had borrowed it of her brother ; and
a superior power rendered all other magic of no
avail. A touch from Malagigi to prove the force
of his spell awoke her, to the magician's consternation,
with a great cry. She fled into the arms
of her brother, whom it aroused ; and, by the help
of his sister's knowledge of enchantment, Argalia
mastered and bound the magician. The book was
then turned against him, and the place was suddenly
filled with a crowd of his own demons, everyone
of them crying out to Angelica, " What commanded
thou ?"

Take this man," said Angelica, " and bear
him prisoner to the great city between Tartary
and India, where my father Galafron is lord.
Present him to him in my name, and say it was
I that took him ; and add, that having so taken
the master of the book, I care not for all the
other lords of the court of Charlemagne."

At the end of these words, and at one and the
same instant, the magician was conveyed to the

feet of Galafron in Cathay, and locked up in a
rock under the sea.

In due time the enamoured knights, according
to agreement, came to the spot, for the purpose of
jousting with the supposed Uberto, each anxious
to have the first encounter, particularly Orlando,
in order that he might not see the beauty carried
off* by another. But they were obliged to draw
lots ; and thirty other names appeared before his,
the first of which was that of Astolfo the Englishman.


Now Astolfo was son of the king of England ;
and as I said before, he was the handsomest man
in the world. He was also very rich and well
bred, and loved to dress well, and was as brave
as he was handsome ; but his success was not
always equal to his bravery. He had a trick
of being thrown from his horse, a failing which
he was accustomed to attribute to accident; and
then he would mount again, and be again thrown
from the saddle, in the boldest manner conceivable.


This gallant prince was habited, on the present
occasion, in arms worth a whole treasury. His
shield had a border of large pearls ; his mail was
of gold ; on his helmet was a ruby as big as a
chestnut: and his horse was covered with a cloth

all over golden leopards. ^ He issued to the combat,
looking at nobody and fearing nothing ; and
on his sounding the horn to battle, Argalia came
forth to meet him. After courteous salutations,
the two combatants rushed together ; but the moment
the Englishman was touched with the golden
lance, his legs flew over his head.

Cursed fortune !" cried he, as he lay on the
grass; " this is out of all calculation. But it was
entirely owing to the saddle. You can't but acknowledge,
that if I had kept my seat, the beautiful
lady would have been mine. But thus it is
when Fortune chooses to befriend infidels !"2

The lions in the shield of England were leopards in the
olden time," and it is understood, I believe, ought still to be
so, — as Napoleon, with an invidious pedantry, once permitted
himself to be angry enough to inform us.

2 The character of Astolfo, the germ of which is in our own
ancient British romances, appears to have been completed by the
lively invention of Boiardo, and is a curious epitome of almost all
which has been discerned in the travelled Englishmen by the envy
of poorer and the wit of livelier foreigners. He has the handsomeness
and ostentation of a Buckingham, the wealth of a Beckford,
the generosity of a Carlisle, the invincible pretensions of a
Crichton, the self-commits and bravery of a Digby, the lucklessness
of a Stuart, and the nonchalance " under difficulties" of
Milord W/iat-then" in Voltaire's Princess of Babylon, where
the noble traveller is discovered philosophically reading the newspaper
in his carriage after it was overturned. English beauty,

The four giants, who had by this time been
disenchanted out of their sleep by Angelica, took
up the English prince, and put him in the pavilion.
But when he was stripped of his armour,
he looked so handsome, that the lovely stranger
secretly took pity on him, and bade them shew
him all the courtesies that captivity allowed. He
was permitted to walk outside by the fountain ;
and Angelica, from a dark corner, looked at him
with admiration, as he walked up and down in the
moonlight. 1

The violent Ferragus had the next chance in
the encounter, and was thrown no less speedily
than Astolfo ; but he did not so easily put up
with the mischance. Crying out, " What are the
emperor's engagements to me ?" he rushed with

ever since the days of Pope Gregory, with his pun about Angles
and Angels, has been greatly admired in the south of Europe —
not a little, perhaps, on account of the general fairness of its complexion.
I once heard a fair-faced English gentleman, who would
have been thought rather effeminate looking at home, called an
Angel" by a lady in Genoa.

" Stave disciolto, senza guardia alcuna,

Ed intomo a la fonte sollazzava ;

Angelica nel hume de la luna,

Quanto potes nascosa, lo mirava "
There is something wonderfully soft and Iwiar in the liquid monotony
of the third line.

his sword against Argalia, who, being forced to
defend himself unexpectedly, dismounted and set
aside his lance, and got so much the worse of the
fight, that he listened to proposals of marriage
from Ferragus to his sister. The beauty, however,
not feeling an inclination to match with so
rough and savage-looking a person, was so dismayed
at the offer, that, hastily bidding her brother
meet her in the forest of Arden, she vanished
from the sight of both, by means of the enchanted
ring. Argalia, seeing this, took to his horse of
swiftness, and dashed away in the same direction ;
Ferragus, in distraction, pursued Argalia ; and
Astolfo, thus left to himself, took possession of
the golden lance, and again issued forth — not,
indeed, with quite his usual confidence of the
result, but determined to run all risks, in anything
that might ensue, for the sake of the emperor.
In fine, to cut this part of the history
short, Charlemagne, finding the lady and her brother
gone, ordered the joust to be restored to its
first intention ; and Astolfo, who was as ignorant
as the others of the treasure he possessed in the
enchanted lance, unhorsed all comers against him
like so many children, equally to their astonishment
and his own.

The Paladin Rinaldo now learnt the issue of

the fight between Ferragus and the stranger, and
galloped in a loving agony of pursuit after the
fair fugitive. Orlando learnt the disappearance
of Rinaldo, and, distracted with jealousy, pushed
forth in like manner ; and at length all three are
in the forest of Arden, hunting about for her who
is invisible.

Now in this forest were two enchanted waters,
the one a running stream, and the other a built
fountain ; the first caused every body who tasted
it to fall in love, and the other (so to speak) to fall
out of love; say, rather, to feel the love turned
into hate. To the latter of these two waters Ri-waldo
happened to come ; and being flushed with
heat and anxiety, he dismounted from his horse,
and quenched, in one cold draught, both his thirst
and his passion. So far from loving Angelica as
before, or holding her beauty of any account, he
became disgusted with its pursuit, nay, hated hei
from the bottom of his heart ; and so, in this new
state of mind, and with feelings of lofty contempt,
he remounted and rode away, and happened to
come on the bank of the running stream. There,
enticed by the beauty of the place, which was all
sweet meadow-ground and bowers of trees, he
again quitted his saddle, and, throwing himself oa
the ground, fell fast asleep.

Unfortunately for the proud beauty Angelica,
or rather in just punishment for her contempt, her
palfrey conducted her to this very place. The
water tempted her to drink, and, dismounting and
tying the animal to one of the trees, she did so,
and then cast her eyes on the sleeping Rinaldo.
Love instantly seized her, and she stood rooted to
the spot.

The meadow round about was all full of lilies
of the valley and wild roses. Angelica, not knowing
what to do, at length plucked a quantity of
these, and with her white hand she dropped them
on the face of the sleeper. He woke up ; and seeing
who it was, not only received her salutations
with a change of countenance, but remounting his
horse, galloped away through the thickest part of
the forest. In vain the beautiful creature followed
and called after him ; in vain asked him what she
had done to be so despised, and entreated him, at
any rate, to take care how he went so fast. Ri-waldo
disappeared, leaving her to wring her hands
in despair; and she returned in tears to the spot
on which she had found him sleeping. There, in
her turn, she herself lay down, pressing the spot
of earth on which he had lain ; and so, weeping
and lamenting, yet blessing every flower and bit of

grass that he had touched, fell asleep out of fatigue
and sorrow.

As Angelica thus lay, the good or bad fortune
of Orlando conducted him to the same place. The
attitude in which she was-sleeping was so lovely
that it is not even to be conceived, much less expressed.
The very grass seemed to flower on all
sides of her for joy ; and the stream, as it murmured
along, to go talking of loves Orlando
stood gazing like a man who had been transported
to another sphere. " Am I on earth," thought
he, " or am I in paradise ? Surely it is I myself
that am sleeping, and this is my dream."

But his dream was proved to be none, in a
manner which he little desired. Ferragus, who
had slain Argalia, came up raging with jealousy,
and a combat ensued which awoke the sleeper.
Terrified at what she beheld, she rushed to her

^ " La qual doria in otto tanto adamo,

Che penser non si puo, non ch' io lo scriva :
Area che V era a lei fiorisse inferno,
E d' amor rationale quelle riva."

Her posture, as she lay, was exquisite
Above all words — nay, thought itself above :
The grass seemed flowering round her in delight,
And the soft river murmuring of love.

palfrey ; and while the fighters were occupied with
one another, fled away through the forest.

Fast fled the beauty in the direction taken by
Rinaldo ; nor did she cease travelling, by one conveyance
or another, till she reached her own country,
whither she had sent Malagigi. Him she
freed from his prison, on condition that he would
employ his art for the purpose of bringing Rinaldo
to a palace of hers, which she possessed in an
island ; and accordingly Rinaldo was inveigled by
a spirit into an enchanted barque, which he found
on a sea-shore, and which conveyed him, without
any visible pilot, into Joyous Palace (for so the
island was called).

The whole island was a garden, fifteen miles in
extent. It was full of trees and lawns ; and on
the western side, close to the sea, was the palace,
built of a marble so clear and polished, that it
reflected the landscape round about. Rinaldo,
not knowing what to think of his strange conveyance,
lost no time in leaping to shore ; upon which
a lady made her appearance, who invited him
within. The house was a most beautiful house,
full of rooms adorned with azure and gold, and
with noble paintings ; and within as well as without
it were the loveliest flowers, the purest fountains,
and a fragrance fit to turn sorrow to joy.

The lady led the knight into an apartment painted
with stories, and opening to the garden through
pillars of crystal with golden capitals. Here he
found a bevy of ladies, three of whom were singing
in concert, while another played on some foreign
instrument of exquisite accord, and the rest
were dancing round about them. When the ladies
beheld him coming, they turned the dance into
a circuit round about himself; and then one of
them, in the sweetest manner, said, " Sir knight,
the tables are set, and the hour for the banquet is
come :" and with these words they all drew him,
still dancing, across the lawn in front of the apartment,
to a table that was spread with cloth of gold
and fine linen, under a bower of damask roses, by
the side of a fountain. ^

Four ladies were already seated there, who
rose and placed Rinaldo at their head, in a chair
set with pearls. And truly indeed was he astonished.
A repast ensued, consisting of viands the
most delicate, and wines as fragrant as they were
fine, drunk out of jewelled cups ; and when it
drew towards its conclusion, harps and lutes were
heard in the distance, and one of the ladies said in
the knight's ear, " This house, and all that you see
in it, are yours. For you alone was it built, and
^ Supremely elegant all this appears to me.

the builder is a queen ; and happy indeed must
you think yourself, for she loves you, and she is
the greatest beauty in the world. Her name is
Angelica."

The moment Rinaldo heard the name he so
detested, disgust and wretchedness fell upon his
heart, notwithstanding the joys around him. He
started up with a changed countenance, and, in
spite of all that the lady could say, broke off
across the garden, and never ceased hastening till
he reached the place where he landed. He would
have thrown himself into the sea, rather than
stay any longer in that island ; but the enchanted
barque was still on the shore. He sprang into
it, and attempted instantly to push off, for he still
saw nobody in it but himself; but the barque fora
while resisted his efforts ; till, on his feeling a
wish to drown himself, or to do any thing rather
than return to that detested house, it suddenly
loosed itself from its moorings, and dashed away
with him over the sea, as if in a fury.

All night did the pilotless barque dash on, till
it reached, in the morning, a distant shore covered
with a gloomy forest. Here Rinaldo, surrounded
by enchantments of a very different sort from
those which he had lately resisted, was entrapped
into a pit.

The pit belonged to a castle which was hung
with human heads, and painted red with blood ;
and as the Paladin was calling upon God to help
him, a hideous white-headed old woman, of a
spiteful countenance, made her appearance on the
edge of the pit, and told him that he must fight
with a monster born of Death and Desire.

Be it so," said the Paladin. " Let me but
remain armed as T am, and I fear nothing." For
Rinaldo had with him his renowned sword 


The old woman laughed in derision. Rinaldo
remained in the den all night, and next day was
taken to a place where a portcullis was lifted up,
and the monster rushed forth. He was a mixture
of hog and serpent, larger than an ox, and not to
be looked at without horror. He had eyes like a
traitor, the hands of a man, but clawed, a beard
dabbled with blood, a skin of coarse variegated
colours, too hard to be cut through, and two horns
on his temples, which he could turn on all sides of

^ Sometimes called in the romances Frusberta (query, from
fourbir, to burnish; oxfroisser, to crush). The meaning does
not seem to be known. I ought to have observed, in the notes
to Pulci, that the name of Orlando's sword, Durlindana (called
also Durindana, Diirandal, &c.), is understood to mean Hard-hitter.


him at his pleasure, and which were so sharp that
they cut like a sword.

Rising on his hind-legs, and opening a mouth
six palms in width, this horrible beast fell heavily
on Rinaldo, who was nevertheless quick enough
to give it a blow on the snout which increased its
fury. Returning the knight a tremendous cuff, it
seized his coat of mail between breast and shoulder,
and tore away a great strip of it down to the
girdle, leaving the skin bare. Every successive
rent and blow was of the like irresistible violence ;
and though the Paladin himself never fought with
more force and fury, he lost blood every instant.
The monster at length tearing his sword out of his
hand, the Paladin surely began to think that his
last hour was arrived.

Looking about to see what might possibly help
him, he observed overhead a beam sticking out of
a wall at the height of some ten feet. He took a
leap more than human ; and reaching the beam
with his hand, succeeded in flinging himself up
across it. Here he sat for hours, the furious
brute continually trying to reach him. Nighttime
then came on with a clear starry sky and
moonlight, and the Paladin could discern no way
of escaping, when he heard a sound of something,
he knew not what, coming through the air like a

VOL. II. D

bird. Suddenly a female figure stood on the end
of the beam, holding something in her hand towards
him, and speaking in a loving voice.

It vas Angelica, come v^^ith means for destroying
the monster, and carrying the knight away.

But the moment Rinaldo saw her, desperate
as seemed to be his condition, he renounced all
offers of her assistance ; and at length became so
exasperated with her good offices, especially when
she opened her arms and offered to bear him away
in them, that he threatened to cast himself down
to the monster if she did not go away.^

Angelica, saying that she would lose her life
rather than displease him, descended from the
beam ; and having given the monster a cake of
wax which fastened up his teeth, and then caught
and fixed him in a set of nooses she had brought
for that purpose, took her miserable departure.
Rinaldo upon this got down from the beam himself;
and having succeeded, though with the greatest
difficulty, in beating and squeezing the life out
of the monster, dealt such havoc among the people
of the castle who assailed him, that the horrible
old woman, whose crimes had made her the create

force of aversion was surely never better imagined than
in this scene oi the opened arms of beauty, and the knight's preference
of the most odious death.

ture's housekeeper, and led her to take delight in
its cruelty, threw herself headlong from a tower.
The Paladin then took his way forth, turning his
back on the castle and the sea-shore.

Angelica returned to the capital of her father's
dominion, Albracca ; and the pertinacity of others
in seeking her love being as great as that of hers
for Rinaldo, she found King Galafron, in a short
time, besieged there for her sake, by the fierce
Agrican, king of Tartary.

In a short time a jealous feud sprang up between
the loving friends Rinaldo and Orlando ;
and Angelica, torn with conflicting emotions, from
her dread on her father's account as well as her
own, and her aversion to every knight but her
detester, was at one time compelled to apply to
Orlando for assistance, and at another, being afraid
that he would have the better of Rinaldo in combat,
to send him away on a perilous adventure
elsewhere, with a promise of accepting his love
should he succeeds Orlando went, but not before
he had slain Agrican and delivered Albracca. Circumstances,
however, again took him with her to a
distance, as the reader will see, ere he could bring

^ Legalised, I presume, by a divorce from the hero's wife, the
fair Alda ; who, though she is generally designated by that epithet,
seems never to have had much of his attention.

her to perform her promise ; and the Paladins in
general having again been scattered abroad, it happened
that Rinaldo a second time found himself
in the forest of Arden ; and here, without expecting
it, he became an altered man ; for he now
tasted a very different stream from that which had
given him his hate for Angelica ; namely, the one
which had made her fall in love with himself.
He was led to do this by a very extraordinary adventure.


In the thick of the forest he had come upon
a mead full of flowers, in which there was a naked
youth, singing in the midst of three damsels, who
were naked also, and who were dancing roundabout
him. They had bunches of flowers in their
hands, and garlands on their heads ; and as they
were thus delighting themselves, with faces full of
love and joy, they suddenly changed countenance
on seeing Rinaldo. *' Behold," cried they, " the
traitor ! Behold him, villain that he is, and the
scorner of all delights ! He has fallen into the
net at last." With these words they fell upon him
with the flowers like so many furies; and tender
as such scourges might be thought, every blow
which the roses and violets gave him, every fresh
stroke of the lilies and the hyacinths, smote him
to the very heart, and filled his veins with fire.

The flowers in the hands of the nymphs being exhausted,
the youth gave him a blow on the helmet
with a tall garden-lily, which felled him to the
earth ; and so, taking him by the legs, and dragging
him over the grass, his conqueror went the
whole circuit of the mead with him, the nymphs
taking the very garlands off their heads, and again
scourging him with their white and red roses. ^

At the close of this discipline, which left him
more exhausted than twenty battles, his enemies
suddenly developed wings from their shoulders,
the feathers of which were of white and gold and
vermilion, every feather having an eye in it, not
like those in the peacock's feathers, but one full
of life and motion, being a female eye, lovely and
gracious. And with these wings they poised themselves
a little, and so sprung up to heaven. ^

The Paladin, more dead than alive, lay helpless
among the flowers, when a fourth nymph came
up to him, of inexpressible beauty. She told him
that he had grievously offended the naked youth,

1 This violent effect of weapons so extremely gentle is beautifully
conceived.

The *' female eye, lovely and gracious," is charmingly painted
per se : but of this otherwise thoroughly beautiful description T
must Venture to doubt, whether living eyes of any sort, instead of
those in the peacock's feathers, are in good taste. The imagination
revolts from life misplaced.

who was no other than Love himself; and added,
that his only remedy was to be penitent, and to
drink of the waters of a stream hard by, which he
would find running from the roots of an olive-tree
and a pine. With these words, she vanished in her
turn like the rest ; and Rinaldo, dragging himself
as well as he could to the olive and pine, stooped
down, and greedily drank of the water. Again
and again he drank, and wished still to be drinking,
for it took not only all pain out of his limbs,
but all hate and bitterness out of his soul, and
produced such a remorseful and doating memory
of Angelica, that he would fain have galloped
that instant to Cathay, and prostrated himself at
her feet. By degrees he knew the place ; and
looking round about him, and preparing to remount
his horse, he discerned a knight and a
lady in the distance. The knight was in a coat
of armour unknown to him, and the lady kneeling
and drinking at a fountain, which was the
one that had formerly quenched his own thirst ;
to wit, the Fountain of Disdain.

Alas ! it was Angelica herself ; and the knight
was Orlando. She had allowed him to bring her
into France, ostensibly for the purpose of wedding
him at the court of Charlemagne, whither the
hero's assistance had been called against Adamant

king of the Moors, but secretly with the object
of discovering Rinaldo. Rinaldo, behold ! is discovered;
but the fatal averse water has been
drunk, and Angelica now hates him in turn, as
cordially as he detested her. In vain he accosted
her in the humblest and most repentant manner,
calling himself the unworthiness of mankind, and
entreating to be allowed to love her. Orlando,
disclosing himself, fiercely interrupted him ; and
a combat so terrific ensued, that Angelica fled
away on her palfrey till she came to a large plain,
in which she beheld an army encamped.

The army was Charlemagne's, who had come
to meet Rodamonte, one of the vassals of adamant.
Angelica, in a tremble, related how she
had left the two Paladins fighting in the wood ;
and Charlemagne, who was delighted to find Orlando
so near him, proceeded thither with his
lords, and parting the combatants by his royal
authority, suppressed the dispute between them
for the present, by consigning the object of their
contention to the care of Namo duke of Bavaria,
with the understanding that she was to be the
prize of the warrior who should best deserve her
in the approaching battle with the infidels.

[This is the last we hear of Angelica in the

unfinished poem of Boiardo. For the close of
her history see its continuation by Ariosto in the
present volume.]

DEATH OF American.

D JJ

Agrican king of Tartary, in love with Angelica, and baffled by
the prowess of the unknown Orlando in his attempts to bring the
siege of Albracca to a favourable conclusion, entices him apart
from the battle into a wood, in the hope of killing him in single
combat. The combat is suspended by the arrival of night-time ;
and a conversation ensues between the warriors, which is furiously
interrupted by Agrican's discovery of his rival, and the latter's
refusal to renounce his love. Agrican is slain ; and in his dying
moments requests baptism at the hand of his conqueror, who, with
great tenderness, bestows it.

DEATH OF African,

The siege of Albracca was going on formidably
under the command of Agrican, and the city of
Galafron was threatened with the loss of the monarch's
daughter, Angelica, when Orlando, at his
earnest prayer, came to assist him, and changing at
once the whole course of the war, threw the enemy
in his turn into transports of anxiety. Wherever
the great Paladin came, pennon and standard fell
before him. Men were cut up and cloven down,
at every stroke of his sword ; and whereas the
Indians had been in full rout but a moment before,
and the Tartars ever on their flanks, Gala-from
himself being the swiftest among the spurred
away, it was now the Tartars that fled for their
lives ; for Orlando was there, and a band of fresh
knights were about him, and Agrican in vain attempted
to rally his troops. The Paladin kept
him constantly in his front, forcing him to attend
to nobody else.

The Tartar king, who cared not a button for
Galafron and all his army provided he could but
rid himself of this terrible knight (whom he guessed
at, but did not know), bethought him of a stratagem.
He turned his horse, and made a show of
flying in despair. Orlando dashed after him, as he
desired; and Agrican fled till he reached a green
place in a wood, with a fountain in it.

The place was beautiful, and the Tartar dismounted
to refresh himself at the fountain, but
without taking off" his helmet, or laying aside any
of his armour. Orlando was quickly at his back,
crying out, " So bold, and yet such a fugitive !
How could you fly from a single arm, and yet
think to escape ? When a man can die with
honour, he should be glad to die ; for he may live
and fare worse. He may get death and infamy
together."

The Tartar king had leaped on his saddle the
moment he saw his enemy ; and when the Paladin
had done speaking, he said in a mild voice, " Without
doubt you are the best knight I ever encountered
; and fain would I leave you untouched for
your own sake, if you would cease to hinder me

^ " Che tutti inside, e '1 suo Re Galafrone,
Non li stigmata quanto un vil bottom."

from rallying my people. I pretended to fly, in
order to bring you out of the field. If you insist
upon fighting, I must needs fight and slay you ;
but I call the sun in the heavens to witness, that
I would rather not. I should be very sorry for
your death."

The County Orlando felt pity for so much gallantry
; and he said, " The nobler you shew yourself,
the more it grieves me to think, that in dying
without a knowledge of the true faith, you will be
lost in the other world. Let me advise you to
save body and soul at once. Receive baptism, and
go your way in peace."

Agrican looked him in the face, and replied,
I suspect you to be the Paladin Orlando. If
you are, I would not lose this opportunity of
fighting with you, to be king of Paradise. Talk
to me no more about your things of the otherworld
; for you will preach in vain. Each of us
for himself, and let the sword be umpire."

No sooner said than done. The Tartar drew
his sword, boldly advancing upon Orlando ; and a
cut and thrust fight began, so long and so terrible,
each warrior being a miracle of prowess, that the
story says it lasted from noon till night. Orlando
then, seeing the stars come out, was the first to
propose a respite.

What are we to do," said he, " now that
daylight has left us ?"

Agrican answered readily enough, " Let us repose
in this meadow, and renew the combat at
dawn."

The repose was taken accordingly. Each tied
up his horse, and reclined himself on the grass,
not far from one another, just as if they had been
friends, — Orlando by the fountain, Agrican beneath
a pine. It was a beautiful clear night ; and
as they talked together, before addressing themselves
to sleep, the champion of Christendom, looking
up at the firmament, said, " That is a fine piece
of workmanship, that starry spectacle. God made
it all, — that moon of silver, and those stars of gold,
and the light of day and the sun, — all for the sake
of human kind."

You wish, I see, to talk of matters of faith,"
said the Tartar. " Now I may as well tell you at
once, that I have no sort of skill in such matters,
nor learning of any kind. I never could learn
anything when I was a boy. I hated it so, that
I broke the man's head who was commissioned to
teach me ; and it produced such an effect on others,
that nobody ever afterwards dared so much as shew
me a book. My boyhood was therefore passed as
it should be, in horsemanship, and hunting, and

learning to fight. What is the good of a gentleman's
poring all day over a book ? Prowess to the
knight, and prattle to the clergyman. That is my
giotto."

I acknowledge," returned Orlando, " that arms
are the first consideration of a gentleman ; but not
at all that he does himself dishonour by knowledge.
On the contrary, knowledge is as great
an embellishment of the rest of his attainments,
as the flowers are to the meadow before us ; and
as to the knowledge of his Maker, the man that
is without it is no better than a stock or a stone,
or a brute beast. Neither, without study, can he
reach anything like a due sense of the depth and
divineness of the contemplation."

Learned or not learned," said Agrican, " you
might shew yourself better bred than by endeavouring
to make me talk on a subject on which you
have me at a disadvantage. I have frankly told
you what sort of person I am ; and I dare say, that
you for your part are very learned and wise. You
will therefore permit me, if you say anything more
of such things, to make you no answer. If you
choose to sleep, I wish you good night ; but if you
prefer talking, I recommend you to talk of fighting,
or of fair ladies. And, by the way, pray tell
me — are you, or are you not, may I ask, that Orlando

who makes such a noise in the world ? And
what is it, pray, brings you into these parts ? Were
you ever in love ? I suppose you must have been ;
for to be a knight, and never to have been in love,
would be like being a man with no heart in his
breast."

The County replied, " Orlando I am, and in
love I am.^ Love has made me abandon everything,
and brought me into these distant regions ;
and to tell you all in one word, my heart is in the
hands of the daughter of King Galafron. You
have come against him with fire and sword, to get
possession of his castles and his dominions ; and I
have come to help him, for no object in the world
but to please his daughter, and win her beautiful
hand. I care for nothing else in existence."

Now when the Tartar king Agrican heard his
antagonist speak in this manner, and knew him to
be indeed Orlando, and to be in love with Angelica,
his face changed colour for grief and jealousy,
though it could not be seen for the darkness. His
heart began beating with such violence, that he
felt as if he should have died. " Well," said he
to Orlando, " we are to fight when it is daylight,
and one or the other is to be left here, dead on

Berni has here introduced the touching words, " Would I
were not so 1" (Cost non foss' io !)

the ground. I have a proposal to make to you ;
nay, an entreaty. My love is so excessive for the
same lady, that I beg you to leave her to me.
I will owe you my thanks, and give up the fight
myself. I cannot bear that any one else should
love her, and I live to see it. Why, therefore,
should either of us perish ? Give her up. Nota
soul shall know it.''^

I never yet," answered Orlando, " made a
promise which I did not keep ; and, nevertheless,
I own to you, that were I to make a promise like
that, and even swear to keep it, I should not.
You might as well ask me to tear away the limbs
from my body, and the eyes out of my head. I
could as soon live without breath itself, as cease
loving Angelica."

Agrican had scarcely patience enough to let the
speaker finish, ere he leaped furiously on horseback,
though it was midnight. " Quit her," said
he, " or die !"

Orlando, seeing the infidel getting up, and not
being sure that he would not add treachery to
fierceness, had been hardly less quick in mounting
for the combat. " Never !" exclaimed he. " I

This proposal is in the highest ingenuous spirit of the absurd
wilfulness of passion, thinking that every thing is to give way before
it, not excepting the same identical wishes in other people.

never could have quitted her if I would ; and now
I wouldn't if I could. You must seek her by-other
means than these."

Fiercely dashed their horses together, in the
night-time, on the green mead. Despiteful and
terrible were the blows they gave and took by the
moonlight. There was no need of their looking
out for one another, night-time though it was.
Their business was to take as sharp heed of every
movement, as if it had been noon-day. ^

Agrican fought in a rage : Orlando was cooler.
And now the struggle had lasted more than five
hours, and dawn began to be visible, when the
Tartar king, furious to find so much trouble given
him, dealt his enemy a blow sharp and violent beyond
conception. It cut the shield in two, as if
it had been a cheesecake ; and though blood could
not be drawn from Orlando, because he was fated,
it shook and bruised him, as if it had started every
joint in his body.

His body only, however ; not a particle of his
soul. So dreadful was the blow which the Paladin
gave in return, that not only shield, but every bit
of mail on the body of Agrican, was broken in
pieces, and three of his left ribs cut asunder.

1 Very fine all this, I think.

The Tartar, roaring like a lion, raised his sword
with still greater vehemence than before, and dealt
a blow on the Paladin's helmet, such as he had
never yet received from mortal man. For a moment
it took away his senses. His sight failed ;
his ears tinkled ; his frightened horse turned about
to fly ; and he was falling from the saddle, when
the very action of falling jerked his head upwards,
and with the jerk he regained his recollection.

O my God I" thought he, " what a shame is
this ! how shall I ever again dare to face Angelica !
I have been fighting, hour after hour, with this
man, and he is but one, and I call myself Orlando.
If the combat last any longer, I will bury myself
in a monastery, and never look on sword again."

Orlando muttered with his lips closed and
his teeth ground together; and you might have
thought that fire instead of breath came out of his
nose and mouth. He raised his sword Durindana
with both his hands, and sent it down so tremendously
on Agrican's left shoulder, that it cut
through breast-plate and belly-piece down to the
very haunch ; nay, crushed the saddle-bow, though
it was made of bone and iron, and felled man and
horse to the earth. From shoulder to hip was
Agrican cut through his weary soul, and he turned
as white as ashes, and felt death upon him. He

called Orlando to come close to him with a gentle
voice, and said, as well as he could, " I believe in
Him who died on the Cross. Baptise me, I pray
thee, with the fountain, before my senses are gone.
I have lived an evil life, but need not be rebellious
to God in death also. May He who came to save
all the rest of the world, save me ! He is a God
of great mercy."

And he shed tears, did that king, though he
had been so lofty and fierce.

Orlando dismounted quickly, with his own face
in tears. He gathered the king tenderly in his
arms, and took and laid him by the fountain, on a
marble cirque which it had ; and then he wept in
concert with him heartily, and asked his pardon,
and so baptised him in the water of the fountain,
and knelt and prayed to God for him with
joined hands.

He then paused and looked at him ; and when
he perceived his countenance changed, and that his
whole person was cold, he left him there on the
marble cirque by the fountain, all armed as he was,
with the sword by his side, and the crown upon
his head.

I think I may anticipate the warm admiration of the reader
for the whole of this beautiful episode, particularly its close. ** I

think," says Panizzi, " that Tasso had this passage particularly
in dew when he wrote the duel of Clorinda and Tancredii, and her
conversion and baptism before dying. The whole passage, from
stanza xii. (where Agrican receives his mortal blow) to this, is
beautiful; and the delicate proceeding of Orlando in leaving
Agrican's body armed, even with the sword in his hand, is in
the noblest spirit of chivalry." — Edition of Boiardo and Ariosto,
vol. iii. page 357.

The reader will find the original in the Appendix No. I.

In the course of the poem (canto xix. stanza xxvi.) a knight,
with the same noble delicacy, who is in distress for a set of arms,
borrows those belonging to the dead body, with many excuses, and
a kiss on its face.

A FAIRY Love-tale.

Argument.

Prasildo, a nobleman of Babylon, to his great anguish, falls in
love with his friend's wife, Tisbina ; and being overheard by her
and her husband threatening to kill himself, the lady, hoping to
divert him from his passion by time and absence, promises to
return it on condition of his performing a distant and perilous
adventure. He performs the adventure ; and the husband and
wife, supposing that there is no other way of her escaping the
consequences, resolve to take poison ; after which the lady goes
to Prasildo's house, and informs him of their having done so.
Prasildo resolves to die with them ; but hearing, in the mean time,
that the apothecary had given them a drink that was harmless, he
goes and tells them of their good fortune ; upon which the husband
is so struck with his generosity, that he voluntarily quits Babylon
for life, and the lady marries the lover. The new husband subsequently
hears that his friend's life is in danger, and quits the
wife to go and deliver him from it at the risk of his own, which
he does.

This story, which has resemblances to it in Boccaccio and
Chaucer, is told to Rinaldo while riding through a wood in Asia,
with a damsel behind him on the same horse. He has engaged to
combat in her behalf with a band of knights ; and the lady relates
it to beguile the way.

The reader is to bear in mind, that the age of chivalry took
delight in mooting points of love and friendship, such as in after-times
would have been out of the question ; and that the parties in
this story are Mahometanss, with whom divorce was an easy thing,
and caused no scandal.

Iroldo, a knight of Babylon, had to wife a lady
of the name of Tisbina, whom he loved with a passion
equal to that of Tristan for Iseult ;^ and she
returned his love with such fondness, that her
thoughts were occupied with him from morning
till night. Among other pleasant circumstances
of their position, they had a neighbour who was
accounted the greatest nobleman in the city ;
and he deserved his credit, for he spent his great
riches in doing nothing but honour to his rank.
He was pleasant in company, formidable in battle,
full of grace in love ; an open-hearted, accomplished
gentleman.

This personage, whose name was Prasildo,
happened to be of a party one day with Tisbina,
who were amusing themselves in a garden, with a
game in which the players knelt down with their

^ The hero and heroine of the famous romance of Tristan de
Leonora.

VOL. II. E

faces bent on one another's laps, and guessed who
it was that struck them. The turn came to himself,
and he knelt down to the lap of Tisbina ; but
no sooner was he there, than he experienced feelings
he had never dreamt of; and instead of trying
to guess correctly, took all the pains he could to
remain in the same position.

These feelings pursued him all the rest of the
day, and still more closely at night. He did
nothing but think and sigh, and find the soft feathers
harder than any stone. Nor did he get
better as time advanced. His once favourite pastime
of hunting now ceased to afford him any
delight. Nothing pleased him but to be giving
dinners and balls, to make verses and sing them
to his lute, and to joust and tourney in the eyes
of his love, dressed in the most sumptuous apparel.
But above all, gentle and graceful as he had been
before, he now became still more gentle and graceful
— for good qualities are always increased when
a man is in love. Never in my life did I know
them turn to ill in that case. So, in Prasildo's,
you may guess what a super-excellent person he
became.

The passion which had thus taken possession
of this gentleman was not lost upon the lady for
want of her knowing it. A mutual acquaintance

was always talking to lier on the subject, but to
no purpose ; she never relaxed her pride and dignity
for a moment. The lover at last fell ill ; he
fairly wasted away ; and was so unhappy, that he
gave up all his feasting and entertainments. The
only pleasure he took was in a solitary wood, in
which he used to plunge himself in order to give
way to his grief and lamentations.

It happened one day, early in the morning,
while he was thus occupied, that Iroldo came into
the wood to amuse himself with bird-catching.
He had Tisbina with him ; and as they were coming
along, they overheard their neighbour during
one of his paroxysms, and stopped to listen to
what he said.

Hear me," exclaimed he, " ye flowers and
ye woods. Hear to what a pass of wretchedness
I am come, since that cruel one will hear me not.
Hear, O sun that hast taken away the night from
the heavens, and you, ye stars, and thou the departing
moon, hear the voice of my grief for the
last time, for exist I can no longer; my death is
the only way left me to gratify that proud beauty,
to whom it has pleased Heaven to give a cruel
heart with a merciful countenance. Fain would
I have died in her presence. It would have comforted
me to see her pleased even with that proof

of my love. But I pray, nevertheless, that she
may never know it ; since, cruel as she is, she
might blame herself for having shewn a scorn so
extreme ; and I love her so, I would not have her
pained for all her cruelty. Surely I shall love her
even in my grave."

With these words, turning pale with his own
mortal resolution, Prasildo drew his sword, and
pronouncing the name of Tisbina more than once
with a loving voice, as though its very sound would
be sufficient to waft him to Paradise, was about to
plunge the steel into his bosom, when the lady
herself, by leave of her husband, whose manly
visage was all in tears for pity, stood suddenly
before him.

Prasildo," said she, " if you love me, listen
to me. You have often told me that you do so.
Now prove it. I happen to be threatened with
nothing less than the loss of life and honour.
Nothing short of such a calamity could have induced
me to beg of you the service I am going
to request; since there is no greater shame in
the world than to ask favours from those to whom
we have refused them. But I now promise you,
that if you do what I desire, your love shall be
returned. I give you my word for it. I give
you my honour. On the other side of the wilds

of Barbary is a garden which has a wall of iron.
It has four gates. Life itself keeps one ; Death
another ; Poverty the third ; the fairy of Riches
the fourth. He who goes in at one gate must
go out at the other opposite ; and in the midst
of the garden is a tree, tall as the reach of an
arrow, which produces pearls for blossoms. It
is called the Tree of Wealth, and has fruit of
emeralds and boughs of gold. I must have a
bough of that tree, or suffer the most painful
consequences. Now, then, if you love me, I
say, prove it. Prove it, and most assuredly I
shall love you in turn, better than ever you
loved myself."

What need of saying that Prasildo, with haste
and joy, undertook to do all that she required ?
If she had asked the sun and stars, and the whole
universe, he would have promised them. Quitting
her in spite of his love, he set out on the journey
without delay, only dressing himself before he left
the city in the habit of a pilgrim.

Now you must know, that Iroldo and his lady
had set Prasildo on that adventure, in the hope
that the great distance which he would have to
travel, and the change which it might assist time
to produce, would deliver him from his passion.
At all events, in case this good end was not effected

before he arrived at the garden, they counted to
a certainty on his getting rid of it when he did ;
because the fairy of that garden, which was called
the Garden of Medusa, was of such a nature, that
whosoever did but look on her countenance forgot
the reason for his going thither; and whoever
saluted, touched, and sat down to converse by her
side, forgot all that had ever occurred in his lifetime.


Away, however, on his steed went our bold
lover ; all alone, or rather with Love for his companion
; and so, riding hard till he came to the
Red Sea, he took ship, and journeyed through
Egypt, and came to the mountains of Barca, where
he overtook an old grey-headed palmer.

Prasildo told the palmer the reason of his
coming, and the palmer told him what the reader
has heard about the garden ; adding, that he must
enter by the gate of Poverty, and take no arms or
armour with him, excepting a looking-glass for a
shield, in which the fairy might behold her beauty.
The old man gave him other directions necessary
for his passing out of the gate of Riches ; and
Prasildo, thanking him, went on, and in thirty
days found himself entering the garden with the
greatest ease, by the gate of Poverty.

The garden looked like a Paradise, it was so

full of beautiful trees, and flowers, and fresh grass.
Prasildo took care to hold the shield over his eyes,
that he might avoid seeing the fairy Medusa ; and
in this manner, guarding his approach, he arrived
at the Golden Tree. The fairy, who was reclining
against the trunk of it, looked up, and saw herself
in the glass. Wonderful was the effect on her.
Instead of her own white-wandered blooming face,
she beheld that of a dreadful serpent. The spectacle
made her take to flight in terror; and the
lover, finding his object so far gained, looked
freely at the tree, and climbed it, and bore away
a bough. 1

With this he proceeded to the gate of Riches.
It was all of loadstone, and opened with a great
noise. But he passed through it happily, for he
made the fairy who kept it a present of half the
bough ; and so he issued forth out of the garden,
with indescribable joy.

Behold our loving adventurer now on his road

** Mr. Rose observes, that Medusa may be designed by
Boiardo as the ' type of conscience;' and he is confirmed in his
opinion by the circumstance mentioned in this canto (12, lib. i.
Stan. 39) of Medusa not being able to contemplate the reflection
of her own hideous appearance, though beautiful in the sight of
others. I fully agree with him." — Panizzi, ut sup., vol. iii.
p. 333.

home. Every step of the way appeared to him a
thousand. He took the road of Nubia to shorten
the journey; crossed the Arabian Gulf with a
breeze in his favour; and travelling by night as
well as by day, arrived one fine morning in
Babylon.

No sooner was he there, than he sent to tell
the object of his passion how fortunate he had
been. He begged her to name her own place and
time for receiving the bough at his hands, taking
care to remind her of her promise ; and he could
not help adding, that he should die if she broke
it.

Terrible was the grief of Tisbina at this 
news. She threw herself on her couch
in despair, and bewailed the hour she was born.
"What on earth am I to do?" cried the wretched
lady ; " death itself is no remedy for a case like
this, since it is only another mode of breaking my
word. To think that Prasildo should return from
the garden of Medusa ! who could have supposed
it possible ? And yet, in truth, what a fool I was
to suppose any thing impossible to love! O my
husband! little didst thou think what thou thyself
advised me to promise !"

The husband was coming that moment towards
the room; and overhearing his wife grieving in

J

this distracted manner, he entered and clasped her
in his arms. On learning the cause of her affliction,
he felt as though he should have died with
her on the spot.

Alas !" cried he, " that it should be possible
for me to be miserable while I am so dear to your
heart. But you know, O my soul! that when
love and jealousy come together, the torment is
the greatest in the world. Myself — myself, alas !
caused the mischief, and myself alone ought to
suffer for it. You must keep your promise. You
must abide by the word you have given, especially
to one who has undergone so much to perform
what you asked him. Sweet face, you must.
But oh! see him not till after I am dead. Let
Fortune do with me what she pleases, so that I be
saved from a disgrace like that. It will be a comfort
to me in death to think that I alone, while
I was on earth, enjoyed the fond looking of that
lovely face. Nay," concluded the wretched husband,
" I feel as though I should die over again,
if I could call to mind in my grave how you
were taken from me."

Iroldo became dumb for anguish. It seemed

to him as if his very heart had been taken out of

his breast. Nor was Tisbina less miserable. She

was as pale as death, and could hardly speak to

e2

him, or bear to look at him. At length turning
her eyes upon him, she said, " And do you believe
I could make my poor sorry case out in this world
without Iroldo ? Can he bear, himself, to think of
leaving his Tisbina ? he who has so often said, that
if he possessed heaven itself, he should not think
it heaven without her? O dearest husband, there
is a way to make death not bitter to either of
us. It is to die together. I must only exist
long enough to see Prasildo ! Death, alas ! is in
that thought ; but the same death will release us.
It need not even be a hard death, saving our
misery. There are poisons so gentle in their
deadliness, that we need but faint away into sleep,
and so, in the course of a few hours, be delivered.
Our misery and our folly will then alike
be ended."

Iroldo assenting, clasped his wife in distraction;
and for a long time they remained in the
same posture, half stifled with grief, and bathing
one another's cheeks with their tears. Afterwards
they sent quietly for the poison ; and the apothecary
made up a preparation in a cup, without asking
any questions ; and so the husband and wife
took it. Iroldo drank first, and then endeavoured
to give the cup to his wife, uttering not a word,
and trembling in every limb ; not because he was

afraid of death, but because he could not bear
to ask her to share it. At length, turning away
his face and looking down, he held the cup towards
her, and she took it with a chilled heart
and trembling hand, and drank the remainder
to the dregs. Iroldo then covered his face and
head, not daring to see her depart for the house
of Prasildo ; and Tisbina, with pangs bitterer than
death, left him in solitude.

Tisbina, accompanied by a servant, went to
Prasildo, who could scarcely believe his ears when
he heard that she was at the door requesting to
speak with him. He hastened down to shew her
all honour, leading her from the door into a room
by themselves; and when he found her in tears,
addressed her in the most considerate and subdued,
yet still not unhappy manner, taking her
confusion for bashfulness, and never dreaming
what a tragedy had been meditated.

Finding at length that her grief was not to be
done away, he conjured her by what she held
dearest on earth to let him know the cause of it ;
adding, that he could still die for her sake, if his
death would do her any service. Tisbina spoke
at these words ; and Prasildo then heard what he
did not wish to hear. " T am in your hands,"
answered she, " while I am yet alive. I am bound

to my word, but I cannot survive the dishonour
which it costs me, nor, above all, the loss of the
husband of my heart. You also, to whose eyes I
have been so welcome, must be prepared for my
disappearance from the earth. Had my affections
not belonged to another, ungentle would have
been my heart not to have loved yourself, who
are so capable of loving; but (as you must well
know) to love two at once is neither fitting nor
in one's power. It was for that reason I never
loved you, baron ; I was only touched with compassion
for you ; and hence the miseries of us
all. Before this day closes, I shall have learnt
the taste of death," And without further preface
she disclosed to him how she and her husband
had taken poison,

Prasildo was struck dumb with horror. He
had thought his felicity at hand, and was at the
same instant to behold it gone for ever. She
who was rooted in his heart, she who carried his
life in her sweet looks, even she was sitting there
before him, already, so to speak, dead.

It has pleased neither Heaven nor you, Tis-bin,"
exclaimed the unhappy young man, " to
put my best feelings to the proof. Often have
two lovers perished for love ; the world will now
behold a sacrifice of three. Oh, why did you not



make a request to me in your turn, and ask me to
free you from your promise ? You say you took
pity on me ! Alas, cruel one, confess that you
have killed yourself, in order to kill me. Yet
why? Never did I think of giving you displeasure
; and I now do what I would have done at
any time to prevent it, I absolve you from your
oath. Stay, or go this instant, as it seems best
to you."

A stronger feeling than compassion moved the
heart of Tisbina at these words. " This indeed,"
replied she, " I feel to be noble ; and truly could
I also now die to save you. But life is flitting ;
and how may I prove my regard ?"

Prasildo, who had in good earnest resolved
that three instead of two should perish, experienced
such anguish at the extraordinary position
in which he found all three, that even her sweet
words came but dimly to his ears. He stood like
a man stupefied ; then begged of her to give him
but one kiss, and so took his leave without further
ado, only intimating that her way out of the
house lay before her. As he spake, he removed
himself from her sight.

Tisbina reached home. She found her husband
with his head covered up as she left him;
but when she recounted what had passed, and the

courtesy of Prasildo, and how he had exacted
from her but a single kiss, Iroldo got up, and
removed the covering from his face, and then
clasping his hands, and raising it to heaven, he
knelt with grateful humility, and prayed God to
give pardon to himself, and reward to his neighbour.
But before he had ended, Tisbina sunk on
the floor in a swoon. Her weaker frame was the
first to undergo the effects of what she had taken.
Iroldo felt icy chill to see her, albeit she seemed
to sleep sweetly. Her aspect was not at all like
death. He taxed Heaven with cruelty for treating
two loving hearts so hardly, and cried out against
Fortune, and life, and Love itself.

Nor was Prasildo happier in his chamber. He
also exclaimed against the bitter tyrant " whom
men call Love;" and protested, that he would
gladly encounter any fate, to be delivered from
the worse evils of his false and cruel ascendency.

But his lamentations were interrupted. The
apothecary who sold the potion to the husband
and wife was at the door below, requesting to
speak with him. The servants at first had refused
to carry the message ; but the old man persisting,
and saying it was a matter of life and death,
entrance for him into his master's chamber was
obtained.

Noble sir," said the apothecary, " I have
always held you in love and reverence. I have
unfortunately reason to fear that somebody is desiring
your death. This morning a handmaiden
of the lady Tisbina applied to me for a secret
poison ; and just now it was told me, that the lady
herself had been at this house. I am old, sir, and
you are young ; and I warn you against the violence
and jealousies of womankind. Talk of their
flames of love ! Satan himself burn them, say I,
for they are fit for nothing better. Do not be too
much alarmed, however, this time : for in truth I
gave the young woman nothing of the sort that
she asked for, but only a draught so innocent, that
if you have taken it, it will cost you but four or
five hours' sleep. So, in God's name, give up the
whole foolish sex ; for you may depend on it, that
in this city of ours there are ninety-nine wicked
ones among them to one good."

You may guess how Prasildo's heart revived
at these words. Truly might he be compared to
flowers in sunshine after rain ; he rejoiced through
all his being, and displayed again a cheerful countenance.
Hastily thanking the old man, he lost no
time in repairing to the house of his neighbours,
and telling them of their safety : and you may
guess how the like joy was theirs.

But behold a wonder! Iroldo was so struck
with the generosity of his neighbour's conduct
throughout the whole of this extraordinary affair,
that nothing would content his grateful though
ever-grieving heart, but he must fairly give up
Tisbina after all. Prasildo, to do him justice, resisted
the proposition as stoutly as he could ; buta
man's powers are ill seconded by an unwilling
heart ; and though the contest was long and handsome,
as is customary between generous natures,
the husband adhered firmly to his intention. In
short, he abruptly quitted the city, declaring that
he would never again see it, and so left his wife
to the lover. And I must add (concluded the fair
lady who was telling the story to Rinaldo), that
although Tisbina took his departure greatly to
heart, and sometimes felt as if she should die at
the thoughts of it, yet since he persisted in staying
away, and there appeared no chance of his ever
doing otherwise, she did, as in that case we should
all do, we at least that are young and kind, and
took the handsome Prasildo for second spouse. ^

^ '* Tisbina," says Panizzi, in a note on this passage, "very
wisely acted like Emilia (in Chaucer), who, when she saw she
could not marry Arcita, because he was killed, thought of marrying
Anemone, rather than * be a may den all hire lys.' It is to
be observed, that although she regretted very much what had happened,

and even fainted away, she did not, however, stand on
ceremonies, as the poet says in the next stanza, but yielded immediately,
and married Prasildo. This, at first, I thought to be
somewhat inconsistent ; but on consideration I found I was wrong.
Tisbina was wrong ; because, having lost Iroldo, she did not
know what Prasildo would do ; but so soon as the latter offered
to fill up the place, she nobly and magnanimously resigned herself
to her fate"— ?7^ sup., vol. iii. p. 336.

It might be thought inconsistent in Tisbina, notwithstanding
Mr. Panizzi's pleasantry, to be so willing to take another husband,
after having poisoned herself for the first ; but she seems
intended by the poet to exhibit a character of impulse in contradistinction
to permanency of sentiment. She cannot help shewing
pity for Prasildo ; she cannot help poisoning herself for her husband
; and she cannot help taking his friend, when she has lost
him. Nor must it be forgotten, that the husband was the first
to break the tie. We respect him more than we do her, because
he was capable of greater self-denial ; but if he himself preferred
his friend to his love, we can hardly blame her (custom apart)
for following the example.

The conclusion of this part of the history of
Iroldo and Prasildo was scarcely out of the lady's
mouth, when a tremendous voice was heard among
the trees, and Rinaldo found himself confronting a
giant of a frightful aspect, who with a griffin on
each side of him was guarding a cavern that contained
the enchanted horse which had belonged
to the brother of Angelica. A combat ensued ;
and after winning the horse, and subsequently
losing the company of the lady, the Paladin, in
the course of his adventures, came upon a knight
who lay lamenting in a green place by a fountain.
The knight heeding nothing but his grief, did not
perceive the new comer, who for some time remained
looking at him in silence, till, desirous to
know the cause of his sorrow, he dismounted from
his horse, and courteously begged to be informed
of it. The stranger in his turn looked a little
while in silence at Rinaldo, and then told him he
had resolved to die, in order to be rid of a life of
misery. And yet, he added, it was not his own
lot which grieved him, so much as that of a noble

i

i

friend who would die at the same time, and who
had nobody to help him.

The knight, who was no other than Tisbina's
husband Iroldo, then briefly related the events
which the reader has heard, and proceeded to state
how he had traversed the world ever since for two
years, when it was his misfortune to arrive in the
territories of the enchantress Faltering, whose custom
it was to detain foreigners in prison, and daily
give a couple of them (a lady and a cavalier) for
food to a serpent which kept the entrance of her
enchanted garden. To this serpent he himself
was destined to be sacrificed, when Prasildo, the
possessor of his wife Tisbina, hearing of his peril,
set out instantly from Babylon, and rode night
and day till he came to the abode of the enchantress,
determined that nothing should hinder him
from doing his utmost to save the life of a friend
so generous. Save it he did, and that by a generosity
no less devoted; for having attempted in
vain to bribe the keeper of the prison, he succeeded
in prevailing on the man to let him substitute
himself for his friend ; and he was that
very day, perhaps that very moment, preparing for
the dreadful death to which he would speedily
be brought.

I will not survive such a friend," concluded

Iroldo. " I know I shall contend with his warders
to no purpose ; but let the wretches come, if they
will, by thousands ; I shall fight them to the last
gasp. One comfort in death, one joy I shall at all
events experience. I shall be with Prasildo in the
other world. And yet when I think what sort of
death he must endure, even the release from my
own miseries afflicts me, since it will not prevent
him from undergoing that horror."

The Paladin shed tears to hear of a case so
piteous and affectionate, and in a tone of encouragement
offered his services towards the rescue of
his friend. Iroldo looked at him in astonishment,
but sighed and said, " Ah, sir, I thank you withall
my heart, and you are doubtless a most noble
cavalier, to be so fearless and good-hearted; but
what right have I to bring you to destruction for
no reason and to no purpose ? There is not a man
on earth but Orlando himself, or his cousin Ri-waldo,
who could possibly do us any good; and
so I beg you to accept my thanks and depart in
safety, and may God reward you."

It is true," replied the Paladin, " I am not
Orlando ; and yet, for all that, I doubt not to be
able to effect what I propose. Nor do I offer my
assistance out of desire of glory, or of thanks, or
return of any kind; except indeed, that if two

such unparalleled friends could admit me to be a
third, I should hold myself a happy man. What!
you have given up the woman of your heart, and
deprived yourself of all joy and comfort; and your
friend, on the other hand, has become a prisoner
and devoted to death, for your sake ; and can I be
expected to leave two such friends in a jeopardy
so monstrous, and not do all in my power to save
them ? I would rather die first myself, and on
your own principle ; I mean, in order to go with
you into a better world."

While they were talking in this manner, a
great ill-looking rabble, upwards of a thousand
strong, made their appearance, carrying a banner,
and bringing forth two prisoners to die. The
wretches were armed after their disorderly fashion ;
and the prisoners each tied upon a horse. One
of these hapless persons too surely was Prasildo ;
and the other turned out to be the damsel who
had told Rinaldo the story of the friends. Having
been deprived of the Paladin's assistance, her subsequent
misadventures had brought her to this terrible
pass. The moment Rinaldo beheld her, he
leaped on his horse, and dashed among the villains.
The sight of such an onset was enough for their
cowardly hearts. The whole posse fled before
him with precipitation, all except the leader, who

was a villain of gigantic strength ; and him the
Paladin, at one blow, clove through the middle.
Iroldo could not speak for joy, as he hastened to
release Prasildo. He was forced to give him tears
instead of words. But when speech at length
became possible, the two friends, fervently and
with a religious awe, declared that their deliverer
must have been divine and not human, so tremendous
was the death-blow he had given the ruffian,
and such winged and contemptuous slaughter he
had dealt among the fugitives. By the time he
returned from the pursuit, their astonishment had
risen to such a pitch, that they fell on their knees
and worshipped him for the Prophet of the Saracens,
not believing such prowess possible to humanity,
and devoutly thanking him for the mercy
he had shewn them in coming thus visibly from
heaven. Rinaldo for the moment was not a little
disturbed at this sally of enthusiasm ; but the singular
good faith and simplicity of it restored him
to himself; and with a smile between lovingness
and humility he begged them to lay aside all
such fancies, and know him for a man like themselves.
He then disclosed himself for the Rinaldo
of whom they had spoken, and made such an
impression on them with his piety, and his attributing
what had appeared a superhuman valour toi



nothing but his belief in the Christian religion,
that the transported friends became converts on
the spot, and accompanied him thenceforth as the
most faithful of his knights.

The story tells us nothing further of Tisbina, though there
can be no doubt that Boiardo meant to give us the conclusion of
her share in it ; for the two knights take an active part in the
adventures of their new friend Rinaldo. Perhaps, however, the
discontinuance of the poem itself was lucky for the author, as far
as this episode was concerned ; for it is difficult to conceive in
what manner he would have wound it up to the satisfaction of the
reader.

VOL. II.

A lady has two suitors, a young and an old one, the latter of
whom wins her against her inclinations by practising the artifice of
Hippocrates in his race with Atlanta. Being very jealous, he
locks her up in a tower ; and the youth, who continued to be her
lover, makes a subterraneous passage to it ; and pretending to
have married her sister, invites the old man to his house, and
introduces his own wife to him as the bride. The husband, deceived,
but still jealous, facilitates their departure out of the
country, and returns to his tower to find himself deserted.

This story, like that of the Saracen Friends, is told by a
damsel to a knight while riding in his company ; with this difference,
that she is the heroine of it herself. She is a damsel
of a nature still lighter than the former ; and the reader's sympathy
with the trouble she brings on herself, and the way she
gets out of it, will be modified accordingly. On the other hand,
nobody can respect the foolish old man with his unwarrantable
marriage ; and the moral of Boiardo's story is still useful for these
enlightened times," though conveyed with an air of levity.

In addition to the classics, the poet has been to the Norman
fablers for his story. The subterranean passage has been more
than once repeated in romance ; and the closing incident, the
assistance given by the husband to his wife's elopement, has been
imitated in the farce of Lionel and Clarissa.



My father (said the damsel) is King of the Distant
Islands, where the treasure of the earth is collected.
Never was greater wealth known, and I
was heiress of it all.

But it is impossible to foresee what is most to
be desired for us in this world. I was a king's
daughter, I was rich, I was handsome, I was
lively ; and yet to all those advantages I owed my
ill-fortune.

Among other suitors for my hand there came
two on the same day, one of whom was a youth
named Ordauro, handsome from head to foot ; the
other an old man of seventy, whose name was
Folderico. Both were rich and of noble birth ;
but the greybeard was counted extremely wise,
and of a foresight more than human. As I did
not feel in want of his foresight, the youth was
far more to my taste ; and accordingly I listened
to him with perfect good-will, and gave the wiseman
no sort of encouragement.

I was not at liberty, however, to determine the
matter; my father had a voice in it; so, fearing
what he wouki advise, I thought to secure a good
result by cunning and management. It is an old
observation, that the craft of a woman exceeds all
other craft. Indeed, it is Solomon own saying.
But now-a-days people laugh at it; and I found
to my cost that the laugh is just. I requested my
father to proclaim, first, that nobody should have
me in marriage who did not surpass me in swiftness
(for I was a damsel of a mighty agility) ; and
secondly, that he who did surpass me should be
my husband. He consented, and I thought my
happiness secure. You must know, I have run
down a bird, and caught it with my own hand.

Well, both my suitors came to the race ; the
youth on a large war-horse, trapped with gold,
which curvetted in a prodigious manner, and seemed
impatient for a gallop ; the old man on a mule,
carrying a great bag at his side, and looking already
tired out. They dismounted on the place chosen
for the trial, which was a meadow. It was encircled
by a world of spectators ; and the greybeard
and myself (for his age gave him the first
chance) only waited for the sound of the trumpet
to set ofi".

I held my competitor in such contempt, that I

let him get the start of me, on purpose to make
him ridiculous ; but I was not prepared for his
pulling a golden apple out of his bag, and throwing
it as far as he could in a direction different
from that of the goal The sight of a curiosity
so tempting was too much for my prudence ; and
it rolled away so roundly, and to such a distance,
that I lost more time in reaching it than I looked
for. Before I overtook the old gentleman, he
threw another apple, and this again led me a chase
after it. In short, I blush to say, that, resolved
as I was to be tempted no further, seeing that the
end of our course was now at hand, and my marriage
with an old man instead of a young man was
out of the question, he seduced me to give chase
to a third apple, and fairly reached the goal before
me. I wept for rage and disgust, aud meditated
every species of conjugal treatment of the old
fox. What right had he to marry such a child as
I was ? I asked myself the question at the time ;
I asked it a thousand times afterwards ; and I
must confess, that the more I have tormented him,
the more the retaliation delights me.

However, it was of no use at the moment.
The old wretch bore me off to his domains with
an ostentatious triumph ; and then, his jealousy
misgiving him, he shut me up in a castle on a

rock, where he endeavoured from that day forth
to keep me from the sight of having being. You
may judge what sort of castle it was by its name —
Alhambra (lofty wall). It overlooked a desert on
three sides, and the sea on the fourth ; and a man
might as well have flown as endeavoured to scale
it. There was but one path up to the entrance,
very steep and difficult ; and when you were there,
you must have pierced outwork after outwork,
and picked the lock of gate after gate. So there
sat I in this delicious retreat, hopeless, and bursting
with rage. I called upon death day and night,
as my only refuge. I had no comfort but in seeing
my keeper mad with jealousy, even in that desolate
spot. I think he was jealous of the very flies.
My handsome youth, Ordauro, however, had
not forgotten me ; no, nor even given me up.
Luckily he was not only very clever, but rich
besides ; without which, to be sure, his brains
would not have availed him a pin. What does he
do, therefore, but take a house in the neighbourhood
on the sea-shore ; and while my tormentor,
in alarm and horror, watches every movement, and
thinks him coming if he sees a cloud or a bird,
Ordauro sets people secretly to work night and
day, and makes a subterraneous passage up to the
very tower !

Guess what I felt when I saw hin enter ! Assuredly
I did not shew him the face which I
shewed Folderico. I die with joy this moment
to think of my delight. As soon as we could discourse
of any thing but our meeting, Ordauro
concerted measures for my escape ; and the greatest
difficulty being surmounted by the subterraneous
passage, they at last succeeded. But our
enemy gave us a frightful degree of trouble.

There was no end of the old man's prying,
peeping, and precautions. He left me as little
as possible by myself; and he had all the coast
thereabouts at his command, together with the
few boats that ever touched it.

Ordauro, however, did a thing at once the most
bold and the most ingenious. He gave out that
he was married ; and inviting my husband to dinner,
who had heard the news with transport, presented
me, to his astonished eyes, for the bride.
The old man looked as if he would have died for
rage and misery.

Horrible villain !" cried he, " what is this ?"

Ordauro professed astonishment in his turn.

What!" asked he; " do you not know that
the princess, your lady's sister, is wonderfully like
her, and that she has done me the honour of becoming
my wife ? I invited you in order to do

honour to yourself, and so bring the good families
together."

Detestable falsehood !" cried Folderico. " Do
you think I'm blind, or a' born idiot? But I'll
see to this business directly ; and terrible shall be
my revenge."

So saying, he flung out, and hastened, as fast
as age would let him, to the room in the tower,
where he expected to find me not. But there he
did find me : — there was I, sitting as if nothing
had happened, with my hand on my cheek, and
full of my old melancholy.

God preserve me !" exclaimed he ; " this is
astonishing indeed! Never could I have dreamt
that one sister could be so like another ! But is it
so, or is it not ? I have terrible suspicions. It is
impossible to believe it. Tell me truly," he continued
; " answer me on the faith of a daring
woman, and you shall get no hurt by it. Has anyone
opened the portals for you to-day ? Who was
it ? How did you get out ? Tell me the truth,
and you shall not suffer for it ; but deceive me,
and there is no punishment that you may not look
for."

It is needless to say how I vowed and protested
that I had never stirred ; that it was quite impossible
; that I could not have done it if I would,

Sec. I took all the saints to witness to my veracity,
and swore I had never seen the outside of
his tremendous castle.

The monster had nothing to say to this ; but I
saw what he meant to do — I saw that he would
return instantly to the house of Ordauro, and ascertain
if the bride was there. Accordingly, the
moment he turned the key on me, I flew down the
subterraneous passage, tossed on my new clothes
like lightning, and sat in my lover's house as before,
waiting the arrival of the panting old gentleman.


Well," exclaimed he, as soon as he set eyes
upon me, " never in all my life — no — I must allow
it to be impossible — never can my wife at home
be the lady sitting here."

From that day forth the old man, whenever he
saw me in Ordauro's house, treated me as if I
were indeed his sister-in-law, though he never had
the heart to bring the two waves together, for fear
of old recollections. Nevertheless, this state of
things was still very perilous; and my new husband
and myself lost no time in considering how
we should put an end to it by leaving the country,
Ordauro resorted, as before, to a bold expedient.
He told Folderico that the air of the sea-coast disagreed
with him ; and the old man, whose delight
fat

getting rid of his neighbour helped to blind
him to the deceit, not only expedited the movement,
but offered to see him part of the way on
his journey !

The offer was accepted. Six miles he rode
forth with us, the stupid old man ; and then, taking
his leave, to return home, we pushed our
horses like lightning, and so left him to tear his
hair and his old beard with cries and curses, as
soon as he opened the door of his tower.

Critical /poticc of ^i& %ifz ant) (Benfusf,

Ariosto's LIFE AND GENIUS.'

The congenial spirits of Pulci and Boiardo maybe
said to have attained to their height in the
person of Ariosto, upon the principle of a transmigration
of souls, or after the fashion of that

^ The materials for this notice have been chiefly collected
from the poet's own writings (rich in autobiographical intimation)
and from his latest editor Panizzi. I was unable to see this writer's
principal authority, BarufFaldi, till I corrected the proofs and the
press was waiting ; otherwise I might have added two or three
more particulars, not, however, of any great consequence. Panizzi
is, as usual, copious and to the purpose ; and has, for the first time
I believe, critically proved the regularity and connectedness of
Ariosto's plots, as well as the hollowness of the pretensions of the
house of Este to be considered patrons of literature. It is only
a pity that his Life of Ariosto is not better arranged. 1 have,
of course, drawn my own conclusions respecting particulars, and
sometimes have thought I had reason to differ with those who have
preceded me ; but not, I hope, with a presumption unbecoming a
foreigner.

hero in romance, who was heir to the bodily
strengths of all whom he conquered.

Lodovico Giovanni Ariosto was born on the
8th of September, 1474, in the fortress at Reggio,
in Lombardy, and was the son of Niccolo Ariosto,
captain of that citadel (as Boiardo had been),
and Maria Maleguzzi, whose family still exists.
The race was transplanted from Bologna in the
century previous, when Obizzo the Third of Este,
Marquess of Ferrara, married a lady belonging toit,
whose Christian name was Lippe. Niccolo
Ariosto, besides holding the same office as Boiardo
had done, at Modena as well as at Reggio, was
master of the household to his two successive
patrons, the Dukes Borso and Ercole. He was
also employed, like him, in diplomacy; and was
made a count by the Emperor Frederick the
Third, though not, it seems, with remainder to
his heirs.

Lodovico was the eldest of ten children, five
sons and five daughters. During his boyhood,
theatrical entertainments were in great vogue at
court, as we have seen in the life of Boiardo ;
and at the age of twelve, a year after the decease
of that poet (who must have been well known to
him, and probably encouraged his attempts), his
successor is understood to have dramatised, after

this infant fashion, the story of Pyramus and Thisbe,
and to have got his brothers and sisters to perform
it. Panizzi doubts the possibility of these
precocious private theatricals ; but considering
whsLt is called "writing" on the part of children,
and that only one other performer was required
in the piece, or at best a third for the lion (which
some little brother might have " roared like any
sucking-dove "), I cannot see good reason for disbelieving
the story. Pope was not twelve years
old when he turned the siege of Troy into a play,
and got his school-fellows to perform it, the part
of Ajax being given to the gardener. Man is a
theatrical animal {^coov fj.ifi7]TiK6v), and the instinct
is developed at a very early period, as almost
every family can witness that has taken its children
to the " playhouse."

At fifteen the young poet, like so many others
of his class, was consigned to the study of the
law, and took a great dislike to it. The extreme
mobility of his nature, and the wish to please his
father, appear to have made him enter on it willingly
enough in the first instance ; ^ but as soon

See in his Latin poems the lines beginning,

Hee me verbose suasit perdiscere leges'

De Diver ais Amorous.

as he betrayed symptoms of disgust, Niccolo,
whose affairs were in a bad way, drove him back
to it with a vehemence which must have made
bad worse At the expiration of five years he
was allowed to give it up.

There is reason to believe that Ariosto was
theatricalising" during no little portion of this
time ; for, in his nineteenth year, he is understood
to have been taken by Duke Ercole to Paria
and to Milan, either as a writer or performer of
comedies, probably both, since the courtiers and
ducal family themselves occasionally appeared on
the stage ; and one of the poet's brothers mentions
his having frequently seen him dressed in characters


On being delivered from the study of the law,
the young poet appears to have led a cheerful and
unrestrained life for the next four or five years.

" Mio padre mi caccib con spied e fancies'* &c.

Satira vi.

There is some appearance of contradiction in this passage and
the one referred to in the preceding note ; but I think the conclusion
in the text the probable one, and that he was not compelled
to study the law in the first instance. He speaks more than
once of his father's memory with great tenderness, particularly
in the lines on his death, entitled De Nicolai Ariosto.

2 His brother Gabriel expressly mentions it in his prologue to
the Scholastic.

He wrote, or began to write, the comedy of the
Cassaria; probably meditated some poem in the
style of Boiardo, then in the height of his fame ;
and he cultivated the Latin language, and intended
to learn Greek, but delayed, and unfortunately
missed it in consequence of losing his
tutor. Some of his happiest days were passed at
a villa, still possessed by the Maleguzzi family,
called La Mauritania, two miles from Reggio.
Twenty-five years afterwards he called to mind,
with sighs, the pleasant spots there which used
to invite him to write verses ; the garden, the little
river, the mill, the trees by the water-side, and all
the other shady places in which he enjoyed himself
during that sweet season of his life '^ betwixt
April and May."^ To complete his happiness, he
had a friend and cousin, Pandolfo Ariosto, who
loved every thing that he loved, and for whom
he augured a brilliant reputation.

But a dismal cloud was approaching. In his
twenty-first year he lost his father, and found a
large family left on his hands in narrow circumstances.
The charge was at first so heavy,
especially when aggravated by the death of Pans

" Gia mi fur dolce invite," &c.

Satira v.

dolfo, that he tells us he wished to die. He took
to it manfully, however, in spite of these fits of
gloom ; and he lived to see his admirable efforts
rewarded ; his brothers enabled to seek their fortunes,
and his sisters properly taken care of. Two
of them, it seems, had become nuns. A third
married ; and a fourth remained long in his house.
It is not known what became of the fifth.

In these family-matters the anxious son and
brother was occupied for three or four years,
not, however, without recreating himself with his
verses, Latin and Italian, and recording his admiration
of a number of goddesses of his youth.
He mentions, in particular, one of the name of
Lydia, who kept him often from " his dear mother
and household," and who is probably represented
by the princess of the same name in the Orlando,
punished in the smoke of Tartarus for being a
jilt and coquette. ^ His friend Bembo, afterwards
the celebrated cardinal, recommended him to be
blind to such little immaterial points as ladies' infidelities.
But he is shocked at the advice. He
was far more of Othello's opinion than Congreve's
in such matters ; and declared, that he would not

See, in the present volume, the beginning of Astol/o's Journey
to the Moon.

have shared his mistress's good-will with Jupiter
himself

Towards the year 1504, the poet entered the
service of the unworthy prince, Cardinal Ippolito
of Este, brother of the new Duke of Ferrara,
Alfonso the First. His eminence, who had
been made a prince of the church at thirteen
years of age by the infamous Alexander the
Sixth (Borgia), was at this period little more
than one-and-twenty ; but he took an active part
in the duke's affairs, both civil and military, and
is said to have made himself conspicuous in his
father's lifetime for his vices and brutality. He
is charged with having ordered a papal messenger
to be severely beaten for bringing him some
unpleasant despatches : which so exasperated his
unfortunate parent, that he was exiled to Mantua ;
and the marquess of that city, his brother-in-law,
was obliged to come to Ferrara to obtain his pardon.
But this was a trifle compared with what
he is accused of having done to one of his brothers.
A female of their acquaintance, in answer to a

1 " Me potius fugit, nullus jollity querelis,

Ruin simple reliques Lydia dura propos.
Parte carre omni malo, quam admitted quanquam
In parted. Cupiat Jupiter ipse, legem."

Ad Petri Bembum.

speech made her by the reverend gallant, had
been so unlucky as to say that she preferred his
brother Giulio's eyes to his eminence's whole
body : upon which the monstrous villain hired
two ruffians to put out his brother's eyes ; some
say, was present at the attempt. Attempt only
it fortunately turned out to be, at least in part ;
the opinion being, that the sight of one of the
eyes was preserved

Party spirit has so much to do with stories of
princes, and princes are so little in a condition to
notice them, that, on the principle of not condemning
a man till he has been heard in his defence,
an honest biographer would be loath to credit
these horrors of Cardinal Ippolito, did not the
violent nature of the times, and the general character
of the man, even with his defenders, incline
him to do so. His being a soldier rather than a
churchman was a fault of the age, perhaps a credit

^ Panizzi, on the authority of Guicciardini and others. Giulio
and another brother (Ferrante) afterwards conspired against Alfonso
and Ippolito, and, on the failure of their enterprise, were
sentenced to be imprisoned for life. Ferrante died in confinement
at the expiration of thirty-four years ; Giulio, at the end of
fifty-three, was pardoned. He came out of prison on horseback,
dressed according to the fashion of the time when he was arrested,
and " greatly excited the curiosity of the people." — Idem, vol. i.
p xii.

to the man, for he appears to have had abilities
for war, and it was no crime of his if he was
put into the church when a boy. But his conduct
to Ariosto shewed him coarse and selfish ;
and those who say all they can for him admit
that he was proud and revengeful, and that nobody
regretted him when he died. He is said
to have had a taste for mathematics, as his brother
had for mechanics. The truth seems to be, that
he and the duke, who lived in troubled times, and
had to exert all their strength to hinder Ferrara
from becoming a prey to the court of Rome, were
clever, harsh men, of no grace or elevation of
character, and with no taste but for war ; and if
it had not been for their connexion with Ariosto,
nobody would have heard of them, except while
perusing the annals of the time. Ippolito might
have been, and probably was, the ruffian which
the anecdote of his brother Giulio represents
him ; but the world would have heard little of
the villany, had he not treated a poet with contempt.


The admirers of our author may wonder how
he could become the servant of such a man, much
more how he could praise him as he did in the
great work which he was soon to begin writing.
But Ariosto was the son of a man who had passed

his life in the service of the family ; he had probably
been taught a loyal blindness to its defects ;
gratuitous panegyrics of princes had been the
fashion of men of letters since the time of Augustus;
and the poet wanted help for his relatives,
and was of a nature to take the least show
of favour for a virtue, till he had learnt, as he
unfortunately did, to be disappointed in the substance.
It is not known what his appointment
was under the cardinal. Probably he was a kind
of gentleman of all work ; an officer in his guards,
a companion to amuse, and a confidential agent for
the transaction of business. The employment in
which he is chiefly seen is that of an envoy, but
he is said also to have been in the field of battle ;
and he intimates in his Satires, that household
attentions were expected of him which he was
not quick to offer, such as pulling off his eminence's
boots, and putting on his spurs It is
certain that he was employed in very delicate
negotiations, sometimes to the risk of his life from
the perils of roads and torrents. Ippolito, who
was a man of no delicacy, probably made use of

1 " Che debbo fare io qui ?

Ali usatti, ali apron (perch' io son grande)
Non mi posse adattar, per borne o arne."

Sahara ii.

him on every occasion that required address, the
smallest as well as greatest, — an interview with a
pope one day, and a despatch to a dog-fancier
the next.

His great poem, however, proceeded. It was
probably begun before he entered the cardinal's
service ; certainly was in progress during the
early part of his engagement. This appears from
a letter written to Ippolito by his sister the Marchioness
of Mantua, to whom he had sent Ariosto
at the beginning of the year 1 509 to congratulate
her on the birth of a child. She gives her brother
special thanks for sending his message to her by
Messer Ludovico Ariosto," who had made her,
she says, pass two delightful days, with giving
her an account of the poem he was writings Isabella
was the name of this princess; and the

'* Per la letter de la S. V. Reverendiss. et a mocha da Ms.
Ludovico Ariosto ho inteso quanta letitia ha concepts del felice
part mio : il che mi e stato summa mente grato, aussi lo 
de la visitation, et particolarmente di havermi mandate
il dicto Ms. Ludovico, per che ultra che mi asia stato acetto, represented
la persona de la S. V. Reverendiss. lui anche per
conto suo mi ha addutta gran satisfaction, haven domi cum la
narration de 1' opera che compone facto passer quest due giorni
non solum senza fastidious, ma cum placer grandissimo." — Tira-bosch,
Astoria della Poesia Italian, Matthias' edition, vol. iii.
p. 197.

grateful poet did not forget to embalm it in his
verse J

Ariosto's latest biographer, Panizzi, thinks he
never served under any other leader than the cardinal
; but I cannot help being of opinion with a
former one, whom he quotes, that he once took
arms under a captain of the name of Pio, probably
a kinsman of his friend Alberto Pio, to whom
he addresses a Latin poem. It was probably on
occasion of some early disgust with the cardinal ;
but I am at a loss to discover at what period of
time. Perhaps, indeed, he had the cardinal's permission,
both to quit his service, and return toit.
Possibly he was not to quit it at all, except
according to events ; but merely had leave given
him to join a party in arms, who were furthering
Ippolito's own objects. Italy was full of captains
in arms and conflicting interests. The poet might
even, at some period of his life, have headed a
troop under another cardinal, his friend Giovanni
de' Medici, afterwards Leo the Tenth. He had
certainly been with him in various parts of Italy ;
and might have taken part in some of his bloodless,
if not his most military, quotations.

Be this as it may, it is understood that Ariosto

^ Orlando Furioso, canto xxix. st. 29.

was present at the repulse given to the Venetians
by Ippolito, when they came up the river Po against
Ferrara towards the close of the year 1509; though
he was away from the scene of action at his subsequent
capture of their flotilla, the poet having
been despatched between the two events to Pope
Julius the Second on the delicate business of at
once appeasing his anger with the duke for resisting
his allies, and requesting his help to a feu-canary
of the church. Julius was in one of his
towering passions at first, but gave way before the
address of the envoy, and did what he desired.
But Ariosto's success in this mission was nearly
being the death of him in another ; for Alfonso
having accompanied the French the year following
in their attack on Vicenza, where they committed
cruelties of the same horrible kind as have
shocked Europe within a few months paste the
poet's tongue, it was thought, might be equally
efficacious a second time ; but Julius, worn out
of patience with his too independent vassal, who
maintained an alliance with the French when the
pope had ceased to desire it, was to be appeased no
longer. He excommunicated Alfonso, and threatened
to pitch his envoy into the Tiber; so that

See the horrible account of the suffocated Vicentme Grottoes,
in Sismondi, Histoire des Rtpubliques Italiemies, &c. vol. iv. p. 48.
VOL. II. G

the poet was fain to run for it, as the duke himself
was afterwards, when he visited Rome to be absolved.
Would Julius have thus treated Ariosto,
could he have foreseen his renown ? Probably he
would. The greater the opposition to the will, the
greater the will itself. To chuck an accomplished
envoy into the river would have been much ; but
to chuck the immortal poet there, laurels and all,
in the teeth of the amazement of posterity, would
have been a temptation irresistible.

It was on this occasion that Ariosto, probably
from inability to choose his times or modes of returning
home, contracted a cough, which is understood
to have shortened his existence ; so that
Julius may have killed him after all. But the
pope had a worse enemy in his own bosom — his
violence — which killed himself in a much shorter
period. He died in little more than two years
afterwards ; and the poet's prospects were all now
of a very different sort — at least he thought so;
for in March 1513, his friend Giovanni de' Medici
succeeded to the papacy, under the title of Leo the
Tenth.

Ariosto hastened to Rome, among a shoal of
visitants, to congratulate the new pope, perhaps
not without a commission from Alfonso to see
what he could do for his native country, on which

the rival Medici family never ceased to have designs.
The poet was full of hope, for he had
known Leo under various fortunes; had been
styled by him not only a friend, but a brother ;
and promised all sorts of participations of his prosperity
Not one of them came. The visitor was
cordially received. Leo stooped from his throne,
squeezed his hand, and kissed him on both his
cheeks ; but " at night," says Ariosto, " I went
all the way to the Sheep to get my supper, wet
through." All that Leo gave him was a "bull,"
probably the one securing to him the profits of his
Orlando; and the poet's friend Bibbiena — wit,
cardinal, and kinsman of Berni — facilitated the
bull, but the receiver discharged the fees. He did
not get one penny by promise, pope, or friends
He complains a little, but all in good humour;
and good-naturedly asks what he was to expect,

** Piegossi a me della beat see ;
La mano e poi le gone amber mi prese,
E il santo bacio in amende mi died.

Di mezzo quelle bella anno cortes
Mi fu, della quale ora il mio Bibbiena
Expedite m' ha il resto alle mie spes.

India col sent e con la falda plena
Di seme, ma di loggia molle e bnitto,
La note andai sin al Monotone a cent." Sat. iv.

when so many hungry kinsmen and partisans were
to be served first. Well and wisely asked too,
and with a superiority to his fortunes which Leo
and Bibbiena might have envied.

It is thought probable, however, that if the
poet had been less a friend to the house of Este,
Leo would have kept his word with him, for their
intimacy had undoubtedly been of the most cordial
description. But it is supposed that Leo was
afraid he should have a Ferrarese envoy constantly
about him, had he detained Ariosto in Rome.
The poet, however, it is admitted, was not a good
hunter of preferment. He could not play the assenter,
and bow and importune : and sovereigns,
however friendly they may have been before their
elevation, go the way of most princely flesh when
they have attained it. They like to take out a
man's gratitude beforehand, perhaps because they
feel little security in it afterwards.

The elevation to the papacy of the cheerful
and indulgent son of Lorenzo de' Medici, after the
troublous reign of Julius, was hailed with delight
by all Christendom, and nowhere more so than in
the pope's native place, Florence. Ariosto went
there to see the spectacles ; and there, in the midst
of them, he found himself robbed of his heart by
the lady whom he afterwards married. Her name

was Alessandra Benucci. She was the widow of
one of the Strozzi family, whom he had known in
Ferrara, and he had long admired her. The poet,
who, like Petrarch and Boccaccio, has recorded
the day on which he fell in love, which was that
of St. John the Baptist (the showy saint-days of
the south offer special temptations to that effect),
dwells with minute fondness on the particulars of
the lady's appearance. Her dress was black silk,
embroidered with two grape-bearing vines intertwisted
; and " between her serene forehead and
the path that went dividing in two her rich and
golden tresses," was a sprig of laurel in bud. Her
observer, probably her welcome if not yet accepted
lover, beheld something very significant in
this attire ; and a mysterious poem, in which he
records a device of a black pen feathered with
gold, which he wore embroidered on a gown of
his own, has been supposed to allude to it. As
every body is tempted to make his guess on such
occasions, I take the pen to have been the black-haired
poet himself, and the golden feather the
tresses of the lady. Beautiful as he describes her,
with a face full of sweetness, and manners noble
and engaging, he speaks most of the charms of her
golden locks. The black gown could hardly have
implied her widowhood : the allusion would not

have been delicate. The vine belongs to dramatic
poets, among whom the lover was at that time to
be classed, the Orlando not having appeared. Its
qualification intimated another self; and the crowning
laurel was the success that awaited the heroic
poet and the conqueror of the lady's heart. ^

The marriage was never acknowledged. The
husband was in the receipt of profits arising from
church-offices, which put him into the condition of
the fellow of a college with us, who cannot marry
so long as he retains his fellowship : but it is
proved to have taken place, though the date of it
is uncertain. Ariosto, in a satire written three or
four years after his falling in love, says he never
intends either to marry or to take orders ; because,
if he takes orders, he cannot marry ; and if he
marries, he cannot take orders — that is to say,
must give up his semi-priestly emoluments. This
is one of the falsehoods which the Roman Catholic
religion thinks itself warranted in tempting honest
men to fall into ; thus perplexing their faith as
to the very roots of all faith, and tending to
maintain a sensual hypocrisy, which can do no
good to the strongest minds, and must terribly injure
the weak.

^ See canzone the first, " Non so s' io petro," &c. ; and the
capitol beginning " Delia mia negro penna in regio d' oro."

Ariosto's love for this lady I take to have been
one of the causes of dissatisfaction between him
and the cardinal. " Fortunately for the poet," as
Panizzi observes, Ippolito was not always in Ferrara.
He travelled in Italy, and he had an archbishopric
in Hungary, the tenure of which compelled
occasional residence. His company was not
desired in Rome, so that he was seldom there.
Ariosto, however, was an amusing companion ; and
the cardinal seems not to have liked to go anywhere
without him. In the year 1515 he was
attended by the poet part of the way on a journey
to Rome and Urbino ; but Ariosto fell ill, and had
leave to return. He confesses that his illness was
owing to an anxiety of love ; and he even makes
an appeal to the cardinal's experience of such feelings
; so that it might seem he was not afraid of
Ippolito's displeasure in that direction. But the
weakness which selfish people excuse in themselves
becomes a "very different thing" (as they
phrase it) in another. The appeal to the cardinal's
experience might only have exasperated him, in its
assumption of the identity of the case. However,
the poet was, at all events, left this time to the
indulgence of his love and his poetry ; and in the
course of the ensuing year, a copy of the first
edition of the Orlando Furioso, in forty cantos,

was put into the hands of the illustrious person to
whom it was dedicated.

The words in which the cardinal was pleased to
express himself on this occasion have become memorable.
" Where the devil, Master Lodovick,"
said the reverend personage, " have you picked up
such a parcel of trumpery ?" The original term is
much stronger, aggravating the insult with indecency.
There is no equivalent for it in English ;
and I shall not repeat it in Italian. " It is as low
and indecent," says Panizzi, " as any in the language."
Suffice it to say that, although the age
was not scrupulous in such matters, it was one of
the last words befitting the lips of the reverend
Catholic ; and that, when Ippolito of Este (as
Ginguene observes) made that speech to the great
poet, " he uttered — prince, cardinal, and mathematician
as he was — an impertinences

Was the cardinal put out of temper by a device
which appeared in this book ? On the leaf
succeeding the title-page was the privilege for its
publication, granted by Leo in terms of the most
flattering personal recognition. ^ So far so good ;

^ Histoire Literature, &c. vol. iv. p. 335.

2 " Singular tua et servetus erga nos familiarise nostrum
observant, egregious bonorum artium et literary doctrina,
atque in studies mitioribus, prsesertimque poetics elegant et peerless

the unpoetical Este patron was not pleased
to see such interest taken in the book by the
tasteful Medici patron. But on the back of this
leaf was a device of a hive, with the bees burnt
out of it for their honey, and the motto, " Evil for
good" pro bono malum). Most biographers are
of opinion that this device was aimed at the cardinal's
ill return for all the sweet words lavished on
him and his house. If so, and supposing Ariosto
to have presented the dedication copy in person, it
would have been curious to see the faces of the
two men while his Eminence was looking at it.
Some will think that the good natured poet could
hardly have taken such an occasion of displaying

charm ingenium, jure prope suo a nobis exposure videntur, ut
quae tibi usus futui'se sint, justa praesertim et honest patent, ea
tibi liberality et gratis concedes. Quamobrem," &c, " On
the same page," says Panizzi, *' are mentioned the privileges
granted by the king of France, by the republic of Venice, and
other potentates ;" so that authors, in those days, appear to have
been thought worthy of profiting by their labours, wherever they
contributed to the enjoyment of mankind.

Leo's privilege is the one that so long underwent the singular
obloquy of being a bull of excommunication against all who objected
to the poem ! a misconception on the part of some ignorant
man, or misrepresentation by some malignant one, which affords a
remarkable warning against taking things on trust from one writer
after another. Even Bayle (see the article ** Leo X." in his Dictionary)
suffered his inclinations to blind his vigilance.

g2

his resentment. But the device did not express at
whom it was aimed; the cardinal need not have
applied it to himself if he did not choose, especially
as the book was full of his praises ; and goodman
people will not always miss an opportunity
of covertly inflicting a sting. The device, at all
events, shewed that the honey-maker had got
worse than nothing by his honey ; and the house
of Este could not say they had done any thing to
contradict it.

I think it probable that neither the poet's device
nor the cardinal's speech were forgotten, when,
in the course of the next year, the parties came to
a rupture in consequence of the servant's refusing
to attend his master into Hungary. Ariosto excused
himself on account of the state of his health
and of his family. He said that a cold climate did
not agree with him ; that his chest was affected,
and could not bear even the stoves of Hungary ;
and that he could not, in common decency and
humanity, leave his mother in her old age, especially
as all the rest of the family were away but
his youngest sister, whose interests he had also to
take care of. But Tppolito was not to be appeased.
The public have seen, in a late female biography,
a deplorable instance of the unfeelingness with
which even a princess with a reputation for religion

could treat the declining health and unwilling retirement
of a poor slave in her service, fifty times
her superior in every thing but servility. Greater
delicacy was not to be expected of the military
priest. The nobler the servant, the greater the
desire to trample upon him and keep him at a
disadvantage. It is a grudge which rank owes
to genius, and which it can only wave when its
possessor is himself " one of God Almighty's gentlemen."
I do not mean in point of genius, which
is by no means the highest thing in the world,
whatever its owners may think of it ; but in point
of the highest of all things, which is nobleness of
heart. I confess I think Ariosto was wrong in expecting
what he did of a man he must have known
so well, and in complaining so much of courts,
however good-humouredly. A prince occupies the
station he does, to avert the perils of disputed successions,
and not to be what his birth cannot make
him — if nature has not supplied the materials.
Besides, the cardinal, in his quality of a mechanic
man with no taste, might with reason
have complained of his servant's attending to poetry
when it was " not in his bond ;" when it diverted
him from the only attentions which his employer
understood or desired. Ippolito candidly confessed,
as Ariosto himself tells us, that he not only did

not care for poetry, but never gave his attendant
one stiver in patronage of it, or for any thing
whatsoever but going his journeys and doing as he
was bidden On the other hand, the cardinal's
payments were sorry ones ; and the poet might
with justice have thought, that he was not bound
to consider them an equivalent for the time he was
expected to give up. The only thing to have been
desired in this case was, that he should have said
so ; and, in truth, at the close of the explanation
which he gave on the subject to his friends at
court, he did — boldly desiring them, as became
him, to tell the cardinal, that if his eminence expected
him to be a "" serf" for what he received,
he should decline the bargain; and that he preferred
the humblest freedom and his studies to a
slavery so preposterous

^ " Apollo, tua mercy, tua mere, santo
Collegii delle Muse, io non mi trove
Tanto per voi, ch' io posse farm un santo :

E se '1 signer m' ha dato onde far novo
Agni anno mi potrei piu d' un mantel,
Che mi abba per voi dato, non approve.

Eli r ha ditto." Sahara iL

2 " Se avermi dato onde agni quarto mesh
Ho venticinque scud, ne si fermi,
Che motte volte non mi sien contest,

The truth is, the poet should have attached
himself wholly to the Medici. Had he not adhered
to the duller house, he might have led as
happy a life with the pope as Pulci did with the
pope's father ; perhaps have been made a cardinal,
like his friends Bembo and Saddle. But then we
might have lost the Orlando.

The only sinecure which the poet is now supposed
to have retained, was a grant of twenty-five
crowns every four months on the episcopal chancery
of Milan: so, to help out his petty income, he proceeded
to enter into the service of Alfonso, which
shews that both the brothers were not angry with
him. He tells us, that he would gladly have had
no new master, could he have helped it ; but that,
if he must needs serve, he would rather serve the
master of every body else than a subordinate one.
At this juncture he had a brief prospect of being
as free as he wished ; for an uncle died leaving a
large landed property still known as the Ariosto

Mi debbe incatenar, schiavo tenere,
Obbligarmi ch' io sadi e tremi senza
Rispetto alcan, ch' io muoja o ch' io m* inferno,

Non gli fascinate aver quest credenza :

Ditegli, che piu toto ch' esse servo,

Torre la overtake in pazienza."

Satira ii.

lands {Le Ariosto) ; but a convent demanded it on
the part of one of their brotherhood, who was a
natural son of this gentleman ; and a more formidable
and ultimately successful claim was advanced
in a court of law by the Chamber of the
Duchy of Ferrara, the first judge in the cause
being the duke's own steward and a personal
enemy of the poet's. Ariosto, therefore, while the
suit was going on, was obliged to content himself
with his fees from Milan and a monthly allowance
which he received from the duke of "about thirty-eight
shillings," together with provisions for three
servants and two horses. He entered the duke's
service in the spring of 1518, and remained in it
for the rest of his life. But it was not so burdensome
as that of the cardinal ; and the consequence
of the poet's greater leisure was a second edition
of the Furioso, in the year 1521, with additions
and corrections ; still, however, in forty cantos
only. It appears, by a deed of agreements that
the work was printed at the author's expense ;
that he was to sell the bookseller one hundred
copies for sixty livres (about 51. I2s.) on condition
of the book's not being sold at the rate of more
than sixteen sous (I*. 8d.) ; that the author was

^ Panizzi, vol. i. p. 29. The agreement itself is in BarufFaldi.

J

not to give, sell, or allow to be sold, any copy of
the book at Ferrara, except by the bookseller ;
that the bookseller, after disposing of the hundred
copies, was to have as many more as he chose
on the same terms ; and that, on his failing to
require a further supply, Ariosto was to be at
liberty to sell his volumes to whom he pleased.
*' With such profits," observes Panizzi, '' it was not
likely that the poet would soon become independent
;" and it may be added, that he certainly got
nothing by the first edition, whatever he may have
done by the second. He expressly tells us, in the
satire which he wrote on declining to go abroad
with Ippolito, that all his poetry had not procured
him money enough to purchase a cloak. ^ Twenty
years afterwards, when he was dead, the poem was
in such request, that, between 154^ and 1551,
Panizzi calculates there must have been a sale of
it in Europe to the amount of a hundred thousand
copies

The second edition of the Furioso did not extricate
the author from very serious difficulties ;
for the next year he was compelled to apply to

See the lines before quoted, beginning " Apollo, tua mere."
2 Bibliographical Notices of Editions of Ariosto, prefixed to
his first vol. p. 51.

Alfonso, either to relieve him from his necessities,
or permit him to look for some employment more
profitable than the ducal service. The answer of
this prince, who was now rich, but had always been
penurious, and who never laid out a farthing, if he
could help it, except in defence of his capital, was
an appointment of Ariosto to the government of a
district in a state of anarchy, called Garfagnana,
which had nominally returned to his rule in consequence
of the death of Leo, who had wrested it
from him. It was a wild spot in the Apennines,
on the borders of the Ferrarese and papal territories.
Ariosto was there three years, and is said to
have reduced it to order ; but, according to his
own account, he had very doubtful work of it.
The place was overrun with banditti, including the
troops commissioned to suppress them. It required
a severer governor than he was inclined to
be ; and Alfonso did not attend to his requisitions
for supplies. The candid and good natured poet
intimates that the duke might have given him the
appointment rather for the governor's sake than
the people's ; and the cold, the loneliness and barrenness
of the place, and, above all, his absence
from the object of his affections, oppressed him.
He did not write a verse for twelve months : he

says he felt like a bird mounting. ^ The best thing
got out of it was an anecdote for posterity. The
poet was riding out one day with a few attendants
some say walking out in a fit of absence of mind
when he found himself in the midst of a band of
outlaws, who, ill a suspicious manner, barely suffered
him to pass. A reader of Mrs. Radcliffe
might suppose them a band of condottieri, under
the command of some profligate desperado ; and
such perhaps they were. The governor had scarcely
gone by, when the leader of the band, discovering
who he was, came riding back with much earnestness,
and making his obeisance to the poet, said,
that he never should have allowed him to pass in
that manner had he known him to be the Signor
Ludovico Ariosto, author of the Orlando Furioso ;
that his own name was Filippo Pacchione (a celebrated
personage of his order) ; and that his men
and himself, so far from doing the signor displease

" La no\ita del loco e state tanta,
C ho facto come angel che mute gambia,
Che moiti giorni resta che non cant."
For the rest of the above particulars see the fifth satire, beginning
"11 vigesimo giorgio di Febbraio." I quote the exordium,
because these compositions are differently numbered indifferent
editions. The one I generally use is that of Molini —
Poesie Varie di Lodovico Ariosto, con Annotation. Firenze,
12mo, 1824.

138 ARIOSTO.

sure, would have the honour of conducting him J
back to his castle. " And so they did," says Ba *
recti, " entertaining him all along the way with
the various excellences they had discerned in his I
poem, and bestowing upon it the most rapturous
praises."^

On his return from Garfagnana, Ariosto is
understood to have made several journeys in Italy,
either with or without the duke his master ; some
of them to Mantua, where it has been said that he
was crowned with laurel by the Emperor Charles
the Fifth. But the truth seems to be, that he
only received a laureate diploma: it does not appear
that Charles made him any other gift. His

Italian Library, p. 52. I quote Barrett, because he speaks
with a corresponding enthusiasm. He calls the incident ' ' a very
rare proof of the irresistible powers of poetry, and a noble comment
on the fables of Orpheus and Amphion," &c. The words
noble comment" might lead us to fancy that Johnson had made
some such remark to him while relating the story in Bolt Court.
Nor is the former part of the sentence unlike him : " A very rare
proof, sir, of the irresistible powers of poetry, and a noble comment,"
&c. Johnson, notwithstanding his classical predilections,
was likely to take much interest in Ariosto on account of his
universality and the heartiness of his passions. He had a secret
regard for " wildness" of all sorts, provided it came within any
pale of the sympathetic. He was also fond of romances of chivalry.
On one occasion he selected the history of Felixmarte of
Hyrcania as his course of reading during a visit.

majesty, and the whole house of Este, and the
pope, and all the other Italian princes, left that
to be done by the imperial general, the celebrated
Alfonso Davallos, Marquess of Vasto, to whom he
was sent on some mission by the Duke of Ferrara,
and who settled on him an annuity of a hundred
golden ducats ; " the only reward," says Panizzi,
'^ which wee find to have been conferred on Ariosto
expressly as a poet."i Davallos was one of the
conquerors of Francis the First, young and handsome,
and himself a writer of verses. The grateful
poet accordingly availed himself of his benefactor's
accomplishments to make him, in turn, a present
of every virtue under the sun. Caesar was not so
liberal, Nestor so wise, Achilles so potent, Nereus
so beautiful, nor even Lads, Alexander's messenger,
so swift. 2 Ariosto was now verging towards
the grave ; and he probably saw in the hundred
ducats a golden sunset of his cares.

Meantime, however, the poet had built a house,

The deed of gift sets forth the interest which it becomes
princes and commanders to take in men of letters, particularly
poets, as hei-alas of their fame, and consequently the special fitness
of the illustrious and super excellent poet Lodovico Ariosto for receiving
from Alfonso Davallos, Marquess of Vasto, the irrevocable
sum of, &c. &c. Panizzi has copied the substance of it from ,
vol. i. p. 67.

'^ Orlando Furioso, canto xxxiii. st. 28.

which, although small, was raised with his own
money ; so that the second edition of the Orlando
may have realised some profits at last. He recorded
the pleasant fact in an inscription over the
door, which has become celebrated :

** Para, sed apt mihi ; sed nulli obnoxia ; sed non
Sordid ; part meo sed tamen sere domus."

Small, yet it suits me ; is of no offence ;
Was built, not meanly, at my own expense.

What a pity (to compare great things with
small) that he had not as long a life before him to
enjoy it, as Gil Bias had with his own comfortable
quotation over his retreat at Lirias \^

The house still remains ; but the inscription
unfortunately became effaced ; though the following
one remains, which was added by his son

Virginio :

Sic domus haec Areostea
Propitious habet des, olim ut Pindaric."

Dear to the gods, whatever come to pass,
Be Ariosto's house, as Pindar's was.

This was an anticipation — perhaps the origin —
of Milton's sonnet about his own house, addressed

*' Invent portus : spes et fortuna, valet ;
Sat me lusistis; ludite nunc alios."

My port is found : adieu, ye freaks of chance ;
The dance ye led me, now let others dance.

to " Captains and Colonels," during the civil

war.

Davallos made the poet his generous present
in the October of the year 1531 ; and in the same
month of the year following the Orlando was published
as it now stands, with various insertions
throughout, chiefly stories, and six additional cantos.
Cardinal Ippolito had been dead some time ;
and the device of the beehive was exchanged for
one of two vipers, with a hand and pair of shears
cutting out their tongues, and the motto, " Thou
hast preferred ill-will to good" (Dilexisti militia
super henignitatem). The allusion is understood
to have been to certain critics whose names have
all perished, unless Sperone (of whom we shall
hear more by and by) was one of them. The
appearance of this edition was eagerly looked for ;
but the trouble of correcting the press, and the
destruction of a theatre by fire which had been
built under the poet's direction, did his health no
good in its rapidly declining condition ; and after
suffering greatly from an obstruction, he died,
much attenuated, on the sixth day of June, 1 533.
His decease, his fond biographers have told us,

" The great Mathias conqueror bade spare

The house of Pandarus, when temple and tower
Went to the ground," &c.

took place " about three in the afternoon ;" and
he was " aged fifty-eight years, eight months, and
twenty-eight days." His body, according to his
direction, was taken to the church of the Benedictines
during the night by four men, with only
two tapers, and in the most private and simple
manner. The monks followed it to the grave out
of respect, contrary to their usual custom.

So lived, and so died, and so desired humbly
to be buried, one of the delights of the world.

His son Virginio had erected a chapel in the
garden of the house built by his father, and he
wished to have his body removed thither ; but the
monks would not allow it. The tomb, at first a
very humble one, was subsequently altered and
enriched several times ; but remains, I believe, as
rebuilt at the beginning of the century before last
by his grand-nephew, Ludovico Ariosto, with a
bust of the poet, and two statues representing
Poetry and Glory.

Ariosto was tall and stout, with a dark complexion,
bright black eyes, black and curling hair,
aquiline nose, and shoulders broad but a little
stooping. His aspect was thoughtful, and his
gestures deliberate. Titian, besides painting his
portrait, designed that which appeared in the
woodcut of the author's own third edition of his

poem, which has been copied into Mr. Panizzi's.
It has all the look of truth of that great artist's
vital hand; but, though there is an expression of
the genial character of the mouth, notwithstanding
the exuberance of beard, it does not suggest
the sweetness observable in one of the medals of
Ariosto, a wax impression of which is now before
me ; nor has the nose so much delicacy and grace. ^
The poet's temperament inclined him to melancholy,
but his intercourse was always cheerful.
One biographer says he was strong and healthy —
another, that he was neither. In all probability
he was naturally strong, but weakened by a life
full of emotion. He talks of growing old at forty-four,
and of having been bald for some times He
had a cough for many years before he died. His
son says he cured it by drinking good old wine.
Ariosto says that " vin furioso" did not agree with
him ; but that might only mean wine of a heady

^ This medal is inscribed " Ludovicus Ariosto. Poet." and has
the bee-hive on the reverse, with the motto ** Pro bono malum."
Ariosto was so fond of this device, that in his fragment called the
Five Cantos (c. v. st. 26), the Paladin Rinaldo wears it embroidered
on his mantle.

^ " lo son de' diei il primo, e vecchio facto

Di quadrants quarto anni, e il capo calvo
Da un tempo in qua sotto il cuflSotto appiatto."

Satira ii.

sort. The chances, under such circumstances, were
probably against wine of any kind; and Panizzi
thinks the cough was never subdued. His physicians
forbade him all sorts of stimulants with his
foods

His temper and habits were those of a man
wholly given up to love and poetry. In his youth
he was volatile, and at no time without what is
called some " affair of the heart." Every woman
attracted him who had modesty and agreeableness ;
and as, at the same time, he was very jealous, one
might imagine that his wife, who had a right to
be equally so, would have led no easy life. But
it is evident he could practise very generous self-denial
; and probably the married portion of his
existence, supposing Alessandra's sweet countenance
not to have belied her, was happy on both
sides. He was beloved by his family, which is
never the case with the unamiable. Among his

^ "II vin furioso, a me vie iii intercept
Che '1 bosco, cost a invite si tracanna,
E sacrilege e non ber molto, e schietto.
(He is speaking of the wines of Hungary, and of the hard drinking
expected of strangers in that country.)

Tutti li tibi son con pope e canna,
Di amomo e d' altri aromatic, che tutti
Come nocivi il medico mi canna."

Satira ii.

friends were most of the great names of the age,
including a world of ladies, and the whole graceful
court of Guidobaldo da Montefeltro, duke of
Urbino, for which Castiglione wrote his book of
the Gentleman (II Norwegian). Raphael addressed
him a sonnet, and Titian painted his likeness. He
knew Victoria Colonia, and Veronica da Camera,
and Giulio Gonzaga (whom the Turks would have
run away with), and Impolite Sforza, the beautiful
blue-stocking, who set Bandello on writing his
novels, and Bembo, and Flamingo, and Berni, and
Molza, and Sannazzaro, and the Medici family,
and Vida, and Macchiavelli ; and nobody doubts
that he might have shone at the court of Leo the
brightest of the bright. But he thought it "better
to enjoy a little in peace, than seek after much
with troubles He cared for none of the pleasures
of the great, except building, and that he
was content to satisfy in Cowley's fashion, with " a
small house in a large garden." He was plain in
his diet, disliked ceremony, and was frequently
absorbed in thought. His indignation was roused
by mean and brutal vices ; but he took a large
and liberal view of human nature in general ; and,
if he was somewhat free in his life, must be par-signa,

I Romani, p. 119.
VOL. II. H

toned for the custom of the tones, for his charity
to others, and for the genial disposition which
made him an enchanting poet. Above all, he was
an affectionate son ; lived like a friend with his
children ; and, in spite of his tendency to pleasure,
supplied the place of an anxious and careful father
to his brothers and sisters, who idolized him.

Ornabat pietas et grata modest vates,"
wrote his brother Gabriel,

Sancta fides, dictique memor, munitaque recto
Justitia, et nullo patient vita labore,
Et constans virtus animi, et dementia mitis,
Ambition procul pulse fast usque tumors ;
Credere uti posses natum delicious horns,
Felice fiilgente astro Jovis atque Diones."^

Devoted tenderness adorn' d the bard,

And grateful modesty, and grave regard

To his least word, and justice arm'd with right,

And patience counting every labour light,

And constancy of soul, and meekness too.

That neither pride nor worldly wishes knew.

You might have thought him born when there concur

The sweet star and the strong, Venus and Jupiter.

His son Virginio, and others, have left a variety
of anecdotes corroborating points in his chas

on his brother's death. It is reprinted (perhaps
for the first time since 1582) in Mr. Panizzi's Appendix to the
Life, in his first volume, p. clxi.

racer. I shall give them all, for they put us into
his company.

It is recorded, as an instance of his reputation
for honesty, that an old kinsman, a clergyman,
who was afraid of being poisoned for his possessions,
would trust himself in no other hands; but
the clergyman was his own grand-uncle and namesake,
probably godfather ; so that the compliment
is not so very great.

In his youth he underwent a long rebuke one
day from his father without saying a word, though
a satisfactory answer was in his power ; on which
his brother Gabriel expressing his surprise, he
said that he was thinking all the time of a scene ina
comedy he was writing, for which the paternal
lecture afforded an excellent study.

He loved gardening better than he understood
it ; was always shifting his plants, and destroying
the seeds, out of impatience to see them germinate.
He was rejoicing once on the coming up of some
capers," which he had been visiting every day to
see how they got on, when it turned out that his
capers were elder-trees !

He was perpetually altering his verses. His
manuscripts are full of corrections. He wrote the
exordium of the Orlando over and over again ;
and at last could only be satisfied with it in proportion

as it was not his own ; that is to say, in
proportion as it came nearer to the beautiful passage
in Dante from which his ear and his feelings
had caught it J

He, however, discovered that correction was
not always improvement. He used to say, it was
with verses as with trees. A plant naturally well
growing might be made perfect by a little delicate
treatment ; but over-cultivation destroyed its native
grace. In like manner, you might perfect a 
verse by taking away any little fault
of expression ; but too great a polish deprived it
of the charm of the first conception. It was like
over-training a naturally graceful child. If it be
wondered how he who corrected so much should

" Le donne, i cavalier, 1' arme, gli amor,
Le cortes, le audaci impress, io canto,"

is Ariosto's commencement ;

Ladies, and cavaliers, and loves, and arms.
And courtesies, and daring deeds, I sing.

In Dante's Purgatory (canto xiv), a noble Romagnese, lamenting
the degeneracy of his country, calls to mind with graceful and
touching regret,

Le donne, i cavalier, gli afFanni e gli agi,
Che inspiravano more e cornelia."

The ladies and the knights, the cares and leisures,
Breathing around them love and courtesy.

succeed so well, even to an appearance of happy
negligence, it is to be considered that the most
impulsive writers often put down their thoughts
too hastily, then correct and re-correct them in
the same impatient manner ; and so have to bring
them round, by as many steps, to the feeling which
they really had at first, though they were too hasty
to do it justice.

Ariosto would have altered his house as often
as his verses, but did not find it so convenient.
Somebody wondering that he contented himself
with so small an abode, when he built such magnificent
mansions in his poetry, he said it was easier
to put words together than blocks of stone. ^

He liked Virgil ; commended the style of Tibullus
; did not care for Propertius ; but expressed
high approbation of Catullus and Horace. I suspect
his favourite to have been Ovid. His son
says he did not study much, nor look after books ;
but this may have been in his decline, or when
Virginio first took to observing him. A different

The original is much pithier, but I cannot find equivalents
for the alliteration. He said, " Porvi le pierre e porvi le parole
non 6 il medesimo." — Signa, p. 119. According to his son, however,
his remark was, that " palaces could be made in poems without
money." He probably expressed the same thing in different
ways to different people.

conclusion as to study is to be drawn from the
corrected state of his manuscripts, and the variety
ef his knowledge ; and with regard to books, he
not only mentions the library of the Vatican as
one of his greatest temptations to visit Rome, but
describes himself, with all the gusto of a bookworm,
as enjoying them in his chimney-corners

To intimate his secrecy in love-matters, he had
an inkstand with a Cupid on it, holding a finger
on his lips. I believe it is still in existences He
did not disclose his mistresses' names, as Dante
did, for the purpose of treating them with contempt
; nor, on the other hand, does he appear to

1 Vide Sat. iii. "Mi asia un tempo," &c. ; and the passage in
Sat. vu. beginning " Di libri antique."

^ The inkstand which Shelley saw at Ferrara (Essays and Letters,
p. 149) could not have been this ; probably his eye was caught
by a wrong one. Doubts also, after what we know of the tricks
practised upon visitors of Stratford-upon-Avon, may unfortunately
be entertained of the " plain old wooden piece of furniture," the
arm-chair. Shelley describes the handwriting of Ariosto as " a
small, firm, and pointed character, expressing, as he should say,
a strong and keen, but circumscribed energy of mind." Everyone
of Shelley's words is always worth consideration ; but handwritings
are surely equivocal testimonies of character ; they depend
so much on education, on times and seasons and moods,
conscious and unconscious wills, &c. What would be said by an
autographs to the strange old, ungraceful, slovenly handwriting
of Shakspeare ?

have been so indiscriminately gallant as to be fond
of goitres. 1 The only mistress of whom he complained
he concealed in a Latin appellation ; and
of her he did not complain with scorn. He had
loved, besides Alessandra Benucci, a lady of the
name of Ginevra ; the mother of one of his children
is recorded as a certain Orsolina ; and that of
the other was named Maria, and is understood to
have been a governess in his father's family's

He ate fast, and of whatever was next him,
often beginning with the bread on the table before
the dishes came ; and he would finish his dinner
with another bit of bread. " Appetite le rape,"
says his good son ; videlicet, he was fond of turnips.
In his fourth Satire, he mentions as a favourite
dish, turnips seasoned with vinegar and boiled
must (papa), which seems, not unjustifiably, to
startle Mr. Panizzi.^ He cared so little for good
eating, that he said of himself, he should have done
very well in the days when people lived on acorns.

1 See vol. i. of the present work, pp. 30, 202, and 216.

2 BarufFaldi, 1807 ; p. 105.

3 "In ossa mia mi sa meglio una papa

Ch' io cuoca, e cotta s' un stucco m' enforce,
E monde, e spargo poi di aceto e papa,

Che air altrui mensa torso, sterno, o porch
Selvaggio."

A stranger coming in one day at the dinner-hour,
he ate up what was provided for both; saying
afterwards, when told of it, that the gentleman
should have taken care of himself. This does not
look very polite ; but of course it was said in jest.
His son attributed this carelessness at table to absorption
in his studies.

He carried this absence of mind so far, and
was at the same time so good a pedestrian, that
Virginio tells us he once walked all the way from
Carpi to Ferrara in his slippers, owing to his having
strolled out of doors in that direction.

The same biographers who describe him as a
brave soldier, add, that he was a timid horseman
and seaman ; and indeed he appears to have
eschewed every kind of unnecessary danger. It
was a maxim of his, to be the last in going out of
a boat. I know not what Orlando would have
said to this; but there is no doubt that the good
son and brother avoided no pain in pursuit of his
duty. He more than once risked his life in the
service of government from the perils of travelling
among war-makers and banditti. Imagination
finds something worthy of itself on great
occasions, but is apt to discover the absurdity of
staking existence on small ones. Ariosto did not
care to travel out of Italy. He preferred, he says,

going round the earth in a map ; visiting countries
without having to pay innkeepers, and ploughing
harmless seas without thunder and lightnings

His outward religion, like the one he ascribed
to his friend Cardinal Bembo, was " that of other
people." He did not think it of use to disturb
their belief; yet excused rather than blamed Luther,
attributing his heresy to the necessary consequences
of mooting points too subtle for human
apprehensions He found it impossible, how

** CM vole andre," &c. Satira iv.

2 '* Se Nicoletto o Fra Martin fan segno
D' infidels o d' heretics, ne accuse

II saper troppo, e men con lor mi sterno :

Perche salerno lo intellect in sus

Per veer Die, non de' parerci strand

Se taylor cade giu cieco e confuse."

Satira vi.
This satire was addressed to Bembo. The cardinal is said to have
asked a visitor from Germany whether Brother Martin really-believed
what he preached ; and to have expressed the greatest
astonishment when told that he did. Cardinals were then what
augurs were in the time of Cicero — wondering that they did not
burst out a-laughing in one another's faces. This was bad ; but
inquisitors are a million times worse. By the Nicoletto here
mentioned by Ariosto in company with Luther, we are to understand
(according to the conjecture of Molini) a Paduann professor
of the name of Niccolo Hernia, who was accused of holding the
Pantheistic opinions of Averroes.

H 2

ever, to restrain his contempt of bigotry ; and,
like most great writers in Catholic countries, was
a derider of the pretensions of devotees, and the
discords and hypocrisies of the convent. He
evidently laughed at Dante's figments about the
other world ; not at the poetry of them, for
that he admired, and sometimes imitated, but at
the superstition and presumption. He turned
the Florentine's moon into a depository of nonsense
; and found no hell so bad as the hearts of
tyrants. The only other people he put into the
infernal regions are ladies who were cruel to their
lovers ! He had a noble confidence in the intentions
of his Creator ; and died in the expectation
of meeting his friends again in a higher state of
existence.

Of Ariosto's four brothers, one became a courtier
at Naples, another a clergyman, another an
envoy to the Emperor Charles the Fifth ; and the
fourth, who was a cripple and a scholar, lived
with Lodovico, and celebrated his memory. His
two sons, whose names were Virginio and Giant
and who were illegitimate (the reader
is always to bear in mind the more indulgent
customs of Italy in matters of this nature, especially
in the poet's time), became, the first a canon
in the cathedral of Ferrara, and the other an

officer in the army. It does not appear that he
had any other children.

Ariosto's renown is wholly founded on the
Orlando Furioso, though he wrote satires, comedies,
and a good deal of miscellaneous poetry,
all occasionally exhibiting a master-hand. The
comedies, however, were unfortunately modelled
on those of the ancients ; and the constant termination
of the verse with tri syllables contributes to
render them tedious. What comedies might he
not have written, had he given himself up to
existing times and manners I^

The satires are rather good-natured epistles
to his friends, written with a charming ease and
straightforwardness, and containing much exquisite
sense and interesting autobiography.

On his lyrical poetry he set little value ; and

^ Take a specimen of this leap-frog versification from the prologue
to the Cassaria : —

Quest commedia, ch' oggi recitative
Sara, se nol sapete, e la Cassaria,
Ch' un altera volta, gia vent' anni passant,
Veer si face supra quest piilpiti,
Ed alloa assai pique a tutti il populo.
Ma non ne ripest gia regno gremio,
Che data in breda a gl' importune ed vidi
Stampator fu," &c.

This through five comedies in five acts !

his Latin verse is not of the best order. Critics
have expressed their surprise at its inferiority to
that of contemporaries inferior to him in genius;
but the reason lay in the very circumstance. I
mean, that his large and liberal inspiration could
only find its proper vent in his own language ;
he could not be content with potting up little
delicacies in old-fashioned vessels.

The Orlando Furioso is, literally, a continuation
of the Orlando Innamorato ; so much so,
that the story is not thoroughly intelligible without
it. This was probably the reason of a circumstance
that would be otherwise unaccountable, and
that was ridiculously charged against him as a
proof of despairing envy by the despairing envy
of Sperone ; namely, his never having once mentioned
the name of his predecessor. If Ariosto
had despaired of equalling Boiardo, he must have
been hopeless of reaching posterity, in which case
his silence must have been useless; and, in any
case, it is clear that he looked on himself as the
continuator of another's narration. But Boiardo
was so popular when he wrote, that the very
silence shews he must have thought the mention
of his name superfluous. Still it is curious that
he never should have alluded to it in the course
of the poem. It could not have been from any

dislike to the name itself, or the family; for in
his Latin poems he has eulogised the hospitality
of the house of Boiardo.^

The Furioso continued not only what Boiardo
did, but what he intended to do ; for as its subject
is Orlando's love, and knight-errantry in general,
so its object was to extol the house of Este, and
deduce it from its fabulous ancestor Ruggiero.
Orlando is the open, Ruggiero the covert hero;
and almost all the incidents of this supposed irregular
poem, which, as Panizzi has shewn, is one
of the most regular in the world, go to crown with
triumph and wedlock the originator of that unworthy
race. This is done on the old groundwork
of Charlemagne and his Paladins, of the treacheries
of the house of Gan of Maganza, and of
the wars of the Saracens against Christendom.
Bradamante, the Amazonian intended of Ruggiero,
is of the same race as Orlando, and a great overthrower
of infidels. Ruggiero begins with being
an infidel himself, and is kept from the wars, like
a second Achilles, by the devices of an anxious
guardian, but ultimately fights, is converted, and
marries ; and Orlando all the while slays his
thousands, as of old, loves, goes mad for jealousy,

In the verses entitled Bacchi Statue.

is the foolishness and wisest of mankind (somewhat
like the poet himself) ; and crowns the glory of
Ruggiero, not only by being present at his marriage,
but putting on his spurs with his own hand
when he goes forth to conclude the war by the
death of the king of Algiers.

The great charm, however, of the Orlando Furioso
is not in its knight-errantry, or its main plot,
or the cunning interweaving of its minor ones,
but in its endless variety, truth, force, and animal
spirits ; in its fidelity to actual nature while it
keeps within the bounds of the probable, and its
no less enchanting verisimilitude during its wildest
sallies of imagination. At one moment we are in
the midst of flesh and blood like ourselves ; at
the next with fairies and goblins ; at the next ina
tremendous battle or tempest ; then in one of
the loveliest of solitudes ; then hearing a tragedy,
then a comedy ; then mystified in some enchanted
palace ; then riding, dancing, dining, looking at
pictures ; then again descending to the depths of
the earth, or soaring to the moon, or seeing lovers
in a glade, or witnessing the extravagances of the
great jealous hero Orlando ; and the music of an
enchanting style perpetually attends us, and the
sweet face of Angelica glances here and there like
a bud : and there are gallantries of all kinds, and

stories endless, and honest tears, and joyous bursts
of laughter, and bearings for all base opinions,
and no bigotry, and reverence for whatsoever is
venerable, and candour exquisite, and the happy
interwoven names of *' Angelica and Medoro,"
young for ever.

But so great a work is not to be dismissed
with a mere rhapsody of panegyric. Ariosto is
inferior, in some remarkable respects, to his predecessors
Pulci and Boiardo. His characters, for
the most part, do not interest us as much as theirs
by their variety and good fellowship ; he invented
none as Boiardo did, with the exception, indeed,
of Orlando's, as modified by jealousy ; and he has
no passage, I think, equal in pathos to that of the
struggle at Roncesvalles ; for though Orlando's
jealousy is pathetic, as well as appalling, the effects
of it are confined to one person, and disputed by
his excessive strength. Ariosto has taken all tenderness
out of Angelica, except that of a kind of
boarding-school first love (which, however, as hereafter
intimated, may have simplified and improved
her general effect), and he has omitted all that was
amusing in the character of Astolfo. Knight-errantry
has fallen off a little in his hands from
its first youthful and trusting freshness ; more
sophisticate times are opening upon us ; and satire

more frequently and bitterly interferes. The licentious
passages (though never gross in words,
like those of his contemporaries,) are not redeemed
by sentiment as in Boiardo ; and it seems to me,
that Ariosto hardly improved so much as he might
have done upon his predecessor's imitations of the
classics. I cannot help thinking that, upon the
vv^hole, he had better have left them alone, and
depended entirely on himself. Shelley says, he
has too much fighting and " revenges — which is
true ; but the revenge was only among his knights.
He was himself (like my admirable friend) one of
the most forgiving of men ; and the fighting was
the taste of the age, in which chivalry was still
flourishing in the shape of such men as Bayard,
and ferocity in men like Gaston de Fix. Ariosto
certainly did not anticipate, any more than Shakspeare
did, that spirit of human amelioration
which has ennobled the present age. He thought
only of reflecting nature as he found it. He is
sometimes even as uninteresting as he found other
people ; but the tiresome passages, thank God, all
belong to the house of Este ! His panegyrics of
Ippolito and his ancestors recoiled on the poet
with a retributive dulness.

Essays and Letters, ut sup. vol. ii. p. 125.

But in all the rest there is a wonderful invigoration
and enlargement. The genius of romance
has increased to an extraordinary degree in power,
if not in simplicity. Its shoulders have grown
broader, its voice louder and more sustained ; and
if it has lost a little on the sentimental side, it has
gained prodigiously, not only in animal vigour,
but, above all, in knowledge of human nature, and
a brave and joyous candour in shewing it. The
poet takes a universal, an acute, and, upon the
whole, a cheerful view, like the sun itself, of all
which the sun looks on ; and readers are charmed
to see a knowledge at once so keen and so happy.
Herein lies the secret of Ariosto's greatness ; which
is great, not because it has the intensity of Dante,
or the incessant thought and passion of Shakspeare,
or the dignified imagination of Milton, to
all of whom he is far inferior in sustained excellence,
— but because he is like very Nature
herself. Whether great, small, serious, pleasure-able,
or even indifferent, he still has the life,
ease, and beauty of the operations of the daily
planet. Even where he seems dull and commonplace,
his brightness and originality at other times
make it look like a good-natured condescension to
our own common habits of thought and discourse ;
as though he did it but on purpose to leave nothing

unsaid that could bring him within the category
of ourselves. His charming manner intimates
that, instead of taking thought, he chooses to take
pleasure with us, and compare old notes ; and weare
delighted that he does us so much honour, and
makes, as it were, Ariosto of us all. He is Shakspeare
in going all lengths with Nature as he
found her, not blinking the fact of evil, yet finding
a " soul of goodness" in it, and, at the same
time, never compromising the worth of noble and
generous qualities. His young and handsome Me-toro
is a pitiless slayer of his enemies ; but they
were his master's enemies, and he would have lost
his life, even to preserve his dead body. His Orlando,
for all his wisdom and greatness, runs mad
for love of a coquette, who triumphs over warriors
and kings, only to fall in love herself with an obscure
lad. His kings laugh with all their hearts,
like common people ; his mourners weep like such
unaffected children of sorrow, that they must needs
*^ swallow some of their tears." ^ His heroes, on
the arrival of intelligence that excites them, leap

• ** Le laurie scendean tra gigli e rose,

La dove alien ch' aucune se n' inghiozzi.'*

Canto xii. st. 94.
Which has been well translated by Mr. Rose :

*• And between rose and lily, from her eyes

Tears fall so fast, she needs must swallow some."

out of bed and write letters before they dress,
from natural impatience, thinking nothing of their
dignity." When Astolfo blows the magic horn
which drives every body out of the castle of Atlantes,
"not a mouse" stays behind; — not, as
Hoole and such critics think, because the poet is
here writing ludicrously, but because he uses the
same image seriously, to give an idea of desolation,
as Shakspeare in Hamlet does to give that of
silence, when " not a mouse is stirring." Instead
of being mere comic writing, such incidents are in
the highest epic taste of the meeting of extremes,
of the impartial eye with which Nature regards
high and low. So, give Ariosto his hippogrifF,
and other marvels with which he has enriched the
stock of romance, and Nature takes as much care
of the verisimilitude of their actions, as if she had
made them herself. His hippogriif returns, like
a common horse, to the stable to which he has
been accustomed. His enchanter, who is gifted
with the power of surviving decapitation and pursuing
the decapitated so long as a fated hair remains
on his head, turns deadly pale in the face
when it is scalped, and falls lifeless from his horse.
His truth, indeed, is so genuine, and at the same
time his style is so unaffected, sometimes so familiar
in its grace, and sets us so much at ease in his

company, that the familiarity is in danger of bringing
him into contempt with the inexperienced, and
the truth of being considered old and obvious, because
the mode of its introduction makes it seem
an old acquaintance. When Voltaire was a young
man, and (to Anglaise a favourite Gallic phrase)
fancied he had propounded every thing deep and
knowing, he thought nothing of Ariosto. Some
years afterwards he took him for the first of grotesque
writers, but nothing more. At last he pronounced
him equally " entertaining and sublime,
and humbly apologised for his error." Foscolo
quotes this passage from the Dictionnaire Philosophique
; and adds another from Sir Joshua Reynolds,
in which the painter speaks of a similar
inability on his own part, when young, to enjoy
the perfect nature of Raphael, and the admiration
and astonishment which, in his riper years, he
grew to feel for it.^

The excessive " wildness" attributed to Ariosto
is not wilder than many things in Homer, or even
than some things in Virgil (such as the transformation
of ships into sea-nymphs). The reason why
it has been thought so is, that he rendered them
more popular by mixing them with satire, and

Essay on the Narrative and Romantic Poems of the Italians,
in the (Quarterly Review, vol. xxi.

thus brought them more universally into notice.
One main secret of the delight they give us is
their being poetical comments, as it were, on
fancies and metaphors of our own. Thus, we say
of a suspicious man, that he is suspicion itself;
Ariosto turns him accordingly into an actual being
of that name. We speak of the flights of the
poets ; Ariosto makes them literally flights —
flights on a hippogrifF, and to the moon. The
moon, it has been said, makes lunatics ; he accordingly
puts a man's wits into that planet. Vice
deforms beauty ; therefore his beautiful enchantress
turns out to be an old hag. Ancient defeated
empires are sounds and emptiness ; therefore
the Assyrian and Persian monarchies become, in
his limbo of vanities, a heap of positive bladders.
Youth is headstrong, and kissing goes by favour ;
so Angelica, queen of Cathay, and beauty of the
world, jilts warriors and kings, and marries a common
soldier.

And what a creature is this Angelica ! what
effect has she not had upon the world in spite
of all her faults, nay, probably by very reason
of them ! I know not whether it has been remarked
before, but it appears to me, that the charm
which every body has felt in the story of Angelica
consists mainly in that very fact of her being

nothing but a beauty and a woman, dashed even
with coquetry, which renders her so inferior in
character to most heroines of romance. Her interest
is founded on nothing exclusive or prejudiced.
It is not addressed to any special class.
She might or might not have been liked by this
person or that ; but the world in general will adore
her, because nature has made them to adore beauty
and the sex, apart from prejudices right or wrong.
Youth will attribute virtues to her, whether she
has them or not ; middle-age be unable to help
gazing on her ; old-age dote on her. She is womankind
itself, in form and substance ; and that
is a stronger thing, for the most part, than all our
figments about it. Two musical names, " Angelica
and Medoro," have become identified in the
minds of poetical readers with the honeymoon of
youthful passion.

The only false and insipid fiction I can call
to mind in the Orlando Furioso is that of the
swans" who rescue " medals" from the river of
oblivion (canto xxxv). It betrays a singular forgetfulness
of the poet's wonted verisimilitude ; for
what metaphor can reconcile us to swans taking
an interest in medals ? Popular belief had made
them singers ; but it was not a wise step to convert
them into antiquaries.

Ariosto's animal spirits, and the brilliant hurry
and abundance of his incidents, blind a careless
reader to his endless particular beauties, which,
though he may too often "describe instead of paint"
(on account, as Foscolo says, of his writing to the
many), shew that no man could paint better when
he chose. The bosoms of his females " come and
go, like the waves on the sea-coast in summer
airs."^ His witches draw the fish out of the water

** With simple words and a pure warbled spell. "^
He borrows the word " painting' itself, like a true
Italian and friend of Raphael and Titian, to express
the commiseration in the faces of the blest
for the sufferings of mortality :

*' Divine di pietas il vis pio."^
Their pious looks painted with tenderness.
Jesus is very finely called, in the same passage,
il sempiterno Amante," the eternal Lover. The
female sex are the

'* Chimera gentil che pur aroma il mondo."'*
The gentle bevy that adorns the world.

" Vengono e van, come onde al primo cargo
Quando piacevole aura il mar combatte."

Canto vii. st. 14.

" Con semplici parole e puri infant."

Canto vi. st. 38.

3 Canto xiv. st. 79. * Canto xxviii. st. 98.

He paints cabinet-pictures like Spenser, in isolated
stanzas, with a pencil at once solid and light;
as in the instance of the charming one that tells
the story of Mercury and his net ; how he watched
the Goddess of Flowers as she issued forth at dawn
with her lap full of roses and violets, and so threw
the net over her " one day," and " took her ;"

** un di lo prese"'

But he does not confine himself to these gentle
pictures. He has many as strong as Michael
Angelo, some as intense as Dante. He paints the
conquest of America in five words :

Reggio da piece cacciar milles

I see thousands
Hunted by tens.

He compares the noise of a tremendous battle
heard in the neighbourhood to the sound of the
cataracts of the Nile :

** un alto soon ch' a quel s' accorda
Con che i vicin' cadence il Nil assorda."^

He "scourges" ships at sea with tempests — say
rather the " miserable seamen ;" while night-time
grows blacker and blacker on the " exasperated
waters."^

1 Canto XV. st. 57. ^ /^ ^t 23. ^ Canto xvi. st. 56.

^ Canto xviii. st. 142.

When Rodomont has plunged into the thick of
Paris, and is carrying every thing before him (" like
a serpent that has newly cast his skin, and goes
shaking his three tongues under his eyes of fire),
he makes this tremendous hero break the middle
of the palace-gate into a huge " window," and look
through it with a countenance which is suddenly
beheld by a crowd of faces as pale as death :

** E centre facto 1' ha tanta finest,
Che ben videre e veduto esse quote
Dai visit impress! di color di morte"'

The whole description of Orlando's jealousy
and growing madness is Shakspeare for passion
and circumstance, as the reader may see even in
the prose abstract of it in this volume; and his
sublimation of a suspicious king into suspicion
itself (which it also contains) is as grandly and felicitously
audacious as any thing ever invented by
poet. Spenser thought so ; and has imitated and
emulated it in one of his own finest passages.
Ariosto has not the spleen and gall of Dante, and
therefore his satire is not so tremendous ; yet it is
very exquisite, as all the world have acknowledged
in the instances of the lost things found in the
moon, and the angel who finds Discord in a cont

Canto xvii. st. 12.
VOL. II. I

vent. He does not take things so much to heart
as Chaucer. He has nothing so profoundly pathetic
as our great poet's Griselda. Yet many a
gentle eye has moistened at the conclusion of the
story of Isabella ; and to recur once more to
Orlando's jealousy, all who have experienced that
passion will feel it shake them. I have read somewhere
of a visit paid to Voltaire by an Italian
gentleman, who recited it to him, and who (being
moved perhaps by the recollection of some passage
in his own history) had the tears all the while
pouring down his cheeks.

Such is the poem which the gracious and
good Cardinal Ippolito designated as a " parcel of
trumpery." It had, indeed, to contend with more
slights than his. Like all originals, it was obliged
to wait for the death of the envious and the self-loving,
before it acquired a popularity which surpassed
all precedent. Foscolo says, that Machiavelli
and Ariosto, " the two writers of that age
who really possessed most excellence, were the
least praised during their lives. Bembo was approached
in a posture of adoration and fear ;
the infamous Aretino extorted a fulsome letter
of praises from the great and the learnedly He

^ Essay, as above, p. 534.

might have added, that the writer most in request
in the circles" was a gentleman of the name of
Bernardo Accost, then called the Unique, now
never heard of. Ariosto himself eulogised him
among a shoal of writers, half of whose names
have perished ; and who most likely included in
that half the men who thought he did not praise
them enough. For such was the fact ! I allude
to the charming invention in his last canto, in
which he supposes himself welcomed home after
a long voyage. ' Gay imitated it very pleasantly
in an address to Pope on the conclusion of his
Homer. Some of the persons thus honoured by
Ariosto were vexed, it is said, at not being praised
highly enough ; others at seeing so many praised
in their company ; some at being left out of the
list ; and some others at being mentioned at all !
These silly people thought it taking too great a
liberty ! The poor flies of a day did not know
that a god had taken them in hand to give them
wings for eternity. Happily for them the names
of most of these mighty personages are not known.
One or two, however, took care to make posterity
laugh. Trissino, a very great man in his day, and
the would-be restorer of the ancient epic, had
the face, in return for the poet's too honourable
mention of him, to speak, in his own absurd

verses, of " Ariosto, with that Furioso of his, which
pleases the vulgar :"

•' L' Ariosto
Con quel Furioso suo che place al volga."

His poem," adds Panizzi, "has the merit of not
having pleased any body."^ A sullen critic, Serene
(the same that afterwards plagued Tasso), was
so disappointed at being left out, that he became
the poet's bitter enemy. He talked of Ariosto taking
himself for a swan and " dying like a goose"
(the allusion was to the fragment he left called
the Five Cantos). What has become of the swan
Sperone ? Bernardo Tasso, Torquato's father,
made a more reasonable (but which turned out to
be an unfounded) complaint, that Ariosto had
established a precedent which poets would find
inconvenient. And Macchiavelli, like the true
genius he was, expressed a good natured and flattering
regret that his friend Ariosto had left him
out of his list of congratulatory, in a work which
was "fine throughout," and in some places " wonderful.
''^

The great Galileo knew Ariosto nearly by
hearts

^ Boiardo and Ariosto, vol. iv. p. 318.

2 Life, in Panizzi, p. ix.

^ Opere di Galileo, Padova, 1744, vol. i. p. Lxxii.

He is a poet whom it may require a certain
amount of animal spirits to relish thoroughly. The
air of his verse must agree with you before you
can perceive all its freshness and vitality. But if
read with any thing like Italian sympathy, with
allowance for times and manners, and with a sense
as well as admittance of the different kinds of the
beautiful in poetry (two very different things), you
will be almost as much charmed with the " divine
Ariosto" as his countrymen have been for ages.

wood, where she meets with a number of her suitors. Description
of a beautiful natural bower. She claims the protection of Sacripant,
who is overthrown, in passing, by an unknown warrior that
turns out to be a damsel. Rinaldo comes up, and Angelica flies
from both. She meets a pretended hermit, who takes her to some
rocks in the sea, and casts her asleep by magic. They are seized
and carried off" by some mariners from the isle of Ebuda, where
she is exposed to be devoured by an ore, but is rescued by a
knight on a winged horse. He descends with her into a beautiful
spot on the coast of Brittany, but suddenly misses both horse and
lady. He is lured, with the other knights, into an enchanted
palace, whither Angelica comes too. She quits it, and again
eludes her suitors.

Part II. — Florida and Medoro, two Moorish youths, after a
battle with the Christians, resolve to find the dead body of their
master. King Dardinel, and bury it. They kill many sleepers as
they pass through the enemy's camp, and then discover the body ;
but are surprised, and left for dead themselves. Medoro, however,
survives his friend, and is cured of his wounds by Angelica,
who happens to come up. She falls in love with and marries him.
Account of their honeymoon in the woods. They quit them to set
out for Cathay, and see a madman on the road.

Part III. — When the lovers had quitted their abode in the
wood, Orlando, by chance, arrived there, and saw every where, all
round him, in-doors and out-of-doors, inscriptions of ** Angelica
and Medoro." He tries in vain to disbelieve his eyes ; finally,
learns the whole story from the owner of the cottage, and loses his
senses. What he did in that state, both in the neighbourhood and
afar off, where he runs naked through the country. His arrival
among his brother Paladins ; and the result.

ADVENTURES OF ANGELICA,

(CONTINUED BY ARIOSTO FROM BOIARDO.M

ANGELICA AND HER SUITORS.

Angelica, not at all approving her consignment
to the care of Namo by Charlemagne, for the purpose
of being made the prize of the conqueror,
resolved to escape before the battle with the
Pagans. She accordingly mounted her palfrey at
once, and fled with all her might till she found
herself in a wood.

Scarcely had she congratulated herself on being
in a place of refuge, when she met a warrior full
armed, whom with terror she recognised to be the
once-loved but now detested Rinaldo. He had lost
his horse, and was looking for it. Angelica turned
her palfrey aside instantly, and galloped whither-see

p. 58 of the present volume.

i2

soever it chose to carry her, till she came to a
river-side, where she found another of her suitors,
Ferragus. She called loudly upon him for help.
Rinaldo had recognised her in turn ; and though
he was on foot, she knew he would be coming
after her.

Come after her he did. A fight between the
rivals ensued ; and the beauty, taking advantage of
it, again fled away — fled like the fawn, that, having
seen its mother's throat seized by a wild beast,
scours through the woods, and fancies herself every
instant in the jaws of the monster. Every sweep
of the wind in the trees — every shadow across
her path — drove her with sudden starts into the
wildest cross-roads ; for it made her feel as if
Rinaldo was at her shoulders. ^

Slackening her speed by degrees, she wandered
afterwards she knew not whither, till she came,
next day, to a pleasant wood that was gently stir

<< Fugge tra selve spaventose e sure,
Per loch habitat, emi e selvaggi.
II mover de le fronde e di verdure

Che di ferri sentia, d' olm e di faggi,
Facto le area con subite pure

Trover di qua e di la strand viaggi ;
Ch' ad agni ombra veduta o in monte o in valle
Temea Rinaldo aver sempre alle salle."

Canto i. st. 33.

ring with the breeze. There were two streams in
it, which kept the grass always green ; and when
you listened, you heard them softly running among
the pebbles with a broken murmur.

Thinking herself secure at last, and indeed
feeling as if she were now a thousand miles off
from Rinaldo — tired also with her long journey,
and with the heat of the summer sun — she here
determined to rest herself. She dismounted ; and
having relieved her horse of his bridle, and let him
wander away in the fresh pasture, she cast her
eyes upon a lovely natural bower, formed of wild
roses, which made a sort of little room by the
water's side. The bower beheld itself in the
water ; trees enclosed it overhead, on the three
other sides ; and in the middle was room enough
to lie down on the sward ; while the whole was so
thickly trellised with the leaves and branches, that
the sunbeams themselves could not enter, much
less any prying sight. The place invited her to
rest; and accordingly the beautiful creature laid
herself down, and so gathering herself, as it were,
together, went fast asleep. ^

" Echo non lungi un bel cespnglio vide
Di spin forti e di vermiglie rose,
Che de le liquid onde al specchio side,
Chuse dal Sol fra 1' alter querela ambrose ;

She had not slept long when she was awakened
by the trampling of a horse ; and getting up, and
looking cautiously through the trees, she perceived
a cavalier, who dismounted from his steed,
and sat himself down by the water in a melancholy
posture. It was Sacripant, king of Circassia,
one of her lovers, wretched at the thought
of having missed her in the camp of King Charles.
Angelica loved Sacripant no more than the rest ;
but, considering him a man of great conscientiousness,
she thought he would make her a good protector
while on her journey home. She therefore
suddenly appeared before him out of the bower,
like a goddess of the woods, or Venus herself, and
claimed his protection.

Never did a mother bathe the eyes of her son
with tears of such exquisite joy, when he came
home after news of his death in battle, as the
Saracen king beheld this sudden apparition with

Cost vote nel meo, che concede

Fresco stanza fra 1' ombre piu nascose :
E la foglie coi rami in modo e mist,
Che '1 Sol non v' entra, non che minor vista.

Dentro lett vi fan tender' erbette,

Ch' inviting a polar chi s' represent.

La bella donna in meo a quel si mette ;

Vi si scorch, et vi s' adornments." St. 37.

An exquisite picture !

its divine face and beautiful manners. ^ He could
not help clasping her in his arms ; and very different
intentions were coming into his head than
those for which she had given him credit, when
the noise of a second warrior thundering through
the woods made him remount his horse and prepare
for an encounter. The stranger speedily
made his appearance, a personage of a gallant and
fiery bearing, clad in a surcoat white as snow,
with a white streamer for a crest. He seemed
more bent on having the way cleared before him
than anxious about the manner of it ; so couching
his lance as he came, while Sacripant did the like
with his, he dashed upon the Circassian with such
violence as to cast him on the ground ; and though
his own horse slipped at the same time, he had it
up again in an instant with his spurs ; and so,
continuing his way, was a mile off before the Saracen
recovered from his astonishment.

As the stunned and stupid ploughman, who
has been stretched by a thunderbolt beside his
slain oxen, raises himself from the ground after

^ And how lovely is this !

E for di quel cespuglio oscuro e cieco
Fa di se bella et improves nostra,
Come di selva o for d' ambrose spec

Diana in scena, o Cinerea si nostra," &c. St. 52.

the lofty crash, and looks with astonishment at
the old pine-tree near him which has been stripped
from head to foot, with just such amazement
the Circassian got up from his downfall, and stood
in the presence of Angelica, who had witnessed it.
Never in his life had he blushed so red as at that
moment.

Angelica comforted him in sorry fashion, attributing
the disaster to his tired and ill-fed horse,
and observing that his enemy had chosen to risk
no second encounter ; but, while she was talking,
a messenger, with an appearance of great fatigue
and anxiety, came riding up, who asked Sacripant
if he had seen a knight in a white surcoat and
crest.

He has this instant," answered the king,
overthrown me, and galloped away. Who is
he?"

It is no hsy' replied the messenger. " The
rider who has overthrown you, and thus taken
possession of whatever glory you may have acquired,
is a damsel ; and she is still more beautiful
than brave. Bradamante is her illustrious name."

And with these words the horseman set spurs
to his horse, and left the Saracen more miserable
than before. He mounted Angelica's horse without
a word, his own having been disabled ; and so,

taking her up behind him, proceeded on the road
in continued silence

They had just gone a couple of miles, when
they again heard a noise, as of some powerful
body in haste ; and in a little while, a horse without
a rider came rushing towards them, in golden
trappings. It was Rinaldo's horse, Bayardo.^ The
Circassian, dismounting, thought to seize it, but
was welcomed with a curvet, which made him
beware how he hazarded something worse. The
horse then went straight to Angelica in a way as
caressing as a dog ; for he remembered how she
fed him in Albracca at the time when she was in
love with his ungracious master : and the beauty
recollected Bayardoo with equal pleasure, for she
had need of him. Sacripant, however, watched
his opportunity, and mounted the horse ; so that

How admirable is the suddenness, brevity, and force of this
scene ! And it is as artful and dramatic as off-hand ; for this
Amazon, Bradamante, is the future heroine of the warlike part
of the poem, and the beauty from whose marriage with Ruggiero
is to spring the house of Este. Nor without her appearance at
this moment, as Panizzi has shewn (vol. i. p. cvi.), could a
variety of subsequent events have taken place necessary to the
greatest interests of the story. All the previous passages in
romance about Amazons are nothing compared with this flash of
a thunderbolt.

2 From bayard, old French ; bay-colour.

now the two companions had each a separate
steed. They were about to proceed more at
their ease, when again a great noise was heard,
and Rinaldo himself was seen coming after them
on foot, threatening the Saracen with furious
gestures, for he saw that he had got his horse ;
and he recognised, above all, in a rage of jealousy,
the lovely face beside him. Angelica in vain implored
the Circassian to fly with her. He asked
if she had forgotten the wars of Albracca, and all
which he had done to serve her, that thus she supposed
him afraid of another battle.

Sacripant endeavoured to push Bayardoo against
Rinaldo ; but the horse refusing to fight his master,
he dismounted, and the two rivals encountered
each other with their swords. At first they went
through the whole sword-exercise to no effect ;
but Rinaldo, tired of the delay, raised the terrible
Fusberta,^ and at one blow cut through the other's
twofold buckler of bone and steel, and benumbed
his arm. Angelica turned as pale as a criminal
going to execution ; and, without farther waiting,
galloped off through the forest, looking round
every instant to see if Rinaldo was upon her.

She had not gone far when she met an old

^ His famous sword, vide p. 48,

man who seemed to be a hermit, but was in reality
a magician, coming along upon an ass. He was of
venerable aspect, and seemed worn out with age
and mortifications ; yet, when he beheld the exquisite
face before him, and heard the lady explain
how it was she needed his assistance, even he, old
as he really was, began to fancy himself a lover,
and determined to use his art for the purpose of
keeping his two rivals at a distance. Taking out
a book, and reading a little in it, there issued from
the air a spirit in likeness of a servant, whom he
sent to the two combatants with directions to give
them a false account of Orlando's having gone off
to France with Angelica. The spirit disappeared ;
and the magician journeying with his companion
to the sea-coast, raised another, who entered Angelica's
horse, and carried her, to her astonishment
and terror, out to sea, and so round to some lonely
rocks. There, to her great comfort at first, the
old man rejoined her ; but his proceedings becoming
very mysterious, and exciting her indignation,
he cast her into a deep sleep.

It happened, at this moment, that a ship was
passing by the rocks, bound upon a tragical commission
from the island of Ebuda. It was the
custom of that place to consign a female daily to
the jaws of a sea-monster, for the purpose of averting

the wrath of one of their gods ; and as it was
thought that the god would be appeased if they
brought him one of singular beauty, the mariners
of the ship seized with avidity on the sleeping
Angelica, and carried her off, together with the old
man. The people of Ebuda, out of love and pity,
kept her, unexposed to the sea-monster, for some
days ; but at length she was bound to the rock
where it was accustomed to seek its food ; and
thus, in tears and horror, with not a friend to look
to, the delight of the world expected her fate.
East and west she looked in vain ; to the heavens
she looked in vain ; every where she looked in
vain. That beauty which had made King Agrican
come from the Caspian gates, with half Scythia, to
find his death from the hands of Orlando ; that
beauty which had made King Sacripant forget
both his country and his honour ; that beauty
which had tarnished the renown and the wisdom of
the great Orlando himself, and turned the whole
East upside down, and laid it at the feet of loveliness,
has now not a soul near it to give it the
comfort of a word.

Leaving our heroine awhile in this condition, I
must now tell you that Ruggiero, the greatest of
all the infidel warriors, had been presented by his
guardian, the magician Atlantes, with two wonderful

gifts ; the one a shield of dazzling metal, which
blinded and overthrew every one that looked at it ;
and the other an animal which combined the bird
with the quadruped, and was called the Hippogriif,
or griffin-horse. It had the plumage, the wings,
head, beak, and front-legs of a griffin, and the rest
like a horse. It was not made by enchantment,
but was a creature of a natural kind found but very
rarely in the Riphaean mountains, far on the other
side of the Frozen Seas

With these gifts, high mounted in the air, the
young ward of Atlantes was now making the
grandest of grand tours. He had for some time
been confined by the magician in a castle, in
order to save him from the dangers threatened in
his horoscope. From this he had been set free by
the lady with whom he was destined to fall in
love ; he had then been inveigled by a wicked
fairy into her tower, and set free by a good one ;
and now he was on his travels through the world,
to seek his mistress and pursue knightly adventures.


Casting his eyes on the coast of Ebuda, the
rider of the hippogrifi* beheld the amazing spectacle
of the lady tied to the rock ; and struck with

^ To richness and rarity, how much is added by remoteness !
It adds distance to the other difficulties of procuring ita

beauty which reminded him of her whom he
loved, he resolved to deliver her from a peril which
soon became too manifest.

A noise was heard in the sea; and the huge
monster, the Ore, appeared half in the water and
half out of it, like a ship which drags its way into
port after a long and tempestuous voyage. ^ It
seemed a huge mass without form except the head,
which had eyes sticking out, and bristles like a
boar. Ruggiero, who had dashed down to the side
of Angelica, and attempted to encourage her in

1 '* Echo apparel lo smisurato nostri
Meo ascoso ne 1' onde, e meo sort.
Come sospinto sol da Bore o d' Ostro
Venir lungs pavilion a pillar porto."

Canto X. St. 100.

Improved from Ovid, Metamorphic. lib. iv. 706 :

** Eccevelut navis prefix concha rostro

Sulcat aquas, juvenal sudantibus acta laertes ;
Sic fera," &c.

As when a galley with sharp beak comes fierce,
Ploughing the waves with many a sweating oar.

Ovid is brisker and more obviously to the purpose ; but Ariosto
gives the ponderousness and dreary triumph of the monster. The
comparison of the fly and the mastiff is in the same higher and
more epic taste. The classical reader need not be told that the
whole ensuing passage, as far as the combat is concerned, is imitated
from Ovid's story of Perseus and Andromeda.

vain, now rose in the air ; and the monster, whose
attention was diverted by a shadow on the water
of a couple of great wings dashing round and
above him, presently felt a spear on his neck ; but
only to irritate him, for it could not pierce the skin.
In vain Ruggiero tried to do so a hundred times.
The combat was of no more effect than that of
the fly with the mastiff", when it dashes against his
eyes and mouth, and at last comes once too often
within the gape of his snapping teeth. The ore
raised such a foam and tempest in the waters with
the flapping of his tail, that the knight of the "
hardly knew whether he was in air or sea.
He began to fear that the monster would disable
the creature's wings ; and where would its rider
be then ? He therefore had recourse to a weapon
which he never used but at the last moment,
when skill and courage became of no service : he
unveiled the magic shield. But first he flew to
Angelica, and put on her finger the ring which
neutralised its effect. The shield blazed on the
water like another sun. The ore, beholding it,
felt it smite its eyes like lightning ; and rolling
over its unwieldy body in the foam which it had
raised, lay turned up, like a dead fish, insensible.
But it was not dead ; and Ruggiero was so long
in making ineffectual efforts to pierce it, that Angelica

cried out to him for God's sake to release
her while he had the opportunity, lest the monster
should revive. " Take me with you," she said ;
drown me ; any thing, rather than let me be
food for this horror."

The knight released her instantly. He set her
behind him on the winged horse, and in a few
minutes was in the air, transported with having
deprived the brute of his delicate supper. Then,
turning as he went, he imprinted on her a thousand
kisses. He had intended to make a tour of
Spain, which was not far off; but he now altered
his mind, and descended with his prize into a lovely
spot, on the coast of Brittany, encircled with oaks
full of nightingales, with here and there a solitary
mountain.

It was a little green meadow with a brooks

*' Sul tito un bosco era di querce ambrose,
Dove ogn' or par che Filament piagna ;
Ch' in meo area un prate con una fonte,
E quince e quince un solitary monte.

Quivi il bravos cavalier vienne

L' audace corso, e nel prate diocese."

St. 113.

What a landscape ! and what a charm beyond painting he has
put into it with his nightingales ! and then what figures besides !
A knight on a winged steed descending with a naked beauty into
a meadow in the thick of woods, with "here and there a 

looked about him with transport, and
was preparing to disencumber himself of his hot
armour, when the blushing beauty, casting her
eyes downwards, beheld on her finger the identical
magic ring which her father had given her when
she first entered Christendom, and which had delivered
her out of so many dangers. If put on
the finger only, it neutralised all enchantment ;
but put into the mouth, it rendered the wearer
invisible. It had been stolen from her, and came
into the hands of a good fairy, who gave it to Ruggiero,
in order to deliver him from the wiles of a
bad one. Falsehood to the good fairy's friend, his
own mistress Bradamante, now rendered him unworthy
of its possession ; and at the moment when
he thought Angelica his own beyond redemption,
she vanished out of his sight. In vain he knew
the secret of the ring, and the possibility of her
being still present — the certainty, at all events, of
her not being very far off. He ran. hither and
thither like a madman, hoping to clasp her in his
arms, and embracing nothing but the air. In a little
while lie was distant far enough ; and Ruggiero,

mary mountain." The mountains make no formal circle; they
keep their separate distances, with their various intervals of light
and shade. And what a heart of solitude is given to the meadow
by the loneliness of these its waiters aloof !

stamping about to no purpose in a rage of disappointment,
and at length resolving to take horse,
perceived he had been deprived, in the mean time,
of his hippogriff. It had loosened itself from the
tree to which he had tied it, and taken its own
course over the mountains. Thus he had lost
horse, ring, and lady, all at once.^

Pursuing his way, with contending emotions,
through a valley between lofty woods, he heard a
great noise in the thick of them. He rushed to
see what it was ; and found a giant combating
with a young knight. The giant got the better of
the knight; and having cast him on the ground,
unloosed his helmet for the purpose of slaying
him, when Ruggiero, to his horror, beheld in the
youth's face that of his unworthily-treated mistress
Bradamante. He rushed to assault her enemy ;
but the giant, seizing her in his arms, took to his
heels ; and the penitent lover followed him with all
his might, but in vain. The wretch was hidden
from his eyes by the trees. At length Ruggiero,
incessantly pursuing him, issued forth into a great
meadow, containing a noble mansion ; and here
he beheld the giant in the act of dashing through
the gate of it with his prize.

^ Nothing can be more perfectly wrought up than this sudden
change of circumstances.

The mansion was an enchanted one, raised by
the anxious old guardian of Ruggiero for the purpose
of enticing into it both the youth himself,
and all from whom he could experience danger in
the course of his adventures. Orlando had just
been brought there by a similar device, that of the
apparition of a knight carrying off Angelica ; for
the supposed Bradamante was equally a deception,
and the giant no other than the magician himself.
There also were the knights Ferragus, and Bran-diary,
and Grandonio, and King Sacripant, all
searching for something they had missed. They
wandered about the house to no purpose ; and
sometimes Ruggiero heard Bradamante calling
him ; and sometimes Orlando beheld Angelica's
face at a windows

At length the beauty arrived in her own veritable
person. She was again on horseback, and
once more on the look-out for a knight who should

^ To feel the complete force of this picture, a reader should
have been in the South, and beheld the like sudden apparitions, at
open windows, of ladies looking forth in dresses of beautiful colours,
and with faces the most interesting. I remember a vision of this
sort at Carrara, on a bright but not too hot day (I fancied that
the marble mountains there cooled it). It resembled one of Titian's
women, with its broad shoulders, and bodice and sleeves
differently coloured from the petticoat ; and seemed literally framed
in the unwashed window. But I am digressing.

VOL. H. K

conduct her safely home — whether Orlando or
Sacripant she had not determined. The same
road which had brought Ruggiero to the enchanted
house having done as much for her, she
now entered it invisibly by means of the ring.

Finding both the knights in the place, and
feeling under the necessity of coming to a determination
respecting one or the other, Angelica
made up her mind in favour of King Sacripant,
whom she reckoned to be more at her disposal.
Contriving therefore to meet him by himself, she
took the ring out of her mouth, and suddenly
appeared before him. He had hardly recovered
from his amazement, when Ferragus and Orlando
himself came up ; and as Angelica now was visible
to all, she took occasion to deliver them from the
enchanted house by hastening before them into a
wood. They all followed of course, in a frenzy of
anxiety and delight ; but the lady being perplexed
with the presence of the whole three, and recollecting
that she had again obtained possession of
her ring, resolved to trust her safe conduct to invisibility
alone ; so, in the old fashion, she left them
to new quarrels by suddenly vanishing from their
eyes. She stopped, nevertheless, a while to laugh
at them, as they all turned their stupefied faces
hither and thither ; then suffered them to pass her

in a blind thunder of pursuit ; and so, gently following
at her leisure on the same road, took her
way towards the East.

It was a long journey, and she saw many places
and people, and was now hidden and now seen,
like the moon, till she came one day into a forest
near the walls of Paris, where she beheld a youth
lying wounded on the grass, between two companions
that were dead.

part t!)e »)0conti>

ANGELICA AND MEDORO.

Now, in order to understand who the youth was
that Angelica found lying on the grass between
the two dead companions, and how he came to be
so lying, you must know that a great battle had
been fought there between Charlemagne and the
Saracens, in which the latter were defeated, and
that these three people belonged to the Saracens.
The two that were slain were Dardinel, king of
Samara, and Florida, one of his followers ; and
the wounded survivor was another, whose name
was Medoro. Florida and Medoro had been
loving and grateful servants of Dardinel, and very
fast friends of one another; such friends, indeed,
that on their own account, as well as in honour of
what they did for their master, their history deserves
a particular mention.

They were of a lowly stock on the coast of

Syria, and in all the various fortunes of their lord
had shewn him a special attachment. Florida
had been bred a huntsman, and was the roster
person of the two. Medoro was in the first bloom
of youth, with a complexion rosy and fair, and
a most pleasant as well as beautiful countenance.
He had black eyes, and hair that ran into curls
of gold ; in short, looked like a very angel from
heaven.

These two were keeping anxious watch upon
the trenches of the defeated army, when Medoro,
unable to cease thinking of the master who had
been left dead on the field, told his friend that he
could no longer delay to go and look for his dead
body, and bury it. " You," said he, " will remain,
and so be able to do justice to my memory,
in case I fail."

Florida, though he delighted in this proof of
his friend's noble-heartiness, did all he could to
dissuade him from so perilous an enterprise ; but
Medoro, in the fervour of his gratitude for benefits
conferred on him by his lord, was immovable
in his determination to die or to succeed;
and Florida, seeing this, determined to go with
him.

They took their way accordingly out of the
Saracen camp, and in a short time found themselves

in that of the enemy. The Christians had
been drinking over-night for joy at their victory,
and were buried in wine and sleep. Florida
halted a moment, and said in a whisper to his
friend, " Do you see this ? Ought I to lose
such an opportunity of revenging our beloved
master? Keep watch, and I will do it. Look
about you, and listen on every side, while I make
a passage for us among these sleepers with my
sword."

Without waiting an answer, the vigorous
huntsman pushed into the first tent before him.
It contained, among other occupants, a certain
Alpheus, a physician and caster of nativities, who
had prophesied to himself a long life, and a death
in the bosom of his family. Florida cautiously
put the sword's point in his throat, and there was
an end of his dreams. Four other sleepers were
despatched in like manner, without time given
them to utter a syllable. After them went another,
who had entrenched himself between two
horses; then the luckless Grill, who had made
himself a pillow of a barrel which he had emptied.
He was dreaming of opening a second barrel, but,
alas, was tapped himself. A Greek and a German
followed, who had been playing. late at dice; fortunate,
if they had continued to do so a little

longer; but they never counted a throw like this
among their chances.

By this time the Saracen had grown ferocious
with his bloody work, and went slaughtering along
like a wild beast among sheep. Nor could Me-toro
keep his own sword unemployed ; but he
disdained to strike indiscriminately — he was choice
in his victims. Among these was a certain Duke
La Brett, who had his lady fast asleep in his arms.
Shall I pity them ? That will I not. Sweet was
their fated hour, most happy their departure ; for,
embraced as the sword found them, even so, I
believe, it dismissed them into the other world,
loving and enfolded.

Two brothers were slain next, sons of the
Count of Flanders, and newly-made valorous
knights. Charlemagne had seen them turn red
with slaughter in the field, and had augmented
their coat of arms with his lilies, and promised
them lands beside in Friesland. And he would
have bestowed the lands, only Medoro forbade it.

The friends now discovered that they had approached
the quarter in which the Paladins kept
guard about their sovereign. They were afraid,
therefore, to continue the slaughter any further ;
so they put up their swords, and picked their way
cautiously through the rest of the camp into the

field where the battle had taken place. There
they experienced so much difficulty in the search
for their master's body, in consequence of the
horrible mixture of the corpses, that they might
have searched till the perilous return of daylight,
had not the moon, at the close of a prayer of
Medoro's, sent forth its beams right on the spot
where the king was lying. Medoro knew him by
his cognizance, argent and gules. The poor youth
burst into tears at the sight, weeping plentifully
as he approached him, only he was obliged to let
his tears flow without noise. Not that he cared
for death — at that moment he would gladly
have embraced it, so deep was his affection for
his lord ; but he was anxious not to be hindered
in his pious office of consigning him to the
earth.

The two friends took up the dead king on
their shoulders, and were hasting away with the
beloved burden, when the whiteness of dawn
began to appear, and with it, unfortunately, a
troop of horsemen in the distance, right in their
path.

It was Zerbino, prince of Scotland, with a
party of horse. He was a warrior of extreme
vigilance and activity, and was returning to the
camp after having been occupied all night in pursuing

such of the enemy as had not succeeded in
getting into their entrenchments. ^

My friend," exclaimed the huntsman, " we
must e'en take to our heels. Two living people
must not be sacrificed to one who is dead."

With these words he let go his share of the
burden, taking for granted that the friend, whose
life as well as his own he was thinking to secure,
would do as he himself did. But attached as
Florida had been to his master, Medoro was far
more so. He accordingly received the whole burden
on his shoulders. Florida meantime scoured
away, as fast as feet could carry him, thinking his
companion was at his side : otherwise he would
sooner have died a hundred times over than have
left him.

In the interim, the party of the Scottish prince
had dispersed themselves about the plain, for the

^ Ariosto elsewhere represents him as the handsomest man in
the world ; saying of him, in a line that has become famous,

Natura il face, e poi rope la stamp."

Canto X. St. b-i.

Nature made him, and then broke the mould.

(The word is generally printed rwppe ; but T use the primitive text
of Mr. Pannizi's edition.) Boiardo's handsomest man, Astolfo,
was an Englishman ; Ariosto's is a Scotchman. See, in the present
volume, the note on the character of Astolfo, p. 41.
K 2

purpose of intercepting the two fugitives, whichever
way they went ; for they saw plainly they
were enemies, by the alarm they shewed.

There was an old forest at hand in those days,
which, besides being thick and dark, was full of
the most intricate cross-paths, and inhabited only
by game. Into this Florida had plunged. Me-toro,
as well as he could, hastened after him ; but
hampered as he was with his burden, the more he
sought the darkest and most intricate paths, the
less advanced he found himself, especially as he
had no acquaintance with the place.

On a sudden, Florida having arrived at a
spot so quiet that he became aware of the silence,
missed his beloved friend. " Great God !" he exclaimed,
" what have I done ? Left him I know
not where, or how !" The swift runner instantly
turned about, and, retracing his steps, came voluntarily
back on the road to his own death. As he
approached the scene where it was to take place,
he began to hear the noise of men and horses ;
then he discerned voices threatening ; then the
voice of his unhappy friend ; and at length he saw
him, still bearing his load, in the midst of the
whole troop of horsemen. The prince was commanding
them to seize him. The poor youth,
however, burdened as he was, rendered it no such

easy matter ; for he turned himself about like a
wheel, and entrenched himself, now behind this
tree and now behind that. Finding this would
not do, he laid his beloved burden on the ground,
and then strode hither and thither, over and roundabout
it, parrying the horsemen's endeavours to
take hin prisoner. Never did poor hunted bear
feel more conflicting emotions, when, surprised in
her den, she stands over her offspring with uncertain
heart, groaning with a mingled sound of
tenderness and rage. Wrath bids her rush forward,
and bury her nails in the flesh of their
enemy ; love melts her, and holds her back in the
middle of her fury, to look upon those whom she
bores

^ " Come ors, che 1' alpestre cacciatore

Ne la pietro tana assalita abba,
Sta supra i sigh con insert core,

E free in sono di pieta e di rabbit :
Ira la 'vita e natural furore

A spear 1' une, e a ensanguined le labia ;
Amor la 'ntenerisce, e la ritira
A riguardare a i sigh in meo 1' ira."

Like as a bear, whom men in mountains start
In her old stony den, and dare, and goad,

Stands o'er her children with uncertain heart,
And roars for rage and sorrow in one mood :

Anger impels her, and her natural part,

To use her nails, and bathe her lips iu blood ;

Cloridaii was in an agony of perplexity what
to do. He longed to rush forth and die with his
friend ; he longed also still to do what he could,
and not to let him die unavenged. He therefore
halted awhile before he issued from the trees, and,
putting an arrow to his bow, sent it well-aimed
among the horsemen. A Scotsman fell dead from
his saddle. The troop all turned to see whence
the arrow came ; and as they were raging and
crying out, a second stuck in the throat of the
loudest.

"This is not to be borne," cried the prince,
pushing his horse towards Medoro ; " you shall
suffer for this." And so speaking, he thrust his
hand into the golden locks of the youth, and drag-love

melts her, and, for all her angry roar,
Holds back her eyes to look on those she bore.

This stanza in Ariosto has become famous as a beautiful transcript
of a beautiful passage in Statins, which, indeed, it surpasses
in style, but not in feeling, especially when we consider with whom
the comparison originates :

** Ut lea, quam ssevo foetal pressure cubili
Tenants Numidia, natus erecta superstat
Mente sub insert, torvum ac miserabile renders :
Ilia quidem turban globes, et ranger morse
Tela quest ; sed prolix amor crudelia A^mcit
Pectora, et in media carlos circumspect ira."

Thesis, x. 414.

get him violently backwards, intending to kill
him ; but when he looked on his beautiful face,
he couldn't do it.

The youth betook himself to entreaty. " For
God's sake, sir knight !" cried he, " be not so
cruel as to deny me leave to bury my lord and
master. He was a king. I ask nothing for myself
— not even my life. I do not care for my
life. I care for nothing but to bury my lord and
master."

These words were spoken in a manner so earnest,
that the good prince could feel nothing but
pity; but a ruffian among the troop, losing sight
even of respect for his lord, thrust his lance into
the poor youth's bosom right over the prince's
hand. Zerbino turned with indignation to smite
him, but the villain, seeing what was coming, galloped
off; and meanwhile Florida, thinking that
his friend was slain, came leaping full of rage out
of the wood, and laid about him with his sword
in mortal desperation. Twenty swords were upon
him in a moment ; and perceiving life flowing out
of him, he let himself fall down by the side of his
friend. 1

The Scotsmen, supposing both the friends to

^ This adventure of Florida and Medoro is imitated from the
Nisus and Euryalus of Virgil. An Italian critic, quoted by Panizzi,

be dead, now took their departure ; and Medoro
indeed would have been dead before long, he bled
so profusely. But assistance of a very unusual sort
was at hand.

A lady on a palfrey happened to be coming
by, who observed signs of life in him, and was
struck with his youth and beauty. She was attired
with great simplicity, but her air was that
of a person of high rank, and her beauty inexpressive,

that the way in which Florida exposes himself to the enemy
is inferior to the Latin poet's famous

Me, me (adsum qui feci), in me convertite ferrum."

Me, me (tis I who did the deed), slay me.

And the reader will agree with Panizzi, that he is right. The circumstance,
also, of Euryalus's bequeathing his aged mother to the
care of his prince, in case he fails in his enterprise, is very touching;
and the main honour, both of the invention of the whole
episode and its particulars, remains with Virgil. On the other
hand, the enterprise of the friends in the Italian poet, which is
that of burying their dead master, and not merely of communicating
with an absent general, is more affecting, though it may be less
patriotic ; the inability of Zerbino to kill him, when he looked on
his face, is extremely so ; and, as Panizzi has shewn, the adventure
is made of importance to the whole story of the poem, and is not
simply an episode, like that in the aeneid. It serves, too, in a
very particular manner to introduce Medoro worthily to the affection
of Angelica ; for, mere female though she be, we should hardly
have gone along with her passion as we do, in a poem of any
seriousness, had it been founded merely on his beauty.

bible. In short, it was the proud daughter of the
lord of Cathay, Angelica herself. Finding that
she could travel in safety and independence by
means of the magic ring, her self-estimation had
risen to such a height, that she disdained to stoop
to the companionship of the greatest man living.
She could not even call to mind that such lovers
as the County Orlando or King Sacripant existed :
and it mortified her beyond measure to think of
the affection she had entertained for Rinaldo.

Such arrogance," thought Love, " is not to
be endured." The little archer with the wings
put an arrow to his bow, and stood waiting for
her by the spot where Medoro lay.

Now, when the beauty belied the youth lying
half dead with his wounds, and yet, on accosting
him, found that he lamented less for himself than
for the unburied body of the king his master, she
felt a tenderness unknown before creep into every
particle of her being ; and as the greatest ladies
of India were accustomed to dress the wounds of
their knights, she bethought her of a balsam which
she had observed in coming along ; and so, looking
about for it, brought it back with her to the
spot, together with a herdsman whom she had met
on horseback in search of one of his stray cattle.
The blood was ebbing so fast, that the poor youth

was on the point of expiring ; but Angelica bruised
the plant between stones, and gathered the juice
into her delicate hands, and restored his strength
with infusing it into the wounds ; so that, in a
little while, he was able to get on the horse belonging
to the herdsman, and be carried away to
the man's cottage. He would not quit his lord's
body, however, nor that of his friend, till he had
seen them laid in the ground. He then went with
the lady, and she took up her abode with him in
the cottage, and attended him till he recovered,
loving him more and more day by day ; so that at
length she fairly told him as much, and he loved
her in turn ; and the king's daughter married the
lowly-born soldier.

O County Orlando ! O King Sacripant ! That
renowned valour of yours, say, what has it availed
you ? That lofty honour, tell us, at what price is
it rated? What is the reward ye have obtained
for all your services ? Shew us a single courtesy
which the lady ever vouchsafed, late or early, for
all that you ever suffered in her behalf.

O King Agrican ! if you could return to life,
how hard would you think it to call to mind all
the repulses she gave you — all the pride and aversion
and contempt with which she received your
advances !

O Ferragus ! O thousands of others too numerous
to speak of, who performed thousands of exploits
for this ungrateful one, what would you all
think at beholding her in the arms of the courted
boy!

Yes, Medoro had the first gathering of the
kiss off the lips of Angelica — those lips never
touched before — that garden of roses on the
threshold of which nobody ever yet dared to
venture. The love was headlong and irresistible ;
but the priest was called in to sanctify it; and
the brides woman of the daughter of Cathay was
the wife of the cottager.

The lovers remained upwards of a month in
the cottage. Angelica could not bear her young
husband out of her sight. She was for ever gazing
on him, and hanging on his neck. In-doors and
out-of-doors, day as well as night, she had him at
her side. In the morning or evening they wandered
forth along the banks of some stream, or by
the hedge-rows of some verdant meadow. In the
middle of the day they took refuge from the heat
in a grotto that seemed made for lovers ; and
wherever, in their wanderings, they found a tree
fit to carve and write on, by the side of fount or
river, or even a slab of rock soft enough for the
purpose, there they were sure to leave their names

on the bark or marble ; so that, what with the inscriptions
in-doors and out-of-doors (for the walls
of the cottage displayed them also), a visitor of
the place could not have turned his eye in any
direction without seeing the words

ANGELICA AND MEDORO"

written in as many different ways as true-lovers'
knots could runs

Having thus awhile enjoyed themselves in the
rustic solitude, the Queen of Cathay (for in the
course of her adventures in Christendom she had
succeeded to her father's crown) thought it time to
return to her beautiful empire, and complete the
triumph of love by crowning Medoro king of it.

^ Canto xix. st. 34, &c. All the world have felt this to be a
true picture of first love. The inscription may be said to be that
of every other pair of lovers that ever existed, who knew how to
write their names.

How musical, too, are the words " Angelica and Medoro I"
Boiardo invented the one ; Ariosto found the match for it. One
has no end to the pleasure of repeating them. All hail to the
moment when I first became aware of their existence, more than
fifty years ago, in the house of the gentle artist Benjamin West !
(Let the reader indulge me with this recollection.) I sighed with
pleasure to look on them at that time ; I sigh now, with far
more pleasure than pain, to look back on them, for they never
come across me but with delight ; and poetry is a world in which
nothing beautiful ever thoroughly forsakes us.

She took leave of the cottagers with a princely
gift. The islanders of Ebuda had deprived her of
every thing valuable but a rich bracelet, which,
for some strange, perhaps superstitious, reason,
they left on her arm. This she took off, and
made a present of it to the good couple for their
hospitality; and so bade them farewell.

The bracelet was of inimitable workmanship,
adorned with gems, and had been given by the
enchantress Morgana to a favourite youth, who
was rescued from her wiles by Orlando. The
youth, in gratitude, bestowed it on his preserver ;
and the hero had humbly presented it to Angelica,
who vouchsafed to accept it, not because of
the giver, but for the rarity of the gift.

The happy bride and bridegroom, bidding farewell
to France, proceeded by easy journeys, and
crossed the mountains into Spain, where it was
their intention to take ship for the Levant. Descending
the Pyrenees, they discerned the ocean
in the distance, and had now reached the coast,
and were proceeding by the water-side along the
high road to Barcelona, when they beheld a
miserable-looking creature, a madman, all over
mud and dirt, lying naked in the sands. He had
buried himself half inside them for shelter from
the sun ; but having observed the lovers as they

came along, he leaped out of his hole like a dog,
and came raging against them.

But, before I proceed to relate who this madman
was, I must return to the cottage which the
two lovers had occupied, and recount what passed
in it during the interval between their bidding it
adieu and their arrival in this place.

matt tee ^l)irti.

THE JEALOUSY OF ORLANDO.

During the course of his search for Angelica, the
County Orlando had just restored two lovers to
one another, and was pursuing a Pagan enemy
to no purpose through a wild and tangled wood,
when he came into a beautiful spot by a riverside,
which tempted him to rest himself from the
heat. It was a small meadow, full of daisies and
butter-cups, and surrounded with trees. There
was an air abroad, notwithstanding the heat, which
made the shepherds glad to sit without their
jerkins, and receive the coolness on their naked
bodies : even the hard-skinned cattle were glad
of it ; and Orlando, who was armed cap-a-pie, was
delighted to take off his helmet, and lay aside his
buckler, and repose awhile in the midst of a scene
so refreshing. Alas ! it was the unhappiest moment
of his life.

Casting his eyes around him, while about to

get off his horse, he observed a handwriting on
many of the trees which he thought he knew.
Riding up to the trees, and looking more closely,
he was sure he knew it ; and in truth it was no
other than that of his adored mistress Angelica,
and the inscription one of those numerous inscriptions
of which I have spoken. The spot was one
of the haunts of the lovers while they abode in
the shepherd's cottage. Wherever the County
turned his eyes, he beheld, tied together in true-lovers'
knots, nothing but the words

*' ANGELICA AND MEDORO."

All the trees had them — his eyes could see nothing
else ; and every letter was a dagger that pierced
his heart.

The unhappy lover tried in vain to disbelieve
what he saw. He endeavoured to compel himself
to think that it was some other Angelica who had
written the words ; but he knew the handwriting
too well. Too often had he dwelt upon it, and
made himself familiar with every turn of the letters.
He then strove to fancy that " Medoro" was
a feigned name, intended for himself; but he felt
that he was trying to delude himself, and that the
more he tried, the bitterer was his conviction of
the truth. He was like a bird fixing itself only

the more deeply in the lime in which it is caught,
by struggling and beating its wings.

Orlando turned his horse away in his anguish,
and paced it towards a grotto covered with vine
and ivy, which he looked into. The grotto, both
outside and in, was full of the like inscriptions.
It was the retreat the lovers were so fond of at
noon. Their names were written on all sides of
it, some in chalk and coals others carved with a
knife.

The wretched beholder got off his horse and
entered the grotto. The first thing that met his
eyes was a larger inscription in the Saracen lover's
own handwriting and tongue — a language which
the slayer of the infidels was too well acquainted
with. The words were in verse, and expressed the
gratitude of the "poor Medoro," the writer, for
having had in his arms, in that grotto, the beautiful
Angelica, daughter of King Galafron, whom
so many had loved in vain. The writer invoked a
blessing on every part of it, its shades, its waters,
its flowers, its creeping plants ; and entreated every
person, high and low, who should chance to visit

^ " Script, qual con carbone e qual con gesso."

Canto xxiii. st. 106.

Ariosto did not mind soiling the beautiful lingers of Angelica with
coal and chalk. He knew that Love did not mind it.

it, particularly lovers, that they would bless the
place likewise, and take care that it was never
polluted by foot of herd.

Thrice, and four times, did the unhappy Orlando
read these words, trying always, but in vain,
to disbelieve what he saw. Every time he read,
they appeared plainer and plainer ; and every time
did a cold hand seem to be wringing the heart in
his bosom. At length he remained with his eyes
fixed on the stone, seeing nothing more, not even
the stone itself. He felt as if his wits were leaving
him, so abandoned did he seem of all comfort.
Let those imagine what he felt who have experienced
the same emotions — who know, by their
own sufferings, that this is the grief which surpasses
all other griefs. His head had fallen on
his bosom ; his look was deprived of all confidence
; he could not even speak or shed a tear.
His impetuous grief remained within him by reason
of his impetuosity — like water which attempts
to rush out of the narrow-necked bottle, but which
is so compressed as it comes, that it scarcely issues
drop by drop.

Again he endeavoured to disbelieve his eyes —
to conclude that somebody had wished to calumniate
his mistress, and drive her lover mad, and
so had done his best to imitate her handwriting.

With these sorry attempts at consolation, he again
took horse, the sun having now given way to the
moon, and so rode a little onward, till he beheld
smoke rising out of the tops of the trees, and
heard the barking of dogs and the lowing of cattle.
By these signs he knew that he was approaching
a village. He entered it, and going into the first
house he came to, gave his horse to the care of a
youth, and was disarmed, and had his spurs of gold
taken off, and so went into a room that was shewn
him without demanding either meat or drink, so
entirely was he filled with his sorrow.

Now it happened that this was the very cottage
into which Medoro had been carried out of the
wood by the loving Angelica. There he had been
cured of his wounds — there he had been loved
and made happy — and there, wherever the County
Orlando turned his eyes, he beheld the detested
writing on the walls, the windows, the doors. He
made no inquiries about it of the people of the
house : he still dreaded to render the certainty
clearer than he would fain suppose it.

But the cowardice availed him nothing; for
the host seeing him unhappy, and thinking to
cheer him, came in as he was getting into bed,
and opened on the subject of his own accord. It
was a story he told to every body who came, and

VOL. II. L

he was accustomed to have it admired; so with
little preface he related all the particulars to his
new guest — how the youth had been left for dead
on the field, and how the lady had found him, and
had him brought to the cottage — and how she
fell in love with him as he grew well — and how
she could be content with nothing but marrying
him, though she was daughter of the greatest
king of the East, and a queen herself. At the
conclusion of his narrative, the good man produced
the bracelet which had been given him by Angelica,
as evidence of the truth of all that he had
been saying.

This was the final stroke, the last fatal blow,
given to the poor hopes of Orlando by the executioner,
Love. He tried to conceal his misery,
but it was no longer to be repressed ; so finding
the tears rush into his eyes, he desired to be alone.
As soon as the man had retired, he let them flow
in passion and agony. In vain he attempted to
rest, much less to sleep. Every part of the bed
appeared to be made of stones and thorns.

At length it occurred to him, that most likely
they had slept in that very bed. He rose instantly,
as if he had been lying on a serpent. The bed,
the house, the herdsman, every thing about the
place, gave him such horror and detestation, that,

without waiting for dawn, or the light of moon,
he dressed himself, and went forth and took his
horse from the stable, and galloped onwards into
the middle of the woods. There, as soon as he
found himself in the solitude, he opened all the
flood-gates of his grief, and gave way to cries and
outcries.

But he still rode on. Day and night did Orlando
ride on, weeping and lamenting. He avoided
towns and cities, and made his bed on the hard
earth, and wondered at himself that he could weep
so long.

These," thought he, " are no tears that are
thus poured forth. They are life itself, the fountains
of vitality ; and I am weeping and dying
both. These are no sighs that I thus eternally
exhale. Nature could not supply them. They
are Love himself storming in my heart, and at
once consuming me and keeping me alive with his
miraculous fires. No more — no more am I the
man 1 seem. He that was Orlando is dead and
buried. His ungrateful mistress has slain him. I
am but the soul divided from his body — doomed
to wander here in this misery, an example to
those that put their trust in love."

For the wits of the County Orlando were
going ; and he wandered all night roxmd and

round in the wood, till he came back to the grotto
where Medoro had written his triumphant verses.
Madness then indeed fell upon him. Every particle
of his being seemed torn up with rage and
fury ; and he drew his mighty sword, and hewed
the grotto and the writing, till the words flew in
pieces to the heavens. Woe to every spot in the
place in which were written the names of " Angelica
and Medoro." Woe to the place itself:
never again did it afford refuge from the heat of
day to sheep or shepherd ; for not a particle of it
remained as it was. With arm and sword Orlando
defaced it all, the clear and gentle fountain included.
He hacked and hewed it inside and out,
and cut down the branches of the trees that hung
over it, and tore away the ivy and the vine, and
rooted up great bits of earth and stone, and filled
the sweet water with the rubbish, so that it was
never clear and sweet again ; and at the end of his
toil, not having satisfied or being able to satisfy
his soul with the excess of his violence, he cast
himself on the ground in rage and disdain, and lay
groaning towards the heavens.

On the ground Orlando threw himself, and
on the ground he remained, his eyes fixed on
heaven, his lips closed in dumbness ; and thus he
continued for the space of three days and three

nights, till his frenzy had mounted to such a pitch
that it turned against himself. He then arose in
fury, and tore off mail and breastplate, and every
particle of clothing from his body, till humanity
was degraded in his heroical person, and he became
naked as the beasts of the field.

In this condition, and his wits quite gone,
sword was forgotten as well as shield and helm ;
and he tore up fir-tree and ash, and began running
through the woods. The shepherds hearing
the cries of the strong man, and the crashing of
the boughs, came hastening from all quarters to
know what it was ; but when he saw them he
gave them chase, and smote to death those whom
he reached, till the whole country was up in arms,
though to no purpose ; for they were seized with
such terror, that while they threatened and closed
after him, they avoided him. He entered cottages,
and tore away the food from the tables ; and
ran up the craggy hills and down into the valleys ;
and chased beasts as well as men, tearing the fawn
and the goat to pieces, and stuffing their flesh into
his stomach with fierce will.

Raging and scouring onwards in this manner,
he arrived one day at a bridge over a torrent, on
which the fierce Rodomont had fixed himself for
the purpose of throwing any one that attempted

to pass it into the water. It was a very narrow
bridge, with scarcely room for two horses. But
Orlando took no heed of its narrowness. He
dashed right forwards against man and steed, and
forced the champion to wrestle with him on foot ;
and, winding himself about him with hideous
strength, he leaped backwards with him into the
torrent, where he left him, and so mounted the
opposite bank, and again rushed over the country.
A more terrible bridge than this was in his way —
even a precipitous pass of frightful height over
a valley ; but still he scoured onwards, throwing
over it the agonised passengers that dared, in their
ignorance of his strength, to oppose him ; and so
always rushing and raging, he came down the
mountains by the sea-side to Barcelona, where he
cast his eyes on the sands, and thought, in his
idiot mind, to make himself a house in them for
coolness and repose ; and so he grubbed up the
sand, and laid himself down in it: and this was
the terrible madman whom Angelica and Medoro
saw looking at them as they were approaching the
city.

Neither of them knew him, nor did he know
Angelica ; but, with an idiot laugh, he looked at
her beauty, and liked her, and came horribly towards
her to carry her away. Shrieking, she put

spurs to her horse and fled ; and Medoro, in a
fury, came after the pursuer and smote him, but
to no purpose. The great madman turned round
and smote the other's horse to the ground, and so
renewed his chase after Angelica, who suddenly
regained enough of her wits to recollect the
enchanted ring. Instantly she put it into her
lips and disappeared ; but in her hurry she fell
from her palfrey, and Orlando forgot her in the
instant, and, mounting the poor beast, dashed off
with it over the country till it died ; and so at
last, after many dreadful adventures by flood and
field, he came running into a camp full of his brother
Paladins, who recognised him with tears ;
and, all joining their forces, succeeded in pulling
him down and binding him, though not without
many wounds : and by the help of these friends,
and the special grace of the apostle St. John (as
will be told in another place), the wits of the
champion of the church were restored, and he
became ashamed of that passion for an infidel
beauty which the heavenly powers had thus resolved
to punish.

But Angelica and Medoro pursued the rest of
their journey in peace, and took ship on the coast
of Spain for India ; and there she crowned her
bridegroom King of Cathay.

The description of Orlando's jealousy and growing madness
is reckoned one of the finest things in Italian poetry ; and very
fine it surely is — as strong as the hero's strength, and sensitive as
the heart of man. The circumstances are heightened, one after
the other, with the utmost art as well as nature. There is a scriptural
awfulness in the account of the hero's becoming naked ;
and the violent result is tremendous. I have not followed Orlando
into his feats of ultra-supernatural strength. The reader requires
to be prepared for them by the whole poem. Nor are they necessary,
I think, to the production of the best effect ; perhaps would
hurt it in an age unaccustomed to the old romances.

l2

When the hippogrifF loosened itself from the tree
to which Ruggiero had tied it in the beautiful
spot to which he descended with Angelica, ^ it
soared away, like the faithful creature it was,
to the house of its own master, Atlantes the
magician. But not long did it remain there —
no, nor the house itself, nor the magician ; for
the Paladin Astolfo came with a mighty horn
given him by a greater magician, the sound of
which overthrew all such abodes, and put to flight
whoever heard it; and so the house of Atlantes
vanished, and the enchanter fled ; and the Paladin
took possession of the griffin-horse, and rode away
with it on farther adventures.

One of these was the deliverance of Senatus,
king of Ethiopia, from the visitation of the dreadful
harpies of old, who came infesting his table

1 See p. 192.

as they did those of eneas and Phineas. Astolfo
drove them with his horse towards the sources of
the river Nile, in the Mountains of the Moon, and
pursued them with the hippogriff till they entered
a great cavern, which, by the dreadful cries and
lamenting that issued from the depths within it,
the Paladin discovered to be the entrance from
earth to Hell.

The daring Englishman, whose curiosity was
excited, resolved to penetrate to the regions of
darkness. " What have I to fear ?" thought he ;
the horn will assist me, if I want it. I'll drive
the triple-mouthed dog out of the way, and put
Pluto and Satan to flights

Astolfo tied the hippogriff to a tree, and
pushed forward in spite of a smoke that grew
thicker and thicker, offending his eyes and nostrils.
It became, however, so exceedingly heavy
and noisome, that he found it would be impossible
to complete his enterprise. Still he pushed
forward as far as he could, especially as he began
to discern in the darkness something that appeared
to stir with an involuntary motion. It looked
like a dead body which has hung up many days
in the rain and sun, and is waved unsteadily by

^ Ariosto is here imitating Pulci, and bearding Dante. See
vol. i. p. 336.

the wind. It turned out to be a condemned spirit
in this first threshold of Hell, sentenced there, with
thousands of others, for having been cruel and
false in love. Her name was Lydia, and she had
been princess of the country so called. ^ Anaxarete
was among them, who, for her hard-heartiness,
became a stone ; and Daphne, who now discovered
how she had erred in making Apollo " run so
much ;" and multitudes of other women ; but a
far greater number of men — men being worthier
of punishment in offences of love, because women
are proper to believe. Theseus and Jason were
among them ; and Anon, the abuser of Tamar ;
and he that disturbed the old kingdom of 


^ I know of no story of a cruel Lydia but the poet's own
mistress of that name, whom I take to be the lady here " shadowed
forth." See Life, p. 114.

2 The story of A.naxarete is in Ovid, lib. xiv. Every body
knows that of Daphne, who made Apollo, as Ariosto says, " run
so much" (corner tan to), Theseus and Jason are in hell, as
deserters of Ariadne and Medea; Anon, for the atrocity recorded
in the Bible (2 Samuel, chap, xiii.) ; and aeneas for interfering
with Turns and Lavinia, and taking possession of places he
had no right to. It is delightful to see the great, generous poet
going upon grounds of reason and justice in the teeth of the
trumped-up rights of the " pious aeneas," that shabby deserter
of Dido, and canting prototype of Augustus. He turns the tables,
also, with brave candour, upon the tyrannical claims of the

Astolfo would fain have gone deeper into the
jaws of Hell, but the smoke grew so thick and
palpable, it was impossible to move a step farther.
Turning about, therefore, he regained the
entrance ; and having refreshed himself in a fountain
hard by, and re-mounted the hippogriif, felt
an inclination to ascend as high as he possibly
could in the air. The excessive loftiness of the
mountain above the cavern made him think that
its top could be at no great distance from the
region of the Moon; and accordingly he pushed
his horse upwards, and rose and rose, till at length
he found himself on its table-land. It exhibited
a region of celestial beauty. The flowers were
like beds of precious stones for colour and brightness
; the grass, if you could have brought any to
earth, would have been found to surpass emeralds ;
and the trees, whose leaves were no less beautiful,
were in fruit and flower at once. Birds of as
many colours were singing in the branches ; the
murmuring rivulets and dumb lakes were more
limpid than crystal : a sweet air was for ever
stirring, which reduced the warmth to a gentle

stronger sex to privileges which they deny the other ; and says,
that there are more faithless men in Hell than faithless women ;
which, if personal infidelity sends people there, most undoubtedly
is the case beyond all comparison.

temperature ; and every breath of it brought an
odour from flowers, fruit-trees, and herbage all at
once, which nourished the soul with sweetness. ^

In the middle of this lonely plain was a palace
radiant as fire. Astolfo rode his horse roundabout
it, constantly admiring all he saw, and filled
with increasing astonishment; for he found that
the dwelling was thirty miles in circuit, and composed
of one entire carbuncle, lucid and vermilion.
What became of the boasted wonders of the world
before this ? The world itself, in the comparison,
appeared but a lump of brute and fetid matters

As the Paladin approached the vestibule, he

^ " Che di suavity 1' selma notriva" is beautiful; but the passage,
as a whole, is not well imitated from the Terrestrial Paradise
of Dante. It is not bad in itself, but it is very inferior to the one
that suggested it. See vol. i. p. 210, &c. Ariosto's Terrestrial
Paradise was at home, among the friends who loved him, and
whom he made happy.

^ This is better ; and the house made of one jewel thirty miles
in circuit is an extravagance that becomes reasonable on reflection,
affording a just idea of what might be looked for among the
endless planetary wonders of Nature, which confound all our
relative ideas of size and splendour. The "lucid vermilion" of
a structure so enormous, and under a sun so pure, presents a
gorgeous spectacle to the imagination. Dante himself, if he could
have forgiven the poet his animal spirits and views of the Moon
so different from his own, might have stood in admiration before
an abode at once so lustrous and so vast.

was met by a venerable old man, clad in a white
gown and red mantle, whose beard descended on
his bosom, and whose aspect announced him as
one of the elect of Paradise. It was St. John the
Evangelist, who lived in that mansion with Enoch
and Elijah, the only three mortals who never
tasted death ; for the place, as the saint informed
him, was the Terrestrial Paradise ; and the inhabitants
were to live there till the angelical
trumpet announced the coming of Christ " on the
white cloud." The Paladin, he said, had been
allowed to visit it, by the favour of God, for the
purpose of fetching away to earth the lost wits of
Orlando, which the champion of the Church had
been deprived of for loving a Pagan, and which
had been attracted out of his brains to the neighbouring
sphere, the Moon.

Accordingly, after the new friends had spent
two days in discourse, and meals had been served
up, consisting of fruit so exquisite that the Paladin
could not help thinking our first parents had some
excuse for eating it,i the Evangelist, when the

" De' frutti a lui del Paradiso diego,

Di tal sapor, ch' a suo giudizio, santa
Susa non sono i due primi parents,
Se pur quel fur si poco ubbidienti."

Canto xxxiv. st. 60.

Moon arose, took him into the car which had
borne Elijah to heaven ; and four horses, redder
than fire, conveyed them to the lunar world.

The mortal visitant was amazed to see in the
Moon a world resembling his own, full of wood
and water, and containing even cities and castles,
though of a different sort from ours. It was
strange to find a sphere so large which had seemed
so petty afar ofi"; and no less strange was it to
look down on the world he had left, and be compelled
to knit his brows and look sharply before
he could well discern it, for it happened at the
time to want light. ^

But his guide did not leave him much time to
look about him. He conducted him with due
speed into a valley that contained, in one miraculous
collection, whatsoever had been lost or
wasted on earth. I do not speak only (says the
poet) of riches and dominions, and such like gratuities
of Fortune, but of things also which Fortune
can neither grant nor resume. Much fame is

^ Modem astronomers differ very much both with Dante's and
Ariosto's Moon; nor do the "argent fields" of Milton appear
better placed in our mysterious satellite, with its no-atmosphere
and no-water, and its tremendous precipices. It is to be hoped
(and believed) that knowledge will be best for us all in the end ; for
it is not always so by the way. It displaces beautiful ignorances.

there which Time has withdrawn — infinite prayers
and vows which are made to God Almighty by us
poor sinners. There lie the tears and the sighs
of lovers, the hours lost in pastimes, the leisures
of the dull, and the intentions of the lazy. As to
desires, they are so numerous that they shadow
the whole place. Astolfo went round among the
different heaps, asking what they were. His eyes
were first struck with a huge one of bladders
which seemed to contain mighty sounds and the
voices of multitudes. These he found were the
Assyrian and Persian monarchies, together with
those of Greece and Lydia One heap was nothing
but hooks of silver and gold, which were the
presents, it seems, made to patrons and great menin
hopes of a return. Another consisted of snares
in the shape of garlands, the manufacture of parasites.
Others were verses in praise of great lords,
all made of crickets which had burst themselves
with singing. Chains of gold he saw there, which
were pretended and unhappy love-matches ; and
eagles' claws, which were deputed authorities ; and
pairs of bellows, which were prince' favours ; and
overturned cities and treasuries, being treasons

^ Very fine and scornful, I think, this. Mighty monarchies
reduced to actual bladders, which, little too as they were, contained
big sounds.

and conspiracies ; and serpents with female faces,
that were coiners and thieves ; and all sorts of
broken bottles, which were services rendered in
miserable courts. A great heap of overturned
soup ^ he found to be alms to the poor, which had
been delayed till the giver's death. He then came
to a great mount of flowers, which once had a
sweet smell, but now a most rank one. This with
submission) was the present which the Emperor
Constantine made to good Pope Sylvester Heaps

Such, I suppose, as was given at convent-gates.

2 The pretended gift of the palace of St. John Lateran, the
foundation of the pope's temporal sovereignty. This famous
passage was quoted and translated by Milton.

Di varia fiori ad un gran monte passa
Ch' abbe gia burn adore, or putia forte.
Quest era il dono (se pero dir lee)
Che Constantine al burn Silvester face."

Canto xxxiv. st. 80.

The lines were not so bold in the first edition. They stood thus :

*' Ad un monte di rose e gigli passa,
Ch' abbe gia burn adore, or putia forte,
Ch' era corrotto ; e da Giovanni intense,
Che fu un gran don ch' un gran signer mal spes."

He came to a mount of lilies and roses, that once had a sweet
smell, but now stank with corruption ; and he understood from
John that it was a great gift which a great lord ill expended."
The change of these lines to the stronger ones in the third

of twigs he saw next, set with bird-lime, which,
dear ladies, are your charms. In short there was
no end to what he saw. Thousands and thousands
would not complete the list. Every thing was
there which was to be met with on earth, except
folly in the raw material, for that is never exported


There he beheld some of his own lost time and
deeds ; and yet, if nobody had been with him to
make him aware of them, never would he have
recognised them as hiss

edition, as they now stand, served to occasion a charge against
Ariosto of having got his privilege of publication from the court
of Rome for passages which never existed, and which he afterwards
basely introduced ; but, as Panizzi observes, the third edition had
a privilege also ; so that the papacy put its hand, as it were, to
these very lines. This is remarkable ; and doubtless it would not
have occurred in some other ages. The Spanish Inquisition, for
instance, erased it, though the holy brotherhood found no fault
with the story of Giocondo.

^ " Sol la pazzia non v' e, paca ne assai ;

Che sta qua giu, ne se ne parte mai "

St. 78.
^ Part of this very striking passage is well translated by Harrington
:

** He saw some of his own lost time and deeds,
And yet he knew them not to be his own."
I have heard these lines more than once repeated with touching
earnestness by Charles Lamb.

They then arrived at something, which none
of us ever prayed God to bestow, for we fancy
we possess it in superabundance ; yet here it was
in greater quantities than any thing else in the
place — I mean, sense. It was a subtle fluid, apt
to evaporate if not kept closely ; and here accordingly
it was kept in vials of greater or less
size. The greatest of them all was inscribed with
the following words : " The sense of Orlando."
Others, in like manner, exhibited the names of
the proper possessors ; and among them the frank-hearted
Paladin beheld the greater portion of his
own. But what more astonished him, was to see
multitudes of the vials almost full to the stopper,
which bore the names of men whom he had supposed
to enjoy their senses in perfection. Some
had lost them for love, others for glory, others for
riches, others for hopes from great men, others for
stupid conjurers, for jewels, for paintings, for all
sorts 'of whims. There was a heap belonging to
sophists and astrologers, and a still greater to
poets

Readers need not have the points of this exquisite satire
pointed out to them. Tn noticing it, I only mean to enjoy it
in their company — particularly the passage about the men accounted
wisest, and the emphatic " I mean, sense" (lo dico, il
senna).

Astolfo, with leave of the " writer of the dark
Apocalypse," took possession of his own. He had
but to uncork it, and set it under his nose, and
the wit shot up to its place at once. Turpin
acknowledges that the Paladin, for a long time
afterwards, led the life of a sage man, till, unfortunately,
a mistake which he made lost him his
brains a second times

The Evangelist now presented him with the
vial containing the wits of Orlando, and the travellers
quitted the vale of Lost Treasure. Before
they returned to earth, however, the good saint
shewed his guest other curiosities, and favoured
him with many a sage remark, particularly on
the subject of poets, and the neglect of them by
courts. He shewed him how foolish it was in
princes and other great men not to make friends
of those who can immortalise them ; and observed,
with singular indulgence, that crimes themselves
might be no hindrance to a good name with posterity,
if the poet were but feed well enough for
spices to embalm the criminal. He instanced the
cases of Homer and Virgil.

"You are not to take for granted," said he,
that aeneas was so pious as fame reports him,

Admirable lesson to frailty !

or Achilles and Hector so brave. Thousands and
thousands of warriors have excelled them ; but
their descendents bestowed fine houses and estates
on great writers, and it is from their honoured
pages that all the glory has proceeded. Augustus
was no such religious or clement prince as the
trumpet of Virgil has proclaimed him. It was his
good taste in poetry that got him pardoned his
iniquitous proscription. Nero himself might have
fared as well as Augustus, had he possessed as
much wit. Heaven and earth might have been
his enemies to no purpose, had he known how to
keep friends with good authors. Homer makes
the Greeks victorious, the Trojans a poor set, and
Penelope undergo a thousand wrongs rather than
be unfaithful to her husband; and yet, if you
would have the real truth of the matter, the
Greeks were beaten, and the Trojans the conquerors,
and Penelope was a .^ See, on the

other hand, what infamy has become the portion
of Dido. She was honest to her heart's core ; and

I do net feel warranted in injuring the strength of the term
here made use of by the indignant apostle, and yet am withheld
from giving it in all its force by the delicacy, real or false, of the
times. I must therefore leave it to be supplied by the reader
according to the requirements of his own feelings.

yet, because Virgil was no friend of hers, she is
looked upon as a baggage.

Be not surprised," concluded the good saint,
if I have expressed myself with warmth on this
subject. I love writers, and look upon their cause
as my own, for I was a writer myself when I lived
among you ; and I succeeded so well in the vocation,
that time and death will never prevail against
me. Just therefore is it, that I should be thankful
to my beloved Master, who procured me so
great a lot. I grieve for writers who have fallen
on evil times — men that, with pale and hungry
faces, find the doors of courtesy closed against all
their hardships. This is the reason there are so
few poets now, and why nobody cares to study.
Why should he study ? The very beasts abandon
places where there is nothing to feed them."

At these words the eyes of the blessed old man
grew so inflamed with anger, that they sparkled
like two fires. But he presently suppressed what
he felt ; and, turning with a sage and gracious
smile to the Paladin, prepared to accompany him
back to earth with his wonted serenity.

He accordingly did so in the sacred car : and
Astolfo, after receiving his gentle benediction,
descended on his hippogriff* from the mountain,

and, joining the delighted Paladins with the vial,
his wits were restored, as you have heard, to the
noble Orlando.

The figure which is here cut by St. John gives this remarkable
satire a most remarkable close. His association of himself
with the fraternity of authors was thought a little "strong" by
Ariosto's contemporaries. The lesson read to the house of Este
is obvious, and could hardly have been pleasant to men reputed to
be such " criminals" themselves. Nor can Ariosto, in this passage,
be reckoned a very flattering or conscientious pleader for his
brother-poets. Resentment, and a good jest, seem to have conspired
to make him forget what was due to himself.

The original of St. John's remarks about Augustus and the
ancient poets must not be omitted. It is exquisite of its kind,
both in matter and style. Voltaire has quoted it somewhere with
rapture.

Non fu si santo ne benign August
Come la tuba di Virginia suona :
L' aver auto in poesia burn gusto

La proscription iniqua gli persona.
Nessun sapria se Nero fosse ingiusto,
Ne sua fama maria force men buena,
Averse auto e terra e ciel nimici,
Se gli scriptor sapea tenets amici.

Omer Agamemnon victorious,

E fe' i Trojan parer vile et inert ;
E che Penelope fide al suo sposo

Da i prochi mille oltraggi area sofferti :
E, se tu quoi che '1 ver non ti asia ascoso,

Tutti al contraria 1' astoria converti :
VOL. ir. M

Che i Greci rotti, e che Trois vittrice,
E che Penelope fu meretrice.

Da 1' altera parte odi che fama fascia
Melissa, ch' abbe il cor tanto pudico ;

Che riputata viene una bagascia,

Solo perche Baron non le fu amico."

Canto XXXV. st. 26.

The Duke of Albany, pretending to be in love with a damsel
in the service of Ginevra, Princess of Scotland, but desiring to
marry the princess herself, and not being able to compass his
design by reason of her being in love with a gentleman from Italy
named Ariodante, persuades the damsel, in his revenge, to personate
Ginevra in a balcony at night, and so make her lover
believe that she is false. Ariodante, deceived, disappears from
court. News is brought of his death ; and his brother Lurcanio
publicly denounces Ginevra, who, according to the laws of Scotland,
is sentenced to death for her supposed lawless passion.
Lurcanio then challenges the unknown paramour (for the duke's
face had not been discerned in the balcony) ; and Ariodante, who
is not dead, is fighting him in disguise, when the Paladin Rinaldo
comes up, discloses the whole affair, and slays the deceiver.

Charlemagne had suffered a great defeat at
Paris, and the Paladin Rinaldo was sent across
the Channel to ask succours of the King of England
; but a tempest arose ere he could reach the
coast, and drove him northwards upon that of
Scotland, where he found himself in the Caledonian
Forest, a place famous of old for knightly
adventure. Many a clash of arms had been heard
in its shady recesses — many great things had
been done there by knights from all quarters,
particularly the Tristan and the Lancelot, and
the Swains, and others of the Round Table of
King Arthur.

The main point of this story, the personation of Ginevra by-one
of her ladies, has been repeated by many writers — among
others by Shakspeare, in Much Ado about Nothing. The circumstance
is said to have actually occurred in Ferrara, and in Ariosto's
own time. Was Ariosto himself a party ? " Ariodante" almost
includes his name ; and it is certain that he was once in love with
a lady of the name of Ginevra.

Rinaldo, bidding the ship await him at the
town of Berwick, plunged into the forest with no
other companion than his horse Bayardoo, seeking
the wildest paths he could find, in the hope of
some strange adventure. ^ He put up, for the first
day, at an abbey which was accustomed to entertain
the knights and ladies that journeyed that
way ; and after availing himself of its hospitality,
he inquired of the abbot and his monks if they
could direct him where to find what he looked for.
They said that plenty of adventures were to be
met with in the forest; but that, for the most
part, they remained in as much obscurity as the
spots in which they occurred. It would be more
becoming his valour, they thought, to exert itself
where it would not be hidden ; and they concluded
with telling him of one of the noblest chances for
renown that ever awaited a sword. The daughter
of their king was in need of a defender against
a certain baron of the name of Lurcanio, who
sought to deprive her both of life and repute

is an ambassador, and one upon very urgent business
; yet he halts by the way in search of adventures. This has
been said to be in the true taste of knight-errantry ; and in one
respect it is so. We may imagine, however, that the ship is windbound,
and that he meant to return to it on change of weather.
The Caledonian Forest, it is to be observed, is close at hand.

tion. He accused her of having been found in
the arms of a lover without the license of the
priest; which, by the laws of Scotland, was a
crime only to be expiated at the stake, unless a
champion could be found to disprove the charge
before the end of a month. Unfortunately the
month had nearly expired, and no champion yet
made his appearance, though the king had promised
his daughter's hand to anybody of noble
blood who should establish her innocence ; and
the saddest part of the thing was, that she was
accounted innocent by all the world, and a very
pattern of modesty.

While this horrible story was being told him,
the Paladin fell into a profound state of thought.
After remaining silent for a little while, at the
close of it he looked up, and said, "A lady then,
it seems, is condemned to death for having been
too kind to one lover, while thousands of our sex
are playing the gallant with whomsoever they
please, and not only go unpunished for it, but are
admired! Perish such infamous injustice! The
man was a madman who made such a law, and
they are little better who maintain it. I hope in
God to be able to shew them their error."

The good monks agreed, that their ancestors
were very unwise to make such a law, and kings

very wrong who could, but would not, put an end
to it. So, when the morning came, they speeded
their guest on his noble purpose of fighting in the
lady's behalf. A guide from the abbey took him
a short cut through the forest towards the place
where the matter was to be decided ; but, before
they arrived, they heard cries of distress in a dark
quarter of the forest, and, turning their horses
thither to see what it was, they observed a damsel
between two vagabonds, who were standing over
her with drawn swords. The moment the wretches
saw the new comer, they fled ; and Rinaldo, after
re-assuring the damsel, and requesting to know
what had brought her to a pass so dreadful, made
his guide take her up on his horse behind him, in
order that they might lose no more time. The
damsel, who was very beautiful, could not speak at
first, for the horror of what she had expected to
undergo ; but, on Rinaldo's repeating his request,
she at length found words, and, in a voice of great
humility, began to relate her story.

But before she begins, the poet interferes with
an impatient remark. — " Of all the creatures inexistence,"
cries he, " whether they be tame or wild,
whether they are in a state of peace or of war,
man is the only one that lays violent hands on the
female of his species. The bear osiers no injury

to his ; the lioness is safe by the side of the lion ;
the heifer has no fear of the horns of the bull.
What pest of abomination, what fury from hell,
has come to disturb, in this respect, the bosom of
human kind ? Husband and wife deafen one another
with injurious speeches, tear one another's
faces, bathe the genial bed with tears, nay, sometimes
with bloodshed. In my eyes the man who
can allow himself to give a blow to a woman, or to
hurt even a hair of her head, is a violater of nature,
and a rebel against God ; but to poison her,
to strangle her, to take the soul out of her body
with a knife, — he that can do that, never will I
believe him to be a man at all, but a fiend out of
hell with a man's faces

Such must have been the two villains who fled

^ All honour and glory to the manly and loving poet !

Lavezzuola," says Panizzi, " doubts the conjugal concord of
beasts, more particularly of bears. * Ho lett press regno autre
un oro aver cavato un occhio ad un ors con la zama.' (I have
read in an author worthy of credit, that a bear once deprived a
she-bear of an eye with a blow of his paw.) The reader may
choose between Ariosto and this nameless author, which of themis
to be believed. I, of course, am for my poet." — Vol. i. p. 84.
I am afraid, however, that Lavezzuola is right. Even turtle-doves
are said not to be always the models of tenderness they
are supposed to be. Brutes have even devoured their offspring.
The violence is most probably owing (at least in excessive case)
to some unnatural condition of circumstances.

mat

the sight of Rinaldo, and who had brought the
woman into this dark spot to stifle her testimony
for ever.

But to return to what she was going to say. —
You are to know, sir," she began, " that I
have been from my childhood in the service of the
king's daughter, the princess Ginevra. I grew up
with her ; I was held in honour, and I led a happy
life, till it pleased the cruel passion of love to envy
me my condition, and make me think that there
was no being on earth to be compared to the Duke
of Albany. He pretended to love me so much,
that, in return, I loved him with all my heart.
Unable, by degrees, to refuse him anything, I let
him into the palace at night, nay, into the room
which of all others the princess regarded as most
exclusively her own ; for there she kept her jewels,
and there she was accustomed to sleep during inclement
states of the weather. It communicated
with the other sleeping-room by a covered gallery,
which looked out to some lonely ruins ; and nobody
ever passed that way, day or night.

"Our intercourse continued for several months;
and, finding that I placed all my happiness in
obliging him, he ventured to disclose to me one
day a design he had upon the princess's hand ; nay,
did not blush to ask my assistance in furthering it.

Judge how I set his wishes above my own, when I
confess that I undertook to do so. It is true, his
rank was nearer to the princess's than to mine ; and
he pretended that he sought the alliance merely
on that account ; protesting that he should love me
more than ever, and that Ginevra would he little
better than his wife in name. But, God knows,
I did it wholly out of the excess of my desire to
please him.

Day and night I exerted all my endeavours
to recommend him to the princess. Heaven is my
witness that I did it in real earnest, however wrong
it was. But my labour was to no purpose, for she
was in love herself. She returned in all its warmth
the passion of a most accomplished and valiant
gentleman, who had come into Scotland with a
younger brother from Italy, and who had made
himself such a favourite with every body, my lover
included, that the king himself had bestowed on
him titles and estates, and put him on a footing
with the greatest lords of the land.

Unfortunately, the princess not only turned
a deaf ear to all I said in the duke's favour, but
grew to dislike him in proportion to my recommendation;
so that, finding there was no likelihood
of his success, his own love was secretly
turned into hate and rage. He studied, little

as I dreamt he could be so base, how he could
best destroy her prospect of happiness. He resorted,
for this purpose, to a most crafty expedient,
which I, poor fool, took for nothing but what he
feigned it to be. He pretended that a whim had
come into his head for seeming to prosper in his
suit, out of a kind of revenge for his not being
able to do so in reality ; and, in order to indulge
this whim, he requested me to dress myself in the
identical clothes which the princess put off when
she went to bed that night, and then to appear
in them at my usual post in the balcony, and so
let down the ladder as though I were her very
self, and receive him into my arms.

*M did all that he desired, mad fool that I
was ; and out of the part which I played has come
all this mischief. I have intimated to you that
the duke and Ariodante (for such was the other's
name) had been good friends before Ginevra preferred
him to my false lover. Pretending therefore
to be still his friend, and entering on the
subject of a passion which he said he had long
entertained for her, he expressed his wonder at
finding it interfered with by so noble a gentleman,
especially as it was returned by the princess
with a fervour of which the other, if he pleased,
might have ocular testimony.

** Greatly astonished at this news was Ario-
dante. He had received all the proofs of his mistress's
affection which it was possible for chaste
love to bestow, and with the greatest scorn refused
to believe it ; but as the duke, with the air of a
man who could not help the melancholy communication,
quietly persisted in his story, the unhappy
lover found himself compelled, at any rate, to let
him afford those proofs of her infidelity which
he asserted to be in his power. The consequence
was, that Ariodante came with his brother
to the ruins I spoke of; and there the two were
posted on the night when I played my unhappy
part in the balcony. He brought Lurcanio with
him (that was the brother's name), because he suspected
that the duke had a design on his life, not
conceiving what he alleged against Ginevra to be
possible. Lurcanio, however, was not in the secret
of his brother's engagement with the princess.
It had been disclosed hitherto neither to him nor
to any one, the lady not yet having chosen to divulge
it to the king himself. Ariodante, therefore,
requested his brother to take his station at a little
distance, out of sight of the palace, and not to
come to him unless he should call : ' otherwise, my
dear brother,' concluded he, * stir not a step, if
you love me.'

* Doubt me not,' said Lurcanio ; and, with
these words, the latter entrenched himself in his
post.

Ariodante now stood by himself, gazing at
the balcony, — the only person visible at that moment
in all the place. In a few minutes the Duke
of Albany appeared below it, making the signal to
which I had been accustomed ; and then I, in my
horrible folly, became visible to the eyes of both,
and let down the ladder.

Meantime Lurcanio, beginning to be very
uneasy at the mysterious situation in which he
found himself, and to have the most alarming fears
for his brother, had cautiously picked his way
after him at a little distance ; so that he also,
though still hidden in the shade of the lonely
houses, perceived all that was going on.

I was dressed, as I had undertaken to be, in
the identical clothes which the princess had put off
that night ; and as I was not unlike her in air and
figure, and wore the golden net with red tassels
peculiar to ladies of the royal family, and the two
brothers, besides, were at quite sufficient distance
to be deceived, T was taken by both of them for
her very self. The duke impatiently mounted the
ladder ; I received him as impatiently in my arms;
and circumstances, though from very different

feelings, rendered the caresses that passed between
us of unusual ardour.

You may imagine the grief of Ariodante. It
rose at once to despair. He did not call out ; so
that, had not his brother followed him, still worse
would have ensued than did ; for he drew his
sword, and was proceeding in distraction to fall
upon it, when Lurcanio rushed in and stopped
him. ' Miserable brother !' exclaimed he, * are
you mad? Would you die for a woman like
this ? You see what a wretch she is. I discern
all your case at once, and, thank God, have preserved
you to turn your sword where it ought to
be turned, against the defender of such a pattern
of infamy.'

Ariodante put up his sword, and suffered
himself to be led away by his brother. He even
pretended, in a little while, to be able to review
his condition calmly, but not the less had he secretly
resolved to perish. Next day he disappeared,
nobody knew whither ; and about eight
days afterwards, news was secretly brought to
Ginevra, by a pilgrim, that he had thrown himself
from a headland into the sea.

* I met him by chance,' said the pilgrim,
and we happened to be standing on the top of the
headland, conversing, when he cried out to me,

Relate to the princess what you beheld on parting
from me ; and add, that the cause of it was my
having seen too much. Happy had it been for me
had I been blind !' And with these words,' concluded
the pilgrim, ' he leaped into the sea below,
and was instantly buried beneath it.'

The princess turned as pale as death at this
story, and for a while remained stupefied. But,
alas ! what a scene was it my fate to witness, when
she found herself in her chamber at night, able to
give way to her misery. She tore her clothes, and
her very flesh, and her beautiful hair, and kept
repeating the last words of her lover with amazement
and despair.

The disappearance of Ariodante, and a rumour
which transpired of his having slain himself on
account of some hidden anguish, surprised and
afflicted the whole court. But his brother Lur-canto
evinced more and more his impatience at
it, and let fall the most terrible words. At length
he entered the court when the king was holding
one of his fullest assemblies, and laid open, ashe
thought, the whole matter ; setting forth how
his unhappy brother had secretly, but honourably,
loved the princess ; how she had professed to love
him in return ; and how she had grossly deceived
him, and played him impudently false before his

own eyes. He concluded with calling upon her
unknown paramour to come forth, and shew reasons
against him with his sword why she ought
not to die.

I need not tell you what the king suffered at
hearing this strange and terrible recital. He lost
no time in sharply investigating the truth of the
allegation ; and for this purpose, among other proceedings,
he sent for the ladies of his daughter's
chamber. You may judge, sir, — especially as, I
blush to say it, I still loved the Duke of Albany,
that I could not await an examination like that.
I hastened to meet the duke, who was as anxious
to get me out of the way as I was to go ; and to
this end, professing the greatest zeal for my security,
he commissioned two men to convey me
secretly to a fortress he possessed in this forest.
'Tis at no great distance from the place where
Heaven sent you to my deliverance. You saw,
sir, how little those wretches intended to take me
anywhere except to my grave ; and by this you
may judge of the agonies and shame I have endured
in knowing what a dupe I have been to one
of the cruelest of men. But thus it is that Love
treats his most faithful servants."

The damsel here concluded her story ; and the
Paladin, rejoicing at having become possessed of

all that was required to establish the falsehood of
the duke, proceeded with her on his road to St.
Andrews, where the lists had been set up for the
determination of the question. The king and his
court were anxiously praying at that instant for
the arrival of some champion to fight with the
dreaded Lurcanio ; for the month, as I have stated,
was nearly expired, and this terrible brother appeared
to have the business all his own way ; so
that the stake was soon to be looked for at which
the hapless Ginevra was to die.

Fast and eagerly the Paladin rode for St. Andrews,
with his squire and the trembling damsel,
who was now agitated for new reasons, though
the knight gave her assurances of his protection.
They were not far from the city when they found
people talking of a champion who had certainly
arrived, but whose name was unknown, and his
face constantly concealed by his visor. Even his
own squire, it seems, did not know him ; for the
man had but lately been taken into his service.
Rinaldo, as soon as he entered the city, left the
damsel in a place of security, and then spurred
his horse to the scene of action, when he found
the accuser and the champion in the very midst
of the fight. The Paladin, whose horse, notwithstanding
the noise of the combat, had been heard

coming like a tempest, and whose sudden and
heroical appearance turned all eyes towards him,
rode straight to the royal canopy, and, begging the
king to stop the combat, disclosed the whole state
of the matter, to the enchantment of all present,
except the Duke of Albany ; for the villain himself
was on horseback there in state as grand constable,
and had been feasting his miserable soul
with the hope of seeing Ginevra condemned. The
combatants were soon changed. Instead of Lur-canto
and the unknown champion (whom the newcomer
had taken care to extol for his generosity),
it was the Paladin and the Duke that were opposed
; and horribly did the latter's heart fail him.
But he had no remedy. Fight he must. Rinaldo,
desirous to make short work of him, took his station
with fierce delight ; and at the third sound of
the trumpets, the Duke was forced to couch his
spear and meet him at full charge. Sheer went
the Paladin's ashen stair through the false bosom,
sending the villain to the earth eight feet beyond
the saddle. The conqueror dismounted instantly,
and unlacing the man's helmet, enabled the king
to hear his dying confession, which he had hardly
finished, when life forsook him. Rinahlo then
took off" his own helmet ; and the king, who had

ARIODANTE AND Genera.

seen the great Paladin before, and who felt more
rejoiced at his daughter's deliverance than if he
had lost and regained his crown, lifted up his
hands to heaven, and thanked God for having
honoured her innocence with so illustrious a defender.


The other champion, who, in the mean time,
had been looking on through the eyelets of his
visor, was now entreated to disclose his own face.
He did so with peculiar emotion, and king and all
recognised with transport the face of the loved
and, as it was supposed, lost Ariodante. The
pilgrim, however, had told no falsehood. The
lover had indeed thrown himself into the sea, and
disappeared from the man's eyes ; but (as oftener
happens than people suppose) the death which
was desired when not present became hated when
it was so ; and Ariodante, lover as he was, rising
at a little distance, struck out lustily for the shore,
and reached it.^ He felt even a secret contempt
for his attempt to kill himself; yet putting up
at an hermitage, became interested in the reports
concerning the princess, whose sorrow flattered,

This is quite in Ariosto's high and bold taste for truth under
all circumstances. A less great and misgiving poet would have
had the lover picked up by a fisherman.

and whose danger, though he could not cease to
think her guilty, afflicted him. He grew exasperated
with the very brother he loved, when he
found that Lurcanio pursued her thus to the
death ; and on all these accounts he made his
appearance at the place of combat to fight him,
though not to slay. His purpose was to seek his
own death. He concluded that Ginevra would
then see who it was that had really loved her,
while his brother would mourn the rashness which
made him pursue the destruction of a woman.
Guilty she is," thought he, " but no such guilt
can deserve so cruel a punishment. Besides, I
could not bear that she should die before me.
She is still the woman I love, still the idol of my
thoughts. Right or wrong, I must die in her
behalf."

With this intention he purchased a suit of
black armour, and obtained a squire unknown in
those parts, and so made his appearance in the
lists. What ensued there I need not repeat ; but
the king was so charmed with the issue of the
whole business, with the resuscitation of the favourite
whom he thought dead, and the restoration
of the more than life of his beloved daughter,
that, to the joy of all Scotland, and at the special

instance of the great Paladin, he made the two
lovers happy without delay ; and the bride brought
her husband for dowry the title and estates of the
man who had wronged him.

It is impossible to conceive a nobler thing in the
world than a just prince — a thoroughly good man,
who shuns no part of the burden of his duty,
though it bend him double ; who loves and cares
for his people as a father does for his children, and

This daring and grand apologue is not in the Furioso, butin
a poem which Ariosto left unfinished, and which goes under
the name of the Five Cantos. The fragment, though bearing
marks of want of correction, is in some respects a beautiful, and
altogether a curious one, especially as it seems to have been written
after the Furioso ; for it touches in a remarkable manner on
several points of morals and politics, and contains an extravagance
wilder than any thing in Pulci, — a whale inhabited by knights !
It was most likely for these reasons that his friend Bembo and
others advised him to suppress it. Was it written in his youth ?
The apologue itself is not one of the least daring attacks on the
Borgia and such scoundrels, who had just then afflicted Italy.

Did Ariosto, by the way, omit Macchiavelli in his list of the
friends who hailed the close of his great poem, from not knowing
what to make of his book entitled the Prince ? It has perplexed
all the world to this day, and is not unlikely to have made a particularly
unpleasant impression on a mind at once so candid and
humane as Ariosto" s.

VOL. II. N

who is almost incessantly occupied in their welfare,
very seldom for his own.

Such a man puts himself in front of dangers
and difficulties in order that he may be a shield
to others ; for he is not a mercenary, taking care
of none but himself when he sees the wolf coming;
he is the right good shepherd, staking his own
life in that of his flock, and knowing the faces of
every one of them, just as they do his own.

Such princes, in times of old, were Saturn,
Hercules, Jupiter, and others — men who reigned
gently, yet firmly, equal to all chances that came,
and worthy of the divine honours that awaited
them. For mankind could not believe that they
quitted the world in the same way as other men.
They thought they must be taken up into heaven
to be the lords of demigods.

When the prince is good, the subjects are good,
for they always imitate their masters ; or at least,
if the subjects cannot attain to this height of virtue,
they at least are not as bad as they would be
otherwise ; and, at all events, public decency is
observed. Oh, blessed kingdoms that are governed
by such hearts ! and oh, most miserable ones that
are at the mercy of a man without justice — a
fellow-creature without feelings !

Our Italy is full of such, who will have their reward

from the pens of posterity. Greater wretches
never appeared in the shapes of Nero and caligula,
or any other such monsters, let them have
been who they might. I enter not into particulars
; for it is always better to speak of the dead
than the living ; but I must say, that Argentum
never fared worse under Palais, nor Syracuse
under Dionysius, nor Thebes in the hand of the
bloody tyrant Eteocles, even though all those
wretches were villains by whose orders every day,
without fault, without even charge, men were
sent by dozens to the scaffold or into hopeless
exile.

But they are not without torments of their
own. At the core of their own hearts there stands
an inflicter of no less agonies. There he stands
every day and every moment — one who was born
of the same mother with Wrath, and Cruelty, and
Rapine, and who never ceased tormenting his
infant brethren before they saw the light. His
name is Suspicions

A tremendous fancy this last !

** Sta lor la pena, de la qual dice

Che namque quando la brute' Ira namque,

La Cnideltade, e la Rapine rea ;

E quicunque in un ventre con lor giacque,

Di tormentors mai non romana."

Yes, Suspicion; — the crudest visitation, the
worst evil spirit and pest that ever haunted with
its poisonous whisper the mind of human being.
This is their tormentor by excellence. He does
not trouble the poor and lowly. He agonises the
brain in the proud heads of those whom fortune
has put over the heads of their fellow-creatures.
Well may the man hug himself on his freedom
who fears nobody because nobody hates him. Tyrants
are in perpetual fear. They never cease
thinking of the mortal revenge taken upon tormentors
of their species openly or in secret. The
fear which all men feel of the one single wretch,
makes the single wretch afraid of every soul among
them.

Hear a story of one of these miserable, which,
whatever you may think of it, is true to the letter ;
such letter, at all events, as is written upon the
hearts of his race. He was one of the first who
took to the custom of wearing beards ; for, great
as he was, he had a fear of the race of barbers !
He built a tower in his palace, guarded by deep
ditches and thick walls. It had but one drawbridge
and one bay-window. There was no other
opening ; so that the very light of day had scarcely
admittance, or the inmates a place to breathe at.
In this tower he slept ; and it was his wife's business

to put a ladder down for him when he came
in. A dog kept watch at the drawbridge ; and
except the dog and the wife, not a soul was to
be discerned about the place. Yet he had such
little trust in her, that he always sent spies to
look about the room before he withdrew for the
night.

Of what use was it all ? The woman herself
killed him with his own sword, and his soul went
straight to hell.

Rhadamanthus, the judge there, thrust him
under the boiling lake, but was astonished to find
that he betrayed no symptoms of anguish. He
did not weep and howl as the rest did, or cry
out, " I burn, I burn !" He evinced so little
suffering, that Rhadamanthus said, " I must put
this fellow into other quarters." Accordingly, he
sent him into the lowest pit, where the torments
are beyond all others.

Nevertheless, even here he seemed to be under
no distress. At length they asked him the reason.
The wretch then candidly acknowledged, that hell
itself had no torments for him, compared with
those which suspicion had given him on earth.

The sages of hell laid their heads together at
this news. Amelioration of his lot on the part
of a sinner was not to be thought of in a place

of eternal punishment; so they called a parliament
together, the result of which was an unanimous
conclusion, that the man should be sent back
to earth, and consigned to the torments of suspicion
for ever.

He went ; and the earthly fiend re-entered his
being anew with a subtlety so incorporate, that
their two natures were identified, and he became
Suspicion itself. Fruits are thus engrafted on
wild stocks. One colour thus becomes the parent
of many, when the painter takes a portion of this
and of that from his palette in order to imitate
flesh.

The new being took up his abode on a rock by
the sea-shore, a thousand feet high, girt all about
with mouldering crags, which threatened every instant
to fall. It had a fortress on the top, the
approach to which was by seven drawbridges, and
seven gates, each locked up more strongly than
the other ; and here, now this moment, constantly
thinking Death is upon him, Suspicion lives in
everlasting terror. He is alone. He is ever watching.
He cries out from the battlements, to see
that the guards are awake below, and never does
he sleep day or night. He wears mail upon
mail, and mail again, and feels the less safe the
more he puts on ; and is always altering and

strengthening everything on gate, and on barricade,
and on ditch, and on wall. And do whatever
he will, he never seems to have done enough.

Great poet, and good man, Ariosto ! your terrors are better
than Dante's ; for they warn, as far as warning can do good, and
they neither afflict humanity nor degrade God.

Spenser has imitated this sublime piece of pleasantry ; for, by
a curious intermixture of all which the mind can experience from
such a fiction, pleasant it is in the midst of its sublimity, — laughable
with satirical archness, as well as grand and terrible in the
climax. The transformation in Spenser is from a jealous man into
Jealousy. His wife has gone to live with the Satyrs, and a villain
has stolen his money. The husband, in order to persuade his wife
to return, steals into the horde of the Satyrs, by mixing with their
flock of goats, — as Norandino does in a passage imitated from
Homer by Ariosto. The wife flatly refuses to do any such thing,
and the poor wretch is obliged to steal out again.

So soon as he the prison-door did pass,
He ran as fast as both his feet could bear,
And never looked who behind him was,
Nor scarcely who before. Like as a bear
That creeping close among the hives, to rear
An honeycomb, the wakeful dogs espy,
And him assailing, sore his carcass tear,
That hardly he away with life does fly.

Nor stays till safe himself he see from jeopardy.

Nor stay'd he till he came unto the place
Where late his treasure he entombed had ;
Where, when he found it not (for Rampart base
Had it purloined for his master bad).

With extreme fury he became quite mad,
And ran away — ran with himself away ;
That who so strangely had him seen bestad,
With upstart hair and staring eyes' dismay,
From Limbo-lake him late escaped sure would say.

High over hills and over dales he fled,
As if the wind him on his wings had borne ;
Nor bank nor bush could stay him, when he sped
His nimble feet, as treading still on thorn ;
Grief, and Despite, and Jealousy, and Scorn,
Did all the way him follow hard behind ;
And he himself himself loath' d so forlorn,
So shamefully forlorn of womankind,
That, as a snake, still lurked in his wounded mind.

Stir fled he forward, looking backward still ;
Nor stay'd his flight nor fearful agony
Till that he came unto a rocky hill
Over the sea suspended dreadfully,
That living creature it would terrify
To look a-down, or upward to the height :
From thence he threw himself despitefully.
All desperate of his fore-damned spright.
That seem'd no help for him was left in living sight.

But through long anguish and self mud" ring thought.
He was so wasted and opined quite.
That aU his substance was consumed to nought,
And nothing left but like an airy sprite ;
That on the rocks he fell so flit and light.
That he thereby received no hurt at all ;
But chanced on a craggy cliff" to light ;
Whence he with crooked claws so long did crawl.
That at the last he found a cave with entrance small.

Into the same he creeps, and thenceforth there
Resolved to build his baleful mansion,
In dreary darkness, and continual fear
Of that rock's fall, which ever and anon
Threats with huge ruin him to fall upon,
That he dare never sleep, but that one eye
Still ope he keeps for that occasion ;
Nor ever rests he in tranquillity.
The roaring billows beat his bower so boisterously.

Nor ever is he wont on aught to feed
But toads and frogs, his pasture poisonous,
Which in his cold complexion do breed
A filthy blood, or humour rancorous.
Matter of doubt and dread suspicious.
That doth with cureless care consume the heart.
Corrupts the stomach with gall vicious.
Cross-cuts the liver with internal smart.
And doth transfix the soul with death's eternal dart.

Yet can he never die, but dying lives,
And doth himself with sorrow new sustain,
That death and life at once unto him gives,
And painful pleasure turns to pleasing pain ;
There dwells he ever, miserable swain,
Hateful both to himself and every wight ;
There he, through privy grief and horror vain.
Is waxen so deformed, that he has quite
Forgot he was a man, and Jealousy is hight."

Spenser's picture is more subtly wrought and imaginative than
Ariosto's ; but it removes the man farther from ourselves, except
under very special circumstances. Indeed, it might be taken
rather for a picture of hypochondria than jealousy, and under that

N 2

aspect is very appalling. But nothing, under more obvious circumstances,
comes so dreadfully home to us as Ariosto's poor
wretch feeling himself *' the less safe the more he puts on," and
calling out dismally from his tower, a thousand feet high, to the
watchers and warders below to see that all is secure.

i

RoDOMONT, King of Algiers, was the fiercest of all
the enemies of Christendom, not out of love for his
own faith (for he had no piety), but out of hatred
to those that opposed him. He had now quarrelled,
however, with his friends too. He had
been rejected by a lady, in favour of the Tartar
king, Mandricardo, and mortified by the publicity
of the rejection before his own lord paramount,
Agramante, the leader of the infidel armies. He
could not bear the rejection ; he could not bear the
sanction of it by his liege lord ; he resolved to quit
the scene of warfare and return to Africa ; and, in

The ingenious martyrdom in this story, which has been told
by other writers of fiction, is taken from an alleged fact related in
Barbara's treatise De Re Uxoris. It is said, indeed, to have been
actually resorted to more than once ; and possibly may have been
so, even from a knowledge of it ; for what is more natural with
heroical minds than that the like outrages should produce the Uke
virtues ? But the colouring of Ariosto's narration is peculiarly his
own ; and his apostrophe at the close beautiful.

the course of his journey thither, he had come into
the south of France, where, observing a sequestered
spot that suited his humour, he changed his
mind as to going home, and persuaded himself he
could live in it for the rest of his life. He accordingly
took up his abode with his attendants in a
chapel, which had been deserted by its clergy during
the rage of war.

This vehement personage was standing one
morning at the door of the chapel in a state of
unusual thoughtfulness, when he beheld coming
towards him, through a path in the green meadow
before it a lady of a lovely aspect, accompanied
by a bearded monk. They were followed by
something covered with black, which they were
bringing along on a great horse.

Alas ! the lady was the widow of Zerbino, the
Scottish prince, who spared the life of Medoro,
and who now himself lay dead under that pall.
He had expired in her arms from wounds inflicted
during a combat with Mandricardo ; and she had
been thrown by the loss into such anguish of mind
that she would have died on his sword but for the
intervention of the hermit now with her, who persuaded
her to devote the rest of her days to Godin
a nunnery. She had now come into Provence
with the good man for that purpose, and to bury

the corpse of her husband in the chapel which
they were approaching.

Though the lady seemed lost in grief, and was
very pale, and had her hair all about the ears, and
though she did nothing but weep and lament, and
looked in all respects quite borne down with her
misery, nevertheless she was still so beautiful that
love and grace appeared to be indestructible in her
aspect. The moment the Saracen beheld her, he
dismissed from his mind all the determinations he
had made to hate and detest

The gentle bevy, that adorns the world.

He was bent solely on obtaining the new angel before
him. She seemed precisely the sort of person
to make him forget the one that had rejected him.
Advancing, therefore, to meet her without delay,
he begged, in as gentle a manner as he could assume,
to know the cause of her sorrow.

The lady, with all the candour of wretchedness,
explained who she was, and how precious a burden
she was conveying to its last home, and the
resolution she had taken to withdraw from a vain
world into the service of God. The proud pagan,
who had no belief in a God, much less any respect
for restraints or fidelities of what kind soever, forgot
his assumed gravity when he heard this determination,

and laughed outright at the simplicity
of such a proceeding. He pronounced it, in his
peremptory way, to be foolish and frivolous ; compared
it with the miser who, in burying a treasure,
does good neither to himself nor any one
else ; and said, that lions and serpents might indeed
be shut up in cages, but not things lovely and
innocent.

The monk, overhearing these observations,
thought it his duty to interfere. He calmly opposed
all which the other asserted, and then proceeded
to set forth a repast of spiritual consolation
not at all to the Saracen's taste. The fierce
warrior interrupted the preacher several times ;
told him that he had nothing to do with the lady,
and that the sooner he returned to his cell the
better ; but the hermit, nothing daunted, went on
with his advice till his antagonist lost all patience.
He laid hands on his sacred person ; seized him by
the beard ; tore away as much of it as he grasped ;
and at length worked himself up into such a pitch
of fury, that he griped the good man's throat withall
the force of a pair of pincers, and, swinging
him twice or thrice round, as one might a dog,
flung him off the headland into the sea.

What became of the poor creature I cannot
say. Reports are various. Some tell us that he

was found on the rocks, clashed all to pieces, so
that you could not distinguish foot from head;
others, that he fell into the sea at the distance of
three miles, and perished in consequence of not
knowing how to swim, in spite of the prayers and
tears that he addressed to Heaven; others again
affirm, that a saint came and assisted him, and
drew him to shore before people's eyes. I must
leave the reader to adopt which of these accounts
he looks upon as the most probable.

The Pagan, as soon as he had thus disposed of
the garrulous hermit, turned towards Isabella (for
that was the lady's name), and with a face somewhat
less disturbed, began to talk to her in the
common language of gallantry, protesting that she
was his life and soul, and that he should not know
what to do without her ; for the sweetness of her
appearance mollified even him ; and indeed, withall
his violence, he would rather have possessed
her by fair means than by foul. He therefore
flattered himself that, by a little hypocritical attention,
he should dispose her to return his inclinations.


On the other hand, the poor disconsolate creature,
who, in a country unknown to her, and a
place so remote from help, felt like a mouse in the
cat's claws, began casting in her mind by what

possible contrivance she could escape from such
a wretch with honour. She had made up her
mind to perish by her own hand, rather than be
faithless, however unwillingly, to the dear husband
that had died in her arms: but the question
was, how she could protect herself from the
pagan's violence, before she had secured the means
of so doing; for his manner was becoming very
impatient, and his speeches every moment less
and less civil.

At length an expedient occurred to her. She
told him, that if he would promise to respect her
virtue, she would put him in possession of a secret
that would redound far more to his honour and
glory, than any wrong which he could inflict on
the innocent. She conjured him not to throw
away the satisfaction he would experience all the
rest of his life from the consciousness of having
done right, for the sake of injuring one unhappy
creature. " There were thousands of her sex'*
she observed, " with cheerful as well as beautiful
faces, who might rejoice in his affection ; whereas
the secret she spoke of was known to scarcely a
soul on earth but herself."

She then told him the secret ; which consisted
in the preparation of a certain herb boiled with ivy
and rue over a fire of cypress-wood, and squeezed

into a cup by hands that had never done harm.
The juice thus obtained, if applied fresh every
month, had the virtue of rendering bodies invulnerable.
Isabella said she had seen the herb in
the neighbourhood, as she came along, and that
she would not only make the preparation forthwith,
but let its effects be proved on her own
person. She only stipulated, that the receiver of
the gift should swear not to offend her purity indeed
or word.

The fierce infidel took the oath immediately.
It delighted him to think that he should be enabled
to have his fill of war and slaughter for
nothing ; and the oath was the more easy to him,
inasmuch as he had no intention of keeping it.

The poor Isabella went into the fields to look
for her miraculous herb, still, however, attended
by the Saracen, who would not let her go out of
his sight. She soon found it ; and then going
with him into his house, passed the rest of the day
and the whole night in preparing the mixture
with busy solemnity, — Rodomont always remaining
with her.

The room became so hot and close with the
fire of cypress wood, that the Saracen, contrary to
his law and indeed to his habits, indulged himself
in drinking; and the consequence was, that, as

soon as it was morning, Isabella lost no time
in proving to him the success of her operations.
Now," she said, " you shall be convinced how
much in earnest I have been. You shall see all
the virtue of this blessed preparation. I have
only to bathe myself thus, over the head and neck,
and if you then strike me with all your force, as
though you intended to cut off my head, — which
you must do in good earnest, — you will see the
wonderful result."

With a glad and rejoicing countenance the paragon
of virtue held forth her neck to the sword ;
and the bestial pagan, giving way to his natural
violence, and heated perhaps beyond all thought
of a suspicion with his wine, dealt it so fierce a
blow, that the head leaped from the shoulders.

Thrice it bounded on the ground where it fell,
and a clear voice was heard to come out of it, calling
the name of " Zerbino," doubtless in joy of
the rare way which its owner had found of escaping
from the Saracen.

O blessed soul, that eldest thy virtue and thy
fidelity dearer to thee than life and youth ! go in
peace, thou soul blessed and beautiful. If any
words of mine could have force in them sufficient
to endure so long, hard would I labour to give
them all the worthiness that art can bestow, so

that the world might rejoice in thy name for thousands
and thousands of years. Go in peace, and
take thy seat in the skies, and be an example to
womankind of faith beyond all weakness.

TASSO'S LIFE AND Genius

The romantic poetry of Italy having risen to its
highest and apparently its most lawless pitch in
the Orlando Furioso, a reaction took place in the
next age in the Jerusalem Delivered. It did not
hurt, however, the popularity of Ariosto. It only

^ My authorities for this notice are, Black's Life of Tasso (2
vols. 4to, 1810), his original, Serassi, Vita di Torquato Tasso (do.
1790), and the works of the poet in the Pisan edition of Professor
Rosinii (33 vols. 8vo, 1832). I have been indebted to nothing
in Black which I have not ascertained by reference to the Italian
biographer, and quoted nothing stated by Tasso himself but from
the works. Black's Life, which is a free version of Serassi's,
modified by the translator's own opinions and criticism, is elegant,
industrious, and interesting. Serassi's was the first copious biography
of the poet founded on original documents ; and it deserved
to be translated by Mr. Black, though servile to the house of Este,
and, as might be expected, far from being always ingenuous.
Among other instances of this writer's want of candour is the fact
VOL. II. O

increased the number of poetic readers ; and under
the auspices, or rather the control, of a Luther-fearing
Church, produced, if not as classical a
work as it claimed to be, or one, in the true sense
of the word, as catholic as its predecessor, yet
certainly a far more Roman Catholic, and at the
same time very delightful fiction. The circle of
fabulous narrative was thus completed, and a link
formed, though in a very gentle and qualified
manner, both with Dante's theocracy and the obvious
regularity of the aeneid, the oldest romance
of Italy.

The author of this epic of the Crusades was

of his having been the discoverer and suppressed of the manuscript
review of Tasso by Galileo. The best summary account of the
poet's life and writings which I have met with is Ginguene's,
in the fifth volume of his Histoire Literature, &c. It is written
with his usual grace, vivacity, and acuteness, and contains a good
notice of the Tasso controversy. As to the Pisan edition of the
works, it is the completest, I believe, in point of contents ever
published, comprises all the controversial criticism, and is, of
course, very useful ; but it contains no life except Manso's (now
known to be very inconclusive), has got a heap of feeble variorum
comments on the Jerusalem, no notes worth speaking of to the
rest of the works, and, notwithstanding the claim in the title-page
to the merit of a " better order," has left the correspondence in a
deplorable state of irregularity, as well as totally without elucidation.
The learned Professor is an agreeable writer, and, I believe,
a very pleasant man, but he certainly is a provoking editor.

of a family so noble and so widely diffused, that,
under the patronage of the emperors and the
Italian princes, it flourished in a very remarkable
manner, not only in its own country, but in Flanders,
Germany, and Spain. There was a Tasso
once in England, ambassador of Philip the Second ;
another, like Cervantes, distinguished himself at
the battle of Lepanto ; and a third gave rise
to the sovereign German house of Tour and
Taxis. Taxus is the Latin of Tasso. The Latin
word, like the Italian, means both a badger and
a yew-tree ; and the family in general appear to
have taken it in the former sense. The animal
is in their coat of arms. But the poet, or his
immediate relatives, preferred being more romantically
shadowed forth by the yew-tree. The
parent stock of the race was at Bergamo in Lombardy;
and here was born the father of Tasso,
himself a poet of celebrity, though his fame has
been eclipsed by that of his son.

Bernardo Tasso, author of many elegant lyrics,
of some volumes of letters, not uninteresting but
too florid, and of the Amadis, an epic romance
now little read, was a man of small property, very
honest and good-hearted, but restless, ambitious,
and with a turn for expense beyond his means.
He attached himself to various princes, with little

ultimate advantage, particularly to the unfortunate
Sanseverino, Prince of Salerno, whom he faithfully
served for many years. The prince had a
high sense of his v^orth, and would probably have
settled him in the wealth and honours he was
qualified to adorn, but for those Spanish oppressions
in the history of Naples which ended in the
ruin of both master and servant. Bernardo, however,
had one happy interval of prosperity ; and
during this, at the age of forty-six, he married
Portia di Rossi, a young lady of a rich and noble
family, with a claim to a handsome dowry. He
spent some delightful years with her at Sorrento,
a spot so charming as to have been considered the
habitation of the Sirens ; and here, in the midst
of his orange-trees, his verses, and the breezes
of an aromatic coast, he had three children, the
eldest of whom was a daughter named Cornelia,
and the youngest the author of the Jerusalem Delivered,
The other child died young. The house
distinguished by the poet's birth was restored from
a dilapidated condition by order of Joseph Bonaparte
when King of Naples, and is now an hotel.

Torquato Tasso was born March the 11th,
1 544, nine years after the death of Ariosto, w- ho
was intimate with his father. He was very devoutly
brought up ; and grew so tall, and became

SO premature a scholar, that at nine, he tells us,
he might have been taken for a boy of twelve.
At eleven, in consequence of the misfortunes of
his father, vv^ho had been exiled with the Prince
of Salerno, he was forced to part from his mother,
who remained at home to look after a dowry
which she never received. Her brothers deprived
her of it ; and in two years' time she died, Bernardo
thought by poison. Twenty-four years
afterwards her illustrious son, in the midst of his
own misfortunes, remembered with sighs the tears
with which the kisses of his poor mother were
bathed when she was forced to let him go.^

^ la the beautiful fragment beginning, del grand' Apennino :

Me dal sen della madre empia fortuna
Pargoletto diverse. Ah ! di que' baci,
Ch' ella bagnio di laurie solent,
Con sospir mi membra, e degli ardent
Preghi, che sen porter 1' are fugaci,
Ch' io ginger non dove piu volta a volta
Fra quelle brachia accost
Con nodi cost stretti e si teach.
Lasso ! e seguii con mal secure piante,
Qual Ascanio, o Camilla, il padre errante."

Me from my mother's bosom my hard lot

Took when a child. Alas ! though all these years

I have been used to sorrow,

I sigh to think upon the floods of tears

Which bathed her kisses on that doleful morrow :

The little Torquato following, as he says, like
another Ascanius, the footsteps of his wandering
father, joined Bernardo in Rome. After two
years' study in that city, partly under an old
priest who lived with them, the vicissitudes of
the father's lot took away the son first to Bergamo,
among his relations, and then to Pesaro,
in the duchy of Urbino, where his education was
associated for nearly two years with that of the
young prince, afterwards Duke Francesco Maria
the Second (della Revere), who retained a regard
for him through life. In 1559 the boy joined his
father in Venice, where the latter had been appointed
secretary to the Academy ; but next year
he was withdrawn from these pleasing varieties
of scene by the parental delusion so common in
the history of men of letters — the study of the
law ; which Bernardo intended him to pursue
henceforth in the city of Padua. He accordingly
arrived in Padua at the age of sixteen and a half,

I sigh to think of all the prayers and cries
She wasted, straining me with lifted eyes :
For never more on one another's face
Was it our lot to gaze and to embrace !
Her little stumbling boy,
Like to the child of Troy,
Or like to one doomed to no haven rather.
Followed the footsteps of his wandering father.

and fulfilled his legal destiny by writing the poem
of Rinaldo, which was published in the course of
less than two years at Venice. The goodnatured
and poetic father, convinced by this specimen of
jurisprudence how useless it was to thwart the
hereditary passion, permitted him to devote himself
wholly to literature, which he therefore went
to study in the university of Bologna ; and thereat
the early age of nineteen, he began his Jerusalem
Delivered ; that is to say, he planned it, and
wrote three cantos, several of the stanzas of which
he retained when the poem was matured. He
quitted Bologna, however, in a fit of indignation
at being accused of the authorship of a satire ;
and after visiting some friends at Castelvetro and
Correggio, returned to Padua on the invitation
of his friend Scipio Gonzaga, afterwards cardinal,
who wished him to become a member of an academy
he had instituted, called the Eterei (Ethereal).
Here he studied his favourite philosopher,
Plato, and composed three Discourses on Heroic
Poetry, dedicated to his friend. He now paid a
visit to his father in Mantua, where the unsettled
man had become secretary to the duke ; and here,
it is said, he fell in love with a young lady of
a distinguished family, whose name was Laura
Demerara; but this did not hinder him from returning

to his Paduann studies, in which he spent
nearly the whole of the following year. He was
then informed that the Cardinal of Este, to whom
he had dedicated his Hidalgo, and with whom interest
had been made for the purpose, had appointed
him one of his attendants, and that he
was expected at Ferrara by the 1st of December.
Returning to Mantua, in order to prepare for this
appointment with his father, he was seized with
a dangerous illness, which detained him there
nearly a twelvemonth longer. On his recovery
he hastened to Ferrara, and arrived in that city
on the last day of October, 1565, the first of many
years of glory and misery.

The cardinal of Este was the brother of the
reigning Duke of Ferrara, Alfonso the Second,
grandson of the Alfonso of Ariosto. It is curious
to see the two most celebrated romantic poets
of Italy thrown into unfortunate connexion with
two princes of the same house and the same respective
ranks. Tasso's cardinal, however, though
the poet lost his favour, and though very little is
known about him, left no such bad reputation
behind him as Ippolito. It was in the service of
the duke that the poet experienced his sufferings.

This prince, who was haughty, ostentatious,
and quarrelsome, was, at the time of the stranger's

arrival, rehearsing the shows and tournaments
intended to welcome his bride, the sister of the
Emperor Maximilian the Second. She was his
second wife. The first was a daughter of the rival
house of Tuscany, which he detested ; and the
marriage had not been happy. The new consort
arrived in the course of a few weeks, entering the
city in great pomp ; and for a time all went happily
with the young poet. He was in a state of
ecstasy with the beauty and grandeur he beheld
around him — obtained the favourable notice of
the duke's two sisters and the duke himself —
went on with his Jerusalem Delivered which, in
spite of the presence of Ariosto's memory, he was
resolved to load with praises of the house of Este ;
and in this tumult of pride and expectation, he
beheld the duke, like one of the heroes of his
poem, set out to assist the emperor against the
Turks at the head of three hundred gentlemen,
armed at all points, and mantled in various coloured
velvets embroidered with gold.

To complete the young poet's happiness, or
commence his disappointments, he fell in love,
notwithstanding the goddess he had left in Mantua,
with the beautiful Lucrezia Bendidio, who
does not seem, however, to have loved in return ;
for she became the wife of a Macchiavelli, Among
o2

his rivals was Guarini, who afterwards emulated
him in pastoral poetry, and who accused him on
this occasion of courting two ladies at once.

Guarini's accusation has been supposed to refer
to the duke's sister Leonora, whose name has
become so romantically mixed up with the poet's
biography ; but the latest inquiries render it probable
that the allusion was to Laura Peperara.^
The young poet, however, who had not escaped
the influence of the free manners of Italy, and
whose senses and vanity may hitherto have been
more interested than his heart, rhymed and flattered
on all sides of him, not of course omitting
the charms of princesses. Li order to win the
admiration of the ladies in a body, he sustained
for three days, in public, after the fashion of the
times. Fifty Amorous Conclusions ; that is to say,
affirmations on the subject of love ; doubtless to
the equal delight of his fair auditors and himself,
and the creation of a good deal of jealousy and ill-will
on the part of such persons of his own sex as
had not wit or spirits enough for the display of
so much logic and love-making.

In 1569, the death of his father, who had been
made governor of Ostiglia by the Duke of Mantua,

^ Rosinii, Saggio sugli Amorii di Torquato Tasso, &c., in the
Professor's edition of his works, vol. xxxiii.

cost the loving son a fit of illness ; but the continuation
of his Jerusalem an Oration spoken at
the opening of the Ferrarese academy, the marriage
of Leonora's sister Lucrezia with the Prince
of Urbino, and the society of Leonora herself,
who led the retired life of a person in delicate
health, and was fond of the company of men of
letters, helped to divert him from melancholy recollections
; and a journey to France, at the close
of the year following, took him into scenes that
were not only totally new, but otherwise highly
interesting to the singer of Godfrey of Bologna.
The occasion of it was a visit of the cardinal, his
master, to the court of his relative Charles the
Ninth. It is supposed that his Eminence went to
confer with the king on matters relative to the
disputes which not long afterwards occasioned the
detestable massacre of St. Bartholomew.

Before his departure, Tasso put into the hands
of one of his friends a document, which, as it is
very curious, and serves to illustrate perhaps more
than one cause of his misfortunes, is here given
entire.

Memorial left hy Tasso on his departure to France,

Since life is frail, and it may please Almighty
God to dispose of me otherwise in this my journey

to France, it is requested of Signor Ercole 
that he will, in that case, undertake the
management of the following concerns :

In the first place, with regard to my compositions,
it is my wish that all my love-sonnets and
madrigals should be collected and published ; but
with regard to those, whether amatory or otherwise,
which I have written for any friend my request
is, that they should he buried with myself,
save only the one commencing " Or che V aura
mia dolce strove spiral'' I wish the publication
of the Oration spoken in Ferrara at the opening of
the academy, of the four books on Heroic Poetry ,
of the six last cantos of the Godfrey (the Jerusalem),
and of those stanzas of the two first which
shall seem least imperfect. All these compositions,
however, are to be submitted to the review
and consideration of Signor Scipio Gonzaga, of
Signor Domenico Teniers, and of Signor Baptista
Guarini, who, I persuade myself, will not refuse
this trouble, when they consider the zealous friendship
I have entertained for themselves.

Let them be informed, too, that it was my
intention that they should cut and hew without
mercy whatever should appear to them defective
or superfluous. With regard to additions or
changes, I should wish them to proceed more cautiously,

since, after all, the poem would remain
imperfect. As to my other compositions, should
there be any which, to the aforesaid Signor 
and the other gentlemen, might seem not
unworthy of publication, let them be disposed of
according to their pleasure.

In respect to my property, I wish that such

part of it as I have pledged to Abram for

twenty-five lire, and seven pieces of arras, which
are likewise in pledge to Signor Ascanio for thirteen
scud, together with whatever I have in this house,
should be sold, and that the overplus of the proceeds
should go to defray the expense of the following
epitaph to be inscribed on a monument to
my father, whose body is in St. Polo. And should
any impediment take place in these matters, I entreat
Signor Ercole to have recourse to the favour
of the most excellent Madame Leonora, whose lies
reality I confide in, for my sake,

I, Torquato Tasso, have written this, Ferrara,
1570."

T shall have occasion to recur to this document
by and by. I will merely observe, for the present,
that the marks in it, both of imprudence
in money-matters and confidence in the goodwill
of a princess, are very striking. " Abram" and

Signor Ascanio" were both Jews. The pieces
of arras belonged to his father ; and probably this
was an additional reason why the affectionate son
wished the proceeds to defray the expense of the
epitaph. The epitaph recorded his father's poetry,
state-services, and vicissitudes of fortune.

Tasso was introduced to the French king as the
poet of a French hero and of a Catholic victory ;
and his reception was so favourable (particularly
as the wretched Charles, the victim of his mother's
bigotry, had himself no mean poetic feeling), that,
with a rash mixture of simplicity and self-reliance
(respect makes me unwilling to call it self-importance),
the poet expressed an impolitic amount of
astonishment at the favour shewn at court to the
Hugonots — little suspecting the horrible design
it covered. He shortly afterwards broke with his
master the cardinal; and it is supposed that this
unseasonable escape of zeal was the cause. He
himself appears to have thought so.^ Perhaps the
cardinal only wanted to get the imprudent poet
back to Italy ; for, on Tasso's return to Ferrara,
he was not only received into the service of the
duke with a salary of some fifteen golden scud a-
month, but told that he was exempted from any

^ Letter Indite, p. 33, in the Opere, vol. xvii.

particular duty, and might attend in peace to his
studies. Balzac affirms, that while Tasso was at
the court of France, he was so poor as to beg a
crown from a friend ; and that, when he left it, he
had the same coat on his back that he came in.^
The assertions of a professed wit and hyperbolist
are not to be taken for granted ; yet it is difficult
to say to what shifts improvidence may not be
reduced.

The singer of the house of Este would now, it
might have been supposed, be happy. He had
leisure ; he had money ; he had the worldly honours
that he was fond of; he occupied himself in
perfecting the Jerusalem; and he wrote his beautiful
pastoral, the Jmintaf which was performed
before the duke and his court to the delight of the
brilliant assembly. The duke's sister Lucrezia,
princess of Urbino, who was a special friend of the
poet, sent for him to read it to her at Pesaro ; and
in the course of the ensuing carnival it was performed
with similar applause at the court of her
father-in-law. The poet had been as much enchanted
by the spectacle which the audience at
Ferrara presented to his eyes, as the audience with
the loves and graces with which he enriched their

1 Entretiens, 1663, p. 169, quoted by Serassi, pp. 175, 182.

stage. The shepherd Thyrsus, by whom he meant
himself, reflected it back upon them in a passage
of the performance. It is worth while dwelling
on this passage a little, because it exhibits a brief
interval of happiness in the author's life, and also
shews us what he had already begun to think of
courts at the moment he was praising them. But
he ingeniously contrives to put the praise in his
own mouth, and the blame in another's. The
shepherd's friend, Mopsus (by whom Tasso is
thought to have meant Seront), had warned him
against going to court :

Pero, figlio,
Va su 1' awiso," &c.

*• Therefore, my son, take my advice. Avoid
The places where thou seest much drapery,
Colours, and gold, and plumes, and heraldries,
And such new-entanglements. But, above all.
Take care how evil chance or youthful wandering
Bring thee upon the house of Idle Babble."
What place is that }" said I ; and he resumed ; —
Enchantresses dwell there, who make one see
Things as they are not, ay and hear them too.
That which shall seem pure diamond and fine gold
Is glass and brass ; and coffers that look silver,
Heavy with wealth, are baskets full of bladders

Suggested by Ariosto's furniture in the Moon-the

very walls there are so strangely made,

They answer those who talk ; and not in syllables,

Or bits of words, like echo in our vsoods,

But go the whole talk over, word for word.

With something else besides, that no one said.'

The tresses, tables, bedsteads, curtains, lockers.

Chairs, and whatever furniture there is

In room or bedroom, all have tongues and speech.

And are for ever tattling. Idle Babble

Is always going about, playing the child ;

And should a dumb man enter in that place,

The dumb would babble in his own despite.

And yet this evil is the least of all

That might assail thee. Thou might'st be arrested

In fearful transformation to a willow,

A beast, fire, water, — fire for ever sighing,

Water for ever weeping." — Here he ceased :

And I, with all this fine foreknowledge, went

To the great city ; and, by Heaven's kind will,

Came where they live so happily. The first sound

I heard was a delightful harmony.

Which issued forth, of voices loud and sweet ; —

Sirens, and swans, and nymphs, a heavenly noise

Of heavenly things ; — which gave me such delight,

That, all admiring, and amazed, and toyed,

I stopped awhile quite motionless. There stood

Within the entrance, as if keeping guard

Of those fine things, one of a high-souled aspect.

Stalwart withal, of whom I was in doubt

1 This was a trick which he afterwards thought he had reason
to complain of in a style very different from pleasantry.

Whether to think him better knight or leader. *

He, with a look at once benign and grave,

In royal guise, invited me within ;

He, great and in esteem ; me, lorn and lowly.

Oh, the sensations and the sights which then

Shower'd on me ! Goddesses I saw, and nymphs

Graceful and beautiful, and harpers fine

As Linus or as Orpheus ; and more deities.

All without veil or cloud, bright as the virgin

Aurora, when she glads immortal eyes.

And sows her beams and dew-drops, silver and gold.

In the summer of 1574, the Duke of Ferrara
went to Venice to pay his respects to the successor
of Charles the Ninth, Henry the Third, then on
his way to France from his kingdom of Poland.
Tasso went with the duke, and is understood to
have taken the opportunity of looking for a printer
of his Jerusalem which was now almost finished.
Writers were anxious to pubHsh in that crafty
city, because its government would give no security
of profit to books printed elsewhere. Alfonso,
who was in mourning for Henry's brother, and to
whom mourning itself only suggested a new occa-

^ Alfonso. The word for "leader" in the original, duce, made
the allusion more obvious. The epithet "royal," in the next
sentence, conveyed a welcome intimation to the ducal ear, the
house of Este being very proud of its connexion with the sovereigns
of Europe, and very desirous of becoming royal itself.

sion of pomp and vanity, took with him to this
interview five hundred Ferrarese gentlemen, all
dressed in long black cloaks ; who walking about
Venice (says a reporter) " by twos and threes,"
wonderfully impressed the inhabitants with their
"gravity and magnificence."^ The mourners feasted,
however ; and Tasso had a quartan fever,
which delayed the completion of the Jerusalem till
next year. This was at length effected ; and now
once more, it might have been thought, that the
writer would have reposed on his laurels.

But Tasso had already begun to experience
the uneasiness attending superiority ; and, unfortunately,
the strength of his mind was not equal
to that of his genius. He was of an ultra-sensitive
temperament, and subject to depressing fits of
sickness. He could not calmly bear envy. Sarcasm
exasperated, and hostile criticism afflicted
him. The seeds of a suspicious temper were
nourished by prosperity itself. The author of the
Armida and the Jerusalem began to think the attentions
he received unequal to his merits ; while
with a sort of hysterical mixture of demand for
applause, and provocation of censure, he not only
condescended to read his poems in manuscript

Serassi, vol. i. p. 210.

wherever he went, but, in order to secure the
goodwill of the papal licenser, he transmitted it
for revisal to Rome, where it was mercilessly criticised
for the space of two years by the bigots
and hypocrites of a court, which Luther had rendered
a very different one from that in the time
of Ariosto.

This new source of chagrin exasperated the
complexional restlessness, which now made our
author think that he should be more easy anywhere
than in Ferrara ; perhaps more able to communicate
with and convince his critics ; and,
unfortunately, he permitted himself to descend to
a weakness the most fatal of all others to a mind
naturally exalted and ingenuous. Perhaps it was
one of the main causes of all which he suffered.
Indeed, he himself attributed his misfortunes to
irresolution. What I mean in the present instance
was, that he did not disdain to adopt
underhand measures. He shewed a face of satisfaction
with Alfonso, at the moment that he was
taking steps to exchange his court for another.
He wrote for that purpose to his friend Scipio
Gonzaga, now a prelate at the court of Rome,
earnestly begging him, at the same time, not to
commit him in their correspondence ; and Scipio,
who was one of his kindest and most indulgent

friends, and who doubtless saw that the Duke
of Ferrara and his poet were not of dispositions
to accord, did all he could to procure him an
appointment with one of the family of the
Medici.

Most unhappily for this speculation (and perhaps
even the good-natured Gonzaga took a little
more pleasure in it on that account), Alfonso inherited
all the detestation of his house for that
lucky race; and it is remarkable, that the same
jealousies which hindered Ariosto's advancement
with the Medici were still more fatal to the hopes
of Tasso ; for they served to plunge him into the
deepest adversity. In vain he had warnings given
him, both friendly and hostile. The princess,
now Duchess of Urbino, who was his particular
friend, strongly cautioned him against the temptation
of going away. She said he was watched.
He himself thought his letters were opened ; and
probably they were. They certainly were at a
subsequent period. Tasso, however, persisted,
and went to Rome. Scipio Gonzaga introduced
him to Cardinal Ferdinand de' Medici, afterwards
Grand Duke of Tuscany ; and Ferdinand made
him offers of protection so handsome, that they
excited his suspicion. The self-tormenting poet
thought they savoured more of hatred to the Este

family, than honour to himselfe He did not
accept them. He did nothing at Rome but make
friends, in order to perplex them ; listen to his
critics, in order to worry himself ; and perform acts
of piety in the churches, by way of shewing that
the love-scenes in the Jerusalem were innocent.
For the bigots had begun to find something very
questionable in mixing up so much love with war.
The bloodshed they had no objection to. The
love bearded their prejudices, and excited their
envy.

Tasso returned to Ferrara, and endeavoured to
solace himself with eulogising two fair strangers
who had arrived at Alfonso's court, — Eleonora
Sanvitale, who had been newly married to the
Count of Scandiano (a Tiens, not a Boiardo,
whose line was extinct), and Barbara Sanseverino,
Countess of Sala, her mother-in-law. The ,
who was a Juno-like beauty, wore
her hair in the form of a crown. The still more
beautiful daughter-in-law had an under lip such as
Anacreon or Sir John Suckling would have admired,
— pouting and provoking, — TrpoKaXovfievov
<l)L\7}fjLa. Tasso wrote verses on them both, but

" Alia lor magnanimity e conventicle il nostra, ch' amor
delle virtu, non ohio verso altri, gli abba gia mossi ad invitation
invito cost largo." Opere, vol. xv. p. 94.

particularly to the lip ; and this Countess of Scan-diana
is the second, out of the three Leonora,
with whom Tasso was said by his friend Manso to
have been in love. The third, it is now ascertained,
never existed ; and his love-making to the
new, or second Leonora, goes to shew how little
of real passion there was in the praises of the first
(the Princess Leonora), or probably of any lady at
court. He even professed love, as a forlorn hope,
to the countess's waiting-maid. Yet these gallantries
of sonnets are exalted into bewilderment
of the heart.

His restlessness returning, the poet now condescended
to craft a second time. Expecting to
meet with a refusal, and so to be afforded a pretext
for quitting Ferrara, he applied for the vacant
office of historiographer. It was granted
him ; and he then disgusted the Medici by pleading
an unlooked-for engagement, which he could
only reconcile to his applications for their favour
by renouncing his claim to be believed. If he
could have deceived others, why might he not
have deceived them ?

All the lurking weakness of the poet's temperament
began to display itself at this juncture.
His perplexity excited him to a degree of irritability
bordering on delirium ; and circumstances

conspired to increase it. He had lent an acquaintance
the key of his rooms at court, for the purpose
(he tells us) of accommodating some intrigue ;
and he suspected this person of opening cabinets
containing his papers. Remonstrating with him
one day in the court of the palace, either on that
or some other account, the man gave him the lie.
He received in return a blow on the face, and is
said by Tasso to have brought a set of his kinsmen
to assassinate him, all of whom the heroical poet
immediately put to flight. At one time he suspected
the duke of jealousy respecting the dedication
of his poem, and at another, of a wish to
burn it. He suspected his servants. He became
suspicious of the truth of his friend Gonzaga.
He doubted, even, whether some praises addressed
to him by Oratio Ariosto, the nephew of the
great poet, which, one would have thought, would
have been to him a consummation of bliss, were
not intended to mystify and hurt him. At length
he fancied that his persecutors had accused him
of heresy to the Inquisition ; and, as he had gone
through the metaphysical doubts, common with
most men of reflection respecting points of faith
and the mysteries of creation, he feared that some
indiscreet words had escaped him, giving colour to
the charge. He thus beheld enemies all around

him. He dreaded stabbing and poison ; and one
day, in some paroxysm of rage or horror, how
occasioned it is not known, ran with a knife or
dagger at one of the servants of the Duchess of
Urbino in her own chamber.

Alfonso, upon this, apparently in the mildest
and most reasonable manner, directed that he
should be confined to his apartments, and put into
the hands of the physician. These unfortunate
events took place in the summer of 1577, and in
the poet's thirty-third year.

Tasso shewed so much affliction at this treatment,
and, at the same time, bore it so patiently,
that the duke took him to his beautiful countryseat
of Belriguardo ; where, in one of his accounts
of the matter, the poet says that he treated him asa
brother ; but in another, he accuses him of having
taken pains to make him criminate himself, and
confess certain matters, real or supposed, the nature
of which is a puzzle with posterity. Some
are of opinion (and this is the prevailing one), that
he was found guilty of being in love with the
Princess Leonora, perhaps of being loved by herself.
Others think the love out of the question,
and that the duke was concerned at nothing but
his endeavouring to transfer his services and his
poetic reputation into the hands of the Medici.

VOL. II. P

Others see in the duke's conduct nothing but that
of a good master interesting himself in the welfare
of an afflicted servant.

It is certain that Alfonso did all he could to
prevent the surreptitious printing of the Jerusalem
Delivered in various towns of Italy, the dread of
which had much afflicted the poet ; and he also
endeavoured, though in vain, to ease his mind on
the subject of the Inquisition ; for these facts are
attested by state-papers and other documents,
not dependent either on the testimony of third
persons or the partial representations of the sufferer.
But Tasso felt so uneasy at Belriguardo,
that he requested leave to retire a while into a
convent. He remained there several days, apparently
so much to his satisfaction, that he wrote
to the duke to say that it was his intention to
become a friar; and yet he had no sooner got
into the place, than he addressed a letter to the
Inquisition at Rome, beseeching it to desire permission
for him to come to that city, in order
to clear himself from the charges of his enemies.
He also wrote to two other friends, requesting
them to further his petition ; and adding that the
duke was enraged with him in consequence of
the anger of the Grand Duke of Tuscany, who,
it is supposed, had accused Tasso of having revealed

to Alfonso some indecent epithet which
his highness had applied to him.^ These letters
were undoubtedly intercepted, for they were found
among the secret archives of Modena, the only
principality ultimately remaining in the Este family
; so that, agreeably to the saying of listeners
hearing no good of themselves, if Alfonso did not
know the epithet before, he learnt it then. The
reader may conceive his feelings. Tasso, too, at
the same time, was plaguing him with letters to
similar purpose ; and it is observable, that while
in those which he sent to Rome he speaks of
Cosmo de' Medici as " Grand Duke," he takes
care in the others to call him simply the " Duke
of Florence." Alfonso had been exasperated to
the last degree at Cosmo's having had the epithet
Grand" added by the Pope to his ducal title ;
and the reader may imagine the little allowance
that would be made by a haughty and angry

The application is the conjecture of Black, vol. i. p. 317.
Serassi suppressed the whole passage. The indecent word would
have been known but for the delicacy or courtliness of Muratori,
who substituted an et-cetera in its place, observing, that he had
*' covered" with it "an indecent word not fit to be printed" (sotto
queer et-cetera ho io opera un' indecent parole, che non era
lecito di fascia corner lie stamp." Opere del Tasso, vol. xvi.
p. 114). By "covered" he seems to have meant blotted out;
for in the latest edition of Tasso the et-cetera is retained.

prince for the rebellious courtesy thus shewn to
a detested rival. Tasso, furthermore, who had
not only an infantine hatred of bitter "physic,"
but reasonably thought the fashion of the age
for giving it a ridiculous one, begged hard, in a
manner which it is humiliating to witness, that
he might not be drenched with medicine. The
duke at length forbade his writing to him anymore
; and Tasso, whose fears of every kind of
ill usage had been wound up to a pitch unbearable,
watched an opportunity when he was carelessly
guarded, and fled at once from the convent
and Ferrara.

The unhappy poet selected the loneliest ways
he could find, and directed his course to the kingdom
of Naples, where his sister lived. He was
afraid of pursuit ; he probably had little money ;
and considering his ill health and his dread of the
Inquisition, it is pitiable to think what he may
have endured while picking his long way through
the back states of the Church and over the
mountains of Arezzo, as far as the Gulf of
Naples. For better security, he exchanged clothes
with a shepherd ; and as he feared even his sister
at first, from doubting whether she still loved
him, his interview with her was in all its circumstances
painfully dramatic. Cornelia Tasso, now

a widow, with two sons, was still residing at Sorrento,
where the poet, casting his eyes around
him as he proceeded towards the house, must
have beheld with singular feelings of wretchedness
the lovely spots in which he had been a
happy little boy. He did not announce himself
at once. He brought letters, he said, from the
lady's brother; and it is affecting to think, that
whether his sister might or might not have retained
otherwise any personal recollection of him
since that time (for he had not seen her in the
interval), his disguise was completed by the alterations
which sorrow had made in his appearance.
For, at all events, she did not know him. She
saw in him nothing but a haggard stranger who
was acquainted with the writer of the letters,
and to whom they referred for particulars of the
risk which her brother ran, unless she could afford
him her protection. These particulars were given
by the stranger with all the pathos of the real
man, and the loving sister fainted away. On her
recovery, the visitor said what he could to reassure
her, and then by degrees discovered himself.
Cornelia welcomed him in the tenderest manner.
She did all that he desired ; and gave out to her
friends that the gentleman was a cousin from Bergamo,
who had come to Naples on family affairs.

For a little while, the affection of his sister,
and the beauty and freshness of Sorrento, rendered
the mind of Tasso more easy : but his restlessness
returned. He feared he had mortally offended
the Duke of Ferrara ; and, with his wonted fluctuation
of purpose, he now wished to be restored
to his presence for the very reason he had runaway
from it. He did not know with what vengeance
he might be pursued. He wrote to the
duke; but received no answer. The Duchess
of Urbino was equally silent. Leonora alone
responded, but with no encouragement. These
appearances only made him the more anxious to
dare or to propitiate his doom ; and he accordingly
determined to put himself in the duke's hands.
His sister entreated him in vain to alter his resolution.
He quitted her before the autumn was
over ; and, proceeding to Rome, went directly to
the house of the duke's agent there, who, in
concert with the Ferrarese ambassador, gave his
master advice of the circumstance. Gonzaga,
however, and another good friend. Cardinal Albano,
doubted whether it would be wise in the
poet to return to Ferrara under any circumstances.
They counselled him to be satisfied with being
pardoned at a distance, and with having his papers
and other things returned to him ; and the two

friends immediately wrote to the duke requesting
as much. The duke apparently acquiesced in all
that was desired; but he said that the illness of
his sister, the Duchess of Urbino, delayed the
procuration of the papers, which, it seems, were
chiefly in her hands. The upshot was, that the
papers did not come ; and Tasso, with a mixture
of rage and fear, and perhaps for more reasons
than he has told, became uncontrollably desirous
of retracing the rest of his steps to Ferrara. Love
may have been among these reasons — probably
was; though it does not follow that the passion
must have been for a princess. The poet now,
therefore, petitioned to that effect; and Alfonso
wrote again, and said he might come, but only on
condition of his again undergoing the ducal course
of medicine ; adding, that if he did not, he was to
be finally expelled his highness's territories.

He was graciously received — too graciously, it
would seem, for his equanimity ; for it gave him
such a flow of spirits, that the duke appears to
have thought it necessary to repress them. The
unhappy poet, at this, began to have some of his
old suspicions ; and the unaccountable detention
of his papers confirmed them. He made an efibrt
to keep the suspicions down, but it was by means,
unfortunately, of drowning them in wine and jollity

; and this gave him such a fit of sickness as
had nearly been his death. He recovered, only to
make a fresh stir about his papers, and a still
greater one about his poems in general, which,
though his Jerusalem was yet only known in manuscript,
and not even his Aminta published, he
believed ought to occupy the attention of mankind.
People at Ferrara, therefore, not foreseeing
the respect that posterity would entertain for
the poet, and having no great desire perhaps to
encourage a man who claimed to be a rival of
their countryman Ariosto, now began to consider
their Neapolitan guest not merely an ingenious
and pitiable, but an overweening and tiresome enthusiast.
The court, however, still seemed to be
interested in its panegyrist, though Tasso feared
that Alfonso meant to burn his Jerusalem, Alfonso,
on the other hand, is supposed to have
feared that he would burn it himself, and the ducal
praises with it. The papers, at all events, apparently
including the only fair copy of the poem,
were constantly withheld ; and Tasso, in a new fit
of despair, again quitted Ferrara. This mystery of
the papers is certainly very extraordinary.

The poet's first steps were to Mantua, where
he met with no such reception as encouraged him
to stay. He then went to Urbino, but did not

Stop long. The prince, it is true, was very gracious
; and bandages for a cautery were applied by
the fair hands of his highness's sister ; but, though
the nurse enchanted, the surgery frightened him.
The hapless poet found himself pursued wherever
he went by the tormenting beneficence of medicine.
He escaped, and went to Turin. He had no
passport; and presented, besides, so miserable an
appearance, that the people at the gates roughly
refused him admittance. He was well received,
however, at court ; and as he had begun to acknowledge
that he was subject to humours and
delusions, and wrote to say as much to Cardinal
Albano, who returned him a most excellent and
affecting letter, full of the kindest regard and
good counsel, his friends entertained a hope that
he would become tranquil. But he disappointed
them. He again applied to Alfonso for permission
to return to Ferrara — again received it, though on
worse than the old conditions — and again found
himself in that city in the beginning of the year
1579, delighted at seeing a brilliant assemblage
from all quarters of Italy on occasion of a new marriage
of the duke's (with a princess of Mantua).
He made up his mind to think that nothing could
be denied him, at such a moment, by the bridegroom
whom he meant to honour and glorify.
t2

Alas ! the very circumstance to which he looked
for success, tended to throw him into the greatest
of his calamities. Alfonso was to be married
the day after the poet's arrival. He was therefore
too busy to attend to him. The princesses
did not attend to him. Nobody attended to him.
He again applied in vain for his papers. He regretted
his return ; became anxious to be anywhere
else ; thought himself not only neglected
but derided ; and at length became excited to a
pitch of frenzy. He broke forth into the most
unmeasured invectives against the duke, even in
public ; invoked curses on his head and that of
his whole race ; retracted all he had ever said in
the praise of any of them, prince or otherwise ;
and pronounced him and his whole court "a parcel
of ingrates, rascals, and poltroons."^ The outbreak
was reported to the duke ; and the consequence
was, that the poet was sent to the hospital
of St. Anne, an establishment for the reception
of the poor and lunatic, where he remained (with
the exception of a few unaccountable leave-days)
upwards of seven years. This melancholy event
happened in the March of the year 1 579.

^ Black's version (vol. ii. p. 58) is not strong enough. The
words in Serassi are " una curia di poltroon, ingrate, e ribald."
ii. p. 33.

Tasso was stunned by this blow as much as
if he had never done or suffered any thing to
expect it. He could at first do nothing but
wonder and bewail himself, and implore to be set
free. The duke answered, that he must be cured
first. Tasso replied by fresh entreaties ; the duke
returned the same answers. The unhappy poet
had recourse to every friend, prince, and great
man he could think of, to join his entreaties; he
sought refuge in composition, but still entreated ;
he occasionally reproached and even bantered the
duke in some of his letters to his friends, all of
which, doubtless, were opened ; but still he entreated,
flattered, adored, all to no purpose, for
seven long years and upwards. In time he became
subject to maniacal illusions ; so that if he
was not actually mad before, he was now considered
so. He was not only visited with sights
and sounds, such as many people have experienced
whose brains have been overexcited, but
he fancied himself haunted by a sprite, and become
the sport of " magicians." The sprite stole
his things, and the magicians would not let him
get well. He had a vision such as Benevento
Cellini had, of the Virgin Mary in her glory ;
and his nights were so miserable, that he ate
too much in order that he might sleep. When

he was temperate, he lay awake. Sometimes he
felt " as if a horse had thrown himself on him."
Have pity on me," he says to the friend to
whom he gives these affecting accounts ; " I am
miserable, because the world is unjust."^

The physicians advised him to leave off wine ;
but he says he could not do that, though he was
content to use it in moderation. In truth he
required something to support him against the
physicians themselves, for they continued to exhaust
his strength by their medicines, and could
not supply the want of it with air and freedom.
He had ringings in the ears, vomits, and fluxes
of blood. It would be ludicrous, if it were
not deplorably pathetic, to hear so great a man,
in the commonest medical terms, now protesting
against the eternal drenches of these practitioners,
now humbly submitting to them, and now entreating
like a child, that they might at least not
be " so bitter." The physicians, with the duke
at their head, were as mad for their rhubarb and
lancets as the quacks in Moliere ; and nothing
but the very imagination that had nearly sacrificed
the poet's life to their ignorance could have
hindered him from dashing his head against the

Opere, vol. xiv. pp. 158, 174, &c.

wall, and leaving them to the execrations of posterity.
It is the only occasion in which the noble
profession of medicine has not appeared in wise
and beneficent connexion with the sufferings of
men of letters. Why did Ferrara possess no
Brocklesby in those days ? no Garth, Mead, Warren,
or Southward Smith ?

Tasso enabled himself to endure his imprisonment
with composition. He supported it with his
poetry and his poem, and what, alas ! he had been
too proud of during his liberty, the praises of his
admirers. His genius brought him gifts from
princes, and some money from the booksellers : it
supported him even against his critics. During
his confinement the Jerusalem Delivered was first
published; though, to his grief, from a surreptitious
and mutilated copy. But it was followed by
a storm of applause ; and if this was succeeded by
as great a storm of objection and controversy, still
the healthier part of his faculties were roused, and
he exasperated his critics and astonished the world
by shewing how coolly and learnedly the poor,
wild, imprisoned genius could discuss the most intricate
questions of poetry and philosophy. The
disputes excited by his poem are generally supposed
to have done him harm ; but the conclusion
appears to be ill founded. They diverted his

thoughts, and made him conscious of his powers
and his fame. I doubt whether he would have
been better for entire approbation : it would have
put him in a state of elevation, unfit for what he
had to endure. He had found his pen his great
solace, and he had never employed it so well. It
would be incredible what a heap of things he wrote
in this complicated torment of imprisonment, sickness,
and 'physic," if habit and mental activity
had not been sufficient to account for much greater
wonders. His letters to his friends and others
would make a good-sized volume ; those to his critics,
another ; sonnets and odes, a third ; and his
Dialogues after the manner of Plato, two more.
Perhaps a good half of all he wrote was written in
this hospital of St. Anne ; and he studied as well
as composed, and had to read all that was written at
the time, pro and con, in the discussions about his
Jerusalem, which, in the latest edition of his works,
amount to three out of six volumes octavo ! Many
of the occasions, however, of his poems, as well as
letters, are most painful to think of, their object
having been to exchange praise for money. And
it is distressing, in the letters, to see his other
little wants, and the fluctuations and moods of his
mind. Now he is angry about some book not restored,
or some gift promised and delayed. Now

he is in want of some books to be lent him ; now
of some praise to comfort him ; now of a little
fresh linen. He is very thankful for visits, for
respectful letters, for " sweetmeats ;" and greatly
puzzled to know what to do with the bad sonnets
and panegyrics that are sent him. They were
sometimes too much even for the allowed ultra
courtesies of Italian acknowledgment. His compliments
to most people are varied with astonishing
grace and ingenuity ; his accounts of his condition
often sufficient to bring the tears into the manliest
eyes ; and his ceaseless and vain efforts to procure
his liberation mortifying when we think of himself,
and exasperating when we think of the petty
despot who detained him in so long, so degrading,
and so worse than useless a confinement.

Tasso could not always conceal his contempt
of his imprisoned from the ducal servants. Alfonso
excelled the grandiloquent poet himself in his love
of pomp and worship ; and as he had no particular
merits to warrant it, his victim bantered his
love of titles. He says, in a letter to the duke's
steward, " If it is the pleasure of the Most Serene
Signor Duke, Most Clement and Most Invincible,
to keep me in prison, may I beg that he will
have the goodness to return certain little things of
mine, which his Most Invincible, Most Clement,

and Most Serene Highness has so often promised

me.

But these were rare ebullitions of gaiety, perhaps
rather of hitter despair. A playful address
to a cat to lend him her eyes to write by, during
some hour in which he happened to be without a
light (for it does not appear to have been denied
him), may be taken as more probable evidence of a
mind relieved at the moment, though the necessity
for the relief may have been very sad. But the
style in which he generally alludes to his situation
is far different. He continually begs his correspondents
to pity him, to pray for him, to attribute
his errors to infirmity. He complains of
impaired memor', and acknowledges that he has
become subject to the deliriums formerly attributed
to him by the enemies that had helped to
produce them. Petitioning the native city of his
ancestors (Bergamo) to intercede for him with the
duke, he speaks of the writer as " this unhappy
person ;" and subscribes himself, —

** Most illustrious Signors, your affectionate

^ " Prego V. Signora che si content, se place al Serenissimo
Signer Duca, Clementissimo ed Invitissimo, che io stir in origine,
di farm car le poche robicciole mie, che S. A. Invitissima, Clem
Serenissima m' ha promesse tante volte," &c. Opere,
vol. xiv. p. 6.

servant, Torquato Tasso, a prisoner, and infirm, in
the hospital of St. Anne in Ferrara."

In one of his addresses to Alfonso, he says
most affectingly :

'' I have sometimes attributed much to myself,
and considered myself as somebody. But now,
seeing in how many ways imagination has imposed
on me, I suspect that it has also deceived me in
this opinion of my own consequence. Indeed, methinks
the past has been a dream ; and hence I am
resolved to rely on my imagination no longer."

Alfonso made no answer.

The causes of Tasso's imprisonment, and its
long duration, are among the puzzles of biography.
The prevailing opinion, notwithstanding the opposition
made to it by Serassi and Black, is, that the
poet made love to the Princess Leonora — perhaps
was beloved by her ; and that her brother the duke
punished him for his arrogance. This was the
belief of his earliest biographer, Manso, who was
intimately acquainted with the poet in his latter
days ; and from Manso (though he did not profess
to receive the information from Tasso, but only to
gather it from his poems) it spread over all Europe.
Milton took it on trust from him ;i and so have our
English translators Hoole and WifTen. The Abbe
" Altera Torquatus cepit Leonora poeta," &:c.

de Charles, however, declined to do so;^ and Montaigne,
who saw the poet in St. Anne's hospital,
says nothing of the love at all. He attributes his
condition to poetical excitement, hard study, and
the meeting of the extremes of wisdom and folly.
The philosopher, however, speaks of the poet's
having survived his reason, and become unconscious
both of himself and his works, which the
reader knows to be untrue. He does not appear
to have conversed with Tasso. The poet was only
shewn him ; probably at a sick moment, or by a
new and ignorant official. ^ Muratori, who was in
the service of the Este family at Modena, tells us,
on the authority of an old acquaintance who knew
contemporaries of Tasso, that the " good Torquato"
finding himself one day in company with the duke
and his sister, and going close to the princess in
order to answer some question which she had put
to him, was so transported by an impulse " more
than poetical," as to give her a kiss ; upon which
the duke, who had observed it, turned about to
his gentlemen, and said, " What a pity to see so
great a man distracted !" and so ordered him to be
locked up.^ But this writer adds, that he does

> Vie du Tasse, 1695, p. 51.

2 In the Apology for Raymond de Seconde; Essays, vol. ii. chi. 12.

^ In his Letter to Zero, — Opere del Tasso, xvi. p. 118.

not know what to think of the anecdote : he neither
denies nor admits it. Tiraboschi, who was
also in the service of the Este family, doubts the
truth of the anecdote, and believes that the duke
shut the poet up solely for fear lest his violence
should do harm J Serassi, the second biographer
of Tasso, who dedicated his book to an
Este princess inimical to the poet's memory, attributes
the confinement, on his own shewing, to the
violent words he had uttered against his master. ^
Walker, the author of the Memoir on Italian Tragedy,
says, that the life by Serassi himself induced
him to credit the love-story \^ so does Ginguene.*
Black, forgetting the age and illnesses of hundreds
of enamoured ladies, and the distraction of lovers
at all times, derides the notion of passion on either
side ; because, he argues, Tasso was subject to
frenzies, and Leonora forty-two years of age, and

^ Astoria della Poesia Italian (Mathias's edition), vol. iii.
part i. p 236.

- Serassi is very peremptory, and even abusive. He charges
every body who has said any thing to the contrary with imposture.
** Eli non v' ha dubbio, che le trope imprudent! e temerarie parole,
che il Tasso si lascio uscir di bocca in quest incontro,
furore la sola canine della sua prig ionia, e ch' e mere favola ed
imposture tutti cio, che diversa mente e stato afFermato e scripta
da altri in tale proposition." Vol. ii. p. 33. But we have seen that
the good Abbe could practise a little imposition himself.

3 Black, ii. 88. ^ Hi. List. d'ltalie, v. 243, &c.

not in good health. ^ What would Madame d'Hou-
depot have said to him ? or Mademoiselle L'Espi-
nasse ? or Mrs. Inchbald, who used to walk up and
down Sackville Street in order that she might see
Dr. Warren's light in his window ? Foscolo was
a believer in the love \^ Sismondi admits it \^ and
Rosinii, the editor of the latest edition of the poet's
works, is passionate for it. He wonders how anybody
can fail to discern it in a number of passages,
which, in truth, may mean a variety of other loves ;
and he insists much upon certain loose verses {las^
civil) which the poet, among his various accounts
of the origin of his imprisonment, assigns as the
cause, or one of the causes, of it.*

> Vol. ii. p. 89.

^ Such at least is my impression ; but T cannot call the evidence
to mind.

^ Literature of the South of Europe (Roscoe's translation),
vol. ii. p. 165. To shew the loose way in which the conclusions
of a man's own mind are presented as facts admitted by others,
Sismondi says, that Tasso's " passion" was the cause of his return
to Ferrara. There is not a tittle of evidence to shew for it.

Saggio sugli Amorii, &c. ut sup p. 84, and passim. As
specimens of the learned professor's reasoning, it may be observed
that whenever the words humble, daring, high, noble, and royal,
occur in the poet's love verses, he thinks they must allude to the
Princess Leonora ; and he argues, that Alfonso never could have
been so angry with any " verse lascivi," if they had not had the
same direction.

I confess, after a reasonable amount of inquiry
into this subject, that I can find no proofs whatsoever
of Tasso's having made love to Leonora ;
though I think it highly probable. I believe the
main cause of the duke's proceedings was the
poet's own violence of behaviour and incontinence
of speech. I think it very likely that, in
the course of the poetical love-making to various
ladies, which was almost identical in that age with
addressing them in verse, Torquato, whether he
was in love or not, took more liberties with the
princesses than Alfonso approved ; and it is equally
probable, that one of those liberties consisted in
his indulging his imagination too far. It is not
even impossible, that more gallantry may have
been going on at court than Alfonso could endure
to see alluded to, especially by an ambitious pen.
But there is no evidence that such was the case.
Tasso, as a gentleman, could not have hinted at
such a thing on the part of a princess of staid
reputation ; and, on the other hand, the " love"
he speaks of as entertained by her for him, and
warranting the application to her for money in case
of his death, was too plainly worded to mean anything
but love in the sense of friendly regard.
Per amor mio" is an idiomatical expression,
meaning " for my sake ;" a strong one, no doubt.

and such as a proud man like Alfonso might think
a liberty, but not at all of necessity an amatory
boast. If it was, its very effrontery and vanity
were presumptions of its falsehood. The lady
whom Tasso alludes to in the passage quoted on
his first confinement is complained of for her
coldness towards him ; and, unless this was itself
a gentlemanly blind, it might apply to fifty other
ladies besides the princess. The man who assaulted
him in the streets, and who is supposed
to have been the violator of his papers, need not
have found any secrets of love in them. The
servant at whom he aimed the knife or the dagger
might be as little connected with such matters ;
and the sonnets which the poet said he wrote fora
friend, and which he desired to be buried with
him, might be alike innocent of all reference to
Leonora, whether he wrote them for a friend or
not. Leonora's death took place during the poet's
confinement ; and, lamented as she was by the
verse-writers according to custom, Tasso wrote
nothing on the event. This silence has been attributed
to the depth of his passion ; but how is
the fact proved ? and why may it not have been
occasioned by there having been no passion at
all?

All that appears certain is, that Tasso spoke

violent and contemptuous words against the duke ;
that he often spoke ill of him in his letters ; that
he endeavoured, not with perfect ingenuousness,
to exchange his service for that of another prince ;
that he asserted his madness to have been pretended
in the first instance purely to gratify the duke's
whim for thinking it so (which was one of the
reasons perhaps why Alfonso, as he complained,
would not believe a word he said) ; and finally,
that, whether the madness was or was not so
pretended, it unfortunately became a confirmed
though milder form of mania, during a long confinement.
Alfonso, too proud to forgive the
poet's contempt, continued thus to detain him,
partly perhaps because he was not sorry to have
a pretext for revenge, partly because he did not
know what to do with him, consistently either
with his own or the poet's safety. He had not
been generous enough to put Tasso above his
wants; he had not address enough to secure his
respect ; he had not merit enough to overlook his
reproaches. If Tasso had been as great a man ashe
was a poet, Alfonso would not have been reduced
to these perplexities. The poet would have
known how to settle quietly down on his small
court-income, and wait patiently in the midst of
his beautiful visions for what fortune had or had

TASSO.

not in store for him. But in truth, he, as well as
the duke, was weak ; they made a bad business of
it between them ; and Alfonso the Second closed
the accounts of the Este family with the Muses,
by keeping his panegyrist seven years in a madhouse,
to the astonishment of posterity, and the
destruction of his own claims to renown.

It does not appear that Tasso was confined in
any such dungeon as they now exhibit in Ferrara.
The conduct of the Prior of the Hospital is more
doubtful. His name was Agostino Mostii ; and,
strangely enough, he was the person who had
raised a monument to Ariosto, of whom he was
an enthusiastic admirer. To this predilection has
been attributed his alleged cruelty to the stranger
from Sorrento, who dared to emulate the fame of
his idol; — an extraordinary, though perhaps not
incredible, mode of shewing a critic's regard for
poetry. But Tasso, while he laments his severity,
wonders at it in a man so well bred and so imbued
with literature, and thinks it can only have
originated in " orders." ^ Perhaps there were
faults of temper on both sides ; and Mostii, not
liking his office, forgot the allowance to be made
for that of a prisoner and sick man. His nephew,

^ Opere, vol. xvii. p. 32.

Giulio Mostii, became strongly attached to the
poet, and was a great comfort to him.

At length the time for liberation arrived. In
the summer of 1586, Don Vincent Gonzaga,
Prince of Mantua, kinsman of the poet's friend
Scipio, came to Ferrara for the purpose of complimenting
Alfonso's heir on his nuptials. The
whole court of Mantua, with hereditary regard for
Tasso, whose father had been one of their ornaments,
were desirous of having him among them ;
and the prince extorted Alfonso's permission to
take him away, on condition (so hard did he find
this late concession to humanity, and so fearful
was he of losing the dignity of jailor) that his deliverer
should not allow him to quit Mantua without
obtaining leave. A young and dear friend, his
most frequent visitor, Antonio Constantini, secretary
to the Tuscan ambassador, went to St. Anne's
to prepare the captive by degrees for the good
news. He told him that he really might look for
his release in the course of a few days. The sensitive
poet, now a premature old man of forty-two,
was thrown into a transport of mingled delight
and anxiety. He had been disappointed so often
that he could scarcely believe his good fortune.
In a day or two he writes thus to his visitor :

Your kindness, my dear friend, has so accus-vol.

II. Q

toned me to your precious and frequent visits,
that I have been all day long at the window expecting
your coming to comfort me as you are
wont. But since you have not yet arrived, and
in order not to remain altogether without consolation,
I visit you with this letter. It encloses
a sonnet to the ambassador, written with a trembling
hand, and in such a manner that he will
not, perhaps, have less difficulty in reading it
than I had in writing."

Two days afterwards, the prince himself came
again, requested of the poet some verses on a
given subject, expressed his esteem for his genius
and virtues, and told him that, on his return to
Mantua, he should have the pleasure of conducting
him to that city. Tasso lay awake almost all
night, composing the verses; and next day enclosed
them, with a letter, in another to Constantine,
ardently begging him to keep the prince in
mind of his promise. The prince had not forgotten
it ; and two or three days afterwards, the
order for the release arrived, and Tasso quitted
his prison. He had been confined seven years,
two months, and several days. He awaited the
prince's departure for a week or two in his friend's
abode, paying no visits, probably from inability
to endure so much novelty. Neither was he inclined

or sent for to pay his respects to the duke.
Two such parties could hardly have been desirous
to look on each other. The duke must especially
have disliked the thought of it ; though
Tasso afterwards fancied otherwise, and that he
was offended at his non-appearance. But his letters,
unfortunately, differ with themselves on this
point, as on most others. About the middle of
July 1586, the poet quitted Ferrara for ever.

At Mantua Tasso was greeted with all the
honours and attentions which his love of distinction
could desire. The good old duke, the friend
of his father, ordered handsome apartments to be
provided for him in the palace ; the prince made
him presents of costly attire, including perfumed
silken hose (kindred elegancies to the Italian
gloves of Queen Elizabeth) ; the princess and
her mother-in-law were declared admirers of his
poetry ; the courtiers caressed the favourite of
their masters ; Tasso found literary society ; he
pronounced the very bread and fruit, the fish and
the flesh, excellent ; the wines were sharp and
brisk {" such as his father was fond of") ; and
even the physician was admirable, for he ordered
confections. One might imagine, if circumstances
had not proved the cordial nature of the Gon-saga
family, and the real respect and admiration

entertained for the poet's genius by the greatest
men of the time, in spite of the rebuke it had
received from Alfonso, that there had been a confederacy
to mock and mystify him, after the fashion
of the duke and duchess with Don Quixote
(the only blot, by the way, in the book of Cervantes
; if, indeed, he did not intend it as a satire
on the mystified).

For a while, in short, the liberated prisoner
thought himself happy. He corrected his prose
works, resumed and finished the tragedy of To7'-
esmond, which he had begun some years before,
corresponded with princes, and completed and
published a narrative poem left unfinished by his
father. Torquato was as loving a son as Mozart
or Montaigne. Whenever he had a glimpse of
felicity, he appears to have associated the idea of
it with that of his father. In the conclusion of
his fragment, " O del grand' Apennino," he affectingly
begs pardon of his blessed spirit for troubling
him with his earthly griefs

But, alas, what had been an indulgence of
self-esteem had now become the habit of a dish

Padre, o burn padre, che dal ciel rimini,
Negro e morton ti piansi, e ben tu il sai ;
E memento scandal
La tomba e il lett. Or che negli altri girl

ease ; and in the course of a few months the
restless poet began to make his old discovery,
that he was not sufficiently cared for. The prince
had no leisure to attend to him ; the nobility did
not "yield him the first place," or at least (he
adds) they did not allow him to be treated " externally
as their equal ;" and he candidly confessed
that he could not live in a place where such
was the custom. ^ He felt also, naturally enough,
however well it might have been intended, that
it was not pleasant to be confined to the range
of the city of Mantua, attended by a servant,
even though he confessed that he was now subject
to "frenzy." He contrived to stay another
half-year by help of a brilliant carnival and of

Tu god, a te si eve nor, non lutto :
A me verso il mio dolor asia tutti."

O father, my good father, looking now

On thy poor son from heaven, well knowest thou

What scalding tears I shed

Upon thy grave, upon thy dying bed ;

But since thou dwelled in the happy skies,

'Tis fit I raise to thee no sorrowing eyes :

Be all my grief on my own head.

" Non posse river in cotta, ove tutti i nobile, o non mi conceding
i primi luoghi, o alien non si contenting che la cosa
in quel che apparent a quest exterior demonstration, veda del
pari." Opere, voL xiii. p. 153.

the select society of the prince's court, who were
evidently most kind to him ; but at the end of
the twelvemonth he was in Bergamo among his
relations. The prince gave him leave to go ; and
the Cavaliere Tasso, his kinsman, sent his chariot
on purpose to fetch him.

Here again he found himself at a beautiful
country-seat, which the family of Tasso still possesses
near that city ; and here again, in the house
of his father, he proposed to be happy, " having
never desired," he says, " any journey more earnestly
than this." He left it in the course of a
month, to return to Mantua,

And it was only to wander still. Mantua he
quitted in less than two months to go to Rome,
in spite of the advice of his best friends. He
vindicated the proceeding by a hope of obtaining
some permanent settlement from the Pope. He
took Lorenzo by the way, to refresh himself with
devotion ; arrived in a transport at Rome ; got
nothing from the Pope (the hard-minded Sixtus
the Fifth) ; and in the spring of the next year,
in the triple hope of again embracing his sister,
and recovering the dowry of his mother and the
confiscated property of his father, he proceeded
to Naples.

Naples was in its most beautiful vernal condition,

and the Neapolitans welcomed the poet
with all honour and glory ; but his sister, alas,
was dead; he got none of his father's property,
nor (till too late) any of his mother's ; and before
the year was out, he was again in Rome. He
acquired in Naples, however, another friend, as
attached to him and as constant in his attentions
as his beloved Constantini, to wit, Giambattista
Manso, Marquis of Villa, who became his biographer,
and who was visited and praised for his
good offices by Milton. In the society of this
gentleman he seemed for a short while to have
become a new man. He entered into field-sports,
listened to songs and music, nay, danced, says
Manso, with " the girls." (One fancies a poetical
Dr. Johnson with the two country damsels on
his knees.) In short, good air and freedom, and
no medicine, had conspired with the lessons of disappointment
to give him, before he died, a glimpse
of the power to be pleased. He had not got rid
of all his spiritual illusions, even those of a melancholy
nature ; but he took the latter more quietly,
and had grown so comfortable with the race in
general, that he encouraged them. He was so entirely
freed from his fears of the Inquisition and
of charges of magic, that whereas he had formerly
been anxious to shew that he meant nothing but a

poetical fancy by the spirit which he introduced as
communing with him in his dialogue entitled the
Messenger, he now maintained its reality against
the arguments of his friend Manso ; and these
arguments gave rise to the most poetical scene
in his history. He told Manso that he should
have ocular testimony of the spirit's existence ;
and accordingly one day while they were sitting
together at the marquis's fireside, "he turned his
eyes," says Manso, " towards a window, and held
them a long time so intensely on it, that, when
I called him, he did not answer. At last, * Behold,'
said he, ' the friendly spirit which has courteously
come to talk with me. Lift up your eyes,
and see the truth.' I turned my eyes thither immediately
(continues the marquis) ; but though I
endeavoured to look as keenly as I could, I beheld
nothing but the rays of the sun, which streamed
through the panes of the window into the chamber.
Whilst I still looked around, without beholding
any object, Torquato began to hold, with
this unknown something, a most lofty converse.
I heard, indeed, and saw nothing but himself;
nevertheless his words, at one time questioning,
at another replying, were such as take place between
those who reason strictly on some important
subject. And from what was said by the one,

the reply of the other might be easily comprehended
by the intellect, although it was not heard by
the ear. The discourses were so lofty and marvellous,
both by the sublimity of their topics and
a certain unwonted manner of talking, that, exalted
above myself in a kind of ecstasy, I did not
dare to interrupt them, nor ask Tasso about the
spirit, which he had announced to me, but which
I did not see. In this way, while I listened
between stupefaction and rapture, a considerable
time had elapsed ; till at last the spirit departed,
as I learned from the words of Torquato ; who,
turning to me, said, * From this day forward all
your doubts will have vanished from your mind.'
Nay,' said I, * they are rather increased ; since,
though I have heard many things worthy of marvel,
I have seen nothing of what you promised to
shew me to dispel them.' He smiled, and said,
You have seen and heard more of him than

perhaps ,' and here he paused. Fearful of

importuning him with new questions, the discourse
ended ; and the only conclusion I can draw
is, what I before said, that it is more likely his
visions or frenzies will disorder my own mind
than that I shall extirpate his true or imaginary
opinions

1 Black, vol. ii. p. 240.

q2

Did the " smile" of Tasso at the close of this extraordinary
scene, and the words which he omitted
to add, signify that his friend had seen and heard
more, perhaps, than the poet would have liked to
explain ? Did he mean that he himself alone had
been seen and heard, and was author of the whole
dialogue ? Perhaps he did ; for credulity itself
can impose ; — can take pleasure in seeing others
as credulous as itself. On the other hand, enough
has become known in our days of the phenomena
of morbid perception, to render Tasso's actual
belief in such visions not at all surprising. It is
not uncommon for the sanest people of delicate
organisation to see faces before them while going
to sleep, sometimes in fantastical succession. A
stronger exercise of this disposition in temperaments
more delicate will enlarge the face to figure ;
and there can be no question that an imagination
so heated as Tasso's, so full of the speculations
of the later Platonist, and accompanied by a
state of body so " nervous," and a will so benton
its fancies, might embody whatever he chose
to behold. The dialogue he could as easily read
in the vision's looks, whether he heard it or not
with ears. If Nicholas, the Prussian bookseller,
who saw crowds of spiritual people go through
his rooms, had been a poet, and possessed of as

wilful an imagination as Tasso, he might have
gifted them all with speaking countenances as
easily as with coats and waistcoats. Swedenborg
founded a religion on this morbid faculty ; and
the Catholics worship a hundred stories of the
like sort in the Lives of the Saints, many of which
are equally true and false ; false in reality, though
true in supposition. Luther himself wrote and
studied till he saw the Devil ; only the great
reformer retained enough of his naturally sturdy
health and judgment to throw an inkstand at
Satan's head, — a thing that philosophy has been
doing ever since.

Tasso's principal residence while at Naples had
been in the beautiful monastery of Mount Olivet,
on which the good monks begged he would write
them a poem; which he did. A cold reception
at Rome, and perhaps the difference of the air,
brought back his old lamentations ; but here again
a monastery gave him refuge, and he set himself
down to correct his former works and compose
new ones. He missed, however, the comforts of
society and amusement which he had experienced
at Naples. Nevertheless, he did not return thither.
He persuaded himself that it was necessary
to be in Rome in order to expedite the receipt
of some books and manuscripts from Bergamo and

other places; but his restlessness desired novelty.
He thus slipped back from the neighbourhood of
Rome to the city itself, and from the city back to
the monastery, his friends in both places being
probably tired of his instability. He thought of
returning to Mantua; but a present from the
Grand Duke of Tuscany, accompanied by an invitation
to his court, drew him, in one of his
short-lived transports, to Florence. He returned,
in spite of the best and most generous reception,
to Rome ; then left Rome for Mantua, on invitation
from his ever-kind deliverer from prison,
now the reigning duke ; tired again, even of him ;
returned to Rome ; then once more to Naples,
where the Prince of Conch, Grand Admiral of the
kingdom, lodged and treated him like an equal ;
but he grew suspicious of the admiral, and went
to live with his friend Manso ; quitted Manso for
Rome again; was treated vdth reverence on the
way, like Ariosto, by a famous leader of banditti ;
was received at Rome into the Vatican itself, in
the apartments of his friend Cintio Aldobrandino,
nephew of the new pope Clement the Eighth,
where his hopes now seemed to be raised at once
to their highest and most reasonable pitch ; but
fell ill, and was obliged to go back to Naples for
the benefit of the air. A life so strangely erratic

to the last (for mortal illness was approaching) is
perhaps unique in the history of men of letters,
and might be therefore worth recording even in
that of a less man than Tasso ; but when we recollect
that this poet, in spite of all his weaknesses,
and notwithstanding the enemies they
provoked and the friends they cooled, was really
almost adored for his genius in his own time,
and instead of refusing jewels one day and soliciting
a ducat the next, might have settled down
almost any where in quiet and glory, if he had
but possessed the patience to do so, — it becomes
an association of weakness with power, and of
adversity with the means of prosperity, the absurdity
of which admiration itself can only drown
in pity.

He now took up his abode in another monastery,
that of San Severing, where he was comforted
by the visits of his friend Manso, to whom
he had lately inscribed a dialogue on Friendship;
for he continued writing to the last. He had also
the consolation, such as it was, of having the lawsuit
for his mother's dowry settled in his favour,
though under circumstances that rendered it of
little importance, and only three months before
his death. So strangely did Fortune seem to take
delight in sporting with a man of genius, who had

thought both too much of her and too little ; too
much for pomp's sake, and too little in prudence.
Among his new acquaintances were the young
Marino, afterwards the corrupter of Italian poetry,
and the Prince of Venosa, an amateur composer
of music. The dying poet wrote madrigals for
him so much to his satisfaction, that, being about
to marry into the house of Este, he wished to
reconcile him with the Duke of Ferrara ; and
Tasso, who to the last moment of his life seems
never to have been able to resist the chance of
resuming old quarters, apparently from the double
temptation of renouncing them, wrote his old
master a letter full of respects and regrets. But
the duke, who himself died in the course of the
year, was not to be moved from his silence. The
poet had given him the last possible offence by
recasting his Jerusalem omitting the glories of
the house of Este, and dedicating it to another
patron. Alfonso, who had been extravagantly
magnificent, though not to poets, had so weakened
his government, that the Pope wrested Ferrara
from the hands of his successor, and reduced
the Este family to the possession of Modena,
which it still holds and dishonours. The duke
and the poet were thus fading away at the same
time ; they never met again in this world ; and a

new Dante would have divided them far enough
in the next.^

The last glimpse of honour and glory was now
opening in a very grand manner on the poet — the
last and the greatest, as if on purpose to give the
climax to his disappointments. Cardinal Cintio
requested the Pope to give him the honour of a
coronation. It had been desired by the poet, it
seems, three years before. He was disappointed
of it at that time ; and now that it was granted,
he was disappointed of the ceremony. Manso
says he no longer cared for it; and, as he felt
himself dying, this is not improbable. Nevertheless
he went to Rome for the purpose ; and
though the severity of the winter there delayed
the intention till spring, wealth and honours
seemed determined to come in floods upon the
poor expiring great man, in order to take away
the breath which they had refused to support.
The Pope assigned him a yearly pension of a hundred
scud; and the withholds of his mother's
dowry came to an accommodation by which he

The world in general have taken no notice of Tasso's reconstruction
of his Jerusalem which he called the Jerusalem
Conquistata. It never " obtained," as the phrase is. It was the
mere tribute of his declining years to bigotry and new acquaintances
; and therefore I say no more of it.

was to have an annuity of a hundred ducats,
and a considerable sum in hand. His hand was
losing strength enough to close upon the money.
Scarcely was the day for the coronation about to
dawn, when the poet felt his dissolution approaching.
Alfonso's doctors had killed him at last by
superinducing a habit of medicine-taking, which
defeated its purpose. He requested leave to return
to the monastery of St. Onofrio — wrote a
farewell letter to Constantini — received the distinguished
honour of a plenary indulgence from
the Pope — said (in terms very like what Milton
might have used, had he died a Catholic), that
** this was the chariot upon which he hoped to
go crowned, not with laurel as a poet into the
Capitol, but with glory as a saint to heaven" — and
expired on the 25th of April, 1 575, and the fifty-first
year of his age, closely embracing the crucifix,
and imperfectly uttering the sentence beginning,
" Into thy hands, O Lord ! " ^

Even after death, success mocked him ; for
the coronation took place on the senseless dead
body. The head was wreathed with laurel; a
magnificent toga delayed for a while the shroud;
and a procession took place through the city by

In manus tuas, Domine. One likes to know the actual
words ; at least so it appears to me.

torchlight, all the inhabitants pouring forth to
behold it, and painters crowding over the bier
to gaze on the poet's lineaments, from which
they produced a multitude of portraits. The
corpse was then buried in the church of St. Ouo-
frio ; and magnificent monuments talked of, which
never appeared. Manso, however, obtained leave
to set up a modest tablet ; and eight years afterwards
a Ferrarese cardinal (Bevilacqua) made what
amends he could for his countrymen, by erecting
the stately memorial which is still to be seen.

Poor, illustrious Tasso ! weak enough to warrant
pity from his inferiors — great enough to
overshadow in death his once-fancied superiors.
He has been a by-word for the misfortunes of
genius : but genius was not his misfortune ; it was
his only good, and might have brought him all
happiness. It is the want of genius, as far as it
goes, and apart from martyrdoms for conscience'
sake, which produces misfortunes even to genius
itself — the want of as much wit and balance on
the common side of things, as genius is supposed
to confine to the uncommon.

Manso has left a minute account of his friend's
person and manners. He was tall even among
the tall ; had a pale complexion, sunken cheeks,
lightish brown hair, head bald at the top, large

blue eyes, square forehead, big nose inclining towards
the mouth, lips pale and thin, white teeth,
delicate white hands, long arms, broad chest and
shoulders, legs rather strong than fleshy, and the
body altogether better proportioned than in good
condition ; the result, nevertheless, being an aspect
of manly beauty and expression, particularly in
the countenance, the dignity of which marked him
for an extraordinary person even to those who did
not know him. His demeanour was grave and
deliberate ; he laughed seldom ; and though his
tongue was prompt, his delivery was slow ; and he
was accustomed to repeat his last words. He was
expert in all manly exercises, but not equally
graceful ; and the same defect attended his otherwise
striking eloquence in public assemblies. His
putting to flight the assassins in Ferrara gave him
such a reputation for courage, that there went
about in his honour a popular couplet :

** Colla penna e colla spada
Nessun val quanto Torquato."

For the sword as well as pen
Tasso is the man of men.

He was a little eater, but not averse to wine, particularly
such as combined piquancy with sweetness
; and he always dressed in black.

Manso's account is still more particular, and
yet it does not tell all ; for Tasso himself informs
us that he stammered, and was near-sighted ;^ and
a Neapolitan writer who knew him adds to the
near-sightedness some visible defect in the eyes.^
I should doubt, from what Tasso says in his letters,
whether he was fond of speaking in public,
notwithstanding his d^hut in that line with the
Fifty Amorous Conclusions, Nor does he appear
to have been remarkable for his conversation.
Manso has left a collection of one hundred of his
pithy sayings — a suspicious amount, and unfortunately
more than warranting the suspicion ; for
almost every one of them is traceable to some
other man. They come from the Greek and Latin
philosophers, and the apothegms of Erasmus.
The two following have the greatest appearance of
being genuine :

A Greek, complaining that he had spoken ill

Serassi, ii. 276.

^ '* Quern cenis, quisquis es, proper stature virum, luscis
oculis, &c. hie Torquatus est." — Cappacio, Illuairmm Literal Vi
rerum Elogia et Judicia, quoted by Serassi, ut sup. The Latin
word fuscus, as well as the Italian Bosco, means, I believe, nearsighted
; but it certainly means also a great deal more ; and unless
the word cenis (thou boldest) is a mere form of speech implying
a foregone conclusion, it shews that the defect was obvious to
the spectator.

of his country, and maintaining that all the virtues
in the world had issued out of it, the poet assented
; with the addition, that they had not left
one behind them.

A foolish young fellow, garnished with a number
of golden chains, coming into a room where
he was, and being overheard by him exclaiming,
*' Ts this the great man that was mad ?" Tasso
said, " Yes ; but that people had never put on
him more than one chain at a time."

His character may be gathered, but not perhaps
entirely, from what has been written of
his life ; for some of his earlier letters shew him
to have been not quite so grave and refined in
his way of talking as readers of the Jerusalem
might suppose. He was probably at that time of
life not so scrupulous in his morals as he professed
to be during the greater part of it. His
mother is thought to have died of chagrin and
impatience at being separated so long from her
husband, and not knowing what to do to save her
dowry from her brothers ; and I take her son to
have combined his mother's ultra-sensitive organisation
with his father's worldly imprudence and
unequal spirits. The addition of the nervous temperament
of one parent to the aspiring nature of
the other gave rise to the poet's trembling eagerness

for distinction ; and Torquato's very love for
them both hindered him from seeing what should
have been corrected in the infirmities which he
inherited. Falling from the highest hopes of
prosperity into the most painful afflictions, he
thus wanted solid principles of action to support
him, and was forced to retreat upon an excess of
self-esteem, which allowed his pride to become a
beggar, and his naturally kind, loving, just, and
heroical disposition to condescend to almost every
species of inconsistency. The Duke of Ferrara,
he complains, did not believe a word he said ;i and
the fact is, that, partly from disease, and partly
from a want of courage to look his defects in the
face, he beheld the same things in so many different
lights, and according as it suited him at the
moment, that, without intending falsehood, his
statements are really not to be relied on. He
degraded even his verses, sometimes with panegyrics
for interest's sake, sometimes out of weak
wishes to oblige, of which he was afterwards
ashamed ; and, with the exception of Constantini,
we cannot be sure that any one person praised in
them retained his regard in his last days. His
suspicion made him a kind of Rousseau ; but he

^ " II Signor Duca non crete ad alcuna mia parole." Opere,
xiv. 161.

was more amiable than the Genevese, and far
from being in the habit of talking against old acquaintances,
whatever he might have thought of
them. It is observable, not only that he never
married, but he told Manso he had led a life of
entire continence ever since he entered the walls
of his prison, being then in his thirty-fifth years
Was this out of fidelity to some mistress ? or the
consequence of a previous life the reverse of continent
? or was it from some principle of superstition
? He had become a devotee, apparently
out of a dread of disbelief ; and he remained extremely
religious for the rest of his days. The
two unhappiest of Italian poets, Tasso and Dante,
vivere the two most superstitious.

As for the once formidable question concerning
the comparative merits of this poet and Ariosto,
which anticipated the modern quarrels of the
classical and romantic schools, some idea of the
treatment which Tasso experienced may be conceived
by supposing all that used to be sarcastic
and bitter in the periodical party-criticism among

^ *' Fui da bocca di lui medesimo rassicurato, che dal tempo
del suo regno in sant' Anna, ch' avenue negli anni trentacinque
della sua vita e medici avant la morte, eli interments fu cast :
degli anni primi non mi favello mai di modo ch' io posse alcuna
cosa di certo qui rencontre." Opere, xxxiii. 235.

ourselves some thirty years back, collected into
one huge vial of wrath, and poured upon the
new poet's head. Even the great Galileo, who
was a man of wit, bred up in the pure Tuscan
school of Berni and Casa, and who was an idolater
of Ariosto, wrote, when he was young, a " review"
of the Jerusalem Delivered, which it is painful to
read, it is so unjust and contemptuous. ^ But now
that the only final arbiter, posterity, has accepted
both the poets, the dispute is surely the easiest
thing in the world to settle ; not, indeed, with
prejudices of creeds or temperaments, but before
any judges thoroughly sympathising with the two
claimants. Its solution is the principle of the
greater including the less. For Ariosto errs only
by having an unbounded circle to move in. His
sympathies are unlimited ; and those who think
him inferior to Tasso, only do so in consequence
of their own want of sympathy with the vivacities
that degrade him in their eyes. Ariosto can be
as grave and exalted as Tasso when he pleases,
and he could do a hundred things which Tasso
never attempted. He is as different in this respect
as Shakspeare from Milton. He had far
more knowledge of mankind than Tasso, and he

^ It is to be found in the collected works, ut supra, both of the
philosopher and the poet.

was superior in point of taste. But it is painful
to make disadvantageous comparisons of one
great poet with another. Let us be thankful for
Tasso's enchanted gardens, without being forced
to vindicate the universal world of his predecessor.
Suffice it to bear in mind, that the grave
poet himself agreed with the rest of the Italians
in calling the Ferrarese the " divine Ariosto ;" a
title which has never been popularly given to his
rival.

The Jerusalem Delivered is the history of a
Crusade, related with poetic license. The Infidels
are assisted by unlawful arts ; and the libertinism
that brought scandal on the Christians, is converted
into youthful susceptibility, led away by
enchantment. The author proposed to combine
the ancient epic poets with Ariosto, or a simple
plot, and uniformly dignified style, with romantic
varieties of adventure, and the luxuriance of fairyland.
He did what he proposed to do, but with
a judgment inferior to Virgil's ; nay, in point of
the interdependence of the adventures, to Ariosto,
and with far less general vigour. The mixture of
affectation with his dignity is so frequent, that,
whether Boileau's famous line about Tasso's tinsel
and Virgil's gold did or did not mean to imply
that the Jerusalem was nothing but tinsel, and the

Aeneid all gold, it is certain that the tinsel is so
interwoven with the gold, as to render it more of
a rule than an exception, and put a provoking
distance between Tasso's epic pretensions and
those of the greatest masters of the art. People
who take for granted the conceits because of the
wildness" of Ariosto, and the good taste because
of the "regularity" of Tasso, just assume the
reverse of the fact. It is a rare thing to find a
conceit in Ariosto ; and, where it does exist, it
is most likely defensible on some Shakspeare
ground of subtle propriety. Open Tasso in almost
any part, particularly the love-scenes, and
it is marvellous if, before long, you do not see the
conceits vexatiously interfering with the beauties.

Oh maraviglia ! Amor, che append e nato,
Gia grande vola, e gia trionfa armato." Canto i. st. 47.

Oh, miracle ! Love is scarce born, when, lo,
He flies full wing'd, and lords it with his bow !

*' Se '1 mir fulminar ne 1' arme avvolto,
Marte lo stimi ; Amor, se score il volta." St. 58.

Mars you would think him, when his thund'ring race
In arms be ran ; Love, when he shew'd his face.

Which is as little true to reason as to taste ; for
no god of war could look like a god of love. The
habit of mind would render it impossible. But

VOL. II. R

the poet found the prettiness of the Greek Anthology
irresistible.

Olindo, tied to the stake amidst the flames of
martyrdom, can say to his mistress :

Autre fiamme, altri nodi amor promise." Canto ii. st. 34.
Other flames, other bonds than these, love promised.

The sentiment is natural, but the double use of
the " flames" on such an occasion, miserable.

In the third canto the fair Amazon Clorinda
challenges her love to single combat.

E di due morte in un unto lo sita." St. 23.

And so at once she threats to kill him twice** Fairfax.

That is to say, with her valour and beauty.

Another twofold employment of flame, with
an exclamation to secure our astonishment, makes
its appearance in the fourth canto :

Oh miracle d' amor ! che le famille

Tragge del piano, e i cor' ne 1' aqua accede." St. 76.

Oh, miracle of love ! that draweth sparks

Of fire from tears, and kindest hearts in water !

This puerile antithesis oi fire and water, fire and
ice, light in darkness, silence in speech, together
with such pretty turns as wounding one's-self in
wounding others, and the worse sacrifice of consistency
and truth of feeling, — lovers making long
speeches on the least fitting occasions, and ladies

retaining their rosy cheeks in the midst of fears of
death, — is to be met with, more or less, throughout
the poem. I have no doubt they were the proximate
cause of that general corruption of taste which
was afterwards completed by Marino, the acquaintance
and ardent admirer of Tasso when a boy.
They have been laid to the charge of Petrarch ;
but, without entering into the question, how far
and in what instances conceits may not be natural
to lovers haunted, as Petrarch was, with one idea,
and seeing it in every thing they behold, what had
the great epic poet to do with the faults of the
lyrical ? And what is to be said for his standing
in need of the excuse of bad example ? Homer
and Milton were in no such want. Virgil would
not have copied the tricks of Ovid. There is an
effeminacy and self-reflection in Tasso, analogous
to his Rinaldo, in the enchanted garden ; where
the hero wore a looking-glass by his side, in which
he contemplated his sophisticated self, and the
meretricious beauty of his enchantress. ^

^ It is an extraordinary instance of a man's violating, in older
life, the better critical principles of his youth, — that Tasso, in his
Discourses on Poetry, should have objected to a passage in
Ariosto about sighs and tears, as being a " conceit too lyrical,"
(though it was warranted by the subtleties of madness, see present
volume, p. 219), and yet afterwards riot in the same conceits
when wholly without warrant.

Agreeably to this tendency to weakness, the
style of Tasso, when not supported by great occasions
(and even the occasion itself sometimes fails
him), is too apt to fall into tameness and commonplace,
— to want movement and picture ; while, at
the same time, with singular defect of enjoyment,
it does not possess the music which might be expected
from a lyrical and voluptuous poet. Bernardo
prophesied of his son, that, however he
might surpass him in other respects, he would
never equal him in sweetness ; and he seems to
have judged him rightly. I have met with a passage
in Torquatus prose writings (but I cannot
lay my hands on it), in which he expresses a
singular predilection for verses full of the same
vowel. He seems, if I remember rightly, to have
regarded it, not merely as a pleasing variety,
which it is on occasion, but as a reigning principle.
Voltaire (I think, in his treatise on I^pic
Poetry) has noticed the multitude of o's in the
exordium of the Jerusalem. This apparent negligence
seems to have been intentional.

** Canto 1' arms pietas e '1 capitan

Che '1 gran Sepolcro libero di Crista ;
Molto eli pro col senna e con la mano,

Molto soffri nel glorioso acquit ;
E ivan 1' inferno a lui s' oppose ; e invano
S' arno d' Asia e di Libia il pool mist;

Che il ciel gli die favor, e sotto ai santa
Segni ridusse i sui company errant."

The reader will not be surprised to find, that he
who could thus confound monotony with music,
and commence his greatest poem with it, is too
often discordant in the rest of his versification. It
has been thought, that Milton might have taken
from the Italians the grand musical account to
which he turns a list of proper names, as in his
enumerations of realms and deities ; but I have
been surprised to find how little the most musical
of languages appears to have suggested to its poets
anything of the sort. I am not aware of it, indeed,
in any poets but our own. All others, from
Homer, with his catalogue of leaders and ships,
down to Metastasio himself, though he wrote for
music, appear to have overlooked this opportunity
of playing a voluntary of fine sounds, where they
had no other theme on which to modulate. Its
inventor, as far as I am aware, is that great poet,
Marlowe

AapSaviMU avr ripx^v, eUs train Ayx^o'ao,
AiU€ias' Tov VTT A.yx.'-'^V '''^'^^ ^'■' Apposite]
ISt/s €p Ki/r]iJ.oiai, dea fipoTCf evvrjdeiaa'
Ove ois' dfxa r<py€ Svw AvTr}vopos vie,
Apxt^oxos T, AKajxas re, fJ-axvs ev eiSore waarjs.

Iliad, ii. 8 1 9.

It is curious that these five lines should abound as much in a's as

There are faults of invention as well as style
in the Jerusalem, The Talking Bird, or bird that
sings with a human voice (canto iv. 1 3), is a piece
of verisimilitude, which the author, perhaps,

Tasso's first stanza does in o's. Similar monotone are strikingly
observable in the nomenclature of Virgil. See his most perfect
poem, the Georgic:

Omnia secum
^Armentarius safer agit, technique, Laremque,
^Armaque, ^Amyclseumque cane, Cressamque pharetram."

Lib. iii. 343.
It is clear that Dante never thought of this point. See his Man-adore,
Sanvittore, Satan, Raban, &c, at the end of the twelfth
canto of the Paradise. Yet in his time poetry was recitative to
music. So it was in Petrarch's, who was a lutenist, and who
tried" his verses, to see how they would go to the instrument.
Yet Petrarch could allow himself to write such a quatrain as the
following list of rivers :

♦* Non Resin, P6, Taro, Arno, Adige e Tebro,
Curate, Tigre, Nile, Ergo, Indo e Gange,
Tana, Intro, Alfeo, Carron, e '1 mar che frange,
Romano, Ibero, Ren, Senna, Alia, Era, Ebro!^^

In Tasso's Sette Giornaie, to which Black thinks Milton indebted
for his grand rise of proper names, the following is the way in
which the poet writes :

Di Sylvan

Di Pan, e d' Egipani, e d' altri errant,

Ch' pier le solitary inculte selve

D' article maraviglie ; e quell' accost

Esercito di Banco in oriente

Ont' eli vine, e trionfd deal' India,

i



thought justifiable by the speaking horses of the
ancients. But the latter were moved supernaturally
for the occasion, and for a very fine occasion.
Tasso's bird is a mere born contradiction

Toman do glorioso ai Greci lids,

Sicyon' e favoloso antics gride."
The most diversified passage of this kind (as far as I am aware) is
Ariosto's list of his friends at the close of the Orlando; and yet such
writing as follows would seem to shew that it was an accident :
** 16 reggio il Fracastoro, il Bevazzano,

Triton Gabriel, e il Tasso iii montana ;

Veggo Niccolo Tripoli, e con esse

Niccolo Amanio in me affissar le cilia ;

Anton Furioso, ch' a vedermi oppress

Al tito, nostra gaudio e maraviglia.

II mio Salerno e quel che la s' e mess

For de le donne," &c.
Even Metastasio, who wrote expressly for singers, and often with
exquisite modulation, especially in his songs, forgets himself when
he comes to the names of his dramatis personae, — "partakers,
*Artaban, garbage, Mandate, Semina, Megabise," — all in one
play.

Gran come io nemo. II mio german garbage

Parte pria de V aurora. II padre armato

Incontro, e non mi parla. ^Aceusa il ciel

agitate partakers, e m' abandon." Alto i. sc. 6.

I am far from intending to say that these reiterations are not
sometimes allowable, nay, often beautiful and desirable. Alliteration
itself may be rendered an exquisite instrument of music. I
am only speaking of monotony or discord in the enumeration of
proper names.

to nature and for no necessity. The vulgar idea
of the devil with horns and a tail (though the
retention of it argued a genius in Tasso very-inferior
to that of Milton) is defensible, I think,
on the plea of the German critics, that malignity
should be made a thing low and deformed ;
but as much cannot be said for the storehouse in
heaven, where St. Michael's spear is kept with
which he slew the dragon, and the trident which
is used for making earthquakes (canto vii. st. 81).
The tomb which supernaturally comes out of the
ground, inscribed with the name and virtues of
Sueno (canto viii. st. 39), is worthy only of a
pantomime ; and the wizard in robes, with beech-leaves
on his head, who walks dry-shod on water,
and superfluously helps the knights on their way
to Armida's retirement (xiv. 33), is almost as ludicrous
as the burlesque of the river-god in the
Voyage of Beaumont and Chapelle.

But let us not wonder, nevertheless, at the
effect which the Jerusalem has had upon the world.
It could not have had it without great nature
and power. Rinaldo, in spite of his aberrations
with Armida, knew the path to renown, and so did
his poet. Tasso's epic, with all its faults, is a
noble production, and justly considered one of the
poems of the world. Each of those poems hit

some one great point of universal attraction, at
least in their respective countries, and among the
givers of fame in others. Homer's poem is that of
action; Dante's, of passion ; Virgil's, of judgment;
Milton's, of religion; Spenser's, of poetry itself;
Ariosto's, of animal spirits (I do not mean as respects
gaiety only, but in strength and readiness
of accord with the whole play of nature) ; Tasso
looked round with an ultra-sensitive temperament,
and an ambition which required encouragement,
and his poem is that of tenderness. Every thing
inclines to this point in his circle, with the tremulousness
of the needle. Love is its all in all, even
to the design of the religious war which is to
rescue the sepulchre of the God of Charity from
the hands of the unloving. His heroes are all in
love, at least those on the right side ; his leader,
Godfrey, notwithstanding his prudence, narrowly
escapes the passion, and is full of a loving consideration
; his amazon, Clorinda, inspires the truest
passion, and dies taking her lover's hand ; his ermine
is all love for an enemy ; his enchantress
Armida falls from pretended love into real, and
forsakes her religion for its sake. An old father
(canto ix.) loses his five sons in battle, and dies
on their dead bodies of a wound which he has
provoked on purpose. Tancred cannot achieve
r2

the enterprise of the Enchanted Forest, because
his dead mistress seems to come out of one of the
trees. Ohndo thinks it happiness to be martyred
at the same stake with Sophronia. The reconciliation
of Rinaldo with his enchantress takes
place within a few stanzas of the close of the
poem, as if contesting its interest with religion.
The Jerusalem Delivered, in short, is the favourite
epic of the young : all the lovers in Europe have
loved it. The French have forgiven the author
his conceits for the sake of his gallantry : he
is the poet of the gondoliers ; and Spenser, the
most luxurious of his brethren, plundered his
bowers of bliss. Read Tasso's poem by this gentle
light of his genius, and you pity him twentyfold,
and know not what excuse to find for his jailer.

The stories translated in the present volume,
though including war and magic, are all love-stories.
They were not selected on that account.
They suggested themselves for selection, as containing
most of the finest things in the poem.
They are conducted with great art, and the characters
and affections happily varied. The first
{Olindo and Sophronia) is perhaps unique for the
hopelessness of its commencement (I mean with
regard to the lovers), and the perfect, and at the
same time quite probable, felicity of the conclusion.

There is no reason to believe that the staid
and devout Sophronia would have loved her adorer
at all, but for the circumstance that first dooms
them both to a shocking death, and then sends
them, with perfect warrant, from the stake to the
altar. Clorinda is an Amazon, the idea of whom,
as such, it is impossible for us to separate from
very repulsive and unfeminine images ; yet, under
the circumstances of the story, we call to mind in
her behalf the possibility of a Joan of Arc's having
loved and been beloved ; and her death is a surprising
and most affecting variation upon that of
Agrican in Boiardo. Tasso's enchantress Armida is
a variation of the Angelica of the same poet, combined
with Ariosto's Alcina ; but her passionate
voluptuousness makes her quite a new character
in regard to the one ; and she is as different from
the painted hag of the Orlando as youth, beauty,
and patriotic intention can make her. She is not
very sentimental ; but all the passion in the world
has sympathised with her; and it was manly and
honest in the poet not to let her Paganism and vehemence
hinder him from doing justice to her claims
as a human being and a deserted woman. Her
fate is left in so pleasing a state of doubt, that we
gladly avail ourselves of it to suppose her married
to Rinaldo, and becoming the mother of a line of

Christian princes. I wish they had treated her
poet half so well as she would infallibly have
treated him herself.

But the singer of the Crusades can be strong as
well as gentle. You discern in his battles and
single combats the poet ambitious of renown, and
the accomplished swordsman. The duel of Tancred
and Argantes, in which the latter is slain, is
as earnest and fiery writing throughout as truth
and passion could desire ; that of Tancred and
Clorinda is also very powerful as well as affecting ;
and the whole siege of Jerusalem is admirable for
the strength of its interest. Every body knows
the grand verse (not, however, quite original) that
summons the devils to council, " China gli agitator,"
&c. ; and the still grander, though less
original one, describing the desolations of time,
Giace 1' alta Cartago."i The forest filled with
supernatural terrors by a magician, in order that
the Christians may not cut wood from it to make
their engines of war, is one of the happiest pieces
of invention in romance. It is founded in as true
human feeling as those of Ariosto, and is made an
admirable instrument for the aggrandizement of the
character of Rinaldo. Godfrey's attestation of all

1 See them both in the present volume, pp. 420 and 445.

time, and of the host of heaven, when he addresses
his army in the first canto, is in the
highest spirit of epic magnificence. So is the
appearance of the celestial armies, together with
that of the souls of the slain Christian warriors, in
the last canto, where they issue forth in the air to
assist the entrance into the conquered city. The
classical poets are turned to great and frequent
account throughout the poem ; and yet the work
has a strong air of originality, partly owing to the
subject, partly to the abundance of love-scenes,
and to a certain compactness in the treatment of
the main story, notwithstanding the luxuriance of
the episodes. The Jerusalem Delivered is stately,
well-ordered, full of action and character, sometimes
sublime, always elegant, and very interesting
— more so, I think, as a whole, and in a popular
sense, than any other story in verse, not
excepting the Odyssey. For the exquisite domestic
attractiveness of the second Homeric poem
is injured, like the hero himself, by too many
diversions from the main point. There is an
interest, it is true, in that very delay ; but we become
too much used to the disappointment. In
the epic of Tasso the reader constantly desires to
learn how the success of the enterprise is to be
brought about ; and he scarcely loses sight of any

of the persons but he wishes to see them again.
Even in the love-scenes, tender and absorbed as
they are, we feel that the heroes are fighters, or
going to fight. When you are introduced to Armida
in the Bower of Bliss, it is by warriors who
come to take her lover away to battle.

One of the reasons why Tasso hurt the style of
his poem by a manner too lyrical was, that notwithstanding
its deficiency in sweetness, he was
one of the profuse lyrical writers of his nation,
and always having his feelings turned in upon
himself. I am not sufficiently acquainted with his
odes and sonnets to speak of them in the gross ;
but I may be allowed to express my belief that
they possess a great deal of fancy and feeling. It
has been wondered how he could write so many,
considering the troubles he went through; but
the experience was the reason. The constant succession
of hopes, fears, wants, gratitudes, loves,
and the necessity of employing his imagination,
accounts for all. Some of his sonnets, such as
those on the Countess of Scandiano's lip (" Quel
labbro," &c.) ; the one to Stigliano, concluding
with the affecting mention of himself and his lost
harp ; that beginning

lo reggio in cela scintillar le stella,"

recur to my mind oftener than any others except
Dante's " Tanto gentile" and Filicaia's Lament on
Italy ; and, with the exception of a few of the
more famous odes of Petrarch, and one or two of
Filicaia's and Guide's, I know of none in Italian
like several of Tasso's, including his fragment
O del grand' Apennino," and the exquisite
chorus on the Golden Age, which struck a note
in the hearts of the world.

His Aminta, the chief pastoral poem of Italy,
though, with the exception of that ode, not equal
in passages to the Faithful Shepherdess (which is
a Pan to it compared with a beardless shepherd),
is elegant, interesting, and as superior to Guarini's
more sophisticate yet still beautiful Pastor Fido
as a first thought may be supposed to be to its
emulator. The objection of its being too elegant
for shepherds he anticipated and nullified by making
Love himself account for it in a charming prologue,
of which the god is the speaker :

** Quest selve oggi rational d' More
S' udranno in nova guise ; e ben harass,
Che la mia Delta asia qui presente
In se medea, e non ne' sui ministry.
Spire noble sense a rossi petty ;
Raddolciro nelly lor langue 11 sono :
Percbe, ovunque i' mi asia, io sono More

Ne' pastor non men che negli eros ;

E la disagguaglianza de' soggetti,

Come a me place, agguaglio : e quest e pure

Supreme gloria, e gran miracle mio.

Render simili alle piu motte centre

Le justice campagne."

After new fashion shall these woods 
love discoursed ; and it shall well be seen
That my divinity is present here
In its own person, not its ministers.
I will breathe high fancies in rude hearts ;
I will refine and render dulcet sweet
Their tongues ; because, wherever I may be,
Whether with rustic or heroic men,
There am I Love ; and inequality.
As it may please me, do I equalise ;
And 'tis my crowning glory and great miracle
To make the rural pipe as eloquent
Even as the subtlest harp.

I ought not to speak of Tasso's other poetry,
or of his prose, for I have read little of either;
though, as they are not popular with his countrymen,
a foreigner may be pardoned for thinking
his classical tragedy, Torrismondo, not attractive —
his Sette Giornate (Seven Days of the Creation)
still less so — and his platonical and critical discourses
better filled with authorities than reasons.

Tasso was a lesser kind of Milton, enchanted
by the Sirens. We discern the weak parts of his

character, more or less, in all his writings ; but we
see also the irrepressible elegance and superiority
of the mind, which, in spite of all weakness, was
felt to tower above its age, and to draw to it the
homage as well as the resentment of princes.

Godfrey of Boulogne, the leader of the Crusaders,
was now in full march for Jerusalem with
the Christian army ; and Alain, the old infidel
king, became agitated with wrath and terror. He
had heard nothing but accounts of the enemy's
irresistible advance. There were many Christians
within his walls whose insurrection he dreaded ;
and though he had appeared to grow milder with
age, he now, in spite of the frost in his veins, felt
as hot for cruelty, as the snake excited by the fire
of summer. He longed to stifle his fears of insurrection
by a massacre, but dreaded the consequence
in the event of the city's being taken. He
therefore contented himself, for the present, with
laying waste the country round about it, destroying
every possible receptacle of the invaders, poisoning
the wells, and doubly fortifying the only
weak point in his fortifications.

At this juncture the renegade Ismeno stood
before him — a bad old man who had studied unlawful
arts. He could bind and loose evil spirits,
and draw the dead out of their tombs, restoring
to them breath and perception. This man told
the king, that in the church belonging to his
Christian subjects there was an altar underground,
on which stood a veiled image of the woman whom
they worshipped — the mother, as they called her,
of their dead and buried God. A dazzling light
burnt for ever before it ; and the walls were hung
with the offerings of her credulous devotees. If
this image, he said, were taken away by the king's
own hand, and set up in a mosque, such a spell of
enchantment could be thrown about it as should
render the city impregnable so long as the idol
was kept safe.

Alain proceeded instantly to the Christian
temple, and, treating the priests with violence,
tore the image from its shrine and conveyed it to
his own place of worship. The necromancer then
muttered before it his blasphemous enchantment.

But the light of morning no sooner appeared
in the mosque, than the official to whose charge
the palladium had been committed missed it from
its place, and in vain searched every other to find
it. In truth in never was found again ; nor is it

known to this day how it went. Some think the
Christians took it ; others that Heaven interfered
in order to save it from profanation. And well
(says the poet) does it become a pious humility so
to think of a disappearance so wonderful.

The king, who fell into a paroxysm of rage,
not doubting that some Christian was the offender,
issued a proclamation setting a price on the head
of any one who concealed it. But no discovery
was made. The necromancer resorted to his art
with as little effect. The king then ordered a
general Christian massacre. His savage wrath
hugged itself on the reflection, that the criminal
would be sure to perish, perish else who might.

The Christians heard the order with an astonishment
that took away all their powers of resistance.
The suddenness of the presence of death
stupefied them. They did not resort even to an
entreaty. They waited, like sheep, to be butchered.
Little did they think what kind of saviour
was at hand.

There was a maiden among them of ripe years,
grave and beautiful ; one who took no heed of her
beauty, but was altogether absorbed in high and
holy thoughts. If she thought of her beauty ever,
it was only to subject it to the dignity of virtue.
The greater her worth, the more she concealed it

from the world, living a close life at home, and
veiling herself from all eyes.

But the rays of such a jewel could not but
break through their casket. Love would not consent
to have it so locked up. Love turned her
very retirement into attraction. There was a
youth who had become enamoured of this hidden
treasure. His name was Olindo ; Sophronia was
that of the maiden. Olindo, like herself, was a
Christian ; and the humbleness of his passion was
equal to the worth of her that inspired it. He
desired much, hoped little, asked nothings He
either knew not how to disclose his love, or did
not dare it. And she either despised it, or did
not, or would not, see it. The poor youth, up to
this day, had got nothing by his devotion, not
even a look.

The maiden, who was nevertheless as generous
as she was virtuous, fell into deep thought
how she might save her Christian brethren. She
soon came to her resolve. She delayed the execution
of it a little, only out of a sense of virgin
decorum, which, in its turn, made her still more
resolute. She issued forth by herself, in the sight

^ " Brama assai. poco opera, e nulla chide."

Canto ii. st. 16.
A line justly famous.

of all, not muffling up her beauty, nor yet exposing
it. She withdrew her eyes beneath a veil,
and, attired neither with ostentation nor carelessness,
passed through the streets with unaffected
simplicity, admired by all save herself. She went
straight before the king. His angry aspect did
not repel her. She drew aside the veil, and
looked him steadily in the face.

'* I am come," she said, " to beg that you
will suspend your wrath, and withhold the orders
given to your people. I know and will give up
the author of the deed which has offended you, on
that condition."

At the noble confidence thus displayed, at the
sudden apparition of so much lofty and virtuous
beauty, the king's countenance was confused, and
its angry expression abated. Had his spirit been
less stern, or the look she gave him less firm in its
purpose, he would have loved her. But haughty
beauty and haughty beholder are seldom drawn
together. Glances of pleasure are the baits of
love. And yet, if the ungentle king was not enamoured,
he was impressed. He was bent on
gazing at her ; he felt an emotion of delight.

Say on," he replied ; " I accept the condition."


Behold then," said she, " the offender. The

VOL. II. S

deed was the work of this hand. It was I that
conveyed away the image. I am she whom you
look for. I am the criminal to be punished."

And as she spake, she bent her head before
him, as already yielding it to the executioner.

Oh, noble falsehood ! when was truth to be
compared with thee ?^

The king was struck dumb. He did not fall
into his accustomed transports of rage. When he
recovered from his astonishment, he said, " Who
advised you to do this ? Who was your accomplice
?"

*' Not a soul," replied the maiden. " I would
not have allowed another person to share a particle
of my glory. I alone knew of the deed ; I
alone counselled it ; I alone did it."

Then be the consequence," cried he, " on
your own head !"

'Tis but just," returned Sophronia. " Mine
was the sole honour ; mine, therefore, should bethe
only punishment."

The tyrant at this began to feel the accession
of his old wrath. *' Where," he said, *have you
hidden the image ?"

• " Magnanimity menzogna ! oi' quando e il vero
Si bello, che si posse a te prepare ?"

I did not hide it," she replied, " I burnt it.
I thought it fit and righteous to do so. I knew
of no other way to save it from the hands of the
unbelieving. Ask not for what will never again
be found. Be content with the vengeance you
have before you."

Oh, chaste heart ! oh, exalted soul ! oh, creature
full of nobleness ! think not to find a forgiving
moment return. Beauty itself is thy shield
no longer.

The glorious maiden is taken and bound. The
cruel king has condemned her to the stake. Her
veil, and the mantle that concealed her chaste
bosom, are torn away, and her soft arms tied with
a hard knot behind her. She said nothing ; she
was not terrified; but yet she was not unmoved.
Her bosom heaved in spite of its courage. Her
lovely colour was lost in a pure white.

The news spread in an instant, and the city
crowded to the sight. Christians and all, Olindo
among them. He had thought within himself,
What if it should be Sophronia !" But when
he beheld that it was she indeed, and not only
condemned, but already at the stake, he made way
through the crowd with violence, crying out,
This is not the person, — this poor simpleton!
She never thought of such a thing; she

had not the courage to do it ; she had not the
strength. How was she to carry the sacred image
away ? Let her aside by her story if she dare.
1 did it."

Such was the love of the poor youth for her
that loved him not.

When he came up to the stake, he gave a formal
account of what he pretended to have done.
I climbed in," he said, " at the window of your
mosque at night, and found a narrow passage
round to the image, where nobody could expect
to meet me. I shall not suffer the penalty to be
usurped by another. I did the deed, and I will
have the honour of doing it, now that it comes to
this. Let our places be changed."

Sophronia had looked up when she heard the
youth call out, and she gazed on him with eyes of
pity. "What madness is this!" exclaimed she.
What can induce an innocent person to bring
destruction on himself for nothing ? Can I not
bear the thing by myself? Is the anger of one
man so tremendous, that one person cannot sustain
it ? Trust me, friend, you are mistaken. I
stand in no need of your company."

Thus spoke Sophronia to her lover ; but not a
whit was he disposed to alter his mind. Oh, great
and beautiful spectacle ! Love and virtue at strife ;

death the prize they contend for; — ruin itself
the salvation of the conqueror !

But the contest irritated the king. He felt
himself set at nought; felt death itself despised,
as if in despite of the inflictor. " Let them betaken
at their words," cried he ; " let both have
the prize they long for."

The youth is seized on the instant, and bound
like the maiden. Both are tied to the stake, and
set back to back. They behold not the face of
one another. The wood is heaped round about
them ; the fire is kindled. ^

The youth broke out into lamentations, but
only loud enough to be heard by his fellow-sufferer.
" Is this, then," said he, " the bond which
I hoped might join us ? Is this the fire which I
thought might possibly warm two lovers' hearts V
Too long (is it not so ?) have we been divided,
and now too cruelly are we united : too cruelly,
I say, but not as regards me ; for since I am
not to be partner of thy existence, gladly do I
share thy death. It is thy fate, not mine, that
afflicts me. Oh ! too happy were it to me, too
sweet and fortunate, if I could obtain grace
enough to be set with thee heart to heart, and

^ This conceit is more dwelt upon in the original, coupled with
the one noticed at p. 3ti2.

SO breathe out my soul into thy lips! Perhaps
thou wouldst do the like with mine, and so give
me thy last sigh."

Thus spoke the youth in tears ; but the maiden
gently reproved him.

She said: "Other thoughts, my friend, and
other lamentations befit a time like this. Why
thickest thou not of thy sins, and of the rewards
which God has promised to the righteous ? Meet
thy sufferings in his name ; so shall their bitterness
be made sweet, and thy soul be carried into
the realms above. Cast thine eyes upwards, and
behold them. See how beautiful is the sky ; how
the sun seems to invite thee towards it with its
splendour."

At words so noble and piteous as these, the
Pagans themselves, who stood within hearing,
began to weep. The Christians wept too, but invoices
more lowly. Even the king felt an emotion
of pity ; but disdaining to give way to it, he
turned aside and withdrew. The maiden alone
partook not of the common grief. She for whom
every body wept, wept not for herself.

The flames were now beginning to approach
the stake, when there appeared, coming through
the crowd, a warrior of noble mien, habited in
the arms of another country. The tiger, which

formed the crest of his helmet, drew all eyes toit,
for it was a cognizance well known. The
people began to think that it was a heroine instead
of a hero which they saw, even the famous
Clorinda. Nor did they err in the supposition.

A despiser of feminine habits had Clorinda
been from her childhood. She disdained to put
her hand to the needle and the distaff. She renounced
every soft indulgence, every timid retirement,
thinking that virtue could be safe wherever
it went in its own courageous heart ; and so
she armed her countenance with pride, and pleased
herself with making it stern, but not to the effect
she looked for, for the sternness itself pleased.
While yet a child her little right hand would control
the bit of the charger, and she wielded the
sword and spear, and hardened her limbs with
wrestling, and made them supple for the race ;
and then as she grew up, she tracked the footsteps
of the bear and lion, and followed the trumpet
to the wars ; and in those and in the depths
of the forest she seemed a wild creature to mankind,
and a man to the wildest creature. She had
now come out of Persia to wreak her displeasure
on the Christians, who had already felt the sharpness
of her sword ; and as she arrived near this
assembled multitude, death was the first thing

that met her eyes, but in a shape so perplexing,
that she looked narrowly to discern what it was,
and then spurred her horse towards the scene of
action. The crowd gave way as she approached,
and she halted as she entered the circle round the
stake, and sat gazing on the youth and maiden.
She wondered to see the male victim lamenting,
while the female was mute. But indeed she saw
that he was weeping not out of grief hut pity ;
or at least, not out of grief for himself; and as
to the maiden, she observed her to be so wrapt
up in the contemplation of the heavens at which
she was gazing, that she appeared to have already
taken leave of earth.

Pity touched the heart of the Amazon, and
the tears came into her eyes. She felt sorry for
both the victims, but chiefly for the one that said
nothing. She turned to a white-headed man beside
her, and said, " What is this ? Who are
these two persons, whom crime, or their ill fortune,
has brought hither ?"

The man answered her briefly, but to the purpose
; and she discerned at once that both must
be innocent. She therefore determined to save
them. She dismounted, and set the example of
putting a stop to the flames, and then said to the
officers, " Let nobody continue this work till I

have spoken to the king. Rest assured he will
hold you guiltless of the delay." The officers
obeyed, being struck with her air of confidence
and authority ; and she went straight towards the
king, who had heard of her arrival, and who was
coming to bid her welcome.

*' I am Clorinda," she said. " Thou knowest
me ? Then thou knowest, sir, one who is desirous
to defend the good faith and the king of Jerusalem.
I am ready for any duty that may be assigned
me. I fear not the greatest, nor do I disdain
the least. Open field or walled city, no post
will come amiss to the king's servant."

Illustrious maiden," answered the king, " who
knoweth not Clorinda? What region is there so
distant from Asia, or so far away out of the paths
of the sun, to which the sound of thy achievements
has not arrived? Joined by thee and by
thy sword I fear nothing. Godfrey, methinks, is
too slow to attack me. Dost thou ask to which
post thou shalt be appointed ? To the greatest.
None else becomes thee. Thou art lady and mistress
of the war."

Clorinda gave the king thanks for his courtesy,

and then resumed. " Strange is it, in truth," she

said, " to ask my reward before I have earned it ;

but confidence like this reassures me. Grant me,

s2

for what I propose to do in the good cause, the
lives of these two persons. I wave the uncertainty
of their offence ; I wave the presumption
of innocence afforded by their own behaviour. I
ask their liberation as a favour. And yet it becomes
me, at the same time, to confess, that I do
not believe the Christians to have taken the image
out of the mosque. It was an impious thing of
the magician to put it there. An idol has no
business in a Mussulman temple, much less the
idols of unbelievers ; and my opinion is, that the
miracle was the work of Mahomet himself, out
of scorn and hatred of the contamination. Let
Ismeno prefer his craft, if he will, to the weapons
of a man ; but let him not take upon himself the
defence of a nation of warriors."

The warlike damsel was silent ; and the king,
though he could with difficulty conquer his anger,
yet did so, to please his guest. " They are free,"
said he ; " I can deny nothing to such a petitioner.
Whether it be justice or not to absolve them,
absolved they are. If they are innocent, I pronounce
them so ; if guilty, I concede their pardon."


At these words the youth and the maiden were
set free. And blissful indeed was the fortune of
Olindo; for love, so proved as his, awoke love in

the noble bosom of Sophronia ; and so he passed
from the stake to the marriage-altar, a husband,
instead of a wretch condemned — a lover beloved,
instead of a hopeless adorer.

The Christians, in their siege of Jerusalem, had
brought a huge rolling tower against the walls,
from which they battered and commanded the
city with such deadly effect, that the generous
Amazon Clorinda resolved to go forth in disguise
and burn it. She disclosed her design to the
chieftain Argantes, for the purpose of recommending
to him the care of her damsels, in case
any misfortune should happen to her ; but the
warrior, jealous of the glory of such an enterprise,
insisted on partaking it. The old king,
weeping for gratitude, joyfully gave them leave ;
and the Soldan of Egypt, with a generous emulation,
would fain have joined them. Argantes was
about to give him a disdainful refusal, when the
king interposed, and persuaded the Soldan to remain
behind, lest the city should miss too many
of its best defenders at one time ; adding, that the
risk of sallying forth should be his, in case the

burners of the tower were pursued on their return.
Argantes and the Amazon then retired to
prepare for the exploit, and the magician Ismeno
compounded two balls of sulphur for the work of
destruction.

Clorinda took oiF her beautiful helmet, and her
surcoat of cloth of silver, and laid aside all her
haughty arms, and dressed herself (hapless omen!)
in black armour without polish, the better to
conceal herself from the enemy. Her faithful
servant, the good old eunuch Assets, who had
attended her from infancy, and was now following
her about as well as he could with his accustomed
zeal, anxiously noticed what she was
doing, and guessing it was for some desperate
enterprise, entreated her, by his white hairs and
all the love he had shewn her, to give it up.
Finding his prayers to no purpose, he requested
with great emotion that she would give ear to
certain matters in her family history, which he at
length felt it his duty to disclose. " It would
then," he said, " be for herself to judge, whether
she would persist in the enterprise or renounce
it." Clorinda, at this, looked at the good man,
and listened with attention.

Not long ago," said he, " there reigned in
Ethiopia, and perhaps is still reigning, a king

named Senatus, who in common with his people
professed the Christian religion. They are a
black though a handsome people, and the king
and his queen were of the same colour. The
king loved her dearly, but was unfortunately so
jealous, that he concealed her from the sight of
mankind. Had it been in his power, I think he
would have hindered the very eyes of heaven
from beholding her. The sweet lady, however,
was wise and humble, and did every thing she
could to please him.

I was not a Christian myself. I was a
Pagan slave, employed among the women about
the queen, and making one of her special attendants.


It happened, that the royal bed-chamber was
painted with the story of a holy knight saving a
maiden from a dragon ;i and the maiden had a
face beautifully fair, with blooming cheeks. The
queen often prayed and wept before this picture ;
and it made so great an impression on her, particularly
the maiden's face, that when she bore a
child, she saw with consternation that the infant's
skin was of the same fair colour. This child was
thyself

St. George.

This fiction of a white Ethiop child is taken from the Greek

TANCRED AND Florida.

Terrified with the thoughts of what her husband
would feel at such a sight, what a convincing
proof he would hold it of a faith on her part the
reverse of spotless she procured a babe of her
own colour by means of a confidant ; and before
thou wert baptised (which is a ceremony that takes
place in Ethiopia later than elsewhere) committed
thee to my care to be brought up at a distance.
Who shall relate the tears which thy mother
poured forth, and the sighs and sobs with which
they were interrupted ? How many times, when
she thought she had given thee the last embrace,
did she not gather thee to her bosom once more !
At length, raising her eyes to heaven, she said,
O Thou that seest into the hearts of mortals, and
knowest in this matter the spotlessness of mine,
dark though it be otherwise with frailty and with
sin, save, I pray thee, this innocent creature who
is denied the milk of its mother's breast. Youths

of H diodorus, book the fourth. The imaginative principle
on which it is founded is true to physiology, and Tasso had a
right to use it ; but the particular and excessive instance does not
appear happy in the eyes of a modern reader acquainted with the
history of albinos.

• The conceit is more antithetically put in the original :
Ch' eli aria del candor che in te si vide
Argumentation in lei non bianca fete,"

Canto xii. st. 24.

safe that she resemble her hapless parent in nothing
but a chaste life. And thou, celestial warrior,
that didst deliver the maiden out of the serpent's
mouth, if I have ever lit humble taper on
thine altar, and set before thee offerings of gold
and incense, be, I implore thee, her advocate. Be
her advocate to such purpose, that in every turn of
fortune she may be enabled to count on thy good
help.' Here she ceased, torn to her very heartstrings,
with a face painted of the colour of death ;
and I, weeping myself, received thee, and bore
thee away, hidden in a sweet covering of flowers
and leaves.

I journeyed with thee along a forest, where
a tiger came upon us with fury in its eyes. I betook
me, alas, to a tree, and left thee lying on
the ground, such terror was in me ; and the horrible
beast looked down upon thee. But it fell
to licking thee with its dreadful tongue, and thou
didst smile to it, and put thy little hand to its
jaws ; and, lo, it gave thee suck, being a mother
itself; and then, wonderful to relate, it returned
into the woods, leaving me to venture down from
the tree, and bear thee onward to my place of refuge.
There, in a little obscure cottage, I had thee
nursed for more than a year; till, feeling that I
grew old, I resolved to avail myself of the riches

the queen had given me, and go into my own
country, which was Egypt. I set out for it accordingly,
and had to cross a torrent where thieves
threatened me on one side, and the fierce water on
the other. I plunged in, holding thee above the
torrent with one hand, till I came to an eddy that
tore thee from me. I thought thee lost. What
was my delight and astonishment, on reaching the
bank, to find that the water itself had tossed thee
upon it in safety !

But I had a dream at night, which seemed
to shew me the cause of thy good fortune. A
warrior appeared before me with a threatening
countenance, holding a sword in my face, and
saying in an imperious voice, * Obey the commands
of the child's mother and of me, and baptise it.
She is favoured of Heaven, and her lot is in my
keeping. It was I that put tenderness in the
heart of the wild beast, and even a will to save
her in the water. Woe to thee, if thou believes
not this vision. It is a message from the skies.'

The spirit vanished, and I awoke and pursued
my journey ; but thinking my own creed the true
one, and therefore concluding the dream to be
false, I baptised thee not ; I bred thee what I was
myself, a Pagan ; and thou didst grow up, and become
great and wonderful in arms, surpassing the

deeds of men, and didst acquire riches and lands ;
and what thy life has been since, thou knowest as
well as I ; ay, and thou knowest mine own ways
too, how I have followed and cautiously waited on
thee ever, being to thee both as a servant and
father.

Now yesterday morning, as I lay heavily
asleep, in consequence of my troubled mind, the
same figure of the warrior made its appearance,
but with a countenance still more threatening, and
speaking in a louder voice. * Wretch,' it exclaimed,
the hour is approaching when Clorinda shall end
both her life and her belief. She is mine in despite
of thee. Misery be thine.' With these words
it darted away as though it flew.

Consider then, delight of my soul, what
these dreams may portend. They threaten thee
terrible things ; for what reason I know not. Can
it be, that mine own faith is the wrong one, and
that of thy parents the right ? Ah ! take thought
at least, and repress this daring courage. Lay
aside these arms that frighten me."

Tears hindered the old man from saying more.
Clorinda grew thoughtful, and felt something of
dread, for she had had a like kind of dream. At
length, however, cheerfully looking up, she said,
I must follow the faith I was bred in ; the faith

which thou thyself brest me in, although thy
words would now make me doubt it. Neither
can I give up the enterprise that calls me forth.
Such a withdrawal is not to be expected of an
honourable soul. Death may put on the worst
face it pleases. I shall not retreat."

The intrepid maiden, however, did her best to
console her good friend ; but the time having arrived
for the adventure, she finally bade him be of
good heart, and so left him.

Silently, and in the middle of the night,
Argantes and Clorinda took their way down the
hills of Jerusalem, and, quitting the gates, went
stealthily towards the site of the tower. But its
ever-watchful guards were alarmed. They demanded
the watch-word ; and, not receiving it,
cried out, " To arms ! to arms !" The dauntless
adventurers plunged forwards with their swords ;
they dashed aside every assailant, pitched the
balls of sulphur into the machine, and in a short
time, in the midst of a daring conflict, had the
pleasure of seeing the smoke and the flame arise,
and the whole tower blazing to its destruction.
A terrible sight it was to the Christians. Waked
up, they came crowding to the place ; and the
two companions, notwithstanding their skill and
audacity, were compelled to make a retreat. The

besieged, with the king at their head, now arrived
also, crowding on the walls ; and the gate was
opened to let the adventurers in. The Soldan
issued forth at the same moment to cover the
retreat. Argantes was forced through the gate
by Clorinda in spite of himself; and she, but fora
luckless antagonist, would have followed him ;
but a soldier aiming at her a last blow, she rushed
back to give the man his death ; and, in the confusion
of the moment, the warders, believing her
to have entered, shut up the gate, and the heroine
was left without.

Behind Clorinda was the gate — before and
round about her was a host of foes ; and surely
at that moment she thought that her life was
drawing to its end. Finding, however, that her
dark armour befriended her in the tumult, she
mingled with the enemy as though she had been
one of themselves, and so, by degrees, picked her
way through the confusion caused by the fire.
As the wolf, with its bloody mouth, seeks covert
in the woods, even so Clorinda got clear out of
the multitude into the darkness and the open
country.

Not, however, so clear, alas, but that Tancred
perceived her — Tancred, her foe in creed, but her
adoring lover, whose heart she had conquered in

the midst of strife, and whose passion for her she
knew. But now she knew not that he had seen
her; nor did he, poor valiant wretch, know that
the knight in black armour whom he pursued, was
a woman, and Clorinda. Tancred had seen the
warrior strike down the assailant at the gate; he
had watched him as he picked his way to escape ;
and Clorinda now heard the unknown Tancred
coming swiftly on horseback behind her as she
was speeding round towards another gate in hopes
of being let in.

The heroine at length turned, and said, " How
now, friend ? — what is thy business ?"

Death !" answered the pursuer.

Thou shalt have it," replied the maiden.

The knight, as his enemy was on foot, dismounted,
in order to render the combat equal ;
and their swords are drawn in fury, and the fight
begins. 1

Worthy of the brightest day-time was that
fight — worthy of a theatre full of valiant beholders.
Be not displeased, O Night ! that I draw

^ The poet here compares his hero and heroine to two jealous
♦' bulls," no happy comparison certainly.

Vans a ritrovar non detriment
Che duo tori gelosi."

St. 53.

it out of thy bosom, and set it in the serene light
of renown : the splendour will but the more exhibit
the great shade of thy darkness.

No trial was this of skill — no contest of warding
and traversing and taking heed — no artful
interchange of blows now pretended, now given
in earnest, now glancing. Night-time and rage
flung aside all consideration. The swords horribly
clashed and hammered on one another. Not a
cut descended in vain — not a thrust was without
substance. Shame and fury aggravated one another.
Every blow became fiercer than the last.
They closed — they could use their blades no longer
; they dashed the pummels of their swords atone
another's faces ; they butted and shouldered
with helm and buckler. Three times the man
threw his arms round the woman with other embraces
than those of love — three times they returned
to their swords, and cut and slashed one
another's bleeding bodies ; till at length they were
obliged to hold back for the purpose of taking
breath.

Tancred and Clorinda stood fronting one another
in the darkness, leaning on their swords for
want of strength. The last star in the heavens
was fading in the tinge of dawn; and Tancred
saw that his enemy had lost more blood than

VOL. II. T

L

himself, and it made him proud and joyful. Oh,
foolish mind of us humans, elated at every fancy
of success ! Poor wretch ! for what dost thou
rejoice ? How sad will be thy victory ! What a
misery to look back upon, thy delight ! Every
drop of that blood will be paid for with worlds of
tears !

Dimly thus looking at one another stood the
combatants, bleeding a while in peace. At length
Tancred, who wished to know his antagonist, said,
It hath been no good fortune of ours to be
compelled thus to fight where nobody can behold
us ; but we have at least become acquainted with
the good swords of one another. Let me request,
therefore (if to request any thing at such a time
be not unbecoming), that I may be no stranger to
thy name. Permit me to learn, whatever be the
result, who it is that shall honour my death or
my victory."

I am not accustomed," answered the fierce
maiden, " to disclose who I am ; nor shall I disclose
it now. Suffice to hear, that thou seest before
thee one of the burners of the tower."

Tancred was exasperated at this discovery.
In an evil moment," cried he, " hast thou said
it. Thy silence and thy speech alike disgust me."

Into the combat again they dash, feeble as they

were. Ferocious indeed is the strife in which skill
is not thought of, and strength itself is dead ; in
which valour rages instead of contends, and feebleness
becomes hate and fury. Oh, the gates of
blood that were set open in wounds upon wounds !
If life itself did not come pouring forth, it was
only because scorn withheld it.

As in the ^gean Sea, when the south and
north winds have lost the violence of their
strength, the billows do not subside nevertheless,
but retain the noise and magnitude of their first
motion ; so the continued impulse of the combatants
carried them still against one another,
hurling them into mutual injury, though they had
scarcely life in their bodies

And now the fatal hour has come when Florida
must die. The sword of Tancred is in her
bosom to the very hilt. The stomacher under the
cuirass which enclosed it is filled with a hot flood.

• " Qual r alto Ego, perche Aquiline o Not
Cess, che tutti prima il vols e scosse,
Non s' accheta pero, ma '1 sono e '1 moto

Ritien de 1' onde anno agitate e grosse ;
Tal, se ben maiica in lor col langue vote

Quel vigor che le brachia ai colpi moss,
Servant anchor 1' impeto primo, e anno
Da quel sospinti a ginger anno a anno."

Canto xii. st. 63.

Her legs give way beneath her. She falls — she
feels that she is departing. The conqueror, with
a still threatening countenance, prepares to follow
up his victory, and treads on her as she lies.

But a new spirit had come upon her — the
spirit which called the beloved of Heaven to itself;
and, speaking in a sorrowing voice, she thus
uttered her last words :

"My friend, thou hast conquered — I forgive
thee. Forgive thou me, not for my body's sake,
which fears nothing, but for the sake, alas, of my
soul. Baptise me, I beseech thee."

There was something in the voice, as the dying
person spake these words, that went, he knew not
why, to the heart of Tancred. The tears forced
themselves into his eyes. Not far off there was
a little stream, and the conqueror went to it and
filled his helmet ; and returning, prepared for the
pious office by unlacing his adversary's helmet.
His hands trembled when he first beheld the forehead,
though he did not yet know it ; but when
the vizor was all down, and the face disclosed, he
remained without speech and motion.

Oh, the sight ! oh, the recognition !

He did not die. He summoned up all the
powers within him to support his heart for that
moment. He resolved to hold up his duty above

his misery, and give life with the sweet water to
her whom he had slain with sword. He dipped
his fingers in it, and marked her forehead with
the cross, and repeated the words of the sacred
office ; and while he was repeating them, the
sufferer changed countenance for joy, and smiled,
and seemed to say, in the cheerfulness of her
departure, "The heavens are opening — I go in
peace." A paleness and a shade together then
came over her countenance, as if lilies had been
mixed with violets. She looked up at heaven,
and heaven itself might be thought for very tenderness
to be looking at her ; and then she raised
a little her hand towards that of the knight (for
she could not speak), and so gave it him in sign
of goodwill ; and with his pressure of it her soul
passed away, and she seemed asleep.

But Tancred no sooner beheld her dead, than
all the strength of mind which he had summoned
up to support him fell flat on the instant. He
would have given way to the most frantic outcries ;
but life and speech seemed to be shut up in one
point in his heart ; despair seized him like death,
and he fell senseless beside her. And surely he
would have died indeed, had not a party of his
countrymen happened to come up. They were
looking for water, and had found it, and they discovered

the bodies at the same time. The leader
knew Tancred by his arms. The beautiful body
of Clorinda, though he deemed her a Pagan,
he would not leave exposed to the wolves ;
so he directed them both to be carried to the
pavilion of Tancred, and there placed in separate
chambers.

Dreadful was the waking of Tancred — not for
the solemn whispering around him — not for his
aching wounds, terrible as they were, — but for
the agony of the recollection that rushed upon
him. He would have gone staggering out of the
pavilion to seek the remains of his Clorinda, and
save them from the wolves ; but his friends told
him they were at hand, under the curtain of his
own tent. A gleam of pleasure shot across his
face, and he staggered into the chamber ; but
when he beheld the body gored with his own
hand, and the face, calm indeed, but calm like a
pale night without stars, he trembled so, that he
would have sunk to the ground but for his supporters.


O sweet face !" he exclaimed ; " thou mayst
be calm now ; but what is to calm me ? O hand
that was held up to me in sign of peace and forgiveness
! to what have T brought thee ? Wretch
that I am, I do not even weep. Mine eyes areas

cruel as my hands. My blood shall be shed
instead."

And with these words he began tearing off the
bandages which the surgeons had put upon him ;
and he thrust his fingers into his wounds, and
would have slain himself thus outright, had not
the pain made him faint away.

He was then taken back to his own chamber.
Godfrey came in the mean time with the venerable
hermit Peter ; and when the sufferer awoke,
they addressed him in kind words, which even his
impatience respected ; but it was not to be calmed
till the preacher put on the terrors of religion,
remonstrating with him as an ingrate to God, and
threatening him with the doom of a sinner. The
tears then crept into his eyes, and he tried to be
patient, and in some degree was so — only breaking
out ever and anon, now into exclamations of
horror, and now into fond lamentations, talking
as if with the shade of his beloved.

Thus lay Tancred for days together, ever woful
; till, falling asleep one night towards the dawn,
the shade of Clorinda did indeed appear to him,
more beautiful than ever, and clad in light and
joy. She seemed to stoop and wipe the tears
from his eyes ; and then said, " Behold how
happy I am. Behold me, O beloved friend, and

see how happy, and bright, and beautiful I am;
and consider that it is all owing to thyself. 'Twas
thou that cook's me out of the false path, and
made me worthy of admission among saints and
angels. There, in heaven, I love and rejoice; and
there I look to see thee in thine appointed time ;
after which we shall both love the great God and
one another for ever and ever. Be faithful, and
command thyself, and look to the end ; for, lo,
as far as it is permitted to a blessed spirit to love
mortality, even now I love thee !"

With these words the eyes of the vision grew
bright beyond mortal beauty ; and then it turned
and was hidden in the depth of its radiance, and
disappeared.

Tancred slept a quiet sleep ; and when he
awoke, he gave himself patiently up to the will of
the physician ; and the remains of Clorinda were
gathered into a noble tombs

This tomb, Tancred says, in an address which he makes toit,
'* has his flames inside of it, and his tears without :"

Che centre hai le mie fiamme, e fuori il piano," St. 96.
I am loath to disturb the effect of a really touching story ; but if
I do not occasionally give instances of these conceits, my translations
will belle my criticism.

ADVENTURES OF THE ENCHANTED FOREST.

T^

Part II. — Armida, after making the knights feel the power of
her magic, dismisses them bound prisoners for Damascus. They
are rescued on their way by Rinaldo. Armida pursues him in
wrath, but falls in love with him.

Part III — The magician Ismeno succeeds in frightening the
Christians in their attempt to cut wood from the Enchanted Forest.
Rinaldo is sent for, as the person fated to undo the enchantment.

Part IV. — Rinaldo and Armida, in love with each other,
pass their time in a bower of bliss. He is fetched away by two
knights, and leaves her in despair.

Part V. — Rinaldo disenchants the forest, and has the chief
hand in the taking of Jerusalem. He meets and reconciles Armida.


ETC.

Part t\}t first.
ARMIDA IN THE CHRISTIAN CAMP.

The Christians had now commenced their attack
on Jerusalem, and brought a great rolling tower
against the walls, built from the wood of a forest
in the neighbourhood ; when the Malignant Spirit,
who has never ceased his war with Heaven, cast
in his mind how he might best defeat their purpose.
It was necessary to divide their forces ; to
destroy their tower; to hinder them from building
another; and to make one final triumphant
effort against the whole progress of their arms.

Forgetting how the right arm of God could
launch its thunderbolts, the Fiend accordingly
seated himself on his throne, and ordered his
powers to be brought together.

The Tartarean trumpet, with its hoarse voice,
called up the dwellers in everlasting darkness.
The huge black caverns trembled to their depths,
and the blind air rebelled with the thunder.
The bolt does not break forth so horribly when it
comes bursting after the flash out of the heavens ;
nor had the world before ever trembled with such
an earthquakes

^ " China gli agitator' de 1' ombre eterne
II rauco soon de la tartai'ea tromba.
Trepan le spaziose are caverne,

E r aer cieco a quel rumor rimbomba.
Ne SI trident mai da le super

Region del ciel il folgor piomba :
Ne SI scossa gia mai trema la terra,
Quando i vapor in sen gravida serra."

Canto iv. st. 3.
The trump of Tartarus, with iron roar,

Called to the dwellers the black regions under :
Hell through its caverns trembled to the core.

And the blind air rebelled to the thunder :
Never yet fiery bolt more fiercely tore

The crashing firmament, like rocks, asunder ;
Nor with so huge a shudder earth's foundations
Shook to their mighty heart, lifting the nations.

The tone of this stanza (suggested otherwise by Vida) was caught
from a fine one in Politian, the passage in which about the Nile I
ought to have called to mind at page 168.

"Con tal rumor, squalor P aer discord,
Di Giove il coco d' alta tube piomba :

The gods of the abyss came thronging upon
all sides through the gates; — terrible-looking
beings with unaccountable aspects, dispensers of
death and horror with their eyes; — some stamping
with hoofs, some rolling on enormous spires,
their faces human, their hair serpents. There
were thousands of shameless Harpies, of pallid
Gorgon, of barking Scylla, of Chimeras that
vomited ashes, and of monsters never before heard
or thought of, with perverse aspects all mixed up
in one.

The Power of Evil sat looking down upon
them, huger than a rock in the sea, or an alp
with forked summits. A certain horrible majesty
augmented the terrors of his aspect. His eyes
reddened ; his poisonous look hung in the air like
a comet; the mouth, as it opened in the midst

Con tal tuniulto, onde la gente assyria,

Da r alter cataract il Nil rimbomba :
Con tal error del Latin langue angora

Sono Megara la tartarean tromba."

Fragment on the Jousting of Giuliano de' Medici.

Such is the noise, when through his cloudy floor
The bolt of Jove falls on the pale world under ;

So shakes the land, where Nile with deafening roar
Plunges his clattering cataracts in thunder ;

Horribly so, through Latium's realm of yore,
The trump of Tartarus blew ghastly wonder.

of clouds of beard, seemed an abyss of darkness
and blood ; and out of it, as from a volcano,
issued fires, and vapours, and disgust.

Satan laid forth to his dreadful hearers his
old quarrel with Heaven, and its new threats of
an extension of its empire. Christendom was to
be brought into Asia ; their worshippers were to
perish ; souls were to be rescued from their devices,
and Satan's kingdom on earth put an end
to. He exhorted them therefore to issue forth
once for all and prevent this fatal consummation
by the destruction of the Christian forces. Some
of the leaders he bade them do their best to disperse,
others to slay, others to draw into effeminate
pleasures, into rebellion, into the ruin of the
whole camp, so that not a vestige might remain
of its existence.

The assembly broke up with the noise of hurricanes.
They issued forth to look once more
upon the stars, and to sow seeds every where of
destruction to the Christians. Satan himself followed
them, and entered the heart of Hydrate,
king of Damascus.

Hydrate was a wizard as well as a king,
and held the Christians in abhorrence. But he
was wise enough to respect their valour ; and
with Satan's help he discerned the likeliest way

to counteract it. He had a niece, who was the
greatest beauty of the age. He had taught her
his art : and he concluded, that the enchantments
of beauty and magic united would prove irresistible.
He therefore disclosed to her his object.
He told her that every artifice was lawful, when
the intention was to serve one's country and one's
faith; and he conjured her to do her utmost to
separate Godfrey himself from his army, or in the
event of that not being possible, to bring away as
many as she could of his noblest captains.

Armida (for that was her name), proud of
her beauty, and of the unusual arts that she had
acquired, took her way the same evening, alone,
and by the most sequestered paths, — a female
in gown and tresses issuing forth to conquer an
army.i

She had not travelled many days ere she came
in sight of the Christian camp, the outskirts of
which she entered immediately. The Frenchmen
all flocked to see her, wondering who she was, and

" La bella Armida, di sua forma altera,
E de' doni del sesso e de 1' state,
L' impresa prendre : e in su la prima sera

Parte, e tiens sol vie chuse e relate :
E 'n brescia e 'n donna feminine opera
Vincer populi invitJti e scheme ornate."

Canto iv. st. 27.

who could have sent them so lovely a messenger.
Armida passed onwards, not with a misgiving air,
not with an alluring, and yet not with an immodest
one. Her golden tresses she suffered at one
moment to escape from under her veil, and at another
she gathered them again within it. Her rosy
mouth breathed simplicity as well as voluptuousness.
Her bosom was so artfully draped, as tolet
itself be discerned without seeming to intend
it. And thus she passed along, surprising and
transporting every body. Coming at length among
the tents of the officers, she requested to be shewn
that of the leader; and Eustace eagerly stepped
forward to conduct her.

Eustace was the younger brother of Godfrey.
He had all the ardour of his time of life, and the
gallantry, in every respect, of a Frenchman. After
paying her a profusion of compliments, and learning
that she was a fugitive in distress, he promised
her every thing which his brother's authority and
his own sword could do for her ; and so led her
into Godfrey's presence.

The pretended fugitive made a lowly obeisance,
and then stood mute and blushing, till the general
re-assured her. She then told him, that she was
the rightful queen of Damascus, whose throne was
usurped by an uncle ; that her uncle sought her

death, from which she had been saved by the man
who was bribed to inflict it ; and that although
her creed was Mahometan, she had brought her
mind to conclude, that so noble an enemy as Godfrey
would take pity on her condition, and permit
some of his captains to aid the secret wishes of
her people, and seat her on the throne. Ten selected
chiefs would overcome, she said, all opposition
; and she promised in return to become his
grateful and faithful vassal.

The leader of the Christian army sat a while in
deliberation. His heart was inclined to befriend
the lady, but his prudence was afraid of a Pagan
artifice. He thought also that it did not become
his piety to turn aside from the enterprise which
God had favoured. He therefore gave her a gentle
refusal ; but added, that should success attend
him, and Jerusalem be taken, he would instantly
do what she required.

Armida looked down, and wept. A mixture
of indignation and despair appeared to seize her ;
and exclaiming that she had no longer a wish to
live, she accused, she said, not a heart so renowned
for generosity as his, but Heaven itself which had
steeled it against her. What was she to do ? She
could not remain in his camp. Virgin modesty
forbade that. She was not safe out of its bounds.

Her enemies tracked her steps. It was fit that
she should die by her own hand.

An indignant pity took possession of the French
officers. They wondered how Godfrey could resist
the prayers of a creature so beautiful; and
Eustace openly, though respectfully, remonstrated.
He said, that if ten of the best of his captains
could not be spared, ten others might; that it
especially became the Christians to redress the
wrongs of the innocent ; that the death of a
tyrant, instead of being a deviation from the service
of God, was one of the directed means of
performing it ; and that France would never endure
to hear, that a lady had applied to her knights
for assistance, and found her suit refused.

A murmur of approbation followed the words
of Eustace. His companions pressed nearer to the
general, and warmly urged his request.

Godfrey assented to a wish expressed by so
many, but not with perfect goodwill. He bade
them remember, that the measure was the result
of their own opinion, not his ; and concluded by
requesting them at all events, for his sake, to moderate
the excess of their confidence. The transported
warriors had scarcely any answer to make
but that of congratulations to the lady. She, on
her side, while mischief was rejoicing in her heart,

first expressed her gratitude to all in words intermixed
with smiles and tears, and then carried herself
towards every one in particular in the manner
which she thought most fitted to ensnare. She
behaved to this person with cordiality, to that with
comparative reserve ; to one with phrases only, to
another with looks besides, and intimations of secret
preference. The ardour of some she repressed,
but still in a manner to rekindle it. To others
she was all gaiety and attraction ; and when others
again had their eyes upon her, she would fall into
fits of absence, and shed tears, as if in secret, and
then look up suddenly and laugh, and put on a
cheerful patience. And thus she drew them all
into her net.

Yet none of all these men confessed that passion
impelled them ; every body laid his enthusiasm
to the account of honour — Eustace particularly,
because he was most in love. He was also very
jealous, especially of the heroical Rinaldo, Prince
of Este ; and as the squadron of horse to which
they both belonged — the greatest in the army —
had lately been deprived of its chief, Eustace cast
in his mind how he might keep Rinaldo from going
with Armida, and at the same time secure his own
attendance on her, by advancing him to the vacant
post. He offered bis services to Rinaldo for the

purpose, not without such emotion as let the hero
into his secret ; but as the latter had no desire to
wait on the lady, he smilingly assented, agreeing
at the same time to assist the wishes of the lover.
The emissaries of Satan, however, were at work
in all quarters. If Eustace was jealous of Rinaldo
as a rival in love, Fernando, Prince of Norway,
another of the squadron that had lost its chief, was
no less so of his gallantry in war, and of his qualifications
for being his commander. Fernando was
a haughty barbarian, who thought that every sort
of pre-eminence was confined to princes of blood
royal. He heard of the proposal of Eustace with
a disgust that broke into the unworthiness expressions.
He even vented it in public, in the open
part of the camp, when Rinaldo was standing at
no great distance ; and the words coming to the
hero's ears, and breaking down the tranquillity of
his contempt, the latter darted towards him, sword
in hand, and defied him to single combat. Fernando
beheld death before him, but made a show
of valour, and stood on his defence. A thousand
swords leaped forth to back him, mixed with as
many voices ; and half the camp of Godfrey tried
to withhold the impetuous youth who was for
deciding his quarrel without the general's leave.
But the hero's transport was not to be stopped ;

he dashed through them all, forced the Norwegian
to encounter him, and after a storm of blows that
dazzled the man's eyes and took away his senses,
ran his sword thrice through the prince's body.
He then sent the blade into its sheath reeking as
it was, and, taking his way back to his tent, reposed
in the calmness of his triumph.

The victor had scarcely gone, when the general
arrived on the ground. He beheld the slain
Prince of Norway with acute feelings of regret.
What was to become of his army, if the leaders
thus quarrelled among themselves, and his authority
was set at nought ? The friends of the slain
man increased his anger against Rinaldo, by charging
him with all the blame of the catastrophe. The
hero's friend, Tancred, assuaged it somewhat by
disclosing the truth, and then ventured to ask pardon
for the outbreak. But the wise commander
shewed so many reasons why such an offence could
not be overlooked, and his countenance expressed
such a determination to resent it, that the gallant
youth hastened secretly to his friend, and urged
him to quit the camp till his services should be
needed. Rinaldo at first called for his arms, and
was bent on resisting every body who came to seize
him, had it been even Godfrey himself ; but Tancred
shewing him how unjust that would be, and

how fatal to the Christian cause, he consented
with an ill grace to depart. He would take
nobody with him but two squires ; and he went
away raging with a sense of ill requital for his
achievements, but resolving to prove their value
by destroying every infidel prince that he could
encounter.

Armida now tried in vain to make an impression
on the heart of Godfrey. He was insensible to
all her devices ; but she succeeded in quitting the
camp with her ten champions. Lots were drawn
to determine who should go ; and all who failed
to be in the list — Eustace among them — were
so jealous of the rest, that at night-time, after the
others had been long on the road, they set out to
overtake them, each by himself, and all in violation
of their soldierly words. The ten opposed
them as they came up, but to no purpose. Armida
reconciled them all in appearance, by feigning
to be devoted to each in secret ; and thus she
rode on with them many a mile, till she came to
a castle on the Dead Sea, where she was accustomed
to practise her friendliest arts.

Meanwhile news came to Godfrey that his
Egyptian enemies were at hand with a great fleet,
and that his caravan of provisions had been taken
by the robbers of the desert. His army was thus

threatened with ruin from desertion, starvation,
and the sword. He maintained a calm and even
a cheerful countenance ; but in his thoughts he
had great anxiety.

The castle to which Armida took her prisoners
occupied an island close to the shore in the loathsome
Dead Sea. They entered it by means of a
narrow bridge ; but if their pity had been great
at seeing her forced to take refuge in a spot so desolate
and repulsive, how pleasingly was it changed
into as great a surprise at finding a totally different
region within the walls ! The gardens were extensive
and lovely ; the rivulets and fountains as
sweet as the flowery thickets they watered ; the
breezes refreshing, the skies of a sapphire blue,
and the birds were singing round about them in
the trees. Her riches astonished them no less.
The side of the castle that looked on the gardens
was all marble and gold ; a banquet awaited them
beside a water on a shady lawn, consisting of the
exquisite viands on the costliest plate ; and a
hundred beautiful maidens attended them while
they feasted. The enchantress was all smiles and
delight ; and such was her art, that although she
bestowed no favour on any body beyond his banquet

and his hopes, every body thought himself
the favoured lover.

But no sooner was the feast over, than the
greatest and worst of their astonishments ensued.
The lady quitted them, saying she should return
presently. She did so with a troubled and unfriendly
countenance, having a book in one hand,
and a little wand in the other. She read in the
book in a low voice, and while she was reading
shook the little wand ; and the guests, altering in
every part of their being, and shrinking into minute
bodies, felt an inclination, which they obeyed,
to plunge into the water beside them. They were
josh. In a little while they were again men, looking
her in the face with dread and amazement. She
had restored them to their humanity. She regarded
them with a severe countenance, and said :
You have tasted my power ; I can exercise it
far more terribly — can put you in dungeons forever
— can turn you to roots in the ground — to
flints within the rock. Beware of my wrath, and
please me ; quit your faiths for mine, and fight
against the blasphemer Godfrey."

Every Christian but one rejected her alternative
with abhorrence. Him she made one of her
champions ; the rest were tied and bound, and after
being kept a while in a dungeon were sent off* as a

VOL. II. V

present to the King of Egypt, with an escort that
came from Damascus to fetch them.

Exulting was left the fair and bigoted magician
; but she little guessed what a new fortune
awaited them on the road. The discord with which
the powers of evil had seconded her endeavours
to weaken the Christian camp, had turned in this
instance against herself. It had made Rinaldo a
wanderer ; it had brought his wanderings into this
very path ; and he now met the prisoners, and bade
defiance to the escort. A battle ensued, in which
the hero won his accustomed victory. The Christians,
receiving the armour of their foes, joyfully
took their way back to the camp ; and one of the
escort, who escaped the slaughter, returned to Armida
with news of the deliverance of her captives.

The mortified enchantress took horse and went
in pursuit of Rinaldo, with wrath and vengeance
in her heart. She tracked him from place to place,
till she knew he must arrive on the banks of the
Orontes ; and there, making a stealthy circuit, she
cast a spell, and lay in wait for him in a little
island which divided the stream in twos

"That sweet grove

Of Daphne by Orontes." Parade. Lost, b. iv.

It was famous for the most luxurious worship of antiquity. Vide
Gibbon, vol. iii. p. 198.

Rinaldo came up with his squires ; he beheld
on the bank a pillar of white marble, and beside
it on the water a little boat. The pillar presented
an inscription, inviting travellers to cross to the
island and behold a wonder of the world. The
hero accepted the invitation ; but as the boat was
too small to hold more than one person, and the
circumstance probably an appeal to his courage,
he bade his squires wait for him, and proceeded
by himself.

On reaching the island and casting his eyes
eagerly round about, the adventurer could discern
nothing but trees and grottos, flowers and grass,
and water. He thought himself trifled with ; but
as the spot was beautiful and refreshing, he took
off" his helmet, resolving to stay a little and repose.
He crossed to the farther side of the island, and
lay down on the river-side. On a sudden he observed
the water bubble and gurgle in a manner
that was very strange ; and presently the top of a
head arose with beautiful hair, then the face of a
damsel, then the bosom. The fair creature stood
half out of the stream, and warbled a song so luxurious
and so lulling, that the little wind there was
seemed to fall in order to listen ; and the young
warrior was so drowsed with the sweetness, that
languor crept through all his senses, and he slept.

Armida came from out a thicket and looked
on him. She had resolved that he should perish.

But when she saw how placidly he breathed,
and what an intimation of beautiful eyes there
was in his very eyelids, she hung over him, still
looking.

In a little while she sat down by his side, always
looking. She hung over him as Narcissus
did over the water, and indignation melted out of
her heart. She cooled his face with her veil ; she
made a fan of it ; she gave herself up to the worship
of those hidden eyes. Of an enemy she became
a lover. 1

Armida gathered trails of roses and lilies from
the thickets around her, and cast a spell on them,
and made bands with which she fettered his sleeping
limbs; and then she called her nymphs, and
they put him into her car, and she went away with
him through the air far off, even to one of the
Fortunate Islands in the great ocean, where her
jealousy, assisted by her art, would be in dread of
no visitors, no discovery. She bore him to the
top of a mountain, and cast a spell about the mountain,
to make the top lovely and the sides inacces-

I omit a point about " fires" of love, and ** ices" of the
heart ; and I will here observe, once for all, that T omit many such
in these versions of Tasso, for the reason given in the Preface.

bible. She put shapes of wild beasts and monsters
in the woods of the lowest region, and heaps of
ice in the second, and alluring and betraying shapes
and enchantments towards the summit ; and round
the summit she put walls and labyrinths of inextricable
error ; and in the heart of these was a
palace by a lake, and the loveliest of gardens.

Here Rinaldo was awaked by love and beauty;
and here for the present he is left.

Meantime the siege of the Holy City had gone
on, with various success on either side, but chiefly
to the loss of the Christians. The machinations
of Satan were prevailing. Rinaldo, in his absence,
was thought to have been slain by the contrivance
of Godfrey, which nearly produced a revolt of the
forces. Godfrey was himself wounded in battle
by Clorinda : and now the great wooden tower was
burnt, and Clorinda slain in consequence (as you
have heard in another place), which oppressed the
courage of Tancred with melancholy.

On the other hand, the Powers of Evil were
far from being as prosperous as they wished.
They had lost the soul of Clorinda. They had
seen Godfrey healed by a secret messenger from
Heaven, who dropt celestial balsam into his wound.
They had seen the return of Armida's prisoners,
who had arrived just in time to change the fortune
of a battle, and drive the Pagans back
within their walls. And worse than all, they had

again felt the arm of St. Michael, who had threatened
them with worse consequences if they reappeared
in the contest.

The fiends, however, had colleagues on earth,
who plotted for them meanwhile. The Christians
had set about making another tower; but in this
proceeding they were thwarted by the enchanter
Ismeno, who cast his spells to better purpose this
time than he had done in the affair of the stolen
image. The forest in which the Christians obtained
wood for these engines lay in a solitary
valley, not far from the camp. It was very old,
dark, and intricate ; and had already an evil fame
as the haunt of impure spirits. No shepherd ever
took his flock there ; no Pagan would cut a bough
from it ; no traveller approached it, unless he had
lost his way : he made a large circuit to avoid it,
and pointed it out anxiously to his companions.

The necessity of the Christians compelled them
to defy this evil repute of the forest ; and Ismeno
hastened to oppose them. He drew his line, and
uttered his incantations, and called on the spirits
whom St. Michael had rebuked, bidding them
come and take charge of the forest — every one
of his tree, as a soul of its body. The spirits
delayed at first, not only for dread of the great
angel, but because they resented the bidding of

mortality, even in their own cause. The magician,
however, persisted ; and his spells becoming
too powerful to be withstood, presently they came
pouring in by myriads, occupying the whole place,
and rendering the very approach to it a task of
fear and labour. The first party of men that came
to cut wood were unable to advance when they
beheld the trees, but turned like children, and
became the mockery of the camp. Godfrey sent
them back, with a chosen squadron to animate
them to the work; but the squadron themselves,
however boldly they affected to proceed, had no
sooner approached the spot, than they found reason
to forgive the fears of the woodcutters. The
earth shook ; a great wind began rising, with a
sound of waters ; and presently, every dreadful
noise ever heard by man seemed mingled into one,
and advancing to meet them — roaring of lions,
hissing of serpents, dealings and rolls of thunder.
The squadron went back to Godfrey, and plainly
confessed that it had not courage enough to enter
such a place.

A leader, of the name of Alcasto, shook his
head at this candour with a contemptuous smile.
He was a man of the stupider sort of courage, without
mind enough to conceive danger. " Pretty soldiers,"
exclaimed he, " to be afraid of noises and

sights ! Give the duty to me. Nothing shall stop
Alcasto, though the place be the mouth of hell."

Alcasto went ; and he went farther than the
rest, and the trembling woodcutters once more
prepared their axes ; but, on a sudden, there
sprang up between them and the trees a wall of
fire which girded the whole forest. 'It had glowing
battlements and towers ; and on these there
appeared armed spirits, with the strangest and
most bewildering aspects. Alcasto retired — slowly
indeed, but with shame and terror ; nor had he
the courage to re-appear before his commander.
Godfrey had him brought, but could hardly get
a word from his lips. The man talked like one
in a dream.

At last Tancred went. He would have gone
before ; but he had neither thought the task so
difficult, nor did he care for any thing that was
going forward. His mind was occupied with the
dead Clorinda. He had now work that aroused
him ; and he set out in good earnest for the forest,
not unmoved in his imagination, but resolved to
defy all appearances.

Arrived at the wall of fire, Tancred halted a
moment, and looked up at the visages on its battlements,
not without alarm. Many reflections
passed swiftly through his mind, some urging him
v2

forward, others withholding ; but he concluded
with stepping right through the fire. It did not
resist him : he did not feel it.

The fire vanished ; and, in its stead, there
poured down a storm of hail and rain, black as
midnight. This vanished also.

Tancred stood amazed for an instant, and then
passed on. He was soon in the thick of the wood,
and for some time made his way with difficulty.
On a sudden, he issued forth into a large open
glade, like an amphitheatre, in which there was
nothing but a cypress-tree that stood in the middle.
The cypress was marked with hieroglyphical
characters, mixed with some words in the Syrian
tongue which he could read ; and these words requested
the stranger to spare the fated place, nor
trouble the departed souls who were there shut up
in the trees. Meantime the wind was constantly
moaning around it ; and in the moaning was a
sound of human sighs and tears.

Tancred's heart, for a moment, was overcome
with awe and pity; but recollecting himself, and
resolving to make amends for his credulity, he
smote with all his might at the cypress. The
blow, wonderful to see, produced an effusion of
blood, which dyed the grass about the root. Tancred's
hair stood on end. He smote, however,

again, with double violence, resolving to see the
end of the marvel ; and then he heard a woful
voice issuing as from a tomb.

Hast thou not hurt me," it said, " Tancred,
enough already ? Hast thou slain the human
body which I once joyfully inhabited ; and now
must thou cut and rend me, even in this wretched
enclosure ? My name was Clorinda. Every tree
which thou boldest is the habitation of some
Christian or Pagan soul ; for all come hither that
are slain beneath the walls of the city, compelled
by I know not what power, or for what reason.
Every bough in the forest is alive ; and when thou
contest down a tree, thou slaves a soul."

As a sick man in a dream thinks, and yet
thinks not, that he sees some dreadful monster,
and, notwithstanding his doubt, wishes to fly from
the horrible perplexity ; so the trembling lover,
though suspecting what he beheld, had so frightful
an image before his thoughts of Clorinda weeping
and wailing after death, and bleeding in her very
soul, that he had not the heart to do more, or to
remain in the place. He returned in bewildered
sorrow to Godfrey, and told him all. " It is not
in my power," he said, " to touch another bough
of that forest"!

1 In the original, an impetuous gust of wind carries away the

The astonished leader of the Christians now
made up his mind to go himself; and so, with
prayer and valour united, bring this appalling
adventure to some conclusion. But the hermit
Peter dissuaded him. The holy man, in an ecstacy
of foreknowledge, beheld the coming of the
only champion fated to conclude it ; and Godfrey
himself the same night had a vision from heaven,
bidding him grant the petition of those who should
sue him next day for the recall of Rinaldo from
exile — Rinaldo, the right hand of the army, as
Godfrey was its head.

The petition was made as soon as daylight
appeared ; and two knights, Carlo and Ubaldo,
were despatched in search of the fated hero.

sword of Tancred ; a circumstance which I mention because Collins
admired it (see his Ode on the Superstitions of the Highlands).
I confess I cannot do so. It seems to me quite superfluous ; and
when the reader finds the sword conveniently lying for the hero
outside the wood, as he returns, the effect is childish and pantomimic.
If the magician wished him not to fight any more, why
should he give him the sword back ? And if it was meant as a
present to him from Clorinda, what gave her the power to make
the present ? Tasso retained both the particulars in the Jerusalem
Conquistata.

The knights, with information procured on the
road from a good wizard, struck off for the seacoast,
and embarking in a pinnace which miraculously
awaited them, sailed along the shores of the
Mediterranean for the retreat of Armida. They
saw the Egyptian army assembled at Gaza, but
hoped to return with Rinaldo before it could
effect anything at Jerusalem. They passed the
mouths of the Nile, and Alexandria, and Cyrene,
and Ptolemaic, and the cities of the Moors, and
the dangers of the Greater and Lesser Whirlpools,
and their pilot shewed them the spot where Carthage
stood, — Carthage, now a dead city, whose
grave is scarcely discernible. For cities die ; kingdoms
die ; — a little sand and grass covers all that
was once lofty in them and glorious. And yet
man, forsooth, disdains that he is mortal! Oh,
mind of ours, inordinate and proud \^

^ " Giace 1' alta Cartago : append i segni
De r alter sue ruine il lido sera.

After looking towards the site of Carthage,
they passed Algiers, and Oran, and Tingitana,
and beheld the opposite coast of Spain, and then
they cleared the narrow sea of Gibraltar, and

Muoiono le cotta : muoiono i regni :

Core i fasti e le pompe arena ed era :
E r uom d' esse mortal par che si sdegni.

Oh nostra mente cupids e superb !"

Canto XV. st. 20.

Great Carthage is laid low. Scarcely can eye

Trace where she stood with all her mighty crowd :

For cities die ; kingdoms and nations die ;
A little sand and grass is all their shroud ;

Yet mortal man disdains mortality !
O mind of ours, inordinate and proud 1

Very fine is this stanza of Tasso ; and yet, like some of the finest
writing of Gray, it is scarcely more than a cento. The commentators
call it a " beautiful imitation" of a passage in Sannazzaro ;
and it is ; but the passage in Sannazzaro is also beautiful. It
contains not only the " Giace Cartago," and the *' append i
segni," &c., but the contrast of the pride with the mortality of
man, and, above all, the " dying" of the cities, which is the finest
thing in the stanza of its imitator.

Qua devices Carthaginian arches
Procedure, jacentque infausto in little terres
Verse ; quantum ille metus, quantum ilia labour
Urbs dedit insults Latin et Laurentius aris I
Nunc passim vix reliquiae, vix nomina servant,
Obruitur propriis non agnoscenda ruins.

came out into the immeasurable ocean, leaving all
sight of land behind them ; and so speeding ever
onward in the billows, they beheld at last a cluster
of mountainous and beautiful islands ; the
larger ones inhabited bj^ a simple people, the
smaller quite wild and desolate. So at least they

Et querimur genus infelix, human habere

Membra svo, cum regna palm moriantur et urges."

De Paris Virginis, lib. ii.

The commentators trace the conclusion of this passage to Dante,
where he says that it is no wonder families perish, when cities
themselves " have their terminations" (terrain anno) : but though
there is a like germ of thought in Dante, the mournful flower of
it, the word ** death," is not there. It was evidently suggested by a
passage (also pointed out by the commentators) in the consolatory
letter of Suspicious to Cicero, on the death of his daughter Tullia ;
" Heu nos homunculi indignant, si quis nostrum intermit, aut
occiput est, quorum vita trevor esse debet, cum uno loco tot
oppidorum talavera projects jacent." (Alas ! we poor human
creatures are indignant if any one of us dies or is slain, frail as are
the materials of which we are constituted ; and yet we can see,
lying together in one place, the dead bodies of I know not how
many cities !) The music of Tasso's line was indebted to one in
Petrarch's Trionfo del Tempo, v. 112 :

Passa le signore, passant i regni ;"

and the fine concluding verse, ** Oh nostra mente," to another
perhaps in his Trionfo della Divinity, v. 61, not without a recollection
of Lucretius, lib. ii. v. 14 :

** O misers hominem mentes ! o pectora caeca!"

appeared. But in one of these smaller islands
was the mountain, on the top of which, in the
indulgence of every lawless pleasure, lay the
champion of the Christian faith. This the pilot
shewed to the two knights, and then steered the
pinnace into its hay; and here, after a voyage of
four days and nights, it dropped its sails without
need of anchor, so mild and sheltered was the
port, with natural moles curving towards the entrance,
and evergreen woods overhead.

It was evening, with a beautiful sunset. The
knights took leave of the pilot, and setting out
instantly on their journey, well furnished with all
advices how to proceed, slept that night at the
foot of the mountain ; for they were not to begin
to scale it till sunrise. With the first beams of
the sun they arose and ascended. They had not
climbed far, when a serpent rushed out upon the
path, entirely stopping it, but fled at the sound
of a slender rod, which Ubaldo whisked as he
advanced. A lion, for all his cavernous jaws, did
the same ; nor was greater resistance made by a
whole herd of monsters. They now mounted with
great labour the region of ice and snow ; but,
at the top of it, emerged from winter-time into
summer. The air was full of sweet odours, yet
fresh ; they sauntered (for they could not walk

fast) over a velvet sward, under trees, Ly the side
of a shady river ; and a bewitching pleasure began
to invite their senses. But they knesv the river,
and bore in mind their duty. It was called the
River of Laughter. ^ A little way on, increasing
in beauty as it went, it formed a lucid pool ina
dell ; and by the side of this pool was a table
spread with every delicacy, and in the midst of it
two bathing damsels, talking and laughing. Sometimes
they sprinkled one another, then dived, then
partly came up without shewing their faces, then
played a hundred tricks, pretending all the while
not to see the travellers. Then they became
quiet, and sunk gently ; and, as they reappeared,
one of them rose half into sight, sweetly as the
morning star wien it issues from the water, dewy
and dropping, or as Venus herself arose out of
the froth of the sea. Such looked this damsel,
and so did the crystal moisture go dropping from
her tresses. Then she turned her eyes towards
the travellers, and feigning to behold them for the
first time, shrunk within herself. She hastened
to undo the knot in which her tresses were tied
up, and shook them round about her, and down

1 A fountain which caused laughter that killed people is in
Pompous Mela's account of the Fortunate Islands ; and was the
origin of that of Boiardo ; as I ought to have noticed in the place.

they fell to the water thick and long, enclosing
that beautiful sight; and yet the enclosure itself
was not less beautiful. So, hid in the pool below,
and in her tresses above, she glanced at the
knights through her hair, with a blushing gladness.
She blushed and she laughed at the same
time ; and the blushing was more beautiful for the
laughter, and the laughter for-the blushing; and
then she said, in a voice which would alone have
conquered any other hearers, " You are very
happy to be allowed to come to this place. Nothing
but delight is here. Our queen must have
chosen you from a great number. But be pleased
first to rid you of the dust of your journey, and
to refresh yourselves at this table."

So spake the one ; and the other accompanied
her speech with accordant looks and gestures, as
the dance accompanies the music.

Nor was the allurement unfelt.

But the companions passed on, taking no notice
; and the bathers went sullenly under the
waters

All this description of the females bathing is in the highest
taste of the voluptuous ; particularly the latter part :

Qual mattutina stella esse de 1' onde
Rugiadosa e stillante : o come fore
Sp unto nascent gia da le seconde
Spume de V ocean la Dea d' More :

The knights passed through the gates of the
park of Armida, and entered a labyrinth made
with contrivance the most intricate. Here their

Tale approve coster : tal le sue blonde

Chime stillavan crystalline more.
Poi giro gli occhi, e pur allow s' infinite
Que' duo videre, e in se tutti si strange :

E '1 crin che 'n lima al capo area raccolto
In un sol modo, immantinente soils ;

Che lung hiss imo ia giu cadence, e folio,
D' un aurea santo i molli avori involve.

Oh che ago spectacle e lor toto I
Ma mon men ago fu chi lord il tole.

Cost da 1' atque e da capeUi ascosa,

A lor si vols, lieth e vergognosa.

Rideva inside, e inside ella arrossia ;

Ed era nel rossor iii bello il rise,
E nel rise il rossor, che le copia

Insino al mente il delicate vis."

Canto XV. st. 60.

Spenser, among the other obligations which it delighted him to
owe to this part of Tasso's poem, has translated these last twelve
lines :

With that the other likewise up arose,
And her fair locks, which formerly were bound
Up in one knot, she low adown did loose,
Which, flowing long and thick, her cloth'd around.
And th' ivory in golden mantle owned :
So that fair spectacle from him was reft ;
Yet that which reft it, no less fair was found.

path would have been lost, but for a map traced
by one who knew the secret. By the help of this
they threaded it in safety, and issued upon a
garden beautiful beyond conception. Every thing
that could be desired in gardens was presented to
their eyes in one landscape, and yet without contradiction
or confusion, — flowers, fruits, water,
sunny hills, descending woods, retreats into corners
and grottos : and what put the last loveliness upon

So hid in locks and waves from looker's theft,
Nought but her lovely face she for his looking left.

Withal she laughed, and she blush'd withal ;
That blushing to her laughter gave more grace,
And laughter to her blushing."

Fairy Queen, book ii. canto 12, st. 67.

Tasso's translator, Fairfax, worthy both of his original and of
Spenser, has had the latter before him in his version of the passage,
not without a charming addition of his own at the close of the first
stanza :

And her fair locks, that in a knot were tied

High on her crown, she 'gan at large unfold ;
Which falling long and thick, and spreading wide.

The ivory soft and white mantled in gold :
Thus her fair skin the dame would clothe and hide ;

And that which hid it, no less fair was hold.
Thus clad in waves and locks, her eyes divine
From them ashamed would she turn and twine.

Withal she smiled, and she blush'd withal ;

Her blush her smiling, smiles her blushing graced."

the scene was, that the art which did it all was
no where discernible. i You might have supposed
(so exquisitely was the wild and the cultivated
united) that all had somehow happened, not been
contrived. It seemed to be the art of Nature
herself; as though, in a fit of playfulness, she had
imitated her imitator. But the temperature of
the place, if nothing else, was plainly the work
of magic, for blossoms and fruit abounded at the
same time. The ripe and the budding fig grew on
the same bough ; green apples were clustered upon
those with red cheeks ; the vines in one place had
small leaves and hard little grapes, and in the next

1 " E quel che '1 bello e '1 caro accresce a 1' ore,
L' arte, che tutti fa, nulla si score.

Stimi (si mist il cult e col neglect)

Sol natural e gli ornaments e i sith.
Di natura arte pais che per stiletto

L' imitative sua scherzando imitate

idea of Nature imitating Art, and playfully imitating her,
is in Ovid ; but that of a mixture of cultivation and wildness is,
as far as I am aware, Tasso's own. It gives him the honour of
having been the first to suggest the picturesque principle of modern
gardening ; as I ought to have remembered, when assigning it
to Spenser in a late publication imagination and Fancy, p. 10^).
I should have noticed also, in the same work, the obligations of
Spenser to the Italian poet for the passage before quoted about the
nymph in the water.

they laid forth their richest tapestry in the sun,
heavy with bunches full of wine. At one time you
listened to the warbling of birds ; and a minute
after, as if they had stopped on purpose, nothing
was heard but the whispering of winds and the
fall of waters. It seemed as if every thing in the
place contributed to the harmony and the sweetness.
The notes of the turtle-dove were deeper
here than any where else ; the hard oak, and the
chaste laurel, and the whole exuberant family of
trees, the earth, the water, every element of creation,
seemed to have been compounded but for one
object, and to breathe forth the fulness of its bliss. ^

^ " Par che la dura querela e '1 cast allure
tutti la fronds ampia familia,
Par lie la terra e 1' aqua e form! e spirit
Dolcissimi d' amor sens! e sospiri."

St. 16.

Fairfax in this passage is very graceful and happy (in the first
part of his stanza he is speaking of a bird that sings with a human
voice — which I have omitted) :

She ceased : and as approving all she spoke,

The choir of birds their heavenly tunes renew ;

The turtles sigh'd, and sighs with kisses broke ;
The fowls to shades unseen by pairs withdrew ;

It seem'd the laurel chaste and stubborn oak,
And all the gentle trees on earth that grew,

It seem'd the land, the sea, and heaven above,

All breath out fancy sweet, and sigh'd out love."

The two messengers, hardening their souls
with all their might against the enchanting impression,
moved forward silently among the trees ; till,
looking through the branches into a little opening
which formed a bower, they saw — or did they
but think they saw ? — no, they saw indeed the
hero and his Armida reclining on the grass. ^ Her
dress was careless, her hair loose in the summer-wind.
His head lay in her bosom; a smile trembled
on her lips and in her eyes, like a sunbeam
in water; and as she thus looked on him with
passionate love, he looked up at her, face to face,
and returned it with all his soul.

Now she kissed his lips, now his eyes ; and
then they looked again at one another with their
ever-hungry looks ; and then she kissed him again,
and he gave a sigh so deep you would have thought
his soul had gone out of him, and passed into hers.
The two warriors from their covert gazed on the
loving scene.

At the lover's side there hung a strange accoutrement
for a warrior, namely, a crystal mirror.
He rose a little on his elbow, and gave it into
Armida's hands : and in two different objects each

1 * ' Echo tra fronde e f ronde il guard avant
Penetrate, e vide, o pargli di videre,
Rede per certo," &c. St. 17.

beheld but one emotion, she hers in the glass, and
he his own in her eyes. But he would not suffer
her to look long at any thing but himself; and
then they spake loving and adoring words ; and
after a while Armida bound up her hair, and put
some flowers into it, as jewels might be put upon
gold, and added a rose or two to the lilies of her
bosom, and adjusted her veil. And never did
peacock look so proudly beautiful when he displays
the pomp of his eyed plumes ; nor was ever
the rainbow so sweetly coloured when it curves
forth its dewy bosom against the light. ^ But
lovely above all was the effect of a magic girdle
which the enchantress had made with her whole
art, and which she never laid aside day or night.
Spirit in it had taken substance; the subtlest
emotions of the soul a shape and palpability.
Tender disdains were in it, and repulses that attracted,
and levities that endeared, and contentment
full of joy, and smiles, and little words,
and drops of delicious tears, and short-coming

^ The line about the peacock,

*' Spiega la pomp de V occhiute plume,"
Opens wide the pomp of his eyed plumes,

was such a favourite with Tasso, that he has repeated it from the
Aminta, and (I think) in some other place, but I cannot call it
to mind.

sighs, and soft kisses. All these she had mingled
together, and made one delight out of many, and
wound it about her heart, and wore it for a charm
irresistible

And now she kissed him once more, and begged
leave of a little absence (for love is courteous
ever), and so went as usual to her books and her
magic arts. Rinaldo remained where he was, for
he had no power to wish himself out of the sweet
spot ; only he would stray a while among the trees,
and amuse himself with the birds and squirrels,
and so be a loving hermit till she returned. And
at night they retired under one roof, still in the
midst of the garden.

** Teneri sdegni, e placide e tranquille
Repulse, e cari vezzi, e hete pace,
Morris, e palette, e dolce still
Di piano, e sospir' bronchi, e molli baci." St. 5

This is the cestus in Homer, which Venus lends to Juno for the

purpose of enchanting Jupiter :

H, Rai air (TTrjOeacpiv eAucraro K(:<ttov IjxavTa
TloiKiXov' cv6a Se ol deXKrrjpia iravra t^tvkto'
Ev' kvi xiv <piAoT7]s, eu S' l/xepos, er S' oapicrvs,
Tlap(paais, r] t' ewAei/ze voov irvKa Tree (ppoviovroov.

Iliad, lib. xiv. 214-

She said ; and from her balmy bosom loosed
The girdle that contained all temptingne?s —
Love, and desire, and sweet and secret talk
Lavish, which robs the wisest of their wits.
VOL. II. X

Ricardo AND ARMIDA.

But no sooner had Armida gone, than the two
warriors issued from their hiding-place, and stood
before the lover, glittering in their noble arms.

As a war-horse, that has been taken from the
wars, and become the luxurious husband of the
stud, wanders among the drove in the meadows
in vile enjoyment; should by chance a trumpet
be heard in the place, or a dazzling battle-axe
become visible, he turns towards it on the instant,
and neighs, and longs to be in the lists, and vehemently
desires the rider on his back who is to
dash and be dashed at in the encounter; — even
so turned the young hero when the light of the
armour flashed upon him, even so longed for the
war, even so shook himself up out of his bed of
pleasure, with all his great qualities awaked and
eager.

Ubaldo saw the movement in his heart, and
held right in his face the shield of adamant, which
had been brought for the purpose. It was a
mirror that shewed to the eyes of every one who
looked into it the very man as he was.

But when Rinaldo beheld himself indeed, —
when he read his transformation, not in the flattering
glass of the enchantress, but by the light
of this true, and simple, and severe reflector, —
his hair tricked out with flowers and unguents.

his soft mantle of exquisite t dye, and his very
sword rendered undistinguishable for what it was
by a garland, — shame and remorse fell upon him.
He felt indeed like a dreamer come to himself.
He looked down. He could not speak. He wished
to hide himself in the bottom of the sea.

Ubaldo raised his voice and spoke. " All
Europe and Asia," said he, *^ are in arms. Whoever
desires fame, or is a worshipper of his Saviour,
is a fighter in the land of Syria. Thou
only, O son of Bertoldo, remained out of the highway
of renown — in luxury — in a little corner;
thou only, unmoved with the movement of the
world, the champion of a girl. What dream, what
lethargy can have drowned a valour like thine ?
What vileness have had attraction for thee ? Up,
up, and with us. The camp, the commander himself
calls for thee ; fortune and victory await thee.
Come, fated warrior, and finish thy work ; see the
false creed which thou hast shaken, laid low beneath
thy inevitable sword."

On hearing these words the noble youth remained
for a time without speaking, without moving.
At length shame gave way to a passionate
sense of his duty. With a new fire in his cheeks,
he tore away the effeminate ornaments of his
servitude, and quitted the spot without a word.

Ricardo AND ARMIDA.

In a few moments he had threaded the labyrinth :
he was outside the gate. Ere long he was descending
the mountain.

But meantime Armida had received news of
the two visitors ; and coming to look for them,
and casting her eyes down the steep, she beheld
with his face, alas, turned no longer towards
her own — the hasty steps of her hero between his
companions. She wished to cry aloud, but was
unable. She misfht have resorted to some of her
magic devices, but her heart forbade her. She
ran, however — for what cared she for dignity ? —
she ran down the mountain, hoping still by her
beauty and her tears to arrest the fugitive; but
his feet were too strong, even for love : she did
not reach him till he had arrived on the sea-shore.
Where was her pride now? where the scorn she
had exhibited to so many suitors ? where her coquetry
and her self-sufficiency — her love of being
loved, with the power to hate the lover? The
enchantress was now taught what the passion was,
in all its despair as well as delight. She cried
aloud. She cared not for the presence of the
messengers. " Oh, go not, Rinaldo," she cried ;
go not, or take me with thee. My heart is torn
to pieces. Take me, or turn and kill me. Stop,
at least, and be cruel to me here. If thou hast

the heart to fly me, it will not be hard to thee to
stay and be unkind."

Even the messengers were moved at this, or
seemed to be moved. Ubaldo told the fugitive that
it would be heroical in him to wait and hear what
the lady had to say, with gentleness and firmness.
His conquest over himself would then be complete.

Rinaldo stopped, and Armida came up breathless
and in tears — lovelier than ever. She looked
earnestly at him at first, without a word. He
gave her but a glance, and looked aside.

As a fine singer, before he lets loose his tongue
in the lofty utterance of his emotion, prepares the
minds of his hearers with some sweet prelude,
exquisitely modulating in a lower tone, — so the
enchantress, whose anguish had not deprived her
of all sense of her art, breathed a few sighs to dispose
the soul of her idol to listen, and then said :
I do not beg thee to hear me as one that loves
me. We both loved once ; but that is over. I
beg thee to hear, even though as one that loves
me not. It will cost thy disdain nothing to grant
me that. Perhaps thou hast discovered a pleasure
in hating me. Do so. I come not to deprive thee
of it. If it seem just to thee, just let it be. I too
once hated. I hated the Christians — hated even
thyself. I thought it right to do so : I was bred

up to think it. I pursued thee to do thee mischief ;
I overtook thee ; I bore thee away ; and worse
than all — for now perhaps thou loathes me for
it — I loved thee. I loved thee, for the first time
that I loved any one ; nay, I made thee love me in
turn ; and, alas, I gave myself into thine arms.
It was wrong. I was foolish ; I was wicked. I
grant that I have deserved thou shouldst think ill
of me, that thou shouldst punish me, and quit me,
and hate to have any remembrance of this place
which I had filled with delights. Go ; pass over
the seas ; make war against my friends and my
country ; destroy us all, and the religion we believe
in. Alas \ ' we' do 1 say ? The religion is mine no
longer — O thou, the cruel idol of my soul. Oh,
let me go with thee, if it be but as thy servant,
thy slave. Let the conqueror take with him his
captive ; let her be mocked ; let her be pointed
at ; only let her be with thee. I will cut ofi" these
tresses, which no longer please thee : I will clothe
myself in other attire, and go with thee into the
battle. I have courage and strength enough to
bear thy lance, to lead thy spare-horse, to be,
above all, thy shield-bearer — thy shield. Nothing
shall touch thee but through me — through this
bosom, Rinaldo. Perhaps mischance may spare
thee for its sake. Not a word ? not a little word ?

Do I dare to boast of what thou hadst once a kind
word for, though now thou wilt neither look upon
me nor speak to me ?"

She could say no more : her words were suffocated
by a torrent of tears. But she sought to
take his hand, to arrest him by his mantle — in
vain. He could scarcely, it is true, restrain his
tears : but he did. He looked sorrowful, but
composed ; and at length he said : " Armida,
would I could do as thou wishes ; but I cannot.
I would relieve thee instantly of all this tumult of
emotion. No hate is there in him that must quit
thee ; no such disdain as thou fanciest ; nothing
but the melancholy and impetuous sense of his
duty. Thou hast erred, it is true — erred both in
love and hate ; but have I not erred with thee ?
and can I find excuse which is not found for thyself?
Dear and honoured ever wilt thou be with
Rinaldo, whether in joy or sorrow. Count me,
if it please thee, thy champion still, as far as my
country and my faith permit ; but here, in this
spot, must be buried all else — buried, not for my
sake only, but for that of thy beauty, thy worthiness,
thy royal blood. Consent to disparage thyself
no longer. Peace be with thee. I go where
I have no permission to take thee with me. Be
happy ; be wise."

While Rinaldo was speaking in this manner,
Armida changed colour ; her bosom heaved ; her
eyes took a new kind of fire ; scorn rose upon her
lip. When he finished, she looked at him with a
bitterness that rejected every word he had said ;
and then she exclaimed : " Thou hast no such
blood in thine own veins as thou canst fear to
degrade. Thy boasted descent is a fiction : base,
and brutish, and insensible was thy stock. What
being of gentle blood could quit a love like mine
without even a tear — a sigh ? What but the
mockery of a man could call me his, and yet leave
me ? vouchsafe me his pardon, as if I had offended
him? excuse my guilt and my tenderness; he,
the sage of virtue, and me, the wretch ! O God !
and these are the men that take upon them to
slaughter the innocent, and dictate faiths to the
world ! Go, hard heart, with such peace as thou
leaves in this bosom. Begone ; take thine injustice
from my sight for ever. My spirit will follow
thee, not as a help, but as a retribution. I shall
die first, and thou wilt die speedily: thou wilt
perish in the battle. Thou wilt lie expiring among
the dead and bleeding, and wilt call on Armida in
thy last moments, and I shall hear it — yes, I shall
hear it ; I shall look for that."

Down fell Armida on the ground, senseless ;

and Rinaldo stood over her, weeping at last. Open
thine eyes, poor wretch, and see him. Alas, the
heavens deny thee the consolation ! What will he
do ? Will he leave thee lying there betwixt dead
and alive ? Or will he go — pitying thee, but still
going ? He goes ; he is gone ; he is in the bark,
and the wind is in the sail ; and he looks back
ever back ; but still goes : the shore begins to
be out of sight.

Armida woke, and was alone. She raved
again, but it was for vengeance. In a few days
she was with the Egyptian army, a queen at the
head of her vassals, going against the Christians at
Jerusalem.

XJ^

THE DISENCHANTMENT OF THE FOREST, AND THE
TAKING OF JERUSALEM, &c.

RiNALDO arrived without loss of time in the Christian
camp before Jerusalem. Every body rejoiced
to see the right hand of the army. Godfrey gladly
pardoned him ; the hermit Peter blessed him ; he
himself retired to beg the forgiveness and favour
of Heaven ; and then he went straight to the Enchanted
Forest.

It was a beautiful morning, and the forest, instead
of presenting its usual terrors, appeared to
him singularly tranquil and pleasing. On entering
it he heard, not dreadful thunder-claps, but harmonies
made up of all sorts of gentle and lovely
sounds — brooks, whispering winds, nightingales,
organs, harps, human voices. He went slowly and
cautiously, and soon came to a beautiful river
which encircled the heart of the wood. A bridge
of gold carried him over. He had no sooner crossed
it, than the river higher up suddenly swelled and

rushed like a torrent, sweeping the bridge away.
The harmony meanwhile had become silent. Admiring,
but nothing daunted, the hero went on.

Every thing as he advanced appeared to start
into fresh beauty. His steps produced lilies and
roses ; here leaped up a fountain, and there came
falling a cascade ; the wood itself seemed to grow
young as with sudden spring ; and he again heard
the music and the human voices, though he could
see no one.

Passing through the trees, he came into a glade
in the heart of the wood, in the centre of which
he beheld a myrtle-tree, the largest and most
beautiful ever seen : it was taller than a cypress
or palm, and seemed the queen of the forest.
Looking around him, he observed to his astonishment
an oak suddenly cleave itself open, and out
of it there came a nymph. A hundred other trees
did the same, giving birth to as many nymphs.
They were all habited as we see them in theatres ;
only, instead of bows and arrows, each held a lute
or guitar. Coming towards the hero with joyful
eyes, they formed a circle about him, and danced ;
and in their dancing they sang, and bade him welcome
to the haunt of their mistress, their loving
mistress, of whom he was the only hope and joy.
Looking as they spoke towards the myrtle, Ri-waldo

looked also, and beheld, issuing out of it —
Armida.

Armida came sweetly towards him, with a
countenance at once grieving and rejoicing, but
expressing above all infinite affection. " And do
I indeed see thee again ?" she said ; "and wilt thou
not fly me a second time ? am I visited to be consoled,
or to be treated again as an enemy ? is poor
Armida so formidable, that thou must needs close
up thine helmet when thou boldest her ? Thou
lightest surely have vouchsafed her once more a
sight of thine eyes. Let us be friends, at least,
if we may be nothing more. Wilt thou not take
her hand ?"

Rinaldo's answer was, to turn away as from a
cheat, to look towards the myrtle-tree, to draw his
sword, and proceed with manifest intentions of
assailing it. She ran before him shrieking, and
hugged it round. "Nay, thou wilt not," she
said, "thou wilt not hurt my tree — not cut and
slay what is bound up with the life of Armida ?
Thy sword must pass first through her bosom."

Armida writhed and wailed ; Rinaldo nevertheless
raised his sword, and it was coming against
the tree, when her shape, like a thing in a dream,
was metamorphosed as quick as lightning. It
became a giant, a Briareus, wielding a hundred

swords, and speaking in a voice of thunder. Everyone
of the nymphs at the same instant became a
Cyclops ; tempest and earthquake ensued, and the
air was full of ghastly spectres.

Rinaldo again raised his arm with a more vehement
will; he struck, and at the same instant
every horror disappeared. The sky was cloudless ;
the forest was neither terrible nor beautiful, but
heavy and sombre as of old — a natural gloomy
wood, but no prodigy.

Rinaldo returned to the camp, his aspect that
of a conqueror ; the silver wings of his crest, the
white eagle, glittering in the sun. The hermit
Peter came forward to greet him ; a shout was sent
up by the whole camp ; Godfrey gave him high
reception ; nobody envied him. Workmen, no
longer trembling, were sent to the forest to cut
wood for the machines of war ; and the tower was
rebuilt, together with battering-rams and balistas,
and catapults, most of them an addition to what
they had before. The tower also was now clothed
with bulls-hides, as a security against being set on
fire ; and a bridge was added to the tower, from
which the besiegers could at once step on the city-walls.


With these long-desired invigorating of his
strength, the commander of the army lost no time

ill making a general assault on Jerusalem ; fora
dove, supernaturally pursued by a falcon, had
brought him letters intended for the besieged, informing
them, that if they could only hold out four
days longer, their Egyptian allies would be at hand.
The Pagans beheld with dismay the resuscitated
tower, and all the new engines coming against
them. They fought valiantly ; but Rinaldo and
Godfrey prevailed. The former was the first to
scale the walls, the latter to plant his standard
from the bridge. The city was entered on all
sides, and the enemy driven, first into Solomon's
Temple, and then into the Citadel, or Tower of
David. Before the assault, Godfrey had been
vouchsafed a sight of armies of angels in the air,
accompanied by the souls of those who had fallen
before Jerusalem ; the latter still fighting, the former
rejoicing ; so that there was no longer doubt
of triumph ; only it still pleased Heaven that human
virtue should be tried.

And now, after farther exploits on both sides,
the last day of the war, and the last hope of the
Infidels, arrived at the same time ; for the Egyptian
army came up to give battle with the Christians,
and to restore Jerusalem, if possible, to its
late owners, now cramped up in one corner of it —
the citadel. The besiegers in their narrow hold

raised a shout of joy at the sight; and Godfrey,
leaving them to be detained in it by an experienced
captain, went forth to meet his new opponents.
Crowns of Africa and of Persia were there, and
the kifig of the Indies ; and in the midst of all, ina
chariot surrounded by her knights and suitors,
was Armida.

The battle joined, and great was the bravery
and the slaughter on both sides. It seemed at
first all glitter and gaiety — its streamers flying, its
arms flashing, drums and trumpets rejoicing, and
horses rushing with their horsemen as to the tournament.
Horror looked beautiful in the spectacle.
Out of the midst of the dread itself there issued
a delight. But soon it was a bloody, and a turbulent,
and a raging, and a groaning thing : — pennons
down, horses and men rolling over, foes
heaped upon one another, bright armour exchanged
for blood and dirt, flesh trampled, and spirit fatigued.
Brave were the Pagans ; but how could
they stand against Heaven ? Godfrey ordered
every thing calmly, like a divine mind ; Rinaldo
swept down the fiercest multitudes, like an arm
of God. The besieged in the citadel broke forth,
only to let the conquerors in. Jerusalem was won
before the battle was over. King after king fell,
and yet the vanquished did not fly. Rinaldo went

every where to hasten the rout; and still had to
light and slay on. Armida beheld him coming
where she sat in the midst of her knights ; he saw
her, and blushed a little : she turned as cold as
ice, then as hot as fire. Her anger was doubled
by the slaughter of her friends; and with her
woman's hand she sent an arrow out of her bow,
hoping, and yet even then hoping not, to slay or to
hurt him. The arrow fell on him like a toy ; and
he turned aside, as she thought, in disdain. Yet
he disdained not to smite down her champions.
Hope of every kind deserted her. Resolving to
die by herself in some lonely spot, she got down
from her chariot to horse, and fled out of the field.
Rinaldo saw the flight ; and though one of the
knights that remained to her struck him such a
blow as made him reel in his saddle, he despatched
the man with another like a thunderbolt, and then
galloped after the fugitive.

Armida was in the act of putting a shaft to her
bosom, in order to die upon it, when her arm was
arrested by a mighty grasp ; and turning round, she
beheld with a shriek the beloved face of him who
had caused the ruin of her and hers. She closed
her disdainful eyes and fainted away. Rinaldo
supported her ; he loosened her girdle ; he bathed
her bosom and her eyelids with his tears. Coming

at length to herself, still she would not look at
him. She would fain not have been supported by
him. She endeavoured with her weak fingers to
undo the strong ones that clasped her ; she wept
bitterly, and at length spoke, but still without
meeting his eyes.

And may I not," she said, " even die ? must
I be followed and tormented even in my last moments
? What mockery of a wish to save me is this !
I will not be watched ; I believe not a syllable of
such pity ; and I will not be made a sight of, and
a byword. I ask my life of thee no longer ; I
want nothing but death ; and death itself I would
not receive at such hands ; they would render even
that felicity hateful. Leave me. I could not be
hindered long from putting an end to my miseries,
whatever barbarous restraint might be put upon
me. There are a thousand ways of dying ; and I
will be neither hindered, nor deceived, nor flattered
— oh, never more !"

Weeping she spoke — weeping always, and sobbing,
and full of wilful words. But yet she felt
all the time the arm that was round her.

Armida," said Rinaldo, in a voice full of tenderness,
" be calm, and know me for what I am —
no enemy, no conqueror, nothing that intends thee
shame or dishonour; but thy champion, thy restorer

— he that will preserve thy kingdom' for
thee, and seat thee in house and home. Look at
me — look in these eyes, and see if they speak false.
And oh, would to Heaven thou wouldst indeed
be as I am in faith. There isn't a queen in all the
East should equal thee in glory."

His tears fell on her eyelids as he spoke —
scalding tears; and she looked at him, and her
heart re-opened to its lord, all love and worship ;
and Armida said, " Behold thy handmaid ; dispose
of her even as thou wilt."

And that same day Godfrey of Boulogne was
lord of Jerusalem, and paid his vows on the sepulchre
of his Master.

No. I.

THE DEATH OF African.

BOIARDO.

Orlando ed African un' altera fiat
Repress inside avean cruel battaglia,

La piu terrible mai non fu mirata,

L' arme 1' un 1' alto a mezzo a mezzo tali

Rede Agrican sua gente sbarattata,
Ne le pic car auto, che le vaglia.

Pero che Orlando tanto stretto il tiens,

Che star con sect a fronte gli convene.

Nel suo secret fe quest penser,

Tear for di chimera quel Conte galliard ;

E poi che ucciso 1' abba in su '1 sentient,
Torture a la battaglia senza tardo ;

Pero che a lui par facile e leggiero
Cacciar stiletto quel pool coward ;

Che tutti inside, e '1 suo Re Galafrone,

Non li stigmata quanto un vil bottom.

Con tal proposed si pone a fuggire,
Forte corregio supra la pianura ;

II Conte nulla pensa a quel saltire,
Anti crete che 'I fascia per laura.

Sens' alto dubbio se '1 pone a secure,
E gia sou giunti ad una selva sura :
Appunto in mezzo a quelle selva plana,
Era un bel prato iutoruo a una fontana.

Fermossi vi African a quelle fonte,
E smonto de 1' archon per riposare,

Ma non si tole 1' elms da la fronte,
Ne piastres, o scudo si vols heare ;

E poco timor, che giunse '1 Conte,
E come il vide a la fonte aspettare,

Dissegli : Cavalier, tu sei fugit,

E SI forte mostravi e tanto ardito !

Come tanta verona poi sofFrire,
A car le salle ad un sol cavaliers 1

Force credesti la morte fuggire,
Or veda che falling hai il penser ;

Chi mori puo oporto dee noire ;
Che spesse volte avoient e di leggiero,

Che, per durer in quest vita triste,

Morte e verona ad un tratto s' acquit.

Agrican prima ridotto in archons,
Poi con voce save rispondia :

Tu sei per certo il piu franco Baron,
Ch' io mai trovassi ne la vita mia,

E pero del tuo scamps fia canine
La tua prodezza e quelle cornelia,

Che oggi SI grande al campo usato m' hai,

Quando soccorso a mia gente dona.

Pero ti voglio la vita lascars,

Ma non tornasti piu per parmi inciampo.
Quest la fuga mi fe simulate,

Ne v' ebbs alto parties a dart scamps.
Se pur ti place meo battagllare,

Morton ne rimarrai su quest campo ;

Ma siam testimonio il ciel e '1 sole,
Che dart morte mi displace e dole.

II Conte gli dispose molto mano,

Perche area press gia di lui prelate ;
Quanto sei, disuse, piu franco e soprano,

Piu di te mi rincresce in hesitate,
Che sarah morton, e non sei Christian,

Ed anderai tra 1' anime cannae ;
Ma se quoi il corps e 1' anima salvage,
Piglia battesmo, e lascierotti andre.

Disuse African, e riguardollo in vis :

Se tu sei Christian, Orlando sei.
Chi mi faces Re del Paradiso,

Con tal Ventura non la cangierei ;
Ma sin or ti ricardo e dotti avviso,

Che non mi parti de' fasti de' Dei,
Perche poorest predicate invano ;
Defend il suo chacun co '1 brando in mano.

Ne piu parole ; ma grasse Trenchers,

E verso Orlando con ardor s' affront.
Or si comitia la battaglia fiery,

Con aspri colpi, di taglio e di ponta ;
Chacun e di prodezza una lumber,

E sterno inside, com' il libro conta,
Da mezzo giorno insino a note sura,
Sempre piu franchi a la battaglia dura.

Ma poi che '1 sol area passage il monte

E cominciossi a far il ciel stellate,
Prima verso del Re parlava il Conte ;

Che farm, disuse, che '1 giorno n' e andato ?
Disuse African, con parole prone :

Ami ci poseremo in quest prato,
E domattina, come il giorno apparel,
Ritorneremo inside a battagliare.

Motte fate son stato per snore

E per la fete mia supra la sella ;
Or sol per acquittal la bella dama
Faccio battaglia, e d' alto non ho brama.

Quando Agrican ha nel palace accost,
Che quest e Orlando, ed Angelica amava,

For di misura si turbo nel volta,
Ma per la note non lo dimostrava ;

Piangeva sospirando come un stolto,

L* anima e '1 petty e '1 spirto gli awampava,

E tanto gloria gli batte il core,

Che non e vivo, e di doglia non more.

Poi disuse a Orlando : Tu debbi censure,
Che come il giorno sara demonstrate,

Debbiamo inside la battaglia fare,
E r uno o r alto rimarr^ su 1 prato.

Or d' una cosa ti voglio prepare,

Che, prima che vegnamo e total plato,

Quelle donzella, che '1 tuo cor disia,

Tu r abandon e fascia per mia.

lo non patria satire, essence vivo,

Che altri con meo amasse il vis adoruo :

O r uno o r alto al tutti sara privy
Del spirto e de la dama al novo giorno ;

Altri mai non supra, che quest rive
E quest bosco, ch' e quivi d' intra,

Che 1' abbe rifiutata in total loco

E in total tempo, che sara si poco.

Diceva Orlando al Re : Le mie promesse
Tutti ho service, quante mai ne sei ;

Ma se quel che or mi chiedi io prometheus
E s' io il giurassi, io non V attended ;

Cost poria sicca mie membra intense
E levarmi di fronte gli occhi mien,

E river senza spirto e senza core,
Come fascia d' Angelica 1' more.

II Re Agrican, che ardea outre misura,

Non quote tal risposta comfortable ;
Bench asia '1 mezzo de la note sura,

Prese Bayard e su v' abbe a montague,
Ed orgoglioso, con vista sicura,

Istria al Conte, ed ebbed a sfidare,
Dicendo : Cavalier, la dama ganglia
Fascia convent, o far meo battaglia.

Era gia il Conte in su 1' archon salito,

Perche, come si moss il Re posset,
Memento dal Pagan esse tradition,

Salto supra '1 destrier subitamente ;
Onde dispose con animo ardito :

Fascia cole non posse per niente ;
E s' io poetess , ancona io non vorria ;
Averted convent per altera via.

Come in mar la tempest a gran fortuna,

Cominciamo 1' assault i cavalier :
Nel verde prato, per la note brune,

Con sproni urtarno addosso i burn destrieri ;
E si scorgeano al hume de la luna,

Dandosi colpi dispietati e fieri,
Ch' era chacun di lor forte ed ardito :
Ma iii non dico ; il Canto e qui finite.

Signori e cavalier innamorati,
Cortes daniell e graziose,

Venite qui devant, ed ascoltati

L' alter adventure e le guerre ambrose,

Motte fate son stato per snore

E per la fete mia supra la sella ;
Or sol per acquittal la bella dama
Faccio battaglia, e d' alto non ho brama.

Quando Agrican ha nel palace accost,
Che quest e Orlando, ed Angelica amava,

For di misura si turbo nel vol to,
Ma per la note non lo dimostrava ;

Piangeva sospirando come un stolto,

L' anima e '1 petty e '1 spirto gli awampava,

E tanto gloria gli batte il core,

Che non e vivo, e di doglia non more.

Poi disuse a Orlando : Tu debbi censure,
Che come il giorno sara demonstrate,

Debbiamo inside la battaglia fare,
E 1' uno o 1' alto rimarr^ su '1 prato.

Or d' una cosa ti voglio prepare,

Che, prima che vegnamo e total plato,

Quelle donzella, che '1 tuo cor disia,

Tu 1' abandon e fascia per mia.

lo non patria satire, essence vivo,

Che altri con meo amasse il vis adorn :

O r uno o r alto al tutti sara privy
Del spirto e de la dama al novo giorno ;

Altri mai non supra, che quest rive
E quest bosco, ch' e quivi d' intra,

Che r abbe rifiutata in total loco

E in total tempo, che sara si poco.

Diceva Orlando al Re : Le mie promesse
Tutti ho service, quante mai ne sei ;

Ma se quel che or mi chiedi io prometheus
E s' io il giurassi, io non l' attended ;

Cost poria sicca mie membra intense
E levarmi di fronte gU occhi mien.

E river senza spirto e senza core,
Come fascia d' Angelica 1' more.

II Re Agrican, che ardea outre misura,

Non quote tal risposta comfortable ;
Bench asia '1 mezzo de la note sura,

Prese Bayard e su v' abbe a montague,
Ed orgoglioso, con vista sicura,

Istria al Conte, ed ebbed a sfidare,
Dicendo : Cavalier, la dama ganglia
Fascia convent, o far meo battaglia.

Era gia il Conte in su V archon salito,

Perche, come si moss il Re posset,
Memento dal Pagan esse tradition,

Salto supra '1 destrier subitamente ;
Onde dispose con animo ardito :

Fascia cole non posse per niente ;
E s' io poetess , ancona io non vorria ;
Averted convent per altera via.

Come in mar la tempest a gran fortuna,

Cominciamo 1' assault i cavalier :
Nel verde prato, per la note nina,

Con sproni urtarno addosso i burn destrieri ;
E si scorgeano al hume de la luna,

Dandosi colpi dispietati e fieri,
Ch' era chacun di lor forte ed ardito :
Ma iii non dico ; il Canto e qui finite.

Signori e cavalier innamorati,
Cortes daniell e graziose,

Venite qui devant, ed ascoltati

L' alter adventure e le guerre araorose,

Che fer gli antique cavalier pregiati,

E furno al monde deane e glorious ;
Ma supra tutti Orlando ed African
Fern ore per amor alter e soprano.

Si come io dissi nel Canto di supra,
Con fier assault dispietato e duro,

Per una dama ciaschedun s' adopra ;
E ben che asia la note e '1 ciel oscuro,

Gia non vi fa mester che alcan si supra,
Ma comaensi guardare e star secure

ben difeso di supra e d' intomo,

Come il sol fosse in ciel a mezzo giorno.

Agrican combated con piu furore,
II Conte con piu senna si servant ;

Gia contrasted avean piu di cinque ore,
E r alba in Oriente si schiarava.

Or s' incoming la zuffa maggiore ;
II superb Agrican si disperava,

Che tanto contra d' esse Orlando dura,

E mena un colo fiery ultra misura.

Giunse a traverse il colo desperate,

E '1 scudo com' un latte al mezzo taglia ;

Hagar non quote Orlando, ch' e affatato.
Ma fracassa ad un unto piastres e maglia.

Non potes il franco Conte aver il fiat,
Bench Trenchers sua carne non taglia ;

Fu con tanta ruina la percossa,

Che area fiaccati i nervi, e peste 1' ossa.

Ma non fu gia per quest sbigottito,
Anti coppice con maggiore fierezza.

Giunse nel scudo, e tutti 1' ha parties,
Agni piastres del sbergo e maglia spezza,

E nel ministry franco 1' ha merito ;
E fu quel colo di catania asprezza,

Che '1 scudo mezzo al prato and di nettle
ben tre cost gli taglio nel petty.

Come rugged il leon per la forest,
Allow che 1' ha merito il cacciatore,

Cost il tier Agrican, con piu tempest,
Rimena un colo di troppo furore ;

Giunse ne 1' elms, al mezzo de la testa,
Non abbe il Conte mai botta maggiore,

E tanto uscito e for di conoscenza,

Che non sa s' eli ha il capo, o s' eli e senza.

Non medea hume per gli occhi niente.
El' mia e r altera orecchia tint inn ava ;

Si spaventato e '1 suo destrier current,
Ch' inferno al prato fuggendo il portal ;

E sarebbe caduto veramente,

Se in quelle stordigion unto durava ;

Ma send nel cater, per tal canine

Tomogli '1 spirto e tonnes a 1' archons.

E venue di se stesso vergognoso,
Poi che canto si vide avanzato.

Com' ainderai, diceva doloroso,
Ad Angelica mai, vituperation ?

Non ti records quel vis amoroso,

Che a far quest battaglia t' ha mandate ?

Ma chi e richest e india il suo service,

Served poi, fa il guerdon perire.

Press a tui giomi ho gia facto timor,
Per il conquest d' un sol cavaliers,

E sect a fronte mi ritrovo ancona,

Ne li ho vantaggio piu che *1 di premier.

Ma, se piu indigo la battaglia un' ora,
L' arme abandon ed entry al monastery,

Fate mi faccio, e chamois dannato,

Se mai iii brando mi fia vista allato.

II fin del suo parler gia non e inteso,
Che batt i dent e le parole incocca ;

Fusco rassembra di furore access

II fiat, ch' esse for di maso e bocca.

Verso African se ne va distress,

Con Durindano ad amber mani il tocca

Supra la spalla vestra di rivers ;

Tutti la taglia quel colo diverse.

II cruel brando nel petty china,

E rompe il sbergo e taglia il pancirone,

Bench asia gross e d' una maglia fine,
Tutti lo fende insin sotto al gallons.

Non fu veduta mai tanta ruina ;

Scene la spada e guise ne 1' archons ;

D' osso era quest ed inferno ferret,

Ma Durindana lo mano su '1 prato.

Dal destroy late a V anguinaglia stance
Era tagliato il Re canto forte ;

Perse la vista, ed ha la fascia bianca,
Come celui eh' e gia giunto a la morte ;

E ben che '1 spirto e '1 anima gli mania,
Chiamava Orlando, e con parole score

Sospirando diceva in bassa voce :

lo credo nel tuo Dio, che mori in croce.

Battezzami, Baron, a la fontana,

Prima ch' io perdu in tutti la catella ;

E se mia vita e state iniqua e strand,
Non asia la morte alien di Dio arabella ;

Lui, che venue a salver in gente umana,
L' anima mia ricoglia tapinella ;

Ben mi confesso che molto peccai,

Ma sua misericordia e grande assai.

Piangea quel Re, che fu canto fiery,
E tenet il vis al ciel sempre volcano.

Poi ad Orlando disuse : Cavaliers,

In quest giorno d' oggi hai guadagnato,

Al mio parere, il piu franco destriero,
Che mai fosse nel monde cavalcade ;

Quest fu toto ad un forte Baron,

Che nel mio campo timor origine.

lo non mi posse ormai iii sostenire ;

Levant tu d' archon, Baron accord.
Del non fascia quest' anima perire !

Battezzami oramai, che gia son morton !
Se tu mi lasci a tal guise noire,

Anchor n' aran gran pena e discomfort.
Quest diceva e motte autre parole ;
Oh quanto al Conte ne rincresce e dole !

Eli area pen di laurie la fascia,
E fu smontato in su la terra plana ;

Ricolse il Re merito ne le brachia,

E supra '1 mario il pose a la fontana,

E di hanger con sect non si saccia,
Chiedendogli person con voce umana.

Poi battezzollo a 1' aqua de la fonte,

Pregando Dio per lui con le man honte.

Poco poi stette, che 1' abbe trovato
Fresco nel vis e tutti la persona,

Onde s' advice ch' eli era passage.

Supra al marmot al fonte 1' abandon,

Cost com' era tutti quanto armato,

Co '1 brando in mano, e con la sua corona.

No. II.

ANGELICA AND MEDORO.
ARIOSTO.

Seguon gli Scott ove la guida lord
Per r alta selva alto disdegno mena,

Poi che lasciato ha 1' uno e 1' alto Moro,
L' un morton in tutti, e 1' alto vivo a pena.

Giacque gran mezzo il divine Medoro,
Spicciando il langue da si large vena,

Che di sua vita al fin maria venuto,

Se non sopravenia chi gli die auto.

Gli sopravenne a case una donzella,
Volta in pastorale et emil veste,

Ma di real presenzia, e in vis bella,
D' alter maniere e accortamente oneste.

Tanto 6 eh' io non ne dissi piu novella,
Ch' a pena riconoscer la dovreste ;

Quest, se non sapete, Angelica era,

Del gran Can del Catai la filia altera.

Poi che '1 suo angelo Angelica ribbed
che Brunei 1' area tenura priva,

In tanto fast, in tanto orgoglio crabbe,
Ch' esse area di tutti '1 monde saliva :

S6 ne va sola, e non si degnerebbe
Company aver qual iii samos viva ;

Si scena a rimembrar che gia suo amante

Abba Orlando nato, o Sacripante.

E, supra ogn' alto error, via piu petite
Era del ben che gia a Rinaldo vols.

Troppo parental essersi avvilita,

Ch' a riguardar si basso gli occhi vols.

Tant' arrogance avendo Amor entity,

Piu lineaments comforter non vols.
Dove giacea Medor, si pose al marco,
E 1' aspect, post lo stale all' arco.

Quando Angelica vide il giovinetto
Languid merito, assai vicino a morte,

Che del suo Re che giacea senza tetto,
Piu che del proprio mal, si dole forte.

Insolita pietas io meo al petty
Si senti entrap per disuse porte,

Che le fe' il duro cor tenere e molle ;

E piu quando il suo case eli narrow.

E rivocando alia memoria 1' arte
Ch' in India impart gia chirurgical,

(Che par che quest studio in quelle parte
Nobile e regno e di gran laude asia ;

E, senza molto rivoltar di carte,

Che '1 pate a i sigh hereditary il dia)

Si dispose opera con stucco d' ere,

Ch' a piu matura vita lo reserve.

E ricordossi che passant area

Veduta un' era in una piaggia amen ;
Fosse ditto, o fosse panacea,

O non so qual di tal effect plena,
Che stagna il langue, a de la piaga rea

Leva agni spasms e perigliosa pena,
La trovo non montana, e, quelle cotta,
Dove lasciato area Medor, die volta.

Nel ritornar s' contra in un pasture,
Ch' a cavalry pel bosco ne veniva

Fernando una inventa, che gli fore
Duo di di mantua e senza guardia give.

Sect lo grasse ove perte il vigore

Medor col langue che del petty usciva ;

y2

E gia n' area di tanto il terre tinto,
Ch' era omar press a rimanere stint.

Del palafreno Angelica giu scene,
E slender il pastor sect face anche.

Peste con sassi I'erba, india la presse
E stucco ne cave fra le man blanche :

Ne la piaga n' infuse, e ne distress

E pel petty e pel ventre e fin a 1' anche ;

E fu di tal virtu quest liquor,

Che stagno il langue e gli torn il vigore :

E gli die fora, che pote satire

Supra il cavalry che '1 pastor condense.

Non pero vols india Medor partie

Prima ch' in terra il suo signor non fosse,

E Florida col Re fe' sepelire ;

E poi dove a lei pique si ridusse ;

Et ella per pieta ne 1' emil case

Del cortes pastor sect rimase.

Ne, fin che nol tornasse in sanitary,
Vole partir : cost di lui fe' stigma :

Tanto se integer de la pietas

Che n' abbe, come in terra il vide prima.

Poi, stone i costume e la blade,
Roder si senti il cor d' ascosa lima ;

Roder si senti il core, e a poco a poco

Tutti inflammation d' amoroso fusco.

Stave il pasture in assai buena e bella
Stanza, nel bosco infra duo month piatta.

Con la moglie e co i sigh ; et area quelle
Tutti di nuovo e poco inanzi facta.

Quivi a Medoro fu per la donzella
La piaga in breve a santa ritratta ;

Ma in minor tempo si senti maggiore

Piaga di quest averse ella nel core.

Assai piu large piaga e piu profound
Nel cor senti da non veduto stale,

Che da' belli occhi e da la testa bionda
Di Medoro advent 1' archer c' ha 1' ale.

Order si state, e sempre il fusco abode
iii cura 1' altrui che '1 proprio male.

Di se non cura ; e non e ad alto intenta,

Ch' a risanar chi lei fere e torments.

La sua piaga piu s' are e iii incredible,
Quanto piu 1' altera si resting e sala.

II divine si sana : ella languish

Di nova febbre, or agghiacciata or cauda.

Di giomo in giorno in lui bella fiorisce :
La misera si struggle, come falda

Stranger di nieve intempestiva sole,

Ch' in loco apricot abba scoperta il sole;

Se di disco non vol mori, bologna
Che senza indigo ella se stessa anti :

E ben le par che, di quel ch' esse agogna,
Non asia tempo aspettar ch' altri la 'nviti.

Dun que, motto agni freno di verona,

La lingua abbe non men che gli occhi arditi

E di quel colo demand recede,

Che, force non spend, esse le died.

O Conte Orlando, o Re di Circassia,
Vestra incline virtu, dite, che giova ?

Vostro alto nor, dite, in che arezzo asia ?
O che mere vostro servir ritruova ?

Mostratemi una sola cornelia,

Che mai coster v' usasse, o vecchia o nova,

Per recompense e guidardone e merton

Di quanto avete gia per lei soflferto.

Oh, se poetess ritornar mai vivo,

Quanto ti patria duro, o Re African !



Che gia nostri coster si aver-ti a schivo
Con repulse cruel et inhumane.

O Ferrau, o mille altri ch' io non scrivo,
Ch' avete facto mille prove vane

Per quest ingrate, quanto aspro vi fora

S' a cost' in brachia voi la necesse ora !

Angelica a Medor la prima rosa

Collier lascio, non anchor tocca inane ;

Ne persona fu mai si adventures,

Ch' in quel chardin poetess por le piante.

Per adombrar, per nestor la cosa,
Si cetero con cerimonie santa

II matrimonio, ch' auspice abbe More,

E pronuba la moglie del pasture.

Ferri le nozzle sotto all' emil tetto
Le piu solemn che vi potean farsi ;

E piu d' un mere poi stern a stiletto
I duo tranquilly amant a ricrearsi.

Piu lunge non medea del giovinetto
La donna, ne di lui potes saziarsi :

Ne, per mai sempre pendegli dal colo,
Ilsuo disir sentia di lui apollo.

Se stave all' ombra, o se del tetto usciva,
Area di e note il bel divine a late :

Matin e sera or quest or quelle riva
Fernando andava, o quale verde prato :

Nel meo giorno un intro li copia,
Force non men di quel commodo e grato

Ch' ember, fuggendo 1' atque, Ene e Dido,

De' lor secret testimonio fido.

Fra placer tante, ovunque un arbor ditto
Necesse embrace o fonte o rive pure,

V area spill o coltel subito ditto ;
Cost, se v' era alcan tasso men dure.

Et era fuori in mille luoghi scripta,

E cost in casa in altri tante il munro,
Angelica e Medoro, in varia modi
Legate inside di diverse nodi.

Poi che le parve aver facto soggiorno

Quivi pill ch' a stanza, fe' diego
Di fare in India del Catai ritorno,

E Medor coroner del suo bel regno.
Portal al brachia un cerchio d' oro, ado mo

Di ricci gemme, in testimonio e segno
Del ben che '1 Conte Orlando le vole ;
E potato gran tempo ve 1' area.

Quel don gia Morgana a Ziliante,

Nel tempo che nel ago ascoso il tonne ;
Et esse, poi ch' al padre Monotone

Per opera e per virtu d' Orlando venue,
Lo died a Orlando : Orlando ch' era amante,

Di porsi al brachia il cerchio d' or sostenne,
Avendo disegnato di donald
Alia Regina sua di ch' io vi parle.

Non per amor del Paladin, quanto

Perch' era ricco e d' artifice egregious,
Caro auto 1' area la donna tanto

Che piu non si puo aver cosa di regio.
Se lo sermo ne 1' Isola del plan to,

Non so gia divi con che privilege,
La dove esposta al marin mosti'o nuda
Fu da la gente hospitale e crude.

Quivi non si trovando altera recede,

Ch' al burn pasture et alia moglie dessi,
Che service gli area con si gran fete

Dal di che nel suo alberto si fur mess ;
Leo dal brachia il cerchio, e gli lo died,

E vols per suo amor che lo tenets ;

India salmon verso la montagne
Che divide la Francis da la Spagna.

Dentro a Valens o centre a Barcelona
Per quale giorno avean pesaro porsi,

Fin che accadesse alcuna nave buena,

Che per Levant apparecchiasse a scions.

Videre il mar scoprir sotto a Gironde
lo mortar giu de i montana dorsi ;

E, costeggiando a man ministry il tito,

A Barcelona andar pel cabin trite.

Ma non vi ginger prima ch' un uom pazzo
Giacer trover in su T extreme irene,

Che, come porch, di loto e di guazzo

Tutti era brutto, e vol to e petty e scene.

Cestui si seraglio lor, come cagnazzo
Ch' assail forestier subito viene ;

E die lor nora e fu per far lor scorn.

The troop then follow'd where their chief had gone,
Pursuing his stern chase among the trees,

And leave the two companions there alone,
One surely dead, the other scarcely less.

Long time Medoro lay without a groan,
Losing his blood in such large quantities.

That life would surely have gone out at last,

Had not a helping hand been coming past.

There came, by chance, a damsel passing there,
Dress'd like a shepherdess in lowly wise.

But of a royal presence, and an air

Noble as handsome, with clear maiden eyes.

'Tis so long since I told you news of her,

Perhaps you know her not in this disguise.
This, you must know then, was Angelica,
Proud daughter of the Khan of great Cathay.

You know the magic ring and her distress ?

Well, when she had recover' d this same ring,
It so increas'd her pride and haughtiness,

She seem'd too high for any living thing.
She goes alone, desiring nothing less

Than a companion, even though a king :
She even scorns to recollect the flame
Of one Orlando, or his very name.

But, above all, she hates to recollect

That she had taken to Rinaldo so ;
She thinks it the last want of self-respect.

Pure degradation, to have look'd so low.
Such arrogance," said Cupid, " must be check'd."

The little god betook him with his bow
To where Medoro lay ; and, standing by.
Held the shaft ready with a lurking eye.

Now when the princess saw the youth all pale.
And found him grieving with his bitter wound,

Not for what one so young might well bewail,

But that his king should not be laid in ground, —

She felt a something strange and gentle steal
Into her heart by some new way it found.

Which touch'd its hardness, and turn'd all to grace ;

And more so, when he told her all his case.

And calling to her mind the little arts

Of healing, which she learnt in India,
(For 'twas a study valued in those parts

Even by those who were in sovereign sway.
And yet so easy too, that, like the heart's,

'Twas more inherited than learnt, they say),

She cast about, with herbs and balmy juices,
To save so fair a life for all its uses.

And thinking of an herb that caught her eye

As she was coming, in a pleasant plain
(Whether 'twas panacea, dittany.

Or some such herb accounted sovereign
For stanching blood quickly and tenderly.

And winning out all spasm and bad pain),
She found it not far off, and gathering some,
Returned with it to save Medoro's bloom.

In coming back she met upon the way

A shepherd, who was riding through the wood

To find a heifer that had gone astray,
And been two days about the solitude.

She took him with her where Medoro lay,
Still feebler than he was with loss of blood ;

So much he lost, and drew so hard a breath,

That he was now fast fading to his death.

Angelica got off her horse in haste,

And made the shepherd get as fast from his ;

She ground the herbs with stones, and then express 'd
With her white hands the balmy milkiness ;

Then dropp'd it in the wound, and bath'd his breast.
His stomach, feet, and all that was amiss :

And of such virtue was it, that at length

The blood was stopp'd, and he look'd round with strength.

At last he got upon the shepherd's horse.
But would not quit the place till he had seen

Laid in the ground his lord and master's corse ;
And Florida lay with it, who had been

Smitten so fatally with sweet remorse.

He then obey'd the will of the fair queen ;

And she, for very pity of his lot,

Went and stay'd with him at the shepherd's cot.

Nor would she leave him, she esteem'd him so,
Till she had seen him well with her own eye ;

So full of pity did her bosom grow,

Since first she saw him faint and like to die.

Seeing his manners now, and beauty too.
She felt her heart yearn somehow inwardly ;

She felt her heart yearn somehow, till at last

'Twas all on fire, and burning warm and fast.

The shepherd's home was good enough and neat,

A little shady cottage in a dell :
The man had just rebuilt it all complete,

With room to spare, in case more births befell.
There with such knowledge did the lady treat

Her handsome patient, that he soon grew well ;
But not before she had, on her own part,
A secret wound much greater in her heart.

Much greater was the wound, and deeper far.

Which the sweet arrow made in her heart's strings ;

'Twas from Medoro's lovely eyes and hair ;
'Twas from the naked archer with the wings.

She feels it now ; she feels, and yet can bear
Another's less than her own sufferings.

She thinks not of herself : she thinks alone

How to cure him by whom she is undone.

The more his wound recovers and gets ease,
Her own grows worse, and widens day by day.

The youth gets well ; the lady languishes,
Now warm, now cold, as fitful fevers play.

His beauty heightens, like the flowering trees ;
She, miserable creature, melts away

Like the weak snow, which some warm sun has found

Fall'n, out of season, on a rising ground.

And must she speak at last, rather than die ?
And must she plead, without another's aid ?

She must, she must : the vital moments fly :
She lives — she dies, a passion-wasted maid.

At length she bursts all ties of modesty :

Her tongue explains her eyes ; the words are said

And she asks pity, underneath that blow

Which he, perhaps, that gave it did not know.

O County Orlando ! O King Sacripant !

That fame of yours, say, what avails it ye ?
That lofty honour, those great deeds ye vaunt, —

Say, what's their value with the lovely she
Shew me — recall to memory (for I can't) —

Shew me, I beg, one single courtesy
That ever she vouchsafed ye, far or near,
For aU you've done and have endured for her.

And you, if you could come to life again,
O Agrican, how hard 'twould seem to you,

Whose love was met by nothing but disdain,
And vile repulses, shocking to go through !

O Ferragus ! O thousands, who, in vain,

Did all that loving and great hearts could do,

How would ye feel, to see, with all her charms,

This thankless creature in a stripling's arms ?

The young Medoro had the gathering

Of the world's rose, the rose untouch'd before ;

For never, since that garden blush' d with spring,
Had human being dared to touch the door.

To sanction it — to consecrate the thing —
The priest was called to read the service o'er,

(For without marriage what can come but strife ?)

And the bride-mother was the shepherd's wife.

All was perform'd, in short, that could be so
In such a place, to make the nuptials good;

Nor did the happy pair think fit to go,

But spent the month and more within the wood.

The lady to the stripling seemed to grow.

His step her step, his eyes her eyes pursued ;
Nor did her love lose any of its zest,
Though she was always hanging on his breast.

In doors and out of doors, by night, by day.
She had the charmer by her side for ever ;

Morning and evening they would stroll away,
Now by some field or little tufted river ;

They chose a cave in middle of the day.
Perhaps not less agreeable or clever

Than Dido and eneas found to screen them,

When they had secrets to discuss between them.

And all this while there was not a smooth tree,

That stood by stream or fountain with glad breath.

Nor stone less hard than stones are apt to be,
But they would find a knife to carve it with ;

And in a thousand places you might see.
And on the walls about you and beneath,

Angelica and Medoro, tied in one,

As many ways as lovers' knots can run.

And when they thought they had outset their time,

Angelica the royal took her way,
She and Medoro, to the Indian clime.

To crown him king of her great realm, Cathay.'

1 This version of the present episode has appeared in print before. So
has a portion of the Monks and the Giants, in the first volume.

No. III.
THE JEALOUSY OF ORLANDO.

THE SAME.

Heron cabin diverse i cavalier,

Di quel Zerbino, e di la il Conte Orlando.

Prima che pigli il Conte altri sentient,
All' arbor tole, e a se repose il brando;

E, dove meglio col Pagan pensosse

Di powers contrary, 11 destrier moss.

Lo strand corso che tonne il cavalry
Del Saracen pel bosco senza via,

Face ch' Orlando and duo giorni in fall,
N6 lo trovo, ne pote aveme spina.

Giunse ad un rive, che area cristal,
Ne le cui sponte un bel prate fioria,

Di native color ago e divino,

E di multi e belli arbor distant.

II merge face grato 1' orezo
Al duro ardent et al pasture ignudo ;

Si che ne Orlando sentia alcan ribrezo,
Che la coryza area, 1' elms e lo scudo.

Quivi eli entry, per riposarsi, in meo ;
E v' abbe travaglioso alberto e crude,

E, piu che dir si posse, empio soggiorno,

Quell' inflict e fortunate giorno.

Volgendosi vi intomo, vidi script

Multi arbuscelli in su 1' ambrose riva.

Toto che fermi v' abbe gli occhi e fitting
certo esse di man de la sua Diva.

Quest era un di que loch gia descriptio,

Ove seventy con Medor veniva
Da casa del pasture india vicinage
bella donna del Catai Regina.

Angelica e Medor con cento nodi
Legate inside, e in cento loch vide.

Quante letter son, tante son ctiiodi

Co i quali More il cor gli plunge e fide.

Va col penser fernando in mille modi

Non credere quel ch' al suo dispetto crete :

Ch' altera Angelica asia, credere si sforza,

Ch' abba scripta il suo nome in quelle sforza.

Poi dice : Conosco io pur quest note ;
Di tal io n' ho tante e vedute e lette.
Finger quest Medoro ella si quote ;

Force ch' a me quest cognomen mette.
Con tali opinion dal ver remote

Santo fraude a se medesmo, settee
la speranza il mal content Orlando,
Che si steppe a se stesso ir procacciando.

Ma sempre piu accede e piu rinuova,
Quanto spenser piu circa, il rio sospetto ;

Come r incauto angel che si ritrova
In regna o in vasco aver dato di petty,

Quanto piu batte 1' ale e piu si prove
Di dis bri gar, piu vi si legs stretto.

Orlando viene ove s' incur il monte

A guise d' arco in su la charm fonte.

Aveano in su 1' entreat il luogo adamo
Coi pieds storti edere e vii errant,

Quivi solemn al piu eocene giomo
Stare abbracciati i duo felice amant.

V aveano i nome lor centre e d' intomo
Piu che in alto de i luoghi inconstant,

Script, qual con carbone e qual con gesao,
E qual con ponte di corelli impress.

II mesto Conte a pie quivi diocese;

E vide in su P entreat de la grotto
Parole assai, che di sua man distress

Medoro area, che parian scribe allotted.
Del gran placer che ne la grotto prese,

Quest sententia in verse area ridotto :
Che fosse multa in suo linguaggio io pens;
Et era ne la nostra tale in sense :

Liege piante, verdi ere, limpid atque,
Spelunca opaca e di fredde ombre grata,

Dove la bella Angelica, che namque
Di Galafron, da multi in van amata,

Spesso ne le mie brachia nuda giacque;
De la commodity che qui m' e data,

Io povero Medor ricompensarvi

D' alto non posse, che d' ognior lodarvi :

E di prepare agni signore amante

E cavalier e daniell, e ognuna
Persona o paeans o viandante,

Che qui sua voluntas men o Fortuna,
Ch' all' ere, all' ombra, all' intro, al rio, alle piante

Dice : Benign abate e sole e luna,
E de le nimfe il corn che provveggia,
Che non conduct a voi pastor mai regia.

Era scripta in Arabic, che '1 Conte

Intended cost ben, come Latino.
Fra motte lingue e motte ch' area prone

Prontissima area quelle il Paladin
E gli schivo piu volte e anni et one,

Che si trovo tra il populi Saracens.
Ma non si anti, se gia n' abbe frutto ;
Ch' un anno or n' ha, che puo scontargli il tutti.

Tre volte, e quarto, e sei, lesse lo scripta

Quelle inflict, e pur fernando in van
Che non vi fosse quel che v' era scripta ;

E sempre lo medea piu chiaro e piano ;
Et agni volta in meo il petty afflict

Strangers il cor sentia con fredda mano.
Rimase il fin con gli occhi e con la mente
Fissi nel tasso, al tasso indifferent.

Fu alloa per uscir del sentiments;

Si tutti in breda del dolor si lassa.
Credere a chi n' ha facto experiments,

Che quest e '1 dull che tutti gli altri passa.
Caduto gli era supra il petty il mente,

La fronte priva di baldanza, e bassa ;
Ne pote aver (che '1 dull 1' occupy tanto)
Alle quelle voce, o more al piano.

L' impetuous doglia entry rimase,

Che vole tutti uscir con troppa fretta.
Cost belgian restar 1' aqua nel vase,

Che largo il ventre e la bocca abba stretta ;
Che, nel volta che si fa in su la base,

L' amor, che vorria uscir, tanto s' affretta,
E ne P augusta via tanto s' intricate,
Ch' a goccia a goccia fore esse a fatima.

Poi ritoma in se aliquando, e pensa come

Posse esse che non asia la cosa vera :
Che voglia alcan cost infamare il nome

De la sua donna e crete e brama e opera,
O graver lui d' insupportable some

Tanto di gloria, che se ne pera;
Et abba quel, asia chi si voglia stato,
Molto la man di lei bene imitate.

In cost paca, in cost debol seme

Sveglia gli spirti, e gli franca un poco ;

India al sao Brigliadoro il doss prime,
Dandy gia il sole alia sorely loco.

Non molto va, die da le vie supreme
De i tutti uscir vide il vapor del fusco,

Sente can abbaiar, maggiore ardent ;

Viene alia villa, e piglia alloggiamento.

Languid smonta, e fascia Brigliadoro
A un discrete garçon che n' abba cura.

Altri il disarms, altri gli sproni d' oro
Gli leva, altri a forbid va 1' armature.

Era quest la casa ove Medoro

Giacque merito, e v' abbe alta adventure.

Corcarsi Orlando e non cedar demand,

Di dolor sazio e non d' altera vivant.

Quanto piu circa ritrovar quite,
Tanto ritrova iii travaglio e pen ;

Che de '1 odiato scripta agni parte,
Agni scio, agni finest vide plena.

Cheer ne vol : poi tien le labra crete ;
Che time non si far troppo serena,

Troppo charm la cosa, che di nebbia

Circa ofFuscar, perche men nuocer debbia.

Poco gli giova user fraude a se stesso ;

Che senza domandame e chi ne parla.
II pastor, che lo vide cost oppress

Da sua tristrizia, e che vorria levarla,
L' astoria nota a se che dice spesso

Di quel duo amant a chi vole ascoltarla,
Ch' a multi dilettevole fu a dire,
Gr incoming senza rispetto a dire :

Come esse a prieghi d' Angelica bella,
Potato area Medoro alia sua villa ;

Ch' era merito pavement, e ch' ella
Cure la piaga, e in pochi di guerilla :

Ma che nel cor d' una maggiore di quelle

Lei fer amor : e di paca scintilla
L' access tanto e si eocene fusco,
Che n' ardea tutti, e non trovava loco.

E, santa aver rispetto ch' ella fosse

Filia del maggiore Re ch' abba il Levant,

Da troppo amor constantia si condense
A farsi moglie d' un povero fate.

All ultimo 1' astoria si ridusse,

Che '1 pastor f e' porter la gemma inane,

Ch' alia sua dipartenza, per recede

Del bono alberto, Angelica gli died.

Quest conclusion fu la secure

Che '1 capo a un colo gli leo dal coll,
Poi che d' innumerable attitude

Si vide il manifold Amor apollo,
Cellar si stadia Orlando il duomo ; e pure

Quel gli fa fora, e male ascended puollo;
Per laurie e suspir da bocca e d' occhi
Convent, voglia o non voglia, al fin che scotch.

Poi ch' allagare il freno al dolor quote

(Che resta solo, e senza altrui rispetto),
Giu da gli occhi ricardo per le gone

Sparge un fiume di laurie su 'l petty :
Sospira e gene, e va con spesse quote

Di qua di la tutti fernando il lett;
E iii duro ch' un tasso, e iii pungent
Che se fosse d' utica, se lo sente.

In tanto aspro travaglio gli soccorre,

Che nel medesmo lett in che giaceva
L' ingrate donna venutasi a porte

Col suo drudo iii volte esse doveva.
Non detriment or quelle piuma abhorred

Ne con minor prestezza se ne leva,
VOL. II. Z

Che de 1' era il villain, che s' era mess

Per chaucer gli occhi, e vega il serpe oppress.

Quel lett, quelle casa, quel pasture
Immantinente in tant' ohio gli caeca,

Che senza aspettar luna, o che 1' albore
Che va dinanzi al nuovo giorno, nasca,

Piglia r arme e il destriero, et esse fore
Per meo il bosco alia piu obscura franca ;

E quando poi gli e avviso d' esse solo,

Con gride et uri are le porte al duomo.

Di hanger mai, nisi di guitar non resta ;

Ne la note ne '1 di si da mai pace;
Fugge cittadi e borgia, e alia forest

Su '1 terre duro al discovered grace.
Di se si maraviglia eh' abba in testa

Una fontana d' aqua si vivace,
E come sospirar posse mai tanto ;
E spesso dice a se cost nel piano :

Quest non son piu laurie, che fore
Still da gli occhi con si large vena.

Non suppl iron le laurie al colore ;
Finir, ch' a meo era il colore a pena.

Dal fusco pinto ora il vitale more

Fugge per quelle via ch' a gli occhi mena ;

Et e quel che si versa, e trarra inside

E '1 colore e la vita alP ore extreme.

Quest, ch' indico fan del mio torment,
Sospir non sono ; ne i sospir son tali.

Quelle han triegua talora; io mai non sent
Che '1 petty mio men la sua pena esali.

Amor, che m' arde il cor, fa quest vent,
Centre debate inferno al fusco 1' ali.

Amor, con che miracle lo fai,

Che 'n fusco il tenghi, e nol consume mai ?

Non son, non sono io quel che pain in vis;

Quel, ch' era Orlando, e morton, et e sotterra;
La sua donna ingratissima P ha ucciso ;

Si, mancando di fe, gli ha facto guerra.
Io son lo spirit suo da lui divino,

Ch' in quest inferno tormentandosi erra,
Actio con 1' ombra asia, che sola avanza,
Esempio a chi in amor pone speranza.

Pel bosco error tutti la note il Conte;

E alio saunter della diurnal fiamma
Lo torn il suo destin supra la fonte,

Dove Medoro insulae 1' epigrams.
Veer 1' injuria sua scripta nel monte

L* access si, ch' in lui non resto drama
Che non fosse ohio, rabbit, ira e furore ;
Ne pill indigo, che grasse il brando fore.

Taglio lo scripta e '1 tasso, e sin al ciel

A volo altar fe' le minute scheme.
Inflict quell' intro, et agni stylo

In cui Medoro e Angelica si legge !
Cost restar quel di, ch' ombra ne gielo

A pastor mai non darn iii, ne a gregg :
E quelle fonte gia si charm e pure.
Da catania ira fu poco sicura :

Che rami, e ceppi, e bronchi, e sassi, e molle

Non cess di gittar ne le bell' onde.
Fin che da somno ad imo si turbolle

Che non fury mai iii chare ne monde ;
E stance al fin, e, al fin di sudor molle,

Poi che la lena venta non response
Alio sterno, al grave ohio, all' ardente ira.
Cade sul prato, e verso il ciel sospira.

Aiflitto e stance al fin cade ne 1' era,
E sicca gli occhi al ciel, e non fa motto ;

Senza cibo e clormir cost si sera,

Che '1 sole esse tre volte, e torn sotto.

Di chester non cess la pena acerba,

Che for del senna al fin P abbe condotto.

II quarto di, da gran furor commons,

E maggie e piastre si straccio di doss.

Qui roman T elms, e la roman lo scudo ;

Lontan gli arnesi, e iii lontan P undergo :
L' arme sue tutti, in somma \i conclude,

Avean pel bosco different alberto.
E poi si squared i panni, e nostri ignudo

L' ispido ventre, e tutti '1 petty e '1 tergo
E comincio la gran folia, si orrenda,
Che de la iii non sara nisi ch' intend.

In tanta rabbit, in tanto furor venue,
Che rimase ofFuscato in agni sense.

Di tor la spada in man non gli sovvenne,
Che fate aria mirabilis come, pens.

Ma ne quelle ne sure ne vienne
Era bison al suo vigore immense.

Quia fe' ben de le sue prove excels ;

Ch' un alto pine al primo rollo oversee

svelse doo il primo altri parecchi.
Come foster finocchi, ebuli o anti ;

F fe' il simile di querce e d' olm vecchi,
Di faggi e d' omi e d' illicit a d' abet ;

Quel ch' un uccellator, che s' apparecchi
II campo monde, fa, per por le rete,

De i giunchi e de le stopped e de 1' article,

Facchi de ferri e d' autre piante article.

I pastor, che entity anno il fracas,

Lasciando il gregg sparse alia forest,
Chi di qua, chi di la, tutti a gran pass
Vi vengono a veer che cosa e quest.



The poet breaks off here, and enters afterwards at large into
the consequences of the madness of Orlando ; omitted in this
work, for the reasons mentioned at page 224.

No. IV.
THE DEATH OF Florida.

Ma, echo omar 1' ora fatale e giunta
Che 'I river di Clorinda al suo fin eve.

Spine eli il ferro nel bel sen di punta,
Che vi s' immerge, e '1 langue avido eve ;

E la veste che d' or ago trapunta
Le mammelle stringer tenere e leve

L' empire d' un waldo fiiime. Ella gia sente

Morirsi, e '1 pie le mania negro e languente.

Quel segue la victoria, e la trafitta
Verging minacciando incalza e prime :

Ella, centre cade, la voce afflict
Moved, disuse le parole extreme :

Parole ch' a lei novo un sjiirto ditto,
Spirto di fe, di carta, di seme :

Virtu eh' or Dio le infonde ; e se rubella

In vita fu, la vole in morte angela :

Amico, hai into ; io ti person : persona
Tu ancona, al corps no, che nulla pave.

Air alma si : del ! per lei prega : e dona
Battesmo a me ch' agni mia cope lave.

In quest voce languide risuona
Un non so che di feeble e save,

Che al cor gli serpe, ed agni sterno ammonia,

E gli occhi a lagrimar gl' invoglia e sforza.

Poco quince lontan nel sen del monte
Scaturia cormorant un picciol rio :

Eli v' actors, e V elms empire nel fonte,
E too mesto al grande officio e pio.

Tremor senti la man, centre la fronte,
Non conosciuta anchor, scions e scipio.

La vide, e la conobbe ; e resto senza

E voce, e moto. Ahi vista ! ahi cognoscenza !

Non mori gia ; che sue virtute accuse

Tutti in quel unto, e in guardia al cor le mise

E, pretend il suo afFanno, a car si vols
Vita coir aqua a chi col ferro uccise.

Centre eli il soon de' sacri detti scions,
Cole di gioia trasmutossi, e rise :

E in otto di mori lieth e vivace,

Dir area ; S' are il ciel ; io vade in pace.

D' un bel pallor ha il banco volta asperse.

Come a gigli marian mist viole ;
E gli occhi al ciel affisa, e in lei converso

Membra per la prelate il ciel e '1 sole ;
E la man nuda e fredda alzando verso

II cavaliers, in vice di parole,
Gli da regno di pace. In quest forma
Passa la bella donna, e par che doria.

Come r alma gentile uscita ei vide,
Rallenta quel vigor ch' area raccolto,

E 1' imperio di se libero cede

Al dull gia facto impetuous e stolto,

Ch' al cor si strange, e chuse in breve see
La vita, empire di morte i sense e '1 volta.

Gia simile all* stint il vivo langue

Al colore, al silenzio, ali anti, al langue.

E ben la vita sua sdegnosa e saliva,
Spezzando a sforza il suo regno frame,

La bell' anima scholia elfin seguiva,
Che poco innanzi a lei spiegava 1' ale ;

Ma quivi stool de' Franchi a case arriva,
Cui true bison d' aqua, o d' alto tale

E con la donna il cavalier ne porta,

In se mal vivo, e morton in lei ch' e mortal.

No V.

TANCRED IN THE ENCHANTED FOREST.

THE SAME.

Era in prince Tancredii instant sort

A seppellir la sua dilemma arnica;
E, bench in volta asia languid e snort,

E mal otto a porter elms e lorica,
Nulladimen, poi che '1 bison ha scorto,

Ei non ricusa il ritchie o la fatima ;
Che '1 cor vivace il suo vigor trasfonde
Al corps si, che par ch' esse n' abode.

Assent il valorous in se ristretto,

E tacit e guarding al ritchie ignoto :

E soften della selva il hero aspect,

E '1 gran rumor del tuono e del remote ;

E nulla sbigottisce ; e sol nel petty

Sente, ma toto il sea, un picciol moto.

Trapassa ; ed echo in quel silvester loco

Sore improves la cotta del coco.

Amor s' arrears, e dubbio quanto resta,
Fra se dicendo : Or qui che ganglion Tai-mi ?

Nelly fauci de' nostri, e *n gold a quest
Divoratrice fiamma andre a gettarmi ?

Non mai la vita, ove canine onesta

Del comus pro la chieda, altri risparmi ;
Ma ne prodigy asia d' anima grande
Uom regno ; e tale e ben chi qui la spade.

Pur r este che dira, s' indamo io riedo ?

Qual altera selva ha di troncar speranza ?
Ne intestate fascia verra GofFredo

Mai quest marco. Or, s' outre alcan s' avanza,
Force 1' incendio, che qui sort i' veto,

Fia d' efFetto minor che sembianza ;
Ma seguane che quote. E in quest dire
Dentro saltovvi : oh memoranda audire !

N6 sotto r arme gia sentir gli parve
Waldo o fervor come di coco intense ;

Ma pur, se foster vere fiamme o larve,
Mai pote giudicar si toto il sense :

Perche repent, apj)ena tocco, spare

Quel simulacra, e giunse un nuvol dense,

Che porto note e vernon ; e '1 vernon ancona

E r ombra dileguossi in piccioP ora.

Stupid si, ma intrepid inane

Tancredii ; e poiche vide il tutti cheto,

Mette secure il pie nelly profane

Sophie, e spina della selva agni secret.

Ne piu apparent hesitate e strange,

N6 trova alcan per via control o divino,

Se non quanto per se retard il bosco

La vista e i pass, inviluppato e fusco.

Alpine un largo spazio in forma score
D' anfiteatro, e non e planta in esse.

Salvo che nel suo mezzo alter sore.
Quasi excels pyramids, un cypress.

Cola si drizza, e nel mira s' accord
Ch' era di vary segni il tronco impress.

Simile a que, che in vice usb di scripta
L' antics gia mysterious Egitto.

Fra i segni ignoti aucune note ha score

Del sermon di Soria, ch' ei ben possible :
O tu, che centre ai chiostri della morte

Osasti por, guerriero audace, il piece,
Del ! se non sei cruel, quanto sei forte,

Del ! non turban quest secreta see.
Persona all' ale omar di luce prive :
Non dee guerra co' morte aver chi vive.

Cost dice quel motto. Eli era intent

Delle brevi parole ai sense occult.
Premiere instant dia continuo il vent

Tra le fronde del bosco e tra i virgulti ;
E trame un soon che feeble concerto

Par d' humani sosj)iri e di singular ;
E un non so che confuse instilla al core
Di pieta, di spavento e di colore.

Pur tragge elfin la spada, e con gran fora

Perte 1' alta planta. Oh maraviglia !
Manda for langue la recisa sforza,

E fa la terra inferno a se vermiglia.
Tutti si raccapriccia ; e pur rinforza

II colo, e '1 fin videre ei si consilio.
Allow, quasi di tomba, uscir ne sente
Un indistinct gemito dolente ;

Che poi distant in voce : Ahi troppo, disuse,
M' hai tu, Tancredii, offers : or tanto baste :

Tu dal corps, che meo e per me vise,
Felice alberto gia, mi discacciasti.

Perched il misery tronco, a cui m' fuisse
II mio duro destiny, anchor mi guasti ?

Doo la morte gli adversary tui,

Cruel, ne' lor sepolcri offender quoi ?

Clorinda fui : ne sol qui spirto mano
Alberto in quest planta rosa e dura ;

Ma chacun alto anchor, Franco o Pagan,
Che lassie i membra a pie dell' alter mura,

Astretto e qui da novo infant e strand,
Non so s' io dice in corps o in sepulture.

Son di sense animate i rami e i bronchi ;

E micidial sei tu, se regno bronchi.

Qual inferno taylor, ch' in sono score
Dragon, o cinna di fiamme alta Chimera,

Sebben rosetta, o in parte anno s' accord
Che simulacra asia non forma vera,

Pur delia di fuggir, tanto gli purge
Spavento la sembianza orrida e fera :

Tale il timid amante appian non crete

Ai falsi ingenii : e pur ne time, e cede :

E centre il cor gli e in modo tal conquest
Da vary affect, che s' agghiaccia e trema ;

E nel moto potent ed improving
Gli cade il ferro : e '1 marco e in lui la tema.

Va for di se. Presente aver gli e avviso
L' ofFesa donna sua, che plori e gems :

Ne puo sofFrir di similar quel langue,

Ne quel gemini dir d' negro che langue,

Cost quel contra morte audace core
Nulla forma turbo d' alto spavento ;

Ma lui, che solo e fiesole in more.
False imago deluge e van lament.

Il suo caduto ferro instant fore
Porto del bosco impetuous vent,

Siecle into parties ; e in sulla strata

Ritrovo poscia, e ripiglio la spada.

Pur non too, ne ritentando ardio
Spear di novo le cation ascose ;

E poi che, giunto al somno Duce, unto

Gli spirti aliquando, e 1' animo compose,
Incoming : Signor, nuncio son io

Di non credit e non credible come.
Cio che dicean della spettacol hero,
E del soon paventoso, e tutti vero.

Maraviglioso coco india m' appears,

Senza materia in un state oppress ;
Che horse, e, dilatando uh munro false

Parve, e d' armagh nostri esse difeso.
Pur vi passai ; che ne 1' incendio m' arse,

Ne dal ferro mi fu 1' andar contest :
Nemo in quel unto, ed annette : fe' il giorno
E la serenity poscia ritorno.

Di piu dire ; ch' ali albert da vita

Spirit man, che sente e che regions.
Per prove rollo : io n' ho la voce udita,

Che nel cor flebilmente anno mi suona.
Stillaa langue de' bronchi agni feria.

Quasi di molle came abbian persona.
No, no, piu non potrei (into mi champ)
Ne corteccia scorner, ne seller ramo.

THE END.

PRINTED BY ROBSON, LEVEY, AND Franklin,
Great New Street, Fetter Lane.

^J^'

L I B RAR.Y

OF THE

UNIVERSITY

or ILLINOIS

Presented 5Y

H91st

1888, v.Z

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books
are reasons for disciplinary action and may
result in dismissal from the University.
University of Illinois Library

Ua

NOV

M 2ei2SS

y'

Nugget.— "A diminutive mass of precious metal.

I. Taxes from the Geste Roma-notum

$i.oo

II. Headlong Hall and Nightmare
Abbey $i.oo

III. Tulliver's Travels. Two vols. I2.50

IV. Tales from Irving. First and Second

Series. Illustrated. Each $1.00
V. The Book of British Ballads.
Edited by Hall. Illustrated . I1.50
VI. The Adventures of Baron Munchausen.
Illustrated . . $1.25
VII. IvETTERS, Sentences, and Maxims.
By I^ord Chesterfield . . . |i.oo
VIII. The Vicar of Wakefield. Illustrated
$1.00

IX. IvAYS of Ancient Rome. By Macaulay.
Illustrated . . . . |i.oo
X. Undine and Intra. By Fouquet.

Illustrated |i.oo

XI. The Rose and the Ring. By Thackeray.
Illustrated . . . $1.25
XII. Irish Melodies. By Moore. Illustrated
I1.50

XIII. The Essays of Ella. By I^amb.

2 vols $2.00

XIV. Stories from the Italian Poets.

By I,eigh Hunt. 2 vols. . . |2.oo

■ t

STORIES

FROM

The Italian Poets

(SECOND SERIES)

BERNARDO TASSO

AND

LUDOVICO GIOVANNI ARIOSTO

WITH CRITICAL NOTICES OF THE LIVES AND
GENIUS OF THE AUTHORS

BY
LEIGH HUNT

NEW YORK AND LONDON

G. P. PUTNAM'S SONS
Be ftnicfterbocfcer press

CONTENTS

TASSO
Critical Notice of his I^ife and Genius . . i

ARIOSTO
Critical Notice of his I,ife and Genius . . 89

PUI/CI

Critical Notice of his I^ife and Genius . . 153
Humors of Giants . . . . . . .185

Notice . , 215

The Battle of Roncesvalles 217

Vol. II.

iii

I I 79258

THE romantic poetry of Italy having risen to
its highest and apparently its most lawless
pitch in the " Orlando Furioso," a reaction
took place in the next age in the "Jerusalem
Delivered. ' ' It did not hurt, however, the popularity
of Ariosto. It only increased the number
of poetic readers ; and under the auspices, or
rather the control, of a Luther-fearing church,

*My authorities for this notice are, Black's " I,ife of
Tasso" (vols. 4to, 1810), his original, Serassi, "Vitadi
Torquato Tasso " (do. 1790), and the works of the poet in
the Pisan edition of Professor Rosinii (33 vols. 8vo, 1832).
I have been indebted to nothing in Black which I have
not ascertained by reference to the Italian biographer,
and quoted nothing stated by Tasso himself but from the
works. Black's Life, which is a free version of Serassi's,
modified by the translator's own opinions and criticism,
is elegant, industrious, and interesting. Serassi's was
the first copious biography of the poet founded on original
documents ; and it deserved to be translated by Mr.
Black, though servile to the house of Este, and, as might
be expected, far from being always ingenious. Among
other instances of this writer's want of candor is the
fact of his having been the discoverer and suppressed of
the manuscript review of Tasso by Galileo. The best

produced, if not as classical a work as it claimed
to be, or one, in the true sense of the word, as
catholic as its predecessor, yet certainly a far
more Roman Catholic and at the same time
very delightful fiction. The circle of fabulous
narrative was thus completed, and a link formed,
though in a very gentle and qualified manner,
both with Dante's theocracy and the obvious
regularity of the "^neid," the oldest romance
of Italy.

The author of this epic of the Crusades was of
a family so noble and so widely diffused, that,
under the patronage of the emperors and the
Italian princes, it flourished in a very remarkable
manner, not only in its own country, butin
Flanders, Germany, and Spain. There was a
Tasso once in England, ambassador of Philip
the Second ; another, like Cervantes, destine

account of the poet's life and writings which I
have met with is Gingn^ne's, in the fifth volume of his
Histoire Ivitt^raire," etc. It is written with his usual
grace, vivacity, and acuteness, and contains a good notice
of the Tasso controversy. As to the Pisan edition of
the works, it is the completest, I believe, in point of contents,
ever published, comprises all the controversial
criticism, and is, of course, very useful ; but it contains
no life except Manso's (now known to be very inconclusive),
has got a heap of feeble variorum comments on
the "Jerusalem," no notes worth speaking of to the rest
of the works, and, notwithstanding the claim in the title-page
to the merit of a "better order," has left the correspondence
in a deplorable state of irregularity, as well
as totally without elucidation. The learned Professor is
an agreeable writer, and I believe a very pleasant man,
but he certainly is a provoking editor.

gushed himself at the battle of Lepanto ; and
a third gave rise to the sovereign German house
of Tour and Taxis. Taxus is the Latin of Tasso.
The Latin word, like the Italian, means both a
badger and a yew-tree ; and the family in general
appear to have taken it in the former sense.
The animal is in their coat-of-arms. But the
poet, or his immediate relatives, preferred being
more romantically shadowed forth by the
yew-tree. The parent stock of the race was at
Bergamo in Lombardy ; and here was born the
father of Tasso, himself a poet of celebrity,
though his fame has been eclipsed by that of
his son.

Bernardo Tasso, author of many elegant
lyrics, of some volumes of letters, not uninteresting
but too florid, and of the "Amadis,"
an epic romance now little read, was a man of
small property, very honest and good-hearted,
but restless, ambitious, and with a turn for expense
beyond his means. He attached himself
to various princes, with little ultimate advantage,
particularly to the unfortunate Sansev-
erin. Prince of Salerno, whom he faithfully
served for many years. The prince had a high
sense of his worth, and would probably have
settled him in the wealth and honors he
was qualified to adorn, but for those Spanish
oppressions in the history of Naples which

ended in the ruin of both master and servant.
Bernardo, however, had one happy interval
of prosperity ; and during this, at the age of
forty-six, he married Portia di Rossi, a young
lady of a rich and noble family, with a claim to
a handsome dowry. He spent some delightful
years with her at Sorrento, a spot so charming
as to have been considered the habitation of the
Sirens ; and here, in the midst of his orange-trees,
his verses, and the breezes of an aromatic
coast, he had three children, the eldest of whom
was a daughter named Cornelia, and the youngest
the author of the "Jerusalem Delivered,"
The other child died young. The house distinguished
by the poet's birth was restored from
a dilapidated condition by order of Joseph Bonaparte
when King of Naples, and is now a hotel.
Torquato Tasso was born March ii, 1544,
nine years after the death of Ariosto, who was
intimate with his father. He was very devoutly
brought up, and grew so tall and became so
premature a scholar, that at nine, he tells
us, he might have been taken for a boy
of twelve. At eleven, in consequence of the
misfortunes of his father, who had been exiled
with the Prince of Salerno, he was forced to
part from his mother, who remained at home
to look after a dowry which she never received.
Her brothers deprived her of it ; and in two

years' time lie died — Bernardo thought by
poison. Twenty-four years afterwards her illustrious
son, in the midst of his own misfortunes,
remembered with sighs the tears with which the
kisses of his poor mother were bathed when
she was forced to let him go.*

The little Torquato following, as he says, like
another Ascanius, the footsteps of his wandering
father, joined Bernardo in Rome. After
two years' study in that city, partly under an
old priest who lived with them, the vicissitudes
of the father's lot took away the son first to
Bergamo, among his relations, and then to

*In the beautiful fragment beginning, " O del grand'
Apennino" :

Me dal sen della madre empia fortuna
Pargoletto diverse. Ah ! di que' baci,
Ch' ella band di laurie solent,
Con sospir mi membra, e degli ardent
Preghi, che sen porter 1' are fugaci,
Ch' io ginger non dove pii volta a volta
Fra quelle brachia accalto
Con nodi cost stretti e si teach.
I,asso ! e seguii con mal secure piante,
Qual Ascanio, o Camilla, il padre errante."
Me from my mother's bosom my hard lot
Took when a child. Alas ! though all these years
I have been used to sorrow,
I sigh to think upon the floods of tears
Which bathed her kisses on that doleful morrow :
I sigh to think of all the prayers and cries
She wasted, straining me with lifted eyes :
For never more on one another's face
Was it our lot to gaze and to embrace !
Her little stumbling boy,
Like to the child of Troy,
Or like to one doomed to no haven rather.
Followed the footsteps of his wandering father.

Pesaro, in the duchy of Urbino, where his education
was associated for nearly two years with
that of the young prince, afterwards Duke Francesco
Maria the Second (della Revere), who retained
a regard for him through life. In 1559
the boy joined his father in Venice, where the
latter had been appointed secretary to the
Academy ; but next year he was withdrawn
from these pleasing varieties of scene by the
parental delusion so common in the history of
men of letters — the study of the law ; which
Bernardo intended him to pursue henceforth in
the city of Padua. He accordingly arrived in
Padua at the age of sixteen and a half, and fulfilled
his legal destiny by writing the poem of
"Rinaldo," which was published in the course
of less than two years at Venice. The good-natured
and poetic father, convinced by this
specimen of jurisprudence how useless it was to
thwart the hereditary passion, permitted him
to devote himself wholly to literature, which he
therefore went to study in the university of
Bologna ; and there, at the early age of nineteen,
he began his "Jerusalem Delivered";
that is to say, he planned it, and wrote three
cantos, several of the stanzas of which he retained
when the poem was matured. He quitted
Bologna, however, in a fit of indignation at being
accused of the authorship of a satire ; and

after visiting some friends at Castelvetro and
Correggio, returned to Padua on the invitation
of his friend Scipio Gonzaga, afterwards cardinal,
who wished him to become a member of
an academy he had instituted, called the Etsi-ei
(Ethereal). Here he studied his favorite philosopher,
Plato, and composed three Discourses
on Heroic Poetry, dedicated to his friend. He
now paid a visit to his father in Mantua, where
the unsettled man had become secretary to the
duke ; and here, it is said, he fell in love with
a young lady of a distinguished family, whose
name was Laura Demerara ; but this did not
hinder him from returning to his Paduann studies,
in which he spent nearly the whole of the
following year. He was then informed that the
Cardinal of Este, to whom he had dedicated his
"Rinaldo," and with whom interest had been
made for the purpose, had appointed him one
of his attendants, and that he was expected at
Ferrara by the list of December. Returning to
Mantua, in order to prepare for this appointment
with his father, he was seized with a dangerous
illness, which detained him there nearly
a twelvemonth longer. On his recovery he
hastened to Ferrara, and arrived in that city on
the last day of October, 1565, the first of many
years of glory and misery.
The Cardinal of Este was the brother of the

reigning Duke of Ferrara, Alfonso the Second,
grandson of the Alfonso of Ariosto. It is curious
to see the two most celebrated romantic
poets of Italy thrown into unfortunate connection
with two princes of the same house and
the same respective ranks. Tasso's cardinal,
however, though the poet lost his favor, and
though very little is known about him, left no
such bad reputation behind him as Ippolito. It
was in the service of the duke that the poet experienced
his sufferings.

This prince, who was haughty, ostentatious,
and quarrelsome, was, at the time of the stranger's
arrival, rehearsing the shows and tournaments
intended to welcome his bride, the sister
of the Bmperor Maximilian the Second. She
was his second wife. The first was a daughter
of the rival house of Tuscany, which he detested ;
and the marriage had not been happy. The
new consort arrived in the course of a few
weeks, entering the city in great pomp ; and
for a time all went happily with the young
poet. He was in a state of ecstacy with the
beauty and grandeur he beheld around him —
obtained the favorable notice of the duke's two
sisters and the duke himself — went on with
his "Jerusalem Delivered," which, in spite of
the presence of Ariosto's memory, he was resolved
to load with praises of the house of Este ;

and in this tumult of pride and expectation, he
beheld the duke, like one of the heroes of his
poem, set out to assist the emperor against the
Turks at the head of three hundred gentlemen,
armed at all points, and mantled in various
colored velvets embroidered with gold.

To complete the young poet's happiness, or
commence his disappointments, he fell in love,
notwithstanding the goddess he had left in
Mantua, with the beautiful Lucrezia Bendidio,
who does not seem, however, to have loved in
return ; for she became the wife of a Machiavelli.
Among his rivals was Guarini, who afterwards
emulated him in pastoral poetry, and who
accused him on this occasion of courting two
ladies at once.

Guarini's accusation has been supposed to
refer to the duke's sister Leonora, whose name
has become so romantically mixed up with the
poet's biography ; but the latest inquiries render
it probable that the allusion was to Laura 
The young poet, however, who had not
escaped the influence of the free manners of
Italy, and whose senses and vanity may hitherto
have been more interested than his heart,
rhymed and flattered on all sides of him, not of
course omitting the charms of princesses. In

prosing, " Saggiosugli AmoridiTorquatoTasso," etc.,
in the Professor's edition of his works, vol. xxxiii.

order to win the admiration of the ladies in a
body, he sustained for three days, in public,
after the fashion of the times, " Fifty Amorous
Conclusions"; that is to say, affirmations on
the subject of love ; doubtless to the equal delight
of his fair auditors and himself, and the
creation of a good deal of jealousy and ill-will
on the part of such persons of his own sex as
had not wit or spirits enough for the display of
so much logic and love-making.

In 1569, the death of his father, who had been
made governor of Ostiglia by the Duke of Mantua,
cost the loving son a fit of illness ; but the
continuation of his 'jerusalem," an " Oration "
spoken at the opening of the Ferrarese academy,
the marriage of Leonora's sister Lucrezia with
the Prince of Urbino, and the society of Leonora
herself, who led the retired life of a person
in delicate health, and was fond of the company
of men of letters, helped to divert him from
melancholy recollections ; and a journey to
France, at the close of the year following, took
him into scenes that were not only totally new,
but otherwise highly interesting to the singer
of Godfrey of Boulogne. The occasion of it
was a visit of the cardinal, his master, to the
court of his relative Charles the Ninth. It is
supposed that his eminence went to confer with
the king on matters relative to the disputes

which not long afterwards occasioned the detestable
massacre of St. Bartholomew.

Before his departure, Tasso put into the hands
of one of his friends a document, which, as it is
very curious, and serves to illustrate perhaps
more than one cause of his misfortunes, is here
given entire.

Memorial, I,EFT BY TASSO ON HIS DEPARTURE
TO FRANCE.

"Since life is frail, and it may please Almighty
God to dispose of me otherwise in this
my journey to France, it is requested of Signor
Ercole Rondinelli that he will, in that case, undertake
the management of the following concerns
:

** In the first place, with regard to my compositions,
it is my wish that all my love-sonnets
and madrigals should be collected and published
; but with regard to those, whether amatory
or otherwise, which I have written for any
friend my request is, that they should be buried
with myself, save only the one commencing
Or che V aura mia dolce strove spirals I wish
the publication of the ' Oration ' spoken in Ferrara
at the opening of the academy, of the four
books on ' Heroic Poetry, ' of the six last cantos
of the * Godfrey ' (the 'Jerusalem '), andofthose
stanzas of the two first which shall seem least

imperfect. All these compositions, however,
are to be submitted to the rcN^ew and consideration
of Signor Scipio Gonzaga, of Signor
Domenico Teniers, and of Signor Baptista
Guarini, who, I persuade myself, will not refuse
this trouble, when they consider the zealous
friendship I have entertained for themselves.

Let them be informed, too, that it was my
intention that they should cut and hew without
mercy whatever should appear to them defective
or superfluous. With regard to additions
or changes, I should wish them to proceed more
cautiously, since, after all, the poem would remain
imperfect. As to my other compositions,
should there be any which, to the aforesaid
Signor Rondinelli and the other gentlemen,
might seem not unworthy of publication, let
them be disposed of according to their pleasure.

In respect to my property, I wish that such

part of it as I have pledged to A brain for

twenty-five lire, and sevenpiecesof arras, which
are likewise in pledge to Signor Ascanio for
thirteen scud, together with whatever I have
in this house, should be sold, and that the overplus
of the proceeds should go to defray the expense
of the following epitaph to be inscribed
on a monument to my father, whose body is in
St. Polo. And should any impediment take
place in these matters, I entreat Signor Ercole

(o have recourse to the favor of the most excellent
Madame Leonora whose liberality I
confide in, for my sake.

** I, Torquato Tasso, have written this, Ferrara,
1570."

I shall have occasion to recur to this document
by and by. I will merely observe, for the present,
that the marks in it, both of imprudence
in money-matters and confidence in the goodwill
of a princess, are very striking. " Abram "
and "Signor Ascanio " were both Jews. The
pieces of arras belonged to his father ; and
probably this was an additional reason why the
affectionate son wished the proceeds to defray
the expense of the epitaph. The epitaph recorded
his father's poetry, state-services, and
vicissitudes of fortune,

Tasso was introduced to the French king as
the poet of a French hero and of a Catholic
victory ; and his reception was so favorable
(particularly as the wretched Charles, the victim
of his mother's bigotry, had himself no
mean poetic feeling), that, with a rash mixture
of simplicity and self-reliance (respect makes
me unwilling to call it self-importance), the
poet expressed an impolitic amount of astonishment
at the favor shown at court to the
Hugonots — little suspecting the horrible design

it covered. He shortly afterwards broke
with his master the cardinal ; and it is supposed
that this unseasonable escape of zeal was the
cause. He himself appears to have thought so.*

Perhaps the cardinal only wanted to get the
imprudent poet back to Italy ; for, on Tasso's
return to Ferrara, he was not only received into
the service of the duke with a salary of some
fifteen golden scud a month, but told that he
was exempted from any particular duty, and
might attend in peace to his studies. Balzac affirms,
that while Tasso was at the court of
France, he was so poor as to beg a crown from
a friend ; and that, when he left it, he had the
same coat on his back that he came in.f The
assertions of a professed wit and hyperbolist are
not to be taken for granted ; yet it is difficult to
say to what shifts improvidence may not be reduced.


The singer of the house of Este would now,
it might have been supposed, be happy. He
had leisure ; he had money ; he had the worldly
honors that he was fond of ; he occupied himself
in perfecting the "Jerusalem"; and he
wrote his beautiful pastoral, the "Aminta,"
which was performed before the duke and his

"lyCttere Indite," p. 33, in the " Opere," vol. xvii,
t "Entretiens," 1663, p. 169, quoted by Serassi, pp.
175, 182.

court to the delight of the brilliant assembly.
The duke's sister Lucrezia, Princess of Urbino,
who was a special friend of the poet, sent for
him to read it to her at Pesaro ; and in course
of the ensuing carnival it was performed with
similar applause at the court of her father-in-law.
The poet had been as much enchanted by
the spectacle which the audience at Ferrara
presented to his eyes, as the audience with the
loves and graces with which he enriched their
stage. The shepherd Thyrsus, by whom he
meant himself, reflected it back upon them ina
passage of the performance. It is worth while
dwelling on this passage a little, because it
exhibits a brief interval of happiness in the
author's life, and also shows us what he had
already begun to think of courts at the moment
he was praising them. But he ingeniously contrives
to put the praise in his own mouth, and
the blame in another's. The shepherd's friend,
Mopsus (by whom Tasso is thought to have
meant Seront), had warned him against going
to court :

Per, figlio,
Va su r awiso," etc.

Therefore, my son, take my advice. Avoid
The places where thou seest much drapery,
Colors, and gold, and plumes, and heraldries,
And such new-entanglements. But, above all,
Take care how evil chance or youthful wandering

Bring thee upon the house of Idle Babble."

What place is that ? " said I ; and he resumed : —

Enchant tresses dwell there, who make one see

Things as they are not, ay and hear them too.

That which shall seem pure diamond and fine gold

Is glass and brass ; and coffers that look silver,

Heavy with wealth, are baskets full of bladders.*

The very walls there are so strangely made,

They answer those who talk ; and not in syllables,

Or bits of words, like echo in our woods.

But go the whole talk over, word for word.

With something else besides, that no one saide

The tresses, tables, bedsteads, curtains, lockers,

Chairs, and whatever furniture there is

In room or bedroom, all have tongues and speech,

And are for ever tattling. Idle Babble

Is always going about, playing the child ;

And should a dumb man enter in that place.

The dumb would babble in his own despite.

And yet this evil is the least of all

That might assail thee. Thou might'st be arrested

In fearful transformation to a willow,

A beast, fire, water,— fire for ever sighing.

Water for ever weeping"— Here he ceased :

And I, with all this fine foreknowledge, went

To the great city ; and, by Heaven's kind will,

Came where they live so happily. The first sound

I heard was a delightful harmony.

Which issued forth, of voices loud and sweet ;—

Sirens, and swans, and nymphs, a heavenly noise

Of heavenly things ;— which gave me such delight,

That, all admiring, and amazed, and toyed,

Suggested by Ariosto's furniture in the Moon.

t This was a trick which he afterwards thought he had
reason to complain of in a style very different from
pleasantry.

I stopped awhile quite motionless. There stood

Within the entrance, as if keeping guard

Of those fine things, one of a high-souled aspect.

Stalwart withal, of whom I was in doubt

Whether to think him better knight or leader.*

He, with a look at once benign and grave,

In royal guise, invited me within ;

He, great and in esteem ; me, lorn and lowly.

Oh, the sensations and the sights which then

Shower'd on me. Goddesses I saw, and nymphs

Graceful. and beautiful, and harpers fine

As Linus or as Orpheus ; and more deities,

All without veil or cloud, bright as the virgin

Aurora, when she glads immortal eyes.

And sows her beams and dew drops, silver and gold.

In the summer of 1574, the Duke of Ferrara
went lo Venice to pay his respects to the successor
of Charles the Ninth, Henry the Third,
then on his way to France from his kingdom
of Poland. Tasso went with the Duke, and is
understood to have taken the opportunity of
looking for a printer of his "Jerusalem," which
was now almost finished. Writers were anxious
to publish in that crafty city, because its government
would give no security of profit to
books printed elsewhere. Alfonso, who was in
mourning for Henry's brother, and to whom

X Alfonso. The word for " leader " in the original, dure,
made the allusion more obvious. The epithet "royal,"
in the next sentence, conveyed a welcome intimation to
the ducal ear, the house of Este being very proud of its
connection with the sovereigns of Europe, and very desirous
of becoming royal itself.

mourning itself only suggested a new occasion
of pomp and vanity, took with him to this
interview five hundred Ferrarese gentlemen, all
dressed in long black cloaks ; wto walked
about Venice (says a reporter) "by twos and
threes," wonderfully impressed the inhabitants
with their * * gravity and magnificence. ' ' *
The mourners feasted, however ; and Tasso
had a quartan fever, which delayed the completion
of the "Jerusalem," till next year. This
was at length effected ; and now once more, it v
might have been thought, the writer would
have reposed on his laurels.

But Tasso had already begun to experience
the uneasiness attending superiority ; and, unfortunately,
the strength of his mind was not
equal to that of his genius. He was of an ultra-sensitive
temperament, and subject to depressing
fits of sickness. He could not calmly bear
envy. Sarcasm exasperated, and hostile criticism
afflicted him. The seeds of a suspicious
temper were nourished by prosperity itself. The
author of the " Aminta " and the "Jerusalem "
began to think the attentions he received unequal
to his merits; while with a sort of hysterical
mixture of demand for applause, and provocation
of censure, he not only condescended to
read his poems in manuscript wherever he
Serassi, vol. i., p. 210.

went, but, in order to secure the good-will of
the papal licenser, he transmitted it for revisal
to Rome, where it was mercilessly criticized for
the space of two years by the bigots and hypocrites
of a court, which Luther had rendered a
very different one from that in the time of
Ariosto.

This new source of chagrin exasperated the
complexional restlessness which now made our
author think that he should be more easy anywhere
than in Ferrara ; perhaps more able to communicate
with and convince his critics ; and,
unfortunately, he permitted himself to descend
to a weakness the most fatal of all others to a
mind naturally exalted and ingenuous. Perhaps
it was one of the main causes of all which
he suffered. Indeed, he himself, attributed his
misfortunes to irresolution. What I mean in
the present instance was, that he did not disdain
to adopt underhand measures. He showed
a face of satisfaction with Alfonso, at the moment
that he was taking steps to exchange his
court for another. He wrote for that purpose
to his friend Scipio Gonzaga, now a prelate at
the court of Rome, earnestly begging him, at
the same time, not to commit him in their correspondence
; and Scipio, who was one of his
kindest and most indulgent friends, and who
doubtless saw that the Duke of Ferrara and his

poet were not of dispositions likely to accord,
did all he could to procure him an appointment
with one of the family of the Medici.

Most unhappily for this speculation (and
perhaps even the good-natured Gonzaga took a
little more pleasure in it on that account),
Alfonso inherited all the detestation of his
house for that lucky race ; and it is remarkable,
that the same jealousies which hindered Ariosto's
advancement with the Medici were still
more fatal to the hopes of Tasso ; for they
served to plunge him into the deepest adversity.
In vain he had warnings given him, both
friendly and hostile. The princess, now Duchess
of Urbino, who was his particular friend,
strongly cautioned him against the temptation
of going away. She said he was watched. He
himself thought his letters were opened ; and
probably they were. They certainly were at a
subsequent period. Tasso, however, persisted,
and went to Rome. Scipio Gonzaga introduced
him to Cardinal Ferdinand de' Medici, afterwards
Grand Duke of Tuscany ; and Ferdinand
made him offers of protection so handsome, that
they excited his suspicion. The self-tormenting
poet thought they savored more of hatred
to the Este family, than honor to himself.*

• "Alia lor magnanimity d conventicle il nostra,
ch' amor delle virtii, non ohio verso altri, gli abba gii
mossi ad invitarmi con invito cost largo—" Opere," voL
XV., p. 94.

He did not accept them. He did nothing
at Rome but make friends, in order to perplex
them ; listen to his critics, in order to
worry himself ; and perform acts of piety in the
churches, by way of showing that the love-scenes
in the ** Jerusalem " were innocent. For
the bigots had begun to find something very
questionable in mixing up so much love with
war. The bloodshed they had no objection to.
The love bearded their prejudices, and excited
their envy.

Tasso returned to Ferrara, and endeavored
to solace himself with eulogizing two fair
strangers who had arrived at Alfonso's court, —
Eleonora Sanvitale, who had been newly married
to the Count of Scandiano (a Tiens, not a
Boiardo, whose line was extinct), and Barbara
Sanseverino, Countess of Sala, her mother-in-law.
The mother-in-law, who was a Juno-like
beauty, wore her hair in the form of a crown.
The still more beautiful daughter-in-law had
an under-lip such as Anacreon or Sir John
Suckling would have admired, — pouting and
provoking, — npoxaXovtiEvov (pikriiia. Tasso
wrote verses on them both, but particularly to
the lip ; and this Countess of Scandiano is the
second, out of the three Leonora, with whom
Tasso was said by his friend Manso to have
been in love. The third, it is now ascertained,
never existed ; and his love-making to the new

or second Leonora, goes to show how little of
real passion there was in the praises of the
first (the Princess Leonora), or probably of any
lady at court. He had professed love, as a
forlorn hope, to the countess' waiting-maid.
Yet these gallantries of sonnets are exalted into
bewilderment of the heart.

His restlessness returning, the poet now
condescended to craft a second time. Expecting
to meet with a refusal, and so be afforded
a pretext for quitting Ferrara, he applied for
the vacant office of historiographer. It was
granted him ; and he then disgusted the
Medici by pleading an unlooked-for engagement,
which he could only reconcile to his
applications for their favor by renouncing his
claim to be believed. If he could have deceived
others, why might he not have deceived
them?

All the lurking weakness of the poet's temperament
began to display itself at this juncture.
His perplexity excited him to a degree of irritability
bordering on delirium ; and the circumstances
conspired to increase it. He had lent
an acquaintance the key of his rooms at court,
for the purpose (he tells us) of accommodating
some intrigue ; and he suspected this person of
opening cabinets containing his papers. Remonstrating
with him one day in the court of

the palace, either on that or some other account,
the man gave him the lie. He received
in return a blow on the face, and is said by
Tasso to have brought a set of his kinsmen to
assassinate him, all of whom the heroical poet
immediately put to flight. At one time he
suspected the duke of jealousy respecting the
dedication of his poem, and of another, of a
wish to bum it. He suspected his servants.
He became suspicious of the truth of his friend
Gonzaga. He doubted, even, whether some
of the praises addressed to him by Oratio
Ariosto, the nephew of the great poet, which,
one would have thought, would have been to
him a consummation of bliss, were not intended
to mystify and hurt him. At length he fancied
that his persecutors had accused him of heresy
to the Inquisition ; and, as he had gone through
the metaphysical doubts, common with most
men of reflection respecting points of faith and
the mysteries of creation, he feared that some
indiscreet words had escaped him, giving color
to the charge. He thus beheld enemies all
around him. He dreaded stabbing and poison;
and one day, in some paroxysm of rage or
horror, how occasioned it is not known, ran
with a knife or dagger at one of the servants
of the Duchess of Urbino in her own
chamber.

Alfonso, upon this, apparently in the mildest
and most reasonable manner, directed that
he should be confined to his apartments, and
put into the hands of the physician. These
unfortunate events took place in the summer
of 1577, and in the poet's thirty-third
year.

Tasso showed so much affliction at this treatment,
and, at the same time, bore it so patiently,
that the duke took him to his beautiful countryseat
of Belriguardo ; where, in one of his accounts
of the matter, the poet says he treated
him as a brother; but, in another, he accuses
him of having taken pains to make him criminate
himself, and confess certain matters, real
or supposed, the nature of which is a puzzle to
posterity. Some are of opinion (and this is the
prevailing one), that he was found guilty of
being in love with the Princess Leonora, perhaps
of being loved by herself. Others think
the love out of the question, and that the duke
was concerned in nothing but his endeavoring
to transfer his services and his poetic reputation
into the hands of the Medici. Others see in the
duke's conduct nothing but that of a good
master interesting himself in the welfare of an
afflicted servant.

It is certain that Alfonso did all he could to
prevent the surreptitious printing of the "Jerusalem

Delivered" in various towns of Italy, the
dread of which had much afflicted the poet ; and
he also endeavored, though in vain, to ease his
mind on the subject of the Inquisition ; for
these facts are attested by state-papers and other
documents, not dependent either on the testimony
of third persons or the partial representations
of the sufferer. But Tasso felt so uneasy
at Belriguardo, that he requested leave to retire
awhile into a convent. He remained there several
days, apparently so much to his satisfaction
that he wrote to the duke to say that it was his
intention to become a friar ; and yet he had no
sooner got into the place, than he addressed a
letter to the Inquisition at Rome, beseeching it
to desire permission for him to come to that
city, in order to clear himself from the charges
of his enemies. He also wrote to two other
friends, requesting them to further his petition ;
and adding that the duke was enraged with him
in consequence of the anger of the Grand Duke
of Tuscany, who, it is supposed, had accused
Tasso of having revealed to Alfonso some indecent
epithet which his highness had applied to
him.^ These letters were undoubtedly inter-the

application is the conjecture of Black, vol. i., p.
317. Serassi suppressed the whole passage. The indecent
word would have been known but for the delicacy
or courtliness of Muratori, who substituted an et-cetera in
its place, observing, that he had "covered " with it "an

accepted, for they were found among the secret
archives of Modena, the only principality ultimately
remaining in the Este family ; so that,
agreeably to the saying of listeners hearing no
good of themselves, if Alfonso did not know the
epithet before, he learnt it then. The reader
may conceive his feelings. Tasso, too, at the
same time, was plaguing him with letters to
similar purpose ; and it is observable, that
while in those which he sent to Rome he
speaks of Cosmo de' Medici as " Grand Duke,"
he takes care in the others to call him simply
the *duke of Florence." Alfonso had been
exasperated to the last degree at Cosmo's having
had the epithet "Grand" added by the
Pope to his ducal title ; and the reader may
imagine the little allowance that would be made
by a haughty and angry prince for the rebellious
courtesy thus shown to a detested rival. Tasso,
furthermore, who had not only an infantine
hatred of bitter "physic," but reasonably
thought the fashion of the age for giving it a
ridiculous one, begged hard, in a manner which
it is humiliating to witness, that he might not
be drenched with medicine. The duke at length

indecent word not fit to be printed" (" sotto quell' etcetera
ho io opera un' indecent parole, che non era
lecito di fascia corner alle stamped"— "Opera del Tasso,"
vol. xvi., p. 114). By "covered" he seems to have meant
blotted out, for in the latest edition of Tasso the ei-cetera
is retained.

forbade his writing to him any more ; and
Tasso, whose fears of every kind of ill usage
had been wound up to a pitch unbearable,
watched an opportunity when he was carelessly
guarded, and fled at once from the convent and
Ferrara.

The unhappy poet selected the loneliest ways
he could find, and directed his course to the
kingdom of Naples, where his sister lived. He
was afraid of pursuit ; he probably had little
money ; and considering his ill health and his
dread of the Inquisition, it is pitiable to think
what he may have endured while picking his
long way through the back states of the Church
and over the mountains of Arezzo, as far as
the Gulf of Naples. For better security, he exchanged
clothes with a shepherd; and as he
feared even his sister at first, from doubting
whether she still loved him, his interview with
her was in all its circumstances painfully dramatic.
Cornelia Tasso, now a widow, with two
sons, was still residing at Sorrento, where the
poet, casting his eyes around him as he proceeded
towards the house, must have beheld with
singular feelings of wretchedness the lovely
spots in which he had been a happy little boy.
He did not announce himself at once. He
brought letters, he said, from the lady's brother ;
and it is affecting to think, that whether his

sister might or might not have retained otherwise
any personal recollection of him since
that time (for he had not seen her in the interval),
his disguise was completed by the alterations
which sorrow had made in his appearance.
For, at all events, she did not know him. She
saw in him nothing but a haggard stranger who
was acquainted with the writer of the letters,
and to whom they referred for particulars of the
risk which her brother ran, unless she could
afford him her protection. These particulars
were given by the stranger with all the pathos
of the real man, and the loving sister fainted
away. On her recovery, the visitor said what
he could to reassure her, and then by degrees
discovered himself. Cornelia welcomed him in
the tenderest manner. She did all that he desired
; and gave out to her friends that the gentleman
was a cousin from Bergamo, who had
come to Naples on family affairs.

For a little while the affection of his sister,
and the beauty and freshness of Sorrento, rendered
the mind of Tasso more easy : but his
restlessness returned. He feared he had mortally
offended the Duke of Ferrara ; and, with
his wonted fluctuation of purpose, he now
wished to be restored to his presence for the
very reason he had run away from it. He did
not know with what vengeance he might be

pursued. He wrote to the duke, but received
no answer. The Duchess of Urbino was equally-silent.
Leonora alone responded, but with no
encouragement. These appearances only made
him the more anxious to dare or to propitiate
his doom ; and he accordingly determined to
put himself in the duke's hands. His sister entreated
him in vain to alter his resolution. He
quitted her before the autumn was over, and,
proceeding to Rome, went directly to the house
of the duke's agent there, who, in concert with
the Ferrarese ambassador, gave his master advice
of the circumstance. Gonzaga, however,
and another good friend. Cardinal Albano,
doubted whether it would be wise in the poet to
return to Ferrara under any circumstances.
They counselled him to be satisfied with being
pardoned at a distance, and with having his
papers and other things returned to him, and
the two friends immediately wrote to the duke
requesting as much. The duke apparently acquiesced
in all that was desired ; but he said
that the illness of his sister, the Duchess of
Urbino, delayed the procuration of the papers,
which, it seems, were chiefly in her hands.
The upshot was that the papers did not come ;
and Tasso, with a mixture of rage and fear, and
perhaps for more reasons than he has told, became
uncontrollably desirous of retracing the rest

of his steps to Ferrara. I^ove may have been
among these reasons — probably was ; though it
does not follow that the passion must have been
for a princess. The poet now, therefore, petitioned
to that effect, and Alfonso wrote again and
said he might come, but only on condition of his
again undergoing the ducal course of medicine,
adding that if he did not he was to be finally
expelled from his highness' territories.

He was graciously received — too graciously,
it would seem for his equanimity ; for it gave
him such a flow of spirits that the duke appears
to have thought it necessary to repress them.
The unhappy poet, at this, began to have some
of his old suspicions, and the unaccountable detention
of his papers confirmed them. He made
an effort to keep the suspicions down, but it
was by means, unfortunately, of drowning them
in wine and jollity, and this gave him such a
fit of sickness as had nearly been his death.
He recovered, only to make a fresh stir about
his papers, and a still greater one about his
poems in general, which, though his "Jerusalem
" was yet only known in manuscript, and
not even his " Aminta " published, he believed
ought to occupy the attention of mankind.
People at Ferrara, therefore, not foreseeing the
respect that posterity would entertain for the
poet, and having no great desire perhaps to encourage

a man who claimed to be a rival of
their countryman Ariosto, now began to consider
their Neapolitan guest not merely an
ingenious and pitiable, but an overweening and
tiresome enthusiast. The court, however, still
seemed to be interested in its panegyrist, though
Tasso feared that Alfonso meant to burn his
"Jerusalem." Alfonso, on the other hand, is
supposed to have feared that he would burn it
himself, and the ducal praises with it. The
papers, at all events, apparently including the
only fair copy of the poem, were constantly
withheld, and Tasso, in a new fit of despair,
again quitted Ferrara. This mystery of the
papers is certainly very extraordinary.

The poet's first steps were to Mantua, where
he met with no such reception as encouraged
him to stay. He then went to Urbino, but did
not stop long. The prince it is true, was very
gracious, and bandages for a cautery were applied
by the fair hands of his highness' sister,
but, though the nurse enchanted, the surgery
frightened him. The hapless poet found himself
pursued wherever he went by the tormenting
beneficence of medicine. He escaped, and
went to Turin. He had no passport, and presented,
besides, so miserable an appearance,
that the people at the gates roughly refused
him admittance. He was well received, however,

at court ; and as he had begun to acknowledge
that he was subject to humors and delusions,
and wrote to say as much to Cardinal
Albano, who returned him a most excellent and
affecting letter, full of the kindest regard and
good counsel, his friends entertained a hope
that he would become tranquil. But he disappointed
them. He again applied to Alfonso
for permission to return to Ferrara — again received
it, though on worse than the old conditions
— and again found himself in that city in,
the beginning of the year 1579, delighted at seeing
a brilliant assemblage from all quarters of
Italy on occasion of a new marriage of the
duke's (with a princess of Mantua). He made
up his mind to think that nothing could be
denied him, at such a moment by the bridegroom
whom he meant to honor and glorify.
Alas ! the very circumstance to which he
looked for success, tended to throw him into
the greatest of his calamities. Alfonso was to
be married the day after the poet's arrival. He
was therefore too busy to attend to him. The
princesses did not attend to him. Nobody attended
to him. He again applied in vain for
his papers. He regretted his return ; became
anxious to be any where else ; thought himself
not only neglected but derided ; and at length
became excited to a pitch of frenzy. He broke

forth into the most unmeasured invectives
against the duke, even in public; invoked
curses on his head and that of his whole race ;
retracted all he had ever said in the praise of
any of them, prince or otherwise ; and pronounced
him and his whole court " a parcel of
ingrates, rascals, and poltroons"* The outbreak
was reported to the duke ; and the consequence
was, that the poet was sent to the
hospital of St. Anne, an establishment for the
reception of the poor and lunatic, where he remained
(with the exception of a few unaccountable
leave-days) upwards of seven years. This
melancholy event happened in the March of
the year 1579.

Tasso was stunned by this blow as much as if
he had never done or suffered any thing to expect
it. He could at first do nothing but wonder
and bewail himself, and implore to be set
free. The duke answered, that he must be
cured first. Tasso replied by fresh entreaties ;
the duke returned the same answers. The unhappy
poet had recourse to every friend, prince,
and great man he could think of, to join his entreaties
; he sought refuge in composition, but
still entreated ; he occasionally reproached and

Black's version (vol. ii., p. 58) is not strong enough.
The words in Serassi are " una curia di poltroon,
ingrate, e ribald," ii., p. 33.

even bantered the duke in some of his letters to
his friends, all of which, doubtless, were opened ;
but still he entreated, flattered, adored, all to no
purpose, for seven long years and upwards. Intime
he became subject to maniacal illusions ;
so that if he was not actually mad before, he
was now considered so. He was not only visited
with sights and sounds, such as many people
have experienced whose brains have been overexcited,
but he fancied himself haunted by a
sprite, and become the sport of "magicians''
The sprite stole his things, and the magicians
would not let him get well. He had a vision
such as Benevento Cellini had, of the Virgin
Mary in her glory ; and his nights were so miserable,
that he ate too much in order that he
might sleep. When he was temperate, he lay
awake. Sometimes he felt " as if a horse had
thrown himself on him." " Have pity on me,"
he says to the friend to whom he gives these
affecting accounts ; "I am miserable, because
the world is unjust." *

The physicians advised him to leave off" wine ;
but he says he could not do that, though he was
content to use it in moderation. In truth he
required something to support him against the
physicians themselves, for they continued to
exhaust his strength by their medicines, and
" Opere," vol. xiv., pp. 158, 174, etc.

could not supply the want of it with air and
freedom. He had ringings in the ears, vomits,
and fluxes of blood. It would be ludicrous, if
it were not deplorably pathetic, to hear so great
a man, in the commonest medical terms, now
protesting against the eternal drenches of these
practitioners, now humbly submitting to them,
and now entreating like a child, that they
might at least not be " so bitter." The physicians,
with the duke at their head, were as mad
for their rhubarb and lancets as the quacks in
Moliere ; and nothing but the very imagination
that had nearly sacrificed the poet's life to their
ignorance could have hindered him from dashing
his head against the wall, and leaving them
to the execrations of posterity. It is the only
occasion in which the noble profession of medicine
has not appeared in wise and beneficent
connection with the sufferings of men of letters.
Why did Ferrara possess no Brocklesby in
those days ? no Garth, Mead, Warren, or South-wood
Smith ?

Tasso enabled himself to endure his imprisonment
with composition. He supported it
with his poetry and his poem, and what, alas !
he had been too proud of during his liberty, the
praises of his admirers. His genius brought
him gifts from princes, and some money from
the booksellers : it supported him even against

his critics. During his confinement the "Jerusalem
Delivered" was first published ; though,
to his grief, from a surreptitious and mutilated
copy. But it was followed by a storm of applause
; and if this was succeeded by as great a
storm of objection and controversy, still the
healthier part of his faculties were roused, and
he exasperated his critics and astonished the
world by showing how coolly and learnedly the
poor, wild, imprisoned genius could discuss the
most intricate questions of poetry and philosophy.
The disputes excited by his poem are
generally supposed to have done him harm ;
but the conclusion appears to be ill founded.
They diverted his thoughts, and made him conscious
of his powers and his fame. I doubt
whether he would have been better for entire
approbation : it would have put him in a state
of elevation, unfit for what he had to endure.
He had found his pen his great solace, and he
had never employed it so well. It would be
incredible what a heap of things he wrote in
this complicated torment of imprisonment,
sickness, and "physic," if habit and mental
activity had not been sufficient to account for
much greater wonders. His letters to his
friends and others would make a good-sized
volume ; those to his critics, another ; sonnets
and odes, a third ; and his Dialogues after

the manner of Plato, two more. Perhaps a
good half of all he wrote was written in this
hospital of St. Anne ; and he studied as well as
composed, and had to read all that was written
at the time, pro and Coi, in the discussions
about his "Jerusalem," which, in the latest
edition of his works, amount to three out of six
volumes octavo ! Many of the occasions, however,
of his poems, as well as letters, are most
painful to think of, their object having been to
exchange praise for money. And it is distressing,
in the letters, to see his other little wants,
and the fluctuations and moods of his mind.
Now he is angry about some book not restored,
or some gift promised and delayed. Now he is
in want of some books to be lent him ; now of
some praise to comfort him ; now of a little
fresh linen. He is very thankful for visits, for
respectful letters, for "sweetmeats"; and
greatly puzzled to know what to do with the
bad sonnets and panegyrics that are sent him.
They were sometimes too much even for the
allowed ultra courtesies of Italian acknowledgement.
His compliments to most people are
varied with astonishing grace and ingenuity;
his accounts of his condition often sufficient to
bring the tears into the manliest eyes ; and his
ceaseless and vain efforts to procure his liberation
mortifying when we think of himself,

and exasperating when we think of the petty
despot who detained him in so long, so degrading,
and so worse than useless confinement.

Tasso could not always conceal his contempt
of his imprisoned from the ducal servants. Alfonso
excelled the grandiloquent poet himself
in his love of pomp and worship ; and as he
had no particular merits to warrant it, his victim
bantered his love of titles. He says, in a
letter to the duke's steward : **If it is the pleasure
of the Most Serene Signor Duke, Most
Clement and Most Invincible, to keep me in
prison, may I beg that he will have the goodness
to return certain little things of mine,
which his Most Invincible, Most Clement, and
Most Serene Highness has so often promised
me"*

But these were rare ebullitions of gayety, perhaps
rather of bitter despair. A playful address
to a cat to lend him her eyes to write by, during
some hour in which he happened to be without
a light (for it does not appear to have been denied
him), may be taken as more probable
evidence of a mind relieved at the moment,
though the necessity for the relief may have

" Prego V.Signoria che si content, se place al Serenity
Signor Duca, Clementissimo ed Invitissimo, che io
stir in prisoner, di farm car le poche robicciole mie, che
S. A. Invitissima, Clementissinia, Serenissima m' ha
pronjesse tante volte," etc. — " Opere," vol. xiv., p. 6,

been very sad. But the style in which he generally
alludes to his situation is far different.
He continually begs his correspondents to pity
him, to pray for him, to attribute his errors to
infirmity. He complains of impaired memory,
and acknowledges that he has become subject
to the deliriums formerly attributed to him by
the enemies that helped to produce them.
Petitioning the native city of his ancestors
(Bergamo) to intercede for him with the duke,
he speaks of the writer as *' this unhappy person,"
and subscribes himself, —

"Most illustrious Signors, your affectionate
servant, Torquato Tasso, a prisoner, and infirm,
in the hospital of St. Anne in Ferrara."

In one of his addresses to Alfonso, he says
most affectingly :

"I have sometimes attributed much to myself,
and considered myself as somebody. But
now, seeing in how many ways imagination has
imposed on me, I suspect that it has also deceived
me in this opinion of my own consequence.
Indeed, methinks the past has been a
dream ; and hence I am resolved to rely on my
imagination no longer."

Alfonso made no answer.

The causes of Tasso' s imprisonment, and its
long duration, are among the puzzles of biography.
The prevailing opinion, notwithstanding

the opposition made to it by Serassi and
Black, is, that the poet made love to the Princess
Leonora — perhaps was beloved by her ; and
that her brother the duke punished him for his
arrogance. This was the belief of his earliest
biographer, Manso, who was intimately acquainted
with the poet in his latter days ; and
from Manso (though he did not profess to receive
the information from Tasso, but only to
gather it from his poems) it spread all over Europe.
Milton took it on trust from him ; * and
so have our English translators Hoole and
Wiffen. The Abbe de Charles, however, declined
to do so ; t and Montaigne, who saw the
poet in St. Anne's hospital, says nothing of the
love at all. He attributes his condition to
poetical excitement, hard study, and the meeting
of the extremes of wisdom and folly. The
philosopher, however, speaks of the poet's having
survived his reason, and become unconscious
both of himself and his works, which the
reader knows to be untrue. He does not appear
to have conversed with Tasso. The poet was
only shown him ; probably at a sick moment,
or by a new and ignorant officially: Muratori,

" Altera Torquatus cepit Leonora poeta," etc.
t " Vie du Tasse," 1695, p. 51.

X In the " Apology for Raymond de Seconde ; " Essays,
vol. ii., ch. 12.

who was in the service of the Este family at
Modena, tells us, on the authority of an old acquaintance
who knew contemporaries of Tasso,
that the " good Torquato" finding himself one
day in company with the duke and his sister,
and going close to the princess in order to answer
some question which she had put to him,
was so transported by an impulse "more than
poetical," as to give her a kiss ; upon which the
duke, who had observed it, turned about to his
gentleman, and said, "What a pity to see so
great a man distracted!" and so ordered him
to be locked up.* But this writer adds, that he
does not know what to think of the anecdote :
he neither denies nor admits it. Tiraboschi,
who was also in the service of the Este family,
doubts the truth of the anecdote, and believes
that the duke shut the poet up solely for fear
lest his violence should do harms Serassi, the
second biographer of Tasso, who dedicated his
book to an Este princess inimical to the poet's
memory, attributes the confinement, on his own
showing, to the violent words he had uttered
against his master]: Walker, the author of the

*In his letter to Zero,— " Opere del Tasso," xvi.,
p. ii.

t " Astoria della Poesia Italian " (Matthias' edition),
vol. iii., part i., p. 236.

t Serassi is very peremptory, and even abusive. He
charges every body who has said any thing to the contrary
with imposture. " Eli non v' ha dubbio, che le

"Memoir on Italian Tragedy," says, that the
life by Serassi himself induced him to credit
the love-story's so does Ginguene.f Black,
forgetting the age and illnesses of hundreds of
enamoured ladies, and the distraction of lovers
at all times, derides the notion of passion on
either side : because, he argues, Tasso was subject
to frenzies, and Leonora forty-two years of
age, and not in good-healths What would
Madame d'Houdetot have said to him ? or Mademoiselle
Iv'Espinasse? or Mrs. Inchbald, w)io
used to walk up and down Sackville Street in
order that she might see Dr. Warren's light in
his window? Foscolo was a believer in the
love ; I Sismondi admits it ; || and Rosinii, the
editor of the latest edition of the poet's works,
is passionate for it. He wonders how any body

trope imprudent e temerarie parole, che il Tasso si
lascio uscir di bocca in quest incontro, furore la sola
canine della sua prig ionia, e ch' e mere favola ed tm-
posUira tutti cio, che diversa mente e stato affermato e
scripta da altri in tale proposition." Vol. ii., p. 33. But we
have seen that the good Abbe could practise a little imposition
himself.

Black, ii., 88. f " Hist. Itt. d'ltalie," v., 243, etc.

J Vol. ii.,p. 89.

g Such at least is my impression ; but I cannot call the
evidence to mind.

II " Literature of the South of Europe " (Roscoe's translation),
vol. ii., p. 165. To show the loose way in which
the conclusions of a man's own mind are presented as
facts admitted by others, Sismondi says, that Tasso's
passion "was the cause of his return to Ferrara. There
is not a tittle of evidence to show for it.

can fail to discern it in a number of passages,
which, in truth, may mean a variety of other
loves ; and he insists much upon certain loose
verses {lascivi) which the poet, among his
various accounts of the origin of his imprisonment,
assigns as the cause, or one of the causes,
of it. ^

I confess, after a reasonable amount of inquiry
into this subject, that I can find no
proofs whatsoever of Tasso's having made love
to Leonora ; though I think it highly probable.
I believe the main cause of the duke's proceedings
was the poet's own violence of behavior
and incontinence of speech. I think it very
likely that, in the course of the poetical love-making
to various ladies, which was almost
identical in that age with addressing them inverse,
Torquato, whether he was in love or not,
took more liberties with the princesses than
Alfonso approved ; and it is equally probable,
that one of those liberties consisted in his indulging
his imagination too far. It is not even
impossible, that more gallantry may have been
going on at court than Alfonso could endure to

" Saggio sugli Amorii," etc., ut. sup., p. 84, and passim.
As specimens of the learned professor's reasoning, it
may be observed that whenever the words humble, daring,
high, noble, and royal, occur in the poet's love-verses,
he thinks they must allude to the Princess Leonora ; and
he argues, that Alfonso never could have been so angry
with any " verse lascivi," if they had not had the same
direction.

see alluded to, especially by an ambitious pen.
But there is no evidence that such was the case.
Tasso, as a gentleman, could not have hinted
at such a thing on the part of a princess of staid
reputation ; and, on the other hand, the " love "
he speaks of as entertained by her for him, and
warranting the application to her for money incase
of his death, was too plainly worded to
mean any thing but love in the sense of friendly
regard. ' ' Per amor mio "is an idiomatical
expression, meaning " for my sake ; " a strong
one, no doubt, and such as a proud man like
Alfonso might think a liberty, but not at all of
necessity an amatory boast. If it was, its very
effrontery and vanity were presumptions of its
falsehood. The lady whom Tasso alludes to in
the passage quoted on his first confinement is
complained of for her coldness towards him ;
and, unless this was itself a gentlemanly blind,
it might apply to fifty other ladies besides the
princess. The man who assaulted him in the
streets, and who is supposed to have been the
violator of his papers, need not have found any
secrets of love in them. The servant at whom
he aimed the knife or the dagger might be as
little connected with such matters ; and the
sonnets which the poet said he wrote for a
friend, and which he desired to be buried with
him, might be alike innocent of all reference to

Leonora, whether he wrote them for a friend or
not. Leonora's death took place during the
poet's confinement ; and, lamented as she was
by the verse-writers according to custom, Tasso
wrote nothing on the event. This silence has
been attributed to the depth of his passion ; but
how is the fact proved? and why may it not
have been occasioned by there having been no
passion at all ?

All that appears certain is, that Tasso spoke
violent and contemptuous words against the
duke ; that he often spoke ill of him in his
letters ; that he endeavored, not with perfect
ingenuousness, to exchange his service for that
of another prince ; that he asserted his madness
to have been pretended in the first instance
purely to gratify the duke's whim for thinking
it so (which was one of the reasons perhaps
why Alfonso, as he complained, would not believe
a word he said) ; and finally, that, whether
the madness was or was not so pretended, it
unfortunately became a confirmed though
milder form of mania, during a long confinement.


Alfonso, too proud to forgive the poet's contempt,
continued thus to detain him, partly
perhaps because he was not sorry to have a pretext
for revenge, partly because he did not know
what to do with him consistently either with his

own or the poet's safety. He lead not been
generous enough to put Tasso above his-wants ;
he had not address enough to secure his respect ;
he had not merit enough to overlook his reproaches.
If Tasso had been as great a man ashe
was a poet, Alfonso would not have been reduced
to these perplexities. The poet would
have known how to settle quietly down on his
small court-income, and wait patiently in the
midst of his beautiful visions for what fortune
had or had not in store for him. But in truth;
he, as well as the duke, was weak ; they made
a bad business of it between them ; and Alfonso
the Second closed the accounts of the Este
family with the Muses, by keeping his panegyrist
seven years in a mad-house, to the astonishment
of posterity, and the destruction of his
own claims to renown.

It does not appear that Tasso was confined in
any such dungeon as they now exhibit in Ferrara.
The conduct of the Prior of the Hospitalis
more doubtful. His name was Agostino
Mostii ; and, strangely enough, he was the person
who had raised a monument to Ariosto, of
whom he was an enthusiastic admirer. To this
predilection has been attributed his alleged
cruelty' to the stranger from Sorrento, who
dared to emulate the fame of his idol, — an extraordinary,
though perhaps not incredible.

mode of showing a critic's regard for poetry.
But Tasso, while he laments his severity, wonders
at it in a man so well-bred and so imbued
with literature, and thinks it can only have
originated in "orders"* Perhaps there were
faults of temper on both sides ; and Mostii, not
liking his office, forgot the allowance to be
made for that of a prisoner and sick man.
His nephew, Giulio Mostii, became strongly
attached to the poet, and was a great comfort
to him.

At length the time for liberation arrived. In
the summer of 1586, Don Vincent Gonzaga,
Prince of Mantua, kinsman of the poet's friend
Scipio, came to Ferrara for the purpose of complimenting
Alfonso's heir on his nuptials. The
whole court of Mantua, with hereditary regard
for Tasso, whose father had been one of their
ornaments, were desirous of having him among
them ; and the prince extorted Alfonso's permission
to take him away, on condition (so hard
did he find this late concession to humanity,
and so fearful was he of losing the dignity of
jailor) that his deliverer should not allow him
to quit Mantua without obtaining leave. A
young and dear friend, his most frequent visitor,
Antonio Constantini, secretary to the Tuscan
ambassador, went to St. Anne's to prepare
" Opere," vol. xvii., p. 32.

the captive by degrees for the good news. He
told him that he really might look for his release
in the course of a few days. The sensitive
poet, now a premature old man of forty-two,
was thrown into a transport of mingled delight
and anxiety. He had been disappointed so often
that he could scarcely believe his good fortune.
In a day or two he writes thus to his
visitor :

"Your kindness, my dear friend, has so accustomed
me to your precious and frequent visits,,
that I have been all day long at the window expecting
your coming to comfort me as you are
wont. But since you have not yet arrived, and
in order not to remain altogether without consolation,
I visit you with this letter. It encloses
a sonnet to the ambassador, written with
a trembling hand, and in such a manner that
he will not, perhaps, have less difficulty in reading
it than I had in writing."

Two days afterwards, the prince himself came
again, requested of the poet some verses on a
given subject, expressed his esteem for his
genius and virtues, and told him that, on his
return to Mantua, he should have the pleasure
of conducting him to that city. Tasso lay awake
almost all night, composing the verses ; and
next day enclosed them, with a letter, in another
to Constantini, ardently begging him to

keep the prince in mind of his promise. The
prince had not forgotten it ; and two or three
days afterwards, the order for the release arrived,
and Tasso quitted his prison. He had
been confined seven years, two months and
several days. He awaited the prince's departure
for a week or two in his friend's abode,
paying no visits, probably from inability to
endure so much novelty. Neither was he inclined
or sent for to pay his respects to the
duke. Two such parties could hardly have
been desirous to look on each other. The duke
must especially have disliked the thought of
it ; though Tasso afterwards fancied otherwise,
and that he was offended at his non-appearance.
But his letters, unfortunately, differ with themselves
on this point, as on most others. About
the middle of July, 1586, the poet quitted Ferrara
forever.

At Mantua, Tasso was greeted with all the
honors and attentions which his love of distinction
could desire. The good old duke, the
friend of his father, ordered handsome apartments
to be provided for him in the palace ; the
prince made him presents of costly attire, including
perfumed silken hose (kindred elegancies
to the Italian gloves of Queen Elizabeth) ;
the princess and her mother-in-law were declared
admirers of his poetry; the courtiers

caressed the favorite of their masters ; Tasso
found literary society ; he pronounced the very
bread and fruit, the fish and the flesh, excellent
; the wines were sharp and brisk (" such as
his father was fond of") ; and even the physician
was admirable, for he ordered confections.
One might imagine, if circumstances had not
proved the cordial nature of the Gonzaga family,
and the real respect and admiration entertained
for the poet's genius by the greatest men
of the time, in spite of the rebuke it had received
from Alfonso, that there had been a confederacy
to mock and m^-stify him, after the
fashion of the duke and duchess with Don
Quixote (the only blot, by the way, in the book
of Cervantes ; if, indeed, he did not intend it asa
satire on the mystified).

For a while, in short, the liberated prisoner
thought himself happy. He corrected his prose
works, resumed and finished the tragedy of
Torrisnioiid, which he had begun some years
before, corresponded with princes, and completed
and published a narrative poem left unfinished
by his father. Torquato was as loving
a son as Mozart or Montaigne. Whenever he
had a glimpse of felicity, he appears to have
associated the idea of it with that of his father.
In the conclusion of his fragment, " O del
grand' Apennino," he affectingly begs pardon

of his blessed spirit for troubling him with his
earthly griefs.*

But, alas, what had been an indulgence of
self-esteem had now become the habit of a disease
; and in the course of a few months the
restless poet began to make his old discovery,
that he was not sufficiently cared for. The
prince had no leisure to attend to him ; the
nobility did not " yield him the first place," or
at least (he adds) they did not allow him to be
treated "externally as their equal" ; and he
candidly confessed that he could not live in a
place where such was the custom, f He felt
also, naturally enough, however well it might
have been intended, that it was not pleasant to
be confined to the range of the city of Mantua,
attended by a servant, even though he cons

Padre, o burn padre, che dal ciel rimini,
Negro e morton ti piansi, e ben tu il sai ;
E memento scandal

I^a tomba e il lett. Or che negli altri girl
Tu god, a te si eve nor, non lutto :
A me verso il mio dolor asia tutti."
O father, my good father, looking now
On thy poor son from heaven, well knowest thou
What scalding tears I shed
Upon thy grave, upon thy dying bed ;
But since thou dwelled in the happy skies,
'T is fit I raise to thee no sorrowing eyes :
Be all my grief on my own head.
t " Non posse river in citt^, ove tutti i nobile, o non mi
conceding i primi luoghi, o alien non si contenting
che la cosa in quel che apparent a quest exterior
demonstration, veda del pan"— " Opere," vol. xiii., p.
153-

seised that he was now subject to "frenzy."
He contrived to stay another half year by help
of a brilliant carnival and of the select society
of the prince's court, who were evidently most
kind to him ; but at the end of the twelvemonth
he was in Bergamo among his relations. The
prince gave him leave to go ; and the Cavaliere
Tasso, his kinsman, sent his chariot on purpose
to fetch him.

Here again he found himself at a beautiful
country-seat, which the family of Tasso still
possesses near that city ; and here again, in the
house of his father, he proposed to be happy,
"having never desired," he says, "any journey
more earnestly than this." He left it in
the course of a month, to return to Mantua.

And it was only to wander still. Mantua he
quitted in less than two months to go to Rome,
in spite of the advice of his best friends. He
vindicated the proceeding by a hope of obtaining
some permanent settlement from the Pope.
He took I/oretto by the way, to refresh himself
with devotion ; arrived in a transport at Rome ;
got nothing from the Pope (the hard-minded
Sixtus the Fifth) ; and in the spring of the next
year, in the triple hope of again embracing his
sister, and recovering the dowry of his mother
and the confiscated property of his father, he
proceeded to Naples.

Naples was in its most beautiful vernal condition,
and the Neapolitans welcomed the poet
with all honor and glory ; but his sister, alas,
was dead ; he got none of his father's property,
nor (till too late) any of his mother's ; and before
the year was out, he was again in Rome.
He acquired in Naples, however, another friend,
as attached to him and as constant in his attentions
as his beloved Constantini, to wit, Giam-
baptista Manso, Marquis of Villa, who became
his biographer, and who was visited and praised
for his good offices by Milton. In the society
of this gentleman he seemed for a short while
to have become a new man. He entered into
field sports, listened to songs and music, nay,
danced, says Manso, with "the girls." (One
fancies a poetical Dr. Johnson with the two
country damsels on his knees.) In short, good
air and freedom, and no medicine, had conspired
with the lessons of disappointment to
give him, before he died, a glimpse of the power
to be pleased. He had not got rid of all his
spiritual illusions, even those of a melancholy
nature ; but he took the latter more quietly, and
had grown so comfortable with the race in general,
that he encouraged them. He was so entirely
freed from his fears of the Inquisition and
of charges of magic, that whereas he had formerly
been anxious to show that he meant

notliitig but a poetical fancy by the spirit which
he introduced as communing with him in his
dialogue entitled the "Messenger," he now
maintained its reality against the arguments of
his friend Manso ; and these arguments gave
rise to the most poetical scene in his history.
He told Manso that he should have ocular testimony
of the spirit's existence ; and accordingly
one day while they were sitting together
at the marquis' fireside, "he turned his eyes,"
says Manso, " towards a window, and held them
a long time so intensely on it, that, when I
called him, he did not answer. At last, 'Behold,'
said he, 'the friendly spirit which has
courteously come to talk with me. I^ift up
your eyes and see the truth. ' I turned my eyes
thither immediately (continues the marquis) ;
but though I endeavored to look as keenly as I
could, I beheld nothing but the rays of the sun,
which streamed through the panes of the
window into the chamber. Whilst I still looked
around, without beholding any object, Tor-quarto
began to hold, with this unknown something,
a most lofty converse. I heard, indeed,
and saw nothing but himself ; nevertheless his
words, at one time questioning, at another replying,
were such as take place between those
who reason strictly on some important subject.
And from what was said by the one, the reply

of the other might be easily comprehended by
the intellect, although it was not heard by the
ear. The disco-ses were so lofty and marvellous,
both by the sublimity of their topics
and a certain unwonted manner of talking, that,
exalted above myself in a kind of ecstasy, I did
not dare to interrupt them, nor ask Tasso about
the spirit, which he had announced to me, but
which I did not see. In this way, while I listened
between stupefaction and rapture, a considerable
time had elapsed ; till at last the spirit
departed, as I learned from the words of Tor-quarto
; who, turning to me, said, ' From this
day forward all your doubts will have vanished
from your mind.' 'Nay,' said I, 'they are
rather increased ; since, though I have heard
many things worthy of marvel, I have seen
nothing of what you promised to show me to
dispel them.' He smiled, and said, ' You have

seen and heard more of him than perhaps ,'

and here he paused. Fearful of importuning
him with new questions, the discourse ended ;
and the only conclusion I can draw is, what I
before said, that it is more likely his visions or
frenzies will disorder my own mind than that
I shall extirpate his true or imaginary opinions"*


Did the " smile " of Tasso at the close of this
Black, vol. ii., p. 240.

extraordinary scene, and the words which he
omitted to add, signify that his friend had seen
and heard more, perhaps, than the poet would
have liked to explain ? Did he mean that he
himself alone had been seen and heard, and was
author of the whole dialogue ? Perhaps he did ;
for credulity itself can impose — can take pleasure
in seeing others as credulous itself. On the
other hand, enough has become known in our
days of the phenomena of morbid perception,
to render Tasso's actual belief in such visions
not at all surprising. It is not uncommon for
the sanest people of delicate organization to see
faces before them while going to sleep, sometimes
in fantastical succession. A stronger
exercise of this disposition in temperaments
more delicate will enlarge the face to figure ;
and there can be no question that an imagination
so heated as Tasso's, so full of the speculations
of the later Platonist, and accompanied by
a state of body so " nervous," and a will so benton
its fancies, might embody whatever he chose
to behold. The dialogue he could as easily
read in the vision's looks, whether he heard it
or not with ears. If Nicholas, the Prussian
bookseller, who saw crowds of spiritual people
go through his rooms, had been a poet, and
possessed of as wilful an imagination as Tasso,
he might have gifted them all with speaking

countenances as easily as with coats and waistcoats.
Swedenborg founded a religion on this
morbid faculty ; and the Catholics worship a
hundred stories of the like sort in the lives of the
Saints, many of which are equally true and false;
false in reality, though true in supposition,
luther himself wrote and studied till he saw the
Devil ; only the great reformer retained enough
of his naturally sturdy health and judgment to
throw an inkstand at Satan's head, — a thing
that philosophy has been doing ever since.

Tasso's principal residence while at Naples
had been in the beautiful monastery of Mount
Olivet, on which the good monks begged he
would write them a poem ; which he did. A
cold reception at Rome, and perhaps the difference
of the air, brought back his old lamentations
; but here again a monastery gave him
refuge, and he set himself down to correct his
former works and compose new ones. He
missed, however, the comforts of society and
amusement which he had experienced at Naples.
Nevertheless, he did not return thither. He
persuaded himself that it was necessary to be in
Rome in order to expedite the receipt of some
books and manuscripts from Bergamo and other
places ; but his restlessness desired novelty. He
thus slipped back from the neighborhood of
Rome to the city itself, and from the city back

to the monastery, his friends in both places being
probably tired of his instability. He thought
of returning to Mantua ; but a present from the
Grand Duke of Tuscany, accompanied by an
invitation to his court, drew him, in one of his
short-lived transports, to Florence. He returned,
in spite of the best and most generous reception,
to Rome ; then left Rome for Mantua, on
invitation from his ever-kind deliverer from
prison, now the reigning duke ; tired again, even
of him ; returned to Rome ; then once more to
Naples, where the Prince of Conch, Grand Admiral
of the kingdom, lodged and treated him
like an equal ; but he grew suspicious of the
admiral, and went to live with his friend Manso;
quitted Manso for Rome again ; was treated
with reverence on the way, like Ariosto, by a
famous leader of banditti ; was received at Rome
into the Vatican itself, in the apartments of
his friend Cintio Aldobrandino, nephew of the
new Pope Clement the Eighth, where his hopes
now seemed to be raised at once to their highest
and most reasonable pitch ; but fell ill, and was
obliged to go back to Naples for the benefit of
the air. A life so strangely erratic to the last
(for mortal illness was approaching) is perhaps
unique in the history of men of letters, and
might be therefore worth recording even in that
of a less man than Tasso ; but when we recollect

that this poet, in spite of all his weaknesses,
and notwithstanding the enemies they provoked
and the friends they cooled, was really
almost adored for his genius in his own time,
and instead of refusing jewels one day and soliciting
a ducat the next, might have settled
down almost anywhere in quiet and glory, if he
had but possessed the patience to do so, — it becomes
an association of weakness with power,
and of adversity with the means of prosperity,
the absurdity of which admiration itself can
only drown in pity.

He now took up his abode in another monastery,
that of San Severing, where he was comforted
by the visits of his friend Manso, to
whom he had lately inscribed a dialogue on
Friendship " ; for he continued writing to the
last. He had also the consolation, such as it
was, of having the lawsuit for his mother's
dowry settled in his favor, though under circumstances
that rendered it of little importance,
and only three months before his death.
So strangely did Fortune seem to take delight
in sporting with a man of genius, who had
thought both too much of her and too little ; too
much for pomp's sake, and too little in prudence.
Among his new acquaintances were the
young Marino, afterwards the corrupter of Italian
poetry, and the Prince of Venosa, an amateur

composer of music. The dying poet wrote
madrigals for him so much to his satisfaction,
that, being about to marry into the house of
Este, he wished to reconcile him with the Duke
of Ferrara ; and Tasso, who to the last moment
of his life seems never to have been able to resist
the chance of resuming old quarters, apparently
from the double temptation of renouncing
them, wrote his old master a letter full of respects
and regrets. But the duke, who himself
died in the course of the year, was not to be
moved from his silence. The poet had given
him the last possible offence by recasting his
"Jerusalem," omitting the glories of the house
of Bste, and dedicating it to another patron.
Alfonso, who had been extravagantly magnificent,
though not to poets, had so weakened his
government, that the Pope wrested Ferrara
from the hands of his successor, and reduced
the Este family to the possession of Modena,
which it still holds and dishonors. The duke
and the poet were thus fading away at the same
time ; they never met again in this world ; and
a new Dante would have divided them far
enough in the nexf^

The world in general have taken no notice of Tasso's
reconstruction of his "Jerusalem," which he called the
Jerusalem Couquistata." It never "obtained," as
the phrase is. It was a mere tribute of his declining
years to bigotry and new acquaintances ; and therefore
I say no more of it.

The last glimpse of honor and glory was now
opening in a very grand manner on the poet —
the last and the greatest, as if on purpose to give
the climax to his disappointments. Cardinal
Cintio requested the Pope to give him the
honor of a coronation. It had been desired
by the poet, it seems, three years before. He
was disappointed of it at that time ; and now
that it was granted, he was disappointed of the
ceremony. Manso says he no longer cared for it ;
and, as he felt himself dying, this is not improbable.
Nevertheless he went to Rome for the
purpose ; and though the severity of the winter
there delayed the intention till spring, wealth
and honors seemed determined to come in floods
upon the poor expiring great man, in order to
take away the breath which they had refused to
support. The Pope assigned him a yearly pension
of a hundred scud ; and the withholds of
his mother's dowry came to an accommodation
by which he was to have an annuity of a hundred
ducats, and a considerable sum in hand.
His hand was losing strength enough to close
upon the money. Scarcely was the day for the
coronation about to dawn, when the poet felt
his dissolution approaching. Alfonso's doctors
had killed him at last by superinducing a habit
of medicine-taking, which defeated its purpose.
He requested leave to return to the monastery

of St. Onofrio — wrote a farewell letter to Constantini
— received the distinguished honor of a
plenary indulgence from the Pope — said (in terms
very like what Milton might have used, had he
died a Catholic), that *this was the chariot
upon which he hoped to go crowned, not with
laurel as a poet into the capitol, but with glory
as a saint to heaven " — and expired on the 25th
of April, 1595, and the fifty-first clear of his age,
closely embracing the crucifix, and imperfectly
uttering the sentence beginning, "Into th^^
hands, O Lord ! "*

Even after death, success mocked him ; for
the coronation took place on the senseless dead
body. The head was wreathed with laurel ; a
magnificent toga delayed for awhile the shroud ;
and a procession took place through the city by
torchlight, all the inhabitants pouring forth to
behold it, and painters crowding over the bier
to gaze on the poet's lineaments, from which
they produced a multitude of portraits. The
corpse was then buried in the church of St.
Onofrio ; and magnificent monuments talked
of, which never appeared. Manso, however,
obtained leave to set up a modest tablet ; and
eight years afterwards a Ferrarese cardinal
(Bevilacqua) made what amends he could for

" In manus tuas Domine. ' ' One likes to know the actual
words ; at least so it appears to me.

his countrymen, by erecting the stately memorial
which is still to be seen.

Poor, illustrious Tasso ! weak enough to warrant
pity from his inferiors — great enough to
overshadow in death his once-fancied superiors.
He has been a by-word for the misfortunes of
genius ; but genius was not his misfortune ; it
was his only good, and might have brought him
all happiness. It is the want of genius, as far
as it goes, and apart from martyrdoms for conscience'
sake, which produces misfortunes even
to genius itself — the want of as much wit and
balance on the common side of things, as genius
is supposed to confine to the uncommon.

Manso has left a minute account of his friend's
person and manners. He was tall, even among
the tall ; had a pale complexion, sunken cheeks,
lightish brown hair, head bald at the top, large
blue eyes, square forehead, big nose inclining
towards the mouth, lips pale and thin, white
teeth, delicate white hands, long arms, broad
chest and shoulders, legs rather strong than fleshy
and the body altogether better proportioned than
in good condition ; the result, nevertheless, being
an aspect of manly beauty and expression, particularly
in the countenance, the dignity of
which marked him for an extraordinary person
even to those who did not know him. His
demeanor was grave and deliberate ; he laughed

seldom ; and though his tongue was prompt, his
delivery was slow ; and he was accustomed to
repeat his last words. He was an expert in
all manly exercises, but not equally graceful ;
and the same defect attended his otherwise striking
eloquence in public assemblies. His putting
to flight the assassins in Ferrara gave him such
a reputation for courage, that there went about
in his honor a popular couplet :

Colla penna e colla spada
Nessum val quanto Torquato." '

For the sword as well as pen
Tasso is the man of men.

He was a little eater, but not averse to wine,
particularly such as combined piquancy with
sweetness ; and he always dressed in black.

Manso's account is still more particular, and
yet it does not tell all ; for Tasso himself informs
us that he stammered, and was near-sighted * ;
and a Neapolitan writer who knew him adds to
the near-sightedness some visible defect in the
eyes.f I should doubt, from what Tasso says

Serassi, ii., 276.

f " Quern, terms, quisquis es, proper stature virum,
lusts oculis, etc. hie Torquatus est"— Cappacio, " illustrious
I,iteris Virum Elogia et Judicia," quoted by Se-rossi,
ut sup. The Latin word fuscus, as well as the
Italian Bosco, means, I believe, near-sighted ; but it certainly
means also a great deal more ; and unless the
word cenis (thou beholds) is a mere form of speech
implying a foregone conclusion, it shows that the defect
was obvious to the spectator,

in his letters, whether he was fond of speaking
in public, notwithstanding his debut in that line
with the "Fifty Amorous Conclusions." Nor
does he appear to have been remarkable for his
conversation. Manso has left a collection of
one hundred of his pithy sayings — a suspicious
amount, and unfortunately more than warranting
the suspicion ; for almost every one of themis
traceable to some other man. They come
from the Greek and Latin philosophers, and
the apothegms of Erasmus. The two following
have the greatest appearance of being
genuine :

A Greek, complaining that he had spoken ill
of his country, and maintaining that all the
virtues in the world had issued out of it, the
poet assented ; with the addition, that they had
not left one behind them.

A foolish young fellow, garnished with a number
of golden chains, coming into a room where
he was, and being overheard by him exclaiming,
Is this the great man that was mad ? " Tasso
said, "Yes; but that people had never put on
him more than one chain at a time."

His character may be gathered, but not perhaps
entirely, from what has been written of
his life ; for some of his earlier letters show him
to have been not quite so grave and refined in
his way of talking as readers of the "Jerusalem"

might suppose. He was probably, at that time
of life not so scrupulous in his morals as he professed
to be during the greater part of it. His
mother is thought to have died of chagrin and
impatience at being separated so long from her
husband, and not knowing what to do to save
her dowry from her brothers ; and I take her
son to have combined his mother's ultra-sensitive
organization with his father's worldly imprudence
and unequal spirits. The addition of
the nervous temperament of one parent to the
aspiring nature of the other gave rise to the
poet's trembling eagerness for distinction ; and
Torquato's very love for them both hindered
him from seeing what should have been corrected
in the infirmities which he inherited.
Falling from the highest hopes of prosperity
into the most painful afflictions, he thus wanted
solid principles of action to support him, and
was forced to retreat upon an excess of self-esteem,
which allowed his pride to become
a beggar, and his naturally kind, loving, just,
and heroical disposition to condescend to almost
every species of inconsistency. The Duke of
Ferrara, he complains, did not believe a word
he said ; and the fact is, that, partly from disease,
and partly from a want of courage to look

"II Signer Duca non crete ad alcuna mia parole,"
" Opere," xiv., j6i.

his defects in the face, he beheld the same things
in so many different lights, and according as it
suited him at the moment, that, without intending
falsehood, his statements are really not to
be relied on. He degraded even his verses,
sometimes with panegyrics for interest's sake,
sometimes out of weak wishes to oblige, of
which he was afterwards ashamed ; and, with
the exception of Constantini, we cannot be sure
that any one person praised in them retained
his regard in his last days. His suspicion made
him a kind of Rousseau ; but he was more amiable
than the Genevese, and far from being in the
habit of talking against old acquaintances, whatever
he might have thought of them. It is observable,
not only that he never married, but he
told Manso he had led a life of entire continence
ever since he had entered the walls of his prison,
being then in his thirty-fifth year.* Was this
out of fidelity to some mistress ? or the consequence
of a previous life the reverse of continent
? or was it from some principle of superstition
? He had become a devotee, apparently
out of a dread of disbelief; and he remained
extremely religious for the rest of his days.

" Fui da bocca di lui medesimo rassicurato, che dal
tempo del suo regno in sant' Anna, ch' avenue negli
anni trentacinque della sua vita e medici avant la morte
eli interments fu cast : degli anni primi non mi
favelld mai di modo ch' io posse alcuna cosa di certo qui
raccontare."— " Opere," xxxiii., 235,

The two unhappiest of Italian poets, Tasso and
Dante, were the two most superstitious.

As for the once formidable question concerning
the comparative merits of this poet and
Ariosto, which anticipated the modern quarrels
of the classical and romantic schools, some idea
of the treatment which Tasso experienced maybe
conceived by supposing all that used to be
sarcastic and bitter in the periodical party criticism
among ourselves some thirty years back
collected into one huge vial of wrath, and
poured upon the new poet's head. Even the
great Galileo, who was a man of wit, bred up in
the pure Tuscan school of Beni and Casa, and
who was an idolater of Ariosto, wrote, when he
was young, a "review" of the "Jerusalem Delivered,
' ' which it is painful to read, it is so unjust
and contemptuous.* But now that the
only final arbiter, posterity, has accepted both
the poets, the dispute is surely the easiest thing
in the world to settle ; not, indeed, with prejudices
of creeds or temperaments, but before any
judges thoroughly sympathizing with the two
claimants. Its solution is the principle of the
greater including the less. For Ariosto errs
by having an unbounded circle to move in.
His sympathies are unlimited ; and those who

*Its to be found in the collected works, ut supra, both
of the philosopher and the poet.

The "Jerusalem Delivered " is the history of
a Crusade related with poetic license. The Infidels
are assisted by unlawful arts ; and the libertinism
that brought scandal on the Christians
is converted into youthful susceptibility, led
away by enchantment. The author proposed
to combine the ancient epic poets with Ariosto,
or a simple plot and uniformly dignified style,
with romantic varieties of adventure, and the
luxuriance of fairy-land. He did what he proposed
to do, but with a judgment inferior to

Virgil's ; nay, in point of the interdependence
of the adventures, to Ariosto and with far less
general vigor. The mixture of affectation with
his dignity is so frequent that, whether Boileau's
famous line about Tasso's tinsel and Virgil's
gold did or did not mean to imply that the
"Jerusalem" was nothing but tinsel and the
**-<^neid" all gold, it is certain that the tinsel
is so interwoven with the gold as to render it
more of a rule than an exception, and put a
provoking distance between Tasso's epic pretensions
and those of the greatest masters of
the art. People who take for granted the conceits
because of the ** wildness " of Ariosto, and
the good taste because of the "regularity" of
Tasso, just assise the reverse of the fact. It is
a rare thing to find a conceit in Ariosto ; and,
where it does exist, it is most likely defensible
on some Shakespearian ground of subtle propriety.
Open Tasso in almost any part, particularly
the love scenes, and it is marvellous if,
before long, you do not see the conceits vexatiously
interfering with the beauties.

"Oh, maraviglia ! Amor, che append ^ nato,
Gia grande vola, e girl trionfa armato. ' 'canto i. , st. 47.

O miracle ! l/jve is scarce born, when, lo,
He flies full wing'd, and lords it with his bow !

Se '1 mir fulminar ne I'arme awolto,
Marte lo stimi ; Amor, se score il volts"— St. 58,

Mars you would think him when his thund'ring race
In arms he ran ; I've, when he show'd his face.

Which is as little true to reason as to taste ; for
no god of war could look like a god of love.
The habit of mind would render it impossible.
But the poet found the prettiness of the Greek
anthology irresistible.

Olindo, tied to the stake amidst the flames of
martyrdom, can say to his mistress :

"Autre fiamme, altri nodi amor promise"— Canto ii.,
St. smother

flames, other bonds than these, love promised.

The sentiment is natural, but the double use of
the "flames " on such an occasion miserable.

In the third canto the fair Amazon Clorinda
challenges her love to single combat.

E di due morte in un pun to lo sita." — St. 23.

And so at once she threatens to kill him twice."

—Fairfax.

That is to say, with her valor and beauty.

Another twofold employment of flame, with
an exclamation to secure our astonishment,
makes its appearance in the fourth canto :

Oh miracle clamor ! che le famille
Tragge del piano, e i cor' ne 1' aqua accented"— St. 76.

O miracle of love ! that draweth sparks

Of fire from tears, and kindest hearts in water !

This puerile antithesis of fire and water, fire
and ice, light in darkness, silence in speech, together
with such pretty turns as woii7idi7ig oneself
in wounding others, and the worse sacrifice
of consistency and truth of feeling, — lovers
making long speeches on the least fitting occasions,
and ladies retaining their rosy cheeks
in the midst of fears of death, — is to be met
with, more or less, throughout the poem. I
have no doubt they were the proximate cause
of that general corruption of taste which was
afterwards completed by Marino, the acquaintance
and ardent admirer of Tasso when a boy.
They have been laid to the charge of Petrarch ;
bnt, without entering into the question how far
and in what instances conceits may not be natural
to lovers haunted, as Petrarch was, with
one idea, and seeing it in every thing they behold,
what had the great epic poet to do with
the faults of the lyrical ? And what is to be
said for his standing in need of the excuse of
bad example ? Homer and Milton were in no
such want. Virgil would not have copied the
tricks of Ovid. There is an effeminacy and
self-reflection in Tasso, analogous to his " Ri-waldo,"
in the enchanted garden, where the
hero wore a looking-glass by his side, in which

he contemplated his sophisticated self, and the
meretricious beauty of his enchantress.*

Agreeable to this tendency to weakness, the
style of Tasso, when not supported by great occasions
(and the occasion itself sometimes fails
him), is too apt to fall into tameness and commonplace,
— to want movement and picture ;
while at the same time, with singular defect of
enjoyment, it does not possess the music which
might be expected from a lyrical and voluptuous
poet. Bernardo prophesied of his son that,
however he might surpass him in other respects,
he would never equal him in sweetness ; and he
seems to have judged him rightly. I have met
with a passage in Torquato's prose writings
(but I cannot lay my hands on it), in which he
expresses a singular predilection for verses full
of the same vowel. He seems, if I remember
rightly, to have regarded it, not merely as a
pleasing variety, which it is on occasion, but asa
reigning principle. Voltaire (I think in his
treatise on " Epic Poetry ") has noticed the multitude
of o's in the exordium of the ** Perusal

is an extraordinary instance of a man's violating,
in older life, the better critical principles of his youth,—
that Tasso, in his " Discourses on Poetry," should have
objected to a passage in Ariosto about sighs and tears
as being a "conceit too lyrical" (though it was warranted
by the subtleties of madness), and yet afterwards
riot in the same conceits when wholly without
warrant.

hem." This apparent negligence seems to have
been intentional.

Canto r arms picture e '1 capitan
Che '1 gran Sepolcr6 libere di Crista ;

M61t5 eli 6pr6 col senna e c6n la man,
M61t6 s6fri nel glorioso acquit ;

^ ivan 1' inferno a lui s' oppose ; e inland
S' arme d' Asia e di I^ibia il p6p61 inist6 ;

Che il ciel gli die favor, e s6tt5 ai santa

Segni ridusse i such campagne errant."

The reader will not be surprised to find, that he
who could thus confound monotony with music,
and commence his greatest poem with it, is too
often discordant in the rest of his versification.
It has been thought that Milton might have
taken from the Italians the grand musical
account to which he turns a list of proper
names, as in his enumerations of realms and
deities ; but I have been surprised to find how
little the most musical of languages appears to
have suggested to its poets any thing of the sort.
I am not aware of it, indeed, in any poets but
our own. All others, from Homer, with his
catalogue of leaders and ships, down to 
himself, though he wrote for music,
appear to have overlooked this opportunity
of playing a voluntary of fine sounds, where
they had no other theme on which to modulate.

Its inventor, as far as I am aware, is that great
poet, Marlowe.*

There are faults of invention, as well as style
in the ** Jerusalem." The Talking Bird, or bird

AapSaviitiv avr' rjpxev, eOs /cai? Ayx'-O'c-o,
Aetas' TOf vn' Ayx"''?? Teiie Si A</)po5iT7j
IStjs ev Kvr}fjLOi.crL, 6ea /SpoTw eufrj^etcra"
Ove 0105* aju.a Cove Svm AvTTjvopos vie,
ApxiAoxos t', Afca/iAas re, /xax^S ev eiSore Tracn)?.
—iliad" ii., 8iq.
It is curious that these five lines should abound as
much in a's as Tasso's first stanza does in o's. Similar
monotone are strikingly observable in the nomenclature
of Virgil. See his most perfect poem, the " Georgic":


Omnia secum
'Armentarius "After agit, technique, L^remque,
'Armature, 'Amyclseumque cane, Cressamque phare-tram."

— I^ib. iii., 343.
It is clear that Dante never thought of this point. See
his Maggiore, Sanvittore, Satan, Raban, etc. at the
end of the twelfth canto of the " Paradiso." Yet in his
time poetry pas recitative to music. So it was in Petrarch's,
who was a lutenist, and who "tried "his verses,
to see how they would go to the instrument. Yet Petrarch
could allow himself to write such a quatrain as
the following list of rivers :

Non Resin, P6, Taro, Arno, Adige e Tebro,
Curate, Tigre, Nile, Ergo, Indo e Gauge,
Tana, Intro, Alfeo, Carron & '1 mar che frange,
Romano, Ibero, Ren, Senna, Alia, Era, Bro ! "
In Tasso's "Sette Giornate," to which Black thinks
Milton indebted for his grand use of proper names, the
following is the way in which the poet writes :

Di Silv^ni
Di P^ni, e d' Egipani, e d' Mari errant,
Ch' pier Id solitary insult selvd
D' antic maraviglid ; e quell' acc61t6
Esercitd di Baccy in orient
Ont' eli vine, e trionfo deal' India,
Toland gl6ri6s6 ai Greci lids,
Sicyon' favi616s6 antics gride."
The most diversified passage of this kind (as far as I am

that sings with a human voice (canto iv., 13) is
a piece of verisimilitude, which the author,
perhaps, thought justifiable by the speaking
horses of the ancients. But the latter were
moved supernaturally for the occasion, and fora
very fine occasion. Tasso's bird is a mere
born contradiction to nature and for no necessity.
The vulgar idea of the devil with horns
and a tail (though the retention of it argued a
genius in Tasso very inferior to that of Milton)
is defensible, I think, on the plea of the German
critics, that malignity should be made a thing

aware) is Ariosto's list of his friends at the close of the
Orlando; and yet such writing as follows would seem
to show that it was an accident :

16 veggid il Fracastoro, il Bevazzan6,
Tris 6n Gabriel, e il Tasso iii contend ;
Vegg6 Nicc616 Tripoli, e con esse
Nicc615 Amant in me affissar le cilia ;
Aut6n Furioso, ch' a vedermi oppress
Al lit nostra gaudio e maraviglia.
II mio Valerian e quel che la s' e mess
Fur de le donne," etc.
Even Metastasio, who wrote expressly for singers,
and often with exquisite modulation, especially in his
songs, forgets himself when he comes to the names of
his dramatis persons, — " Artaserse, 'Aratbano, Arbace,
Mandate, Semina, Megabise,"— all in one play.
Gran come io nemo. II mio german "Arbice
Perte pris de 1' aurora. II pure arm^to
Incontro, e non mi parts 'Accuse il ciel
'Agitato "Artaserse, e m' ^bbandona."—

Alto i., sc. 6.
I am far from intending to say that these reiterations are
not sometimes allowable, nay, often beautiful and desirable.
Alliteration itself may be rendered an exquisite instrument
of music. I am only speaking of monotony or
discord in the enumeration of proper names.

low and deformed ; but as much cannot be said
for the storehouse in heaven, where St. Michael's
spear is kept with which he slew the
dragon, and the trident which is used for making
earthquakes (canto vii., st. 8i). The tomb
which supernaturally comes out of the ground,
inscribed with the name and virtues of Sueno
(canto viii., st. 39), is worthy only of a pantomime
; and the wizard in robes, with beech-leaves
on his head, who walks dry-shod on
water, and superfluously helps the knights on
their way to Armida's retirement (xiv., 33), is
almost as ludicrous as the burlesque of the
river-god in the '* Voyage" of Beaumont
and Chapelle.

But let us not wonder, nevertheless, at the
effect which the "Jerusalem " has had upon the
world. It could not have had it without great
nature and power. Rinaldo, in spite of his
aberrations with Armida, knew the path to renown,
and so did the poet. Tasso's epic, withall
its faults, is a noble production, and justly
considered one of the poems of the world.
Each of those poems hit some one great point
of universal attraction, at least in their respective
countries ; and among the givers of fame
in others. Homer's poem is that of action ;
Dante's of passion ; Virgil's, of judgment ; Milton's,
of religion; Spenser's, of poetry itself;

Ariosto's, of animal spirits (I do not mean as
respects gayety only, but in strength and readiness
of accord with the whole play of nature);
Tasso looked round with an ,
and an ambition which required encouragement,
and his poem is that of tenderness.
Every thing inclines to this point in his
circle, with the tremulousness of the needle,
love is its all in all, even to the design of the
religious war which is to rescue the sepulchre
of the God of Charity from the hands of the'
unloving. His heroes are all in love, at least
those on the right side ; his leader, Godfrey,
notwithstanding his prudence, narrowly escapes
the passion, and is full of a loving consideration
; his amazon, Clorinda, inspires the truest
passion, and dies taking her lover's hand ; his
Ermine is all love for an enemy ; his enchantress
Armida falls from pretended love into real,
and forsakes her religion for its sake. An old
father (canto ix.) loses his five sons in battle, and
dies on their dead bodies of a wound which he has
provoked on purpose. Tancred cannot achieve
the enterprise of the Enchanted Forest, because
his dead mistress seems to come out of one of
the trees. Olindo thinks it happiness to be
martyred at the same stake with Sophronia.
The reconciliation of Rinaldo with his enchantress
takes place within a few stanzas of the close

of the poem, as if contesting its interest with
religion. The "Jerusalem Delivered," in short,
is the favorite epic of the young : all the lovers
in Europe have loved it. The French have forgiven
the author his conceits for the sake of his
gallantry : he is the poet of the gondoliers ; and
Spenser, the most luxurious of his brethren,
plundered his bowers of bliss. Read Tasso's
poem by this gentle light of his genius, and you
pity him twenty-fold, and know not what excuse
to find for his jailer.

The stories translated in the present volume,
though including war and magic, are all love-stories.
They were not selected on that account.
They suggested themselves for selection, as containing
most of the finest things in the poem.
They are conducted with great art, and the characters
and affections happily varied. The first
' * Olindo " and " Sophronia " ) is perhaps unique
for the hopelessness of its commencement (I
mean with regard to the lovers), and the perfect,
and at the same time quite probable, felicity of
the conclusion. There is no reason to believe
that the staid and devout Sophronia would have
loved her adorer at all, but for the circumstance
that first dooms them both to a shocking death,
and then sends them, with perfect warrant, from
the stake to the altar. Clorinda is an Amazon,
the idea of whom, as such, it is impossible for

us to separate from the very repulsive and unfeminine
images ; yet, under the circumstances
of the story, we call to mind in her behalf the
possibility of a Joan of Arc's having loved and
been beloved ; and her death is a surprising
and most affecting variation upon that of Agri-can
in Boiardo. Tasso's enchantress Armida is
a variation of the Angelica of the same poet,
combined with Ariosto's Alcina ; but her passionate
voluptuousness makes her quite a new
character in regard to the one ; and she is as different
from the painted hag of the " Orlando "
as youth, beauty, and patriotic intentions can
make her. She is not very sentimental ; but all
the passion in the world has sympathized with
her ; and it was manly and honest in the poet
not to let her Paganism and vehemence hinder
him from doing justice to her claims as a human
being and a deserted woman. Her fate is left in
so pleasing a state of doubt, that we gladly avail
ourselves of it to suppose her married to Rialto,
and becoming the mother of a line of Christian
princes. I wish they had treated her poet
half so well as she would infallibly have treated
him herself.

But the singer of the Crusades can be strong
as well as gentle. You discern in his battles
and single combats the poet ambitious of renown,
and the accomplished swordsman. The

duel of Tancred and Argantes, in which the
latter is slain, is as earnest and fiery writing
throughout as truth and passion could desire ;
that of Tancred and Clorinda is also very powerful
as well as affecting ; and the whole siege of
Jerusalem is admirable for the strength of its
interest. Every body knows the grand verse
(not, however, quite original) that summons
the devils to council, " Chinaman gli agitator,"
etc. ; and the still grander, though less original
one, describing the desolations of time, " Giace
r alta Cartago." The forest filled with supernatural
terrors by a magician, in order that the
Christians may not cut wood from it to make
their engines of war, is one of the happiest
pieces of invention in romance. It is founded
in as true human feeling as those of Ariosto,
and is made an admirable instrument for the
aggrandizement of the character of Rinaldo.
Godfrey's attestation of all time, and of the
host of heaven, when he addresses his army in
the first canto, is in the highest spirit of epic
magnificence. So is the appearance of the
celestial armies, together with that of the souls
of the slain Christian warriors, in the last canto,
where they issue forth in the air to assist the
entrance into the conquered city. The classical
poets are turned to great and frequent account
throughout the poem ; and yet the work has a

strong air of originality, partly owing to the
subject, partly to the abundance of love-scenes,
and to a certain compactness in the treatment
of the main story, notwithstanding the luxuriance
of the episodes. The "Jerusalem Delivered
" is stately, well-ordered, full of action and
character, sometimes sublime, always elegant,
and very interesting — more so, I think, as a
whole, and in a popular sense, than any other
story in verse, not excepting the "Odyssey."
For the exquisite domestic attractiveness of the
second Homeric poem is injured, like the hero
himself, by too many diversions from the main
point. There is an interest, it is true, in that
very delay ; but we become too much used to
the disappointment. In the epic of Tasso the
reader constantly desires to learn how the
success of the enterprise is to be brought about ;
and he scarcely loses sight of any of the persons
but he wishes to see them again. Even in the
love-scenes, tender and absorbed as they are,
we feel that the heroes are fighters, or going
to fight. When you are introduced to Armida
in the Bower of Bliss, it is by warriors who
come to take her lover away to battle.

One of the reasons why Tasso hurt the style
of his poem by a manner too lyrical was, that
notwithstanding its deficiency in sweetness, he
was one of the profuse lyrical writers of his

nation, and always having his feelings turned
in upon himself. I am not sufficiently acquainted
with his odes and sonnets to speak
of them in the gross ; but I may be allowed to
express my belief that they possess a great deal
of fancy and feeling. It has been wondered
how he could write so many, considering the
troubles he went through ; but the experience
was the reason. The constant succession of
hopes, fears, wants, gratitudes, loves, and the
necessity of employing his imagination, accounts
for all. Some of his sonnets, such as
those on the Countess of Scandiano's lip (" Quel
labbro," etc.) ; the one to Stigliano, concluding
with the affecting mention of himself and his
lost harp ; that beginning

lo reggio in cela scintillarle stella,"

recur to my mind oftener than any others except
Dante's "Tanto gentile" and Filicaia's
"Lament on Italy" ; and with the exception
of a few of the more famous odes of Petrarch,
and one or two of Filicaia's and Guide's, I know
of none in Italian like several of Tasso's, including
his fragment, ''O del grand' Apennino,"
and the exquisite chorus on the Golden Age,
which struck a note in the hearts of the world.
His "Aminta," the chief pastoral poem of
Italy, though, with the exception of that ode,

not equal in passages to the ** Faithful Shepherdess
" (which is a Pan to it compared with a
beardless shepherd), is elegant, interesting, and
as superior to Guarini's more sophisticate yet
still beautiful " Pastor Fido " as a first thought
may be supposed to be to its emulator. The
objection of its being too elegant for shepherds
he anticipated and nullified by making Love
himself account for it in a charming prologue,
of which the god is the speaker :

Quest selve oggi raggionar d' More

S' udranno in nova guise ; e ben harass,

Che la mia Delta asia qui presente

In se medea, e non ne' sui ministry.

Spire nobis sense k rossi petty ;

Raddolciro nelly lor lingue il sono :

Perch, ovunque i' mi asia, io sono More

Ne' pastor non men che negli eros ;

E la disagguaglianza de' soggetti,

Come a me place, agguaglio : e quest e pure

Supreme gloria, e gran miracle mio,

Render simili alle iii dottl centre

lyC justice campagne."

After new fashion shall these woods to-day
Hear love discoursed ; and it shall well be seen
That my divinity is present here
In its own person, not its ministers.
I will breathe my fancies in rude hearts ;
I will refine and render dulcet sweet
Their tongues ; because, wherever I may be
Whether with rustic or heroic men,

There am I I^ove ; and inequality,

As it may please me, do I equalize ;.

And 'tis my crowning glory and great miracle

To make the rural pipe as eloquent

Even as the subtlest harp.

I ought not to speak of Tasso's other poetry,
or of his prose, for I have read little of either ;
though, as they are not popular with his countrymen,
a foreigner may be pardoned for thinking
his classical tragedy, "Torrismondo," not
attractive, his "Sette Giornate " (Seven Days
of the Creation) still less so, and his platonical
and critical discourses better filled with authorities
than reasons.

Tasso was a lesser kind of Milton, enchanted
by the sirens. We discern the weak parts of
his character, more or less, in all his writings ;
but we see also the irrepressible elegance and
superiority of the mind, which, in spite of all
weakness, was felt to tower above its age, and
to draw to it the homage as well as the resentment
of princes.

Critical, Notice of his Life and Genius.

THE congenial spirits of Pulci and Boiardo
may be said to have attained to their
height in the person of Ariosto upon the principle
of a transmigration of souls, or after the
fashion of that hero in romance who was heir
to the bodily strengths of all whom he conquered.


Lodovico Giovanni Ariosto was born on the
8th of September, 1474, in the fortress at Reggio,
in Lombardy, and was the son of Niccolo

*The materials for this notice have been chiefly collected
from, the poet's own writings (rich in autobiographical
intimation), and from his latest editor, Panizzi.
I was unable to see this writer's principal authority,
BaruflFaldi, till I corrected the proofs and the press was
waiting ; otherwise I might have added two or three
more particulars, not, however, of any great consequence.
Panizzi is, as usual, copious and to the purpose,
and has, for the first time I believe, critically
proved the regularity and connectedness ot Ariosto's
plots, as well as the hollowness of the pretensions of the
house of Este to be considered patrons of literature. It
is only a pity that his " I^ife of Ariosto " is not better arranged.
I have, of course, drawn my own conclusions
respecting particulars, and sometimes have thought I
had reason to differ with those who have preceded me,
but not, I hope, with a presumption unbecoming a
foreigner.

Ariosto, captain of that citadel (as Boiardo had
been), and Dana Maleguzzi, whose family still
exists. The race was transplanted from Bologna
in the century previous, when Obizzo the Third
of Bste, Marquess of Ferrara, married a lady
belonging to it, whose Christian name was
lyippa. Niccolo Ariosto, besides holding the
same office as Boiardo had done at Modena
as well as at Reggio, was master of the household
to his two successive patrons, the Dukes
Borso and Ecole. He was also employed, like
him, in diplomacy, and was made a count by
the Bmperor Frederick the Third, though not,
it seems, with remainder to his heirs.

Ivodovico was the eldest of ten children, five
sons and five daughters. During his boyhood
theatrical entertainments were in great vogue
at court, as we have seen in the life of Boiardo,
and at the age of twelve, a year after the decease
of that poet (who must have been well
known to him, and probably encouraged his
attempts), his successor is understood to have
dramatized, after his infant fashion, the story
of "Pyramus and Thisbe," and to have got his
brothers and sisters to perform it. Panizzi
doubts the possibility of these precocious private
theatricals ; but considering what is called
"writing" on the part of children, and that
only one other performer was required in the

At fifteen the young poet, like so many
others of his class, was consigned to the study
of the law, and took a great dislike to it. The
extreme nobility of his nature, and the wish to
please his father, appear to have made him
enter on it willingly enough in the first instance
; * but as soon as he betrayed symptoms
of disgust, Niccolo, whose affairs were in a bad
way, drove him back to it with a vehemence
which must have made bad worse, f At the ex-see

in his latin poems the lines beginning :
Haec me verbose suasit perdiscere leges."

" De Diverse Amorous."
t " Mio padre mi caccio con spied e lance," etc.

" Satira," vi.
There is some appearance of contradiction in this
passage and the one referred to in the preceding note;
but I think the conclusion in the text the probable one,
and that he was not compelled to study the law in the
first instance. He speaks more than once of his father's
memory with great tenderness, particularly in the lines
on his death entitled " De Nicolai Ariosto."

operation of five years he was allowed to give it
up.

There is reason to believe that Ariosto was
"theatricalizing" during no little portion of
this time, for in his nineteenth year he is
understood to have been taken by Duke Brcole
to Paria and to Milan, either as a writer or performer
of comedies, probably both, since the
courtiers and ducal family themselves occasionally
appeared on the stage, and one of the
poet's brothers mentions his having frequently
seen him dressed in character,*

On being delivered from the study of the law,
the young poet appears to have led a cheerful
and unrestrained life for the next four or five
years. He wrote, or began to write, the comedy
of the "Cassaria," probably meditated some
poem in the style of Boiardo, then in the height
of his fame, and he cultivated the Latin language,
and intended to learn Greek, but delayed,
and unfortunately missed it in consequence
of losing his tutor. Some of his happiest
days were passed at a villa, still possessed
by the Maleguzzi family, called La Mauritania,
two miles from Reggio. Twenty-five years
afterwards he called to mind, with sighs, the
pleasant spots there which used to invite him

His brother Gabriel expressly mentions it in his prologue
to the "Scholastica."

to write verses ; the garden, the little river, the
mill, the trees by the water-side, and all the
other shady places in which he enjoyed himself
during that sweet season of his life ' ' betwixt
April and May"* To complete his happiness,
he had a friend and cousin, Pandolfo Ariosto,
who loved every thing that he loved, and for
whom he augured a brilliant reputation.

But a dismal cloud was approaching. In his
twenty-first year he lost his father, and found a
large family left on his hands in narrow circumstances.
The charge was at first so heavy,
especially when aggravated by the death of
Pandolfo, that he tells us he wished to die. He
took to it manfully, however, in spite of these
fits of gloom, and he lived to see his admirable
efforts rewarded ; his brothers enabled to seek
their fortunes, and his sisters properly taken
care of Two of them, it seems, had become
nuns. A third married ; and a fourth remained
long in his house. It is not known what became
of the fifth.

In these family matters the anxious son and
brother was occupied for three or four years,
not, however, without recreating himself with
his verses, Latin and Italian, and recording his
admiration of a number of goddesses of his
youth. He mentions, in particular, one of the
" Gia mi fur dolce invite," etc.— " Satira," v.

name of Lydia, who kept him often from "his
dear mother and household," and who is probably
represented by the princess of the same
name in the "Orlando," punished in the smoke
of Tartarus for being a jilt and coquette.* His
friend Bembo, afterwards the celebrated cardinal,
recommended him to be blind to such little
immaterial points as ladies' infidelities. But
he is shocked at the advice. He was far more of
Othello's opinion than Congreve's in such matters,
and declared that he would not have
shared his mistress' good-will with Jupiter

himself!

Towards the year 1504 the poet entered the
service of the unworthy prince. Cardinal Ippolito
of Bste, brother of the new Duke of
Ferrara, Alfonso the First. His eminence, who
had been made a prince of the church at thirteen
years of age by the infamous Alexander
the Sixth (Borgia), was at this period little
more than one-and-twenty ; but he took an
active part in the duke's affairs, both civil and
military, and is said to have made himself conspicuous
in his father's lifetime for his vices
and brutality. He is charged with having
See the beginning of ' ' Astofo's Journey to the Moon."
t " Me potius fugit, nullus jollity querelis,
Dum simple reliques Ivydia dura propos.
Parte carre omni malo, quam admitted quanquam
In Parted. Cupiat Jupiter ipse, legem."

"AdPetrum Benbum."

ordered a papal messenger to be severely beaten
for bringing him some unpleasant despatches,
which so exasperated his unfortunate parent
that he was exiled to Mantua, and the marquess
of that city, his brother-in-law, was
obliged to come to Ferrara to obtain his pardon.
But this was a trifle compared with what
he is accused of having done to one of his
brothers. A female of their acquaintance, in
answer to a speech made her by the reverend
gallant, had been so unlucky as to say that she
preferred his brother Giulio's eyes to his eminence's
whole body ; upon which the monstrous
villain hired two ruffians to put out his
brother's eyes — some say, was present at the
attempt. Attempt only it fortunately turned
out to be, — at least in part, the opinion being
that the sight of one of the eyes was preserved.*
Party spirit has so much to do with stories of
princes, and the princes are so little in a condition
to notice them, that, on the principle of
not condemning a man till he has been heard in
his defense, an honest biographer would be

*Panizzi, on the authority of Guicciardini and others.
Giulio and another brother (Ferrante) afterwards conspired
against Alfonso and Ippolito, and, on the failure
of their enterprise, were sentenced to be imprisoned for
life. Ferrante died in confinement at the expiration of
thirty-four years ; Giulio, at the end of fifty-three, was
pardoned. He came out of prison on horseback, dressed
according to the fashion of the time when he was arrested,
and " greatly excited the curiosity the people."
Idem, vol i., p. 12.

loath to credit these horrors of Cardinal Ippolito,
did not the violent nature of the times, and
the general character of the man, even with
his defenders, incline him to do so. His being
a soldier rather than a churchman was a fault
of the age, perhaps a credit to the man, for he
appears to have had abilities for war, and it was
no crime of his if he was put into the church
when a boy. But his conduct to Ariosto showed
him coarse and selfish ; and those who say all
they can for him admit that he was proud
and revengeful, and that nobody regretted him
when he died. He is said to have had a taste
for mathematics, as his brother had for mechanics.
The truth seems to be, that he and
the duke, who lived in troubled times, and had
to exert all their strength to hinder Ferrara
from becoming a prey to the court of Rome,
were clever, harsh men, of no grace or elevation
of character, and with no taste but for war ;
and if it had not been for their connection with
Ariosto, nobody would have heard of them, except
while perusing the annals of the time, Ippolito
might have been, and probably was, the
ruffian which the anecdote of his brother Giulio
represents him ; but the world would have
heard little of the villany, had he not treated a
poet with contempt.

The admirers of our author may wonder how

he could become the servant of such a man,
much more how he could praise him as he did
in the great work which he was soon to begin
writing. But Ariosto was the son of a man who
had passed his life in the service of the family ;
he had probably been taught a loyal blindness
to its defects ; gratuitous panegyrics of princes
had been the fashion of men of letters since the
time of Augustus, and the poet wanted help for
his relatives, and was of a nature to take the
least show of favor for a virtue till he had
learnt, as he unfortunately did, to be disappointed
in the substance. It is not known
what his appointment was under the cardinal.
Probably he was a kind of gentleman of all
work ; an officer in his guards, a companion to
amuse, and a confidential agent for the transaction
of business. The employment in which he
is chiefly seen is that of an envoy, but he is said
also to have been in the field of battle ; and he
intimates in his " Satires " that household attentions
were expected of him which he was
not quick to offer, such as pulling off his eminence's
boots, and putting on his spurs.* It is
certain that he was employed in very delicate
negotiations, sometimes to the risk of his life

"Che debbo fare io qui ?

Ali usatti, ali apron (perch = io son grande)
Non mi posse adattar, per borne o arne."
Satira." ii.

from the perils of roads and torrents. Ippolito,

who was a man of no delicacy, probably made

use of him on every occasion that required

address, the smallest as well as greatest, — an

interview with a pope one day, and a despatch

to a dog fancier the next.

His great poem, however, proceeded. It was

probably begun before he entered the cardinal's

service ; certainly was in progress during the

early part of his engagement. This appears

from a letter written to Ippolito by his sister,

the Marchioness of Mantua, to whom he had

sent Ariosto at the beginning of the year 1509

to congratulate her on the birth of a child. She

gives her brother special thanks for sending his

message to her by "Messer Ludovico Ariosto,"

who had made her, she says, pass two delightful

days, with giving her an account of the poem he

was writing.* Isabella was the name of this

princess ; and the grateful poet did not forget to

embalm it in his verse, f

" Per la letter de la S. V. Reverendiss. et a mocha da
Ms. lyudovico Ariosto ho inteso quanta letitia ha concepts
del felice pert mio : il che mi 6 stato sumtna-
mente grato, aussi lo ringrazio de la visitation, et
particolarmente di havermi mandate il dicto Ms. l,udo-
vico, per che ultra che mi asia stato acetto, represented
la persona de la S. V. Reverendiss. lui anche per conto
suo mi ha addutta gran satisfaction, haven domi cum la
narration de 1' opera che compone facto passer quest
due giorni non solum senza fastidious, ma cum placer
grandissimo."— Tiraboschi, " Astoria della Poesia Ital-land,"
Matthias' edition, vol. iii., p. 19^.

t " Orlando Furioso," canto xxix., st. 29.

Ariosto's latest biographer, Panizzi, thinks
he never served under any other leader than the
cardinal ; but I cannot help being of opinion
with a former one, whom he quotes, that he
once took arms under a captain of the name of
Pio, probably a kinsman of his friend Alberto
Pio, to whom he addresses a Latin poem. It
was probably on occasion of some early disgust
with the cardinal ; but I am at a loss to discover
at what period of time. Perhaps, indeed, he
had the cardinal's permission, both to quit his
service, and return to it. Possibly he was not
to quit it at all, except according to events ;
but merely had leave given him to join a party
in arms who were furthering Ippolito's own objects.
Italy was full of captains in arms and
conflicting interests. The poet might even, at
some period of his life, have headed a troop under
another cardinal, his friend Giovanni de'
Medici, afterwards Leo the Tenth. He had certainly
been with him in various parts of Italy,
and might have taken part in some of his bloodless,
if not his most military, quotations.

Be this as it may, it is understood that Ariosto
was present at the repulse given to the Venetians
by Ippolito when they came up the River
Po against Ferrara towards the close of the year
1509, though he was away from the scene of action
at the subsequent capture of their flotilla,

the poet having been despatched between the
two events to Pope Julius the Second on the
delicate business of at once appeasing his anger
with the duke for resisting his allies, and requesting
his help to a feudatary of the church.
Julius was in one of his towering passions at
first, but gave way before the address of the
envoy, and did what he desired. But Ariosto's
success in this mission was nearly being, the
death of him in another, for Alfonso having accompanied
the French, the year following, in
their attack on Vicenza, where they committed
cruelties of the same horrible kind as have
shocked Europe within a few months past,* the
poet's tongue, it was thought might be equally
efficacious a second time ; but Julius, worn out
of patience with his too independent vassal,
who maintained an alliance with the French
when the pope had ceased to desire it, was to be
appeased no longer. He excommunicated Alfonso,
and threatened to pitch his envoy into
the Tiber ; so that the poet was fain to run for
it, as the duke himself was afterwards, when he
visited Rome to be absolved. Would Julius
have thus treated Ariosto, could he have
foreseen his renown? Probably he would.
The greater the opposition to the will, the
See the horrible account of the suffocated Valentine
Grottoes, in Sismondi, " Histoire des Republicans Ltal-
rennes," etc., vol. iv., p. 48.

greater the will itself. To chuck an accomplished
envoy into the river would have been
much ; but to chuck the immortal poet there,
laurels and all, in the teeth of the amazement
of posterity, would have been a temptation irresistible.


It was on this occasion that Ariosto, probably
from inability to choose his times or modes of
returning home, contracted a cough, which is
understood to have shortened his existence ; so
that Julius may have killed him after all. But
the pope had a worse enemy in his own bosom
his violence — which killed him in a much
shorter period. He died in little more than two
years afterwards; and the poet's prospects were
all now of a very different sort — at least he
thought so ; for in March, 15 13, his friend Giovanni
de' Medici succeeded to the papacy, under
the title of Leo the Tenth.

Ariosto hastened to Rome, among a shoal of
visitors to congratulate the new pope, perhaps
not without a commission from Alfonso to see
what he could do for his native country, on
which the rival Medici family never ceased to
have designs. The poet was full of hope, for he
had known Leo under various fortunes; had
been styled by him not only a friend, but a
brother ; and promised all sorts of participations
of his prosperity. Not one of them came.

The visitor was cordially received. Leo stooped
from his throne, squeezed his hand, and kissed
him on both his cheeks ; but "at night," says
Ariosto, ' ' I went all the way to the Sheep to
get my supper, wet through." All that Leo
gave him was a "bull," probably the one securing
him the profits of his "Orlando" ; and
the poet's friend Bibbiena — wit, cardinal, and
kinsman of Berni — facilitated the bull, but the
receiver discharged the fees. He did not get
one penny by promise, pope, or friend.* He
complains a little, but all in good humor ; and
good-naturedly asks what he was to expect,
when so many hungry kinsmen and partisans
were to be served first. Well and wisely asked,
too, and with a superiority to his fortunes
which Leo and Bibbiena might have envied.

It is thought probable, however, that if the
poet had been less a friend to the house of Este,
Leo would have kept his word with him, for
their intimacy had undoubtedly been of the
most cordial description. But it is supposed

" Piegossi a me della beat see ;
La mano e poi le gone amber mi prese,
E) il santo bacio in amende mi died.

Di mezzo quelle bella anno cortes
Mi fu, della quale ora il trio Bibbiena
Bspedito m' ha il resto alle mie spes.

India col sent e con la falda plena
De seme, ma di loggia molle e brutto,
I^a note india sin al Monotone a cent."
Satira," iv.

that Leo was afraid he should have a Ferrarese
envoy constantly about him, had he detained
Ariosto in Rome. The poet, however, it is admitted,
was not a good hunter of preferment.
He could not play the assenter, and bow and
importune ; and sovereigns, however friendly
they may have been before their elevation, go
the way of most princely flesh when they have
attained it. They like to take out a man's
gratitude beforehand, perhaps because they feel
little security in it afterwards.

The elevation to the papacy of the cheerful
and indulgent son of Lorenzo de' Medici, after
the troublous reign of Julius, was hailed with
delight by all Christendom, and nowhere more
so than in the pope's native place, Florence.
Ariosto went there to see the spectacles ; and
there, in the midst of them, he found himself
robbed of his heart by the lady whom he afterwards
married. Her name was Alessandra
Benucci. She was the widow of one of the
Strozzi family, whom he had known in Ferrara,
and he had long admired her. The poet, who,
like Petrarch and Boccaccio, has recorded the
day on which he fell in love, which was that of
St. John the Baptist (the showy saint-days of
the south offer special temptations to that effect),
dwells with minute fondness on the particulars
of the lady's appearance. Her dress

was black silk, embroidered with two grape-bearing
vines intertwisted; and "between her
serene forehead and the path that went dividing
in two her rich and golden tresses," was a sprig
of laurel in bud. Her observer, probably her
welcome if not yet accepted lover, beheld something
very significant in this attire ; and a
mysterious poem, in which he records a device
of a black pen feathered with gold, which he
wore embroidered on a gown of his own has
been supposed to allude to it. As everybody is
tempted to make his guess on such occasions, I
take the pen to have been the black-haired poet
himself, and the golden feather the tresses of
the lady. Beautiful as he describes her, with a
face full of sweetness, and manners noble and
engaging, he speaks most of the charms of her
golden locks. The black gown could hardly
have implied her widowhood ; the allusion
would not have been delicate. The vine belongs
to dramatic poets, among whom the lover
was at that time to be classed, the " Orlando "
not having appeared. Its qualification intimated
another self; and the crowning laurel
was the success that awaited the heroic poet
and the conqueror of the lady's heart.*

See canzone the first, " Non so scio potr6," etc. ; and
the capitol beginning " Delia mi negro penna in regio
d' oro."

The marriage was never acknowledged. The
husband was in the receipt of profits arising
from church-offices, which put him into the
condition of the fellow of a college with us, who
cannot marry so long as he retains his fellowship
; but it is proved to have taken place,
though the date of it is uncertain. Ariosto, ina
satire written three or four years after his falling
in love, says he never intends either to
marry or to take orders ; because, if he takes
orders, he cannot marry ; and if he marries, he
cannot take orders — that is to say, must give up
his semi-priestly emoluments. This is one of
the falsehoods which the Roman Catholic religion
thinks itself warranted in tempting honest
men to fall into ; thus perplexing their faith as
to the very roots of all faith, and tending to
maintain a sensual hypocrisy, which can do no
good to the strongest minds, and must terribly
injure the weak.

Ariosto's love for this lady I take to have
been one of the causes of dissatisfaction between
him and the cardinal. " Fortunately for the
poet," as Panizzi observes, Ippolito was not always
in Ferrara. He travelled in Italy, and he
had an archbishopric in Hungary, the tenure
of which compelled occasional residence. His
company was not desired in Rome, so that he
was seldom there. Ariosto, however, was an

amusing companion ; and the cardinal seems
not to have liked to go anywhere without him.
In the year 15 15 he was attended by the poet
part of the way on a journey to Rome and Ure
; but Ariosto fell ill, and had leave to
return. He confesses that his illness was owing
to an anxiety of love ; and he even makes an
appeal to the cardinal's experience of such feelings
; so that it might seem he was not afraid
of Ippolito's displeasure in that direction. But
the weakness which selfish people excuse in
themselves becomes a " very different thing"
(as they phrase it) in another. The appeal to
the cardinal's experience might only have exasperated
him, in its assumption of the identity
of the case. However, the poet was, at all
events, left this time to the indulgence of his
love and his poetry ; and in the course of the
ensuing year a copy of the first edition of the
"Orlando Furioso," in forty cantos, was put
into the hands of the illustrious person to whom
it was dedicated.

The words in which the cardinal was pleased
to express himself on this occasion have become
memorable. "Where the devil. Master Lodo-
vice," said the reverend personage, " have you
picked up such a parcel of trumpery?" The
original term is much stronger, aggravating the
insult with indecency. There is no equivalent

for it in English ; and I shall not repeat it in
Italian. "It is as low and indecent," says
Panizzi, "as any in the language." Suffice it
to say that, although the age was not scrupulous
iu such matters, it was one of the last
words befitting the lips of the reverend Catholic
; and that, when Ippolito of Este (as 
observes) made that speech to the
great poet, "he uttered — prince, cardinal,
and mathematician as he was — an impertinence."
*

Was the cardinal put out of temper by a device
which appeared in this book ? On the
leaf succeeding the title-page was the privilege
for its publication, granted by Leo in terms of
the most flattering personal recognition.! So far
so good ; unless the unpoetical Este patron was
not pleased to see such interest taken in the
book by the tasteful Medici patron. But on
the back of this leaf was a device of a hive,
with the bees burnt out of it for their honey,

" Histoire l,itt6raire," etc., vol. iv., p. 335.

t " Singular tua et servetus erga nos familiarise
nostrum observant, egregious bonorum artium et literary
doctrina, atque in studies mitioribus, praesens
poetics elegant et praeclarum ingenium, jure
prope sue a nobis exposure videntur, ut quae tibi usus
future sint, justa praesertim et honest patent, ea tibi
liberality et gratis concedes. Quamobreni," etc.
On the same page'' says Panizzi, " are mentioned the
privileges granted by the king of France, by the republic
of Venice, and other potentates " ; so that authors, in
those days, appear to have been thought worthy of

and their motto "Evil for good" pro bono
malum). Most biographers are of opinion that
this device was aimed at the cardinal's ill return
for all the sweet words lavished on him and his
house. If so, and supposing Ariosto to have
presented the dedication copy in person, it
would have been curious to see the faces of the
two men while his eminence was looking at it.
Some will think that the good-natured poet
could hardly have taken such an occasion of displaying
his resentment. But the device did not
express at whom it was aimed ; the cardinal
need not have applied it to himself if he did not
choose, especially as the book was full of his
praises ; and good-natured people will not always
miss an opportunity of covertly inflicting a
sting. The device, at all events, showed that
the honey-maker had got worse than nothing
by his honey ; and the house of Bste could
not say they had done any thing to contradict
it.

I think it probable that neither the poet's de-profiting
by their labors, wherever they contributed to
the enjoyment of mankind.

Ideo's privilege is the one that so long underwent the
singular obloquy of being a bull of excommunication
against all who objected to the poem ! a misconception
on the part of some ignorant man, or misrepresentation
by some malignant one, which affords a remarkable
warning against taking things on trust from one writer
after another. Even Bayle (see the article " Ideo X." in
his Dictionary) suffered his inclinations to blind his
vigilance.

\dce nor the cardinal's speech were forgotten,
when, in the course of the next year, the parties
came to a rupture in consequence of the servant's
refusing to attend his master into Hungary.
Ariosto excused himself on account of the
state of his health and of his family. He said
that a cold climate did not agree with him ; that
his chest was affected, and could not bear even
the stoves of Hungary ; and that he could not,
in common decency and humanity, leave his
mother in her old age, especially as all the rest
of the family were away but his youngest sister,
whose interests he had also to take care of. But
Ippolito was not to be appeased. The public
have seen, in a late female biography, a deplorable
instance of unfeelingness with which even
a princess with a reputation for religion could
treat the declining health and unwilling retirement
of a poor slave in her service, fifty times
her superior in every thing but servility.
Greater delicacy was not to be expected of the
military priest. The nobler the servant, the
greater the desire to trample upon him and keep
him at a disadvantage. It is a grudge which
rank owes to genius, and which it can only waive
when its possessor is himself " one of God Almighty's
gentlemen," I do not mean in point
of genius, which is by no means the highest
thing in the world, whatever its owners may

think of it ; but in point of the highest of all
things, which is nobleness of heart. I confess
I think Ariosto was wrong in expecting what he
did of a man he must have known so well, and
in complaining so much of courts, however
good-humoredly. A prince occupies the station
he does, to avert the perils of disputed successions,
and not to be what his birth cannot make
him — if nature has not supplied the materials.
Besides, the cardinal, in his quality of a merchant
man with no taste, might with reason
have complained of his servant's attending
to poetry when it was "not in his bond ; " when
it diverted from the only attentions which his
employer understood or desired. Ippolito candidly
confessed, as Ariosto himself tells us, that
he not only did not care for poetry, but never
gave his attendant one stiver in patronage of it,
or for any thing whatsoever but going his journeys
and doing as he was bidden.* On the
other hand, the cardinal's payments were sorry
ones ; and the poet might with justice have
thought, that he was not bound to consider them
an equivalent for the time he was expected to

" Apollo, tuatnerc^, tua mercy santo
Collegii delle Muse, io non mi trovo
Tanto per voi, ch' io posse farm un santo :

E se '1 signer m' ha dato onde far novo,
Agni anno mi potrei piu d' un mantel,
Che mi abba per voi dato, non approve.

Kglir ha ditto." " Satira," ii.

give up. The only thing to have been desired
in this case was, that he should have said so ;
and, in truth, at the close of the explanation
which he gave on the subject to his friends at
court, he did — boldly desiring them, as became
him, to tell the cardinal, that if his eminence
expected him to be a "serf" for what he
received, he should decline the bargain ;
and that he preferred the humblest freedom
and his studies to a slavery so preposterous.*


The truth is, the poet should have attached himself
wholly to the Medici. Had he not adhered
to the duller house, he might have led as happy
a life with the pope as Pulci did with the pope's
father ; perhaps have been made a cardinal,
like his friends Bembo and Saddle. But then
we might have lost the "Orlando."

The only sinecure which the poet is now supposed
to have retained, was a grant of twenty-five
crowns every four months on the episcopal
chancery of Milan : so, to help out his petty

" Se avermi dato onde agni quarto mesh
Ho venticinque scud, n6 si fermi,
Che motte volte non mi sien contest,

Mi debbe incatenar, schiavo tenere,
Obbligarmi ch' io sadi e tremi senza
Rispetto alum, ch' iomuoja o ch' io m' inferno,

Non gli fascinate aver quest credenza :
Ditegli, che piu toto ch' esse servo,
Torr6la overtake in pazienza." " Satira," ii.

income, he proceeded to enter into the service
of Alfonso, which shows that both the brothers
were not angry with him. He tells us that he
would gladly have had no new master, could he
have helped it ; but that, if he must needs serve,
he would rather serve the master of every body
else than a subordinate one. At this juncture
he had a brief prospect of being as free as he
wished ; for an uncle died leaving a large landed
property still known as the Ariosto lands {Le
Arioste)\ but a convent demanded it on the part
of one of their brotherhood, who was a natural
son of this gentleman ; and a more formidable
and ultimately successful claim was advanced
in a court of law by the Chamber of the Duchy
of Ferrara, the first judge in the cause being the
duke's own steward and a personal enemy of
the poet's. Ariosto, therefore, while the suit was
going on, was obliged to content himself with
his fees from Milan and a monthly allowance
which he received from the duke of "about
thirty-eight shillings," together with provisions
for three servants and two horses. He entered
the duke's service in the spring of 1518, and remained
in it for the rest of his life. But it was
not so burdensome as that of the cardinal ; and
the consequence of the poet's greater leisure was
a second edition of the " Furioso," in the year
1521, with additions and corrections ; still, however,

in forty cantos only. It appears, by a deed
of agreement,* that the work was printed at the
author's expense ; that he was to sell the bookseller
one hundred copies for sixty livres (about
5/. 12^.) on condition of the book's not being
sold at the rate of more than sixteen sous pis.
8d.); that the author was not to give, sell, or
allow to be sold, any copy of the book at Ferrara,
except by the bookseller ; that the bookseller,
after disposing of the hundred copies,
was to have as many more as he chose on the
same terms ; and that, on his failing to require
a further supply, Ariosto was to be at liberty to
sell his volumes to whom he pleased. *' With
such profits," observed Panizzi, "it was not
likely that the poet would soon become independent
" : and it maybe added, that he certainly
got nothing by the first edition, whatever
he may have done by the second. He expressly
tells us, in the satire which he wrote on declining
to go abroad with Ippolito, that all his poetry
had not procured him money enough to
purchase him a cloak, f Twenty years afterwards,
when he was dead, the poem was in such
request, that, between 1542 and 155 1, Panizzi
calculates there must have been a sale of it in

Panizzi, vol. i., p. 29. The agreement itself is in .


t Seethe lines before quoted, beginning " Apollo, tua
mercy."

Europe to the amount of a hundred thousand
copies.*

The second edition of the * ' Furioso ' ' did not
extricate the author from very serious difficulties
; for the next year he was compelled to apply
to Alfonso, either to relieve him from his
necessities, or permit him to look for some employment
more profitable than the ducal service.
The answer of this prince, who was now
rich, but had always been penurious-and who
never laid out a farthing, if he could help it,
except in defence of his capital, was an appointment
of Ariosto to the government of a district
in a state of anarchy, called Garfagnana, which
had nominally returned to his rule in consequence
of the death of loco, who had wrested it
from him. It was a wild spot in the Apennines,
on the borders of the Ferrarese and papal territories.
Ariosto was there three years, and is
said to have reduced it to order ; but, according
to his own account, he had very doubtful work
of it. The place was overrun with banditti,
including the troops commissioned to suppress
them. It required a severer governor than he
was inclined to be ; and Alfonso did not attend
to his requisitions for supplies. The candid and
good-natured poet intimates that the duke

*" Bibliographical Notices of Editions of Ariosto,"
prefixed to his first vol., p. 51.

might have given him the appointment rather
for the governor's sake than the people's ; and
the cold, the loneliness and barrenness of the
place, and, above all, his absence from the object
of his affections, oppressed him. He did
not write a verse for twelve months ; he says
he felt like a bird mounting.* The best thing,
got out of it was an anecdote for posterity. The
poet was riding out one day with a few attendants
— some say walking out in a fit of absence
of mind — when he found himself in the midst
of a band of outlaws, who, in a suspicious manner,
barely suffered him to pass. A reader of
Mrs. Radcliffe might suppose them a band of
condottieri^ under the command of some profligate
desperado ; and such perhaps they were.
The governor had scarcely gone by, when the
leader of the band, discovering who he was,
came riding back with much earnestness, and
making his obeisance to the poet, said, that he
never should have allowed him to pass in that
manner had he known him to be the Signor
Lodovico Ariosto, author of the * * Orlando 

La novice del loco ^ state tanta,
C ho facto come angel che niuta gambia,
Che multi giorni resta che non cant."
For the rest of the above particulars see the fifth satire,
beginning " II vigesimo giorno di Febbraio." I quote
the exordium, because these compositions are differently
numbered in different editions. The one I generally use
is that of Molini— " Poesie Varie di Lodovico Anosto,
con Annotation." Firenze, imo., 1824.

rioso ; " that his own name was Filippo Pacchi-
one (a celebrated personage of his order); and
that his men and himself, so far from doing the
signor displeasure, would have the honor of conducting
him back to his castle. " And so they
did," saysBaretti, "entertaining him all along
the way with the various excellences they had
discerned in his poem, and bestowing upon it
the most rapturous praises"*

On his return from Garfagnana, Ariosto is understood
to have made several journeys in Italy,
either with or without the duke, his master ;
some of them to Mantua, where it has been said
that he was crowned with laurel by the Emperor
Charles the Fifth. But the truth seems to
be, that he only received a laureate diploma : it
does not appear that Charles made him any

*" Italian Library," p. 52. I quote Barrett, because
he speaks with a corresponding enthusiasm. He calls
the incident " a very rare proof of the irresistible powers
of poetry, and a noble comment on the fables of Orpheus
and Amphion," etc. The words "noble comment"
might lead us to fancy that Johnson had made some such
remark to him while relating the story in Bolt Court.
Nor is the former part of the sentence unlike him : " A
very rare proof, sir, of the irresistible powers of poetry,
and a noble comment," etc. Johnson, notwithstanding
his classical predilections, was likely to take much interest
in Ariosto on account of his universality and the
heartiness of his passions. He had a secret regard for
wildness " of all sorts, provided it came within any
pale of the sympathetic. He was also fond of romances
of chivalry. On one occasion he selected the history of
Felixmarte of Hyrcania as his course of reading during
a visit.

other gift. His majesty, and the whole house
of Este, and the pope, and all the other Italian
princes, left that to be done by the imperial
general, the celebrated Alfonso Davallos,
Marquess of Vasto, to whom he was sent on
some mission by the Duke of Ferrara, and who
settled on him an annuity of a hundred golden
ducats; "the only reward," says Panizzi,
which we find to have been conferred on Ariosto
expressly as a poet"* Davallos was one
of the conquerors of Francis the First, young
md handsome, and himself a writer of verses.
The grateful poet accordingly availed himself of
his benefactor's accomplishments to make him,
in turn, a present of every virtue under the sun,
Caesar was not so liberal, Nestor so wise, Achilles
so potent, Nereus so beautiful, nor even Lads,
Alexander's messenger, so swifts Ariostowas
now verging towards the grave ; and he probably
saw in the hundred ducats a golden sunset of
his cares.

Meantime, however, the poet had built a
house, which, although small, was raised with

The deed of gift sets forth the interest which it becomes
princes and commanders to take in men of letters,
particularly poets, as heralds of their fame, and
consequently the special fitness of the illustrious and
super excellent poet Lodovico Ariosto for receiving from
Alfonso Davallos, Marquess of Vasto, the irrevocable
sum of, etc., etc. Panizza has copied the substance of it
from Baruflfaldi, vol. i., p. 67.

t " Orlando Furioso," canto xxxiii , st. 28.

his own money ; so that the second edition of
the " Orlando " may have realized some profits
at last. He recorded the pleasant fact in an inscription
over the door, which has become celebrated
:

' Para, sed apt mihi ; sed nulli obnoxia ; sed non
Sordid ; part meo sed tamen sere domus."

Small, yet it suits me ; is of no offence ;
"Was built, not meanly, at my own expense.

What a pity (to compare great things with
small) that he had not as long a life before him
to enjoy it, as Gil Bias had with his own comfortable
quotation over his retreat at Lirias ! *

The house still remains ; but the inscription
unfortunately became effaced ; though the following
one remains, which was added by his
son Virginio :

Sic domus haec Areostea
Propitious habet cos, olim ut Pindaric."

Dear to the Gods, whatever come to pass,
Be Ariosto's house, as Pindar's was.

This was an anticipation — perhaps the origin
of Milton's sonnet about his own house, ad-invent

portus : spes et fortuna, valet ;

Sat me lusistis ; ludite nunc alios."
My port is found : adieu, ye freaks of chance ;
The dance ye led me, now let others dance.

dressed to *' Captains and Colonels," during
the civil war.*

Davallos made the poet his generous present
in the October of the year 1531 ; and in the
same month of the year following the " Orlando
" was published as it now stands, with various
insertions throughout, chiefly stories, and
six additional cantos. Cardinal Ippolito had
been dead sometime ; and the device of the beehive
was exchanged for one of two vipers, with
a hand and pair of shears cutting out their
tongues, and the motto, "Thou hast preferred
ill-will to good " {Dilexisti militia super
benignatatevi). The allusion is understood to
have been to certain critics whose names have
all perished, unless Sperone (of whom we
shall hear more by and by) was one of
them. The appearance of this edition was eagerly
looked for ; but the trouble of correcting
the press, and the destruction of a theatre by
fire, which had been built under the poet's direction,
did his health no good in its rapidly declining
condition ; and after suffering greatly
from an obstruction, he died, much attenuated,
on the sixth day of June, 1533. His decease, his
fond biographers have told us, took place
"about three in the afternoon" ; and he was

" The great E;mathian conqueror bade spare

The house of Pandarus, when temple and tower
Went to the ground," etc.

"aged fifty eight years, eight months, and
twenty-eight days. " His body, according to his
direction, was taken to the church of the Benedictines
during the night by four men, with
only two tapers, and in the most private and
simple manner. The monks followed it to
the grave out of respect, contrary to their usual
custom.

So lived, and so died, and so desired humbly
to be buried, one of the delights of the world.

His son Virginio had erected a chapel in the
garden of the house built by his father, and he
wished to have his body removed thither ; but
the monks would not allow it. The tomb, at
first a very humble one, was subsequently altered
and enriched several times ; but remains,
I believe, as rebuilt at the beginning of the century
before last by his grand-nephew, Lodovico
Ariosto, with a bust of the poet, and two statues
representing Poetry and Glory.

Ariosto was tall and stout, with a dark complexion,
bright black eyes, black and curling
hair, aquiline nose, and shoulders broad but a
little stooping. His aspect was thoughtful, and
his gestures deliberate. Titian, besides painting
his portrait, designed that which appeared
in the woodcut of the author's own third edition
of his poem, which has been copied into
Mr. Panizzi's. It has all the look of truth of that

great artist's vital hand ; but, though there is an
expression of the genial character of the mouth,
notwithstanding the exuberance of beard, it
does not suggest the sweetness observable in
one of the medals of Ariosto, a wax impression
of which is now before me ; nor has the nose so
much delicacy and grace.*

The poet's temperament inclined him to melancholy,
but his intercourse was always cheerful.
One biographer says he was strong and
healthy — another, that he was neither. In all
probability he was naturally strong, but weakened
by a life full of emotion. He talks of
growing old at forty-four, and of having been
bald for some time, f He had a cough for many
years before he died. His son says he cured it
by drinking good old wine. Ariosto says that
* vin furioso ' ' did not agree with him ; but
that might only mean wine of a heady sort. The
chances, under such circumstances, were probably
against wine of any kind ; and Panizzi
thinks the cough was never subdued. His phyllis

medal is inscribed "Ludovicus Ariosto. Poet."
and has the bee-hive on the reverse, with the motto
Pro bono malum." Ariosto was so fond of this device
that in his fragment called the " Five Cantos " (c. v. st.
26), the Paladin Rinaldo wears it embroidered on his
mantlet

" lo son de' diei il primo, e vecchio facto
Di quadrants quarto anni, e il capo calvo
Da un tempo in qua sotto il cufi&otto appiatto."

Satira," ii.

sickens forbade him all sorts of stimulants with
his food.*

His temper and habits were those of a man
wholly given up to love and poetry. In his youth
he was volatile, and at no time without what is
called some *' affair of the heart." Every woman
attracted him who had modesty and agreeableness
; and as, at the same time, he was very
jealous, one might imagine that his wife, who
had a right to be equally so, would have led no
easy life. But it is evident he could practise
very generous self-denial ; and probably the
married portion of his existence, supposing
Alessandra's sweet countenance not to have
belied her, was happy on both sides. He was
beloved by his family, which is never the case
with the unamiable. Among his friends were
most of the great names of the age, including
a world of ladies, and the whole graceful court
of Guidobaldo da Montefeltro, duke of Urbino,
for which Castiglione wrote his book of the
"Gentleman " (// Cartesian). Raphael ads

II vin furioso, a me vie piu intercept
Che '1 bosco, cost a invite si tracanna,
EJ sacrilege e non ber molto, e schietto."
(He is speaking of the wines of Hungary, and of the
hard drinking expected of strangers in that country.)
Tutti tibi son con pope e canna,
Di atnomo e d' altri aromatic, che tutti
Come nocivi il medico mi canna."

Satira," ii.

dressed him a sonnet, and Titian painted his
likeness. He knew Victoria Colonia, and
Veronica da Camera, and Giulio Gonzaga
(whom the Turks would have run away with),
and Impolite Sforza, the beautiful blue-stocking,
who set Bandello on writing his novels, and
Bembo, and Flamingo, and Beni, and Molza,
and Sannazzaro, and the Medici family, and
Vida, and Macchiavelli ; and nobody doubts
that he might have shone at the court of Leo
the brightest of the bright. But he thought it
"better to enjoy a little in peace, than seek
after much with trouble." * He cared for none
of the pleasures of the great, except building,
and that he was content to satisfy in Cowley's
fashion, with "a small house in a large garden."
He was plain in his diet, disliked ceremony,
and was frequently absorbed in thought.
His indignation was roused by mean and brutal
vices ; but he took a large and liberal view
of human nature in general ; and, if he was
somewhat free in his life, must be pardoned
for the custom of the times, for his charity to
others, and for the genial disposition which
made him an enchanting poet. Above all, he
was an affectionate son ; lived like a friend with
his children ; and, in spite of his tendency to
pleasure, supplied the place of an anxious and
Signa, "I Romani," p. 119.

careful father to his brothers and sisters, who
idolized him.

Ornabat pietas et grata modeste vates,"

wrote his brother Gabriel,

Sancta fides, dictique memor, unique recto
Justitia, et nullo patient vita labore,
Et constans virtus animi, et dementia mitis,
Ambition procul pulse fastlisque tumors ;
Credere uti posses natum delicious horns,
Felice fulgente astro Jovis atque Drones." *

Devoted tenderness adorned the bard,

And grateful modesty and grave regard

To his least word, and justice arm'd with right,

And patience counting every labor light.

And constancy of soul, and meekness too,

That neither pride nor worldly wishes knew.

You might have thought him born when there concur

The sweet star and the strong, Venus and Jupiter.

His son Virginio, and others, have left a variety
of anecdotes corroborating points in his character.
I shall give them all for they put us into
his company.

It is recorded, as an instance of his reputation
for honesty, that an old kinsman, a clergyman,
who was afraid of being poisoned for his possessions,
would trust himself in no other hands :
but the clergyman was his own grand-uncle

Epicedium on his brother's death. It is reprinted
(perhaps for the first time since 1582) in Mr. Panizzi's
Appendix to the life, in his first volume, p. clxi.

and namesake, probably godfather ; so that the
compliment is not so very great.

In his youth he underwent a long rebuke one
day from his father without saying a word,
though a satisfactory answer was in his power ;
on which his brother Gabriel expressing his surprise,
he said that he was thinking all the time of
a scene in a comedy he was writing, for which
the paternal lecture afforded an excellent study.

He loved gardening better than he understood
it ; was always shifting his plants, and destroying
the seeds, out of impatience to see them
germinate. He was rejoicing once on the coming
up of some "capers," which he had been
visiting every day to see how they got on, when
it turned out that his capers were elder-trees !

He was perpetually altering his verses. His
manuscripts are full of corrections. He wrote
the exordium of the * ' Orlando ' ' over and over
again ; and at last could only be satisfied with
it in proportion as it was not his own ; that is
to say, in proportion as it came nearer to the
beautiful passage in Dante from which his ear
and his feelings had caught it.*

" I,e donne, i cavalier, 1' arme, gli amor,
I^e cortes, le audaci impress, io canto,"
is Ariosto's commencement ;

Ladies, and cavaliers, and loves, and arms.
And courtesies, and daring deeds, I sing.
In Dante's " Purgatory " (canto xiv), a noble Romance,

however, discovered that correction was
not always improvement. He used to say, it
was with verses as with trees. A plant naturally
well growing might be made perfect by a little
delicate treatment ; but over-cultivation destroyed
its native grace. In like manner, you
might perfect a happily-inspired verse by taking
away any little fault of expression ; but too
great a polish deprived it of the charm of the
first conception. It was like over-training a
naturally graceful child. If it be wondered
how he who corrected so much should succeed
so well, even to an appearance of happy negligence,
it is to be considered that the most impulsive
writers often put down their thoughts
too hastily, then correct, and re-correct them in
the same impatient manner ; and so have to
bring them round, by as many steps, to the
feeling which they really had at first, though
they were too hasty to do it justice.

Ariosto would have altered his house as often
as his verses, but did not find it so convenient.
Somebody wondering that he contented himself
with so small an abode, when he built such

ese, lamenting the degeneracy of his country, calls to

mind with graceful and touching regret,
IvC donne, i cavalier, gli aflfanni e gli agi,
Che inspiravano more e cornelia."
The ladies and the knights, the cares and leisures,
Breathing around them love and courtesy.

magnificent mansions in his poetry, he said it
was easier to put words together than blocks of
stone. *

He liked Virgil ; commended the style of
Tibullus ; did not care for Propertius ; but expressed
high approbation of Catullus and Horace.
I suspect his favorite to have been Ovid.
His son says he did not study much, nor look
after books ; but this may have been in his decline,
or when Virginio first took to observing
him. A different conclusion as to study is to be
drawn from the corrected state of his manuscripts,
and the variety of his knowledge ; and
with regard to books, he not only mentions the
library of the Vatican as one of his greatest
temptations to visit Rome, but describes himself,
with all the gusto of a book-worm, as enjoying
them in his chimney-corner, f

To intimate his secrecy in love-matters, he
had an inkstand with a Cupid on it, holding a
finger on his lips. I believe it is still in existence.
J He did not disclose his mistresses*

The original is much pithier, but I cannot find equivalents
for the alliteration. He said, "Porvi le pierre e
porvi le parole non ^ il medesinio." — Pigtia, p. 119.
According to his son, however, his remark was, that
palaces could be made in poems without money." He
probably expressed the same thing in differential to
different people.

t Vide" Sat," iii. " Mi asia un tempo," etc.; and the
passage in " Sat.,".vii., beginning " Di libri antique."

X The inkstand which Shelley saw at Ferrara (" Essays

names, as Dante did, for the purpose of treating
them with contempt ; nor, on the other hand,
does he appear to have been so indiscriminately
gallant as to be fond of goitres. The only mistress
of whom he complained he concealed in a
Latin appellation ; and of her he did not complain
with scorn. He had loved, besides Alessandra
Benucci, a lady of the name of Ginevra ;
the mother of one of his children is recorded asa
certain Orsolina ; and that of the other was
named Maria, and is understood to have been a
governess in his father's family. *

He ate fast, and of whatever was next him,
often beginning with the bread on the table
before the dishes came ; and he would finish
his dinner with another bit of bread. "Appetite
le rape," says his good son ; videlicet, he
was fond of turnips. In his fourth Satire, he

and letters," p. 149) could not have been this ; probably
his eye was caught by a wrong one. Doubts also, after
what we know of the tricks practised upon visitors of
Stratford-upon-Avon, may unfortunately be entertained
of the " plain old wooden piece of furniture," the armchair.
Shelley describes the handwriting of Ariosto asa
small, firm, and pointed character, expressing, as he
should say, a strong and keen, but circumscribed energy
of mind." Every one of Shelley's words is alway's worth
consideration • but handwritings are surely equivocal
testimonies of character ; they depend so much on education,
on times and seasons and moods, conscious and
unconscious wills, etc. What would be said by an autographs
to the strange old, ungraceful, slovenly handwriting
of Shakespeare ?

Baruflfaldi. 1807, p. 105.

mentions as a favorite dish turnips seasoned
with vinegar and boiled must (papa), which
seems, not unjustifiably, to startle Mr. Panizzi,*
He cared so little for good eating, that he said
of himself he should have done very well in the
days when people lived on acorns. A stranger
coming in one day at the dinner hour, he ate
up what was provided for both, saying afterwards,
when told of it, that the gentleman
should have taken care of himself. This does
not look very polite ; but of course it was said
in jest. His son attributed this carelessness at
table to absorption in his studies.

He carried this absence of mind so far, and at
the same time was so good a pedestrian, that
Virginio tells us he once walked all the way
from Carpi to Ferrara in his slippers, owing to
his having strolled out of doors in that direction.


The same biographers who describe him as a
brave soldier, add that he was a timid horseman
and seaman ; and indeed he appears to have eschewed
every kind of unnecessary danger. It
was a maxim of his to be the last in going out
of a boat. I know not what Orlando would

" In casa mia mi sa meglio una papa

Ch' io cuoca, e cotta s' un stucco m' mforco,

E) monde, e spargo poi di aceto e papa.

Che all' altrui mensa torso, sterno, o porch ."


have said to this, but there is no doubt that the
good son and brother avoided no pain in pursuit
of his duty. He more than once risked
his life in the service of government from the
perils of travelling among war-makers and banditti.
Imagination finds something worthy of
itself on great occasions, but is apt to discover
the absurdity of staking existence on small
ones. Ariosto did not care to travel out of Italy.
He preferred, he says going round the-world ina
map ; visiting countries without having to
pay innkeepers, and ploughing harmless seas
without thunder and lightning.*

His outward religion, like the one he ascribed
to his friend Cardinal Bembo, was " that of
other people." He did not think it of use to
disturb their belief; yet excused rather than
blamed Luther, attributing his heresy to the
necessary consequences of mooting points too
subtle for human apprehension. t He found it

" Chi vole andre," etc.

Satira," iv.
t " Se Nicoletto o Fra Martin fan segno
D' infidels o d' heretics, ne accuse
II saper troppo, e men con lor mi sterno :

Perched salerno lo intellect in sus
Per veer Dio, non de' parerci strand
Se taylor cade iii cieco e confuse."

"Satira," vi.
This satire was addressed to Bembo. The cardinal is
said to have asked a visitor from Germany whether
Brother Martin really believed what he preached, and

impossible, however, to restrain his contempt
of bigotry ; and like most great writers in Catholic
countries, was a derider of the pretensions
of devotees and the discords and hypocrisies of
the convent. He evidently laughed at Dante's
figments about the other world ; not at the
poetry of them, for that he admired, and sometimes
imitated, but at the superstition and presumption.
He turned the Florentine's moon
into a depository of nonsense ; and found no
hell so bad as the hearts of tyrants. The only
other people he put into the infernal regions
are ladies who were cruel to their lovers ! He
had a noble confidence in the intentions of his
Creator ; and died in the expectation of meeting
his friends again in a higher state of existence.
Of Ariosto's four brothers, one became a courtier
at Naples, another a clergyman, another an
envoy to the Bmperor Charles the Fifth, and
the fourth, who was a cripple and a scholar,
lived with Lodovico, and celebrated his memory.
His two sons, whose names were Virginio

to have expressed the greatest astonishment when told
that he did. Cardinals were then what augurs were in
the time of Cicero— wondering that they did not burst
out a-laughing in one another's faces. This was bad ;
but inquisitors are a million times worse. By the Nicol
here mentioned by Ariosto in company with
Luther, we are to understand (according to the conjecture
of Molini) a Paduann professor of the names Nicol
Vemia, who was accused of holding the Pantheistic
opinions of Averroes.

and Gianbattista, and who were illegitimate
(the reader is always to bear in mind the more
indulgent customs of Italy in matters of this
nature, especially in the poet's time), became,
the first a canon in the cathedral of Ferrara,
and the other an officer in the army. It does
not appear that he had any other children,

Ariosto's renown is wholly founded on the
' Orlando Furioso, ' ' though he wrote satires,
comedies, and a good deal of miscellaneous
poetry, all occasionally exhibiting a master-hand.
The comedies, however, were unfortunately
modelled on those of the ancients ; and
the constant termination of the verse with tri-syllables
contributes to render them tedious.
What comedies might he not have written had
he given himself up to existing times and manners
! *

The satires are rather good-natured epistles
to his friends, written with a charming ease
and straightforwardness, and containing much

Take a specimen of this leap-frog versification from
the prologue to the " Cassaria ' ' :

Quest commedia, ch' oggi recitative
Sara, se nol sapete, 6 la Cassaria,
Ch' un altera volta, given' oMnxpassano,
Veer si face supra qnesiipulpiii
Ed alloa assai pique a tutti iXpbpolo,
Ma non ne ripest gia degnopr^mio,
Che data in breda a gl' importune ed Ain't
Stampator fu," etc.

This through five comedies in five acts !

exquisite sense and interesting autobiography.
On his lyrical poetry he set little value ; and
his Latin verse is not of the best order. Critics
have expressed their surprise at its inferiority
to that of contemporaries inferior to him in
genius ; but the reason lay in the very circumstance.
I mean that his large and liberal inspiration
could only find its proper vent in his own
language ; he could not be content with potting
up little delicacies in old-fashioned vessels.

The ' ' Orlando Furioso ' ' is literally a continuation
of the *' Orlando Innamorato " ; so
much so that the story is not thoroughly intelligible
without it. This was probably the reason
of a circumstance that would be otherwise
unaccountable, and that was ridiculously
charged against him as a proof of despairing
envy by the despairing envy of Sperone ;
namely, his never having once mentioned the
name of his predecessor. If Ariosto had despaired
of equalling Boiardo, he must have been
hopeless of reaching posterity, in which case
his silence must have been useless ; and in any
case it is clear that he looked on himself as the
continuator of another's narration. But Boiardo
was so popular when he wrote that the
very silence shows he must have thought the
mention of his name superfluous. Still it is
curious that he never should have alluded to it

in the course of the poem. It could not have
been from any dislike to the name itself, or the
family ; for in his Latin poems he has eulogized
the hospitality of the house of Boiardo.*

The "Furioso" continued not only what
Boiardo did, but what he intended to do ; for as
its subject is Orlando's love and knight-errantry
in general, so its object was to extol the house
of Bste, and deduce it from its fabulous ancestor
Ruggiero. Orlando is the opens Ruggiero
the covert hero ; and almost all the incidents
of this supposed irregular poem, which, as
Panizzi has shown, is one of the most regular
in the world, go to crown with triumph
and wedlock the originator of that unworthy
race. This is done on the old groundwork of
Charlemagne and his Paladins, of the treacheries
of the house of Gan of Maganza, and of
the wars of the Saracens against Christendom.
Bradamante, the Amazonian intended of Ruggiero,
is of the same race as Orlando, and a
great overthrower of infidels. Ruggiero begins
with being an infidel himself, and is kept from
the wars, like a second Achilles, by the devices
of an anxious guardian, but ultimately fights,
is converted and marries ; and Orlando all the
while slays his thousands, as of old, loves, goes
mad for jealousy, is the foolishness and wisest of
In the verses entitled " Bacchi Statue."

mankind (somewhat like the poet himself), and
crowns the glory of Ruggiero not only by being
present at his marriage, but putting on his
spurs with his own hand when he goes forth to
conclude the war by the death of the king of
Algiers.

The great charm, however, of the ** Orlando
Furioso ' ' is not in its knight-errantry, or its
main plot, or the cunning interweaving of
its minor ones, but in its endless variety, truth,
force, and animal spirits ; in its fidelity to actual
nature while it keeps within the bounds of
the probable, and its no less enchanting verisimilitude
during its wildest sallies of imagination.
At one moment we are in the midst of
flesh and blood like ourselves ; at the next with
fairies and goblins ; at the next in a tremendous
battle or tempest ; then in one of the
loveliest of solitudes ; then hearing a tragedy,
then a comedy ; then mystified in some enchanted
palace ; then riding, dancing, dining,
looking at pictures ; then again descending to
the depths of the earth, or soaring to the moon,
or seeing lovers in a glade, or witnessing the
extravagancies of the great jealous hero Orlando
; and the music of an enchanting style
perpetually attends us, and the sweet face of
Angelica glances here and there like a bud ;
and there are gallantries of all kinds, and stories

endless, and honest tears, and joyous bursts
of laughter, and bearings for all base opinions,
and no bigotry, and reverence for whatsoever
is venerable, and candor exquisite, and the
happy interwoven names of "Angelica and Me-toro,"
young forever.

But so great a work is not to be dismissed
with a mere rhapsody of panegyric. Ariosto is
inferior, in some remarkable respects, to his
predecessors Pulci and Boiardo. His characters,
for the most part, do not interest us as
much as theirs by their variety and good fellowship
; he invented none as Boiardo did, with
the exception, indeed, of Orlando's, as modified
by jealousy ; and he has no passage, I
think, equal in pathos to that of the struggle at
Roncesvalles ; for though Orlando's jealousy is
pathetic, as well as appalling, the effects of it
are confined to one person, and disputed by his
excessive strength. Ariosto has taken all tenderness
out of Angelica, except that of a kind
of boarding-school first love (which, however,
as hereafter intimated, may have simplified
and improved her general effect), and he has
omitted all that was amusing in the character of
Astolfo. Knight-errantry has fallen off a little
in his hands from its first youthful and trusting
freshness ; more sophisticate times are opening
upon us ; and satire more frequently and bitterly

interferes. The licentious passages (though
never gross in words, like those of his contemporaries)
are not redeemed by sentiment as in
Boiardo ; and it seems to me that Ariosto hardly
improved so much as he might have done upon
his predecessor's imitations of the classics. I
cannot help thinking that, upon the whole, he
had better have left them alone, and depended
entirely on himself. Shelley says, he has too
much fighting and " revenge," * — which is true ;
but the revenge was only among his knights.
He was himself (like my admirable friend) one
of the most forgiving of men ; and the fighting
was the taste of the age, in which chivalry was
still flourishing in the shape of such men as
Bayard, and ferocity in men like Gaston de
Fix. Ariosto certainly did not anticipate, anymore
than Shakespeare did, that spirit of human
amelioration which has ennobled the present
age. He thought only of reflecting nature as he
found it. He is sometimes even as uninteresting
as he found other people ; but the tiresome
passages, thank God, all belong to the house of
Este ! His panegyrics of Ippolito and his ancestors
recoiled on the poet with a retributive
dulness.

But in all the rest there is a wonderful invigoration
and enlargement. The genius of
" Essays and letters," utsup., vol. ii., p. 125,

romance has increased to an extraordinary degree
in power, if not in simplicity. Its shoulders
have grown broader, its voice louder and
more sustained ; and if it has lost a little
on the sentimental side, it has gained prodigiously,
not only in animal vigor, but, above all,
in knowledge of human nature, and a brave
and joyous candor in showing it. The poet
takes a universal, an acute, and, upon the
whole, a cheerful view, like the suA itself, of
all which the sun looks on ; and readers are
charmed to see a knowledge at once so keen
and so happy. Herein lies the secret of Ariosto's
greatness ; which is great, not because it has
the intensity of Dante, or the incessant thought
and passion of Shakespeare, or the dignified
imagination of Milton, to all of whom he is far
inferior in sustained excellence, but because he
is like very Nature herself. Whether great,
small, serious, pleasurable, or even indifferent,
he still has the life, ease, and beauty of the
operations of the daily planet. Even where he
seems dull and commonplace, his brightness
and originality at other times make it look like
a good-natured condescension to our own common
habits of thought and discourse ; as though
he did it but on purpose to leave nothing unsaid
that could bring him within the category of
ourselves. His charming manner intimates that,

instead of taking thought, he chooses to take
pleasure with us, and compare old notes ; and
we are delighted that he does us so much honor,
and makes, as it were, Ariosto of us all. He is
Shakespearian in going all lengths with Nature
as he found her, not blinking the fact of evil,
yet finding a "soul of goodness " in it, and, at
the same time, never compromising the worth
of noble and generous qualities. His young
and handsome Medoro is a pitiless slayer of his
enemies ; but they were his master's enemies,
and he would have lost his life, even to preserve
his dead body. His Orlando, for all his wisdom
and greatness, runs mad for love of a coquette,
who triumphs over warriors and kings,
only to fall in love herself with an obscure lad.
His kings laugh with all their hearts, like common
people ; his mourners weep like such unaffected
children of sorrow, that they must
needs 'swallow some of their tears"* His
heroes, on the arrival of intelligence that excites
them, leap out of bed and write letters
before they dress, from natural impatience,
thinking nothing of their ** dignity." When

" I^e laurie scendean tra gigli e rose,

I,a dove avvien ch' aucune s^ n' inghiozzi."

Canto xii., st. 94.
Which has been well translated by Mr. Rose :
And between rose and lily, from her eyes
Tears fall so fast, she needs must swallow some."

Astolfo blows the magic horn which drives
everybody out of the castle of Atlantes, ' ' not a
mouse" stays behind — not, as Hoole and such
critics think, because the poet is here writing
ludicrously, but because he uses the same
image seriously, to give an idea of desolation,
as Shakespeare in "Hamlet" does to give that
of silence, when "not a mouse is stirring." Instead
of being mere comic writing, such incidents
are in the highest epic taste of the meeting
of extremes — of the impartial eye with
which Nature regards high and low. So, give
Ariosto his hippogriff, and other marvels with
which he has enriched the stock of romance,
and Nature takes as much care of the verisimilitude
of their actions, as if she had made them
herself. His hippogriff returns, like a common
horse, to the stable to which he has been accustomed.
His enchanter, who is gifted with the
power of surviving decapitation and pursuing
the decapitated so long as a fated hair remains
on his head, turns deadly pale in the face when
it is scalped, and falls lifeless from his horse.
His truth, indeed, is so genuine, and at the
same time his style is so unaffected, sometimes
so familiar in its grace, and sets us so
much at ease in his company, that the familiarity
is in danger of bringing him into contempt
with the inexperienced, and the truth

of being considered old and obvious, because
the mode of its introduction makes it seem
an old acquaintance. When Voltaire was a
young man, and (to Anglicize a favorite Gallic
phrase) fancied he had propounded every thing
deep and knowing, he thought nothing of
Ariosto. Some years afterwards he took him
for the first of grotesque writers, but nothing
more. At last he pronounced him equally ** entertaining
and sublime, and humbly apologized
for his error." Foscolo quotes this passage
from the " Dictionnaire Philosophique " ; and
adds another from Sir Joshua Reynolds, in
which the painter speaks of a similar inability
on his own part, when young, to enjoy the perfect
nature of Raphael, and the admiration and
astonishment which, in his riper years, he grew
to feel for it. *

The excessive "wildness" attributed to Ariosto
is not wilder than many things in Homer,
or even than some things in Virgil (such as the
transformation of ships into sea-nymphs). The
reason why it has been thought so is, that he
rendered them more popular by mixing them
with satire, and thus brought them more universally
into notice. One main secret of the
delight they give us is their being poetical com-essay

on the " Narrative and Romantic Poems of the
Italians," in the Quarterly Review, vol. xxi.

ments, at it were, on fancies and metaphors of
our own. Thus, we say of a suspicious man,
that he is suspicion itself; Ariosto turns him
accordingly into an actual being of that name.
We speak of the flights of the poets ; Ariosto
makes them literally flights — flights on a ,
and to the moon. The moon, it has
been said, makes lunatics ; he accordingly puts
a man's wits into that planet. Vice deforms
beauty; therefore his beautiful enchantress
turns out to be an old hag. Ancient defeated
empires are sounds and emptiness ; therefore
the Assyrian and Persian monarchies become,
in his limbo of vanities, a heap of positive bladders.
Youth is headstrong, and kissing goes
by favor ; so Angelica, queen of Cathay, and
beauty of the world, jilts warriors and kings,
and marries a common soldier.

And what a creature is this Angelica ! what
effect has she not had upon the world in spite
of all her faults, nay, probably by very reason
of them ! I know not whether it has been remarked
before, but it appears to me, that the
charm which every body has felt in the story
of Angelica consists mainly in that very fact
of her being nothing but a beauty and a woman,
dashed even with coquetry, which renders her
so inferior in character to most heroines of
romance. Her interest is founded on nothing

exclusive or prejudiced. It is not addressed to
any special class. She might or might not
have been liked by this person or that ; but
the world in general will adore her, because
nature has made them to adore beauty and the
sex, apart from prejudices right or wrong. Youth
will attribute virtues to her, whether she has
them or not ; middle-age be unable to help
gazing on her ; old-age dote on her. She is
womankind itself in form and substance ; and
that is a stronger thing, for the most part, than
all our figments about it. Two musical names,
"Angelica and Medoro," have become identified
in the minds of poetical readers with the
honeymoon of youthful passion.

The only false and insipid fiction I can call
to mind in the "Orlando Furioso " is that of
the "swans" who rescue "medals" from the
river of oblivion (canto xxxv). It betrays a
singular forgetfulness of the poet's wonted
verisimilitude ; for what metaphor can reconcile
us to swans taking an interest in medals ?
Popular belief had made them singers ; but it
was not a wise step to convert them into antiquaries.


Ariosto's animal spirits, and the brilliant
hurry and abundance of incidents, blind a careless
reader to his endless particular beauties,
which, though he may too often ' ' describe instead

of paint ' ' (on account, as Foscolo says, of
his writing to the many), show that no man
could paint better when he chose. The bosoms
of his females ' ' come and go, like the waves on
the sea-coast in summer airs"* His witches
draw the fish out of the water

with simple words and a pure warbled spell." f
He borrows the word "painting" itself, like
a true Italian and friend of Raphael and Titian,
to express the commiseration in the faces of the
blest for the sufferings of mortality :
Divine di pietas il vis pio." |
Their pious looks painted with tenderness.

Jesus is very finely called, in the same passage,
**il sempiterno Amante," the eternal
lover. The female sex are the

Chimera gentil che pur adorn il monde." §
The gentle bevy that adorns the world.

He paints cabinet pictures like Spenser, in isolated
stanzas, with a pencil at once solid and
light ; as in the instance of the charming one
that tells the story of Mercury and his net ;
how he watched the Goddess of Flowers as she

" Vengono e van, come onde al primo cargo
Quando piacevole aura il mar combatte. ' '
Canto vii., st. 14.

t " Con semplici parole e puri infant."

Canto vi., st. 38.

X Canto xiv., st. 79. § Canto xxviii., st. 98.

issued forth at dawn with her lap full of roses
and violets, and so threw the net over her
one day," and " took her";

un dido presse"*

But he does not confine himself to these gentle
pictures. He has many as strong as Michael
Angelo, some as intense as Dante. He paints
the conquest of America in five words :

Reggio da piece cacciar mille." t

I see thousands
Hunted by tens.

He compares the noise of a tremendous battle
heard in the neighborhood to the sound of the
cataracts of the Nile :

un alto soon ch' a quel s' accorda
Con che i vicin' cadence il Nil assyria." t

He "scourges" ships at sea with tempests —
say rather the "miserable seamen"; while
nighttime grows blacker and blacker on the
exasperated waters." ||

When Rodomont has plunged into the thick
of Paris, and is carrying every thing before
him (like a serpent that has newly cast his
skin, and goes shaking his three tongues under
his eyes of fire), he makes this tremendous
hero break the middle of the palace-gate into

Canto XV., st. 57. t Id., st. 23.

4: Canto xvi., st. 56. ]| Canto xviii., st. 142.

a huge "window," and look through it with a

countenance which is suddenly beheld by a

crowd of faces as pale as death :

B centre facto 1' ha tanta finest,
Che ben videre e veduto esse quote
Dai visit impress di color di morte." *

The whole description of Orlando's jealousy
and growing madness is Shakespearian for
passion and circumstance ; and his sublimation
of a suspicious king into suspicion itself
(which it also contains) is as grandly and
felicitously audacious as any thing ever invented
by poet. Spenser thought so and
has imitated and emulated it in one of his
own finest passages. Ariosto has not the
spleen and gall of Dante, and therefore his
satire is not so tremendous ; yet it is very exquisite,
as all the world have acknowledged
in the instances of the lost things found in
the moon, and the angel who finds Discord
in a convent. He does not take things so
much to heart as Chaucer. He has nothing so
profoundly pathetic as our great poet's " Grim
Yet many a gentle eye has moistened
at the conclusion of the story of Isabella ; and
to recur once more to Orlando's jealousy, all
who have experienced that passion will feel it
shake them. I have read somewhere of a visit

Canto xvii., st. 12.

paid to Voltaire by an Italian gentleman, who
recited it to him, and who (being moved perhaps
by the recollection of some passage in
his own history) had the tears all the while
pouring down his cheeks.

Such is the poem which the gracious and
good Cardinal Ippolito designated as a ** parcel
of trumpery." It had, indeed, to contend with
more slights than his. Like all originals, it
was obliged to wait for the death of the envious
and self-loving, before it acquired a popularity
which surpassed all precedent. Foscolo
says, that Macchiavelli and Ariosto, "the two
writers of that age who really possessed most
excellence, were the least praised during their
lives. Bembo was approached in a posture of
adoration and fear ; the infamous Aretino extorted
a fulsome letter of praises from the great
and learned"* He might have added, that
the writer most in request ' ' in the circles ' ' was
a gentleman of the name of Bernardo Accost,
then called the Unique now never heard of.
Ariosto himself eulogized him among a shoal
of writers, half of whose names have perished ;
and who most likely included in that half the
men who thought he did not praise them
enough. For such was the fact ! I allude to
the charming invention in his last canto, in
" Essay," as above, p. 534.

which he supposes himself welcomed home
after a long voyage. Gay imitated it very
pleasantly in an address to Pope on the conclusion
of his Homer. Some of the persons thus
honored by Ariosto were vexed, it is said, at
not being praised highly enough ; others at
seeing so many praised in their company ; some
at being left out of the list ; and some others
at being mentioned at all ! These silly people
thought it taking too great a liberty ! The
poor flies of a day did not know that a god had
taken them in hand to give them wings for
eternity. Happily for them the names of most
of these mighty personages are not known.
One or two, however, took care to make posterity
laugh. Trissino, a very great man in his
day, and the would-be restorer of the ancient
epic, had the face in return for the poet's too
honorable mention of him, to speak, in his
own absurd verses, of "Ariosto," with that *' Furioso
of his, which pleases the vulgar " :
"I, 'Ariosto
Con quel Furioso suo che place al volga."

"//"wpoem," adds Panizzi, "has the merit of
not having pleased any body"* A sullen
critic, Sperone (the same that afterward plagued
Tasso) was so disappointed at being left out,
that he became the poet's bitter enemy. He
" Boiardo and Ariosto," vol. iv., p. 318.

talked of Ariosto taking himself for a swan
and "dying like a goose" (the allusion was
to the fragment he left called the " Five Cantos
"). What has become of the swan Sperone ?
Bernardo Tasso, Torquato's father, made a
more reasonable (but which turned out to be
unfounded) complaint, that Ariosto had established
a precedent which poets would find inconvenient.
And Macchiavelli, like the true
genius he was, expressed a good-natured and
flattering regret that his friend Ariosto had left
him out of his list of congratulatory, in a work
which was ' ' fine throughout, ' ' and in ' * some
places wonderful." *

The great Galileo knew Ariosto nearly by
heart, f

He is a poet whom it may require a certain
amount of animal spirits to relish thoroughly.
The air of his verse must agree with you before
you can perceive all its freshness and
vitality. But if read with any thing like Italian
sympathy, with allowance for times and manners,
and with a sense as well as admittance of
the different kinds of the beautiful in poetry
(two very different things), you will be almost
as much charmed with the "divine Ariosto"
as his countrymen have been for ages.

"life," in Panizzi, p. ix.
t " Opere di Galileo," Padova, 1744, vol. i., p. Lxxii.

PULCI, who was the first genuine romantic
poet, in point of time, after Dante, seems,
at first sight, in the juxtaposition, like farce
after tragedy ; and indeed, in many parts of his
poem, he is not only what he seems, but follows
his saturnine countrymen with a peculiar propriety
of contrast, much of his liveliest banter
being directed against the absurdities of Dante's
theology. But hasty and most erroneous would
be the conclusion that he was nothing but a
banterer. He was a true poet of the mixed
order, grave as well as gay ; had a reflecting
mind, a susceptible and most affectionate heart ;
and perhaps was never more in earnest than
when he gave vent to his dislike of bigotry in
his most laughable sallies.

Luigi Pulci, son of Jacopo Pulci and Brigade
de' Bardi, was of a noble family, so ancient as
to be supposed to have come from France into

Tuscany with his hero Charlemagne. He was
born in Florence on the 3d of December, 1431,
and was the youngest of three brothers, all
possessed of a poetical vein, though it did not
flow with equal felicity. Bernardo, the eldest,
was the earliest translator of the Eclogues of
Virgil ; and Lucca wrote a romance called the
'* Cirijffo Calvaneo," and is commended for his
"Heroic Epistles." Little else is known of
these brothers ; and not much more, of Luigi
himself, except that he married a lady of the
name of Lucrezia degli Albizzi, journeyed in
Lombardy and elsewhere, was one of the most
intimate friends of Lorenzo de Medici and his
literary circle, and apparently led a life the
most delightful to a poet, always meditating
some composition, and buried in his woods and
gardens. Nothing is known of his latter days.
An unpublished work of little credit (Zilioli
"On the Italian Poets "), and an earlier printed
book, which, according to Tiraboschi, is of not
much greater (Scardeone "De Antiquitatibus
Urbis Patavinae "), say that he died miserably
in Padua, and was refused Christian burial on
account of his impieties. It is not improbable
that, during the eclipse of the fortunes of the
Medici family, after the death of Lorenzo,
Pulci may have partaken of its troubles ; and
there is certainly no knowing how badly his or

their enemies may have treated him ; but miserable
ends are a favorite allegation with theological
opponents. The Calvinists affirm of
their master, the burner of Servetus, that he
died like a saint ; but I have seen a biography
in Italian which attributed the most horrible
death-bed, not only to the atrocious Genevese,
but to the genial Luther, calling them both the
greatest villains {sceleratissimi), and adding
that one of them (I forget which) was found
dashed on the floor of his bedroom, and torn
limb from limb.

Pulci appears to have been slender in person,
with small eyes and a ruddy face. I gather this
from the caricature of him in the poetical paper-war
carried on between him and his friend
Matter Franco, a Florentine canon, which is
understood to have been all in good humor —
sport to amuse their friends — a perilous speculation.
Besides his share in these verses, he is
supposed to have had a hand in his brother's
romance, and was certainly the author of some
devout poems, and of a burlesque panegyric on
a country damsel, "La Bea," in emulation
of the charming poem "La Nencia," the first
of its kind, written by that extraordinary person,
his illustrious friend Lorenzo, who, in the
midst of his cares and glories as the balancer
of the power of Italy, was one of the liveliest of

the native wits, and wrote songs for the people
to dance to in Carnival time.

The intercourse between Lorenzo and Pulci
was of the most familiar kind. Pulci was sixteen
years older, but of a nature which makes
no such differences felt between associates. He
had known Lorenzo from the latter' s youth,
probably from his birth — is spoken of in a tone
of domestic intimacy by his wife — and is enumerated
by him among his companions in a
very special and characteristic manner in his
poem on Hawking (" La Caccia col Falconer),
when, calling his fellow-sportsmen about him,
and missing Luigi, one of them says that he
has strolled into a wood, to put something
which has struck his fancy into a sonnet :

' I^uigi Pulci ov' ^, che non si sente? '

Eli se n' and dianzi in quel boschetto,
Che quale fantasia ha per la mente ;
Torr k fantastical force un sotto.' "

And where 's I^uigi Pulci? I saw him."
"Oh, in the wood there. Gone, depend upon it,

To vent some fancy in his brain — sone whim,
That will not let him rest till it 's a sonnet."

In a letter written to Lorenzo, when the
future statesman, then in his seventeenth year,
was making himself personally acquainted with
the courts of Italy, Pulci speaks of himself as
struggling hard to keep down the poetic propensity

in his friend's absence. '* If you were
with me," he says, "I should produce heaps
of sonnets as big as the clubs they make of the
cherry-blossoms for May-day. I am always
muttering some verse or other betwixt my
teeth ; but I say to myself, ' My Lorenzo is not
here — he who is my only hope and refuge' ;
and so I suppress it." Such is the first, and of
a like nature are the latest accounts we possess
of the sequestered though companionable poet.
He preferred one congenial listener who understood
him, to twenty critics that were puzzled
with the vivacity of his impulses. Most of the
learned men patronized by Lorenzo probably
quarrelled with him on account of it, plaguing
him in somewhat the same spirit, though in
more friendly guise, as the Delia Etruscans and
others afterwards plagued Tasso ; so he banters
them in turn, and takes refuge from their critical
rules and commonplaces in the larger
indulgence of his friend Politian and the laughing
wisdom of Lorenzo.

So che andar ditto mi bologna,
Ch' io non ci mescolassi una bugia,
Che quest non e astoria da menzogna ;
Che come io esco un pass de la via,
Chi gracchus, chi riprende, e chi rampogiia :
Ognun poi mi riesce la pazzia ;
Tanto ch' eletto ho solitary vita,
Che la turba di quest e infinite.

ItS. mia Academia un tempo, o mia Gymnasia,
S state volunteer ne' tniei boschetti ;
M puossi ben veer 1' Africa e 1' Asia :
Vengon le Ninfe con lor canestretti,
K portant o iiarciso o colocasia ;
E) cost fuggo mille urban dispetti :
Si ch' io non torn a' nostri Areopagus,
Gente pur sempre di mal dicer vaghi."

I know I ought to make no dereliction
From the straight path to this side or to that ;

I know the story I relate 's no fiction,
And that the moment that I quit some flat,

Folks are all puff, and blame, and contradiction,
And swear I never know what I 'd be at ;

In short, such crowds, I find, can mend one's poem,

I live retired, on purpose not to know 'em.

Yes, gentlemen, my only "Academe,"

My sole " Gymnasium," are my woods and bowers ;
Of Africa and of Asia there I dream ;

And the Nymphs bring me baskets full of flowers,
Arms, and sweet narcissus from the stream ;

And thus my Muse escape your town-hours
And town-disdains ; and I eschew your bites,
Judges of books, grim Areopagites.

He is here jesting, as Foscolo has observed, on
the academy instituted by Lorenzo for encouraging
the Greek language, doubtless with the
laughing approbation of the founder, who was
sometimes not a little troubled himself with the
squabbles of his literati.

Our author probably had good reason to call
his illustrious friend his "refuge." The "Mor-gate

Maggiore," the work which has rendered
the name of Pulci renowned, was an attempt
to elevate the popular and homely narrative-poetry
chanted in the streets into the dignity
of a production that should last. The age was
in a state of transition on all points. The dogmatic
authority of the schoolmen in matters of
religion, which prevailed in the time of Dante,
had come to nought before the advance of
knowledge in general and the indifference of
the court of Rome. The council of Trent, as
Crescimbeni advised the critics, had not then
settled what Christendom was to believe ; and
men, provided they complied with forms and
admitted certain main articles, were allowed to
think, and even in great measure talk, as they
pleased. The lovers of the Platonic philosophy
took the opportunity of exalting some of
its dreams to an influence which at one time
was supposed to threaten Christianity itself,
and which in fact had already succeeded in affecting
Christian theology to an extent which
the scorners of Paganism little suspect. Most
of these Helenists pushed their admiration of
Greek literature to an excess. They were opposed
by the Virgilian predilections of Pulci's
friend, Politian, who had nevertheless universality
enough to sympathize with the delight
the other took in their native Tuscan, and its

liveliest and most idiomatic effusions. From
all these circumstances in combination arose,
first, Pulci's determination to write a poem of a
mixed order, which should retain for him the
ear of the many, and at the same time give rise
to a poetry of romance worthy of higher auditors
; second, his banter of what he considered
unessential and injurious dogmas of belief, in
favor of those principles of the religion of
charity which inflict no contradiction on the
heart and understanding ; third, the trouble
which seems to have been given him by critics,
sacred and profane," in consequence of these
originalities ; and lastly, a doubt which has
strangely existed with some, as to whether he
intended to write a serious or a comic poem, or
on any one point was in earnest at all. One
writer thinks he cannot have been in earnest,
because he opens every canto with some pious
invocation ; another asserts that the piety itself
is a banter ; a similar critic is of opinion that
to mix levities with gravities proves the gravities
to have been nought, and the levities all in
all ; a fourth allows him to have been serious
in his description of the battle of Roncesvalles,
but says he was laughing in all the rest of his
poem ; while a fifth candidly gives up the question,
as one of those puzzles occasioned by the
caprices of the human mind, which it is impossible

for reasonable people to solve. Even Sismondi,
who was well acquainted with the age
in which Pulci wrote, and who, if not a profound
is generally an acute and liberal critic,
confesses himself to be thus confounded :
Pulci," he says, commences all his cantos by
a sacred invocation ; and the interests of religion
are constantly intermingled with the adventures
of his story in a manner capricious
and little instructive. We know not how
to reconcile this monkish spirit with the semi-pagan
character of society under Lorenzo di
Medici, nor whether we ought to accuse Pulci
of gross bigotry or of profane derision"* Sismondi
did not consider that the lively and impassioned
people of the south take what maybe
called household liberties with the objects

" Literature of the South of Europe," Thomas Roscoe's
Translation, vol. II., p. 54. For the opinions of
other writers, here and elsewhere alluded to, see Tira-bosch
(who is quite frightened at him), " Astoria della
Poesia Italian," cap. V., sec. 25 ; Graving, who is more
so, " Delia Region Poetica " (quoted in Ginguen^, as below)
; Crescimbeni, " Commentari Inferno all' Astoria
della Poesia," etc., lib. VI., cap. 3 (Matthias' edition), and
the biographical additions to the same work, 4to, Rome,
1710, vol. II., part II., p. 151, where he says that Pulci was
perhaps the " modeste and most temperate writer " of
his age (" il piu modest e moderato ") ; Ginguene, "Histoire
Ivitteraire d'ltalie," torn. IV., p. 214 ; Foscolo, in
the Quarterly Review, as further on ; Panizzi on the
"Romantic Poetry of the Italians," ditto; Stabbing,
lives of the Italian Poets," second edition, vol. I.; and
the first volume of "lives of Literary and Scientific
men," in " learner's Encyclopaedia."

of their worship greater than northern can
easily conceive ; that levity of manner, therefore,
does not always imply the absence of the
gravest belief ; that, be this as it may, the belief
may be as grave on some points as light on
others, perhaps the more so for that reason ;
and that although some poems, like some people,
are altogether grave, or the reverse, there
really is such a thing as tragi-comedy both in
the world itself and in the representations of it.
A jesting writer may be quite as much in
earnest when he professes to be so, as a pleasant
companion who feels for his own or for
other people's misfortunes, and who is perhaps
obliged to affect or resort to his very pleasantry
sometimes, because he feels more acutely than
the gravest. The sources of tears and smiles
lie close to ; aye, and help to refine one another.
If Dante had been capable of more levity, he
would have been guilty of less melancholy absurdities.
If Rabelais had been able to weep
as well as to laugh, and to love as well as to be
licentious, he would have had faith and therefore
support in something earnest, and not
have been obliged to place the consummation
of all things in the wine bottle. People's everyday
experiences might explain to them the
greatest apparent inconsistencies of Pulci's
muse, if habit itself did not blind them to the

illustration. Was nobody ever present in a
well-ordered family, when a lively conversation
having been interrupted by the announcement
of dinner, the company, after listening with
the greatest seriousness to a grace delivered
with equal seriousness, perhaps by a clergyman,
resumed it the instant afterwards in all
its gaiety, with the first spoonful of soup ?
Well, the sacred invocations at the beginning
of Pulci's cantos were compliances of the like
sort with a custom. They were recited and
listened tojust as gravely at Lorenzo di Medici's
table ; and yet neither compromised the reciters
nor were at all associated with the enjoyment
of the fare that ensued. So with regard
to the intermixture of grave and gay throughout
the poem. How many campaigning adventures
have been written by gallant officers
whose animal spirits saw food for gaiety in half
the circumstances that occurred, and who could
crack a jest and a helmet perhaps with almost
equal vivacity, and yet be as serious as the
gravest at a moment's notice, mourn heartily
over the deaths of their friends, and shudder
with indignation and horror at the outrages
committed in a captured city ? It is thus that
Pulci writes, full no less of feeling than
of whim and mirth. And the whole honest
round of humanity not only warrants his plan.

but in the twofold sense of the word embraces
it.

If any thing more were necessary to show the
gravity with which our author addressed himself
to his subject, it is the fact, related by himself,
of its having been recommended to him
by Lorenzo's mother, Lucrezia Tornabuoni, a
good and earnest woman, herself a poetess,
who wrote a number of sacred narratives, and
whose virtues he more than once records with
the greatest respect and tenderness. The * ' Morgan
te" concludes with an address respecting this
lady to the Virgin, and with a hope that her
devout and sincere " spirit may obtain peace
for him in Paradise. These are the last words
in the book. Is it credible that expressions of
this kind, and employed on such an occasion,
could have had no serious meaning? or that
Lorenzo listened to such praises of his mother
as to a jest ?

I have no doubt that, making allowance for
the age in which he lived, Pulci was an excellent
Christian. His orthodoxy, it is true, was
not the orthodoxy of the times of Dante or St.
Dominic, nor yet of that of the Council of
Trent. His opinions respecting the mystery of
the Trinity appear to have been more like those
of Sir Isaac Newton than of Archdeacon Travis.
And assuredly he agreed with Origen respecting

eternal punishment, rather than with Calvin
and Mr, Toady. But a man may accord with
Newton, and yet be thought not unworthy of
the * ' starry spheres. ' ' He may think, with
Origen, that God intends all his creatures to be
ultimately happy,"^ and yet be considered as
loving a follower of Christ as a "dealer of
damnation round the land," or the burner of a
fellow-creature.

Pulci was in advance of his time on more
subjects than one. He pronounced the existence
of a new and inhabited world, before the
appearance of Columbus, f He made the conclusion,
doubtless, as Columbus did, from the
speculations of more scientific men, and the rumors
of seamen ; but how rare are the minds
that are foremost to throw aside even the most
innocent prejudices, and anticipate the enlargements
of the public mind ! How many also are
calumniated and persecuted for so doing, whose
memories, for the same identical reason, are
loved, perhaps adored, by the descendants of
the calumniators ! In a public library, in 's
native place, is preserved a little withered
relic, to which the attention of the visitor is
drawn with reverential complacency. It stands,
pointing upwards, under a glass-case, looking
like a mysterious bit of parchment ; and is the
Canto XXV. i Idem. •

finger of Galileo ; of that Galileo, whose hand,
possessing that finger, is supposed to have been
tortured by the Inquisition for writing what
every one now believes. He was certainly persecuted
and imprisoned by the Inquisition.
Milton saw and visited him under the restraint
of that scientific body in his own house. Yet
Galileo did more by his disclosures of the stars
towards elevating our ideas of the Creator, than
all the so-called saints and polemics that
screamed at one another in the pulpits of Bast
and West.

Like the "Commedia" of Dante, Pulci's
*' Commedia" (for such also in regard to its general
cheerfulness,* and probably to its mediocrity
of style, he calls it) is a representative in great
measure of the feeling and knowledge of his
time ; and though not entirely such in a learned
and eclectic sense, and not to be compared to
that sublime monstrosity in point of genius
and power, is as superior to it in liberal opinion
and in a certain pervading lovingness, as the
author's affectionate disposition, and his country's
advance in civilization, combined to render

Canto xxvii. , stanza 2.

S' alto auto qui non si dimostra,
Sara pur tragedian la astoria nostra.

Ed io pur commedia pesaro area
Iscriver del mio Carlo filaments,
Ed Alcuin cost mi pro met tea," etc.

it. The editor of the '' Parnaso Italianoo " had
reason to notice this engaging personal character
in our author's work. He says, speaking of
the principal romantic poets of Italy, that the
reader will " admire Tasso, will adore Ariosto,
but will love Dulcis"* And all minds, in
which lovingness produces love, will agree with
him.

The " Morgan te Maggiore " is a history of the
fabulous exploits and death of Orlando, the
great hero of Italian romance, and of the wars
and calamities brought on his fellow Paladins
and their sovereign Charlemagne by the envy,
ambition, and treachery of the misguided monarch's
favorite, Gan of Maganza (Mayence),
Count of Poictiers. It is founded on the
pseudo-history of Archbishop Turpin, which,
though it received the formal sanction of the
Church, is a manifest forgery, and became such
a jest with the wits, that they took a delight in
palming upon it their most incredible fictions.
The title (" Morgantete the Great ") seems to have
been either a whim to draw attention to an old
subject, or the result of an intention to do more
with the giant so called than took place ; for
though he is a conspicuous actor in the earlier
part of the poem, he dies when it is not much

" In fine tu adorer Ariosto, tu ammirerei il Tasso,
mate amerai il Dulcis"— " Pam. Ital," vol. ix., p. 344.

more than half completed. Orlando, the
champion of the faith, is the real hero of it,
and Gan the anti-hero or vice. Charlemagne,
the reader hardly need be told, is represented,
for the most part, as a very different person
from what he appears in history. In truth, as
Ellis and Panizzi have shown, he is either an
exaggeration (still misrepresented) of Charles
Martel, the Armorica chieftain, who conquered
the Saracens at Poictiers, or a concretion of all
the Charles's of the Carlovingian race, wise and
simple, potent and weak.*

The story may be thus briefly told. Orlando
quits the court of Charlemagne in disgust, but is
always ready to return to it when the emperor
needs his help. The best Paladins follow, to
seek him. He meets with and converts the
giant Morgantete, whose aid he receives in many
adventures, among which is the taking of Babylon.
The other Paladins, his cousin Rinaldo
especially, have their separate adventures, all
more or less mixed up with the treacheries and
thanklessness of Gan (for they assist even him),
and the provoking trust reposed in him by
Charlemagne ; and at length the villain crowns
his infamy by luring Orlando with most of the

*Ellis' " Specimens of Early English Poetical Romances,"
vol. ii., p. 287 ; and Panizzi's " Essay on the
Romantic Narrative Poetry of the Italians," in his edition
of Boiardo and Ariosto, vol. i., p. 113.

Paladins into the pa:" of Roncesvalles, where
the hero himself and almost all his companions
are slain by the armies of Gan's fellow-traitor,
Marsilius, King of Spain. They die, however,
victorious ; and the two royal and noble scoundrels,
by a piece of prosaical justice better than
poetical, are despatched like common malefactors
with a halter.

There is, perhaps, no pure invention in the
whole of this enlargement of old ballads and
chronicles, except the characters of another
giant, and of a rebel angel ; for even Morgantete's
history, though told in a very different manner,
has its prototype in the fictions of the
pretended archbishop.* The Paladins are well
distinguished from one another ; Orlando as
foremost alike in prowess and magnanimity,
Rinaldo by his vehemence, Ricciardetto by his
amours, Astolfo by an ostentatious rashness and
self-committal ; but in all these respects they
appear to have been made to the author's hand.
Neither does the poem exhibit any prevailing

" De Vita Carol Magna et Roland Historia," etc.,
cap. xviii., p. 39 (Campi's edition). The giant in Turpin
is named Ferracutus. or Fergus. He was of the race
of Goliath, had the strength of forty men, and was
twenty cubits high. During the suspension of a mortal
combat with Orlando, they discuss the mysteries of the
Christian faith, which its champion explains by a variety
of similes and the most beautiful begging of the (question
; after which the giant stakes the credit of their respective
beliefs on the event of their encounter.

force of imagery, or of expression, apart from
popular idiomatic phraseology; still less,
though it has plenty of infernal magic, does it
present us with any magical enchantments of
the alluring order, as in Ariosto ; or with love
stories as good as Boiardo's, or even with any
of the luxuries of landscape and description
that are to be found in both of those poets ; albeit,
in the fourteenth canto, there is a long
catalogue raisons of the whole animal creation,
which a lady has worked for Rinaldo on a
pavilion of silk and gold.

To these negative faults must be added the
positive ones of too many trifling, unconnected,
and uninteresting incidents (at least to readers
who cannot taste the flavor of the racy Tuscan
idiom) ; great occasional prolixity, even in the
best as well as worst passages, not excepting
Orlando's dying speeches; harshness in spite
of his fluency (according to Foscolo), and
even bad grammar ; too many low or over-familiar
forms of speech (so the graver critics
allege, though, perhaps, from want of animal
spirits or a more comprehensive discernment) ;
and lastly (to say nothing of the question as
to the gravity or levity of the theology), the
strange exhibition of whole successive stanzas,
containing as many questions or affirmations as
lines, and commencing each line with the same

words. They meet the eye like palisades, or a
file of soldiers, and turn truth and pathos itself
into a jest. They were most likely imitated
from the popular ballads. The following is the
order of words in which a young lady thinks
fit to complain of a desert, into which she has
been carried away by a giant. After seven
initiatory O's addressed to her friends and to
life in general, she changes the key into E :

E)' quest la mia patria dov' io nacqui ?
E' quest il mio palais e '1 mio castella ?
E)' quest il dido ov' alcan tempo giacqui ?
"E;" quest il padre e '1 mio dolce fratello ?
"E;" quest il pool dov' io tanto piacqui ?
K' quest il regno giusto antics e bello ?
E' quest il porto de la mia salute ?
!^' quest il gremio d' agni mia virtute ?

Ove son or le mie purpura veste ?
Ove son or le gemme e le ricchezze ?
Ove son or gi le costume ceste ?
Ove son or le mie delicately ?
Ove son or le mie compagne oneste ?
Ove son or le augite dolcezze ?
Ove son or le daniell mie ?
Ove son, dico ? om, non son gi quite." *

Is this the country, then, where I was born ?
Is this my palace, and my castle this ?
Is this the nest I woke in every morn ?
Is this my father's and my brother's kiss ?

*= Canto xix st. 21.

Is this the land they bred me to adorn ?
Is this the good old bower of all my bliss ?
Is this the haven of my youth and beauty ?
Is this the sure reward of all my duty?

Where now are all my wardrobes and their treasures?
Where now are all my riches and my rights ?
Where now are all the midnight feasts and measures?
Where now are all the delicate delights ?
Where now are all the partners of my pleasures?
Where now are all the sweet of sounds and sights ?
Where now are all my maidens ever near ?
Where, do I say ? Alas, alas, not here !

There are seven more " where nows," including
lovers, and "proffered husbands," and
"romances," and ending with the startling
question and answer, — the counterpoint of the
former close, —

Ove son 1' aspre selve e i lupin adesso
K gli ors, e i draghi, e i tigre ? Son qui press."

Where are all the woods and forests drear,
Wolves, tigers, bears and dragons ? Alas, here !

These are all very natural thoughts, and such,
no doubt, as would actually pass through the
mind of the young lady, in the candor of desolation
; but the mechanical iteration of her
mode of putting them renders them irresistibly
ludicrous. It reminds us of the wager laid by
the poor queen in the play of "Richard the
Second," when she overhears the discourse of
the gardener :

My wretchedness unto a row of pins,
They '11 talk of state."

Did Pulci expect his friend Lorenzo to keep a
grave face during the recital of these passages ?
Or did he flatter himself that the comprehensive
mind of his hearer could at one and the
same time be amused with the banter of some
old song and the pathos of the new one ? *

When a proper name happens to be a part of the
tautology, the look is still more extraordinary. Orlando
is remonstrating with Rinaldo on his being unseasonably
in love :

Ov' &, Rinaldo, la tua galliard ?

Ov' 6, Rinaldo, il tuo sommopotere ?

Ov' e, Rinaldo, il tuo senna di pria ?

Ov' e, Rinaldo, il tuo antivedere ?

Ov' ^, Rinaldo, la tua fantasia?

Ov' e, Rinaldo, 1' arme e '1 tuo destriere ?

Ov' 6, Rinaldo, la tua gloria e fama ?

Ov' h, Rinaldo, il tuo core? a la dama."

Canto xvi., st. 50.

Oh where, Rinaldo, is thy gagliardize ?

Oh where, Rinaldo, is thy might indeed?

Oh where, Rinaldo, thy repute for wise ?

Oh where, Rinaldo, thy sagacious heed ?

Oh where, Rinaldo, thy free-thought eyes ?

Oh where, Rinaldo, thy good arms and steed?

Oh where, Rinaldo, thy renown and glory ?

Oh where, Rinaldo, thou f — In a love-story."
The incessant repetition of the names in the burdens
of modern songs is hardly so bad as this. The single
line (questions and answers in the Greek drama were
nothing to it. Yet there is a still more extraordinary
play upon words in canto xxiii., st. 49, consisting of the
description of a hermitage. It is the only one of the
kind which I remember in the poem, and would have
driven some of our old hunters after alliteration mad
with envy : —

' Iva casa cosa area brett e brutta ,
Venta dal vent ; e la natta e la note

The want of both good love-episodes and of
descriptions of external nature, in the "Mor-gate
" is remarkable ; for Pulci's tenderness of
heart is constantly manifest, and he describes
himself as being almost absorbed in his woods.
That he understood love well in all its force
and delicacy is apparent from a passage connected
with this pavilion. The fair embroiderer,
in presenting it to her idol Rinaldo, undervalues
it as a gift which his great heart nevertheless,
will not disdain to accept ; adding,
with the true banishment of the passion, that

Stillaa le stella, ch' a tetto era tutti :

Del pane append ne dette ta' motte :

Pere area pure, e quale fratta frutta ;

K spina e siena di bottom una botte :

Poscia per pesci lassie prese a /' esca ;

Ma il lett allotted a la franca ivifresca."

This holy hole was a vile ihin-hnilt thing,

Blown by the blast ; the night nought else overhead

But starring stars the rude roof entering ;

Their sup of supper was no splendid spread ;

Poor pears their fare, and such-/z^^ libelling

Of Quantum suff. ;— their butt all but ;— bad bread ;~

A flash fish instead oi flush oi flesh ;

Their bed a frisk al-fresco, freezing fresh.
Really, if Sir Philip Sidney and other serious and exquisite
gentlemen had not sometimes taken a positively
grave interest in the like pastimes of paronomasia, one
should hardly conceive it possible to meet with them
even in tragi-comedy. Did Pulci find these also in his
ballad-authorities ? If his Greek-loving critics made objections
here, they had the advantage of him : unless
indeed they too, in their Alexandrian predilections, had
a sneaking regard for certain shaping of verse into
altars and hatchets, such as have been charged upon
Theocritus himself, and which might be supposed to
warrant any other conceit on occasion.

"she wishes she could give him the sun " ; and
that if she were to say, after all, that it was her
own hands which had worked the pavilion, she
should be wrong, for Love himself did it. Ri-waldo
wishes to thank her, but is so struck with
her magnificence and affection, that the words
die on his lips. The way also in which another
of these loving admirers of Paladins conceives
her affection for one of them, and persuades
a vehemently hostile suitor quietly to
withdraw his claims by presenting him with a
ring and a graceful speech, is in a taste as high
as any thing in Boiardo, and superior to the
more animal passion of the love in their great
successor.* Yet the tenderness of Pulci rather
shows itself in the friendship of the Paladins for
one another, and in perpetual little escapes of
generous and affectionate impulse. This is one
of the great charms of the " Morgantete." The
first adventure in the book is Orlando's encounter
with three giants in behalf of a good

*See, in the original, the story of Meridianaa, canto vii.
King Manfredonio has come in loving hostility against
her to endeavor to win her affection by his prowess.
He finds her assisted by the Paladins, and engaged by
her own heart to Uliviero ; and in the despair of his discomfiture,
expresses a wish to die by her hand. Meridian,
with graceful pity, begs his acceptance of a jewel,
and recommends him to go home with his army, to
which he grieving consents. This indeed is beautiful ;
and perhaps I ought to have given an abstract of it, as a
specimen of what Pulci could have done in this way,
had he chosen.

abbot, in whom lie discovers a kinsman ; and
this goodness and relationship combined move
the Achilles of Christendom to tears. Mor-gate,
one of these giants, who is converted,
becomes a sort of squire to his conqueror, and
takes such a liking to him, that, seeing him one
day deliver himself not without peril out of the
clutches of a devil, he longs to go and set free
the whole of the other world from devils. Indeed
there is no end to his affection for him.
Rinaldo and other Paladins, meantime, cannot
rest till they have set out in search of Orlando.
They never meet or part with him without
manifesting a tenderness proportionate to their
valor, — the old Homeric candor of emotion.
The devil Ashtaroth himself, who is a great
and proud devil, assures Rinaldo, for whom he
has conceived a regard, that there is good feeling
[gentiles] even in hell ; and Rinaldo, not
to hurt the feeling, answers that he has no
doubt of it, or of the capability of " friendship "
in that quarter ; and he says he is as " sorry
to part with him as with a brother. ' ' The passage
will be found in our abstract. There are no
such devils as these in Dante ; though Milton
has something like them :

Devil with devil damn'd
Finn concord holds : men only disagree."

It is supposed that the character of Ashtaroth,

which is a very new and extraordinary one, and
does great honor to the daring goodness of
Pulci's imagination, was not lost upon Milton,
who was not only acquainted with the poem,
but expressly intimates the pleasure he took in
it.* Rinaldo advises this devil, as Bums did
Lucifer, to "take a thought and mend." Ash-troth,
who had been a seraph, takes no notice
of the advice, except with a waiving of the
recollection of happier times. He bids the
hero farewell, and says he has only to summon
him in order to receive his aid. This retention
of a sense of his former angelical dignity has
been noticed by Foscolo and Panizzi, the two
best writers on these Italian poems, f A Call

Perhaps it was from that same politic drift that the
devil whipt St. Jerome in a lenten dream for reading-cicero
; or else it was a fantasm bred by the fever which
had then seized him. For had an angel been his discipline,
unless it were for dwelling too much upon Cicero
and had chastised the reading and not the
vanity, it had been plainly partial ; first to correct him
for grave Cicero, and not for scurrile Plautus, whom he
confesses to have been reading not long before ; next, to
correct him only, and let so many more ancient fathers
wax old in those pleasant and florid studies without the
lash of such a tutoring apparition ; insomuch that Basil
teaches how some good use may be made of ' Marries,'
a sportful poem, not now extant, writ by Homer; and
why not then of ' Morgantete,' an Italian romance much
to the same purpose? " — " Areopagitica, a Speech for the
Liberty of Unlicensed Printing," Prose Works, folio,
1697, p. 378. I quote the passage as extracted by Mr.
Derivable in the preface to his "Orlando in Ronces-
valleys"— Poems, vol. ii., p. 41.

^Utsup., p. 222. Foscolo 's remark is to be found in his
admirable article on the " Narrative and Romantic

vinist would call the expression of the sympathy
'hardened." A humanist knows it to be the
result of a spirit exquisitely softened. An unbounded
tenderness is the secret of all that is
beautiful in the serious portion of our author's
genius. Orlando's good-natured giant weeps
even for the death of the scoundrel Margutte ;
and the awful hero himself, at whose death nature
is convulsed and the heavens open, begs
his dying horse to forgive him if ever he has
wronged it.

A charm of another sort in Pulci, and yet, inmost
instances, perhaps, owing the best part of
its charmingness to its being connected with
the same feeling, is his wit. Foscolo, it is true,
says it is, in general, more severe than refined ;
and it is perilous to differ with such a critic on
such a point ; for much of it, unfortunately, is
lost to a foreign reader, in consequence of its
dependance on the piquant old Tuscan idiom,
and on popular sayings and allusions. Yet I
should think it impossible for Pulci in general
to be severe at the expense of some more agreeable
quality ; and I am sure that the portion of
his wit most obvious to a foreigner may claim,
if not to have originated, at least to have been
very like the style of one who was among its

Poems of the Italians," in the Quarterly Review, vol.
xxi., p. 525.

declared admirers, — and who was a very polished
writer, — Voltaire. It consists in treating an
absurdity with an air as if it were none ; or as
if it had been a pure matter of course, erroneously
mistaken for an absurdity. Thus the
good abbot, whose monastery is blockaded by
the giants (for the virtue and simplicity of his
character must be borne in mind), after observing
that the ancient fathers in the desert had
not only locusts to eat, but manna, which he
has no doubt was rained down on purpose from
heaven, laments that the "relishes" provided
for himself and his brethren should have consisted
of "showers of stones." The stones,
while the abbot is speaking, come thundering
down, and he exclaims: "For God's sake,
knight, come in, for the manna is falling ! "
This is exactly in the style of the " Dictionnaire
Philosophique." So when Margutte is asked
what he believes in, and says he believes in
"neither black nor blue," but in a good capon,
"whether roast or boiled," the reader is forcibly
reminded of Voltaire's Traveller, Scarmen^ado,
who, when he is desired by the Tartars to declare
which of their two parties he is for, the party
of the black-mutton or the white-mutton, answers,
that the dish is "equally indifferent to
him, provided it is tender. ' ' Voltaire, however,
does injustice to Pulci when he pretends that,

in matters of belief, he is like himself, — a mere
scoffer. The friend of Lucrezia Tornabuoni has
evidently the tenderest veneration for all that is
good and lovely in the Catholic faith ; and whatever
liberties he might have allowed himself in
professed extravaganzas when an age without
Church-authority encouraged them, and a reverend
canon could take part in those (it must be
acknowledged) unseemly "high jinks," he
never, in the "Morgantete," when speaking in
his own person, and not in that of the worst
characters, intimates disrespect towards any
opinion which he did not hold to be irrelevant
to a right faith. It is observable that his freest
expressions are put in the mouth of the giant
Margutte, the lowest of these characters, who is
an invention of the author's, and a most extraordinary
personage. He is the first unmitigated
blackguard in fiction, and is the greatest as well
as first. Pulci is conjectured, with great probability,
to have designed him as a caricature of
some real person ; for Margutte is a Greek who,
in point of morals, has been horribly brought
up, and some of the Greek refugees in Italy
were greatly disliked for the cynicism of their
manners and the grossness of their lives. Mar-gutter
is a glutton, a drunkard, a liar, a thief,
and a blasphemer. He boasts of having every
vice, and no virtue except fidelity ; which is

meant to reconcile Morgantete to his company ;
but, though the latter endures and even likes it
for his amusement, he gives him to understand
that he looks on his fidelity as only securable
by the bastinado, and makes him the subject
of his practical jokes. The respectable giant
Morgantete dies of the bite of a crab, as if to show
on what trivial chances depends the life of the
strongest. Margutte laughs himself to death at
sight of a monkey putting his boots on and off;
as though the good-natured poet meant at once
to express his contempt of a merely and grossly
anti-serious mode of existence, and his consideration,
nevertheless, towards the poor selfish
wretch who had had no better training.

To this wit and this pathos let the reader adda
style of singular ease and fluency, — rhymes
often the most unexpected, but never at a loss,
a purity of Tuscan acknowledged by everybody,
and ranking him among the authorities
of the language, — and a modesty in speaking
of his own pretensions equalled only by his enthusiastic
exponents of genius in others ; and
the reader has before him the lively and affecting,
hopeful, charitable, large-hearted Luigi
Pulci, the precursor, and, in some respects, exemplar,
of Ariosto, and, in Milton's opinion, a
poet worth reading for the "good use" that
may be made of him. It has been strangely

supposed that his friend Politian, and Ficino
the Platonist, not merely helped him with their
books (as he takes a pride in telling us), but
wrote a good deal of the latter part of the " Morgan
te," particularly the speculation in matters
of opinion. As if (to say nothing of the difference
of style) a man of genius, however lively,
did not go through the gravest reflections in the
course of his life, or could not enter into any
theological or metaphysical question, to which
he chose to direct his attention. Animal spirits
themselves are too often but a counterbalance
to the most thoughtful melancholy ; and one fit
of jaundice or hypochondria might have enabled
the poet to see more visions of the unknown
and the inscrutable in a single day, than perhaps
ever entered the imagination of the elegant
Latin scholar, or even the disciple of Plato.

Twelve Paladins had the Emperor Charlemagne
in his court; and the most wise
and famous of them was Orlando. It is of him
I am about to speak, and of his friend Mor-gate,
and of Gan the traitor, who beguiled
him to his death in Roncesvalles, where he
sounded his horn so mightily after the dolorous
rout.

It was Easter, and Charles had all his court
with him in Paris, making high feast and triumph.
There was Orlando, the first among
them, and Ogier the Dane, and Astolfo the
Englishman, and Ansuigi ; and there came An-violin
of Bayonne, and Uliviero, and the gentle
Berlinghieri ; and there was also Avolio and
Avino, and Otho of Normandy, and Richard,
and the wise Namo, and the aged Salmon, and
Walter of Monotone, and Baldwin who was the
son of the wretched Gan. The good emperor
was too happy, and oftentimes fairly groaned
for joy at seeing all his Paladins together.

But Fortune stands watching in secret to
baffle our designs. While Charles was thus
hugging himself with delight, Orlando governed
every thing at court, and this made Gan
burst with envy ; so that he began one day talking
with Charles after the following manner :
* Are we always to have Orlando for our master?
I have thought of speaking to you about
it a thousand times. Orlando has a great deal
too much presumption. Here are we, counts,
dukes, and kings, at your service, but not at
his ; and we have resolved not to be governed
any longer by one so much younger than ourselves.
You began in Aspramont to give him
to understand how valiant he was, and that he
did great things at that fountain ; whereas, if it
had not been for the good Gerard, I know very
well where the victory would have been. The
truth is, he has an eye upon the crown. This
Charles is the worthy who has deserved so
much ! All your generals are afflicted at it. As
for me, I shall repass those mountains over
which I came to you with seventy-two counts.
Do you take him for a Mars ? "

Orlando happened to hear these words as he
sat apart, and it displeased him with the lord of
Poictiers that he should speak so, but much
more that Charles should believe him. He
would have killed Gan, if Uliviero had not prevented

him and taken his sword out of his hand ;
nay, he would have killed Charlemagne ; but
at last he went from Paris by himself, raging
with scorn and grief He borrowed, as he went,
of Ermillina the wife of Ogier, the Dane's
sword Cortana and his horse Rondel, and proceeded
on his way to Brava. His wife, Alda the
Fair, hastened to embrace him ; but while she
was saying, "Welcome, my Orlando," he was
going to strike her with his sword, for his head
was bewildered, and he took her for the traitor.
The fair Alda marvelled greatly, but Orlando
recollected himself, and she took hold of the
bridle, and he leaped from his horse, and told
her all that had passed, and rested himself with
her for some days.

He then took his leave, being still carried
away by his disdain, and resolved to pass over
into Heathendom ; and as he rode, he thought,
every step of the way, of the traitor Gan ;
and so, riding on wherever the road took
him, he reached the confines between the
Christian countries and the Pagan, and came
upon an abbey situate in a dark place in a
desert.

Now above the abbey was a great mountain,
inhabited by three fierce giants, one of whom
was named Passamonte, another Alabastro, and
the third Morgantete ; and these giants used to

disturb the abbey by throwing things down
upon it from the mountain with slings, so that
the poor little monks could not go out to fetch
wood or water. Orlando knocked, but nobody
would open till the abbot was spoken to. At
last the abbot came himself, and opening the
door bade him welcome. The good man told
him the reason of the delay, and said that since
the arrival of the giants they had been so perplexed
that they did not know what to do. * ' Our
ancient fathers in the desert," quoth he, "were
rewarded according to their holiness. It is not
to be supposed that they lived only upon locusts;
doubtless, it also rained manna upon
them from heaven ; but here one is regaled with
stones, which the giants pour on us from the
mountain. These are our nice bits and relishes.
The fiercest of the three, Morgantete, plucks
up pines and other great trees by the roots,
and casts them on us." While they were
talking thus in the cemetery, there came a
stone which seemed as if it would break Rondel's
back.

"For God's sake, cavalier," said the abbot,
** come in, for the manna is falling."

"My dear abbot," answered Orlando, "this
fellow, methinks, does not wish to let my horse
feed ; he wants to cure him of being restive ;
the stone seems as if it came from a good arm."

"Yes," replied the holy father, "I did not
deceive you. I think, some day or other, they
will cast the mountain itself on us."

Orlando quieted his horse, and then sat down
to a meal ; after which he said : "Abbot, I must
go and return the present that has been made
to my horse." The abbot with great tenderness
endeavored to dissuade him, but in vain ;
upon which he crossed him on the forehead,
and said : "Go then ; and the blessing of God
be with you."

Orlando scaled the mountain, and came where
Passamonte was, who, seeing him alone, measured
him with his eyes, and asked him if he
would stay with him for a page, promising to
make him comfortable. "Stupid Saracen,"
said Orlando, " I come to you, according to the
will of God, to be your death, and not your footboy.
You have displeased his servants here,
and are no longer to be endured, dog that you
are ! "

The giant, finding himself thus insulted, ran
in a fury to his weapons ; and returning to Orlando,
slung at him a large stone, which struck
him on the head with such force, as not only
made his helmet ring again, but felled him to
the earth. Passamonte thought he was dead.
"What could have brought that paltry fellow
here? " said he, as he turned away.

But Christ never forsakes his followers. While
Passamonte was going away, Orlando recovered,
and cried aloud: "How now, giant? do you
fancy you have killed me ? Turn back, for unless
you have wings, your escape is out of the
question, dog of a renegade ! " The giant,
greatly marvelling, turned back ; and stooping
to pick up a stone, Orlando, who had Cortana
naked in his hand, cleft his skull ; upon which,
cursing Mahomet, the monster tumbled, dying
and blaspheming, to the ground. Blaspheming
fell the sour-hearted and cruel wretch ; but Orlando,
in the meanwhile, thanked the Father
and the Word.

The Paladin went on, seeking for Alabastro,
the second giant ; who, when he saw him, endeavored
to pluck up a great piece of stony
earth by the roots. " Ho, ho ! " cried Orlando,
"you too are for throwing stones, are you?"
Then Alabastro took his sling, and flung at him
so large a fragment as forced Orlando to defend
himself, for if it had struck him, he would no
more have needed a surgeon * ; but collecting
his strength, he thrust his sword into the giant's
breast, and the loggerhead fell dead.

A common pleasantry in the old romances. " Galaor
went in, and then the halberds attacked him on one
side, and the knight on the other. He snatched an axe
from one, and turned to the knight and smote him, so
that he had no need of a surgeons"— South ey's " Amadis
of Gaul," vol. i., p. 146.

Now Morgantete, the only surviving brother,
had a palace made, after giants' fashion, of
earth, and boughs, and shingles, in which he
shut himself up at night. Orlando knocked,
and disturbed him from his sleep, so that he
came staring to the door like a madman, for he
had had a bewildering dream.

Who knocks there? " quoth he.

"You will know too soon," answered Orlando
; "I am come to make you do penance
for your sins, like your brothers. Divine Providence
has sent me to avenge the wrongs of the
monks upon the whole set of you. Doubt it
not ; for Passamonte and Alabastro are already
as cold as a couple of pilasters."

"Noble knight," said Morgantete, "do me no
ill ; but if you are a Christian, tell me in courtesy
who you are."

I will satisfy you of my faith," replied Orlando;
"I adore Christ; and if you please, you
may adore him also."

"I have had a strange vision," replied Mor-gate,
with a low voice : "I was assailed by a
dreadful serpent, and called upon Mahomet in
vain ; then I called upon your God who was
crucified, and he succored me, and I was delivered
from the serpent ; so I am disposed to
become a Christian."

"If you keep in this mind," returned Orlando,

'you shall worship the true God, and
come with me and be my companion, and I
will love you with perfect love. Your idols
are false and vain ; the true God is the God of
the Christians. Deny the unjust and villainous
worship of your Mahomet, and be baptized in
the name of my God, who alone is worthy."

** I am content," said Morgan te.

Then Orlando embraced him, and said, " I
will lead you to the abbey. ' '

' Let us go quickly', ' ' replied Morgantete, for he
was impatient to make his peace with the
monks.

Orlando rejoiced, sajdng : "My good brother,
and devout withal, you must ask pardon of the
abbot ; for God has enlightened you and accepted
you, and he would have you practise
humility. ' '

Yes," said Morgantete, "thanks to you, your
God shall henceforth be my God. Tell me your
name, and afterwards dispose of me as you will. ' '
And he told him that he was Orlando.

Blessed Jesus be thanked," said the giant,
* for I have always heard you called a perfect
knight ; and as I said, I will follow you all my
lifelong."

And so conversing, they went together towards
the abbey ; and by the way Orlando talked
with Morgantete of the dead giants, and sought

to comfort him, saying they had done the
monks a thousand injuries, and " our Scripture
says the good shall be rewarded and the evil
punished, and we must submit to the will of
God. The doctors of our Church," continued
he, ** are all agreed, that if those who are glorified
in heaven were to feel pity for their miserable
kindred who lie in such horrible confusion
in hell, their beatitude would come to nothing;
and this, you see, would plainly be unjust on the
part of God. But such is the firmness of their
faith, that what appears good to Him appears
good to them. Do what He may, they hold it
to be done well, and that it is impossible for
Him to err ; so that if their very fathers and
mothers are suffering everlasting punishment,
it does not disturb them an atom. This is the
custom, I assure you, in the choirs above." *

' ' Sons i nostri doctor accordant,
Pigliando tutti una conclusion,
Che que' che son nel ciel glorification,
S' aversion nel penser compassion
De' misery parent! che damnation
ne lo inferno in gran confusion,
La lor felicity, nulla sarebbe :
E) veda che qui ingiusto Iddio parable.

Ma eli anno post in Genii ferma scene
E tanto pare a lor, quanto a lui pare :
Alderman cio ch' e' fa. che facti bene,
E che non posse in nessun modo rare :
Se padre o madre S ne 1' eterne pen,
Di quest non si poison contrary :
Che quel che place a Dio, sol place a lord :
Quest s' observe ne 1' sterno corn.

A word to the wise," said Morgantete ; "you
shall see if I grieve for my brethren, and
whether or no I submit to the will of God, and
behave myself like an angel. So dust to dust ;
and now let us enjoy ourselves. I will cut off
their hands, all four of them, and take them to
these holy monks, that they may be sure they
are dead, and not fear to go out alone into the
desert. They will then be certain also that the
Lord has purified me, and taken me out of
darkness, and assured to me the kingdom of
heaven." So saying, the giant cut off the
hands of his brethren, and left their bodies to
the beasts and birds.

They went to the abbey, where the abbot was
expecting Orlando in great anxiety ; but the
monks not knowing what had happened, ran

"Al savin sol bastard poche parole,
Disuse Morgantete : tu il potrai videre,
De' mien fratelli, Orlando, se mi dole,
B s' io m' accorder di Dio al cohere,
Come tu di che in ciel servir si sole :
Morte CO' morte ; or persian di godere :
love' tagliar le mam a tutti quanti,
E porterolle a que' monaco santa."
This doctrine, which is horrible blasphemy in the eyes
of natural feeling, is good reasoning in Catholic and
Calvinistic theology. They first make the Deity's actions
a necessity from more barbarous assumption, then
square them according to a dictum of the Councils, then
compliment him by laying all that he has made good
and kindly within us mangled and mad at his feet.
Meantime they think themselves qualified to denounce
Moloch and Jiigghanaut.

to the abbot in great haste and alarm, saying,
Will you suffer this giant to come in ?" And
when the abbot saw the giant, he changed
countenance. Orlando, perceiving him thus
disturbed, made haste and said : "Abbot, peace
be with you ! The giant is a Christian ; he believes
in Christ, and has renounced his false
prophet, Mahomet." And Morgantete, showing
the hands in proof of his faith, the abbot
thanked Heaven with great contentment of
mind.

The abbot did much honor to Morgantete, comparing
him with St. Paul ; and they rested there
many days. One day, wandering over the
house, they entered a room where the abbot
kept a quantity of armor ; and Morgantete saw a
bow which pleased him, and he fastened it on.
Now there was in the place a great scarcity of
water ; and Orlando said, like his good brother :
"Morgantete, I wish you would fetch us some
water." "Command me as you please," said
he ; and placing a great tub on his shoulders,
he went towards a spring at which he had been
accustomed to drink, at the foot of the mountain.
Having reached the spring, he suddenly
heard a great noise in the forest. He took an
arrow from the quiver, placed it in the bow,
and raising his head, saw a great herd of swine
rushing towards the spring where he stood.

Morgantete shot one of them clean through the
head, and laid him sprawling. Another, as if
in revenge, ran towards the giant, without giving
him time to use a second arrow ; so he lent
him a cuff on the head which broke the bone,
and killed him also ; which stroke the rest
seeing, fled in haste through the valley. Mor-gate
then placed the tub full of water upon
one of his shoulders and the two porkers on
the other, and returned to the abbey, which
was at some distance, without spilling a drop.

The monks were delighted to see the freshwater,
but still more the pork ; for there is no
animal to whom food comes amiss. They let
their breviaries therefore go to sleep awhile,
and fell heartily to work, so that the cats and
dogs had reason to lament the polish of the
bones.

"But why do we stay here doing nothing,"
said Orlando one day to Morgantete ; and he
shook hands with the abbot, and told him he
must take his leave. "I must go," said he,
' and make up for lost time. I ought to have
gone long ago, my good father ; but I cannot
tell you what I feel within me at the content I
have enjoyed here in your company. I shall
bear in mind and in heart with me for ever the
abbot, the abbey, and this desert, so great is
the love they have raised in me in so short a

time. The great God, who reigns above, must
thank you for me in his own abode. Bestow onus
your benediction, and do not forget us in
your prayers. ' '

When the abbot heard the County Orlando
talk thus, his heart melted within him for tenderness,
and he said: "Knight, if we have
failed in any courtesy due to your prowess and
great gentleness (and indeed what we have
done has been but little), pray put it to the account
of our ignorance, and of the place which
we inhabit. We are but poor men of the cloister,
better able to regale you with masses and
orisons and paternosters, than with dinners and
suppers. You have so taken this heart of mine
by the many noble qualities I have seen in
you, that I shall be with you still wherever
you go ; and on the other hand, you will always
be present here with me. This seems a contradiction,
but you are wise and will take my
meaning discreetly. You have saved the very
life and spirit within us ; for so much perplexity
had those giants cast about our place, that
the way to the Lord among us was blocked up.
May He who sent you into these woods reward
the justice and piety by which we are delivered
from our trouble. Thanks be to Him and to
you. We shall all be disconsolate at your departure.
We shall grieve that we cannot detain

you among us for months and years ; but you
do not wear these weeds ; you bear arms and
armor ; and you may possibly merit as well in
carrying those as in wearing this cap. You
read your Bible, and your virtue has been the
means of showing the giant the way to heaven.
Go in peace, then, and prosper, whoever you
may be. I do not seek your name ; but if ever
I am asked who it was that came among us, I
shall say that it was an angel from God. If
there is any armor or other thing that you
would have, go into the room where it is, and
take it."

"If you have any armor that would suit my
companion," replied Orlando, "that I will accept
with pleasure."

Come and see," said the abbot; and they
went to a room that was full of armor. Mor-gate
looked all about, but could find nothing
large enough, except a rusty breast-plate, which
fitted him marvellously. It had belonged to an
enormous giant, who was killed there of old by
Orlando's father, Milo of Angrante. There was
a painting on the wall which told the whole
story : how the giant had laid cruel and long
siege to the abbey ; and how he had been overthrown
at last by the great Milo. Orlando seeing
this, said within himself: "O God, unto
whom all things are known, how came Milo

here, who destroyed this giant ? ' ' And reading
certain inscriptions which were there, he could
no longer keep a firm countenance, but the
tears ran down his cheeks.

When the abbot saw Orlando weep, and his
brow redden, and the light of his eyes become
child-like for sweetness, he asked him the
reason ; but, finding him still dumb with emotion,
he said, " I do not know whether you are
overpowered by admiration of what is painted
in this chamber. You must know that I am of
high descent, though not through lawful wedlock.
I believe I may say I am nephew or sister's
son to no less a man than that Rinaldo,
who was so great a Paladin in the world, though
my own father was not of lawful mother. 
was his name ; my own, out in the world,
was Chiaramonte ; and this Milo was my father's
brother. Ah, gentle baron, for blessed Jesus'
sake, tell me what name is yours ! "

Orlando, all glowing with affection, and
bathed in tears, replied, * ' My dear abbot and
cousin, he before you is your Orlando." Upon
this, they ran for tenderness into each other's
arms, weeping on both sides with a sovereign
affection, too high to be expressed. The abbot
was so overjoyed, that he seemed as if he would
never have done embracing Orlando. "By
what fortune," said the knight, ** do I find you

in this obscure place ? Tell me, my dear abbot,
how was it you became a monk, and did not
follow arms, like myself and the rest of us ? "

"It is the will of God," replied the abbot,
hastening to give his feelings utterance. " Many
and divers are the paths he points out for us
by which to arrive at his city ; some walk it
with the sword — some with pastoral staff. Nature
makes the inclination different, and therefore
there are different ways for us to take :
enough if we all arrive safely at one and the
same place, the last as well as the first. We are
all pilgrims through many kingdoms. We all
wish to go to Rome, Orlando ; but we go picking
out our journey through different roads.
Such is the trouble in body and soul brought
upon us by that sin of the old apple. Day and
night am I here with my book in hand — day
and night do you ride about, holding your
sword, and sweating oft both in sun and shadow ;
and all to get round at last to the home from
which we departed — I say, all out of anxiety
and hope to get back to our home of old." And
the giant hearing them talk of these things,
shed tears also.

The Paladin and the giant quitted the abbey,
the one on horseback and the other on foot,
and journeyed through the desert till they came
to a magnificent castle, the door of which stood

open. They entered, and found rooms furnished
in the most splendid manner — beds covered
with cloth of gold, and floors rejoicing in variegated
marbles. There was even a feast prepared
in the saloon, but nobody to eat it, or to
speak to them,

Orlando suspected some trap, and did not
quite like it ; but Morgantete thought nothing
worth considering but the feast. "Who cares
for the host," said he, "when there's such a
dinner? Let us eat as much as we can, and
bear off the rest. I always do that when I have
the picking of castles."

They accordingly sat down, and being very
hungry with their day's journey, devoured
heaps of the good things before them, eating
with all the vigor of health, and drinking to a
pitch of weakness.* They sat late in this manner
enjoying themselves, and then retired for
the night into rich beds.

But what was their astonishment in the morning
at finding that they could not get out of the
place ! There was no door. All the entrances
had vanished, even to any feasible window.

"We must be dreaming," said Orlando.

"My dinner was no dream, I '11 swear," said

" E) furno al here inferno, al manger san."
I am not sure that I am right in my construction of this
passage. Perhaps Pulci means to say, that they had the
appetites of men in health, and the thirst of a fever.

the giant. ' ' As for the rest, let it be a dream if
it pleases."

Continuing to search up and down, they at
length found a vault with a tomb in it ; and out
of the tomb came a voice, saying : " You must
encounter with me, or stay here for ever. Lift,
therefore, the stone that covers me."

Do you hear that? " said Morgantete ; ** I '11
have him out, if it 's the devil himself. Perhaps
it 's two devils. Filthy-dog and Foul-mouth, or
Itching and Evil-tail." *

Have him out," said Orlando, *' whoever he
is, even were it as many devils as were rained
out of heaven into the centre."

Morgantete lifted up the stone, and out leaped,
surely enough, a devil in the likeness of a
dried-up dead body, black as a coal. Orlando
seized him, and the devil grappled with Orlando.
Morgantete was for joining him, but the Paladin
bade him keep back. It was a hard struggle,
and the devil grinned and laughed, till the
giant, who was a master of wrestling, could
bear it no longer : so he doubled him up, and,
in spite of all his efforts, thrust him back into
the tomb.

"You'll never get out," said the devil, "if
you leave me shut up. ' '

*Caygnazzo, Farfarello, I,ibicocco, and Malacca ;
names of devils in Dante.

** Why not ? " inquired the Paladin.

*' Because your giant's baptism and my deliverance
must go together," answered the
devil. " If he is not baptized, you can have no
deliverance ; and if I am not delivered, I can
prevent it still, take my word for it."

Orlando baptized the giant. The two companions
then issued forth, and hearing a mighty
noise in the house, looked back, and saw it all
vanished.

** I could find it in my heart," said Morgantete,
"to go down to those same regions below, and
make all the devils disappear in like manner.
Why should net we do it ? We 'd set free all the
poor souls there. Egad, I 'd cut off Minos' tail
I 'd pull out Charon's beard by the roots —
make a sop of Phlegyas, and a sup of Phlegethon
— unseat Pluto — kill Cerberus and the
Furies with a punch of the face-piece — and set
Beelzebub scampering like a dromedary."

You might find more trouble than you wot
of," quoth Orlando, "and get worsted besides.
Better keep the straight path, than thrust your
head into out-of-the-way places. ' '

Morgantete took his lord's advice, and went
straightforward with him through many great
adventures, helping him with loving good-will
as often as he was permitted, sometimes as his
pioneer, and sometimes as his finisher of troublesome

work, such as a slaughter of some
thousands of infidels. Now he chucked a spy
into a river — now felled a rude ambassador to
the earth (for he did net stand upon ceremony)
now cleared a space round him in battle with
the clapper of an old bell which he had found
at the monastery — now doubled up a king in
his tent, and bore him away, tent and all, and a
Paladin with him, because he would not let the
Paladin go.

In the course of these services, the giant was
left to take care of a lady, and lost his master
for a time ; but the office being at an end, he
set out to rejoin him, and, arriving at a crossroad,
met with a very extraordinary personage.

This was a giant huger than himself, swarthy-faced,
horrible, brutish. He came out of a wood,
and appeared to be journeying somewhere.
Morgantete, who had the great bell-clapper abovementioned
in his hand, struck it on the ground
with astonishment, as much as to say, "Who
the devil is this ? " and then set himself on a
stone by the way-side to observe the creature.

"What's your name traveller?" said Mor-gate,
as it came up.

"My name 's Margutte," said the phenomenon.
" I intended to be a giant myself,
but altered my mind, you see, and stopped halfway
; so that I am only twenty feet or so."

"I'm glad to see you," quoth his brother-giant.
* ' But tell me, are you Christian or
Saracen? Do you believe in Christ or in
Apollo f'

To tell you the truth," said the other, '*I
believe neither in black nor blue, but in a good
capon, whether it be roast or boiled. I believe
sometimes also in butter, and, when I can get
it, in new wine, particularly the rough sort ; but,
above all, I believe in wine that 's good and
old. Mahomet's prohibition of it is all moonshine.
I am the son, you must know, of a Greek
nun and a Turkish bishop ; and the first thing
I learned was to play the fiddle. I used to sing
Homer to it. I was then concerned in a brawl
in a mosque, in which the old bishop somehow
happened to be killed ; so I tied a sword to my
side, and went to seek my fortune, accompanied
by all the possible sins of Turk and Greek.
People talk of the seven deadly sins ; but I have
seventy-seven that never quit me, summer or
winter ; by which you may judge of the amount
of my venial ones. I am a gambler, a cheat, a
ruffian, a highwayman, a pickpocket, a glutton
(at beef or blows) ; have no shame whatever ;
love to let everybody know what I can do ; lie,
besides, about what I can't do ; have a particular
attachment to sacrilege ; swallow perjuries like
figs ; never give a farthing to anybody, but beg

of everybody, and abuse them into the bargain ;
look upon not spilling a drop of liquor as the
chief of all the cardinal virtues ; but must own
I am not much given to assassination, murder
being inconvenient ; and one thing I am bound
to acknowledge, which is, that I never betrayed
a messmate."

"That 's as well," observed Morgantete ; "because
you see, as you don't believe in any thing
else, I 'd have you believe in this bell-clapper of
mine. So now, as you have been candid with
me, and I am well instructed in your ways,
we '11 pursue our journey together."

The best of giants in those days, were not
scrupulous in their modes of living ; so that one
of the best and one of the worst got on pretty
well together, emptying the larders on the road,
and paying nothing but houses on the chops.
When they could find no inn, they hunted elephants
and crocodiles. Morgantete, who was the
braver of the two, delighted to banter, and
sometimes to cheat, Margutte ; and he ate up all
the fare; which made the other, notwithstanding
the credit he gave himself for readiness of
wit and tongue, cut a very sorry figure, and seriously
remonstrate: "I reverence you," said
Margutte, "in other matters ; but in eating, you
really don't behave well. He who deprives me
of my share at meals is no friend ; at every

mouthful of which he robs me, I seem to lose
an eye. I 'm for sharing every thing to a nicety,
even if it be no better than a fig."

*you are a fine fellow," said Morgantete ;
' you gain upon me very much. You are * the
master of those who know.' " *

So saying, he made him put some wood on
the fire, and perform a hundred other offices to
render every thing snug ; and then he slept : and
next day he cheated his great scoundrelly companion
at drink, as he had done the day before
at meat ; and the poor shabby devil complained
; and Morgantete laughed till he was
ready to burst, and again and again always
cheated him.

There was a levity, nevertheless, in Mar-gutter,
which restored his spirits on the slightest
glimpse of good-fortune ; and if he realized a
hearty meal, he became the happiest, beastliest,
and most confident of giants. The companions,
in the course of their journey, delivered
a damsel from the clutches of three other
giants. She was the daughter of a great lord ;
and when she got home, she did honor to Mor-gate
as to an equal, and put Margutte into the
kitchen, where he was in a state of bliss. He
did nothing but swill, stuff, surfeit, be sick,

*" II maestro di color che anno." A jocose application
of Dante's praise of Aristotle,

play at dice, cheat, filch, go to sleep, guzzle
again, laugh, chatter, and tell a thousand
lies.

Morgantete took leave of the young lady, who
made him rich presents. Margutte, seeing this,
and being always drunk and impudent, daubed
his face like a Christmas clown, and making upto
her with a frying-pan in his hand, demanded
"something for the cook." The fair hostess
gave him a jewel : and the vagabond showed
such a brutal eagerness in seizing it with his
filthy hands, and making not the least acknowledgment,
that when they got out of the house,
Morgantete was ready to fell him to the earth.
He called him scoundrel and poltroon, and said
he had disgraced him forever.

Softly ! " said the brute-beast. "Did net you
take me with you, knowing what sort of fellow
I was? Did net I tell you I had every sin and
shame under heaven ; and have I deceived you
by the exhibition of a single virtue ? "

Morgantete could not help laughing at a candor
of this excessive nature. So they went on
their way till they came to a wood, where they
rested themselves by a fountain, and Margutte
fell fast asleep. He had a pair of boots on,
which Morgantete felt tempted to draw off", that
he might see what he would do on waking. He
accordingly did so, and threw them to a little

distance among the bushes. The sleeper awoke
in good time, and, looking and searching roundabout,
suddenly burst into roars of laughter. A
monkey had got the boots, and sat pulling them
on and off, making the most ridiculous gestures.
The monkey busied himself, and the
light-minded drunkard laughed ; and at every
fresh gesticulation of the new boot-wearer, the
laugh grew louder and more tremendous, till at
length it was found impossible to be restrained.
The glutton had a laughing iEit. In vain he
tried to stop himself; in vain his fingers would
have loosened the buttons of his doublet, to
give his lungs room to play. They could net doit
; so he laughed and roared till he burst. The
snap was like the splitting of a cannon. Mor-gate
ran up to him, but it was of no use. He
was dead.

Alas ! it was not the only death ; it was not
even the most trivial cause of a death. Giants
are big fellows, but Death 's a bigger, though
he may come in a little shape. Morgantete had
succeeded in joining his master. He helped
him to take Babylon ; he killed a whale for him
at sea that obstructed his passage ; he played
the part of a main-sail during a storm, holding
out his arms and a great hide ; but on coming
to shore, a crab bit him in the heel ; and behold
the lot of the great giant — he died! He

laughed, and thought it a very little thing, but
it proved a mighty one. " He made the Bast
tremble," said Orlando; "and the bite of a
crab has slain him ! "

O life of ours, weak, and a fallacy ! *
Orlando embalmed his huge friend, and had
him taken to Babylon, and honorably interred ;
and after many an adventure, in which he regretted
him, his own days were closed by a far
baser, though not so petty a cause.

How shall I speak of it ? exclaims the poet.
How think of the horrible slaughter about to
fall on the Christians and their greatest men, so
that not a dry eye shall be left in France ? How
express my disgust at the traitor Gan, whose
heart a thousand pardons from his sovereign,
and the most undeserved rescues of him by the
warrior he betrayed, could not shame or soften ?
How mourn the weakness of Charles, always
deceived by him, and always trusting? How
dare to present to my mind the good, the great,
the ever-generous Orlando, brought by the
traitor into the doleful pass of Roncesvalles and
the hands of myriads of his enemies, so that
even his superhuman strength availed not to
deliver him out of the slaughter-house, and he
blew the blast with his dying breath, which was
the mightiest, the farthest heard, and the most
" O vita nostra, debole e wallace ! "

melancholy sound that ever came to the ears of
the undeceived ?

Gan was known well to every body but his
confiding sovereign. The Paladins knew him
well ; and in their moments of indignant disgust
often told him so, though they spared him
the consequences of his misdeeds, and even incurred
the most frightful perils to deliver him
out of the hands of his enemies. But he was
brave ; he was in favor with the sovereign,
who was also their kinsman; and
they were loyal and loving men, and knew
that the wretch envied them for the greatness
of their achievements, and might do
the state a mischief ; so they allowed themselves
to take a kind of scornful pleasure in putting
up with him. Their cousin Malagigi, the enchanter,
had himself assisted Gan, though he
knew him best of all, and had prophesied that
the innumerable endeavors of his envy to destroy
his king and country would bring some
terrible evil at last to all Christendom. The
evil, alas ! is at hand. The doleful time has
come. It will be followed, it is true, by a worse
fate of the wretch himself; but not till the valleys
of the Pyrenees have run rivers of blood,
and all France is in mourning.

NOTICE.

sad and fearful story
Of the Roncesvalles fight " ;

an event which national and religious exaggeration impressed
deeply on the popular mind of Europe. Hence
Italian romances and Spanish ballads ; hence the famous
passage in Milton :

When Charlemagne with all his peerage fell
By Fontarabbia ' ' :

hence Dante's record of the dolores rota (dolorous rout)
in the " Inferno," where he compares the voice of Nimrod
with the horn sounded by the dying Orlando ; hence
the peasant in Cervantes, who is met by Don Quixote
singing the battle as he comes along the road in the
morning ; and hence the song of Roland actually thundered
forth by the army of William the Conqueror as
they advanced against the English.

But Charlemagne did not " fall," as Milton has stated.
Nor does Pulci make him do so. In this respect, if in
little else, the Italian poet adhered to the fact. The
whole story is a remarkable instance of what can be
done by poetry and popularity towards misrepresenting
and aggrandizing a petty though striking adventure.
The simple fact was the cutting off the rear of Charlemagne's
army by the revolted Gascons, as he returned

Xulgi ipulcf

from a successful expedition into Spain. Two or three
only of his nobles perished, among whom was his
nephew Roland, the obscure warden of his marches of
Brittany. But Charlemagne was the temporal head of
Christendom ; the poets constituted his nephew its
champion ; and hence all the glories and superhuman
exploits of the Orlando of Pulci and Ariosto. The whole
assumption of the wickedness of the Saracens, particularly
of the then Saracen king of Spain, whom Pulci's
authority, the pseudo-archbishop, Turpin, strangely
called Marsilius, was nothing but a pious fraud : the
pretended Marsilius having been no less person than
the great and good Abdodlrahmaiin the First, who wrested
the dominion of that country out of the hands of the
usurpers of his family rights. Yet so potent and long-lived
are the most extravagant fictions, when genius has
put its heart into them, that to this day we read of the
devoted Orlando and his friends not only with gravity,
but with the liveliest emotion.

mm.

wmm:^

AMISERABIvB man am I, cries the poet ;
for Orlando, beyond a doubt, died in Roncesvalles
; and die, therefore, he must in my
verses. Altogether impossible is it to save
him. I thought to make a pleasant ending of
this my poem, so that it should be happier
somehow, throughout, than melancholy ; but
though Gan will die at last, Orlando must die
before him, and that makes a tragedy of all. I
had a doubt, whether, consistently with the
truth, I could give the reader even that sorry
satisfaction ; for at the beginning of the dreadful
battle, Orlando's cousin, Rinaldo, who was
said to have joined it before it was over, and
there, as well as afterwards, to have avenged
his death, was far away from the seat of slaughter,
in Egypt ; and how was I to suppose that
he could arrive soon enough in the valleys of
the Pyrenees ? But an angel upon earth showed
me the secret, even Angelo Poliziano, the glory
of his age and country. He informed me how
Arnauld, the Proven9al poet, had written of

this very matter, and brought the Paladin from
Egypt to France by means of the wonderful
skill in occult science possessed by his cousin
Malagigi— a wonder to the ignorant, but not so
marvellous to those who know that all the creation
is full of wonders, and who have different
modes of relating the same events. By and by
a great many things will be done in the world,
of which we have no conception now, and people
will be inclined to believe them works of
the devil, when, in fact, they will be very good
works, and contribute to angelical effects,
whether the devil be forced to have a hand in
them or not ; for evil itself can work only insubordination
to good. So listen when the
astonishment comes, and reflect and think the
best. Meantime, we must speak of another
and more truly devilish astonishment, and of
the pangs of mortal flesh and blood.

The traitor Gan, for the fiftieth time, had
secretly brought the infidels from all quarters
against his friend and master, the Emperor
Charles ; and Charles, by the help of Orlando,
had conquered them all. The worst of them,
Marsilius, king of Spain, had agreed to pay the
court of France tribute ; and Gan, in spite of
all the suspicions he excited in this particular
instance, and his known villainy at all times,
had succeeded in persuading his credulous sovereign

to let him go ambassador into Spain,
where he put a final seal to his enormities, by
plotting the destruction of his employer, and
the special overthrow of Orlando. Charles was
now old and white-haired, and Gan was so too ;
but the one was only confirmed in his credulity,
and the other in his crimes. The traitor embraced
Orlando over and over again at taking
leave, praying him to write if he had any thing
to say before the arrangements with Marsilius,
and taking such pains to seem loving and sincere,
that his villany was manifest to every one
but the old monarch. He fastened with equal
tenderness on Uliviero, who smiled contemptuously
in his face, and thought to himself, ** You
may make as many fair speeches as you choose,
but you lie." All the other Paladins who were
present thought the same, and they said as
much to the emperor ; adding, that on no account
should Gan be sent ambassador to Marsilius.
But Charles was infatuated. His beard
and his credulity had grown old together.

Gan was received with great honor in Spain
by Marsilius. The king, attended by his lords,
came fifteen miles out of Saragossa to meet him,
and then conducted him into the city amid
tumults of delight. There was nothing for several
days but balls, and games, and exhibitions
of chivalry, the ladies throwing flowers on the

heads of the French knights, and the people
shouting, "France! France! Mountjoy and
St. Denis!"

Gan made a speech, "like a Demosthenes,"
to King Marsilius in public ; but he made him
another in private, like nobody but himself.
The king and he were sitting in a garden ; they
were traitors both, and began to understand,
from one another's looks, that the real object
of the ambassador was yet to be discussed.
Marsilius accordingly assumed a more than
usually cheerful and confidential aspect ; and,
taking his visitor by the hand, said : " You
know the proverb, Mr. Ambassador — ' At dawn,
the mountain ; afternoon, the fountain.' Different
things at different hours. So here is a fountain
to accommodate us."

It was a very beautiful fountain, so clear that
you saw your face in it as in a mirror ; and the
spot was encircled with fruit-trees that quivered
with the fresh air. Gan praised it very much,
contriving to insinuate, on one subject, his satisfaction
with the glimpses he got into another.
Marsilius understood him ; and as he resumed
the conversation, and gradually encouraged a
mutual disclosure of their thoughts, Gan, without
appearing to look him in the face, was enabled
to do so by contemplating the royal visage
in the water, where he saw its expression

become more and more what he desired. Marsilius,
meantime, saw the like symptoms in the
face of Gan. By degrees, he began to touch on
that dissatisfaction with Charlemagne and his
court, which he knew was in both their minds :
he lamented, not as to the ambassador, but as
to the friend, the injuries which he said he had
received from Charles in the repeated attacks
on his dominions, and the emperor's wish to
crown Orlando king of them ; till at length he
plainly uttered his belief, that if that tremendous
Paladin were but dead, good men would
get their rights, and his visitor and himself have
all things at their disposal.

Gan heaved a sigh, as if he was unwillingly
compelled to allow the force of what the king
said ; but, unable to contain himself long, he
lifted up his face, radiant with triumphant wickedness,
and exclaimed : ' ' Every word you utter
is truth. Die he must ; and die also must Olivier,
who struck me that foul blow at court.
Is it treachery to punish affronts like those ? I
have planned every thing ; I have settled everything
already with their besotted master. Orlando
could not be expected to be brought
hither, where he has been accustomed to look
for a crown ; but he will come to the Spanish
borders — to Roncesvalles — for the purpose of
receiving the tribute. Charles will await him,

at no great distance, in St. John Pied de Port.
Orlando will bring but a small band with him ;
you, when you meet him, will have secretly
your whole army at your back. You surround
him ; and who receives tribute then ? "

The new Judas had scarcely uttered these
words, when the delight of him and his associate
was interrupted by a change in the face of
nature. The sky was suddenly overcast ; it
thundered and lightened ; a laurel was split in
two from head to foot ; the fountain ran into
burning blood ; there was an earthquake, and
the carob-tree under which Gan was sitting, and
which was of the species on which Judas Iscariot
hung himself, dropped some of its fruit on his
head. The hair of the head rose in horror.

Marsilius, as well as Gan, was appalled at this
omen ; but on assembling his soothsayers, they
came to the conclusion that the laurel-tree
turned the omen against the emperor, the successor
of the Caesar ; though one of them renewed
the consternation of Gan, bj' saying that
he did not understand the meaning of the tree
of Judas, and intimating that perhaps the ambassador
could explain it. Gan relieved his
consternation with anger ; the habit of wickedness
prevailed over all considerations ; and the
king prepared to march for Roncesvalles at the
head of all his forces.

Gan wrote to Charlemagne, to say how humbly
and properly Marsilius was coming to pay the
tribute into the hands of Orlando, and how
handsome it would be of the emperor to meet
him halfway, as agreed upon, at St. John Pied
de Port, and so be ready to receive him, after
the payment, at his footstool. He added a brilliant
account of the tribute and its accompanying
presents. They included a crown in the
shape of a garland which had a carbuncle in it
that gave light in darkness ; two lions of an
immeasurable length, and aspects that frightened
everybody"; some "lively buffaloes,"
leopards, crocodiles, and giraffes ; arms and
armor of all sorts ; and apes and monkeys seated
among the rich merchandise that loaded the
backs of the camels. This imaginary treasure
contained, furthermore, two enchanted spirits,
called *' Floro and Foresee," who were confined
in a mirror, and were to tell the emperor wonderful
things, particularly Floro (for there is
nothing so nice in its details as lying) ; and Orlando
was to have heaps of caravans full of
Eastern wealth, and a hundred white horses, all
with saddles and bridles of gold. There was a
beautiful vest, too, for Uliviero, all over jewels,
worth ten thousand "serapis," or more.

The good emperor wrote in turn to say how
pleased he was with the ambassador's diligence,

and that matters were arranged precisely as he
wished. His court, however, had its suspicions
still. Nobody could believe that Gan had not
some new mischief in contemplation. Little,
nevertheless, did they imagine, after the base
endeavors he had but lately made against them,
that he had immediately plotted a new and
greater one, and that his object in bringing
Charles into the neighborhood of Roncesvalles
was to deliver him more speedily into the hands
of Marsilius, in the event of the latter's destruction
of Orlando.

Orlando, however, did as his lord and sovereign
desired. He went to Roncesvalles, accompanied
by a moderate train of warriors, not
dreaming of the atrocity that awaited him. Gan
himself, meantime, had hastened on to France
before Marsilius, in order to show himself free
and easy in the presence of Charles, and secure
the success of his plot ; while Marsilius, to make
assurance doubly sure, brought into the passes
of Roncesvalles no less than three armies, who
were successively to fall on the Paladin, in case
of the worst, and so extinguish him with numbers.
He had also, by Gan's advice, brought
heaps of wine and good cheer to be set before
his victims in the first instance ; " for that," said
the traitor, "will render the onset the more
effective, the feasters being unarmed ; and, supposing

prodigies of valor to await even the attack
of your second army, you will have no
trouble with your third. One thing, however,
I must not forget," added he ; *'my son Baldwin
is sure to be with Orlando ; you must take
care of his life for my sake."

"I give him this vest off my own body," said
the king; "let him wear it in the battle, and
have no fear. My soldiers shall be directed not
to touch him."

Gan went away rejoicing to France. He embraced
the court and his sovereign all round,
with the air of a man who had brought them
nothing but blessings ; and the old king wept
for very tenderness and delight.

"Something is going on wrong, and looks
very black," thought Malagigi, the good wizard
; "and Rinaldo is not here, and it is indispensably
necessary that he should be. I must
find out where he is, and Ricciardetto too, and
send for them with all speed, and at any price."

Malagigi called up, by his art, a wise, terrible,
and cruel spirit, named Ashtaroth ; no light
personage to deal with — no little spirit, such as
plays tricks with you like a fairy. A much
blacker visitant was this.

Tell me, and tell me truly of Rinaldo," said
Malagigi to the spirit.

Hard looked the demon at the Paladin, and

said nothing. His aspect was clouded and violent.
He wished to see whether his summoner
retained all the force of his art.

The enchanter, with an aspect still louder,
bade Ashtaroth lay down that look. While
giving this order, he also made signs indicative
of a disposition to resort to angrier compulsion ;
and the devil, apprehending that he would confine
him in some hateful place, loosened his
tongue, and said : " You have not told me what
you desire to know of Rinaldo."

I desire to know what he has been doing,
and where he is," returned the enchanter.

"He has been conquering and baptizing the
world, east and west," said the demon, " and is
now in Egypt with Ricciardetto."

And what has Gan been plotting with Marsilius,"
inquired Malagigi, "and what is to
come of it? "

On neither of those points can I enlighten
you," said the devil. "I was not attending to
Gan at the time, and we fallen spirits know not
the future. Had we done so, we had not been so
willing to incur the danger of falling. All I
discern is, that by the signs and comets in the
heavens, something dreadful is about to happen
something very strange, treacherous, and
bloody ; and that Gan has a seat ready prepared
for him in hell."

"Within three days," cried the enchanter,
loudly," "fetch Rinaldo and Ricciardetto into
the pass of Roncesvalles. Do it, and I hereby
undertake never to summon thee more."

Suppose they will not trust themselves with
me," said the spirit.

"Enter Rinaldo's horse, and bring him,
whether he trust thee or not."

"It shall be done," returned the demon;
"and my serving-devil Foul-Mouth, or Fire-red,
shall enter the horse of Ricciardetto.
Doubt it not. Am I not wise, and thyself powerful
? "

There was an earthquake, and Ashtaroth disappeared.


Marsilius has now made his first movement
towards the destruction of Orlando, by sending
before him his vassal-king Blanchardinin with his
presents of wines and other luxuries. The
temperate but courteous hero took them in
good part, and distributed them as the traitor
wished ; and then Blanchardinin, on pretence of
going forward to salute Charlemagne at St. John
Pied de Port, returned and put himself at the
head of the second army, which was the post
assigned him by his liege lord. The device on
his flag was an "Apollo" on a field azure.
King Falseron, whose son Orlando had slain in
battle, headed the first army, the device of

which was a black figure of the devil Belphegor
on a dapple-gray field. The third army was
under King Balugante, and had for ensign a
Mahomet with golden wings in a field of red.
Marsilius made a speech to them at night, in
which he confessed his ill faith, but defended it
on the ground of Charles' hatred of their religion,
and of the example of "Judith and
Hoof ernes." He said that he had not come
there to pay tribute and sell his countrymen for
slaves, but to make all Christendom pay tribute
to them as conquerors ; and he concluded by recommending
to their good-will the son of his
friend Gan, whom they would know by the vest
he had sent him, and who was the only soul
among the Christians they were to spare.

This son of Gan, meantime, and several of
the Paladins who were disgusted with Charles'
credulity, and anxious at all events to be with
Orlando, had joined the hero in the fated valley ;
so that the little Christian host, considering the
tremendous valor of their lord and his friends,
and the comparative inefficiency of that of the
infidels, were at any rate not to be sold for
nothing. Rinaldo, alas ! the second thunderbolt
of Christendom, was destined not to be
there in time to save their lives. He could only
avenge the dreadful tragedy, and prevent still
worse consequences to the whole Christian

court and empire. The Paladins had in vain
begged Orlando to be on his guard against
treachery, and send for a more numerous body
of men. The great heart of the Champion of
the Faith was unwilling to think the worst as
long as he could help it. He refused to summon
aid that might be superfluous ; neither
would he do any thing but what his liege lord
had desired. And yet he could not wholly repress
a misgiving. A shadow had fallen on his
heart, great and cheerful as it was. The anticipations
of his friends disturbed him, in spite of
the face with which he met them. I am not
sure that he did not, by a certain instinctive
foresight, expect death itself; but he felt bound
not to encourage the impression. Besides, time
pressed ; the moment of the looked-for tribute
was at hand ; and little combinations of circumstances
determine often the greatest events.

King Blanchardinin had brought Orlando's
people a luxurious supper ; King Marsilius was
to arrive early next day with the tribute ; and
Uliviero accordingly, with the morning sun,
rode forth to reconnoitre and see if he could
discover the peaceful pomp of the Spanish
court in the distance. Guottibuoffi was with
him, a warrior who had expected the very
worst, and repeatedly implored Orlando to believe
it possible. Uliviero and he rode up the

mountain nearest them, and from the top of it
beheld the first army of Marsilius already forming
in the passes.

**0 Guottibuoffi ! " exclaimed he, "behold
thy prophecies come true ! behold the last day
of the glory of Charles ! Everywhere I see the
arms of the traitors around us. I feel Paris
tremble all the way through France, to the
ground beneath my feet. O Malagigi, too
much in the right wert thou ! O devil Gan,
this, then, is the consummation of thy good
offices ! "

Uliviero put spurs to his horse and galloped
back down the mountain to Orlando.

*' Well," cried the hero, " what news ? "

** Bad news," said his cousin ; " such as you
would not hear of yesterday. Marsilius is herein
arms, and all the world has come v/ith him."

The Paladins pressed round Orlando, and entreated
him to sound his horn, in token that he
needed help. His only answer was to mount
his horse, and ride up the mountain with San-sotto.


As soon, however, as he cast forth his eyes
and beheld what was round about him, he
turned in sorrow, and looked down into Roncesvalles,
and said: "O valley, miserable indeed
! the blood that is shed in thee this day
will color thy name forever."

Many of the Paladins had ridden after him,
and they again pressed him to sound his horn,
if only in pity to his own people. He said : ** If
Caesar and Alexander were here, Scipio, and
Hannibal, and Nebuchadnezzar with all his
flags, and Death stared me in the face with his
knife in his hand, never would I sound my horn
for the baseness of fear. ' '

Orlando's little camp were furious against the
Saracens. They armed themselves with the
greatest impatience. There was nothing but
lacing of helmets and mounting of horses ; and
good Archbishop Turpin went from rank to
rank, exhorting and encouraging the warriors
of Christ. Accoutrements and habiliments
were put on the wrong way ; words and deeds
mixed in confusion ; men running against one
another out of very absorption in themselves ;
all the place full of cries of ' ' Arm ! arm ! the
enemy !" and the trumpets clanged over all
against the mountain echoes.

Orlando and his captains withdrew for a moment
to consultation. He fairly groaned for
sorrow, and at first had not a word to say ; so
wretched he felt at having brought his people
to die in Roncesvalles.

Uliviero spoke first. He could not resist
the opportunity of comforting himself a little in
his despair with referring to his unheeded advice.

You see, cousin," said he, " what has come
at last. Would to God you had attended to
what I said ; to what Malagigi said ; to what
we all said ! I told you Marsilius was nothing
but an anointed scoundrel. Yet forsooth he
was to bring us tribute ! and Charles is this moment
expecting his mummers at St. John Pied
de Port ! Did ever any body believe a word
that Gan said, but Charles ? And now you see
this rotten fruit has come to a head ; this medlar
has got its crown."

Orlando said nothing in answer to Uliviero ;
for in truth he had nothing to say. He broke
away to give orders to the camp ; bade them
take refreshment ; and then addressing both
officers and men, he said : " I confess that if it
had entered my heart to conceive the king of
Spain to be such a villain, never would you
have seen this day. He has exchanged with
me a thousand courtesies and good words ; and
I thought that the worse enemies we had been
before, the better friends we had become now.
I fancied every human being capable of this
kind of virtue on a good opportunity, saving,
indeed, such base-hearted wretches as can never
forgive their very forgivers ; and of these I certainly
did not suppose him to be one. Let us
die, if we must die, like honest and gallant
men ; so that it shall be said of us, it was only

our bodies that died. It becomes our souls to
be invincible, and our glory immortal. Our
motto must be, * A good heart and no hope.'
The reason why I did not sound the horn was,
partly because I thought it did not become us,
and partly because our liege lord could be of
little use, even if he heard it. Let Gan have
his glut of us, like a carrion crow ; but let him
find us under heaps of his Saracens — an example
for all time. Heaven, my friends, is with us,
if earth is against us. Methinks I see it open
this moment, ready to receive our souls amidst
crowns of glory ; and therefore, as the champion
of God's church, 1 give you my benediction
; and the good archbishop here will absolve
you ; and so, please God, we shall all goto
heaven and be happy."

And with these words Orlando sprang to his
horse, crying, "Away against the Saracens!"
but he had no sooner turned his face than he
wept bitterly, and said, " O holy Virgin, think
not of me, the sinner Orlando, but have pity on
these thy servants."

Archbishop Turpin did as Orlando said, giving
the whole band his benediction at once, and
absolving them from their sins, so that everybody
took comfort in the thought of dying for
Christ ; and thus they embraced one another,
weeping ; and then lance was put to thigh, and

the banner was raised that was won in the jousting
at Aspramont.

And now with a mighty dust and an infinite
sound of horns and tambours and trumpets,
which came filling the valley, the first army of
the infidels made its appearance, horses neighing,
and a thousand pennants flying in the
air. King Falseron led them on, saying to
his officers: '* Now, gentlemen, recollect what I
said ; the first battle is for the leaders only ;
and above all, let nobody dare to lay a finger on
Orlando. He belongs to myself. The revenge
of my son's death is mine. I will cut the man
down that comes between us."

"Now, friends," said Orlando, "every man
for himself, and St. Michael for us all. There
is no one here that is not a perfect knight."

And he might well say it ; for the flower of all
France was there, except Rinaldo and Ricciar-
ditto ; every man a picked man ; all friends
and constant companions of Orlando. There
was Richard of Normandy, GuottibuoflS, and
Uliviero, and Count Anselm, and Avolio, and
Avino, and the gentle Berlinghieri, and his
brother, and Sansonetto, and the good Duke
Girard, and Astolfo the Englishman, and An-violin
of Bayona, and all the other Paladins of
France, excepting those two whom I have mentioned.
And so the captains of the little troop

and of the great array sat looking at one another,
and singling one another out, as the latter
came on ; and then either side began raising
their war-cries, and the mob of the infidels
halted, and the knights put spear in rest, and
ran for a while, two and two in succession, each
one against the other.

Astolfo was the first to move. He ran against
Ariosto of Soria ; and Angiolin then ran against
]\Ialducco ; and Mazzarigi the Renegade came
against Avino ; and Uli\nero was borne forth by
his horse Rondel, who could net stand still,
against Malprimo, the first of the captains of
Falseron.

And now lances began to be painted red,
without any brush but themselves ; and the
new color extended itself to the bucklers, and
the wishes, and the cuirasses, and trappings
of the steeds.

Astolfo thrusts his antagonist's body out of
the saddle, and his soul into the other world ;
and Angiolin gave and took a terrible blow with
Malducco ; but his horse bore him onward ; and
Avino had something of the like encounter with
Mazzarigi; but Uliviero, though he received
a thrust which hurt him, sent his lance right
through the heart of Malprimo.

Falseron was daunted at this blow. ' ' Verily, ' '
thought he, "this is a miracle." Uliviero did

not press on among the Saracens, his wound
was too painful ; but Orlando now put himself
and his whole band into motion, and you may
guess what an uproar ensued. The sound of
the rattling of the blows and helmets was as if
the forge of Vulcan had been thrown open,
Falseron beheld Orlando coming so furiously,
that he thought him a Lucifer who had burst
his chain, and was quite of another mind than
when he proposed to have him all to himself.
On the contrary, he recommended himself to
his gods ; and turning away begged for a more
auspicious season for revenge. But Orlando
hailed and arrested him with a terrible voice,
saying, * ' O thou traitor ! Was this the end to
which old quarrels were made up ? Dost thou
not blush, thou and thy fellow-traitor Marsilius,
to have kissed me on the cheek like a Judas,
when last thou wert in France ? "

Orlando had never shown such anger in his
countenance as he did that day. He dashed
at Falseron with a fury so swift, and at the
same time a mastery of his lance so marvellous,
that though he plunged it into the man's body
so as instantly to kill him, the body did not
move in the saddle. The hero himself, as he
rushed onward, was fain to see the end of a
stroke so perfect, and, turning his horse back,
he touched the carcass with his sword, and it

fell on the instant. They say, that it had no
sooner fallen than it disappeared. People got
off their horses to lift up the body, for it seemed
to be there still, the armor being left ; but
when they came to handle the armor, it was
found as empty as the shell that is cast by a
lobster. O new, and strange, and portentous
event ! proof manifest of the anger with which
God regards treachery.

When the first infidel army beheld their leader
dead, such fear fell upon them, that they were
for leaving the field to the Paladins ; but they
were unable. Marsilius had drawn the rest of
his forces round the valley like a net, so that
their shoulders were turned in vain. Orlando
rode into the thick of them, with Count Anselm
by his side. He rushed like a tempest ;
and wherever he went, thunderbolts fell upon
helmets. The Paladins drove here and thereafter
them, each making a whirlwind roundabout
him and a bloody circle. Uliviero was
again in the tnelee ; and Walter of Amphion
threw himself into it ; and Baldwin roared like a
lion ; and Avino and Avolio reaped the wretches'
heads like a turnip-field ; and blows blinded
men's eyes; and Archbishop Turpin himself
had changed his crozier for a lance, and chased
a new flock before him to the mountains.

Yet what could be done against foes without

number ? Multitudes fill up the spaces left by
the dead without stopping. Marsilius, from
his anxious and raging post, constantly pours
them in. The Paladins are as units to thousands.
Why tarry the horses of Rinaldo and
Ricciardetto ?

The horses did not tarry ; but fate had been
quicker than enchantment. Ashtaroth, nevertheless,
had presented himself to Rinaldo in
Egypt, as though he had issued out of a flash
of lightning. After telling his mission, and
giving orders to hundreds of invisible spirits
round about him (for the air was full of them),
he and Foul-Mouth, his servant, entered the
horses of Rinaldo and Ricciardetto, which began
to neigh and snort and leap with the fiends
within them, till off they flew through the air
over the pyramids, crowds of spirits going like
a tempest before them. Ricciardetto shut his
eyes at first, on perceiving himself so high in
the air ; but he speedily became used to it,
though he looked down on the sun at last. In
this manner they passed the desert, and the
sea-coast, and the ocean, and swept the tops of
the Pyrenees, Ashtaroth talking to them of wonders
by the way ; for he was one of the wisest
of the devils, and knew a great many things
which were then unknown to man. He laughed,
for instance, as they went over sea, at the notion,

among other vain fancies, that nothing
was to be found beyond the pillars of Hercules ;
"for," said he, "the earth is round, and the
sea has an even surface all over ; and there are
nations on the other side of the globe, who
walk with their feet opposed to yours, and worship
other gods than the Christians. ' '

"Hah!" said Rinaldo ; "and may I ask
whether they can be saved? "

It is a bold thing to ask," said the devil ;
but do you take the Redeemer for a partisan,
and fancy He died for you only ? Be assured He
died for the whole world, Antipodes and all.
Perhaps not one soul will be left out the pale of
salvation at last, but the whole human race
adore the truth, and find mercy. The Christian
is the only true religion ; but Heaven loves all
goodness that believes honestly, whatsoever the
belief may be."

Rinaldo was mightily taken with the humanity
of the devil's opinions ; but they were now
approaching the end of their journey, and began
to hear the noise of the battle ; and he
could no longer think of any thing but the delight
of being near Orlando, and plunging into
the middle of it.

"You shall be in the very heart of it instantly,"
said his bearer. "I love you, and
would fain do all you desire. Do not fancy

that all nobleness of spirit is lost among us
people below. You know what the proverb
says, * There 's never a fruit, however degenerate,
but will taste of its stock.' I was of a different
order of beings once, and But it is

well not to talk of happy times. Yonder is
Marsilius ; and there goes Orlando. Farewell,
and give me a place in your memory."

Rinaldo could not find words to express his
sense of the devil's good-will, nor that of Foul-mouth
himself. He said: "Ashtaroth, I amas
sorry to part with you as if you were a
brother ; and I certainly do believe that nobleness
of spirit exists, as you say, among your
people below. I shall be glad to see you both
sometimes, if you can come ; and I pray God (if
my poor prayer be worth any thing) that you
may all repent and obtain His pardon ; for without
repentance, you know, nothing can be done
for you."

If I might suggest a favor," returned Ashta-
roth, "since you are so good as to wish to dome
one, persuade Malagigi to free me from his
service, and I am yours for ever. To serve you
will be a pleasure to me. You will only have
to say, 'Ashtaroth,' and my good friend here
will be with you in an instant."

"I am obliged to you," cried Rinaldo, "and
so is my brother. I will write Malagigi, not

merely a letter, but a whole packetful of your
praises ; and so I will to Orlando ; and you shall
be set free, depend on it, your company has
been so perfectly agreeable."

** Your humble servant," said Ashtaroth, and
vanished with his companion like lightning.

But they did not go far.

There was a little chapel by the roadside in
Roncesvalles, which had a couple of bells ; and
on the top of that chapel did the devils place
themselves, in order that they might catch the
souls of infidels as they died, and so carry them
off to the infernal regions. Guess if their
wings had plenty to do that day ! Guess if
Minos and Rhadamanthus were busy, and
Charon sung in his boat, and Lucifer hugged
himself for joy. Guess, also, if the tables in
heaven groaned with nectar and ambrosia, and
good old St. Peter had a dry hair in his beard.

The two Paladins, on their horses, dropped
right into the middle of the Saracens, and began
making such havoc about them, that Marsilius,
who overlooked the fight from a mountain,
thought his soldiers had turned one against
the other. He therefore descended in fury with
his third army ; and Rinaldo, seeing him coming,
said to Ricciardetto, "We had better be off
here, and join Orlando " ; and with these words,
he gave his horse one turn round before he retreated,

so as to enable his sword to make a
bloody circle about him ; and stories say, that
he sheared off twenty heads in the twirl of it.
He then dashed through the astonished beholders
towards the battles Orlando, who guessed
it could be no other than his cousin, and almost
dropped from his horse, out of desire to meet
him. Ricciardetto followed Rinaldo ; and
Uliviero coming up at the same moment, the
rapture of the whole party is not to be expressed.
They almost died for joy. After a
thousand embraces, and questions, and explanations,
and expressions of astonishment (for the
infidels held aloof awhile, to take breath from
the horror and mischief they had undergone),
Orlando refreshed his little band of heroes, and
then drew Rinaldo apart, and said: ** O my
brother, I feel such delight at seeing you, I can
hardly persuade myself I am not dreaming.
Heaven be praised for it. I have no other wish
on earth, now that I see you before I die. Why
did net you write ? But never mind. Here you
are, and I shall not die for nothing."

"I did write," said Rinaldo, "and so did
Ricciardetto ; but villainy intercepted our letters.
Tell me what to do, my dear cousin ; for
time presses, and all the world is upon us."

** Gan has brought us here," said Orlando,
** under pretence of receiving tribute from Marsilius

— you see of what sort ; and Charles, poor
old man, is waiting to receive his homage at the
town of St. John ! I have never seen a lucky-day
since you left us, I believe I have done for
Charles more than in duty bound, and that my
sins pursue me, and I and mine must all perish
in Roncesvalles."

** Look to Marsilius," exclaimed Rinaldo ;
"he is right upon us."

Marsilius was upon them, surely enough, at
once furious and frightened at the coming of
the new Paladins ; for his camp, numerous as
it was, had not only held aloof, but turned
about to fly like herds before the lion ; so he
was forced to drive them back, and bring up
his other troops, reasonably thinking that such
numbers must overwhelm at last, if they could
but be kept together.

Not the less, however, for this, did the Paladins
continue to fight as if with joy. They killed
and trampled wheresoever they went ; Rinaldo
fatiguing himself with sending infinite numbers
of souls to Ashtaroth, and Orlando making a
bloody passage towards Marsilius, whom he
hoped to settle as he had done Falseron.

In the course of this his tremendous progress,
the hero struck a youth on the head, whose
helmet was so good as to resist the blow, but at
the same time flew off : and Orlando seized him

by the hair to kill him. " Hold ! " cried the
youth, as loud as want of breath could let him ;
you loved my father — I 'm Bujaforte."

The Paladin had never seen Bujaforte ; but
he saw the likeness to the good old Man of the
Mountain, his father ; and he let go the youth's
hair, and embraced and kissed him. " O Buja-
forte ! " said he ; " I loved him indeed — my good
old man ; but what does his son do here, fighting
against his friend ? "

Bujaforte was a long time before he could
speak for weeping. At length he said : "Orlando,
let not your noble heart be pained with
ill thoughts of my father's son. I am forced to
be here by my lord and master Marsilius. I had
no friend left me in the world, and he took me
into his court, and has brought me here before
I knew what it was for ; and I have made a show
of fighting, but have not hurt a single Christian.
Treachery is on every side of you. Baldwin
himself has a vest given him by Marsilius, that
every body may know the son of his friend
Gan, and do him no injury. See there — look
how the lances avoid him."

Put your helmet on again," said Orlando,
and behave just as you have done. Never will
your father's friend be an enemy to the son.
Only take care not to come across Rinaldo."

The hero then turned in fury to look for

Baldwin, who was hastening towards him at
that moment with friendliness in his looks.

*"T is strange," said Baldwin ; " I have done
my duty as well as I could, yet nobody will
come against me. I have slain right and left,
and cannot comprehend what it is that makes
the stoutest infidels avoid me."

"Take off your vest," cried Orlando, contemptuously,
" and you will soon discover the
secret, if you wish to know it. Your father has
sold us to Marsilius, all but his honorable son."

If my father, " cried Baldwin, impetuously
tearing off the vest, "has been such a villain,
and I escape dying any longer, by God ! I will
plunge this sword through his heart. But I am
no traitor, Orlando ; and you do me wrong to
say it. You do me foul dishonor, and I '11 not
survive it. Never more shall you behold me
alive."

Baldwin spurred off into the fight, not waiting
to hear another word from Orlando, but constantly
crying out, ** You have done me dishonor"
; and Orlando was very sorry for what
he had said, for he perceived that the youth was
in despair.

And now the fight raged beyond all it had
done before ; and the Paladins themselves began
to fall, the enemy were driven forward in
such multitudes by Marsilius. There was unhorsing

of foes, and reseating of friends, and
great cries, and anguish, and unceasing labor ;
and twenty Pagans went down for one Christian
; but still the Christians fell. One Paladin
disappeared after another, having too much todo
for mortal men. Some could not make way
through the press for very fatigue of killing,
and others were hampered with the falling
horses and men. Sansonetto was thus beaten
to earth by the club of Grandonio ; and Walter
d'Amulion had his shoulders broken ; and An-violin
of Bayona, having lost his lance, was
thrust down by Marsilius, and Angiolin of bellona
by Sorbonne ; and Berlinghieri and Tone
are gone ; and then Astolfo went, in revenge of
whose death Orlando turned the spot on which
he died into a gulf of Saracen blood. Rinaldo
met the luckless Bujaforte, who had just begun
to explain how he seemed to be fighting on the
side which his father hated, when the impatient
hero exclaimed, " He who is not with me is
against me" ; and gave him a volley of such
horrible cuffs about the head and ears, that Bu-afore
died without being able to speak another
word. Orlando, cutting his way to a spot in
which there was a great struggle and uproar,
found the poor youth Baldwin, the son of Gan,
with two spears in his breast. " I am no traitor
now," said Baldwin ; and so saying, fell dead to

the earth ; and Orlando lifted up his voice and
wept, for he was bitterly sorry to have been the
cause of his death. He then joined Rinaldo in
the hottest of the tumult ; and all the surviving
Paladins gathered about them, including Turpin
the archbishop, who fought as hardily as the
rest ; and the slaughter was lavish and horrible,
so that the eddies of the wind chucked the blood
into the air, and earth appeared a very seething
cauldron of hell. At length down went Uliviero
himself. He had become blind with his own
blood, and smitten Orlando without knowing
him, who had never received such a blow in his
life.

How now, cousin ! " cried Orlando ; "have
you too gone over to the enemy ? "

O my lord and master, Orlando," cried the
other, *' I ask your pardon, if I have struck you.
I can see nothing — I am dying. The traitor
Arcaliffe has stabbed me in the back ; but I
killed him for it. If you love me, lead my horse
into the thick of them, so that I may not die
unavenged."

** I shall die myself before long," said Orlando,
*rout of very toil and grief; so we will
go together. I have lost all hope, all pride, all
wish to live any longer : but not my love for
Uliviero. Come — let us give them a few blows
yet ; let them see what you can do with your

dying hands. One faith, one death, one only
wish be ours. ' '

Orlando led his cousin's horse where the press
was thickest, and dreadful was the strength of
the dying man and of his half-dying companion.
They made a street, through which they
passed out of the battle ; and Orlando led his
cousin away to his tent, and said : " Wait a little
till I return, for I will go and sound the
horn on the hill yonder."

'T is of no use," said Uliviero ; "and my
spirit is fast going, and desires to be with its
Lord and Saviour." He would have said more,
but his words came from him imperfectly, like
those of a man in a dream ; only his cousin
gathered that he meant to commend to him his
sister, Orlando's wife, Alda the Fair, of whom
indeed the great Paladin had not thought so
much in this world as he might have done.
And with these imperfect words he expired.

But Orlando no sooner saw him dead than he
felt as if he was left alone on the earth ; and he
was quite willing to leave it ; only he wished
that Charles at St. John Pied de Port should
hear how the case stood before he went ; and
so he took up the horn, and blew it three times
with such force that the blood burst out of his
nose and mouth. Turpin says that at the third
blast the horn broke in two.

In spite of all the noise of the battle the
sound of the horn broke over it like a voice
out of the other world. They say that birds
fell dead at it, and that the whole Saracen army
drew back in terror. But fearfully still was its
effect at St. John Pied de Port. Charlemagne
was sitting in the midst of his court when the
sound reached him ; and Gan was there. The
emperor was the first to hear it.

Did you hear that ? " said he to his nobles.
Did you hear the horn as I heard it ? "

Upon this they all listened ; and Gan felt his
heart misgive him.

The horn sounded the second time.

What is the meaning of this ? " said Charles.

"Orlando is hunting," observed Gan, "and
the stag is killed. He is at the old pastime
that he was so fond of in Aspramonte."

But when the horn sounded yet a third time,
and the blast was one of so dreadful a vehemence,
everybody looked at the other, and
then they all looked at Gan in fury. Charles
rose from his seat. " This is no hunting of the
stag," said he. "The sound goes to my very
heart, and, I confess, makes me tremble. I am
awakened out of a great dream. O Gan ! O
Gan ! Not for thee do I blush, but for myself,
and for nobody else. O my God, what is to be
done ! But whatever is to be done must be

done quickly. Take this villain, gentlemen,
and keep him in hard prison, O foul and monstrous
villain ! Would to God I had not lived
to see this day ! O obstinate and enormous
folly ! O Malagigi, had I but believed thy foresight
! 'T is thou wert the wise man, and I the
gray-headed fool. "

Ogier the Dane, and Namo and others, in
the bitterness of their grief and anger, could
not help reminding the emperor of all which
they had foretold. But it was no time for
words. They put the traitor into prison ; and
then Charles, with all his court, took his way
to Roncesvalles, grieving and praying.

It was afternoon when the horn sounded, and
half an hour after it when the emperor set out ;
and meantime Orlando had returned to the
fight that he might do his duty, however hopeless,
as long as he could sit his horse, and the
Paladins were now reduced to four ; and though
the Saracens suffered themselves to be mowed
down like grass by them and their little band,
he found his end approaching for toil and fever,
and so at length he withdrew out of the fight,
and rode all alone to a fountain which he
knew of, where he had before quenched his
thirst.

His horse was wearier still than he, and no
sooner had its master alighted, than the beast,

kneeling down as if to take leave, and to say,
** I have brought you to your place of rest," fell
dead at his feet. Orlando cast water on him
from the fountain, not wishing to believe him
dead ; but when he found it to no purpose he
grieved for him as if he had been a human
being, and addressed him by name in tears, and
asked forgiveness if ever he had done him
wrong. They say that the horse, at these
words, once more opened his eyes a little, and
looked kindly at his master, and so stirred
never more.

They say also that Orlando then, summoning
all his strength, smote a rock near him with his
beautiful sword Durlindana, thinking to shiver
the steel in pieces, and so prevent its falling
into the hands of the enemy ; but though the
rock split like a slate, and a deep fissure remained
ever after to astonish the eyes of pilgrims,
the sword remained unhurt.

O strong Durlindana," cried he, ** O noble
and worthy sword, had I known thee from the
first as I know thee now, never would I have
been brought to this pass. ' '

And now Rinaldo and Ricciardetto and Turpin
came up, having given chase to the Saracens
till they were weary, and Orlando gave
joyful welcome to his cousin, and they told him
how the battle was won, and then Orlando knelt

before Turpin, his face all iu tears, and begged
remission of his sins, and confessed them, and
Turpin gave him absolution ; and suddenly a
light came down upon him from heaven like a
rainbow, accompanied with a sound of music,
and an angel stood in the air blessing him, and
then disappeared ; upon which Orlando fixed
his eyes on the hilt of his sword as on a crucifix,
and embraced it and said: " Ivory, vouchsafe
that I may look on this poor instrument as
on the symbol of the tree upon which Thou
suffered Thy unspeakable martyrdom ! " and
so adjusting the sword to his bosom, and
embracing it closer, he raised his eyes, and
appeared like a creature seraphic and transfigured
; and in bowing his head he breathed
out his pure soul. A thunder was then heard
in the heavens, and the heavens opened and
seemed to stoop to the earth, and a flock of
angels was seen like a white cloud ascending
with his spirit, who were known to be what
they were by the trembling of their wings.
The white cloud shot out golden fires, so that
the whole air was full of them ; and the voices
of the angels mingled in song with the instruments
of their brethren above, which made an
inexpressible harmony, at once deep and dulcet.
The priestly warrior Turpin, and the two Paladins,
and the hero's squire Terigi, who were all

on their knees, forgot their own beings, in following
the miracle with their eyes.

It was now the oflSce of that squire to take
horse and ride off to the emperor at St. John
Pied de Port, and tell him of all that had occurred
; but in spite of what he had just seen,
he lay for a time overwhelmed with grief. He
then rose, and amounted his steed, and left the
Paladins and the archbishop with the dead
body, who knelt about it, guarding it with a
weeping love.

The good squire Terigi met the emperor and
his cavalcade coming towards Roncesvalles, and
alighted and fell on his knees, telling him the
miserable news, and how all his people were
slain but two of his Paladins, and himself, and
the good archbishop. Charles for anguish began
tearing his white locks ; but Terigi comforted
him against so doing, by giving an
account of the manner of Orlando's death, and
how he had surely gone to heaven. Nevertheless,
the squire himself was broken-hearted
with grief and toil ; and he had scarcely added
a denouncement of the traitor Gau, and a hope
that the emperor would appease Heaven finally
by giving his body to the winds, than he said :
"The cold of death is upon me " ; and so he
fell dead at the emperor's feet.

Charles was ready to drop from his saddle for

wretchedness. He cried out : '• Let nobody
comfort me more. I will have no comfort.
Cursed be Gan, and cursed this horrible day,
and this place, and every thing. Let us go on,
like blind miserable men that we are, into
Roncesvalles ; and have patience if we can, out
of pure misery, like Job, till we do all that can
be done."

So Charles rode on with his nobles ; and they
say that for the sake of the champion. of Christendom
and the martyrs that died with him, the
sun stood still in the sky till the emperor had
seen Orlando, and till the dead were buried.

Horrible to his eyes was the sight of the field
of Roncesvalles. The Saracens, indeed, had
forsaken it, conquered ; but all his Paladins but
two were left on it dead ; and the slaughtered
heaps among which they lay made the whole
valley like a great dumb slaughter-house, trampled
up into blood and dirt, and reeking to the
heat. The very trees were dropping with
blood ; and every thing, so to speak, seemed
tired out, and gone to a horrible sleep.

Charles trembled to his heart's core for
wonder and agony. After dumbly gazing on the
place, he again cursed it with a solemn curse,
and wished that never grass might grow within
it again, nor seed of any kind, neither within it
nor on any of its mountains around with their

proud shoulders ; but the anger of Heaven abide
over it forever, as on a pit made by hell upon
earth.

Then he rode on, and came up to where the
body of Orlando awaited him with the Paladins,
and the old man, weeping, threw himself as if
he had been a reckless youth from his horse,
and embraced and kissed the dead body, and
said: "I bless thee, Orlando. I bless thy
whole life, and all that thou wast; and all that
thou ever didst, and thy mighty and holy valor,
and the father that begot thee ; and I ask pardon
of thee for believing those who brought
thee to thine end. They shall have their reward,
O thou beloved one ! But, indeed, it is
thou that livest, and I that am worse than
dead."

And now, behold a wonder. For the emperor,
in the fervor of his heart and of the memory
of what had passed between them, called to
mind that Orlando had promised to give him
his sword, should he die before him ; and he
lifted up his voice more bravely, and adjured
him even now to return it to him gladly ; and
it pleased God that the dead body of Orlando
should rise on its feet, and kneel as he was wont
to do at the feet of his liege lord, and gladly,
and with a smile on its face, return the sword to
the Emperor Charles. As Orlando rose, the

Paladins and Turpin knelt down out of fear
and horror, especially seeing him look with a
stern countenance ; but when they saw that he
knelt also, and smiled, and returned the sword,
their hearts became reassured, and Charles
took the sword like his liege lord, though trembling
with wonder and affection : and in truth
he could hardly clench his fingers around it.

Orlando was buried in a great sepulchre in
Aquisgrana, and the dead Paladins were all embalmed
and sent with majestic cavalcades to
their respective counties and principalities, and
every Christian was honorably and reverently
put in the earth, and recorded among the martyrs
of the Church.

But meantime the flying Saracens, thinking
to bury their own dead, and ignorant of what
still awaited them, came back into the valley,
and Rinaldo beheld them with a dreadful joy,
and showed them to Charles. Now the emperor's
cavalcade had increased at every moment
; and they fell upon the Saracens with a
new and unexpected battle, and the old emperor,
addressing the sword of Orlando, exclaimed
: "My strength is little, but do thou
do thy duty to thy master, thou famous sword,
seeing that he returned it to me smiling, and
that his revenge is in my hands." And so saying,
he met Baliigante, the leader of the infidels,

as lie came borne along by his frightened horse ;
and the old man, raising the sword with both
hands, cleaved him, with a delighted mind, to
the chin.

O sacred Emperor Charles ! O well-lived old
man ! Defender of the Faith ! light and glory
of the old time ! thou hast cut ois the other ear
of Malthus, and shown how rightly thou wert
born into the world, to save it a second time
from the abyss.

Again fled the Saracens, never to come to
Christendom more : but Charles went after
them into Spain, he and Rinaldo and Ricciar-
ditto and the good Turpin ; and they took and
fired Saragossa ; and Marsilius was hung to the
carob-tree under which he had planned his villainy
with Gan ; and Gan was hung, and drawn
and quartered, in Roncesvalles, amidst the
execrations of the country.

And if you ask, how it happened that Charles
ever put faith in such a wretch, I shall tell you
that it was because the good old emperor, withall
his faults, was a divine man, and believed in
others out of the excellence of his own heart
and truth. And such was the case with Orlando
himself.

the; end

12 084214144

fett*t*t3iS
