OF THE

UNIVERSITY

Of ILLINOIS


Isl2b

V.I

BY THE

Rev. JOHN Isabella,

AUTHOR OF " Cornish Temperance TALES," ETC.

IN TWO VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

HLontJoit :
SAMPSON LOW, Marston, SEARLE, & Livingston,

CROWN BUILDINGS, 188, FLEET STREET.

1885.

[sall rights reserved']

PRINTED BY Gilbert AND Livingston, LIMITED,

ST. John's scares

CONTENTS OF VOL. I.

I

CHAPTER I.

CHAPTER VI.

FEAST .

CHAPTER VII.

PAGE

the STORM 1

CHAPTER II.

^ Ill WISHED . . . . . . .11

% CHAPTER III.

^ "what will he do with it?" . . .28

CHAPTER IV.

'•' NAME THIS CHILD " 43

CHAPTER V.

^' THE CHRISTENING OF Juniper . . . .48

,K THE CHRISTENING FEAST 58

A SEAT OF LEARNING . . . . * 70

^ CHAPTER VIII.

A Man's school 81

CHAPTER IX.

^ weddings AND FUNERALS . . . .89

"^ CHAPTER X.

t THE FIRST CIGAR 100

i

CHAPTER XI.

Page
ON HEAYEIf 113

CHAPTER XII.

A LITERARY MAN 124

CHAPTER XIII.

A PIOUS Founder 140

CHAPTER XIV.

THE ANTIQUARY . . . . . . 152

CHAPTER XV.

THE WILD Waves 181

CHAPTER XVI.

THE ARCHITECT OP HIS OWN FORTUNES . .193

CHAPTER XVII.

CONFIRMATION . 200

CHAPTER XVIII.

GOING TO CELLAR " 214

CHAPTER XIX.

THE Privy COUNCIL 225

CHAPTER XX.

THE CHINA JAR 239

CHAPTER XXI.

SOME OF THE SPICE OF LIFE 249

CHAPTER XXII.

WILT THOU BE MY DEARIE ? " . . . 268

CHAPTER XXIII.

UNCLE ANTHONY 283

THE Storm.

The wild wind and the remorseless dash of billows.

Don Juan.

The day is Sunday, the time nearly sunset,
the place a small Cornish fishing
town which we will call St. Enodoc. The
voices of the pealing bells have died
away in the old tower, the aisles of the
noble church are thronged by hundreds
of worshippers, the prayers are ended,
and the petitions of the congregation,
couched in the language of Fathers and
Bishops and Martyrs, have gone up to
VOL. I. B

the throne of the Almighty. A hymn is
given out by the clergyman. It is that
grand prayer-hymn beginning, —

Eternal Father, strong to save,
"Whose arm hath bound the restless wave."

It has, perhaps, never been sung with
more heartiness, for most of those present
have some relative on the great deep, or
themselves go down to the sea in ships,
either as seamen or fishermen. Aud
moreover, it can be sung at no more
fitting time, for while they are singing a
violent September storm is raging outside,
beating against the leaded windows of
the church, as if determined to force an
entrance, and swaying about the great
trees which stud the churchyard with a
mighty roar, which now and again seems
to drown the voice of the organ within.
The men present cannot hear the dash
of the wild waves in the bay beyond the

harbour, but tliej know by bitter experience
what they are saying; the outlines
of the cruel rocks, churning the
mighty breakers into boiling foam, stand
out before their eyes. "Woe to the
mariner found on such a shore on such
a night as this.

But listen ! what is that which is heard
above the pealing of the organ and the
sound of many voices and the roaring of
the trees as they clap their bands together ?
It may be thunder, for the lightning is flashing
and flinging its lurid glare into the dim
light of the church. Boom ! there it roars
again, a sound of terror to the practised ear.
What can it mean ? It means that men's
lives are at stake, that a gallant ship
is struggling with the mad waves on a lee
shore. It is a signal of distress — pray
God it may not be a funeral knell !

The men one by one steal quietly out of
B 2

the church, for they know well that strong
arms and stout hearts are needed to make
a fit response to that cry from the deep.
The women would fain follow, but the
voice of the vicar restrains them by saying,
*' Let the men render what assistance they
can ; but you, mothers and • sisters and
wives, sing once more that hymn for
those in peril on the sea. He who holds
the winds in the hollow of His hand is
able to answer our prayers."

The hymn was sung with heartiness
before, it is sung with passionate pleading
now. The possible perils of their kinsfolk
has softened their hearts : the thought of
the certain dangers now about to be
faced by their nearest and dearest brings
Hoods of tears which almost still the
music, as the falling rain hushes the voice
of the storm.

It is ended at last, and unable to restrain

themselves any longer, they rush
from the church to find that the life-boat
has been placed on its carriage and is
being drawn overland to the bay, where
the vessel in distress is said to be. A
quarter of an hour and life-boat and men
are facing the wreck.

She is a large barque flying the English
flag. Unable to stand out to sea,
she has become embayed on this pitiless
coast, and has, after parting her cables,
drifted broadside on to a reef of rocks
about three hundred yards from the shore.
Even while they look a mighty wave
dashes her with such force on the rocks
that she parts asunder amidships, and
her main and mizen-masts go over the
side with a mighty crash. Two or three
men are clinging to the rigging of the
foremast, the rest of the crew have already
apparently found a watery grave. If anything

is done, it must be done at once.
But can she life-boat be launched in
such a surf? Only let it fail to burst
through the ring of breakers, and the
crew will have to fight hard for their lives.
But there are thirteen stout Cornish
hearts on board, and when are Cornishmen
wont to shrink from adventuring
their own lives to save those of drowning
sailors ? A long run, a strong pull, and
she will dash through the hostile waves,
which send ashore their advance-guard of
cloud-like spray as if daring them to the
contest. A hundred strong hands seize
the launching-lines, the crew hold their
oars, the coxswains are at their posts.
Hearts are beating hard now, for a slight
mistake, a trifling error of judgment,
may doom to death husbands and brothers
and sons. Are you ready ? Now ! With
the speed of horses and with the strength

of lions they dash up the beach, and like
a steed panting for the fray, the noble
boat leaps at the billows, cuts through
them, and, amid a ringing cheer from the
spectators, emerges into the comparatively
smooth water beyond. Brave boat, brave
crew, God speed you on your errand of
mercy !

But look at that mighty wave bearing
down on the battered barque. It curls
and curls, and leaps and hisses as it
nears its prey. Cling, poor waifs, to
the warping cordage — cling for dear life.

The green waters rise like a huge mountain
above their heads, and then with a
roar fall on board. Only one is left in the
rigging now. Three half-dead forms are
tossed to and fro for a few moments
by the hungry waves, as with feline playfulness,
and then are swallowed up before
the life-boat can reach them.

Strain at your oars, strong fishermen
tug with might and main, reach the
shattered hulk before another dash of
waters sweeps away the last poor wretch
clinging to the dripping ropes.

The life-boat surges up under the lee of
the barque. Now then, one spring and
you are safe. Foolish man ! grasping
some prized possession in such a time of
peril. Throw away that bundle and jump
for your life.

He leaps at last on to the convex forecastle,
or air-box, of the life-boat, but,
hampered by his treasure, misses his foothold,
and with a cry falls over the side,
flinging forward into the boat the bundle
which until now he has clung to. He
evidently has struck himself in falling,
for he sinks like lead under the troubled
waters.

It is all oyer now, their voyages are

ended, their labour is done. The poor
bodies have become the playthings of the
tempest, the spirits have returned unto
God who gave them. Keep the boat
before the wind and make the harbour
by doubling the point; you have failed
to save your brothers, but you did your
duty well. Toss overboard that fatal
bundle, it caused a brave man's death.

Stay ! What cry is that ? It is an
infant's wail, a little life is hidden under
those woollen wraps. A tiny babe it is,
so frail and fragile, the only survivor of
all that ship's company. O precious
child ! who can tell thy worth ? A gallant
heart was given for thee. brave, strongman
! noble soul ! thou lightest have
been saved, but thou didst count the life
of another more precious than thine own.
Starboard the helm a point, so ; keep her
dead before the wind now. How she

leaps on as she rises on the crests of the
waves ! Hard a port ! There ; she glides
into smooth water and the danger is
past.

The darkness has fallen, and the gleam
of the pier-head lights falls on the lifeboat
and the crowd assembled to witness
the disembarkation. The coxswain leaps
out on the quay, and heedless of the eager
inquirers who attempt to stop him, hurries
home with his treasure trove — the little
babe saved at such a cost — the child of
the storm.

CHAPTER II.

ILL-WISHED.

As the old swain said, she can unlock
The clasping charm, and thaw the numbing spell,
If she be right invoked.

Comus.

** Theert ill-wished so sure as senate,
Mrs. Treleaven; teeake mj word for it,
theert ill wished'*

Don't be so foolish, Betsy, who would
be so wicked as to ill-wish me ? What
harm have I done to anybody ? Besides
I don't believe in ill wishing ? "

What, my dear ! dont ee believe in
ill-wishing ? Why, tes so true as the
blessed Bible. I do know tes, for I've

experienced it. There's old Tommy
Roskillj, who died sower dear agone,
won he ill wished? He drowned les
donkey cart wan day over wan of Patty
Symons's chicks, and he never was a
man no more. They do say that Patty
fulled a bottle with earth and pins
and needles, and buried it in the churchyard,
and from that time Tommy cud
git no rest, les flesh was all creepy
like, and in two dear he was carried to
his grave. The doctor told Tommy's
wife 'twas Titus's defence, but twodn
Titus's defence 'tall, twas pins and
needles and nothing' else that croft the
creepy feeling over un."

The speakers were Betsy Polsue, the
village nurse, and Mrs. Treleaven, the wife
of a coastguardsman stationed at ,
on the south side of the county
of Cornwall.

John Treleaven was on duty at the
boat-house, and his wife and Betsy Polsue
were watching by the bedside of Arthur,
the only child of the pair, who had been
tossing for many days in the burning
pains of a fever, but was now utterly
prostrate, hovering on the borders of
death, as if uncertain whether to go or
stay. The room, a bright one in the
daytime, was dimly lighted by one
flickering candle, which cast distorted
shadows of the mother and the old nurse
on the white-washed wall behind. Two
or three pictures representing such Scripture
subjects as the infant Samuel praying,
and Christ in the Temple, took off somewhat
from the blankness of the walls.

The poor little sick lamb lay pallid and
motionless on the white cot, breathing
so feebly that at times life seemed extinct,
and the nurse prepared to do the

last sad offices for the little frame. But
again the spark of life brightened, and
again the two watched on by the bedside.

Mrs. Treleaven was a fragile-looking
woman of about thirty-five years of age.
She was the only daughter of Captain
Retallack, a master mariner, trading to
the East Indies, and had married, seven
years before, the coastguardsman John
Treleaven, in spite of the bitter opposition
of her father.

Captain Retallack, who was a widower
at the time of his daughter's marriage,
died a year after without showing any
sign that he had forgiven her, and leaving
all his savings to a distant cousin,
with whom, in his lifetime, he had held
no intercourse whatever. But Jane Re-wallace
had married for love, not for
money, and she felt less therefore at the.
alienation of her father's possessions than

at his refusal to see and forgive her before
his death.

John Treleaven had made her a good
and affectionate husband, and when, after
about two years, a boy was given to her,
she felt that no woman in England had
more cause to be thankful than she. The
fever which laid her boy low cast a black
shadow on the brightness of her life.
At first her hopes were stronger than her
fears, but, as the days went on and the
child grew worse instead of better, and
the doctor began to shake his head and
look very grave, her hopes gradually died
away, and an intense dread settled upon
her. She was a devout woman, and cries
of agony, the agony of a mother praying
for her child, went up from that sickroom.
*' Lord, save my child," she pleaded
in a passion of tears ; '' give me back my
darling ; I cannot give up ray boy**

But the strength of the child ebbed
away, and to-night the king of terrors
was looking his intended victim full in
the face. '

Betsy Polsue was old, and withered,
and brown. Her hair had long since
disappeared, and a wig intended for
brown, but with a decided inclination to
brick-red, usurped its place. A couple
of yellow fangs represented her erewhile
ivory teeth ; and when I say that Betsy
was the owner of a well-defined squint,
and that her ancient wig was usually seton
awry, it will be easily understood that
her personal appearance would be to few
people a powerful recommendation. But
notwithstanding her unpleasing aspect,
Betsy was an extremely popular member
of the community. There was no one in
the parish, no, nor in half a dozen parishes
round, who could boast of half the knowledge

of the healing art possessed by
Betsy. Her acquaintance with plants, if
it did not range from the cedar tree that
is in Lebanon unto the hyssop that
bringeth out of the wall, certainly embraced
most of the herbs and simples
used by amateur practitioners of the healing
art, while for nursing she was
absolutely without a rival. Whether the
malady was a fever, a wound, or even a
broken bone, before a word was said about
the doctor some one was certain to cry
out, '' Send for Betsy Polsue."

Even when the doctor had come and
done his office, his patient often preferred
Betsy Polsue's advice to his.

*' Paw, Paw," Betsy would say in contempt,
"what do doctors know ? All
they're good for es to mend boons.
You hearken to me, my dears."

In consequence a chronic warfare was
VOL. I.

waged between the doctor and Betsy. He
hinted grimly sometimes that it would
give him very great pleasure to perform
a post mortem upon her ancient frame ; he
suggested to Betsy's patients that she
was not over clean, which was certainly
true ; and among his own particular
friends he described her with strong
emphasis as, " that confounded old
witch."

To call Betsy Polsue " a confounded
old witch " was scarcely fair to that
estimable person, for Betsy's exploits in
necromancy consisted only in the use of
sundry charms to stop bleeding, and to
cure erysipelas and similar diseases. But
though she was no professor of the black
art, she was a firm believer in those who
were, and in season and out of season,
more particularly the latter, she never
wearied of relating remarkable instances

of ill-wishing, and of the efficacy of charms
and spells.

While watching the sick child she
naturally drifted into her favourite topic,
and in spite of Mrs. Treleaven's disinclination
to pursue the subject, the
garrulous old dame rambled on as I
have described in the beginning of this
chapter.

Who would be so wicket as to ill-wish
tha?" she continued after a pause.
Aw, my dear ! wicket es it ? Wickedness
is plentiful muff, goodness knows. People
es getting wiser and wickeder, ses I, wiser
and wickeder. Why, there's old Nancy
Furze, cause Zaackle Thomas took the
treaty ground what she wanted she ill-wished
un, and after that he was always
in diffikittles. Must les pig died — he
cud ait no main, Zaackle said, and then
les humbly failed in and nearly seat unto


pieces in les bed, and then somefin'
white banged up agen les winder wan
night, and that frightened uq so that he
govved up the treaty ground to her the
next morning', and have a been all right
sence. I know tes true, for Zaackle told
me himself."

"But what harm have I ever done to
anybody ? " repeated Mrs. Treleaven.

No, theist never done no harm to nobody,"
replied Betsy, " tes your man, my
dear, tes your man. Haven ee reed in the
Bible that the sins of the feathers shall
be visited 'pon the cheldurn ? Well,
your man stopped Peggy Peruse from
earring off some temper that was washed
in t'other day, and sleeve a ill wished the
body to serve out his feather. There entire
to send to the white witch over to
Redruth, but lave me say the charm backwards,
I bleed that'll teeake off the ill-wish

the white witch told me the way when
I seed un five dear agone — but ten no
good 'less you do give me your consent.
Shall I do et, mistress ? "

Mrs. Treleaven was a religious woman,
but she was imbued with the superstitious
feelings of her race, and in her distress
was ready to grasp at any straw. " Do as
you like'' she said, " it won't do any harm,
I suppose, if it does no good."

The old crone fortified herself by a good
drink of gin-ands water, a beverage kept in
the sick-room for her especial delectation,
and then retired to a corner to perform
her incantations. These consisted of some
doggerel verses which she muttered to herself,
making at the same time sundry
circles, crosses, and other mystic signs.
She had hardly concluded the charm when
a gentle knock was heard, and the street
door was opened by the doctor, who

walked upstairs without waiting for Lis
knock to be answered.

Dr. Anderton was a jolly-looking man of
about fifty years of age. His practice was
a large one, embracing every parish within
six or seven miles from Pendruthan. Skilful
in his profession, a man of some culture,
and a thoroughly good and kindhearted
man, he delighted all the old
ladies by lending a sympathetic ear to the
long tale of their many and complicated
ailments. " He's a dear man if ever there
was one," was their unanimous verdict.
His house was perched on the hill behind
the village, among a splendid group of firs
known as the " Grove." He had only now
returned to it from a long drive, but ran
down to look at the sick boy before he
went to bed. The first thing which met his
eyes as he ascended the stairs was old Betsy
performing her sorceries in the corner.

" Whatever is that old humbug up to
now?" he muttered loud enough for the
two watchers to hear.

This uncomplimentary question put
Betsy into high dudgeon. " Humbug,"
she grunted, " there's more humbugs
in the world than Betsy Polsue, teeake
my word for et. Heeaf the doctor's
trade people drink es humbug in my
opinion."

"Hush, Betsy," said Mrs. Treleaven
soothingly, " hush, and hold the candle for
Dr. Anderton."

Betsy first took an immense pinch of
snuff to compose her ruffled feelings and
then brought the candle to the bedside.
'' The boy is decidedly better," was the
verdict ; "lie will probably fall asleep and
then he will do well. Keep his lips moist,
Mrs. Treleaven, and give him the mixture
every three tours. I will look in again in

the morning. Good-night, Mrs. Treleaven,
good-night, Mrs. Polsue."

*' Dean I say so ? " said Bets as the door
closed, '' dean I say so ? The charm have
a worked. I know the doctor's ony puff
at et, and try to meeake people believe the
mixyer, as he do call et, have a oared the
body. * Was the old humbug up to
now ' ses a ? Why I've a took off the
ill wish, that what I've a done. ' Goodnight,
Mrs. Polsue ! ' I'd Mrs. i Polsue un
ef I had my way." |

Mrs. Treleaven soothed Betsy by
another dose of her favourite beverage,
and soon the two were joined. by John
Treleaven, whose watch at the boat-house
was ended. He was overjoyed Ibo find that
his son was rallying from his Stupor, and

did not trouble himself much to consider

j

whether to Dr. Anderton or tb Betsy belonged
the chief credit of the (change.

'* Thank God, mother," he said, 'Hie
fever is turned. You go and rest yourself,
or you'll be knocked up. I'll stay up with
Betsy the rest of the night ; 'tis nearly one
o'clock now."

John discouraged Betsy's rambling dissertations,
and soon a dead silence reigned
in the sick chamber, broken only by the
breathing of the two watchers and of
the sleeping child. Hour after hour the
boy slept on, the darkness gave place to
daylight, the clock struck six, seven, and
eight, without bringing consciousness.
Between eight and nine o'clock the doctor
again appeared. Old Betsy had gone home,
and only the father and mother were in the
room. The slight noise the doctor made
in entering aroused Arthur, and he opened
his eyes, and, for the first time for many
days, recognized his parents, and, stretching
out his little wasted arms towards

them, said, 'father, mother, kiss me, kiss
Arthur."

"Thank God," said the doctor, "he will
get on now. Take great care of him, Mrs.
Treleayen, but I need hardly tell you that.
What in the world was old mother Polsue
about, as I came in last night ? What extraordinary
antics was she performing in
the corner there ? "

Mrs. Treleaven, in reply, repeated Betsy's
story respecting the cause of the sickness,
and of her charm to remove the ill wish.

Dr. Anderton could not control his indignation.
'* She ought to be sent to
prison for a rogue and a vagabond," he
said, " and I am greatly surprised at a
sensible woman like you, Mrs. Treleaven,
believing in such rank nonsense. Give
God thanks for restoring your child, and
don't listen any more to impostors like old
Betsy."

From that time the recovery of Arthur
was assured, and it was not long before he
won back again all his former health and
strength.

In spite of Dr. Anderton's rebuke to Mrs.
Treleaven, Betsy spread far and wide her
part in the turning of the fever, and no
inconsiderable portion of the community
accepted it as a confirmation of their old
faith in her as a sick-nurse and attendant
worth all the doctors within a circle of
fifty miles round.

CHAPTER III.

WHAT WILL HE DO WITH TT ? '*

Who was her father 1
"Who was her mother ?
Had she a sister t
Had she a brother ?

Bridge of Sighs,

Daniel Trewhella, the coxswain of the
St. Bnodoc life-boat, burst into his house
on the night of the scene described in our
first chapter, and, to the astonishment of
his wife, who was preparing warm and dry-clothes,
placed on the table the bundle
saved from the wreck.

Here, Rebecca," he said, " teeake this,
we haven seemed nothing' else."

Law me, Dan," exclaimed his wife,

** what have ee got there ? Why, seeave
us, tes a cheeld. Poor tender dear, tes
dripping' with salt water, and so could asa
stone. Where's her mother, Daniel ? "

*' Dooant ee hear me say that all the
other people es drowned and only this
cheeld seemed?" answered the coxswain.


*' Aw, the tender dear," said Rebecca,
throwing away the black and white plaid
shawl which was wound round and round
the babe, " what a little beauty it tes to be
sure, a regler little angel, edn she, Daniel ?"

It was indeed a sweet child. Her age
might be about ten or twelve months. The
features were as regular as if shapen by
the hand of a sculptor, and the complexion
was like ivory for whiteness. The full black
eyes of the child looked up at the kindly
matron holding her so tenderly, and the
little lips parted into a smile.

"Lord, love her' said the kind-hearted
woman, " I never seed such a little darling
in my life. Hold her a minute, Dan,
while I run upstairs and fetch some clothes
belonging to my poor little dear that gone
I never expected to use them no more —
they'll be just the thing for her."

It was fifteen years since Daniel Tree
had held his own child in his arms,
but the thought of that dear one, loved
and lost, was borne back to him by the
waif from the sea, and the hot tears
rained down his weather-beaten cheeks ashe
rocked the child to and fro. Tree
had a rough exterior, but a braver,
more tender heart never beat than his.
He was, indeed, a splendid specimen of
the old Cornish race. Standing six feet
in his stockings and being broad in proportion,
Daniel possessed a mighty strength
which equalled that of two ordinary men.

His hair was black as jet, his eyes, which
were of the same hue, had that peculiar
twinkle so often seen in the Selfish race.
He was a skilful fisherman, and a brave
and active seaman. While his neighbours
often returned from their fishing expeditions
with light baskets and heavy hearts,
Daniel managed to secure good catches.
No man in the town could handle a line or
manage a seine like him. 'rit must be a
very crafty fish," the old salts said, " which
could outwit Dan." Whenever the lifeboat
was launched to succour distressed
sailors he was always at his post, and many
a poor wretch had he helped to snatch from
the very jaws of destruction.

The death of his baby girl had been the
great trial of his life. She had become so
intertwined with the strong man through
his great love, that she could not be torn
away without leaving behind a lacerated

heart, out of which all the life seemed to
be flowing. For a week his reason seemed
to be tottering, and although at last his
strong nature asserted itself, he never
lost a certain sadness, the result of his bereavement,
nor was he known through
all the fifteen years to allude to the child
or to his loss, but to his own tried and
trusted wife.

Rebecca came downstairs to find her
husband crying like a child.

Why, Dan, was the matter ? " she
asked in astonishment.

He had only time to sob, " Tes the
beeaby, Becca, tes the beeaby," when the
sound of voices and the confused trampling
of a crowd was heard outside. The lifeboat
crew had told the people assembled
at the quay what had been saved from the
wreck, and as with one accord they bent
their steps towards Daniel Trewhella's

house to see, if possible, for themselves
the coxswain's prize — the only survivor of
all that ship's company.

This'll never do, Becca," said Dan, as
soon as be became acquainted with the
cause of the gathering ; " teeake the cheeld
a minute, while I send um about their
business."

This he soon accomplished, telling them
that the child was well and was being
cared for, and that if they wanted to see her
they had better come the next morning.

When the morning came among the first
who appeared was Mr. Carnanton the
vicar, a kindly, middle-aged bachelor, who
spent his life in trying to alleviate the
miseries of the poor and distressed of his
parish, and in carrying the message of his
Master's love both to the sick and well.
He was ever ready to take part in any
movement calculated to benefit his people,

VOL. I. D

and in doing this spared neither strength
nor money, although his strength was by
no means robust, while his private means
were small, and the stipend attached to
the living extremely meagre.

Well, Mrs. Trewhella," he said as he
entered, " what is this I hear ? They tell
me that out of that dreadful wreck in pensive
Bay last night a little child was
saved, and that you have it here. Where
is it ? Is it all right ? Has the doctor
seen it ? '^

*' I should have sent for the doctor to
see the cheeld last night, sir," answered
Mrs. Trewhella, " but I gnawed he was
gone into the country, and I dean like to
disturb un when he comet home tired, and
this morning' the little dear dont want no
doctor. Here she es, Mr. Carnanton ; edn
she a little beauty ? What lovely black
eyes, and ded ee ever see such a lovely

skin ? She's like waxwork, edn she,
sir?"

*' If you think the doctor will not be
needed no doubt you are right," answered
the vicar; 'you know more about babies,
Mrs. Trewhella, than a bachelor like me.
Yes, she is certainly very pretty, but she
looks very pale ; is she quite well, do you
think?"

"Bless ee, sir," said Mrs. Trewhella,
there edn nothing' the matter with she ;
ef you'd seen her aitin' just now you'd ha
bin satisfied. I always says there's nothing'
the matter with chiltern ef they can ait."

I called at the Castle as T came down,"
said Mr. Carnanton, " and Mrs. Dunstable
asked me to say that if anything is wanted
for the child you must send up for it.
She will look in during the morning if
she can manage it. Oh ! here she is come
already."

D 2

"Good morning, Rebecca," said Mrs.
Dunstable, a stately lady of about forty
years of age.

Good morning', ma'am," said Rebecca,
curtseying as she spoke.

I am come to see about this baby,"
said Mrs. Dunstable; 'what a sweet child
it is. I asked Mr. Carnanton to mention
that anything you wanted you might
have from the Castle, but on second
thoughts it occurred to me that it would
be best to send the child up to us ; we
could care for it so much more conveniently
than you. Of course it will be
only for a short time until inquiries are
made and the child's friends found."

Thenky, ma'am," said Rebecca, " but
if I may be so bold, I should like to
keep the dear cheeld with me. I'll tease
cesare of it, ma'am, you may be sure."

Oh, very well, Rebecca, do as you

wish," said Mrs. Dunstable, "but don't
forget to send up if you want anything."
And the good lady gathered her skirts
about her and departed.

Mr. Carnanton also went his way. But
Mrs. Trewhella was not long left alone,
for all through the day old and young
came to gratify their curiosity by a good
look at the babe, until at last Daniel's
patience was exhausted, and he positively
refused to let one person more cross his
threshold.

Anybody would think we keep a
penny peep-shaw," he growled; " tes ony
a beeaby, with wan head and two legs
and two arms. I should think you've
a seed plenty of cheldurn before to-day."

In the course of the day a part of
the wrecked barque was found with the
name '' Mary, of Liverpool " painted on it.
The owners were at once communicated

with, and the names of the crew obtained.
But no clue could be discovered that
would enable those who had undertaken
the business to find out the friends of
the child.

The owners could give no information
on the subject. ISTo member of the crew
had his wife with him when the Mary
left Liverpool on the outward voyage to
Calcutta, and so far as the officials at the
latter port could ascertain, no woman or
child had left in the ship. Possibly the
poor little waif had with others been
rescued from some sinking ship on the
voyage home. At all events, nothing
could ever be learned of the child's
parentage or even of her nationality.

All this inquiry took up a considerable
time, and the child was nearly two years
of age before all hope was abandoned, and
it was clearly understood by her friends

at St. Enodoc that lier future was entirely
in their hands.

What should that future be ?

'* Put her into the workhouse," said
some ; " we can't expect Daniel Trewhella
to provide for people he helps to save
by the life-boat; it is very well to save
them."

The ship hailed from Liverpool," said
others, " the guardians there had better
maintain her ; our rates are heavy enough
without being burdened with strangers."

Can't some orphan home be found
for her ? " inquired a third set.

Mrs. Dunstable was inclined to favour
the last plan, but finding that objections
were raised by the Trewhellas to this as
well as to the other modes of providing
for the child, she, after long conference
with her brother, came forward with a
scheme of her own.

*'I want to speak to you very seriously,"
said she one day to Daniel and his wife.
"I have a proposal to make respecting
the future of the baby. Mr. Raleigh
and I have been considering the matter,
and we have come to the conclusion, as
we have no children of our own, to adopt
the little one ourselves. She will be
educated and brought up as if she were
our own. Of course you will understand
that it will Qot be well for her to come
here or into the town very often — I mean,
of course, when she is able to take care
of herself — but you will be able ta see her
now and then at the Castle. When will
it be convenient for you to bring her up
tons?"

You are very kind, ma'am," answered
Eebecca, "but I cud bear to have the
little dear took away from me almost
altogether, after I have had her nearly

twelve montis — 'twould be nearly so bad
to us now as losing our own cheeld.
I've bin spain' to Dan about it, and
we've agreed to keep lier ourselves if
you've no objection, ma'am."

J do not know that I have a right to
object," said Mrs. Dunstable, " but I think
you are very unwise ; you and your husband
are not very young, and to saddle
yourselves with the charge of a child at
your time of life is most imprudent.
What is to become of her if anything
happens to your husband ? She would be
much better provided for with us ; and
beside, we had set our hearts on having
her. I am sorry, Rebecca, that you should
thwart us in this way."

I am sorry too, ma'am," answered
Rebecca, 'for you have been very kind,
but we cud part with her now — we cud,
ma'am. We cud bear it, could we, Dan ? "

No, ma'am' said Dan, who had remained
silent during the conversation
between Mrs. Dunstable and his wife,
she do come too choose to us now for
us to lose her again. I'm mortal sorry
that we ceeant do what you want, ma'am,"

'' Oh, very well," said Mrs. Dunstable,
if your minds are quite made up it is
useless to say any more on the subject.
But remember, Eebecca, I shall not cease
to take an interest in the child, and if
help of any kind is needed, come to meat
once. Good-morning."

Thus it came to pass that the shipwrecked,
and probably orphan, child found
kind friends and a new father and
mother.

CHAPTER lY.

"name this child."

"What's in a name 1 that which we call a rose
By any other name would smell as sweet.

Borneo and Juliet.

Since the day when the friends of Zacharias
took upon themselves to name Mm
whom men called John Baptist, after the
name of his father, many a family has
debated earnestly and somewhat hotly
the important question, " What shall the
baby be called ? "

For it is an important question so far
as the child is concerned. Although
names do not now, as in the olden time, indicate
the character or appearance of the
owner, yet a ludicrous name, or one of ill-repute,

undoubtedly influences for evil the
prospects of the poor unfortunate who
bears it.

Who would choose for himself such a
name as Cain, or Judas, or Lazarus ?
Who but a Puritan could be comfortable
under such a prsenomen as ,
or Bind-their-kings-in-chains ?
Who would enjoy life knowing that his
parents had bestowed upon him the eupho-
ninus name of Satan, or Philadelphia, or
Mahershalal-hash-baz. Yet poor wretches
have been thus endowed. Even when
the Christian name standing alone is irreproachable,
its combination with an unpleasant
surname turns it to a jest and a
byword. Such names as these, and they
are genuine, and Cornish to boot, must
have been almost unendurable : Degory
Dagger, Degory Doubt, Pentecost Tremble,
Bartholomew Stye, and Gentile Fudge.

A Cornish sailor known to the writer,
selects names for his offspring long before
they are born, and all the entreaties of
wife and friends avail not to change his
mind when once it has been made up.
But this summary way of settling the
matter is not to be commended, aud is
one likely to be attended by a considerable
amount of domestic friction. Most
mothers like to have their fair share of
the preliminary weighing of the names
suggested as appropriate to their babes.
And one cannot in fairness say that they
are unreasonable, for to say the least a
moiety of the children is theirs.

As soon as it was finally decided by the
Trewhellas that the little orphan should
be adopted by them, the question naturally
suggested itself, " What shall she be
called ? "

"For," said Daniel, 'ewe ceeant go on

calling her Beeaby just as if she was a
kitten or a canary bird without a neeame.
She must be took to church and christened,
o' course, like other civilized
chiltern."

This was admitted by all, and it only
remained to decide upon some particular
name. Mary, the name of the barque
which brought her to their coast, was
first suggested, but was rejected at once.

'' We dont want to be always bringing
to her mind that bad day, when she
grass up," said Daniel. "Mary weeant
do."

Mrs. Dunstable thought Margaret would
be suitable, as the child, like a pearl, was
plucked from the sea. Mr. Carnanton
liked Ruth, because like Ruth she had
come from a far country to dwell among
strangers.

At last Dan spoke and said, —

I'll tell ee wliy all they names
weeant do. The beeaby is become to me
so dear as my own cheeld Jenifer who
was carried to her grave sixteen dear
agone, and I want to have her called
Jenifer too. Perhaps she'll make up to me
for the wan that gone."

And so it was resolved that the child
should be baptized Jenifer — a name lightly
esteemed by the ordinary Englishman,
but sweet to the Cornish ear, for was it
not the name of their own Arthur of
Tintagel's peerless queen — the loved, the
fallen, the repentant, the pardoned Guinevere?


CHAPTER Y.

THE Christina OF JENIFEE.

My lord of Canterbury,
I have a suit which you must not deny me,
That is, a fair young maid that yet wants baptism ;
Tou must be godfather and answer for her.

I long
To have this young one made a Christian.

Henry VIII

The ancient town of St. Enodoc looked
very beautiful as one entered it on the
afternoon of a bright September day.
Fine trees — the graceful ash, the silver
beech, and here and there a fir giving a
darker tint to the foliage — formed natural
arches over the steep hill which led down
to the market-place and quays. Over the
tops of the houses it was possible to

catch a glimpse of the sea beyond — a
sapphire in a setting of emerald. Above
the belt of firs which fringed the opposite
shore rose great hills of sand, grey and
desolate-looking, but the home of myriads
of strange insects and birds, and the
favourite sino^inof around of the lark.
There could be no question that, looked
at from the entrance, St. Enodoc was
very picturesque.

But the town itself was not quite so
charming. Old houses with antique gables
and drooping eaves, dropped seemingly at
random along ill-paved pathways, scandalized
the burgesses of more enlightened
towns. They were not streets at all, these
scoffers said, but mere rocky bridle-paths.
And in truth, with the exception of
Church Street, they were not much else.

These so-called streets were connected
by narrow openings, called *' drags," from

VOL. I. E

wHich there usually proceeded a compound
of scents such as Rimmel in his highest
flights would never dream of. The smells
were decidedly ancient, but it would bea
libel upon the finny tribe to say they
were fish-like.

St. Enodoc was certainly very charming
at the distance of five hundred yards.

Church Street, as its name implies, was
the street which led to the church. The
other terminus was the quay, where four
or five small vessels engaged in the
coasting trade and half a dozen '' drift "
boats used in the pilchard fishery were
drying their sails after a morning shower.
The red-brown sails of the latter were in
admirable keeping with the stained and
weather-beaten thatch of the antiquated
houses which formed the greater part of
St. Enodoc.

The great boast of the inhabitants was

their church. Its date was unknown, but
was certainly a very ancient one ; so every
man, woman, boy, and girl stoutly maintained.
Nothing in the world, however,
would induce them to fix upon any particular
date — they preferred to leave the matter
in the mist of antiquity. '' 'Twas built
in the back days," that was quite enough
for inquisitive strangers.

One old gentleman, carried away by his
veneration for the old church he loved,
was wont to declare his opinion that it
was built in '' the foretold ages." These
he placed, it is supposed, some few years
after the Flood.

St. Enodoc Church was a noble buildings
capable of holding nearly a thousand worshippers.
The style was early English.
The beautiful east window was filled with
rich glass, representing in exquisite workmanship
the twelve Apostles standing
E 2

round their Master, who was calling Lazarus
from his long sleep. The north windows
were a series of sermons. There was
first the old man's window, a venerable
patriarch with flowing beard holding a
scroll inscribed, " The hoary head is a
crown of glory, if it be found in the
way of righteousness." Then came the
young man's window, a picture of a
strong young fisherman with the inscription,
" E/Cmember now thy Creator
in the days of thy youth ; " and the
child's window, bearing the text, " Suffer
little children to come unto Me," over a
child kneeling in prayer. Then came the
sailor's window, the very scrolls containing
the texts bellying out like the topsails
of a ship; the soldier's window, with the
shield and helmet and breast-plate and
sword ; and lastly the farmer's window,
with the reaper and his full sheaves, and

the significant text, "The harvest is the
end of the world, and the reapers are the
angels."

The inhabitants of St. Enodoc were very
proud of these silent preachers, and never
failed to point them out to strangers, but
there was one portion of the sacred building
the prized even more than the windows
the font was the great glory of their
church. And no wonder they loved it, for
it was very beautiful. The style was Norman,
the material the hard iron-grey Catechise
stone found in a Cornish quarry.
It did not require much knowledge of
architecture to tell that the font was very
old. The very noses of the twelve
Apostles on the four sides, and of the
figures at the corners representing the
holy Evangelists, were worn quite flat, so
that their owners could boast of no profile
worth mentioning. It must have taken

many centuries of rubbing to effect so
remarkable a change in their personal
appearance.

But these venerable personages were
looking quite gay to-day, if not absolutely
juvenile. Beautiful sprays of clematis
were wreathed round the four corner pillars,
while the main support in the centre
was hidden quite by a bed of snow-white
dahlias and asters. And the panels in
which the aforesaid figures had stood forages
were almost covered by wax-like
camellias, leaving only the ashen grey faces
of the Apostles visible. What was the
meaning of the decoration of the font ?
All the rest of the Church bore its usual
aspect.

Why, sir, you must be a stranger in
these parts — it was the day of the christening
of the child rescued from the barque
Mary, of Liverpool, and the primitive

people, touched by the strangeness of her
advent, and by her beauty, were making
it a gala-day. The good, simple-minded
vicar had acceded to their wishes, and
the font had accordingly been wreathed
with spotless flowers, and in a few minutes
the children of the Sunday-school would
be trooping in to see the ceremony.

Here they come. Throw open wide the
great southern door, and let the long procession
in. In they pour, chubby-faced
boys and bright-eyed girls, each carrying
a white flower, until the nave is full, and
they overflow into the north and south
aisles. All the old ladies of no particular
occupation make their appearance, and as
many mothers of families as can escape
from their own chubby faces at home, and
matrons in futuro a great company, and a
thick sprinkling of the harder sex completes
the gathering. No, there is something

still wanting — the babe] and attendant
" gossips." The sponsors are, Mrs.
Trewhella's great friend Mrs. Craddock,
Mrs. Sims, her sister, and Mr. Josiah
Toms, postmaster of St. Enodoc, a great
admirer of the coxswain of the life-boat.
It is to be hoped they will not keep the
congregation waiting. No, they appear
with wonderful punctuality, before the
clock has quite finished striking three.

The service began with a hymn — " a
bairn's hymn " — which affected the susceptible
Mrs. Craddock so profoundly that
that estimable lady shed copious tears.
The allusions in the baptismal prayers to
Noah and his family in the ark being saved
from perishing by water, and to the ark
of Christ's Church bearing the child
safely through the waves of this troublesome
world, struck many beside Mrs. Craddock
as being peculiarly appropriate to

one saved by the modern ark, the lifeboat.


Mrs. Trewhella herself carried the child
to the font, arrayed in a beautiful chrism
given by Mrs. Dunstable. As it was uncertain
whether or not the baby had been
already baptized, the vicar used the conditional
form provided for such an emergency:
Jenifer, if thou art not already baptized,
I baptize thee in the name of the Father,
and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost.
Amen." The cross was traced upon the
brow, and the child was " made a Christian."


CHAPTER VI.

THE Christening FEAST.

The infant is replaced
Among the happy band ; they smilingly,
In gay attire, hie to the house of mirth,
The poor man's festival — a jubilee day
Remembered long.

Grahame.

The sponsors wended their way, when the
service was over, to Daniel Trewhella's
house, where a tea, which was, as Mrs.
Sims remarked, something like a tea,
was prepared in honour of the occasion.
It was a rare thing for Mr. Josiah
Toms to accept an invitation to take a
meal in a friend's house. He was a confirmed
bachelor and resolutely avoided
the society of the ladies, with the exception

of bis housekeeper, Mrs. Pinnace,
who was old and stone-deaf, and therefore
by no means dangerous from Mr. Josiah's
point of view.

The Trewhellas were agreeably astonished
when he accepted their invitation
to become godfather to their adopted
child, and still more so when he signified
his intention of partaking of the
christening tea afterwards. But he was
second cousin to Daniel, and so admired
the honest courage and sterling worth of
his relative's character, that for once he
relented upon being pressed to do a
friend's office and '' stand " to the child.

It was in one of his weak moments
that he promised to do what Daniel Tree
asked, and he soon returned
to his normal state, and regretted that
he had consented to spend an hour with
the beings whom in heart he held in utter

contempt. " The discourse of old women'*
said he, '' is the thing on earth I most
despise. I deserve to be worshipped."

It never occurred to Mr. Josiah to
politely excuse himself, or to shuffle out of
his engagement bj pleading a pressure
of business, or rheumatism, or the toothache.


Whatever his faults he was never known
to break his word, and the good people of
St. Enodoc firmly held to the belief that if
Mr. Josiah made an appointment to meet
the hangman at a certain time and place
he would be there to the minute, however
painful he might imagine the interview
would be.

Few people would have considered Mrs.
Trewhella's tea one of the disagreeable
of life. The room was cosy, the tea was
hot and strong, and the heavy-cake was
baked to a turn. The very smell of the

latter was enough to make one's mouth
water.

As soon as the ladies had divested themselves
of their church-going bonnets and
shawls, they settled themselves near the
fire — for it was a cold day for September
and began to discuss the ceremony of
the baptism, while Mrs. Trewhella gave
the finishing touches to the tea-table.

"Aw, 'twas beautiful, wasn't it?" said
Mrs. Craddock ; "the cheldurn singed like
little angels. I never heard anything like
it in all my days, It comet over me so
I could hardly tell what to do. If ever I
had good feelings in my life I had um
then."

*mrs. Craddock," said Mr. Josiah
solemnly, " I quite agree with you, the
service was very touching. But I couldn't
help saying to myself that human nature
is very deceitful, and the world is very evil,

and that many of those children singing so
happily are doomed to misery and poverty
and disease. Some, perhaps, will find a
prison their home, and some will walk the
gloomy path to the gallows. Ah, 'tis a sad
world, a sad world, Dan."

I dont think this world so very sad,"
broke in Mrs. Trewhella, good-humouredly,
as she took the steaming heavy-cake from
the oven, " there's a lot more good in the
world than people think. Now look at we
this very afternoon, Mr. Josiah ; this 
now, and this good hot tay es very
cheering, and everything es comfortable,
and here's the cheeld, little Jenifer, for us
to love and tend. Bless your heart, there's
a lot of joy in this world ef you'll ony look
about a bit for it."

"All superficial, ma'am," said Mr.
Josiah, in a more sepulchral tone than
ever, " all superficial. We are, as it were,

walking upon a thin sheet of ice ; upon
lava, burning, molten, just beneath the
surface."

'' Mercy me, Measter Josiah*' said Mrs.
Craddock, "sou are 'enough to frighten
a woman out of her wits ; why I sheet
shape be night for drawing about it. Dost
a think the world es a going' to be burnt
up soon ? Our preacher told us t'other
day that 'twas time for us to git ready
for it, and I think so too, ef the fire es
got so fur up as that."

'« My good woman, you misunderstand
me," said Mr. Josiah, " I'm using a
figure of speech."

Well," said Mrs. Craddock, '' I dont
know much about figures — larnin' won
thought much of when I was young — but
my daughter's cheeld she's a good wan
at figures, sure 'enough. She can tell the
substraction tenable right through, pence

and sellers and all — no cheeld in lier class
can figure like she."

"Well, never mind figures," said Mrs.
Trewhella, 'draw forth and have your
says. Teeake the arm-cheer, Measter
Josiah; you set there, Mrs. Craddock.
That'll do, Dan, you need' rock the
cradle any more, Jenifer'll shape all
right now. Kezia, you set here alongside
me."

Miss, miss, Rebecca, to be sure," sniffed
Mrs. Sims, " ten the must time I've a sot
alongside of you in this here parlour, and
glad enough I am to set alongside of anybody,
times es so bad — millinery edn what
it used to be, I can tell ee, and so many
new falderals and fashions do come in that
I'm drove to me wit's end. Ah ! this is a
good drap of tay, Becca."

Like the women, Daniel," said Mr.
Josiah, " like the women, always thinking

of externals, ' Wherewithal shall a man be
clothed,' et cetera. Mrs. Sims, I'll ask you
this question, What was man made for ? "

''My gracious me," answered Mrs.
Sims, turning up her eyes until they were
as white as the ceiling, " I ceeant tell ee
nothing' 'bout that, you'd better ax Mrs.
Craddock, she's more of a filly sophie
than me. WTiat was man made for, Mrs.
Craddock ? "

Aw," said that amiable old lady with
a grunt, " meade for ? why to plague
the wemmin, I spouse, I ceeant tell what
else they're meade for. Ax your pardon,
Master Josiah, but I spake of a man as
I find un. Now there's my old man,
he's dead and gone, plaise sure, and we
mustn't spake no harm of the dead, so
the Scriptures do say, but what was he
meade for ? Aw, it do meeake me sweat
when I think about it. Grunt, grunt,

VOL. I. F

growl, growl, always coming' home with
basely shoes, manakin' the mats in a
sheep, and writing my life out with
tobacco smoke and beer. Aw, tes wicket
to say so, I know, but I dont want to see
he no more."

Hush, hush, Mrs. Craddock, dont ee
talk like that; he's gone, poor man, and I
hope to a better place," said Mrs. Tree
" But I always says there's faut
both sides. If Daniel or me have a word
or two sometimes, tes generally six of wan
and heeaf a dozen of the other, edn it,
old man ? "

'' I reckon it tes," answered Daniel,
"and the sooner we meeake it up the
better we're praised, ain't we, Becca ? I'll
tell ee my opinion, Master Josiah. I
dont know sickly what the men was
meade for, but T can tell ee to a T what
the wemmin is made for— to full a man's

house with sunshine, and to draw un
towards goodness like a fifty-horse power
injin. Now there's my old Becca there,
I would swop she for the gold in the
Bank of England. I do love her ten
times more now than when I went a-
courting."

A bashful blush overspread Rebecca's
comely face at this open avowal of her
husband's love, and she laid down her cup
to make a fitting reply, when Mr. Josiah
again took up his parable.

A wife is very desirable to sew on the
buttons to a man's shirt, and to cook his
dinner, but she can't minister to the other
side of his nature, she can't feed his
intellect."

*' I'm Joan plain," snorted Mrs. Craddock

scornfully, '' and what I says es this

when a man wants les dennar was the

good to talk about feeding les intellect ?

F 2

Have a Intellect got a mouth ? A good
turmut pasty es a bra' dale better feeding'
intellects."

Mr. Josiah went as near smiling at this
outburst of Mrs. Craddock as it was
possible for that austere philosopher and
despiser of women to go, but he drank his
tea and munched his heavy-cake in silence
it was beneath his dignity to prolong
the discussion with such an illiterate
woman.

Daniel Trewhella, however, felt called
to make one other remark, and he responded
to the call.

Measter Josiah, you weeant be offended
with me, for you do know I wish ee
nothing' but good, but I say to ee what
I've said a bra' many times already, dont
you be a bachelor no longer, but git a
good wife of your awn, and you'll soon
be of my opinion, that a wife es the

best piece of furniture you can have in the
house."

"Daniel, my friend," said Mr. Josiah
slowly and solemnly, *' I have a great
respect for you, and I take what you say
in good part, but mark my words, whenever
you hear that Josiah Toms has tied
himself to a wife, I give you full permission
to call the policeman and give him
in charge — he's lost his wits, he's mad,
as mad as a hatter."

After this decisive and energetic declaration
there was nothing more to be
said, and as one cannot go on for ever
eating heavy cake and drinking strong
tea, the party soon broke up, and Daniel
and his wife were left alone with the
little Jenifer.

CHAPTER Iii.

A SEAT OF Learning.

Infant reason grows apace and calls
For the kind hand of an assiduous care.
Delightful task ! to rear the tender thought,
To teach the young idea how to shoot.

The Seasons.

The time was come when Arthur Tree
education must begin. He was
now six and a half years of age, and strong
and healthy for his years. His father had
wished to send him to school as soon ashe
was completely recovered from the
fever which nearly proved fatal to him,
but was overruled by the mother.

Give him a year's run," she said, '^ he'll
be strong by that time, instead of growing

up a pale, sickly child through overmuch
confinement."

But the year of grace had expired, and
Arthur — " will he, nill he" — began to climb
the steep hill of knowledge. There was
no discussion in the house of Treleaven
to settle what academy should have the
honour of educating the heir. Ancient
custom had settled that matter.

Of course, Mrs. Treleaven, you will
send Arthur to Mrs. Warder's school ? "

'' Oh, of course."

The man who would begin his child's
education at Pendruthan by sending him
to any other preceptor than Mrs. Warder,
would be set down at once by respectable
people as a violent radical — a person who
wanted to turn this rightly ordered world
of ours the wrong side up.

John Treleaven was a sober citizen,
believing firmly in his Bible and in the

articles of war, and therefore, as a matter
of course, sent Hs son to imbibe the
philosophy imparted by the erudite Mrs.
Warder.

Mrs. Warder was a lady of about fifty
years of age. Her husband, a master of
a small coasting-vessel, had died six years
after her marriage, leaving her at thirty
totally unprovided for. Mrs. Warder was
not one to sit down quietly when there
was anything to be got by standing up,
and with a promptitude characteristic of
her she founded, a month after the decease
of the lamented Captain Warder, an establishment
for implanting in the minds of
juvenile Pendruthan the rudiments of
useful knowledge.

She was favoured in her enterprise by
the fact that Mrs. Harris, the recognized
youth's instructor at Pendruthan for the
last quarter of a century, had recently

laid down lier rod, moved thereto by age
and feebleness, and had retired into private
life on half a crown a week from the
parish. Indeed, but for this Mrs. Warder
would never have assumed the professorial
gown — she was not the one, as she herder
said, to take the bread out of another
woman's mouth. Upon the deserted ruins,
therefore, of Mrs. Harris's seat of learning,
the house of Warder, educational speaking,
was built.

Do not imagine that the school-building
itself was an imposing one. No tall
towers threw dark shadows across the
street, no massive parables in stone soared
aloft and half hid the sky. It was no
outward magnificence that gave celebrity
to Mrs. Warder's school, but rather the
dignity of Mrs. Warder herself, and the
facility she possessed of imparting knowledge
to the possibly future bishops and

senators and their wives entrusted to her
care.

Mrs. Warder, it has already been intimated,
was about fifty years of age.
Her education had been somewhat limited,
but what she lacked in culture she made
up by a natural shrewdness and force of
character. Her work would now probably
be called preparatory, for it consisted
for the most part in laying first principles.
Her pupils, if not exactly babes, were
certainly not out of the milk stage of
education.

The interior arrangements of the schoolroom
were of a primitive order. The
seats consisted for the most part of
planks laid on sections of a tree, each
about eight inches long. Desks there
were none. As a rule the pupils wrote
on slates, and these they held in their
hand or rested on their knees, as the

fancy moved. True, there were two tables,
but it was not safe to count on one of
these.

One was an article of a superior order,
garnished with foreign shells, relics of
the late lamented Mr. Warder, a case of
stuffed birds on a base consisting of a
so-called family Bible, a few glasses of
various shapes and sizes lend two ancient
but well-polished brass candlesticks. It
is evident to any well-constituted mind
that no youngster not absolutely given
over to iniquity would dare to practise
his pothooks and hangers on this sacred
shrine.

Table number one was super-mundane,
table number two was given over to earth
and earthly things. There was no absolute
prohibition of resting slates, dog's
books, and other school paraphernalia
on its broad top, but who could

use it with comfort and advantage when
it was intended in the economy of the
household as a base of operations in
preparing leeks pasties; onion and turnip
stews, and other greasy dishes, well
enough in their way, but entirely out of
harmony with the aforesaid pothooks and
hangers ?

Unfortunately the revenue arising from
the school pence was not quite equal to
the expenses of the household, and Mrs.
Warder was driven to some other form
of labour to eke out her living. Teaching
and knitting seemed not altogether
incompatible yoke-fellows, therefore to
knitting Mrs* Warder turned — her eyes I
was going to say, but this would be
slightly inaccurate, for only at long intervals
did her gaze rest on the blue
worsted being worked into guernsey
frocks for the fishermen of Pendruthan —

to knitting, I say, Mrs. Warder turned lier
fingers.

This amalgamation of professions caused
her teaching to become somewhat disjointed.
For example, a class are standing round
their mistress reading a chapter from the
book of Ezra, a favourite book with her,
for some inscrutable reason. Mrs. Warder
counts her stitches in an undertone while
the children read the verses in turn.

"Now therefore, T-a-t-n-a-i," (with a
rising inflection on the last letter).

Tatnai," says Mrs. Warder. " Now
then. Tommy Watts, I'll give you a cutting
if you ain't quiet."

Tatnai," repeats the boy, " governor
beyond the river, S-h-e-t-h-a-r-b-o-z-
n-a-i."

This is rather a nut even for Mrs.
Warder to crack, but she makes the best
of it, and calls it " Shetarbozny."

Shetarboznj ," repeats the boy, (" Twenty-nine,
thirty, thirty-one," counts Mrs.
Warder), " and your companions," (" I'll
give you the ceeane, Billy, you naughty
boy you, I ceeant hear myself spake "),
your companions the A-p-h-a-r-s-a-
c-h-i-t-e-s" (" Apharsactites" from Mrs.
Warder), " Apharsactifces which are beyond
the river," ('' Dont ee spake so loud,"
from Mrs. Warder again, ''do ee think
I'm dees ?" ), ''be ye far from thence."

Forty-one, forby-two," said Mrs.
Warder as the boy concluded, " that'll
do, sit down and learn your tables
while I meeake a pasty for dennar.
James, you skin the treaties ; Jessie, you
peel they two onions ; Tommy Waters
and Freddy Wilton, you wind off they there
two hanks of worsted, and mind you
dont git it into a tangle."

And do you really mean to say that

Arthur Treleaven was sent to such a
school as this ! Verily, reader, I do,
and make bold at the same time to affirm
that good work was often produced from
such unpromising material. A knowledge
of the doings of Shetarbozny and the
Apharsactites may not perhaps be of any
great value commercially speaking, and
Mrs. Warder's pronunciation of the last
letter of the alphabet as " embassy " maybe
called in question, but learning how to
avoid tangles and how to peel potatoes
economically is by no means to be despised,
especially when you have the multiplication
table up to four times, and pothooks
and hangers thrown in.

Arthur remained .for two years under
the care of Mrs. Warder, the monotony
of which was varied by the operation
known as " breeching," and a slight
attack of measles. At the end of that

time this heart was gladdened by a piece
of news of inestimable value to a high-spirited
boy : he was for ever to throw off
the yoke of petticoat government (at least
until he took to himself a wife) ; he was
going to study away from the distraction
of female society ; he was going to " a
man's school."

CHAPTER VIII.

A man's school.

There in his noisy mansion, skill 'd to rule,
The village master taught his little school :
A man severe he was, and stern to view ;
I knew him well, and every truant knew.

The Deserted Village.

Yes, Arthur Treleaven was going to a
man's school, that is, not a school for
men — he was not jet old enough for the
university — but a school kept by a man.

It was a national school, and supported,
as many national schools are, to a large
extent by the parson. Thirty-five children
at threepence, and twenty at twopence,
would only produce the munificent sum
of twelve shillings and a penny sterling

VOL. I. G

per week, supposing everybody brought
his pence with the regularity of the sun,
a most extravagant supposition. Deduct
from this the money required to keep a
respectable coat on the master's back
and to keep a fair supply of canes in
pickle for refractory pupils, and it is
evident that the unfortunate individual
would become extremely attenuated in a
short time were not some liberal hand
held out to keep the meat-tub supplied.

Pendruthan National School was not a
very imposing edifice, nor was it fitted up
with great elegance, but it inspired great
awe in the mind of Arthur Treleaven,
accustomed only to the lesser glories of
Mrs. Warder's school. Instead of pictures
of mediaeval saints, the walls were
adorned with maps yellow with age, for
they had served their generation at the
rectory before they found their way to

the national school. A map of the world
in two hemispheres was a puzzle to Arthur
for many a day. He could not at all
understand how the two sides of the
orange-like globe could be got to look one
way without presenting flat surfaces at
the back. He managed to look behind
the map one day when the master was
out of the room, but failed to discover
anything likely to help him out of his
difficulty.

As a set-off against this it must be
confessed that some of his difficulties
were solved very summarily.

For example, he found it hard, after the
laxity prevalent at Mrs. Warder's, to imitate
the Psalmist and to hold his tongue
and say nothing. But Mr. Potts was
something of a martinet, and an application
to a tender part oE Arthur's frame taught
him that it would be well in future to hold
G 2

iiis peace — yea, even from good words — if
lie desired to preserve his skin intact.

Once he fared badly for not speaking, so
perversely does Dame Fortune deal with
her minions. The master was giving a
reading lesson to the boys in the first class,
and, as no education code vexed the soul
of Mr. Potts in those primitive times, and
no pupil teachers were provided to teach
what they themselves did not understand,
the class in which Arthur found himself
placed was thrown pretty much upon its
own resources, and left to acquire a knowledge
of arithmetic by intuition. But soon
a hum which sounded quite unlike that of
the busy bee proceeded from the idle accountants,
and Mr. Potts, finding that his
cane was being worn out by severe applications
to the wooden walls all to no purpose,
decided to exchange this wooden
monitor for one of flesh and blood.

^' Arthur Treleaven, you sit on the seat
opposite, and call out any boy you see
talking."

Yes, sir," answered Arthur, taking the
seat of vigilance with fear and trembling.


A dead silence reigned, and Mr. Potts
led his flock into the devious paths of
science without further distraction. Nitrogen,
hydrogen, and oxygen became in their
mouths as household words, much, it is to
be hoped, to their edification. Unfortunately
that bad boy, Jemmy Nash, took it
into his head when Mr. Potts was, as he
thought, quite absorbed by his scientific
researches, to make a few remarks to
Richard Hooker, who being evidently not
related to the well-known judicious person
of the same name, made a few further
remarks.

If you talk I shall call you out," said

Arthur to the refractory couple in a stage
whisper.

If you do," returned Master Nash,
"I'll punch you when we get out of
school."

Here was a dilemma, indeed ! Which
was better, to be thrashed indoors or
punched out? I am sorry to say the
moral aspect of the case never presented
itself to Arthur. He thought not of his
duty, but of the consequences. The
thrashing he might avoid, the punching he
could depend upon if he called out his
friend Nash. Whatever Nash's vices
might be, he kept his word — at all events
when he had promised to oblige any one
with a punching. Unfortunately for all
concerned, Mr. Potts drew off his attention
from the hydrogen, nitrogen, and oxygen
just at the crisis of their naughtiness, and
instantly there was an explosion. I mean

that Mr. Potts exploded, not the afore-named
gases.

*' Come here, you three," he shouted ina
tone which filled the breasts of the
delinquents with terror. They knew well
that Mr. Potts never invited any of his
flock to meet him without giving them
something to keep in remembrance of
him.

Hold out your hands," said Mr. Potts.

Three unclean little hands were stretched
out.

Hydrogen, nitrogen, oxygen," said Mr.
Potts as he brought down his cane in turn
on the three hands.

*' Now your left."

Once more the man of science impressed
the three odious gases upon their memories,
beo:inninor with Arthur this time, instead of
Master Nash,

Surely this is the end ? No. " Right

again," said the stern dominie ; and this
time Richard Hooker had the honour of
leading off with hydrogen.

'' My young friends," said Mr. Potts with
a sarcastic smile, *' go back and hold your
hands if you are not able to hold your
tongues.

After this melancholy incident Arthur
Treleayen came to the conclusion that it
was not all pleasure even to go to a man's
school.

CHAPTER IX.

WEDDINGS AND Funerals.

Thou art a dewdrop, which the morn brings forth,

111 fitted to sustain unkindly shocks ;

Or to be trail'd along the soiling earth !

A gem that glitters while it lives,

And no forewarning gives ;

But at the touch of wrong, without a strife,

Slips in a moment out of life.

Wordsworth.

*' Now, Jessie, you must be the parson,
and marry me and Jenifer. Hold up your
head and speak big like Mr. Carnanton.
Say, ' Mr. Rundle, will you have Miss
Trewhella ? ' and I'll say ' Yes'"

'' But I don't want to be married, Mark ;
let us play at something else."

No, I'm going to play weddings,"

answered Mark, " and you must do what I
say. Women must always do what the
men tell them ; I heard Mr. Josiah say so
when he was talking to your father."

Three children were playing in a garden
at S^ Enodoc. The girl of ten was Jeni-
fer Jenifer Trewhella as lie was always
call 1. It was nine years since oar story
ope led, and the child had become a girl often.
She had not lost the beauty which
her infancy foretold. Tall and straight,
with her pale complexion and lustrous
eyes as of old, she bade fair to become
possessed of such a wealth of beauty as
woman is rarely dowered with. But that
the future must unfold. She was now
the child of ten — and childish for that age,
for at St. Enodoc precocity had little to
feed upon, and the faculties ripened at a
somewhat late season of the year.

Mark and Jessie Rundle were the children

of neighbours of the Trewhellas,
Jeremiah Uncle and Elizabeth, his wife.
Jerry Rundle, for nobody dreamt of calling
him Jeremiah except his wife when she
was in what Jerry called her tantrums,
was a flourishing rope-maker, "carving
on his awn trade," as his townsmen put
it. He had carried it on to such good
purpose, and had gone wrong end b^ ore
to such an excellent result, that his son,
Mark, who was some w^^ at given to boasting,
although so youn haa whispered to Heifer
in confidence that his father had five
hundred pounds in the bank — he had heard
him tell his mother so.

Mark and Jessie were the constant companions
and playmates of Jenifer. The
boy, who was just air supposed age, was
a fine little fellow with a bright face, and
dark clustering hair. He was quick and
clever, and bade fair to turn out well.

One quality lie had, unpleasant enough
in any, but peculiarly disagreeable in one
so young — a habit of boasting. His
father's ropes were stronger than the
ropes of other people, his boats were
faster, his tacks were fatter, the eggs
they laid larger, his donkey was a
noble animal, equal in fact, to other
people's ponies. He could work multiplication
sums better than Tom Clemence
could do addition ; if any other boy took
six birds' eggs from a nest, that was
nothing, he had often taken ten. Billy
Chard's father's pig weighed twenty score;
what of that ? the pigs belonging to the
house of Rundle often pulled down twenty-six
score and made nothing of it.

This sort of thing did not quite suit
Mark's schoolfellows, and on one occasion
it cost a severe fight to maintain the honour
of the Rundle pig, but in his own little

circle it was received with respectful acquiescence,
and Jessie and Jenifer, although
they disliked boys — most girls do from nine
to fifteen — regarded Mark as a person possessed
of immeasurable superiority over the
ordinary boyish kind. Therefore when
Mark insisted that Jenifer should be his
bride, and Jessie the parson to tie the
knot, the two girls yielded after Jenifer's
ineffectual protest.

Well, Mark," said Jenifer, 'you must
only marry me for ten minutes, I want to
play at shows after that."

*' Very well," said Mark, " but you'll be
my wife when I'm big enough to keep a
horse and cart of my own, won't you,
Jenifer ? "

Yes, " answered the bride-elect, " but
I don't want to leave Jessie. Can't you
marry Jessie, too ? "

'' No, you foolish," said Mark, *but I'll

tell sou. what — when we're married, Jessie
shall come and light the fire, and clean the
boots, and wash the clothes."

Jessie agreed to take this humble position
in the future household of her brother,
and Mark went on, —

"I'm going to have a big house then, with
a green door and a knocker ; and when
anybody knocks, you must open the door
and say, ' Now, then, wipe your dirty shoes,
and don't bring the mud in about the
house,' just like Mr. Josiah's Mrs. ''


What's that? what's that ? " said Mr.
Josiah himself, emerging as he spoke from
the back of Trewhella's house ; 'what are
you youngsters up to ? "

'' Oh," answered Mark, '* we're playing at
weddings. I'm going to marry Jenifer,
and Jessie is to be the parson."

Playing at weddings ! " said Mr. Josiah.

What next will you play at ? You had
much better play at funerals, they are far
better than weddings, if I'm any judge.
Dear, dear," he continued, as he retired
into the house, shaking his head, '' what
are people coming to ? They chatter of
marrying from the time they learn to talk
until they are ready for their coffin. Wed-lingering,
cakes, banns, bridesmaids,
sweethearts — 'tis dreadful to think of.
Better they thought a little about the
quarrelling, and the howling babies, and
the bread and butter needed to stop their
mouths. If it o^oes on much loser like
this, the world will be past bearing with."

What's the matter with Mr. Josiah ? "
said Jenifer to Mark as soon as the door
was closed ; " doesn't he like us to play at
weddings ? "

*'No," answered Mark, '^ there's something
the matter with him. I heard Mrs.

Craddock say he has got the mollygrubs,
but I don't know what that is. Mother
says that Mrs. Pinnock is enough to turn
any dairy sour : perhaps she makes Mr.
Josiah cross. I would as soon play at
funerals as weddings, only somebody must
die, or you can't have a funeral. Will you
die, Jessie, and then we'll dig your grave
here under the apple-tree. Lie down and
die, and don't be long, 'cause I want to go
in and learn my lesson for tomorrow."

I won't die on the grass," said Jessie,
'' 'tis too wet. Let me lie down and die
on your lap, Jenifer."

Jenifer held her little playmate until she
was considered dead enough, while Mark
digged a pit for a grave. When all was
ready Mark seized his sister by the shoulders,
and Jenifer carried her feet. Unfortunately
Mark, walking backwards towards
the grave, tripped over a big stone, and.

letting go his hold, his sister's head came
with great force upon it, rendering her
completely insensible. The screams of
Mark and Jenifer brought out Trewhella
and his wife and Mr. Josiah, and between
them they carried the child to her own
house next door. The doctor was sent
for. He came at once, but looked very
grave when he had examined the child.

Concussion of the brain," he said. '' It
may be serious, Mrs. Rundle; you must
not be surprised if she remains unconscious
for some time."

All through the night they watched
without seeing any sign of returning consciousness.
At twenty minutes past nine
o'clock the next morning, they perceived a
tremulous movement of the eyelids, and ina
little while she was able to recognize her
friends.

They hoped that now the worst was

VOL. I. H

passed, but in this they were sadly mistaken.
It soon became evident to all that
she was slowly sinking, and the doctor, when
he came., told them to expect the worst.

Poor Mark was in bitter distress. It
was bad enough to lose his sister, but the
thought that it was his own carelessness
which was causing her death was almost
more than his little heart could bear.

Jessie did not seem troubled when they
told her that she was going away from
them. She only said, —

I want Jenifer, send for Jenifer.''
As soon as Jenifer came Jessie took her
hands, saying, —

Jenny, mammy says I'm going away."
'* Going, where ? " asked Jenifer, somewhat
dazed by her grief.

I'm going to heaven," answered Jessie
gravely ; " won't you come, too, Jenny, as
soon as you can?"

You don't want to go, Jessie, and
leave poor mammy," said Mrs. Riddle,
through her tears.

*' Xo," she answered, '' I don't want to
leave sou, but I'm tired, and teacher told
me that Jesus do carry the little tired
children in His arms. Carry me, please,
carry me," she continued, looking up and
stretching out her arms.

For a moment or two she remained in
this attitude and then her arms sank by
her side, her blue eyes closed, and saying
softly, "I'm sleepy," she fell asleep, nevermore
to wake in this world of pain and
weariness.

Jenifer had found her first great trouble,
and her mimic wedding was turned into a
real and sorrowful funeral.

H 2

CHAPTER X.

THE FIE ST Cigar.

My heart turn'd sick, my brain grew sore,
And throbb'd awhile, then beat no more :
The skies spun like a mighty wheel ;
I saw the trees like drunkards reel.

Byron.

It was the duty of Mr, Potts to watch his
flock as well on Sundays as on weekdays.
Classes were held in the schoolroom on
Sunday mornings to teach the Church
catechism in the vulgar tongue, and to instil
into the minds of young Pendruthan
their duty towards God and their neighbours.


About a quarter past ten o'clock, Mr.
Potts drew up his pupils in military fashion

and marched them off to the parish church,
which was a good two miles away. This
afforded great delight to Arthur. The
quiet church by the river side inspired him
with great awe and admiration. Its three
bells struck him as something sublime, for,
poor lad, he had been accustomed only to
one.

The ceiling never failed to interest him,
for the bosses of the rafters had been
painted by the rector himself with arms
and devices, some natural, some grotesque,
but all impressive. The tombstones,
too, always afforded matter for
rumination, they were so old and moss-covered,
and bore such quaint inscriptions,
and commemorated such paragons of
virtue.

The service itself, it must be confessed,
was not altogether edifying, for na books
were provided for the youthful worshippers,

and consequently time sometimes
hung rather heavily upon their
hands. Arthur thought that perhaps
this was his own fault, for one old
gentleman who was a thatcher on weekdays
— a very prodigy of erudition — was
able to manage the Litany just as well
as the parson, without so much as looking
into a Prayer-book.

On Wednesday evenings Arthur and his
school-fellows attended service at Pendru-
than held by the rector in a chapel of ease.
It might possibly be fitly so called, so far
as the parish church was concerned, but
assuredly the worshippers found little ease
in it, for the seats were narrow and
straight, and the backs bolt upright, —
some, I fancy, with a slight inclination
forwards ; the kneeling-s tools had such a
decided slope that only a desperate grip
saved one from slipping to the floor ; and

the building was so draughty that some
letters of the alphabet were almost unheard
through the colds in the heads
produced thereby. Indeed, it was so
uncomfortable that a stout Churchman
once declared that only one parson had
ever succeeded in sending him to sleep
in it, whereas in the parish church the
very dullest preacher would soothe him
and give him something to dream
about.

To this chapel of ease Arthur went
as in duty bound. One Wednesday night,
for some mysterious reason, he left the
church before the time came when men
take their rest in sleep, to find the reason
for which it will be necessary to go back a
step or two.

A month before an Austrian barque
had, during a storm, found her last
resting-place on a rock jutting out from

one of the headlands which bounded the
little harbour of Pendruthan, the crew
being fortunate enough to reach the beach
in their boat without any mishap save a
drenching.

The captain decided to dismantle his
ship and to sell whatever they could land,
as it was obviously impossible for the
derelict vessel ever to float again. One
of the cellars used for curing pilchards
being empty, the crew made it their home
during the time they were employed in
destroying the ship.

These Austrian sailors, fourteen in
number, with their strange dress and
language afforded great entertainment
and some little instruction to the 
lads. It must be confessed
that the knowledge they imparted could
scarcely be classed under the head of
useful. Not that they, poor fellows,

intended to corrupt the morals of the artless
youngsters who sought their society.
They were good-natured, honest, and
sober, and conducted themselves generally
in such a satisfactory manner that, as
Mrs. Betsy Polsue observed, they need not
be ashamed to get wrecked again on the
same spot. It is possible that Mrs. Pol-sue'
s judgment was slightly warped, for,
to tell the truth — it will not harm her, she
is long since gone from this ill-wishing
world — Betsy was fond of a whiff of tobacco,
and the good-natured Austrians
in return for some little service she was
able to render kept her pipe well supplied.
I say this tobacco-smoking may possibly
have clouded the judgment of the austere
old lady, but whether this were so or
not, it certainly proved a means of attracting
the goodwill of the lads. But
why ?

Whj? Is it nothing for a lad to be
able to disport himself with an enormous
cigar in his mouth just like any grown
person at no expense whatever ? This
desirable consummation — to boys — the
worthy Austrians placed within their
reach.

True the elementary stages of cigar-smoking
are somewhat painful, and — so
ribald scoffers say — the advanced stages
are of little worth. But what of that?
Boys are not, as a rule, in the habit of
looking at things from a utilitarian point
of view, and as to the inconvenience of
any possible course of action, is it not a
fact patent to all observers that a boy
^'who is a boy," as old Peter White the
miller used to say, makes a point of
entering a field across a thorn hedge
instead of by the open gateway, and of
walking through a deep puddle in preference

to the uninviting dry part of the
path ?

Arthur Treleaven was not a lad to missa
good thing when it was to be had for
the asking, and he was therefore soon
initiated into the mysteries of smoking.
Like many another novice he discovered
that the thing he had longed for was
not all his fancy pictured ; nay, he even
hated his former love. Inward qualms,
not of conscience, superinduced bitter remorse.


'This was partly owing to the fact
that Arthur had no judicious friend to
suggest a proper method of acquiring the
difficult art. Instead of beginning with
a mild whiff or two, and then going on
gradually to perfection, from a smoker's
point of view, he procured from one of
his Austrian friends an enormous cigar
measuring some eight inches, and, seeking

a quiet nook on the beach., he opened a
fresh chapter in his life.

When, by great pluck and perseverance,
he had got half-way through, it occurred to
him that perhaps, on the whole, it would
be well to reserve the remainder of the
cigar for a future day.

The bell struck out just then for the
usual Wednesday service, and at once
his mind was made up ; he would spread
the pleasure over two days instead of
ending it in one. He therefore wended
his way in pensive mood to the church.
He had heard Mrs. Polsue say that she
was a martyr to heart-disease, which
disease, by the way, she professed to keep
under by strong doses of gin — nothing
but gin will touch the heart, said Mrs.
Polsue — and it now struck idm for the
first time that perhaps it was his fate
to endure a like martyrdom, for ** within

measurable distance " of bis heart a new
sensation had arisen which foreboded
future woe.

This inward 'spain so increased that
Arthur was unable to follow the rector
further than the second lesson, and Mr.
Potts was devoutly following the reverend
gentleman when he was scandalized by
the sight of one of his boys darting out
of church like an arrow from a bow
before his very eyes. Without waiting
for the usual " Here endeth the second
lesson," the little gentleman started in
pursuit. If this sort of thing goes on,
he thought, canes had better be abolished
by an Act of Parliament.

When Mr. Potts reached the little
yard surrounding the church he found it
empty; the boy had disappeared as if
on wings. But what was that huddled
together on the grass in the corner ? It

was the truant boy. In a moment the
avenging Mr. Potts was glaring down
upon his intended victim.

'' What are you doing here, you young
rascal? Get up, and come into church,
ril warm you tomorrow for this."

Please, sir," moaned Arthur, " I'm
bad."

'^ That's true enough," said Mr. Potts,
*' but what's the matter with you ? "

'' Oh, sir, I'm sick."

Well, get up then, and go home ;
you'll make yourself worse lying thereupon
the grass."

But Arthur's legs seemed unequal to
the work of transporting him home, and
the relenting Mr. Potts said, —

'' Wait a minute then, and I'll send
some one home with you."

Unfortunately the boy called out to
perform this charitable office was Arthur's

evil genius, Master Jemmy Nash, who
made matters still more uncomfortable by
saying to the master, —

'* He's been smoking, sir ; I saw him
with a whacking refit cigar."

Take him home at once," said Mr.
Potts, irate again, '' and tell his father all
about it."

Poor Arthur, crestfallen enough now,
was, in obedience to this mandate,
dragged by the malicious Nash through
the most populous lanes of Pendruthan,
a laughing-stock for all the little boys
who did not attend church, and at
last was safely landed at his father's
door.

Master Nash detailed Arthur's iniquities,
with a copious supplement of his own
devising, and John Treleaven, who was
somewhat of a martinet, in spite of his
fondness for his son, gave him a severe

thrashing and sent him supperless to
bed.

From this chapter it will be gathered
that Arthur Treleaven was a very naughty-boy,
and that naughtiness usually brings
its own punishment.

CHAPTER XL

ON HEAVEN.

Alleluia we sing, like the children bright,
A'^'ith their harps of gold and their raiment white,
As they follow their Shepherd with loving eyes,
Through the beautiful valleys of Paradise.

Hijmn.

Two years had passed since Jessie Rundle
died, but her image was still fresh in
Jenifer's memory. Tt was easy for a boy
like Mark, thrown more into the society
of his school-fellows, as he grew older to
forget gradually the one great grief of
his life.

But Jenifer had never made bosom
friends of any but Mark and Jessie, and
now the one was taken from her, and

TOL. I. I

the other saw her less frequently, she
was thrown more upon her own resources
for amusements, and trained, little by
little, to find food for thought in her
own memories and speculations. Jessie's
death-scene was imprinted indelibly upon
her mind, and often, sitting by herself
in the little parlour, or silent in the
midst of others by the kitchen fire, she
formed fancy pictures of Jessie's appearance
and surroundings and occupations.

A penny for your thoughts, Jenny,"
said Daniel Trewhella to her one winter's
evening, as she sat before the fire with
some knitting in her hand, pursing her
lips and knitting her brows, and staring at
the fire of logs, not a spark of which she
really saw.

Dan had left work for the day, and
was in a quiet, meditative way smoking
his evening pipe. Mrs. Trewhella and

Mrs. Craddock were debating a knotty
question concerning the form of a pair
of stockings wliicli the former was knitting.
Mrs. Craddock maintained vigorously
that it was high time to " abate " the leg,
while Mrs. Trewhella as vigorously contended
that it was necessary to knit
sixteen more rounds before that evolution
took place.

*' Sixteen rounds more," said Mrs. Craddock,
^' theist meeake a putty stocking
of it ; why the leg will be all cereals . It
migflit do for old mother Trevarton
who's got legs like elephants through
the dropsy, but I'm sure Daniel Tree
s legs are more ship-shape than
that."

«' Thenky, Mrs. Craddock," said Dan,
laughing, '* thenky for your good opinion
of my legs, but you needn't be afraid of
Beech, she'll meeake em fit like a skin."
I 2

*saw, miss," said Mrs. Craddock, "you'll
stick up for your wife, but I've knitted a
passel more stockings than she in my
day, and ought to know something about
it."

Jenifer had been silent all through this
debate, and noticing her abstraction,
Daniel made her the munificent offer abovementioned.


A penny for your thoughts, Jenny."

*'I was thinking about heaven," answered
Jenifer, rousing herself.

'' Law, massy me ! " exclaimed Mrs.
Craddock, '' what things cheldurn do
think about nowadays; I'm sure I dean
think of no such trade when I was
young."

No," said Jenifer gravely. " Mr.
Carnanton told us the other day that
some people never think of heaven."

"Forty forty," exclaimed Mrs. Craddock,

"what does Mr. Carnanton know
about what old wemmin have a got in
their heads, tes enough for he to do
feeding intellects, as Mr. Josiah says.
Parsons are very fond of tellin' people
what to do, seisin' to me, not that I've
got anything to say against Mr. Carnanton,
he's a very kind gentleman, and sent some
must-rate soup to my old man afore he
died — not that soup could seeave un. I
gnawed he was going', and I says to un
when Mr. Carnanton was there, says I,
You'll never go out of this house, John,
afore theert car'd out. Our passion
there'll soon have the burying' of thee.'
Miss, I believe he will,' he said, and so he
ded."

But what was you thinking about
heaven ? " asked Daniel, checking Mrs.
Craddock's loquacious reminiscences.
Oh ! " answered Jenifer, '' I was wondering

if Jessie has got wings like the
angels in our big Bible. Have all the
people in heaven got wings, father ? "

I'm sure I can't tell," said Daniel,
who was somewhat prosaic and not a
very deep theologian ; "I spouse the
wings are for the little was ; they that
have got strong legs can walk about, I
should think, if they want to go anywhere."


I expect Jessie can fly then," said
Jenifer, " for she isn't big enough to walk
far. Perhaps she'll have the flowers to
weed and water just like she used in her
little garden down here. Teacher told me
we shall be in a garden again like Adam
and Eve, and they used to tend the trees
and flowers."

I hop' I sheet be put to tend
flowers," said Mrs. Craddock, " I am sure
I shall git the rheumatiz fuss than I've a

got it now. Our preacher says he ceeant
tell 'zactly what we shall do up there,
whether 'twill be these things, or thick
or t'other, but he do think it'll be something'
like a mittin', singing' and like a
that."

Perhaps," said Mrs. Trewhella, " instead
of inquiring what they do up to heaven, we
had better teeake a little trouble to git
there. I'm sure we ain't none of us too
good."

No, that we ain't," assented Mrs.
Craddock, " and other people es a passel
fuss. Look at the people who do live
both sides of me, what a set they be.
I'm sure I often say like David, ' My saw
es among lions, and their tongues are
drawn swords.' A basely old cat wan
of 'em do keep es the plague of my life.
Yesterday I had the beautifully rabbit
you ever seed govve to me, and I only left

it on the tenable five minutes while I went
to the pump to fetch a turn of water, and
when I come back ef that old cat had
a baffled un up so as a won fit to ait. It
govve me such a turn that I was ready to
cry about it. But as I was going' to say
they have revival services down to our
chapel in the winter, though why they
dont have 'em in the summer I dont
know ; do they think God ceeant seeave
sails in the summer ? Mr. Carnanton said
to me t'other day, ' How many times have
you been converted, Mrs. Craddock ? '
Three times, sir,' says I, ' and I am waiting
for the next revival to be converted
again.' ' Dear, dear,' says he, ' what
heathenism, to be sure; you had better
turn and serve God at once instead of
waiting for the next revival.' I dont
know 'zactly what he maint by heathenism,
only I could see he won very well praised

no more was I for that peart. "WTaat
harm, I should like to know, es there in
being converted three times. I'm afeard
from what the parson said about it he edna
converted man himself."

''I dunno 'bout that," said Rebecca,
"but you'll have to go a long way to
match Mr. Carnanton. He's the kindest
gentleman that ever I seed, and so loving
to the children, and when people are sick
he's ready to see 'em and spake to 'em
night and day."

'' Miss, miss," answered Mrs. Craddock, *' I
dont contradict 'ee, but people dont like
very well to be called old athens. But
1 must be going', my dears. I wish 'ee
well, good-night," and so saying Mrs.
Craddock took her departure.

Well, Jenny," said Daniel to his
daughter, who had remained silent during
Mrs. Craddock' s harangue, '' do 'ee think

Jessie will be always tending flowers ?
She'll get rather tired of that, I think'*

She won't play at weddings and funerals,
I suppose," answered Jenifer, " for
Mr. Carnanton told us last Sunday that
the people up in heaven don't die, and we
read in school yesterday that the people
don't have any weddings up there. They'll
have to practise a lot, I expect, for the
singing, and when they ain't singing Jesus
will lead the lambs — that's the children —
all about the meadows and by the riverside,
teacher says. I should like that,
and when He said, ' Jenny, you keep near
to Me,' I would go as close as ever I
could."

"Bless your dear little heart," said
Mrs. Trewhella, kissing her ; " but come,
my love, say good-night to father, 'tis time
to go to bed."

The good-night was said, and in a few

minutes a little white form was kneeling
at the bed-side, with clasped hands, committing
herself co the Good Shepherd who
loves the lambs of His flock.

Chapter XII.

A LITER AEY MAN.

A man severe he was, and stern to view ;
I knew him well, and every truant knew.

The Deserted-village.

When Arthur Treleaven lead been at the
national school between two and three
years the boys were astounded one morning
by the news that Mr. Potts had determined
to lay down his rod of ofl&ce. It
was not that the worthy man was tired of
his work, or that he found the Pendruthan
boys unmanageable ; the truth was, the
revenue arising from the payments of
his pupils, even when supplemented by
voluntary contributions," failed to furnish

Mr. Potts with a decent living, and a
living for a wife was out of the question.
Sow Mr. Potts, like Francis Bacon, had
found " a handsome maiden to his liking,"
and to secure her found it necessary to
exchange short commons for Doctors' Commons,
and the Education Department for
the Home Office.

For a week or two there was an interregnum,
a state of things not much relished
by parents who had to calculate carefully
the cost of boots and jackets, but appreciated
greatly by all the boys, whose
naughtiness had been restrained by Mr.
Potts. At last another Pharaoh arose
who was to appear before the boys on the
following Monday. Stimulated by curiosity
the boys took their places with
unwonted punctuality on the eventful
morning.

At ten minutes past nine steps were

heard outside, and the tumult which had
reigned was hushed. " He's coming," was
whispered. The door was knocked, and
then opened, and in walked — Master
Jemmy Nash. This wily individual had
made sure that the new master was not
yet arrived, and then practised upon the
credulity of his fellows.

This artifice naturally disgusted the
dupes, and half a dozen of the biggest
boys, seizing Nash, proceeded to inflict a
suitable punishment upon that part of the
human frame provided for the purpose,
when again the door opened, and in walked
the rector, a gentleman in spectacles, and
a lady with long drooping curls.

'boys, boys, what's all this?" asked
the good natured rector.

Nash was a youth not easily dismayed,
and assuming a perpendicular attitude
and an air of innocence, he answered, —

Please, sir, they threw me down
because I told um to be quiet."

"Did they really?" said the rector,
*' that was very wrong; but sit down,
James, here's a penny for you, and mind
you are always a good boy."

The boys generally were so astounded
at hash's audacity, that they made no
remonstrance, and settled down quietly
to examine the new master.

Boys," said the rector, '' I have
brought you a successor to Mr. Potts, and
I hope you'll behave as well in the future
as you generally did in the past. This is
your new teacher, Mrs. Thornlake, and
I hope you will obey her and like her."

"Whew," said Nash in an undertone,
*' 'tis a she one."

Well, I think I shall like her better
than old spectacles," whispered Richard
Hooker.

Mrs. Thornlake soon showed that she
was able to wield the rod ; for, the very-first
afternoon, turning quickly, she saw
Nash with his thumb to his nose and his
fingers pointing straight at her. Nash explained
that he was merely scratching his
nose, which was inclined to itch sometimes.

Very well," said Mrs. Thornlake,
probably your back also is itching and
wants scratching, and, as it is difficult for
you to reach, I will scratch it for you."

She thereupon scratched the patient's
back to such good effect that it cured not
only Nash's back, but also his nose, for,
so far as could be ascertained, the latter
never more itched while he was under Mrs.
Thornlake' s care.

Mr. Thornlake was a literary man, and
rarely encroached on his wife's special
province. Not that he ever wrote a book
or even a magazine article ; he confined

himself to distributing at a moderate profit
the works of others. It is to be feared
that his efforts in his own chosen line were
not adequately appreciated at Pendruthan.
Mr. Thornlake, who possessed a talent
for forming schemes for making large
sums of money — which always proved
abortive, but not from any fault of his
own — bethought him of opening a bookstall
on Pendruthan Quay on market days.
The public, he felt sure, would recognize
his philanthropic design in the most practical
way, and bear to their homes the
stores of edifying literature, leaving behind
in his pocket the current coin of the realm.
On the next Friday morning, therefore,
Mr. Thornlake, assisted by two lads, placed
in a commanding position a large kitchen
table (borrowed for the purpose), and on
this he arranged sundry copies of the
Pilgrim's Progress," a few first numbers
VOL. I. K

of an illustrated Family Bible, Holm Wesley's
" Sermons " — these, Mr. Thornlake
thought, would have a rapid sale in such a
"Wesleyan community; Baxter's "Saint's
Rest," a 'life of Napoleon Buonaparte,"
and some miscellaneous story-books.


Mr. Thornlake opened early, for he
purposed to re-order any books which
half a day's trial showed to be popular by
the afternoon post. At nine o'clock, therefore,
he seated himself at the table in a
green kitchen chair, and waited for customers,
having previously procured from his
wife several shillings' worth of silver and
copper '' to give change." Perhaps it was
the cold east wind which kept the customers
away, but, whatever was the reason,
noon had passed before a single customer
appeared. Several gentlemen of the seafaring
persuasion had inspected Mr. Thorn-lake's

stall and the owner thereof much as
the J would gaze at the sea-serpent or any
other strange animal, but they did not
make any offer for Baxter's '' Saint's Restor
the " Pilgrim's Progress." One man,
more irreverent than the rest, observed
that " a good pipe of baccy " was more in
his line, but most of them contented themselves
with remarking that the wind was
sharp, and they hoped he would not get
rheumatism.

At a quarter-past twelve a customer
came. At noon Mr. Thornlake's spouse
had dismissed her scholars, according to
custom, and some of the more enterprising
boys, including Arthur and Jemmy ISTash,
discovering the forlorn bookseller — perhaps
book-keeper would be the more correct
word — reading to wile away the time,
by the aid of a pair of spectacles and a
powerful eyeglass, determined to get some
K 2

fun out of him. Nash suggested that they
should send various innocent-looking boys
to inquire for articles which they knew he
did not sell. This idea was approved of,
and Arthur was selected to be Mr. Thorn-lake's
first customer. Mr. Thornlake was
immersed in a chapter of the " Saint's
Best" when he was aroused by a knock
on the kitchen table, and, looking up, he
saw Arthur, whom he had some faint
recollection of having seen at the school.

Well, my lad, what can I do for you ? "
said Mr. Thornlake.

Business was so slack, that it was well
to be civil even to a small boy.

"Please, sir, for a pennyworth of shoemaker's
wax."

This was an unfortunate slip of Arthur's.
He had been told sealing-wax, but getting
nervous in the presence of Mr. Thornlake,
had substituted the word " shoemaker's."

Mr. Thomlake's temper was not a very-sweet
one at the best of times, as his wife
knew by experience, but now he waxed
furious.

You young rascal," he shouted, " to
come here insulting me. I'll put mystick
about your back if you're not
off."

Arthur took to his heels as soon as he
discovered that his fun was likely to
involve him in trouble, but Nash and his
companions added to the fuel of Mr.
Thornlake's ire by shouting from their safe
retreat, —

Five eyes, old five eyes."

The result of this diversion was by nO'
means satisfactory, for, to the horror of
the delinquents, Mr. Thornlake appeared
at the school in the afternoon, and formally
arraigned some boys unknown on a
charge amounting to high treason, namely.

for calling him, Mr. Thornlake, the mistress's
master, " old five eyes," which
derogatory term had doubtless some farfetched
reference to his combination of
eyes, spectacles, and magnifying-glass.

Did Mr. Thornlake know the boys ? "

He could not lay claim to that pleasure.
There was one boy he thought he could
recognize, who came to him with an
insulting request for a pennyworth of shoemaker's
wax.

"Would Mr. Thornlake endeavour to
point him out?"

He would, with great readiness.

Accordingly, the aforesaid five eyes were
brought to bear upon the rows of faces,
much to the amusement of those who had
taken no part in the wax incident. Arthur,
Jemmy Nash, and their associates failed to
see the comic side of this inspection, Arthur
expecting a thrashing on being recognized,

and Nash fearing that Arthur would reveal
his share in the transaction. At last Mr.
Thornlake stopped in front of Arthur,
and surveyed him minutely with his five
eyes.

This is the boy, Mrs. Thornlake," said
her aggrieved spouse ; " I am confident that
this is the boy."

Arthur Treleaven, did you ask Mr.
Thornlake for a pennyworth of shoemaker's
wax ? " inquired the mistress,

"Yes," answered Arthur, " but I forgot,
I meant sealing-wax."

Nonsense," said Mrs. Thornlake, " if
you meant sealing-wax you would have
said sealing-wax ; you are only making
matters worse by telling a lie about it.
Who shouted ' five eyes ' ? — tell me."

Arthur remained silent.

Who shouted ' five eyes ' ? " interposed
Mr. Thornlake.

Mr. Thornlake, please leave the matter
to me," said his wife.

But I was insulted, and I will ask,"
exclaimed Mr. Thornlake.

Remember, Mr. Thornlake, that I am
the mistress of this school, and do not
intend to give up the reins even to you."

"Yes, you are the mistress," retorted
Mr. Thornlake, " and the sooner you teach
your pupils how to behave the better."

Mr. Thornlake, I will not be lectured
by you."

"And, Mrs. Thornlake, I will not be
dictated to by you."

"If you do not know how to behave,
Mr. Thornlake, you had better go and look
after your bookstall."

Confound you and the bookstall too,"
exclaimed the enraged Mr. Thornlake,
rushing out of the room, and banging the
door after him.

Mrs. Thornlake did not allow this little
altercation to put an end to the judicial
proceedings, but saying in a sarcastic
tone, —

'you must take no notice of what Mr.
Thornlake says, he is suffering from a
bilious attack," she resumed the cross-examination.


Arthur Treleaven, who shouted ' old
five eyes ' ? "

No answer was returned.

I will loosen your tongue," said Mrs.
Thornlake, fetching the cane. " Hold out
your hands."

Arthur obeyed, and received a stinging
blow on each.

That is for the shoemaker's wax," said
Mrs. Thornlake ; now tell me who shouted
old five eyes,' or I will give you two more
cuts."

Still the culprit refused to answer, and

the mistress kept her promise by giving
him two more blows, which sent the blood
tingling up his arm. Again this was
repeated without effect. The boy absolutely
refused to turn informer, and Mrs.
Thornlake, seeing that further questioning
was useless, gave him three or four sharp
blows over the back, and placed him in
the corner, with his face to the wall, for
the rest of the afternoon.

Master Nash was struck with admiration
at this magnanimity, and, when school
was dismissed, proposed to the five boys
who had joined him in sending Arthur on
his unfortunate errand, that they should
present him with a testimonial for sparing
their hands and backs at the expense of
his own. This was carried unanimously,
and each of the boys searched his pockets
for a suitable offering. Jemmy Nash gave
a peg-top slightly damaged, Richard

Hooker a stick of slate pencil, Tomray
Trebilcock a lead medal, Peter Tonkin a
pocket-knife with one blade gone, and the
other rather the worse for wear, and Fred
Peters a squirt-ball and half a dozen
marbles.

With these tributes of friendship in his
pocket Arthur wended his way home, as
much elated as any great general when,
after a deadly battle, he receives an intimation
from his sovereign that she
intends to confer a peerage upon him, and
to recommend Parliament to grant a pension
in consideration of his distinguished
services.

CHAPTER XIII.

A PIOUS FOUNDER.

There I was bircli'd ! there I was bred !
There like a little Adam fed

From learning's useful tree.
The weary tasks I used to con !
The hopeless leaves I wept upon !

Most fruitless leaves to me !

Hood.

Soon after the events recorded in our last
chapter, Mrs. Thornlake, for domestic
reasons, retired into private life for a few
weeks, and Mr. Thornlake gave up ibis
bookstall, which bad failed to justify ibis
sanguine expectations, to attend to ibis
wife's duties.

It is a question better a long vacation

would not have been on the whole as
profitable for the minds of the boys —
it certainly would have been better for
their bodies. Mr. Thornlake detested his
scholars, and they hated and despised
him. Consequently, whipping had to do
duty for instruction. Flogging, it has
been said, is a good thing in every station
of life. This may be true, but a plethora
of good things is apt to pall on one, and
a month's flogging was quite as much as
the boys of Pendruthan cared for. At
the end of that time Mrs. Thornlake
returned, bringing with her a diminutive
copy of her respected husband, to whom
she administered at odd minutes the
beverage duly provided by nature.

Mrs. Thornlake soon discovered that
the work done in her absence was not of a
high order. She therefore carefully collected
all exercise-books, and selecting

the most untidy pages, wrote at the beginning,
" Mrs. Thornlake left," and at the
end, " Mrs. Thornlake returned." Alas !
alas ! for the honour of woman, many of
the blots thus fathered upon Mr. Thorn-lake
came into existence without the cooperation
of that maligned gentleman.

The Thornlakes found in a short time
that residence at Pendruthan was not
conducive to obesity, and therefore departed
to a more generous locality.
Another mistress was procured, but she
soon followed the Thornlakes. It seemed
likely that if some vigorous steps were not
taken Mrs. Warder would have all 
to find mental food for.

The church had had its innings : it
was the turn of the Granites to go to
the wickets. Mr. Jonathan Bawden, the
leading personage among this sect, a
substantial butcher with a family of ten

cliildreri, all boys, bethought him of a plan
which would conduce to the prosperity of
the local Zion while furnishing the young
people, including a moiety of the aforesaid
boys, with the instruction which they so
much needed.

Fix some desks with hinges to the
seats in the chapel," said he, '' and the
thing is done. Turn them up on weekdays
and you have your school ; turn them
down on Sundays and again the building
becomes a chapel. Buy some slates and
slate-pencils, tell the boys to bring their own
copy-books and pens, and you can open
school as soon as you like. As for reading-books,
there are plenty of Bibles, wanting
perhaps part of the book of Genesis and
some of the Revelations, but still quite
good enough for the purpose."

There was one thing lacking — a schoolmaster,
but Mr. Jonathan Bawden was

not a man to forget such an important
factor. He had his eye on a suitable
individual, Mr. Simon Beckerleg, a person
the shady side of fifty, a widower with one
daughter, who would be able to help him
in his business. Mr. Simon Beckerleg had
passed most of his life in the humble
occupation of stone-breaking, but that was
nothing to his disadvantage — he was a
very erudite stone-breaker, and, besides, his
profession would have taught him to wield
the birch with good effect, to hit, in fact,
the most telling blow in the most fitting
place. Mr. Simon Beckerleg therefore,
upon an early day, as parliamentary usage
puts it, assisted by his daughter Jemima,
assumed the function lately performed by
the lamented Mrs. Thornlake.

The building was calculated to inspire
a great awe in the minds of all but
hardened reprobates like Jemmy Nash.

A flavour of the previous Sunday's discourses
seemed to pervade the schoolroom,
and boys with a vivid imagination could
almost hear the sounding thumps given
by some particularly energetic Boanerges
on the pulpit Bible. The light was dim,
very dim, if not religious, and the back
walls presented a pleasing green appearance,
the result of drainage operations on
the higher level at the rear. It must be
confessed that the result of the combination
of educational advantages with sound
Divinity did not answer Mr. Jonathan
Bawden's expectations. The lads came
readily enough to the day-school, which
was nothing extraordinary, seeing there
was nowhere else to go, excepting Mrs.
Warder's; but the "round preachers"
might thump the Bible into shreds and
bawl themselves hoarse on Sundays without
enticing any lads from " the other
VOL. I. L

sexes," as Mrs. Polsue phrased it. The
were so satiated on weekdays that they
preferred other fare on Sundays. At the
end of ten months the experiment was
given up, and Mr. Simon Beckerleg returned
to his stone-breaking, varied with
an occasional jaunt to sell fresh pilchards.

The chief event which occurred to
Arthur during his stay at Mr. Beckerleg' s
school was his first stand-up fight. It
was very wicked to fight, I know, but
truth compels me to give a plain, unvarnished
tale, and to relate Arthur's vices
as well as his virtues. It happened in
this wise. Several boys were playing in a
disused sawpit one evening, Jemmy Nash,
Arthur Treleaven, and Peter Chard being
of the number, when a quarrel arose
through Peter Chard making a rude
remark about John Treleaven.

Your father," said he, "stole a piece

of timber and two oars from old Dick
Bastard."

He did not," said Arthur; " he took
the timber and oars from Dick just after
they washed in, and carried them to the
watch-house."

My father said he saw your father cutting
it up for firewood," persisted Peter.

Then your father told a lie," said
Arthur hotly.

And your father is a thief," retorted
Peter.

I'll hit you if you say that again."

Your father is a thief," repeated Peter
deliberately.

Arthur's blood boiled at this aspersion
upon his father, whom he looked upon asa
personification of bravery and goodness,
and without considering Peter's extra four
inches of stature, he struck him a blow in
the breast with all his might.
L 2

Jemmy ISTasli slapped his knees in great
glee, for a fight afforded him immense
enjoyment, and he felt that nothing but a
real hard combat would meet the requirements
of this particular case.

You back up Chard,' ' he whispered to
Richard Hooker; "I'll look after Tree
'' You'll fight, I suppose ? " he
said aloud to Chard.

Yes," answered Peter, 'i'm ready for
him at any time."

Will you fight ? " ISTash inquired of
Arthur.

I don't want to fight," was the answer,
but I will unless he says that my father
did not steal the oars. Will you say that,
Chard?"

No, I won't ; he did steal them, and I
would have punched you before now if
Nash hadn't interfered."

*' Come at it, then," said Arthur.

'' Take off your jackets," said Nash ;
"let's have it all fair — put your toes
together and wait till I give the word to
begin."

The two stood facing each other.

Now," said Nash, '' at it you go."

Chard's style of warfare was not at all to
Nash's taste. Planting his head about the
middle of his adversary's stomach, Peter
struck out wildly, without doing any particular
damage ; while Arthur, coached by
Nash, aimed his strokes as best he could
at his opponent's concealed features.

Several rounds were fought in this way
without any definite result. Then, at
Nash's suggestion, a little variety was
introduced. Up to this point each round
had been opened by Chard, the next was
begun by Arthur. While Master Peter
was debating how to begin, Arthur dealt
him a sharp blow on the nose with his left

hand, which at once put an end to the
battle. It must have given Chard some
unpleasant sensations, for he burst into
tears, saying, —

You struck me unawares, you struck
me unawares ! "

Get along," said Nash, " 'twas fair
fighting, and you were licked. Did you
want Treleaven to stand waiting for you
all night? Well done, Arthur," he continued,
patting the victor over the back.
Whenever you fight, my boy, always hit
'em as hard as you can across the nose,
it makes 'em see blazes in quick time."

Arthur's explanation of his dishevelled
appearance to his father and mother when
he reached home was received in different
ways.

Don't go fighting, my dear," said the
mother, "tis very wrong, and you'll get
hurt by great rough boys."

That's a good boy to stand up for
father," said John Treleaven, with secret
pride in his son's loyalty and prowess ;
'' but don't fight unless you are struck
first, and don't take any notice of what
that young rascal Peter Chard says, he's
like his father, given to evil-speaking,
lying, and slandering."

CHAPTER Xii.

THE ANTIQUARY.

Sometimes he angers me
With telling me of the moldwarp and the ant,
Of the dreamer Merlin and his prophecies,
And of a dragon and a finless fish,
A clip-wing'd griffin and a molten raven,
A couching lion and a ramping cat,
And such a deal of skimble-skamble stuff
As puts me from my faith.

Henry IV., Pt. 1.

A LADY and two gentlemen were seated
at breakfast in the dining-room at St.
Enodoc Castle. The lady was Mrs.
Dunstable. Twelve summers had come
and gone since we first made her acquaintance,
but they had treated her kindly, and
she was still as stately and good as ever.

One of the gentlemen was her brother,
Mr. Treleigh. He was nearer the winter
of old age than his sister, and had consequently
suffered more at the hands of
time. Mr. Burlington, who completed the
trio, was a cousin to the late Mr. Dunstable,
and had, after much pressing,
accepted Mr. Treleigh's invitation to spend
a few weeks in Cornwall. In appearance
he presented a marked contrast to his
host. Mr. Treleigh with his seventy years
was a fine fresh-looking old gentleman.
His hair and beard were white as snow,
but his massive frame was as erect and
his eye as keen as ever. In his younger
days he had been noted as a daring horseman,
but for some years he had resigned
that exercise to others, — more, it must be
confessed, from necessity than choice, for
gout had completely mastered his organs
of locomotion and totally incapacitated

Mm from even the shortest walk unaided.
This state of things could not be laid to
the charge of the fine old port in the
Castle cellars, for Mr. Treleigh had through
life been abstemious. If he suffered for
anybody's sins it must have been for the
sins of some ancestor, who, unfortunately,
strictly entailed the gout as well as his
broad acres. Mr. Treleigh was a well-informed
man with a taste for poetry, a keen
politician, a straightforward and fearless
magistrate, a liberal landlord, and a good
master. To say that he was universally
loved in St. Enodoc would be an exaggeration,
for ill-disposed persons are always
to be found ready to grumble at perfection
itself; but all St. Enodoc, whose
opinion was worth having, declared that
there was not a better nor a kinder man
than Mr. Treleigh in the county of Cornwall.


Mr. Burlington was an antiquary — irreverent
people said a fossil. His long
straight coat with immense pockets had
an antediluvian appearance, and might
have been worn by Methuselah in his
declining years. The body which it
covered was lean and long, and was surmounted
when out of doors with an extremely
tall hat, which had, apparently by
natural selection, assumed the shape most
in keeping with the substructure it was
intended to crown.

'* A charming county, charming county,"
said Mr. Burlington, '' so wild and
romantic, and so full of interest to the
antiquary. Why, I'll be bound, Mr.
Treleigh, that in this very parish I shall
find objects of interest to employ my time
for the whole fortnight I am with you ; such
things as old crosses — I understand you
have a number of them in Cornwall — and

remains of ancient religious buildings and
the like."

Yes," answered Mr. Treleigh, " sou
can find plenty to do in that way ; but, my
good sir, you don't mean to mope over
old crosses all the time, do you ? Marian
must take you to see some of our notable
places ; I only wish my legs permitted me
to accompany you. You must see the
Land's End, of course, and the Logan
Rock, and Mount's Bay, and the Lizard,
and Tintagel, and when you are tired of
sightseeing you can pass the time fairly
well in my library. I flatter myself that
my collection of the English poets is
unique."

'* Perhaps Mr. Burlington is not fond of
poetry," said Mrs. Dunstable ; '' you know,
George, you are quite an enthusiast on the
subject."

''No," said Mr. Burlington, ^' I care

very little for poetry, it is too dry forme
: give me a well-written book, now, on
the fossil fish of the red sandstone, or
on the reconstruction of Gothic buildings
from typical fragments, and I should not
consider my time wasted in its perusal."

'' Well, well," said Mr. Treleigh, laughing,
" please yourself, you know ; we want
you to do just what is most agreeable to
yourself. Of course, Mr. Burlington, you
know Milton's beautiful reference to antique
pillars and storied windows in ' II
Penseroso ' ? "

I do not remember it," was the
answer, " but I have read with very great
interest a work by a friend of mine, Mr.
Tedyas, on the same subject, containing
six hundred and thirty-seven pages quarto ;
a most interesting volume I can assure
you. As you feel an interest in such
matters, Mr. Treleigh, perhaps you would

like to read the work. I can easily send
it down to you."

Oh, thank you very much," said Mr.
Treleigh hastily, " but please don't trouble,
my time is so taken up by one thing and
another, that I am afraid I could hardly
manage to read it in any reasonable period.
'Tis very kind of you to offer to send it
me."

"Would you care for it ? " asked Mr.
Burlington, turning to the hostess.

No, thank you," that lady replied. '' As
for poetry, I leave that to George ; and with
respect to arches and pillars, I think when
they fall down the simplest thing is to
replace them by new. I'm not at all sentimental
in the matter."

A great pity," said Mr. Burlington,
shaking his head ; " these important studies
should be introduced into the school curriculum,
and not left to be acquired at

random as at present. I think I shall
write to my old friend at Oxford, the
present head of Oriel, to suggest that he
might use his influence to effect the
desirable change. But I must not linger
or it will not be worth my while to go out
before luncheon."

Where would you like to go first ? "
asked Mrs. Dunstable. '' Shall I take you
to see some of our cliff scenery, or would
you like to inspect the church ? "

Thank you very much," was the
answer, ^' but I could not think of troubling
you ; and indeed you would find it
extremely dull, I fear, to wait about while
I am pursuing ray researches. I like best
to wander about just as the fancy takes
me, with only a lad as guide. Could you
procure a sharp lad for me ? I have the
list of the farms in your parish which you
made out for me last night."

You had better have one of the men,"
said Mrs. Dunstable. "I suppose Parker
can be spared, George ? "

"Oh, by all means," answered Mr.
Treleigh.

Thank sou," said Mr. Burlington,
but I much prefer a sharp bos. As a
rule men have opinions of their own, and
will maintain, in the face of the clearest
evidence, that stones of whose antiquity
and value you are convinced, are nothing
but ordinary door-steps or pigs' troughs,
or some such rubbish, whereas an intelligent
boy takes it for granted that you
know more about the matter than he,
and holds his tongue. I have found some
valuable relics with no companions but
cow-boys and scarecrows'*

We can get you as many boys as you
please," said Mrs. Dunstable. " I should
think Bundle's sun would suit, George, he

is a sharp lad, and is not at school now,
nor working, for the Bundles haven't quite
made up their minds what to do with
him : he's hardly fourteen ; do you think
he's old enough for you, Mr. Burlington
? "

*' Quite," was the answer.

Then I'll send for him,^' said Mrs.
Dunstable, ringing the bell. '' Spry," she
continued, to the man who entered, 'send
to Rundle the rope maker and say I want
him to send up his boy Mark at once, if
he's at home."

In about a quarter of an hour Mark
arrived, and after some explanation was
installed as guide to Mr. Burlington.

They made their way first, at Mr.
Treleigh's suggestion, to Tremadoc Farm,
for near the house were the remains of an
ancient monastic building overlooking a
large pond, which might, perhaps, have

VOL. I. M

furnished the monks with fish in pre Reformation
times, but which now contained
nothing but a layer of mud two or three
feet thick. The ruins disappointed Mr.
Burlington, for the stones were so much
decomposed by atmospheric influences and
age, that almost nothing remained to indicate
their original architectural features.

The occupant of the farm, Mr. Doctor,
who on hearing Mr. Burlington's errand,
had volunteered to show him the ruins,
now informed him that some carved stones
were supposed to be lying at the bottom
of the pond ; he had never seen any himself,
even when the water was low in the
summer, but possibly they were imbedded
in the mud.

Ahem," said Mr. Burlington, '^ excuse
me, but would it inconvenience you to put
your men to drain out the pond for me ? I
think it would quite repay the labour."

''I don't know about that'* said Mr.
Docton-but mj men are busy preparing
the ground for turnips ; I couldn't call
them away from that to search for old
broken stones. You are quite at liberty,
though, to do what you like with the
pond."

Perhaps I might find out something
about the stones if I took off my boots
and stockings and waded in," suggested
Mr. Burlington. " What depth of water
is there do you think?"

*' Oh, there isn't much water," answered
Mr. Docton: 'perhaps a foot in the
deepest part."

I bathed here once with two or three
boys belonging to our school," interposed
Mark, '' and we got covered with mud,
but didn't feel any stones except a round
one in the middle of the pond, three
times as big as your head."
M 2

*'Ah, the stones are there," said Mr.
Burlington to the farmer ; " of course, boys
wouldn't examine such things very closely.
It is a good deal to ask of you, Mr. — a —
Docton, hut perhaps you would not mind
wading in on the opposite side while I go
in here, and you, my boy — you are called
Mark I think — you go in at the lower
corner."

''I must ask you to excuse me," said
Mr. Docton ; "but — but — the fact is, I've
been suffering a good deal from rheumatism
lately, and perhaps it oughtn't agree with
me."

'' Oh, perhaps not, perhaps not ; you go
in on the opposite side then, Mark, instead
of Mr. Docton."

The two explorers divested themselves
of their lower garments and entered the
pond. Mark, knowing by experience the
nature of the bottom, did not show any

great eagerness in the enterprise, but Mr.
Burlington made up in zeal what he lacked
in knowledge, and went boldly in. Unfortunately
a sunken branch lay across
his path, and catching his foot in this he
went floundering into the black greasy
mud. Mark bravely rushed to the assistance
of his patron, who, despite his mishap
— nay, in consequence of it, was clinging
to a large boulder which he had struck in
his fall.

It is a matter for regret that Mr.
Docton's antiquarian bump was so poorly
developed, but the truth must be told that,
instead of assisting the over-eager Mr.
Burlington out of his difficulty, he remained
standing on the edge of the pond,
while a broad grin spread over his face —
perhaps this was the result of a twinge of
the rheumatism !

When the stone had been deposited on

the bank and examined, Mr. Burlington
had to confess that, at any rate so far as
that particular stone was concerned, Mark
was right ; it was only a common felspar
boulder.

Mr. Burlington had, in consequence of
his mishap, to return to the Castle for dry
clothing. Mr. Treleigh and his sister
hoped, when they heard the tale, that this
disaster would cause the abandonment of
the antiquarian pursuits for a day or
two, but they were undeceived when, at
luncheon, Mr. Burlington declared his intention
of spending the afternoon in walking
about St. Enodoc, examining the most
ancient buildings, and looking into the
gardens.

I have often found valuable pieces of
carving," said he, "in back-yards and in
use as borders for flower-beds."

During the next few days, therefore,

Mr. Burlington astonished the inhabitants
of the little town by peering into their
gardens and back premises, and by examining
intently sundry gate-posts and
door steps. The result of this was that
stones which formerly were valued by
their owners at the smallest coin of the
realm, now were worth, if Mr. Burlington
cared to buy them, " a good round sum,"
and others which aforetime were counted
mere rubbish now had their market
value.

Mr. Burlington's chief discovery during
his fortnight's sojourn at St. Enodoc was
an enormous granite cross, the largest, he
said, in the county of Cornwall. The base
with about four feet of the shaft had been
found a few years before in digging a
grave, some five feet below the surface.
It bore the marks of chisels as if it had been
wantonly broken during the reign of the

Puritans. With great labour it had been
raised from its grave and placed in a
corner of the churchyard. Mr. Burlington
chanced to espy this weather-beaten
fragment, and at once set himself to discover
the missing portion of the cross,
which, he felt convinced, must be lying
about somewhere in the neighbourhood.

Do you know of any crosses in the
parish ? " said he to Mark.

There is one in Mr. Carnanton's
garden," was the answer, " but it is not so
thick as this."

No, no, certainly not ; it oughtn't to
be if it belongs to this. I will go and see
it at once."

Mr. Carnanton met the explorers and,
on learning their errand, turned back with
them. The cross, he said, was in the
Vicarage grounds when he came to the
parish, but he doubted whether it stood

on its original site. Indeed there was a
tradition that it had once stood in the
churchyard.

"But there it is," he continued as they
reached the Vicarage gate, " you can
examine it at your leisure."

It consisted of a shaft set in the earth,
measuring about seven feet in height,
surmounted by a beautiful Greek cross.
Mr. Burlington was enraptured. He went
round and round it, scrutinizing the tracery
and admiring the proportions, and ended
by taking careful measurements of its
length and breadth and depth and
height.

'' If this belongs to that fragment in the
churchyard," he said, " the cross as it
stood complete must have been an enormous
one. If you will kindly wait a minute
or two I will work out the figures," Mr.
Burlington continued, seating himself on

the grass regardless of ulterior consequences,
and pulling out his note-book.
*' The bevel appears to be the same," he
said, after a page or two had been covered
with his calculations, " but it would take
ten or twelve feet more to complete the
cross unless I am mistaken. I should not
be surprised — people are such Vandals — if
the missing piece is in use somewhere asa
gate-post, if indeed it has not been
broken up by profane hands and put to
still baser uses. Do you know, Mr. Carnation,
of any old gate-posts which might
perhaps be what we are looking for?"

There is an old granite gate-post on
the way to a farm called Tregulls ; you
know it, Mark, I am sure. Mr. Robarts
will give you any assistance you might
want in examining it."

Then Til go there at once."

I must say good-morning," said Mr.

Carnanton, *' as I have some business in
the town, but Mark knows where to take

you."

Good-morning ; I am extremely obliged
to you for your help. Now then, Mark, we
will set out for Tre — what do you call it ?
Tregulls."

The post was well worn, but Mr.
Burlington detected, or fancied that he
detected, some carving which corresponded
with that of the cross in the
Vicarage garden.

It is possible," he remarked, '' that the
stone below the surface is not so much
weathered; let us ask Mr. What's-his-name,
the farmer, for assistance."

Unfortunately Mr. What's-his-name, the
farmer, was from home, and the antiquary
had to fall back upon his own resources.
He was far too eager in the quest to wait
until the next day. Perhaps some one could

be procured to dig around the post. Could
Mark suggest anybody ?

Mark thought the grave-digger would
undertake the work if asked.

The very man," said Mr. Burlington;
'' go and fetch him at once."

Mark ran off to seek this auxiliary
while his patron lighted his favourite pipe
to while away the time until his return.
In about half an hour Mark reappeared
escorting the sexton, an elderly, grizzled,
wiry man without a spice of romance in
his composition, who regarded his clients,
not as departed human beings with husbands
or wives, parents or children, but
simply as so many " jobs."

Look here, my man," said Mr. Burlington,
" will you dig away the earth from
the side of this post ? you are accustomed
to digging I understand. I want to
examine the bottom of it."

I's sure, sir," was the answer, " I'll
dig it for 'ee. I beeant particles whether
tes pertains or greaves or greate-postes
I'm digging' so long as tes a job. Are I
'customer to digging, ded 'ee ax, sir ? Miss,
I reckon I be. I've a buried a party
many people in our churchyard in my day,
sir, and I hope to bury a passel more yet.
Nobody ceeant say as I worst never ready
to bury 'em. Do 'ee want un digged up
altogether, sir, or what ? '*

'^ No, not altogether, 'twill be sufficient
to clear away the earth this side so that I
may see what I think was the front of the

cross."

After the sexton had expended much
time and strength, for the ground was
extremely hard, Mr. Burlington was able
by going down on his knees to see the
whole length of the post. His inspection
did not result in the discovery of any

carving, but lie accounted for this by
remarking that evidently it had been
obliterated. More measurements were
taken and more calculations gone through,
and at length the antiquary announced to
his assistants that this was evidently a
portion of a great cross twenty-five feet in
height, the finest in the county of Cornwall,
that it was once joined to the pieces
in the churchyard and in Mr. Carnanton's
garden, and that a piece of granite about
six feet long was wanting to restore the
cross to its original state.

It is getting late," he added, " we had
better stop for the day. Run into the
farm, Mark, and ask Mrs. Hobart to tell
her husband that we will come tomorrow
at three to make the post secure, and that
I shall be very glad to see Mr. Hobart
then if he is at home. What have I to pay
you, my man ? '' (turning to the sexton).

"Well, sir, spouse we do sap the separate
price as I do charge for digging a grave.
I'd sooner dig a grave than a great-post,
the ground is more freer a bra' dale."

Very good, what do you charge for
making a grave ? "

Three and six ; and ten a garden too
much : though there be some people to
grumble at the odd sixpence."

Do they ? I suppose you charge the
extra sixpence on account of the melancholy
associations connected with your
calling ? "

Melancholy 'associations, sir ? I dont
see no melancholy 'associations in having' a
job to do ; the most melancholia 'associations,
seeming to me, es when nobody weeant
die for a month at a stretch. Thank the
Lord, that edn very often."

'' Ah, that's a new way of looking at it ;
but here we are at the Castle gate. Good

evening, my friend, good evening ; don't
forget to meet me here tomorrow at
three."

On the following day, Mr. Carnanton,
taking a walk to Tregulls, was somewhat
surprised to see Mr. Hobarts beating down
the rubbish at the foot of the gate-post
with a large iron bar.

"What are you doing?" he inquired.

Oh," answered Mr. Hobarts, " I'm
filling this pit which that strange man
who is staying at the Castle made here
yesterday. He sent word that he would
be here at three o'clock, and now it is after
four. I'm afraid that unless the pit is
filled, the post will fall and kill somebody.
I might have got a couple of my men todo
it, but I relied upon Mr. Burlington, or
whatever his name is, keeping his promise,
and sent them all away with teams to
Montfort for manure."

'' An odd man, I imagine," said Mr.
Carnanton. " I am afraid I have caused
you this trouble by suggesting the post to
him, but I never dreamt that he would
dig a pit like this, and then leave it for
you to fill. I am going in to see Mrs.
Hobarts, and dare say I shall see you
again before I go back."

Yes," said Mr. Hobarts, *' I dare say
I shall finish this in about twenty minutes,
when I will come in."

Before Mr. Carnanton had been seated
in the farm parlour a quarter of an hour,
Mr. Hobarts appeared, limping painfully;
for the heavy ironbar had fallen upon his leg
and severely bruised it. This accident had
not inspired him with any friendly feeling
towards the antiquary, indeed he was
disposed to anathematize him and all his
works.

"What a nuisance that man is," he
VOL. I. N

exclaimed, *' to give me all this trouble,
and nearly break my leg in the bargain ;
the sooner he leaves the parish, the better
I shall be pleased."

I am sorry he gave you all this trouble,"
said the vicar, " but I dare say he
forgot his appointment. People of that
kind are apt to be forgetful. I am going
into the town, and if I see him I will jog
his memory."

Mr. Carnanton found Mr. Burlington
sooner than he expected, for when he
reached the post which had caused all the
trouble, there was that worthy standing
in the middle of the road, with an enormous
pipe in his mouth, gazing blandly
through his goggles at the grave-digger,
who was busily engaged in making a second
pit on the other side of the post.

"Well," said the vicar, 'you are still
working at the post, are you ? Mr. Hobarts

was disappointed to find that sou did not
come at three, and, in trying to fill the pit
himself, has injured his leg by striking it
with the iron bar he was ramming down
the rubbish with."

Dear me, dear me," said Mr. Burlington,
*' how very clumsy some people are ;
lie should have left it for my friend here,
he would have done it beautifully. If the
skin is broken, he had better apply a fig
to the wound — a most excellent thing, I
assure you."

The vicar went on his way, wondering
what would be the state of Mr. Hobart's
feelings when he became aware of the fresh
attack upon the foundation of his gatepost.


The following day he met him, and was
not surprised to find that he was still more
incensed.

'* That man," he exclaimed indignantly,
N 2

undermined the foundation of that post
so that it fell in the night, bringing down
the gate with it. I, with two of my men,
have had three hours' hard work to-day
placing it in position again. I hear he's
going away this afternoon, and I hope he
won't come this way again, to pester people
to death in this style."

This report proved to be correct, and
Mr. Burlington, leaving his explorations
in an unfinished state, hied him to fresh
woods and pastures new.

CHAPTER XV.

THE WILD WAVES.

Listening now to the tide in its broad-flung shipwrecking
roar,

Now to the scream of a madden'd beach dragged
down by the wave.

Maud.

I HAVE been all round the island," said
an old Welsh skipper, " and I have never
seen a place I like so well as Pendru-
than."

There was warrant for this partiality.
The little village-town, nestling under the
hill by the sea-side, looked so clean and
peaceful and beautiful, that strangers fell
in love with it at first sight. Many of the
houses stood in gardens bright and scented,

except in the cold days of winter, and they
were not many in that sheltered situation ;
for it was not only the hill behind which
shielded it from the nipping blasts — the
water which washed its shores was only a
mile wide, and the land opposite was high
and wooded. Beyond this natural breakwater,
and overlapping it, but at the distance
of eight miles, the land stretched out
making yet another shelter — from the west
this, as the other from the south and east.
The land immediately opposite Pendruthan
was covered in nearly its whole extent
with firs, whose blue-green foliage, variegated
by a few elms and dwarf oaks,
made a soft framework for a mansion
and an adjoining ancient and beautiful
little church.

The distant western land, with its one
steeple-crowned church, presented no
distinct picture, except when a coming

tempest brought it near and revealed, as
if by a telescope, its green fields and fallow
lands, and dotted homesteads. The rocks
which formed its limit seawards were hard
and rugged, as many a shipwrecked sailor
had found to his cost, despite the bell-buoy
which rose and fell with the waves within
a cable's length.

Within this long sweep of land lay, to
the west and north of Pendruthan, the
magnificent harbour of Penmaen, of which
Pendruthan was only a creek, capable of
furnishing anchorage-ground for, not a
fleet merely, but a navy, and that at all
times of the tide. Two ancient castles,
like grim sentinels, stood guarding the
entrance, Penmaen the one, Pendruthan
the other. In the centre of the harbour's
mouth was a dangerous reef of rocks,
called the Greenways, marked by a lofty
granite beacon surmounted by an iron cage,

dangerous not so much to ships entering
the harbour, as to those which might
happen to be caught by a storm when riding
at anchor to windward of them. But Penmaen
and Pendruthan were so sheltered,
that only when exceptionally severe storms
blew was the shipping in danger. At long
intervals, however, havoc had been wrought
among the forest of masts and costly hulls,
and cargoes brought from the four quarters
of the globe, by fierce blasts which no
cables nor timbers could resist, and to
guard against this a life-boat had been
stationed at Pendruthan by the noble
institution which is one of the glories of
our land.

On one Wednesday in February — a black
day for Pendruthan — this life-boat was sent
on her errand of mercy. An unfortunate
schooner had drifted on to the Greenways
in a fierce hurricane from the south, and,

unless help soon arrived, was certain to
prove a cofl&n for her crew. The cry,
Man the life-boat," was raised in Pendru-
than as soon as the critical state of the
schooner was perceived. One of the crew,
a young fisherman with a widowed mother,
had only just recovered from an attack of
pleurisy, but he took his place in the boat
with the rest. John Treleaven, who did
not belong to the regular crew, seeing the
brave fellow's pale face, offered to take his
place.

'' You ain't strong enough," he said,
"you'll die with the cold; let me go
instead."

No," was the answer, '^ I'll go, I feel
quite strong again now."

'' No, no," shouted the bystanders, 'let
Treleaven go ; jump aboard, John."

Treleaven solved the difficulty by
springing over the side and lifting the

weak but spirited fellow clean out of the
boat.

Tell mother to cheer up, we'll be back
again soon, and tell her I said ' Grod bless
her,' " shouted John to his son Arthur, as
the boat took the water.

There was no possibility of reaching the
schooner on the leeward side, as the reef
of rocks stretched away inside her for
thirty yards or more. The only chance of
saving the men was to row to windward,
and then drop down upon her. It was a
most hazardous undertaking, but the crew
of the life-boat were brave men who had
looked death in the face more than once
without flinching. Shielded by the peninsula
opposite Pendruthan, they rowed out
somewhat to windward of the Greenways
before they felt the force of the tempest,
but as soon as they left this friendly
shelter and made for the wreck, the storm

burst upon them. One oar after another
Was snapped off short as if they had been
reeds, until it became apparent that they
would never reach the schooner, and that
they must run up the harbour before the
wind and waves, or they were not likely to
save their own lives ; for the mouth of
the harbour was now one mass of foam, in
which scarcely any boat could hope to live.
The " drogue," a canvas cone so towed
behind as to act like a drag, had been cast
out to keep the boat steady. If the rope
held, they would doubtless reach the land
in safety ; if the strain proved greater than
its strands could bear, they must probably
battle with the weaves for dear life. The
rope was composed of the very best material,
and had been subjected to a severe
test before being put on board the life-boat,
so that there was every hope of its proving
true. But no gale like this had tried it.

The boat was lifted on every wave, and
sent forward with a rush which made the
strong rope quiver. At last a mighty-billow
gave her such an impetus that
the strands of the rope broke asunder like
tow, and, with nothing to keep her steady,
she became the sport of the waves.
These were so furious that before the men
could realize their peril the stern was
buried, and the boat not merely capsized,
but flung end over end, and the crew tossed
out to struggle for their lives.

The men wore cork jackets, but even
with these it was doubtful whether many
of them would ever reach the land. Three
of them never rose again, having probably
been struck by the boat when she was
thrown over; another soon succumbed and
sank: the other nine, among whom was
John Treleaven, drifted slowly up the
harbour. The water was smoother further

in, and if only they could hold out for a
little while, the boats which put off from
the shore when the accident was seen would
save them. When the boats were not more
than two hundred yards from the inside
man, another poor fellow showed signs of
yielding to the cold and exposure. John
Treleaven saw this, and, forgetting himself,
supported his comrade until a boat approached.


"Pull in Tom first," he shouted, *'he's
nearly done for."

Two men seized Tom, and dragged him
over the side, but before they could perform
the same kind office for John Tree
a wave dashed him against the side
of the boat, breaking with the blow the
straps which bound his cork jacket around
him. He must have been stunned, for he
sank like a stone before a hand could be
stretched out to save him. The remaining

seven were, after some difficulty, secured
and brought to land.

But what of the stranded schooner ?
The waves were mighty enough to break
her into fragments, even were she built of
steel, and soon her timbers were shattered
and borne up the harbour. Five men
formed the crew, and three of them
perished. The others were thrown against
the granite beacon, and managed to cling
to the iron clamps fastened to its side, and
to ascend, bruised and bleeding, to the
iron cage which surmounted it. There
they remained until the morning, when,
the gale having ceased, they were rescued,
frost-bitten and almost dead, after having
been exposed for sixteen hours in that
hazardous situation.

Mrs. Treleaven was preparing supper
for her husband, when the door was
opened and her old friend Captain Penbole

walked in. He looked paler than
usual, but that she attributed to the severe
cold.

"Well, Mrs. Treleaven,'* he said, "I
hope you are very well."

"Yes," she answered; "but you are
looking white, captain, I'm afraid the cold
weather doesn't agree with you."

Perhaps not ; but IVe come from
watching the life-boat — she's had a rough
time of it."

Has she ? it doesn't seem to be blowing
very hard."

"No, we are sheltered here, but the
wind is very strong in the harbour ; the
boat shipped some heavy seas, and I'm
afraid some of the crew are hurt; but
don't be frightened, Mrs. Treleaven."

Frightened ! " she exclaimed, beginning
to see from the captain's uneasy
manner that something was wrong.

What is the matter, Captain Penbole ?
is my husband hurt ? "

Well, I am afraid he is, rather seriously
; the fact is, the life-boat has been upset,
and some of the men have gone down."

Is my husband one of them ? " inquired
Mrs. Treleaven, calm now by reason of her
great agony of suspense.

"Yes, I'm afraid he is," answered the
captain; " the men saw it from the point :
they were watching with their glasses, and
they knew John because he was the only
one who hadn't a red cap on, and the boat
that picked up some of the men brought
the news that five are drowned altogether.
Try to bear it, Mrs. Treleaven, try to bear
it," continued the honest old tar, not
knowing what better to say.

"0 God! God!" exclaimed Mrs.
Treleaven, wringing her hands, " then I ama
widow, and my poor boy is fatherless."

CHAPTER Xii.

THE ARCHITECT OF HIS OWN Fortunes.

Cloud-towers by ghostly masons wrought,
A gulf that ever shuts and gapes,
A hand that points, and palled shapes,

In shadowy thoroughfares of thought,

In Memoriam.

Arthur Teeleaven left Mr. Simon Backers
school some little time before its
dissolution. Educational matters in 
seemed, like the familiar toast, to
descend by easy stages from the bishops
and clergy to the ministers of all denominations.
The Church had responded, the
Granites (otherwise Bible Christians) had
said a few words ; it was now the turn of
the Wesleyans to come forward. Not

VOL. I.

caring to turn fclieir gaily-painted chapel
into a school for children, who would be
pretty sure to leave their private marks
wherever they could reach, they had first to
erect a suitable building. This, with commendable
enterprise, they set about doing.
The contract was secured by Arthur Tree
the elder, a brother of the deceased
coastguardsman, who, needing a boy to
assist him, suggested to his sister-in-law
that Arthur might give up school while
the building operations were going on, and
when the new school was opened, he himself
would defray the cost of another year's education.
Mrs. Treleaven, now her husband
was gone, was unable to resist this proposal.
Her son's earnings, small as they would be,
were not to be despised, and perhaps by the
time the prospective year's schooling was
ended, something might present itself which
would mark out Arthur's future course.

Mrs. Treleaven proposed to earn a livelihood
for herself by her needle. In her
younger days she was thought to possess
quite a talent for lace-work, and this talent
she hoped would stand her in good stead.
The only fear she had was that her health
would suffer from the confinement, for she
had never been very strong, and her
husband's tragic death had shaken her
terribly.

In accordance with these plans Arthur
left Mr. Simon Beckerleg's school, and
began to earn his bread in the sweat of
his brow. His work was to wheel the
bricks used in the erection of the school
buildings from the roadside, where they
were deposited by carts, to the site itself,
a distance of thirty yards. This was a
new experience to Arthur, and not altogether
a pleasant one. In the first place,
undeterred by his father's fate, he hankered


after a seafaring life, and in the second
place the bricks were not pleasant things
to handle. Arthur's hands were as jet
somewhat tender, and the rough bricks
had a tendency to remove the skin in a
decidedly disagreeable fashion. Mrs. Tree
tender heart and affection for her
boy prompted her to suggest, when he
came home at the close of the day with
bleeding hands, that the work did not suit
him. But Arthur was a boy of spirit, and
made light ol such matters.

"My dear," she said, "your hands are
quite raw. I don't think you ought to go
tomorrow; I'm sure your poor father
would grieve to see his boy doing work
like this. I'm sorry now I agreed to Uncle
Arthur's proposal."

Oh ! this is nothing, mother," replied
Arthur sturdily ; " my hands don't smart
much, and uncle told me that the skin will

get hard in a week or two, and won't rub
off."

I'm sure your father wouldn't like it,"
sobbed Mrs. Treleaven, rocking herself to
and fro. '* Oh ! that he should be washed
about by the cruel waves and his poor boy
have to work like this."

"Don't mind me, mother, I shall get
big soon, and then you won't have to work
so hard, and I know father would be
pleased to see me doing what I can for

you."

Bless your heart," said the mother,
kissing him, " I know you'll be a good boy ;
you are your father's own son. He was a
dear, good father, Arthur; try to be like
him for your mother's sake."

Arthur went on bravely with his brick-wheeling,
bearing all the hard knocks and
rubs for the sake of his mother. In a few
months the school was finished, and Arthur,

whose proud boast it was that he had
handled every brick in the building, had
his name enrolled as the first scholar. He
had always been a diligent reader, and, in
spite of the smallness of the home library,
had acquired a fair stock of general knowledge.
There were lads who excelled him
in penmanship and in arithmetic, but his
superior ability in " answering questions,"
as one of the boys put it, enabled him
to hold his own with the best of them.
At the first annual examination he was
blackett, with two others, above all his
fellow scholars, and carried home, to the
delight of his proud mother, a beautifully-bound
copy of Milton as a prize. This
precious volume was ever regarded as too
sacred to be touched by profane hands.
Arthur himself only read it on special
occasions, but it awakened in the lad his
first love for poetry, and, for that reason.

was always regarded by him with more
than ordinary respect, and was given a
prominent place in his modest library.

As some thoughts were entertained of
obtaining a situation for Arthur as clerk
in a mercantile office, it was judged expedient
that he should acquire the French
language, and a kind-hearted sea-captain,
on the retired list, undertook to give him
the necessary lessons. Unfortunately, for
reasons which will be hereafter given,
Arthur's school-days came to an abrupt
end, and all the French retained as a
reminiscence of his explorations in that
language was the interesting fact, which
had been carefully impressed upon him,
that non was represented vocally by nong,
pronounced through the nose, instead of
through the ordinary organ of speech.

CHAPTER XVII.

Confirmation.

Strongest sinews fail,
And many a blooming, many a lovely cheek,
Under the holy fear of God turns pale.
While on each head His lawn-robed servant lays
An apostolic hand, and with prayer seals
The covenant.

Wordsworth.

Are you going to be confirmed, Jenifer ?
The bishop is coming next month, so Mr.
Carnanton told mother."

"I don't know if Tm old enough — I
think I should like to be."

How old are sou ? I was fifteen last
January."

I don't know exactly — you know why,
Esther, but mother says she calls the day

on which I was saved from the wreck my
first birthday ; that would make me fourteen
the 21st of last September. Do you
intend to be confirmed ? "

No, not I ; what's the use of being
confirmed? Aunt Craddock says it is
only a form ; you can be good without
having the bishop's hands put upon your
head."

"I don't know, I'm sure," said Jenifer,
''I find it hard enough sometimes to do
what's right, try as much as I will."

Pooh ! I don't try, I do just what I
mind to. Of course you're very pious —
you say your prayers, I've no doubt, as a
good little girl should ? "

Oh, yes," said Jenifer, '' I never miss ;
but don't you say your prayers, Esther ? "

"Prayers ! not I. What's the good of
saying prayers ? — can you sew any better
for them ? — does Miss Jink find it any

easier to teach you dressmaking than she
does me ? — are you better tempered for it ?
I'm sure you looked black enough when
Miss Jink made you rip out all the stitches
in the sleeve of that black French merino
dress."

'* Yes, I know I did, but that was my
fault, not the fault of the prayers. I
stitched it badly, and then I was vexed to
have to do it over again when ] wanted to
get home early. But I shan't be persuaded
to give up my prayers, although I
nearly did when I was staying at Liskeard
last summer with uncle Wilton. Ada and
Annie, my two cousins, you know, used
to laugh at me every night when I knelt
down, and sometimes they would pull my
hair and throw the pillows at me ; but I
promised mother before I went that I
would always say them, and so I did,
although very often I felt ashamed."

'* I shouldn't have said mine at all,"
said Esther; " but if anybody threw things
at me, like that, I should see what boxing
her ears would do, that is, if I was big
enough; nobody ever served me a trick
without being well served out for it. Miss
Jink made me stitch a dress a second time
a little while before you came, but I
managed to serve her out by spoiling a
whole width of alpaca — not on purpose, of
course, oh no, quite by accident. You
should have seen what a state the old thing
got in, I believe she was almost provoked
enough to knock me down. And once I
upset a bottle of ink by accident over some
velvet she made a fuss about. She thinks
twice now before she bothers me. Here
we are at the school door. I wish we had
some other teacher than Miss Summer-court,
she's too particular — you mustn't
talk, and you mustn't laugh, and you

mustn't look around. I wish shield get
married, and give up teaching. As mother
says, she's old enough to be married, for
she's not far short of fifty. Stow, Jenifer,
in you go."

Esther was the daughter of Job Manse,
the St. Enodoc blacksmith. Job was a
very good workman, but was far too fond
of the " Need Lion " to prosper in his business.
Mrs. Mansellll, a younger sister of
Mrs. Craddock, was a somewhat slatternly
matron of forty-five or thereabouts, much
given to finding fault with her neighbours.
Mention any name you like to her, and
she would undertake to point out a blot
upon it. As, for example, —

"Mrs. Polglaze is a kind-hearted
woman."

'perhaps so; but she carried off her
mother's silver spoons before the breath
was well out of the old lady's body."

Nick Penrose is a good workman."

I have nothing to say against him, but
I should Hke to know whose corn it es that
makes les pigs so fat."

"Mrs. Simcox is very reasonable in her
charges for groceries."

'' She ought to be, for she well waters
her try che ; and as for her vinegar, ' tes so
sour as grab."

With home influences such as these it is
no wonder that Esther Mansellll grew up
ill-natured and without the slightest inclination
to choose the right for its own
sake. It was a question of expediency —
if it were more profitable to do right than
wrong, or to tell the truth rather than to
lie, why, then by all means do good and
eschew evil. But could not the Sunday-school
teach her better things ? It could
and did, but when two hours on the
Sunday are counteracted by, say thirty six

in the week, it is eighteen to one against
the Sunday-school.

Esther's theory of a Sunday-school was
that it was a divinely ordained worrying-place
for teachers. If Miss Summer court
passed a pleasant afternoon there that was
no fault of Esther's. Bibles had a tendency
to fall on the floor — the law of
gravitation managed that matter. Forms
were inclined to upset, but that was
clearly owing to their narrow base. The
class were often set a-giggling by some
cause unknown to Miss Summercourt, but
giggling is a complaint to which girls are
unfortunately subject. Esther never giggled
when Miss Summercourt's eyes were
lifted from her book, she confined herself
to making grimaces so as to set the class
in a titter, and assumed an injured expression
when the teacher mildly inquired
the cause of the merriment.

What are you laughing at, girls ? "
Esther Mansellll is making faces."
Oh, sou story-teller, lam not; 'tis the
wind in my stomach. Miss Summer-court."


'' Girls, girls, 'tis very wrong of you to
laugh if Esther is not well," said that
good lady. *' I must say she behaves very
well; better than most of you."

When prayers were being said on the
afternoon in which the conversation at
the beginning of this chapter took place,
Esther, instead of closing her eyes like
the rest, was engaged in inserting something
with a pencil inside the cover of
Jenifer Trewhella's Bible. Whatever it
was, it was finished before the Amen was
said, and the Bible restored to its place.
As soon as Jenifer opened her book to
find the lesson for the afternoon her eyes
lighted upon Esther's handiwork, and her

surprise drew the attention of her neighbours,
and their scrutiny of the Bible
caused Miss Summercourt to inquire the
cause of their smiles and whispers.

Jenifer Trewhella has been drawing
you in her Bible," said Kate Remain,
somewhat officiously.

"I haven't," said Jenifer.

Well," retorted Kate, " there it is in
your Bible. I don't suppose anybody else
put it there."

''I saw her looking in her Bible at
prayer time," interposed Esther.

Oh, how can you say so ? " said Jenifer
in astonishment ; '' I had my eyes closed
all the time, and never saw the drawing
until I was going to find the lesson."

Hand the book to me," said Miss
Summercourt.

The Bible was passed on, and the
astonished teacher saw a caricature of

herself with an inscription beneath,
What a beauty to be sure." To tell the
truth, Miss Summercourt was not particularly
handsome, but her nose was certainly
not so long and crooked as the
picture indicated, nor was her mouth quite
so capacious. She felt therefore that she
did well to be angry.

'you wicked girl," she exclaimed to
Jenifer, " to put this into your Bible ; I
shall tell Mr. Carnanton."

But I didn't do it," protested Jenifer.

'' Hold your tongue," said the teacher,
you are making matters worse by telling
a lie."

Jenifer's tears began to fall at this, and
she sobbed, " I didn't, indeed I didn't,
Miss Summercourt. I wouldn't do it for
the world. How could you be so wicked,
Esther, as to say you saw me with my
book open during prayers ? "

VOL. I. P

"Hold your tongue, and take up your
book and go home," said Miss Summer-court,
quite losing lier temper. " I shall
see your mother and Mr. Carnanton, and
tell them both of your bad conduct."

Jenifer arose and went home sobbing,
and told her mother all the story.

"Never mind," said Mrs. Trewhella
consolingly, " I believe you, Jenny ; don't
cry about it, it'll all come right soon, I
hope." '^;

But it did not come right for a considerable
time. Mr. Carnanton saw the girls,
but they all adhered to their story, and
the good vicar could only let the matter
drop, knowing that there had been hard
lying somewhere.

Neither Jenifer Trewhella nor Esther
Mansellll," he said, "even if they wished it,
must think of confirmation until it was
shown which of the two was the culprit."

The vicar was inclined to believe
Jenifer, but could not get over the fact
that, apart from other testimony, the
caricature was found in her book.

About a month after this incident
occurred, Esther was attacked by fever and
seemed at the point of death. One day,
fearing that her end was near, she sent
to Mr. Carnantou, begging that he would
come at once and see her. He had already
visited her two or three times, but had
derived little satisfaction from his visits.
Esther listened to his remarks, but made
no response. But now she was eager to
speak.

I want to tell you, sir," she said,
'' about that drawing in Jenifer Tree
Bible ; she didn't do it at all. I
did it when her eyes were closed in the
prayer, and put the book again by her side."

How could you be so wicked as top
2

insult Miss Summercourt, and then to tell
such untruths about Jenifer Trewhella ? '^
asked Mr. Carnanton,

Because I wanted to serve her out."

Serve her out, what for ? "

Because Miss Jink makes more of her
than she does of me. I only did it for
fun at first, but when Miss Summercourt
saw it, I thought I would throw the blame
on Jenifer. I know I'm very wicked, but
I always feel that I must serve people out."

"Dear, dear," said Mr. Carnanton in
astonishment, " this is a dreadful state of
things : a young girl like you so spiteful
and malicious."

Do you think God will forgive me,
sir?"

Forgive you ? yes, of course He will, if
you ask Him ; but you must not harbour
malice in this wicked fashion, and if you
recover you must try hard to keep our

Lord's last commandment, 'Little children,
love one another.' "

Mr. Carnanton, after a little more talk,
knelt at Esther's bedside and prayed for
her earnestly and simply, and then went
his way to minister to his other sick
parishioners.

Esther did not die as she anticipated,
but in a few weeks was able to go to her
work again. It is to be feared that her
contrition was not very deep, for she soon
displayed as evident a liking for serving
people out as heretofore.

The Confirmation was held before
Esther was strong enough to go out of
doors, and there was therefore no question
raised as to her becoming a candidate ;
but Jenifer, now her character was cleared,
received Mr. Carnanton' s most willing
permission to present herself to the bishop
for the imposition of hands.

CHAPTER XVIII.

"going to cellar."

Mrs. Ford. Shall we send that foolish carrion,
Mistress Quickly, to him 1

Merry Wives of Windsor.

Mother" said Arthur, rushing in one
day after school, " the seines are ' shut
and they say they have caught a lot offish
; shall I go to cellar tomorrow ?
I dare say they'll give me eighteen pence a
day."

Gro to cellar ! " exclaimed Mrs. Tree
" of 'course not ; your uncle will be
put out if you come away from school
now you are getting on so nicely."

But I have seen uncle, mother, and he

'^
says that lie lias no objection to my going.

I must please myself about it."

Well, my dear, I can't say but that a
few shillings would be very bandy. I
haven't been well enough to do much
lately, and there's that bill to pay for boots ;
but I'd rather work my fingers to the
bone than you should do such dirty work
against your will."

"But mother, I want to go ; it won't be
worse for me than for the others, and I
know that bill is troubling you."

So it was decided that Arthur should
go to cellar," and on the following morning
he commenced his work. That work
was to carry pilchards from the paved open
sheds, where they were deposited when
landed from the seines, to the inner cellars
where they were " baulked," the said " bulking
" consisting in arranging them in
layers one above the other, beginning

on the ground, until the bulk was too
high for the workers. Another 'bulk"
was then begun outside, and, when high
enough, was used as a platform to get at
the first. In this way, step by step, the
*' bulk " was built until the ceiling put
an end to extension upward. Between
every two layers of pilchards was strewn a
thick layer of coarse salt. The pilchard
curing was done, for the most part, by
the wives, mothers, and daughters of the
fishermen, but usually a place was found
for everybody who was not absolutely
disabled, or too proud to go to cellar, or
too fastidious to handle fish not over clean,
and sometimes, when labour was scarcer
than pilchards, not over savoury.

The actual 'skulking" was done by the
ancient fishwives, who were kept supplied
with the raw materials for their edifice by
the younger generations of both sexes.

Arthur was employed as an attendant on
the "butlers " for a fortnight, when the last
fish was put under salt, and had the satisfaction
of carrying home to his mother
twenty-five shillings, the odd shining of
which was a present from the osvner of
the seine for his good conduct. It is to be
hoped that this amount more than sufficed
to propitiate Mr. Sammy Webb, the 
shoemaker.

On the last day but one of the work in
the fish cellar a stranger came in to see the
pilchard curing. There was nothing singular
in this — few visitors failed to see the
curious sight ; but there was a good deal
of singularity in the appearance of the
gentleman. He was very tall and very
thin, and wore a coat of more than ordinary
length, furnished with enormous
pockets. Green spectacles, large and ugly,
assisted his visual organs, but undoubtedly

detracted from his personal appearance.
It was none other than Mr. Burlington, who
was on a second visit to Cornwall, and, after
spending a week at St. Enodoc Castle, was
exploring the southern part of the county
unaided, and in his own peculiar fashion.

Are there any crosses in this neighbourhood
? " he asked his landlord that
morning.

Crosses ? no, sir ; we ain't Woman
Catholics here," was the answer, '^ If you
want to worship crosses you'll have to go
over to Penmaen, there's a Homan Catholic
Chapel over there. The old priest
do come over sometimes to see two of
our coastguards."

"My good man," said Mr. Burlington,
you misunderstand me ; I don't want
crosses to worship. I only want to know if
there are any ancient granite crosses by the
wayside anywhere in the neighbourhood."

I ax your pardon, sir, I thought from
the look of your coat you was vsomo sort
of a farrier. All surrenders are Roman
Catholics, ain't they ? But I see what
you do mane now, old stones sticked
up by the side of the road. There was
wan, sir, when I was a body, up by a place
they call ' Law the could winds,' but
old Jerry Parsons knocked he to bits
years ago to build up his pig's house."

"How dreadful !" exclaimed Mr. Burlington,
'' to destroy a relic of antiquity in
that barbarous fashion; the Government
ought really to preserve these priceless
treasures."

'' Jerry dean cesare much for relics,"
said the landlord, *' but he took a powerful
dale of trouble with his pigs. I dooant
'zactly know what you do mane about
Aunt Rickety, he had no such relation
that I know of. If it belonged to any

aunt, it must ha' been my old Aunt
Mainspring, for lier little piece of treaty
ground was just inside."

'' I see I have made a mistake in coming
here," said the antiquary; 'they were
blessed with one valuable relic, and that
they wantonly destroyed. But is there
nothing else worth looking at ? "

Aw, miss, sir, there's plenty to look at.
There's the say, and the rocks, and the
ships, and the castle — ould King Harry,
what had a bra' many wives, he built he,
so they say — and there's the pilchards. If
I was you, sir, I should go to the fish-cellars
to see um ' bulking ' fish ; everybody
amoast do go."

Oh, very well, then I'll run down, and
be back again in time for lunch — say half-past
one."

When Mr. Burlington arrived at the fish-cellar,
he addressed himself to Arthur

Treleaven, who happened to be standing
near the door.

'* Is this the place where they are curing
the fish, my lad ? May I come in ? "

"Yes, sir," answered Arthur, *you can
walk about where yon like."

But will you tell me what is going
on? What are these fish lying on the
ground ? "

'they are pilchards just landed."

"And these boys and girls, what are
they doing?"

Carrying salt and fish for the ^bulkers,'
and the women you see on the fish are the
butlers.' "

Before Mr. Burlington had time to
inquire the meaning of the word ' butlers,'
the oldest and most unsavoury of the ladies
so designated approached him, and, taking
a dry corner of her capacious apron in her
hand, knelt down before him. This curious

proceeding astonished and scandalized Mr.
Burlington.

"What are you doing, my good woman?"
he asked, drawing back.

I want to wipe your boots," was the
answer.

Wipe my boots ! thank you very much,
but they are quite clean now."

But they must be wiped," persisted
the fishwife.

But I would rather not," urged Mr.
Burlington.

I tell 'ee what it tes, sir ; I intend to
wipe they there shoes before you go out of
this cellar."

Dear me," said the antiquary, " this is
very unpleasant. Is the woman mad ? "
he whispered to Arthur.

Before Arthur had time to explain that
this ceremony of wiping the boots was only
an expression of the desire of the old ladies

to drink Mr. Burlington's health, the
'' buller " deputed to perform the time-honoured
custom rushed at the antiquary's
boots, and he, in doubt as to her intentions,
incontinently turned and fled. There was
an unwritten law by which persons refusing
to pay toll for the boot-cleaning received
condign punishment, and this punishment
Mr. Burlington was not fortunate enough
to escape. It consisted in being pelted
from the cellar with volleys of pilchards
accidentally crushed and trodden upon,
known as " nun." Sad to say, Arthur
fired the first shot. A well-aimed pilchard
thrown with all his might, knocked off Mr.
Burlington's tall hat, and while the hat
was being rescued, strong reinforcements
arrived, who straightway commenced belabouring
the frightened gentleman with
volleys of " nun," and only ceased firing
when he was out of range. Mr. Burlington's

list and coat were sights to see when
lie presented himself to the landlord.
Mun " is exceedingly useful in its place,
but it certainly does not improve good
broadcloth, nor does it impart to those
upon whom it is bestowed a pleasing
fragrance. The landlord tried to soothe
the unfortunate victim by assuring him
that there was no harm intended : they
only meant to protest against his hasty
retreat, but the injured gentleman insisted
on having his bill at once. He was determined
for the future to confine his
attentions to antiquity, and leave the
modern inhabitants of Cornwall to their
own barbarous pursuits and unmannerly
customs.

CHAPTER XIX.

THE PRIVY COUNCIL.

It is a business of some heat : the galleys

Have sent a dozen sequent messengers

This very night at one another's heels,

And many of the consuls, raised and met,

Are at the duke's already.

Othello.

The council lead been summoned, and the
councillors were seated round the table.
It was neither a council of war, nor a
council of state. It could hardly be called
a general council : it might possibly be
described, without doing violence to the
language, as a privy council. At all events,
it was a council, a private council, called
to discuss a definite subject, and the councillors
were all in their places.

VOL. I. Q

The council chamber was Jeremiah
bundle's parlour, and a nice, comfortable
apartment it was. The low, open grate
was piled up with immense logs, which
crackled and sparkled and bade defiance
to the keen December atmosphere. The
large mahogany table, which had just been
relieved of its burden of Christmas cake
and strong, steaming tea, and jellies, and
preserves, by the combined efforts of the
councillors, and Sally, the little maid-of-all-work,
was still in a decidedly inflamed
condition. Several glasses were giving out
a spirituous odour, and Jeremiah was, with
the assistance of a long clay pipe, offering
incense to the spirit. Sundry pictures of
clipper schooners, some painted, some
worked in wool, gave a nautical air to the
walls. The perspective, it is true, was
somewhat at fault. At all events, it was
unlikely that a schooner's masts would be

much taller than Vesuvius, but a trifle of
that kind did not trouble Jeremiah. Moreover,
Vesuvius was " purring'' and Jeremiah
was not the man to stand up for "furriners,'*
or *' furrin " things.

In the most comfortable arm-chair was
seated Robert Rundle, an old patriarch of
eighty-five, bald and wrinkled, habited ina
swallow-tailed coat of a greenish-black
bue, and wearing at bis watch-chains an
enormous bunch of seals. A white necktie
imparted a somewhat clerical appearance
to the old gentleman, but Robert,
tbougb of a decidedly ecclesiastical turn of
mind, bad never attained to the dignity of
a local preacher, much less that of a
rounder." He was a good specimen of
the older generation of Methodists, delighting
much in relating anecdotes of the
sayings and doings of the Popes and
Fathers be bad been fortunate enough to
Q 2

meet at missionary meetings and such-like
gatherings. He was not able to read much
now, for his eyes were dim with age, but
there was still one book beside the Bible
which he delighted to pore over, and that
was the " Minutes of the Conference'* It
was to Robert Rundle his Shakespeare
and his daily newspaper rolled into
one.

His son Jeremiah was a close-fisted,
pushing man of business, whose chubby,
good-natured visage strangely belied his
character. His generous opinions and
wishes were charming to listen to, but try
to borrow half-a- sovereign, and business
would become so bad and a heavy bill so
pressing, that you must see for yourself
that it would be quite impossible to lend
it. " One must be just before being generous,
you know ; another time I shall be
most happy to oblige a friend like you,"

and the friend was left to digest his chaff
as best he could.

Jeremiah's wife, Maria, was good-natured
in her way, but in all matters of finance
was under the absolute domination of her
husband. Only where one person was
concerned did she ever venture to assume
an antagonistic attitude. On behalf of her
son Mark she was ready to do battle withall
comers, Jeremiah included. In so far
as Mrs. Rundle possessed any practical
religion at all, Mark was her presiding
deity.

Daniel Trewhella, who sat next to the
master of the house, was smoking a pipe
which appeared to be twin brother to Jeremiah's
long clay, and had before him a
glass of the above-mentioned beverage,
which derived its aromatic odour from
some Hollands gin, which Jeremiah, albeit
very partial to, only permitted himself and

friends to indulge in on state occasions
like these. Rebecca Trewhella had also a
steaming glass before her, but showed, by
her shrugs and small sips, that she was
only an amateur.

Aunt Charity, the only other adult
present, was Mrs. Rundle's sister, an old
maid, but, like most old maids, a most
invaluable personage. It was she who
was called upon in any emergency, sickness,
or trouble, or death, and she never failed to
respond to the call. She was always ready
to advise or to work, to love or to suffer.
People might sometimes suggest that she
was not over wise, but nobody ever accused
Aunt Chatty of an unkind heart.

'* Well," said Jeremiah, clearing his
throat, " you all know what we've a meet
for to-night — to put our heads together to
see if we can't settle what's the best thing
we can do with Mark. He's too old to goto

school — I don't believe in putting too
many tidings into a boy's head ; and he's
too old to be lopping about the streets,
and 'tis time for him to be aiming his own
living. Times is very bad, and rope-making
isn't all profit. Now, father, you
are the oldest, what's your opinion on the
subject? "

"My opinion ? " said the old man, rousing
himself from a reverie ; " I'm an old man,
my dears, and my opinion edn with much,
the youngsters know more than the old
people nowadays ; but ef you ax my
opinion, I should say, ' Jerry, my son,
meeake the body a local preacher.' "

The poor old man is getting toots
whispered Aunt Chatty to her sister.

Ten a job for Sundays we're thinking
of, father," said Jeremiah ; " we want to
talk about what we can put Mark to, to
air his own living. Local praichen' es

more work than pay, I'm thinking ; 'tes all
very well to be invited to dennar by the
good payers, but there must be a lot of
shoe-leather feared out trampling about the
country. I want to put the boy to something
what's pay."

Jeremiah'* said the old man solemnly,
I'm often carried away, I know, by my
thoughts, and sometimes I do see strange
sights, and feel that I am like the Apostle
on the island, looking at beautiful sights of
angels, and hearing lovely singing, and
harpers harping with their harps, but when
I come to myself I find I'm still on birth,
and that I'm getting blind and dees, and
the world is nothing to me. I'm tired, and
I want to get home to rest, so perhaps I
ceeant tell much about what you are axing ;
but I still say what I said first, ' Jeremiah,
my son, meeake the body a local preacher,
meeake un a local preacher.' Maria,

give me my candle, I think I'll go to
bed."

Mrs. Rundle tenderly led old Robert to
his bedroom, and then returned to the
parlour, saying, with a shake of her head,
as she entered, —

"I'm afraid poor father is breaking up ;
he edn long for this world."

The company, who had remained silent,
sipping the grog, and puffing out the
tobacco, gave a melancholy assent to this
expression of opinion.

"Well," said Jeremiah, "we must get
along, or we shan't be no wiser for having
put our heads together. What do you
think about it. Chatty ? "

I think," was the answer, " that, as I
used to read when I went to school, ' there's
nothing like leather.' Why, there's old
Tender Williams have aimed a fortune
by speaking, and have got now a nice

little farm, and a plenty of yaws and lambs
here a turned out this spring, to be sure."

Thank you. Aunt Chatty," interposed
Mark, looking up from his drawing-book,
which he was showing to Jenifer at a side
table, " but I don't intend to be a shoemaker.
I would rather work in the rope-walk
with father."

Speaking won't do," said Jeremiah
decidedly. " I dean send Mark to school
so long, and larn un vulgar fractures and
things of that kind, so as he might cobble
old shoes. I want un to do something
so as he can wear a black coat and
look respectable, and yet pick up money.
But he'll do that, I'll be bound ; there was
never a Rundle yet but what was sharp
enough to look after number one."

Why dont 'ee put un in the Consul's
office ? " asked Daniel Trewhella ; " I hear
that Captain Shortridge's clerk is going to

lave for a better situation in Cardiff next
month. They don't git much wages when
they are learning, but they meeake a lot of
money afterwards, I hear."

I thought of that," answered Jeremiah,
'' but it won't do ; Mark can't pally volant
a boy who can't pally voo edn no use
where so many surrenders come to do business."


Meeake un a draper," suggested
Rebecca Trewhella, " and after a little
while, Mr. Rundle, you can set un up in
business."

"No," said Aunt Chatty, 'whatever
you do, dont 'ee meeake un a draper.
Tom Paddy's son, who is just come from
London, told me that the lies drapers do
tell is wisht, sure 'enough ; but he says, says
he, ' all the lies we do tell in business is
put down to the governor,' but that, seeming
to me, is a poor way of doing things.

Lies is lies, and cheating is cheating, and
everybody will have to answer for his own
wickedness."

You're a little bit too particular,
Chatty," said Jeremiah, "you've got to be
pretty sharp in business nowadays to make
both ends meet. Not that I would advocate
cheating ; but if a man hasn't sense
enough to hold his own, why, that's his
look-out."

*' I don't think we ought to take advantage
of people with weak intellects," said
Aunt Chatty warmly; " do what's right is
my motto; it'll pay best in the long

run."

Well, well. Chatty," said Jeremiah,
we're running away from the subject. I
don't suppose every draper is dishonest,
modern every ropemaker."

*' I should think," said Dan, " that a
sharp youngster like Mark would do very

well in the post-office ; there's no pally
wooing wanted for that. Mr. Josiah told
me last night that young Judson has got
notice to lave ; there' ve been several complaints
lately for his being uncivil. Mark
might do fuss than that, for Mr. Josiah
says a clerk who goes away from here with
a good character is sure of a good situation."


This suggestion met with general
approval, and Mark declared that he
thought he should like it very much.

"There's one difficulty, though," suggested
Jeremiah ; "we haven't been very
friendly since my dog Ponto killed that old
tom-cat of his. Perhaps you wouldn't mind
sounding the old gentleman, Dan; I'm
afraid he'll bite my nose off if I ask any
favour from him."

Aw, miss," answered Dan, " I'll spake
to un if you like. I'll do it to dance.

Hand me my "hat, 'Becca ; I'll be back again
in five minutes."

Daniel's interview with Mr. Josiah was
a satisfactory one. Mark was already
somewhat in favour with the postmaster,
and it could be arranged for him to begin
work in a fortnight, if his parents wished.

This important point being settled, the
company abandoned themselves to the
enjoyment of grog, tobacco, and mild
scandal.

CHAPTER XX.

TBE CHINA JAR.

I did not come to curse thee, Guinevere,

The sin is sinn'd, and I,
Lo ! I forgive thee, as eternal God
Forgives : do thou for thine own soul the rest.

Idylls of the King.

"Why, Jenifer, what's the matter?"
asked Mr. Carnanton, as lie entered Daniel
Trewhella's house, and found Jenifer looking
ruefully at the fragments of a jar
lying on the floor, while a pungent odour
filled the room.

The jar was a beautiful one, and was
held in high honour by the Trewhellas.
Daniel had brought it in his younger days,
before he had settled down to fishing, from

Canton. It ostensibly contained Cayenne
pepper. No proof of this pretension had
been sought — Cayenne pepper was not
much in Daniel's line — and the jar remained
sealed, the central ornament of the
mantelshelf. It was evident now, however,
that it had contained Cayenne pepper,
pure and unadulterated, for the pungent
condiment set Mr. Carnanton and Jenifer
coughing and sneezing with a vigour
which the most powerful " cough-nombre"
lozenges would have had some
difficulty in coping with.

"Whatever — alicia — alicia — is the matter
? — alicia," asked the vicar.

'Tis father's china jar," answered
Jenifer as best she could through her
sneezing; " the timber-waggon going down
the street shook the shelf, and the jar
fell, striking the fender, and smashing all
to pieces."

It must have been very near the edge,
I should think, to fall over with such a
shake as that; it is thick and heavy."

As he said this Mrs. Trewhella entered.
She had been doing her weekly marketing,
and Jenifer, as her mother was not
very well, had been allowed by Miss Jink
to remain at home to help her.

Why, Jenny ! " she exclaimed, " you
dont mane to say you've broke father's
chine jar ? he'll be in a fine way."

She says the waggon shook the shelf
and the jar fell on the fender," said Mr.
Canton ; "it must have been near the
edge, I should think."

"You've been dusting the mantelshelf,"
said Mrs. Trewhella to Jenifer ; " you dean
knock it over, ded 'ee ? "

No mother, I didn't," was the answer.


Did 'ee put it near the edge ? "

VOL. I. B

Jenifer, blushing deeply, replied, " I
night have put it further out than it
was before, but I don't remember doing
so."

'what are you crying for then?"
inquired the mother.

''Oh, as for that matter, I'm crying
too," said Mr. Carnanton; "when I
entered, the house was almost unbearable
from the pepper, or whatever was in the
jar. It set me sneezing so that I could
hardly stop. I came to inquire for you,
Mrs. Trewhella ; I heard that you were
not very well. I'm glad to see that you
are not confined to the house."

Oh, 1 hope 'tes nothing serious," was
the reply ; " the doctor says he will soon
bring me round again."

Well," said the vicar, " 'tis Saturday,
and you are busy ; I will not stop now, but
will call next week to see you. Good-morning.

I hope Daniel will not be put out
at the loss of his jar, though I know he
valued it very highly."

Daniel came home to dinner in about an
hour, and was shown the broken pieces of
the jar.

The sooner we git it over with father
the better," Mrs. Trewhella had said to
Jenifer.

Daniel's equanimity was not nearly so
much disturbed as they had feared.

*' 'Tes a poor job," said he ; "I wouldn't
ha' lost that jar for a bra' many shillings,
but a accident is a accident. Never
mind, Jenny, if you ded put un too near
the edge, it'll tach 'ee to be more careful
next time; ten like as ef you was
meddling' where you had no business to
be"

Jenifer hung down her head and made
no reply to this consoling speech, and all
E 2

through the dinner lie spoke only in answer
to questions, and then in monosyllables.

What's the matter with Jenny ? " asked
Daniel of his wife, when their daughter had
left the room.

I ceeant meeake out," Rebecca answered
; " seeming' to me she's more
troubled about the china jar than she
need be ef the waggon slaked it down.
Why should she turn red and peeale and
hang down her head ? Ef she dean allays
tell the truth I should think she broke
it herself."

Jenny spake false ! " said Daniel
warmly, " not she. I'd back she against
anybody for tellin' the truth. Perhaps she
edn very well."

Shell I spake to her about it ? " asked
Eebecca.

No, laye her alone, she'll come to,
ef there's anything wrong."

Jenifer came in at this juncture, and
the conversation was dropped. All the
day she continued ill at ease and preoccupied,
and even the night failed to
bring her its wonted rest. As soon as
Daniel left in the early morning to look
to one of his boats, Jenifer entered her
mother's room, and crept into her bed,
and threw her arms about her neck,
sobbing all the time as if her heart would
break.

Kiss me, mother, kiss me," she said.

Eebecca kissed the troubled girl, and
soothed her as best she could.

Tell mother what the trouble es all
about, my dear," she said soothingly.

With face hidden in Rebecca's kindly
bosom she sobbed out, —

*' Oh, mother, I told a lie, I told a lie.
It was not the waggon that broke the
jar at all, I broke it myself."

Poor dear' said Eebecca, sobbing too,
I was afraid there was something wrong
about it, but I dean believe mj Jenny-would
tell a lie," and hugging one another
the two went on crying together
for some minutes.

Then Jenifer prayed in broken sentences
that her grievous fault might be forgiven,
and Rebecca in her simple, motherly way
prayed that her daughter might be what
they had always thought her, and had
been so proud of, a truth-teller and a lover
of truth.

'' Tell me all about it," said Rebecca
after a while.

I was dusting the mantelshelf," said
Jenifer, "and when I came to the jar I
thought I should like to see what was inside,
and after a lot of trouble I managed
to unfasten the stopper. I thought I
could put it right again with sealing-wax.

Well, just as the stopper came out, the jar
slipped out of my hands and fell on the
edge of the fender, and was broken to
pieces. Before I had time to think, Mr.
Carnanton came in, and I said the waggon
shook the shelf, and then when you came
home from market I was ashamed to say
I had told a lie. Oh, mother, forgive me,
forgive me," she continued, bursting into
tears again.

«« Forgive 'ee, my love ? " said Eebecca.
Yes, I'll forgive 'ee, and God will forgive
'ee too, if you're sorry for it, but you
must go to Mr. Carnanton after breakfast,
and tell un all about it."

'' Oh, I can't do that, mother; I should
not be able to speak to him for shame."

But I think you ought to go, Mr.
Carnanton has been so good to 'ee, and I'm
sure you ceeant go to the Communion
again unless you tell un all about it."

"But can't you tell him?" asked
Jenifer.

Miss, I could, but you told lie the lie
first, and I think it ud only be fifty tolet
un know the rights of it yourself. You
did wrong, my dear, and you must expect
to suffer for it. Sin and suffer, sin and
suffer, my old mother used to say, and
I'm sure she was right."

Jenifer at last gave way and agreed
that the vicar should hear the story that
morning from her own lips.

Mr, Carnanton was deeply grieved to
hear such a revelation from his most promising
girl pupil, but glad at the same
time that she had the moral courage to
confess her fault. He did not expect to
find human nature perfect ; it was enough
for him to know that it aimed at perfection.


CHAPTER Fulsome

OF THE SPICE OF LIFE.

And will he steal out of his wholesome bed
To dare the vile contagion of the night
And tempt the rheumy and unturned air 1

Julius Caesar.

The next two or three years of Arthur
Treleaven's life were chiefly distinguished
by the variety of the occupations he turned
his hand to. Mrs. Treleaven would have
been glad if her son could find something
less hazardous than the life of a fisherman,
but her poverty was more pressing than
her pride, and bread must be obtained, and
obtained honestly. Arthur himself had no
particular objection to become a fisherman.
It was, he felt, much more alluring than

wheeling bricks. There was the fascination
of finding and capturing the fish, there
was the peril of wind and wave and rock
and darkness, there was the free life and
the utter absence of monotony. He would
have preferred a sailor's life if he could
have had his choice, but as his mother
shrank with dread from any long absence,
he settled down contentedly to work, which,
he hoped, would enable him to maintain his
mother and himself without depriving her
of his company.

His uncle at certain seasons of the year
gave up his building operations for a time
to act as watchman over some oyster-beds.
The pay was good, and there were no bad
debts ; this latter consideration especially
making the post and pay of watcher
extremely desirable.

Just before the oysters, which had been
lying in mud beds to grow and fatten,

were transferred in vessels known as
smacks " to the oyster-beds in Kent,
they were gathered up by their respective
owners, the fishermen who had previously
dredged them ap in Penmaen Harbour,
and sold at the current price per ^' tub " of
about a thousand oysters. As the merchant
bought them he placed them on a
hard beach in long piles, called "parks,"
until a cargo was completed, when the
smack " grounded, and was loaded
between the going out and the coming in
of the tide. It was when the oysters were
lying in these parks that the watchman
was needed. Oysters were valuable, and
the parks were a mile from any human
habitation. What could be easier than
to " convey " a *' tub " or two of oysters on
a dark night so as to have the pleasure of
selling them over again on the following
day ? To prevent any enterprising persons

from carrying out any projects of this kind,
Mr. Sammy Short, the merchant, employed
Arthur Treleaven the elder, at dos. per
week, to keep his eye on the oysters when
the tide permitted him, and to discharge
the contents of an ancient blunderbuss into
the bodies of any of her Majesty's liege
subjects who attempted, in defiance of
Mr. Sammy Short's rights, to carry them

ose.

The watching was somewhat dreary work
when the nights were dark, and Arthur
Treleaven was glad to have the company
of his nephew whenever he felt inclined to
stay up with him. Arthur enjoyed this
immensely on the whole. It was so
pleasant to boil the kettle, and make a little
meal off broiled bacon, in the very middle
of the night, when other people were
wrapped in slumber. Then the blunderbuss
was a never-failing amusement. It

made a report when jSred as if it were a
piece of ordnance, and when fired in the
dead of night over the river where the
oysters were laid, it raised such echoes,
that it seemed as if five or six guns were
answering each other from hill to hill.
No robbers ever appeared to disturb the
watcher's repose. This may have been
because the blunderbuss was fired off about
every third night to indicate that there
was a warm reception awaiting them if
they came. I say, advisedly, no robbers
appeared to disturb the watcher's repose,
for Uncle Arthur made a point of stretching
himself on his couch of old nets in the
shed allotted to the watcher, to take a
comfortable nap, whenever his nephew kept
him company.

Arthur, although a big lad, like most
of his race was a firm believer in ghosts
and other unearthly personages. Consequently

his blood curdled every now and
again as lie paced the lonely beach in the
darkness. A noise like a footstep, the hoot
of an owl, something white, apparently
moving, suflS.ced to raise his superstitious
feelings. He did not mind so long as he
had a substantial wall at his back, but to
feel that while standing out in the open or
under the lee of a boat, a ghostly hand
might seize you by the nape of the neck,
was decidedly unpleasant. From what
Arthur had heard, even a blunderbuss was
no protection from a ghost. But on moonlight
nights the oyster beach was still
more weird. Crafts of all states and sizes,
from an abandoned schooner to a tiny
punt, cast dark shadows. The sighing of
the wind in the rigging, the tapping and
creaking of the swaying ropes, brought to
Arthur's mind all the thrilling ghost stories
he had heard or read. It was no wonder

if Polvarth beach were well stocked with
ghosts, there were so many lurking-places
ready to their hand. The very buildings
were ghostly, being dark cellars used for
storing nets, and tenanted by lawless
lodgers in the shape of rats. But even all
these horrors failed often to keep Arthur
from falling asleep at his post. Nature
would assert her sway, and, as he could
not venture to stretch out for a minute or
two in a boat, not knowing when he would
wake again, but was compelled to maintain
an upright attitude, sent him to sleep ashe
stood.

But worse than the watching was the
going home. Uncle Arthur insisted that
his assistant should stay up with him half
the night only, and then go home to bed.
Half the way lay through a narrow lane,
and the other half through some fields.
The latter part Arthur did not mind so

much, but the former was a severe trial to
his nerves. About the middle of the lane
was a farmyard, with a barn and cattle-house,
but no dwelling. To pass this was
an ordeal indeed. Familiarity is supposed
to breed contempt, but it certainly failed
to do so in this case. It was quite as unpleasant
on the last night of watching as
on the first. There was the anticipatory
dread on approaching the gloomy buildings,
there was the feeling that you were in the
very territory of the ghosts, and then who
could tell what they would be up to when
one's back was turned ? Somehow Arthur
never dreamed of running, but walked
deliberately past, with his hands in his
pockets, as if human flesh was peculiarly
irritating to the disembodied spirits, and
with his eyes fixed upon the place from
which they were likely to emerge. His
head turned slowly as he passed, and only

when lie was quite out of reach of their
malice did lie look straight before him
again : even then he cast a glance behind
him now and again to make sure no sprite
of more than ordinary wickedness was
following him.

One night he received a severe fright.
It was pitch dark, and he was following
the path through the first field as best
he could, and congratulating himself
that the ghosts were far in his rear,
when he became conscious of some presence
near. A thundering sound seemed
to shake the earth beneath him. He
turned cold for a moment, and then the
very roots of his hair seemed od fire.
Had the ghosts come at last? To his
great relief he found that the noise proceeded
from no supernatural enemies, but
from a number of horses, which in the
darkness he had not perceived, and which

VOL. I. s

from sudden panic went off simultaneously
at a gallop.

Towards the end of the oyster season he
had a change of occupation.

A plenty of mackerel have been seen
in the bay," said Mrs. Treleaven to her
son one forenoon, as he came downstairs
from his bed, where he had lain later than
usual to make up for his vigil the night
before. " Captain Vingoe has been hereto
say that the seine is going out after
dinner, and he wants you to go."

Arthur was delighted to hear this.
Mackerel-fishing Twas new to him, and the
price of mackerel was high, so that a
good catch would be very profitable.
In the afternoon the seine Good Hope
started for the fishing ground. It consisted
of three boats — a large boat manned
by seven fishermen, containing the seine
proper, a smaller boat with a crew of four

men, with a seine called the '^ stop seine,"
and a smaller boat still, containing Captain
Vingoe, the master seiner, and two others.
Arthur, with his old schoolfellow. Jemmy
Nash, were selected to accompany the
captain.

After an hour's pull at the oars they
reached the bay, and soon were fortunate
enough to see a shoal of mackerel darting
through the water.

Shut away ! shut away ! " shouted
Captain Vingoe in high excitement.

Tarpaulins were thrown off the nets in
both boats, and in a few minutes the two
nets were in the water. The boats rowed
in opposite directions, the two making, butin
unequal proportions, a complete circle,
for only in this way could the swift-swimming
mackerel be enclosed. As soon as
the seine was shot it was the business of
those in the smallest of the three boats tos
2

pull the two ends of the larger net together,
while the open space was guarded by
the smaller. This operation was termed
stopping" the seine. Arthur found that
stopping a seine under the supervision of
Captain Yingoe was a somewhat trying
performance. The captain was irascible
at the best of times, and, when excited,
would have had considerable difficulty in
deciding whether his head or his heels were
uppermost.

'' Pull ! " he shouted to Arthur and Nash,
pull for your lives, or we shall lose every
mackerel."

They pulled with all their might and
main, but the two ends of the seine were
far apart, and could not be brought together
in a moment.

"Drop the rope, Treleaven, and beat
down ! " screamed the captain.

Arthur took the " pinnace," a stone ball,

weighing six or seven pounds, at the end
of a rope, and threw it into the sea repeatedly
to frighten the fish back from the
opening.

'' Pull again ! " yelled Captain Vingoe ;
"Jemmy, you ain't half pulling."

'' What a poor-tempered old chap he is,"
whispered Nash to Arthur.

Unfortunately this remark reached the
captain's ear, and threw him into quite a
paroxysm of rage.

Poor-tempered old chap am I?" he
roared. " You young rascal you, if you
give me any of your impudence I'll thraw
'ee overboard, that I will. You two are
enough to meeake Job poor-tempered. I
never seed such a lazy pair in my life."

In his rage the captain quite forgot the
business in hand, and was only brought to
himself by an admonishing shout from one
of the other boats.

*' Now then, what are 'ee knocking up all
that cancerous about? You are 'enough
to frighten every mackerel in the say.
While you're jawing, the mouth of the seine
es wide abroad."

'' Aw," groaned Captain Yingoe as he
threw his hat into the bottom of the boat,
I'm plagued with the wishes crew that
ever was ; but there's no time to army
'bout it now. Pull, body, pull with all your
might."

At last the stopping was completed, and
the work of pulling in the seine was begun.
Captain Yingoe and his crew watched
eagerly and anxiously to see if any
mackerel came up entangled in the meshes,
as this would give some indication of the
presence of fish in the " cod," or baggy
part of the seine, where they always were
compelled to retreat, and which came up
last. But not a gammer gladdened their

eyes, and their hopes died away as yard
after yard of the dripping net came np
empty. Just as the " cod " was reached,
their hopes were raised for an instant, to
be again destroyed. Something white
showed itself, but it was not the gleam of
mackerel. For an hour fourteen men and
boys had been toiling, and all the result
was a large skate and a spider-crab.

I kDawed how 'twould be*' said Captain
Yingoe ; "all the fish went out while
Treleaven and Nash was fiddling about.
I dont know what the young fellahs are
like nowadays : they're like as if they
was driving snails to market."

'Twodn their faut," said one of the
crew. '' I dont believe we ever headed em
at all; but wha's the good of grumbling?
Lev' us overhaul the seine and look out for
another school."

This practical advice commended itself

to all but Captain Yingoe, and, leaving
him to grumble and mutter like a volcano
in pain, they soon placed their nets in
position for shooting again.

There they go," exclaimed Arthur
almost before the work was completed, asa
shoal of mackerel went rattling through
the water just ahead of the boats.

Miss, there they go, sure 'enough," said
the captain. '' Shut away boys, we shall
have 'em yet."

This time the sinners were more fortunate,
for when the net was being taken up
the meshes were seen to be studded with
glittering, quivering mackerel, foretelling
a rich harvest in the '' cod " of the seine.
Nor was the prophecy unfulfilled, for no
less than six thousand mackerel were
Secured by this one haul.

Captain Yingoe forgot all his former
vexation when he saw the beautiful fish

with their blue and green and yellow backs
and silvery sides taking up so much room
in the seine-boats.

'raw, the beauties!" he exclaimed;
'they're putty in the water, but they're
twice as putty in the boats. Now, me
sons, look sharp and teeake 'em across to
Penmaen before it 'comes dark, and dont
'ee sill a single mackerel under three ha'
pence."

This last piece of advice was found
impracticable ; some of the mackerel were
small and clearly not worth " three halfpence,"
and some buyers, ladies of course,
were so " pleasant spoken " that the susceptible
young fishermen could not resist
their blandishments; nevertheless, most
of the fish were sold at the captain's own
price.

The money was shared on the following
day, and Arthur, who was appraised at

two-thirds of a man's value, received for
his afternoon's work, in current coin of
the realm, one pound, ten shillings, and.
sentence halfpenny. The odd seven -
pence halfpenny Arthur laid out in snuff
for Mrs. Betty Polsue, who, although,
nearly ninety, was still able to enjoy a
pinch.

"It's so refreshing, my dear," she was
wont to say ; " it's so refreshing as washing
your feeace, not that mine is washed very
often, then the Lord ; it dont want it.
There's only wan thing more refreshing
than a pinch of snuff, and that's a drap of
gin." " Thenky, my dear," she said when
Arthur made his offering; '* thenky, my
dear. I allays said there's no such cheeld
as thee in Pendruthan, and I'll stick to it.
Why the very must time I had thee in my
arms I said to Mistress Treleaven, says I,
What a lovely beeaby 'tes, plaise sure ;

and goodness guide me if he haven got a
tooth afore he's born. Ef theist keep 'un
from being ill wished he'll grew up a
regler bender of a book,' and plaise sure,
my son, you're drawing every day. I
sheet see 'ee grew much more, for I
ceeant continue long, I ceeant continue.
Will 'ee have a pinch of snuff, After ? "

*' I don't like snuff ; use it all yourself,
Betsy. But I must be running home to
mother, she'll be glad to have the money
to go to the shop with."

And Mrs. Polsue was left with her
snuff.

Chapter XXII.

WILT THOU BE MY DEARIE ? "

Lassie, say thou loses me ;^
Or if thou wilt na' be my ain,
Say na' thou'lt refuse me.

Burns.

I'm glad I met you, I want you to go
fishing with me' said Mark Eundle as he
met Jenifer in Church Street in the month
of August. "George Huskily and his
sisters were out last night and caught
eighty-five chaos. They've come into the
bay with this spring tide, George says.
Will you go, Jenny ? "

'' I hardly think I can manage it,"
answered Jenifer; "we are rather busy

at Miss Jink's now, and have to work
late."

But surely you might manage to get
away for once just to please me ; I don't
know when I shall have the chance to go
again, for I shall have to start for Bristol
tomorrow morning."

'' Start for Bristol tomorrow ! " exclaimed
Jenifer ; " why I thought it was
settled that you should go about the
middle of next month."

So it was, but a letter came this morning
saying that the arrangements had been
altered, and that I must be at the postoffice
by ten o'clock on Thursday morning.
Well, will you go chatting with me
or not ? "

I don't care much for fishing,"
answered Jenifer, " but if it will be any
pleasure to you Mark, I'll go, that is, if
Miss Jink will spare me."

"Then that's settled," said Mark ;*' mind
you're not late. We had better start
about six, so that we may have a good
two hours' fish, and be in again before
dark."

Jenifer looked so charming in her light
print gown and wide-brimmed straw hat
shading her fair face from the hot sun,
that it was not to be wondered at that
Mark followed her with his eyes, down the
whole length of the street, until she
turned the corner to enter Miss Jink's
house.

Mark was eighteen now, tall and straight,
with good features and thick clustering
black hair. Jeremiah Eundle was exceedingly
proud of his handsome son,
more especially as he possessed, in an
eminent degree, the Bundle propensity for
looking after number one.

He'll get on," Jeremiah was wont to

say, " angell marry somebody with a little
heap of what our parson do call filthy
lucre. Mark won't throw himself away
for love, I'll be bound ; he's a Rundle."

Jeremiah would have had his faith in
the Rundle instinct rudely shaken if he
had seen his sod stare down the street
after Jenifer. At any rate, Mark's friend,
George Roskilly, who had, unobserved,
been watching him for some time, said
in a stage whisper as Jenifer disappeared,
—

Hullo ! Mark, my boy, what are you
staring at in that moonstruck fashion ? "

Staring at ? " said Mark, recovering
himself ; '' what do you mean ? "

*' Oh, come now," remonstrated George,
you needn't pretend that you've been
having a nap, or been dreaming, or anything
of that kind ; you're in love, my
dear fellow, that's your complaint, it

doesn't take a very powerful pair of spectacles
to perceive that."

'' In love, nonsense' returned Mark ;
'' do talk rationally, that's a good
fellow."

''So I will, when you act rationally.
If I may be so bold, may I ask what kept
you gazing so long down Church Street ?
Was it the tower you were admiring ? Or
were you thinking how nicely Miss Jink
brings on her pupils, as evidenced by the
exquisite set of Miss Treleaven's print
dress ? "

'' I can't stay listening to stuff like this,"
said Mark; '' I must run down to the quay
at once, I'm wanted there."

Good-bye then, my love-sick friend,"
shouted George after him as he strode
off.

Punctually at six Jenifer appeared on
the beach, but, to Mark's evident annoyance,

Esther Mansellll accompanied her.
Jenifer had raised various objections when
Esther proposed that she too should go
a-fishing with Mark, but Esther had
made up her mind to go as soon as
she heard Jenifer asking Miss Jink for
leave, and, therefore, overruled them all.
Esther managed to leave her work earlier
than Jenifer ; '* her tooth," she said, " was
so painful, that she could scarcely hold up
her head ; might she go home ? "

By all means," said the good natured
mistress, '' and I hope you'll be better by
the morning."

Mark had planned to take no one with
him on this expedition but Jenifer, and he
determined to get rid of Esther by fair
means or foul.

Well, Mark," said Esther, '' I think
you might have asked me to go, but as you
didn't, I've asked myself."

VOL. I. T

I should be very pleased to take you,"
said Mark, his looks belying his words,
but I'm going to take the small boat,
and she'll hardly be safe with three."

'' She was safe for four last week,"
retorted Esther, '' when you and George
Eoskilly and his two friends went up
the river. Has she gone smaller since ? "

No," answered Mark, '' but the bay is
rougher than the river."

"Come now," said Esther, "I'm too
good a sailor for you to make me believe
in such an excuse as that. Why there's nota
breath of wind stirring, and the sea is as
calm as a millpool."

But there are only lines enough for
two," pleaded Mark in despair, as his
excuses broke down ; '' I'll take you another
time, Esther."

'' But I want to go to-night. Just wait
a minute and I'll run home for a line.

Mind you don't start before I come back,
Jenifer."

As soon as Esther had disappeared,
Mark said, —

Come Jenny, I'm going to start at
once."

No, Mark," she remonstrated, " perhaps
you had better wait ; she'll be dreadfully
put out if you don't."

Well, let her be put out," answered
Mark wrathfully. '' I'm determined that
she shan't go fishing with me to-night."

But haven't we as good as promised
? "

Promised ? no : she only said, ' Don't
start before I come back.' Jump aboard,
Jenny, I won't wait another minute."

Jenifer did as she was bidden, and

Mark, putting out the oars, pulled away

for the bay as if he were rowing against

time and were somewhat doubtful of the

T 2

result. Before the boat had left the land
a hundred yards behind, they heard loud
shouts, and looking, saw Esther waving
her fishing-line for them to stop.

Esther's come," said Jenifer to Mark,
won't you go back for her ? "

Mark had seen her before Jenifer, but
continued rowing all the same. He now
shut his eyes, saying, —

She may wave that line as long as
she likes, I can't see her. She must pester
somebody else if she goes fishing tonight."


In about half an hour they came to a
little group of boats moored abreast of
the lighthouse, whose occupants, young
men and maidens for the most part, were
busily engaged in pulling in the chaos,
which came to their hooks as soon as
the lines were thrown overboard. Mark
moored his boat, and when she had swung

around with the tide, prepared and baited
a line each for Jenifer and himself. In a
short time the bottom of the boat was all
alive with leaping chaos. Mark had little
to say to Jenifer, and she rallied him upon
his absent-mindedness, when, after unhooking
a fine fish, he threw the hook into the
boat and the chad into the sea.

'' Why, whatever is the matter with you,
Mark ? are you fretting because you left
Esther behind ? "

*' Not I," was the answer; '' I wanted
you, and nobody but you to come with
me. You've got a fine fish to your line
this time."

Jenifer lifted the fish over the gunwale
of the boat and endeavoured to take it off
the hook, but handling it awkwardly,
the sharp back spines entered her hand,
causing her considerable pain. Her little
scream brought Mark to the rescue. In a

second lie removed the hook from the
chad and seized Jenifer's hand to
examine the wound. It was not serious,
though the poisonous spines made the
hand smart for the time, but Mark's
examination was a very prolonged one.

"That'll do, Mark," said Jenifer when
he had minutely looked at every puncture
made by the spikes ; " that'll do, 'tis
nothing of consequence; let go my
hand."

"I should like to look at that prick
in your forefinger again; the spikes are
poisonous, you know."

"Don't be foolish, Mark," remonstrated
Jenifer. " I won't be held like this ; the
people in the other boats will see you."

At this Mark reluctantly brought his
examination to a close. But he was, as
his father said, a Bundle, and soon invented
a scheme which would enable him,

if so disposed, to pursue his surgical
studies unopposed and unmolested.

I should like to catch a bass or two
before we go in," said he. " I think, Jenny,
ril row the boat a little nearer the lighthouse
; they come in over the rocks thereabout
this time of the tide."

Jenifer had no desire to move from the
chatting-ground, but she raised no objection
to Mark's proposal. Without further
remark he pulled up the anchor and moved
the boat three hundred yards away, where
they were practically unseen and unheard.
Mark seemed to have forgotten the object
of his coming to this new station, and did
not attempt to attract the aforesaid bass.
He cleared his throat twice as if he had
some idea of making a speech.

'' Oh ! " said Jenifer, when she found that
Mark remained silent, " have you forgotten
your text?"
o

"You seem inclined to poke fun at me,"
said Mark, rather irritably, 'but I want
to speak seriously to you, if only you'll
listen for a minute."

What do you mean by seriously ? Is
it really a sermon you are going to
deliver ? ''

"]^ow be quiet a moment, do, Jenny,"
pleaded Mark. " What I want to say is
this — I'm going away tomorrow from St.
Enodoc, and before I go I want to be sure
of one thing. When we were little we
used to call one another husband and wife,
and since we have grown older we have
been fond of one another — I think I may
say that — and lately you must have seen,
Jenny, that I cared more for you than for
anybody else. Will you promise me that
when [ am out of sight in Bristol you
won't forget me, and that when we are old
enough to marry you will be my wife ?"

*' But that's an engagement," said Heifer
; 'ewe had better wait awhile; you
might change your mind, you know."

"No, I shan't," he protested; "but
do you love me enough to wait, Jenny ? "

I don't know. I like you, of course,
but—"

I shall have a good situation in the
post-ofl5ce by that time — I know Mr.
Josiah thinks me well up in my work."

I wasn't thinking of that, but — "

It isn't that you like George Roskilly
better, is it?" asked Mark suspiciously, as
the remembrance of his friend's attention
to Jenifer at a tea-party a week or two
before darted across his mind.

George Roskilly, no," answered Heifer;
"I don't care for George Roskilly;
but I don't think I love you well enough
to become engaged. We had better goon
as friends, 'twill be time enough to

think about it when you come home from
Bristol for your holiday. I suppose that
will be at the end of a year or so ?"

Won't you say any more than that ? "
asked Mark dejectedly.

"No, I had better not."

Give me one kiss, Jenny dear," pleaded
Mark, " only one."

They will see you from the other boats,"
remonstrated Jenifer.

"No, they won't," said Mark, "they're
too far away, and the light is going. Will
you, Jenny?"

Yes, if you wish," said Jenifer, lifting
up her beautiful face to her young lover.
The kiss was given and taken, with passion
on his part, with sweet sisterly affection on
hers, and then in silence the anchor was
weighed and the boat rowed slowly toland.


CHAPTER XXIII.

UNCLE ANTHONY.

Boatswain. Heigh, my hearts ! cheerly, cheerly, my

hearts ! yare, yare ! Take in the topsail. Tend to the

master's whistle.

The Tempest.

'' Here's a funny letter I've got for you,"
said Arthur Treleaven to his mother as he
entered the house; ''Mr. Frost gave it oO
me as I passed the post-office. Just look
at the address : ' Mistress Treleaven,
widow woman, Pendruthan. Neb. — If
she's gone, send it to her.' Whoever can
it be from ? "

I don't know the writing," answered
his mother. " The postmark is St. Enodoc.
I don't know anybody there. Oh, yes,

there's uncle and aunt Barker, but I
haven't heard from them but once since
your poor father was drowned. I don't
know if they're dead or alive. I wonder if
it's from them."

Perhaps you had better open it and
see," said Arthur.

Mrs. Treleaven agreed to this, and the
curious-looking epistle was unfolded and
read. It was as follows : —
St. Enodoc,

Fehury 19, 18—.

"My dear Nee and grandnevy, — I set
down to Rite these fu lines, hopping to
fine you all well, as it lewes me at Present,
thank God for it, Amen. Your poor Antis
dropped of. She died last Nite weak,
and was buried the day before yesterday.
She sufred from the brown Titus, and the
Doctor could do nothing for her, so she
died. And what I wants to kna' es this :

I am seventy 4 come next Mikelmas day,
and I'm very lonesome, and IV a got nobody
to look after me and do my little
chores, and will you come? There's the
house, there's not no rent to pay 'cause I've
got a least on He, and when I drops of
He drops of, so there's not no rent to pay.
My little pinching from movement is not
much, 30 pound a 'ear, that's what it do
rich to, but I'v a got a bit of money put
by, and if you'l come, when T drop of 'tes
yours, and so will you come ? My Navy
he can go fishing, for Sent Enodoc is very
good for pilcherin'. And if so be as you'l
come, when will you come ? Please excuse
all Miss takes, for I'm no Scholar, and I
can't see very well ; my horning' spectacles
broke. And please leve me know as soon
as you can, and I hop' you are all well.
From your uncle,

"Anthony Baker."

"I say, mother," said Arthur, "you
won't go, will you ? "

''I don't know," answered Mrs. Tree
" we must think it over ; I've not
got much to keep me here, the lace-making
isn't very profitable. But there's you to
think of, and what shall we do with the
furniture ? "

Had we better ask him to come and
live with us ? " asked Arthur.

'' I'm afraid he wouldn't come; he's old,
you know, and old people don't care to
leave a place where they have lived a longtime.
Uncle Barker has lived at St.
Enodoc ever since he left the man-of-war
and joined the coastguard, and that's thirty
years ago if 'tis a day. Besides, there's his
little house, he can't very well leave that.
To be sure he might find a tenant for it."

Suppose we write and ask him before
we decide ? " suggested Arthur.

This suggestion was adopted, and
Arthur wrote a letter by return of post,
asking Uncle Anthony whether it could not
be arranged for him to come to Pendru-
than, and promising that if he came they
would receive him gladly, and give him a
comfortable home.

In little more than a week another letter
came, addressed to Mrs. Treleaven, " widow
woman," to this effect: —

'' Sent Enodoc,

''Febury 28, 18—.

"My dear Nee, — I've received a letter
from my grandnevy Arthur, and I'm glad
He's such a scholar, 'tes like a book Mrs.
Craddock says — she's the woman what have
a lookt after me since my poor old woman
dropped of ; and I'm glad you are well, as
I'm the same. You says, says you, will
you come down to Pendruthan to live with
we? My dear, I'm to old to go gallivanting

round alae country, and besides,
I can't take my house with me as if He
was a gipsies' van, and he's on a least, and
must stay where he is, and I should like
to end my days in He, so I says again,
says I, come if you can. Soever mind bringing
your furniture', my poor dear woman
keep the House well sulphide. Have a
survey of your things — I suppose' you do
call it a Hobson down along with you —
and the sooner you can come the better for
Mistress Craddock — that's the old woman
she isn't very good-tempered, and do
take things as a trouble; and so wishing
you well,

I sine myself,

Your uncle,

Anthony Baekee."

Well, mother, what do you think about
it?" asked Arthur.

** If I had only myself to think about,"
answered Mrs. Treleaven, " I should certainly
go. I don't like the thought of the
poor old man being there with nobody to
care for him but strangers; and then,
while he lived there would be no rent to
pay, and with uncle's pension, and what
we could earn besides, we might get along
very comfortably. But it is you I'm
thinking about. I couldn't think of going
for one moment if you would rather stay
at Pendruthan."

Oh ! as to that," said Arthur, " I would
as soon go to St. Enodoc as stay here :
there is very little doing, and if we wait
for fish we are likely to starve, unless we
run into debt, and I would just as soon
starve as do that."

"I am so glad to hear you say that,"
said his mother ; "I was afraid you would
not be willing to go. Shall we take

VOL. I. U

uncle's advice then, and sell our few things
by auction ? *T would cost too much to
carry them to St. Enodoc, and if we carried
them, uncle would never be able to find
room for them. We can take out any little
thing we might Hke to keep."

These plans were carried out, and in
about three weeks from the receipt of the
second letter Mrs. Treleaven and her son
were welcomed by Uncle Anthony to their
new home. Arthur, who had never seen
his uncle, was curious to know what the
old gentleman was like. He, now and
again, as they descended the steep hill
which led down to St. Enodoc, thrust his
head out of the van to see if he could catch
a glimpse of the ancient pensioner. But
he failed to see anybody resembling the
picture which he had framed in his mind
of the writer of the two letters.

We can't be far off," he was saying to

his mother as they reached the bottom of
the hill, when a loud shout of " Heave her
to, mate, and let go the anchor," caused
him to turn quickly round.

A little, old, shrivelled man, with piercing
eyes under bushy eyebrows, was standing
in the gateway of a small well-kept garden,
which fronted a cottage covered to the
very tops of the chimneys with ivy. It
was Anthony Barker. He was, so to
speak, in court uniform to receive his distinguished
visitors. His blue coat with
brass buttons, which usually saw the light
only on the Queen's birthday, and one or
two other great festivals, surmounted by his
glazed naval hat, gave a decidedly dignified
and official air to the little antiquated
representative of '^ the service."

*are the passengers aboard?" he
shouted again to the driver, who was pulling
in his horses.

u 2

Yes' was the answer.

'' Clew up the sails then, and get the
cargo out," said Uncle Anthony, going to
the door of the van. " Glad to see 'ee,
glad to see 'ee," continued he, shaking
hands with his niece and nephew. " Why,
Jane, how white you're looking, 'tes too
close here in the hold of the van, you ought
to have travelled on deck. Well, After,
my boy, how are 'ee ? — I spouse 'tes After,
Jane ? Why, I 'spect from his petty graph
he'd be a body, but he's a man for size ; but
then I've had the photograph eight or ten
years or so, so I have. Go along in, Jane ;
me and After will bring the things in."

A sumptuous meal had been spread for
the travellers, under the direction of Mrs.
Oraddock An enormous Cornish pasty
graced the head of the table, flanked by
cold beef and boiled eggs, while at the
other end a fine dish of fried whiting,
cooked to a turn, tempted the hungry

palate. Mrs. Craddock, although somewhat
caustic in her words and cynical in
her temper, was not, on the whole, a bad-natured
dame, and had spared no pains to
welcome Mrs. Treleaven and her son in a
becoming manner. Arthur cunningly won
her favour at once by taking a paper from
his pocket and inviting her to take a pinch
of snuff.

*what a nice chap he es," said Mrs.
Craddock to Mrs. Trewhella, when describing
the new-comers in the evening at
her friend's house, " what a nice chap he
es, why a'mooast the must words he said
was, ' Why, Mrs. Craddock, how d'ye do ;
will 'ee oblige me by taking a pinch of
snuff?' He had my neeame so pat as
you plaise, and he said he brought the
snuff all the way from Pendruthan a
purpose to give me''

All this was true, but Arthur did not
think it necessary to explain that it was

bought for Betsy Polsue, who happened to
die before it could be presented to her, and
that he brought it to poke fun at Mrs.
Craddock, more than from any affection
for that estimable lady.

Now fall to," said Uncle Anthony when
the luggage had been all brought into the
house, " fall to, my dears, you must be
hungry, sure 'enough, after such a long
journey ; and when you've finished your tay
I'll teeake After down upon the quay fora
turn, and will shaw nn to Open Short-ridge."


"Show me to Captain Shortridge ! what
for ? " asked Arthur.

'* Aw, to survey 'ee," said Uncle Anthony,
laughing; "he's Lloyd's surveyor, you
know, and as you're a new ship, you must
be overhauled. Dont 'ee be frightened,
Jane, I'm only joking. Cape Shortridge
es the head of the fishing company here,
and when I was speaking to un wan day

'bout your coming, lie axed me to bring un
down when he comet, and said he would
give un a job to look after the boats and
nets when 'tes out of saison, and that's
half the year, and he can go a-fishing when
the nets are put aboard in the latter peart
of the summer. Five shelley es the pay
to look after the things, but then it weeant
teeake up much time, and After can go
fishing all the seeame."

How very kind of you, uncle, to interest
yourself about Arthur in this way," said
Mrs. Treleaven.

*saw, that's no consequence," replied
Uncle Anthony; " Cape Shortridge es very
friendly, 'cause I keep a here to his office
when he's out and his clerk edn there.
Ten 'zactly a government office, but he's
the Counsel, and wan thing and t'other, soo'
course as I belong to the service, why,
when I'm about I'm on duty, and must
keep a here to things. Dont 'ee hurry,

After ; ait so much as you can, my son,
'twas all cooked for 'ee to ait. Would
'ee like a glass of grog to warm 'ee up
nicely?"

"No, thank you," said Arthur, "Tra a
teetotaler."

Aw, are 'ee ? There won many of
they .when I was young, but they're getting
putty plentiful. I'm so good as a teetotaler
myself. I only drink a glass of
grog dance a week, and that I drink on
Sunday nights after I come from church
in honour of the day. Miss, my dears, I'm
so good as a teetotaler. Are 'ee ready?
We'll start, then. You'd better lie down
a bit on the soft, Jane, to rest yourself.
Mrs. Craddock here will look after 'ee."

The old gentleman es failings'' said
Mrs. Craddock mournfully, as soon as
Uncle Anthony and Arthur were out of
sight; 'Hie old woman's death have a
finely shook un, but there, we ceeant

expect to live for ever — I'm sure I dante
Mrs. Treleaven."

"No, I expect not," was the answer;
'' but you're pretty well, ain't you, Mrs.
Craddock ? "

I look putty well, but I'm rally a poor
wist woman so fur as strength is concerned,
and my life es a burden to me;
I've got such a wisht lot of neighbours.
I say sometimes to Mistress Trewhella —
she married a second cousin to my poor
old man's must wife's brother — I says to
her, says I, 'Mrs. Trewhella, we've alla
deviated from the path of rectitude, but
my neighbours ! aw, my dear ! their teeth
are set on fire and their tongues are sharp
swords.' "

'but why do they molest you ? "

'molest me? why, out of wickedness,
I spouse, not for nothing' else.
There's the old man who do live next
door to me, awnly yesterday he rapped

out a oath to some clielclern who was
plain' round les door, and when I says,
'Aw, my dear man, where do 'ee think
you're going' to ? ' he says, says he, ' Hould
tha tongue, I'm a mile murder off from hell
than you are.' He meade my blue run
could, miss a ded, and I was forced to say
to un, ' Dont 'ee boast yourself of your
wickedness, for you're awnly a poor vain
man like me.' "

"But there's nothing wrong with your
health, is there?" inquired Mrs. Tree


That's what the people do generally
ax me," replied Mrs. Craddock, "and it
do dorrit me to hear it. Tha's cause I've
got a rosy complexion, my dear ; nobody
weeant believe there's anything the matter
with me, no, not if I'm dying' off my legs.
But I do know from my own feeling that the
seeds of mortality es sowed so strong in
me that I ceeant last long."

"Why don't you move to another house*
suggested Mrs. Treleaven.

What's the good, my dear, somebody '11
be sure to pester me to death wherever I
go. I've a lived in six houses sence my
old man died, and wan es so bad as another.
I'm a tried corner-stone, my dear,
I'm a tried corner-stone."

Have you any children ? "

*' I have, and I haven't," answered Mrs.
Craddock. *' There's a married woman in
this town who do call me mother, but she
might as well call anybody else mother
as me, for all the comfort she es to me."

I should have thought you would Herewith
her."

Well, she axed me to come with her,
but wha's the good ? We're of two minds,
my dear, we are of two minds, and a 
life weeant suit me. I said to
her the other day, * Susan,' says I, *they're
like tha feather of tha, and he was, as

the Scriptor says, a % in my pat of ointment.'
"

"I hope," said Mrs. Treleaven, rather
alarmed at Mrs. Craddock's description of
the unamiable tempers of the people of St.
Enodoc, ''I hope our new neighbours are
not so difficult to get on with as yours
appear to be."

Neighbours ! " snorted Mrs. Craddock,
'neighbours! there's no neighbours nowadays,
there's awnly liver s-by, and that
you'll find when you know um so well as
I do."

With this parting sting Mrs. Craddock
assumed her rusty widow's bonnet, and
repaired to her home, where, if she were
to be believed, the wicked never ceased
from troubling and the weary were never
at rest.

END OF VOL. I.

GILBERT AJJD EIVINGTOlf, LIMITED, ST. John's Square, LONDON.

OF THE

UNIVERSITY

or ILLINOIS


V.2

BY THE

Rev. JOHN Isabella,

Author OF "CORNISH TEMPERANCE TALES," ETC.

IN TWO VOLUMES.
VOL. II.

EonKon :
SAMPSON LOW, MARSTON, SEARLE, & Livingston,

CROWN BUILDINGS, 188, FLEET STREET.
1885.

All rights reserved.]

PRINTED ET GILBERT AND Livingston, Limited,

ST. JOHN'S SQTJAEP.

CONTENTS OF VOL. II.

CHAPTER I.

PAGE
THOUGHTS OF LOVE 1

CHAPTER II.

THE SEAL HUNT 17

CHAPTER III.

Distressed DAMSELS . . . . .54

CHAPTER IV.

THE AMOROUS ANTIQUARY . . . .71

CHAPTER V.

HA, HA, THE WOOING O't . . . .89

CHAPTER VI.

THE GREAT SHOAL 99

CHAPTER VII.

BILLING AND' COOING . . . . .112

CHAPTER VIII.

ST. Valentine's DAT 123

CHAPTER IX.

BUILDING THE NEST . 136

CHAPTER X.

THE BANK BREAKS . * . . . • .150

PAGE

CHAPTER XI.

THE TO-MOBEOW IS Et TO COME . . . 163

CHAPTER XII.

A MEBEY Christmas 169

CHAPTER XIII.

THE " ANNIE LEE " 177

CHAPTER XIV.

THE Voice OF MANY Waters 189

CHAPTER XV.

CHIEFLY ON Business 198

CHAPTER XVI.
A man's love 213

CHAPTER XVII.

TO BE, OE NOT TO BE . . . . . 221

CHAPTER XVIII.
to-moeeow 235

CHAPTER XIX.

wilt thou have THIS MAN ? " . . . 247

CHAPTER XX.

THE TEMPEST . . 255

CHAPTER XXI.
''I will" 274.

CHAPTER XXII.

THE WEDDING FEAST 283

CHAPTER XXIII.

A COENEE OF ME. JOSIAH's WILL . . . 298

CHAPTER I.

thoughts of love.

She listen'd with a flitting blush,
AYith downcast eyes and modest grace ;
For well she knew I could not chuse
Eut gaze upon her face.

Coleridge.

^' Well, Jane, my navy have a done a fine
stroke of business to-day," said Uncle
Anthony, bustling into the room.

'' Has Captain Shortridge been very
friendly ? " she inquired.

*' 'Tes my solemn opinion, Jane'* said
the old man, *' and I'm willing' to take

VOL. II. B

my 'davy to it if you particular wish
it, that that son of yours es a lucky
dog. He's got les bread buttered on
both sides, and les tay es putty well
sweetened."

'' Whatever do you mean ? " asked the
niece in astonishment at this glowing
description of Arthur's prospects.

"What do I mane?" said Uncle Anthony,
why this — anybody else would ha' been
content to ha' struck a bargain for five
shelley' a week, but my navy have a meade
another bargain, to go a-fishing with the
best man in St. Enodoc, and es casting'
sheep's eyes on les darter."

«« Why, uncle," said Arthur, amazed to
hear this charge, " I never spoke to Daniel
Trewhella's daughter."

*' Come, come," said Uncle Anthony,
'' don't tell me, you can spake with your
eyes as well as with your mouth, and my

old eyes aren't so blind jot that I ceeant
see a grampus three yards off."

You are only joking, uncle," said
Arthur.

'' Join' ! " said the old gentleman, with
a roguish smile upon his weatherbeaten
countenance ; " was sou join' when you
opened your eyes so wide when you went
in as ef they was baw winders ? And was
Jenifer Trewhella join' when her whiteface
went, while she sheeted hands wetli
'ee, so rut as a pickled cabbage, I was
o'oin' to say — but that weeant do — blue
Avant do, for that's rashly, and so rut as
fire might do ef fire won sometimes blue
well so rut as my old silk pocket-handkerchief
? ' '

"Perhaps I did open my eyes more

than usual," admitted Arthur, " for I

never expected to see such a handsome

young woman ; but her blushing was only

B 2

the result of seeing a stranger unexpectedly,"


'soil, of course," assented Uncle Anthony
; '' but mark my words, Jane, and
write them in the family Bible, under the
births, marriages, and deaths, so as
they're handy by when you want 'em
again."

Arthur, in the course of a week, entered
upon his partnership with Daniel Tree
The profits were to be divided into
iihree portions, one each of which the two
fishermen took, while the other share went
to Daniel, in return for his providing the
boats and fishing-gear. Arthur, by this
arrangement, was brought a good deal
into contact with Trewhella's wife and
daughter. Eebecca took very kindly to
the strong, manly, young fisherman.
Well-built as he was, and tall, with a fine,
good humoured countenance, an intelligent

fellow, with a knowledge of books such as
few of this class possessed, lie was naturally
a woman's favourite. He was no awkward
clown struck dumb by a lovely face,
nor was he one to imagine that indulgence
in horseplay and coarse jokes was a passport
to a woman's smiles. Mrs. Treleaven's
gentle bearing and example had shown him
the way to be at once strong and brave, and
tender and true. Jenifer Trewhella did
not seem to be attracted towards her
father's new comrade. She rarely entered
into any conversation with him, and,
indeed, his presence seemed to put a
restraint upon her tongue. As Arthur
often dropped in of an evening, this could
hardly pass unnoticed by her mother.

Why are you so still in the evenings
now ? " she asked Jenifer ; " you. used to
have a plenty to say."

This was quite true, for Jenifer usually

was brimful of quiet fun. 'Now, however,
lie often sat for a whole evening and
listened to the conversation between her
father and Arthur, without offering any
observation except in reply to a question.

'* I don't know, mother," she answered,
'' I suppose it's because I like to listen to
father."

'rand don't you like to listen to
Arthur ? I'm sure, as father says, he's a
pleasant companion."

*' Oh, yes, mother, he's very entertaining,
but—"

"But what, Jenifer?" .

'' Well, mother, you see Arthur is almost
a stranger, and I don't take very kindly to
strangers."

"I don't call un a stranger," said
Rebecca, '' heave a been with us nearly
three months now. Of course he's not an
old friend like Mark."

At the mention of Mark's name a deep
blush spread over Jenifer's face, but she
made no answer.

When ded Mrs. Rundle hear from
Mark ? Ded she say, when you was in
there this afternoon?" inquired Mrs.
Trewhella.

Two days ago," was the answer. *' He
says he's very well, and getting on capitally
in the post-oflB.ce. He has jusfc been
promoted, and the postmaster, he thinks,
values his services very highly."

Mark do value his awn services very
highly, for that matter," said Mrs. Tree
; ''he edn lieeaf so modest as
Arthur."

"But Mark is really clever," said
Jenifer.

So he may be, but there's other people
in the world so clever as he es. Ded a ask
for you in the letter ? "

'' Xo, not in this letter; lie did in the
last. He asked for Esther Mansellll, so
Mrs. Idle told me."

Esther Mansellll ! how long sence he
got so fond of Esther Mansellll ? Sence
Job's must cousin died, I spouse, and left
un all that money — seven hundred pounds
it es, so Esther told me ; but Mark
mustn't be in too much hurry, for I've
heard that there's a dispute about the will,
and perhaps Obey weeant git it after all."

I don't believe for a minute that Mark
was thinking of that," said Jenifer, standing
up for her old friend and playmate ;
but yet 'tis a little strange that he should
inquire for Esther, and not for me. She
always seemed more fond of him than he
was of her."

*' Your father and Arthur are now
coming up the street," said Mrs. Tree
looking out of the window. " Teeake

up the supper, Jenifer, so that father may
have it as soon as he comes in ; he must
be hungry by this time, he went away
directly after dennar, and 'tes near nine
now. Weil, Dan, what luck?" she
inquired as the fishermen entered, carrying
a large " maund " or wicker basket
between them.

We've done very well to-day,"
answered Dan cheerily, kissing his buxom
rife ; '' we've catched nigh upon eighty
mackerel, and as they're so scarce, we've
meade three halfpence apiece of three score
of 'em to old Betty to sill again, and the
rest we've brought home. Where's Jenny,
mother?"

*' Why, she was here a minute agone,"
was the answer; " I believe she's in the
back kitchen teeakin' up the supper. I
spouse you'll look in after supper,
Arthur."

Perhaps I may," lie replied, " but it'll
be getting rather late by that time," and,
taking up the mackerel which fell to his-share,
he went off whistling.

When Arthur reached home he found
his uncle pacing what he called his quarterdeck,
which was a pathway in front of
the house about fourteen feet long. Here
the old salt smoked his pipe and took
observations of the clouds, varied by occasionally
hailing passing vehicles in seafaring
language.

'' Back your topsails and I'll put a pilot
aboard," he shouted as Arthur hove insight.
'' Where are y' from ? "

'' Back of the Gull Rock," answered
Arthur, laughing.

Keep her full again." continued the
old mariner. " What's your cargo ? "

'* Eight mackerel and a long nose,"
Arthur replied, " and it you are still in

ballast yoii had better take one of the
biggest aboard for supper."

I afeard 'twould agree with me ; my
indigestion edn very good ; but go along
in, your mother is waiting to give 'ee some
supper. Sleeve a got a turmut pasty for
'ee so long as my arm. We'll have the
mackerel for breakfast."

Arthur gave his mother and Uncle
Anthony a faithful account of the afternoon's
proceedings, as soon as the toil of
shortening the aforesaid pasty by several
inches was ended, and then set oft to call
upon the Trewhellas.

That's right," said Dan to Arthur as
the latter opened the door, '' I wanted to
see 'ee very particular. Mrs. Dunstable
have a sent down from the Castle to say that
the gentleman who do visit there, and do
spend most of his time in gleeazin' at old
stones and trade of that kind, would

like we to teeake un to-morrow, ef the wind
es light, to the sail-liawl. He would like
to catch a sail so as he may use un for
hauotomycal purposes, so the lean said.
What do 'ee say about it, Arthur ? will 'ee
go?"

'eyes, I'll go with all my heart,"
answered Arthur ; " but the old gentleman
won't go into the seal-hole, will he ? "

'raw no, we two must seem in, and
Mr. Burlington — that's old spectacles's
neeame — he'll stay in the boat. Cape
Penbole says he should like to go, and I'll
ax George Eoskilly. The cape and
George can look after the boat and Mr.
Burlington, while we seem in — but
perhaps you'd rather stay in the boat,
Arthur ? 'Tes a rashly old place to
go into, and the sails turn oogly sometimes
when they're cornered."

"No." was the answer; " Fd much rather

swim in, there won't be much fun in staying
in the boat."

Very well, then," said Dan, '' I'll send
up word to Mr. Burlington to be ready by
six o'clock. E£ we start about that time
we shall just have enough tide. Bring a
good thick stick with 'ee, Arthur."

Uncle Anthony and Mrs. Treleaven were
ready for bed when Arthur arrived home.
He did not like to tell his mother what
expedition he was going on in the morning,
but simply informed her that he must have
breakfast about five, as he and Daniel
were going to the back of the land at six,
and Mrs. Treleaven, asking no questions,
wished the two men "Good-night," and
went upstairs. Uncle Anthony would
have gone also, but Arthur detained him
by sundry winks and shakes of the head.
Ashen his mother had closed her bedroom
door, Arthur told his uncle what he was

going to do in the morning. He did not
wait until they were in their room to
explain for fear his mother should hear.
He rather feared that Uncle Anthony
would object to the seal hunt, but in this
he was agreeably mistaken. Anthony
Barker, although small of stature and
slender of limb, had joined in more than
one expedition to the seal-hole in his
younger days, and his blood was stirred in
his ancient veins at the thought of the
long past battles and hair-breadth escapes
in the gloomy cavern, lighted only by one
or two torches.

Why, After, my body," he said, ^' I've
half a mind to go too; but there, I'm too
old now for that sort of work. My ropes
are all coiled up, and I shall never again
get the old ship off the ground. 'Tes a
rough job, but wha's for that ? You're
strong and can seem like a fish, so there

edn miicli danger. But we mustn't tell
jour mother, my son, till you come back;
she'll be nervous, 'tis the way of the women.
You do what Daniel do tell 'ee ; heave a
been there a brave many times, and do
know the ground so well as I know my
quarter-deck outside. Hold up your torch
as you're swimming in, and mind your
stick is a good strong one : I got served a
trick once by taking an old oak stick.
I crashed at the sail as hard as I could,
when my wisht old stick cracked off like
a clay pipe, and then the sail — 'tv/as an
old cow — knocked me down on the rocks,
and gave me such a gash I can feel the
mark on the back of my head to this day.
There's a oak end out in the basket,
you'd better take he. But come along to
bed or mother '11 think there's something
up. I only wish I was young enough to
take 'ee to Son Rodney's hall, tha's another

place for sails about twenty miles up the
coast. It do run about three miles under
the land."

Arthur opened his eyes considerably on
hearing of this leviathan seal-hole, but
although he felt inclined to ask whether the
miles were English statute measure or not,
he repressed his curiosity out of respect for
Uncle Anthony. He merely remarked that
he was surprised to hear that a seal cave
stretched so far under the land. Uncle
Anthony looked at his nephew to see if he
had any particular meaning in laying so
much emphasis on the word " stretched,"
but thinking from Arthur's impassive
countenance that it was only accidental,
he took the candle and led the way upstairs.


CHAPTER ir.

THE SEAL Hot.

Lancaster. This is the strangest tale that ever I heard.
Prince. This is the strangest fellow, brother John.

Henry lY., Part I.

At six o'clock to the minute Daniel and
Arthur brought the boat to the quay,
where Captain Penbole, whose schooner
was lying in the pier, and George Roskilly
were waiting for them.

Morning, Dan," said the captain,
what do y' think of the weather ? "

'' Well 'tes fine now," was the answer,
but the wind, such as 'tes, es backing'
round to the forrard and western, and, ef
it do rise a bit, we shall have more say on

VOL. n. c

than the old gentleman with the spectacles
'11 find agree wetli his kitchen cupboard.
'Tes smooth enough now though.
Jump aboard, cape. Now, George, alike
a landsman, bringing' in all the dung
with 'ee. I hope the old gent weeant
keep us waiting'. Aw, here he es, and two
men carrie' things after un, as ef he was
going' round the world 'stead of round
Carrick Earth Point. Morning' sir, I'm
afeared you had to git up earlier 'n
usual."

'' Good-morning, mj friend," said Mr.
Burlington, " good-morning, it is rather
earlier than usual. I prefer staying up
late at night to getting up early in the
morning. Indeed it seems to me, if I
may so put it, rather — what shall I say ? —
indelicate, to intrude upon the world
before she is properly awake."

Are you troubled with the rheumatiz,

sir ? " asked Daniel, winking to his companions.


Rheumatism ? Oh, no, thank you :
what makes you think so ? "

'' I thought perhaps you might be," said
Daniel, *' as I see you've brought plenty of
wraps for June month.

Quite so," said Mr. Burlington, taking
his seat in the stern of the boat; " I make
a point whenever I go anywhere of being
provided for all emergencies. So this
morning, whether it rains or blows or the
sun shines, I shall be a match for the
weather. I'll trouble you, my young friend,
for that umbrella ; the sun, I find, is somewhat
warm already."

In answer to this request, Arthur passed
on to Mr. Burlington an enormous green
gingham umbrella, with which that provident
gentleman carefully extinguished
himself. The wraps were passed aft soc
2

as to be within reach, to wit, one largo
cloak of Irish frieze, a relic, judging from
its weight and thickness, of some Arctic
expedition ; one overcoat of slighter texture
for temperate regions ; one oilskin jacket
and lower garments to match ; a wool
shawl to wrap round his neck in case of
fog, as Mr. Burlington explained; and a
large rug which he tied round his waist
for the benefit of his organs of locomotion,
and which gave him the appearance of an
archdeacon very much out of repair ; and a
thick pair of wool gloves.

Nothing like keeping the extremities
warm," said he to Daniel ; " to adapt an
old proverb, * take care of the extremities
and the main body will take care of
itself.' "

It is to be feared that Mr. Burlington,
like many another philosopher, was more
given to enunciating theories than to

putting them into practice. At all events,
it T\'as evident that lie distrusted the
capability or readiness of the main body
to take care of itself, for a hamper,
weighing on a modest estimate about half
a hundredweight, formed part of the
burden under which the aforesaid two menservants
Groaned.

Is that for ballast ? " asked Captain
Penbole innocently ; ''I thought we were
o'oino^ to row the boat, Dan."

Aw, miss, cape, we are going' to row,"
answered Daniel; '' 'ten ballast, 'tes the
gentleman's luggage."

'' The captain deals in figures, Mr. —
I beg your pardon, what is your name ?
Daniel,' thank you — Mr. Daniel, it is ina
certain sense ballast, but it is intended
to give stability to the occupants of the
boat rather than to the boat itself. Oh, weare
off, are we ? What a fine day for our

little trip, and so smooth too. I was going
to say that in the little hamper there is
something to bring back our strength
after the toils and excitement of the seal
hunt. There is a nice piece of boiled beef —
Mrs. Dunstable's cook packed it under my
own supervision ; you seafaring men are
generally blessed with excellent appetites,
I understand ; a couple of fowls — the cook
assured me she would warrant them both
hens and tender ; a nice tongue — fowl without
tongue is extremely dry ; a loaf or two
of bread, and butter to correspond ; a few
bottles of ale, and some lemonade for any
of you who are teetotalers ; and last, but
certainly not least, a flask of best brandy.
I've been assured that brandy is a first-rate
preventative against sea-sickness. Indeed
I should have scrupled to come without it,
as I am not accustomed to the sea, especially
in a small boat. I don't think weare

badly off in the commissariat department,
Mr. Daniel, do you ? "

'^ In the what, sir ? " asked Daniel.

In the com., that is to say, provision
department."

'' No, sir," said Daniel ; '^ I think you've
a scattered — don't they call it ? — very well.
I shouldn't mind being cast away on a
raft for a week or two with all that there
provision. Keep her out a bit, cape, so
as we may teeake the tide."

''I suppose, sir, you don't think of
swimming into the seal-hole yourself ? " inquired
Captain Penbole of Mr. Burlington.

'' Oh, no, I think not," was the answer.
I'm afraid I'm not a sufficiently good
swimmer for that sort of thing. I used to
swim a good deal a long time ago when I
went to school, upon two bladders. No
thank you, I think I had better remain in
the boat. Of course if you drive any of

the animals outside I shall be prepared to
take an active part in the enterprise, that
is, if you can lend me a stick. Or perhaps
my umbrella might do, I have found it of
great service in dealing with refractory
animals, especially with an extremely unreasonable
donkey I once had the misfortune
to hire for three weeks when on an
archaeological expedition."

'' You'll find sails more unreasonable
than donkeys," said Daniel ; " and my
advice to 'ee es, ef you see a sail coming'
out of the hall lev un go, he'll very
likely ruin that there gingham of yours ef
you go protein' away with un."

'' Do you think so, Mr. Daniel ? then
perhaps I'd better not interfere. I should
be very sorry to lose that umbrella; it's
an old friend, a very old friend I may
say. Four times I have had it covered
afresh, and twice it has had new whalebone

inserted, beside a trifle of repairs
done to the handle. What is that hole in
the rock just inside us ? Is that a seal-hole'*


No," answered Captain Penbole,
'' there are no seals inside the point, that's
a mermaid's hole."

A what ? " inquired Mr. Burlington ?

A mermaid's hole. Mermaids are
things women 'pon top and tails under,"
explained the captain. " I daresay you've
read about 'em in books, sir. They set
upon the rocks with their tails in the sea,
and comb their hair and sing."

"But that's only a fable," said Mr.
Burlington ; '' there's no such thing as a
real live mermaid, you know."

Then my old uncle, Peter Penwarden,
must have told a brave many lies," said
Captain Penbole.

Did he ever see a mermaid ? "

So he told me many a time. He said
he was pulling a boat past the hole when
a mermaid came out and made meanings
to nn a bit and asked un to come every
evening, and so he did for a long time,
till at last he tried to catch hold of her to
lift her in the boat, when she gave the
awfuUest yowl that ever was, and went off
with such a cancerous that she nearly
filled the boat. He said he came along
here a brave many times afterwards, but
he never saw the mermaid no more."

But do you think your relative really
saw all this ? " asked Mr. Burlington.

Well, sir," answered the captain, '' I
heard un tell that heave a seen more
stranger things than that. There's that
shark, Dan, you've heard un tell about
he ? "

Miss, a passel of times," replied Daniel.

What was there remarkable about the

shark?" inquired Mr. Burlington; "you
said shark I think ? "

'' You're right, sir," answered Captain
Penbole ; " it was a shark, a regular bender,
he must have been the patriarch of all
the sharks, judging from the size of un.
'Twas like this here, sir, my uncle Peter
Penwarden he was cook of a barque called
the Flying Cloud, sailing out of Bristol,
and the second voyage he went to
Maker, and for three weeks they lay
at anchor in Kingston Harbour. The day
after they arrive, when the cook — that's
my uncle — was throwing the dish-water
overboard he saw a great fish sheer along
the ship's side, but before he could make
im out he was gone. But every time he
pitched anything over the side that there
shark — for they made un out to be a
shark after the first two or three times —
would show his ugly teeth and glaze up at

the ship. Then the sailors made up their
minds that somebody's time was come,
but nobody got ill up to the day before
they were to weigh anchor, and they
thought that perhaps after all old glaze
would be disappointed. But the very last
day, as Uncle Peter was throwing over his
dish-water as usual — they were to weigh
anchor in the afternoon — he tumbled right
out through the gangway, and before he
could tell what was what, there he was in the
sea, and old glaze was sheering up towards
un. ' I'm done for,' said Uncle Peter to
himself ; ' I shall be in glaze' s inside before
a rope can reach me.' All the time he
was screeching ' Murder ! ' as hard as he
could. 'Twas a fortunate thing for un he
had on an old boiler that he had just given
a coat of coal-tar to, so as to fill up the
cracks in un, for the shark opened his mouth,
and a half of Uncle Peter Penwarden

was out of signify in a minute — the top half
too — but glaze didn't like the taste of trio
coal-tar and lie spit un out at once, and
before lie could slider up again Uncle
Peter laid hold of a rope and was hauled
over the side. 'Twas just in time too, for
the shark jumped out of the water and
put his teeth in one of uncle's sea-boots,
and away he went with the boot in his
mouth, and a lucky thing it wasn't the leg.
** When Uncle Peter was got aboard he
says to the captain, says he, * I'll serve
he a trick for that,' and a trick he did
serve un, sure 'nous-li. He o^ot a bie
square piece of fat pork and hollowed it
out like a box, leaving a piece for a cover.
Into this he put a small canister of gunpowder
with a fuse all ready for lighting,
sticking out through, and fastened down
the cover so that it looked like nothing
a piece of pork same as before. Then

he got two other pieces of pork about the
same size, and just as old glaze sheered
up alongside he dropped a piece overboard,
when it was chucked like a pill.
In two or three minutes glaze came
alongside again, and down went the other
piece. 'Now then,' said Uncle Peter,
stand by with a match.' Stand by they
did, and just as glaze was coming on
again he struck the match and set the
fuse afire and dropped it overboard, a
inch or two ahead of his snout. In the
winking of a here down went the pill and
Uncle Peter thought ifc didn't agree with
un very well, for he jumped clean out of
the water to the height of the vessel's
bulwarks, and then dived down to the
bottom of the deep blue sea.

In the course of the afternoon they
weighed anchor, or I should say, they
tried to weigh anchor, for pull the capstan-bars

so much as they liked, there was no
moving the anchor. There happened to
be a darker aboard, and he volunteered to
go down and see what was the matter.
But aren't you afeared of the shark ? '
the captain asked. ' No,' he said, ' he
have got the little canister in his insides.'
Well down he went with a weight fastened
to his foot, and in a minute he came up
with his face nearly white with fright, and
so soon as he could speak he said, ' De
shark twenty, thirty foots of him is lying
on the cable, and de little canister is
gone ont through de inside.' So they
knew 'twas no good to go on hauling any
longer, and cutting through their cable
they bore away for home. My Uncle Peter
used to say he never saw a shale, but
from what he'd a heard that there glaze
must have been nearly so big as a whale,
and twice so savage."

Very like a whale, very like a whales*
murmured Mr. Burlington.

"But what I was going to say
was this," continued the captain, " it
wasn't much for a man who had
looked old glaze in the face to see a
rashly little mermaid a combing of her
hair."

Wonderful, wonderful," said Mr. Burlington.
" Your uncle is dead, did you
say?"

Yes, sir, dead as a door-nail this twenty
year and more."

Ah ! I'm sorry for that, I should much
have liked to have made the acquaintance
of your uncle — a remarkable man, a
very remarkable man. How much further
have we to go ? "

"The sail-hall es just round the next
point," answered Daniel, " we shall be therein
two or three minutes."

'' How are jon feeling, Mr. Daniel? " inquired
Mr. Burlington, peering at iiini
through his green spectacles; *' don't you
think a little brandy would be advisable
to steady your nerves before you go into
the cave ? "

Thenky, sir, all the seeame," answered
Daniel, 'but I think brandy es wisht
poor trade to study a man's nerves when
he's going' into danger; it'll more like
dazzle his eyes and meeake un all mizzy-
meeazy. I'm thankful to say my nerves
es generally putty study, but ten owing to
drinking' brandy, though I dont mind a
drap now and then."

Oh, very well," said Mr. Burlington,
'' you know best, of course. Are you going
in by yourself ? "

ISTo," replied Dan; '' Arthur, he who's
pulling' the bow oar there, es going' in with
me, and the cape and George's look

VOL. ir. D

after the boat. There you are, there's
the hall."

They had just doubled the point, and
saw before them a gigantic diff rising
almost perpendicularly to the height of
two hundred feet. This wall-like bulwark
of the land stretched along the coast
for a hundred yards or thereabouts, and
was flanked to the right and left by broken
masses of rock of the same character.
Behind and above the granitic coast-line,
for a considerable distance inland, were
piled up, m every imaginable state of
confusion, immense blocks of rock, looking
like the rums of some abode of the mythic
Cornish giants, toppled over by the shocks
of a mighty [earthquake. At the base of
the rock where it was intersected by the
sea-line was an arch-like aperture, just
large enough, now the tide was low, to
admit a swimmer, but too narrow to give
ingress to a boat.

Daniel and Arthur, as soon as the boat
lay abreast of the hole, proceeded to divest
themselves of their outer garments, while
Captain Penbole and George Eoskilly
lighted up the torches prepared with tow
steeped in turpentine and coal-tar. Yf hen
all was ready Daniel and his comrade
quietly dropped overboard, and received
from the others their oak cudgels, which
they fastened to their necks by a string,
so that they might tow them after them,
and a torch each, which they held out of
the water with one hand while they swam
with the other.

Dear me, isn't it very cold ? " asked
Mr. Burlington; 'Hie very sight of you
two in the water has made me chilly ; I
will put on my overcoat I think."

'Tes very comfortable, sir," said Dan,
laughing; " dont 'ee ait all the beef and
fowls while we're gone. Good-bye, sir."
D 2

"Farewell, and I wish yoii success,"
said Mr. Burlington, blandly ; " you're
quite sure you won't take a drop of
brand V ? "

"No brandy, pliancy, sir," said Dan,
we're wet enough already. Come along,
Arthur."

The two made straight for the cavern,
holding the flaring torches high out of
the water. In a very little time nothing
could be seen but the glare of the lights ;
this was succeeded by a thin trail of smoke,
and then all trace of the adventurous ones
was lost — they were buried in the heart of
the earth.

This is a more trying business than I
thought it would be," Mr. Burlington
remarked to the captain; "what if they
should not be able to get out again, or
should meet with some accident inside ? "

Never you fear for Daniel Trewhella,"

replied Captain Penbole ; ''if there ever
was a trustworthy man, he's one."

Perhaps you would like something to
eat," suggested Mr. Burlington hospitably.


Sto, thenky," said the captain ; " I
can't eat nothing while they're in there ;
my nerves ain't so steady as Dan's ; perhaps
'tis because I'm older. I shall be
all of a tremble till they come out again."

*' Listen," said George. " Arthur said
he would let me know when they got on
dry land inside."

A faint, long-drawn '' Ahoy ! ahoy ! " as
if from a considerable distance, came
through the dark opening.

"They're in all right!" exclaimed
George. " Now then, seals, look out for
yourselves, the Philistines are upon you."

The archway through which Daniel
and Arthur made their way opened out at

the end of fifteen or twenty feet into a
wide passage terminating in a steep beach.
The roof of the passage was, perhaps,
twenty feet from the surface of the water,
but the cave beyond stretched backwards
and upwards too far for the dim light of
the torches to penetrate.

As soon as the swimmers reached the
beach Arthur gave the signal agreed upon
with George, and then the two, with 'the
torches held high in air and the oak
staves grasped firmly in their right hands,
scrambled up the loose pebbles towards
the shelves of the rocks which the seals
used as resting-places. Alarmed by the
lights the animals scuttled from their
beds towards the inmost corner of the
cave, flinging back in their flight showers
of stones against their assailants.

'await a bit," said Dan to Arthur;
lev um go up to the top of the batch.

or else we shall perhaps git a oo^ly slap in
the feeace wetli a stone. Then when
they're got to the top we'll go towards
em, and they'll try to rush past ns towards
the say ; tha's your time, slap at em as
hard as you can over the hawse ; dont
try to catch modern wan, but meeake sure
of he. Meeake your light burn a little
brighter. Look straight up, there's a
glimmer of daylight coming down through
the rocks, but it edn enough to help us.
Now then, Arthur."

They advanced until the dripping wall
of the cavern could be dimly seen. At the
foot of the wall were five dark forms
huddled together.

Daniel gave a shout and brandished
his stick, when suddenly the seals parted
company and headed straight for the
water. Each man singled out a seal and
struck with all his might. Daniel was a

practised hand and soon despatched his
antagonist. Arthur in his excitement
missed his stroke, and was knocked backwards
on the beach with great violence,
the animal going right over him in its
determination to reach the water. But
Arthur, too, was determined, and twisting
himself round quickly he seized the seal,
and rising to his feet upset it in its turn,
and before it could again use its limbs to
any advantage the oak cudgel descended
with fatal force. All this occurred in such
a short time that Arthur was standing
by the dead seal panting with his violent
exertion before Daniel could go to his
assistance.

The old salt was delighted to see his
comrade's prowess and pluck, and, patting
him on the back, he exclaimed, —

Well done, that's as clever a job as
ever was done in this hawl.''

How shall we get them out to the
boat ? " asked Arthur, gratified by this
commendation from the experienced hunter
; "we can't tow them out, can we ? "

'' No," answered Dan, "we must get a
couple of lines from the boat, and meeake
em fast to the sails, and then they can pull
un out. You stay here while I seem out
for the lines. Your torch es gone out ;
light nil up again."

When the torch was burning brightly
Daniel swam off towards the boat, and
Arthur was left alone in the faintly illuminated
cavern. He was not by any means
timid, but yet was conscious of a wish that
Daniel's absence would not be a prolonged
one. This desire was quickened by a faint
sound, like the moan of some one in pain,
coming from a part of the cave which they
had not intruded upon. Arthur supposed
it was a seal and did not apprehend any

danger, but still it was decidedly unpleasant
to be there alone, listening to
weird noises proceeding from the dark
recess. Again he heard the moan, which
seemed now to come from a human being,
and a cold perspiration was beginning to
stand upon his brow when he was relieved
by the reappearance of Daniel with the
lines.

Daniel laughed when Arthur told him
of the sounds and rallied him upon being
nervous, but another and a louder moan
coming from the darkness even while he
was speaking, he began to think that after
all there was something strange in the
cave.

Flare up your torch," he said ; '' lev us
see what 'tes."

They advanced guardedly towards the
place from whence the mysterious noises
proceeded, until at last they made out the

form of a lilian being lying on the
beach.

Some poor drowned sailor," said
Daniel.

He can't be dead' said Arthur; '* dead
men can't oToan."

That's true," assented Daniel, kneeling
bj the side of the prostrate figure; and
holding the torch close to the man's face
he continued, " there's life in un yet,
though how he got here I ceeant understand,
nor who he es. He's some sailor
by the looks of him. How ded 'ee git
here, meeate ? " he added in a louder
tone.

The man opened his eyes, but was
evidently too weak to give any explanation
of his presence in this strange place. He
tried to speak, but his parched lips gave
out no articulate sound.

How shall we get him out to the

boat?" asked Arthur; ''he can't swim
out, that's clear."

We must try to meeake up a raft with
the oars," ausvvered Daniel, 'rand then
while the cape and George are pulling'
we'll seem alongside so well as we can
and keep his head out of the water. Will
you stay here with the poor fellow,
Arthur, while I go off for the oars and
things ? A drap of the old gent's brandy '11
rose un up a bit I should think."

Arthur did not mind staying now that
he knew it was no ghostly personage he
had to deal with, and he at once assented
to the proposal.

Mr. Burlington and the captain and
George were astonished to see Daniel
coming out without the seals and to hear
him exclaim excitedly, —

There's a man in the cave."

I suppose there is," said George,

laughing, " I haven't seen Arthur come
out yet. He's hardly gone by the back
way seing it is only six inches wide and a
couple of hundred feet long."

No, no," said Dan, grasping the gunwale
of the boat, " 'tes a dead man I mane,
leastways he edn quite dead, for he's able
to groan a bit."

'' What in the world do you mean, Mr.
Daniel? " asked the antiquary.

Why some poor shipwrecked sailor
have a got by some manner of manes into
the hall, and he's moaning' and groaning'
as ef he weeant be long for this world,"
answered Daniel. *' You had better brins:
the boat abreast the hall, and thraw
over the anchor, and tie the oars to wan
of the lines, so as we can pull 'em in to
meeake a raft to put un upon. We must
be sharp too, for the tide'll soon cover the
mouth of the hall."

Hadn't you better take the brandy-flask
with you?" asked Mr. Burlington.
"If he is so exhausted as you say, he'll
want a stimulant before he can bear to be
removed."

Daniel, after seeing that the flask was
securely stopped, fixed it in his waistband,
and, the oars having been tied to one of
the lines, again entered the cavern, saying
as he disappeared, —

As soon as you hear us shout you, pull
gently. "We'll steer the poor 'fellow out."

In a few minutes the oars were tied
side by side, and the sailor, somewhat revived
by a dose of strong brandy, placed
upon them. The signal was given, the
line was gently drawn, and the raft went
slowly towards the boat, Daniel holding
the man's head out of the water while
Arthur held the torch so that the way
might be seen.

'' I have seen liii some where," exclaimed
Arthur, as soon as they emerged
into the daylight. 'MYhj, as I am alive,
its Jemmy Nash of Pendruthan ! How in
the world did he get here ? "

This was a question which only ISTash
could answer, even if there were time, and
time was pressing now. The captain and
George lifted the poor fellow into the boat
very tenderly, and a rough couch was
made of Mr. Burlington's superfluous coats
and shawls. The fresh air had a marked
effect upon him, and he soon revived so
as to be able to speak, though with difficulty.
He explained that he had fallen
overboard from a passing steamer two
nights before, and although he had
managed to support himself by a life-buoy
that was thrown after him, the boat
lowered failed to discover him iu the darkness,
and he drifted slowly towards the

shore. After a time lie fainted from the
exposure, and when he came to Himself lie
was lying on the beach of the cave, left
dry by the receding tide. He had been so
battered and bruised by the waves and the
rocks that he was only able to crawl above
high water mark, and lie down helpless in
the recess where they found him. He
knew that this was the second day by the
faint glimmer of light which entered
through the aperture in the rock.

You may thank God, mate, that you
lapped to light 'zactly upon the mouth of
the hall," said Daniel; " ef you had gone
a yard to the right or lift you'd a bin
crashed to atoms upon the rocks. But
you mustn't talk too much ; lie down and
rest yourself, and we'll soon put 'ee ashore.
Lay hold of wan of the lines, Arthur,
and come along ; we'll have they there sails
out in the thinking' of a here."

When the seals were on board the
anchor was weighed and the boat headed
for St. Enodoc. The wind had risen in
accordance with Daniel's prognostications,
and a slight roll was coming: in. The
seasoned sailors and fishermen took no
notice of it, bnt it had a disturbing effect
upon Mr. Burlington. The first symptom
of future trouble was a series of yawns.
Daniel knew what this foreboded, but he
winked to the captain, who was steering,
and said, —

'* Would 'ee like to lie down for a nap,
sir, while we're pulling' the boat in ? you
got up early this niornin'."

''No, thank you," was the reply, "I
don't feel sleepy, but yet I can't keep from
yawning somehow. I suppose it is the
fresh sea air."

Another wink from Daniel conveyed to
the captain his opinion that something else

VOL. II. E

than fresh air was the cause of the immoderate
yawning. Presently Mr. Burlington
became restless, shifting his position often,
and gazing in turn at the sky and the sea.

I shall be glad if you will put me on
shore as soon as possible," he said at
length, " I don't feel at all well. I can't
think what is the matter with me."

I've been lookin' at 'eefor some time,"
said Daniel, " and I think you're going' to
be a bit sick."

Ah, perhaps that is it, 'tis a long time
since I was on the sea, and I've quite forgotten
the sensation. If you'll describe
it, Mr. Daniel, I shall be able to judge
whether it is sea-sickness or something
worse." ^

"Well, sir," said Daniel, '' 'tes a thing
I ain't on spain' terms with, but I've a
heard that it do meeake 'ee feel qualmish
with a all-perish sort of a feeling', as ef

you'd be glad for somebody to pitch 'ee
into the say. Do you feel like that,
sh?"

I can't say I do," was the answer; " I
have no particular desire to be thrown
overboard at present, but I am certainly
much disturbed internally. There, I had
nearly forgotten the brandy — I have great
confidence in that as a remedy. I hope
there's a little left, Mr. Daniel."

'raw, miss, sir, modern you can clunk
betvv^een here and the shore."

Mr. Burlington took the flask and administered
to himself a strong dose, but
somehow it failed to produce the anticipated
effect, and in a short time the inward
perturbation manifested itself in the usual
manner.

'' Hould your head over the side, sir,"
said Daniel, 'you'll be better directly."

I don't think I shall ever be better in.:
2

I IRP&RV

this world," groaned Mr. Burlington, ''I
believe I'm dying."

'* I've heard plenty say that in my time,"
said Captain Penbole, *' but they all picked
up again afterwards. Drink a drop more
brandy."

'' I am beginning to doubt the efficacy of
brandy," murmured the sufferer, *' but I'll
try another sip."

^' Take a good swig," suggested the
captain.

Mr. Burlington, acting on this advice,
emptied the flask, with the result of apparently
setting his interior on fire. He
gasped and coughed and groaned, while
the tears ran down his face in streams.
Unbuttoning the temperate region coat to
cool himself, he flung it from him with
such energy that it fell over the side of
the boat, and pulling off his hat for the
same purpose, he placed it carefully on the

seat, and then, with great dexterity, caused
its utter collapse by seating himself upon it.

My dear sir, hold on," remonstrated
Daniel, "or you'll be overboard. We
shall rich the shore in a minute or two
now. Take a drop of lemonade to cool
your throat."

But Mr. Burlington was still in an
extremely dilapidated condition when the
boat struck the beach, and could only
reach the Castle by the aid of George Ros-kill,
who was scandalized and put to
shame by a troop of small boys following
them up the hill, and making odious
remarks on Mr. Burlington's damaged
hat and intoxicated appearance. The antiquary's
parting words to George were, —

'' I'll never go to hunt seals again, no,
not if I live till I'm as old as Methuselah."

CHAPTER III.

Distressed DAMSELS.

Eoiind the cape of a sudden came the sea.

Robert Browniiifj.

Me. Burlington had somewhat recovered
by the afternoon, and sent a message to
Daniel that he was to care for the rescued
sailor at Mr. Burlington's expense, and
that the contents of the hamper were at
Daniel's disposal. The answer was returned
that everything possible should be
done for Nash, who was recovering rapidly
from his exhaustion. The man who
brought the message was then laden with
the antiquary's many coats, and Daniel
advised him to hoist the green umbrella

to screen himself from the sun. Unfortunately
for the man, he followed this
advice, with the result that the precious
gingham was turned inside out at the very
first corner and resolutely refused to turn
back again. Perhaps contact with the
archaeological donkey had instilled a stubborn
stiffness into its ribs, but kicked and
knocked and thumped it refused to bend,
and the guilty servant had to deliver it to
its owner, looking more like a dilapidated
cabbage than a staid and respectable
umbrella.

Daniel proposed to Captain Penbole that
they should get up a little feast next day
with the contents of the hamper, and the
captain, never loth to grace a feast,
assented, with the proviso that the 
should be the cabin of the
Clara, and that he should he allowed to
provide the liquid part of the entertainment.

Accordingly, invitations were issued
to Mrs. Trewhella and Jenifer, and Mrs.
Treleaven and Uncle Anthony, to meet the
redoubtable seal-hunters on board the
Clara at one o'clock precisely on the following
day. Jemmy Nash was already onboard.
Daniel would have housed the
poor fellow but for lack of room, and the
captain, who did not come behind his
friend in generous feeling for the distressed,
insisted that he should make the
Clara his home until he was able to proceed
to Liverpool to join his ship.

Mrs. Trewhella offered to assist the
captain in arranging the table and cooking
the necessary vegetables, but he protested
energetically that the ladies should
not put a single finger to the preparation
they were to be honoured guests, not
waiters. His cook would see to the
(military department, while the rest of the

crews consisting of one man and a boy,
would learn to wait specially for the
occasion.

As the church clock was striking one
on the following day the guests stepped
on the well-scrubbed deck of the Clara.
Captain Penbole, arrayed in his very best,
received them at the gangway, and led
them at once to the cabin, where they
found everything, as the captain expressed
it, '' ship-shape and Bristol fashion." The
boiled beef graced the head of the table,
while the fowls, warranted as aforesaid by
Mrs. Dunstable's cook, guarded the right
and left flanks, and crowds of skirmishers,
in the shape of bread, beer, and vegetables,
took advantage of every unoccupied position.


The captain took the chair, having Mrs.
Trewhella and Mrs. Treleaven on his right
and left respectively, and George Roskilly

and Uncle Anthony faced each other, while
Jenifer and Arthur did the same. Sash
had begged to be excused on account of
his weakness. Uncle Anthony being the
senior member of the party was called
upon to say grace. The old tar devoutly
closed his eyes, put his face into his hat,
and said, " For this here dennar the Lord
meeake us thankful."

Now then, fall to," said Captain Penbole
when they were seated. " Mrs.
Trewhella, a little beef? 'No? Some
fowl for Mrs. Trewhella and-your mother,
Arthur, and don't forget that young lady
by your side. You like a bit of beef, I
know, Uncle Anthony ? "

"Miss, sure," answered the old man;
nooane of your chicks for me ; but the
beef edn like it used to be, cape."

"isn't so fat I suppose you mean ? "
said the captain.

Tecln so substantial," said Uncle Anthony.
" Why Vnen I sailed in the Joy
Briton— i\\^t' ^ fifty years agone — we had
some beef, sure 'enough. The ship was
modern ninety year old, and some of the
casks had gone every voyage in her.
'Twas that hard it would a' most turn the
edge of your knife when you tried to
cut it. One piece the cook used, so he
said, for a block to cut up sticks upon.
Ah ! that was something like beef, it won
a bite and a clunk, but was something to
chew the cud upon. But my teeth ain't
so good as they was then."

*' I never saw salt junk so hard as that,"
said Captain Penbole, '' but I've seen some
pork that I shouldn't much like to put
before the ladies here. I remember a
voyage I went once in a whaler hailing
from Dundee. We got frozen up at the
end of the season, and had to winter in

Baffin's Bay. We ought to have come
away in time, but the captain fortified us
till it was too late. Well, just as we were
going to laye our beef and plum-sudden
on Christmas Day, the steward comes upto
the captain, and he says, says he,
Captain, I can't make out what's the
matter in the store-room, one of the
barrels of pork that we took over from
the barque Grand Turn is moving about
as if there was somebody pushing' it.'
Nonsense,' said the captain, ' how can
the barrel move when the ship is fixed in
the ice so firm as a house ? ' ' Will you
come and look, sir ? ' said the steward.
Certainly, I will,' said the captain ; ' get
a light.' So they went down into the
store-room and sure enough the barrel was
creaking and groaning. ' Is it spirits ? '
asked the steward. * Spirits ! no, 'tis
pork,' said the captain. * I mean ghosts,'

said the steward. ' I'll make ghosts of
'em,' said the captain ; ' hoist the cask on
deck,' and so the did. ' stow, then, carpenter,'
said the captain, ' out with the
head.' * 'T won't go off, I hope,' said the
carpenter. 'Go off ! ' said the skipper,
getting into a passion, 'what a lot of
idiots' — that's the ford he used — 'what
a lot of idiots I've got around me. How
can a pig go off when he's been cut up
this ten year ? ' He gave two or three
hard slaps, and then if that old cask didn't
go abroad with a bang and knock everybody
backwards ; not with the blow
though, but with the smelL All the brine
had run out, and the pork was alive and
kicking. And that was the only time in
my life I ever saw a pig move a barrel
after he'd been cut up and salted."

After these veracious yarns the conversation
became general. When the meal

was ended and cleared away, Captain Penbole
proceeded to brew strong glasses of
grog for those who were not teetotalers,
while Jenifer and the two young men
strolled about on deck. Jenifer was compelled
to leave early, having to do some
business for Miss Jink at a farmhouse'
about a mile from St. Enodoc. George
and Arthur therefore helped her on shore,
and then returned to listen to Captain
Penbole's nautical yarns, all warranted
true by that ancient mariner.

When the guests landed about eight
o'clock in the evening, Arthur, finding
that Jenifer had not returned, set off to
meet her. He reached the farmhouse in
about half an hour, and found that she
had left with Esther Mansellll, going, it
was believed, in the direction of the bay,
but they were not to be seen anywhere on
the beach, and Arthur, concluding that

they must have gone home by way of
the cliff, set off, if possible, to overtake
them.

When he reached Deaclman's Haven, a
little bay with a pebbly beach, bounded by
two jutting points, he was astonished at
hearing a cry from the bottom of the cleft.
Whoever the cry came from was in great
peril, for the advancing tide had passed
the points and was rapidly covering the
little beach. Arthur shouted in return,
and peered over the lofty cliff. What was
his horror to find that the prisoners exposed
to such danger were Jenifer Tree
and Esther Mansellll. There was no
time to be lost. Before he could run to St.
Enodoc and get a boat round the point the
tide would have reached them. The best
plan would be to run to the farmhouse he
had just left for ropes and assistance.
Shouting to Jenifer to be of good cheer,

for help would soon arrive, he set off at
the top of his speed, and astonished the
sober farmer by bursting into his kitchen,
and gasping out, —

Hopes, get some long ropes ! Jenifer
Trewhella and Esther Mansellll are under
the cliff, and the tide is coming in."

"What cliff?" asked the stolid master
of the house.

"Be as quick as you can," exclaimed
Arthur impatiently, '' the beach is covered
at half tide. Come along, I'll show you
the place."

The farmer and his two sons, now
thoroughly roused, sprang up from their
seats and rushed to the outhouses for
ropes long and strong enough to prove of
service.

Alien Arthur and his friends reached
the cliff they found that the tide was just
reaching the hapless couple. Fortunately

the sea was comparatively smooth, and
there was no clanofer of a wave clashing
and sweeping them away before the tide
fairly reached them. A bight was made in
the rope, and Arthur, placing it round his
waist, was lowered slowly down the hundred
feet of the face of the cliff. He found
thetwoo-irlscowerino^ against the rock, their
feet being already covered by the water.

'' Stow then, Jenifer," said Arthur, "put
this rope under your arms and hold on
tight."

'' Xo, let Esther go up first," asked
Jenifer.

"Yes, do please let me go first," exclaimed
Esther ; '' don't let me be drowned,
don't let me be drowned."

Very good," replied Arthur, " there's
no time to stand here arguing. There's
no great danger from the tide, so she may
go first if she will."

VOL. II. p

In a minute the rope was placed around
Esther, and the signal was given to the
three men at the top to pull away. The
whirling motion frightened her and she
began to scream, but she managed to keep
herself from striking the cliff, and in a
short time stood safely on the top. The
rope was again let down, and Jenifer was
next drawn up.

"Now then, Arthur," shouted the
farmer as he lowered the rope, " hold on
and we'll soon have you up."

Unfortunately the rope in its passage
along the rock had suffered such injury that
its strands parted when Arthur was about
twenty feet from the bottom, and he went
rolling down into the sea with a splash
which was heard at the top. The lightened
rope, too, told its own tale.

You ain't killed, are you ? " asked the
farmer anxiously, leaning over the cliff.

No," was the answer, " I am not
killed, but the breath is almost knocked
out of me. Have sou got any more
rope ? "

'eyes," said the farmer, ''I have more
rope, but no rope strong enough to bear
your weight, now that the one we were
using is at the bottom of the cliff. "What
shall we do ? "

Whatever you do must be done
quickly," said Arthur; "I can't stay here
very long without being drowned. If you
have got no rope that will bear my weight,
send somebody into the town to get a boat
out and lower down what rope you've got,
it will help me to support myself on the
ledge of rock just above me."

Jenifer, in terror lest Arthur after

rescuing her should be drowned himself,

rushed off towards St. Enodoc at the top

of her speed, and astonished her father

P 2

and mother by rushing into the house
gasping and breathless.

As soon as she could speak she exclaimed,
'' Arthur is drowning ! he is
under the cUff at Deadman's Haven ! you
must go round in a boat, there are no
ropes there."

'' How ded a git there r " asked Daniel.

Getting Esther and me up," answered
Jenifer ; " but be quick, father, or the tide
will wash him away."

Daniel, grasping the situation, rushed to
the quay, and in a minute or two a six-oared
gig, manned by the idlers who were
as usual pacing up and down seaman-fashion,
was making for Deadman's Haven
with all possible speed. Happily it was a
moonlight night, or Arthur's chance of
rescue would have been a slight one. As
soon as the gig rounded the point Daniel
gave a loud " Ahoy ! " In a few moments

an answering slioufc was borne across the
water.

That's Arthur," said Daniel excitedly,
I know his voice : pull away, books, 'tis for
life or death."

When they reached the haven they found
Arthur up to his armpits m water clinging
to a ledge, and partially supported by
a rope round his waist, which the farmer
and his sons were holding. They quickly
got him into the boat, and found that the
tips of his fingers were cut and bleeding
from his desperate grass) of the rocks.

Thank Grod," he said, as they pulled him
in, ''I am safe. I was past going to drop
off and try to swim round to the cove, but
it would be a long swim for me and a risky
one. You came just in time to save me."

*' How ded 'ee git down there?" asked
Daniel. " I could' meaake out what
Jenifer said. Thank the Lord," said he

reverently, when Arthur had explained,
and thank you too for savin my Jenny.
I would lay down my own life rather a
hair of her head should be hurt."

Most of the inhabitants of St. Enodoc
appeared to be on the quay when the
boat reached land again. The news of
Arthur's rescue of the girls and of his
own peril had soon spread, and an enthusiastic
welcome awaited him. He was
seized as soon as his foot touched the
quay, and hoisted upon the shoulders of
a couple of strong fishermen and borne
off in triumph to his home, surrounded
by the cheering crowd.

Mrs. Treleaven felt very proud of her
son that night, and Uncle Anthony, to
mark his sense of the event, read at
family prayers the chapter recording
Jonah's deliverance by the whale, and the
two Prayers to be used in Storms at Sea.

CHAPTER IV.

THE AMOROUS Antiquary.

Crabbed age and youth cannot live together :
Youth is full of pleasance, age is full of care ;
Youth like summer morn, age like winter weather ;
Youth like summer brave, age like winter bare.
Youth is full of sport, age's breath is short ;

Youth is nimble, age is lame ;
Youth is hot and bold, age is weak and cold ;

Youth is wild, and age is tame.

Shakespeare s " Passionate Pilgrim."

Ox the morning after Arthur's perilous
adventure, Mr. Burlington bore down
upon Uncle Anthony, who was pacing
his quarter-deck in meditative mood, and
thus addressed that ancient mariner, —

Ahem ! excuse me, but are you Mr.
Barker?"

I can't say as I am," was the answer,
leastways I ain't very often called
Mister. I'm generally Tony Barker at
your service."

'' Tony Barker ? " said Mr. Burlington,
'^ yes, this is the right house then. I hear
that your young relative — an acquaintance
of mine I may say — had a narrow escape
last nio:ht in executing: his chivalrous feat
of rescuing, if I may so put it, some distressed
damsels."

Miss to be sure," said Uncle Anthony,
and a brave body he es, but you're
mistaken in wan particles, 'wasn't his
feet that was executed, but his finger-ends,'
and they was gashed up fine, sure 'enough ;
but his mother says they'll soon be all
right again with the Dutch drops she's
putting' to 'em."

'^ Ah, um, may I see the young fellow ? "
asked Mr. Burlington.

Jestingly, sir," answered Uncle Anthony;
"he edn ashamed for the Lord
High Admiral to see un. Plaise to wipe
your shoes and step in, sir."

This shoe wiping was a somewhat
arduous business, for Uncle Anthony, in
his determination to apprehend every atom
of dust before it could reach the parlour,
had set mats in every possible position in
the porch and passage. Feeling that his
own example would be more potent than
any precept in educating Mr. Burlington
up to his own ideal, Uncle Anthony preceded
that gentleman, wiping as he went.
First he rubbed his spotless shoes on the
grass edging of his quarter-deck, supplementing
this with a vigorous application
of the door scraper, then he wiped them
on the mat in the porch, next he tacked
so as to fetch another mat at the bottom
of the stairs, then wearing the ship, he

touched upon another cunningly fixed in a
small recess in the passage, and lastly
with a fair wind bore down upon a large
mat of his own manufacture stationed at
the parlour door. Mr. Burlington, having
faithfully copied Uncle Anthony and
shaken all the dust from his feet, entered
the parlour, and the old man went in
search of Mrs. Treleaven and Arthur.

'how do you do, madam? "said Mr.
Burlington, politely bowing as they entered;
*' how do you do, my young friend ? I was
very pleased to hear of the event of last
night — I mean, of course, the rescue, not
the danger — and I thought I would call
this morning to show my appreciation.
Will you oblige me, my young friend, by
accepting a couple of sovereigns as a mark
of my approbation of your conduct ? "

*' I hope you won't be offended, sir, but
I would rather not take them," said Arthur.

I didn't do it for what I should get ; and
I would do the same again to-day for anybody."


'* Just so, my young friend," said Mr.
Burlington, 'just so. I am not offering
to pay you for what you did ; I only want
to show my appreciation of a brave deed."

Teeake it, Arthur," said Uncle Anthony,
" teeake it and buy a chronometer
with it, and keep it in remembrance of
what comet to pass in the olden time
afore us, as the Litany says."

No, uncle," said Arthur, *' it will look
too much as if I was proud of it, and after
all there wasn't much to be proud of."

May I make another suggestion ? "
asked Mr. Burlington.

Certainly," answered Uncle Anthony,
'you can meeake so many suggestions
as you've got a mind to. Plaise to spake
up, sir."

'swell then," said tile antiquary, '' as my
young friend has an unconquerable delicacy
— I think I may call it that, Mr.
Barker — " (" Certainly " from Uncle Anthony).
'therefore, as I was about to
remark — a — perhaps, madam, you will dome
the honour to accept the money and
invest it in a new shawl as a memento of
your son's noble conduct."

"Hear, hear," said Uncle Anthony,
teeake it, Jane, teeake it : 'twould be
tempting' Providence to refuse it after the
gentleman have meade such a party
speech about it : 'twas nearly all grammar.
Hear, hear," and Uncle Anthony in his
enthusiasm waved his hat energetically.

Mrs. Treleaven yielded to this double
request and took the money, and the donor,
shaking hands all round in token of his
goodwill, set off for Daniel Trewhella's.

*' I wonder if the old gentleman would

have given the two sovereigns if he had
recognized me as the boy who knocked off
his hat with the '' nun " in the pilchard-cellar
at Pendruthan," said Arthur.

*' You gov he ' nun ' and he gov you
money," said Uncle Anthony, chuckling at
his atrocious pun ; '^ and I think I'll go
out andteeake the sun, my sonny," and he
went out to pace his quarter-deck, giving
vent to a loud chuckle at intervals of about
five minutes for the next hour at the
recollection of his brilliant jokes.

I called to inquire for your daughter,
who had such a romantic adventure last
night," said Mr. Burlington to Daniel
Trewhella, whom he found smoking a pipe
on his doorstep. '' It was a narrow
escape, was it not ? your comrade is a
brave young fellow, there is no question
about that."

There edn a breeder on the north

coast," said Daniel, '' and lie's as good
as lie's brave. Come inside, sir. The
mistress and Jenifei^ are boatli here."

Mr. Burlington obeyed and found himself
face to face with the '' distressed
damsel." He was not prepared to see
such a beautiful young woman, but expected
rather to set his eyes upon a rough
hoyden of the coast, and seemed unable,
therefore, to find anything to say for some
moments.

*' Ah, how do you do, Mrs. Daniel ?^*
said he, recovering himself; 'ris this your
daughter whose life was in danger ? "

'' Miss, sir," answered Eebecca.

"Well I must say, Mr. Daniel," said
the antiquary, — '' I am not in the habit of
paying compliments — I must say, although
I am past the age of romance and sentiment,
I should be strongly tempted to risk
my own life to save such an — I will put it

mildly — to save such an extremely interesting
young woman."

Jenifer, who had been uneasy while Mr.
Burlington was making his little speech,
now left the room, her fair face covered
with blushes.

A Very fine girl, a very fine girl," said
the antiquary, not putting it quite so mildly
now that Jenifer was gone.

'have 'ee got over the sail hunt?"
asked Daniel, abruptly changing the
subject.

Well yes, I think I am all right again
now," answered Mr. Burlington, " but I
have come to the conclusion that at my
age it is well to abstain from such perilous
adventures, especially on the sea, Mr.
Daniel. I have brought you this for
your trouble in getting the two seals forme,"
and he handed Daniel three pounds.
'* You can share it as you think fit among:

your companions," and saying this Mr.
Burlington went on Ms way, muttering as
lie went, '' A very fine girl, a very fine
girl."

'' A very rummy old gent," was Daniel's
comment, as the antiquary went up the
street.

It is to be feared that Cupid's shaft
had pierced the heart of Mr. Burlington.
Every day afterwards he found some
errand which brought him to Daniel's
house. Either he wished to consult Daniel,
or to hear some of his nautical and fishing
adventures over their pipes "Whenever
Jenifer appeared, Mr. Burlington would
fix his eyes upon her without uttering a
word ; and when she became conscious of
this scrutiny and left the room, he invariably
muttered, ''A very fine girl, a very
fine girl."

One evening Jenifer had to take a parcel

for Miss Jink to a house about a mile and
a half from St. Enocloc, and on the way
back turned out of her direct road to
look at a beautiful waterfall, known as St.
Conan's Fall.

The approach was up a lovely valley
divided by a sparkling brook, crossed here
and there by rustic bridges, which rippled
and brawled over the pebbles. The sides
of the valley were covered to their summit
with ferns and wild flowers and stunted
trees. The path which led to the fall
was traced, sometimes one side of the
brook, sometimes the other, now over a
miniature mountain, through a gorge of
which the streamlet rushed, now through
the gorge itself, by the side of the cool
water, over dripping moss and plants
which love the dank recess. A deafening
roar indicated the exact situation of the
waterfall. Through an opening worn in

VOL. IT. G

the hard rock the water thundered down
into a basin which it had hollowed out
thirty feet below, and rushing out again
from thence dashed down another twenty
feet, and went roaring through the valley.
No sunlight ever fell on the white sheet
of water, ever falling. A dimly-lighted
chamber of solid rock was the weird
temple in which the three sisters, the
fabled nymphs of St. Conan, poured out
their libations.

Jenifer had turned away from the fall,
and was going down the valley, when at
the first bridge she met Mr. Burlington,
who was on his way to inspect
the ruins of St. Conan' s Chapel, which
were situated just above the waterfall.


"My dear young friend," said Mr.
Burlington, " how do you do ? I intended
to go on to St. Conan's, but it has only

just occurred to me that 1 have an
appointment which will necessitate my
going back at once. Will you permit me
to accompany you clown the valley ? 'Tis
very lovely, is it not ? "

Jenifer would have been glad if Mr.
Burlington had forgotten his engagement
and left her to go home alone, but she
did not quite know how to show him this
without appearing rude, and she therefore
made no audible objection to his
proposal.

''Do you like this valley?" he asked
again.

Very much'* was the reply.

'rit is very romantic," continued Mr.
Burlington; " it inspires one with a sentimental
feeling difficult to describe," and
as he said this he gazed at Jenifer in such
a strange way that she began to think his
mind was slightly unhinged. " You have

Cr 2

noticed that I often call at your house ? "
lie went on.

"Yes," Jenifer answered, "and father
is very pleased to have your company.
I heard him saying so the other evening."

Very kind of him to say so, very
kind indeed, but it is not altogether to
see your estimable parent that I call at
your house — the fact is there is another
attraction."

"Well you are not the first who has
found mother's society agreeable," said
Jenifer, wilfully misunderstanding Mr.
Burlington's obvious meaning.

Your mother is an ornament to her
sex," said he, "but it was of your mother's
daughter that I was speaking. The fact
is, I have admired you ever since I first
saw you."

I am afraid then your visits have not
given you much pleasure, for you have

Lad very little of mj company," said
Jenifer, dangling.

** The times when I saw you were like
angels' visits, few and far between; but
even a glimpse of paradise is better than
nothing at all'*

'' I don't know about that," answered
Jenifer, " it seems to me it would only
tantalize one."

Mr. Burlington cleared his throat two
or three times as if he had a difficulty in
proceeding; at last he said, —

You can't have helped noticing that I
like you."

*' I assure you I never noticed it,"
Jenifer replied.

I more than like you," continued Mr.
Burlington, '^ I feel that I Jove you
dearly."

*' Oh, please sir, you must not talk
like that," exclaimed Jenifer ; " you are a

gentleman and I am only a poor dressmaker
; it isn't right that you should talk
of love to me."

*' But I must talk of it," protested Mr.
Burlington ; " you might as well try to
stop the waterfall as try to stop the expression
of my love for you, it must come
out."

'* Please don't talk like this," said
Jenifer, '' or I shall not go on."

Oh, do listen to me," pleaded the antiquary,
sinking on his knees and seizing
her hand ; " what if I am in a different
social position? I am rich enough to
disregard society, and I can make you a
happy lady if you will accept my love.
Please do listen to me. Perhaps you
might come to love me after we are
married if you don't now."

"Love you!" exclaimed Jenifer, angrily
extricating her hand from his tight

grasp, "never; and I am astonished at
your making yourself ridiculous in this
way. I'll never speak to you again.
Please let me go on alone or I shall turn
back again."

At this juncture a loud peal of laughter
was heard from behind a low hedge to
the left of the path, followed by a volley
of "tab," or pieces of fresh turf. The
"tab" were well aimed, as Mr. Burlington's
garments testified, and the recipient
of these gifts came hastily to the conclusion
that it would not be well to vv^ait
for explanations, and therefore sprang to
his feet and rushed down the valley withall
the speed he could command. Unfortunately
the hedge lay in the same direction,
and the individuals who so ruthlessly
interrupted his love-scene pursued Mr.
Burlington with " tab " so far as the
next bridge.

This was an edifice of the rustic style
of architecture, and the builders had not
troubled to cut off the projecting knots
and ends of the trees. Consequently when
Mr. Burlington crossed the bridge with
pennons flying and banners waving, in
other words, with coat-tails fluttering in
the breeze, the result was somewhat
disastrous, for the right tail caught in a
rough end of a branch and incontinently
parted company with the main body of
the coat, to be picked up as a trophy by
the ribald rustics who threw the aforesaid
" tab ;" and Mr. Burlington reached
St. Enodoc Castle a quarter of an hour
after with a lame story of losing his coat-tail
in making his escape from an infuriated
cow.

CHAPTER y.

HA, HA, THE WOOING O't.

Sigh no more, ladies, sigh no more,

Men were deceivers ever,
One foot in sea and one on shore,

To one thing constant never ;
Then sigh not so, but let them go,

And be you blithe and bonny.

Much Ado about Nothing.

Mes. Teewhella waxed very indignant
when Jenifer arrived Lome and related her
scene with Mr. Burlington by St. Conan's
brook.

'' The old rascal ! to go manakin' love,
as he do call it, to you. Why he's old
enough to be your grandfather, and he do
look older than that — old enough to
be must cousin to Methuselah."

Daniel was not inclined to be so severe
in his judgment.

'she's a foolish old clap," lie said,
"to go courting' a young girl, one that
edn in high life too, but I dont see,
'Becca, that here a committed any crime,
and if I was behind the hedge when they
youngsters pelted un with ' tab,' I should
ha' bin inclined to give um a clip under
the ear. What do you say, Jenny ? "

I say," answered Jenifer, " that he's
a detestable old man. Marry him, indeed,
with his long coat and green spectacles !
I would just as soon marry an old goat."

Mark is back," said Daniel, laughing ;
'' you would sooner marry 'ee, would' 'ee?"
Don't talk like that, father," said
Jenifer, reddening; *' I don't want to marry
Mark or any one else, and I don't think
anybody but that old fright wants to
marry me."

^'Aw, I know better than that," said
Daniel, 'you dont know all the water
that o'oes over the wheel. I know a
young fellow or two who have got his
here upon 'ee, Jenny."

"Be quiet, father," remonstrated Rebecca,
"dont 'ee raise her any more, and
dont 'ee teeake any notice of what father
do say, my dear ; he do like to joke a
a bit sometimes. Where are 'ee going',
Jenny?"

Oh, only out into the garden," answered
she, leaving the room.

I wish you wouldn't raise hier so,"
said Eebecca, "you can see she dont
like it."

Hold tha tongue, 'Becca," was Dan's
answer; "you do know that I awnly
told her what's natural to women ; their
heads es fulled with sweethearts and trade
of that kind all the days of their life."

Rebecca became so indignant at this
libel upon her sex that Daniel was fain
to light his pipe and saunter off towards
the quay.

Jenifer left the house to escape her
father's badinage, but she found things
quite as unpleasant in the garden, for over
the hedge was her whilom lover, Mark,
enjoying the cool summer air as he
smoked his cigar. The meeting was
somewhat an awkward one. Both were
conscious that their relation to each other
had changed since the evening when Mark
in the boat had made love to Jenifer.

*^I was coming in soon to see you," said
Mark ; " are you very well ? "

Yes, I am very well," was Jenifer's
answer ; '' father told me he had seen you*
How long does your holiday last ? "

A fortnight," he replied, " but I'm
not sure that I shall stay in St. Enodoc

i

all the time ; it is too slow for me after
Bristol."

'' You used to be very contented here,"
Jenifer said, " but Bristol I suppose has
changed your tastes. I notice that you
don't care enough for your poor friends to
come to see them as you used."

Oh, that's nonsense," replied Mark,
'* it has nothing to do with my being at
Bristol. But it strikes me that you have
changed as well as I, now you have got
your new lover."

^'ISTew lover?" said Jenifer, her face
flushing scarlet; ''do you mean Mr. Burlington?
Have you heard that foolish
story already ? I couldn't help it if he
forced himself upon me."

''Mr. Burlington? Is he here again?
No, I don't mean him. Has that old guy
been making love to you ? "

He made himself very ridiculous," answered

Jenifer ; " but if sou don't mean
him, what do sou mean by my new
lover?"

I mean that Goliath of a young fisherman
who is so sweet upon you."

If you mean Arthur Treleaven, he has
never breathed a word to me that all St.
Enodoc oughtn't hear."

There are other ways of making love
beside talking. Esther Mansellll told me a
good while ago that it was the common
report of the town that you were engaged,
or next door to it."

You seem to place great reliance on
Esther Mansellll's reports," said Jenifer;
"you used not to be so very fond of
Esther."

Fond of Esther ! I don't know that
I am particularly fond of her."

You must be to write to her and take
all her malicious speeches for gospel. The

night before you went away you took
great trouble to keep her from going with
us. Your feelings must have changed a
good deal since then."

If you had done what I wanted then —
become engaged — perhaps things would
have been different now."

I am very glad that we didn't become
engaged then ; it would have been much
worse if, after that, you had found out
that you liked Esther better."

'' Esther be hanged," said Mark angrily.
'' I daresay you care for that fishing
fellow, Treleaven, quite as much as I care
for Esther Mansellll."

''My father is a fishing fellow," said Heifer,
" and as you have so much contempt
for fishermen I daresay you look down
upon a fisherman's daughter, so we needn't
prolong the conversation," and so saying
she left the garden.

As soon as the door closed upon Jenifer,
Mark was astonished to hear a mocking
voice behind him saying, —

' Esther be hanged ! ' Oh ! yes, by all
means. ' Esther be hanged ! ' was ' my
dear Esther' only the other day. And
pray why must she be hanged ! "

It was Esther herself who had come unobserved
into the garden, and had overheard
Mark's incautious and uncivil
speech.

I suppose," she continued, '^ you have
decided to hang Esther since you came
back to see your old flame, Jenifer Tree


"Jenifer Trewhella be hanged," said
Mark, for want of something better to
say.

'* Oh, by all means, hang Jenifer Tree
You are wonderfully fond of capital
punishment this evening. You had better

apply for the post of public hangman, I
think ; your father could make the ropes
for you, you know."

But listen to reason, Esther."

'' I'm not going to listen to reason at all,
and I won't be hanged one minute and
feared the next. I suppose you heard that
father had lost the lawsuit, and that cooled
your affections."

i've heard nothing about it," said
Mark, " and I didn't mean what I said
just now. I was goaded into saying it by
Jenifer Trewhella."

Oh, I daresay, and you didn't mean
what you said in your letters, and you
didn't mean what you said last night.
Why in the world don't you say what you
do mean?"

'' Confound you," said Mark, losing his
temper ; " I wish you and Jenifer Trewhella
and every other woman in St. Enodoc were

VOL. IT. flat

the bottom of the sea. You are the
most unreasonable set I ever met in my
life."

What an extremely amiable person you
are," said Esther tauntingly. " If I want
to be hanged listen again to what you
say, but not else. Good-night, Mr. Ketch
the hangman, good-night."

CHAPTER VI.

THE Great SHOAL.

Fish that through the wet

Sea-paths in shoals do slide, and know

No dearth.

Milton.

It was early October, and the trees around
St. Enodoc were putting on their winter
garments, making a lovely background of
brown and red and green. The sea was
calm — a sea of glass — and the town quiet
as if a deep sleep had fallen upon the
dwellers therein. The sailors and fishermen
who were generally pacing the quay,
making believe that they were on a ship's
deck, were leaning in easy attitudes against
the quay wall, and on piles of timber lying
H 2

about, and across the shattered ribs of two
or three old boats whose voyages were
ended. The only signs of life were thin
columns of smoke sent up from the black
pipes of the aforesaid mariners, as if to
show that only fresh fuel was needed to
cause their wonted fires to burst into flame.
Suddenly a fisherman whose face was set
in the direction of Pencalenick Point, a
promontory jutting out on one side of the
harbour's mouth, cried out at the top of
his voice, —

Hevva ! hevva ! "

Every man, as if electrified, was instantly
in motion. A "huer," or watcher, had
been set on Pencalenick Point to give
warning to the fishermen when shoals of
pilchards were on the coast. Sweeping
the sea with his glass, he had observed the
deep red colour a couple of miles to the
eastward which marked the presence of



fish, and had given the appointed signal
by waving a large bush towards the
east.

Hevva ! hevva ! " resounded from all
sides, the boys and the woiuen taking up
the cry, and St. Enodoc, lately so drowsy,
was wide awake again.

A rush was instantly made for the boats
by those already on the quay, and those
who were not so fortunate emerged from
their houses in all kinds of dress and undress,
coates, hatless, or what not. It
was no time to stand upon ceremony, for
the winter's bread, to say nothing of the
butter, might be lost by a quarter of an
hour's delay.

*' Hevva! hevva! "

On they rushed and scrambled ; elderly
fathers of families as active as boys, and
boys as agile as monkeys, swung themselves
in the boats by the aid of ropes,

rushed into the water up to their waists,
swarmed over the gunwales like ants over
a crust. In a few minutes the uproar subsided,
and the boats were rowed by the
willing hands of practised rowers towards
the fishing-ground, a mile or more away.
Into words were spoken on the way, for
there was no breath to spare for idle talk.
Every man and boy bent to his oar as if
the success of the expedition depended on
him alone.

There were two seines, each consisting
of three boats : the seine-boat containing
the great net used to enclose the fish, with
a crew of seven ; the " collier," or follower,
carrying a smaller net to take up the fish
from the seine proper after they were once
enclosed, also with a crew of seven ; and
the 'lurked," a small boat bearing the
master seiner and a man and two boys as
his crew. The two haire boats were about

forty feet long, the " lurker " twenty-one
feet.

Arthur Treleaven was one of the first onboard
his boat, and Daniel Trewbella was
not far behind him. Daniel was second
in command of his seine, the Nelson, by
virtue of his occupying the responsible
position of " seine-shooter," and he had
Arthur as his lieutenant. Daniel's business
in case of a " shoot " was to throw
out the "head ropes," that is, the side
of the net on which the corks were
fixed, while Arthur shot the "foot," or
leaded ropes, on the opposite side of the
net.

Well done, lads ! " said Daniel encouragingly
to his crew, as he steered the
seine-boat ; " well done ! we shall be out
before the Diligence now. Not too short
a stroke, me sons — think you're in regatta,
or better than that, think of the sixpenny

loaves and roast beef there is in front of 'ee.
Touch her up, bow oar, a bit."

Touch her up " they did, and they
succeeded in reaching the fishing-ground
first, and immediately dropped anchor and
passed a rope to the " collier," thus ensuring
their right to shoot first if pilchards
appeared. The men were out of breath by
this time, and were not sorry to rest and
look about them, but their repose was of
short duration. Two or three pilchards
jumped out of the water a little distance
from them, and at once every man was on
the alert The tarpaulin which covered
the seine was removed and everything
made ready. In a minute or two a rattling
sound in the water and thousands of fins
showing above the surface told of the
presence of a large body of pilchards.

*' Shut away ! " shouted the master-seine,
-and Daniel and Arthur bent to

their work, while the crew rowed the boat
in a great circle, so as to enclose the
fish.

In about five minutes the great net,
measuring about 180 fathoms in length,
and thirteen in breadth, and weighing
between two and three tons, was cast
overboard. The two ends were then
fastened together so as to prevent any-chance
of escape, and the nets gradually,
by means of capstans in the two large
boats, pulled into comparatively shallow
water and securely moored. Plenty of
room was given for the fish to swim about
in, for the enclosed space measured half
an acre or more.

Next morning the process called "tucking
" beo:an. The smaller net was shot
inside the other so as to enclose as many
pilchards as could be conveniently disposed
of — about thirty hogsheads, or 100,000

fishes — and drawn in until the pilchards
remained in the middle and baggy part of
the seine. Then the fishermen, sitting on
the gunwales of the boats, with one foot
over the side and in the water, dipped up
their prey in wicker baskets, until the
boats held as much as they could safely
carry to shore. Daniel and Arthur and
their friends were too intent upon saving
the fish to think of the interest of the
scene, but a disinterested observer could
not help being struck with the novelty and
beauty. The bag of the net when held
between the two boats contained a boiling,
bubbling mass of struggling pilchards,
which leaped and writhed in their efforts
to escape, until the very sea seemed to
quiver, while the bright sides of the fish
glistened in the sunlight until their scales
looked like molten silver. Numerous boats
filled with spectators gave additional

animation to the scene, wliicli was still
further enlivened by the cheering of the
fishermen as they poured the baskets-ful
of fish into the large barge-like
boats.

For a week the Nelson seine remained
in the water, showing every day a smaller
number of protruding fins, as the fishermen
took them on shore to sell fresh or
to place in salt for exportation to the
Mediterranean.

When the following Saturday night
came, a grand '*' sharing " was held of the
money realized by the sale of fresh fish.
The owners of the boats and nets took
half of the receipts, and the remainder was
divided among the fishermen. Arthur had
the proud pleasure of taking twenty pounds
to his mother as the result of the week's
work, while he announced that another
twenty pounds would probably be realized

hy the sale of the salted fish in a few-weeks'
time.

Mrs. Treleaven was ill able to express
much gratification at this fortunate result
of her son's labour. She was greatly
troubled about Uncle Anthony. The old
man, who had been ailing for several days,
had gone to bed early, complaining that
nothing would give him heat.

'come up and see him," said Mrs.
Treleaven to her son.

Arthur obeyed, and found his uncle lying
on his back with his hands crossed over
his breast. At first he feared he was
dead, but the sick man opened his eyes
when Arthur spoke to him.

'' What's the matter, uncle ? "

"I'm nearly in port," he answered in a
feeble voice; " the old craft '11 never put
to sea again, my son. Nearly in port,
nearly in port. The harbour lights are in

sight from the mast-head, and soon they'll
be seen from the deck. Nearly in port,
nearly in port."

Do yon think 'tis so bad as that ? "
asked Arthur anxiously.

"I ceeant stop when I'm sent for," was the
answer ; 'sand 1 want to go, miss, I want to go.
I can see a white hand reckonings me.
Jane, Arthur, my dears, I'm going home."

For some time there was silence in the
room. Arthur's face was buried in his
hands and he o-ave no outward sin of
grief, but the words of Uncle Anthony had
cut him to the heart, for he had learnt
to love the old man with a tender love.
Uncle Anthony was so utterly unselfish
and so good and pure, that it was difficult
not to love him. He never seemed to
think of himself, but for others he was
always thinking and doing. He had made
the new home Mrs. Treleaven and her son

came to a very liappj one, and therefore,
although his age did not warrant them in
expecting a longer term of life, the blow
was a hard one.

For an hour silence reigned in the room,
then Uncle Anthony spoke again, —

Jane, everything I lave behind is yours,
except my watch — 'tes an old one, but he
do keep good time — he's for Arthur.
When you're wearing that watch think of
Uncle Anthony sometimes, my son; he
was very fond of you. And dont forget
mother, Arthur; teeake cesare of her and
respect her, for she's been a good mother
to you. Put something more on my feet,
Jane, I'm very could."

Arthur was sobbing aloud now, strong
young man as he was, and he could only
answer, —

I shall never forget you, uncle, and I'll
take care of mother."

The old man patted Arthur on the head
as he bent over the bed, and then crossed
his hands as before. All through the
night mother and son watched, expecting
that every hour would be the last. Now
and again the old man would faintly
murmur, '' nearly in port, nearly in port,"
but that was all.

As the day began to break, the sick
man opened his eyes, and said in a strong
voice, —

The pilot is standing on the forecastle,
and his feeace is like the feeace of a
angel. I can see the town, and all the
houses are shining like gold. Hark ! the
pilot is speaking. ' Let go the anchor, let
go the anchor.' Down, down it goes, it
has touched the bottom. Home, home at
last'* and the gentle soul of Uncle Anthony
passed away.

Chapter Iii.

BTLLINC4 AND COOING.

Lh^e with me, and be my love,
And we will all the pleasures prove
That hills and valleys, dales and fields,
And all the craggy mountains yields.

Shakespeare.

When the funeral was over and paid for, it
was found that Uncle Anthony had left his
relations the sum of a hundred and five
pounds, eight shillings, and ninepence,
besides the furniture, which was'old and of
no great value. To this sum Arthur added
twenty pounds from the money earned
through his fishing, and became the proud
joint possessor of a hundred and five
pounds, and shillings and pence as aforesaid,
invested in the bank at St. Cyrus.

"We are quite rich, mother, ain't we ? '*
he said.

Yes," replied the widow, " God is very
good to us. We must let the money remain
in the bank if we can. You'll want some
of it, perhaps, to furnish a house. 'Isn't
likely that you'll stay with mother all your
days, or natural ^ her for that matter.
We shall have to pay rent for the house
now Uncle Anthony is gone, and it is
hardly the place to bring a young bride
to."

Why, mother," said Arthur, laughing,
'* we need not look forward quite so far
as that, I've no bride to bring home, — I
haven't even got a sweetheart."

No, perhaps not," said Mrs. Treleaven,
but my eyes are not so old but that they
can see which way you are looking. I am
very glad, my dear, she is a good girl, and
will make a good wife."

VOL. II. I

'who are you talking about?" asked
Arthur with an innocent air.

"Talking about? Why, Jenifer Tree
of course," answered his mother ;
"anybody can see that you have fixed
upon her."

But what if she hasn't fixed upon
me ? "

She wouldn't be so foolish as to say
no ' to you. I heard her father say a little
while ago that there is not a better fisherman
in St. Enodoc than you."

She may fancy some one who is a little
grander than a fisherman," said Arthur,
'* that young Run die for instance. I hear
there was once some sort of an engagement
between them."

He is no great catch for a girl, with his
curly hair and conceited swagger. Anybody
would think that all St. Enodoc
belonged to him to see him walk down

the street, and his father is only a rope-maker."


*' But the Bundles are far better off than
we," said Arthur.

"What if they are? " was the answer;
girls don't value young men by pounds,
shillings, and pence. I can't think any
young woman would prefer Eundle to you
I'm sure I should detest him."

Arthur was not so sure that Jenifer
would reject Mark and choose him. He
felt that his mother, with her natural
partiality for her son, was hardly a standard
by which he could gauge Jenifer's feelings.

From October, the month in which the
great shoal was caught, Arthur sought
opportunity to make known his love to
Jenifer, but with no great success. As a
rule he only saw her on week evenings,
when her father and mother were present,
and sometimes perhaps on Sundays, and
I 2

despite the little attentions wliicli lie tried
to slow her, lie felt that matters were not
progressing. For some reason Jenifer
seemed to avoid his company. Soon after
Christmas his chance came. A party was
given by some friends of the Trewhella's
who lived in a hamlet about two miles from
St. Enodoc, and Mrs. Treleaven and Arthur
were among the invited guests. When
supper was over, and the party had
wrapped themselves in their coats and
shawls for the return journey, the older
people went on together, and Arthur
attached himself to Jenifer. They walked
on for some distance in the moonlight
in complete silence. At last Arthur
said, —

'* I have wanted to speak to you for a
long time, Jenifer."

"Why didn't you then?" said she,
*' you have seen me nearly every day."

** Yes, but only when other people were
present ; I wanted to see you alone'*

Jenifer made no answer, for she divined
what was coming, and again they went on
without speaking. Presently Arthur said, —

Take my arm, Jenifer, you must begetting
tired."

Iso, thank you," she replied, " I am
not a bit tired yet'*

You must know my feelings toward
you' said he desperately, '' you must have
seen that I love the very ground you walk
upon, and that I was ready to lay down
my life to save yours. Why do you keep
me at such a distance, Jenny, as if my
presence was hateful to you ? "

You oughtn't to say that," said she
gently ; ''I shall never forget that you
saved my life and nearly lost your own
in doing it. You can never be hateful tome."


Yes, but I want something more than
that," he said ; "it isn't gratitude I want,
but love. Can't you give me that,
Jenny ?"

I don't know," she said hesitatingly ;
I like you very much, of course, but — "

'' But what, Jenny ? "

Well, I don't know if I can give you
the love you want. I like you very much,
you know, but — "

Do you care more for anybody else ? "
asked Arthur suspiciously.

No, it isn't that exactly."

Wasn't there a sort of engagement
between you and Mark Rundle ? "

No, not an engagement," replied Jenifer.

Well, an understanding, then?"

Perhaps it might be called that. We
promised one another that if our feelings
were the same in a year's time, we would
become engaged."

"Well?"

*^ But lie wrote me only one or two
letters, and then he began to write to
Esther Mansellll, but when he was home in
June he wanted to make it up again'*

And did you make it up ? " asked
Arthur anxiously.

No, for he said something I didn't like
about * fishing fellows,' and I told him
that my father was a ' fishing fellow,' and
that if he despised a fisherman he would
probably look down upon a fisherman's
daughter, and so we parted."

Then that's an end of it, isn't it, so far
as he is concerned ? " said Arthur.

"I suppose it is," replied Jenifer.

Then won't you listen to me ? " pleaded
he, attempting to take her hand.

I can't yet," she answered.

"Tell me one thing, do you love Mark
Rundle still ? "

"I don't know about loving him, but
we were brought up together, and from
the time we were children used to look
upon one another as different from other
people, and now I — I don't want to say
anything to hurt your feelings, for you
saved my life."

'* Don't say that again," said Arthur
vehemently ; " I did it for Esther Mansellll,
too, and I detest her. Forget that it ever
happened, if you can. What I want to
know plainly, Jenifer, is this, do you love
me?"

Please don't press me for an answer
now," she said as the tears gathered
in her eyes, '' wait a little longer,
Arthur."

That's what you said to Rundle," he
returned, '' and things went worse instead
of better. It may be so in my case, and I
can't go on as I have been going lately. I

can't settle down to anything. Why don't
you put an end to my misery, Jenny? "

*' I can't," she said, " I can't ; please
don't ask me any more."

AYill you fix a time when you will
tell me yes or no ? " he asked. " Say in a
month."

"A month is very short," she replied,
'twill only be the beginning of February
then. Suppose wee say six weeks, that will
bring us to St. Valentine's Day. On the
fourteenth of February then, Arthur, I will
say yes or no, but you must promise to say
nothing to me about it in the meanwhile."

Yes, I'll promise that, if you wish it,"
he replied. '* But do you give me any
encouragement ? "

** Arthur, Arthur," she remonstrated,
** you are breaking your agreement already.
I will go as far as this, I'd say yes if 1
possibly can."

Arthur's demonstration of satisfaction
was so outrageously contrary to the agreement
just made that again Jenifer was
compelled to remind him of his promise.
By this time they had reached St. Enodoc,
and had to take leave of one another.

Good-night, Jenny," said Arthur,
pressing her hand. He felt sorely
tempted to press her lips, but restrained
himself by a strong effort. St Valentine's
Day was six weeks in front of him, and
then — yes, what then ?

CHAPTER Viii.

ST. valentine's day.

Now what could artless Jeanie do 1
She had na will to say him na' :
At length she bliish'd a sweet consent,
And love was ay between them twa.

The evening of St. Valentine's Day lead
come, and Jenifer was alone in the house.
She had managed to send her father and
mother to Mrs. Trewhella's, and was now
awaiting her lover. She had been trying
to read, but found it impossible to fix her
thoughts upon the book, and putting it
away she sat thinking. What she was
thinking, who could tell ? Her beautiful
face gave no sign : the answer to the

question lie was waiting for might be yes
or no for all it revealed. Shall we use the
glass wliicli is ours by prescription and
gaze into the depths of her inner consciousness?
Adjust it carefully — steady
now look. The calm exterior, after
all, is no criterion of the workings of
the mind. She had fixed the day herself,
but now she shrank from giving the
final decision, perhaps more from nervousness
than anything else. It is no light
matter to decide by one monosyllable the
course of a lifetime. It is not a thing to
be taken in hand lightly unadvisedly, or
wantonly, for it is a harbinger of joy or
sorrow, nay, it is a sentence of life or of
death. No wonder, therefore, that Heifer's
heart beat faster than usual as she
waited for the momentous question. She
had not long to wait. As soon as Daniel
Trewhella and his wife appeared at Mrs.

Treleaven's, Arthur slipped out, making
some lame excuse about the boat's anchor,
which Daniel saw through but did not
expose.

The door of the room where Jenifer sat
was opened softly and Arthur entered.
His manly face was white with excitement
as he took his seat opposite Jenifer.
What was to be his fate ? He was just
going to put the question whose answer
would put an end to all suspense when
again the door was opened, and Mr. Josiah
walked in.

'' Ah ! my young friends," said he, ashe
scrutinized them closely, " St. Valentine's
Day with you, I suppose, "Well, well,
young people were always so. All the
experience in the world will never teach
them wisdom."

Don't you approve of St. Valentine's
Day, Mr. Josiah?" asked Jenifer, while

Arthur famed in his chair, wishing the
gloomy philosopher anywhere but there.

Approve of St. "Valentine's Day ! " was
the answer; *' no, not I. It is not a
rational institution at all; and if things
can't stand the test of reason, away with
them, say I."

But isn't it rational for people to
choose their partners for life ? " asked
Arthur.

Choose their torments, you should have
said," was Mr. Josiah's sarcastic answer;
** choose their lovers ! ha, ha, ha ! what a
hollow mockery the thing is. Choose misery
and wrangling and squalling children and
poverty and dirt. In my opinion St.
Valentine was a sham, a humbug, a hoary-headed
old sinner whose evil day has been
the ruin of thousands of poor deluded boys
and poor silly maidens," and saying this
Mr. Josiah opened the door and departed.

''"What an old vinegar lie is," said
Arthur when the sound of the footsteps
had died away ; "he would as soon for a
man to be buried as married. If everybody
was like him the world wouldn't be
worth living in, it would be so dismal."

"Oh, he's not so bad as he seems,"
answered Jenifer ; ''he pretends to be
grumpy and displeased with everything,
but he's really one of the kindest old men
you ever saw. Nobody can please me
who speaks unkindly of Mr. Josiah."

Then I'll take care always to call him
an extremely genial old gentleman," said
Arthur, laughing.

After a pause Arthur began again, —

You know what I have come for,
Jenifer. You told me that on St. Valentine's
Day I should have my answer; I
have come for it."

Again the door was opened to Arthur s

deep disgust, as something lie uttered,
wliicli sounded like '' confound it," clearly
testified. It was Mrs. Craddock this
time.

Aw, where' s father and mother ?" asked
she.

Gone to see Mrs. Treleaven," answered
Jenifer.

And you've stayed behind to court a
bit ? " returned Mrs. Craddock.

'' I stayed behind to finish some sewing,"
answered Jenifer with a blush, for the
sewing might have been postponed, and
Mrs. Craddock' s suggested reason was
practically the real one.

Mr. Josiah doesn't approve of courting,"
said Arthur ; " do you, Mrs. Craddock?"


'' What do he know 'bout courting' ? "
returned the old dame ; "all he do know
'bout it es from seen' other people, for I

dont believe he ever went courting' liisselt
in bes life. Now I used to court a bra'
dale in mj young days, before I picked up
with my old man."

Well, what's your opinion about it ? "
asked Arthur.

My opinion," answered Mrs. Craddock,
" es that it's a wisht concern, sure
'enough. 'Tes like to soap buddies ; they
look putty for a minute or two and then
they bust, and there's nothing' left but
froth. When you're married, unless you
have better luck than I had, you'll find 'tes
a dismal job of et. Both av 'we'll want
you're awn way, and when you ceeant git
it you'll be like duties, puliin' different
ways. There'll be plenty of cochin' and
kicking' and pootin' and dragging', but you
weeant git no farder on. You axed for
my opinion and now you've got it. And
now I'll be gone up to Mistress Treleaven's."

VOL. ir. K

'^ Old Oraddock must have a pleasant
time," said Arthur, when the old woman's
back was turned ; " she's enough to turn
the sweetest man in the world sour.
Now, Jenifer, tell me my fate before anybody
else comes. Is it yes or no ? "

''Do you really care for me as much as
you said ? " asked Jenifer.

'' A great deal more," answered he.
'Tve been perfectly miserable for the
last month or so. You know I love you,
Jenifer, but do you care for me ? "

I have already told you that I like
you," she replied.

But I want more than that. You like
lots of people ; Mark Eundle for instance.
I don't want to be liked, but loved."

You needn't be jealous of Mark," she
said; " I tell you plainly I don't love him.
I only like him."

'' Do you love me ? " he asked abruptly.

She answered nothing, but her looks
said as clearly as ever words could that
she was his for better or for worse. In a
moment she was clasped to his breast and
a rain of kisses was falling upon her sweet
lips.

My darling, my darling," he whispered.

She murmured something in answer
which he could not distinguish at first.
She repeated it as she hid her face covered
with burning blushes, '' My love, my love,"
and he knew that his future bride was won.

When did you begin to love me first ? "
he asked after a while as they sat hand in
hand.

I believe I first found it out on the night
when you saved my life," she replied, " but
I was not quite certain of my feelings ;
and beside, I had an idea that Mark had
some sort of claim upon me. You won't
be jealous of Mark will you, Arthur? I
K 2

don't love him, but you," and again lie laid
her face in his bosom.

No, no, I'm quite satisfied," said he,
drawing her closer ; '* you're mine, Jenny,
and all the world shall not part us now.
My love, my love."

Two mothers were made happy that
night.

I want to tell you something, mother,"
whispered Jenifer when Daniel had gone
to bed.

What is it, my dear ? " asked Rebecca.

'''Tis about Arthur, mother," she
whispered again.

Arthur ? " said she ; '' there's nothing
the matter with he, es there ? "

"1^0, nothing the matter," replied
Jenifer, '' but he has asked me and I have
said ' yes.' "

'' Do 'ee mane that you're going'
contain' ? " asked Eebecca.

i

Yes, that is it."

"My clear, I'm very glad," said the
mother; " I thought Mark would ha' bin
the wan, but I would rather marry 'ee to
Arthur than to he or anybody else. He's
the dearest young fellow I know, and
he's so kind and loving to bis mother as
ever a young chap could be. I always
believe in a young man who is kind to
his mother."

There's something else he said, mother.
He asked if it could be soon."

"Ef what could be soon?" inquired
Eebecca.

'why," said Jenifer, hesitating and
blushing, " why, mother, you know."

'' Do 'ee mane married ? "

'' Yes, that was what Arthur meant,"
replied Jenifer.

My goodness me ! I never dreamed
of this. I must shape upon it. Married !

why I should lose most of the sunshine
of the house ef you went. But there I
ceeant expect to keep 'ee always ; and
you wouldn't be gone altogether neither.
But run up to bed now, my dear," and
the affectionate matron gave her adopted
daughter a long, loving embrace.

^' Mother 'tis over and done," said
Arthur on his return home ; "I had my
answer from Jenny to-night, and the
answer is, 'yes.' "

"God bless her," said the mother;
"she'll make you a good wife, Arthur.
She is a good girl if ever there was one.
Poor old Martha Peters told me yesterday
that Jenifer had been to see her and had
spoken such beautiful words to her ; the
old woman couldn't help crying as she
told me about it. ' She's a dear maid,'
Martha said, * a dear maid.' You ain't
very old either of you," continued Mrs.

Treleaven, ** but it's all the better for that
in my opinion. I don't believe in late
marriages. It may be a struggle sometimes
to make both, ends meet and to find
bread for a family, but that's better than
what often comes of putting off marriage.
If I had forty sons I would never hinder
one from marrying, so long as he could
earn bread to eat and raiment to put on."

CHAPTER IX.

BUILDING THE NEST.

Men's love and birds' love,

And women's love and men's !
And you my wren with a crown of gold,

Yon my queen of the wrens !
You the queen of the wrens —

We'll be birds of a feather,
I'll be king of the queen of the wrens,

And all in a nest together.

Tennyson.

■^D^

On the following day Mrs. Trewhella
and Mrs. Treleaven lead a long consultation
over a cup of tea as to the future of their
children. Daniel and Arthur were out in
their boat and Jenifer was with Miss
Jink, so that the could freely unburden
their minds. There was a third lady

present, but as she usually sided with the
last speaker her opinion was not held in
high estimation.

They would like to be married soon,"
said Mrs. Treleaven.

'' Yes, married soon, bless 'em," chimed
in Mrs. Sims.

And a good thing too for them to
many early," continued Mrs. Treleaven.

'' Yes, yes," said Mrs. Sims, '' the sooner
'tis over the better."

The sooner what is over the better? "
inquired Mrs. Trewhella severely. "Anybody
would think they was going' to be
hanged, Kezia, to hear you."

'' Aw no, the dears," said Mrs. Sims ;
but my old man used to say, ' marrying
is like ho ss-jockeying — sometimes you get
something T\'orth the money, and sometimes
'tis dear in a gift.' "

As I was going' to say," remarked

Mrs. Trewhella, disregarding Kezia's explanation,
'' what we've got to do es to
put things fifty for them, they'll forget
half the furniture else. People in love
ceeant pay much attention to crocks and
pans."

Crocks and pans ain't much good to
em, for love do teak away their appetites,"
said Mrs. Sims.

'' Hould tha tongue, Kezia,'^ said her
sister ; " they must have something' to ait
ef they are in love. Ded you live upon
hair when you was married ? "

'' Iso, my dear, but then you know Tom
was a very eccentric kind of a man. He
had a wisht end frail, poor fellow."

"How did he die?" inquired Mrs.
Treleaven.

'' Dean 'ee ever hear about un ? " asked
Mrs. Sims. '' 'Twas like this here. He
was a passel older than me, and after his

must wife died lie used to measure out the
milk that he sold instead of she, and I
used to go for milk every day — a farther
a day and a haporth a Saturday night, so
as to have a drap enter on Sundays.
And wan day he says to me, ' Kezia, I
want a wife.' Says I, ' Do 'ee ? ' ^ Miss,'
says he. ' Why dont 'ee git wan then ? '
says I. ' I'm going' to,' says he. ' Who
is it to be ? '-says I. ' You,' says he.
Aw, my dear,' says I, laughing, ' how do
'ee know I shallsay ' miss ' ? ' ' Weeant 'ee ? '
says he. ' No,' says I, and so we hearted.
But he pestered me so every day when I
went for the milk that at last I said ' miss,'
and so we got married. Well, a wisht
marry in' it was, for he was a rashly
old man, and so near, you
ceeant think. He won willing' for me to
have anything for tay but bread and
scrape, and as for current ceeake, aw, my

dear ! no such suspensive thing as that
for he, he said. Well, after we'd been
married about six weeks the passion corned
home of a sudden and the gentleman who
had been coin' the work for un for two
months or so — 'twas t'other side of Bodmin
we lived then — went away. Next morning
after breakfast the passion comet to ou
house and I dusted the arm-cheer and put
un to set in un. ' Well, Tom; well, Kezia,'
says he. ' Well, sir,' says we. And then
he coughed a bit and then he says, ' I've
got a unpleasant thing to tell 'ee. I've
found out that that gentleman who married
you wasn't no passion at all, though he
pretended to be, and I want 'ee to be
married over again.' ' Married over
again ? ' says Tom, ' what for, sir ? Dance
is enough, edn it ? ' ' Well,' says the
passion, coughing' again, ' your marriage
wasn't a right marriage.' ' What's the

matter wetli im ? ' asked Tom. ' 'Whj the
fact es says the passim, 'you ain't
married at all.' ' What ? ' said Tom, ' not
married at all? Ain't I married to
Kezia ? ' ^ No,' says the jason. ' Well
then,' says Tom, ' I never will be,' and do
T\diat the passion could he couldn't meeake
Tom be married over again. He meade
me go home again, and my people was
seen' what could be done when word was
brought that he was going to bed drunk
and failed over stairs and broke his
neck. So that was the end of he."

*' The first thing to settle upon es the
house," resumed Mrs. Trewhella, who had
manifested signs of impatience during the
recital of Kezia' s melancholy love-story.
Now there's that house in the Broad
Street that Master Bilkey comet out
of."

'damp," murmured Kezia.

'' And there's another just above you'*

Smoky," insinuated Mrs. Sims.

'' And there's a cottage on the hill that's
just going to be empty."

"Draughty," remarked Mrs. Sims.

'' But the best of all es a little house
overlooking' the churchyard, belonging' to
Master Treleigh."

Ghosts," whispered the relic of the
late lamented milkman.

'' I'm sure he'd as soon let it to Arthur
and Jenifer as to anybody."

'' Do you mean the little house with the
green gate and garden in front?" asked
Mrs. Treleaven.

"Miss," answered Rebecca.

It certainly looks very nice from the
road," said Mrs. Treleaven ; " and as for
looking out upon the churchyard, I don't
think they need mind that ; the trees and
shrubs make it one of the prettiest places

in the torn. Shall we go tomorrow morning
and look at the house ? "

Mrs. Trewhella and the two passed on to
the subject of the furniture. Every thing
should be new and good they decided, and the
cost should be defrayed by a portion of the
money the Treieavens had in the bank, supplemented
by a grant from Mrs. Trewhella.

On the following day the key of the
house was procured from Mr. Treleigh's
steward, and the three ladies spied it out
from Dan even to Beersheba, from the
green gate to the water-barrel and ash-pit
in the back yard. Everything was pronounced
satisfactory by the prospective
mothers-in-law, and Mrs. Sims only ventured
to suggest that the young couple
would not be able to sleep at night for
the ringing of the bells. Mrs. Trewhella,
however promptly overturned this objection
by remarking severely that she was not

aware that the ringers usually stayed up
all night to ring. They wanted to sleep
as well as other people.

The steward was waited upon and the
rent ascertained, and it only remained to
obtain the approbation of the high contracting
parties. But the critical bump is
not usually well developed in young lovers,
and therefore no objection to the house
was offered on their part. It would just
suit them they thought. The house was
accordingly taken and the furnishing went
on merrily. It was arranged with the
people who supplied the goods that they
should be paid when the work was completed,
for by that time the month's notice
of withdrawal which was given at the bank
would have expired.

Mrs. Dunstable, hearing of the approaching
marriage, dropped in to see Mrs. Tree
one morning.

I hear that Jenifer is about to set up
housekeeping, Rebecca ; is it true ? "

Miss, ma'am, 'tes true," was the answer ;
*' we're gittin' the house ready. 'Tes the
Httle cottage overlooking' the churchyard."

'' And young Treleaven is to be the
bridegroom. Is that so ? I thought it
was understood that Mark Eundle would
be your son-in-law."

Well, so it was, ma'am," explained
Eebecca, " but after he went to Bristol he
got more grander and dean treat Jenny
very well ; and then Arthur comet along,
and the bargain was meade up."

*' I should have liked her to have
Eundle, who you know is a favourite of
mine, but of course it is she who must
decide that matter. I suppose there is no
doubt but that it is a love-match — I mean
she has not accepted Treleaven because
she was annoyed at Mark's coldness ? "

VOL. II. h

'' Aw, no," answered Eebecca ; '* ef they
ain't in love wetli wan another then my
eyes ain't fellahs."

"Then that's all right," said Mrs. Dunstable,
'' and I hope their wedded life will
be as happy as yours has been, Rebecca.
I wish, if you have no objection, to give
Jenifer her wedding dress. I gave the
robe for her christening, you remember, not
much short of twenty years ago — dear me,
how the time has flown. She can decide
upon the colour of the silk herself. If you
will send her up to me the day after tomorrow,
I will have some patterns ready."

I'm sure, ma'am," said Rebecca, 'she'll
be delighted, and it's very kind of you to
think of doing it. She'll then you herself
when she do come up."

When is it to be ? " inquired Mrs.
Dunstable."

*' In about three weeks' time," Rebecca

replied ; " the banns es a going' to be put in
on Saturday night."

On the next day but one Jenifer went
up to the Castle, according to Mrs. Dunstable's
request, and after a long discussion
of colours and shades and what
complexions they matched, a silk was
chosen of a beautiful pale blue which
agreed well with Jenifer s fair features.

Mr. Treleigh, although nearly ninety
years of age, still retained his faculties
with the exception of his eyesight, which
had departed ten years or more. Hearing
from his sister of the approaching marriage
he expressed his intention of making
the young couple some useful present.

"What shall I give, Marian?" he
asked. "Would some books be of service?
Young people are apt to forget the furniture
of the mind when they are preparing to
begin housekeeping."
L 2

I saw the young man's mother yesterday,"
answered Mrs. Dunstable, " and she
told me that he is a great reader, and
showed me a copy of Milton which he won
as a prize at school, at — where was it
they came from? — Pendruthan."

But does he read Milton ? " inquired
Mr. Treleigh.

His mother tells me that he reads and
re-reads it. Rather an odd book, though,
in my opinion, for a young fisherman to
take a fancy to. I should have thought
story-books would have been more in his
line."

*' If he has a taste for poetry," said Mr
Treleigh, "it is worth cultivating. I'll
tell you what I will do, Marian, I'll present
him with a complete collection of the
leading English poets ; it will be something
to last his lifetime, and be always a
pleasure to him."

Mrs. Dunstable had a strong opinion
that a washing-tray or something of that
kind would prove more useful, but she
kept her views to herself out of deference
to her venerable brother.

On the following Friday the " banes
were put in," as Mrs. Sims phrased it, and
when Sunday came Arthur and Jenifer
were to be *' asked " in church for the first
time.

CHAPTER X.

THE BANK BREAKS.

I must be patient, till the heavens look
With an aspect more favourable.

The Winter's Tale,

Notice is hereby given that the business
of this bank is temporarily suspended."

Such was the ominous intimation which
hung on the door of the St. Cyrus Bank
on the morning after the banns were '' put
in'' It meant that business firms which
had been tottering for some time would
now come down with a great crash. It
meant that thrifty working people who
had digged and delved to lay by a little
store for old age had lost the greater part

of the savings of a lifetime. It meant
the snatching away of the slender pittance
of the widow and the provision for the
orphan. It meant the ruin of many a
castle in the air and a rude awakening
from many a ]Pleasant dream.

For a day or two vague rumours had
been flying about, and the knowing ones
had been nudging one another, and shrugging
their shoulders, and securing themselves
as much as possible from the coming
avalanche.

But Arthur and Daniel were not knowing
ones, and attended therefore to their
nets and boats without thought or fear of
the trouble in store for them. About noon
on Saturday as Arthur was going home to
his dinner he met Mr. Josiah, who stopped
and said, —

Have you heard the news ? "

'' 'No ; I have heard nothing'* Arthur

replied ; " I have just come from setting
the crab-pots. Is anything the matter ? "

'' You've got some money in the St.
Cyrus Bank, have you not ? "

'' Yes, we have the money there Uncle
Anthony left us, and a little of our own
beside."

Well," said Mr. Josiah, " it is rumoured
about the town that the bank has stopped
payment."

Stopped payment ! " said Arthur,
aghast ; " why I was going over on Monday
to take some out. I gave a month's
notice which expires to-day ; they'll let me
have that, won't they ? "

** I am afraid not, but you had better
go over at once and see if anything can be
done."

Arthur rushed in on his way home
and told the Trewhellas of the probable
disaster which had come upon them, for

they too had a little money, the result of
much hard work and self-denial, stored up
against the time of old age. Daniel proposed
that he and Arthur should start off
as soon as they had made themselves a
bit tidy, and this was agreed to.

Mrs. Treleayen seemed benumbed with
astonishment when Arthur told her of the
report, and for some time simply sat staring
into the fire. At last she said, —

It may not be true, Arthur. St.
Enodoc tongues are fond of wagging, and
if there is nothing true for them to talk
about they invent something. If it is
true, how is the furniture to be paid
for?"

*' I never thought of that," said Arthur,
thunderstruck; 'why we can't have the
furniture if we've no money to pay for it.
Whatever shall we do ? "

You had better see how matters are at

St. Cyrus before you decide upon anything,"
suggested Mrs. Treleaven.

This seemed sound sense, and Arthur
hastily prepared for the journey, so that
he might not keep Daniel waiting. Within
half an hour the two were trudging along
the road.

This is a putty bu-sines," said Daniel;
whoever would ha' thought that bank
would seat ? Most people considered he
speaker than the Bank of England, and
now, ef all accounts es true, he's gone like
a snuff 01 a candle. I wish now I had
done like my old feather and seemed
up my money in an old stocking' ; not
but what you might lose it then, for old
Barny Martin he put a stocking' with some
gold up in the thatch of the roof, and
could never find un no more. So you may
sometimes meeake a misspent ef you put
your money into a stocking."

Arthur was in no mood for conversation
and made no answer to Daniel's dissertation
on methods of investment. When
the pair reached St. Cyrus they found
that the report they had heard was correct,
and that, instead of receiving their money,
they had only the consolation of reading
the notice on the door informing the
depositors that the business of the bank
was suspended.

'* Let us go to the side-door, and speak
to the manager," suggested Arthur.

Certainly," assented Daniel, " and ef
he ceeant explain matters in a decent
manner, I shall turn oogly. Here a had
our money, and so it must be in the bank
now — money ceeant run away."

A loud knock at the side door brought
out a servant maid.

''I want to see Mr. Philp," said
Arthur.

'* You can't see him to-daj," was the
reply.

Ceeant see un ? " exclaimed Daniel,
indignantly; '' why we comet over from
St. Enodoc a purpose to see un."

But he's engaged," said the maid.

You plaise to tell un we're here," persisted
Daniel ; " say 'tes Daniel Trewhella
and Arthur Treleaven. He'll know, 'cause
here a got our money."

"Lots of people have been here with
the same story, but he hasn't seen any of
them," said the maid, and she shut the
door in their faces.

*' I tell 'ee what 'tes, Arthur," said
Daniel, " I'm go in' to see Mr. Philp ef I
stay here a week, so here goes," and he
gave a series of terrific knocks which
would have sufficed to arouse the Seven
Sleepers. No one appeared, and another
peal, longer and, if possible, louder than

the other, was given. This brought out
the maid in a great passion.

What are you knocking the door in
that way for ? " she asked, '^ do you think
we are deaf ? "

None so dees as they who weeant
hear," answered Daniel. " You tell
Master Philp that we want to see
un."

But he doesn't want to see you," she
replied ; " you must go away, or I shall
ask him to send for a policeman," and she
tried to shut the door again.

But Daniel was too quick for her, and
placing his foot in the way, he effectually
prevented the door from being closed.
After a few unavailing straggles the maid
came to the conclusion that the only way
to get rid of her unwelcome visitor was to
call Mr. Philp.

Bring them in," said that gentleman

when the maid had explained how matters
stood, *'I don't want a crowd round the
door."

Daniel and Arthur accordingly were
ushered into the private room of the
manager, and told to explain their business.


"We've come to see about our money,"
said Daniel. " We put it in, and we want
to know what you've a done with it."

The fact is," said the manager, " business
has been in a depressed state for sometime,
and investments have not answered
our expectations, and lately we have suffered
some heavy losses which make it
impossible at present — at present, I say —
to pay everybody in full."

"But you don't mane to say you've
been speculation' with the money we put
into the bank," exclaimed Daniel wrathfully.


Of course," said Mr. Philp, " we traded
with it. You don't suppose we keep it in
the bank always, do you ? "

^'Ef you dean you ought to," said
Daniel. 'what business had you to speculate
with my money ? 'Tes a rubbery,
that's what it es."

Hush, hush, getting into a passion
won't mend matters," said the manager.

Ef you had been sleeavin' for thirty
years to seeave up a bit of money, and
then had it took away from 'ee, you'd git
into a passion too," said Daniel. '' "What
I want to know es this, es there 'enough
in the bank to pay our money back ? "

There is more than enough to pay
your trifling deposits," said Mr. Philp,
"but I have no right to pay you at
the expense of other and larger depositors."


I tell ee what it es," said Daniel, " ef

you dont give back the money to dance,
I shall knock 'ee down, and that's the long
and short of the matter."

The manager rang a bell, and the servant
appeared.

Send for a policeman," he said.

Arthur, who had been silent up to this
point, now interposed.

There is no occasion for that," he said.
Then in a whisper to Daniel, " Knocking
him down won't do any good. The fact
is, sir," he continued, turning to Mr. Philp,
'' we want to know why we can't have our
money that we put into the bank. The
notice on mine expires to-day, can't we
have that ? "

"No, young man," replied Mr. Philp,
"you can't. The liabilities are greater
than the assets, that is to say, there is
more owing than we have money to pay
and everybody must be dealt fairly with.

everybody must have his share and no
more. I can give you nothing to-day."

"But I will have it ef I'm sent to prison
for it' exclaimed Daniel.

'' I should probably be sent to prison if
I paid you," said Mr. Philp. " You must
wait until matters are arranged and the
affairs wound up."

"If that is so," said Arthur, "we mayas
well go back at once then, quarrelling
won't mend matters."

Daniel was at last brought to see the
force of this, and the two unfortunate
depositors left the town at once, and disconsolately
wended their weary way home
again.

A consultation was held in the evening,
and it was decided, after long debate, that
it would be well to postpone the wedding
for a little while until it could be seen
whether there would be any money fortis

ir. M

coming to pas for the furniture. When
Mrs. Dunstable ascertained the state of
things she offered to assist liberally in
procuring the necessary furniture, but this
offer was not accepted by Arthur. His
pride was too great to allow his new home
to be furnished by outsiders, and Jenifer
was of the same way of thinking.

CHAPTER XI.

THE TO-MORROW IS YET TO COME.

My life is cold, and dark, and dreary ;
It rains, and the wind is never weary ;
My thoughts still cling to the mouldering past.
But the hopes of youth fall thick in the blast,
And the days are dark and dreary.

Longfellow.

A HOPE was cherished that Arthur and
Jenifer might be married in the autumn
instead of the spring. It all depended
upon the result of the summer fishing.
Unfortunately it proved to be the worst
season known at St. Enodoc for many
years. The crabs and lobsters, whose
capture in other years afforded lucrative
employment, seemed now to have forsaken

the coast ; and worse still, the crab-pots
and lines, which had been paid for by
the careful saving of the previous summer,
were swept away by violent storms. The
potato crop, too, in their little patch of
ground, was almost destroyed by the
ravages of disease, yielding barely enough
to pay the rent of the ground, much less
anything to help them in their time of need.
Many of the fisher folk were compelled
to run into debt at the little shops, with
the hope that the mackerel and pilchard
fisheries would enable them to free themselves.
The Trewhellas and Releases
were fortunate enough to avoid this, the
dividend of five shillings in the pound which
the bank paid at the end of three months
from the failure affording them present
relief from the pressure of want.

Arthur chafed under this state of things.
He could not endure, he. said, to bring his

mother to the penniless condition which
was clearly before them ; he would go to
Pendruthan and seek a berth in some ship
going a long voyage. His mother then
would have his half-pay, and there would
be a considerable sum awaiting him
when he reached England attain. But
Mrs. Treleaven set her face against this.
Her son had been with her all his life, and
she could not bear to lose him now. She
yielded at lasfc so much as to give a half

t/ o

consent that he should become a sailor if
the mackerel and pilchard fisheries proved
to be failures. She hoped they would
prove remunerative, perhaps more so than
usual, and .then there would be no necessity
for parting. But her hopes were not
realized. The mackerel came in such
small shoals and at such inconvenient times
that only enough were caught to provide
bread for the time, and notluDg could be

laid up for the coming winter. There only
remained the pilchards as a last hope.
But " hope deferred maketh the heartsick,"
said the preacher, and there were
many sick hearts in St. Enodoc that autumn
and winter. Day after day the men waited
on the fishing-ground for the fish which
never came. Week after week the great
boats rode at anchor, Uke floating coffins,
someone said. And,indeed,they were homes
of the dying, if not of the dead, for many
a wasted cheek and many a sunken eye
told of the weary waiting for bread, and of
the empty cupboards at home, and of the
gnawing of the wolf, starvation.

But was there not the parish to apply
to ? Oh yes, the parish was waiting
with its half-crown a week wherewith they
might fare sumptuously every day, and
with its palace of delight where those
whom God had joined together were, for

the good of the rates, judiciously put
asunder. But Cornish fisher folk are
wont to endure much before the trust
themselves to the tender mercies of the
guardians of the poor, and therefore they
suffered quietly without complaint or
moan.

A last dividend of 25. Id., which was
paid by the bank towards the end of
the year, provided for the present distress ;
but this could not last for ever, and
the necessity of taking immediate steps
to avert semi starvation or parish relief
pressed itself with increased force upon
Arthur Treleaven. The seine-owners,
who had incurred considerable expense
without any return, decided to employ one
man only through the winter instead of
two, and Daniel, being the older servant,
was naturally chosen. The remuneration
was only five shillings per week, but five

shillings is a munificent sum when the
alternative is probable starvation. The
loss of this situation of caretaker, therefore,
compelled Arthur to decide at once
upon his future course.

CHAPTER XII.

A MERRY CHRISTMAS.

Hope deferred runneth the heart sick.

Proverbs.

Christmas Day came without bringing
much mirth to the St. Enodoc fishing
population. No little dainties graced
their tables as in most of the years gone
by — it was hard even to provide bread.

Arthur and his mother dined at the
Trewhellas', where the day was honoured,
as Rebecca put it, by a small piece of roast
beef, which in more prosperous times
would have been despised for its insignificance.


Times es too bad for roast goose,"

said Daniel apologetically, "but the Lord
is good to give us anything. I'm sure we
dont deserve very much."

After dinner Arthur and Jenifer went
across the ferry for a stroll on the sand-hills
beyond. The birds and insects which
gave the hills their charm in summer were
gone, but still it was a pleasant place fora
lovers' walk, for the sun was shining
gloriously and the view seaward was a
charming one. The great headlands at
the mouth of the harbour stood up like
outposts of giants, majestically repelling
the waves which dashed against them,
borne in by the gentle north-west wind.
On the eastern shore a long line of foam
showed where the rocks, the terror of
mariners, reared their iron crests, while
straight out to sea a miniature island,
aided by two or three white winged ships,
broke the monotony of the heaving deep.

But the lovers gave only a passing
glance, at the winter beauty around them.
They had their own little world within,
with its beating waves and sharp rocks,
and the sunshine played on it only fitfully,
and seemed to be vanishing altogether.
For nearly twelve months they had been
waiting, and the happy end seemed further
off than ever. It is true that, like the
rocks, they calmly met the opposing forces,
but, like them again, they could not help
being affected by the contest — even granitic
rocks are worn away by constant friction.

I can't stand this any longer," said
Arthur, after a pause.

'can't stand Avhat, dear?" Jenifer
asked in surprise.

I can't stand this weary waiting, while
things are going from bad to worse. It is
nearly twelve months, Jenny, since —
since — "

'' Since what, Arthur ? " lie asked.

'' You know what, dear," he answered
tenderly, " and you seem to be further off
from me now in one sense than you were
then. What makes me almost mad sometimes
is the thought that I am eating my
mother's bread, with no hope of replacing
it."

Hush, dear," she said soothingly,
don't talk like that. You and your
mother have always shared your loaf, and
you'll be able to do better soon."

What can I do ? " he asked in a
despondent tone ; " the winter is not more
than half gone, and when the crab time
comes, I shall have no gear, nor money to
buy it. I must go to sea for a long
voyage, Jenny, there's no help for it ; I
may be able to start afresh then. Could
you get on without me for twelve months,
dear ? "

'' Yoa know how I shall get on," she
said, looking up at him ; " but I am willing
to endure all that long separation if it will
be better for you."

"You are sure you won't forget me
when I'm gone ? "

I'm not likely to do that'* she
answered.

*' But your separation broke off the
affair with Mark Eundle," he said perversely.


"It is not very kind of you to say that,"
she returned; " you know that it was no
fault of mine. If you act as he acted, it
may be broken off, not else."

Forgive me, Jenny," said Arthur,
kissing her; "I am contrary, I know,
but I've enough to make me unreasonable."


Don't think of your troubles," said
she, pressing his hand; "think of the

joyful meeting on your return, and of the
happiness afterwards."

And put the parting out of sight ? " he
asked.

No, not exactly that," she answered,
but after the parting there will be the
thought of our love for each other to cheer
us."

Tell me that you love me more than
any one else in the world," he said abruptly,
looking into lier eyes.

You don't want me to tell you that,"
was the answer, " you know that already."

But tell me," he persisted.

She looked bashfully but steadily at him,
and said slowly, —

I love you more than anybody else in
the world. I love you with my whole
heart. I will love you till death."

The young man was completely carried
away by the love called out in answer to

this avowal, and in a very ecstasy of
passion he seized her in his arms, and
showered kisses upon lips, and cheek, and
brow.

Marry me before I go," he whispered ;
«« give me a right to call you mine, darling,
so that no one can come between ns."

Jenifer disengaged herself at length, pale
and trembling,

'' Don't ask me for my answer at once,
Arthur," she said, '' wait a little while."

''No," said he, vehemently, 'Hell me
now, yes or no,"

'' You know what I should wish," she
replied, 'but it would be better to act
upon our first resolution, and to wait until
you come back."

If you loved me as I love you, you
would consent to be married now," he
said.

It is because I love you so much that

I say we had better wait," Jenifer answered.
You'll say the same when you come to
yourself. Come, dear, take me home, it
is getting cold now, the sun is going
down."

They walked along the sand-hills in
silence for some time, and then Arthur
spoke, —

Don't blame me, Jenny, for my madness
; I couldn't help myself."

Ko, dear, I don't blame you," she said
gently. " I knew you would go back to
your first plan. You'll trust me, won't
you, as I trust you ? "

One long, long kiss was the answer, and
then the young lovers sought their homes.

CHAPTER XIII.

And then he said,
Annie, this voyage by the grace of God
Will bring fair weather yet to all of us."

Enoch Arden.

On the first day of the new year, as Arthur
Treleaven was slowly rowing up the harbour,
he saw astern of him a trim-looking
brig making for the anchorage opposite
St. Enodoc. Having no business to induce
him to hurrj^, he rested upon his oars to
watch the graceful craft. The men were
taking in the sails one by one, and preparing
to let go the anchor.

"English," said Arthur to himself, 'sand

VOL. IT. N

her name is the Annie Lee. I wonder
what she is doing here. The wind is fair
for her to run down channel, and lie can
hardly be bound here."

Let go," he heard the captain say, and
the anchor plunged into the water with a
great splash He was just bending to his
oars again, when he was hailed from the
deck of the brig, —

'' Arthur, Arthur."

He was too much astonished at first
to answer, but, recovering himself, he
shouted, —

Hullo ! who is it ? "

Come alongside," said the voice.

Arthur turned this boat, and in a minute
or two was under the quarter of the brig.

Why, it's Nash," he exclaimed, as lie
recognized the face looking at him over
the bulwarks.

In a moment his old friend was over the

side and in the boat, and they were warmly
shaking hands.

'' What are you doing here ? " inquired
Arthur.

Nash explained that they were bound to
the Cape, but had put in to land a sailor
who had fallen from aloft that morning,
and severely injured himself. Arthur volunteered
to assist in getting the man on
shore, and soon the doctor had replaced
the rough splints on the broken limbs by
proper appliances. When the poor fellow's
requirements had been attended to, the
captain asked Arthur if he knew any suitable
man who would be willing to go to
the Cape with him.

"I'll go myself, if you'll take me," was
the answer. " I have never been to sea,
but I understand the work pretty well, and
can go aloft."

"You'll do, I'll warrant," said the cap
2

tain, looking with approbation on the tall,
well-built form of the young fisherman.
I must put to sea in the morning ; can
you be ready by that time ? "

Answering that he could, Arthur hurried
away to tell his mother and Jenifer of this
opportune chance of carrying out the resolution
he had lately come to, and to prepare
his baggage for the voyage. He found
Mr. Josiah in Daniel Trewhella's kitchen,
smoking a pipe with the master of the
house. Jenifer had not yet returned from
her work. Arthur's information was
received by the three persons present indifferent
ways. Mrs. Trewhella expressed
her feelings by shedding copious tears.
Daniel, between divers puffs of tobacco
smoke, expressed his opinion that Arthur
was a lucky fellow. Mr. Josiah, according
to his wont, was inclined to take a gloomy
view of the future.

*' Lucky ! " said lie ; '^ I must say I can't
see much luck about it. 'Tis pretty much
the same kind of luck as meeting a wild
bull in a narrow lane'*

*' Whatever do 'ee mane?" asked
Eebecca, removing her apron from her
face ; '^ there edn nothing dangerous
about it, es there ? "

'' Nothing more dangerous, ma'am, than
the certainty of being laid up with a fever,
or being devoured by snakes or lions;
but that is a mere trifle, of course, not to
be thought of seriously."

'^ Good gracious ! " exclaimed Rebecca,
*' es it so bad as that ? Would' you advise
un not to go at all, Master Josiah ? "

'^ He must decide that for himself,"
answered the postmaster; 'but I can't
forget that it is written in the book of
Jeremiah, ' Weep ye not for the dead,
neither bemoan him ; but weep sore for

him that goeth away ; for he shall return
no more, nor see his native country.' "

Jenifer entered the room just as Mr.
Josiah began the quotation from his
favourite prophet, and learning from a
whispered remark of her mother's that
Arthur was going away, stood as if transfixed
with dread.

'Tis too bad, Mr. Josiah, for you to
terrify women like this," said Arthur indignantly
; " there's no more danger in going
to the Cape than in going anywhere else :
anybody would think I was going to live
there, to hear you. It is not very likely
that the lions and snakes will come onboard
the brig, even supposing there are
any there, and as for fevers, they are to begot
without leaving England. Don't cry,
Jenny, God can bring me home again."

"Miss, miss," assented Daniel, "there's no
occasion, mother, for you and Jenifer to

cry your eyes out. Think of his coming'
home again with his pockets well-heed,
not of his going' away with um empty.
We'll all go down in the boat tomorrow
morning' to see the brig off."

When Arthur reached home, he found
that Mrs. Craddock had forestalled him
with the news, and that she had in addition
given a gratuitous opinion that it was a
wisht job," m such a dolorous manner
as to seriously alarm Mrs. Treleaven.

*' What a nuisance it is that a parcel of
old women should make mischief in this
way," said Arthur indignantly. '' There's
nothing wisht about it, mother. Mrs.
Craddock knows no more about it than
her old black cat. The passage out will
only take about eighty days, and in eight
months or thereabouts I hope to be back
with you again."

'' But you will have to cross the Bay of

Biscay, and 'tis always rough there, Mrs.
Craddock says."

"Don't be so foolish, mother," said
Arthur, " and don't listen to the nonsensical
remarks of an old know-nothing like that.
I wish she was in the Bay of Biscay now.
If I go I shan't leave God behind, shall I,
mother ? "

No, no," answered the mother; " God
forgive me for putting so little trust in
Him. He has been very good to us both,
Arthur, and although things have been
going from bad to worse with us lately, I
am firmly persuaded that He will bring us
through."

Before they went to bed the mother and
son knelt down together in the little
kitchen, and committed themselves to Him
Who is the widow's friend, and the best
protector of the sailor.

"Almighty God," the widow prayed.

Who from Thy throne in the heavens
sends forth the winds, commanding them
to lift np the waves on high, and by Thy
word brings peace again upon the face of
the deep ; guard my boy from the perils of
the sea. He is the only son of his mother,
and she is a widow. Oh, loving Saviour,
bring home again the widow's staff, and
wipe away the mother's tears."

Arthur had never been parted from his
mother, and the thought of the separation
combined with his mother's prayer to overcome
his composure, and he sobbed outright
as in broken words he commended
his mother to God.

In the morning Daniel took a little party
in his boat to the Annie Lee. The two
mothers were there, and Mrs. Sims and
Mrs. Craddock, and Jenifer and Arthur.
The two last-named were silent, and only
showed their emotion by the firm grasp of

the hand, which they fondly believed was
unnoticed by their friends. Mrs. Craddock
was cynical and oracular, Mrs. Sims
limp and sympathetic, the mothers anxious,
and Daniel manly and encouraging.

''I wish we could all go with 'ee," said
Mrs. Sims ; " 'twould' be so lonely, would
it ? We could mend up your things, and
keep *ee chain and decent."

Hould tha tongue, Kezia," said Mrs.
Craddock ; " wha's the use of a passel of
penmen aboard a ship ? They had better
stay at home and look after their house.
Besides, wha's the use of company ? No
company es the best of company, tha's
what I say. Ef you're by yourself, you've
got nobody to fall out with. I believe in
everybody setting on his awn dung-hill,
and under his awn fig-tree, as my old
man used to say. Arthur, my son, when
you're away [keep yourself to yourself,

and you'll git along all right ; weeant a,
Dan ? "

Aw, he'll git along very well," answered
Daniel ; '' he do know what's what better 'n
you penmen can tell un. He'll steer a
straight course," continued the old salt,
looking affectionately at his young friend,
'' no yawn' the ship about with he. Lookout,
Arthur, and fend the boat off from
the quarter of the brig."

Arthur's baggage was soon on the deck
of the vessel, and the last farewells had
to be said. Mrs. Craddock's melancholy
predictions had so taken hold of Mrs.
Treleaven that her faith forsook her for
the time, and she wept bitterly, saying, —

I shall never see him again, I shall
never see him again."

Mrs. Sims wept too, while Mrs. Craddock
preserved a composed and sepulchral
demeanour. Jenifer did not weep, but her

wistful eyes and clinging hands as Arthur
gave his last kiss showed how bitter was
the parting.

The anchor had been hove home shortly
before Arthur went on board, and soon it
was off the ground, and the sails were set
one by one as she dropped down the harbour.
At last the boat had to be cast
adrift, and with a heartfelt " Good-bye,
and God bless you," the friends parted
company. In a short time the brig reached
the point at the mouth of the harbour, put
her helm to starboard, rounded the point,
and disappeared from view.

May God watch over them and bring
them home in safety again ! So Daniel and
the women prayed as they returned. "Will
the prayer be answered ? Only the future
can reveal that. For the present '' white-handed
hope, that hovering angel girt with
golden wings," is their comfort and stay.

CHAPTER XIV.

THE VOICE OF MANY WATERS.

"We thought of wrecks upon the main,
Of ships dismasted, that were hail'd
And sent no answer back again.

Longfellow,

Arthur was gone and Jenifer was left to
wait for this return with what patience she
could command. If the brig arrived safely
a letter would come back in four or five
months, and there was the chance of her
being spoken to by some homeward-bound
ship. JN'ews came when they were not
expecting it. When the Annie Lee had
been gone about three months, a steamer
called the North Star arrived at Liverpool,
and reported that she had picked up, in

latitude 20° S. and longitude 5° W., a
ship's boat bearing the name Annie Lee,
with her side crushed in, and that two
days later she had also come across a life-buoy
which bore the same name. From
the appearance of the boat it was not
improbable that the Annie Lee had been
in collision with some other ship, but
there was nothing to show what had
become of the two crews. They might
have escaped in one or both the ships orin
boats.

Daniel heard this piece of news from the
group of men on the quay as he landed
from his boat one forenoon, and after
ascertaining that the intelligence was
correct — that is to say, that it was
in the newspaper — went home with
a heavy heart to tell his wife and
daughter.

The Annie Lee have a bin spoken

to," said lie, intending to lead up gradually
to a recital of the evil tidings.

*^ How do you know ? " asked Jenifer
eagerly.

*' 'Tes in the newspaper' answered
Daniel ; '*' a steamer called the North Star
spoke to her some little time ago, or
there, not 'exactly spoke to her."

Were they all well ? " inquired Jenifer
anxiously.

"Well no, not 'exactly," was the answer ;
"they had a met with a bit of a collision."


'' A collision ! " said Jenifer, aghast.
Was there much damage done ? was
there anybody hurt ? "

Nobody dont know yet what the
damage es, but they hope they're all
seemed. The fact of the matter es — now
dont 'ee be frightened, Jenny, dont 'ee be
frightened, mother — the fact of the matter

es, the North Star have picked up a life-buoy
and a boat with the neeame Aiinie
Lee upon it, but very likely the crew are
all saved. The boat mighfc have been
(barred away in the collision, and they
might have got aboard the other
ship, or have got away in their other
boat."

Tell me the worst, father," said
Jenifer, white to the lips with suppressed
emotion ; " tell me if they think the ship
is lost."

I'm dubious about the ship," answered
Daniel, " but you mustn't lose hope, my
poor dear. I'm hoping' they're aboard the
ship that ruined 'em down, that es if they
was ruined down," and he put his strong
arm around his distressed daughter and
drew her to him.

"Does Mrs. Treleaven know of it?"
asked Jenifer, sobbing.

I dont know," replied Daniel, '' I
expect not. Shall I go and tell her ? "

No, ril go," said she ; '' perhaps I can
tell her better than anybody else'*

Jenifer set off at once, hoping to be the
first to break the news, but as soon as sho
opened the door she saw that some one
had preceded her. Mrs. Treleaven was
sitting in a low chair rocking herself to
and fro, and saying, as the tears rolled
down her face, —

"My boy, my boy, I shall never see
him again, 1 shall never see him again."

At the sight of Jenifer her grief became
still more violent, and she sobbed and
moaned in turn with her arms thrown
round Jenifer's neck. Jenifer led her
back to her seat and tried to soothe the
distressed mother, forgetting in some measure
her own fear and grief, as she assured
her that there was no evidence that the

VOL. 11.

ship was lost, and that her father was
hopeful that the crew were safe. This
calmed Mrs. Treleaven a little, but now
and again, as her fears predominated over
her hopes, she broke out afresh into a
tempest of weeping.

During the succeeding months the
mother and sweetheart waited anxiously
for tidings of Arthur, but no tidings came.
Once their hopes were raised by the news
that a bottle had been found on the south
coast of Ireland containing a paper with
this message written upon it : " Brig Annie
Leigh going down in the Bay of Biscay
after collision — ship bearing down upon us
weather fine — boat coming alongside —
saved — James Maclean."

Daniel explained to the women that the
ship which had taken off the crew of the
sinking brig might perhaps be going a
long voyage to the East Indies, or round

the Horn, and that, therefore, it might bea
considerable time before they could
receive any tidings. There could hardly
be two brigs of the same name, he thought,
sinking by collision just at the same time.
True the name was spelt Annie Leigh, and
not Lee, but that might be a mistake of
the writer.

In the hope inspired by this Jenifer
wrote to the owners of the brig at Liverpool
to ask if they could give any encouragement.
The answer she received
completely extinguished her hopes. She
was told that there was on the Shipping
List a brig called the Annie Leigh, and
there could be little doubt that the name
found in the bottle was spelt correctly, for
in the list of her crew was an able seaman
named James Maclean, whereas in the
crew of the Annie Lee there was no person
bearing that name. This blow was almost


harder to bear than the first : the had
built so much on this baseless hope.
After a time intelligence came of the arrival
at San Francisco of the ship Ocean Queen,
having on board the rescued crew of the
Annie Leigh, and it was now all but certain
that the Annie Lee and her crew had gone
to the bottom.

Mrs. Treleaven, who had been ailing for
some time, sank into a profound melancholy
which ended in death before the
end of the year. For some weeks before
the end she ceased to speak to Mrs. Tree
and Jenifer, who were assiduous in
their attentions to the poor widow. Half
an hour before her death she roused herself
from her stupor, and grasping Jenifer's
hand, whispered, " The only son of his
mother, and she was a widow'' and then
raising her voice she said, " Now he is dead
wherefore should I fast? can I bring him

back again ? I shall go to him, but lie
shall not return to me," and quietly passed
away.

Jenifer suffered as keenly as the mother,
but she was young and healthy, and after
a time resumed her work as before, though
with a whiter cheek and more subdued
mien. As for Daniel, he never ceased to
regret the loss of the brave young fellow
who had in affection as in relationship
been to him almost a son.

CHAPTER XY.

CHIEFLY ON BUSINESS.

But — slip each day and all day long !
Friend, your good angel slept, your star

Suffered eclipse, fate did you wrong !
From where these sorts of treasures are,
There should our hearts be — Christ how far !

Robert Browning.

*' Why, Mark, you don't mean to say that
you are at home ! I had no idea that you
were coming down again," said George
Eoskilly to his friend, whom he met in a
lane leading to Wheal Risky, an abandoned
mine about three miles from St.
Enodoc.

"No," answered Mark, " the old people
were taken by surprise when I arrived last

uiglit. I came clown on business — not
official, on my own account, I mean."

'' You are deep in mining I hear," said
George ; " rather a risky kind of speculation,
isn't it? "

'not if you keep your eyes open," was
the answer. " Of course the stupid people
who haven't sense enough to know tin, as
the miners say, have to pay for their
io-france."

Of course," said George, " and sharp
fellows, like Mr. Mark Rundle for
example, pocket the cash. Is that what
you mean ? "

Mark suspected that George was laughing
at him, but as his face showed no trace
of a smile he answered, —

''I don't mind telling you that my
mining speculations have turned out very
well — in a small way, of course. When
Wheal Betsy Jane was started two years

ago I had saved up a couple of five-pound
notes and I invested in ten shares — Captain
Tregurtha's son, who is in the office
at Bristol, put me up to it — and in six
months the shares were selling for four
times what I gave for them. When they
reached four pounds a share I sold out,
and a lucky thing I did, for a week after
the water broke in and drowned the mine,
and shares were going a-begging at five
shillings apiece."

I thought I heard that your father
made some money in the same mine'*
said George.

'' No," Mark answered, '' 'twas afterwards
in Wheal Mary Ann that he invested.
I got him to do it after long persuasion :
he'd rather have a safe three per cent., he
said, than a very doubtful ten. He bought
a good many shares in the end, and well
they've paid too, but I'm thinking that 'tis

time to be looking about for a purchaser,
for I hear that the purser has been selling
his shares quietly'*

But what have you come clown about
now ? if I may be allowed to ask," said
George.

Well, I have been suggesting to Captain
Tregurtha that something might be
made of old Wheal Risky if a competent
man took her in hand, and I thought I
would run down and inquire for myself
what is known about her before we hazard
any of our money. Fortunes are lost in
mining, you know, as well as gained."

'' Have you seen Jenifer Trewhella
since you came down?" inquired George,
changing the subject of conversation.

*' No," answered Mark, " I haven't seen
her since Treleaven was lost, and that is
quite two years ago — seen her I mean to
speak to, I've come across her in the

street once or twice. She's not engaged
again, is lie ?"

I believe not. There's a chance for
you, old fellow, you used to be sweet upon
her you know. It was almost an engagement
at one time, wasn't it? "

'almost," replied Mark; "but she
took offence at some little attention I paid
to Esther Mansellll, and then Treleaven
came in the way, and I gave her mortal
offence by calling him a fishing fellow."

A somewhat proud young woman,"
suggested George.

'' Well, rather," assented Mark, " but as
good as gold — she's as good as she looks,
and that's saying a great deal."

'' Come, come," said George in a bantering
tone, "I verily believe, my worthy
friend, thou hast still some lingering
affection for the comely damsel."

"Between ourselves," returned Mark,

I've often wished I hadn't made such a
fool of myself. I might have had her atone
time — there is no question about that —
but nor, of course, there's a double barrier :
in the first place she is aggrieved at what
I said and did, and in the second
place there is her affection for Arthur
Treleaven."

Why, my good fellow, you don't suppose
she is going to offer herself up to his
memory, do you ? And as to her being
vexed at something you did years ago,
that is sheer nonsense, a true woman
doesn't let things rankle in her heart in
that way. She was fond of you once : very
well, a woman will forgive anything to a
man she cared for. Try her."

''I don't know," Mark was beginning
dubiously, when his father came round
the corner towards them, looking older
and greyer, but still showing the world

a chubby and good-humoured countenance.


*well, Mark," lie said, "what do you
think of her ? "

She'll do unless I am much mistaken,"
Mark replied. "I'll write and ask Captain
Tregurtha to come and look at her.
So far as 1 can find out there's plenty of
tin in her, but the adventurers who opened
her were a timid lot, and dropped her just
when they should have kept her going."

What do you think of Mark's 'cute
mining speculations, George?" asked
Jeremiah proudly ; " he's not very old, but
he knows tin. He's a Rundle if ever there
was one ; he'll make some money, if he do
live long enough. I suppose you were at
church last Sunday night ? Mr. Carnanton
went on a lot about money being the root
of all evil — that's foolishness, as I told my
woman when I went home. What it do

rally mane is that money is the root of all
evil for people who haven't the sense to
manage it properly. But the old gentleman
is getting a bit toatlish I think.
Every now and again he do go on about;
paying twenty shillings in the pound, as if
the Bible had anything to do with business.
The Bible is to save your souls, not to tell
'ee how to manage your business. I don't
like such personal preaching, and I told
Mr. Carnanton so the other day. Not but
what I like a man to pay his debts, more
especially if it's a little bill for rope."

Then you don't agree with Mr. Josiah,"
said George. " He told me yesterday that
the sermon he likes is one denouncing
short weights and measures, and cheating
in trade, and deception and lying everywhere.
' Turning up the whites of your
eyes and groaning " Amen " is all very
well, he said, ' but I'm for boots well made.

and coats properly stitched, and sermons
practised as well as preached, and ready
money down on the nail.' "

'' That's all very well for lie," said Jeremiah,
'' but lie's not in business and doesn't
know how contracts pinch and customers
worry. Postmasters may be particular,
but rope-making is a more stretch kind of
a business. I'm advising Mark to look
about for a wife with some cash," he continued
after a pause. "None of your
girls with pretty faces and empty pockets
for me."

"I don't know about that," said George
chivalrously ; '' I don't think you ought to
estimate the ladies according to their value
from a money point of view. The price of
a virtuous woman is above rubies, Solomon
says. He doesn't say anything about the
fortune she brings with her."

'* Yes, but Solomon had more than he

could tell what to do with," replied Jeremiah.
'' If he had a little money invested
and wanted to double it, he would have an
eye to the rubies I fancy. A wife you
may find any day, but rubies are not to be
gathered from every bush. But I must be
going on."

When Jeremiah had trot out of hearing
George remarked to Mark, with a sly
grin,—

'' How about the poor beauty now, old
fellow? I fancy papa has got grander
ideas in his head. Jenifer and a couple
of thousand might do, but Jenifer and
nothing; is not to be thought of for a
moment."

'* If I could get Jenifer to say eyes,' "
observed Mark, " I am not afraid but that
in time I could bring round my worthy
sire. I flatter myself I know how to
manage him."

Then you've dropped Esther Mansellll
altogether?" said George.

Oh yes, confound her, she caused all the
mischief," Mark answered. '' I never did
care much for her. She is as spiteful as
Satan himself ; and besides, old Job is not
an over savoury individual to introduce
into one's family. He drank before the
hope of having that legacy dazzled him,
and when that turned out a delusion, sofar
as he was concerned, he became ten
times worse, as you know, and now the
old reprobate is never sober while he has
any money to spend. Esther has some
redeeming qualities, for nearly all the
bread that goes into Job's house is earned
by her needle, so Aunt Chatty tells me.
But here we are, George. I must say
good-night, I want to run in to see Mr.
Josiah."

Mrs. Pinnock happened to be looking

out of Mr. Josiah's door, which was fortunate,
as it saved Mark the laborious
occupation of attracting her attention by
knocking. The old lady did not recognize
Mark, and her answer to his loud inquiry
if Mr. Josiah was within was to produce a
long telescopic ear-trumpet, adjust it carefully,
and ejaculate, —

Hey ! "

Is Mr. Josiah in ? " shouted Mark.

Ceeant hear a word you say," replied
Mrs. Pin nock.

Mark repeated his question at the top of
his voice.

No, I dont know nothing' about your
hin," answered the old woman, imagining
that Mark was making inquiries about some
strayed poultry.

Mark seeing that further colloquy was
useless, endeavoured to pass the janitor,
but Mrs. Pinnock, suspecting some bur-vol.

II. p

glorious attempt, promptly retreated and
slammed the door in his face.

This is a pretty state of things," he
was saying to himself, when the door was
opened and Mr. Josiah appeared. He had
heard the noisy conference at the door, and
the final bang, and had come to see the
cause.

Well, Mark," he said, when they were
seated in the little parlour, " is your fortune
made yet ! "

'not quite," was Mark's laughing
answer.

'' But you are making haste to be rich, I
hear," said Mr. Josiah. " I suppose your
salary and three per cent, is not sufficient
for an ambitious young gentleman like you?"

'* Hardly," replied Mark. "That did
very well for the past generation, but we
move a little faster nowadays."

'' To be sure," assented Mr. Josiah, " we

do move faster, especially down hill. I
don't Tender at it, though, for the young
men are much cleverer than when I was
growing up."

Their education, perhaps, is better
attended to," suggested Mark.

And their intellects are so much more
profound," added the postmaster. "There
can be no question about that, for they
tell us so themselves."

Big fortunes are made in mining,"
observed Mark.

'' And lost," rejoined Mr. Josiah.

By blockheads," added the complacent
young speculator.

Certainly," said Mr. Josiah, " by blockheads,
not by shrewd young post-office
clerks. They don't lose fortunes for a
very good reason, but even the aforesaid
paragons of wisdom get their fingers
pinched sometimes."

p 2

*' You wouldn't care to invest in Wheal
Eiskj, I suppose ? " suggested Mark
maliciously.

Not jus fc at present," replied Mr. Josiah
in a sarcastic tone. " 'T would be a pity to
take away one shilling of profit from the
clever young gentlemen who are enriching
an ungrateful country by turning its tin
and copper into gold. I daresay you can
find a few widows and orphans to take
the shares you do not want yourselves.
Josiah. Toms prefers to exercise the virtue
of self-denial a little longer."

CHAPTER Xii.

A man's love.

Of a' the arts the wind can law,

I dearly like the west,
For there the bonnie lassie lives,

The lassie I lore best.

Burns.

Mark E-undle had been a week at St. Eno-
doc. He had finished his business, such
as it was, and his leave from the postoffice
would expire on the morrow. It
occurred to him that he should like to
spend his last evening strolling about the
cliffs and little coves which he lead known
from childhood. His thoughts during his
ramble took a wide range, dwelling in turn
upon his mining schemes, his love projects,

his own past folly, Jenifer's beauty and
Esther Mansellll's spitefulness. Immersed
in his daj-dreams he became oblivions of
the beauty of the scene spread out before
him. The moan of the harbour was
sounding in his ears, and a Ene of breakers
showed where the bar lay, but what were
keen of ocean, and feathery foam, and blue
sea, and clamorous sea-gull to him whose
heart was set on the acquisition of a faire
lady ; to say nothing of tin-mines and the
ten per cent, interest ? Hence it was that
Mark in his abstraction nearly stumbled
over a woman sitting reading on a rock by
the side of the path through the barley-field
which skirted the cliff. As he instinctively
apologized his eyes met those of the
reader, and to his intense embarrassment
he saw that it was Jenifer Trewhella.
Mark had usually no lack of confidence, but
somehow in this emergency he could frame

no satisfactory speech to the girl whom
he loved and really wished to see. Jenifer
made no answer to his incoherent apologies,
but simply moved aside to give him room
to pass.

'' Won't you speak to me, Jenifer ? " he
asked, recovering himself. '' You needn't
shun me as if I were a snake or a toad, or
some other noxious animal."

'' I never shunned you," she said
simply, " I only moved out of your way."

But you can't deny that you disHke
me?" he persisted.

I have no feeling of dislike towards
you," she answered ; ''I have no feeling
one way or the other. You have passed
away altogether out of my life, that is
all."

And yet we were once great friends,
if not something more," he said. " Why
should there be such a separation?"

"You need not ask me that," Jenifer
replied. " The separation was your act,
not mine."

Not altogether mine," he said. " Arthur
Treleaven cut me out, although he
knew there was almost an engagement
between us."

'arthur never did a dishonourable
thing," said Jenifer indignantly.

I only go by what Esther Mansellll told
me."

You weren't always so ready to believe
Esther ; it suited your purpose to believe
her then. But we need not go into that
now, it is all dead and buried."

"Will you shake hands with me and forget
the past then ? " he asked. " I have
been foolish and worse than foolish, I
know ; and if I have given you pain by any
action of mine, forgive me, Jenifer. I
haven't done you any real harm, and the

remembrance of all the years of our childhood
spent together should count for something."


Jenifer was touched by Mark's last
words, and she therefore stretched out her
hand, and the reconciliation was accomplished.


After a long conversation on the past,
the two wended their way homewards
together. When they reached the last
stile and St. Enodoc came in sight, Mark
paused as if to look again at the view seawards.
The bar was shut off by an intervening
point, and the roar of its surf was
borne but faintly to their ears. The gentle
lapping of tiny wavelets on the beach
below was almost the only sound which
broke the evening stillness. The birds had
ceased their song, and St. Enodoc was still
too far distant for its hum to reach them.
But Mark's thoughts were ao^ain wandering

from the beauties of nature. His
youthful affection for his companion had
come back with fourfold force. It was a
man's love, now, not a boy's partiality.
How could he tell Jenifer this ? How
would she receive it ? And yet he could
not let this opportunity slip. His love was
stronger than his fears.

Jenifer," he began huskily, '' don't be
angry with me ; I can't let you go like this.
It is useless trying to keep my feelings
under — I must speak."

I — I don't know what you mean," said
Jenifer, somewhat alarmed.

'' I mean, Jenny, that I love you withall
the strength of my nature. Don't be
cold and cruel to me. If you can't say
yes ' to me now, let me hope. I can wait.
I am not a boy now, but a grown man."

"I will not hear another word," said
Jenifer vehemently; 'you ought to be

ashamed to speak to me in this way,
knowing what poor Arthur was to me."

'' I've said nothing that I need be
ashamed of," said Mark, somewhat sobered.
*' Arthm^ was not your husband, and even
if he were, he has been lost a long time
now, and no woman is bound to remain a
perpetual widow. If you dislike me, say
so, but don't say that I have done anything
dishonourable."

Jenifer saw that her feelings had caused
her to be unjust. A proposal of marriage
by a free man to an unfettered woman
of equal birth could scarcely be called
base, whatever else might be said about it.
Her eyes filled with tears as she held out
her hand, saying, —

'' Forgive me, I was hasty, but I can't
bear any allusion to that subject. I wish
that we may be friends, and friends only.
But we can't be even that unless you refrain

from everything like that which took
place just no^Y.

"I will try to please you," said Mark
humbly.

He was too much afraid of losing his
lady-love altogether to insist upon better
terms.

CHAPTER Xiii.

TO BE, OR NOT TO BE.

He has a shrewd wit, I can tell you ; and he's a man
good enough : he's one of the soundest judgments in
Troy, whosoever, and a jDioper man of person.

Troilus and Cressida.

Another six months passed away without
bringing prosperity to the fisher folk of
St. Enodoc. iS'ow and then a little money
was made by succouring disabled vessels,
but this, added to what they could earn
by their nets, barely held the wolf at bay,
and many a father and mother went hungry
to bed that the cry of the little ones
might be stilled.

Daniel Trewhella and his wife were now

amply repaid for their humanity in adopting
the child saved from the wreck. It
was Jenifer's exertions which saved them
from utter destitution ; it was Jenifer's
needle which earned their bread. Mrs.
Dunstable, knowing something of the
state of affairs, employed her to some considerable
extent, and Miss Jink retiring
from business on account of advanced
age, a portion of her work fell to her late
assistant.

Rebecca Trewhella's chief trouble was
the evident fact that this constant attention
to her work was telling upon her
daughter's health. Her cheeks were pale
at all times, but a weary look in her
lustrous eyes and a loss of the youthful
contour of her countenance told of a
struggle in which she was fated to be
conquered ; and showed her friends in a
way which could not be mistaken that

nature protested against the violence wliicli
was being done to lier.

When things were at this pass Mark
again came down from Bristol for a few
days. He soon found out the impoverished
state of the Trewhellas, and resolved to
turn it to account in his designs on Jenifer.
On the evening of his return, seeing
Jenifer pass up the street, he resolved to
call upon Daniel and his wife to win them,
if possible, to his side.

He found Daniel sitting before the fire,
while his wife was at the table, endeavouring
to fit a piece of new cloth into the
rent of an old garment. Their troubles,
combined with advancing age, had left
their marks upon the worthy couple.
Daniel's iron frame had become bent, and
his weather-beaten locks thin and white,
while Rebecca's once comely features were
pinched and worn, and her fingers trembled

as she plied lier needle. Dark days, indeed,
had succeeded to the sunshine which
once was theirs.

"It's worse and worse," Daniel was
saying as Mark entered, " worse and
worse, 'Becca ; the union will pick us up
in the end. I ceeant see nothing' else in
front of us. Oh ! you've found us out,
have 'ee ? " he continued when he caught
sight of Mark ; " I thought you had got so
rich that you dean know poor people like
we. You eouldn' find time to look in
upon us last time you was home I suppose?"


It wasn't because I didn't want to
see you," said Mark, " but you know, I
daresay, that there was a little unpleasantness
between Jenifer and me — my own
fault I'll own — and that kept me away."

Jenny did' say nothing' about it,"
said Eebecca, " but we eouldn' help seen'

what was the matter; but that's all right
now, edn it ? She told me sou meade
it all up the last time you was home."

'' How long before Jenifer will be
back? " asked Mark abruptly.

'' In about heeaf an hour's time," answered
Rebecca. " She's gone up to see
Mrs. Dunstable about some work."

*' Then I'll tell you at once what I came
for," said Mark. *' You know that when
we were home together we always looked
upon one another as lovers, and before
I left for Bristol there was almost an
engagement made between us. I didn't
treat her very well afterwards, and Arthur
Treleaven came along — a capital fellow
I'm told, I didn't know him — and they
would have been married in time I suppose,
but he was lost in the Annie Lee, and
Jenifer is now a free woman. I offered to
marry her when I was at home last time,

VOL. II. Q

but she wouldn't hear of it, and now I want
you to speak a good word for me. I
would try to be a good husband to her,
and she would be in comfortable circumstances
and have no need to work herself
to death, as I'm told she is doing now.
And beside, I would see to it that you
were cared for. You wouldn't be afraid
to trust her with me, would you ? "

Law, no," answered Rebecca, " and ef
she was well married we should be glad.
We dont want to part with her, God
knows, but it goes to my heart to see her
sleeavin' for we."

Mark's frankness had won the heart of
his old friend Daniel, who said, —

"We weeant face her, my son, but ef
you can git her to say ' miss,' well say
God bless 'ee both.' "

Don't tell Jenifer what we have been
talking about," said Mark as he departed,

well satisfied with the success of his
diplomacy

Meanwhile Jenifer had gone to the
Castle to see Mrs. Dunstable. That good
lady was still comely and dignified, but
age had asserted its power by whitening
her hair and deepening the lines upon her
face. Mr. Treleigh, the last of an ancient
race, was gathered to his fathers, and Mrs.
Dunstable, active and benevolent as she
was, could with difficulty throw off the
sorrow which the loss of her noble-hearted
brother brought upon her. She received
Jenifer with a sad, sweet smile. The worn
look of the young woman, beautiful even
in her wanness and poverty, touched the
heart of the high-born and wealthy dame.
She had not to face destitution and strive
for the daily crust, but she knew the
blankness which settles upon the home
when the light of the eyes is taken away
Q 2

and the house is left desolate. Husband
and child, and brother she had seen carried
oat to be laid in the lap of mother earth,
and she had been left alone to weep. She
could therefore sympathize with the
troubles of simple fisher-people, and strove,
as English gentlefolk are wont to strive,
to bind up their wounded hearts. She
hoped that Jenifer's weary toil was nearly
ended, and it was this which brought a
smile to her face to-day. Looking into
Jenifer's face she said, —

I suppose you will not work much
longer at dressmaking ? "

Not work at dressmaking ? " said
Jenifer in amazement ; '' I hope to work as
long as God shall give me strength."

But you will not need to work for your
living if what I hear is true."

'' I do not know what you mean, ma'am,"
said Jenifer in alarm at she knew not what.

*' It is nothing you need be troubled
at," said Mrs. Dunstable, noticing her
trembling, 'rit is only a rumour that you
are to be married to young Rundle, that
is all. I was going to congratulate you
on your prospect of a comfortable settlement.
I am sorry I mentioned it if it is
not true, as I gather from your astonishment.
But about this silk," and Mrs.
Dunstable turned to the subject of dressmaking.


On her way home Jenifer met Mrs.
Craddock. That worthy old lady had
become very infirm, but she was able to
walk about a little with the aid of a stick.

*' Aw," she said with a snort, " so
they're going' the way of all flesh, art
tha?"

Jenifer flushed, thinking that Mrs. Craddock
was alluding to her bad state of
health.

I know I'm not very well," she said,
*' but I hope 'tis not so bad as
that,"

'' So bad as that ! " said Mrs. Craddock.
I'm glad you do teeake the right view
of it after all, for seeming' to me, marriage
es a wisht job, sure 'enough."

Marriage ! " exclaimed Jenifer, " I
thought you meant something else, but
if anybody told you I was going to be
married, they told you what was false. I
wish people would mind their own business."


And Jenifer hastened on, leaving Mrs.
Craddock to meditate on the misery of
marriage in general, and the iniquities of
husbands in particular.

After telling her mother the result of
her interview with Mrs. Dunstable, Jenifer
went into the garden, where in the old
days we found her playing at mimic

weddings and funerals with Mark and
Jessie Eundle. Alas ! the real wedding
peal had never rung out, while the funeral
knell had sounded in her ears again and
again. Jenifer had a dim foreboding that
soon the death-bell would tell the world
that she too had passed away, she felt so
weary and sick at heart.

Looking up from her reverie she saw
that Mark was watching her from the
adjoining garden. Seeing that he was
observed, he greeted her warmly, receiving
in return a quiet but cordial smile. After
a few words about nothing in particular,
Mark said, —

'' You don't know what I am come home
for, Jenifer, I suppose? "

'' No," she answered, " is it business or
pleasure ? "

Well," he said hesitatingly, " I hope
the latter, although it is a matter which

affects my future well-being. Can't you
guess, Jenifer?''

"No," she replied, " I am not good at
guessing."

It concerns you," lie said.

"I don't know what you mean," she
said, as a thought of what he might mean
flashed across her mind.

I am come home again to ask the old
question."

I am afraid then I must give you my
old answer," she replied.

Won't you take pity on me ? " he said,
leaning across the hedge and looking into
her eyes. " You hinted to me years ago
that you would not say ' no ' if you were
older, and now you steel your heart against
me. Is it because of my old unfaithfulness
that you disdain me? Surely it is
not an unpardonable sin."

No," she said, '' I have forgiven and

forgotten that. I do not despise you, I
do not steel my heart against you ; I simply
say I do not love you as a wife should
love her husband, that is all*'

'but that might come," he pleaded;
I am willing to trust to the future for
that. You believe I love you dearly,
Jenifer?"

I see no reason to doubt that," she
replied ; " but there is an obstacle apart
from my own feelings. I could never
leave my poor old father and mother;
they are almost entirely dependent upon
me now."

''Jenifer, Jenifer," he remonstrated,
that is one reason why you should listen
to me. If you were my wife you wouldn't
have to slave as you do now, and your
father and mother should not want while
I had a crust to share with them. I
promise you that."

'' Don't press me any more," lie said,
bursting into tears, " I can't bear it, I
must go in," and Mark was left in doubt
as to what the issue would be.

CHAPTER XVIII.

TO-morrow.

This year I slept and woke with pain,
I almost wish'd no more to wake,
And that my hold on life would break

Before I heard those bells again.

In Memoriam.

'what are 'ee crying for ? " asked Rebecca
Trewhella, noticing the tears on
Jenifer's pale face.

Oh, it is nothing of consequence,
mother," was the answer.

'Tes somefin' young Mr. Mark said
to you," returned Rebecca. " I seed un
talking' to 'ee over the wall. You haven't
failed out again, have 'ee ? "

"No, mother, no," answered Jenifer,

but something lie said brought the tears
to my eyes. That is all ; please don't ask
me anything more about it."

Mrs. Trewhella remembered Mark's
words, and shrewdly suspected that Heifer's
agitation had something to do with
the same subject, and therefore, wily
diplomatist as she imagined herself to be,
decided there and then to carry out her
promise to Jenifer's suitor by making a
few judicious remarks.

'' Mr. Mark was a old lover of yours,
Jenny," she observed, " and I shouldn't
be surprised ef he was a bit fond of you
still. He would meeake a good husband,
for he's a clever young man, and his
father told me that he es savin' money
fast. And he's a good-lookin' fellow ef
ever there was wan."

Handsome es as handsome does," interposed
Daniel between two great puffs

of tobacco-smoke, in forgetfulness of the
compact entered into with Mark.

'well, either," said Rebecca, "what
have 'ee got again Mr. Mark ? "

"I haven' got nothing' again un," rejoined
Daniel ; " oh dear no : quite the contrary."

I should be thankful ef you was
married and comfortable," said Eebecca,
turning to Jenifer. " I'm writing myself
to see 'ee weeastin' away like before
my eyes. And to think that we ceeant
do nothing' but set down and look at 'ee.
Here's father ony gittin' a shelley' now
and then, and beginning' to look so old
and wait and wislit like. 'Tes wisht to
think about, and we was coin' so well
before that bank broke. 'Tes the Almighty's
coin's and I know we mustn't
murmur again' He, but 'tes hard to set
down and starve."

Jenifer went to bed soon after, but she

lay tossing for hours before she could get
any sleep. A struggle was going on in
her mind between her inclination and her
filial love. Her health was beginning to
fail, that was painfully apparent, and with
the loss of health would depart the ability
to do anything for her father and mother.
On the other hand there was a comfortable
home offered her by one who undoubtedly
loved her, and an assured provision
for the old people. But she felt
that she could not return Mark's love.
Ought she to accept him ? But he had
declared his willingness to accept her on
her own terms. Could she say ' yes ' to
his proposal ? Her whole soul recoiled
from what she felt would be a profanation
of marriage, and she resolved to abide by
her decision. And, utterly wearied, she
fell into a troubled sleep, and as she slept
she dreamed.

It seemed to her that lie was entering
the cottage in which she had lived all her
life. Near the fireplace was a brawny
fisherman, and opposite him was a matron,
comely and kindly, holding an infant of a
fair countenance and lustrous black eyes.
And the fisherman said, —

The child shall never want while I
have bread to eat."

And she awoke and knew that Daniel
and Rebecca Trewhella were the fisherman
and his wife, and she was the black-eyed
child.

Again she slept and dreamed.

It was again the interior of Daniel
Trewhella' s cottage that she saw, but
Daniel and his wife were aged and bent,
and their cheeks were hollow and their
eyes sunken, and they pointed their fingers
at her and said, —

'' You did not save us as we saved you."

And she awoke and said to herself, 'rit
is a token. I can save them only in one
way, but God knows it is a hard way, yet
if it is His will, I must not shrink from it."

And a third time she dreamed.

She thought she was going to the
church with Mark, and on the way met
her long-lost lover, who smiled upon her,
and said, " God bless you," but when they
stood at the altar, and she turned to look
at Mark, behold, it was no longer he, but
Arthur.

And when the morning came, calm and
still and bright with sunshine, she resolved,
calmly and bravely, for the sake of her
father and mother, to say "yes" to
Mark's question if it should again be put.

On the evening of the second day Mark,
meeting Daniel and Rebecca in the street,
and learning from them that Jenifer was
in the house alone, determined to make

one final appeal. He knocked at the door
and then entered, and found her sewing
as if for dear life, although she had already
done far more than a fair day's work.
She flushed when she saw Mark, for she
knew by his look that the crisis of her life
was come.

*' Jenifer," he said, standing in front of
her.

"Mark," she answered quietly.

*' I do not want to distress you, but I
want to ask you once more if you will give
me my heart's desire."

I told you I did not love you as a wife
should love her husband," she answered ina
low tone.

** And I told you that I was content to
wait for that," he said. " Jenifer, will you
be my wife ? "

Her eyes filled with tears, but she
stretched out her hand towards him.

VOL. II. B

He seized it eagerly, and would have
enfolded her in his arms, but she quietly
restrained him, saying, " Not yet, not yet,"
and Mark was forced to content himself
with one kiss from Jenifer's sweet, pure
lips.

Mark pressed to have the marriage celebrated
within ten days, saying that he
would obtain longer leave from the postoffice,
and as there was no valid objection
to this, Jenifer, after some discussion,
reluctantly consented. She only stipulated
that the wedding should be early in
the day and as quiet as possible.

Mark had a somewhat unpleasant task
to perform that evening. Jeremiah Rundle
had set his heart on Mark's marrying " a
bit of money," and relied upon the Eundle
instinct for hard cash to carry this wish
into effect. But here was his sharp son
throwing himself away upon a pretty face.

Mark relied upon this acknowledged influence
with his father to remove the
painful feeling likely to be produced by
this sad declension from the family ideal.
His mother he did not trouble about, she
had always endorsed the doings of her
son.

Father," Mark began, with an apologetic
cough, " will you come into the
parlour, I want to speak to you."

'certainly, my son," answered Jeremiah,
entering the said parlour, and fixing
his spectacles astride his nose.

"I've taken a very important step,"
Mark began.

A good investment ? " inquired Jeremiah,
with the moneyed air of a Baring ora
Rothschild.

"Well, I hope so," said Mark hesitatingly,
"but 'tis a more important step
than anything in the way of investments."
R 2

Can't be, my son," said Jeremiah,
pushing up his spectacles in astonishment
at this heresy, '' can't be. There can't be
nothing in this here mortal world more
important than investments."

'' The fact is," said Mark bluntly, " I am
going to get married."

'' Married ! " exclaimed Jeremiah, " married
! I didn't know you were courting.
Who's the young woman."

'' Well," said Mark, '' she's not very well
off, but she's good."

Good," grunted Jeremiah, 'how much
per cent, will goodness turn in ? "

"It all depends," replied Mark; '' I'm
inclined to think it pays very well sometimes.
But, to cut matters short, I've
asked Jenifer Trewhella to be my wife."

''Jenifer Trewhella!" exclaimed Jeremiah
in astonishment, " why she's as poor
as a lawyer's cat. I thought better of 'ee,

Mark, yes, I did. I made up my mind
you'd act like a Rundle and marry a
hundred or two ; but to think you've
thawed yourself clean away ! 'Tis every
bit as bad as spinning ropes and not getting
paid for 'em."

'' There's one thing, father," said Mark
persuasively, '' if she brings nothing with
her, she knows how to take care of what
she comes into."

Ah ! well, there's something in that,"
said Jeremiah in a somewhat more resigned
tone. '' Keep well is better than get welland
a penny saved up is as good as a 
picked up. But make the
best of it, and 'tis a wisht job then. But
is it all settled ? "

Yes," replied Mark, thinking he had
better make a clean breast of it, " and
what's more, we've agreed to have the
wedding before I go away. I shall write

for a little longer leave tomorrow morning."


"Aw, dear! you've a took my breath
away," said Jeremiah in despair. " I've a
listened to 'ee, my son, and have made a
bit of money by it, but you mustn't expect
me to invest much in this here risky
speculation, for I'm doubting that you'll
never get enough by it to pay the working
expenses."

Oh ! I'll chance that," said Mark, well
satisfied that his father offered no stronger
opposition. "And now you have given
your consent, I'll tell mother all about
it."

CHAPTER XIX.

WILT THOU HAVE THIS MAN ? "

He that will enter into Paradise must have a good key.

Proverb.

It was the first morning of a new year.
The heaven was black with clouds, and a
raging wind swept the sea and the land,
driving the former before it in fleecy foam,
and making the great trees on the latter reel
and stagger under its fierce blows. What
had induced Mr. Carnanton to venture
out in such wild weather ? He had seen
many winters, as his feeble gait and the
white hairs which peeped out from under his
hat abundantly testified. He had seen
many winters, I say, but few winter storms

like tills. It beat in his face, and whirled
him onwards with a force which almost
lifted him off his feet. At one moment
he had to crouch against the hedge for
temporary shelter, at another to rush
past a gate like a gunboat passing a
battery.

His business was worth a little personal
inconvenience, for he was bent on such an
errand of mercy as '' blesseth him that
gives and him that takes." He was about
to give the Church's blessing to two young
hearts, to make the currents of two lives
flow into one channel.

"wedding bells, golden bells !
What a world of happiness
Their harmony foretells."

Unfortunately, on this marriage morning
the fulfilment of the above theory
was somewhat problematical, for the bride
was by no means eager to take the solemn

VOWS which, nevertheless, she would without
doubt endeavour to fulfil.

A deep boom had been borne to Mr.
Carnanton's ears as he left his house, a
half-mile or more from the church, which
made his heart leap with fear, for it told
him that some ship was in distress on the
dreaded coast of his parish, and that brave
sailors would soon be fighting for their lives.
Boom ! it sounded again, and the devout old
man lifted up his heart to the Ruler of the
elements to save the struggling mariners.

The parson at last reached the church
as the aforesaid black clouds began to
discharge their contents upon the hapless
earth with the violence of waterspouts.
He found the high contracting parties
waiting for him. There was Jenifer clad
in well-worn, not to say thread-bare, garments
of her own, for she had resolutely
declined the offers of Mrs. Dunstable to

provide her with a wedding outfit. She
looked even paler than was her wont, and
tears, which were not tears of joy, came
ever and anon to her eyes. The expectant
bridegroom looked triumphant. Tall and
well-made, with black eyes and clustering
hair of the same hue, he was, so far as
outward appearances go, a young man
whom a woman might be pardoned for
falling in love with. And, indeed, with
the exception of a somewhat large amount
of self-satisfaction and self-assertion, there
was nothing particular in his character
and conduct to find fault with. He was
handsome, capable, and prosperous, and,
therefore, decidedly eligible from the matrimonial
market point of view.

Mr. Rundle, senior, had been won over,
to some extent, by the persuasive tongue of
his son, and was present '' to see fair play,"
as he put it to his wife. Jeremiah's best

black broad-cloth, which only saw the
light on great occasions, was taken from
its usual resting-place, a deep drawer, as
its crumpled appearance clearly showed.
It will air the coat, if nothing else, and
keep the moth from eating it," Jeremiah
remarked to his spouse as he invested
himself in this sacred garment. " This
congregation " was completed by Daniel
Trewhella in his best beaver coat with
brass buttons, and Rebecca, looking quite
gay in the treasured Paisley shawl, which
she had worn at her own wedding so many
years before.

Of course the solemn clerk and the
ancient dame whose business it was to
clean the church were there, but they
being official, not to say officious, would
decidedly object to be classed with the
ordinary people who required their ministration.


The church was cold and dark. The
grey figures on the font seemed ashen as
if with the biting morning air, and the
marble figures on the walls looked like
gigantic icicles. It certainly was not a
nice morning to be married on, and, Mr.
Carnanton thought, not a nice morning to
perform the ceremony.

The bridal party, in due time, took
their allotted places at the altar rails,
and the service began. Mr. Carnanton
found that the voice of the storm was
louder than his, enfeebled as it was with
age, for ever and anon it beat against the
windows, and rushed round the buttresses
with a roar which drowned every other
sound.

The momentous question was put to
Mark, '* Wilt thou have this woman to be
thy wedded wife ? " and he answered joyfully,
''I will," and the vicar turned to

the trembling bride, '' Jenifer, wilt thou
have this man to thy wedded husband,
to live together after God's ordinance in
the holy estate of matrimony ? Wilt thou
obey him, and serve him, love, honour, and
keep him in sickness and in health ; and,
forsaking all other, keep thee only unto
him, so long as ye both shall live ? "

A blast, longer and louder than any
which had preceded, shook the building as
the vicar's voice died away, and before
Jenifer could utter the irrevocable '' I
will," the great southern door flew open
with a terrific bang, and there rushed ina
tall form, in sailor's garb, but bareheaded
and coates, his dank hair and wet
garments testifying to a recent struggle
with the waves. All present looked with
astonishment on the intruder, who advanced
with rapid steps up the nave
towards the bridal party. The clerk was

struck with horror at the irregularity of
the proceeding, and made a movement to
stay the strange-looking addition to the
congregation, but was summarily thrust
aside.

Who are you, and what do you want ? "
asked Mr. Carnanton, recovering from his
astonishment. The man returned no answer,
but fixed his eyes upon the bride.
She trembled under his gaze, and tried
two or three times to speak, but her
tongue seemed to cleave to the roof of her
mouth. At last she gasped out, "Arthur ! "
and then, with a piercing shriek, fell prone
upon the chancel floor.

CHAPTER XX.

THE TEMPEST.

I saw him beat the surges under him,

And ride upon their backs ; he trod the water,

Whose enmity he flung aside, and breasted

The surge most swoln that met him ; his bold head

'Bove the contentious waves he kept and oar'd

Himself with his good arms in lusty stroke

To the shore.

The Tempest,

The boom which Mr. Carnanton heard as
lie left his house proceeded from the French
brigantine Marie, bound from the Cape to
Swansea. She had reached into the bay
with an east wind, which suddenly veered
round to the north and then to the northwest,
leaving her to fight the storm on a
lee shore.

She was a gallant little vessel, and there
seemed every prospect of her weathering
the projecting point of the bay and reaching
St. Enodoc harbour when, in a fearful
lurch, her foremast went by the board, to
be followed in a few minutes by the mainmast,
leaving her a helpless prey to the
angry waves. Signals of distress were
fired, and the anchors were let go on the
chance of their holding. For two or three
minutes they held on while the waves
swept her from stem to stern, and then,
spite of the length and strength of the
cables, a mighty billow lifted her up, and
dashed her towards the shore, snapping
the iron links as if they were tow.

Looking through the dimness of the
morning light they perceived that a group
of men, aroused by their firing, had congregated
on the beach, and were waiting to
render what assistance they could. With

a thud which made her timbers quiver the
brigantine struck the shore, and every
wave swept her deck. A flash was seen
bj the crew, and in a moment a line fell
across the deck between the two stumps
of the masts. It was the rocket apparatus,
worked by the coastguard, which sent them
such welcome help. Directed by a sailor
taller than the rest, the Frenchmen hauled
in the line, and soon a stout hawser formed
a bridge between the brigantine and the
shore. Some of the crew at once grasped
the rope and, hand over hand, made for
the beach, where the coastguard did their
utmost to help them, rushing into the
boiling surge again and again to seize the
shivering and half-drowned sailors.

Two men, one of them being the captain,
declined to trust themselves to the rope
until the tall sailor threatened to throw
them overboard if they did not at once

VOL. II. S

leave the ship, and accompanied his threats
by such action as showed that he would
not fail to carry them out. Choosing the
lesser of the two evils, the captain and his
man reluctantly trusted themselves to the
swinging rope, and, after some narrow
escapes, reached the shore in safety. Last
of all the tall seaman left the ship. He
had been drawn only a few feet when the
ship broke asunder amidships, and the
stump of the mast, round which the hawser
was fastened, parted company with the
hull, dropping him into the sea among the
floating wreckage. Clearing himself from
the ropes, he struck out for his life. It
was evident that he was a first-rate swimmer,
and he had need be to reach the shore.
The breakers were immense, and the broken
timbers threatened every moment to crush
him. He reached the beach in safety,
however, and two of the coastguards were

rushing towards him when he was knocked
backwards by a retreating wave and had
again to swim for his life. For a minute
or two he held off waiting for a favourable
opportunity, and then, rising on the crest
of a wave, he was dashed violently on the
beach. The blow stunned him for a
moment, and he would again have been
drawn off, but the two coastguards, with
ropes round their waists, rushed forward
and grasped him, and, with his rescuers,
he was drawn ashore in safety.

Thank God," he gasped out as soon
as he recovered his breath, '' thank God weare
all saved."

'' Hullo ! " exclaimed a coastguard,
why here's an Englishman. I thought
they was all pally woos, and yet I could
hardly believe that a Frenchman would
have sense to manage the hawser like that.
Where do ye hail from, mate ? "
s 2

"Well, I hail from the South Pacific
now' the man replied, '' but when Tm at
home I hail from this very parish. This
is St. Enodoc, isn't it ? "

'' Yes, this is St. Enodoc ; but who in the
world are you ? I seem to know your face.
Why, as I am alive, you are Treleaven,
who was drowned three or four years ago."

Yes, I am Arthur Treleaven ; but I
wasn't drowned, for here I am."

My eyes ! " exclaimed the coastguard,
as something seemed to flash across his
mind, *' better you had been drowned and
ha' done with it."

What do you mean ? " asked Arthur.

Mean ? why I mean that the t'other
chap is marrying your sweetheart, that's
what I mean. They're in the church this
very minute, I 'spect, for I heard they were
going to be married at eight o'clock, and
'tis just eight by me."

Without any yevj definite idea of what
he was doing Arthur set off as fast as his
legs could carry him in the direction of
St. Enodoc. Once or twice he was thrown
down and bruised, but he rose instantly
and ran on as before. He reached the
church in a very few minutes, and raising
the latch, the door, impelled by the wind,
flew open with a crash, adding to the effect
of his unlooked-for entrance. His sudden
appearance as of one risen from the dead
so wrought upon Jenifer's overstrung
nerves that she fell insensible on the floor.
It was impossible under such circumstances
to proceed with the ceremony, and Jenifer,
as soon as she recovered consciousness,
was led home by her almost distracted
father and mother.

The two young men left the church
together. Mark's buoyant spirits had
vanished, and he was now a prey to one of

the most violent and dangerous of the
passions — jealousy, the green-eyed monster.
He said nothing to Arthur, but if
his looks had any meaning he fervently
wished him, where he had long been
supposed to be, at the bottom of the
Atlantic.

Arthur, on his part, was too much bewildered
by recent events to realize his
present position or future prospects : he
only wanted to comfort again the heart of
his widowed mother. As he passed through
the churchyard he was hailed by the old
sexton, who hobbled up to him and
croaked out, —

That's where I put her — a capital bit
of ground, never brooked afore."

What do you mean ? " asked Arthur, a
cold shiver running through him. " Whom
did you put there ? "

«« Why, thy mother, my son' answered

the sexton ; " she died six months or so
after thee was drownded, grieving about it.
Nobody never suspected that thee would
ever come to life again."

My God ! and have I come home again
for this ? " said the poor castaway, flinging
himself upon the wet grass which covered
his mother's grave. " Better I had been
drowned as they supposed. I have lost
everything worth having. I am a fugitive
and a vagabond upon the face of the
earth."

As the sexton was looking helplessly on,
not knowing what to say or do, Mr. Car-wanton
came up.

"My poor friend," he said, when the
sexton had explained how matters stood,
** come home with me. I can give you
dry clothes and food and shelter until we
see what can be done. Come along, you
will die with cold if you stay there."

'' It won't much matter, sir' answered
Arthur, rising from the ground, while the
tears streamed down his face.

*' Come, come, Arthur, this weeant do,"
said Daniel Trewhella, who had approached
unobserved; 'you must come home with
me. I was upset just now, or I should
have put 'ee home then. Come, mother's
waiting' for 'ee, and " (hesitating) " Heifer."


"Go home with your friend if you prefer
it," said Mr. Carnanton. " You'll take
care of him, Daniel, I know. I'll look in
tomorrow."

Arthur turned and followed Daniel in
silence. He seemed still like one in a
dream. Things had so changed during
his absence that he could not yet adapt
himself to the altered circumstances. He
recollected himself when he came to the
door, and shrank from entering, but

Daniel grasped him firmly by the hand
and led him in. Eebecca received him
warmly.

'' My son," she said, throwing her arms
around him, " I dont know where you've
been or where you've come from, but I
thank God you've come back again."

Jenifer's welcome was subdued and
hesitating. She blushed crimson as
Arthur took her hand and* imprinted a
kiss upon her forehead. She hardly knew
what to say to her restored lover, for she
felt that she was involved in a labyrinth
out of which, as yet, there appeared no
exit.

Dry clothing was furnished Arthur, and
food, but he could not touch a morsel of
the latter. At times his teeth chattered
as with cold, to be followed by burning
flushes. His manner appeared so strange
that Mrs. Trewhella urged him to go to

bed and rest. An hour or two after Daniel,
hearing strange sounds, went to his
chamber and found him tossing from side
to side in strong delirium. The doctor
being called immediately gave it as his
opinion that it would probably developed
into brain fever, the result of the excessive
mental strain, accelerated by exposure.

Soon after the doctor left Mark called
to see Jenifer. Both were greatly embarrassed.
Mark began by inquiring if she
had recovered from her faintness, to which
she replied that she was better, but still felt
weak and shaken. He wanted to ask all
the time, although he dreaded the answer,
when the wedding could be proceeded with.
With considerable hesitation he began, —

I suppose, Jenny, this affair will not
make any difference in our relations to
each other ? "

Jenifer remained silent.

You won't marry him ? " asked Mark
in desperation.

I don't know what I shall do," she
replied. " I don't know that he wishes to
marry me ; but whether he does or not, he
is now too ill to say. I am sorry for you,
Mark, more sorry than I can say, for you
have been very good to me ; but the truth
had better be told at once — I can never
marry you while Arthur Treleaven lives,
unless he first gives me up."

But he gave you up by staying away
all this time."

That I don't know, we haven't heard
his story yet."

At this moment Daniel entered the room
and the conversation ended, and after a few
words on ordinary topics, Mark left, saying
that he would look in again next day.

On the following morning Jenifer heard
with astonishment that Mark had left St.

Enodoc, and in the course of the day
Jeremiah brought her a note which he
said his son had left for her. It was as
follows : —

My dear Jenifer, — I can see that your
mind is made up, and that no persuasion
of mine would induce you to marry me.
It would only be painful to both of us if I
persisted. I had hoped to make a happy
future for you and for myself, but that
foolish hope is dead. Think of me as one
who loved you and is passed away, for I
shall never trouble you again. I have
determined, as soon as things can be arranged,
to throw up my appointment in the
post-office and seek my luck in America.
I am too proud to be looked upon for life
by the gossips of St. Enodoc as the half-married
bridegroom.

Your true friend,

"Mark Eundle."

Jenifer was deeply touched by this
epistle, and she murmured to herself, " Poor
Mark, poor Mark, with all your faults you
were very good to me."

Meanwhile the patient upstairs was tossing
from side to side in the burning heat
« of a fever, now moaning piteously for
water and complaining that the sun's rays
were scorching him, now calling for Jenifer
and upbraiding her in tones which cut her
to the heart as she sat listening in the
room below. Again he would shout with
tremendous energy, " Land ! land ! saved
at last ! " till even Daniel could scarcely
bear it. After a long struggle the fever
was mastered, and Arthur looked up on
Daniel and Rebecca, weak in body from
the conflict, but in his right mind.

As soon as he was strong enough to
talk much he told his story.

The Annie Lee was well manned and

found, and they were congratulating each
other on the rapid and pleasant voyage,
when the ship was set on fire by the
carelessness of two of the crew, who had
broken into the store-room to procure some
spirits. All hands were roused and strenuous
exertions were made to extinguish
the flames, but without avail ; and it was
soon seen that the only hope of safety lay
in the boats. The crew consisted of a
dozen men. Six were allotted to each of the
two boats, and, the sea being smooth, they
were enabled to put on board a couple of
kegs of water and a bag or two of biscuit,
which they rescued with difficulty from the
burning brig. The captain took charge of
the smaller boat, having Arthur and Nash
among his crew of five, while the remaining
six men occupied the other boat, the mate
being in command. Both boats stood near
the brig until daybreak, when the fire

completed its work, and lie sank before
their eyes, leaving them adrift on the
broad ocean.

The boats kept company for two days,
making as best they could for the nearest
land. At the end of that time a dispute
arose between the captain and the mate as
to the proper course to steer, and discipline
being in abeyance, the boats parted
company. It mattered little which was
right, for the wind rose, and for sixteen
days they were compelled to run dead to
leeward to avoid being swamped in the
heavy sea. Where they were by that time
was more than the captain could say.
Unfortunately this was not their worst
trouble, for the biscuit began to run short,
and the water, although carefully husbanded,
was almost done. The burning
rays of the sun, too, played upon their unprotected
and scantily clad bodies until a

raging thirst set all ideas of prudence at
naught, and sent them more frequently
than ever to the rapidly diminishing water.
But a veil must be drawn over the rest.
The boat drifted on, each day bringing
greater misery to its occupants, until
horrors were perpetrated which Arthur
could only hint at. When the boat struck
the land early one morning, Arthur Tree
was the only one living of the six
men who had left the side of the Annie
Lee,

Awaking from an unquiet sleep, Arthur
felt that the boat was gently grating against
a coral reef which fringed a small island.
He managed to get on shore, and soon
found the water he was dying for, and a
few sea-birds' eggs, which served him for
food. On this island he lived a kind of
Robinson Crusoe life, subsisting on eggs
and such fruit as he could find, until, ashe

was abandoning all hope of rescue, his
exile was put an end to by a vessel which
passed the island and sent a boat ashore to
procure water. From this vessel he was
transferred to the French brig Marie, bound
to Swansea, which, as already related,
suffered shipwreck upon the coast of his
own parish.

As to the future and to his relation to
Jenifer, it was too soon to say anything
about that. For the present he was as
weak as any child, and only by careful
nursing could he ever hope to be the
strong man he was before he left home.

VOL. ir.

Chapter XXI.

'' I WILL."

true and tried, so well and long,
Demand not thou a marriage lay ;
In that it is thy marriage day

Is music more than any song.

In Memoriam.

The buds were bursting forth on the trees,
and the birds were uttering their spring
love-song before Arthur's strength came
back again. For a considerable time after
he regained consciousness the state of
Jenifer's feelings towards him was unknown,
but when a letter came from Mark to his
father saying that he had landed at New
York, the old hope revived, and the love,
which had never ceased, asserted its sway,

and he sought opportunity to ask the old
question over again.

One evening Daniel strolled down to the
quay to see his boat, while Rebecca went
to inquire for Mrs. Craddock. Arthur satin
the little kitchen reading, or rather, he
appeared to be reading, for he held the book
before him. But his thoughts were elsewhere.
He was thinking of the old days
before he went to sea, when the course of
love was running smoothly despite unfavourable
worldly circumstances, and contrasting
that time with the present, when
lucrative work was ensured to him as soon
as he was strong enough to take it, but his
bride was again to be wooed and won, or
lost, as the case might be.

He looked up as one caught in some

wrongdoing as Jenifer entered and stood,

for the first time since his return, alone in

his presence. In her embarrassment slew

2

would have made an excuse to leave the
room, but he called her back.

'' Jenifer," he said, in the old loving
tone.

She made no answer, but sank into a
chair, covering her blushing face with both
hands.

Jenifer," he repeated.

Yes, Arthur," she answered softly.

'' Will you be vexed with me for speaking
to you ? You know what I am going to
say ? "

Jenifer shook her head in answer to
these questions.

'' Your mother has been telling me about
Mark Hun die, and his going abroad after I
came back, but I want to hear from your
own lips the true story. I do not blame
you for not waiting for me. I was away
too long for you to suppose I should ever
come back again ; but if you loved Mark,

why did you give him up ? and if you
didn't love him, why did you consent to
marry him ? "

In answer Jenifer told simply and unreservedly
the whole story of Mark's importunity
and her own tardy assent for the
sake of her parents.

Why did Mark give you up? " he asked
when she had concluded her recital.

I cannot tell you that," she replied.

Well, I won't press you to tell me ; I
don't know that I have any right to.
But what I do want to know is this —
could you love me again as in the old
days if you tried ? "

*' I don't want lo try," she said gently.

'' Do you love me now ? " he asked.

'* I have never ceased to love you. I am
quite content to be what I once was, if you
will let me."

A long embrace made the intervening

time as though it had never been, and
they were lovers as before the ill-fated
voyage.

Jenifer looked up into Arthur's face ashe
held her, and whispered, " I don't mind
telling you now why Mark gave me up."

'' Why, my darling ? " he asked.

Because I toM him that I could never
marry him while you were alive, unless you
first gave me np," she answered, hiding
her face on his breast.

Daniel and Rebecca were delighted to
hear on their return of the renewal of
the old love. With all their friendship
for Mark, Arthur was their favourite, and
they preferred the fisherman as their
son-in-law to the well-to-do post-office
official — not that it was probable that
Arthur would return to the old fisher life.
Mr. Lankester, a friend of Mrs. Dunstable,
had recently come to reside in the neighbourhood,

and at her recommendation bad
offered the management of bis small yacht
to Arthur, with Daniel, who was well
content to take second place, as bis assistant.
This arrangement was all that could
be desired, for it offered better remuneration
than fishing, with far less exposure.

Tbe wedding-day soon came — a day of
blue sky and bright sunshine, and spring
flowers and the music of birds. Love gave
away the bride, and the very heavens
seemed to smile upon the union, for, as
they stood at the altar, the sun streamed
through the coloured windows and lighted
up their faces with a golden radiance.

Jenifer did not hesitate to-day when
the solemn question was put, " Jenifer,
wilt thou have this man to thy wedded
husband, to live together after God's
ordinance in the holy estate of matrimony?
Wilt thou obey him and serve him, love,

honour, and keep him in sickness and in
health ; and, forsaking all other, keep thee
only into him, so long as ye both shall
live?"

"I will," she answered quietly but
firmly, and God, by the mouth of His priest,
added His blessing, and irrevocably made
them one.

Mr. Josiah, who was unusually bland,
signed the register with the father and
mother and Mrs. Sims, and the handsome
bride and bridegroom went home, the
old pew-opener in her confusion wishing
them many happy returns of the day.

Mrs. Craddock was ill able to walk
even with the assistance of a stick, but
she made a supreme effort, and attended
to grace the ceremony.

'* They looked quite a picture," she remarked
to her friend the pew-opener, " as
ef they just comet out of a bandbox."

So they did," replied that official. '' I
never liked that black-looking, hoity-toity
young Rundle, and 'twas almost a providential
marcy that the wind blamed — yes,
that's the word — blamed away the first
wedding."

I like funerals better than weddings,"
observed Mrs. Craddock somewhat irrelevantly
; '' a good funeral, with plenty of
crape and hat-bands, es what I delights in.
'Tes always a comfort to me to think that
another poor mortal es took out of the
miseries of this sinful world."

'' My dear," said the pew-opener, '' I
don't agree with 'ee at all. A wedding' is
my delight, it opens people's hearts and
purses. ' Mary, hold your hand, here's a
couple of shillings for 'ee,' that's what a
wedding' do mean ; but a funeral do make
people all husky and dismal and tight. The
only person besides you I know of who is

fond of funerals is the sexton, and lie told
me only yesterday lie's getting' old, and is
nearly tired of buryiu' people."

Wish 'ee well, Meeary," said Mrs.
Craddock, cutting lier friend short ; " I'm
divided to the dennar, so I must crawl
away home so well as I can."

And the old lady hobbled off.

CHAPTER XXII.

THE Wedding FEAST.

The guests are met, the feast is set :
May'st hear the merry din.

The Rime of the Ancient Mariner.

A FEAST of fat things was spread for the
wedding guests in Daniel Trewhella's little
parlour — not at Daniel's expense, it must
be confessed. . A goose and a plum-pudding
were not often seen on his poor table,
and they would scarcely have appeared
there to-day but for the hardheartedness
of Mrs. Dunstable, who insisted on being
allowed to provide those delicacies, and
some beautiful flowers in addition to set
them off.

The parlour looked its best. An immense

amount of labour and furniture-polish had
been lavished upon the ancient mahogany
table and chairs, and the effects of old age,
which they were beginning to manifest,
were cunningly concealed ; so much so that
Daniel expressed to his worthy spouse his
solemn opinion that they were looking
better than new. Daniel himself had
undertaken the work of carefully dusting
the impressive, albeit somewhat grotesque,
pictures which adorned the walls, and at
the same time imparted useful knowledge,
and Samson and Joshua, and other well-known
Scripture characters looked down
blandly upon the roast goose and plum-pudding
aforesaid.

The guests were all old friends. First
in importance was the postmaster — I had
almost said Postmaster General— Mr. Josiah
Toms, who displayed signs of extreme old
age in the scanty white hairs and trembling

limbs. Mr. Josiah seemed to have lost
much of his old acrimony and contempt
for womankind and matrimony. Mellowness
had come with age, and one might be
pardoned for mistaking him for a bland
and estimable old grandfather. Fortunately
Mrs. Craddock was present, so that there
was no fear of any lack of the condiments of
conversation : not even the most slanderous
tongue in St. Enodoc had ever charged
Mrs. Craddock with being bland. Mrs.
Sims, according to her wont, contented
herself with playing the part of the echo.
Captain Penbole, who came from 
on purpose to attend the wedding,
was the fourth and last of the guests.

The dinner was merry and sad by turns,
for they could not altogether forget the
old troubles, but on the whole there was
far more joy than sadness. Daniel's form
seemed to grow erect again, and the troubled

look faded out of Rebecca's eyes as they
thought of the future which Grod seemed
to be promising them and their children.

The dinner was a great success. The
cooking defied even Mrs. Clad dock's critical
eyes and palate to find fault, and the rest
of the company were in no fault-finding
humour. Captain Penbole, in his abounding
good temper, essayed to mollify the acid
demeanour of Mrs. Oraddock, who sat next
him, but, it must be confessed, with indifferent
success.

'' Fine weather lately, ma'am," he
began.

"Miss, too fine, a passel," she answered;
** where' s the barley coming' from if it stays
like this."

'' But we've had some nice refreshing
showers lately," said the captain.

*' Refreshing for the snails ; I dont
think anybody else es refreshed very much.

The snails in my bit of garden do dorrit
my life out, and as for slugs, they're like
boy-constructors in a way of spain'. I
had a geranium like a picture', and they've
a ait he like haply-work, or embroider', I
believe they do call it."

Lime is very good for 'em," suggested
the captain.

'Tes my belief they'd awnly laugh at
it," said Mrs. Craddock; 'they're the
gashliest disposition snails I ever meet
with. Why, there's my satin gown, I've
had he forty years, and — would 'ee believe
it? — I went to teeake un down from the nail
this morning', where I'd hanged un to smooth
out the praises, and ef there won a great
shiny track all up the middle of the back.
Ef a snail'll do that, he'll do anything."

The snails are evidently very ferocious
in these parts," observed Captain Penbole,
winking at Daniel.

"' Tss," assented the host, '' and it
appears to me that they're fuss Mrs.
Craddock's way than they are anywhere
else. How are 'ee gittin* on, Kezia ? "

Aw, this suspicions day have a meade
me happy, sure 'enough."

"Excuse me, Mrs. Sims," said Captain
Penbole with a learned air, " but I think
you mean a auspicious, not a suspicious
day."

Miss, I suppose I do," said Mrs. Sims,
but 'tes all the seeame to me, auspicious
or suspicious."

Never mind. Aunt Kezia, we understand
you very well," said Arthur, nodding
across the table.

Bless 'ee, my dear," said Mrs. Sims,
bridling up with pleasure at hearing Arthur
claiming the new relationship.

Our friend Mrs. Sims is no great
grammarian," remarked Mr. Josiah, " but

she has got a good heart, and that will do
the world more good than faultless grammar.
Thank you, a little more pudding,
Mrs. Trewhella."

At this moment the door was loudly
knocked, and Daniel, who opened it, saw
standing before him his old friend Mr.
Burlington.

Excuse me, Mr. Daniel," he said, " for
intruding upon you at such an interesting,
I might almost say, solemn season, but I am
down for a few days — came this morning —
for the first time for several years. Shall
we — a — let bygones be bygones — love, Mr.
Daniel, is a great leveller — and, I was going
to say, I thought I would run down and
express my good wishes and, I hope I may
venture to say, give my blessing to the —
a — decidedly good-looking young couple."

*' Plaise to come inside, sir," said Daniel,
when Mr. Burlington's lengthy speech was

VOL. II. U

ended; "I'm sure we shall all be very glad
to see 'ee."

Mr. Burlington entered and greeted the
guests, assuming a paternal air when
speaking to the bride and bridegroom
which was decidedly creditable to him,
seeing that nature had afforded him such
meagre practice. He had not altered in
outward appearance, nor, so far as one
could judge, in age. The same long coat
(or was it a lineal descendant bearing the
family likeness ?) adorned — perhaps covered
would be more accurate — the same long,
bony frame. The same green goggles
stood out like railway signals over the
same Roman nose.

Glad to see you," he said, addressing
himself to Mr. Josiah, " still presiding with
such efficiency over that important department
the post-office. A romantic and responsible
office that of postmaster, despatching

in one post business orders for large
amounts, letters containing lovers' vows
and expressing wedded love, missives of
evil tidings, and sentences of death. You
must feel like an arbiter of the fates, Mr.
Josiah."

'* I never trouble my head as to the
contents of the letters," said the postmaster
; *' I leave the lovers and the old
ladies to do that after the get them. All
I say to myself is this, ' Here are two
despatches for Mr. Brown, and three for
Mr. Jones, and the sooner they've got them
the better.' There's not much romance in
my constitution."

May I be permitted to drink the health
of the — a — happy pair ? — I believe that is
the correct term," said Mr. Burlington,
turning to Daniel.

"By all manner of manes," answered
Daniel ; " what would 'ee like to drink it
u 2

in, sir ? we are mostly teetotalers, bat we
can find something' strong."

Nothing strong for me, Mr. Daniel,
thank you. I myself have become in principle
nearly a teetotaler — in principle, I say,
for I take a drop of whisky now and then,
and some brandy when I feel fatigued at
night — not an uncommon circumstance
with me; but now, as I see you are drinking
tea, I will take a cup, very weak, with no
sugar and not much, milk."

This potent beverage having been prepared,
Mr. Burlington resumed, —

'' I must apologize for obtruding any
remarks upon you, but old acquaintance
sake — I may say that, Mr. Daniel, for we
have been, so to speak, comrades in arms
together, not in the tented field indeed,
but in facing the perils of the deep, and
capturing the ferocious seal — old acquaintance
sake, I say, and past emotions at which

I cannot even hint, give me, if I may so
put it, a locus standi. Well then, to come
to the point," continued Mr. Burlington,
waving his tea-cup majestically, " allow me
to propose the health of the bride, the
white lily of St. Enodoc, and of her tried
and true and estimable young husband,"
and Mr. Burlington made a bow which took
in all the company, swallowed his tea, and
sank into a chair.

Hear, hear," said Captain Penbole,
slapping his knee, "bear, hear; there's
something in grammar after all."

Mr. Josiah," said the antiquary with
a gracious smile, 'rit is somewhat irregular,
I allow, for me to intervene, but might I
suggest that it would not be amiss for you
to second the motion ? You might at this
extremely appropriate season wed some
practical remarks to the romance of which I
have been so unworthy a representative."

"Hear, hear," said Captain Penbole ;
'' capital : never heard better in my life."

Mr. Josiah rose slowly and pushed back
Ms chair. Then he took off his gold-rimmed
spectacles, and, after wiping them in his
silk bandanna, carefully adjusted them
on his nose. Then he solemnly buttoned
up his swallow-tailed coat, arranged the
bunch of seals dangling at his watch-chain
so as to show them to the best advantage,
and at last broke silence and addressed the
audience, who were eagerly waiting to hear
the oracle, to this effect : —

'friends" (shear, hear," from Captain
Penbole, and a loud " Hush ! " from Daniel) ;
friends, to-day is an eventful one in the
lives of our young people. It is the reward
of patient, lasting love " (a subdued " Hear,
hear," from Captain Penbole). " I am nota
man given to passing compliments, but T
cannot help saying that a sweeter and better

girl than Jenifer one must go a long way to
find, while as for Arthur it is enough to say
that he is worthy of such a wife as God
has given him." Here Mr. Josiah again
gave his spectacles a thorough wiping. '' I
have said many hard things of matrimony
in my time" (" Quite right, too," interjected
Mrs. Craddock), '' but now, ma'am," (turning
to the old lady and speaking slowly
and emphatically), *' I renounce them all.
Perhaps," he continued with emotion,
they would never have been said if the
death of as good a girl as ever trod this
earth had not left me to walk the path of
life all these years alone. But I mustn't
speak of that now. I hope your wedded life
will be long and happy, and that heaven's
choicest blessings will rest upon you. I shall
not live to see it, for I am an old man, and
feel that my race is almost run. But when
I am gone, and the little I leave behind is

disposed of, you will see in one little corner
of my will evidence that you were not
forgotten by your friend Josiah Toms."

A dead silence reigned as Mr. Josiah sat
down, for even Captain Penbole could not
frame his lips to say " Hear, hear," and
Mrs. Craddock was so taken aback at finding
that the old bachelor had gone over to
the enemy, that she sat for the first time
in her life deprived of the power of speech*

Mrs. Dunstable had insisted that the
wedding trip should not be shorter than a
week, and that she should bear all the
expense. Before the speech-making and
tea-drinking was fairly over, the little gig
which was to take them away drove up to
the door, and in a few minutes they were
seated and their modest luggage secured,
and, waving their hands to their friends,
they drove away. The demand that day
for rice must have taxed to the utmost the

resources of the local grocers, judging from
the quantity which was showered upon the
happy couple, Mr. Burlington especially
displaying a recklessness and extravagance
quite astonishing in a man of his years, and
it was computed that no less than eleven
pairs of shoes, in various stages of preservation,
were thrown after the departing
vehicle.

CHAPTER XXIII.

A CORNER OF MR. JOSIAh's WILL.

Though for myself alone
I would not be ambitious in my wish,
To wish myself much better ; yet, for you
I would be trebled twenty times myself ;
A thousand times more fair, ten thousand times
More rich.

Merchant of Venice.

Arthur and Jenifer had enjoyed the
balmy air of Penzance, and had gazed on
the great deep, with the Isles of Scilly in
the distance, from the Land's End, and
had clambered up St. Michael's Mount,
and had moved the Logan Rock. Their
appointed holiday was oyer and they
turned with regret from sunny Mount's

Bay and set their faces northwards, where
lay their home, and hopes, and friends.

Cornish travelling is not usually done
at express speed, and it was far into the
afternoon before the trees of St. Enodoc
appeared, although St. Michael's Mount
had been left behind before the sun was
far advanced in the heavens.

'' Home, darling'' whispered Arthur to
his bride.

Home," she responded, pressing his
hand.

As the words passed her lips the great
bell of the church gave voice with a boom
which rolled up the valley below them.
Again it sounded as they entered the little
town. Arthur stopped to ask a man he
met whose funeral it was.

Mr. Josiah's," was the answer.

** Mr. Josiah's ! " repeated Arthur in
astonishment, ** when did he die ? "

The morning after you left," the man
replied ; " lie was found dead in bed'*

In surprise and grief they passed on and
soon learned all there was to learn from
the lips of Rebecca Trewhella. Mr. Josiah
bad gone to bed in his usual health and
had passed away peacefully in his sleep.
No letter had been sent to Penzance, in
order that the short honeymoon should
not be clouded by sorrow for their old
friend.

Mr. Josiah was followed to his last
resting-place by almost all St. Enodoc. All
respected him, and those most who knew
him best. They honoured the kindliness
of heart beneath his stern exterior, and
his sterling integrity and truthfulness. It
was a great mourning, for a prince, so far
as character was concerned, had fallen in
Israel. Daniel's rugged face was wet with
tears as he followed the bier. He knew

better, perhaps, than any one else the
affection which the old man bestowed on
those whom he respected and loved.

The mourners, conventionally so called,
filed into Mr. Josiah's parlour on their return
from the funeral. It may be doubted
whether outside of Daniel's warm heart
there was much grief felt by the relatives
at Mr. Josiah's demise. Mr. Josiah had
held himself aloof from them during his
lifetime, and now that he was dead they
came to "see the lout of him," as one
of them put it, " to wind un up," to quote
the phrase of another.

A subdued conversation began as soon
as they were seated, and continued until
Mr. Hercules Rapson, insurance agent and
patent maker of wills to the community
generally, entered with the momentous
document.

Cousin John Market, a close-fisted, hard-visaged

old farmer, remarked to a cousin
of the same ilk, a jovial butcher, that the
old gentleman must have '' a bra' penny "
put by somewhere, while Cousin Tom was
decidedly of opinion that Mr. Josiah would
cut up well. '' Put a baste into good
grass," said he by way of illustration,
and he'll naturally spake for himself when
you put a stop to his grunting."

Perhaps he hasn't left anything to us,"
suggested nervously a little tailor, who fora
wonder was sober at five o'clock in the
afternoon.

'not left us anything?" said Peter
Simpson the publican, " why he must have
left his money to we ; who has he got to
leave it to else ? I respect' the memory of
Mr. Josiah too much to believe that he
has passed we by, and if I don't hear Mr.
Ankles Rapson read directly, ' I give and
bequeath to Cousin Peter Simpson so

much,' I shall begin to ask, ' What's the
good of having a cousin ? ' "

Daniel had sat in silence up to this
point, but he could restrain himself no
longer.

*' I tell 'ee what it es, I'm seemed to
hear what you are saying'. Ef I cleared
for Master Josiah only for what I could
git out av un, I would go and jump over
clefs to dance, miss, I would. I'd rather
have he back than have every farthing' he
died worth, ef 'twas ten times so much as
'tes."

Before the cousins could find words to
rebuke this monstrous doctrine, Mr. Hercules
Rapson, with his face lengthened
specially for the occasion, softly opened
the door and glided into the room, bearing
aloft the last will and testament of Mr.
Josiah as if it were the Queen's Speech or
Magna Charta, or some equally important

State document. He laid the precious
sheet of foolscap on the table while he
fixed his spectacles, then he coughed a
cough which betokened a combination of
condolence and official importance, and
lastly he opened the paper and read as
follows : —

'' I, Josiah Toms, of the parish of St.
Enodoc in the county of Cornwall, postmaster,
having considered with myself
that the frailty of mankind is like the
flower in the field, which to-day is and tomorrow
is not, it maketh me mindful to
be ready to die; and being in perfect
memory to prepare for my end, and to
arrange all my worldly affairs, I have
ordained this to be my last will and testament.


'* First of all I bequeath my soul to the
Almighty and Everlasting God, the God
of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, whom

I humbly beseech to accept thereof out
of His infinite mercy and goodness, and
to blot out of His remembrance all my
innumerable iniquities for the merits of
His well-beloved Son Jesus Christ, my
only Mediator and true propitiation for
my sins.

*' Also I bequeath my body to the
earth, to be buried therein, in a comely
and quiet, and Christian fashion, constantly
believing that it will rise again when the
trumpet of the archangel is sounded."

Here the cousins drew their chairs a
little closer to the table and squared their
elbows. They felt that Mr. Hercules was
now coming to the point, and were concerned
to know how the residue of the
estate was to be disposed of. The abovementioned
personal effects they considered
of but nominal value.

Mr. Hercules Rapson continued, —

VOL. II. X

"And I bequeath ten pounds to be
distributed amongst the poorest people
of this my native parish by the vicar
thereof.

'* And I give and bequeath to my cousin
Daniel Trewhella, whom I honour for his
uprightness, bravery, and kindness of
heart, the half of the residue I leave behind,
amounting to one thousand pounds,
or thereabouts, and the other half to his
adopted daughter Jenifer as a token of
my love. And I appoint the said Daniel
Trewhella the sole executor of this my
will."

That's the end, gentlemen," said Mr.
Hercules Empson with a profound bow,
and if any of you wish to arrange your
affairs before your departure, T shall be
happy to be of service. My charge is ten
shillings, and a trifle of sixpence or so for
extras, foolscap, &c."

But the cousins were too much dissatisfied
with the result of Mr. Hercules
Rapson's labours in re Tom to enter into
fresh engagements.

'tis a sin and a shame," said the
farmer.

'' He couldn't be in his right mind to
make such a will as that ! " exclaimed the
butcher.

I never did think much of teetotalers,"
observed the publican, '' and I think less
of 'em now. Nobody but a mean, stingy-old
water-drinker would have made such a
will as that."

Daniel left them to their recriminations
and went out into the air, half dazed with
his good fortune. A thousand pounds !
Why he was rich, a sort of local Rothschild.


He hurried home to tell the news, and
found Mrs. Dunstable talking to Arthur

and Jenifer. Seeing his excited look
Jenifer exclaimed, —

'' Why, father, are you ill ? "

'* No," he answered, " but I'm upset by
Mr. Josiah's will."

'' Are you disappointed at not being
remembered ? " inquired Mrs. Dunstable.

ISTo, ma'am, 'tes the other way. I'm
to have a thousand pounds, and the news
have almost took my breath away. And
more than that, there's another thousand
for Jenny there."

I am delighted to hear that your declining
years are so well provided for,"
said Mrs. Dunstable to Daniel, " and "
(turning to Arthur) 'equally pleased to
hear that, your wife is not a dowerless
bride."

THE END.

Gilbert AND BIVINGTOIT, LIMITED, ST. JOHIf's Square, London.

Imported by Messrs. Sampson Low & Co. can

be had on application.

Croivn Buildings, i88, Fleet Street, London,
October, 1885.

a ^flertioiT from i\)t Sis^t of 35oofesi

PUBLISHED BY

SAMPSON LOW, MARSTON, SEARLE, & Livingston.

ALPHABETICAL "LIST.

ABOUT Some Fellows. By an Eton Boy, Author of ''A
•^^ Day of my Life." Cloth limp, square 161110, 2s. 6c/.
Adams {C. X.) Mammal of Historical Literature. Cr. 8vo, 12^. dd.
Alcott louisa M.') Jack and Jill. 161110, ^s.

Old-fashioned Thanksgiving Day. 35-. dd,

Proverb Stories. imo, 3^". dd.

Spinning Wheel Stories. imo, 5i.

See also " Rose Library."

Alden ( W. Z.) Adventures of Jimmy Bi-oivn, written by himself.

Illustrated. Small crown 8vo, cloth, 2s. 6d.
Aldrich {P. B.) Friar Jerome's Beautiful Book, >S^c. Very

choicely printed on hand-rade paper, parchment cover, 3^-. dd.

Poetical Works. 'Edition de Luxe. Svo, 2\s.

Afford lady Marian) Needlework as Art. With over 100

Woodcuts, Photogravures, &c. Royal Svo, 42^-. ; large paper, 84^-.
Amateur Anglers Days in Dove Dale : Three Weeks' Holiday

in July and August, 1S84. By E. M. Printed by Whittington, at

the Chadwick Press. Cloth gilt, \s. td. ; fancy boards, is.
American Men of Letters. Thoreau, Irving, Webster. 2s. 6d. each.
Anderson {W.) Pictorial Arts of Japan. With 80 full-page

and other Plates, 16 of them in Colours. Large imp, 4to, gilt binding,

gilt edges, 8/. 8j-. ; or in four parts, 2/. 2s. each.
Afigleys Strange Experiences (Ai). By Cotswold Isis. With

numerous Illustrations, 4to, 5^, New Edition, 35-. ()d.
Angling. See Amateur, " British Fisheries Directory," " Cut-cliffs,"

"Martin," "Stevens," " Theakston," "Walton," and

Wells."
Arnold edwin) Birthday Book. 4^. dd.

Art Education. See " Biographies of Great Artists," '' Illustrated
Text Books," "Mollett's Dictionary."

Artists at Home. Photographed by J. P. Mayall, and reproduced
in Facsimile. Letterpress by F. G. Stephens. Imp. folio, 42X.

Audley {G. A.) Ornamental Arts of japan. 90 Plates, 74
in Colours and Gold, with General and Descriptive Text. 2 vols. , folio,
^1"^ \^s. On the issue of Part III. the price will be further advanced.

The Art of Clu'omo-Lithography. Coloured Plates

and Text. Folio, 6-^3.

Auerbach {B.) Brigitta. Illustrated. 2s.

On the Heights. 3 vols., ds.

Spinoza. Translated. 2 vols., imo, 45-.

Had WIN (/.) Story of Siegfried. 6s.

Story of Roland. Crown 8vo, 6s.

Ballin ada S., Lecturer to the National Health Society
Science of Dress in Theory and Practice. Illustrated, 6s.

Barlow alfred) Weaving by Hand and by Power. With
several hundred Illustrations. Third Edition, royal 8vo, i/. 5^.

Barlow william) New Theories of Matter and Force, 2 vols.,
8vo,

THE BAYARD SERIES.

Edited by the late J. Hain Friswell.
Comprising Pleasure Books of Literature produced in the Choicest Style as
Companionable Volumes at Home and Abroad.
"We can hardly imagine better books for boys to read or for men to ponder
over." — Times,

Price IS. 6d. each Volume, complete in itself, flexible cloth extra, gilt edges,
with silk Headbands and Registers.

The Story of the Chevalier Bayard.
By M. De Servile.

De Joinville's St. Louis, King of
France.

The Essays of Abraham Cowley, including
all his Prose Works.

Abdallah ; or, The Four Leaves.
By Edward Laboullaye.

Table-talk and Opinions of Napoleon
Buonaparte.

Vathek : An Oriental Romance.
By William Beckford.

Words of Wellington : Maxims
and Opinions of the Great
Duke.

Dr. Johnson Tassels, Prince of
Abyssinia. With Notes.

Hazlitt's Round Table. With Biographical
Introduction.

The Religio Medici, Hydriotaphia,
and the Letter to a Friend. By
Sir Thomas Browne, Kent.

Ballad Poetry of the Affections. By
Robert Buchanan.

Coleridge's Christened, and other
Imaginative Poems. With Preface
by Algerian C. Swinburne.

Lord Chesterfield's Letters, Sentences,
and Maxims. With Introduction
by the Editor, and

his Friends. Edited by P. Fitzgerald.


Reflections J or, Moral Sentences and
Maxims of the Duke de la .


Socrates : Memoirs for English
Readers from Xenophon's Memorabilia.
By Edw. Levied,

Prince Albert's Golden Precepts.

Bayard Series continued') : —

Essay on Chesterfield by M. de

Ste.-Beuve, of the French Academy.

The King and the Commons. A

Selection of Cavalier and Puritan

Songs. Edited by Professor Morley,
Essays in Mosaic. By Thos. Ballads


My Uncle Toby ; his Story and

A Case contaitiifig 12 Volumes, price 31J. 6^.; or the Case separately, price 3^. (dd.

Belike and Browne. Child's Voice. Small 8vo, 3^-. 6^.

Bickersteth bishop E. H.) The Clergyman in his Home.
Small post 8vo, \s,

Evangelical Churchmansliip and Evangelical Eclecticism.

8vo, \s.

From Year to Year : Original Poetical Pieces. Small

post Svo, 3^-. dd. ; roan, 6^. and 5^-. ; calf or morocco, 10s. 6d.

Hymnal Companion to the Book of Common Prayer.

May be had in various styles and bindings from \d, to 31^-, 6</. Price

List and Prospectus will be forwarded on application.

The Master's Home Call ; or, Brief Memorials of Alice

Frances Bickersteth. 20th Thousand. 32mo, cloth gilt, is.

The Master s Will. A Funeral Sermon preached on

the Death of Mrs. S. Gurney Buxton. Sewn, dd. ; cloth gilt, is.

The Reef and other Parables. Crown Svo, 2s. 6d.

The Shadow of the Rock. A Selection of Religious

Poetry. i8m,o, cloth extra, 2x. dd.

The Shadowed Home and the Light Beyond. New

Edition, crown Svo, cloth extra, biographies

of the Great Artists {LI lust rated). Crown Svo,
emblematical binding, 3^. 6d. per volume, except where the price is given.

Claude Lorrain.*
Correggio, by M. E. Seaton, 2s. 6d.
Delia Robbia and Cellini, 2s. 6d.
Albrecht Diirer, by R. F. Heath.
Figure Painters of Holland.
FraAngelico,Masaccio,andBotticelli.
Fra Bartolommeo, Albertinclli, and
Andrea del Sarto.

Gainsborough and Constable.
Ghiberti and Donatello, 2s. 6d.
Giotto, by Harry Quilter.
Hans Holbein, by Joseph Randall.
Hogarth, by Austin Dobson.
Landseer, by F. G. Stevens.
Lawrence and Romney, by Lord
Ronald Gower, 2s. 6d,

Not yet published.
A 2

Biographies of the Great Artists continued)

Leonardo da Vinci.

Little INIasteis of Germany, by W.

B. Scott.
Mantegna and Francis.
Messenger, by J. W. Smollett, 2s. 6d.
Michelangelo Buonarotti,by Clement.
Murillo, by Ellen E. Minor, 2s. 6d.
Overbear, by J. B. Atkinson.
Raphael, by N. Dangers.
Rembrandt, by J. W. Mollett.

Reynolds, by F. S. Pulling.
Rubens, by C. W. Rest.
Tintoretto, by W. R. Osier.
Titian, by R. F. Heath.
Turner, by Cosmo Workhouse.
Vandyke and Hals, by P. R. Head.
Velasquez, by E. Stowe.
Vernet and Delaroche, by J. Rees.
Watteau, by J. W. Mollett, 2s. 6d.
Wilkie, by J. W. Mollett.

bird {F. /.) American Practical Dyers Co?npafito?i. 8vo, 425.

Bird {H. E.) Chess Practice. 8vo, 2s. 6d.

Black ( Win') Novels. See " Low's Standard Library."

Blackthorn charles F.) Hints on Catalogue Titles and Index
Entries, with a Vocabulary of Terms and Abbreviations, chiefly from
Foreign Catalogues. Royal 8vo, 14^-.

Blackburn henry) Breton Folk. With 171 lust. by Randolph
Caldecott. Imperial 8vo, gilt edges, 2 1 J-.; plainer binding, los.dd.

Pyrenees the). With 100 Illustrations by Gustave

DoRE, corrected to 1881. Crown 8vo, ']s. 6d.
Blacknwi'e {R. P>.) Lorna Done. Edition deluge. Crown 4to,.

very nitrous Illustrations, cloth, gilt edges, 3IJ. 6(/. ; parchment,

uncut, top gilt, 35^-. Cheap Edition, small post 8vo, 6j.

Novels. See " Low's Standard Library."

Bailie {Williani) How to get Strong and how to Stay so.

Rational, Physical, Gymnastic, &c Exercises. Illust., sm.postSvo, 5^.

Sound Bodies for our Boys and Girls. imo, 2s. 6d.

Norwich jos.) British Colonies and their Resources. i vol.,

cloth, sewn — I. Asia, u. ; II. Africa, U. ; III. America, u. ;

IV. Australasia, \s.

Banquet rev. C.) Blossoms from the Kings Garden : Sermons

for Children. 2nd Edition, small post 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.
Boulevard {£.) Crusoe of Guiana. Illustrated. 55.
Gold-seckei's, a Sequel. Illustrated. imo, 55".

Boys Froissart. King Arthur, Mahinogion. Percy. See

Lanier.
Bradshaw {/.) Neu Zealand as it is. 8vo. 12s. 6d.

Brasses lady) Tahiti. With 31 Autotype Illustrations after

Photos, by Colonel Stuart-Vv^ortley. Cap. 4to, 2\s.
Bright {Joh)i) Public Letters. Crown 8vo, 7^-. dd.

Brisse {Barofi) Mans (366). A menu, in French and English,
for every Day in the Year. Translated by Mrs. Matthew Clarke.
2ncl Edition. Crown 8vo, british

Fisheries Directory, 1883-84. Small 8vo, 2s. 6d.

Britfa?iy. See Blackburn.

Broivn. Life and Letters of John Brown, Liberator of Kansas

and Martyr of Virginia. By F. B. Sanborn. Illustrated. 8vo, 12s. 6d.

Brome {G. Lennox) Voice Useand StimtdaTits, Sm. 8vo, 3^. dd.

and Belike remit) Voice, Song, aid Speech. Illustrated,
3rd Edition, medium Svo, I5j-.

Bryant ( W. C.) and Gay {S, H.) History of the United States.
4 vols., royal Svo, profusely Illustrated, cas.

Bryce rev. Professor) Manitoba. With Illustrations and i\Iaps.
Crown Svo, "js. 6d.

Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress. With 138 original Woodcuts.
Small post Svo, cloth gilt, 3^. dd.; gilt edges, 4^-.

Bia-naby {CaJ>t.) On Horseback through Asia Minor. 2 vols.,
Svo, 380. Cheaper Edition, i vol., crown Svo, 10^. 6d.

Burnaby mrs. F.) High Alps in IVintsr; or, Mountaineering
in Search of Health. By Mrs. Fred Burnaby. With Portrait of
the Authoress, Map, and other Illustrations. Handsome cloth, 14s.

Butler { W. F.) The Great Lone Land ; an Account of the Red
River Expedition, 1S69-70. New Edition, cr. Svo, cloth extra, "js. 6d.

LnvasioTi of England, told twenty years after, by an Old

Soldier. Crown Svo, 2s. 6d.

Red Cloud ; or, the Solitary Sioux. Imperial imo,

numerous illustrations, gilt edges, 5^-.

The Wild North La fid ; the Story of a Winter Journey

with Dogs across Northern North America. Svo, iSj-. Cr. Svo, "js. 6d.

Buxton {H. y, W.) Painting, English and American. Crown
Svo, ^s.

nADOGAN lady A.) Illustrated Games of Patience,
^ Twenty-four Diagrams in Colours, with Text. Cap. 4to, \2s. 6d.

California. See " Nordhoff."

Cambridge Staircase {A). By the Author of **A Day of my
Life at Eton." Small crown Svo, cloth, 2s. 6d.

Cambridge Trifles ; from an Undergraduate Pen. By the Author
of "A Day of my Life at Eton," &c. imo, cloth extra, 2s. 6d.

Carleton will) Fanny Ballads Farm Festivals, and Farm
Legends. I vol., small post 8vo, Si". 6d.

City Ballads. With Illustrations. 12s. 6d,

See also " Rose Library."

Carnegie (A.) Ameriea^i Fa iw- in Hand in Britain. Small
4to, Illustrated, vos. 6d, Popular Edition, is.

Roimd the World. 8vo, 10^. dd.

Chairman's Handbook the). By R. F. D. Palsgrave; Clerk .of

the Table of the House of Commons. 5th Edition, 2s.
Changed Cross {The\ and other Religious Poems. imo, 2s. 6d.
Charities of London. See Low's.

Charnock {R. S.) Practical Notes on Etching. Sec. Ed., 8vo, 7^-. dd.
Chess. See Bird (H. E.).

Children'' s Praises. Hymns for Sunday Schools and Services.
Compiled by Louisa H. H. Tristan. 4^.

Choice Editions of Choice Books. 2s. 6d. each. Illustrated by
C. W. Cope, R.A., T. Keswick, R.A., E. Duncan, Eirket
Foster, J. C. Horsey, A.R.A., G. Hicks, R. Redgrave, R.A.,
C. Stonehouse, F. Taylor, G. Thomas, H. J. Townshend,
E. H. Werner, Harrison Weir, &c.

Bloomfield's Farmer's Boy.
Campbell's Pleasures of Hope.
Coleridge's Ancient Mariner.
Goldsmith's Deserted Village.
Goldsmith's Vicar of Wakefield.
Gray's Elegy in a Churchyard.
Neat's Eve of St. Agnes.

Milton's L'AllegrOi
Poetry of Nature. Harrison Weir.
Rogers' (Sam.) Pleasures of Memory.
Shakespeare's Songs and Sonnets.
Tennyson's May Queen.
Elizabethan Poets.
Wordsworth's Pastoral Poems.

Such works are a glorious beatification for a poet." — Aihenceutn,

Christ in Song. By Philip Chaff. New Ed., gilt edges, ds.
ChromO' Lithography. See "Audley."

Collingwood harry) Under the Meteor Flag. The Log of a
Midshipman. Illustrated, small post 8vo, gilt, 6j-. ; plainer, 5^.

The Voyage of the ^^ Aurora'' Illustrated, small post

8vo, gilt, 6s. ; plainer, 5^.

Delvile {H. E.) Accursed Land : Water Way of Edom. los, 6d.

Composers. See "Great Musicians."

Confessions of a Frivolous Girl. Cr. 8vo, 6s. Paper boards, is.

Cook dutton) Book of the Play. New Edition, i vol., 3^. dd.

On the Stage: Studies of Theatrical History arid the

Actor's Art. 2 vols., 8vo, cloth, 24^.

Costume. See Smith (J. Moor).

Convent (Jos., M.P.) Life and Speeches. By Major Jones.
8vo, 14J.

Curtis (C B.^ Velasquez and Murillo. With Etchings, &c.
Royal 8vo, 315'. dd.; large paper, 63^.

Custer {E. B.) Boots and Saddles. Life in Dakota 7vith General
Custer. Crown Svo, Si. 6d.

Cutcliffe fil. C ) Trout Fishing in Rapid Streams. Cr. Svo, 3^. 6d.

PjANVERS {N.) An Elementary History of Art. Crown
■^-^ Svo, IOJ-. 6^.

■ Elementary History of Music. Crown Svo, 2s. 6d.

Handbooks of Elemental' Art — Architecture ; Sculpture

; Old Masters ; Modern Painting. Crown Svo, y. 6d. each.

Davis (C. T.) Manufacture of Bricks, Tiles, Terra Cotta, <5rc.
Illustrated. Svo, 25^.

Manufacture of Leather. With many Illustrations. 52^.6^.

Daiuidowsky (E.) Glue, Gelatine, Isinglass, Cements, &>c. Svo,
I2s. 6d.

Day of My Life {A) ; or, Every-Day Experiences at Eton.
By an Eton Boy. imo, cloth extra, 2s. 6d.

Day's Collation : an Encyclopaedia of Prose Quotations. Imperial
Svo, cloth, 31^-. 6d.

Decoration. Vols. II. to IX. New Series, folio, yi". dd. each.

Dogs in Disease : their Management and Treatment. By Ash-mont.

Crown Svo, 'js. 6d.
Do?inelly ignatius) Atlantis ; or, the Antediluvian World.

7th Edition, crown Svo, \2s. 6d.

Pagnarok : The Age of Ei7'e and Gravel. Illustrated,

Crown Svo, 12s. 6d.

Dore gustave) Life arid Reminiscences. By Blanche Roosevelt.
With numerous Illustrations from the Artist's previously unpublished
Drawings. Medium 8vo, 24^.

Dougall james Daniel) Shooting: its Appliances, Practice,
and Purpose. New Edition, revised with additions. Crown 8vo, 7^. dd,

"The book is admirable in every way We wish it every success"— G/^i^^.

"A very complete treatise Likely to take high rank as an authority on

shooting"— /^rtzV^ News.

Drama. See Cook (Button).
Dyeing, See Bird (F. J.).

-nDUCATLONAL Works published in Great Britain. A
■^ Classified Catalogue. Second Edition, 8vo, cloth extra, ^s.

Egypt. See " De Leon," " Foreign Countries."

Eight Months on the Gran Ciacco of the Argentine Republic.

8vo, lis. 6d.
Electricity. See Gordon.
Elliot {Adm. Sir G.) Future Naval Battles, and how to Fight

them. Numerous Illustrations. Royal 8vo, 14^'.

Emerson {R. W.) Life. By G. W. Cooke. Crown Svo, Zs. 6d.
English Catalogue of Books. Vol. III., 1872 — 1880. Royal
8vo, half-morocco, \2s. See also " Index."

English Etchings. A Periodical published Monthly.

English Philosophers. Edited by E. B. Ivan Muller, Mea.

A series intended to give a concise view of the works and lives of English
thinkers. Crown 8vo volumes of 180 or 200 pp., price tes. 6d. each.

Francis Bacon, by Thomas Fowler.
Hamilton, by W. H. S. Monck.
Hartley and James Mill, by G. S.
Bower.

*John Stuart Mill, by Miss Helen
Taylor.
Shaftesbury and Hutchison, by

Professor Fowler.
Adam Smith, by J. A. Farmer.
• Not yet published.

Esniarch {Dr. Friedrich) T?-eatfnent of the Wounded in War,
Numerous Coloured Plates and Illust., 8vo, strongly bound, i/. Zs.

Etching. See Charnock, and English Etchings.
Etchings modern) of Celebrated Paintings. 4to, 31 J. dd.

T^AJiM Ballads, Festivals, aid Legends. See " Rose Library."

Laurel claude) Last Days of the Consulate. Cr. 8vo, loi. dd.

Facets edgar) A Gentleniaii of Leisure, is.

Selden {If. St. C.) Some Public Schools, their Cost and
Scholarships. Crown 8vo, is. 6d.

Penn {G. Nashville) Off to the Wilds: A Story for Boys.
Profusely Illustrated. Crown 8vo, ^s. 6d. ; also 5^-.

• The Silver Canon : a Tale of the Western Plains.

Illustrated, small post 8vo, gilt, ds.; plainer, 5^-.

Fennel greville) Book of the Roach. New Edition, 121110, 2s.

Ferns. See Heath.

Fields {f.T) Yesterdays with Authors. New Ed., 8vo, 10s. 6d.

Fleming sandford) England and Canada : a Stunned Tour,
Crown 8vo, florence.

See "Yriarte."

Forward {R.y Jun.) Plant Lore, Legends, and Lyrics. Illustrated,
8vo, i6j-.

Forbes {H. O.) Naturalist s Wanderings in the Eastern Archipelago.
Illustrated, 8vo, ils.

Foreign Countries and British Colonies. A series of Descriptive
Handbooks. Crown 8vo, 3^. 6d. each.

Australia, by J. F. Vesey Fitzgerald.
Austria, by D. Kay, F.R.G.S.
*Canada, by W. Fraser Rae.
Denmark and Iceland, by E. Cette.

Peru, by Clements R. Markham,

Cab.
Russia, by \V. R. Merrill, Mea.
Spain, by Rev. Wentworth Webster.

Egypt, by S. Lane Poole, B.A. | Sweden and Norway, by F. H.

France, by Miss M. Roberts. I Woods.

Germany, by S. Baring-Gould. switzerland, by W. A. P. Coolidge,

Greece, by L. Sergeant, B.A. Mea.

holland, by R. L. Poole. j *Turkey-in-Asia, by J. C. McCoan,

Japan, by S. Mossman. j M.P.

*New Zealand. 1 West Indies, by C. H. Eden,

persia, by Major-Gen. Sir F. Gold | F.R.G.S.
smit. I

Not ready yet.

Frajnpion mary) Journal Letter's, and Anecdotes 1799—
1846. 8vo, 14J.

Franc maud Jeanne). The following form one Series, small

post 8vo, in uniform cloth bindings, with gilt edges : —
Emily's Choice. 5^.
Hall's Vineyard. 4^-.
John's Wife : A Story of Life in

South Australia. marian
; or, The Light of Some

One's Home. <^s.
Silken Cords and Iron Fetters, des.
Into the Light. vermont

Vale. ^^s.

Minnie's Mission. 4J.

Little Mercy. 4J.

Beatrice Melton's Discipline. 4^.

No Longer a Child. golden

Gifts. 4J.

Two Sides to Every Question. 4^.

Master of Ralston, 4^.

Francis {Fra?ices) Eric and Ethel: a Fairy Tale, Illustrated.

Crown 8vo, 3^. (>d.
French, See " Julien."
Froissart See " Laniei

rale (F ; the Old Buffer) Modern English Sports : their
^^ Use and Abuse. Crown 8vo, 6s. ; a few large paper copies, los. 6d.
Garth philip) Ballads and Foeins from the Pacific. Small post

8vo, 6x.
Gentle Life (Queen Edition). 2 vols, in i, small 4to, ds,

THE GENTLE LIFE SERIES.

Price 6j-. each ; or in calf extra, price vos. 6d. ; Smaller Edition, cloth
extra, 2s. 6d., except where price is named.

The Gentle Life, Essays in aid of the Formation of Character
of Gentlemen and Gentlewomen.

About in the World. Essays by Author of " The Gentle Life."

Like unto Christ. A New Translation of Thomas a Kempis'
De Imitation Christi."

Familiar Words. An Index Variorum, or Quotation Handbook.
6s.

Essays by Montaigne. Edited and Annotated by the Author

of "The Gentle Life."
The Gentle Life. 2nd Series.

The Silent Hour: Essays, Original and Selected. By the
Author of "The Gentle Life."

LLalf-Length Portraits. Short Studies of Notable Persons.
By J. Hain Friswell.

Essays o?i English lV?-ife7's, for the Self-improvement of
Students in English Literature.

Other People's Windows. By J. Hain Friswell. ds.

A Man's Thoughts. By J. Hain Friswell.

The Countess of Pembroke's Arcadia. By Sir Philip Sidney.
New Edition, 6j".

George Eliot : a Critical Study of her Life. By G. W. Cooke.
Crown 8vo, vos. 6d.

Germany. By S. Baring-Gould. Crown 8vo, 3>f. 6d.

Gilder {W. H.) Lce-Pack and Tundra. An Account of the
Search for the " Jeannette." 8vo, i8j-.

Schwatka's Search. Sledging in quest of the Franklin

Records. rusticated, 8vo, I2s. 6d.

Gilpin's Forest Scenery. Edited by F. G. Heath. Post 8vo,
75. 6d.

Gisborne (JV.) New Zealand Rulers and Statesmen. With
Portraits. Crown 8vo,

Gordon general) Private Diary in China. Edited by S.
MossMAN. Crown 8vo, *]s. 6d.

Gordon (/. E. H.^ B.A. Capital.) Four Lectures on Electric
Induction at the Royal Institution, 1878-9. Illust., square imo, electric

Lighting. Illustrated, 8vo, 18^.

Physical Treatise on Electricity acid Magnetism. 2n(l

Edition, enlarged, with coloured, full-page, &c., Illust. 2 vols., 8vo, 42?.

— Electricity for Schools. Illustrated. Crown 8vo, 55-.

Gouffe {fules) Royal Cookery Book. Translated and adapted
for English use by Alphonse Gouffe, Head Pastrycook to the
Queen. New Edition, with plates in colours, Woodcuts, &c., Svo,
gilt edges, 42J,

Domestic Edition, half-bound, loi. 6^/.

Grant generals U.S.) Personal Memoirs. With numerous
Illustrations, Maps, &c. 2 vols., Svo, 2%s.

Great Artists. See "Biographies."

Great Musicians. Edited by F. Suffer. A Series of
Biographies, crown 8vo, each : —

Bach.
*Beethoven.
^Berlioz.

English Church Composers.
ByBARETT.
^Gliick.

Handel. Purcell.

Haydn. Rossini.

*Marcello. Schubert.

Mendelssohn, Schumann.

Mozart. Richard Wagner.

*Palestrina. Weber.
Inprej>araiion.

Groves {/. Percy) Char mouth Grange : a Tale of the Seventeenth
Century. Illustrated, small post 8vo, gilt, 6s. ; plainer $s.

Gtiizofs History of France. Translated by Robert Black.

Super-royal 8vo, very numerous Full-page and other Illustrations. In
8 vols., cloth extra, gilt, each 24X. This work is re-issued in cheaper
binding, 8 vols., at vos. 6d. each.

It supplies a want which has long been felt, and ought to be in the hands of all
students of history." — Times.

Masso7i^s School Edition. Abridged

from the Translation by Robert Black, with Chronological Index, Historical
and Genealogical Tables, &c. By Professor Gustave Mason,
B.A. With 24 full-page Portraits, and other Illustrations, i vol.,
8vo, 600 pp., loj-. dd.

Guizot s History of England. In 3 vols, of about 500 pp. each,
containing 60 to 70 full-page and other Illustrations, cloth extra, gilt,
24J. each ; re-issue in cheaper binding, vos. 6d. each.

"For luxury of typography, plainness of print, and beauty of illustration, these
volumes, of which but one has as yet appeared in English, will hold their own
against any production of an age so luxurious as our own in everything, typography
not excepted. " — Times.

Guy on (Mde.) Life. By Upham. 6th Edition, crown 8vo, cis

{E M.) Floating Flies, and how to Dress them.
-^ -^ Coloured plates. 8vo, I's ', large paper, 30j\

Hall {W. IV.) How to Live Lo?ig; or, 1408 Health Maxims,
Physical, Mental, and Moral. 2nd Edition, small post 8vo, 2s.

Hamilton (E.) Recollections of Fly-fishing for Salmon, Trout,
and Grayling. With their Habits, Haunts, and History. Illustrated,
small post 8vo, 6s.; large paper (100 numbered copies), los. 6d.

Hands (T.) Numerical Exercises ii Chemistry. Cr. 8vo, 2s. 6d.
and IS. ; Answers separately, 6d.

Hardy {Thofnas'). See Low's Standard Novels.

Hurricanes i^Capt.) Voyage round Great Britain. Illustrated.
Crown 8vo, 5^.

Garland (marian) Home Kitchen : a Collection of Practical
and Inexpensive Receipts. Crown 8vo, <,s.

JIa?'per''s Monthly Magazine. Published Monthly. 160 pages,
fully Illustrated, is.

Vol. I. December, 1880, to May, 1881.
,, II. June to November, ism.
,, III. December, 1881, to May, 1882.
,, IV". June to November, 1882.
„ V. December, 1882, to May, 1S83.
,, VI. June to November, 1883.
„ VII. December, 1883, to May, 1884.
,, VIII. June to November, 1SS4.
,, IX. December, 1S84, to May, 1885.
,, X. June to November, 1885.
Super-royal 8vo, Sj-. 6d. each.

' Harper's Magazine ' is so thickly sown with excellent illustrations that to count
then would be a work of time ; not that it is a picture magazine, for the engravings
illustrate the text after the manner seen in some of our choicest editions deluge." —
Si. James's Gazette.

It is so pretty, so big, and so cheap. . An extraordinary shillingsworth—
160 large octavo pages, with over a score of articles, and more than three times as
many illustrations"— ^(//«(^7<r^/i Daily Review.

An amazing shillings worth . . , combining choice literature of both nations." —
Nonconformist.

Carpets Young People. Vol. I., profusely Illustrated with
woodcuts and 12 coloured plates. Royal 4to, extra binding, ^s. 6d. ;
gilt edges, 8j". Published Weekly, in wrapper, id. imo. Annual
Subscription, post free, ()s. 6d, ; Monthly, in wrapper, with coloured
plate, 6d. ; Annual Subscription, post free, "js. 6d.

Harrison (Mary) Skilful Cook : a Practical Manual of Modern
Experience. Crown 8vo, 5^-.

Hatton {F.) North Borneo. With Biographical Sketch by
Jos. H.A.TTON. Illustrated from Original Drawings, Map, &c. 8vo,
i%s.

Hatton joseph) Journalistic London : with Engravings and
Portraits of Distinguished Writers of the Day. P'cap. 4to, 12.S, 6d.

Three Recruits, and the Girls they left behind them.

Small post 8vo, 6s.

It hurries us along in unflagging excitement." — Times.

Heath francis George) Autumnal Leaves. New Edition,
with Coloured Plates in Facsimile from Nature. Crown 8vo, 14-?.

Fern Paradise. New Edition, with Plates and Photos.,

crown 8vo, lis. 6d.

Heath {Fi^ancis George) Fern World. With Nature-printed
Coloured Plates. Crown 8vo, gilt edges, \2s. 6d. Cheap Edition, 6s.

'- Gilding s Forest Scenery. Illustrated, 8vo, 12^. 6^.;

New Edition, ^s. 6d.

Stir Woodland Trees. With Coloured Plates and

Engravings. Small 8vo, lis. 6d.

Feasant Life in the West of England. New Edition,

crown 8vo, vos. 6d.

Sylvan Spring. With Coloured, &c., Illustrations.

I2s. 6d.

Trees and Ferns. Illustrated, crown 8vo, 3^. 6d.

Hermann bernard) Mutiny on Board the Ship ^^ Leander
Small post Svo, gilt edges, numerous Illustrations, 5^-.

Henry (G. A.) Winning his Spurs. Illustrations. Cr. Svo, ^s.

Cornet of Horse : A Story for Boys. Illust, cr. Svo, 5^-.

Jack Archer : Tale of the Crimea. Illust., crown Svo, Ks.

Herrick robert) Poetry. Preface by Austin Dobson. With
numerous Illustrations by E. A. Abbey. 4to, gilt edges, ais.

Hill {Staveley, Q.C.^ M.P) From Home to Home: Two Long
Vacations at the Foot of the Rocky Mountains. With Wood
Engravings and Photogravures. Svo, 2\s.

Henchman, Public Life of the Right Hon. Benjamin Disraeli
Earl of Beaconsfield. 3rd Edition, with Portrait. Crown Svo, y. dd.

Holmes (O. Wendell) Poetical Works. 2 vols., imo, exquisitely
printed, and chastely bound in limp cloth, gilt tops, \Qs. 6d.

Homer. Iliad, dofie into English Verse. By A. S. Way. hudson

(W. H.) The Purple Land that England Lost.
Travels and Adventures in the Banda Oriental, South America. 2
vols, crown Svo, 21s.

Hundred Greatest Men the). S portfolios, 21s. each, or 4 vols.,
half-morocco, gilt edges, 10 guineas. New Ed., i vol., royal Svo, 21s.

Hygiene and Public Health. Edited by A. H. Buck, M.D.
Illustrated. 2 vols., royal Svo, 42i-.

Hymnal Companion of Common Prayer. See Bickersteth.

Illustrated Text-Books of Art-Education. Edited by
■^ Edward J. Pointer, R. A. Each Volume contains numerous Illustrations,
and is strongly bound for Students, price ^s. Now ready : —

PAINTING.

French, and Spanish.
English and American.

Classic and Italian. By Percy

R. Head.
German, Flemish, and Dutch.

ARCHITECTURE.

Classic and Early Christian.

Gothic and Renaissance. By T. Roger Smith.

SCULPTURE.
Antique : Egyptian and Greek.

Index to the English Catalogue, JcL^i , 1874, to Dec.^ 1880.
Royal 8vo, half-morocco, \Zs.

Indian Garden Series. See Robinson (Phil).

Irving henry) Impressions of America. By J. Hatton. 2
vols., 2IJ-.; New Edition, I vol., 6s.

living ( Washington). Complete Library Edition of his Works
in 27 Vols., Copyright, Unabridged, and with the Author's Latest
Revisions, called the *' Geoffrey Crayon" Edition, handsomely printed
in large square 8vo, on superfine laid paper. Each volume, of about
500 pages, fully Illustrated. I2i-. 6d. per vol. See also "Little Britain."

(" American Men of Letters") 2s. 6d.

eames (C) Curiosities of Laid and Lawyers. 8vo, 7^. 6d.

Japan. See Audley.

Merton gertrude) Key-hole Country. Illustrated. Crown 8vo,

cloth, 5j.
Johnston {H. H.) River Congo, from its Mouth to Lobo.

New Edition, 8vo, lis.
Jones {Alajor) The Emigrants Friend. A Complete Guide to

the United States. New Edition. 2s. 6d.
Joyful Lays. Sunday School Song Book. By Lowry and

Done. Boards, 2s.
Julien (E.) English Student's French Examiner. 16 mo, 2s.
First Lessons in Conversational French Grammar.

Crown 8vo, \s.

Julien {F.) French at Home and at School. Book I., Accidence,
&c. Square crown 8vo, 2s.

Conversational Finch Reader. 161110, cloth, 2s. 6d.

Petites Lemons de Conversation et de Grammaire. New

Edition, phrases

of Daily Use. Limp cloth, dd.

Jersey {C. B.) Diseases of the Rectum and Anus.
■^^ Illustrated. 8vo, iSs.

Kempis thomas a) Daily Text-book. Square 161110, 2S. 6d.;
interleaved as a Birthday Book, 3j-. 6d.

Ke7'shaw (S. W.) Protestants frown France in their English
Home. Crown 8vo, 6s.

Hieland. Skipper Worse. By the Earls Ducis. Cr. 8vo, ioj'.6^.

Kingston (PF. H. G.) Dick Cheveley. Illustrated, imo, gilt
edges, 7j. 6d. ; plainer binding, plain edges, ^s.

Iter of Kilfinnan. Uniform, 75-. 6^. ; also 5 J.

Snow-shoes and Canoes. Uniform, yj-. dd. ; also 5^.

• Tito Supercargoes. Uniform, 7^. dd, ; also ^s.

With Axe and Rifle. Uniform, 7^-, 6d. ; also ^s.

Knight {E. F.) Albania and Montenegro. Illust. 8vo, \2S. 6d.

Knight {E.J.) Cruise of the '' Falcon'' A Voyage round the
World in a 30-Ton Yacht. Illust. New Ed. 2 vols., crown Svo, 2\s.

T Anger sidney) Boy's Froissart. Illustrated, crown Svo,
-^ gilt edges, 7J-. dd.

• Boss King Arthur. Uniform, 7^". dd.

- Boss Mabifiogion ; Original Welsh Legends of King
Arthur. Uniform, 'js. 6d.

Boy's Percy : Ballads of Love and Adventure selected

from the "Reliques." Uniform, 'js. 6d.

Lansddl{H.) Through Siberia. 2 vols., 8vo, 305-. ; i vol., loi'. Gd.

Russia in Central Asia. Illustrated. 2 vols, 425-.

Garden (IV.) School Course on Heat. Second Edition, Illustrated,
crown Svo, 5j-.

Lenormatit [F.) Beginnings of History. Crown Svo, 12^. 6d.

Leonardo da VincVs Literary Works. Edited by Dr. Jean
Tail Richter. Containing his Writings on Painting, Sculpture,
and Architecture, his Philosophical Maxims, Humorous Writings, and
Miscellaneous Notes on Personal Events, on his Contemporaries, on
Literature, &c. ; published from Manuscripts. 2 vols., imperial 8vo,
containing about 200 Drawings in Autotype Reproductions, and numerous
other Illustrations. Twelve Guineas.

Library of Religious Poetry. Best Poems of all Ages. Edited
by ScHAFF and GiLMAN. Royal Svo, lis.; re-issue in cheaper binding,
IOJ-. dd.

Lindsay {JV. S.) History of Merchant Shipping. Over 150
Illustrations, Maps, and Charts. In 4 vols., demy Svo, cloth extra.
Vols, I and 2, \\s. each ; vols. 3 and 4, 14^. each. 4 vols., 50^.

Little Britain The Spectre Bridegroom, and Legend of Sleepy
Hollow. By Washington Irving. An entirely New Edition de
luxe. Illustrated by 120 very fine Engravings on Wood, by Mr.
J. D. Cooper. Designed by Mr. Charles O. Murray. Re-issue,
square crown Svo, cloth, 6j.

Long mrs.) Peace and War in the Transvaal. 12 mo, ^s. 6d.

Lowell {/. R.) Life of Nathaniel Hawthorn.

Lo7v sampson, Jun.) Sanitary Suggestions. Illustrated, crown
Svo, 2s. 6d.

Low's Standard Library of Travel and Adventure. Crown Svo,
uniform in cloth extra, 7^. 6d., except where price is given.

1. The Great Lone Land. By Major W. F. Butler, Cab.

2. The Wild North Land. By Major W. F. Butler, Cab.

3. H:ov7 I found Living-stone. By H. M. Stanley.

4. Through the Dark Continent. By H. M. Stanley. 12s. 6d.

5. The Threshold of the Unknown Reg-ion. By C. R. Markham.

(4th Edition, with Additional Chapters, los. 6d.)

6. Cruise of the Challenge-er. By W. J. J. Spry, Ren.

7. Burnaby's On Horseback through Asia Minor. loj-. 6d.

8. Schweinfurth's Heart of Africa. 2 vols., I5J-.

9. Marshall's Through America.

10. Lansdell's Through Siberia. Illustrated and unabridged,
IOJ-. 6d.

Low's Standard Novels, Small post 8vo, cloth extra, 6^. each,
unless otherwise stated.
A Daughter of Heth. By W. Black.
In Silk Attire. By W. Black.
Ailment. A Novel. By W. Black.
Lady Coverdale's Sweetheart. By W. Black.
Sunrise. By W. Black.
Three Feathers. By William Black.
Alice Lorraine. By R. D. Blackmore.
Christowell, a Dartmoor Tale. By R. D. Blackmore.
Clara Vaughan. By R. D. Blackmore.
Crack Powell. By R. D. Blackmore.
Cripps the Carrier. By R. D. Blackmore.
Enema ; or, My Father's Sin. By R. D. Blackmore.
Lorna Done. By R. D. Blackmore.
Mary Waverley. By R. D. Blackmore.
Tommy XJpmore, By R. D. Blackmore.
An English Squire. By Miss Coleridge.

A Story of the Dragonnades ; or, Asylum Christi. By the Rev.
E. GiLLIAT, Mea.

A Laodicean. By Thomas Hardy.

Far from the Madding Crowd. By Thomas Hardy.

Pair of Blue Eyes. By Thomas Hardy.

Return of the Native. By Thomas Hardy.

The Hand of Ethelbert. By Thomas Hardy.

The Trumpet Major. By Thomas Hardy.

Two on a Tower. By Thomas Hardy.

Three Recruits. By Joseph Hatton.

A Golden Sorrow. By Mrs. Cashed Holy. New Edition.

Out of Court. By Mrs. Castel Holy.

Adela Cathcart. By George Mac Donald.

Guild Court. By George Mac Donald.

Mary Marston. By George Mac Donald.

Stephen Archer. New Ed. of "Gifts." By George Mac Donald.

The Vicar's Daughter. By George Mac Donald.

Weighed and Wanting. By George Mac Donald.

Diane. By Mrs. Macquoid.

Elinor Dryden. By Mrs. Macquoid.

My Lady Greensleeves. By Helen Matters.

Alaric Spenceley. By Mrs. J. H. Liddell.

Daisies and Buttercups. By Mrs. J. H. Liddell.

The Senior Partner. By Mrs. J. H. Liddell.

A Struggle for Fame. By Mrs. J. H. Liddell.

Jack's Courtship. By W. Clark Russell.

John Wordsworth. By W. Clark Russell.

A Sailor's Sweetheart. By W. Clark Russell.

Sea Queen. By W. Clark Russell

Watch Below. By W. Clark Russell.

Wreck of the Grosvenor. By W. Clark Russell.

Liv's Standard Novels — continued.

The Lady Maid. By W. Clark Russell.

Little Loo. By W. Clark Russell.

My Wife and I. By Mrs. Beecher Stowe.

Pog-anuc People, their Loves and Lives. By Mrs. B. Stowe.

Ben Hur : a Tale of the Christ. By Lew. Wallace.

Anne. By Constance Fenimore Wilson.

For the Major. By Constance Fenimore Wilson. ^s.

French Heiress in her own Chateau.

Liv's Handbook to the Charities of London. Edited and revised
to date by C. Macedon, F.S.S., Editor of "A Guide to the
Churches London and its Suburbs," &c. Yearly, ij-. 6^/. ; Paper, \s.

Lyne charles) Neu Guinea. Illustrated, crown 8vo, 10s. 6d.
An Account of the Establishment of the British Protectorate over the
Southern Shores of New Guinea.

ly^CCORMLCK {R). Voyages of Discovery in the Arctic and

-^'^ Antarctic Seas in the "Erebus" and "Terror," in Search of
Sir John Franklin, &c., -w with Autobiographical Notice by the Author,
who was Medical Officer to each Expedition. With Maps and Lithographic,
&c., Illustrations. 2 vols,, royal 8vo, 52^'. 6d.

MacDonald (G.) Orts. Small post 8vo, 6s.

See also " Low's Standard Novels."

Macgregor {/oh?i) ^^ Rob Roy" on the Baltic. 3rd Edition,
small post 8vo, 2s. 6d. ; cloth, gilt edges, 3^-. 6d.

A Thousand Miles in the ^^ Rob Roy" Canoe, nth

Edition, small post 8vo, 2s. 6d. ; cloth, gilt edges, 35". 6d.

Voyage Alone in the Yawl ^^ Rob Roy." New Edition,

with additions, small post Svo, $s. ; 3^-. 6d. and 2s. 6d.

Macquoid(Mrs.). See Low's Standard Novels.

Magazine. See Decoration, English Etchings, Harper.

Maginn {W.) Miscellanies. Prose a fid Verse. With Memoir.
2 vols., crown Svo, 24-5-.

Manitoba. See Bryce.

Manuring (E. R) Delightful Thames. Illustrated. 4t05 fancy
boards, 5^.

Markham {C. jR.) The Threshold of the Unknown Region,
Crown 8vo, with Four Maps. 4th Edition. Cloth extra, loj-. dd.

War between Peru and Chili, 1879-1881. Third Ed.

Crown 8vo, With Maps, vos. 6d.

See also " Foreign Countries."

Marshall (JV. G.) Through America. New Ed., cr. 8vo, 7;. dd.

Martini {J. W.) Float Fishing and Spinning in the Nottingham

Style. New Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.
Maury commander) Physical Geography of the Sea, and its

Meteorology. New Edition, with Charts and Diagrams, cr. 8vo, 6j-.
Men of Mark: a Gallery of Contemporary Portraits of the most

Eminent Men of the Day, specially taken from Life. Complete in

Seven Vols., 4to, handsomely bound, cloth, gilt edges, 25^. each.

Mendelssohn Family the), 1729 — 1847. From Letters and

Journals. Translated. New Edition, 2 vols., 8vo, 30J.
Mendelssohn. See also " Great Musicians."
Terrified' s Nautical Astronomy. Crown 8vo, 7^. (yd,

Millard {H. B.) Bright Disease of the Kidneys. Illustrated.

8vo, 1 2 J. 6d.
Mitchell (D. G. ; Ik. Marvel) Works. Uniform Edition,

small Svo, 5^. each.
Bound together.
Doctor Johns.
Dream Life.
Out-of-To\vn Places.

Milford mary Russell) Our Village. With 12 ful-pape and 157
smaller Cuts. Cr. 4to, cloth, gilt edges, 2.\s.\ cheaper binding, vos. 6d.

Mollett {/. W.) Illustrated Dictionary of Words used in Art and
Archaeology. Terms in Architecture, Arms, Bronzes, Christian Art,
Colour, Costume, Decoration, Devices, Emblems, Hei-aldry, Lace,
Personal Ornaments, Pottery, Painting, Sculpture, &c. Small 4to, 15J.

'Morley (If.) English Literature in the Reign of Victoria.
2000th volume of the Tauchnitz Collection of Authors. imo, is. 6d.

Wormwood ( V. S.) Our Gipsies in City, Tent, and Van. Svo,
smaller

(P.) Noble Words and Noble Deeds. By Philippoteaux.
Square imperial l6mo, cloth extra, 7^. (>d. ; plainer binding, 5^.

Music. See " Great Musicians."

Reveries of a Bachelor.

Seven Stories, Basement and Attic.

Wet Days at Wedgwood.

ATE W Zealand. See Bradshaw.

Nev Zealand Eiders and Statesmen. See Gisborne.

Neiubiggm's Sketches and Tales, imo, des.

Nicholls {/. H. Kerry) The King Country: Explorations in
New Zealand. Many Illustrations and Map. New Edition, 8vo, lis.

Nicholson (C.) Work and Workers of the British Association.
imo, IS.

Nixon {/.) Complete Story of the Transvaal. 8vo, 12s. dd.

Nordhoff {C.) Calif omnia, for Health, Pleasure, and Residence.
New Edition, 8vo, with Maps and Illustrations, I2J-. 6d.

Notebook Gallery. Edited by Lord Ronald Gower. 36 Permanent
Photographs. Imperial 4to, 63X. ; large paper, 105^-.

Nursery Playmates {Prificeof). 217 Coloured Pictures for
Children by eminent Artists. Folio, in coloured boards, 6s.

ryPRIEN (P. B.) Fifty Years of Concessions to Ireland,
^ With a Portrait of T. Drummond. Vol. I., l6s. ; II., i6s.

Oris {C. F.) Fishing ivith the Fly. Illustrated. 8vo, 12s. 6d.

Our Little Ones in Heaven. Edited by the Rev. H. Robbins.
With Frontispiece after Sir Joshua Reynolds. New Edition, $s.

Owen douglas) Marine Instance Notes and Clauses. New
Edition, 14X.

pALLISER mrs.) A History of Lace. New Edition, with
I- additional cuts and text. 8vo, 2IJ.

The China Collector's Pocket Companion. With upwards

of 1000 Illustrations of Marks and Monogi-ams. Small Svo, ^s.
Pascoe {C. E.) London of To-Day. Illust., crown Svo, 35-. dd.
Pharmacopoeia of the United States of America. Svo, 2i.y.
Pilot {H. J) Diabetes Mellitus. Crown Svo, ^s.
Diet System. Three Tables, in cases, is. each.

Pinto major Ses-pa) How I Crossed Africa. With 24 full-page
and 118 half-page and smaller Illustrations, 13 small Maps, and i large
one. 2 vols., 8vo, 42J.

Plunkeit major G. F.) Primer of Orthographic Projection.
Elementary Practical Solid Geometry clearly explained. With Problems
and Exercises. Specially adapted for Science and Art Classes,
and for Students who have not the aid of a Teacher.

Poe {E. A.) The Raven. Illus. by Dore. Imperial folio, 63^.

Poems of the Inner Life. Chiefly from Modern Authors.
Small 8vo, 5-s-.

Polar Expeditions. See Gilder, Markhaisi, McCormick.

Porter noah) Elements of Moral Science. vos. (yd,

Powell (W.) Wanderings in a Wild Country ; or, Three Years
among the Cannibals of New Britain. Illus., 8vo, i8j-.] or. 8vo, 5>r.

Power frank) Letters from lUiarfoum during the Siege.
Cap. 8vo, boards, is.

Pointer edwards., E.A.). See " Illustrated Text-books."

Publishers Circular the), and General Record of British and
Foreign Literature. Published on the 1st and 15th of every Month, 3^'.

7^EBER{F.) History of Ancient Art. 8vo, 185-.

Redford {G.) Ancient Sculpture. Crown 8vo, 5-5-.

Richter {Dr. Jean Paul) Italian Art in the National Gallery.
4to. Illustrated. Cloth gilt, 2/. 2s.', half-morocco, uncut, 2/. lis. 6d.

See also Leonardo da Vinci.

Liddell mrs. J. II.) See Low's Standard Novels.

Roan Hood; Merry Adventures of Written and illustrated
by Howard Pyle. Imperial 8vo, 15^.

Robinson phil.) In my Indian Garden. Crown 8vo, limp
cloth, 3J. 6d.

Robinson phil.) Indian Garden Series, is. 6d. ; boards, each.
I. Chasing a Fortune, &c. : Stories. II. Tigers at Large.

Noah's Ark. A Contribution to the Study of Unnatural

History. Small post 8vo, \2s. 6d.
Sinners aid Saints : a Tour across the United States of

America, and Round them. Crown 8vo, lOi". 6d.

Under the Funkah. Crown 8vo, limp cloth, 5^.

Rockstro {IV. S.) History of Music.

Rodriguez {/. C.) The Panama Canal. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, 5^.

"A series of remarkable articles . a mine of valuable data for editors and
diplomatists." — New York Nation.

Roland ; the Story of. Crown Svo, illustrated, ()S.

Rose (y.) Complete Practical Machinist. New Ed., 1 imo, 1 2s. 6d.

Mechanical Draining. Illustrated, small 4to, ici

Library the). Popular Literature of all Countries. Each
volume, li. ; cloth, 2s. 6d. INIany of the Volumes are Illustrated —
Little Women. By Louisa M. Alcott.

Little Women Wedded. Forming a Sequel to " Little Women."
Little Women and Little Women Wedded, i vol. , cloth gilt, 3-f . 6d.
Little Men. By L. M. Alcott. 2s.; cloth gilt, 3^-. 6d.
An Old-fashioned Girl. By Louisa M. Alcott. 2s.; cloth,

3^. 6d.
Work. A Story of Experience. By L. M. Alcott. 3j-. 6d. ; 2 vols.

IS. each.
Stowe (Mrs. H. B.) The Pearl of Orr's Island.

The Minister's Wooing.

We and our Neighbours. 2s. ; cloth gilt, 6s.

My Wife and I. 2s. ; cloth gilt, 6s.

Hans Drinker ; or, the Silver Skates. By Mrs. DoDGE.

My Study Windows. By J. R. Lowell.

The Guardian Angel. By Oliver Wendell Holmes.

My Summer in a Garden. By C. D. Warner.

Died. By Mrs. Beecher Stowe. 2s.; cloth gilt, 3^-. 6(/.

Farm Ballads. By Will Carleton.

Farm Festivals. By Will Carleton.

Rose Library the) — continued.
Farm Legends. By Will Carleton.

The Clients of Dr. Bernagrius. 3^. 6^. ; 2 parts, is. each.

The Undiscovered Country. By W. D. Howell. 3J. td. and ix.

Baby Bue. By C. M. Clay. 3.V. ^d. and is.

The Rose in Bloom. By L. M. Alcott. zs. ; cloth gilt, 3^. 6d.

Eight Cousins. By L. M. Alcott. 2s. ; cloth gilt, 3j-. 6d.

Under the Lilacs. By L. M. Alcott. 2s. ; also 3^. 6d.

Silver Pitchers. By LouiSA M. Alcott. ^s. 6d. and is.

Jimmy's Cruise in the ** Pinafore," and other Tales. By
Louisa M. Alcott. 2s.; cloth gilt, p. 6d.

Jack and Jill. By LouiSA M. Alcott. 5^-. ; 2s.

Hitherto. By the Author of the " Gayworthys." 2 vols., Leach;
I vol., cloth gilt, 3^. 6d.

Friends : a Duet. By E. Stuart Phelps. 3^. 6d.

A Gentleman of Leisure. A Novel. By Edgar Facets.
2,s. 6d. i is.

The Story of Helen Troy. 3^. 6d. ; also is.

Ross mars ; and Stonehenge Cooper) Highlands of Cantahria ;
or, Three Days from England. Illustrations and Map, 8vo, 21s.

Round the Yule Log: Norwegian Folk and Fairy Tales.
Translated from the Norwegian of P. Chr. Asbjornsen. With 100
Illustrations after drawings by Norwegian Artists, and an Introduction
by E. W. Gosse. Imply. imo, cloth extra, gilt edges, yj. 6d. and 5^.

Rousselet louis) Son of the Constable of France. Small post
8vo, numerous Illustrations, 5^.

King of the Tigers : a Story of Central India. Illustrated.
Small post 8vo, gilt, 6s. ; plainer, drummer

Boy. Illustrated. Small post 8vo, 5^.

Rowbotham {F.) Trip to Prairie Land. The Shady Side of
Emigration. 5^.

Russell { W. Clark) English Channel Ports and the Estate
of the East and West India Dock Company. Crown 8vo, is.

Jacks Courtship. 3 vols., 31 J. dd.y i vol., ds.

Russell {]V, Clark) The Lady Maud. 3 vols., 31X. 6^.; i vol.,
Little Loo. New Edition, small post 8vo, 6^.

My Watch Beloiu ; 07% Yarns Spun when off Duty,

Small post 8vo, 6s.

Sailor's Language. Illustrated. Crown 8vo, 3^. 6d.

Sea Queen. 3 vols., 31J. 6d.', i vol., 6s.

Strange Voyage. Nautical Novel. 3 vols., crown 8vo,

3 IX. 6d.

Wreck of the Grosvenor. 4to, sewed, dd.'

See also Low's Standard Novels.

(saints and their Symbols : A Companion in the Churches
*^ and Picture Galleries of Europe. Illustrated. Royal imo, 35'. 6</.

Salisbury lord) Life aid Speeches. By F. S. Pulling, Mea.
With Photogravure Portrait of Lord Salisbury. 2 vols., crown 8vo,
21S.

Saunders {A.) Our Domestic Birds : Poultry in England and
New Zealand. Crown Bvo, 6s.

Scherr prof. J^.) History of English Literature. Cr. 8vo, Zs. 6d.

Scilly. Rescue of Freely. Maps and Illustrations, 8vo, 12^. 6d.

Schuyler {Et^ge fie). The Life of Peter the Great. By Eugene
Schuyler, Author of "Turkestan." 2 vols., Svo, 32^-.

Schweinfurth {Georg) Heart of Africa. Three Years' Travels
and Adventures in the Unexplored Regions of Central Africa, from
1868 to 1 87 1. Illustrations and large Map. 2 vols., crown Svo, i^s.

Scott (Leader) Renaissance of Art in Italy. 4to, 3ij'. 6d.

Sea, River, and Creek. By Garboard Strike. The Eastern
Coast. imo, is.

Senior {W.) Waterside Sketches. Imp. 321110, i,y. 6^., boards, is.

Shadbolt and Mackinnon's South African Campaign, 1879.
Containing a portrait and biography of every officer who lost Its
life. 4to, handsomely bound, 2/. los.

Shadow {S. H.) Afghan Campaigns of 1878— 1880. By
Sydney Shadbolt. 2 vols., royal quarto, cloth extra, 3/.

Shakespeare. Edited by R. Grant White. 3 vols., crown
8yo, gilt top, 36>r. ; edition de luxe, 6 vols., Svo, cloth extra, 63J.

Shakespeare. See also White (R. Grant).

Shooting Niagara /' or, The Last Days of Caucus. By the
Author of "The New Democracy"' Small post Svo, boards, is.

Sidney sir Philips Arabia. New Edition, 6s.

Siegfried : The Story of. Illustrated, crown 8vo, cloth, 6s.

Sinclair (Mrs.) Indigenous Flowers of the Hawaiian Islands.
44 Plates in Colour. Imp. folio, extra binding, gilt edges, 31J. 6d.

Sir Roger de Coverley. Re-imprinted from the "Spectator."
With 125 Woodcuts and special steel Frontispiece. Small cap. 4to, smith

(G.) Assyrian Explorations and Discoveries. Illustrated
by Photographs and Woodcuts. New Edition, demy Svo, iSj.

The Chaldean Account of Genesis. With many Illustrations.
i6j. New Edition, revised and re-written by Professor
Sauce, Queen's College, Oxford. Svo, iSj.

S7nith {/. Moor) Ancient Greek Female Costume. 112 full-page
Plates and other Illustrations. Crown Svo, 'js. 6d. '

Hades of Ardennes : a Visit to the Caves of Han. Crown

Svo, Illustrated, legendary

Studies and other Sketches for Decorative

Figure Panels. 7^. 6d.

Wooing of Mthra. Illustrated. 3 2 mo, \s.

Smith sydney) Life and Times. By Stuart J. Reid. Illustrated.
Svo, ils.

Smith {T Roger) Architecture, Gothic arid Renaissance. Illustrated,
crown Svo, 5^.

^— Classic and Early Christian.

Illustrated. Crown Svo, 5^.

Smith { W. R.) Lais concerning Fuhlic Health. Svo, 31J. 6d,

Somerset lady H.) Our Village Life. Words and Illustrations.

Thirty Coloured Plates, royal 4to, fancy covers, 5^.

Spanish and French Artists. By Gerard Smith. (Pointer's
Art Text-books.) 5^.

Spies' French Dictionary. 29th Edition, remodelled. 2 vols.,
8vo, iSj-.; half bound, 2IJ-.

Spry ( W. J. /., Ren) Cruise of H.M.S. " Challenger With
many Illustrations. 6lh Edition, 8vo, cloth, \%s. Cheap Edition,
crown 8vo, 7^-. 6r/.

Spyri {yoh.) Heidi's Early Experiences: a Story for Children
and those who love Children. Illustrated, small post Svo, 4J-. ^d.

HeidVs Further Experiences. Illust., sm. post Svo, 4^. 6d.

Stanley (H. M.) Congo , and Founding its Free State. Illustrated,
2 vols., Svo, 42 J.

How L Found Livingstone. Svo, vos. 6d. ; cr. Svo, p» 6d.

Through the Dark Continent. Crown Svo, 12s. 6d.

Stenhouse {Afrs.) Afi Englishwoman in Utah. Crown Svo, 2s. 6d.

Stevens {E. W.) Fly-fishing in Maifie Lakes. 2>s. 6d.

Stockton frank R.) The Story of Viteau. With 16 page
Illustrations. Crown Svo, customer

{Brani) Under the Sunset. Crown Svo, 6s.

Stowe mrs. Beecher) Died. Cloth, gilt edges, 3^. dd.; boards, 2s.

Little Foxes. Cheap Ed., \s.\ Library Edition, 45-. 6d.

My Wife and L. Small post Svo, 6s.

Old Toivn Folk. ds. ; Cheap Edition, sold

Totvn Fireside Stories. Cloth extra, :^s. 6d.

We and our Neighbours. Small post Svo, 6s.

Poganuc People : their Loves and Lives. Crown Svo, 6s.

Finney Corner, is. ; cloth, \s. 6d.

See also Rose Library.

Sullivan {A. M.) Nutshell History of Ireland. Paper boards, dd,

Sutton {A. K.) A B C Digest of the Bankruptcy Law, 8vo,
3j. and 2s. 6d.

7ATNE {H. A.) ^^ Les Origines de la France Contemporaine"
Translated by John Durant.

I. The Ancient Reg-ime. Demy 8vo, cloth, i6j.

II. The French Revolution. Vol. i . do.

III. Do. do. Vol.2. do.

IV. Do. do. Vol. 3. do.

Talbot thon. E.) A Letter on Emigration, is,

Tauchnitz's English Editions of German Author's, Each
volume, cloth flexible, is. ; or sewed, is. 6d. (Catalogues post free.)

Tauchnitz (B.) German and English Dictionary. 2s. ; paper,
IS. 6d. : roan, 2s. 6d.

French and English Dictionary. 2s. ; paper, is. 6d. j

roan, 2s. 6d.

Italian and English Dictionary. 2s. ; paper, is. 6d, ;

roan, 2s. 6d.

Spanish arid English. 2s. ; paper, is. 6d. ; roan, 2s, 6d.

Taylor {W. M.) Paul the Missionary. Crown Svo, 7 J. ()d.
Teasing prof.) Malt and the Fabrication of Beer. Svo, 45^-.
Theakston {M.) British Angling Flies. Illustrated. Cr. Svo, thomson

(JV.) Algebra for Colleges arid Schools. With numerous
Examples. svo, 5^., Key, \s. bd.

Tho77ison jos.) Through Masai Land. Illustrations and Maps.

21S.

Thoreau. American Men of Letters. Crown Svo, 2s. 6d.

Tolhause7i {Alexa7id7'e) Grand Supple77ie7it du Dictionnaire

Technologique. 3^. 6d.

Tristan rev. Cation) Pathways of Palestine : A Descriptive
Tour through the Holy Land, First Series. Illustrated by 44 Permanent
Photographs. 2 vols., folio, cloth extra, gilt edges, 3U. 6d, each.

Trollope anthony) Thompson Hall. is.

Tromholt (S.) Under the Rays of the Aurora Bore alls. By
C. Sievers. Photographs and Portraits. 2 vols., 8vo, soi".

Tunis. See Reid.

Turner edward) Studies in Russian Literature. Cr. Svo, 2>s. Gd.

T Union Jack the). Every Boy's Paper. Edited by G. A.
^ IIexty. Profusely Illustrated with Coloured and other Plates.
Vol. L, 6s, Vols. II., III., IV., ^s. bd. each.

J/ASILI count) Berlin Society. Translated. Gown Svo,
^ 6s.

World of London fla Societe de Londres). Translated.

Crown Svo, 6s.

Velasquez and Murillo. By G. B. Curtis. With Original
Etchings. Royal Svo, '■^is. 6d.; large paper, 63J.

Victoria queen) Life of. By Grace Greenwood. With
numerous Illustrations. Small post Svo, 6s.

Vincent mrs. Howard) Forty Thousand Miles over Land and
Water. With Illustrations engraved under the direction ol" Mr. H.
Blackburn. 2 vols, crown Svo, 2\s.

Viollet-le-Duc {E.) Lectures on Architecture, Translated by
Benjamin Bucknall, Architect. With 33 Steel Plates and 200
Wood Engravings. Super-royal Svo, leather back, gilt top, 2 vols., 3/. 3^.

Vivian {A. P.) Vance rings in the Western Land. 3rd Ed., los. 6d,

Large Cbowk 8vo.

WORKS.

20.000 Leagues under the Sea.

Parts I. and II

Hector Servadac

The Fur Country

The Earth to the Moon and a Trip

round it

Michael Strogoff

Dick Sands, the Boy Captain . .
Five Weeks in a Balloon . . .
Adventures of Three Englishmen

and Three Russians
Bound the World in Eighty Bays

A Floating City

The Blockade Runners

Dr. Ox's Experiment

A Winter amid the Ice . .
Survivors of the " Chancellor " .

Martin Paz

The Mysterious Island, 3 vols. :—
I. Dropped from the Clouds .

ir. Abandoned

III. Secret of the Island . . .
The Child of the Cavern . . . .
The Begum's Fortune . . . .
The Tribulations of a Chinaman .
The Steam House, 2 vols. :—
I. Demon of Cawnpore . . .

II. Tigers and Traitors . . .
The Giant Bast, 2 vols. :—

I. 800 Leagues on the Amazon

II. The Cryptogram . . . .

The Green Bay

Godfrey Morgan

Keraban the Inflexible :—

I. Captain of the "Guitar" .

II. Scarpante the Spy . . . .
The Archipelago on Fire . . . .
The Vanished Diamond . . . .

Containing 350 to 600 pp.
\ and from 50 to 100
I full-page illustrations.

In very
handsome
cloth bind*

inpr, gilt
ed.vres.

10 6

10 6

10 6

10 6











7 6

22 6







7 6

7 6

7 6

7 6

In

plainer

binding,

plain

edges.






3 6

10 6
3 6

3 6

3 6

3 6

3 6



3 6

Containing the whole of the
text with some illustrations.

In cloth

binding, gilt

edges,

smaller

types.

d.
3 6

3 6
3 6

f 2 vole., "^
\2s. ea. )

3 6

3 6















Coloured boards.

2 vols., Is. each.

2 vols.
2 vols.,

Is. each.
Is. each.

2 vols., Is. each.

2 vols., Is. each.

2 vols., 1«. each.

Is. 0(Z.



2 vols., Is. each.

Od.

Celebrated Travels and Travellers. 3 vols. 8vo, 600 pp., 100 full-page illustrations, 12s. 6d. ;
gilt edges, 14«. each:— (1) The Exploration of the World. (2) The Great Navigators of

IHB ElftHIEBWTK CENIUET. (3) ThB GkEAT Explores OS IHE NlMETEEKXH CeNTUBT.

JJT'AHL {IV. H.) Galvanoplastic Manipulation for the
^^ Electrometer 8vo, 35^-.

Wallace (Z.) Ben Hur : A Tale of the Christ. Crown 8vo, ds.

Waller rev. C. H.) The Names on the Gates of Peai-l^
and other Studies. New Edition. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3^. 6;/.

A Grammar and Analytical Vocabulary of the Words in

the Greek Testament. Compiled from Bride's Concordance. For
the use of Divinity Students and Greek Testament Classes. Part I.
Grammar. Small post 8vo, cloth, 2s. 6d. Part II. Vocabulary, 2s. 6d.

Adoption and the Covenant. Some Thoughts on

Confirmation. Super-royal imo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Silver Sockets; and other Shadows of Redemption.

Sermons at Christ Church, Hampstead. Small post Svo, ds.
Walton {Iz.) Wallet Book, CIoIoLXXXV. 21^. ; 1. p. ^2S.
Walton {T H.) Coal Mining. With Illustrations. 4to, 2$s.

Warder {G. W.) Utopian Dreams arid Glottis Leaves. Crown

8vo, ds.
Warner {C. T>.) My Sumner in a Garden. Boards, is.;

leatherette, is. 6d. j cloth, 2s.
Warren {W. F.) Paradise Found; the North Pole the Cradle

of the Human Race. Illustrated. Crown 8 vo, 12 J. 6^'.
Washington Irving' s Little Britain. Square crown Svo, 65-.
Watson {P. B.^ Marcus Aurelius Antoninus. Port. Svo, 155".
Webster. (American Men of Letters.) imo, 2^. dd.

Weir harrison Animal Stories, Old and Naif, told in Pictures

and Prose, Coloured, &c Illustrations. 56 pp., 4to, swells
{H. P.) Fly Rods and Fly Tackle. Illustrated. 105. 6d.

Wheaten {H. B.) and Melmotte {P. H.) Art Work in Force-lain.
Large Svo, 2s. 6d.

Art Woi'k in Gold and Silver. Modern. Large Svo,

2j. dd.

Handbook of Decorative Art. 10s. 6d.

Whisperings. Poems. Small post Svo, cloth extra, gilt edges,

3^. ed
White (R. Grant) England Without and Within. Crown Svo,

vos. 6d.

Every-day English. Crown Svo, 10.9. dd.
Studies in Shakespeare. Crown Svo, loj-. 6^.

White {R. Grant) Fate of Mansfield Humphrey ^ the Episode of

Mr. Washington Adams in England, an Apology, &c. Crown 8vo, 6j.

Words and their t/ses. New Edit., crown 8vo, ios.6d.

Whittier {J. G.) The King's Missive, and later Poeins. imo,
choice parchment cover, 3^. dd.

The Whittier Birthday Book. Extracts from the

Author's writings, with Portrait and Illustrations. Uniform with the
* Emerson Birthday Book." Square 1 6mo, very choice binding, 3^. dd.

Life of. By R. A. Underwood. Cr. 8vo, cloth, 10^. dd.

Williams {C.F.) Tariff Laws of the United States . 8vo, 10s. dd.

Williams (^H. W !) Diseases of the Eye. 8vo, 21^.

Wills, A Few Hits o?i Proving, without Professional Assistance,
By a Probate Court Official. 8th Edition, revised, with Forms
of Wills, Residuary Accounts, &c. Cap. Svo, cloth limp, is.

Wimbledon viscount) Life and Tiniest, 1628-38. By C.

Dalton. 2 vols., 8vo, 30J-.
Witthaus {P. A.) Medical Student's Chemistry. 8vo, 16^-.
Woodbury, History of Wood Engi-avifig. Illustrated. 8vo, 185.
Wolsey (C D., LL.D?) Introduction to the Study of International

Law. Sth Edition, demy Svo, \%s.
Wilson constance F.) See " Low's Standard Novels."
Wright {H.) Friendship of God. Portrait, &c. Crown 8vo, 6s.
Written to Order ; the Journey kings of an Irresponsible Egotist.

Crown Svo, 6j.

Flare charles) Florence: its History. Translated by
C. B. Pitman. Illustrated with 500 Engravings. Large imperial
4to, extra binding, gilt edges, 63 j.; or 12 Parts, ^s, each.

History ; the Medici ; the Humanists ; letters ; arts ; the Renaissance;
illustrious Florentines; Etruscan art; monuments; sculpture; painting.

Pontoon:

SAMPSON LOW, MARSTON, SEARLE, & Livingston,
CROWN BUILDINGS, 188, FLEET STREET, Eg.
