OF THE

University

Of ILLINOIS

University of Illinois Library

L161— H41

EDWARD JENKINS

AUTHOR OF "Gin's BABY " " JOBSOK's Enemies " ETC

IN TWO VOLUMES
VOL I

LONDON

SAMPSON LOW MARSTON SEARLE & Livingston

CROWN BUILDINGS 188 FLEET STREET



(sall rights reserved)

PRINTED BY WILLIAM CLOWES AND SONS, LIMITED,

STAMFORD STREET AND CHARING CROSS.

Dctitcatcti

TO

MY FRIENDS
MR AND MRS BLANCHARD Ferrol

CHAPTER ^^^^

I. A First Memory 1

II. Exciting Times 17

III. Deserted 54

IV. Ephraim Mason's 66

V. The Stranger's Visit 82

VI. Dragon acts like a Gentleman . 107

VII. The Adieu to Farmer Mason's . 122

Vii A New Home 136

IX. A Strange Dream 157

X. Awkward Conjunctures . . 166

XI. I GO TO Jericho 182

XII. Sarah Dampwell's Sacrifice . 204

XIII. The Spirit Willing but the Flesh

Very Weak 223

XIV. Timberville and the Trapeze . 234
XV. I BECOME an "Artiste" 255

Chapter I

A First Memory

The first thing I can remember is a dark
night, a strange, wild, terrible noise, a
confused roar of angry voices, and the
shared crack of firearms. I was in bed,
and had suddenly been awakened. A
woman in her delicate white night-dress,
laced and frilled, leaned out over the sill
of an open window, her hands clasped,
her long black hair, a wealth of glossy
beauty, floating down over her shoulders
and far below her waist in picturesque

VOL. I. B

/ V.

disorder, lier white face, its fine profile
distorted with anguish, marked out like a
marble relief on the black background of
the night, while her eyes were strained
towards the tumult and the gloom.

It was more than twenty years ago ;
but I see it now as I saw it then — the
first revelation to me of life, of terror, of
pain, of the shadow of death.

The woman at the window, young and
graceful, yet in the full maturity of form
and beauty, was my mother. Beyond that
scene my memory recalls nothing definite.
There only remains with me a dreamy
sense of having been — a vision, unclouded
by care, in which she hovers as a guardian
angel.

Startled by the din, I sat up in my cot,
which stood in a corner of the room — a
great comfortable room with a large
white curtained bed and handsome old-fashioned
furniture.

^^ Mamma ! Mamma ! "

She did not hear me. She was thereat
the window gazing intently on whatever
terrible things were being enacted
nnoler her eyes. I pushed away the
clothes, and climbing the rails that shut
me in, I got my little feet on the ledge
outside, and tried to slide down to the
ground by the leg of the bed. My nightgown
wrapping my right foot I fell,
but was up in a moment and ran to the
window. Then I climbed the seat that
stood in the corner, and saw all that my
mother saw. A flash, a frightful noise, a
shriek, for a moment confused me ; but I
can remember how clearly I took in the
scene. A wide street, with low villas
ranged along on either side, embowered
in tropical forage, with white palisade
gardens, stretched away in front and to
the right. A few street lamps here and

there threw out just sufficient light to
enable me to discern a dark agitated
crowd, sprinkled over the broad whitewashed
road. The flash and the report
came from directly below the window,,
where, standing out under the light, with
his long raven-black hair thrown back
from his brow and tremulous with passion,
a noble figure was visible, six feet high at
least, shaking a discharged gun at the
crowd, and shouting —

'' Back, you cowards ! "

Then, as he handed the gun to a negro
standing behind him, he changed from his.
left hand to his right a little thing which
I could see was polished and gleaming.

^' Do you hear me ? Go back, I tell
you, or I'll shoot again, and I never miss.
Corcoran, go back, for God's sake."

A man was running towards him,
urging the people, who hesitated, to come

on. He advanced a few paces and
stopped.

'^ Bask, I say, for the last time ! "

In Corcoran's hand was another little
gleaming thing, which he raised to his
shoulder-height, pointing it towards my
father.

^' Come on, men," he said. ^'This
thing has got to stop "

Before another word came out, fire
flashed from my father's hand. At the
same instant Corcoran jumped high into
the air and fell with a heavy thud and
the people who were following ran, scattering
in all directions.

My mother shrieked and fell upon her
knees, resting her trembling elbows on the
window and wringing her small white
hands.

God, have mercy upon us ! "

My father's handsome face turned up

under the gaslight for a second, as if he
had heard her. He called to her —

'^ Go in, Marie. See, Lisa is there.
She will he shot."

'^ Oh ! come in ; come in, Harry. They
are coming again."

He was turning the weapon in his hand
probably reloading the emptied chamber.
Then he coolly walked towards the crowd,
which was collecting again, and from
which came furious cries, and at length
two strong reports, followed by a peculiar
shrill, singing sound. He threw back his
head in a rage of passion — I think I see
now his magnificent attitude as he did it
and without a word ran swiftly towards
the shouting mob. They closed up together
to support each other ; two more
shots were fired at him before he reached
them, and then he was upon them.

I see the tall figure. I see the arm

raised, and hear the outcry of a man struck
down, and then another ; again the crack
and sparkle of firearms ; and amongst the
moving mass closing round him I see a
man, head and shoulders above them all,
dealing blows with a. grand and terrible
force.

In another moment he was standing
alone. On the white road lay three or
four figures. The crowd had gone back
and was gathering about thirty yards ofi'y
and he was facing them again. The
negro had run up, and handed him his gun
reloaded.

shave you not had enough?" he
shouted, as he levelled it straight upon
the centre of the mass, which wavered,
started, and then broke up into flying
units.

*' Mercer, we give in, by G ! " said

a deep but clear voice. " Stop ! don't

shoot again. I give you my word of
honour it is over. Here is my hand
upon it. You are the very devil to fight,
and the bravest fellow I ever saw."

A man, who must himself have been
brave indeed, was advancing straight
upon that terrible long shiny thing that
stood out from my father's shoulder. It
went down. A step or two and the two
men met, and we could see them shaking
hands, and then slowly others came up
and there was a general hand-shaking.
Then a deep sob broke from my mother,
and a rain of tears ran down her cheeks
and upon the proud, snowy bosom that
was only half shrouded by the frilled lace
of the open robe. And from sympathy
I sobbed too, still trying to see through
my watery eyes what was happening to
my father. This aroused my mother, who
clutched me in her arms, and straining
me to her bosom said —

^* Thank God yon have a father, Lisa !
Oh, my little Lisa, you don't know how
nearly we have lost him."

Then hearing some sharp voices — for
the air was surprisingly clear, and every
word could be distinctly heard — she
turned and peered out anxiously again.

Several persons had gathered round
the man who first ran forward and fell.
I could see my father on his knees, with
his hand on the breast of the prostrate
figure. I could hear some of the words
spoken around him.

*' It's all over, Mercer. Poor fellow !
It cannot be helped. It was a fair fight,
and you have beaten us. You may say
what you please as long as you please.
If you hadn't shot him, he would have
done for you, I guess, right away."

Then they lifted up the fallen figure.
It seemed strange to me to see them do

this, a number of them, as if it were a log
of wood, or a bundle, or a stone.

Why doesn't the man get up himself,,
mamma ? Is he frightened to ? "

My mother shuddered, and kissing me
ran to the bed, and covering me in said — •

^' Stay there, Lisa; don't move again."

And she went back to the window,
drawing the light muslin close round her
splendid form and over her bosom, while
the long black hair fell down behind like
a dark river rolling through the snow.

A strange and awful silence had fallen
without. Some muffled sounds were
heard as if from departing footsteps stepping
lightly. I lay there, my little being
filled with an electrical excitement. I
could hear my heart throbbing. I could
feel my pulse going wildly. My eyes
had been strained by gazing into the
doubtful gloom. And my mind had

awakened to something in life new,
awful, real, which I was conscious I
should never shake off. My teeth began
to chatter nth terror. I shut my eyes
and trembled. The scene was still before
me. Every moment I started as at the
sound of those terrible flashing things. I
saw the man running. I saw the dark
bundle on the ground, the people lifting
it, and more dark bundles in the distance.

^^Why didn't they get up?" I was
thinking to myself all the while. " What
were they doing to them ? "

A step and the sound of an opening
door caused me to open my eyes. I
jumped up. My father — his face pale
and ghastly, his large brow covered with
sweat, his eyes still flashing with excitement
— was in the doorway. His fine
nostrils opened and closed with his rapid
breathing. His lips where drawn away

from his teeth — those white teeth, that
usually made him look so handsome with
their fascinating gleam. His shoulders
were slightly benfc, and his arms hung
helpless at his side. My mother with
a hound like that of a graceful tigress,
reached him and clasped her arms round
his strong waist, looking up with passionate
love into his pallid face, and striving
to reach the cheek to kiss it. His arms
went round the full fine figure, and he
lifted her up and kissed her again and
again.

'' Oh, Henri, are you hurt ? "

No, sweetheart, no." He kissed her
once more as she clung round his neck.

^' Thank God! thank God!"

I, standing up there, in my little cot,
four years old, holding by the post, looked
on this scene. It seemed to last so long !
They had utterly forgotten me. I

watched eagerly for the moment when his
eye or hers should fall on me and I
should take some part in these loving
embraces. Yes. It seemed to last so
long before they became conscious that
there was another being near — their first
child, their elder child, for I had a little
brother, with a queer, rosy face, so soft
and dimpled, and little bright eyes, and
dark downy hair upon his head.

At length I could bear it no longer.

*papa!" I cried out, in a voice of
agony.

'^ Papa — mamma — Tm here ! "

He started, and his face, which had
been calming down to tenderness under
my mother's soft caresses, turned to me
with a shadow over it, and his dark eye,
an instant before burning with affection,,
grew cold and lustreless towards me.
His arms uncoiled from my mother, and

she, dropping hers, turned too with a
strange expression in her eyes as she
looked at me. Ah, could I ever know
what that meant ?

*^ Can't you make her He down?" he
said coldly, as he turned toward the
window and looked out for a moment.

A slight flush came on my mother's
pale cheek. She glanced at him as he
moved, as if afraid, and running to me
Wrapped me with her arms close to her
bosom, which heaved with strange excitement.


'' Lie down, darling Lisa, won't you ? "

'^ No ! " I said out loud, and trying to
push her away. " No ! Lisa not lie
down."

She caressed me again, looking over
her shoulder towards the figure in the
window, to see if it were noticing.

Want to kiss papa ! "every loud, and
sobbing.

^'The devil!" lie said pettishly, coming
back from the Window, a frown on his
brow. '* Won't she be quiet? You must
really send the child to sleep in the
nursery."

*want to kiss papa!" I cried again,
holding my arms towards him.

"With a sort of cold disdain — which I
felt then, feel now, and shall feel till mj
death — he took me up an instant, kissed
me on the forehead, and put me down
again. I was watching his face the while
with all the intensity of childhood. Ashe
took his hands from me he glanced at
my mother, whose face was close to his.
A slight, almost imperceptible, blush
crossed their cheeks, and then she threw
her arms on his right shoulder, and
looked into his eyes with a half-beseeching
gaze. And he kissed her warmly,
passionately, as before.

I could look on no longer. I had won
my point, and, turning away, I fell down
in my cot, laid my head on my arms,
and with tears in my eyes I fell asleep-this
was my first clear revelation of life.

Chapter II

EXCITING TIMES

I don't think I can have been a very
quick child. Whether any record of my
birth exists I cannot say. The name I
bear, I have since found out, is my
mother's name — Bellamy. I have a little
note — it has been greatly treasured — the
last note my father ever sent her — which
begins with a play on her name. Belle
Amie, and is full of love. It is signed —
*' Your Henri Mercer." I can remember
their speaking a language together different
from that in which they spoke to me,
and I think they affected to be French.

VOL. I. G

His name and her name were spelt in
the French way.

It was many years afterwards that I
was able to glean some idea of my origin
and of the circumstances of my parents.
The town where the terrible scene occurred
was Somerville in Alabama, not
very far from Mobile. There my father
lived in a comfortable house, having some
business, I know not what, and also
possessing, about six miles off, a small
estate and thirty or forty slaves. He
was a man of great energy, of splendid
physique, of daring bravery and independence.
In those days it required a
bold man — a man who was not afraid to
carry his life in his hand wherever he
went — to do what my father is said to
have done. He was not a religious man
so far as I know, but he was owned by all
about him to be bold and true. On the

subject of slavery he did not agree with
his friends and neighbours. He said ^^it
was a doomed institution — out of joint
with the times, and a constant danger to
the people who maintained it, as well as a
standing wrong to the persons enslaved."
That sentence remains now in a Mobile
newspaper as spoken at Somerville by Mr.
Henri Mercer, at a meeting of the inhabitants.
And that sentence was the origin
and cause of the horrible affair which
gave me my first outlook into life.
*****
It was years afterwards that I found
out my birthplace, and something of the
earlier unconscious years of my life. My
father, smitten with the gold fever, had
gone to San Francisco, taking my mother
with him. They were married when she
was only thirteen years of age, a not uncommon
thing in the South. I was born

in San Francisco when she was fourteen.
When I first remember lier she was a fine
full-developed woman. Having made
some little money in California through
energy, and kept it through daring, my
father came back to his native State —
Alabama — and entered on a property to
which he had succeeded in his absence.
We travelled by waggons across the great
prairies and by Salt Lake. I know
nothing of our adventures. I dare say
they were very exciting. To the experiences
of this wild journey it may be owing
that my mother could handle a gun or a
rifle or a revolver with skill.

That brings me to my second recollection
of any consequence. It was two or
three years after the other. The war had
broken out between North and South,
and all our fighting people were forced to
the front. Though my father disapproved

of slavery principles, lie did not refuse to
join the Southern army. He went away,
leaving my mother and his children, as
many other women and children were left,
almost at the mercy of the blacks. "We
then removed from town to our little
plantation, with its low two-story wooden
house, around which there ran a broad
verandah. The windows of the bedrooms
opened on the roof of this verandah. Old
Toxy, our negro, who was ever faithful tous,
slept in a back building, and some
women in the attics above us. I remember
one night being awakened by
movements in the room where we children
slept together with our mother. A
night-light was burning. She was up in
her night-dress, and on her breast hung
my little brother, then about eight months
old. She used to nurse her children herself.
His little dark curly hair stood out

against the soft rounded whiteness of lier
bosom. Somehow I awoke all at once,
wide awake, and lay watching them. She
was leaning over and looking into his face,
with its half-closed eyes, and his tiny head
lying on her breast, and my heart thrilled
with pleasure to see her sitting there
opposite to me, so grand, so gentle, and
so motherly. Suddenly a startled expression
flashed across her face. At the same
moment I thought I heard a slight movement
behind me, where the windows were.
She glanced an instant across me towards
the place where the noise came from,
hastily laid the boy on his back on the
floor, snatched from the rack over the bed,
where it always lay loaded, a long rifle,
and before I could realize what was
coming there was a flash that blinded my
eyes, a frightful explosion, a sulphurous
smoke, a howl of agony, and the Venetian

shutter of the window fell away with some
heavy body on the roof. I was stunned
with the noise and in deadly fear, but I
did not cry. When I opened my eyes my
mother stood there with her hair shaken
down all over her shoulders, her bosom
heaving with excitement, the discharged
rifle in her hand, looking eagerly towards
the window. Shrieks were filling the
room from the maids, who came running
in, presently followed by old Toxy.
Lord, missus ; what de natty ? "
^^It was Gummy, I'm certain," said
my mother calmly; "I know his hand
and his shirt. Toxy, load that gun again
right away. Libby, shut the window and
draw the curtain. Cissy, here, help me
on with my things."

In ten minutes she had thrown on her
clothes, and going to her dressings table
opened a revolver case, whence she took
a seven-shooter.

snow, come and get the lanthorn,
Toxy, and we will go and see who it is."

^' missy — pray, missy," cried Toxy,
going on his knees, "• don't yon go for to
go out dere dis time. Perhaps a lot of
niggers dere try to shoot yon, certain ! "

"What, Toxy!" she said, looking at
him with anger in her face; "you don't
want to go ? Are you in league with
them, eh?" and she deliberately cocked
the revolver and pointed it at his head.

"0 Lord a mussy ! " cried Toxy,
putting both hands over his woolly head,
and tumbling straight down as if he
really had been shot. "Don't 'ee shoot
me, missy. I've yer only faithful ole
man. I'll go anywhere you like." And
he laid his two great brown hands on her
two pure white feet, and crawled up and
kissed one of them.

"Get up, you old fool," she said,

kicking out her foot; ^^ get up and come
along."

And, slipping her feet into some cane
slippers, she went to the window, opened
it, and after examining them with a
candle, said —

^^ Somebody has got it. See!"

I could not see what it was she pointed
to, but old Toxy said —

^' Yes, honey; certain you do for de
scoundrel dis time. Massa nebber do it
neater."

Then they went out together. We,
the trembling women and I, could hear
the bolts and bars of the front door being
opened, and Toxy loudly adjuring her not
to go out, to let him go ; and then
through the window, which was still
open, we heard an exclamation, and then
her voice speaking sharply, and afterwards
a groan. They had come upon

the motionless form of a negro — our
overseer, named Gummy — who, stricken
by the bullet in the shoulder, had rolled
off the verandah roof and seemed to be
insensible. But on turning him over he
groaned and opened his eyes.

'' Lord a mussy, missy, don't 'ee
shoot again." This we could hear the
thick voice of the wounded man say.

^^What else do join deserve?" said
my mother, in her clear, deliberate
voice. '^ What were you doing at the
shutter?"

*^ Ony like see de missis and de lely
piccaniny," said the fellow, sobbing.

''"Why, you scoundrel," she said, "did
you bring this along to see me with?"
She must have picked up something.

'see here, Toxy," she said, laughing
loud, "here's a new opera glass."

Toxy seemed to be much amused, if

one might judge from the strange sounds
that proceeded from him, and Gummy
could be heard crying and sobbing.

*^ No, no, missus ; ony lily pistol, case
de niggers come to worry missus. Der
ain't muffin in it."

Ha ! " she said in a loud, stern voice ;
^'if there's nothing in it, there is a capon
it. Toxy, point it at him right there
and pull the trigger, and we shall soon
see whether there's anything in it."

There was a yell — a movement — a
short scuffle of three or four seconds — ■
and then another of those dreadful shots.
A dead silence ensued for not more thana
quarter of a minute, and then I heard
my mother's voice.

*^ Nothing in it, eh. Master Gummy ! "

^' Lord, missus," said Toxy, ^^ dis
'ore's a narrow 'scape you made from dis
rascal. He go for to kill you sure enuf,

if yon no kill him. Fangli I dis here
nigger's a regular skunk."

*^ Well," replied his mistress in a high
voice, '^if any other niggers come skulking
around here again they will be
treated in the same way. You go round
all the cabins tomorrow, Toxy, and tell
them so, and order them all up here
before eight o'clock to see this thing, or,
you say, I shall be down to see them.
And then you take and put it in a hole in
the yellow field close by the mimosa tree,
and just tell the folks that there's where
we mean to bury all the traitors."

When my mother came back into the
room, with Toxy carrying the rifle and
the revolver, she ordered him out of
the room, and, locking the door, flung off
her gown, and then, throwing herself into
the low cane nursing seat, covered her
face with her hands and burst into hysterical

sobs. Libby and Sissy, the two
maids, looked at her aghast; and as forme,
I set hip an outcry more sharp and
strident than hers. But she never heeded
me. Her arms were on her knees, her
white fingers over her eyes, the water
fast tricking through. It was not only
reaction from the great excitement, buta
sense of the loneliness, the desolation
of her situation, exposed with us, whom
she held so dear, to such ruffianly outrages
as that from which she had so
bravely defended herself.

From that night a change came over
her — a change that never changed so
long as I knew her. Before she had
borne my father's absence with tolerable
cheerfulness, regulating the house and
the outside affairs, fostering the three
children, and blooming in her grand and
dignified beauty. But she became then

and thenceforward pale and careworn.
She was restless, fatigued, yet ever
moving. She kept watch and ward every
night with nervous anxiety. Often, when
I woke, I saw her, rifle in hand, listening
at the closed window. Toxy slept outside
her door on a mattress, making the
night hideous with his massive and
sonorous snore. She was often crying,
often distraite often agitated. Enough
people used to come to our house, and
use loud, harsh language. At such times
the negro girls would run away and hide,
and only old Toxy remained.

One day, a troop of soldiers on horseback,
with some officers, came and
quartered themselves in the house, and
pitched tents in the field about it under
the trees. I remember their horses
staked in the stable yard, champing and
stamping, and the jingling of their curbs

and bridles, and the running to and fro
of men in their shirt-sleeves, and loud
and boisterous laughing, and a sort of
pandemonium. That day my mother
shut up my brother in her room and took
me to the kitchen, where she rolled up
the sleeves of her muslin jacket, and
worked her bare arms in making pasties
and her white fingers in peeling potatoes
and cutting herbs, while Toxy stood at the
door with a rifle in his hand, with orders
to shoot any one who tried to come in.
He would have executed them even on
an officer, to a dead certainty. By-and-by,
when all was ready, she took me upstairs
and dressed me in a little blue silk
dress with low neck, and tied a ribbon
and some flowers in my hair. Then she
dressed herself — rolling down her own
long hair, and binding it up again with a
wreath of stephanotis, which lay like a

coronet of ivory on the ricci jet glossy
braids beneath. I remember her dress
was all white, cut low, but, to cover her
shoulders and neck, she threw on a white
lace shawl, casting the end over her left
shoulder in Spanish fashion. Then,
kissing the boys, she took me by the
hand and led me to the parlour, which
had been shut up during my father's
absence, but was now arranged with all
the abandon and elegance that only
Southern and refined taste could give toit.
Toxy, perfectly transmogrified, stood
grinning at the door, with an old dress
coat of his master's, which reached almost
to his heels ; white trousers of the same
belongings, which had no doubt been
drawn as high as Toxy's arms admitted
of, but still hanging limply at the knees
and rolling over his loose pumps ; a vast
white necktie bandaged round his neck,

and a clean shirt and white waistcoat.
He even had on a pair of white cotton
gloves, the long ends of the fingers loosely
flapping about. My mother, to whom
this spectacle was an evident surprise,
burst out into the only hearty laugh I had
heard her indulge in since Henri Mercer
went to the war. Toxy, standing with
his arms at his sides and his fingers all
sticking out, looked at her in a beseeching
sort of way, but grinning all over, while
she held her sides and shook with merry
laughter. I laughed too from sheer sympathy,
and at this moment a tall, fine-looking
man, with a grey moustache and
grey hair cut short, with very bright eyes,
dressed in a cavalry uniform, his sword
clanking at his side, and his heels and
spurs sounding on the wooden floor, came
behind Toxy, and, putting him aside with
his hand, was about to enter the room,

VOL. I, D

when Toxy dashed forward, and, bowing
to his mistress, said —

*^ Kernel Wood."

My mother, whom up to this moment
the officer had not seen, turned, and
he stood a moment in surprise as he
glanced at her all over. Instantly his
demeanour, which at first was stern and
decided, changed. He took off his cap,
bowed gallantly and advanced, and my
mother, taking a step forward, curtsied to
him, and said —

*' Colonel Wood, I have not the honour
of your acquaintance, but as a soldier of
the South you are welcome to my husband's
house and to our poor hospitality."

He bowed and looked embarrassed, and
glancing at me, and then at her again, he
said —

^' Madam, I was not aware, when, in
making a forced march across this way, we

were obliged to put up in this rather lonely
place " — he looked at her keenly again —
'that I should find such an agreeable
hostess. I thought the ladies all around
here had been warned to go away."

^^ Yes, colonel," she replied, ^^ I was
warned some weeks ago, but you see I
have not gone. I have hitherto been able
to take care of myself," she added, carelessly.
'' We will do all we can to make
you comfortable so long as it suits you to
stay. Pray be seated. Is there no other
officer with you ?"

'eyes," he said; 'there are two —
Captains Manley and Slocum " — and he
glanced nervously towards the door.

There was some loud talking in the
hall, where Toxy had gone after doing
his duty.

*what does he say?" cried a loud,
harsh voice. "x\ woman in the house!

What the devil is she doing here ? Is shea
white ?"

*hist," said Toxy. **De lady's at home
and in de parlour der wit Kernel Wood.
Your names, gentlemen, if you release."

'captain Manley," said a clear voice
The other did not answer.

*^ Your name, sal, if yon please."

'' Never mind my name," answered the
harsh voice; ^'I can answer for myself.
We don't stand upon ceremonies in these
times ;" and at the same moment a broad-shouldered
man, whose long, rough grizzly
hair fell from beneath a foraging cap he
carried on his head, strode into the room.

Colonel Wood had risen and taken a
step towards the door when the intruder
entered. I began to tremble, and watched
my mother's face, which flushed up a
moment and then grew pale, and her lips
were drawn firmly together. The man,

without removing his cap, stood and stared
at her, his sword dangling at his boots,
which were covered with dust, while, as
I had noticed, the colonel's had been
carefully cleaned.

She rose and looked straight at him
without any recognition, taking him in
all over, and appearing superb in the
hauteur of her attitude and glance. The
other officer and Toxy had by this time
entered the room.

^' Captain Slocum," said the colonel,
biting his lip, 'this is the lady of the

house, Mrs. ?" he turned to my

mother.

^' Henri Mercer," she said, '^ my
husband, is with the army near Shiloh,
but I am here to welcome any of his
comrades who are officers and gentlemen."


She glanced again haughtily at Captain

Slocum's cap, and then advanced and
held out lier hand to Captain Manley,
who had bowed low, and who, with the
colonel, looked hard at Slocum. The
latter awkwardly removed his cap and
threw it into a corner.

'ewe are soldiers, madam," he said,
'' and wherever we go we make ourselves
at home. Your presence here is unexpected."


'but none the less agreeable," interrupted
Captain Manley, gallantly. "Let
us not keep you standing, Mrs. Mercer.
My friend Captain Slocum, as he says, is
a soldier, and being of the chivalry of the
South, must be equally delighted with
ourselves at the charming surprise you
have given us."

Captain Slocum did not seem pleased
with this speech, but he now turned and
bowed awkwardly to my mother, and

then looked towards me as if to conceal
his confusion or his anger.

Is that your Httle iii ? " he asked.

*eyes," she replied. ^'Lisa, go and
shake hands with the gentleman."

"No," I said, catching at her dress
and getting behind it.

"Yes," he said, holding out his rough
hand, and smiling with a grim smile that
alarmed me. " Come here and kiss me."

Go along, Lisa, and speak to the
gentleman."

"No."

"Why?"

"I don't like him. He's a massy, ugly
man. I like the oder man." And I ran
over to the colonel, who, some instinct
told me, would be our protector.

There was a hearty laugh, in which
Slocum joined, though he bit his lip, and
turned away to look out of the window.

It was then that my mother's peculiar
charm and tact and force came out. She
instantly put the officers at their ease.

^^You are a naughty child," she said
to me playfully, and glancing at the surly
figure in the window. ^^You ought not
to have likes and dislikes at your age."

^* Hum ! " cried Slocum, turning round
with that grim smile on his face. 'sat
what age, I wonder, don't your sex sho^v
their likes and dislikes?" And he glanced
at Manley, who was a thin, graceful
young fellow, with flaxen hair and blue
eyes, and a fine pale face, some sunny
down on his upper lip.

'^ Well, captain," said my mother
vivaciously, smiling in his face, ^'is it
not the privilege of a Avoman? If we
have no strength of character or of
physique, we still retain our freedom of
choice ; it is all that is left to us."

'^AncT yon exercise it pretty freely,
too," lie said, his large month breaking
into a humorous smile.

He glanced keenly at the other two
officers as if to find ont what they where
thinking of him, and then he came round
and took me np awkwardly, and kissed
me. I struggled for a moment to get
free, bnt he held me tight in his great
strong arms, and then he said —

'* Now we are friends, and you mustn't
hate me any more," and so he set me
down beside my mother, and began walking
round the room, staring at all the
knick-knacks, his sword banging about his
heels, while the other two officers, who
had taken theirs off, conversed with my
mother. I sat on the colonel's knee.
He was a grave, anxious-looking man.
Every two or three minutes his eye
glanced out of the windows, or he

appeared to be listening sharply for far-off
noises. He must have been every
inch a soldier.

There was something about his face
that touched me. I have seen it on a
few other faces since — a downy softness
of expression that throws a gentle halo
over the strongest features, and excites
in the beholder sympathy and sadness.
I saw it once on a girl's face, for about
twenty-four hours, and noticed it. It
seemed like a sort of transfiguration. I
actually accused her of having had herself
enamelled, or of using some new
wash. She was one of the most daring
girls I ever saw — daring physically, and
also morally without a sense of fear.
When I saw her picked up from the
ground a livid, flaccid body, which I had
seen flash through the air from one trapeze
towards another, shriek, miss her

aim, flash down on the stage, and lie there
motionless, all in a few seconds of time, I
understood that strange expression which
she had worn. It was not the shadow,
bnt the fore-gleam of death. It was on
the colonel's face that night. He spoke
little, but with a strange, thrilling accent,
and the gentleness and fatherliness of his
demeanour towards my mother was very
striking. He mentioned that he had a
wife and two children at New Orleans.

^^I may never see them again." I remember
he said solemnly, after stating
this, '^ God's wil be done."

All the incidents of that afternoon are
sharply written on my memory.

During the dinner a curious thing happened.
Old Toxy had been excessively
active, fetching the dinner from the
kitchen, serving it up with great dignity
from the sideboard, while the colonel's

servant handed it round, wrapping np the
cooled bottles in white napkins, and himself
pointing out the wine to the guests
and to my mother. But all the time
Toxy's eyes and ears were wide open, for
I caught him turning sometimes and glaring
sharply at Captain Manley and then
at my mother.

At dessert he stood behind her chair,
and Captain Manley, a little excited by
the wine, had thrown at her a glance so
ardent that she was confused, and for a
moment hid her face with her fan and
turned to speak to Colonel Wood. Toxy
with his arms crossed had caught the
captain's glance. His eyes opened wide,
his nostrils dilated, and the look he gave
the young officer was at once so severe
and so absurd, that the latter half
laughed, and, to cover his confusion,
called to me across the table to come to
him.

Toxy gave this head an almost imperceptible
shake, of which I caught the
meaning, ^' Don't go." So I got off my
chair and ran to m}^ mother, and took
hold of her hand, saying —

'^ No, thank you, sir. We are going
away."

Slocum's face wore a sort of grim smile
at this. Perhaps he had been watching
the byplay between the two while he sat
thus silent. My mother rose immediately
and the gentlemen also.

^^ Madam," said Colonel Wood, ^^ we
no longer have any right to intrude on
your privacy or your kindness. The surprise
of meeting you here has been as
fortunate as it was pleasant. But I
understand you have children, and we
have duties. Captain Manley, you will
order out a squad and patrol for five
miles up as far as the Vice Ever Fork,

and Captain Slocum will take charge of
this post. I have some writing to do
and shall take a couple of hours' sleep, if
you will allow me, madam, and retire to
my room. The reveille will be sounded
at four, and will, I fear, disturb your rest,
but I pray you to give yourself no further,
anxiety. I will see every man off myself.
Perhaps your servant will be up to receive
any message I may wish to leave. I wish
you good-night and good-bye. Take my
earnest advice, and leave this place before
the week is out. It is likely to be the
scene of some rough work within the
next few weeks."

He took her hand affectionately and
bowed low. Then he stooped and kissed
me very gently. A tear dropped on my
cheek as he did so and glanced off. I
looked at him with my large black eyes.

^^ God bless you, little girl," he said.

as his fingers wandered a moment through
my loose hair. And then he drew himself
up and looked gravely at the other
officers. Slocum came forward and
offered his hand.

^'Good-bye, madam," he said. ^'You
may have found us a rough lot ; but we
could only wish well to you. Take the
colonel's advice, and clear out. This
ain't the place for a lonely woman."

Manley had stood looking at her, and
seeming rather annoyed and embarrassed.
He had evidently thought of a longer
evening. A flush was on his cheek as he
too bowed and held out his hand. She
placed her jewelled fingers in his, and he
held them an unnecessary time, and must
have pressed them hard, for my mother
drew away her hand quickly, and the
scarlet mantled in her cheek.

*^I had hoped," he said, "for a longer

acquaintance ; but duty is duty. Perhaps
we may meet again, and in any
case Captain Manley is always at your
service."

My mother bowed. Colonel Wood remained
standing near her, and bowed to
the officers, who, taking the hint, left the
room.

^^ Madam," said the colonel, ^'let me
beg you again most earnestly to act
promptly. Your position here is one of
terrible danger. I am going to join the
army in which your husband is engaged.
I know his name. Major Henri Mercer
is a cool and daring officer. I shall certainly
look him up, and tell him how
much I owe to your kindness — a delightful
evening and the comforts of a home
for the last time before a great battle.
If you would like me to be the bearer of
any letter or message, pray let me have

it before I leave at half-past four tomorrow
evening. Good night again."

He left the room. Toxy followed him.
My mother, taking my hand, led the way
to the drawing-room. One of the French
windows was open. There were no lights,
but the night outside was starry and
brilliant. A beautiful moon shed its soft
radiance over the dark foliage of the trees,
and on the graceful coronets and the slim
pillars of the tall palms, making them
gleam like pillars and capitals of burnished
gold. I was tired. I threw myself
on a low chair in the shadow of the
room, while my mother stood in the
window looking over the glorious scene.
Behind the house we could hear the tramp
of horses, the clink of sabres, and the
subdued voices of the patrol turning out.
There was a quick, light footstep in the
verandah. My mother stepped back a

VOL. I. E

pace. In the place she had just left
stood Captain Manley. She did not
speak, but looked at him, while he gazed
at her, the moon flooding her all over with
its fairy light, transforming her form and
dress into a wonderful image of silvery
beauty.

I could not say * Good-bye ' thus," he
said in a quick low tone. " These are
war-times. I am going into danger. I
may never see you again. You have
stricken and blinded me. As long as I
live I can never forget this evening."

He seized her left hand and came close
to her. She did not move. She was
looking in his face. She did not withdraw
her hand. I fancy she pressed his.
In an instant he threw his arms round
her voluptuous form and kissed her two
or three times eagerly She did not
struggle or cry out. For an instant her

hand lay caressingly on his shoulder, her
head on his breast.

Then she kissed him on the cheek once,
and gently disengaged herself. She was
not angry, though her cheek was burning.

'^ Good-bye," she said, *^ good-bye. G-od
bless you!" And turning away she called
to me.

He started when he saw me, and instantly
calling in a low tone '' Good-bye,"
went off to his duty as quietly as he had
come.

When my mother took my hand I
could feel she was agitated. Her fingers
were cold. She seemed nervous and
ashamed. She put nie to bed without
the candles, and after locking the door
and putting the revolver case as usual
beside her bed, she lay down. But neither
of us slept. Our thoughts were too full
for rest. We were both awake when the

^

>^"

V

reveille sounded in the darkness, and the
neighing of the horses and cries of the
men indicated that our visitors were departing.
My mother got up and looked
out of the window. I combed up beside
her. The moon still flooded the landscape
with light. Along the road that
wound through the lawn proceeded the
troops. In front rode Colonel Wood and
Captain Slocum, looking straight before
them. Behind, on a prancing charger,
was a light figure. He glanced up at the
window. He lifted his cap, and kissed
his hand. For a moment a white handkerchief
waved to him, and my mother
turned away and buried her face in her
hands.

Three days afterwards we moved into
Mobile, leaving the house and its furniture,
but carrying with us a great load
of linen and plate, and valuable knickknacks.

The slaves were left. Only
Toxy accompanied us. We went to some
lodgings, where one morning, not many
days afterwards, reading a newspaper, my
mother fell down in a swoon. The paper
contained a list of killed and wounded at
the battle of Shiloh. Among the gallant
dead were the names of Major Henri
Mercer, and Colonel Evelyn Sharon
Wood.

CHAPTER III

Deserted

After the battle of Shiloh, the state of
things in Tennessee and Mississippi and
Alabama was dreadful. My mother found
she could not live at Mobile. It was difficult
to get the necessaries of life, and the
place was in a state of perilous confusion.
Women and children were coming
in from all directions. She resolved
to take advantage of a boat that was
going up the river, and having procured
a pass from the general at Mobile, we all
set off, carrying our few valuables with
us, and still under the care of the ever-faithful

Toxy. It was a tedious and a
perilous passage, the incidents of which I
have mostly forgotten. My mother lore
herself with characteristic energy, and atone
time by her carriage and beauty prevailed
on a Yankee general to let the boat
through. At length we reached Illinois,
where my mother expected to find a relation,
but was disappointed. The husband
had gone to the war, and the wife was in
New England. However, we found their
house, a small place in the suburbs,
which my mother took and occupied.
Toxy was our only servant. My mother
washed and dressed the children herself,
and helped him with the cooking.

In this American village, though the
war was at its height, and all hearts were
beating with excitement, everything went
on as usual, the factories, and bars, and
churches were kept going, the schools

were open every day, and I and my
brother, a year and a half younger, were
sent to school. Nothing of any consequence
occurred until the end of the war,
about ten months after my father's death.

Then one day my mother came home
with a tall, hard-featured woman, who
that night slept in the house. Next day
there was much bustle and packing. We
children were kept home from school,
and every now and then my mother
looked in upon us at our play, and caught
us up and kissed us with singularly
warm affection. The morning after she
came into the room where we lay in
bed chattering and amusing ourselves.
She was dressed in deep mourning, with
a long veil which was thrown back from
her white face.

'^ Lisa, Heb, Jem," she said, the tears
filling her eyes, '^ I am going away a

little while. I shan't he long. Mrs. Earn
is going to take care of you; " and she
turned to the door, where the tall, hard-featured
woman was standing, staring
at us all with her hands on her hips.

I jumped up in my night-dress, and
looked at my mother. Her face seemed
pale and careworn, and her eyes avoided
mine.

^* Oh ! take me too, mamma. Take
me too."

^' No, I can't," said my mother, folding
me in her arms and kissing me.
"Lisa, you must stay to take care of
your brothers. It won't he very long,
and then we shall all go away back again
to EldervHle."

Poppy there ? " cried the youngest,
Jem, looking at her with wondering
eyes.

"No, dear," she said, and she took

him and the other on her Ime. ''^You
will never see Poppy again." Her eyes
were filling with tears, and she hung over
them in an agony of grief. I jumped out
of bed and ran to her. She leaned down
and let me put my arms round her neck,
and we all sobbed together.

How long it lasted I don't know.
Toxy came in and spoke. She put down
the boys — gave me a last kiss — took out
of her breast a little envelope, which she
gave me, and rushed from the room. It
was the last letter from my father.

'' Chere Belle Amie,

'^ A word before the battle,
which must begin tomorrow. How ifc
will end, God knows. We have more
men than the enemy, but are sadly deficient

in artillery. Poor Tom, my horse,
has fallen lame, and I don't know whereto
get another, and may have to fight
afoot. However, I guess I shall fight
anyhow. Have seen Colonel Wood for
two minutes. He told me of his visit.
I hope you have taken his advice and
gone to Mobile. I shall commit this
letter to a commissariat man, who, I
guess, won't fight, and you may get it.
It may be my last. If so, I only have
to say that I go to battle loving you
still. I don't seem to see the shadow
between us to-night. I have forgotten —
I have forgiven. I love you now, daring
wife, this very moment, more than
-ever. I have been thinking that perhaps
I have been cold to Lisa, and if ever I
get back I shall take her with you to
my heart. Kiss her and the two boys
for Poppy. Keep up good spirits. God

bless my own sweet, my darling, darling-wife.
— Yom Henri,

^^ Henri Mekcek."

That letter gives the only gleam into
the mystery of which I have spoken.

However, at that moment I did not
read it. My heart was full of grief.
Toxy had come and taken my small
hand in his huge paw. He kneeled
down and kissed it.

^' Good-bye, Missy Lisa. God take
keep ob you, missy. Go away look for
tommy's property. Guess will be back
in few weeks ; pick you all up again.
Look after lilly misses, honey. Teach
am dare prayers every night and morning
; pray ^ God will let tommy come
back safe.' Good-bye, Missy Hetty —
good-bye. Massy Jem. Lord-a-mussy,
boys," said the old man, breaking out

himself into loud convulsive sobs; ^'Lord-
a-mnssy, boys, don't a go on so." And,
cramming a vast bine cotton handkerchief
of doubtful cleanliness into his
mouth, Toxy bolted, leaving us alone.

From that day to this I have never seen
either my mother or Toxy. What the
object of their journey was I do not know.
The woman Beulah Earn, who was left
behind, and looked after us for a few
weeks, stated that my mother's professed
intention was to go to Mobile, to try
and reclaim her husband's property.
Travelling was dangerous. The whole of
the Western and Southern States were ina
state of anarchy. I thought she might
have been murdered. Often my brain ran
over all the possibilities, only after worried
hours to grow weary with the useless
strain.

Beulah Beam was not only a hard-featured

woman, but cross. She was the
first person whom I remembered ever to
have struck me. I did not mind the pain,
but the passion it developed in me was
frightfuL I tried to stick her with a
knife. I yelled and shrieked like a little
demon. She was what is called "religious."
She took us every morning and
night, and forced us down on our knees,
and in a hard voice dictated to us a
prayer. My gorge rises at it now, to
think of little ones like us being dragooned
into expressions to the Great Good God
which we did not understand, and some
of which now I do not believe. On
Sundays we endured a day of torture. The
afternoons, when my mother used to love
to throw off her dress and loosen her
corset, and lie on the bed with us all
curled up about her, saying nothing in
words, but cooing like doves, or dozing in

delicious dreams, were now devoted to
reading long chapters in Genesis, and to
expositions by Belli of Calvinistic
Christianity. This endured for about
five weeks. During this time I was undergoing
a change and a development. I
stood up for my little brothers against
Beulah's tyranny. I bearded her again
and again, and when she tried to get at
me I ran away 'c\nd stayed for hours roaming
about the town. Twice I was brought
back from farmhouses where I had taken
refuge — and each time Beulah received a
sound rating from the man who brought
me home. For I was able to tell my story,
young as I was, clearly and graphically.
Beulah did not beat me on these occasions.
I think she had a conscience, and
generally acted from a sense of dut'. At
all events she acted from a sense of duty
to herself ; for the money my mother had

left haying given out, and no more coming
from lier, Bengal went to the town
authorities and stated that we were left
without support, and that she could not
take care of us. The facts having being
verified, we were all three bound out to
as many farmers in different parts of the
country, and my residence was fixed with
Mr. Ephraim Mason, a farmer in Keyugo
Township, Oscar County, in the eastern
part of Illinois.

I shall not describe my parting with my
brothers — how we all clung together, how
we all shrieked when rough hands tore us
asunder, and how my heart dried up and
the best feelings of my nature became
callous from that terrible experience.

If there are devils in the world, and
wicked creatures, and hopeless reprobates,
and fallen natures, the lesson my life has
taught me is that in nine cases out of ten

it is the world itself that has made them
so. And I suppose society must take the
same lot as man, that whatsoever it
soweth, that shall it also reap.

I never saw the boys again. Many
and many a useless journey have I taken
to search for them : but they were
swallowed up in the vortex of American
society. I might as well have dived
after them into the Maelstrom.

VOL. I.

CHAPTEK IV

Ephraim mason's

My binding out to the Ephraim Mason
family closed what I may call the first
period of my life. It cut off my family
ties. It withered whatever hopes of
social position I might have entertained
from the circumstances of my parents.
It took me from comparative luxury and
refinement, and pitched me out headlong,
friendless, orphaned, and alone, into some
of the roughest life on God's earth.
Whatever the sailor, storm-tossed and
bruised and wrecked, may think of the
little haven from which he started so

long ago, with its smooth waters and its
delicious surroundings of natural beauty
or of human skill, I think when I go
back to that time over which angels seem
to hover with silver wings, and in which
I left behind all the most precious things
of life.

You who have passed all your days
in such halcyon harbours of refuge, who
have never sailed beyond, on whom the
sun has shone and the zephyrs have
breathed with kindliest gentleness, whose
hearts have never been chilled by the
rough winds of unmerited adversity,
whose bodies and souls have never known
the wracking tortures of variable misfortune,
try and understand something
of the miseries of such a being as mine ;
try to warm into some sort of sympathetic
compassion for a spirit battered
and crushed on the storm-beaten waters

of life. You fair, fine-scented, satin
sisters who tread with proud step the
parqueted floor of society and sit in
the scarlet-cushioned pews of luxurious
*' Houses of God," draw not away
your fine robes from the feared contagion
of such a life as mine, for in
it lie no 'more than the possibilities of
your own nature — no more than the
frailties common to women. For these
you may shut me out from the chamber
of your pity, but you cannot exclude
from your hearts the consciousness of a
nature similar to mine — a nature that
might know the same sorrow and thirsty
as I have thirsted, for human sympathy.

Ephraim Mason, who had written from
Keyugo for a little girl to be adopted
and trained as a help to his wife, was a
farmer from Maine, who had settled in
Illinois, soon after the building of the

Illinois Central Railway, on a few
hundred acres of land about a mile back
from the railway and three miles from
Keyugo Station. When I was torn away
from my brothers and sisters, with a
Httle bundle containing whatever clothes
the honest Beulah Kan had been pleased
to leave me, I was put in charge of the
conductor of a train which stopped at
every station. He was a good-natured
fellow, and tried to ease the long journey
to me. He gave me a picture-book to
look at, lent me his pocket-handkerchief
(a very dirty one and smelling strongly
of tobacco), and bought me a packet of
highly coloured candy, with which I
gradually consoled myself, and coloured
up my face and fingers in clown-like spots
and streaks. This and the rough motion
of the cars and my sorrowful feelings
made me feel very squeamish. whereupon

lie administered to me a small dose
of whiskey and laid me down on a seat,
where I fell asleep. I was awakened by
loud talking and a hand shaking me.

*^ That's her, eh?" said a grating
voice, with a terrible Yankee twang.
'^ Well, she ain't a beauty to look at, and
pretty small sized of her years."

I believe she's been raised well in
the South," said the conductor kindly,
as he awkwardly tried to arrange my
little straw hat on my head.

^'A Southerner, eh? Du tell! I
hadn't calculated on a Secesh girl. Nice
idees, I dare say. No religion, I reckon —
lazy — quite a little missy — too much of
a lady to work, I 'spoke. I guess I've
been too spry about this business. Howsomever,
we'll inaugurate a new system,
I reckon, right away, and instruct her in
more useful and pious ways than she's

been raised to from the looks of her.
What's all this paint over yer face, Sissy,
eh?"

^^ Candy," I replied, looking up at him.
My experience with Miss Ram had
braced my nature up a little, and this
man seemed to me to be a male Ram,
with all her characteristics, and I there
and then began to fight him.

*well, yer won't get much of that,
I reckon, where you're coming to, my
young lady," said he, nettled at my tone
and manner, which I dare say were
defiant.

*' Don't want 'em," I said tartly.

*hum!" said the man. *^ I guess
we'd better get along. My wife will
soon take her in hand and put a bit in
her teeth," said he to the conductor.

The good conductor looked at me
compassionately, and lifted me gently

down from the seat. I thanked him
with a grateful look, and gave him back
his pocket-handkerchief, to the other
properties of which I had added much
saccharine colouring. The conductor,
however, who had been long without it,
blew his nose without any fastidiousness.

*' Ain't yer going to kiss me ? " I said,
putting up my painted cheek.

'why, yes, miss, if yer like it," said
the honest fellow, stooping and kissing me.
'^ Hem ! Hum ! " He cleared his throat.
^^ Good-bye and God bless yer. Sissy!"
he said.

We got out on a bare platform, raised
on high poles, in a wilderness. A single
petroleum lamp lighted what was called
by courtesy a DeiJot, that is, the rough-boarded
shelter erected to hide passengers
from wind and rain. As far as I
could see in the deepening gloom stretched

out an expanse of land, with the growing
corn upon it. The man Ht his pipe, and
then lifting me, carrying my little bundle,
he placed me in a weather-beaten buggy
to which a horse was attached by a
harness, consisting mostly of rope, and we
started off at a good pace over a frightfully
rough road.

snow," he said, holding the reins in
both hands, ^' young 'un, yer may as well
learn sooner or later. Fist yer hold on
with all yer fingers, for this ain't an easy
road to travel in a Hght buggy, and
Jeshurun's pretty fresh, I reckon."

Jeshurun was the horse's name.

At the word the wheel of the buggy on
his side went up, and the wheel on my
side went down, and I was pitched out onto
the side of the road. The man stopped
and jumped down. I had fallen on my
back and shoulder, and was only a little

bruised. I saw his face was white as lie
bent over me. His voice was gentler, and
a little tremulous.

^^ Aise yer hurt, Sissy, eh ? "

^'No, sir," I said, getting up and rubbing
my shoulder. '' I guess I'm all
right."

' All right, ' ' he said ; ' ' that's teach you
to hold on next time, I reckon. But we'll
see if we can't hold you in." And he
took his handkerchief and tied it to my
waist and the rail of the buggy. ^' Now,"
he said, '^ I guess you can swing around
as much as you please without taldng
headers off into the gutter."

And away we went — and I did swing
around much more than I pleased, as he
pressed the horse homewards. The horse
was by no means an easy animal to drive,
as even I could see. He cocked his ears
sometimes straight up, sometimes back.

and held his head alarmingly high in the
air, and had an unpleasant way of heightening
his shoulders as if for a spring, and
of looking round at us with his wicked
eyes, for he was driven without thinkers.
However, even with the support of the
handkerchief, I had enough to do to keep
my place, clenching the slight iron rail at
the side and behind with all my force, till
I felt quite sick with the pain and anxiety.
The road seemed to me endless. By-and-by
we saw a light about a mile ahead.

'^ There, that's your new ho-one," said
Ephraim Mason, who had not spoken a
word since my fall. I was tired and
sleepy, and scarcely cared about the news
he gave me. I tried to speak, but my
teeth chattered against my tongue, and
bit it.

At length we arrived, driving up a
straight road with a row of young trees

on each side, and reaching a long low
wooden building, placed in a clearing,
with stables and huge ricks behind. The
noise of the wheels aroused the inmates.
There was the barking of a dog, a moving
of lights, a door opened, and a woman
appeared.

'home, Eph ? " she shouted, as if
Ephraim were as deaf as a post. '' Have
you got the gal ? ' '

'' Yes," he said. '' Here she is, or
what's left of her."

I was suffering terrible pain in my
shoulder. My arms and fingers were stiff
with holding on, and my body with the
horrible jolting of the machine. The
woman came out with a candle, and an
enormous dog followed her and jumped
about. When he saw me he gave a low
growl, and put me in a mortal fear. The
man undid the handkerchief, and lifting

me out set me down. The clog made a
rush and knocked me over like a ninepin.
Then he smelt my face. I thought I was
dead, and shut my eyes. He put out his
big tongue and Hacked my cheek. At the
same instant a cut from his master's
whip sent him howling away.

'* Oh, poor little thing ! " said the
woman, helping me up. I could scarcely
stand, and reeled about. She tucked me
under her arm and carried me into the
room. It was a large, bright, comfortable
kitchen. Though it was summertime
a fire was burning in the stove in
the large chimney-place. There were
tea-things on the table. The woman
seated me on a large soft chair and
examined me.

Lank a day, what a little bit of a
thing ! Ain't her eyes black ? Du tell,
looked here, what's this paint all over her

face ? And your hands — why, they're
bleeding." She could scarcely open my
little hands. The nails had cut into the
skin in. the desperate effort to hold on,
and the hands were quite bloody.

<« Why, you've drum too quick, Eph, I
reckon," said the woman. " Looked
here."

When she forced my hand open I
fainted.

On recovering I found myself lying on
a wooden box stuffed with straw, which
served the purpose of a sofa. Mrs.
Mason had been plentifully sprinkling my
face with water, for my hak was all wet,
and I felt half drowned. Sitting at the
foot of the sofa on his haunches, his large
intelligent head posed in an attitude of
watchful curiosity, sat Dragon, the big
mastiff. He seemed to me as he sat as
tall as I. When I opened my eyes and

looked at him he moved slightly, then
his eyes assumed a gentle expression,
and I could hear his whig tail knocking on
the floor.

^'Why, I declare if Dragon ain't gone
and tuk a fancy for the little girl ! " cried
Mrs. Mason.

*' Well, I thought he had took a fancy
for her before," responded Ephraim
Mason, who was sitting at the table
eating his supper as if for a wager. And
he laughed a little.

dragon."

Dragon wagged his tail, but did not
move.

^^ Dragon."

The dog responded again with a caudal
flop, but did not stir.

*why, what's come of the brute?"
cried Ephraim Mason, turning round with
his mouth full, and examining Dragon.

Dragon on this rose, and putting lii
two paws on the sofa, the better to seeme,
with his ears meekly dropping, his
large eyes full of intense pleasure, and
his big tail wagging me a hearty welcome,
he gave a low whine or two.

*'Do you hear. Sissy?" said Ephraim,
getting up, and coming to look at me.
'* You needn't be afeared of Dragon anymore
when he's tuk to you like that. I
never see him do it afore. Did you
Sammy?"

Mrs. Mason rejoiced in the high-sounding
name of Semiramis.

'^I reckon," she said. ^'Now, Sissy
try to stand up and take a little tea.
You can dress yourself, I guess ? "

some; but I kent tie my things
behind."

"Then we'll make 'em tie in front,"
said Mrs. Mason, shortly.

In a few minutes I was eating my tea,
and Dragon, following me to the table,
sat with his chin resting on the tablecloth
staring at me. I no longer felt
afraid of him, and even ventured, when
the tea had strengthened me a little, to
say ^'Poor dog!" and to hold out my
hand, which he took into his big mouth,
and I thought I should never see it again.
But he did me no harm, and was from
that moment my firm friend and protector.


VOL. I.

CHAPTER Y

THE Stranger's VISIT

I MUST mention two things which had a
considerable influence on my after life
and character, and in two opposite directions.
If I am taking the trouble, as well
as the pain, of going back into and over
my wayward life, it is that the world may
know something of how such strange
creatures as I am — in whom good people
take little interest — are made. The taste
for theatrical amusements, ballets, stage
performances of every sort, is each year
drawing a greater number of young girls,
attractive and often gifted with a real

genius, which, along with their virtues,
goes to wreck in the wild life of the
scenes. And I have often found that
amongst the worst of these there remained
some relics of an early, happier
life, or of principles trampled on perhaps,
hut not wholly forgotten, and of ideas,
once refined, now vulgarized, and nevertheless
exciting some influence in their
sorrowful career. What these disclosures
of mine may lead to I cannot tell. They
shall he frank at least — and then I must
leave them to read their own lesson.

In spite of Mrs. Mason's sourness, some
of the things she taught me did not fall
on idle ears. When she spoke, as I
thought she liked to do, with earnestness
about the wickedness of sin, and the certainty
of hell, and depicted in glowing
terms the state of the ungodly after
death, she at all events succeeded in terrifying

me. I used to feel very nervous
about the devil, going about seeking
whom he might devour. To me he was
a very real person, though I believe that
since then people have been found to
deny his personality. When I was
naughty I attributed the blame to him,
and felt very uncomfortable about my
future relations to him, for I rather
shirked knowing too much on these
questions. I didn't like Mrs. Mason's
directly personal arguments ; neither did
I like the preaching at meeting, when
the minister would often come down on
me and on other children by name with
warnings and appeals. At such times my
hair would stand on end, and the big
drops would distil from my skin, and I
would be extremely unhappy for hours
till the effects wore off. In this way
religion, as it was called, became irksome

to me. I was told I must be converted
or be damned, and conversion seemed so
bard and so remote and so incomprehensible
a thing, that I felt I had no
chance. I don't say that, if I had had
the matter put to me in a more simple
or a more attractive form, I should have
become a better gui. There was much
in my nature that was wild and wayward.
Sometimes I think that until that has
run itself out in some way there is little
hope of permanent redemption. I know
I am writing against the views of Evangelical
Christians, and may be hurting
their feelings. But I cannot help that.
I am bound to say what I feel and felt.

In Keyugo, as I have said before, my
Sunday afternoon employment was to
learn a page of catechism. To get my
mind fixed upon anything for ten minutes
I needed to read something far more attractive

than the Catechism of the Baptist
Church in America for Younger
Children. I fancy even the most prejudiced
person will admit that that work,
however able, is not amusing. Forced on
me by Mrs. Mason, it became positively
detestable. I loathed its set phrases, its
strange, difficult definitions. Perched on
a wooden stool with this in my hand, I
stared at the words, and mechanically
repeated them over and over again without
being able to carry them in my head.
Often I was sent to bed supperless for
not having succeeded in holding the
quota in my mind even for a few minutes.
Well, my ideas of practical religion came
from this and from the lives of the religious
people who were about me. Then,
and ever after through life, I am sorry to
say that I found that my mind was more
perverted against religion by the appeals

and acts of its friends than by the arguments
of its foes.

But there was an unreal view of religion
presented to my imagination which
greatly fascinated me. I have never
through all my wild life lost the influence
of it. The only book possessed by Mrs.
Mason which excited any interest in my
mind was Bunyan's ^' Pilgrim's Progress'*
The story of Christiana and her children,
and of the gentle Mercy, was the opening
to me of the most beautiful visions and
the rarest ideas. With this book I could
pass the dreariest day without weariness.
Hope and heaven seemed to open to meas
I followed the fortunes of the fair and
simple women under the leadership of
Greatheart. Could I have met such a
man, how I would have loved to follow
him. He entered into my dreams, and
I remember one night when the Masons

had beaten me cruelly, I saw Greatheart
with his sword, and I begged him to
come and cut off Farmer Mason's head.
Just as I thought, he was smiling on me
and promising to do it, I woke with a
shudder to find myself up in the dark
loft, and to hear below the snoring of my
tormentor.

This book I often took out into the
fields when I had learned my catechism
quickly, and my employers were nodding
and snoring at each other in two rocking-chairs.
Dragon would go out with me,
and I would read the book to him. It
was an odd sight to see the great dog,
when I had seated myself by the new
haystack, fenced in from the dun and
yellow cattle standing not far off switching
the tails and lazily blinking their
eyes, with their backs to the afternoon
sun and their faces towards the long

shadows they threw over the ground — it
was an odd sight to see Dragon, erect
upon his haunches opposite me, his eyes
watching me with almost human earnestness,
his head perched on one side, and
his big ears drooped in meek attention,
while I read to him. Every now and
then I would catch him snapping at a
big fly, or pricking his ears at a movement
among the kine, or giving a prodigious
yawn, and would call out to
him —

^^ Now, Dragon, you naughty, wicked
thing you, you ain't listening."

Then he would look at me wistfully,
and meekly resume his former attitude,
and be very solemn for a long time, as if
he were following all I read.

Ah ! dear old Dragon, the tears come
into my eyes when I think of those few
halcyon hours of true, devout friendship.

While we were thus engaged the sun
would be drooping downward toward the
far-off sky-line of the prairie. Then, when
I was tired, we would change oar position.
I would throw myself on my elbows
and look toward the great west, full on
the last splendours of his day's reign.
Dragon would lie out lazily and appear
to be contemplating the same objects.
The grasshoppers cricket around us in
thousands and millions. Then we saw
wonders. Young as I was those sunsets.
used to stir within me feelings sublime
and thrilling.

The great orb sank majestically, pillowed
in the fleecy masses of the golden
clouds, or sometimes sailing with his
aureate galleon through a sea of bright
clear amber, mellowing off into opalescent
grey or pearl, and flecked here and
there with a long bar of glittering silver

or of flaming gold. As lie neared the
line and almost touched it, he seemed
to swell through the misty exhalations of
the warm evening into vaster dimensions.
The azure haze that filled the heavens
above and around grew violet and purple
with the glow of his incandescence.
There he sat enthroned an instant ; earth
and air and sky all full of his influence,
all glorified by his splendour — he in the
centre of the glowing semi-circle arched
far up with light transparent crystalline
clouds, and the arc filled in with pale
lights of grey, and amber radiance and
streaks of ruby cloud, and specks of
silver. Then his big round globe touched
the tops of the low bank of clouds on the
horizon, a long irregular fringe of fire ran
along the outline, and, as if he had dipped
in molten metal, vast streaks and rays
sprang up the heavens, and were flung

out over the earth, and dazzled me with
their splendour.

Then I felt the full spell of his enchantment.


Wherever a light vapour floated in
high ether he transfigured it into some
glorious wonder — a purply cherub, a
floating gold-winged angel, a long bright
drapery of amethystine transparence. The
whole of the interminable plain beneath,
with its expanse of soft-tipped blades and
shining ears tremulous with the creeping
influence of the evening air, was transformed
into a vast golden sea. Whatever
emerged from it of house or tree, or
stake, or motionless animal had become
aureate. I felt transfigured, too, by the
play of his glory on my uncovered head
and face and arms. It was as if I were
floating in a molten sea. Then my
imagination ran riot. The sun was the

eternal God ; the amber translucent
about bim was the glory about the
throne; the fleecy clouds that floated
dazzling were the angels; the sea in front
was the glittering pavement of heaven ;
and my soul, overwhelmed with emotions
of ecstasy and of awe, bowed down and
worshipped.

My face was in my hands, the tears
trickled through my fingers, and Dragon
grew restless and whined

When I looked up again. He was
vanishing. His golden sails were disappearing
behind the wavelets of the
horizon, now fretted and foaming with
luminous splendour. Great streaks of
flaming fire went up the sky in a crown
of amethyst and gold. The sea of the
prairie around had grown soft and purply.
All heaven was flushed with a deep
rich various glow. The tip of an arc

of fire appeared for a moment above the
blazing frill. Then it flashed, then it
vanished ; and I lay wondering, dreaming,
longing, my poor little soul unable
to apprehend the meaning of all this
magnificent display, but soothed and
awed by it into a few moments of joy.

''0 God," I used to say, '^ take
Dragon and me up there among the
angels ; and please let us be in the same
room with Mercy, and don't let Mrs.
Mason come there, and I'll always be
good."

Bunyan and the Books of Daniel and
Revelation alone excited in me any
religious emotion of a pleasant character.
The catechism told me I was and would
be damned unless I sought grace in a
mode therein laid down. Bunyan gave
to religion a picturesque and hopeful
character, and surrounded it, as the sun

did the heavens, with a brightening influence.


One Sunday afternoon when I had been
engaged as I have just described, and
a sultry day had closed with such a scene,
I was surprised to find a stranger standing
close to me, and to hear his voice.

^' Well, Sissy, what are you coin' here ?
Contemplating the glories of God?"

I glanced at the stranger. He had one
of those strongly marked Indian physiognomies
now so common in America.
Dark skin, high cheek-bones, hooked
nose, long hair, now growing silvery, that
dropped over his shoulders, a firm mouth,
and prominent chin. His eyes were dark
as jet and as bright. Yet there was a
gentleness that softened the harsh features
of his face, and though his look at
me was searching, it was not unkind.

Dragon roused and growled.

*^ Hallo," lie said, "Cerberus — well,
you are a dog," and lie went fearlessly-over
to the mastiff, and passing his hand
softly over his neck and ears soothed him
in a moment.

Then he said, "You're about the
biggest dog I ever saw." Afterwards
he turned to me. " What are you doing
here. Sissy ?-^JWhat's this ? " He stooped
and picked up the dirty, well-thumbed
copy of "Pilgrim's Progress." I looked
at the man as he sharply glanced at the
book. He was about six feet high,
dressed in black pants, a black frock-coat,
no waistcoat, a black necktie unloosed, a
great black soft felt hat, that lay on the
back of his head and shoulders.

"You prefer to read about the women,
eh ? " he said. " Well, that's natural fora
gal." And he quietly sat down beside
me, and looked me all over. Then he
came back to my face.

'* You've been crying, eh ? Hurt herself?"


I shook my head without speaking.

'f Come, Sissy, I guess you ain't dumb.
Show me yer tongue."

^^No, sir."

*' Hah! Wal, that's better than silence.
Now we've broke the ice we'll get down
to running water pretty soon. You're too
young, I reckon, to be crying. What's
the matter ? "

'rit's so pretty!" I said, waving my
hand toward the golden gates of the
west.

'well, yer don't usually cry when
you're happy, do yer, Sissy? "

Yes, sir, sometimes, and sometimes
when I ain't."

"But you're always happy, I reckon,
here in this comfortable home — among
good Christian people."

VOL. I. H

^^ Oh no, no ! " I cried, bursting into
sobs, and covering my face while the
purple passion suffused my ears and
cheeks.

^^ Lord," said the man for a
moment aloud; but to himself— ^^ I
reckon I've got hold of a peculiar case
here needing more wit than Thy poor
servant has by water; tell me how I'm
to work this thing right away, for I don't
see through it — not a streak. . . . Sissy,"
he said to me, putting his band to pul
me up. ^' Let us pray."

'^ I don't want to pray," I said, striking
off his hand.

'' Ah ! Lord," lie said. '' It's all right.
Now we've got back to old human water
again."

I had stopped sobbing. Dragon had
risen, and was uneasily studying the
scene. The man's face remained calm

and gentle. He rested silent for a few
minutes.

'^ You ain't happy here, Sissy, eh ? "

^' No ; I want to go away."

^^Why?"

^' They are bad people — they beat me."

'^Ah! perhaps you ain't good — perhaps
you tell Hes. Maybe you've a bad temper
and wicked passions ; mought be you
kick against God's laws and your garden's
wishes — ^p'raps resist the Spirit of
Good, and don't say yom prayers — and
treasure up wicked thoughts in your
heart, and wish yourself dead."

As the old man went on coolly analyzing
me in these terms, I. listened
stupefied.

** Mrs. Mason's been telling on me, I
guess?"

'^ Not a syllable. She ain't mentioned
you to me."

'' Then who told you ? "

^' God' he said, pointing upwards
solemnly.

I looked at him with my eyes wide
open. His face was serious and benignant.
I felt an awe of him.

*why do you read this story?" he-said.


I like it ; it is so pretty."

"■ Nothing more?"

*^ No. I hate the catechism."

"Water again," he said, laughing.
^^ You hate catechism and you like
this."

'never so much."

'well, they're both good, only this
is more taking to young uns. They both
tell you the way of salvation."

"I don't want to know the way of
salvation."

"0 Lord, this is a very hard case; give

US grace to pick our way through these
bushes." (To me) — 'you don't want
to know the way of salvation, and yet
you Hke the story of Christiana, and
Mercy, and Greatheart ? "

'eyes, I love that; but Mrs. Mason
says she's going the way of salvation, and
I don't care to travel along with her."

An odd smile passed over the old
man's face. However, he rebuked me.

"Mrs. Mason," he said, "is a good
woman so far as human judgment can
reckon. The Lord only knoweth His
own. Moreover, Sissy, she's your lawful
guardian, and you have been placed by
Providence in her hands, and it's your
booty to try and love her and give her
all your obedience. Now," he said,
' do you know the way of salvation is
nothing more nor less than the way
Christiana and Mercy went ? "

'^ There ain't no such way," I said
boldly. ^' There ain't no road with lions,
and no Greatheart, and no Interpreter's
house, and no land of Bengal — it's only
a story."

^'0 Lord, I reckon I'm stumped this
time," said the man. ^' How shall I
show this dark soul the true meaning
of the parable? "

^^ Sissy," he said, pointing to the decaying
glory around, the reduced tints
of the western sky, the deepening bronzes
of the clouds, the creeping shadows behind
us, ^* did you not see all this just
now bright and radiant with the sunset ?
Wasn't it all glorified and beauteous as
with the brightness of heaven? Now
you just look behind you on that big
stretch of ugly prairie — see the big
shadows come rolling pip and out of the
east. I guess it's pretty commonplace

ground, and corn and post-and-rail fence,
and shanties, and very ordinary sort of
folks living in 'em. Not many minutes
ago you and I saw all this looking like
a heavenly vision. Yet it's the same
earth, the same houses, the same corn,
the same post-and-rail fences ; and the
same little gal with an ugly brown face
and red eyes and a wicked heart — eh ?
Wal, now, that's the differ between Bunyan's
' Pilgrim's Progress ' and the real
pilgrim's progress. The one is all golden
with Bunyan's fancy, hut it's the real
thing, too. When you've got the real
thing it's all tipped and gilt over hy the
Sun of Righteousness in just the same
way. All the hard things, all the coarse
things, all the cussed things get Hacked
up and renewed. Do you understand ? "
*^ Some ; hut I don't believe it. I
guess Mrs. Mason aunt licked up hy the

Sin of Righteousness, or she wouldn't
wop me the way she does."

*^ Lord, forgive the weakness of
Thy servants, and teach 'em how to hold
up candles to these Thy little ones.
Amen ! . . . Sissy ! "

'^ Sir."

^' Do you sing ? "

^^Yes; a little."

*^ Let's have a hymn. Do you know
^ Happy Land'"

^^ Yes, sir."

^'Fire away! " and in a mellow voice,
a little tremulous, the old man sang with
me. Then he took my hand without
speaking, and said —

^' I reckon we'll go in to supper, Sissy.
Come along, Cerberus ; " and away we
went.

He was very kind to me in the house ;
praised me for liking Bunyan; set me

beside him at supper. It turned out
that he was Elder Swan, a noted but
peculiar evangelist, who had come to
stay the night. He was put in the best
bedroom — no compliment I should say,
for it was hardly ever slept in, and looked
very dreary and uncomfortable. When
supper was over he took the Bible, and
read, and then prayed with great candour,
confessing all sorts of sins for
the company at large and himself in
particular.

Among other things he asked grace
for Mrs. Mason, our dear sister hereto
do her duty by this young immortal,
and grace for me to be a good and
gentle child. I was sent to bed — I slept
in an attic loft — but through the thin
partitions I could hear my name mentioned,
and he must have spoken very
earnestly to Mrs. Mason about me, for

she was kinder next day, and for a week
afterwards. But Elder Swan would have
needed to pay a visit every day to cure
her of her queer temper.

Chapter VI

Dragon ACTS LIKE A GENTLEMAN

Life in Keyiigo was a slow, dull thing
enough to the few people who lived
there. Its surroundings were dismal.
The country stretched away in one vast
flat. There were a few fences, but they
were scarcely visible over the immensity
of waving wheat, varied by huge squares
of the green, tasseled Indian corn. Only
a few small trees here and there rose
above the level. "We were near no hills.
In the far distance were visible no blue
lines against the skj. No ravine offered
a pleasant shade where one might listen

to the cool purling of some silvery brook
on one of those summer days when
Nature seems to be burning up slowly —
when the ground cracks asunder, and
when the leaves and flowers crisp up and
flag and wither. There were no walks
except along the bare country road, deep
in fine dust, or among the high corn.
That was my refuge. I loved to runaway
when I could of a Sunday, Dragon
always following me, and slip in and out
between the interminable ridges of the
maize, whose long sword-like leaves
drooped over me some feet above my
head, in silent and motionless dignity,
or, stirred by the wind, spoke to me with
a mysterious whisper. Sometimes I
would get tied ; and then Dragon,
panting with heat, lay down, and I put
my head into my little cotton sun-bonnet
and rested against his huge side.

That and watching the people who occasionally
— very seldom indeed — came
over to om' house to tea, or to a
*^ Bee," was my only and rare amusement.
On those days I used to be
dressed up and shown off by Mrs. Mason,
who wished, no doubt, to give her meetinghouse
friends a good impression of
her treatment of me. Except on these
occasions, I was a little dog to fetch and
carry, to slop and wash and scrub for
Mrs. Mason. Small as I was, I had to
learn to stand on a high stool and steep
my hands and arms in half-boiling soapsuds.
There was no difference in the-living
between me and the couple and
their farm hand, who changed every
month or so, for no one liked to stay
with them. The food was good and
plentiful, and if Mrs. Mason had acted
less up to what she called her ^4ights/*

and more after lier likings, lie might
have been a pretty good Christian woman ;
but the Hght which some people can extract
from the Bible is almost worse than
darkness.

She was harsh by nature, cold as a
Massachusetts Yankee, and as acid as a
crab-apple. Her tongue could not help
its tartness — the acid was in the juices of
her body. She was a Baptist of a very
strict order — in fact, a echard-shell" of
the hardest. Her husband professed to
be the same, and could lead off a long
and vindictive prayer at any moment, but
I never believed in the man's religion,
and perhaps when I have gone on a little
further with my experiences the reader
won't either.

I had not been long in the house before
they and I found out that there was a
good deal of incompatibility of temper

and temperament between us. My soft
Southern nature, fostered by my mother's
kindness, the easy views which I had
gathered in my home life of religion and
piety, shocked these people brought np in
the straightest of the sects of the East and
j^orth. They tried to educate me in
their doctrines. I was a hard scholar, no
doubt. I was sorry that my mother had
taught me to read. They were very particular
about Sunday. On that day no
newspaper was opened, no book nofc a
pious one touched, no dinner was cooked.
They hitched up the horse in the buggy
and drove off, if it were fine, some four or
five miles to a farm where a meeting was
held. These often used to be occasions
of delight to me, for they frequently left
me at home. There, all by myself, roaming
over the house or in the corn, or, in
winter, tucked cozily by the fire in the

great chair, Dragon watching every
movement, as lie lay out lazily with his
eyes half-shut, I used to dream of the
past and wonder about the future ; I used
to undress myself and wash my little
brown arms and legs, and try to soften
the corns and stiffness on my poor Httle
feet. The winter boots they bought me,
with their copper toes, were so hard and
heavy, so unlike the Hght pumps and
pretty gaiters in which my mother used
to shoe me. Then I used to let down
my dark hair, which was long even then
and required to be bound up out of the
way, or cut off. Mrs. Mason, indeed, one
day, angry at the bother this binding
gave her, seized a pak of shears and
was going to cut it all short ; but I
screamed and sobbed so terribly, and
called ^^ tommy" so loud, that she let
it alone.

Standing on a chair before the Httle
glass on the woman's coarse dressing-table,
I used to look at myself, and try to
trace the likeness to my mother, and
wonder whether I should ever resemble
her. One day, so wrapped up was I in
this agreeable contemplation, that, while
I was standing before the glass, stark as
I was born, with my hair all round my
neck, Mrs. Mason, who had returned
from a meeting, came into the room and
caught me.

^^ Lack a day ! what's the idiot doing ! "
she cried, running at me and catching me
up. •' Eph, you jest come and look
here ! " she shouted out of the window to
the man who was about to unhitch his
horse.

He came in, and she held me off
struggling to get free and blushing allover.


VOL. I. I

^^ She's like a little squaw," he said,
grinning. '^ How on birth did she come
to do that ? "

^^ Vanity and sin," said Mrs. Mason.
^' Yon believe me ? She was standing on
that stool, right before the looking-glass
there, staring at herself. If ever there
was a ^ possession ' like that elder Swan
spoke of at the meeting, she's possessed
with the devil of vanity."

^' Well, I guess we'll take a little of it
out of her," said Mr. Ephraim grimly,
^^ right away."

He went to the stable and fetched a
piece of old rein, and then tying me
down across the bed — not the first time
he laid on me for some minutes withall
his might, spite of my shrieks and the
howling of Dragon, who was shut out in
the kitchen, and leaped about in terrible
excitement. When he was tired, he said —

^' Well, I reckon there ain't much of
the devil left in her now."

I was sobbing, though I bit my lips to
try to stop from crying.

'^ He ain't so easy drew out as you
repose, Mr. Mason," said his wife.
^^When he gets his claws into poor
human nature there ain't no power but
one can open 'em up. That's grace. But
that she won't get until she's converted
the cussed little piece."

"I don't want it, if it makes me like
you," I said through my tears.

^' Oh, you don't, don't you!" cried
Mrs. Mason in a fury. '' Well, I never! "
and she caught up the leather and beat
me till she was out of breath. I could
not cry. Overcome by pain and weakness,
I lost all consciousness.

How long I remained in this state I
cannot tell. When I recovered I was

still lying on the bed, undressed as they
but left me. My back was stiff and sore ;
it was indeed covered with welts from
shoulder to heels. I was chilled by exposure,
and could have shut my eyes
and expired with a feeling of relief.
Suddenly something touched me. I
screamed out, and Mrs. Mason came
running in. What should it be but poor
Dragon, who had managed to slip in, and
was now licking my back gently and
whining. The woman in a rage hit him
with a rolling pin she had m her hand.
In an instant, standing as he was on his
hind legs, and without removing his
foresaw from the bed, he turned his
head with a savage growl, his eyes flashing
fire, and his whole frame trembling
with excitement.

^'Laws a mercy," she said, jumping
back. *' Dragon ! Dragon ! "

He growled more savagely than before,
and she went for her husband. Dragon
went on hacking my back, and I felt happy.

*^ Oh, Dragon," I said, '' why didn't you
eat her?"

He stopped at my words as if to thuik,
and wagged his big tail ; then he whined
and stuck his nose up near my face as
if to try to understand what I said. I
could just stroke his big Flapping ear
with my hand.

'why didn't you eat her?" I said
again.

He growled.

At that moment Farmer Mason entered
the room with a whip in his hand. Asa
rule, at sight of that whip Dragon
always cowered ; now he leaped down
from the bed and rushed towards the
man, showing his teeth and flaming with
his small eyes. Mr. Mason tried a cut

at Mm, but, with a prodigious roar, the
mastiff threw himself on the man's
shoulders and cast him to the ground;
there he stood over him growling, but
not touching him. Mrs. Mason screamed
and the man halloed too. I could just
manage to look round, and I felt a
wicked delight in the farmer's discomfiture.
He tried to get up, but the
dog grumbled and caught the arm he
stretched out, without, however, breaking
the skin. I believe at that moment a
single word from me would have settled
the man's life. A bright thought, however,
struck Mrs. Mason, who was a
bright woman.

^' Lisa," she screamed from the kitchen,
"you call him off ! "

Yes," said the farmer, in an agonized
voice. "You jest call him, Lisa — call
him, Lisa ! "

''No," I replied, feeling my poor little
arms all blistered with his strokes.

The farmer, with the dog's two fore-paws
on his chest, turned livid. The
dog, with his head so held that he could
keep one eye on the man's movements,
turned wistfully towards me as if to ask
what he was to do.

'' Sissy," cried the woman earnestly,
'jest you call him off, like a dear little
Sissy, and I'll come and dress you. You
shan't be whipped again."

"No, Lisa," said the man, "jest say
Dragon,' and I'll not whip you again.
Quick now."

iVt the mention of his name. Dragon
had set his tail going like a pendulum
and growled a little.

"You won't beat me again?" I said.
"Ceram?"

"No, certain," they both said together.


*' And you'll send me away from here.
I guess I don't want to stay."

^^Yes."

*' Dragon! Dragon!" I held out my
hand. With one spring the dog bounded
to the bed and put up his great mouth
in my face and gave me a little touch
with his tongue on the cheek, like a
kiss. Then he turned and looked at the
farmer getting up, but I held him by his
great ear.

^^ Thanked, Sissy," he said, looking
rather crestfallen ; ' ^ you were a pretty
bad girl, I guess, but I mought perhaps a
been too hard on you. Mother, come in
and look after the little girl."

When Dragon saw that articles of
peace had been signed, he lay down
quietly by the bed, as Mrs. Mason came
and attended to me. She sponged me
with warm water, wrapped me in a warm

nightgown, and laid me in bed — their
own bed. My only sleeping-place was a
large box with a straw mattress and some
rough clothes, in the loft above their
room, where there was no other furniture.
It was reached by a wooden ladder in
the corner, terribly hot in summer and
cold in winter. Dragon, observing with
satisfaction, stretched his great length
along, where he could watch my face,
put his paws straight out before him,
and resting his chin on them, contemplated
me benevolently. Having brought
me some warm mush and milk, and
tucked me in, Mrs. Mason disappeared,
and I fell off to sleep.

Dragon was my earliest and best protector
— almost the only one I have ever
met who behaved to me with pure and
unalloyed chivalry, and loved me for my
own sake.

CHAPTER VII

THE ADIEU TO FARMER MASON 's

For some time after the happening of the-incident
related in the last chapter, there
was a change in the conduct of the
farmer and his wife towards me. Dragon
would no doubt for his part in the affair
have been sent away or shot, had he not
been invaluable to Mrs. Mason, who was
often left alone in the solitary house, and
was a rather timid woman. The dog
never showed them any ill-will, but it
was clear to me from the manner in
which he was treated that Farmer Mason
would not again venture to correct him

with a whip. Though I had not forgotten
it, I was afraid to remind them of
their promise to send me away. I was
beginning to grow, and my work grew
easier to me. So things went on in their
old Hne.

Meantime, a man came into their
service who, though in a very simple
manner, had a very material influence on
my after-life. He was called Boh Shaft,,
and was a middle-sized, ngiy-looking, but
light, strong, and dapper Englishman,
who dropped his h's as fearlessly as anyone
I ever met. I can remember it was
my pleasure in laughing at him for this
habit that made us friends, for as a rule I
kept clear of the farm hands, being afraid
of them. He, however, was a jovial little
fellow, fond of singing, and what people
call ^^ larky," and certainly, from his
antecedents, by no means a desirable

tutor or companion for a young girl. He
had been a stable groom in a circus. I
never knew why he was obliged to
seclude himself in the Western States,
but I fancy there was some reason for it
which he would not have liked to divulge.
He was the only man we ever had that
could manage Jeshurun, and I found him
very useful to me, because, while he was
there, the wicked brute, which seemed to
have a special spite against me, was kept
in order. Mrs. Mason, afraid to correct
me before old Dragon, had hit upon a
diabolical mode of punishing me, which
would seem to be almost incredible,
especially in a woman of her professed
principles. Noticing my terror of
Jeshm'un, which was extreme, she used
to revenge herself on me by locking me
into the stables. No sooner would the
wicked brute observe that I was there.

than his eyes would start from his head
his ears stick up, and he would paw and
kick ferociously, while I, in a state of
abject terror lest he should get loose and
tear me to pieces with his teeth, crouched
trembling in a corner. I can remember
now the awful trial, the pains and terrors
of the hours I spent in this way, never
daring to take my eyes off the maddened
horse, and expecting every moment to
see him tear away his halter.

From this Shaftoo saved me, because,
when he knew I was being thus punished,
he used to come and whistle to the horse,
outside the stable, and he would instantly
become quiet.

Although I was forbidden to speak to
the men, I would slip out into the corn,
and hold many a talk with this man.
He was a great rascal, I believe. Later
on he ran away with some money belonging

to one of the other harvest men, who
had hid it in the loft ; but he never said
anything to me of a bad or corrupting
character. He only told me stories of
his strange life, of the circuses with
which he had travelled, of the beautiful
young ladies who used to ride the horses,
and perform so many graceful and
dangerous feats. Amongst other things,
he told me that " the thing " for a young-woman
in that line of life was to be a
trapezist ; that, in his view, that was
going to be the '* star thing to do ; " and
he even expressed his regret that he was
not a "young gal," to go in for the
business. These remarks of his, said, I
believe, innocently enough, produced a
powerful impression on my mind. I
dreamt of myself as a fascinating trapezist,
with long hair and a beautiful spangled
dress, swinging through the air, as he had

described to me ; and thus, next to the
"^^ Pilgrim's Progress," this man's stories
became my chief thoughts and admiration.
In this way two contrary influences,
which I dare say the evangelists would
call the carnal and the spiritual, were
created in my life. It will be seen that
the struggle between them was long and
variable. Shaftoo also taught me one or
two acrobatic feats — to walk on a rail, to
swing on a round stick, and to stand on
my head. I was very sorry when he
went away.

Such, then, was the education which I
had obtained at Farmer Mason's when I
was nearly nine years of age. A crisis
now occurred in my life.

As I grew older I became more hardy
and defiant. My strength of body increased,
and I cared not a jot for a
beating. I loved movement, but I also

loved to be lazy. Anything that was not
settled work pleased me. I doubt not,
from the point of view of Mrs. Mason,
with her strict ideas and the notion that
Providence had given me to her to use asa
little slave, I was an unsatisfactory
character. She could hardly have
thought me an angel. I robbed the
miserable little patch of garden, broke off
the favourite flowers, stole pieces of stuff
to clothe wooden dolls which the men
made me, and which I used to hide in
the haystacks and nurse in secret with
trembling ecstasy. There was no outlet
afforded to my childish nature. I was
expected to forego all the little follies and
amusements of childhood, and to be ever
on the strain of quietness and rigidity.
Conceive of a poor, little, passionate
nature, fostered as mine had. been by
my mother, placed in such conditions.

One Sunday Farmer Mason *^ hitched
up " and drove over with his wife to
meeting. It was always a curious thing
to me, young as I was, to see these
people going to such a place with such a
devil as Jeshurun between the shafts. It
was a sultry day, and, as I thought,
happily for me, they were to stay over for
tea and some religious service afterwards.
The two farm men had leave to go to
Cashuta village, from which they would
return home pretty drunk at a late hour.
So Dragon and I had a charming afternoon
all to ourselves. I remember it as
if it were yesterday. There seemed tome
a peculiar lightness and joy about it.
I had plenty of bread and milk. I and
the dog went out to the hay-stack and
ate it together. My two or three dolls
were brought forth from their hiding to
take an airing on Dragon's back. Now

VOL. I. K

and then he took them tip and gave them
an affectionate grip between his teeth.
Then I grew tired, and went roving
about for something to do. Naturally it
was mischief, according to Dr. Watts' s
epigram. It struck me I could make
myself some coffee. I set to work, lit a
fire, and made a hot decoction, well
charged with grounds. All went merrily
until I reached up to a shelf in the cupboard
where the tea-things were. I
could just touch them ; a large jug
toppled over, carrying one or two pieces
with it. They fell to the floor and were
smashed to atoms. Dragon and I looked
at the remains aghast. He smelt at
them, and then looked at me, and shook
his head as if to say —

*' This is a had business."

But I was too hardened by this time to
remain in very bad spirits. After sweeping

up the pieces, I got a cup and took
my coffee, and then went out to watch
for the people's return.

The sun had akeady set when they
came back. I was afraid to go in. I
saw Farmer Mason take the horse into
the stable. Dragon was with me, and
seemed in a very strange humour. The
lights were lit. I could see Mrs. Mason's
figure moving smartly about in the big
kitchen. I knew she would not be long
in finding out what had happened; she
was as sharp as a weasel.

Presently she came to the door and
called me very loudly. I did not answer.
She then called Dragon, who responded
with a low growl. I saw there was
nothing for it but to go to her. Dragon
did not accompany me, though I beckoned
to him. He seemed to have some presentiment.


*^ Well, miss," she said angrily, ^^ you've
been meddling' with them tea-things
again ! There ain't no peace with you.
You are as full of wickedness as the
devil."

She was white with rage. I said nothing.
I was quite hard and defiant.

^^Yes, I did," I said. ^'But I didn't
do it on purpose. I was getting some
coffee."

^^Oh, you were?"

At this moment Farmer Mason entered.

*' Look here," she said, showing him
the fragments of broken ware. *' This is
what this .piece has been doing while we
were away. What is to be done with
her?"

*^ I reckon we'll let her sleep in the
stable with Jeshurun," said the man
with a malignant smile. '' Here, Sissy,
you come along with me."

He seized my arm and dragged me
along. I screamed ont. What had taken
Dragon I did not know, but lie did not
appear, and I was carried to the stable,
shoved in at the door, and heard the bolt
outside driven in.

There were openings high up to let in
the air, but with all my activity I could
not have reached them. Jeshurun seemed
to smell me ; he instantly began to lash
out, to shake his halter, bite with his
teeth, and snarl and shriek. My fear was
mortal. I groped my way to the corner,
and lay there quivering with terror. I
felt sure that now I was going to be
punished for all my sins. Suddenly
something cold touched my hand ; I
shrieked in an agony of terror ; the next
moment Dragon's tongue licked my
cheek. I threw my arms round his neck,
and sobbed for joy. He sat up and bore
my fondling with great good nature.

Now I felt perfectly safe and liappy^
though Jeshurun seemed to be im-wonted
frenzied. He must have known
the dog was there. He kept moving
fi'om side to side and tugging fearfully at
his halter. This had lasted for two
hours, and, getting used to the noise, I
was beginning to fall asleep with my
head on Dragon's side, when he gave a
great growl and a spring. I fell into
the straw, happily for me, for the next
moment there was a fearful noise. Jess
had got loose, and quivering down
in my corner I could only make out from
the racket that the dog and horse were
fighting. The one lashed out ; the other,
after one or two growls, ceased to do
more than pant, and it seemed he had
hold of the horse by the throat, and the
latter vainly tried to rear and shake off
the prodigious brute. The row was tremendous.

Presently the door opened,
Jeshurun rushed out, carrying the dog
with him, and knocking the farmer, who
had come out from his bed to see what
was the matter, over senseless in his
passage.

I got up and ran to the door. There
was a sort of twilight, by which I could
distinguish the horse rearing and the dog
holding on. I stumbled over Farmer
Mason, but picked myself up and ran. I
had resolved to stay no longer in this
frightful place. The fight was coming to
an end. The horse sank down ; the dog,
terribly wounded by the brute's fore feet,
was unable to move. I said —

*^ Good-bye, Dragon," quietly, and at
a safe distance ; and started off down the
road in the opposite direction from the
railway depot.

Chapter VIII

A NEW HOME

I WENT on into the night. The stars
shone brightly overhead in the great sky.
The earth was silent ; and around me I saw
the ground indistinctly and vaguely merge
into the gloom. I took my way along
the road, as I have said, in the opposite
direction from the railway depot by which
I had arrived. The night was so calm
and warm that I did not feel the need of
my little sun-bonnet, which was in the
house. I had on nothing but a few
calico clothes, a pair of common cotton
stockings, and my boots. My hair was
flung down over my shoulders.

In this state I tramped on quickly in
the gentle darkness. There was nothing
to disturb or alarm me — no hedge behind
which an animal could lurk, no trees to
conceal a man had there been one wishing
to lie 'tertii in such a locality. All
was silent, except the twit-twit here and
there of the earth crickets. There was a
little play of the aurora in the sky, and
before long I could see well enough topick
my footsteps.

"When I had wandered on for a considerable
distance, listening carefully to
know whether any one was following, I
breathed a sigh of relief, and I can now
remember the sense of freedom that filled
my breast, and the steady resolve I made
that I would never again return to the
tutorship of Mrs. Mason. Of course, it
was not then known to me that in knocking
over the farmer, the horse had struck

him on the head with his fore-hoof, and
that it was a grave question whether
Mr. Mason would ever again return to
active life. He did, as I afterwards
learned, but it was so long after my
escape, that neither Mrs. Mason nor her
husband ever made any effort to recover
me.

One thing weighed heavily upon my
heart. It was the loss of Dragon. Over
this I wept bitterly as I dragged my little
dust-covered feet along. I was strong
and must have walked many miles before
I stopped, and feeling tired I looked
about, as the early dawn came on, for
some place in which to get a rest. Across
the flat country, some distance off, I
could discern a building, but I felt unable
to reach it, so I went aside from the road
into a field of green wheat that extended
for a long distance, and finding a place

where it grew thick, lay down and took
a long sleep.

When I woke the sun was already high
in the heavens ; his burning rays were
beating on my unprotected head. I felt
hot and feverish and thirsty. I broke off
and chewed some of the early green ears,
which moistened my mouth, and then set
off for the house I had seen in the distance.
There a woman, who was washing
some things under a shed, was surprised
to see me, as I staggered in and
asked for a drink of milk.

^^Why, Sissy," she said kindly, 'whore
you ? Where are you going to ? "

Going to look for my mother."

^^ What's your name ? "

^^ Elizabeth Bellamy."

*' And Where's your mother ? "

'' I guess she's in Alabama."

The woman was, I think, an Irishwoman,

who happily knew very little of
lier neighbours, and had no communications
with the Masons.

'' Well," she exclaimed, '' that's a long
way off for a child of your age to travel,
without a bonnet, too. Have you got no
money ? "

^'No, ma'am."

She looked at me very curiously.
'' Why," she said kindly, ^^you look as
if you had walked a long way. Where
did you come from ? "

I mentioned a village some miles to
the other side of Farmer Mason's.

^' Well, now, the best thing for you todo
is to wash yourself, and I'll make you
some bread and milk. There's a towel
and a bowl and some soap, and you can
go to the pump, and come back as soon
as you are ready."

It was indeed a pleasure to feel myself

Free, to be spoken to kindly, and my
ablutions that morning were refreshing.
When I came in the woman's children
were all there, a number of them, looking
poor and ill-dressed, and some of them
unhealthy. They examined me curiously
and asked me various questions, but I
was a self-contained little piece and answered
very cautiously. But getting
more familiar with them, we went round
the fields, and there, in the pride of my
heart, I showed them some of the tricks
that Shaftoo had taught me. They were
delighted, and on our return insisted on
my reproducing them for the mother's
benefit. She was a good deal amused.
She said —

"You're a sharp 'un. There's a dime
for you. And, look here. Sissy, you
hadn't ought to walk in the hot sun
without something on your head."

She went and got a sun-bonnet, made
of coloured calico, belonging to lier eldest
girl, and put it over my bead, leaving the
-strings loose, as the day was hot.

^^ There," she said, ^^tbat is all I can
do for you. Sis. Take care of yourself,
and God bless you, whoever you are and
wherever you are going."

All the children came out to the road
to see me off, and they waved their hands
and said '^ Good-bye ; " and when I turned
from them to plod on, much refreshed
and full of resolve, I had a choking sensation
in the throat, and a tear was in my
eye. No such kindness had ever before
reached me from strangers. When I goton
a little way, I turned to take a last
look, and saw the poor woman standing
in the door of her house, shading her eyes
with her hand and looking after me. I
never forgot that figure. The sunlight

and the distance and the clear air made
it very distinct, and it seemed to me as
if she were like good Prudence, looking
after the little pilgrim, and wishing her
God-speed.

On I plodded slowly, my heart getting
stronger as I felt myself getting farther
and farther from Farmer Mason's. There
was little to vary the journey. Now and
then I met waggons and light huggins,
and sometimes got a hft for a few miles,
and a meal at the end of it. Every one
was kind, but in those days there was in
that district a thin population : the land
was not first-rate, and the people were
poor and depressed. It was astonishing
how little interest they took in a child
wandering along as I was doing. No
one attempted to stop me.

It would be very difficult for me to
convey to the reader an idea of the sensations

with wliicli I, a little girl of less
than nine years of age, pursued this
strange pilgrimage. I was hardy and
ready, and experienced no fear during
the whole two weeks of my wanderings,
except once from a drunken Irishman,
who allowed me to put up one night in
his cabin, but who, I am convinced,
never meant me any harm. I trudged
along, sometimes singing, sometimes crying,
often hungry and weary, but always
steadily resolved to get away as far as
possible from Farmer Mason's. I really
had no fixed plan. Where I should pull
up I did not know. There was a sort
of desperate submission to fate and waiting
on Providence which sustained me
from day to day. If I went to sleep at
night out in the open I felt no fear, and
though I suffered sometimes the pangs
of hunger, I had no idea of going back
again to my so-called guardians.

I had gone on thus, I say, for about
a fortnight, when one clay I struck the
railway. It at once occurred to me that
here was a means of getting farther away,
and, reflecting on the matter, I resolved
to walk along it till I reached a depot,
and to try and get on a train going
towards Alabama. Of course, I had a
very vague idea of geography and direction.
Along the route of this railway on
either side I found more people had
settled than in the country through which
I had been wandering. But exposure,
fatigue, and hunger had told upon me,
and I was scarcely able to drag myself
along. I struggled on. I had had
nothing to eat for twenty-four hours
except some green corn, and I had been
unlucky in finding water. Two trains
thundered past me as I panted on,
but though I waved my sun-bonnet to

VOL. I. L

the conductors and engine-drivers, they
either never saw me or disregarded my
signals.

Night began to fall. It was summertime,
and nearly nine o'clock. I saw on
the right a low, long house, with outbuildings.
With great difficulty I managed
to struggle to it. It was quite
dark when I got there, and, overcome
nth weariness and famine, I fell upon
the door-step and went to sleep. I had
not been there long when I was rudely
disturbed by a kick in the side and some
heavy body falling over me, and by the
outcry of a female voice. There was
an immediate commotion, people were
around me, and after lifting off the
weight which was upon me they stood
me up. I then saw what had happened.
A big, strapping girl, coming out with a
tub of dirty water, had tumbled over me.

Her bare elbows were bleeding, and she
was crying very energetically. The people
asked me " What I was doing there ? "

Going to Alabama," I said.

They laughed heartily.

*' Look here, miss," said a man who
had come out, " don't play tricks with us.
Who are you, and where do you come
from?"

^^ I am Miss Bellamy, and I am going
to Alabama to find my mother."

^^I think she's a little touched," said
the man, pointing to his head. swell,
where did you come from last ? "

** I don't know. I came along the railway."


^' Did you walk ? "

^^Yes."

*^ She looks as if she had walked fifty
miles," said the girl, who had dried her
eyes, pointing to the remains of my boots.

I was certainly a pitiable object. My
dress was torn and dirty, my stockings
had long since grown black and gone to
fragments, and there was little left of the
boots but the uppers.

'^ Where have you walked from?"
asked the man again.

^^ A long way — more than two weeks."

The man shook his head.

^^ Well," he said, '^ I don't believe you.
Are you hungry ? "

*' I ain't had anything since night
before last."

The girl whose elbows I had scratched
here cried out, " Poor little thing ! " and
ran into the kitchen.

*' You may come in," said the man,
somewhat surlily, ^'but you must keep
quiet. My mother's dying."

And he went through the kitchen into
an inner room.

The iii brought me into the kitchen,
which was large and comfortable, and sat
me down opposite some milk and hoe-cake.
As I ate I could hear the man's
deep voice speaking very gently and the
querulous tones of an old woman in the
other room. The door was partly open.

*' She is a tramp, I guess," he said.
'^ Mebbe a thief. Never mind about her,
mother."

^^ ^ I was hungry, and ye gave me
meat ; ' John, remember that. She maybe
telling the truth."

'never mind, mother. She is getting
something to eat. Keep quiet, mother."

I went on eating. There was silence
for a while. The big girl had washed her
elbows with cold water, and now came
and looked at me very good-naturedly.

'' Hungry ? " she said.

eyes."

'swell, eat as much as ever you like.
Did you fall asleep on the step ? "

*^ Yes, I was so tired and hungry." My
mouth was full as I spoke.

Well, you nearly settled me, miss,"
she said, laughing. She had a round,
good-natured face.

^^ I am very sorry," I said. *let me
kiss you."

*^ No, thank you," she replied. ^^ You're
as black as a nigger, and covered with
dust. You must wash yourself first.
You're a farrier, I reckon."

No, I ain't ; I'm from Alabama."

'* Oh ! nigger, perhaps ? "

'^ No ! " I shouted in a rage.

*^ Well, you look so. Your arms and
neck are as brown as brown."

I jumped from the chair and began to
tear off my clothes.

^' I'll show you," I said. Off went my

dress. There was nothing under it buta
little calico garment. I opened it at
the breast, and showed her a milk-white
skin.

^* Oh la ! " she said, '* how pretty your
skin is. No, you ain't a nigger."

At this moment the man put his head
through the door, and looked much surprised,
while I snatched up my dress and
threw it over my head.

^' Sissy ! " he said to me gravely.
^^ Mother says she must see you. Remember
she is very ill, and say as little
as maybe, like a good girl. It ain't
good for her to talk, but it's best to let
her have her way."

He opened the door and I went into
the room. It was not large, and on a
low, small bed in the corner, propped up
by pillows of a beautiful white, and ina
white cap, was an old woman, looking

very pale, but dignified and gentle. Her
grey hair was parted smoothly under her
cap over a high, wrinkled forehead. She
had a strongly marked brow and deeply
sunken eyes. Her cap-strings were tied
in a large bow under a long narrow chin.
Her nose was long and straight and her
cheeks shrivelled, but altogether her aspect
was peculiarly impressive, especially
on a child of my experience. I looked
at her very earnestly, and I saw her
quick eye glance over my figure, my
dress half on and half off, my dishevelled
and dusty hair, and my black, brilliant
eyes. I forgot to say that a woman was
by her bedside, a nice-looking person,
who also examined me curiously.

'poor little thing!" they said together.


''I ain't poor, ma'am," I said. ''I
have a dime here."

They did not smile. The old woman
spoke with difficulty, and there was sadness
in the whole scene.

'^ What is your name ? " said she.
^' Come lip here close to the bed, my
dear, and answer me the truth, as you
will be judged at the Great Day. Do
you know about God and heaven ? "

** Oh yes ! and Revelations, and Christiana
and Mercy."

The old woman's eyes grew softer,
and she nodded her head at her son,
who stood by watching the scene spellbound.


*^ Now," she said, ^* begin where you
were born and tell me your story. Conceal
nothing — and be short, my Httle
girl, for I have not long to stay. Never
mind, John. I must do it."

I could not have concealed anything
from that old woman, she spoke so

kindly, yet so commandingly, and I felt
as if her glance would drag out my
secrets whether I would or no. So I
told my story truly and fully. She
listened attentively.

^^Do you know those Masons?" she
inquired of her son.

*' Never heard of them. The girl can't
be tellin' the truth, mother. She looks
to me like a gipsy or a half-nigger."

^^I ain't," I said angrily. ^^I'm as
white as you."

*' Looks so," said the man contemptuously,
pointing to my neck.

Once more I jumped out of my dress,
and exposed the white skin on my little
bosom.

The old lady nodded to her son.

'you see you have done her one injustice,
John, at least. I am convinced
her story is true, and I tell you it is

my wish, that she should be taken care
of. It may be my last wish, but I feel
as if a Providence had sent that child
to my bed. Keep her, John and Mary,
and may God's blessing come on you for
your goodness to the orphan and the
wanderer."

'' Mother!" he said gently, ^' we'll
do anything you say."

^' Yes, we'll take care of her," said
the woman, Mary. ^^ She shall be treated
just as Gib and Tommy are, for your
sake, mother, unless she turns out too
bad to keep. Will you do your best to
be a good girl ? " she said to me.

'* Yes, ma'am," I said, and I sank
down on the floor and sobbed bitterly.
I was overcome with weakness and by
the old woman's kindness. The man
took me out to the kitchen. In half

an hour Ellen, the help," had given
me a bath, and tucked me into her own
bed, and I slept as I had not slept since
I left my mother's room.

Chapter IX

A Strange Dream

The family into which I thus found
myself introduced consisted of the old
woman, named Pennyquick, her son and
his wife, their two sons of fourteen and
sixteen years of age, and the ^4ielp,"
Barbara, commonly called ^^ Bobby," who
was, I fancy, a distant sort of relation.
They treated her with great kindness,
and she certainly passed it on to me,
notwithstanding the somewhat scurvy
accident of which I had been the innocent
cause.

The morning after my arrival, when
Mr. Pennyquick had gone out, his wife

took me in to see the old lady, who had
greatly recovered during the night, and
from that time sensibly began to mend.
She received me with great kindness.
She had a quaint, Methodistic way of
talking, but it was clear her mind had
to some extent given way and her
memory of Scripture passages had gone
sadly wrong, leaving, as it were, only
floating scraps and fragments, which she
rarely succeeded in putting together with
any relevancy. I often used to laugh at
the quaint results. The family were
English, and had come from Yorkshire.
They had the English peculiarities of
cold, rough manners and warm hearts,
and were always brusque and straightforward
in their talk.

'^ Child," said the old woman, turning
her clear eye on me, *^ was your story
true last night ?"

^' Yes, ma'am."

^' Every word?"

^* Yes, ma'am."

Yom mother deserted you in the way
you say? "

My mother went away with Toxy.
I never saw her again."

'' Ah ! ^ Can a mother forget her sucking
child? Yea, they may forget. But
verily I say unto you, they shall all
likewise perish.' Little gui, my son will
adopt you. He has no daughter. Now
you are washed and tidied up you look
very well. Would you like to stay with
us?"

"Yes, ma'am — if you please. What
work shall I have to do ? "

"Work!" cried the old woman, "a
chit like you do any work ! Wait until
you are grown up to talk of work. Then
work while it is called to-day — for sufficient

unto the day is the evil thereof
You shall come and learn to read to me.
Now, my dear, let us ask the Lord's
blessing on this arrangement. Kneel
down beside me, child."

In a weak, quavering voice, full of emotion,
which thrilled through me, and
brought the tears to my eyes, the old
woman offered up a prayer in a way that
showed she had been accustomed to that
sort of exercise. It was curious how well
she could speak, though her memory was
so bad. Afterwards, many and many a
time I heard her, when she had gathered
the family round her bed — she was always
bedridden — do the same, and always with
singular simplicity and power.

I soon made friends with the two boys,
who were already working on the farm,
but whom their father obliged to occupy
some hom's every night in their own

education. They were big, chubby,
rough-headed fellows ; Tom, the elder,
being the quieter and more thoughtful,
and Gibson, the other, having rather a
passionate temper. Their father was a
stern man, and, though he was kind,
controlled them with great firmness, so
that before him they were wel-behaved.
But behind his back Gibson sometimes
broke out into mischief and ill temper.
^' Bobby " held her own with them by
sheer force. If they tried any tricks with
her she bravely boxed their ears, and I
never saw them cruel to her.

Mr. Pennyquick, Hke his mother, was
a strong Methodist, and of a very severe
type. Our Sundays were strictly kept.
We were allowed no play, no book beyond
the Bible, but I am bound to say theirs
was a very different kind of religion from
that of Mr. and Mrs. Mason. I believed

VOL. T. M

in the old lady's sincerity. I found Mrs
Pennyquick the younger not only kind
but gentle, and very anxious about her
boys ; she was a motherly sort of woman,
ever considerate and generous to me.

In this family I remained, gradually
working myself into their affections all
round, and on the other hand getting to
like them every one. Bobby was my best
friend.

As I grew I became quick at my learning,
and soon caught up to the plodding
Tom and the lazy Gibson, and was accordingly
commended by Mrs. Penny-quick.
I became the old woman's
favourite companion, sleeping in her room,
sitting for hours beside her, talking about
her Yorkshire life or listening to her
stories, some Biblical, some secular. It
was the brightest and happiest time of
my life, when my days were little disturbed,

and I slept at night under a calm
sense of comfort and protection.

Thus two years passed without important
incidents, when one night, a little
after midnight, I was awakened by a
noise in the room, and starting up saw,
by the light which was always burning,
old Mrs. Penny quick sitting up in her
bed. This struck me as curious, because
ordinarily she could not sit up without
assistance. She was looking straight
before her, and her thin white hands,
coming out of the cuffs of her night-dress,
were raised upward towards heaven.
She seemed to me to see something.

Martha ! " she cried in a deep, thrilling
voice. ^^ Martha, are you going
home ? "

It was evident, although nothing
reached my ear, that the old woman
heard something.

'' What, Martha, without me ! "

Her voice was one of anguish. She
put one hand on her heart. I saw her
still looking upward.

'^ She is going," she said; '^ even so

come " And she fell back suddenly

and heavily.

A dreadful fear came over me. I could
no longer hear her breathing. I called
out shrilly, and Mr. and Mrs. Penny quick
rushed into the room.

Their mother was dead.

I told them what had occurred and
what she had said. They were much
astonished.

'did she ever tall to you about her
younger sister Martha, who was living in
England ? " they said.

^' No. I did not know that she had a
sister."

'* It was a dream, then."

A few weeks afterwards the news came
of the death of Mrs. Penny quick's sister
and on a comparison of dates and hom's
it was clear that not more than an hour
had elapsed between the decease of
Martha and her sister Mary.

Chapter X

Awkward Conjunctures

During the four years which I had spent
with my kind guardians at Phillip surg I
grew to be a strong, tall girl, improving
in appearance and spirit, a picture of
health. I was treated by Mr. and Mrs.
Pennyquick after the old lady's death
exactly as if I had been their own child.
They looked as well after my education
as after that of their own flesh and blood,
and being people of a simple religious
suit, did their best to promote my moral
and religious welfare. If their views of
Christianity were narrow, they were at all

events liiimane. They were very severe
about breaches of truth ; they, too, were
rigid in their moral rules ; but, unlike the
Masons, there was not that hard, insensate
cruelty of holiness which seems to
distinguish some classes of Puritans.
They reasoned with us about our faults
as they appealed to our consciences, and
Mrs. Penny quick in particular often overlooked
our little errors. The husband
was by nature rather of a serious disposition,
but I quickly perceived that he
was a man whose religion had taken so
strong a hold upon him that he tried to
overcome his natural tendency and to
cultivate openness, gentleness, and kindness.
He is to me at this hour, when I
look back upon his character, one of the
standing proofs of the reality of religion.
I don't know how I could better express
my appreciation of him. He is long since

dead — but his memory still remains a
pleasant green spot in a howling wilderness.


The ghi ^^ Bobby " is another of my
happy personages. From the first we
became friends. She was a girl of a susceptible
nature, easily moved to tears or
to anger. I have said I thought that she
was related to the Pennyquicks and had
been thrown on their care. They made a
domestic, or ^' help," of her, but of course
in such a family there was no effort to
preserve any distance between the various
members of the household. We were all
friends, and Bobby was perfectly familiar
all round.

Bobby wanted to be religious, but was
conscious that there were many strong
forces within her which kicked vigorously
against; this desire. She had to repress a
very fluent tongue, one that very frequently

wagged without discretion. Her
feet and ankles were made for movement
and before she had come into the family
she had been taught certain quickness
and dances, which in moments of high
spirits she almost unconsciously began to
practise. The wickedness of dancing was
one of the cardinal principles of the late
Mrs. Pennyquick's religion, and consequently
it was a high sin on Bobby's part
to indulge in these fandangos. On the
other hand, Bobby was greatly impressed
by religious meetings, sermons, and
prayers, and I believe had a very sincere
desire to become religious. Sometimes
she would spend the greater part of the
day or night in crying and thinking over
her sins. As I shared her room with her
I had to partake the varieties of her
temper, and as a young child, very impressionable,
it may be imagined what an

effect Bobby's vacillations had upon me.
Sometimes I was in the doldrmns of grief
and repentance, and again would be roused
to share the boisterous excitement of my
companion. However, on the whole I
was happy. Mind and body grew healthily
together.

The two boys became like brothers tome.
We read and played in company.
They and I had grown, insensibly, of
course, to ourselves, and they were now
young men, while I, who developed rapidly,
though a mere girl, seemed to be on the
threshold of womanhood. Doubtless the
personal attractions which afterwards had
so great a part in the arrangement of my
fortunes had already begun to show themselves.


Gibson was a big, strong fellow, of a
manly height and frame, well able for
outside work, and indeed preferring it to

any other; active, and by no means so
quietly or religiously inclined as his
brother Tom, who had taken to books
and used to say that he intended to become
a '^ minister."

I was so curiously constituted that I
could enjoy the company of either of
these boys. I loved to work beside
Gibson, binding the heavy sheaves of
corn, or helping to supply the steam
thrasher, or sometimes romping in the
fresh-mown hay. Our life was so sequestered,
we saw so little of other people,
that all that vast world of morbid thought
and feeling and life which lay beyond was
unknown to me. My regard for these
boys was very simple, very sincere, and
very harmless. With Tom I passed
quieter hours ; I liked to sit by him and
knit while he read some of the books of
missionary travels and so forth which we

had, or stories from the annuals or weeklies
that were taken at the farm.

Sometimes we read inside the house,
especially through the long winter, when
Gibson's restless spirit could hardly be
chained, and he often went off to walk
four miles to PhilHpsburg, where, I daresay,
he did not always amuse himself as
his father would have wished.

Tom, although so bookish, was a very
powerful youth. He was a head shorter
than his brother, with a great chest, broad
shoulders, long arms, but perhaps somewhat
disproportionately short legs. His
head was large, and covered with strong
grizzly hair. He had heavy dark eyebrows,
piercing eyes, a good nose and
mouth, and was in many respects a very
taking fellow.

I had no consciousness of liking either
of these young men better than the

other. We lived so miicli as brothers
and sister, and I was so childish, though
I had developed so rapidly, that any sentiment
of affection I entertained for them
was of an ordinary character, and one
might have hoped that the simplicity of
our relations would long have remained
undisturbed. But the boys were older
than I — they knew I was not a sister ;
and one day a strange revelation was
made to me.

It was only long afterwards that I was
able on looking back to interpret to myself
some little events that had happened
before.

They had both earned some money
during the season's harvesting. It was
not much, a few dollars, but when the
harvest was over they proposed to take
the train to New Some, some twenty
miles distant, which was a better place

than Phillipsburg for its shops and stores.
Both of them asked that I might go with
them, and Mrs. Pennyqnick allowed me
and Bobby to go.

The town was very interesting to me.
It had a big hotel, many shops, churches,
and good houses. On the way, in the
cars, the young men held a discourse as
to the manner in which they were going
to spend their money.

^' I am first going to buy some books""
said Tom, taking a list out of his pocket,.
^^ and one for you, Lisa," he said to me.

'^ I know what I am going to do," said
Gibson, " but I won't tell now."

There was a good deal of banter about
Gibson's reticence, and when we arrived
at New Rome his brother, before purchasing
his books, waited to see what
Gibson proposed to do. We went about
looking at everything of interest, and at

length Gibson, who knew the place very
well, took the way to a jeweller's shop,
and asked the jeweller to show hin a
coral necklet. Of course the sort of
coral to be found in such a place was
neither good nor expensive, but Master
Gibson, to our surprise, finished by purchasing
for eight dollars a bundle of bits
of coral with a gold clasp, which he proceeded
to fasten round my neck.

^' There, Lisa," he said to me, '' that is
for you, with my love."

I coloured and laughed. Of course it
gave me pleasure, but knowing that he
had spent nearly all the money he had,
and that spending it in this way would
never be approved by his parents, I began
to feel a Httle distressed, and begged him
to give it back to the jeweller. He would
not Hasten. He drew out the money to
pay for the necklet. My eye at that

moment happened to fall on Tom's face.
It had suddenly become black as a
thundercloud. The light leaped in his
dark eyes. His breathing seemed to be
heavy. His hands were strongly clutched
together.

'' Why, Tom ! " I said, '' are you ill ? "

Gibson, who was counting the money,
turned round, and the eyes of the two
youths met. There was something deadly
and terrible in those of Tom. Gibson
turned pale when he looked at him.

^'Oh! there is nothing the matter,"
replied Tom with a strong effort, and he
turned and rushed from the shop.

Gibson looked uneasy. Bobby, who
had watched it all closely, ran out after
him.

^' What can be the matter?" I said,
opening my eyes very wide, and staring
at Gibson. " He seems so angry."

"Nothing, Sissy, I reckon. He don't
like my giving you that thing, perhaps."

"Why?"

Oh ! no reason at all — perhaps he's
jealous."

"Jealous! What's that? Does he
want the money for books ? "

He thinks you may like me better
than him after that."

Wel, I shan't; it is too silly. Oh !
I wish you would give it back again. I
don't want it," said I, tearing off the
necklet and throwing it on the counter.
Please hand Gibson back the money,"
I cried to the jeweller. "I won't keep it."

I guess you will have to keep it now,
miss ; it is paid for," said the jeweller.
There ain't no return empties in this
business."

I was going to run to the door when
Gibson took my arm.

VOL. I. N

^' Don't you be silly, Lis," he said tome
in a low, agitated voice. ^' If yon
don't put that on and keep it, I'll never
speak to you again." I saw in his eye,
Halter than his brother's and at most
times gentler, a dangerous play of anger.
I suffered him to put it on again, though
tears were in my eyes.

He did no more, but silently accompanied
me out of the shop. Tom was
nowhere to be seen. We looked about a
long time. Bobby had missed him, and
could give no account of him. We waited
in the verandah of the hotel where it had
been arranged that we should dine. At
length Tom arrived. He said nothing.
His nature was more dark and secret than
that of his brother. He had controlled
himself, and presently matters took a
happier turn. We went to dinner, and
after to me a very exciting and delightful
day, reached home in the evening.

I felt very uncomfortable about Gibson's
present, and was greatly perplexed
to know how to explain the affair to Mrs.
Penny quick. But before we went in,
when Gibson had run off to look after the
horse, Tom took my hand, and led me
into the patch of land which was called
the garden.

'^ See here, Lisa," he said to me, **I
can be as kind as Gib too. I bought you
this," and he dragged out a pair of earrings,
which would have suited some
gigantic black woman, with bright stones
in them, and placed them in my hand.

^'Oh, Tom!" I said to him. 'you
naughty boy ! What made you do that ?
You haven't bought yourself a single
book."

I felt as if I could have thrown the
earrings and the necklet away.

"Because I like you, Lisa," said Tom,

suddenly taking me in his arms and
giving me a kiss. I felt the heat of his
breathing on my face, and the grip of
his strong arm round my waist.

A terror came over me. I grew as pale
as death. I could hardly murmur a word.
He let me go ; I staggered, and only relieved
myself by a fit of weeping.

Tom tried to soothe me, but I ran
away from him and rushed into the house,
straight into Bobby's bedroom. She
came in after me, and asked what had
happened? I showed her the earrings
which I held clutched in my hand.

'' Oh ! Bobby, what am I to do ? Poppy
and tommy will be so angry about this.
"Why have they done it ? "

Bobby had been crying too. Perhaps,
poor girl, she had her reasons for sorrow
at what had occurred. Gib was her ideal
of a good fellow. But she took me by
both arms and looked in my eyes.

'can't you think," she said, 'why
they gave you these presents ? "

"No," I replied.

She saw that my mind was perfectly
artless.

"Why, Lisa," she said, " they must
both be in love with you. That's it."

In love with me ? Of course they
love me, and I love them. But that is
no reason why they should give me
presents."

Bobby looked at me again. Then she
kissed me.

You're getting a big girl now," she
said. " This is a bad business. I guess
you better go right into the kitchen with
them things, and tell Mrs. Pennyquick
all about it."

Chapter XI

I GO TO Jericho

I WENT in, feeling very guilty, as if I had
myself committed some dreadful fault, and
silently placed before Mrs. Penny quick,
who was sitting at a table darning some
socks by a lamp, the two presents I had
received.

'' Why, Lisa, what is this ? "

'^ Tom gave me that, and Gib gave me
these. What does it mean, tommy ? "

A quick glance, which I stood with
perfect composure, was thrown into my
face and eyes ; and then she looked at the
trinkets. Her features grew dark.

^^ Did you go and ask the boys for anything
? " she said with some severity.

"No."

'^ And did they go and buy them all of
their own accord ? "

Yes."

'^ How much did they pay for them ? "

Gibson gave eight dollars for this — I
don't know how much Tom spent. He
only just now gave me the earrings out
in the garden."

A great anger came into her face,
usually mild and somewhat stolid. She
went to the door.

Tom ! Gib ! " she screamed out.

They did not answer. Mr. Penny quick
was away in the buggy, so that she could
not call for him. She went into the
kitchen and I could overhear her cross-examining
Bobby. Bobby told all that
she knew, and the good mother came

back greatly troubled. She put the
things into her basket and continued
working, without taking any further
notice of me. I felt as if a great iceberg
had suddenly come between us. After
sitting a long time silent, I could endure
it no longer.

"Tommy," I said, "are you angry
with me ? tell me what is the matter
with you!" and throwing myself at her
knees I began to cry passionately.

Her heart had become hard a moment,
but at this it melted. She drew me to
her ; she was a simple woman, of simple
ideas and words.

Do not cry, Lisa," she said. " This
seems to me a sad business. Maybe it is
not your fault — but after this, things can
never be as they were with us. I never
thought those boys could be so bad."

"Bad!"

'eyes — to go and waste money on such
trash as that, and then to go and give it
to you — you're a mere child — what should
you do with such finery ? "

''I said so. I hate it — I wanted to
throw it away. You keep it, tommy —
and never let me see it again."

''Oh! I'U keep it," she said firmly,
"safe enough, but there is more behind
this. Are you sure the boys — neither of
the boys — has ever said anything to you
never said they liked you ? "

Only just now in the garden, when
Tom took me in his arms, and kissed me.
He was so strange ! "

The mother listened and smote her
hands together.

"It is even as I feared," she said.
Oh, Lisa, you can stay here no longer."

I ran out of the room to Bobby and
sobbed upon her neck. This sudden

transformation, this horrible storm that
had arisen over my peaceful horizon, I
could not understand. While I was
sobbing Tom came into the kitchen.

*' What is the matter ? " he said.

'mrs. Penny quick has taken away her
things," said Bobby, mistaking the cause
of my grief.

*' Taken away her presents!" shouted
Tom, flushing up in very ugly fashion.
'' She shan't do it ! " He stamped his
foot furiously. His mother could hear
him through the thin partition.

*^ Oh no, no, it ain't that," I cried.
^*It's because you took me in your arms
and kissed me. She says I can't stay
here any longer."

Bobby dropped me.

^' 0-o-o-oh ! " she said, looking at
Master Tom.

'^ I had nearly fallen. Tom caught me

and supported me. At that moment Gib
came in from the stable.

*what is this?" he cried in a loud,
hoarse voice.

*' Why," said Bobby, who was never
wanting in readiness of tongue, ^* Mrs.
Pennyquick is very angry about the presents
you two gave to Lisa."

'ewe timor' echoed Gib.

I had torn away from Tom and stood
apart, with my eyes on the floor.

'' Yes — you two," replied Bobby.
*' There was the necklace from you, and
the earrings from Tom."

The two lads looked at each other.

*' What did you give her earrings for ? "
shouted Gibson, beside himself with
anger.

'^ I've as much right to give her earrings
as you have to give her a necklace,"
answered Tom in a hard, chill voice.

I'll let you know whether you have
or no," exclaimed Gibson, jumping forward.


The door opened, and their mother
stood on the threshold. Her face was
pale and frightened, but she stepped out
briskly and stood between the two youths.

^' Tom ! Gib ! " she cried out, and her
voice was a voice of anguish. '^ What is
the meaning of this ? You two brothers
going to fight in your father's kitchen ? "

Bobby had caught hold of Gib's arm.
He shook her off roughly — so roughly
that she nearly fell. She put her hand
on her heart.

'' We ain't going to fight, ma'am," said
Tom, though his eyes at the moment
were filled with a dangerous glow.
*^ What have you took away Lisa's presents
for ? "

'' Because you have no right to go and

waste your money on a child like Lisa.
If you choose to behave like a fool, it is
my duty to stop it, and I will."

Gib said nothing. He was quicker of
temper, but cooled down more rapidly
than his brother.

'* Don't interfere, mother," said Tom,
in a determined voice. ^^ I am a man
now, and I will do what I like with my
money. You give me back those earrings."


^^Oh, Tom!" I said, stepping out.
** Talking to tommy like that ! " I
won't take the earrings — there now ! "

*' Go away," said Mrs. Penny quick tome,
in an angry voice. '* Go up to bed.
I wish I had never seen your face. You
have set my sons against one another and
against me."

*' Stay where you are," said Tom,
seizing me by the arm. I wrenched myself

away, and running up to my little
room in the attic I shut the door and
secured it. I could hear his voice in
the kitchen as I listened trembling, but
through the open window the sound of
wheels came clearly. I rushed to the
window and cried to Mr. Pennyquick,
who was leisurely driving up.

*^ Oh, quick, poppy, please. Eun into
the kitchen. There is something the
matter with Tom and Gib."

Mr. Pennyquick was an active man,
and was in the kitchen in a minute.
The voices there instantly ceased. The
father's moral superiority was supported
by his physical force. I heard through
the thin partition his voice in low but
commanding tones, and I could hear his
wife and Bobby sobbing.

Presently some one went out of the
kitchen. I peeped out. It was Gib
going to put the horse up.

I drew back, and cowered down utterly
wretched and broken-hearted. Bnt I
was naturally a girl of a quick and firm
resolve, as the reader will have seen.
My mind was revolving all the events of
the day, and although I could not find a
key to them, so innocently had I been
brought up, I instinctively felt that something
had happened to break for ever the
happiness of my relation with this household.
I had seen Bobby's glance of
anger at me and Mrs. Penny quick's words
burned into my soul.

Suddenly I heard a low call below my
dormer window. It was only about
fifteen feet from the ground.

^^Lisa! Lisa!"

Gibson had returned from the stable.

I did not stir.

*^ Lisa — dear Lisa — look out."

I remained quiet.

The latch of the kitchen door clicked,
and Mr. Penny quick's deep voice called —

"Gibson!"

I heard the door close, and long after,
until late into the evening, the sound of
the voices came to me, sometimes low,
sometimes raised to anger. They had
forgotten me. No one came to ask me
whether I would have tea ; no one
brought me a word of comfort.

I had cast myseK on my bed and lay
there sometimes weeping and anon drying
my eyes. My mind was made up. I
must get away from this place as soon as
possible. In a short time Bobby would
come upstairs to her room, the next to
mine, which I used to share with her
until I had grown too big for her bed. I
threw myself on my knees by my cot, a
rough enough resting-place, and commended
myseK to God, feeling, too, as if

I had been guilty of some great wickedness
; whereas, in truth, I had done nothing
to be ashamed of. Then I took the
sheet, and tying it in a big knot to the
back of a chair, so placed it that it would
catch on either side of the window-frame.
I threw my boots out of the window,
strung my straw hat round my neck,
and taking away only a *' Boat sky's
Golden Treasury," which old Mrs. Penny-quick
had given me, I boldly crawled
through the window on the roof, the
shingles of which sloped down a couple
of feet to the spout ; and letting myself
down from that I slid to within five or
six feet from the ground and dropped.
The shock hurt my stockinged feet terribly,
and for a moment I sank down,
with a scarcely suppressed groan of pain.
Then fancying I heard a slight movement
in the house, I rose, groped for my boots,

YOL. I.

and, avoiding either of the paths about
the house, got over the fence and plunged
through the tall rows of the Indian corn.
Just before I turned in among the leafy
stalks, I stood and glanced a moment at
the house where so many good and happy
days had been passed. A sigh was on
my lips, when a light appeared in the
dormer next to my room. It was Bobby's
room. My eyes filled with tears.
Good-bye, Bobby," I said out loud.
Could she have heard it in the silent
night ? At all events, while I was yet
looking I heard a commotion in the
house. I could not move. I listened
spellbound. Blows were heard. Were
they fighting ? . . . No. In an instant
a flood of light came through my own
window, and I saw two or three figures
looking out.

*' She's gone ! " shouted Gibson. I

could hear him quite clearly. In another
moment his figure came through the
window and I heard a fall ; then I could
hear him say, ^^ Father, bring a light."

I turned and sped down the long interminable
row of maize as fast as my bare
feet would carry me. The field was an
immense one. I ran a quarter of a mile
straight on, then turning to the right,
ran as far in that direction. I could hear
shouts from the house. No doubt they
were following up the roads ; but among
the maize, even if they had suspected I
was there, it would have been hard for
them to catch me. However, I sped on.
In daylight, as I bethought me, they
might find the track of my footsteps.
So I got out of the field as soon as I
could, and luckily on the pasture of a
neighbouring farm. Here, after walking
some distance slowly and painfully with

my injured feet, I sat down and forced on
my boots. I knew that a very few farms
further on I should get on a road that ran
parallel with the main road leading from
Farmer Pennyquick's to Philipsburg,
which place I had resolved to avoid.

This other road led to the railway.

My appearance at this time was that of
a slim, overgrown gil. I was dressed ina
calico dress that came to my ankles.
My straw hat was broad-brimmed, coarse,
and trimmed only with a bit of blue
ribbon. My boots were thick but well
made, and my stockings, home-knitted,
of a coarse bluish-white thread. Over
the calico dress I had thrown a jacket
Mrs. Penny quick had given me, made of
kerseymere cloth of a greyish colour. I
had had the forethought to put a comb
in my pocket. Walking as fast as mysore
feet would let me, I was, when the

dawn broke, a good distance of ten or a
dozen miles from my late home, and
looking round I found I was not far fi^om
a farmhouse. In one of the fields was
a well, to which I went, and drawing up
some of the water, washed my hands
and face and feet, and then combed my
hair, using the water in the bucket for a
mirror. I looked then much better, and
approached the house. The farmer was
going out himself with a pail to milk his
cows.

** Well, young gal ! " he said, '^ you're
up early, eh ? Where are you going ? "

*i'm going down to to look for a

help's place," I answered promptly.

^' Tidy gal," he said, '* though you're
rather young for work. Will you have
a drink of fresh milk ? "

*^ Oh yes," I replied. ^^I am a little
hungry. I come from Cashuta way'*

Cashiita was a village off the railway
line, about four or five miles from Farmer
Pennyquick's.

*^ You're going' to the depot at Cricket's
Crossing', then ? It's a good six mile yet.
I reckon you'll ketch a train if you're
spry. It's due about ten, but half-past
is time enough."

This news which he volunteered, and
for which I dared not have asked, cheered
me up, and after the milk and the refreshing
wash, I set off briskly. There
is no necessity for asking your way in
Illinois. The roads lead straight on, I
arrived at the depot half an hour before
the cars came along, and found a number
of vehicles waiting with persons who
were going down the line. I discovered
by the accident of a woman asking when
the train from Philipsburg would arrive
that it was coming from the direction

of the Pennyquicks', and my heart beat
with fear lest some member of the family
should come along the route in search
of me. The woman was very talkative,
and I sat beside her when the train
arrived. She was going a long way ; had
a trunk and many articles with her. She
asked me to help her to carry them into
the cars. As usual on these roads, tickets
were not issued at the depots, but the
fares were collected inside by the conductor.
So, taking up two of the
woman's bundles, I followed her into the
carriage and sat beside her.

^'How far is the next station?" I
asked.

Oh ! a long way, I guess — twenty
miles to Stubbsville. Will be a good two
hours."

The cars went on at a slow jog, rattling,
bumping along. The conductor passed

through, chatting with the passengers
now and then, or offering newspapers and
cheap novels. The inevitable shrill-tongued
boy came and went with his
candies and apples. Knowing that my
companion was going a considerable distance,
and supposing I was with her, the
conductor did not trouble us about our
fares. We passed Sfcubbsville, Athens,
Alexandria, Constantinople, and Dickens-town,
and were at about four in the
afternoon within a station or two of
Diddlebury, whither she was bound.
The train stopped a few minutes at each
place. I got out, and, keeping my eye
on the conductor, who had no suspicions
of me whatever, I slipped round to the
back of the depot, and observing a covered
buggy which was tied to a tree, jumped in
and concealed myself behind the curtain.
The whistle sounded, the steam puffed

out from the engine, it gave its usual
steady cough before starting, and then
jet, jet, jet, jet, off it went. I peeped
out. The conductor was standing on the
last platform outside the car, peeling an
orange. His face had a peculiar self-satisfied
expression as he threw off the
golden-coloured rind on either side. I
felt very guilty. I could not help thinking
how different an expression he would
wear when he found my empty seat and
began to make inquiries of my fellow-traveller.
I jumped out of the buggy
just in time, for a stout, dumpy man,
accompanied by a girl, came down from
the depot, where he had been getting
some rather heavy parcels of hardware.
I was standing clear of his waggon,
holding on to the fence with both arms,
for I was starving and could scarcely
keep up.

*' Going' to Jericho ? " he inquired.

^^Ye-yes, I believe I am," I replied,
hardly knowing what he meant.

'swell," he said, 'sit's a good three
miles, and you don't look strong. I'll
give you a lift ^ directly. Get in and rest
yourself."

There is hardly any country part of
America that I know of where a woman,
at all events, and I fancy most men,
would not meet with spontaneous kindness
like this. The American is a sardonic,
self-conscious, and self-contained
sort of creature ; but he is full of human
kindness, as well as of cold, calculating,
unscrupulous, and devilish cruelty when
his nature is not trained, or has been
perverted by the influences of his life.

The girl who helped me in and got in
after me said —

'^ Lord, how pale you are, miss ! Will
you try an apple?"

How I seized the red-cheeked fruit.

and gulped it down ! A poor meal fora
growing girl, but a welcome one.

I found that Jericho was not such a
bad place after all, and my benefactor
ascertaining that I had no friends there,
and was looking for a home, put me up
for the night. The man had a store in
the place in the main street, and did a
very good business. He was a Methodist,
and his daughter having told him that
I was religious, and had a book of texts,
his heart warmed towards me. He interested
himself to get me a place. He
succeeded with the minister of a small
Baptist Church in the town.

CHAPTEK XII

Sarah Campbell's Sacrifice

The Eeverend Eufus Damp well was a
thin, spare man, with a falcon's nose,
thin lips, a face with a broad full forehead
above and ending in a peak at the
chin. There was a large crop of rugged
hair on his head; he wore spectacles with
very thick glasses, which showed how
short-sighted he was in earthly things,
however far his spiritual vision might
reach. It did reach pretty far, if one
might judge from his sermons, but when
men are penetrating the unknown they
often mistake mere shadows for far-off

realities, and one can scarcely say
whether Mr. Damp well was always
accurate in his spiritually telescopic
views.

Mrs. Damp well was a little woman,
slightly inclining to stoutness, with a
fat face, dark eyes and hair, a simper
always on her dimpling cheek. Although
generally suffering from indigestion, I
am bound to say she suffered from it ina
Christian spirit. It hurt her ^* chest,"
but it did not touch her heart or sour her
tongue. Indigestion in America is rarely
so fortunate.

Mr. Dampwell was nervous, energetic,
and earnest. It was the cold-blooded
energy of the eel or the Heard, but it was
zealous and sincere. When he got hold
of a sinner he stepped immediately to
the point, and so far as tongue and body
could emphasize speech he emphasized

it. And I say he was honest. It would
have been very hard to imagine anything
making Mr. Damp well attractive. Yet
'* grace" — as he called it — and very
properly, I should say — made him a
kindly and generous man. People in
Jericho generally liked him, and even
his dyspeptic wife was loved by a few
gentle people. " Grace" certainly did not
do as much for his congregation as it did
for Mr. Dampwell. They plunged, but
did not seem to be much the better for
it. He went in for total immersion without
and cold water within, but if his
opinions were chilly they were real and
substantial.

Few of those who will read these pages
will be able to imagine what the life of
such a man as the Eeverend Mr. Damp-well
was in such a town as Jericho, at
the time I speak of, and perhaps even

now. His house, a small one, was considered
to be the property of the Church,
and therefore open in all its parts, even
the most intimate, to the visits and inspection
of the reverend gentleman's
flock. There was a Mrs. Brisket, as
jovial a Baptist as one could conceive
of, whose face seemed to give the lie to
her strictly teetotal principles, so rubicund
and pulpy did it appear. It did
not matter at what hour of the day she
called, the moment I opened the door
to her energetic rat-tattoo with the
handle of her parasol she bounced into
the passage, and shouting — ^^ Where is
she ? " (alluding to my respected employer)
dashed into the parlour as if to see
whether Mrs. Dampwell were engaged
in some worldly occupation, and thence
into the bedroom, thinking perhaps to
catch her trying to relieve her dyspepsia

"with a little brandy, or into the kitchen
to see whether the minister's wife was
indulging in some expensive delicacy.
Poor thing ! If Mrs. Dampwell suffered
from a weak stomach it was no wonder.
The minister was paid by his flock not
in money but in kind — that is to say, in
anything his ^^ people" cared to give.
There was a certain awkwardness in this
mode of paying a salary. In the Fall,
buckets of apples were the favourite gifts
and plenty of old stringy pumpkins
came along, and rather advanced ^' green'
corn was delivered at our door, and if
a barrel of meal or of flour had become
at all mildewed it was apt to find its
way, with a flourish of trumpets, to our
poor house. I have seen the cellar
nearly filled with bad fruit, and Mr.
Dampwell obliged to put on his hat and
go round to one of his parishioners to

borrow enough flour' for the next tea.
Sometimes in winter we nearly starved
for want of food. I have seen twenty
chickens hanging up at a warm time of
the year, and gently indicating in the
manner peculiar to all flesh that burial
had not with sufficient promptitude followed
on decease, and not a potato ora
vegetable in the house to dish up with
them. Occasionally matters went so far
that the good minister was driven to
make an announcement from the pulpit
in this way : —

*^ Dear Sisters and Brethren, — through
your kind benevolence my dear wife and
I have now, I reckon, about enough eggs,
if eggs was not perishable and we eat
nothing else, to last us till the end of
next month, and keep us in hoe-cake

VOL. I. p

for a year — but, my dear sisters and
brethren, there ain't even a handful of
meal in the barrel, and the cruse of
butter has nothing left in it for even a
cat to lick up. Let us hope that the
Lord will move the heart of some of
our good friends to keep the ministerial
mill a-grinding, for a mill won't grind
out much more than sand, unless it is
fed at the hopper."

Mr. Dampwell's costume and that of
his wife were not regulated by fashion
so much as by the chances of congregational
generosity. Mr. Slowcoach, one
of the deacons, a long thin man, nearly
six feet high, had a pair of black
pants which did not fit him — he sent
them to the minister. When the Reverend
Mr. Damp well went out into the
back-garden to saw wood, and took off

his coat and waistcoat for the purpose,
these pants appeared to have been
** hitched up" under his arms and yet
left a corrugated pile round his old
boots. These boots were a present from
Deacon Edgeways, a vendor of ready-made
articles, and had been returned to
him by a customer who after some days'
wear had found they did more than much
of the land about Jericho would do —
raised corns. Mrs. Dampwell wore a
bombazine dress, which had been castoff
by Mrs. Crump, the wife of one of
our richest members. She also had a
jacket which Mrs. Brisket had put round
her one cold night when she saw her
about to go out into the shivering blast
with no wrapper but an old thin shawl.

Once I remember a box arriving from
the Eastern States, where there are
regular societies established for collecting

second-land clothes to be sent to
"brethren in the ministry" situated in
the neglected or poor Western districts.
By some providence Mr. Dampwell was
assigned one of these boxes. I never
laughed so much in my life as I did when
this was unpacked. Its arrival had been
bruited about, and several ladies of the
congregation came in to watch the
operation.

Eufus Dampwell, with his coat off, and
an axe in his hand, stood in the middle
of the kitchen glaring at the box through
his strong lenses. Mrs. Dampwell, with
her hand on her chest, tried to forget
the pain there, in the pleasure to come.
Mrs. Brisket, who had thrown off her
bonnet and shawl, talked and spun roimd
the room, removing everything visible, to
make room for the expected wonders
of the box. Miss Duckster, an old maid,

with a pale, ghostlike face, and a very
sharp tongue, sat on a chair, without
using the back, her arms crossed, and her
keen eyes eagerly devouring the outside
of the package.

After considerable difficulty, Mr. Damp-well,
his brow moistened with agitation,
managed to get the edge of the big axe
under the cover and to display the contents.


"Well," said Miss Duckster with a
sneer, as her eye darted under the rising
lid, "It's old newspapers and magazines,
to begin."

She was correct. Nearly a foot deep
of old religious newspapers, annuals, etc.

These the good Mr. Dampwell eagerly
caught up and placed under his glasses,
but there was a look of disappointment in
his face, as he carefully handed them out
to Mrs. Bouncer and his wife.

At length he reached a stratum of
clothes. The first article which Mrs.
Bouncer darted on to open up was a
flannel petticoat for a child of six or
seven years of age, and the next a pair
of unmentionables for a little boy.

*soh!" cried Miss Duckster, covering
her eyes with her hands, and turning
away. ^^ You ain't got no use for them,
I guess, Mrs. Dampwell."

The minister had glared at these
through his spectacles, and a smile flitted
across his face.

^^ They'll just do for Mrs. Canton's boy
and girl," said the minister's wife, catching
at them, and looking them over.
'' I'm so glad."

Next came a second-hand great-coat,
made for some portly deacon of the East.
Encased in this Mr. Dampwell looked
like an umbrella stuck in a loose rug-bundle,

and even his wife could not help
laughing.

^^We can give it to Peter," he said
calmly, referring to a stout Englishman
who had turned up in Jericho in a state
of great poverty, and was living on
charity and chance jobs.

The next dive brought up an article
which made the ladies' eyes sparkle. It
was a lady's cloak, of cashmere, trimmed
with silk, and with some fur on it. The
lady who had parted with this had
evidently not done so until she had given
it every opportunity of using itself up —
but nevertheless it was, for Jericho, a
handsome thing.

Mrs. Brisket seized upon it, and tried
it on.

'' Well, I am thankful for that ! " cried
poor Mrs. Damp well, with a tear in her
eye. 'rit will be so useful for night
meetings."

^' My idea is it's too grand for, a
minister's wife," said Miss Duckster,
with a cold sneer. ^' It ain't right, Sarah
Dampwell, to be so stuck up with pride
with the cerement of the body. / never
saw a minister's wife so worldly as you
are. If you wear that there cloak, folks
won't know you — and it ain't no use
trying to do God's work dressed like a
wicked worldly woman."

'' Perhaps you're right, sister," said
Mrs. Dampwell with a sigh, turning her
eyes away from the attractive article.
Perhaps you're right. It might scandalize
the friends, and God forbid I should
let my comfort be a cause of offence and
scandal."

'take it off, Mary," she said to Mrs.
Brisket, and she turned it inside out and
laid it down with just a little sigh.

'nonsense," cried Mr. Dampwell, for

the first time in his Hfe showing a Httle
warmth. *^ It is a good gift, and one you
sadly needed, Sarah. You shall keep it
and wear it" — at the same time he drew
from the box a sofa-cushion. While the
two married ladies examined this with
cries of wonder, Miss Duckster stole to
the cloak, and threw it over her shoulders,
and was engaged in screwing her long
neck round, to try to see how it fitted
behind.

The box was soon emptied, and on the
whole, though there were some things
which pleased Rufus Dampwell mightily,
especially a copy of the *' Biblical
Dictionary," and a dozen pairs of warm
stockings which some sensible soul had
put in, very little came out of much
practical value. But nevertheless, that
night, at prayers, the good minister gave
very hearty thanks for the gift they had

received, and I thought he and Mrs.
Dampwell had never seemed to be so
human and so warm-blooded.

But the box was like Pandora's — it
was full of mischief. The very next day
was Sunday, and Mrs. Dampwell went to
meeting in the warm cloak. It was a
comfort to see her leaving the door. I
went with her. There was never any
cooking at Eufus Dampwell's on a
Sunday.

No sooner had we reached the
minister's pew than there was a buzz in
the congregation. Heads were put together
— all eyes were on the minister's
wife — tongues were going. "When Eufus
Dampwell entered the pulpit the Conversation
scarcely subsided. It was from
time to time renewed through the service.
Mrs. Dampwell's face was flushed. It
was evident she was not giving that

whole-souled attention to the services of
the day which was her wont.

The benediction had hardly been performed
when Mrs. Crump, whose husband
being the richest man in the congregation,
almost controlled the place, leaned
over, and I could hear her say —

'swell, Sarah Dampwell, I never would
have expected that you would do this ! "

'' Do what ? " said Mrs. Dampwell,
involuntarily, and flushing. She was
conscious that there was a little insincerity
in the answer.

Set an example in the meeting-house
with a fashionable wrap like that. What
will the ungodly say ? "

This was only the beginning of it.
Deacons Edgeways and Slowcoach waited,
by special request of their wives, on Eufus
Dampwell in the vestry, and asked him
how he could have permitted his wife to

introduce this scandal into the congregation
? He listened meekly.

^^ Brothers," he said, *sit was a gift
from people as good as you are ; why
should not my wife take the benefit
of it?"

*^ There ain't another such cloak in the
meeting," said Mr. Slowcoach. *^ It's
wicked and worldly."

'paul wore a cloak," said Mr. Damp-well
feebly, looking for some loophole of
escape.

'' It wasn't trimmed with fur — it wasn't
a worldly, fashionable garment — it wasn't
made of handsome cloth and trimmed
with black silk," said the deacon.

''I don't know anything about it — I
never saw Paul's cloak," replied Mr.
Dampwell, with just a touch of unconscious
humour.

'' Rufus Dampwell!" cried Deacon

Kidgeway, ^'the world is entering into
your heart. Satan is tempting yon with
this outward adorning. Remember the
divine threatening against these things.
The Lord will take away the bravery of
their tinkling ornaments, the chains and
the bracelets and the mufflers, the
bonnets and the ornaments of the legs,
and the headbands, the changeable suits
of apparel, the mantles and the wimples
and the crispin pins, the glasses and the
fine linen, and the hoods and the veils;
and it shall come to pass that instead of
sweet smell there shall be stink; and
instead of a girdle a rent ; and instead of
well-set hair baldness; and instead of a
stomacher a girding of sackcloth.' "

The minister bowed his head. He
sadly took up his little sermon-case, and
came out and walked away with his wife
on his arm. They were followed down

the street with angry eyes and shaking
heads. Miss Duckster, who had been
the rounds and prepared the congregation
for the apparition of Mrs. Dampwell in
the worldly cloak, was still talking
vigorously from group to group.

We entered the minister's house very
sadly. Mrs. Dampwell threw off the
cloak, holding it in her hand a minute,
and looking at its tarnished handsomeness
with an instant's admiration. Then
she threw it on a chair.

Neither husband nor wife had spoken.
He took her hand.

"It is very hard, dear Sarah," he said.
*^ But the Word is clear. ' Give none
offence, neither to the Jews, nor to the
Church of God'"

"It is very hard," said Sarah Damp-well,
with a gulp. " The cloak is so comfortable;
but, Eufus, if it gives offence,
I shall not wear it again."

Chapter XIII

THE SPIRIT WILLING BUT THE FLESH Very
WEAK

My stay with the Eeverend Mr. Damp-well
and his good-natured wife was not
destined to be a long one ; and curiously
enough, the cause of my leaving was the
very one which would have been conceived
to be most Hkely to attach me
permanently to the family.

I had not been many months in
Jericho before it was visited with one of
those popular breezes which is called a
*^ revival." It is not for me to say a
word one way or another about these

revivals. My relation to them is a very
simple one, and I state the unvarnished
facts. The reader will have seen that I
had had, for a young girl, some varied
experiences in religious ideas, and, in
truth, whatever other effect the peculiar
circumstances of my life had exerted on
my character, there was an undoubted
religious influence left upon me. My
association with the elder Mrs. Penny-quick
had softened me considerably, so
that I was at this time quite open to
religious impressions.

When the great revival swept in its
course across Illinois, leaping like a prairie
fire across the broad land, and from house
to house and town to town, it one day
reached Jericho. The Eeverend Eufus
had prayed for it — he had asked that ^^ the
heavens would open and the floods
descend" — that ^^ the fire would quicken

and the flame lick up the waters and
consume the sacrifice on the altar of
every heart in Jericho;" or ^'that the
south wind might blow — even the great
south wind : and energize the wilted and
dying souls of Jericho;" or ^^ that the
Spirit would come into the valley, even
among the dry bones, and quicken them,
that they might draw together bone to
bone, and the flesh come upon them, and
they shall live." Rufus was never very
particular about his grammar or his metaphors.
And so earnest was Mr. Damp-well,
and so tremendous were these
metaphors, that the whole congregation,
forgetting poor Mrs. Dampwell's backsliding
into worldliness about the cloak,
seemed to shiver under the minister's
prayers and exhortations.

And one day the answer came. Some
scoffed it, some welcomed it — but all were

VOL. I, Q

obliged to admit it was a reality. It
began by Miss Bella Crump, daughter of
the deacon, rising up while Mr. Dampwell
was describing a state of things elsewhere
I never liked to contemplate, and throwing
off her bonnet and shrieking at the
top of her voice —

'soh, ma, I'm took!"

Any one who has not been present atone
of these scenes can hardly imagine
what a thrill it sends through the heart.
The poor girl threw herself on her back,
and kicked and foamed, while people with
tears in their eyes and kind earnest voices
tried to comfort her, and Mr. Dampwell
gave out a hymn,

Hark, a sound divides the sky,"

or something like that. It was a terrific
hymn. The people jumped up and sang
it. A wild excitement broke out : women
went into hysterics, men dropped on

their knees and groaned, children cried
with fright, and Mr. Dampwell, far above
it all in the wooden pulpit, looked at the
ceiling through his spectacles with an
expression of celestial thankfulness and
joy. I remember how it thrilled through
me. All ordinary life vanished away. I
was in presence for the time of nothing
but what a writer I have since read calls
eternal verities" — Heaven and Hell
and God and the Devil seemed near
realities. My sensations were awful. I
will not try to describe them. At this
moment I cannot recall them without
shuddering, and without a strange
curiosity and doubt as to what they
meant. Cries, groans, shouts, were going
on around me, while those who could
keep their' presence of mind went on
singing. When they had ceased there
was a silence of a minute or so, and then

came forth from all parts of the church a
terrible wail. People left their seats ;
some threw themselves on their' knees
in the passages ; others went about
among them speaking to them, whispering
words of warning or of comfort, or
listening to their confessions. Above it
all Eufus Dampwell, who felt that the
moment for which he had prayed so long
was come, spoke, pleaded, warned, with
a perfectly new inspiration of eloquence
and feeling.

While I was sobbing on my knees in
my pew, good Mrs. Dampwell came and
knelt beside me. I am not going to tell
what passed between his. She was skilful
and tender, and I felt much happier when
she went away to some other person.
This scene lasted for many hours, and at
its close we returned home weary, and
threw ourselves dressed as we were on

onr beds. The next day and the next
similar scenes went on, until at length by
sheer expenditure of force the excitement
died out.

Then Rufus Dampwell and this two
brethren, one a Methodist and one a
Presbyterian, counted up their nets. And
among the fish then counted I was one.

And I was to be treated Hke a fish.

It was arranged that along with a
number of others who had resolved to
renounce their past ways, and live the new
life according to the Baptist model, I was
to be baptized. I was old enough to become
a member of the Church, in Mr.
Dampwell's dew, and he prepared me
for the ceremony of total immersion.
This ceremony had always struck me
with both terror and amusement. There
was no convenience in our little chapel
for its performance, and the wide, deep

creek, or what in England would be called
river, which, ran by Jericho was used for
the purpose. Mr. Dampwell, protected
by a pair of waterproof trousers, waded
out, leading the acolytes, and then standing
out there with the person, man or
woman, generally clothed in a white
dress, in his arms, he threw the body
back, and brought it up again half-drowned.
On more than one occasion
I have seen Mr. Dampwell struggling
with a heavy woman or leaden-weighted
man, and I always thought the time
would come when some one would disappear
from his arms and never come up
again. No sooner, then, had Mrs. Damp-well
persuaded me that it was my duty
to prepare for this ceremony than, earnest
and real as at that time were my religious
convictions, I began to tremble. I could
not sleep. I felt the chill shudder go

through me as I entered the water; I
felt myself suspended for a moment in
the not very muscular arms of the Rev.
Rufus Dampwell, with the stream running
and splashing rapidly past us ; I felt him
suddenly pitch me back into the cold
flood, the water came over me, he let me
go, and I fancied I could see him peering
through his thick glasses at the bubbling
surface in search of me, while I was sweeping
down in my white dress, under the
current. As each day brought me nearer
to the dread morning, my nervousness
increased. For awhile I suppressed these
apprehensions by reasoning with myself
about their wickedness ; but gradually
my fear got the better of arguments. I
told Mrs. Dampwell I could not go
through the ordeal. She represented tome
that this was a temptation of the
wicked one, and looking to what afterwards

happened to me, there was no want
of confirmation of her views. However
that may be, when I found myself almost
on the very brink of the river, that is the
day before that fixed for the ceremony,
at which half the population of Jericho
would have, as the French say, assisted,"
my resolution wholly broke down.
I went to the preliminary meeting with
Mrs. Dampwell; slipped out while she
was engaged in talking to some of the
other candidates, ran home, got my purse,
which had a few dollars in it, my best
boots, and an old warm coatee, which
had been given me by one of the ladies,
and crying heartily, for the kindness of
these good, though sober and stern
people, had greatly endeared them to me,
I struck off once more for myself in life.
There was a train which always passed
through Jericho at about nine o'clock at

night. Creeping up quietly to the depot
and not showing myself, I slipped into
one of the carriages at the last moment
before the train started, and getting into
a corner, wrapped myself up in the old
cloak, and after crying silently for a time
I went to sleep.

Chapter XIV

TIMBEKVILLE AND THE TEAPEZE

In American cars, I may explain for the
benefit of any English persons who have
not seen them, the seats are arranged in
long saloons, with reversible backs, so
that persons may sit two and two, facing
the engine, or a party of four may be
formed to face each other. I had crept
into the corner of the badly lighted car,
and had the seat to myself. The car was
pretty well filled, but most of the people
were nodding. No one was sitting on
the seat in front of me.

I slept, and the train veritably jogged

on, for the first laying of the Illinois
Central Railway was not of the steadiest
character.

I was awakened by a poke in my side
and a voice :

^^ Your fare, miss, please ; where on
birth did you spring from ? I never seed
you come aboard ! "

I roused myself and looked at him. He
carried a lanthorn, which threw a light
on his face. He had seated himself
opposite me.

He was getting grey, but his face was
a kindly one, and his eye was bright and
gentle. I recognized at once my old
friend the conductor who had handed me
over to Farmer Mason.

^^ Why ! " I cried out, delighted. ^^ Don't
you know me ? "

He looked at me with a puzzled air,
but after running his keen eye over my
face, figure, and dress, he said —

^' No — dead beat. I reckon some mistake.
Never seed you in this life, 111
swear, not to know it."

^^ Yes, you did. Do you remember a
little girl you gave up to a man called
Mason?"

^^ Fee — roo — sa — hem ! " be said, opening
bis eyes very wide, wbicb made me
laugh. ^'I guess I do. I never forgot
that little gal. Poor little thing. She
stuck to my heart, she was so lone Hke.
And you're the gal, eh ? Wal ! " he said,
holding up the lantern and taking a
good look in my face, ^' and a spry-looking
gal, too; none the worse of the time
between, eh ? Du tell — why, this is
hunky ! "

He forgot all about his fare and laid
down his lantern and asked me about
my history. I told ifc to him. He opened
his eyes and slapped his knee.

'^ Ah ! " he cried, when I told him
ahoiit the thrashing of Farmer Mason.
^* I'd just like to have my finger twisted
for three minutes in that their fellow's
neck-cloth. I remember his long wilted
face and seller eyes, the darned skunk."

When I told him about the baptism
and my running away, he laughed
heartily.

^' I bennet much of a religionist," he
said, ^^ though my wife she is a Method,
and does a power of praying on my behalf
and I reckon I shall need it all. But
I never could a stood them hard shells —
too much for my stomach — soft shells is
bad enough. So you didn't like the dip,
eh ? He ! he ! "

He laughed in a choked, subdued sort
of way so as not to waken any one —
though the row the rattling train was
making would have required a cachinnation

like that of Gargantua to make itself
heard many feet away.

'now," he said, 'how much money
have you got ? "

I put my wretched little purse in his
hand, and he counted out three dollars
and eighty-five cents.

"Well," he said, "I can't exactly
cheat the company, and I can't take all
this money. It won't carry you far,
I reckon. I'll put you down at Timber-ville.
It's the biggest place for nigh a
hundred miles. I've a friend at the depot
I'll speak to him about you — and you
can trust him to help you to find a place.
If you get into trouble there and want
to see me at any time, you just go to
him — his name's Smart, and smart he is,
too — and ask him to tell you when Josephus
Hookey' s turn comes, and I guess
he'll fix it for you to be there when I

pass. So, Sissy, keep up heart ; you've
got one friend any way ; and as for
Farmer Mason, if the devil don't catch
him before I do, I reckon I'll pay him up
that little account you owe him for yer
board and lodging and them stripes he
scored upon your back, with interest till
date. By I will."

So at Timberville I was dropped in the
dead of the night, or the early morning,
and Josephus Hockey's friend Smart, a
tall, saturnine man, duly took charge of
me, allowed me to sleep in the ladies'
room, gave me breakfast, and introduced
me to a registry in the town from which,
as helps were scarce, I was soon provided
with a situation.

Timberville, 111., was one of the largest
places I had ever been in ; and now
having obtained an employment in which
I had good pay and some liberty of

action, it was a pleasure to me, after I
had settled down, to make some acquaintance
with life. The people I was with
where wholly different from any of my
previous guardians and employers. The
husband was engaged on a newspaper,
and was often out late at nights ; and,,
though not an habitual drunkard as the
phrase is, he came home sometimes in
the condition called jovial, I suppose in
irony. She was a sharp little woman,,
rather good-looking, went out a good deal
to amusements and balls ; and as there
were no children, I had plenty of time to
myself, and was not by any means overworked.
I soon formed acquaintances
among them that of a girl in the next
house, who called herself Miss Lily Edge.
This was a quick, active, intelligent little
brunette, about my own age, but not
by any means so grown or so strong as I.

But she had had an infinitely wider experience
of the world. Already she had
her heanx, gave some regard to fashionable
dressing, and knew all the amusements
of the town. Her father had been
a horse-dealer, who had come to grief
and bolted, leaving his wife and daughter
absolutely nothing. However, they were
equal to their necessity. The mother
kept a small shop for stationery and little
knick-knacks ; and the daughter was help
at the house of a surgeon who had a
pretty good practice in Timberville.

Since I had left Jericho, my good feelings
had gradually been wearing away.
As I felt myself freed from the everlasting
oversight and scrutiny and rebukes of the
good people I had been with, I breathed
with a sense of relief, and was glad to get
rid of the serious thoughts which oppressed
me.

VOL. I. R

Yet an influence remained. I said a
short prayer morning and evening, and
got out my Bogatsky and read the daily
portion, as Mrs. Penny quick had enjoined
on me ; and strange to say, wild and
bad as my life may have been, this habit
has been very rarely intermitted. It is
often so. Some of the wickedest men
I have ever met, men who had gone
through every experience of life, from the
gentleman of fashion to that of the lowest
servant, the regular '^ cad," have confessed
to me that they dared not go to
rest without a prayer. It is a very
curious phase of human nature, for the
inutility of a service which is so incongruous
with all the thoughts and acts
of life must often occur to those who
mechanically engage in it. However, I
now, and with singular rapidity, emancipated
myself from the thoughts and

opinions of so many years, and soon
dropped off from any association with
religions people.

Mr. and Mrs. Siirtees made no profession
of religion at all, and left me to do
as I liked. Lily Edge and I, therefore,
formed a close friendship. I told her all
the story of my life. We exchanged confidences;
she enlightened me on a hundred
unknown subjects, made fun of my
religious ideas, introduced me to some of
her young friends, and gave me hints
about my dress. Young girls in our position
in the United States are not only
better paid, but in a much freer condition,
and I will add more respectable,
to use a favourite English word, than in
England, which will account for the
rapidity with which I began to mature.

Among the amusements which Lily
Edge held out to me as something too

glorious to be described in language was
the Circus which annually visited Tim-servile.
It was not until the winter was
over and the spring had advanced that at
last the walls began to glow with brilliant
pictures of terrible animals, and surveying
horses, and airy and fairy women leaping
through hoops, and marvellous men in
marvellous costumes. The circus and
menagerie was coming beyond a doubt.

Never shall I forget the first night I
spent in this place ! I went with Lily
Edge and Mr. Carbury, a dentist's lad,,
who affected her, and an admirer of my
own, named Eand, who served in a dry-goods'
store. Though I was good-looking,
I had not yet risen to have a beau among
the professions. Eand was a goose of a
very innocent disposition, and brimming
over with good-nature. He treated me
with great respect and generosity too.

As we approached the great tent which
had been erected on a vacant space in
the suburbs of Timberville, a thrill went
through me when I heard a terrible noise
and was told it came from the lions.
Bunyan's two lions, in the book, had ever
dwelt in my fancy, and the awful bliss of
now at length seeing these creatures in
the flesh, and hearing their roars, transported
me. When we got inside, and
saw the circle of the huge tent, the sawdust
arena, the patent lights throwing
their radiance down over the whole
scene, the brilliantly coloured flags, the
cages with their various animals ranged
around, the lines upon lines of benches
already beginning to be filled by a motley
crowd, I felt that I had never before
known what pleasures life had in it,
and I abandoned myself to the most
ecstatic enjoyments. Lily, as an experienced

person, partly repressed my
transports, and partly, in a patronizing
way, explained everything. But I did
not notice her manner. My delight
was ingenuous and overflowing. The
monkeys, the tigers, the poor ^' old bald-headed
eagle from the Nevada," the
laughing hyenas, the camels, the elephant
— all were equally delicious.

In going the rounds a very singular
thing happened. We were opposite the
cage which contained two magnificent
Bengal tigers, a male and female, the
male especially of great size. As we
were standing rather close to the cage
admiring them, the male suddenly sprang
across the cage, dashed against the bars,
and with one blow of his paw knocked
off the hat of my companion, Mr. Kant.
Had it struck a few inches lower down,
Mr. Eand would never have looked at a

tiger again. He uttered a shriek and fell
back. I was standing close beside him,
but as the tiger, who immediately dropped
on his four feet, gnashed with his teeth
against the bars, baying furiously and
glaring at the prostrate Kant, who
crawled off as fast as he could, I, fascinated
by the animal, stood firm and
stared at him with my large black eyes.
For an instant this seemed to infuriate
him the more, and then he stayed his
growls, smoothed his face, and, lying-down,
looked at me, with his tail moving
gently to and fro. The keeper of the
animals, a big, coarse man, had run up
at Eand's cry.

^' Stand back," he cried to me, ^'you
are within reach of him."

I did not stir. My eye was still fixed
with strange fascination on those of the
tiger, which continued to watch me.

*^ Poor tiger," I said, and approaching
close to the grill, lie rolled over, and
turning Ms head towards me, put his
jaws through the bars and fawned on me
gently.

sewell," cried the man, while Lily
Edge, from a safe distance, besought me
to come away, ''I never saw anything
like that before. He's taken to you,
miss, sure enough." People were gathering
to see the odd sight, but the bell
rang for the circus performance to commence,
and after first stroking one of the
tiger's formidable paws, I went away.

Then came the scenes in the ring, the
girls in their gaudy and gauzy dresses,
with their light leaps, the graceful gestures,
and I recalled all that the Englishman
Shaftoo had told me. By-and-by,
when the feats in the ring were over,
and the attendants had raked down

the saw-dust, there was a hush in the
assemblage.

What is it now ? " I asked.

'' Miss Zaza," said Band ; '' she's to fly
on that swing — they call it a trapeze."

As he spoke, the crowds of attendants
and fast young men of the town who
filled up the gangway between the ring
and the retiring places, suddenly opened,
and a young girl, dressed in a very slight
costume, with blue silk bodice and pants,
and Hght blue silk tights, tripped forward,
her hair flying behind her, and gracefully
curtsied to the audience. A rope with a
loop in it had been let down on a block ;
she placed one foot in it, and was lightly
hauled up till she reached the trapeze.
Seating herself on it, she disentangled
the rope from the bar, threw it down to
the man, and up on that dizzy height
poising herself on the bar, which moved

slightly, without holding on, she rubbed
her hands with her handkerchief, while
she looked smilingly round on the sea of
upturned faces below her. Then seizing
the ropes on either side she began to
swing gently.

We watched her breathlessly. Thirty
feet at least was the perilous distance
from that light bar with its wiry tackle
down to hard earth — thirty feet without
an obstacle between.

By-and-by the swing went briskly in
long, steady sweeps ; suddenly, without a
moment's notice, the girl turned over and
dropped on the bar with both hands. A
sob of terror went up from the audience.
She was swinging now only by the hands.
Again ! She threw up her legs over
the bar, spreading them wide, her two
feet caught at the corners, and then-with
a little cry she let go by the hands

and dropped backwards. I screamed out,
and the people around me laughed. I
looked again; she had crossed her arms
on her bosom, and was swinging there,
head down, her long hair waving to and
fro. Then, with a sudden movement, she
recovered the bar with her hands, disentangled
her feet, cast one leg over the
bar, and resumed her sitting posture,
coolly rubbing her palms again in the
handkerchief, while the tent rang with
acclamations.

Nothing had ever fascinated me so
much. There was an element of danger
and of the spirited in it, which went
home to something in my nature. I
thought I would give anything to be like
that. When the performance was over
and we were going away, I wanted to
linger and see this beautiful vision on the
ground. But the lights were turned out

almost immediately after, and we had to
leave.

That was another turning-point to my
life. I dreamed of Miss Zaza. I talked
about her with Lily Edge. I inoculated
her with my own craziness. Again and
again we went to the circus to watch the
girl's performances, until my stock of
money diminished to nothing. I managed,
by speaking to Mr. Charlemagne
Bunny, the somewhat surly manager of
the wild beasts, to get a sight of her, and
found that she was not by any means,
when seen in ordinary costume, a beautiful
angel. I asked him how she had
learned her-art and how long it took.

^'Oh!" he said, 'two years. There's
nothing in it but a dare-devil brain and
an active body."

Lily and I talked this over. I was
possessed with an idea; and, after considerable

thinking, resolved to carry it
out. There was a space at the back of
our houses for drying clothes. Some
strong jDosts were placed there. Incredible
as it may seem, Lily and I,
without any aid, and after many failures,
managed to rig up there, with some
strong hempen washing-line, and some
hickory broomstick handles, a couple of
trapezes, just high enough to enable us
to jump up and catch hold of them. The
lessons I had received from Shaftoo stood
me in good stead ; and there in the dusk,
when our people were out, Lily and I
used to meet. We began by practising
tm'novers on the bar ; and by dint of
recklessly exposing our necks to dislocation,
gradually and persistently worked
our way until we could perform some of
the tricks of Miss Zaza. I was the
stronger, but Lily was much quicker and

lighter, and she picked up the tricks with
wonderful celerity. We had many falls,
and many bumps, but nature seemed to
have formed us to fall easily, or taught us
instinctively how to do so, for only two
or three times did we tumble on our
heads, and no conscious harm came of it.
Doubtless the reader will say that from
my own evidence that is not to be wondered
at.

Chapter XV

I BECOME AN '^ ARTISTE "

It must not be supposed that Lily Edge
and I turned into clever gymnasia in a
week. Nearly a year had elapsed since
the last visit of '^ Lane's Grand Composite
Co-operative Circus and Menagerie "
before the walls of Timberville began
once more to grow gay with the gorgeous
placards of Mr. Lucius Brutus Lane.
Our pluck and resolution may be judged
of by this : we never missed an opportunity
of practice. Most of our money,
moreover, went in buying cosmetics for
the skin, bandoline for the hair, washes

for the teeth, etc. We began to give
considerable attention to our persons.
Hard-working girls as we were, we tried
to soften our hands and render them
white, omitting to note that the very
exercises we were so constantly practising
tended to harden them and put them out
of shape. We were both under fifteen,
but our constant exercise, simple food,
and regular life — for we had now set
before us a high idea of our future, and
encouraged by cheap novels, which were
our only dissipation, Ave had visions of
the time when nobles and princes should
go on their knees to us, and crowds of
handsome men would seek our hands — I
say exercise and our regular life had
developed us, so that although we were
still in 'short frocks," we were big,
attractive-looking young girls. As soon
as I began to be possessed with the idea

of emulating Zaza, and to feel that I had
the power in me to do it, I dismissed my
cavalier, Eand, and Lily also sent off her
young gentleman, the surgeon's apprentice.
Lily always behaved with perfect
discretion, and as for me, I was quite unsophisticated
in notions of gallantry. All
my dreams then were pure dreams, thank
God, and brought no shadows with them.

So soon as Mr. Lane's Circus was
announced we laid our plans. We had
each bought a new dress and pretty hats,
and Lily's mother had given her some
cheap ornaments for the ears and bosom,
and had, at Lily's instance, also presented
me with a similar set. She knew
nothing of our intentions, and I used to
feel some compunction about the deceit
we were going to practise on her.

Lane's Circus entered the town with
great pomp. There were triumphal cars,

VOL. I. S

arabian" steeds, the ^' coal-black mares
of Abyssinia," the " bevy of fairies " ina
large gilt gondola, etc., etc. On the
evening of its arrival we formed part
of the crowd that went to watch the
preparations. As we were looking about,
Mr. Charlemagne Bunny, the lion and
tiger tamer, came along. He had his
big leather dog-whip in his hand. He
was a gentleman with a round brown
face, a round nose, a round chin, a round
mouth vvdth very thick lips, and round
eyes. His hair was very thick and black,
and stood out all over his head. On the
top of it, on one side, was perched a
beaver of what I believe is technically
termed by hatters the ^' bell " shape, I
suppose for the old-fashioned reason that
it does not remotely resemble any known
form of bell. He wore very '' loud "
trousers, of a plaid pattern, a little

brownish-gray coatee with large horn
buttons, a black stock containing a prodigious
cameo-pin, with a chain which
was attached to a smaller pin below it.
His vest was wide open at the bosom,
showing, around the stock, a vast expanse
"of shirt front, which this evening
was very ruffled and dirty ; and so were
his high collars, crumpled down on each
side of his shaven face. He strode along
with his nose in the air, if such a nose
ever could have such a thing said of it ! —
and nearly trod on us.

'^ Hallo ! " he said roughly, '' why don't
you get out of the way ? "

'' How do you do, Mr. Bunny? "
'^ Hallo!" he said again. ^^ Why, I
declare, this is the little tiger tamer !
Beg pardon, ladies." He raised his hat.
*^ Old Tom is in awful tantrums. Can't
go near his cage. Can't say what is the
matter with him."

He thought a mmiite.

'^ I say," he cried out at length.
*look here, miss, would you rain, just
to oblige me, coming to take a look at

him ? D him, he'll be the death of

me yet."

I assented. My heart beat high as I
followed the man. I was determined at
any risk to show my pluck. We entered
the enclosure, and approached a van
where a terrific movement and noise was
going on. Tom was certainly in one of
his '* tantrums." He was bounding from

side to side of his cage, pawing and
roaring and turning over. They had

separated him by a thick partition from
the female tiger, who was also making

an uncomfortable noise. Charlemagne

Bunny explained to me that he dared

not trust her with the infuriated brute.

When we reached the van, Bunny caused

the front boards that covered up the
grill to be removed, and there was our
tiger Tom, his fangs displayed, froth
dropping from his tongue, his eyes glaring,
his tail straight out behind him. No
sooner did he see Bunny than he made
a frightful spring at the bars, and clung
to them with his paws. Bunny cut the
paws across with a lash of his dog whip,
and the brute dropped on all fours, glaring
and growling, but by no means subdued.

'give me the whip!" I cried; and
snatching it out of Bunny's hand I ran
forward quite close to the cage, and
looking in the creature's eyes I held it up
threateningly.

The moment he saw me he ceased
growling, his tail dropped, his eyes began
to soften, a lassitude came over him, he
lay down with his head on his paws and
his eyes fixed on me.

Bunny was astounded. He called out
to me to be on my guard, and began
himself to come nearer the cage. The
tiger raised his head and growled savagely.
I did not take my eye off him, but I
begged the man to go back. One of the
brute's paws was hanging through the
bars within a foot of me. He could have
killed me with a stroke. At length I
ventured, as before, to caress the paw
with my hand. He moved his head
nearer the bars and his eyes nearly closed.
Then I put my hand through and rubbed
him behind the ears. His tail waved to
and fro for pleasure. He was thoroughly
happy.

*now," said Bunny, keeping at a
distance, *^ look at the ball of the foot
and see if there is a cut or a nail in it."

I examined the foot, which the brute
allowed me to do with perfect quietness

and found that the claws had grown
round and entered the flesh, and that
there was a sore with some suppuration.

*now, miss," cried Charlemagne, who
had not many of the characteristics of
his namesake, ^^you stay there till I get
a rope and a board ; we must cut them
nails, or there will be the devil to pay."

In a few minutes he returned with a
strong piece of fine tackle rope, and a
board and two assistants. The rope had
a noose in it. He handed it to me.

^^ You slip that over the paw," he said.
I did so, and retired. In an instant the
rope was drawn, the tiger gave a tremendous
roar, made a bound and tried
to pull his paw through the bars. His
struggles were awful. It was of no use.
No one could have cut the poor brute's
claws in such circumstances. They gave
it up, and Old Tom lay down, licked his

paw, and looked reproachfully at me. I
again gradually drew near him, always
keeping my eye firmly fixed on his.
Some instinct seemed to tell me that I
had control of him. I took his foot and
extricated it from the rope, and as I
did it his great mouth came down on
my hand and he licked it gently with
his tongue. He let me draw the foot
through the bars. I soothed it with my
hands.

^^ Now, sir!" I cried to Charlemagne,
^' you bring the scissors and cut the claws.
I'll hold him."

Charlemagne's face was a picture.

^' I see myself coin' it," he replied.

However, with a little further persuasion
he approached, and I talked to the
tiger, soothing him.

He trembled when he saw Charlemagne,
but did not stir ; and I held the paw, while

the man, who knew his business very
well, dexterously cut with a pair of
powerful champagne scissors the formidable
nails. When it was done Tom drew
his paw in, licked it, gave vent to his
satisfaction in guttural growls, and began
bounding about his cage.

^' Well 1 " cried Mr. Charlemagne with
an oath, " you are a miracle — otherwise
a witch. Jest come along and try the
lions."

But the lions gave no heed to me whatever,
and the curious thing was, that
though I afterwards travelled with menageries,
no wild animals ever showed the
respect and regard for me evinced by poor
Tom: I say '^ poor Tom," because he
afterwards eat up part of Mr. Charlemagne
Bunny, in Barnum's Museum, and was
shot for thus appeasing his natural
appetite.

The story of my success with the tiger
was of course soon over the company.
Zaza was not with them this time, and
they had no trapeze exhibition, and it
made a material difference to their reception.
Of comes this was in om favom\

The last day of the show had come.
Some of the company had already gone
on. The tents were being packed up,
and the main body of the caravan were
next day to take their journey towards
the Mississippi, intending to go by boat
to New Orleans. Neither Lily nor I had
had the courage as yet to moot the question
of our designs. The manager, Mr.
Lucius Brutus Lane, was living at a small
hotel near the menagerie, and in the
evening we two girls, with trembling and
anxious hearts, took our way thither. We
had firmly resolved to go with the company
whether they would or no, and in

our hands were two little bundles con-^
training all our worldly goods. Arrived at
the Union Hotel, we left our parcels out
in the stables, and entered the bar-room.
There Mr. Lucius Brutus Lane was sitting
in a corner, smoking a cigar, and
talking with Mr. Charlemagne Bunny,
and some other of his cronies. Among
them, I remember, was a big man, of
enormous strength, who practised as an
athlete for the company, named Heenan,
the very same person who afterwards had
the famous fight with Tom Sayers.

We stepped up to the group, who were
engaged over their cock tails, and as we
came forward Bunny said —

^^Why, here's the little tiger-tamer
gal!"

Mr. Lane turned round and eyed me.
He was a coarse-featured man, of tremendous
shoulders, a deep chest, a large head,.

with the long hair thrown back from a
forehead which would have given dignity
to a statesman. His eye was dark, and
small and sharp, and very bright. He had
bushy eyebrows, a hooked nose, large
nostrils, which moved freely, a big mouth
not ill-shaped, and a round but well-formed
and very decided chin. He wore
only a coat over a coloured shirt, without
a waistcoat, and loose pants. His great
brown hand hung over the back of the
chair. There were marks of dissipation
on this man's face, in his air and manners,
and in the fleshiness which was
beginning to show itself in his person, but
yet he was a remarkable character. I
saw a good deal of him afterwards, in
situations, of danger and crisis — and, as
the fighting men say, ^^he was always upto
time," and " up to the scratch." He
ruled his company with firmness — and

even Heenan, though he could have
knocked him to pieces, could not stand
the steady, cool fire of Mr. Lane's eye.
This eye was now fixed on me, and not
unkindly.

'' Well, miss ! " he said, ^^ you've never
had anything for helping to cut old Tom's
claws, have you ? Will you take a cocktail
? "

'' No, thank you, sir, I don't drink," I
said promptly.

*^ Eight, Sissy ! " cried Heenan, who
was smoking a short pipe, and looked at
me with some interest. ^^ You stick to
that and you'll do."

Well, miss, if you won't have a cocktail,
what can I do for you ? "

^^If you please, sir," I replied, blushing,
'' my friend here, Miss Edge, and
me, we want to go into the company
business along with your circus."

^^ Pshaw," cried Bunny roughly, ^Hhe
gal's mad. That affair with Tom has
turned her head. Send them home to
their mothers."

^* Charley," said Heenan, taking his
pipe out of his mouth and bringing his
massive knuckles down on the table with
a sharp rap, ^'you shut up your darned
jaw, and let the gals speak, do you hear :
what bisness is it o' your ? "

Charley turned as red as a turkey-cock,
but he thought it better not to retort on
his formidable friend.

'^ Now, Heenan," cried Lane, ^^ don't
be quarrelsome. Time enough for you to
stick up for the gal when she's hurt.
Why, what on birth could we do with
you, little 'un?"

'^ Oh, we can do a lot of tricks, like
Miss Zaza, on the swinging bars, and
turn somerset, and stand on our heads,
and do the drop, down ropes."

^'Yoii!" cried Mr. Late, with an incredulous
look. 'who taught you all
this?"

'' We taught ourselves."

The men laughed.

'^ I reckon she'd find a difference between
her and Zaza if she was to try,"
observed Mr. Bunny.

'' Well, my dears," exclaimed Mr. Lane,
' 5^ou take my breath away. Zaza's the
only woman in the world that can do
them tricks just now. Come here ; let's
look at your arm."

I bared my arm and he felt it. He did
the same for Lily.

'' Strong," he said, '' and good-looking.
You can jump, you say ? "

I turned and put my two hands on
Lily's shoulder and went over her head
in a twinkling. Then turning my back
to her, she performed the same feat. The
men laughed heartily.

'' My eye ! " cried Mr. Lane, 'Plenty
of bounce and muscle. Look here,
Bunny, go and ask Bill and Joe to rig
np a little round bar on two ropes from
a beam in the barn, and get two of the
cage hawthorns, and we'll see right away
what they are up to. Sit down, my
dears. Have you got any tights ? "

Lily and I had made ourselves flannel
suits for our exercises, which left us
freedom of the limbs. We had them on
under our dresses.

We remained talking to the men
Heenan asking a number of questions,
and we could see by their manner that
we had made a favourable impression.
Heenan, however, tried to dissuade us
from the undertaking. He told us we
were going in for a hard life, that we
should find it pretty rough, that there
were too many blackguards in it, and

that for respectable girls like us it was
full of perils and temptations. He was
very cautious in thus talking to us, and,
happily or unhappily, we were too young
and unsophisticated to apprehend the
nature of the perils at which he hinted.
When he found we were resolved he
turned to Lane and said —

*' Well, they've made up their minds,
and they're gals — and when gals have
made up the minds one way or another
it ain't man — nor God — nor the devil that
can alter them. Let's go and see what
they can do."

We went out to the barn, where a
rough swing had been rigged up from
a beam in the roof, and the bar hung
six feet fi'om the floor. Retiring infco
a corner we sipped off our over clothes,
and appeared in a loose flannel gymnast
costume. Heenan's tall form towered

VOL. I. ^ T

Tip beside the bar bolding a lantern,
while Bunny held another, and in the
circle of light thus formed hung the trapeze.
With a bound I caught the bar
and swung myself over. Then I sat a
moment precisely as I had seen Zaza
sit, without holding on. Then putting
one leg over the bar and holding on
with both hands, I whirled round and
round a dozen times.

Bravo ! " cried the men.

Then I suddenly threw myself backwards,
only saving myself from being
dashed on the floor by catching the
corner of the trapeze with my feet.

^^ This is the devil ! " exclaimed Heenan,
^' I can't stand ifc. She'll break her neck."

^^ No she won't," cried Lily, and she
leaped up beside me.

"We turned over together repeatedly.
Then, as a last trick, she stood upright

on the bar ; I turned face downwards ^
with my feet on her shoulders, and then
suddenly letting go with a cry, dropped
four feet at least, but catching on the
bar with my feet and ankles as before.

Heenan had dropped the lanthorn
smashing the glass, to catch me. He
thought I was done for. Even Lane
uttered an exclamation of horror. Heenan
put me on my feet on the floor.

^^Why," I said, ^^ sir, you spoiled my
trick."

'' What ! did you do it on purpose ? "

'' Yes. I'U do it again."

''No, no!" said Lane. 'tricks like
those must be done on good tackle. I'm
not going to let you knock your brains
out on a barn floor. Here, take the
lanthorn and get on yom things. I'll
see you over in the hotel presently."

"We dressed and cooled ourselves, and

then went over. The men had been in
deep conversation. They ordered us
some lemonade.

*' Now," said Mr. Lane, '' air you two
darned fools bent on going' on with this
business ? "

^^Yes."

** And you have no father or mother ? "

^' Not that I know of," I replied. Lily
said nothing.

^'"Well," he said, '^ Mr. Heenan here
has been yom friend, and we agree to
take you along with us. You'll travel
with the other gals. I can't tell you yet
how much you will get until I have seen
you operate on proper tackle, and you
will require a good deal of teaching yet.
That drop of yours, miss, is clever, but
if you go on doing it in that way, your
brains will go into a bran mash some of
these days. Meantime, I'll stand your

expenses, and if you're good gals you'll
make a good thing of it."

We both shook hands with him and
Heenan and Mr. Bunny, who, however,
seemed crusty and dissatisfied. He had
opposed our coming in. The incident
with the tiger had given rise to some
chaffing on the part of his companions,
who began to doubt his bravery. Tom
would never have chewed him up as he
afterwards did had he been at once gentle
and undaunted.

With joyous hearts we went to a huge
van, which was pointed out to us. There
three or four women lay about on clean
straw, with some coverlets, fast asleep.
They were to start at four in the morning,
and had determined not to spend the
night in the hotel. As for us, we could
not sleep for delight, and we sat up in
the corner whispering to each other,

until the noise and movement around
showed that at length Mr. Lane's Grand
Composite Co-operative Circus and Menagerie
was about to leave Timberville for
New Orleans.

END OF VOL. I.

LONDON : PRINTED BY WILLIAM Clothes AND SONS, Limited
STAJirOKD Street AND CHARING CROSS.

OF THE

UN Diversity

Of ILLINOIS

University of Illinois Library

L161— H41

EDWARD JENKINS

AUTHOR OF "Gin's BABY " " JOBSOS's ENEMIES" ETC

IN TWO VOLUMES
VOL II

LONDON

SAMPSON LOW Marston SEARLE & Livingston

CROWN BUILDINGS 188 FLEET STREET



(All rights reserved)

PRINTED BT "WILLIAM CLOWES AND SONS, LIMITED,
STAMFORD STREET AND CHARING CROSS.

I. Re-Christened 1

II. A Swing for Life . . . 28

III. A Dark Chapter . . . 47

IV. Tom cuts up Nasty 57

V. Mr. Boganio comes out of his Shell 73

VI. A Pretty Lodging 110

VII. An End of it 127

VIII. An Angel 139

IX. The Sequel 144

X. FlGTOWN 154

XL A Fresh Complication 181

XII. Christian Charity 197

XIII. Monsieur Parabole 207

XIV. Mad Life 220

XV. A New Friend 245

Epilogue 261

CHAPTER I

KE-CHKISTENED

The company into which I was introduced
was a strange and a mixed one.
From Heenan, with his great form and
manly ways, down to the hiimp-backed
dwarf Beckman, who performed some
foolish tricks with big drums, through all
the crowd of riding-masters, jockeys,
clowns, scene-shifters, stable-men, of
girls — some married, some unmarried —
costume-makers, and so forth — the variety
of character was remarkable enough.

YOL. II. B

Indeed, it was a little world with all the
passions, hopes, doubts, temptations,
slanders, bickering, friendships and
hatreds of the greater world without.

When the women, who occupied the
great van to which we had been assigned,
woke up they were surprised to find two
strange guests among them.

The first to notice us was Miss Alma
Viva, a Cockney lady of about twenty-four
or twenty-five years of age — a very
good horsewoman, getting, however,
rather too plump for light feats, and, as
she now appeared, in the early morning,
anything but a fairy. When we had seen
her before in her short gauze petticoats
and tights, her brilliant bronze or satin
slippers, and her long hair braided under
a handsome spangled turban, with a fine
red colour in her cheeks, we had thought
her quite a bewitching creature, and so

had many a man who watched her graceful
and daring antics. This morning she
woke up wrapt in a frowsy old dress, in
which she had slept, with a dirty face,
dishevelled hair, her nails lined with
black dirt, and a haggard and wild look
about her eyes. The dawn was already
breaking, when yawning, with an oath,
she threw off her coverlets and sprang to
her feet.

I shuddered. I had never heard a
woman swear before, and the effect on
me was shocking. Why it should be
more so in the case of one sex than
another I don't know, unless that it is
more rare. However, Miss Alma Viva,
born Mary Jones, was strongly given to
the practice, and for the reader's benefit
I shall report her words without the
objectionable epithets.

"Tosta! Ella! Sally!" she cried out.
Git hup— we're hoff."

She began twisting her rough hair in
her fingers, and stepped over one of her
friends to the door.

I couldn't help laughing at the Cockney
aspirate which used to amuse me so much
in Mr. Shaftoo.

The laugh caught her ear, and she
espied us two girls in the corner.

Hello! what are you two gals coin'
'ere. Hey ! — Wot har you laughing' hat,,
inference?"

"We've joined the company," I replied,,
rising and standing opposite her. "I
was laughing because you speak so
funnily with your h's."

Wot bisness his it of yours, miss, wot
I does with my hatches ? Hill scratch
yer eyes lout his you gives me any of
your impudence . ' Joined the company ! '
to be sure. Ho dear ! and two such
minxes has you a making' fun hov the first

lady hov the company ! My goodness !
Hill make it warm enough for you, his
you hasn't more civil. Were did you
learn yer manners, hey ? "

She spoke at the top of her voice, which
was a peculiarly harsh and disagreeable
one, spoiled by bad whisky, and exposure.

Hallo ! " cried a much sweeter,
though deeper voice from the other
corner, as a figure rose in the uncertain
light and yawned aloud and stretched its
arms, " there's Mary Jones begin'
already. We don't want any bell to
wake us so long as she's there."

"Well, Ma-demoiselle Trentina," said
Miss Jones, turning upon her, and speaking
with as much dignity as she could
assume. "His I ham a belle hit's more
than never you was, since you was a
woman." She said this with her lip
curling and her nose turning up.

Ob. my! you mean that for a joke,
I suppose," cried the other, laughing
pleasantly. " I never said I was either a
belle or a bo ! "

Mind your own business," retorted
Miss Jones. " 'Ere's a nice thing.
They've been hand put two strange gals
hin 'ere, and precious bras en young
'ussies they har. Drat 'em, 'ere's one
just chaffed me about my hatches, wich
his has good hatches has their' s any
day hof the week."

The succession of aspirate so overcame
us that both Lily and I made the
large van ring again with our laughter.
This was soon changed to another tune,
for Miss Alma Viva slapped my face with
a force that left the mark of her fingers
on my healthy cheek for some hours. I
was but a girl, so I howled out bitterly.
The infuriated woman would have repeated

the dose had not the person in the
corner risen and stepped between ns.
She was a magnificent woman, tall,
powerful, finely formed, with a light complexion,
blue eyes, and black hair — the
finest woman of the troupe, physically.
She used to play as an athlete with dumb
bells and Indian clubs. Her real name
was Sally Bendigo, and she was a
descendant of a celebrated pugilist. She
pushed back Miss Jones against the side
of the van with a sweep of the arm.

You're a beast ! " was her candid
remark to Alma Yiva. — " Poor little
thing ! did she hurt you much ? "

At this moment a deep stern voice was
heard outside.

Now then, you women, are you
quarrelling in there ? Is that mad Mary
at it again? "

It was the voice of Mr. Lane.

Yes ! She's been and hit one of
these little gals," replied Trentina.
What are they doing here ? "

"I'll let her know what they're doing
there," he replied. "Look after them,
Miss Trentina, and I'll settle with Miss
Jones during the day."

By this time the two other women had
got up. One was a fragile little girl of
sixteen who used to do light work in the
ring, leaping through hoops, turning
summersaults, and that sort of thing.
She had fan hair and a pale face. She
was an American. Most of the people
employed in the troupe were English,
England at that time producing the
greater number of acrobats and jockeys
and riders, but since then some of the
best gymnasia and ring-performers in the
world have been native-born Americans.
This girl, nee Jackson, performed under

the name of Composedly. She was so
thin and delicate and yet so agile that
she admirably suited the character of a
fairy, in which she sometimes played.

But the next person was a very important
one — Madame Tosta — a stout,
red-faced woman, who was called the
costume," and who had charge of Mr.
Lane's extensive theatrical wardrobe. A
whole van was dedicated to this serious
service. It was carefully fitted up ;
everything was nicely arranged and
packed in the smallest space ; and it was
wonderful what effects Madame Tosta
and her two sewing girls could produce
out of that motley wardrobe. As a rule
she was very good-natured, but she could
be very tart if she pleased. The " young
ladies" treated her rather superciliously
as a rule, but they dared not go too far.
She could always have her revenge. It

is a peculiarity of artistes, at all events
in our line, that they have fancies for
particular dresses on particular nights.
It is impossible to explain why, but it is
a fact that if a girl does not get the
costume she has set her heart on she is
likely to make a bad performance. Now,
as Madame Tosta could always manage
that a costume should be ready or
unread 7 , it may easily be imagined that
the regular performers did not like to fall
out with her.

She looked curiously at us two girls,,
eyeing us all over. I had ceased crying,
being heartily ashamed of myself, and I
thanked Miss Trentina for her intervention.
Miss Jones was sulkily doing up
her hair in the back of the van.

"What line are you in?" inquired
Madame Tosta.

Trapeze," I replied.

She turned me round, and measured
my shoulders and waist with her hand.

You'll dress well," she said.

Where did you come from?" demanded
Trentina, who had he en looking
us over with her great hue eyes. She
too was twisting her hair up, and had
a hair-pin in her mouth.

I told a short story, and by this time
a voice from outside notified us that the
horses were being put in. In a few
minutes we were moving off : the women
looking out of the door to watch the
familiar but exciting incidents of the
start, while we girls, afraid lest we should
be seen by some one who knew us, kept
back in the corner perfectly quiet, until
we had got some miles from town, when
we jumped up and capered round the
van to the astonishment and amusement
of our companions, with whom by that

time we had succeeded in establishing
more agreeable relations.

There is not much to relate about our
journey to New Orleans. We embarked
people, vans, horses, animals, and baggage
— on one of the great Mississippi
steamers. Here Lily and I began to make
the acquaintance of some of the men of
our troupe. There was, of course, a certain
amount of familiarity in the relations of
the various members of the company, but
still one found even there the vulgarians
and the exclusives. Miss Alma Yiva, in
the view of the other young ladies,
"made herself too cheap," which was
attributable to her Cockney education
and origin, as the daughter of a washerwoman
in the Minores.

Heenan, Lane, and one or two others,
particularly Salvolio, the great ring-master,
a half-It alan, who had a large head,

a magnificent black moustache, a big
Roman nose, and an imposing appearance,
had very little to say to the ladies
of the troupe. Salvolio was married. His
wife was a Cuban of dark complexion,
thick ruddy lips, and curly hair, a good
danseuse, and a fine, daring rider. She
went by the name of Mademoiselle Celestina,
and she too kept herself rather
select.

I need not mention all the young men
of the company, who, having nothing todo
on the boat but drink and smoke or
talk to somebody, were good enough to
present themselves to our acquaintance.
The two principal clowns were young
men, brothers, who came from London
and had a regular London accent, though
they were not by any means so Cockney
as Miss Jones. Their names, really, were
Ben and Tom Toddles, but they appeared

simply as " Ben and Tom, the

celebrated clowns." They were clever,

active young fellows, one hardly of age,

the other some two years older, and full

of fun and wickedness. They had been

trained under one of the most celebrated

English clowns, and were famous for their

ingenuity in concocting jokes apropos of

local events. These two gentlemen, with

their short-clipped hair, shaven faces, and

strong-built figures, were not disliked in

the company, though sometimes inclined

to be rather rough, and already beginning

to " like more drink than was good for

them " — as people put it.

They and other " gentlemen " began to
pay to Lily, who was certainly a pretty
girl, and to myself a good deal of attention.
We were fresh and simple, and
laughed at their jokes, and on the whole
were very well liked.

Big Heenan for the first day had
lounged about the deck in a great, loose
white flannel suit, with his enormous
neck bare, and a wide straw hat protecting
him from the sun. He always
noticed us kindly, and once when we
were alone spoke to us, asking " how we
were getting on with the women-folks,"
and so forth. By the evening we were
walking up and down with the two
Toddles, and one or two other light
young men, but Madame Tosta came
and joined us and we retired early. Next
day I noticed that Heenan, as we went
about in various parts of the enormous
steamer, seemed to be everywhere. We
had by this time become pretty familiar
with our friends, and as night came on
I and Lily were asked by two of the
gentlemen to walk the deck in their company.
The moon was up, the steamer

glided swiftly down the broad river, and we
laughed and listened to the jokes of our
friends until it grew late. All the women
had retired to bed. But still the youths
stayed, and we were so delighted with
our freedom that we stayed too. Suddenly
Heenan appeared, the light upper
deck creaking under his huge weight ashe
came along.

Look here, you two young ladies,"
he said. " This ain't a time for you to
be out and about the deck mooning with
young spain gulls. You go in right away
to your beds, d'ye hear, and take my
advice and don't be too familiar with the
sort of chaps you'll find around in this
troop. They're mere shocks most of
them. And looked here, you two young
gentlemen, you leave these ladies alone,
d'ye hear ? They're respectable girls, and
not of your sort. If I catch you up to

any tricks with them, I'll throw you
overboard."

We ran away, rather angry with
Heenan, but next morning he took us,
and earnestly begged us to keep as much
as possible with the women, and out of
the way of the young men, whom he
described to us as " a lot o' trash."

The interest this rough, big bruiser took
in us I have never forgotten. There was
a strange gentleness and tenderness in
him which showed that within the huge
muscular frame there beat a kindly heart.

As soon as we arrived at New Orleans
we were put into training with one of
the most accomplished gymnasia in the
troupe, an elderly man, not up to much
more than some feats in the ring, but an
admirable teacher. He cut us pretty
hard with his tongue sometimes, but he
was not cruel. I have seen other men

VOL. II. C

knock their children about fearfully ; but
Timothy Barley always behaved to me
like a gentleman. With our natural aptitude
and daring he soon made us tolerably
expert performers, and the manager
began to think the time had arrived for
bringing us out. As he put it, " he
didn't care to have capital lying around
idle, and we'd been dawdling along and
milking the cow for nothing long enough."

He had behaved very well, especially
to me; for finding I showed superior aptitude
for the trapeze, and was likely to be
attractive, he advanced me money to
dress myself somewhat more in the style
of the " ladies " of the company than I
had previously assumed. In fact, I went
into long dresses, and pretty loud at that.

A set of tackle had been specially made
to suit my weight, and I had tested it. I
could now do nearly every one of Zaza's

tricks, besides some of my own. I shall
never forget the excitement and the
pleasing terror with which I looked forward
to my debut. It was my real start
in life — my launch, and I could not help
pondering over the vicissitudes of the past
and longing and dreaming about the time
and the chances to come. The young
men of the company were beginning
to spoil me by flattery, and the association
of the women, especially the irrepressible
Alma Viva, was not beneficial.

Madame Tosta superintended the preparation
of the costume in which I was
to appear. She judged that as my hair
was a fine black, and my colour good, I
would look well in a bodice of blue with
spangled short skirt of tulle and silk,
blue silk tights, and satin boots of a
darker blue colour. This costume gave
rise to intense heart-burnings and bickering.

Celestine came to see it, and at
once declared to her husband that " if
Mr. Lane was going to give that miserable
little child — picked off the street — that
magnificent costume, and leave her to
perform in old threadbare, second-hand
Jew clothes, he was mistaken," and she
struck. Her husband, ordinarily a good-natured,
reasonable sort of fellow — though
he afterwards turned out to be a great
rascal — being quite a henchman of the
manager's, did his best to bring her to
see that the cases were different, that I
was a new hand, going in for a " star "
engagement, etc., but he might as well
have talked to the stars themselves.
Alma Yiva too got up quite a scene on
half a bottle of whisky or so, one night
after the performance, and Mr. Lane had
to carry her off to her hotel and lock her
up. A compromise was effected with

Celestine, and now the time for "my
first appearance " was come. For a fortnight
before this great event, the walls
of " Cottonopolis " had been placarded
with this announcement —

LANE'S COMBINED CO-OPERATIVE
CIRCUS.

SPECIAL ANNOUNCEMENT.

FIRST APPEARANCE OF THE GREAT,

UNEQUALLED, UNIQUE, AND UNPARALLELED-flying

TRAPEZIST AND AIR PERFORMER

LISA Lena!!

"The Beautiful Maid of the Air."

How had I come to adopt this grand
name?

The episode was a comic one, and
worth relating.

As soon as Mr. Lucius Brutus Lane —
whose real name by godfather and godmother
(if he ever had any) was simple

Peter," but he had deemed it necessary
to improve upon their taste for public
purposes — had arrived at the conclusion
that I was " worth his money," a conference
of the leading people of the company
was informally held in a whisky bar,
to decide under what name I should
appear. In that line of business I can
assure the reader it is a very serious
matter to select a clever sobriquet. It
is a great thing to strike the public
imagination with names like Leona, Lala,
Lulu, Zaza, Hazel, Leonardo, a hundred
others of that sort. There is a gentleman
who can undo himself by dislocating every
bone of his body, who performs under the
princely and romantic name of Sadi
Alma. He was born of poor parents
in Philadelphia. The real name maybe
Smith, Jones, or Robinson, and the
persons may have come from a costermonger's

cart or a matchmaker's room,
but these names convey a notion of
foreign origin and a romantic turn of
mind on the part of one's parents, who
are supposed to have foreseen what a
marvel they had produced, and to have
dubbed it accordingly by a splendid and
attractive name.

Mr. Lane, Mr. Charlemagne Bunny,
Mr. Heenan (who would not adopt any
"furriii" nomenclature), and Signor Sal-folio,
sat one night as a sort of commission
in the bar at the Washington
Hotel to decide under what title Lily
Edge and I were to be ushered into
public life. We two girls were called
in to be examined as witnesses, and to
assist these gentlemen's minds in settling
a point so critical.

Lily came first. She was not to do
the lofty tricks, but some minor ones

with me on a low bar. They already
looked to me to do the most brilliant part
of the performances.

"Now," said Mr. Lane, " your name
is Lily Edge. What does Lily stand
for?"

Lilian, I reckon," she replied.

"Well, there ain't much difficulty on
that point ; the Eye-tatian of that will be
Lilian, eh ! Signor Salvolio ? "

Salvolio looked deep into his Monongahela,
and, pulling his moustache with a
grand air, remarked —

She's a female — Lilian."

Oh ! all right, that'll do splendidly—
the Leaping Lilian. We can't do anything
whatever with ' Edge,' I guess —
not so far as I see."

"Hum!" remarked Bunny, removing
his pipe to emit a cloud of smoke, " Edge
is sharp, eh? — can't you call her Sharp ? "

Lane shook his head.

Ain't classic enough," he remarked.

Guess we'll leave her where she is

Gentlemen, what do you say ? "

Heenan laughed, knocked the ashes out
of his pipe, and grunted.

"Well," he said, " you've baptized
that one, now what will yer christen
the other ? "

He smiled at me.

What do you call yourself ? " he said

Elizabeth Bellamy."

All the men remained silent, frowned,
and went into deep thought. This was
evidently a tough problem.

Elizabeth ain't a good name for an
artiste," said Mr. Lane, " no ways. It's
long, it's common, it ain't pretty."

"Well," I said, "they call me < Lisa r
for short."

"Ah! "

All the gentlemen drank and looked
at each other. Heenan nodded approvingly.
They decided on that to begin
with. But they agreed they must have
a second. Lisa, in itself, was not enough.
"Bellamy? What are we to do with
that, Salvolio ? "

Bell— Bella—Lisa Bella. No, that
won't do; too many Belles about already.
Bellamy? Don't like it."

Try Lamia," suggested Bunny.

No. Lame-ya ! that don't sound like
a gal that can jump like a kangaroo."

All sorts of names were discussed,
Heenan remaining silent, no one hitting
on anything satisfactory.

Heenan had been making marks on
the table with his big finger and some
spilt whisky. At length he spoke.

Looked here, Lane," he said. " Your
name's L — a — n — e, ain't it ? "

"Yes."

Well, jest stick the E where the A is,
and the A where the E is. What does
that make ? "

"L — e — n — a. Lena! By Jove ! splendid.
Lisa Lena ! Sounds quite furniture
Eye-tatian. Well, Miss Bellamy,
how will that suit you ? ' '

First-rate, Mr. Lane."

Then, you're christened Lisa Lena,
and your deb eta will be this day fortnight.
Whew ! Boy there — cock tails all
round ! "

Chapter II

A SWING FOE LIFE

My debut was considered a success. I
may say, without danger of being misunderstood,
that this was due less to my
performances than to my appearance. I
have before me now a photograph of
myself as I first came out. It is that of
a slim and graceful girl, with unbound
hair falling down below 7 the waist, an
agreeable oval face, regular features, a
fine bust, an elegant figure, which my
costume was of course specially designed
to show off. Any one now seeing my
full, fat face and form would hardly

believe that I had been the fairylike-looking
person represented in the picture.
As a woman writing for women, and
writing now after the romance of life
has passed away, perhaps I may be permitted
to say a word here. It is one of
the evils and the snares of the profession
I had chosen that it appeals and panders
to a vicious taste in the public and a
depraving pride in the performer. In
ordinary theatrical exhibitions, a woman
may depend to some extent on the taste
and splendour of her dress or the fineness
of her figure, but it is dress which is
decent, and her main reliance is upon her
histrionic abilities. But, beyond doubt,
I confess it — and every girl would confess
it who had been employed in such
performances — the ballet, the trapeze,
and many other gymnastic exhibitions,
promote a desire in the mind and on the

part of the performer to show off the
figure as much as possible, and, as it were,
to accentuate advantages of form and
outline. I can hardly venture to speak
of the demoralizing effect upon a woman's
mind of such sensuous conceit. Possibly
many mothers who have encouraged their
daughters of late years to adopt the
fashionable mode may not have apprehended
the evil influence exerted upon
pure-minded girls by dressmakers who
have pointed out to them the statuesque
advantages of their figures, and induced
them to submit to have their dresses
made in such a manner as to show off
these advantages to the utmost. A girl
who has once had such ideas put into her
head has already begun to lose her
natural modesty. The women who consent
to allow themselves to be dressed in
chamois-leather underclothes, in order

to set off and expose their figures, can
hardly be far removed from the girls who
display themselves in silk tights and
provoking recollected costumes to mixed
audiences of men and women.

I had little idea, when I first swung
myself aloft in Lane's Circus at New
Orleans, of what I was bringing upon
myself. It was a wild delight to hear the
applause, to look round on the excited
multitude, to please and frighten them
alternately by my daring and graceful
tricks. But I had hardly awakened in
the morning the next day after my debut
before a negro came to the hotel where
we all put up, and presented me with a
magnificent bouquet of flowers, "with the
compliments of Mr. Wrigby Lorillard."
Next came a black page with a second
bouquet, even more magnificent than the
former, from Mr. Louis Leblanc.

I asked Madame Tosta what I was todo.


You can do as you please," she said,
looking at me very steadily ; " hut if you
ask my advice, I would throw the flowers
out of the window, and when the gentlemen
call, as they are sure to do, just say
that you ain't at home."

Something persuaded me the old
woman was right, and being rather an
impulsive girl, I forthwith pitched the
two big bouquets out of the window.
They fell into a crowded street, to the
great astonishment of the passers-by ; and
as ill luck would have it, Mr. Lorillard
himself, who, dressed in a handsome
French stout, with a flower in his
button-hole, a fine shiny hat, and
lavender inexpressible and gloves, was
coming to call upon me, received his own
bouquet and that of his rival dead on his

hat. He recognized his own flowers, and
believing that I had done it on purpose,
went off in a great rage to complain to
Mr. Lane.

Now, I must tell you the truth about
Mr. Lane. He was a very kind-hearted
fellow in his way, but with him business
was first and morality afterwards. Mr.
Lorillard belonged to one of the "first
families" in New Orleans, and was one
of the best patrons of the circus and the
stage of that city. Mr. Lane was excessively
annoyed that I, a young debutante,
should have insulted and repelled
this gentleman. He was afraid it would
injure his circus among the fashionable
young men of New Orleans. So he sent
for me and told me I had no right to be
so squeamish; that if I took to that
profession I must take all its consequences;
that young men would be at-vol.

II. D

entire to me, that lie made no suggestions
but I should at least be polite to
them, etc., etc. Mr. Lane was bad
enough ; later on I was to learn that
if an attractive young lady did not
choose to be amiable to any wretch
who chose to pay her attention, a Berlin
or a Viennese manager would give her
notice that he could not renew her engagement.


That evening, my second evening, I
was hissed by a number of negroes in the
gallery. They had, I believe, been hired
by Mr. Lorillard, who took this manly
way of getting his revenge. However,
my performance was so much better
than the first that a crowded audience enthusiastically
applauded me and drowned
the hisses with their cheers.

After the performance Heenan came
to me.

Bully for you, little gal!" he said.
You done quite right. Don't you let
them young aristo's come around making'
love to you. Remember, every woman
is valued at her own valuation, and
a woman that can be bought with a
bouquet or a bracelet ain't worth a straw,
that's my idee. Don't listen to Lane, he's
a cussed money-making' Jew. He'd sell
his mother's coffin for a greenback dollar;
he don't care a darn for any thin' but his
show. Keep on the way you're going',
little 'mi, and you'll do yet ; and if Lane
gives you any impertinence you come tome
and I'll break every bone in his body."

The good-natured athlete did not see
that this threat of his w r as anything but
an inducement to a timid girl to call for
his help. However, I took his advice.
It got about among Mr. Lorillard's friends
that I had refused his attentions, and

although I received from men, asking
to make my acquaintance, a few notes,
which I threw into the fire, I was left
alone hy the gentlemen, while the general
public crowded to see my performances.

I have lifted the veil very delicately
and carefully; but enough to enable the
reader to see on what a life I had embarked
; and yet I do not wish it to be
understood that it is of necessity a life
of evil. I have seen married women
who performed with their husbands, as
well as many children who performed
with their parents, who passed as unscathed
through the temptations of this
stage life as any girls in the less public
life without. I know a really beautiful
girl, a Frenchwoman, who rides in a
celebrated circus on the Continent. She
is known from Hamburg to Vienna, from
Paris or Madrid to St. Petersburg. She

is never at a performance without her
father and mother. Princes and counts
and barons and rich millionaires, Jews,
Russians, Hungarians, English, all the
lazy, lounging, wicked fashionable roues
of the capitals, send her bouquets, write
her billets-doux, pester her with their
ogling and bowing. But to-day she is
as fresh and childlike as ever. At nights,
when her performance is over, she retires
quietly with her parents to an honest
home and a virtuous couch. The devil
does not always have his own way even
in so favourite a field as that of public
amusements.

For my part, I was disposed to take
Heenan's advice, and did so.

But a new danger threatened me from
a nearer and more unexpected quarter.
I had been performing for a fortnight,
and my success and probably also my

invariable good temper and quiet behaviour
had created a favourable impression
among the leading ladies of our
troupe. Madame Celestine, the wife of
the ring-master, was pleased to be condescending.
She invited me occasionally
to join her husband and herself at the
supper which invariably follows the artiste'
s evening. Lily, or Lilian, had not
proved a great success — she had also
rather taken to a wilder class of people
than I cared about, and our friendship
had to some extent cooled down. She
eventually married one of the jockeys,
and together they contrived to get along
very well. They had a considerable
family, every one of whom was trained
for the profession. I know of a case in
which one mother had nineteen children,
all of them tumblers, gymnasia, and performers
on the rope.

Celestine chose to find in me something
superior which commended me to
her good opinion. She was a fiery little
woman, her warm tropical Mood seemed
to rush instead of to run in her veins, and
though Sign or Salvolio was very kind to
her, she used sometimes to make life
pretty rough for him. They had no children,
and that I have noticed often makes
married people ill-natured.

Signor Salvolio was such a big man,,
and altogether so imposing and grand in
his manners, his mode of speech, etc.,
that I was almost afraid of him — at all
events I held him in very high respect.

He always came forward when I ran
out of the coulisses, and gave me his
hand to lead me to the front. On such
occasions his immense chest, his tightened
girth, his great shirt-front and black
neckcloth, his white gloves, his glossy

black hair and curled mustachios, his
patent-leather boots, made such a magnificent
ensemble that I used to feel
quite grand. He would lead me to the
rope, hold out his hand to receive my
foot, and then give the signal to the men
to hoist away.

One evening I suddenly became conscious
that Signor Salvolio held my hand
very tight, and that he was trembling.
He gave my foot with its satin boot a
distinct squeeze. I thought he had been
taking too much wine, but when I came
down he seized my hand again, and congratulated
me so warmly that I was quite
ashamed. I took no notice of this conduct,
but the next night it was more
marked I flushed up with anger, and
was so put out that I nearly missed one
of my tricks, and was within an ace of
concluding my artistic career.

The next day I had been practising in
the circus with Ben Toddles, one of the
clowns, who had undertaken to give me
some lessons, and after the practice was
over was going for a walk, when whom
should I find awaiting me after I came
from the dressing-room but Signor Sal-folio,
dressed up in an elegant morning
costume, with a flower in his button-hole,
and a pretty little bouquet in his hand.
He shook hands before I could lift a
finger.

See," he said, with an elaborate bow,
these are for you, Lisa."

What ! " I replied. " Did Madame
Celestine send them? How good of
her!"

"No," he said, with his hand on his
heart, "they are the offer of my homage
to you."

"Homage! Signor Salvolio, I don't

know what yon mean. It is very kind of
yon to bring me flowers, but why don't
yon give them to madame ? "

Oh ! she gets plenty," he said.
"And I want yon to understand I am
your friend."

"I always thought you were," I replied,
accepting the flowers. " Thank
you very much."

Is that all you are going to say ? " he
cried, disappointed.

I looked at him inquiringly, and could
see that his face was flushed and his
manner agitated. A strange fear came
over me, which I could not explain to
myself. By great good luck Madame
Celestine herself, who had been walking,
came in to look for her husband, as the
three o'clock dinner hour was fast approaching.
She stared at both of us with
her keen black eyes.

Where did you get those flowers?"
she said to me brusquely, fastening her
glance on the bouquet.

Signor Salvolio has just given them
to me ! " I replied with simplicity.

She snatched them out of my hand.

You giving her flowers ! " she
screamed to her husband. " You, you
wicked old vagabond." And she went
on with a tirade as painful as it was
energetic, while Salvolio, turning white,
shrugged his shoulders and looked at me
with a malignant gaze.

Come away! " she said to me, when
she had pumped herself out, and seizing
my arm she hurried me into the street.

That night when I went out to my
performance Signor Salvolio did not
come forward to present me to the
audience. It was Ben Toddles in his
clown's dress who held my foot for me

to ascend. But I passed Salvolio in the
crowd, and as I went by lie hissed in
my ears —

I'll be even with you yet, you little
devil." His face was white and his
features distorted with rage.

From that moment my association
with this worthy couple ceased. Celestina
never spoke to me — and never saw
me without turning up her nose ; and
the signor behaved as if I were not a
member of the company ; he never even
looked at me.

About ten days after, we gave our last
performance at New Orleans. There was
an immense crowd. I was to do a new
feat taught me by Ben Toddles. I swung
up into the air on my rope, reached the
trapeze, poised on it a moment, gave a
turn and began to swing, when suddenly
one of the ropes gave way. A terrible

shriek burst from my lips in spite of me,
but it was drowned in the far more awful
shriek of the spectators. By God's mercy
I had firm hold of the stick, and though
my two hands slid, they caught on the
noose of the severed rope. It had given
way up near the ceiling.

I hung suspended by both hands for a
second or two, and then feeling the other
rope hanging beneath me I twisted my leg
round it and slipped to the ground without
injury, amidst frantic shouts of applause
and gratification. I was as white as a
sheet, and trembling with emotion, but I
can now remember that, as I touched the
ground, one of the first things I saw was
the face of Signor Salvolio, dark and
scowling. When I had changed my dress
and came out to go home, Ben Toddles
was waiting for me.

Look out, Miss Lisa," he said.

There's some one got a spite agen you.

That rope was cut — and it's queer

too, for Signor Salvolio had the trapeze
specially examined this morning for
safety."

I looked at him aghast. It was impossible
for me to doubt to whom I owed
my accident. This was not the only
time that for similar causes I was exposed
to a similar danger, of which every trapeze
girl and high-rope performer must
be prepared to run the risk.

CHAPTER III

A DARK CHAPTER

When we returned to the Eastern States,
Mr. Lane's company broke up. He had
taken to drink, Salvolio and Celestine to
quarrelling, and many others followed the
example set by these distinguished persons.
Heenan separated in disgust.
Lilian, as I have mentioned, married one
of the jockeys, and I was left in New
York, without an engagement, with some
four hundred dollars in cash, a good wardrobe,
and two brilliant performing costumes,
which I had purchased at the
breaking up of the circus company. The

two Toddles, however, who had saved
some money, and were helped by other
"capitalists," including a Mr. Boganio,
Agent," of New York, of whom more
hereafter, bought up Mr. Lane's menagerie,
and resolved to start a new exhibition
of their own.

I dare say many people wonder where
all the money comes from for all the
show and theatrical ventures which are
started from time to time. In truth, an
enormous sum of money is invested in
such things, and the greater part of it, I
may say, is not remunerative. But there
is a gambling element in it which appeals
to certain natures. In one case the
capital is found by some rich Croesus,
who wishes to have the character of a
patron" of the stage or of sport, or to
play the role of a Don Juan. In another
it is the operation of some smart speculator,

who thinks he sees a short way to
a fortune by exhibiting combinations of
pretty faces and well-turned legs. In
many cases, however, the business is a
business," carried on by shrewd and experienced
men, who know all its ins and
outs, the chances of every venture, the
secret of economizing money and yet
making a great show. Mr. Boganio was
one of these men.

To look at him he was as dry and unromantic
as a banker. His face was
brown, and puckered, and shrewd, his
eye keen, his lips thin. He was beginning
to lose his hair, but the remains of
it were tended with the greatest care.
His face was clean shaven. It was impossible
to see a more keen and yet
inscrutable physiognomy. He was an
Italian, a Jew, a Scotchman, and a Yankee
all in one.

VOL. II. E

Mr. Boganio owned a theatre in New
York, and another in Baltimore ; he
"ran" a music-hall in Chicago, which
paid magnificently ; and had a beer-hall
in the Bowery, exerting no very healthy
influence, I fear, on the local morals and
politics. In fact his ventures, as I afterwards
found out, were not all known to
the public ; and his wealth must have
been immense.

He was a small man, about frye feet
eight, and yet firmly knit, with a good
strong chest and arms and legs. He was
at home with all the ladies of the ballet,
the circus, the tight-rope, the stage, and
yet he frequented the Lotus Club, and
mixed with many gentlemen on the turf
and in the trotting-ring, where he was an
authority and an occasional speculator.

I was presented to Boganio by Ben
Toddles. The clown had come to me

with an offer to make a "star " engagement
with the company. He proposed
to teach me more tricks, and also wished
me to undertake to exhibit in the cage
with Tom the tiger. Mr. Charlemagne
Bunny was to remain as menagerie
master, but he was evidently afraid of
Tom, and Ben Toddles prophetically
guessed that some of these days Tom
would eat up the white-livered beggar,
body and lights."

Though I was not afraid of Tom, I had
my doubts about the infirmities of his
temper, and I positively declined to agree
to exhibit myself in his cage. So Toddles
took me to Boganio, who, as he was
finding the money, hoped that his superior
tact might bring me round.

Mr. Boganio received us in a little
office in Fulton Street, basement, at the
back. It was a funny little place. It

LIBRARY
JBMflSITY 6f^

had a carpet on the floor, a large shut-up
desk, of walnut, a few chairs ; the walls
were decorated with coloured engravings
and photographs of ballet-girls, actresses,
performers, etc., and some racing scenes.
There was a smell of smoke about this
room — or, rather, den. When Mr. Boganio
turned round on his whirling
chair, there was a lighted cigarette in his
fingers. He did not rise. His keen eye
ran over my face and figure as I entered
with exactly the same cool and critical
glance that it would have used to scan
the lines and proportions of a favourite
on the green, or a trotter in a sulky. At
length his eye rested on my face in one
long steady stare, as if he were trying to
magnetize or to subdue me. I looked at
him in return, and as my big black eyes
did not blench, he at length removed his
glance, and with a smile asked me to sit
down .

Now, Miss Lena," he said, " I understand
you accept this engagement, and
I'm bound to say it will be an advantage
to the company in point of looks."

Another long stare, which I returned.

The only difficulty is about some
tiger called Tom. You're the only person,
it seems, who can manage him —
which — puff, puff — shows his taste.
Beauty is like music — eh ? — puff, puff —
has charms to soothe the savage breast —
ha ! ha ! Not surprised he's fond of you.
Ton my word, shouldn't like to see you
too often — eh ? — puff, puff — might fall in
love, you know — at my age dangerous
thing— eh ?—pitff, puff."

I smiled as artistically as I could at
this vulgar address, but I was not then
sharp enough to take up Mr. Boganio
and give him a Roland for his Oliver.

Looked yere, Mister Boganio," put

in Toddles senior, who did not seem to
relish his capitalist's fun, "I tell yon
what I think. Let Charley Bunny go on
with his performance with Tom inside
the cage, but we'll arrange a spectacle for
driving round town, a fairy chariot, with
Miss Lena as fairy — Ulnar and the beast,
yon know — I saw it once at Drury Lane
pantomime — a gal that goes round in a
white dress leading a big lion, you know
but there, it's all the same between a
lion and a tiger, you know — and Miss
Lena shall dress up and hold the beast.
'Ow'llthat do?"

Could you do that, Lena ? " said
Bogariio, addressing me familiarly.

"Yes, Mr. Boganio," I said, with an
emphasis on the " Mr."

That will do," he said, nodding to
Toddles. "What hotel are you staying
at, Miss Lena ? I shall have the pleasure
of calling on you."

I gave the name of my hotel, while
Toddles looked as black as thunder.

When we got out he warned me very
solemnly against Mr. Boganio. As that
gentleman had made no impression on
me, the warning was not of much value.
But so touched was Mr. Toddles with
the necessity of outwitting that clever
old roue that he set about doing it at
once, and in his own way. As soon as
our bargain was signed, he proposed tome
to attend a supper which he said he
meant to give to several of the ladies and
gentlemen of his troupe at a notorious
restaurant in the Bowery. Belying on
his statement, I went innocently enough.
When I arrived no one was there, and
Mr. Toddles had ordered supper. It was
in a public room, and he assured me the
others would come later on. He made
himself excessively agreeable. A bottle

of champagne was brought. I was in
good spirits. I drank, and gave play to
my naturally lively temper. Whether
I drank too much — or the wine was
drugged — I don't know. I lost my consciousness.


*****

A week afterwards, as the only resource
now left to me to preserve character and
self-respect, I married Mr. Ben Toddles.

Chapter IV

TOM CUTS UP NASTY

Thus I had become plain Mrs. Toddles,
though I continued to be known in the
acrobatic world as " Miss Lisa Lena'"
My husband, who, with all his faults, was
an energetic and clever fellow, was a sort
of henchman of Boganio's. He had indeed
been principally employed in Lane's
Circus in looking after Mr. Boganio's
interests as a mortgagee of that property.
His marriage with me, however conformable
with " the proprieties," did not
please his backer at all. Indeed, the
object of my worthy spouse in his nefarious

plot was in his opinion a highly
moral one ! namely, to snatch me out of
Boganio's hands. Mr. Boganio was too
keen not to see this, and he was not a
man to he crossed without having his
revenge. But he gave Ben and me a
splendid supper at Delmonico's. He
congratulated Ben and felicitated me in
the kindest manner, and he presented me
with a bracelet. Ben was delighted.

The old boy ain't a bit put out," he
said to me.

We travelled for two years through the
various States of the Union. It would bea
very unprofitable retrospect for me to
invite the reader to follow our strange
and yet somewhat monotonous life. One
result of my marriage was that Ben
Toddles devoted himself very earnestly
to improving me — in his own line of business
— he knew nothing else — and that

under his tuition I became a famous expert
not only on the trapeze, but in many
gymnastic and acrobatic feats.

It had been arranged that I was to
appear with Tom, the tiger, in our grand
processions. Tom had not lost his liking
to me. When he heard my voice he
testified his delight, and when I spoke to
him in anger he would crouch down at
my feet. Therefore, whenever we entered
a town, I used to head the procession,
dressed in a white robe as Una, and
seated in an immense chariot, with Tom,
chained strongly, lying at my feet. The
car in which we were seated was very
gorgeously decorated. On a high box in
front sat our best driver, a man with six
fingers on each hand, who used to drive
twelve cream-coloured horses. Mr. Wad-dell
was rather a timid man, of a portly
figure, and was always in great terror of

my favourite, Tom. So extreme was his
fear that I had to enter into an engagement
with him that if anything happened
to Tom, or he should show any signs of
ferocity I should give Waddell notice by
saying, " Look out, John ! "

We were once entering the city of
Pittsburgh in Pennsylvania, where we expected
to make a good haul, and all the
resources of the establishment were called
out to make our entry into the city as
magnificent as possible. I was dressed
on that day in a new costume of blue,
with gilt spangles, which showed me off,
I doubt not, to admiration; but Tom,
the tiger, was unused to it, or else was
in a bad temper ; at all events, I noticed
when I mounted the van to take my seat
that he was in a very restless and angry
condition. John Waddell, who always
took a look at him before mounting his

seat, seemed to have some sort of presentiment
that Tom did not mean to
behave like a Christian and a gentleman.

He's kicks to-day, miss," he said.
Now mind, honour bright, if you see
him up to any deviltry you just cry out,
1 Look out, John ! ' and I'll make tracks."

I always had a gilt baton in my hand,
and whenever I held it up Tom used to
fawn and crouch at my feet, to the
intense admiration of the spectators.

Immense crowds were collected to see
us enter the city. We had camped outside
the night before our " grand entry,"
after arriving from Philadelphia by railroad,
and our cortege of horses and
chariots and vans was enormous. A brass
band in a big ornamented van preceded
us, and then came my chariot — "MISS
LISA LENA AND THE FAMOUS
Tiger TOM, Driven BY SIX-fingered

JACK, THE Strongest
MAN IN THE Would."

I took my seat high up in the chariot,
and the tiger, after considerable trouble,
was induced to crouch at my feet. I
held over him my golden baton in sign
of conquest, and one foot was on his
neck. He was, however, far from easy.
Instead of lying quiet with his chin on
his paws, his head was erect and trembling,
his eyes were rolling, his tail was
moving to and fro. My heart went pit-a-pat,
and I watched him narrowly while
I pretended to the crowd to be quite
unconcerned. We were going along and
had reached a point at which Waddell
was turning his string of horses in grand
style round a corner. The crowd shouted.
Suddenly my friend Tom threw up his
head with an angry growl, pitched my
satin-clad foot off his neck, and jumped
up.

"Look out, Tom," I cried out in my
excitement — to the tiger, not to Waddell.
But at the words " Look out " the
strongest man in the world," in mortal
terror, pitched himself off the box head
foremost on his horses' backs, while Tom,
seeing this, and giving a tremendous leap
towards the box, broke his chain. It
was so strong that the check pulled him
down again for a moment. Quick as
lightning I seized the end of the broken
chain. He turned on me and growled.
I hit him with all my might with my
baton. It was only made for show, and
broke in two pieces. A shout of terror
went up from the crowd — " The tiger is
loose!"

I was desperate. I thought nothing of
my life. Seizing the brute by the collar,
I struck him with all my force with my
closed fists, screaming —

"Down, Tom — lie down."

It w r as like the famous encounter
between Miss Bronze and the mastiff. I
dashed my fist repeatedly in his face.

He gave way. He sank down in the
bottom of the car, completely cowed, and
fawned upon me as I stood there, my
hair all down, my dress disarranged,
excited but triumphant. The crowd
shouted their acclamations. It seemed
to be part of a play. In another minute
Charley Bunny came along with another
chain, and after I had hooked it in the
collar, overcome with excitement, I
fainted. My hand was black and blue
and swelled up to double its size. It was
several days before I was able to perform.
Nothing would ever induce Waddell
again to drive twelve horses with a tiger
behind him, so that this feature of our
processions was given up.

But I would rather have run the risk
of riding with Tom till doomsday than
have had anything to do with Mr. Cyril
Boganio.

Eongh and wild and strange, indeed,
was the life we sometimes led. We
penetrated the Far "West ; we crossed the
continent and exhibited in San Francisco ;
we stopped to amuse the Mormons. Atone
time I was nearly killed in a railway
collision. Two trains crossing at the
level ran into each other. I was sitting
with a Miss Smith— " Marie Etoile "— in
the end seat of one of the carriages
The other train cut into the corner of the
carriage, killed poor Marie at my side,
and left me almost unhurt. We came in
contact with the roughest people, and to
keep myself from insult I was obliged to
buy and carry a revolver.

Once we were travelling on an .

II. F

railway, and early in the morning stopped
for a few minutes at a small depot. I
don't know what made me get up and
look out of the window in the cold grey
morning. I saw a straggling town, with
a couple of churches, a number of wooden
houses, and about a hundred yards from
the depot down the line was a wretched
hotel. I stepped out on the platform of
the car, and noticed a man walking down
the line from the hotel towards the cars.
He seemed in a hurry, and after him
came straggling a little bunch of men,
about half a dozen. The man did not
look round, but I fancy he knew the crowd
were all following in a stern silence. He
had arrived within fifty feet or so of the
train, and I caught sight of his face. I
shall never forget it. It was white and
ghastly. His right hand was in his
trousers' pocket. I glanced up the line

at his pursuers. I saw that one and all
carried revolvers. They had hastened
their steps when within a few paces of
him. Still he did not turn round.
Suddenly he made a quick step forward
as if to run, and the man nearest him
instantly fired his revolver. The bullet
went in at at his hack between the
shoulder-blades. He stumbled forward,
and running up they all discharged their
revolvers into his body. Then, coolly
wiping the smoking weapons on their
coat-sleeves, they silently walked back to
the hotel.

The conductor of the cars ran out on
the platform and glanced down the line.

"Good God," I said, "they've shot
him ! What has he done ? ' '

Oh ! " he said, rolling in his cheek a
lump of gum he was chewing, " I guess
he's been cheating' at poker. Reckon

they've done the soh pretty clean — he's
gone to kingdom come. All aboard ! " —
and the train started off without any
further excitement.

The effect of these scenes and experiences
upon my mind I can still, in some
degree, estimate. Unquestionably I was
roughened and hardened. The sights of
which I was obliged at times to be a
witness, of brutal quarrelling and vulgar
debauch, at length became so familiar
that they did not produce a healthy
shock either to my nerves or my sights of
propriety. While I kept aloof from
degrading companionship and low intrigues,
my morale was consciously
lessened. And, unhappily for me, I had
a husband to whom the first ideas of
religion and morality were unknown, and
who, ignorant of anything but his profession,
had an intense hatred of knowledge.

My mind, as I have shown, was
not an inactive one ; I had at least had
some advantages of education, and sought
to improve them. Whenever I could, I
borrowed or bought books. They were
indeed my only solace, except the companionship
of poor Tom Toddles, who
was a gentler fellow than Ben and took
a brotherly interest in me. My husband
was annoyed by my superior knowledge,
although it was useful to him at times in
his accounts and correspondence, and he
used to take my books and throw them
into the fire, or hide them away from me.
One thing strongly possessed me — the
desire to find my mother and my brothers.
I inquired for her all through the West,
but no trace could be found. As for the
boys, they had disappeared. It became
a monomania with me to seek out these
lost relations. I spent money in advertising

; I took journeys; my heart yearned
for some one who was of my own flesh
and blood, who would love me with a
pure love and for my own sake: The
sort of friendship one had with the
women with whom one performed was
hardly endurable. My husband had
shown me how he regarded me by his
first and subsequent treatment of me.
His brother showed a sort of dog's
affection for me, which I appreciated;
but there was a hunger in my heart I
could not satisfy. It was as if a coarse
and brutal hand had written some foul
legend of monkish times over the fine,
fair characters of some purer and nobler
composition. I believe such a manuscript
is called a palimpsest. It is only
with care that the rude stuff above can
be cleared away and the effaced characters
beneath be restored to sight ; and I

longed for the hand that should come*
and wipe away the evil and "bring up forme
once more some of the purer and
holier ideals that had so long been hidden
beneath. I dreamed of my mother. I
lay awake and thought of her. I longed
to clasp her in my arms. I wept again
and again, when my efforts to find her
were unfruitful. I prayed God to bring
her back to me or to take me to her,
for life with me now had ceased to have
ambitions : there seemed to lie before
me nothing but an everlasting grind of
perilous performance, an artificial excitement
and reaction ; and, more horrible
than all, I was shut out by my profession
from all Christian and decent society,
and I must seek for my pleasures and
amusements in the coulisses of theatres
and exhibitions, and the resorts of profligacy
and debauch. You may think ita

strange, almost absurd thing to say, but
it is nevertheless true, that sometimes
during that period, which lasted for
nearly four years, I have sat upon my
bar high up in the air and glanced
sorrowfully round on the audience, looking,
as I ever looked, for my mother's
face, and then I have longed to launch
myself off into the air and die, and my
heart has cried out in its bitterness — " Oh
that I had things like a dove ! then hould
I fly aivay and be at rest"

Chapter V

ME. Bagnio COMES OUT OF HIS SHELL

On our final arrival at New York, the affairs
of Mr. Ben Toddles and the Grand Exhibition
had to be wound up. There had
been heavy losses, which Mr. Boganio
charged upon my husband's mismanagement,
and he threatened him with a lawsuit.
We had little money, no credit ; it
became necessary for me to take an engagement.
I found one with the proprietor
of a large saloon in the Bowery.
The engagement was at eighty dollars a
week.

To my other feats we had lately added

what is called a " sensational " one, of a
novel kind. It has been found by experiment
that the human jaw will, with
proper appliances, sustain an immense
weight. By taking into the mouth a tag
of leather or india-rubber, and holding it
in a peculiar way, so as to throw the
strain on the bones of the jaw and not on
the teeth, a very heavy pressure may be
borne, especially if it is carefully poised.
As I hung head downwards with my knees
bent over the trapeze — a position, I own,
neither consistent with nature or decency
it occurred to Ben Toddles that I
might add to the risk and attraction of
the performance by holding a heavy
body in my mouth. He invented
a mouth-piece, and we tried various
weights. In Chicago I held up a barrel
of beer, in St. Louis a small cannon
Toddles's ingenuity led him to conceive

the design of allowing me to carry him.
I held the tag in my mouth attached to
a trapeze, from which he hung, and on
which he performed several easy feats.
This was done at a height of thirty feet
from the ground, and created an immense
sensation. People rushed to the Bowery
to watch with throbbing hearts for the
moment, sure to arrive, they thought,
when Ben Toddles would prove too much
for my pretty mouth, pull my jaws out,
and be killed himself.

Since then many others have done
similar feats. There is a coloured girl
who, hanging head downwards, holds a
good-sized cannon in her mouth while it
is fired off. A clever friend of mine was
performing a similar feat in London,
when, the tag being wrongly adjusted,
the enormous weight dragged it out of
her mouth, pulling all her teeth with it.

The brave little woman never uttered a
cry, she turned and dropped gracefully
from the trapeze, clapped her hand on
her mouth, and bowing to the audience
left the scene.

No sooner had this performance become
a success than all the jeunesse donee of
New York began to frequent the saloon
where I was performing. Bouquets were
showered on me, and billets-doux reached
me praying for the favour of an interview,
and sometimes containing declarations of
the warmest character. My husband was
of rather a cynical disposition, and as I
hardly ever passed an hour without the
presence of himself or his brother, he
never took the trouble even to read these
communications. Tom and I used to
peruse them and laugh over them ; and
my room looked like a flower market,
with bouquets stuck in jugs, tumblers,

decanters, and basins. It is impossible for
any actress or performer, whether ugly or
pretty, to avoid the penalty of success.
These tributes come from no single class.
It is not only the rich spendthrift, the
blase prince, or lord or count, the man
about town, but sometimes staid merchants,
wealthy men of business, clever
authors, and brilliant diplomatists, who
are to be found offering their homage to
the talented or handsome artiste. I had
to drive to and from my hotel in a hack,
and Tom invariably accompanied me to
prevent my admirers from mobbing me at
the exit from the saloon or at the door of
the hotel. We gave strict orders that no
cards were to be brought up to me, and
no visitors admitted except my lady
friends.

There was one of my admirers, however,
who excited in us some curiosity. Every

night for two weeks a magnificent bouquet
was brought in by a servant, and
handed to me on the stage, when I was
called out a second time for an ovation
with vociferous shouts of applause. There
was no name, no billet-doux, and the
servant vanished as soon as his duty was
performed. The flowers were very costly.
Naturally, a girl of simple education like
mine felt flattered by all this adulation,
and the mystery of these bouquets
awakened more interest than all the
others put together. On the eleventh
day, the centre of the bouquet disclosed
a small parcel in laced paper. This parcel
contained a beautiful diamond bracelet.
Tom did not like it, I could see, but Ben
when he saw it said, coarsely enough —

"He's a fool, whoever he is, but

it's money. I should keep it."

"But, shall I wear it ? "

"Why not? We shall take care lie
doesn't come to see you. You might as
well please him as not."

I feel this must shock my reader, as it
now makes me blush with shame to recall
it. He or she must remember that it is
real life and not romance, human nature
as it is, and not as it might or should be,
that I am depicting.

The next night I wore the bracelet.
We all looked sharply round to see
whether any one of the tenants of the
boxes exhibited any special interest, but
no one gave any sign. The dreary old
gentleman who had offered to place a
fortune at my disposal sat as usual in a
box by himself, with a bouquet ready to
throw down on the stage, — his trembling-hand
holding up a big pair of glasses.
The enthusiastic group of young bloods
from Delmonico's were in the best box

with a heap of flowers to be showered
down upon rae. The pale-faced editor of
the New York Trumpet sat at a table as
close to the stage as he could get and
watched my every movement, but clearly
he was not a man to spend thirty or forty
dollars a day in flowers. We were all
mystified.

We were staying at the Union Hotel

in Street, much frequented by

artistes, and kept in European style. In
America, " European style" means, except
at the celebrated Brevoort House,
bad accommodation and high charges. I
may be forgiven a hasty sketch of the
coffee-room of the Union Hotel. It was
an amusing scene to an observant person.

From one to four o'clock in the middle
of the day, or about the same hours in
the night, the room would be filled with
a crowd noisily conversing in a bewildering

polyglot. There would be seen the
little thin French ballet-master of the
Bowery Theatre sitting at table with the
"star," Bertie, she in slip-shod slippers
with high heels, dirty stockings running
down in crumples over her instep, a
frowsy head of hair, surmounted by an
old French hat, talking in a harsh, disagreeable
voice that sounded like that of
a peacock with a cold. There were Herr
Muff, the big third-class German baritone,
and Coblenski, the Polish violinist, a tall,
shrivelled man, in a shabby suit, his long
black hair growing as it were off his
high, narrow forehead and down over
his shoulders, discussing with Monsieur
Grigot, a French violoncellist, the score
of one of Strauss' new waltzes, and every
now and then breaking out with snatches
of the air. There would be the two
Gorilla brothers, a fine young man with

YOL. II. G

a boy, who did together some very clever
and surprising feats : Americans and fine
fellows too, always well dressed, intelligent,
and ever keeping up a high
character. In the corner would tower
the vast form of Chang, a Chinese giant,
trying to make a meal out of American
cooking. Near by, at a round table, you
might see a lot of brown-faced, dark-haired
fellows, eating and gesticulating
with amazing liveliness, though not with
much noise, a band of the Tzigane or
Gipsy players from Hungary, whose
strange wild music stirs the heart with a
melancholy rapture. There also would
be the Tyrolese singers, a father and
mother, two girls and two youths, a
quiet, respectable family, who earned an
honest living. And there was Mr. Eaten
with his four children, all Cockney to the
back-bone, who came out on the stage

in pretty costumes and played tunes on
silver trumpets. There were bell-ringers,
tumbler-players, drummers, the " musical
Cooks," who performed airs like the
Carnival che Venise on dinner-plates,
copper-pans, and metal spoons — and Mr.
Ticteczek the Hungarian gentleman who
swallowed a knife or a bottle and sang a
comic song with these inconveniences
down his throat — or somewhere else
about him; a strange medley, representatives
of histrionic and musical and
acrobatic arts — the men and women who
undertook to make people laugh and
forget their cares in that excitation which
is called " amusement."

At the hotel, then, one day, sitting in
my room on the third floor, in a gay
dishabille, for I had a fancy for dress,
the waiter came to announce a lady.
Supposing it was some artiste friend, I

told him to show her in, and a tall person
entered, dressed in a handsome costume,
with a hat, and a black " fall " down over
her face, showing nothing but a delicate
white chin, well-turned. She bowed, I
thought, a little awkwardly. I rose and
returned the courtesy, seeing at once it
was a stranger. The waiter had instantly
left the room. Both Ben and Tom had
gone away early that morning to Hoboken,
where they had received the offer of an
engagement.

I beg pardon," I said, " I think there
is some mistake."

Oh no ! " exclaimed the lady, laughing,
and speaking in a deep voice which
startled me. " There is no mistake
whatever — ha ! ha ! Miss Lisa Lena,
how do you do ? "

The veil was lifted, and I saw before
me a face I instantly recognized as that

of a young gentleman, a constant frequenter
of the best box, a handsome
fellow with a face as smooth as a baby's.

What are you doing here, sir ? "
I exclaimed in terror. " Go away, for
Heaven's sake ! If Mr. Toddles knows
this you will be killed."

I'll run the risk of that," cried Mr.
Yanderteufel, a scion of one of the oldest
families in New York. "I made a bet
of a thousand dollars I would see you in
your own room, and I've won it. There
it is for you," and he threw a bundle of
bills on the table. " How do I look in
my sister's clothes, eh? " he said, strutting
up and down the room and swinging the
train about in a very clever and amusing
manner. Angry as I felt, I could not
help laughing at the boy, for boy he was.

"You look like a fool, sir!" I at
length said. " Here, take your money

and go away. It is an insult to come
into a lady's room without leave."

Hem," he retorted, saucily. " I have
never been told so before."

Well, sir, please to take the bills
away — I won't take them — I can do
nothing with them. May I ask are you
the gentleman who has sent me the
bouquets and the bracelet ? "

Bouquets ? — yes. There is one of
mine I see in that big jug. But I never
sent you a bracelet — is there some one
else in the field?"

There is no one in the field, sir ; and
now I must ask you to get off the field
as soon as you can," and I touched the
button of the electric bell to summon
the waiter.

Don't trouble about that," he said,
advancing towards me. " The bell won't
be answered."

Won't be answered ? " I cried, jumping
behind the table. " It doesn't
matter, sir, I can protect myself; I'm a
Southern girl; " and I whipped a silver-plated
revolver out of my pocket and
pointed it at him.

Good God ! " he cried, turning deadly
pale. " Don't shoot ! "

"I will if you don't walnut instantly ,"
I cried, " taking the money with you."

He caught up the money and had
turned towards the door in too great
agitation to think of adjusting the fall,
when the door opened quietly aud deliberately,
and Mr. Boganio stood on the
threshold.

His dark, clean-cut features scarcely
moved, but his black eyes flashed fire ashe
looked at my visitor and then at me.
The revolver was still in my hand and
pointed towards the young man.

What ! " lie said, " Mr. Vanderteufel !
What does this mean ? "

The young man's face reddened, but
the presence of a third person braced him
up again.

"Yes — Mr. Boganio — rehearsing for a
tragedy. The denouement is postponed.
I have won a thousand dollars."

And insulted a lady."

"I rather like that from you, Boganio,"
said young Mr. Vanderteufel. "What
are you doing here ? "

"Business," replied Mr. Boganio, with
gravity. "Perhaps, Miss Lisa, after the
agitating interview you have just had,
you would prefer my postponing the
business I came upon ? "

He said this with an air of studied
deference and politeness.

I had laid the revolver on the table.
Mr. Boganio's appearance startled meas

he was on such bad terms with Ben ;
but, on the other hand, any one's presence
at the moment was a relief ; so I said —

I can see you now, sir."

Mr. Boganio gravely stepped out of the
doorway to make room for the exit of
Mr. Yanderteufel.

Mr. Fred," he said quietly, " had you
not better put your veil on ? The get-up
is admirable — but no one can mistake
your face, and the house is full of your
friends. I congratulate you on winning
your bet, but you cannot say you have
had a perfect success."

Look here, Boganio," said Wanders
"if you say another word about
this, I'll thrash you to death — you infernal
Jew. Good morning, miss," he said,
turning to me. "I have hired the next
room, where I shall proceed to change
my dress. You may need protection

from this ' man of business,' in which
case you have only to call out. I shall
be at hand."

Mr. Boganio's face turned a greenish-yellow,
but he was a man who always
restrained himself.

I shall have an opportunity of
punishing your insults another time,
young man, if you are the son of a
millionaire."

Take it when you get it ! " cried the
other with an easy air. " If you wish it,
I can pay off all those bills tomorrow."

Boganio made no reply, but again
stepping through the door, he bowed tome
with the same courteous deference,
and said in a calm voice —

May I come in, madame, or would
you prefer my awaiting you in the
parlour ? "

You may come in, sir," I said, " since

you say it is a matter of business; but
you know that Ben has all that in his
own hands."

I was on one side of the table, Mr.
Boganio sat down on the other side. I
noticed that he was dressed even more
carefully than usual. A camellia was
in his button-hole, a diamond pin in his
black satin cravat, and his small hands
were covered with lavender gloves, over
which on the little finger of the left hand
sparkled a large diamond ring.

Madame," he said, in a gentle voice,
and looking across the table at me with a
glance of friendly sympathy " it would be
perhaps more to your and his advantage
if Mr. Ben Toddles did not attend to his
own affairs ; they might succeed better
in your hands."

I know nothing about business, Mi
Boganio, and I don't want to know."

Unconsciously at this moment my fingers
wandered on the table to play with the
handle of the revolver.

Good heavens ! madame," said he
with a shudder, " let us put that thing
out of sight. It is not a thing for a
woman to use."

With a quick movement he laid his
hand on it, and before I could prevent
him, took it up and put it in his breast
pocket. I confess I was frightened when
I saw the malicious air of triumph which
gleamed in his coal-black eyes as he
secured it.

What did you do that for ? " I cried,
starting up. " Remember Mr. Wanders
is in the next room."

Ah! yes," said Mr. Boganio, coolly;
"it is well that you reminded me of it.
We will secure ourselves against intrusion."
And again, with a quick, easy,

determined movement, he glided to the
door and locked it. " Now, Miss Lisa, we
can discuss matters without any fear of
interruption."

He calmly sat down again.

I have nothing whatever to discuss
with you, sir. Be good enough to see
Mr. Toddles. I insist on your opening
the door."

It is of no use, Mrs. Toddles, if you
wish me to call you so," he said with a
sneer. " Ben Toddles is in the Tombs."

"In the Tombs?" I exclaimed with
a piercing voice. " What does this
mean?"

Calm yourself, my dear. It is all
right. He will, I hope, soon be liberated.
But you see your husband is an English
subject, and therefore here a foreigner.
He is charged with fraudulent misappropriation
in the accounts of my menagerie,

and his brother Tom is accused of complicity,
so that it has been necessary, in
order to prevent them from escaping, to
apply to a judge to commit them until
the case comes on for trial, and that will
be when I am ready."

"Good heavens!" I cried, the tears
coming into my eyes as I started from
my seat, " are the laws of New York so
barbarous ? I will go to the prison at
once ! What am I to do ? Poor Tom ! "

Hem ! — and poor Ben, I should say,
madame," said Mr. Boganio with a slight
sarcasm in his tone. "Pray calm yourself
and be seated. You can do nothing.
You cannot even see them."

"It is you that have done this!" I
cried in a loud voice, " thief and coward
that you are ; and you come here to take
advantage of their absence."

"You will be the better for keeping

quiet," said Mr. Boganio in a menacing
tone, " and not calling me any hard
names. I am disposed to be your friend
if you will let me. No one can help you
but me. Will you sit down quietly and
listen to what I have to say ? After that
you can do as you please."

I saw no harm in at least sitting down
and ascertaining what his object was, and
I now braced myself up firmly to hear
him out, at the same time resolving in my
own mind to call out loudly for my
gallant young neighbour in case of need.
I thought that the young fool was more
likely to be honest and generous than this
dry, shrewd man of business, with a dandy
air and black eyes, and cool, calculating
manner.

"Lisa," said Mr. Boganio, assuming a
gentler tone, "you are very young and
inexperienced. Such accidents will

happen to artistes, and you cannot always
expect to have your husband beside you.
You should look out for yourself — you are
the better man of the two."

Excuse rae," I replied, "but I do not
see what that has to do with the ' business
' you came to speak about."

"Well," he said, "a girl like you,
handsome, successful, courted " — he
glanced round at the bouquets — " of
course does not expect always to remain
a simple artiste. You have a future
before you, possibly a distinguished one."

I don't understand you."

You can have half New York at your
feet, and then half London, and half
Paris, and half Vienna. You don't mean
to go on simply hanging from a trapeze
for eighty dollars a week when you might
be riding in a carriage, dressed in the
handsomest costumes of the day and

covered with jewels. I see already," he
said, his eyes twinkling, " that you wear
a very handsome bracelet."

It was on my arm. I was fool enough
to wear it even in the mornings. I could
not help blushing, remembering that I
did not know from whom it came.

You wear it," he said, " without
knowing what friend sent it to you. Shall
I tell you frankly that it came from me,
and never was my homage to a woman
more loyal and hearty ? "

He made a sort of gallant bow, sitting
in his chair, and moving his stick and hat
one in each hand.

What ! you, Mr. Boganio ! Well,
there it is ; " and I tore off the bracelet
and threw it across the table. "I did
not wish," I said, " to keep it before, and
certainly I would never have put it on my
arm had I known where it came from."

VOL. II. H

Mr. Boganio bit his lip. His face
became pale with anger.

Mrs. Toddles' he said, "I regret to
be obliged to tell you that you are a fool
in your own interests. And let me tell
you something else : you are entirely in
my power. What is the use of being so
ill-natured?"

I was afraid these words menaced some
violence, and I rose and leaned against
the wall of the room where young Yang
was waiting.

Oh ! " said Mr. Boganio, " you need
not be afraid. I am not going to injure
you. You will have to come by and by to
sue me. I don't take the trouble to sue
you."

"What do you mean, sir?" I exclaimed.


I mean," he answered, " that you are
powerless. You will not be so proud

next week or the week after. Your husband's
liberation depends upon me, and
you cannot perform without him."

I started. The whole of his diabolical
plot was clear before me. I seemed to
be getting into a vice from which I could
not escape.

You have handed me back one
valuable asset," said he, taking the
bracelet in his gloved hand and putting
it in Iris pocket. " Now, I will tell you
something else : you are my employee."

Yours ! I am engaged at Mr. Brewer's
Saloon."

I am Mr. Breher — or Mr. Breher is
Mr. Boganio, or is not Mr. Boganio, as
it suits me. You will get no more money
from Mr. Breher until you come to
reason. You must pay the bill at this
hotel, and leave it immediately."

I shall stay here as long as I like, sir."

Excuse me, madam; the hotel belongs
to me. Did you not wonder at
the ease with which I was admitted herein
spite of your orders."

Get away ! " I cried out ; "you area
villain ! I will expose you. Get out
of my sight ! "

My loud, passionate voice penetrated
into the next room. A door opened, a
hand was on the lock of my door, and
Mr. Vanderteufel's voice shouted —

Open the door; let me in, or I will
break it down."

Boganio's face became livid. He
clenched his teeth together, and hissing
out a curse, he drew the revolver from
his pocket, poised it in his hand a
moment, as if undecided, and then threw
it on the bed.

"Take my advice," he said, in a low
voice; "say nothing, and think better

of it. I give you till tomorrow morning
to stay here, and to decide whether you
will rescue your friends from prison or go
there yourself."

He quietly walked to the door, turned
the key, and Mr. Vanderteufel rushed
into the room in his ordinary costume.

Well, sir ! " cried Mr. Boganio, eyeing
him sarcastically, " what do you
mean by intruding here again ? "

"I have 'intruded,' as you call it, to
protect a poor girl from an infamous
scoundrel!" said the young man hotly.
You cried out, Miss Lena ; has he insulted
you? I am ready to thrash him
on the spot."

"For any sake no ! " I cried, rushing
forward. " What shall I do ? " I wrung
my hands, and covering my face with
them, burst into tears. " I cannot bear
this any longer ; please be quiet and
leave me."

I am not afraid of him," said Mr.
Boganio. " Remember what I have said
to you, madam. I wish you good
morning."

He went out into the passage. I was
sobbing. Young Vanderteufel, a tall,
elegantly dressed man, looked infinitely
distressed.

"I entreat you, miss," he said — he did
not know I was married — " don't cry like
that. I implore you to forgive me ! I
have perhaps been the cause of this
trouble. I wouldn't have done it for
fifty thousand dollars, had I foreseen this.
Pray, pardon me, and tell me whether I
can do anything to help you. I know
Boganio too well."

He took my hand kindly and led me
to a chair, into which I sank, still sobbing.
The door remained open, but he
spoke in a low voice. If Boganio were
waiting outside, he could not hear.

Believe me," said Vanderteufel, "I
will make every reparation in my power.
I give you my word of honour, you
may trust me. Will you confide to me
what is the matter ? "

His tone was so earnest and his sorrow
so evident that at length I became calmer
and looked at him. He stood respectfully
waiting until I could command myself
sufficiently to speak.

Boganio has put my husband and
brother-in-law in the Tombs."

Your husband ? "

Yes ; the man who performs with
me."

You are married ? "

"Yes."

Madam, again I entreat you to forgive
me my folly and wickedness. I
assure you I had no idea of it. I am
not a saint, as you may suppose, neither

am I so wicked as you might think. Tell
me the whole story. I am rich, and I
may help your hush and."

I told him everything that had passed
with Boganio.

Well," he said, " I always thought he
was a double-dyed scoundrel — a regular
Mephistopheles ; hut I never conceived
of anything so had as this. We must immediately
retain a sharp lawyer. I think
I know of one who will he a match even
for Boganio, and I will charge myself
with employing horn. Meantime, you
ought to leave this hotel to-day, and you
must go where he cannot find you. I
advise you to go out well dressed, leaving
your things locked up. The bill shall be
paid this afternoon. I will drive straight
to the lawyer's, and will meet you at
Delmonico's — nay, stay ! there will be
too many people who know you there.

Cross over to Jersey City, and go to the
Washington Hotel, and secure yourself
good rooms."

My dear sir, I cannot consent to give
you this trouble."

Not a word. This you must permit
me to do. I ask it as a favour. I offer it
as a very poor reparation. You are as
safe with me, on my honour, as you would
be with your own brother. If you have
any difficulty in getting off from this
hotel send me a note to 260, Madison
Avenue, and I will send the lawyer hereto
bring you away."

I saw no alternative to accepting this
kindness from the penitent young gentleman.
I thanked him warmly. He took
my hand, and his eyes looked into mine.

Am I forgiven ? "

"Yes."

Then we are friends, and you shall

never have cause to complain of the
friendship."

He went away. Mr. Boganio had left
the hotel. With feverish haste I packed
my things — secured about my person
whatever valuables I had, selected and put
on my prettiest dress, and slipping the
revolver into my pocket, I walked out of
the hotel as if I were going shopping.
The key of my room was in my pocket.

"I beg pardon, madame," said the
clerk, " but will you leave the key of
your room ? ' '

"What for, sir?"

Well, the manager wishes it. You
see," he added maliciously, " the two
Mister Toddles have changed their hotel,
and we must protect ourselves, madame.
Very sorry. Guess it's a mistake. They
won't be in long ; but Mr. Boganio ain't
a man to let folks off easy."

He performed the little operation which
Americans call " sickening."

I turned from him with disgust. Outside
the door stood Mr. Charlemagne
Bunny, looking very seedy, very agitated,
and very pale.

He came up to me.

"Oh! Mrs. Toddles," he said with
real feeling in his rough voice, "is it
true that the two poor boys is in quod ? "

I nodded sadly.

My, my ! " he said, wringing his big
brown hands. "Poor Tom, poor Ben;
what are you going to do, Lisa ? Can
I help you ? Let me do something."

Go and let Tiger Tom loose at Mr.
Boganio," I said. " He has done it all."

By Jove, yes ! The infernal rascal.
I'd do it in a minute if I could catch
him within range of the cage. You
know we are at Barnum's now. He

bought up all poor Ben's animals. Where
are you going dressed so gay, eh ? "

Bunny really seemed a little dashed to
see my appearance, when circumstances
were what they were. It struck me that
Bunny might be of some use to me.

Hist ! " he whispered, " there's the
manager. This is Boganio's hotel, you
know. Let us walk on together."

We went towards Broadway, the manager
looking after us very sharply.

Oh ! Charley," I said, " will you help
me ? I am in terrible distress, and I
want to get away where these people
cannot find me."

"Help you? Of course I will. Here,
just take my arm. No, by Jove ! that
won't do ; I'm too seedy-looking for such
a swell as you. Look here, where do
you want to go to ? "

Jersey City."

"Well, I'll drop behind and see you
aren't followed. If you are, I'll pass you
quickly and call a carriage, and wait for
you at a corner. You just jump in, and
we'll drive off as fast as we can."

Bunny soon went past me at a swingeing
pace, muttering as he passed, " One
of the fellows from the hotel is after us ;
keep straight on till you see the carriage
round a corner, and then cut for it."

Bunny's manoeuvre succeeded. He
had the carriage drawn up two or three
blocks farther on, with the door open.
The instant I saw it I ran and jumped
in ; he followed and shut the door, and
the Jehu drove off at a rattling pace,
swinging us round corners, and making
so many turns that it was hopeless for
any one to follow us. Before three o'clock
we were at the Washington Hotel, Jersey
City, where Bunny took a bachelor's
room at the top, as my henchman.

Chapter YI

A Pretty LODGING

Me. Yandeeteufel, accompanied by Mr.
Luke Fibbb, a well-known practitioner in
bard cases in New York, were the
genius of the people makes hard cases
very common ones, was true to his rendezvous.
Mr. Luke Fibbb was like a galvanized
skeleton. He was thin, yellow,
wrinkled, yet full of energy. He was
tall, with large hands and feet. It was
curious to watch him. His elbows jerked
out, his knee bones jerked out, his ringers
jerked out, his feet jerked out ; his chin
would come forward with a jump, his

jaws would come together with a snap ;
his very hair seemed to be filled with
electricity and to rise up and return
mysteriously to the cranium only for a
second or two's repose, for it would fly out
again in the wildest manner if a single
word were said to contradict Mr. Luke
Fibbb's ceaseless flow of statement. In
fact, nervous energy and mercurial vivacity
were embodied in this extraordinary
lawyer.

Now," he said, " my young friend
here has told me all about you — darned
pretty girl you are, too — all mischiefs,
every one of you — married woman, I
believe ? — Mrs. Toddles, alias Lisa Lena,
nee — hum, nee what ? "

Nay! why, yes," I exclaimed.

Vanderteufel and the lawyer laughed
heartily.

Nee is French, miss — ma'am, I mean.

No, better say l miss ' as long as your
respected mate is in the Tombs, eli ? eli ?
Do you take — ha ! ha ! — what was I saying
? Oh yes, nee means born. Now I
reckon you were born — with some name,
perhaps ? "

Oh yes ; my father's name was
Mercer. I went by my mother's name,
Bellamy."

Hem, hem ! " said Mr. Fibbb, glancing
with a wink at young Vanderteufel.
Little romance here — father's name
Mercer — mother's Bellamy — young lady
bears her mother's name ; reckon we'll
not dig any deeper in that sweet potato
field, eh?"

Oh ! " I cried, "they were married,
and he was a Southern officer and killed
in the war. I liked my mother's name
better than the other."

"All right, miss, all right, miss, so be

it. Born in holy wedlock; that's a
pretty term, now, ain't it ; I'll use that ;
identity now complete, nee Mercer, nee
Bellamy, married Toddles — there you
were a fool — commonly known as Miss
Lisa Lena. Now you mustn't be surprised
at anything. Boganio is about,
I reckon, the very shrewdest, derides,
cussedest chap in New York, and there's
only one man can trot the course ahead
of him."

Here Mr. Fibbb threw himself on the
back of the chair with an energy that
threatened to carry it entirely away, and
looked at Vanderteufel and me with his
eyelids partly drawn down over his eyes.
Only a second, and they new open again ;
he darted up, one leg flying out straight
in one direction, his arm in an another,
his hair standing off from his head.

— One man to match him, and

VOL. II. I

you're lucky to have him. Now, miss,
yon just tell me your story, and I will
go from here to the Tombs and interview
your deceased — your entombed — your
suppressed spouse — and will lead the
devil a dance. I owe Boganio one, and
he shall have it hard and hot like a
steam-hammer, or my name ain't Fibbb ! "
Mr. Fibbb, having secured all the particulars,
bolted off to the Tombs, leaving
Mr. Yanderteufel with me. A change
had come over the young man. His
manner to me was gentle and sympathetic.
He behaved with the greatest
courtesy. I told him what I had ventured
to arrange with Bunny, and he
approved it. He promised to see me
again next day, and as he was leaving
laid a pretty little porte-monnaie on the
table. I found, on inspection, that it
contained a thousand dollars. I bethought

me that this was the money he
had won, and I no longer hesitated about
accepting it.

I was advised not to appear in the
streets by daylight, as possibly Mr. Boganio
might commence some suit against
me, and have me arrested, or take me upas
an accomplice of Ben and Tom. After
dark, however, with a heavy heart I went
out with Bunny to take a walk. Stupid
as he was, his company was some comfort.
We entered an ice-cream saloon
and had ordered our ices, when who
should enter and look straight at us but
Mr. Boganio. His face was pale, and
his eyes glowed with an angry expression.
I dropped my veil and nudged
Bunny, who was shovelling ice-cream
into his mouth with perilous energy, and
had not seen him enter. But it was too-late.
Mr. Boganio had recognised me —

indeed, lie had followed us. How he
found out I was in Jersey City I don't
know. He came up to us.

What are you doing here ? " he said,
in a peremptory tone. " You ought to
he at Breher's."

Why," I replied, " you told me yourself
I could not perform without my
husband."

You were hound to go there, though,
and offer to do your work. You have
"broken your contract. I'll have a warrant
out against you tomorrow."

Very well," I said quietly.

Why have you left the hotel ? "

I am not going to answer any questions."


"Look here! " said Bunny, rising and
striking an attitude. " This lady is under
my protection."

Pshaw ! " said Boganio with a sneer ;

mind your own affairs, Mr. Tiger-tamer.
Madame, I insist on your going with me
now. You had better come quietly, and
not create a disturbance. I know where
you are stopping ; and, if you don't choose
to come with me, I shall send a rougher
messenger to take you to a lodging you
won't like."

I was pale with fear, and knew not
what to answer.

Do you hear?" cried Bunny, facing
Boganio, and speaking in a loud, thick
tone ; " will you leave this lady alone ? "

The people in the saloon looked round
at the noise poor Charley made.

Boganio's rage could be seen in his
livid cheek, and the play of his glowing
eyes.

Did I not tell you not to interfere,
you stupid fool?"

In another second Bunny leaned forward,

caught up Mr. Boganio's form in
his big arms, carried him to the door,
and pitched him out into the street. He
hurried back to me, his face pale with
the exertion.

Get away," he said. " Get away as
quick as you can. Cross the ferry, and
drive straight to Mr. Vanderteufel's
address. I will stay here and throw
them off the scent."

I implored Mm to go with me, but he
would not. He declared he would see
it out. He led me to another door of the
saloon, where there was naturally a good
deal of excitement, pushed me into the
street, and went back to answer for himself.
I looked neither to right nor left,
but went swiftly up the street, and turning
a corner chanced upon a hack, which
I immediately engaged and drove to the
boat. Thence, by another carriage, I

got to Mr. Vanderteufel's address at
nearly midnight. He was living in a
handsome suite of rooms of his own, since
his habits and engagements were not
suitable to the regime of his father's
house.

He was at home, and immediately on
receiving my name from his valet came
out in a brilliant dressing-gown and cap,
with a long German pipe in his mouth.

Why," he said, " I have been thinking
of you while I was smoking. What
brings you here ? ' '

His voice and manner showed that he
was not pleased, though I did not at the
time appreciate the reason. The truth
was that he began to think I was, after
all, not so good as I had pretended to be.

He was soon undeceived.

"Good heavens!" he said, when he
heard the story. " Boganio must have

gone mad. I never knew horn to behave
like this before. What on earth is to be
done?"

He walked up and down the pavement.
The driver stood watching him curiously,
and I, looking out of the window, sat ina
state of agitation and suspense. At
last Yanderteufel came back to me and
put his head in at the window, in order
that the cabman might not overhear.

"Miss Lena," he said, "what I am
going to propose to you is the best thing
that occurs to me at this moment. Boganio
is a wonderful man. He has agents
everywhere — in every hotel — I was going
to say in every street. You are hardly
safe, perhaps, even with this driver, but
I will take measures to secure him. Now,
I am going to leave orders with my
housekeeper, Hortense, who is the wife
of my valet, a very respectable woman,

to prepare my rooms for you. While you
are there I will not enter them. You
will see nobody but Hortense. We shall
now drive to an hotel, where I mean to
put up. You will go in with your veil
down and sit in the saloon while I engage
rooms. Meanwhile the cabman will be
sent away. Shortly after, when the coast
is clear, we will walk back here. I will
give you my latch key. Let yourself in,
and make yourself at home. I hope it
will only be an imprisonment of hours,
at most a few days ; but you will be more
comfortable here than in the Tombs.
Now, you see, my repentance is sincere."
I was deeply touched with the young
man's kindness, and with the gentleness
and gravity of his tone. I entreated him
not to trouble himself so much about my
fate ; to let me shift for myself. I even
reminded him that, were it to get out

that I had occupied his rooms, there
would be scandal. There was, however,
something strangely earnest in the way
in which he insisted upon it. At length,
feeling bound by the obligations under
which he had laid me, I gave way.

The programme was carried out. We
drove to the hotel, got rid of the cabman,
and walked back to Madison Avenue.
He left me at the door, and entering,
I found myself in full possession of a
bachelor's apartment, magnificently furnished,
and which had been prepared,
in our absence, as far as possible for the
reception of a lady. The housekeeper,
a woman of about thirty-five or forty
years of age, of an agreeable countenance,
with very white teeth, black hair
and eyes, and a demure manner, received
me. She was French, and had been a
lady's-maid in Paris and New York, in

which latter place she had married Mr.
Yanderteufel's valet, a man named Wentworth.
He was much older than his
wife, respectful and discreet; a man
whose face rarely showed any feeling.

I threw myself on the hed, but could
not sleep. My brain was in a whirl.
The startling events of the past twenty-four
hours, the anxiety, the novelty of
my existing position, were enough to
have upset a stronger mind than mine.
My husband — Tom — poor Charley —
Bunny — Boganio — Vanderteufel — Mr.
Luke Fibbb — followed each other in a mad
dance through the chambers of thought.
At length I felt as if my head would burst.
I could not weep, and I found relief in a
hearty fit of laughter. Again and again
the room re-echoed with my mirth ! It
may have saved me from madness.

My thoughts went out kindly to .

I was certain of his sincerity.
I was not enough of a worldling to appreciate
the peril and the doubtfulness of
the situation which the young gentleman's
kindness had created for horn and
for me. How often have I seen circumstances
prove crimes against the innocent
; the purest motives nullified by the
form and manner of their development !

Hours had passed in incessant movement
of thought and fancy I turned
restlessly about. I got up and walked
the room. I fell on my knees, and wrung
my hands and prayed, At times it
seemed as if my heart must cease to beat,
at others it pulsated with tumultuous
energy. Then I lost consciousness.

In this state I appeared to have been
removed into a vast limitless space. It
is impossible to describe the scene, or the
feeling it inspired of vagueness and awe.

In it came up shadowy forms — now
Boganio, with that dreadful Satanic face
and glance ; Ben Toddles, with his round,
turned-up nose and brown skin; young
Yanderteufel, boyish, handsome, lithe,
and yet supernaturally 'grave. What
these shadows did, how they moved in
and out, I could never after recall. A
moment came when the whole strange
limitless scene vanished, to give place to
a small tableau. I saw as clear as life
young Yanderteufel and my husband face
to face — my husband's full of deadly
passion, Yanderteufel' s proud and pale
and sorrowful. In a moment the young-man's
face was lying on the ground, a
gash was in the forehead, the bright eyes
were dim, the skin was livid, and I saw
Ben Toddles, with features that seemed
to reflect death, looking at me !

I shrieked out — my eyes opened — the

sun was sliming through the windows r
shining on the purple curtains and the
rich carpet and the splendid ornaments of
the room. Hortense entered.

"Did you call, madame ? It is eight
o'clock. Perhaps you would like some
coffee ? "

Chapter Iii

AN END OF IT

At two o'clock in the afternoon Mr
Luke Fibbb was announced. I received
him in the parlour.

He jerked himself in, jerked his hand
out to grasp and wrench mine, jerked his
hat on the table, jerked a chair up close
to mine, and jerked himself into it.

"Well!" he exclaimed, "this is
an Eye-talma romance — nothing less.
Here's a Lisa, a Boganio, a Vanderteufel,
and now a Charlemagne all in a mess
together. Reminds me of the renaissance
period — mixed nationalities. I'll

write a tragedy — no, I guess it would bea
comedy — out of this, and Boganio shall
put it on the stage if he survives the
Royal Mr. Charlemagne's Middle-age way
of throwing fellows about. We shall
beat Boganio now, I bet a thousand,
thanks to Bunny; but Bunny — anything
but a rabbit, by the way, eh ? — ha ! ha !
poor Bunny; where do you think he is
now?"

He jerked his head forward, and peered
into my eyes as he asked the question.

u I hope he is in Jersey City ? "

He's in the Tombs ! "

Bunny in the Tombs ? Oh, when is
this going to end ? I will go too."

"I wouldn't now! I should say you
were pretty comfortable heresy'' said Fibbb,
jerking out of his chair and running
round the room.

He returned.

Bunny is the finest fellow in the
world. He's won your case. Do you
know what he did ? Pitched Boganio on
his head — concussion — brain fever. Will
never be the same man. I've got him
now, miss," he shouted ; " got him at
last ! When he comes to his senses he'll
go to the Tombs — change places with Mr.
Benjamin Toddles, eh ? What do yon
think of that ? "

How have you managed it ? "
Why, among those papers you gave
me was a receipt signed by Boganio for
two thousand dollars. He knew he had
signed it ; but he did not know that he
had handed it to your respected hub along
with some other papers — by mistake, miss
even the devil makes mistakes — and
the blank fool made an affidavit that he
never gave such a receipt and that the
money was never paid. I've traced it —

VOL. II. K

to his bankers — paid in at date — in Ohio
money — it was when your husband was
last in New York — and he had brought it
from Cincinnati. Clear case of perjury,
eh? my Boganio! I've got you, I
reckon, tight as a trivet ! "

And Mr. Fibbb jerked out his arm,
snapped his bony fingers together like a
pair of castanets, and looked as proud as
if he had laid the trap into which Boganio
had fallen.

But Ben and Tom ? " I inquired.

They'll be out to-night — bail found
by a mutual friend — ha ! ha ! — eh ? Nice
rooms these. What a thing it is to be a
millionaire ! "

Then I must go away from here and
meet them. If Boganio is ill, I suppose
I am safe now."

No ! no ! Stop a bit. Whiskey Jim
is his attorney, and you bet if Boganio 's

brain is affected, Jim's ain't. You must
stay where you are, and even your husband
hadn't ought to know. I reckon I'll
square this all up right away with Jim
when I catch him ; but he's on the tightrope
— eh ? — Ha ! ha ! — d'ye see ? — to-day
and maybe for a week, but when he's
finished that performance he'll be glad
enough to let you all off to save his
client. Now I'll skedaddle — don't you
fret — I'll tell your husband — the respected
Toddles — you're quite safe, and
can be produced to order. Well! you're a
pretty girl — and I like you — good bye."
And with a jerk he again wrenched my
hand, and with another jerk opened the
door, shut it with a slam, and disappeared.

Suddenly the door opened again, and
his head jerked in at the end of his
long neck —

Mind — you will hear from me —

personally. Don't stir from here till I
come to fetch you."

I was left alone. Hour after hour
passed. There were plenty of books, but
I was too excited to read. My life had
always been a physically active one. The
restraint was torture. I was like a caged
lioness.

At about nine o'clock in the evening
Hortense came in to me.

Mr. Yanderteufel is at the door,
madam, on the street, and presents his
compliments, and wishes to know how you
are, and whether you are comfortable ? "

Oh ! " I said, innocently. "Why
does he not come up and speak to me ?
I am dying to see some one."

Hortense smiled and shook her head.

No, madam, he will not enter while
you remain here."

Very well, then. I will go to him.

I mast have some exercise and air. Ask
him if I may put on my things and go out
to him in the street."

This Mr. Yanderteufel allowed. I
joyfully dressed, and ran out like a child
from school or from punishment. He
gave me his arm, and we walked up
Madison Avenue.

I thanked him again warmly for his
generosity. He made nothing of it, and
legged me to feel that I had incurred no
obligation. He expressed his gratification
at Mr. Luke Fibbb's news, which he had
heard in the morning. I was still struck
by his strange gravity. At times he said
nothing. When he did speak it was in
low, gentle, thrilling tones. As we
turned homewards he began to talk more
seriously than ever.

"Lisa," he said, — " you will let me call
you so ? — I owe you more than I can ever

repay. I won a wager, but I nearly lost
myself. Now, you have been the means
of performing a miracle — you have recovered
me — I have found myself again.
I came to you that day one of the most
thoughtless and light-hearted roues in
New York. That is over. I have been
led to think of my life, to ask myself
what I was doing, and whither it would
all lead ? My mother was a saint. She
died when I was fifteen. Had she lived
I should perhaps — I don't know — have
been a different man. I promised her on
her death-bed to follow her" — his voice
trembled, and he was deeply affected —
where she was going. . . . What have
I done ? How have I kept my vow ?
Golden days and opportunities have gone
for ever. But I have resolved to change
to break with the past — to try to repair
it by a better future. You are the cause

of this. I shall ever be grateful to you —
and the little I am now doing is but a
poor recompense for a changed life and a
better nature."

This talk was far above me, but I could
appreciate some of its loftiness and purity
of motive. It was a strange thing for a
simple trapezist to listen to, walking
along the silent and unfrequented street
in company with one of the most fashionable
dandies and renowned fast men in
New York.

At the door Mr. Vanderteufel left me,
and went off to his hotel.

The next day passed for me in lonely
and anxious suspense. No note from
Vanderteufel, no visit from Mr. Luke
Fibbb, no means of learning what was
going on. I seized on books and tried
to read ; I stared out of the window
on Madison Avenue ; I went through a

series of exercises ; but I could not turn
my mind from the wildest fancies and
surmises. What was going on? Hortense
came in and talked to me ; but
I did not wish to confide to her my
sorrows, and though she was a lively
little Frenchwomen, we could not find
very much to interest us in common.
She could talk glibly about her employer.

"It is a very pretty gentleman, and so
gentile "

She thought I cared to hear this, and,
for my part, I was so glad to listen to a
human voice that I let her run on.
However, she could not chase away the
clouds that had settled around my heart.
Evening came. I had dined, and was
lounging on a sofa, trying to read the
Mysteries of Paris," when I heard the
brass gong at the door go once — twice —
thrice — sharp, quick, and loud. Then I

heard an exclamation from Wentworth,
followed almost immediately by a scuffling
and by piercing shrieks from Hortense —

"0/ mon pauvre fits I mon pauvre
fls ! ! Mon Dieu ! Mon Dieu ! ' '

I jumped from the sofa, my heart beating,
the sweat starting from my brow, and
a terrible thrill of dread passing through
my whole being. Before I could reach the
door, it opened, and Hortense, wringing
her hands, precipitated herself into the
room, shrieking out, while the tears
streamed from her eyes —

"27 est north"

And she fell senseless upon an easy
chair. Men were following her. They
bore something tenderly in their arms,
covered with a white cloth. Wentworth
silently came before them wringing his
hands, his face pale and stern, and without
a tear. I was rooted to the floor with

horror. I could not speak. The men
did not look at me. One of them was a
young fellow whom I had often seen in
the box with Yanderteufel at the music
hall. They entered the large, magnificent
bedroom. They laid their burden on the
bed. Instinctively I followed them.
Gently they put it down; gently they
lifted the sheet.

Before me was the face of VanderteufeL
Across the smooth white brow was a cruel
gash ; there was pain in the livid, set
features. I fell upon the floor.

Chapter VIII

AN ANGEL

I came to myself in a small, neat room.
I was in a bed, surrounded-with white
dimity curtains ; there were pure white
curtains drawn across the windows, admitting
a subdued and mellow light. A
young woman with a white, close-fitting
cap, and a black dress, on the bosom of
which was a cross, sat working a crochet
needle. She was tall, thin, and pale,
with a noble brow and fine-cut features.
I fancied I had seen her before. Her
white fingers looked transparent. The
ivory purity and delicacy of her skin was

made even more striking by finely pencilled
eyebrows and hair that could only
be called " raven," from its blackness and
glossiness. It had a natural little ripple
in it, and was so strong and thick that
it was with difficulty the small cap confined
it.

My eyes opened upon her as she sat at
the foot of my bed, and for a moment I
gazed at her silent and astonished, while,
apparently engaged in deep thought, she
went on with her work.

At length I moved. Her eyes were
lifted quickly and caught mine. She ran
to me and looked into my face.

Thank God!" she said, clasping
her hands over the crucifix, " you are
better."

Where am I ? How came I here ? "

Hush ! You are in good hands, don't
you see? And now you must save all

your strength. You will learn all by-and-by."


No, no ! " I said, trying to sit up.
I cannot wait — I know now — I remember
— he was dead!"

I burst into tears.

She put her arms round me and
soothed me. Her own eyes were filled
with tears.

Did you love him ? " she said.

A strange feeling came over me. It
seemed as if some unexpressed thing in
my life had suddenly risen within me and
become a reality.

"I would have done," I cried, "if I
might."

Did you ever tell him so ? "

"Never."

He loved you ? "

I do not know. He never told me."

"Oh, thank God!" she said.

And she went on her knees and clasped
her hands, and I could see her lips moving
in prayer.

Retaining her position, she went on —

Then he was sincere — he had repented
— he is safe — he was not guilty of
the sin they accuse him of. Hortense
and Went worth are true, and you —
you are innocent ! Tell me, are you
not?"

A flush came over my face — the Wood
carrying ever, as it were, the record of
my former shame ; but I looked at her
steadily.

Of sin with Albert Vanderteufel I am
innocent as you."

She jumped up and put her arm round
my neck and kissed me.

"It is the first time," she said; "I
would not do it till I heard from your

own lips that you were guiltless, though
I believed it."

Did you love him ? "

Yes," she said. " He was my
brother."

CHAPTEK IX

THE SEQUEL

The mercy of God had taken away my
senses and laid me unconscious for weeks.
The inquest was over. I gradually
learned the facts.

When poor Charley Bunny was taken
to the Tombs, he managed to have an
interview with the two prisoners who had
preceded him. Indeed, Mr. Fibbb, who,
with all his smartness, could not possibly
have foreseen the consequences that
would result from it, had arranged to
bring them together, as Vanderteufel had
engaged him to defend them all. Bunny

told Ben Toddles what had occurred tome,
so far as he knew. His story would
naturally be only what he learned from
me, with his own deductions. He had
found me leaving the Bowery Hotel to
avoid Boganio. I had told him that Mi
Yanderteufel, whose name and appearance
were perfectly well known to most
of the artistes in New York, had taken
care of me ; that he had rescued me
from Boganio, and arranged to meet mein
a hotel in Jersey City. Then he must
have related how Boganio had followed
us, and have given an account of his own
quarrel with Boganio, and of my flight,
at his suggestion, to Vanderteufel's abode-thenceforward
nothing more was known
about me. Mr. Luke Fibbb, for the reason
given to me, disclaimed all knowledge of
my whereabouts. He ought to have considered
that the natural thing for the

VOL. II. L

men to do was to go and ask Vanderteu-
fel where I was. Both, of them were
angry with my benefactor. Their own
knowledge of human nature was narrow
and, unhappily, of one kind. They never
thought of giving him credit for innocent
kindness, and no one who looked at the
circumstances from without ever could,
or ever did, do so. No sooner, then,
were they out of the Tombs, than they
resolved to look up Yanderteufel. They
were let out at seven o'clock in the evening.
The first thing they did was to
satisfy the cravings of hunger and thirst.
They went to a Bowery restaurant and
drank heavily. Ben was quite drunk
when he came away. He had some
design, however. Going along the street
he saw a bundle of American axe-handles
at a doorway. They were made of hard
hickory, and at one end shaped to enter

the eye of the axe. Such instruments
are frequently used in American and
Canadian election riots, and they give
fearful blows. He went in and bought
one. With this under his arm, Ben
Toddles, accompanied by his brother, was
making his way between nine and ten
o'clock up Madison Avenue, when whom
should they meet but Vanderteufel walking
with a friend.

Ben rushed up to him, shaking his stick.

Where is my wife ? where is Lisa ? "

"Why, who are you?" said Wanders


I am her husband, Ben Toddles."

Wel, toddle off, my good fellow; Mr.
Fibbb will tell you where she is in good
time."

You took her away," interposed Tom
Toddles, hoarsely.

"Look here," said Vanderteufel, u my

good friends, I have just got you out of
gaol. Not a hair of the lady's head is
hurt. She is perfectly well, but your
own attorney, Mr. Fibbb, said it was not
advisable for her to show just now."

Will you till me where she is ? " persisted
Ben. He spoke in a menacing tone.

He's drunk," whispered Yanderteu-
fel's friend to him.

That is the very reason I won't tell
him to-night. He will go and kick up a
row. — No," he said to Ben Toddles, "I
won't tell you where she is."

Then take that ! " and the axe handle
wielded by Ben's powerful hand came
down crash on the young man's head,
cutting down his hat and inflicting a
great gash on the beautiful brow. He
sank to the earth with a groan. His
friend supported him.

Don't tell him," he said faintly. But

the two men, like cowards of their class,
were making off.' " Carry me home.
She is there. And Willy, Willy, tell

Eva to take care of her. I — I " he

struggled to add some words, but his
head fell flaccid, and he was dead.

The event had excited the greatest
horror in New York. The papers were
full of it. The grossest scandals were
freely published. It was stated that the
poor fellow had carried me off. Many
good people expressed their sympathy
with Ben Toddles. I was supposed to
be lying at the point of death, and the
morning and evening papers contained
bulletins of my progress. Such is the
enterprise of modern journalism, which
gives to crime, scandal, and gambling
ten columns to one of religion and
morality. Notwithstanding the evidence
given by Wentworth and Hortense of the

manner in which I had been introduced
into the rooms in Madison Avenue, and
their declaration that Vanderteufel had
never entered them while I was there, no
one believed them, and least of all the
family of Vanderteufel — with one exception,
his sister Eva.

Eva Vanderteufel was a young lady of
a religious turn of mind, who had been
brought under the influence of a ritualist
movement begun by an Episcopal minister
in New York. She gave herself up entirely
to religion and good works, and
though she lived with her father, was
attached to a small society of " sisters,"
which had a home in the west-end of the
city. On the day of his death her brother
had come to her. He had spoken to her
earnestly, and with emotion. He told
her that he had resolved to change his
life. But he did not say a single word

about me. Conceive of her pain and
sorrow when she heard of his death, and
that I, who had been found in his rooms,
was lying in a hospital to which they had
sent me. Every one else believed the
deceased to be guilty. She cherished a
faith in his innocence. After questioning
Hortense, she came to me, had me removed
to one of the private rooms in the
hospital, and donning her nursing dress,
devoted herself to my recovery. With
eminent brutality the reporters followed
her into the sick-room. Nauseous headings
appeared in the New York papers.

THE VANDERTEUFEL MURDER.

HIS SISTER NURSES LISA LENA.

LOVELY AND CHIVALROUS DEVOTION OF
A RITUALISTIC SISTER.

SHE BELIEVES IN HIS INNOCENCE.

CHARITY NEVER Falleth.

THE Sick-room— EVA VANDERTEUFEL

ADMINISTERS THE MEDICINE WITH

HER OWN HAND.

New York society, and the gaping
millions of a great republic, interested
themselves in the simple dress of my
nurse and in the cut and fineness of my
night-cap. It became necessary for the
hospital authorities to station policemen
near the door to prevent enterprising
pressmen from forcing themselves into
the room or following Miss Vanderteufel
about the corridors.

I recovered very gradually, and afterwards
Eva Vanderteuful took me down to
Newport, where my convalescence became
complete. She kept silence about my
husband and the events that were occurring.
I was not allowed to see a newspaper.
Ben Toddles, however, had been
committed for murder, and Tom as an
accessory. The trial was postponed to
await my recovery.

Why need I recall the dreadful and

agonizing incidents of that period ? They
are written in lines of fire and blood upon
my memory. To see poor Ben and Tom
in the dock; to stand up and give my
evidence in a breathless court, and by-and-by
to hear the summing-up, and
finally the verdict — it is all too terrible to
tell, and I will not recall it. Ben was
sentenced to imprisonment for life, and
Tom for seven years. Boganio recovered
from his shaking, but he was never the
same man again.

CHAPTER X

FIGTOWN

An outcast, without a hope of return.
Such was my position after the terrible
incident I have related. Believed by
society to have committed the unpardonable
crime — to be found out ; avoided by
those who, a short time before, were
what is called " friends," or who would
eagerly have sought my acquaintance ;
branded by the public as the wife of a
felon; and rejected even by those who
purvey notorieties to the public — I was
indeed a Pariah.

My only friend was Eva Yanderteufel.
Of course there was not much in common

between us. She was a refined and
cultured woman; I only a rough, half-ignorant,
inexperienced girl. Love for
her brother went a long way to make her
endure my companionship. And she
tried to do me good. She encouraged
me to read. She succeeded in implanting
in me a taste for books, which I never
lost. She took a lodging for me in a
farmhouse near a small town in Jersey,,
and there, among simple, quiet people, I
hoped to forget the feverish past — to live
in a cooler and more healthy atmosphere.
I read and improved my mind ; and for a
time again came under religious influences,
but of a new kind. It seemed as
if my life were to be redeemed, though tome
there was but a dreary outlook. What
was to be my future ? Whither could I
turn for the means of an honest life and
the prospect of an untroubled peace ?

Still, these were halcyon days, when
the restless spirit dwelt in calm, and the
turbid torrent of life seemed to have
reached a lake of gentle and passionless
repose.

Happy hours ! Seductive and hollow
tranquillity !

No one in the remote town which Eva
Yanderteufel had chosen knew my history.
The farmer with whom I lived was a
keen and intelligent old Pennsylvanian
of English descent, a fact of which he was
very proud. He thought he had English
ideas because he preserved a few old
traditions of English habits and manners
from his grandparents. One of these
habits was to take a glass of hot grog
every night before going to bed. He
never drank it at any other time, but for
forty years he had continued the custom
which had been that of his father and

grandfather before him. He was an
erect, white-headed old man, having a
keen blue eye, and pleasant features, with
the exception of a prodigiously long chin,
which gave a strong, dogmatic favour
to his countenance. His wife was an
American, from Philadelphia, thin and
prim and quakerish, with two bands of
silver hair smoothed down under a white
cap above the pale oval of her face. She
was cold in manner and nature, while
her husband was warm and a bit of an
enthusiast. They had several children,
of whom only two remained at home : a
son named Algernon, or Algy, and a
daughter who had received, by some odd
freak of her parents, for which I leave
philosophers to account, the high-sounding
name of Juanita. She was commonly
called at home and abroad Hua.

These good people, named Atwood,

had been taken by the services of a
church opened by the ritualists in Fig-town,
and having for its pastor the Ev.
Shuttleworth Massey. Mr. Massey was
a pale little man, active, earnest within
his narrow limits, well-meaning, but
weak as ditch-water. Ritualism, needing
so little of the intellectual, and supplying
so much of the aesthetic, was just the
religion for such a man, and I suppose
that for such men God graciously supplies
it. Mrs. Massey, in capacity, was worth
two of her husband, but she unhappily
could not wear his gown, any more than
his breeches, though she behaved as if
she carried them both. In the Massey
family there was also a son and a
daughter, the former grown up and preparing
to follow his father's steps, and
take to millinery and devotion. There
were some eight or ten families who

attended the little church, besides casuals
and individual members. Mrs. Massey
was a sharp proselytizer, and so was Miss
Caroline Massey, and they kept the
Methodist and Unitarian ministers in the
town quite wide awake and up to their
duty. The mother was regarded by them
as the veritable scarlet woman ; and as if
to maintain the character, she used to
wear a violent red petticoat, which acted
on those estimable ministers as it would
have done upon a bull. There was a
great deal of intercourse between the
At woods and the Masses, and before I
went to live among them I fancy on both
sides there had been nourished a sort of
expectation that the young people would
collogue," and so knit the families in a
close bond of union.

Introduced to this little circle by Miss
Vanderteufel, I was naturally at once

placed on a good footing with the clergyman,
whose church I fancy, which meant
in effect the minister's pocket, received
from time to time gratifying testimonies
of her sympathy in his work. They
called on me after my arrival, invited me
to their house, and were exceedingly
kind ; hut I pleaded affliction as a reason
for retirement, and for a long time,
extending over some months, I never
went out of my room except to an
evening walk alone, or to attend the little
church on Sunday, my veil down, my
dress carefully subdued in tone and
fashion.

My life was apathetic and colourless.
I read, or I sat and thought, or tried to
write to Eva some of my thoughts ; hut I
rarely sent them to her, for I shrank from
bringing my ignorance under her notice.

Her letters, however, and Mr. Massey's

zeal, coming upon me in my then
humour, brought on a religious turn. I
attended the services with great regularity,
kept the fast-days very strictly.,
and as one result among others won the
approval of Mrs. Massey. Finding me
so dull, she tried to rouse me, by bringing,
me into the work of the Dorcas and
Visiting Society, and in this way I was
gradually brought out of my shell, began
to feel anew some of the vigour of life,,
and to look around me and observe what
was going on. Moreover, I recovered my
old coquetry of dress and manner. Old
Mrs. Atwood shook her head at some of
my dresses, and warned me that the heart
set on such trifles could hardly be free-from
a worldly taint. But she was a
sensible woman, and never carried her
criticisms or her remonstrances beyond
a bearable point. Mrs. Massey, of a

VOL. II. M

stronger and more worldly disposition,
was on the contrary, or affected to be,
pleased to see me waking up a little.
I went into their charitable work with
much energy, and for a few months it
kept me from ennui, and I felt satisfied
that I had found a home and a work,
congenial, peaceful, and above all,
elevating.

I was destined, however, to learn that
the devil dwelt in Fig town, or within an
easy walk of the [place, and that, looking
down, or up, upon this happy life, he had
resolved to bring it to an end.

Young Massey was a curious compound
of the natures of his father and mother.
He was thin and weak like his father,
though much taller, and yet had some of
the energy and vivacity of his mother.
He had a curious appearance, at twenty-two
years of age, with a long thin clothed

coat, a white band round his neck, his
face clean shaven. Not a bad face ; a
little sensual, perhaps, in the rounded
chin and jaw, but above the mouth, with
its long straight nose, hazel eyes and
high forehead capped by good brownish-red
hair, it was by no means a mean or
vulgar countenance. He wore very thick
spectacles. He promised to be much
cleverer than his father, who even now
was very much under his influence. The
sister, Caroline, was exactly like the
father, small, delicate, pretty enough,
but not of a brilliant turn of mind.
With her had been deeply in love Master
Algy Atwood, a big brown fellow, tall
and straight, with great hands and feet,
and a plain face lighted by his father's
grey-blue eyes.

This young man I met every day at
meals in his father's house. Miss 

had informed the Atwood that
I was married, but had suffered a great
calamity, and they received me with the
utmost frankness and confidence. Mrs.
Atwood had looked at me through her
silver-rimmed spectacles, as I entered
the door of her great kitchen one afternoon,
and after taking in all my clothes,
and at length fixing her attention on my
pale face and features, had put out her
hand and said —

You have suffered, dear, I see. I see
it in your eyes and face. Well, you are
welcome, and God bless to you your stay
under our roof."

Her daughter, who had much of the
gravity of the mother, came and took
my hand and led me into my room. It
was a delightful little room, with clean,
milk-white boards, spotless curtains and
bedding, slips of a bright rag-carpet
making the floor gay with colour.

I was tired and sorrowful. I threw off
my bonnet, and flinging myself, in my
impetuous way, on the bed, hid my face
in the pillow and let the tears run fresh
and free.

Do not cry so, madam," said Hua.
She had put an arm around me. " Your
sorrow may be great, but so is the consolation,
and loving the Consoler. We
hope you will be happy with us."

From that moment Hua and I struck
up a little friendship, and withal her
quiet, sober manner, it suited so exactly
my frame of mind, that I came to like
her, and be intimate with her. She very
soon confided to me one of life's most
important secrets ; she was in love with
young Massey.

He is so pale, and so lovely," she
said; "and so divine, especially in spectacles.
He loves only his work and God."

And you want him to love you,
Hua?"

A little — only a little," she pleaded.
"I want to help him in his work, to be
by his side, to know of his struggles,
and if I could, to help him and encourage
him."

The little, blue-eyed maiden, pleasant,
but not fine looking, was gazing upwards
and onwards into vacancy as she spoke
these words.

And is he so devoted to his work that
he never looks at you ? "

Never!" she said. "He is as cold
as ice. I shrink from attracting his
glance. He seems so wrapped up in his
duty, his religion, that he never wants to
notice what is around him. I am happy
only to be allowed to look at him. Oh,
he is lovely ! "

I was hardly able at that time to appreciate,

as I am now, this charming
little piece of innocence, but I used to try
and encourage her to believe that the day
would come when Master Victor Massey' s
heaven-turned eye might take a glance
downwards to the modest violet and
buttercup at his feet, and recognize
the fact that the stars are not all the
works of God which are worth a study,
or have a use, or teach a lesson.

When at length Mrs. Massey, in her
peremptory way, dragged me out of my
retirement and obliged me to go over to
the minister's house, to aid in sewing
and embroidering vestments, not only for
their own church, but for others in various
parts of the state, where there was a sad
want of ritualistic paraphernalia, I soon
became at home with the family. Mr.
Massey, senior, was effusively kind, and
the pretty little Miss Massey, simply

"brought np, seemed to be quite overcome
with admiration of my rich dressing and
large, effective appearance.

I remember on the first visit I stayed to
tea, and was for the first time presented
to Mr. Victor Massey, who arrived just intime
for the grace, which was performed
standing, thus :

Me. Massey. u The eyes of all wait
upon Thee."

All. "And Thou gives them their
meat in due season."

Me. Massey. " Grant, most merciful,"
etc.

He then made the sign of the cross
with his finger in the air ; the company
crossed themselves and sat down.

Now, Mr. Victor's divine gaze through
the divine spectacles which had so hit
Miss Hua Atwood was on this evening by
no means fixed upon things above ; for

having been hurriedly introduced to me
the moment before, those eyes stared at
my face through those spectacles, while his
lips moved mechanically to the well-worn
words of the benediction. The spirit of
fun and coquetry lived and moved in me
then irrepressibly, if somewhat subdued ;
and I noticed the saintly Victor's gaze,
which rather embarrassed me, for his
spectacles were thick pebbles, and had an
unpleasant effect when turned full on
one's eyes. I threw a sharp glance across
the table from my own black orbs, and
Victor, with a blush, bent his gaze on his
plate and hardly removed it during the
meal, sitting in perfect silence ; and yet,
as I talked with one and another, I
fancied that the heavenward glance was
sometimes furtively depressed in my
direction.' My bonnet was off, my rich
black hair coiled up upon my head, my

white neck rose out of a neat white
collar, and a dark, tight-fitting dress
displayed my figure, I dare say, to perfection.


When tea was over Master Victor
joined us in the little parlour.

Mrs. Massey looked at him with some
surprise as he stalked in after us.

"Are you not going to study to-night,
Victor? " she inquired.

No," he said. " What is going on ? "

We are full of work — a surplice to he
finished by Mrs. Bellamy." She threw
me a thing which looked curiously like a
bedgown for a prize-fighter.

I set demurely to work, hemming the
border round the bottom. Victor was still
standing, and remained so for a minute
or so watching me. I took the opportunity
of breaking my thread, and
suddenly looking up caught his glance.

A faint flush went again over his pale
face, and turning round he sat down at
the piano, and played with an indifferent
skill the tune to the words, " Abide with
me" I don't believe for a moment that
he meant anything by this, but it struck
me as rather droll that he should have
hit upon that particular sentiment.

When he had strummed away for sometime,
Mrs. Massey became tired of it, and
begged him to come and read to us.

"What?"

Anything."

The De Imitation Christ ?" he said
faintly.

"No," replied Mrs. Massey; "I read
it every morning, as you know. Nor
Erasmus, nor ' Dr. Witty on the Mass,'
nor < Missal Hours.' To-night, as we
have a guest, read us something lighter."

I will go to my room and see," he

said, glaring at me again. " What do
you like, madam, poetry or prose ? "

Oh, poetry — or Bunyan's l Pilgrim's
Progress.' " I said this with perfect
innocence, but a shudder went through
the trio, and Victor almost seemed to
turn green.

"My dear Mrs. Bellamy," cried Mrs.
Massey with some asperity, "please don't
mention that book again in this house.
It is sadly profane and heretical."

"It is wonderfully interesting," I
replied stoutly. "I have always liked
it."

Victor Massey was gazing at me. His
-eye grew a little softer as he looked.

Ah ! " he said. " Forgive my mother
if she speaks a little warmly. Doubtless
the book is fanciful and attractive, but it
is sheer Calvinism — self-righteousness ; it
has led away many souls from the true

path — from the Rock, the Church. I hope
we shall be able to give you better books
to read than that, and more conducive to
holiness. But now I will go and get
some poetry."

He stalked out of the room like a long-black
spectre in his priest-like frock, and
with his soft, gliding tread.

Presently he came back again. I happened
to see his face as he came in at
the door, and I noticed that it was
slightly flushed and his eye was brilliant.
There was a sort of honte in his manner.

What have you got?" said Mrs.
Massey, not looking up from the flannel
petticoat she was making for a poor Irishwoman.


"Byron," he said, sitting down in an
armchair with his back to us. I could
see he was red to the tips of his ears, a
remarkable phenomenon in him.

Mrs. Massey gave a sort of grunt, but
said nothing, and Miss Caroline glanced
across at him with surprise in her face.

I hope, my dear Victor, you will
select something that will tend to edification,"
said his mother. " The ' Prisoner
of Chillon,' perhaps, will be the best."

I will read the ' Giaour,' " he replied,
turning over the leaves.

He read pretty well, and as I did not
know Byron, I was deeply interested.
The evening wore away, and I was to
go back to my domicile. Mr. Massey,
who had spent the evening in his room,
was slightly indisposed. Mr. Victor was
therefore detached for the duty of escorting
me home. I begged to be allowed
to borrow the book of Byron's poems, a
request that rather startled Mr. Victor,
who, however, was caught in a trap, and
could scarcely venture at the moment to

explain to me that there were things in
Byron which it might not be expedient
for me to read.

When we got out into the quiet darkness
he offered me his long thin arm,
which felt like the rail of a chair. There
was a slight moonlight, which fell upon
his glasses with a curious ghastly flicker.
I confess my heart beat a little, for something
told me that Mr. Victor was not
exactly all he seemed to Miss Hua. His
eyes were looking earthwards now, at all
events, and I could hardly help thinking
what a start it would have given him to
know who it was that leaned upon his
arm.

We went along some time in silence.
His arm was so long and stuck out sofar
that he was a considerable distance
from me, and he turned now and then to
catch a glimpse of my face in the uncertain

light. I dropped my veil as far
as my nose, which must have disappointed
him, for afterwards he looked straight
before him. At length he spoke.

Have you never read Byron before „
Mrs. Bellamy?"

No," I replied.

You are very young," he said gallantly,
" but still I wonder at that."

I have read in other directions," I
said evasively.

"What directions?" inquired Mr.
Victor with coolness.

I was very nearly floundered. How could
I give him the outline of my small performances
in literary culture, and on the
other hand how could I confess my
ignorance ? I was indeed in a false
position.

"I am not a great reader," I replied.
A few books satisfy me. I have read

a good many novels — Dumas, Dickens,
Thackeray, and others."

All bad : it lowers the tone, and
perverts the moral faculties."

And Byron?"

u Well, his is poetry. But I must
warn you not to read everything in Byron
' Don Juan,' for instance."

Is it very bad ? "

' Very. I would rather you did not take
this book with you. I don't wish to be
responsible for placing it in your hands."

Oh ! " I replied, " Mr. Victor, I think
you may entrust it to me. I am a
married woman, you know."

"And your husband?" he said convulsively.


Is dead."

I had told a lie. I could not help it.
It came out of me as involuntarily as a
cough or a sneeze.

nol. II. n

All ! " he said, in a tone half sympathetic,
half relieved, " that is then your
sorrow, my dear madam. You are a
widow."

His long arm, with its tremendous
leverage, seemed to draw my hand with
irresistible force nearer to his side.

"I hope we shall see a good deal of
you," he said after a short pause. " And
you must come and help us in our visiting.
This promises to be a sick winter
here."

"It will give me great pleasure to be
of use," I said. " I am dull. I want
something to do."

And perhaps you will let me lend you
some books ? " he said eagerly.

I thanked him warmly. He had thawed
a little, and I was grateful, though I
felt troubled about the lie I had told
him.

On saying " good night" at Farmer
Atwood's door, lie pinched nay Land I
thought needlessly hard with his holy
fingers. Big Algy Atwood had come to
the door with a light, and was looking at
us with large, keen eyes.

So you walked home with Milky? "
he said, referring thus irreverently to
Victor, who was no favourite of his.

Yes ; Mr. Massey was unwell, and
could not come."

Well, look here, Mrs. Bellamy," said
Algy, planting his long legs some three
feet apart, and looking down upon me
with his honest eyes; "whenever you
are going to be out for an evening again
you tell me, and wet or dry you may
reckon I will come to fetch you."

Thank you, Mr. Algy; but I mustn't
trouble you so much."

Better to trouble a friend than a

stranger," said Algy, sententiously putting
himself without any previous warning,
or even hint, in a position of intimacy.


That night as I went to bed I turned
things over in my mind, and felt far from
comfortable.

Chapter XI

A Fresh COMPLICATION

When I had read Byron through, as I did
rapidly, I formed a very different opinion
of Mr. Victor Massey from that held by
the gentle and confiding Hua. If you
ask "why?" you cannot know human
nature. It would be very hard for me to
put together in words a definition of the
reasons which led me to this conclusion.
There is so much which a woman of quick
perception or a man of nervous sensibility
sees and feels and yet can never
give a reason for or describe : a sensitive
magnetism which conveys from soul to

soul ideas and feelings and even convictions,
for which there appear no material
grounds. I was always from a child
a rather shrewd observer of the human
face, and had an intuitive perception of
the thoughts and tempers of those around
me. And Mr. Victor, with his delicate,
sensitive organization, was as transparent
to me as glass. I could see the slightest
play of light in his eye, the feeblest rush
of blood to his face, the nervous twitching
of the mouth or finger, and each of
these phenomena combed to me a certain
meaning, on which I relied as positively
as if each had been explained by
himself in spoken language. And yet I
could not bring myself to look upon him
with any sympathy. He began to devote
himself to me. We went out together
to visit sick people, to carry comforts to
poor houses, to read to bedridden women

or amuse children. I threw myself into
this work out of no love to him, but
from a sheer longing to get rid of my
thoughts — to be at work — to move my
body and occupy my mind. There was
a certain amusement also in watching
Mr. Victor's manoeuvres and checking
them. Once or twice he became very
friendly, took my arm familiarly, and
squeezed my hand. On these occasions
he would speak to me on spiritual things,
and thus he mixed sentiment with religion.


Meanwhile another danger arose in the
horizon. After that night when " Milky "
had left me at the door Algy assumed
perforce a sort of guardianship over me.
He hardly allowed me to go about alone.
I found him turning up in all sorts of
unexpected quarters, waiting for me
opposite any small cottage I had visited,

and marching me off from Mr. Victor's
care, with the air of a picket securing
a deserter. He stayed at home at night
and saw as much of me as he could. He
said nothing. He never ventured to
squeeze my hand or ogle me. He simply
stuck by me — a long, awkward, contented,
honest-faced companion, out of whom I
could get little or nothing but interjections
; except now and then when we were
alone, and he would try to make himself
agreeable by telling me everything about
the farm. Dear old Algy, you were as
honest and simple-hearted a soul as I
ever met !

One day — it was in winter, the snow
was on the ground — Victor Massey came
in the afternoon to tell me there was
a severe case of small-pox in the village.
Every one had fled the house, and the
patient, a young married woman with a

child, was without any nurse except her
husband, who gallantly stuck by her bedside.


What is to be done ? " said Victor.
His usually pale cheek had a hectic flush
upon it. He looked at me anxiously.
"My sister would go," he continued,
but my father does not see the call, and
I am at my wits' end." It was not far.

Mrs. Atwood and Hua and I were
sitting in the large kitchen of the farm
enjoying the warm glow of the fire, where
hoe-cake was rapidly baking.

"I will go!" cried Hua, quickly — "if
you would like me to."

He looked at her with disappointment
in his face.

Oh, Hua!" he said, " you are too
young to undertake it ; and, indeed, it
ought to be done by a married woman."

And then he looked earnestly at me

Hua's face darkened as she caught the
glance.

"I will go," I said at once. " Will
you have any objection to take me back,
Mrs. Atwood, if I go ? "

No, my child," said the old lady.
The Lord will preserve you and us,
I trust ; and if not, His will be done."

Then the sooner I get ready the
better."

Another grateful glance from Victor,
bringing a deeper shadow on Hua's face
and a little glistening in her eyes.

She followed me into my room.

x\t least let me help you," she said.

She went on for some time putting
together the few things I meant to take,
which would all have to be destroyed.

Lisa," she said — we were now on
familiar terms — " don't you think Victor
Massey is changed ? What do you think

is the matter with him ? He hardly ever
consults me now, and I used to be his
right hand. .What can it mean ? "

Tears were rolling down her cheeks.

I don't know, Hua," I replied soothingly.
" I suppose I am stronger and
more active than you, and he fancies me
more useful."

No more ? " said the little girl, planting
herself resolutely opposite me, and
looking straight into my eyes. " Do you
mean to say, Lisa, you believe it is no
more ? "

I think not — I hope not," I answered,
with a slight hesitation in my voice.

You know he has ! " she burst out
vehemently. " Don't prevaricate; it is
wicked. You know he is in love with
you. I have seen it. You have stolen
his heart away from me, and you area
bad, deceitful woman ! "

I had at that time neither the age nor
the experience to enable me to cope
judiciously with this attack, and I confess
I answered poor Hua's charge rudely and
foolishly. I told her I did not recognize
her right to speak to me in this way,
and that if Mr. Victor chose to turn
his affections towards me, it was not
my fault, and I would not be called to
account by her for it. And then I told
her to leave the room. Away she went
in a passion of tears to her own room,
and, flushed with indignation, I went
back with my small bag to the kitchen,
where Mrs. Atwood, with a smile on her
face, was calmly giving Mr. Victor some
instructions about disinfectants.

As I entered the kitchen from within,
Algy Atwood, stamping the snow off his
feet, came in at the door. His face grew
glum when he saw Victor Massey, but he
held out his hand and greeted him.

What's all this?" he said to me,
staring at my dress, which was of the
plainest and simplest, and at the bag I
held in my hand.

Mrs. Trotter is ill of small-pox," said
Mrs. Atwood, " and Mrs. Bellamy is good
enough to offer to go and nurse her."

u Nurse a case of small-pox ! " cried
xllgy, in a trembling voice. " Good God,
Lisa " (he had never called me so before,
and I saw both his mother and the collegian
give a start), " who has put you upto
such madness ? "

Madness?" cried Victor, with a voice
of more power than I had ever heard
him use. " It is duty."

Duty be d — d," cried Algy, bursting
out.

His mother uttered a little scream, and
Victor turned up his eyes and lifted his
black gloves in an attitude of pious horror.

Don't go on with your hypocritical
cant, Victor," Algy proceeded, unable to
restrain himself. " What right have you
to ask Mrs. Bellamy, a young, beautiful,
delicate woman to go and run the risk of
getting an awful disease and ruining her
face for ever ? What are you driving at r
eh ? It is time that we should understand
each other." I had never heard
him so eloquent, and there was a strange
thrill in his voice.

Algy ! Algy ! " cried his mother, in a
deep, sorrowful tone. " Have you no
regard for your mother's feelings, for
simple decency, for Christian forbearance.
Forgive him, Victor."

"I do," said Victor, with a calm,,
pitying expression, under which there
lurked nevertheless a deadly coldness
of tone. " I do, my dear Mrs. Atwood."

• Ha ! ha ! " laughed Algy. " Forgive

me, you say ? I don't want your forgiveness.
I see through you clear as daylight,
Victor Massey."

Victor rose and looked at him firmly
I had never seen him so calm and dignified.


I don't know what there is to see, Mr.
Algernon Atwood. You are excited. I
am afraid there is only one explanation
of it."

No, Mister Victor, I am not drunk, I
can assure you. I know what I am doing,
and I mean what I am saying. It is an
infamous shame to trap this young lady
into this work. It is not her duty, and
you have a motive. I have watched you,
sir ! "Why doesn't your sister go ? "

And you would like that ? " inquired
Victor. " Would you expose her to a
danger you fear for some one else ? "

Master Algy hit his lip. He was

caught ; for certainly before my arrival
his manner and attention to Caroline
Massey had justified her and her friends
in thinking that he was fond of her.

u I am not clever enough to bandy
words with you, Victor Massey, but I know
this is wrong. This lady is in our care."

Our care! " cried Mrs. Atwood. " In
my care, yes, but not in yours, my son."

Here I spoke up.

Mr. Algy," I said, " I am infinitely
obliged to you for your kindness, and I
know it comes of a good heart. But I am
here in no one's care ; I must do what
I think best, and it is my own proposal
to go and nurse this poor woman. We
ought to be going."

Go, and God bless and preserve you ! "
said Mrs. Atwood. " We shall hear from
you daily, I trust."

Oh! you'll do that," said Algy, who

had suddenly bloomed out into a determined
and assertive man. " Give me
the bag, Mrs. Bellamy. I'll carry it for
you ; I'm afraid Victor would find it too
heavy." ibid with this he flung out of
the door.

Victor looked very white as he followed,
but he said nothing as we walked along
towards the poor woman's house. Algy,
swinging the bag, took the middle of the
road, as if to keep as far away as possible
from Victor, occasionally hollowing a
remark to me. So we arrived at the
door.

Algy stopped. Victor opened the door
and went in. He took no further notice
of Algy.

Good-bye, Mrs. Bellamy," said the
latter, taking my hand into his great fist,
after drawing off his fur mitten. " You
are a brave lady, and may my mother's

YOL. II.

prayer come true and God preserve you.
Every clay at ten o'clock in the morning
and five in the afternoon I will be just
here to know how you are. You will lookout
when I tap on the window. It will
please my mother and sister, you know."

Algy's fiction was transparent, but I
liked him none the less, though I knew
the poor fellow was wasting his sentiment
on unhappy me. I seemed to be destined
to carry sorrow and distraction wherever
I went.

I found I had undertaken a serious
business. The case was a bad one ; the
rooms were small and stifling ; but I felt
possessed by a good spirit that prompted
me to the duty and sustained me while
I discharged it. Victor Massey came as
often as he could, and relieved me a few
hours every day, to enable me to take
some rest. He seemed to me to grow

more ghastly every time, and if there had
been any sentiment in his choice of me
for this work, both on his part and on
mine it vanished before the awful realities
of the disease. But I worked on cheerfully,
and never was I more happy at
heart than in my attendance at this poor
woman's bedside. Our efforts were rewarded.
At the end of three weeks the
doctor pronounced her in a fair way of
recovery, and begged me earnestly to go
home. I was indeed pale and thin, but I
never suffered any evil consequences from
this my first great sacrifice.

Every day Algy had come as he promised,
always bringing me some little
dainty, and always saying a few cheering
words. I positively got to like to see his
plain, honest face, and his blue eyes.

But Algy had got into sad disgrace.
Miss Massey would not speak to him, and

there was a general coolness between the
families ; and as it was only too clear that
I was the unhappy cause of the disturbance,
I came in for a fan share of cold
wind from both sides — Algy and Victor,
however, vying with each other to show
which should be kinder to me.

This state of things could hardly have
lasted long, and I must by force of circumstances
have been obliged to change
my home, when I had once more to find
how strangely the religion of Christ is interpreted
and presented by His modern
disciples. Perhaps this is not to be
wondered at, since those who were with
Him so imperfectly understood Him.

Chapter XII

Christian CHARITY

Mr. Massey had been to New York to
attend a meeting of the clergy who
propagated ritualism. I have no proof
of it, but I cannot doubt that Mrs. Massey
and her daughter prompted him to make
some inquiries about me. Miss Wanders
was so well known and respected
among them, that they had never thought
of seeking any information beyond her
statement, but now probably the edge of
curiosity was whetted by a desire to get
me out of the way. One day soon after
his return Mr. Massey called upon me.

He asked to see me alone. His manner
was chilling and strange. His face was
grave. He spoke with averted eyes.

May I speak to yon, madam," he
began, " on a serious matter that has
come to my knowledge in New York ? "

Oh, certainly, Mr. Massey. Will you
be seated ? " I knew what was coming.

When you came here, my dear
madam, introduced by so dear and trusted
a friend of my worthy brother Ridley in
New York as Miss Yanderteufel, professedly
to retire from the world and
recover from a great sorrow, you naturally
awakened in my own heart, and
that of Mrs. Massey and my daughter, a
deep sympathy and compassion. The
nature of the sorrow which had befallen
you was not indicated to us, but
your appearance, your manner, showed
that you had gone through some terrible

trial, aud our hearts were drawn out to
you ; moreover, your conduct has been
exemplary : we felt that we had in you a
sister in the Lord, one who shared our
convictions, who was anxious to follow
with us the way of holiness. Your intercourse
with my wife and daughter and son
has been perfectly unrestrained — hem ! "

"Mr. Massey," I said, "I shall never
forget how kind you have all been. Some
of the happiest and best days of my life
have been spent here."

Yes — hem — hem — we, too, valued the
hem — hem — agreeable intercourse we
have had with you, madam, and have
highly appreciated the help you have
from time to time given us in our blessed
work. The Lord reward you, madam —
the Lord reward you, I say ; I pray that
He may."

He took out his pocket-handkerchief

and wiped his face, which was perspiring.
He had undertaken a task that was
against the grain. His natural kindliness
and gentleness of heart recoiled from
the necessity imposed upon him by a
sense of religious and social duty.

I said nothing to assist him. I was
very much hurt by the coldness and
severity of his manner — a coldness and
severity so unusual with him.

My dear madam," he at length said,
in New York I became acquainted with

the facts of your history "

"What! " I said. "Was it necessary
for you, Mr. Massey, to make inquiries
about me after Miss Vanderteufel had
vouched for me ? ' '

Hem ! Hem ! Well, you see, Mrs.
Mrs. — ah ! — Toddles, I believe ? — yes.
Miss Yanderteufel is a very estimable
young lady, but I fear her kindness sometimes

runs away with, her judgment.
Naturally, when my — my family became
intimate with you, it was very unsatisfactory
not to know anything more of
you than that your name was Bellamy,
and that you were suffering from the
result of a great misfortune. In my position
— in my wife's position — we owed a
duty to our church and our small but
select circle of friends in regard to those
who associate with us. You see — you
will understand that the life you have

led — your reputation "

"In fine, you mean to say, sir, that
having discovered that I am Mrs. Ben
Toddles, wife of a clown now in Sing
Sing, by profession a trapezist, you no
longer deem me fit to associate with the
wife and daughter of a clergyman who
preaches forgiveness of sins and the
blessings of repentance ? "

"Hem! Hem! Madam, you are putting
it — are you not? — rather — rather,
a little — too strongly. It is not exactly
that. There are proprieties, you know."

"For a Christian minister?" I burst
out. "If I am penitent, and have been
living, as I thank God I have been living,
in Figtown, a blameless life, do you treat
me as an outcast even if all is true the
world says of me ? "

He looked a little touched.

"Alas! madam," he said, "it is the
penalty of sin, which falls alike upon the
guilty and the innocent, and cleaves to
the sinner long after the sin is forgiven."

"And it is a good God who inflicts
this ? And it is your Christian duty to
be the instrument of punishment ? Oh,
Mr. Massey, I will have done with your
wretched religion if this is really what
you mean. I give it up from this moment,

with all its shams and deceptions
and lies. The poor sinner in the Temple
was sent away with a kind word and a
bit of hope "

I speak kindly — I would have you
carry away a blessing — I entreat you,
madam, do not misunderstand — what I
am doing is due to the reputation of my
sacred office, to the welfare of my wife
and my family. I assure you I will come
to you with the offices of religion whenever
you desire, encourage you in your
difficult path, be your friend in the truest
sense — but "

"But — not a friend who respects me ;
a friend who believes in me ; you
will be a friend who pities me — a man
who comes to me ' with offices of religion,'
as a doctor goes with medicine
to his patient, and runs away again as
soon as he has administered the dose, for

fear he should catch a contagion ? Your
wife and daughters will refuse to associate
with me, perhaps even to touch my hands
or to how to me. They certainly won't
kiss me. I am too had to help your son
nurse a sick woman, or read the Bible to
a dying pauper ! I don't want your
'offices,' your 'friendship.' I will go
back to the life you drive me to."

Don't speak like that ! Don't throw
away the blessings of repentance and
tempt the Spirit "

"Mr. Massey," I said, getting up,
drawing myself to my full height, and
speaking with a warmth that seemed to
alarm him, " don't you, sir, sit there and
talk humbug. ' Divine mercy ' on your
terms is not worth having "

He rose and lifted both his hands.

Blasphemy ! You are indeed in the
bonds of iniquity. This proves how correct

Mrs. Massey's judgement was. There
can have been no real conversion — no
real turning from the wallowing in the
mire. May God help you, my poor
young woman ! I deeply pity you. I
will never cease to pray for you — but I
cannot stay to hear such profanity."
And taking up his hat he went out
hurriedly.

Now, an older and, I trust, a wiser
woman, looking back on that scene, I
can see how differently it might have
gone on and ended. He was probably
sincere ; he was anxious about his son,
whose liking for me was too evident, and
he was pained by the duty which social
proprieties and conventional religion
seemed to impose upon him.

A touching word — a gentler spirit —
might have melted him. But the word
was not spoken. My rude nature was

aroused. He left me — and convinced
that in a few days my real name and history
would be known in every family in
Wigtown, I resolved to go away from the
place.

In twenty-four hours I was in New
York. A week afterwards I was on my
way to Europe, aided by Eva Vanderteu-
fel's generosity, and followed by her good
wishes and her prayers. Yes ! followed
by them, I am persuaded, through the
turbid and guilty life into which I plunged.
I never saw her again, but her face, her
form, her gentle voice, were often with
me, and now I love to dream — it may be
but a dream, yet 'tis a fair one — that perhaps
from there where she, transfigured,
enjoys the bliss of the well-doing, she
know T s me changed and purified, and
numbers me among those of whom her
Master's voice has said to her — " Ye have
done it unto Me."

Chapter XIII

MONSIEUR Payable

On my arrival in London, I put myself
in communication with a Monsieur Parabole,
one of those entrepreneurs for the
stage and music-halls, who, since public
amusements have so largely developed,
have brought the system of purveying
them to a system. Mr. Boganio was
more of a financier ; Monsieur Parabole
was a tradesman. He manufactured or
he bought, and traded in " stars." He
was a keen, active man, of a sanguine
temperament and a lively temper. He
embodied in himself all the strength,

nerve, and activity of a gymnast, a ballet-dancer,
a rope-walker, and a clown. He
spoke rapidly and with decision. His
eye was restless and bright ; his gestures
were quick and energetic. He was born
in Jamaica, transplanted when young to
the State of New York, studied for the
bar — I don't mean at first the trapeze
bar — found out that he was not fitted for
that profession, and tried a year at medicine.
Converted at a revival, he had
made up his mind for six months to bea
minister ; but, finding that religion and
preaching were not suited to his genius,
he abandoned the idea and took to the
Stock Exchange, where he distinguished
himself by a brilliantly audacious career,
which ended in bankruptcy and two cents
in the dollar. He at length found his
metier , and I always admired him for his
perseverance in seeking it. A strongly

built man, of tremendous nerve, he took
naturally to exercises, and at the gymnasium
discovered that he could surpass
all competitors. When, therefore, he was
thrown on the world without anything
but his tarnished character, he adopted
the profession of gymnast — a very fair
and a very honest one for many a clever
and good fellow. So greatly were his
efforts appreciated that in a few years,
while still a young man, he had made
a considerable sum of money. Thereupon
he came out of his shell : undertook
to "run a star," made all her engagements,
bullied her employers, thrashed a
Viennese Jew, who kept a music-hall,
for failing in a contract with her,
escaped the clutches of the Austrian law
by one of those happy flukes which only
occur to adventurous Englishmen, and
from that time on became a favourite

VOL. II. p

with the lady artistes, who knew he
would gallantly and honourably stick to
his bargains and defend their rights.
Why or how this gentleman took the
name of Parabole I cannot say. His
real name was Brown. He was the most
wonderful fellow for inventing " novelties."
His eye for a girl who would make
a good gymnast or ballet-dancer was
keen, and his judgment infallible. As he
walked along the street or in the park,
he could not help running his quick
glance over every figure, and estimating
the exact gymnastic or artistic value of
it — in dollars, always in American dollars.
If he were very sharp with people with
whom he had to do business, he was kind
and generous to his staff — or perhaps one
might better call it his clientele — who
would be performing in places so distant
from one another as Hamburg or Vienna,

or London or Madrid. When any particular
performer made a great hit, and
was in much demand, he made duplicates
or even triplicates of her ; and thus the
celebrated Soso might appear to have
been performing on the same night at
Liverpool, at Brighton, and at the Circus
Kens in Berlin.

Monsieur Parabole's office was in a
by-street in the Haymarket. I came
to know him through a young actress,.
Louise Milton, who crossed over in the
same steamer with me, and showed mea
great deal of kindness.

She had letters to Monsieur Parabole,.
who no sooner saw her than he offered
her an engagement, not as an actress,.
but in the corps che ballet, and a year
after she carried off to the altar a London
merchant with a very fair fortune. He
was a half Spaniard, half Englishman,

named d'Azieta, lived in a handsome
house at Wimbledon, and kept a pair of
horses. Louise, who was the daughter
of a Boston Unitarian minister, and a
girl of culture, made him an admirable
wife. They afterwards were very kind tome.
Monsieur Parabole, talking always,
in spite of his name, with a fine Yankee
twang, used to cite this case to his young-ladies
in order to show the superior advantages
of his system.

Any other duffer she'd 'a gone to,
would 'a made her what she wanted to
be — an actress — third-class, parliamentary
low fares. Now, the very minute I saw
that girl walk into my room, I saw that
she had been made for tights and footlights,
and would fill a whole house with
her figure alone. Being a Yankee girl
she had the sense to agree with me, and
we fixed it off in about ten minutes.

Well, there she is — splendid house, champagne
every day, two children, horses —
regular swell and no mistake, all through
coming to a man who knew just what she
was made for, and her true value in the
market."

Here he would slap his chest, which
sounded like a drum, and pick an inconvenient
morsel out of his teeth with his
penknife, or, if he were at dinner, with
his fork.

When I was presented to Monsieur
Parabole his eye ran over me like lightning.
I had vastly improved in my
country retirement. My face and form
had matured, I looked fresh and blooming,
and as I still paid great attention to
my dress, and was habited on this day
in dark, almost mourning colours, which
suited me well, my appearance could not
have been displeasing. Indeed, as I

lifted my veil to pay the cabman outside
the door of Monsieur Parabole's office,
a gentleman, blond, tall, dressed in the
faultless style of English " high life,"
stopped and looked at me an instant, and
then recollecting himself, passed on with
a glance at Parabole's door.

I entered. Mr. Parabole turned round
sharply. I gave him Louise's letter. He
tore it open, and almost instantly threw
it down again.

u Miss Lena? Ah! I've heard about
you. You are very clever — can do anything.
Not afraid of anything — eh ? Out
of training, though — too fat. Well, I
guess we can soon take that down. Take
a seat — take a seat. I'll engage you
on the view." writing.) " l Trapeze-bar
' — any tight-rope ? No— all right — ■
just as well. I can teach you some new
tricks on the bar. Plunging ? "

I have never learned to swim in my
life.' 1

Ha ! ha ! you don't understand. It
is a new invention, of my own. Can you
fall well ? "

"I can turn a double somersault in
the air and fall on my feet."

"Oh! that's nothing — any baby could
do that. Could you turn two somersaults
in sixty feet, diving head first into a net?"

"I guess not."

Pardon me. I guess you cadi, when
I show you how. Easy as rocking ina
cradle. Not the slightest danger in it.
I've a girl who can do sixty feet without
winking. Are your teeth strong? Let
me see your jaw."

He examined my mouth like a dentist
or a horse-dealer.

"You have done that trick already, I
think ? "

I can easily hold three hundred
pounds."

That ain't necessary. We don't want
to show off a three hundred pounder at
sixty feet above ground in a woman's
mouth. Public, clergy, members of Parliament,
magistrates, wouldn't stand it,
you know — not with a girl. Well, now,
when will you be ready to go into training
? At once ? All right. I'll have an
apparatus rigged up ready tomorrow ;
Biggs's Gymnasium, St. Martin's Lane —
all alone, you know. Put on your costume.
— Hallo, my lord! — honour. A longtime
since I have seen you."

The door had opened, and the gentleman
who had passed me in the street
walked in. His air was cool and
easy.

Ah ! " he said, glancing at me, "I
beg pardon — interrupting a tete-astute

which I am saw cannot be otherwise
than agreeable."

He bowed to me. I returned the salutation.


Present me to your friend," he said,
cavalierly. " Another new saw ? "

Monsieur Parabole bit his lip; but,
without rising, he said —

Lord Simpleton — Miss Lisa Lena, a
wonderful trapeze artiste, my lord."

The gentleman bowed again and offered
me his hand. I was surprised by his
ease and coolness.

Aw you an American, Miss Lena?
I needn't ask. Youaw face tells its own
story. All the pretty women come
from America."

I blushed, and coldly inclined my head.

Gently, my lord, gently ; draw it
mild. Miss Lisa is a new arrival here."

But not afraid of compliments, I

hope," said the noble lord, taking a chair
near me and nursing his knee, while he
stuck an eye-glass up. "Delighted to
make youaw acquaintance. Hope we
shall be friends. I'm friendly to all autant
artists — eh, Parabola ? Parabola,
you know, Miss Lisa — a crooked saw of
custom — saw of conic section, you
know — not to be trusted."

That's the fiftieth time I've heard
you make that joke, my lord, and I never
yet saw where the joke was."

Eh ? Well, you know — what ? wheat
the joke is ? Well ! 'pon my honaw, I
don't exactly know wheat it is myself.
Neva mind. Aw you going to exhibit
Miss Lena in London ? "

Yes, I hope so."

Well, I promise you you shall have
a bump aw house."

His lordship stayed an hour, spite of
Parabole's impatience.

The next day, after having seen my
performances, Parabole concluded an arrangement
with me, which was a very
fair and even handsome one. I engaged
to go anywhere on the continent where
lie made arrangements for me.

I shall make three thousand out of
you the first year," he said to me, " so I
guess I can afford to be generous."

CHAPTEK Xii

MAD LIFE

Here I draw a veil. There are years in
many a life which it is better never to
look back upon, never to recall. If there
be a divine mercy, and it has been sought
and found, I have often wondered why
many good people continue to carry about
a coffin-full of old sins, unburied, mouldering,
to be sorrowed over afresh each day.
It is the teaching of some schools of religion
that this morbid funeral of woe is
an ordinance and a necessity, a penance
one is bound to inflict on oneself, for one's
evil past. Were this true, the atonement
they preach must have been imperfect,

and their system of religion would
fall down like a pack of cards.

However true or not, there can be no
excuse for partaking these sorrowful
memories with an indiscriminate public.
If I have allowed myself, when I felt,
with my matured and better instructed
judgment, that there were matters that
ought to be known and hinted at, to
speak now and then with some frankness,
I have been careful at every step to
avoid the outrageous so-called "realism "
which teaches morality by pictures of
indecency.

I pass over three years, during which
I had made what, in my line, was a
brilliant success. In London and Paris,
in Madrid, Vienna, St. Petersburg, or Berlin,
in Budapest or Bologna, my photographs,
in various costumes and poses,
adorned the windows of the shops alongside

of crown princes and princesses,,
duchesses, countesses, baronesses, the
most illustrious men of science, the
prettiest ballet-girls, the wives of men
of society, distinguished philosophers,
moralists, and divines. Statuesque
figures, in one of my most celebrated
positions, were sold in clay and parian,
and the walls of every great city used
to afford the public a vulgar means of
familiarizing themselves with my figure
and appearance.

My rooms wherever I went were redolent
with flowers. Noblemen, millionaires,
artists, and literary men visited
me, feted me, banqueted me.

And yet I was an outcast. I could
enter no good society, be seen with no
respectable person. I must receive my
male and female friends in private rooms,
dine and sup with them in closed cabinets.

Not one of them would be seen with meat
the races, where I might sit in my box
alone without being recognized by intimates
who were walking around me ;
or perhaps I was accompanied by some
rich tradesman who wanted to ape the
manners of " high life," and was proud
to be see in the company of a notorious
woman.

In such an existence there is never a
moment or an hour of happiness, though
there may be many of delirium, which
is the nearest approach to happiness
wien hope and dignity are lost. To
forget ; to live from day to day ; to
crush down and root out any springing
good wish ; never to look the future in
the face ; these are the negative blessings
of such a condition. It is morally a
sheet of blank paper, physically a mere
vibration of life and passion, intellectually

an inanity. Yet you might take a
thousand women out of such a life and
they would pant to get hack to it. The
physical nature which has been outraged
and wronged almost always ceases to he
a possible cabinet of a human mind and
heart. It is the casket of a monster — an
inhumanity .Happily, so fine was my physical
organization, that a few years did
not suffice to make it wholly thus for me.

Eva Yanderteufel was dead. One of
her last acts was to write a touching,
sorrowful letter to me. My name was
notorious ; but she never gave me up.

Lisa Lena " — she said — " for the sake
of him that is gone — who, with all his
sins upon him, at last repented — I hope
for you — I pray for you. ."

I can transcribe no more. . . . Many
of these precious words are blotted out
long ago by bitter tears. . . .

I had taken an engagement at Vienna
for the season of the Exhibition.

That wonderful and beautiful city, tome
the finest in the world, with its
quaint and splendid antiquity, its magnificent
modern improvements, its superb
palaces and streets, its lively and busy
crowds, its pleasure seeking men, and
pretty women, — is a mine of wealth to
artistes of my class. Gardens and pavilions
and kiosks in summer, music-halls
in winter, music, dancing, eating and
drinking, abound in every quarter from
Leopoldstadt to Meddling, or Waring to
the Prater.

I inhabited the best hotel an premier.
I was receiving seven hundred florins a
week. I kept a maid ; and the acrobat
who assisted in my performances was at
once a protector and a man of business.

I became intimate with a Count

VOL. II. Q

Flischi, a middle-aged man, of very quiet
mariners and a large fortune.

There was a curious mixture of gallantry
and good feeling in this gentleman.
He was polished and kind and generous ;
with qualities which would have made
him a true and noble family man. His
life had been blighted by an early disappointment,
and he had not the strength
of mind to recover from its effects.
He was exceedingly well-educated, and
knew well several languages. During
the year I spent at Vienna he taught me
German and perfected me in French.
He gave me books to read in both
languages, singularly enough, selected,
for their wit or their good tone — and
free from the disfiguring taints of many
Parisian novels. I had a music teacher,
and began to appreciate some of those
beauties in the greater masters of the

art which used to enchant his cultivated
mind. AH this only served to accentuate
to me the sorry disabilities of my situation.
It hardly distracted me from them.
The more the mind developed, and the
consciousness was awakened within me
that I had been and was capable of a
better life, the more terrible and impossible
seemed the great gulf that was fixed
between me and all bright and virtuous
society. I could only find reprieve to
my painful thoughts by plunging deeper
into amusement — such amusement as
was open to an outcast !

Count Flischi's relations with me, however,
were not destined to proceed as
smoothly as his former intrigues. His
last fancy had been a woman who, no
one knew why or when, had taken the
title of the Countess Borennyey. It was
intended to be a Hungarian title, and

there are so many Hungarian and
Austrian counts and countesses, barons
and baronesses, that few people cared to
take the trouble to inquire into the
authenticity of the coronet which she
shamelessly paraded in the circles of the
demi-monde. She was pretty, with a
fair, fine-cut face, a graceful and even
noble figure, small feet and hands, a
mass of brown hair upon the head of a
Diana, carried with marvellous grace and
dignity. But her eye was cold as steel.
Her lips were compressed together with
a cruel and relentless firmness. Flischi,
who never showed any affectation, introduced
her to me. I remember the
deadly glance she cast at me. It sent
a shudder through my whole body. But
she instantly became charming, caressing,
affectionate.

You will come and see me often," she

said, laughing — a metallic, false laugh, I
thought. " We ought to be friends,,
having a common interest in my friend
here."

She glanced at the count with a momentary
flash of the eye, and he became
a little confused.

I think," he said coolly, jumping over
a wide gap of intermediate thought in an
instant, " that you have fairly consoled
yourself. How is Dolorous ? "

Ah, coquin ! you are laughing at me.
Well, it is also true, you have had your
day."

"Like every other dog, eh?" he
replied, carelessly.

Precisely. You are quite yourself
to-day ! "

I have an engagement," cried the
count, looking at his watch.

"At least," she replied, "you will let

me give you a seat. My carriage is
waiting. I should like to speak to you
for five minutes."

They had both risen, and they looked
at each other with a peculiar expression ;
she with a determined eye and face, and
he with some hesitation.

You will come," she said deliberately.

Very well," he said. " I can only
spare half an hour. I "

Is it Biche or Franz ? " she said,
smiling. " They can either of them wait
for me. — Good-bye, Miss Lisa; we are
friends. Give me your arm, count."

They went away.

At five o'clock the count and I always
dined together. That day he came ina
few minutes before dinner-time. His
dress was in perfect order, and his
manner as easy and cool as usual, but
the moment I saw his face, which was

pale, I saw that something had happened.


Why, what is the matter with you ?
Are you ill ? "

No, but it is a wonder I am here.
That little devil who took me away —
what think you she has dore? She
drives me in her carriage to her rooms in
the Gisela Strasse. She invites me to
mount the stairs to receive back some
article she ought to restore to me. I go.
I enter her salon — a little boudoir —
within is her chambre-d-coucher. She
presses me to take a seat. She puts her
two hands, with the gloves taken off, one
on either cheek. She glances me in the
eyes, hard and killing.

"you have left me, Flischi,' she says.
You have abandoned me for that American
— a lump only — sans esprit — tedious
terrible. What will you ? '

To this I say—

' Nothing I will. You possess already
other friends.'

' And you never return ? '

' My dear Borennyey,' I say, ' be
reasonable. These are affairs of everyday.
Love is always a human algebra —
the veritable system of permutations and
combinations.'

Her eyes become very bright and
wicked.

' You laugh at me,' she say. ' Well,
I fetch you something, and then you may
go. Canaille ! '

This she say with a great emotion,
and run into her chambre. I was out
there, waiting and surprised, when she
come out of the room without her mantle
and chapeau, and both hands behind her
back. Her face was terribly angry. I
say in German —

< What make you ? '

< That ! '

Then quickly she has directed at my
head a revolver, pulled the trigger and
fired. The ball goes under my ear, so ! I
cry out —

"mein Gottf

"But again she pull, and the ball go
through my hair, so ! Then I cast
myself at her and catch her hand and
pull away the revolver. I say —

' Do you aim to kill me ? '

She say, ' Yes,' and look like a devil.

I put the pistol in my pocket. Here
you see it — two chambers empty. Ah !
never was I so near to die. Then come
a foule of people, who were asking what
was that detonation of pistols. In the
wall were two small holes. I bow to
them all and show the revolver, and say
it was an accident, that it went off while

I examined the young lady's revolver.
So they all go away, and I too. I would
never see her again ; but what will you ?
Lisa, you also must take care, for this
woman is without a conscience. She is
a devil, I tell you."

Count Flischi, whose narration, as he
told it, had brought the beads out on his
brow, wiped them away, and pouring out
a glass of champagne tossed ifc off.

It was certainly an alarming thing to
have come across a character so desperate
; but that very evening, when I
came out after the performance to take
a little supper with Flischi in a private
box, Borennyey, who was in another box

with the estimable Prince , ran into

see us, kissed me affectionately, and
tapping the count with her fan on the
shoulder, said —

Didn't I frighten you to-day ? "

"No," he said; "but you play a
dangerous game. The next time I will
kill you." I saw his eye flash as he said
it, and she turned pale an instant.

Ah ! " she cried, laughing, as she was
running away. "Next time I shall not
miss."

Nothing more was said about this
affair, and we saw a good deal of each
other, but I felt persuaded that the
countess " had not yet forgiven Flischi.

She had now got hold of a very young
fellow, a Count Tedesco, who loved her
to distraction. I believe he even made
her an offer of marriage. Whatever
quality it was that recommended her, she
had the power of bewitching men beyond
any other woman I ever knew. One
officer had blown out the top of his head
I do not say his brains — for her;
another had thrown himself off the

Northern Railway bridge into the Danube.
When she was told of the former, who
had spent a great deal of money on her,
she lit a cigarette, and said —

He was always stupid; this is the
only wise thing he ever did."

One Sunday Count Flischi proposed tome
to go out to Baden, the well-known
bathing-place near Vienna, and take
dinner there in the afternoon. We drove
out to this charming spot with its vine-clad
hills, its chestnut groves, its pretty
gardens, its streets enlivened by the
brilliantly dressed people of the city. In
the garden of the " Grinned Baum " we
sat down to dinner in a little kiosk.
Parties were dining around us under the
trees, taking their merriment in that
lively yet gentle way which is characteristic
of the polished Viennese. Count
Flischi recognized several friends, and

went to speak to them. Presently he
came back to me and said —

Borennyey est la"

Looking in the direction indicated, I
observed her with her young friend. We
bowed, and I took no further notice.
Coffee had arrived ; the count had lit his
cigar. We were enjoying the bright, lively
scene around us, the air so genial, a
light zephyr agitating the leaves with a
slight rustle, the tables stretching away
on all sides crowded with guests, here
and there some handsomely dressed
group offering to the eye a mass of
brilliant colour, and the busy waiters
gliding in and out among the throng.
There was the murmur of conversation,
light, musical laughing, tinkling of
glasses, blue smoke curling up from a
hundred mouths — a pretty and engaging
scene, which one languidly enjoyed after

a tolerably good dinner and half a
bottle of champagne. Suddenly the
comtesse " left the table where the
young fool had been studying her eyes
for two hours, and came over and seated
herself in our tent. She seemed to be
in lively humour ; she rallied the count,
and joked with me ; indeed, for ten or
fifteen minutes, during which she rattled
on, giving us very little chance of speaking.
She had placed her chair close to
the count's, who was opposite to me. I
noticed that her manner was openly and
somewhat excessively affectionate to him.
She tapped him with her fan, leaned
over until her cheek almost touched his
face, and laid a hand on his shoulder
caressingly for a moment or two. Happening
just then to look towards the
table where her companion was sitting, I
saw that his face was dark and angry, and

that he gave a furious glance at Count
Flischi. I believe she saw it too, for
she increased her familiarity, edging
her chair nearer to the count, and once
more placing her hand on his arm and
letting it rest there. The count, who was
a careless and good-natured fellow, did
not care to risk her anger by shaking it
off. He placed his own arm on the back
of her chair, and in this position they
certainly looked a very affectionate
couple.

Suddenly Count Tedesco rose and
strode swiftly up to our table. Flischi
knew him well.

"Pardon, what are you doing there,
Flischi ? " cried Tedesco, in a voice of
suppressed passion.

Flischi looked up calmly, with an air
of surprise.

Excuse me, Count Tedesco," he said r

"but are you conscious of the tone and
manner in which you are addressing
me?"

Perfectly. I mean it," replied the
other, hotly. " You are treating that
lady, who happens to have come herewith
me, with open familiarity."

"I beg your pardon," replied the Count
Flischi with dignity. " The countess is
an old friend of mine. I had not the
least intention of doing anything offensive
to you, but I cannot allow a young manlike
you to address me on any pretext in
terms so rude."

"I did it on purpose, sir. You have
insulted me."

I have not — but I will," cried Flischi,
whose eye now grew dark and glowing,
while he otherwise preserved his outward
calm. " There ! "

He took up his coffee-cup and dashed

the remains of his coffee in the other's
face.

Tedesco seized a bottle to throw at
the count's head, but his hand was
caught by a gentleman at the next table,
where they had been watching the
quarrel.

Pardon, M. le Comte," he said in
perfect French; " but it seems to me
that this is a quarrel which must be
settled elsewhere."

"You are right, Vieuxtemps," said
Flischi, looking up smilingly at the
gentleman. " The count knows perfectly
my address, and I am lucky in your
appearance at such a juncture. I could
have no better friend. You will do me
the honour to act for me ? "

The Frenchman, an attache of the
Embassy, took off his hat and bowed.

With the greatest pleasure."

VOL. II. B

I looked at Borennyey. She was
radiant. Her cruel eye was upon my
face, watching the emotions of terror and
anxiety which I could not suppress. She
followed the Count Tedesco, who was
wiping his face at their table. She put
her arm through his. He shook it off,
called the waiter and paid him, and then
slightly lifting his hat to her, he walked
away. She bit her lip and looked round
hardily on the people who were standing
and sitting around her, all in a great state
of excitement. They gave her no very
favourable glances.

So far as young Tedesco was concerned,
he had been cured of his liking
for her. But it did not much matter.
Early next morning a meeting took place
on the banks of the Danube. The
weapons were pistols. Both men were
noted shots, though Flischi, as the older

and more experienced man, was the
steadier of the two. They fired together.
Both dropped. Tedesco's shot
struck one of Flischi's ribs and glanced
off, making a surface wound across the
breast, his right side being turned to his
antagonist. Flischi's shot went through
the other's lung, and he died in a few
hours. Before his death he acquitted
Flischi of misconduct, and stated that
Borennyey had deliberately drawn him
into the quarrel, by telling him before
she left him at the table that she was
again becoming a favourite of Flischi's.
There could be no doubt that her intention
was to excite the jealousy of the
young man in order that he might
revenge her upon the count.

She smoked another cigarette, and
made another bad epigram on her late
lover, and two days after I saw her at

my performance with a German attache,
laughing and enjoying herself as if
nothing had happened. Her face was as
beautiful, her manner as calm, her eyes
as brilliant and as cruel as ever.

CHAPTER XV

A NEW Friend

One Sunday morning Count Flischi proposed
to take me to hear the music of the
mass at the Augustine Circle. Every
visitor to Vienna knows this church, with
its plain frontage on the Augustine
Strasse, its bald and ugly Gothic interior,
its high, narrow windows along one side
of the church, letting the glare of the
Vienna sunlight through upon the whitewashed
walls without one mellowing pane
of coloured glass to redeem the vast
surface from its glaring baldness, or to
create the dim, religious light which

mystic souls so love to worship in; its
Canova monument to the Princess
Christina, with those exquisite, chaste,
graceful mourning figures carrying chaplets
towards the dark door of the opened
tomb, and the glorious figure of the angel
on the right, who, sitting in an attitude
of sorrowful abandon, watches the grief
of the mortals with a sympathizing eye.
There is the high altar in the chancel
elevated on a platform and splendidly
decorated, where the service is performed
with all the gorgeous picturesqueness of
the Catholic Church ; and at the other
end, in the nave, a choir gallery, hopelessly
ugly, with a fine-toned organ ; and
here every Sunday morning, at eleven,
some of the first opera-singers and
musicians of Vienna sing and perform
the service with an orchestral accompaniment.


Below, filling the old black carved
seats, crowding in the aisles, is a vast
and varied congregation, of every grade —
from the fair, finely dressed countess to
the simple but pretty shop-girl; officers
and soldiers in uniform; young aristocrats
come to look at the women ; young women
come to be looked at ; old men in seedy
garments; leathern-faced old females in
their working dress ; boys and girls of
every grade, generally more solemn and
touched than their seniors : a strange
mingling of age and youth, of piety and
wickedness, of ugliness and beauty.

Far up among the narrower arches of
the distant chancel you hear the echo of
the deep voice of the priest intoning the
service, the smell of incense floats down
between the lofty columns ; the audience
is still and hushed, except below the
choir, where a slight rustle of movement

is heard as people gently come and go.
The monotone suddenly ceases ; with a
crash the organ breaks forth, and the
voices of the choir send back — as if from
the clouds, back under the high vaulted
ceiling — a grand response.

Again ! and again — until at length the
duet between the altar and the choir
ceases, and a single violin, played by a
master-hand, utters a few fine, thrilling
notes of prelude ; and then, as the
orchestra takes up the theme, suddenly
there breaks forth a voice, clear, loud,
piercing, joyous, and cherubic, that thrills
the heart, and fills the whole place with
a flood of melody.

Such a voice rang out from the music
loft on that Sunday. Seated in che
middle of the church in an attitude of
devotion — my companion, by the way,
following the mass with all the devoutness

and gravity of an enthusiast — the
very first note seemed to cut through my
heart. I listened breathless. It was a
voice from another sphere. There was
in it such a harmony of daring and
pathos. I shut my eyes and bowed my
head. My whole being seemed exalted.
I could not restrain the tears. It was as
if I had heard for the first time the voice
of a sister. I wept like a child.

Flischi noticed my emotion, but he
said nothing until we got back to the
hotel.

What was the matter ? " he said.

Oh ! that voice — that sweet girl's
voice. It went through me ! "

C'est bien curieux!" he said, musing.
There is something in sympathy. You
know not who it was ? "

"No."

"It was a compatriote of yours — Meet

Cora Day — a singer who has made a
favourable debut in Italy, and has a short
engagement here, where she has been
well received."

I wish I could see her," I cried.

Nothing is easier. She shall take
supper with us after the Opera to-night.
When will your performance be ended ? "

'eleven o'clock."

Good — at half-past eleven at Sachem's
a private room upstairs. Aw revoir."

When I came back from the Prater* in
the evening I found Miss Cora sitting
with the count in a private cabinet. He
presented her. She had taken off her
hat. She rose and shook hands. Her
-eyes were dark, deep, lustrous ; the hair
superb in its fulness and blackness ; her
face was a little haughty, but a sweetness
lurked in the corner of her fine, rosy lips.
It seemed to me as if I had seen her

somewhere before ; the soft look of her
eye and the touch of her hand thrilled
me with a delightful sense of friendliness.

It is pleasant to meet another American,"
she said in a frank way. " I know
several languages, but I love none like
my own ; and there is scarcely any one
I can call a friend."

You could have as many friends as
you like," said the count, gallantly.

Yes," she replied, " of a sort — " And
then she suddenly paused. She could
not say to us what she would have liked
to say. It struck me suddenly and
sharply. I had never before felt my situation
so painfully. Indeed, I could not
restrain the tear that came to my eye.

Count Flischi was too great an adept
in the ways of the world to be disconcerted,
and he immediately led the conversation
to her singing.

"Ah!" she said, "I am not what
I was. I feel that I cannot sing as I
wished to, and as I hoped I should. The
Italian life did not suit me. The existence
of an opera-singer in Italy is hideous
to an American woman. One has to live
in your armour. You find no chivalry
behind the scenes."

Flischi, who was a man of kindly and
generous impulses, drew her out to speak
of herself. She was a little sentimental,
now and then exalted, like some American
girls, but her manner and conversation
were altogether refined. I seemed to
have come in contact with a new nature.
I scarcely slept that night for thinking
of Miss Cora. Something in her face,
her manner, her talk, thrilled me with
extraordinary interest. I went to see
her next day. When we had chatted
awhile, she suddenly took my hand and
addressed me —

Miss Lisa, I said something last
night which perhaps pained you. I beg
your pardon. I did not mean to do it.
I talk fast and foolishly. I know, by too
dreadful an experience, the difficulties in
which girls in your position and mine are
placed. Were I to tell you what I have
gone through, you would wonder that I
have been able in any way to retain my
honour and self-respect. But I have done
it," she said, lifting her head, and drawing
her lips tightly together, " almost at the
risk of my life. I am obliged by my profession
to be free, open to the addresses
of a thousand intriguing villains. I am
forced to be pleasant to them. I am
often placed in questionable situations,
but, thank God, I have been preserved
from the worst evil — and yet — and yet,
Lisa, I cannot judge others. I do not
want to set myself above you."

I could only press her hand in reply.
My heart was too full then to speak.
We remained together a couple of hours,
and parted friends. This talk with her
was like a cool draught of fresh water to
my parched spirit,

Our intercourse continued for about two
months. It was in October. My engagement
in Vienna was nearly concluded.
Cora, who had been suffering from cold
and cough, had been advised to go tombstone
for the winter.

One morning, two days before her departure,
I went into Cora's room. She
was standing in her robe-de-chambre, her
figure, in its attitude and grace, reminding
me strangely of the old cherished
picture of my mother, whom I had never
ceased to long for and to seek.

She turned to me with a pale face and
dilated eyes.

Look, Lisa ! "

She pointed to the basin, where, in the
clear water, I could see streaks of crimson.
There was a fleck of crimson on
her white chin.

What is it?"

Blood." She pointed to her chest.
Help me to a chair. I know now that
I shall die."

I took her to the chair and gently
placed her on it. I wiped away the
blood from the beautiful lips, and as I
did so there welled up in my heart a
strange, grand feeling, such as I had
never felt before. Love — a sense of a
pure and holy duty, of a sacrifice, a consecration,
I might make of myself and
my selfish life to ease this girl's painful
course down the dark and troubled river,
was stirred within me.

She was lying back with her eyes shut.

She suddenly opened them and fastened
them on me, their brilliancy increasing
as she spoke.

Lisa — I shall die soon — will you leave
me ? "

Cora ! dear Cora ! " I cried, throwing
my arms round her neck, and weeping
passionately. " Never ! never ! "

Thank God," she said, " I have one
friend. Come and sit here by my bed.
There, let me look upon your face. There
is something in it that comforts me — that
reminds me of my mother. My poor
mother ! She was a beautiful woman.
She died young. I can only remember
her face, and that she was often pale and
sorrowful. She had some hidden grief.
My father loved her to distraction. He
would not let her out of his sight, and
long after she died I never saw him. His
mind was under a cloud. When I did see

him lie was terribly changed. He had
recovered his intelligence, only to die. I
was then ten years old. One day he said to
nie, ' I did your mother a great wrong, but
it is well you should never know it. I made
her life sorrowful. She loved me so, and
I was so selfish. I forced her to give up
all she loved for me. I could not bear to
think of her caring for or loving any one
else. It was a crime. For your own
happiness you must not know it.' That
was all he ever said, and I have often
racked my mind to think what this sorrow
between them was."

She paused awhile ; the speaking hurt
her. Her large, lustrous eyes continued
to be fixed on me. By-and-by she spoke
again.

Lisa, may I talk to you freely ? "

"Yes, dear."

I half guessed what was coming.

VOL. II. S

This Count Flischi. I wish you could
see your way to give him up — to give it
all up — all this life, which has no ending
but sorrow and death . . . to be . . .
Forgive me, dearest . I am paining
you . . . Oh, Lisa, Lisa ! for God's sake,
stop ! You will kill me."

I had sunk upon my knees by her bedside.
My face was in my hands. I was
sobbing violently, loudly. It was impossible
to stay the torrent of sorrow which
had burst upon me.

At length I grew calmer. Cora had
been passing her soft white fingers over
my hair and temples in a soothing caress.
I lay with my head on her pillow, but I
was silent, broken-hearted.

"Lisa," she said, kissing me, "we
will be sisters. It cannot be for long — it
cannot be for long. See, I have a curious
wish. Read me the story of Ruth. It is

pretty, and I love it. You will find a
Bible over there."

I got up and went for the book. It
was a common American edition. Between
its leaves were a few silk-worked
markers. I took it up in my hand and
carelessly allowed the pages to fall over.
My eye fell upon some writing on the fly-sheet.
I read —

Cora Manley."

My heart throbbed, a great sound came
into my ears. I felt a dizziness of the
brain. I ran to the bed where Cora lay
watching me. I seized her two arms, and
with starting eyes searched her features.

Cora ! " I cried. " Cora! Is your
name not Day ? "

Not my real name."

What was your father's name ? "

"Manley."

And your mother's ? "

Mercer. She had been a widow.
Her original name was^Bellamy."
They were married ? "
"Yes."

Oh ! my sister, my sister ! "
I threw myself upon her bosom.
* * * *

We had conversed long. Our hearts
and life were open. Sunshine seemed to
fill the room, and flood my soul. We
kissed each other repeatedly.

Lisa," said Cora at length, " I
have been thinking. Do you know what
I suppose must have been our dear
mother's secret grief? "

"Yes, I guess it now; she wanted to
recover us children."

"And he would not permit it. Poor
father ! Poor mother ! If she could only
see us now ! "

EPILOGUE

There is a grave in the churchyard on
the hill at Mentioned, to which I make a
long pilgrimage every year. On a simple
marble slab are these words : —

Cora Manly,
Aged 20 Years and 3 Months.

Thy people shall be my people,
And thy God my God."

ERECTED BY HER LOVING SISTER.

This is my shrine of love.

The rest of each year is lived for the
quiet month I pass before this tomb.
Of my small income, mostly spent in
works of charity, one-fourth is consecrated
to this pilgrimage, and to the

care and adornment of her grave. My
time now is given to help some Protestant
Nursing Sisters at a celebrated German
watering-place. No one could recognize
in the staid face and sober dress of my
profession, the daring and restless acrobat
of former days. I read, I think; I have
improved myself. Refined women seek
my society. They know nothing of my
history. Only our motherly prioress
holds its secret. I live under the name
of my mother. The life is pacific, the
passions are dead, the lost hopes have
bloomed again, the vision of the eternal
which had vanished has returned, clear
now and gentle as a soft summer landscape
in the quiet hills.

Kneeling by that tomb, with clasped
hands and a peaceful heart, I can lookout
over the ancient-looking town, the
pretty villas among the olives, the grand

outline of the Berceau towering up towards
the blue sky with a gauzy veil of
misty atmosphere, seeming to soften it
into a cradle for angels, and there, below,
the blue bay, the jutting point of Orengo,
and lying out in the sunlit sea, glorious
as the New Jerusalem, the palmy Borde
— every detail of the enchanting'
view that became so familiar to her eye,
so dear to us both as the scene of a new
vision, of a purified life — alas ! so short,
so sad. Often as I kneel, and pray, and
look, I dream — and yet it is a dream of
more than hope, for it is assurance — that
I, the outcast, and Cora, the angel, may
gaze together with loving eyes upon some
scene even more glorious and perfect
than this.

THE END.

LONDON: PRINTED BY WILLIAM CLOWES AND SONS, LIMITED,
STAMFORD STREET AND CHARING CROSS.

Imported by Messrs. Sampson Low & Co. can

be had on application.

Crown Buildings, 188, Fleet Street, London,
April, 1880.

3 Selection from tOe hist of hoofed

PUBLISHED BY

SAMPSON LOW, MARSTON, SEARLE, & Livingston.

ALPHABETICAL LIST.

A CLASSIFIED Educational Catalogue of Works pubes
wished in Great Britain. Demy 8vo, cloth extra. Second Edition,
revised and corrected to Christmas, 1879, $s.

About (Edmund). See " The Story of an Honest Man."

About Some Fellows. By an Eton Boy, Author of "A Day
of my Life." Cloth limp, square imo, is. 6d.

Adventures of Captain Ago. A Phoenician's Explorations
1000 years B.C. By Leon Cahun. Numerous Illustrations. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges, Js. 6d. ; plainer binding, 5-r.

Adventures of a Young Naturalist. By Lucien Biart, with
117 beautiful Illustrations on Wood. Edited and adapted by Parker
Gillmore. Post 8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges, New Edition, "js. 6d.

Afghan Knife (The). A Novel. By Robert Armytage
Sterndale, Author of " Seonee." Small post 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Afghanistan and the Afghans. Being a Brief Review of the
History of the Country, and Account of its People. By H. W.
Belle, C.S.I. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Alcott (Louisa M.) Jimmy's Cruise in the " Pinafore!' With 9
Illustrations. Second Edition. Small post 8vo, cloth gilt, 3-r. 6d.

Aunt Jos Scrap-Bag. Square 161110, 2s. 6d.

(Rose Library, is. )

Little Men : Life at Plumfield with Jds Boys. Small

posts, cloth, gilt edges, 3^. 6d. (Rose Library, Double vol. 2s. )
Little Women. 1 vol., cloth, gilt edges, $s. 6d. (Rose

Library, 2 vols., is. each.)

Alcott (Louisa M.) Old-fashioned Girl. Best Edition, small
post 8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges, y. 6d. (Rose Library, 2s. )

Work and Beginning Again. A Story of Experience.

Experience. I vol., small post 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. Several Illustrations.
(Rose Library, 2 vols., is. each.)

Shawl Straps. Small post 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 3s. 6d.

Eight Cousins ; or, the Aunt Hill. Small post 8vo,

with Illustrations, y. 6d.

The Rose in Bloom. Small post 8vo, cloth extra,

3j. 6d.

Silver Pitchers. Small post 8vo, cloth extra, 3*. 6d.

Under the Lilacs. Small post 8vo, cloth extra, $s.

Jack and Jill. Small post 8vo, cloth extra, 5^.

"Miss Alcott's stories are thoroughly healthy, full of racy fun and humour . . .
exceedingly entertaining We can recommend the ' Eight Cousins. "'—
A thenxum.

Alpine Ascents and Adventures ; or, Rock and Snow Sketches.
By H. Shuts Wilson, of the Alpine Club. With Illustrations by
Whimper and Marcus Stone. Crown 8vo, ioj. 6d. 2nd Edition.

Andersen (Leans Christian) Fairy Tales. With Illustrations in

Colours by E. V. B. Royal 4to, cloth, 2$j.
Animals Painted by Themselves. Adapted from the French of

Balzac, Georges Sands, &c, with 200 Illustrations by Granville.

8vo, cloth extra, gilt, vos. 6d.

Art Education. See " Illustrated Text Books."

Art in the Mountains : The Story of the Passion Play. By

Henry Blackburn, Author of "Artists and Arabs," "Breton

Folk," &c. With numerous Illustrations, and an Appendix for

Travellers, giving the Expenses of the Journey, Cost of Living, Routes

from England, &c, Map, and Programme for 1880. 4to, cloth, vos. 6d.

Of the many previous accounts of the play, none, we are disposed to think,

recalls that edifying and impressive spectacle with the same clearness and

vividness as Mr. Blackburn's volume." — Guardian.

He writes in excellent taste, and is interesting from the first page to the
last." — Saturday Review.

Art of Reading Aloud (The) in Pulpit, Lecture Room, or Private
Reunions. By G. Vandenhoff, M. A. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.
Art Treasures hi the South Kensington Museum. Published,
with the sanction of the Science and Art Department, in Monthly
Parts, each containing 8 Plates, price is. In this series are included
representations of Decorative Art of all countries and all times from
objects in the South Kensington Museum, under the following classes

: Works in Marble, Ivory, and Terra-Cotta.

Bronzes : Statuettes, Medallions, Plaques, Coins.

Decorative Painting and Mosaic.

Decorative Furniture and Carved Wood-Work.

Ecclesiastical Metal Work.

Gold and Silversmiths' Work and Jewellery.

Limoges and Oriental Enamels.

Pottery of all Countries.

Glass : Oriental, Venetian, and German.

Ornamental Iron Work : Cutlery.

Textile Fabrics : Embroidery and Lace.

Decorative Bookbinding.

Original Designs for Works of Decorative Art.

Views of the Courts and Galleries of the Museum.

Architectural Decorations of the Museum.
The Plates are carefully printed in atlas 8vo (13 in. by 9 in), on
thick ivory-tinted paper ; and are included in a stout wrapper, ornamented
with a drawing from " The Genoa Doorway " recently acquired
by the Museum.

Asiatic Turkey : being a Narrative of a Journey from Bombay
to the Bosphorus. By Grattan Geary, Editor of the Times of India.
2 vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, with many Illustrations, and a Route
Map, 28^.

Australian Abroad (The). Branches from the Main Routes
Round the World. Comprising the Author's Route through Japan,
China, Cochin China, Malaria, Sunday, Java, Torres Straits, Northern
Australia, New South Wales, South Australia, and New Zealand. By
James Kingston ("J. H." of the Melbourne Argus). With Maps
and numerous Illustrations from Photographs. 2 vols., 8vo, 14^. each.

Autobiography of Sir G. Gilbert Scott, B.A., F.S.A., &c.
Edited by his Son, G. Gilbert Scott. With an Introduction by the
Dean of Chichester, and a Funeral Sermon, preached in Westminster
Abbey, by the Dean of Westminster. Also, Portrait on
steel from the portrait of the Author by G. Richmond, R. A. 1 vol.,
demy 8vo, cloth extra, iSs.

Taker (Lieut-gen. Valentine, Pasha). See "War in
•D Bulgaria."

THE BAYARD SERIES,

Edited by the late J. Hain Friswell.

Comprising Pleasure Books of Literature produced in the Choicest Style as
Companionable Volumes at Home and Abroad.
"We can hardly imagine better books for boys to read or for men to ponder
over." — Times.

Price 2S. 6d. each Volume, complete in itself, flexible cloth extra, gilt edges,
with silk Headbands and Registers.

The Story of the Chevalier Bayard. By M. De Servile.
De Joinville St. Louis, King of France.

A 2

The Bayard Series continued) : —

The Essays of Abraham Cowley, including all his Prose Works.

Abdullah ; or the Four Leaves. By Edward Ladoullaye.

Table Talk and Opinions of Napoleon Buonaparte.

Vathek : An Oriental Romance. By William Beckford.

The ICing and the Commons. A Selection of Cavalier and
Puritan Songs. Edited by Prof. Morley.

Words of Wellington : Maxims and Opinions of the Great

Duke.
Dr. Johnson's Tassels, Prince of Abyssinia. With Notes.
Hazlitt's Round Table. With Biographical Introduction.

The Religio Medici, Hydriotaphia, and the Letter to a Friend.
By Sir Thomas Browne, Kent.

Ballad Poetry of the Affections. By Robert Buchanan.

Coleridge's Christened, and other Imaginative Poems. With
Preface by Algernon C. Swinburne.

Lord Chesterfield's Letters, Sentences, and Maxims. With
Introduction by the Editor, and Essay on Chesterfield by M. DE Ste.-
Veuve, of the French Academy.

Essays in Mosaic. By Thos. Ballantyne.

My Uncle Toby ; his Story and his Friends. Edited by
P. Fitzgerald.

Reflections ; or, Moral Sentences and Maxims of the Duke de

la Rochefoucauld.
Socrates : Memoirs for English Readers from Xenophon's Memorabilia.

By Edw. Levied.

Prince Albert's Golden Precepts.

A Case containing 12 Volumes, price 31s. 6d. ; or the Case separately, price 3*. 6d.

Beauty and the Beast. An Old Tale retold, with Pictures by
E. V. B. 4to, cloth extra. 10 Illustrations in Colours. \2s. 6d.

Bearers' German Copybooks. In six gradations at $d. each.

Biart (Lucien). See "Adventures of a Young Naturalist,"
"My Rambles in the New World," "The Two Friends," " Involuntary
Voyage."

Bickersteth' s Hymnal Companion to Book of Common Prayer
may be had in various styles and bindings from id. to dis. Price
List and Prospectus will be forwarded on application.

Bickersteth rev. E. H, MA.) The Reef and other Parables.

I vol. , square 8vo, with numerous very beautiful Engravings, 2s. 6d.

The Clergyman in his Home. Small post 8vo, is.

The Master's Home Call ; or, Brief Memorials of

Alice Frances Bickersteth. 20th Thousand. 32mo, cloth gilt, is.
The Master's Will. A Funeral Sermon preached

on the Death of Mrs. S. Gurney Buxton. Sewn, 6d. ; cloth gilt, is.
The Shadow of the Rock. A Selection of Religious

Poetry. 181110, cloth extra, 2s. 6d.
The Shadowed Home and the Light Beyond. 7th

Edition, crown 8vo, cloth extra, $s.
Bidaa. The Authorized Version of the Four Gospels, with the

whole of the magnificent Etchings on Steel, after drawings by M.

Bidaa, in 4 vols., appropriately bound in cloth extra, price 3/. 3-r. each.
Also the four volumes in two, bound in the best morocco, by Suitably,

extra gilt edges, 18/. 18s., half morocco, 12/. 12s.

Bidaa's Illustrations of the Gospels of St. Matthew and St. John have already

received here and elsewhere a full recognition of their great merits." — Times.

Biographies of the Great Artists, Illustrated. This Series is
issued in the form of Handbooks. Each is a Monograph of a Great
Artist, and contains Portraits of the Masters, and as many examples
of their art as can be readily procured. They are Illustrated with from
16 to 20 Full-page Engravings. Cloth, large crown 8vo, y. 6d. per
Volume.

Titian. Rubens. Tintoret and Veronese.

Rembrandt. Leonardo. Hogarth.

Raphael. Turner. Michelangelo.

Van Deck and Hals. The Little Masters. Reynolds.

Holbein. Delaroche& Vernet. Gainsborough.

Figure Painters of Holland.

"A deserving Series, based upon recent German publications." — Edinburgh
Review.

Most thoroughly and tastefully edited." — Spectator.

Black ( IVm.) Three Feathers. Small post 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Lady Silverdatis Sweetheart, and other Stories. 1 vol.,

small post 8vo, 6s.

Ailment : a Novel. Small post 8vo, cloth, 6s.

/;/ Silk Attire. 3rd Edition, small post 8vo, 6s.

A Daughter of Heth. nth Edition, small post 8vo, 6s.

Sunrise. 15 Monthly Parts, is. each.

Blackmore (R. D.) Lorna Done. both Edition, cr. 8vo, 6s.

Alice Lorraine, i vol., small post 8vo, 6th Edition, 6s.

Clara Vaughan. Revised Edition, 6s.

Crack Powell. New Edition, 6s.

Cripps the Carrier. 3rd Edition, small post 8vo, 6s.

Mary Waverley. 3 vols., 31s. 6d.

Erema ; or, My Father's Sin. With 12 Illustrations,

small post 8vo, 6s.

Blossoms from the King's Garden : Sermons for Children. By
the Rev. C. Banquet. 2nd Edition, small post 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Blue Banner the); or, The Adventures of a Mussulman, a
Christian, and a Pagan, in the time of the Crusades and Mongol
Conquest. Translated from the French of Leon Cahun. With
Seventy. six Wood Engravings. Imperial imo, cloth, gilt edges,
Js. 6d. ) plainer binding, 5-r.

Boy's Froissart (The). 7s. 6d. See " Froissart."

Brave Janet: A Story for Girls. By Alice Lee. With
Frontispiece by M. Ellen Edwards. Square 8vo, cloth extra, y. 6d.

Brave Men in Action. By S. J. Mackenna. Crown 8vo,
480 pp., cloth, har. 6d.

Brazil : the Amazons, and the Coast. By Herbert H. Smith.
With 115 Full-page and other Illustrations. Demy 8vo, 650 pp., 21s.

Brazil and the Brazilians. By J. C. Fletcher and D. P.
Kidder. 9th Edition, Illustrated, 8vo, 21s.

Breton Folk : An Artistic Tour in Brittany. By Henry
Blackburn, Author of "Artists and Arabs," " Normandy Picturesque,"
&c. With 171 Illustrations by Randolph Caldecott.
Imperial 8vo, cloth extra, gdt edges, 2\s.

British Goblins : Welsh Folk-Lore, Fairy Mythology, Legends,
and Traditions. By Wirt Sykes, United States Consul for Wales.
With Illustrations by J. PI. Thomas. This account of the Fairy
Mythology and Folk Lore of his Principality is, by permission, dedicated
to H.R.H. the Prince of Wales. Second Edition. 8vo, 18s.

British Philosophers.

Buckle (Henry Thomas) The Life and Writings of By Alfred

Henry Pith. With Portrait. 2 vols., demy 8vo.
Burney (Capt.) See " On Horseback."

Burnham Beeches (Heath, F. G.). With numerous Illustrations
and a Map. Crown 8vo, cloth, gilt edges, 3.?. 6d. Second Edition.
Writing with even more than his usual brilliancy, Mr. Heath here gives the

?iubiic an interesting monograph of the splendid old trees. . . . This charming
little work." — Globe.

Butler {W. F.) The Great Lone Land ; an Account of the Red
River Expedition, 1869-70. With Illustrations and Map. Fifth and
Cheaper Edition, crown 8vo, cloth extra, Js. 6d.

The Wild North Land ; the Story of a Winter journey

with Dogs across Northern North America. Demy 8vo, cloth, with
numerous Woodcuts and a Map, 4th Edition, i8.r. Cr. 8vo, 7-r. 6d.
Akim-foo : the History of a Failure. Demy 8vo, cloth,

2nd Edition, 16s. Also, in crown 8vo, Js. 6d.

nADOGAN lady A.) Illustrated Games of Patience.

^ Twenty-four Diagrams in Colours, with Descriptive Text. Foolscap
4to, cloth extra, gilt edges, 3rd Edition, \2s. 6d.

Caldecott (P.). See " Breton Folk."

Carbon Process {A Manual of). See Liesegang.

Ceramic Art. See Jacquemart.

Changed Cross the), and other Religious Poems. imo, 2s. 6d.

Chant Book Companion to the Book of Common Prayer. Consisting
of upwards of 550 Chants for the Daily Psalms and for the
Canticles ; also Kyrie Lessons, and Music for the Hymns in Holy
Communion, &c. Compiled and Arranged under the Musical Editorship
of C. J. Vincent, Mus. Bac. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. ; Organist's
Edition, cap. 4to, 5-f.

Of various Editions of Hymnal Companion, Lists till be forwarded on
application.

Child of the Cavern the) ; or, Strange Doings Underground.
By Jules Verne. Translated by W. H. G. Kingston. Numerous
Illustrations. Sq. cr. 8vo, gilt edges, *js. 6d. ; cl., plain edges, 5s.

Child's Play, with 1 6 Coloured Drawings by E. V. B. Printed
on thick paper, with tints, "js. 6d.

New. By E. V. B. Similar to the above. See New.

Children's Lives and How to Preserve Them ; or, The Nursery
Handbook. By W. Lamas, M.D. Crown 8vo, cloth, $s.

Children's Magazine. Illustrated. See St. Nicholas.

Choice Editions of Choice Books. 2s. 6d. each, Illustrated by
C. W. Cope, R.A., T. Keswick, R.A., E. Duncan, Birket
Foster, J. C. Horsey, A.R.A., G. Hicks, R. Redgrave, R.A.,
C. Stonehouse, F. Taylor, G. Thomas, H. J. Townshend,
E. H. Werner, Harrison Weir, &c.

Bloomfield's Farmer's Boy.
Campbell's Pleasures of Hope.
Coleridge's Ancient Mariner.
Goldsmith's Deserted Village.
Goldsmith's Vicar of Wakefield.
Gray's Elegy in a Churchyard.
Neat's Eve of St. Agnes.

Milton's L' Allegro.

Poetry of Nature. Harrison Weir.

Rogers' (Sam. ) Pleasures of Memory.

Shakespeare's Songs and Sonnets.

Tennyson's May Queen.

Elizabethan Poets.

Wordsworth's Pastoral Poems.

Such works are a glorious beatification for a poet." — Athenaeum.

Christ in Song. By Dr. Philip Chaff. A New Edition,

Revised, cloth, gilt edges, 6s.
Cobbett ( William). A Biography. By Edward Smith. 2

vols., crown 8vo, 2$s.
Comedy the) of Europe, iso — 1890. A retrospective and

prospective Sketch. Crown 8vo, 6s.
Conflict of Christianity with Heathenism. By Dr. Gerhard

Unshorn. Edited and Translated from the Third German Edition

by G. C. Smyth and C. J. H. Ropes. 8vo, cloth extra, ioj. 6d.
Continental Tour of Eight Days for Forty-four Shillings. By

a Journey-man. imo, ij.

"The book is simply delightful." — Spectator.

Core the). See "Forbidden Land."

Covet Side Sketches : Thoughts on Hunting, with Different
Packs in Different Countries. By J. Nevitt Pitt ( H. II. of the Sporting
Gazette, late of the Field). 2nd Edition. Crown 8vo, cloth, vos. 6d.

Trade-Land of Arts and Creeds ; or, Nothing New under the
Sun. By Charles J. Stone, Barrister-at-law ; and late Advocate,
High Courts, Bombay, 8vo, pp. 420, cloth, 14J.

Cripps the Carrier. 3rd Edition, 6s. See Blackmore.

Cruise of H.M.S. " Challenger" the). By W. J. J. Spry, Ren.
With Route Map and many Illustrations. 6th Edition, demySvo, cloth,
i8j. Cheap Edition, crown 8vo, some of the Illustrations, Js. 6d.

Curious Adventures of a Field Cricket. By Dr. Ernest
Candle. Translated by N. Dangers. "With numerous fine
Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges, Js. 6d.

p\ANA {R. H.) Two Years before the Mast and Twenty-four
•*-^ years After. Revised Edition with Notes, imo, 6s.
Daughter {A) of Heth. By W. Black. Crown 8vo, 6s.
Day of My Life {A) ; or, Every Day Experiences at Eton.

By an Eton Boy, Author of "About Some Fellows." imo, cloth

extra, 2s. 6d. 6th Thousand.

Day out of the Life of a Little Maiden {A) : Six Studies from
Life. By Sheer and Angler. Large 4to, in portfolio, $s,

Diane. By Mrs. Macquoid. Crown 8vo, 6s.

Dick Cheveley : his Fortunes and Misfortunes. By W. H. G.
Kingston. 350 pp., square imo, and 22 full-page Illustrations.
Cloth, gilt edges, js. 6d.

Dick Sands, the Boy Captain. By Jules Verne. With
nearly 100 Illustrations, cloth extra, gilt edges, vos. 6d.

Dodge mrs. M.) Ha?is Br inter; or, the Silver Skates. An
entirely New Edition, with 59 Full-page and other Woodcuts.
Square crown 8vo, cloth extra, $s. ; Text only, paper, is.

Dogs of Assize. A Legal Sketch-book in Black and White.
Containing 6 Drawings by Walter J. Allen. Folio, in wrapper, 6s. Sd.

JJLGHT

Cousins. See Alcott.

Eldmuir : An Art Story of Scottish Home Life, Scenery, and
Incident. By Jacob Thompson, Jun. Illustrated with Engravings
after Paintings of Jacob Thompson. With an Introductory Notice
by Llewellyn Hewitt, F.S.A., &c. Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 14s-.

Elinor Dry den. By Mrs. Macquoid. Crown 8vo, 6s.

Embroidery handbook of). By L. Higgins. Edited by Lady
Marian Afford, and published by authority of the Royal School of
Art Needlework. With 16 page Illustrations, Designs for Borders,
&c. Crown 8vo, 5.?.

English Catalogue of Books (The). Published during 1863 to
1 87 1 inclusive, comprising also important American Publications. 30/.
# * Of the previous Volume, 1835 to 1862, very few remain on
sale ; as also of the Index Volume, 1837 to 1857.

■ Supplements, 1863, 1864, 1865, 3s. 6d. each; 1866

to 1880, 5-r. each.
English Writers, Chapters for Self-improvement in English

Literature. By the Author of "The Gentle Life," 6s. ; smaller

edition, 2s. 6d.

English Philosophers. A Series of Volumes containing short
biographies of the most celebrated English Philosophers, designed to
direct the reader to the sources of more detailed and extensive criticism
than the size and nature of the books in this Series would permit.
Though not issued in chronological order, the series will, when
complete, constitute a comprehensive history of English Philosophy.
Two Volumes will be issued simultaneously at brief intervals, in square
imo, price 2s. 6d.

The following are already arranged : —
Bacon. Professor Fowler, Professor of Logic in Oxford.
Berkeley. Professor T. H. Green, Professor of Moral Philosophy,

Oxford.
Hamilton. Professor Monk, Professor of Moral Philosophy, Dublin.
J. S. Mill. Miss Helen Taylor, Editor of "The Works of

Buckle," &c.
Manse. Rev. J. H. Huckin, Dad., Head Master of Repton.
Adam Smith. Mr. J. A. Farmer, M.A., Author of "Primitive

Manners and Customs'

English Philosophers, continued : —

Hobbes. Mr. A. H. Posset, B.A., Fellow of New College, Oxford.
Bentham. Mr. G. E. Buckle, M. A., Fellow of All Souls', Oxford.
Austin. Mr. Harry Johnson, B.A., late Scholar of Queen's

College, Oxford.
Hartley. ") Mr. E. S. Bowen, B.A., late Scholar of New College,
James Mill, j Oxford.

Shaftesbury. | p professor FoW her.
Hutchison. )

Erchomenofi ; or, The Republic of Materialism. Small post

8vo, cloth, 5-s-.
Erema ; or, My Father's Sin. See Blackmore.
Eton. See " Day of my Life," " Out of School," " About Some

Fellows. ' :
Evans (C.) Over the Hills and Far Away. By C. Evans.

One Volume, crown 8vo, cloth extra, ios. 6 J.
A Strange Friendship. Crown 8vo, cloth, $s.

Family Prayers for Working Men. By the Author of
steps to the Throne of Grace." With an Introduction by the

Rev. E. Ff. Bickerstetit, M.A. Cloth, is. ; sewed, 6d.
Fern Paradise (The): A Plea for the Culture of Ferns. By F. G.
Heath. New Edition, entirely Rewritten, Illustrated with Eighteen
full-page, numerous other Woodcuts, including 8 Plates of Ferns and
Four Photographs, large post 8vo, cloth, gilt edges, \2s. 6d. Sixth
Edition. In 12 Parts, sewn, is. each.

This charming Volume will not only enchant the Fern-lover, but will also
jjiease and instruct the general reader"— Spectator.

Fern World (The). By F. G. Heath. Illustrated by Twelve
Coloured Plates, giving complete Figures (Sixty-four in all) of every
Species of British Fern, printed from Nature ; by several full-page
Engravings. Cloth, gilt, 6th Edition, \2s. 6d. In 12 parts, is. each.

Mr. Heath has really given us good, well-written descriptions of our native
Ferns, with indications of their habitats, the conditions under which they grow
naturally, and under which they may be cultivated." — Athenaeum.

Few (A) Hints on Proving Wills. Enlarged Edition, is.

First Steps in Conversational French Grammar. ByF. Julien.
Being an Introduction to " Petites Lemons de Conversation et de
Grammaire," by the same Author. Cap. 8vo, 128 pp., is.

Five Years in Minnesota. By Maurice Farrar, M.A.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Flooding of the Sahara (The). See Mckenzie.

Food for the People ; or, Lentils and other Vegetable Cookery.
By E. E. Orlebar. Third Thousand. Small post 8vo, boards, ij-.

A Fools Errand. By One of the Fools. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, $s.

Footsteps of the Master. See Stowe (Mrs. Beecher).

Forbidden Land (A) : Voyages to the Core. By G. Pert.
Numerous Illustrations and Maps. Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 21s.

Four Lectures on Electric Induction. Delivered at the Royal
Institution, 1878-9. By J. E. H. Gordon, B.A. Cantab. With
numerous Illustrations. Cloth limp, square imo, 3-r.

Foreign Countries and the British Colonies. Edited by F. S.
Pulling, M.A., Lecturer at Queen's College, Oxford, and formerly
Professor at the Yorkshire College, Leeds. A Series of small Volumes
descriptive of the principal Countries of the World by well-known
Authors, each Country being treated of by a Writer who from
Personal Knowledge is qualified to speak with authority on the Subject.
The Volumes will average 180 crown 8vo pages, will contain Maps,
and, in some cases, a few typical Illustrations.

The following Volumes are in preparation : —

Franc maude Jane). The following form one Series, small
post 8vo, in uniform cloth bindings : —

Emily Choice. $s.

Hall's Vineyard. 4s.

John's Wife : a Story of Life in South Australia. 4s,

■ Marian ; or, the Light of Some One's Home. $s.

Silken Corps and Iron Fetters. 4s.

Vermont Vale. $s.

Minnie's Mission. 4s.

Little Mercy. 5 s.

Beatrice Melton. 4s.

Friends and Foes in the Transfer : An Englishwoman's Experiences
during the Cape Frontier War of 1 877-8. By Helen M.
Richard. Crown 8vo, cloth, 10s. 6d.

Froissart (27/e Boy's). Selected from the Chronicles of England,
France, Spain, &c. By Sidney Lanier. The Volume will
be fully Illustrated. Crown 8vo, cloth, Js. 6d.

Funny Foreigners and Eccentric Englishmen. 16 coloured
comic Illustrations for Children. Cap. folio, coloured wrapper, 4s.

SHAMES of Patience. See Cadogan.

Gentle Life (Queen Edition). 2 vols, in 1, small 4to, 10s. 6d.

THE GENTLE LIFE SERIES.

Price 6s. each ; or in calf extra, price 10s. 6d. ; Smaller Edition, cloth
extra, 2s. 6d.
A Reprint (with the exception of " Familiar Words " and "Other
People's Windows ") has been issued in very neat limp cloth bindings
at 2s. 6d. each.

The Gentle Life. Essays in aid of the Formation of Character

of Gentlemen and Gentlewomen. 2 1st Edition.

Deserves to be printed in letters of gold, and circulated in every house." —
Chambers' Journal.

About in the World. Essays by Author of " The Gentle Life."

It is not easy to open it at any page without finding some handy idea." — Mont'
tug Post.

Like unto Christ. A New Translation of Thomas a Kempis'
De Imitation Christi. " 2nd Edition.

Could not be presented in a more exquisite form, for a more sightly volume was
never seen." — Illustrated London News.

Familiar Words. An Index Variorum, or Quotation Handbook.
Affording an immediate Reference to Phrases and Sentences
that have become embedded in the English language. 3rd and
enlarged Edition. 6s.

"The most extensive dictionary of quotation we have met with." — Notes and
Queries ,

Essays by Montaigne. Edited and Annotated by the Author
of "The Gentle Life." With Portrait. 2nd Edition.

We should be glad if any words of ours could help to bespeak a large circulation
for this handsome attractive book." — Illustrated Times.

The Countess of Pembroke's Arcadia. Written by Sir Philip
Sidney. Edited with Notes by Author of " The Gentle Life." *js. 6d.
"All the best things are retained intact in Mr. Friswell's edition"— Examiner.

The Gentle Life. 2nd Series, 8th Edition.

There is not a single thought in the volume that does not contribute in some
measure to the formation of a true gentleman." — Daily News.

The Silent Hour: Essays, Original and Selected. By the
Author of "The Gentle Life." 3rd Edition.
"All who possess 'The Gentle Life ' should own this volume." — Standard.

Half-length Portraits. Short Studies of Notable Persons.

By J. Hain Friswell. Small post 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.
Essays on English Writers, for the Self-improvement of

Students in English Literature.

"To all who have neglected to read and study their native literature we would

certainly suggest the volume before us as a fitting introduction." — Examiner.

The Gentle Life Series (continued) : —

Other People's Windows. By J. Hain Friswell. 3rd Edition.

"The chapters are so lively in themselves, so mingled with shrewd views of
human nature, so full of illustrative anecdotes, that the reader cannot fail to be
amused. " — Morning Post.

A Man's Thoughts. By J. Hain Friswell.

German Primer. Being an Introduction to First Steps in

German. By M. T. Pre. 2s. 6d.
Getting On in the World ; or, Hints on Success in Life. By

W. Mathews, LL.D. Small post 8vo, cloth, is. 6d. ; gilt edges, y. 6d.
Gilpin's Forest Scenery. Edited by F. G. Heath. Large

post 8vo, with numerous Illustrations. Uniform with "The Fern

World " and « ' Our Woodland Trees. " 1 2s. 6d.

"Those who know Mr. Heath's Volumes on Ferns, as well as his 'Woodland

Trees,' and his little work on ' Burnham Beeches,' will understand the enthusiasm

with which he has executed his task. . . . The Volume deserves to be a favourite

in the boudoir as well as in the library." — Saturday Review.

Gordon (J. E. H.). See " Four Lectures on Electric Induction,"
" Physical Treatise on Electricity," &c.

Gouffe. The Royal Cookery Book. By Jules Gouffe ; translated
and adapted for English use by Alphonse Gouffe, Head
Pastrycook to her Majesty the Queen. Illustrated with large plates
printed in colours. 161 Woodcuts, 8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 2/. 2s.

Domestic Edition, half-bound, 10s. 6d.

By far the ablest and most complete work on cookery that has eve been submitted
to the gastronomical world." — Pall Mall Gazette.

Gourd (Afdlle.) Four Gold Pieces. Numerous Illustrations.
Small post 8vo, cloth, 2s. 6d. See also Rose Library.

Government of M. Tiers. By Jules Simon. Translated from

the French. 2 vols., demy 8vo, cloth extra, 32J.
Great Artists. See Biographies.
Greek Grammar. See Waller.
Guizot History of France. Translated by Robert Black.

Super-royal 8vo, very numerous Full-page and other Illustrations. In

5 vols. , cloth extra, gilt, each 24^.

It supplies a want which has long been felt, and ought to be in the hands of all

students of history." — Times.

Mason's School Edition. The

History of France from the Earliest Times to the Outbreak of the
Revolution; abridged from the Translation by Robert Black, M.A.,
with Chronological Index, Historical and Genealogical Tables, &c.
By Professor GUSTAVE Mason, B.A., Assistant Master at Harrow
School. With 24 full-page Portraits, and many other Illustrations.
I vol., demy 8vo, co pp., cloth extra, ioj. 6d.

Guizot History of England. In 3 vols, of about 500 pp. each,

containing 60 to 70 Full-page and other Illustrations, cloth extra, gilt,
24s. each.

"For luxury of typography, plainness of print, mid beauty of illustration, these
volumes, of which but one has as yet appeared in English, will hold their own
against any production of an age so luxurious as our own in everything, typography
not excepted." — Times.

Guy on (Mde.) Life. By Upham. 6th Edition, crown 8vo, 6s.

Handbook to the Charities of London. See Low's.

of Embroidery ; which see.

to the Principal Schools of England. See Practical.

Half-hours of Blind Man's Holiday ; or, Summer and Winter

Sketches in Black & White. By W. W. Fen*. 2 vols., cr. 8vo, 24s.
Half Length Portraits. Short Studies of Notable Persons.

By J. Hain Friswell. Small post 8vo, 6s. ; Smaller Edition, 2s. 6d.
Hall (JV. W.) How to Live Long; or, 1408 Health Maxims,

Physical, Mental, and Moral. By W. W. Hall, A.M., M.D.

Small post 8vo, cloth, 2s. Second Edition.

Hans B tinker; or, the Silver Skates. See Dodge.

Have La Vote? A Handy Book for the Use of the People,
on the Qualifications conferring the Right of Voting at County and
Borough Parliamentary Elections. With Forms and Notes. By
T. H. Lewis, B.A., LL.B. Paper, 6d.

Heart of Africa. Three Years' Travels and Adventures in the
Unexplored Regions of Central Africa, from 1868 to 1 87 1. By Dr.
George Schweinfurth. Numerous Illustrations, and large Map.
2 vols., crown 8vo, cloth, 15^.

Heath francis George). See "Fern World," "Fern Paradise,"
"Our Woodland Trees," "Trees and Ferns;" "Gilpin's Forest
Scenery," " Burnham Beeches." "Sylvan Spring," &c.

Heber's (Bishop) Illustrated Edition of Hymns. With upwards
of 100 beautiful Engravings. Small 4to, handsomely bound, 7J. 6d.
Morocco, iSs. 6d. and2U. An entirely New Edition.

Hector Servadac. See Verne. 10*. 6d. and 5*.

Heir of Kilfinnan (The). New Story by W. H. G. Kingston,
Author of " Snow Shoes and Canoes," " With Axe and Rifle," &c.
With Illustrations. Cloth, gilt edges, Js. 6d.

History and Handbook of Photography. Translated from the
French of Gaston Islander. Edited by J. Thomson. Imperial
imo, over 300 pages, 70 Woodcuts, and Specimens of Prints by the
best Permanent Processes. Second Edition, with an Appendix by
the late Mr. Henry Fox Talbot. Cloth extra, 6s.

History of a Crime the) ; Deposition of an Eye-witness. By
Victor Hugo. 4 vols., crown 8vo, 42X. Cheap Edition, 1 vol., 6>r.

England. See Guizot.

France. See Guizot.

of Russia, ee Rambled.

Merchant Shipping. See Lindsay.

United States. See Bryant.

• Ireland. Standish Grady. Vols. I. and II., js. 6d.

each.

American Literature. By M. C. Tyler. Vols. I.

and II., 2 vols, 8vo, 24J.
History and Principles of Weaving by Hand and by Power. With

several hundred Illustrations. By Alfred Barlow. Royal 8vo,

cloth extra, it. 5^. Second Edition.
Hitherto. By the Author of " The Gayworthys." New Edition,

cloth extra, y. 6d. Also, in Rose Library, 2 vols., 2s.
Home of theEddas. By C. G. Lock. Demy 8vo, cloth, 165-.
Hoi to Live Long. See Hall.
How to get Strong and how to Stay so. By William Bailie.

A Manual of Rational, Physical, Gymnastic, and other Exercises.

With Illustrations, small post 8vo, 5-f.

Worthy of every one's attention, whether old or young." — Graphic.

Hugo victor) "Ninety-three" Illustrated. Crown 8vo, 6s.
Toilers of the Sea. Crown 8vo. Illustrated, 6s. ; fancy

boards, is. ; cloth, 2s. 6d. ; On large paper with all the original

Illustrations, har. 6d.

See " History of a Crime."

Hundred Greatest Men the). 8 vols., containing 15 to 20
Portraits each, 21s. each. See below.

"Messrs. Sampson Low & Co. are about to issue an important ' International'
work, entitled, 'THE HUNDRED GREATEST MEN;' being the Lives and
Portraits of the hoo Greatest Men of History, divided into Eight Classes, each Class
to form a Monthly Quarto Volume The Introductions to the volumes are to be
written by recognized authorities on the different subjects, the English contributors
being Dean Stanley, Mr. Matthew Arnold, Mr. Froude, and Professor Max
Muller: in Germany, Professor Helmholtz ; in France, MM. Taine and
Renal ; and in America, Mr. Emerson. The Portraits are to be Reproductions
from fine and rare Steel Engravings"— Academy.

Hygiene and Public Health {A Treatise on). Edited by A. H.

Buck, M.D. Illustrated by numerous Wood Engravings. In 2

royal 8vo vols., cloth, one guinea each.
Hymnal Companion to Book of Common Prayer. See

ElCKERSTETH.

Illustrated Text-Books of Art-Education. A Series
■* of Monthly Volumes preparing for publication. Edited by Edward
J. Counter, R. A., Director for Art, Science and Art Department.

The first Volumes, targe crown $vo, cloth, $s. 6d. each, will be issued in the

following divisions : —

PAINTING.

Classic and Italian. j French and Spanish.

German, Flemish, and Dutch. | English and American.

ARCHITECTURE.

Classic and Early Christian. | Gothic, Renaissance, & Modern.

SCULPTURE.

Classic and Oriental. | Renaissance and Modern.

ORNAMENT.

Decoration in Colour. | Architectural Ornament.

Illustrations of China and its People. By J. Thompson
F.R.G.S. Four Volumes, imperial 4to, each 3/. 3-r.

In my Indian Garden. By Phil Robinson. With a Preface
by Edwin Arnold, M. A., C.S.I., &c. Crown 8vo, limp cloth, 3.5-. 6d.

Involuntary Voyage (An). Showing how a Frenchman who
abhorred the Sea was most unwillingly and by a series of accidents
driven round the World. Numerous Illustrations. Square crown
8vo, cloth extra, Js. 6d.

Irish Bar. Comprising Anecdotes, Bon-mots, and Biographical
Sketches of the Bench and Bar of Ireland. By J. Frederick
Flanagan, Barrister-at-law. Crown 8vo, \2.s. Second Edition.

sack and y ill. By Miss Alcott. Small post 8vo, cloth,

J gilt edges, $s.

facquemart (A.) History of the Ceramic Art. By Albert
Jacquemart. With 200 Woodcuts, 12 Steel-plate Engravings, and
1000 Marks and Monograms. Translated by Mrs. Bury Palliser.
Super-royal 8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 28^.

Jimmy's Cruise in the Pinafore. See Alcott.

JSAFIRLAND : A Ten Months' Campaign. By Frank N.
Stratified, Resident Magistrate in Kaffraria, and Commandant
of Native Levies during the Kaffir War of 1878. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, Js. 6d.

Keble Autograph Birthday Book (The). Containing on each left-hand
page the date and a selected verse from Keble's hymns.
Imperial 8vo, with 12 Floral Chromic, ornamental binding, gilt edges,
15*.

Khedive's Egypt ( The) ; or, The old House of Bondage under
New Masters. By Edwin de Leon. Illustrated. Demy 8vo, Ss. 6J.

King's Rifle (The): From the Atlantic to the Indian Ocean;
Across Unknown Countries ; Discovery of the Great Zambesi Affluents,
&c. By Major Sera Pinto. With 24 full-page and about 100
smaller Illustrations, 13 small Maps, and 1 large one. Demy 8vo.

Kingston (W. H. G.). See "Snow-shoes."

■ Child of the Cavern.

Two Supercargoes.

With Axe and Rifle.

Begum's Fortune.

Heir of ' Kilfinnan.

Dick Cheveley.

J A DY Coverdale's Sweetheart. 6s. See Black.

Lenten Meditations. In Two Series, each complete in itself.
By the Rev. Claude Banquet, Author of "Blossoms from the
King's Garden." imo, cloth, First Series, is. 6d. ; Second Series, 2s.

Lentils. See " Food for the People."

Liesegang (Dr. Paul E.) A Manual of the Carbon Process of
Photography. Demy 8vo, half-bound, with Illustrations, 4s.

Life and Letters of the Honourable Charles Sumner (The).

2 vols., royal 8vo, cloth. Second Edition, 36s.
Lindsay (W. S.) History of Merchant Shipping and Ancient

Commerce. Over 150 Illustrations, Maps and Charts. In 4 vols.,

demy 8vo, cloth extra. Vols. I and 2, 21s. ; vols. 3 and 4, 24?. each.
Lion Jack : a Story of Perilous Adventures amongst Wild Men

and Beasts. Showing how Menageries are made. By P. T. Barnum.

With Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, price 6s.
Little King; or, the Taming of a Young Russian Count. By

S. Brandy. 64 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, gilt edges, *js. 6d. ; plainer

binding, $s.
Little Mercy ; or, For Better for Worse. By Maude Jeanne

Franc, Author of "Marian," "Vermont Vale," &c, &c. Small

post 8vo, cloth extra, 4s. Second Edition.
Long (Col. C. Caille) Central Africa. Naked Truths of

Naked People : an Account of Expeditions to Lake Victoria Nyanza

and the Mabraka Niam-Niam. Demy 8vo, numerous Illustrations, 18s.

Lost Sir Massinger. New Edition, crown 8vo } boards, coloured
wrapper, 2s.

Low's German Series —

1. The Illustrated German Primer. Being the easiest introduction

to the study of German for all beginners, is.

2. The Children's own German Book. A Selection of Amusing

and Instructive Stories in Prose. Edited by Dr. A. L. Meissner.
Small post 8vo, cloth, is. 6d.

3. The First German Reader, for Children from Ten to

Fourteen. Edited by Dr. A. L. Meissner. Small post 8vo,
cloth, is. 6d.

4. The Second German Reader. Edited by Dr. A. L. Meissner.

Small post 8vo, cloth, is. 6d.

Buchheim'' s Deutsche Prosa. Two Volumes, sold separately : —

5. Schiller's Prosa. Containing Selections from the Prosa Works

of Schiller, with Notes for English Students, By Dr. Buchheim,
Small post 8vo, 2s. 6d.

6. Goethe's Prosa. Selections from the Prosa Works of Goethe,

with Notes for English Students. By Dr. Buchheim. Small
post 8vo, 3J. 6d.

Low's International Series of Toy Books. 6d. each ; or
Mounted on Linen, Is.

1. Little Fred and his Fiddle, from Asbjornsen's "Norwegian

Fairy Tales."

2. The Lad and the North Wind, ditto.

3. The Pancake, ditto.

Lota's Standard Library of Travel and Adventure. Crown 8vo,
bound uniformly in cloth extra, price Js. 6d.

1. The Great Lone Land. By Major W. F. Butler, Cab.

2. The Wild North Land. By Major W. F. Butler, Cab.

3. How I found Living-stone. By H. M. Stanley.

4. The Threshold of the Unknown Region. By C. R. Markham.

(4th Edition, with Additional Chapters, 10s. 6d.)

5. A Whaling Cruise to Baffin's Bay and the Gulf of Boothia.

By A. H. MARKHAM.

6. Campaigning on the Oxus. By J. A. MacGahan.

7. Akim-foo : the History of a Failure. By Major W. F.

Butler, Cab.

8. Ocean to Ocean. By the Rev. George M. Grant. With

Illustrations.

9. Cruise of the Challenger. By W. J. J. Spry, Ren.

10. Schweinfurth's Heart of Africa. 2 vols., 15^.

11. Through the Dark Continent. By H. M. Stanley, i vol.,

12s. 6d.

Lout's Standard Novels. Crown 8vo, 6*. each, cloth extra.

My Lady G-reensleeves. By Helen Matters, Authoress of
11 Coming' through the Rye," "Cherry Ripe," &c.

Three Feathers. By WILLIAM Black.

A Daughter of Heth. 13th Edition. By W. Black. With
Frontispiece by F. Walker, A.R.A.

Ailment. A Novel. By W. Black.

In Silk Attire. By W. Black.

Lady Coverdale's Sweetheart. By W. Black.

History of a Crime : The Story of the Coup d'Etat. By Victor
Hugo.

Alice Lorraine. By R. D. Blackmore.

Lorna Done. By R. D. Blackmore. 8th Edition.

Crack Powell. By R. D. Blackmore.

Clara Aug-han. By R. D. Blackmore.

Cripps the Carrier. By R. D. Blackmore.

Erema ; or My Father's Sin. By R. D. Blackmore.

Innocent. By Mrs. Oliphant. Eight Illustrations.

Work. A Story of Experience. By Louisa M. Alcott. Illustrations.
See also Rose Library.

The Afg-han Knife. By R. A. Sterndale, Author of " Seonee."

A French Heiress in her own Chateau. By the author of " One
Only," "Constantia," &c. Six Illustrations.

Ninety-three. By Victor Hugo. Numerous Illustrations.

My Wife and I. By Mrs. Beecher Stowe.

Wreck of the Grosvenor. By W. Clark Russell.

Elinor Dryden. By Mrs. MacqUOID.

Diane. By Mrs. Macquoid.

Pogranuc People, Their Loves and Lives. By Mrs. Beecher
Stowe.

A Golden Sorrow. By Mrs. Castel Holy.

Lcmfs Handbook to the Charities of London. Edited and
revised to date by C. Macedon, F.S.S., Editor of "A Guide to the
Churches of London and its Suburbs," &c. is.

A/TACGALTAN [J. A.) Campaigning on the Ox ns, and the
•L *■*■ Fall of Khiva. With Map and numerous Illustrations, 4th Edition,

small post 8vo, cloth extra, Js. 6d.
Macgregor (John) " Rob Roy" on the Baltic. 3rd Edition,

small post 8vo, is. 6d.
■ A Thousand Miles in the u Rob Roy" Canoe, nth

Edition, small post 8vo, zs. 6d.

Macgregor (John) Description of the "Rob Roy" Canoe, with
Plans, &c , If.

■ — The Voyage Alone in the Yawl " Rob Roy." New

Edition, thoroughly revised, with additions, small post 8vo, 5*. ;
boards, 2s. 6d.

Mckenzie (D). The Flooding of the Sahara. By Donald
"Mckenzie. 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, ioj. 6d.

Macquoid (Mrs.) Elinor Dry den. Crown 8vo, cloth, 6s.

Diane. Crown 8vo, 6s.

Magazine (Illustrated) for Young People. See "St. Nicholas."

Mark ham (C. R.) The Threshold of the Unknown Region.
Crown 8vo, with Four Maps, 4th Edition. Cloth extra, ioj. 6d.

Maury (Commander) Physical Geography of the Sea, and its
Meteorology. Being a Reconstruction and Enlargement of his former
Work, with Charts and Diagrams. New Edition, crown 8vo, 6s.

Memoirs of Madame de Remusat, 1802 — 1808. By her Grandson,
M. Paul de Rkmusat, Senator. Translated by Mrs. Cashier
Holy and and Mr. John Lille. 4th Edition, cloth extra. This
work was written by Madame de Remusat during the time she
was living on the most intimate terms with the Empress Josephine,
and is full of revelations respecting the private life of Bonaparte, and
of men and politics of the first years of the century. Revelations
which have already created a great sensation in Paris. 8vo, 2 vols. 32.5-.

Men of Mark : a Gallery of Contemporary Portraits of the most
Eminent Men of the Day taken from Life, especially for this publication,
price is. 6d. monthly. Vols. I., II., III., and IV., handsomely
bound, cloth, gilt edges, 25^. each.

Michael Strogoff. 10s. 6d. and 5^. See Verne.

Milford (Miss). See " Our Village."

Montaigne's Essays. See " Gentle Life Series."

My Brother Jack ; or, The Story of Whatdyecallem. Written
by Himself. From the French of Alphonse Daudet. Illustrated
by P. Philitpoteaux. Imperial imo, cloth extra, gilt edges, p. 6d. ;
plainer binding, 5-r.

My Lady Greensleeves. By Helen Matters, Authoress of
Coming' through the Rye," "Cherry Ripe," &c. I vol. edition,
crown 8vo, cloth, 6s.

My Rambles in the New World. By Lucien Biart, Author of
"The Adventures of a Young Naturalist." Numerous full-page
Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges, Js. 6d. ; plainer
binding, $s.

Mysterious Island. By Jules Verne. 3 vols., imperial imo.

150 Illustrations, cloth gilt, $s. 6d. each ; elaborately bound, gilt
edges, Js. 6d. each. Cheap Edition, with some of the Illustrations,
cloth, gilt, 2s. ; paper, is. each.

AT ARES (Sir G. S., K.C.B) Narrative of a Voyage to the

"*■ * Polar Sea during 1875-76, in H.M.'s Ships "Alert" and "Discovery."
By Captain Sir G. S. Nares, Ren., K.C.B., F.R.S. Published by permission
of the Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty. With Notes on
the Natural History, edited by H. W. Selden, F.G.S., C.M.Z.S.,
F.R.G.S., Naturalist to the Expedition. Two Volumes, demy8vo, with
.numerous Woodcut Illustrations, Photographs, &c. 4th Edition, 2/. 2s.

National Mttsic of the World. By the late Henry F. Chorley.
Edited by H. G. Hewlett. Crown 8vo, cloth, 8s. 6d.

What I have to offer are not a few impressions, scrambled together in the haste
of the moment, but are the result of many years of comparison and experience." —
From the Author's " Prelate."

New Child s Play (A). Sixteen Drawings by E. V. B. Beautifully
printed in colours, 4to, cloth extra, 12s. 6d

Neu Guinea (A Few Months in). By Octaves C. Stone,
F.R.G.S. With numerous Illustrations from the Author's own
Drawings. Crown 8vo, cloth, 12s.

New Ireland. By A. M. Sullivan, M.P. for Louth. 2 vols.,
demy 8vo, 30J. Cheaper Edition, I vol., crown 8vo, 8s. 6d.

New Novels. Crown 8vo, cloth, vos. 6d. per vol. : —

Vary Waverley. By R. D. Blackmore, Author of " Lorna Donc,"

&c. 3 vols.
The Sisters. By G. Embers, Author of "An Egyptian Princess."

2 vols., 161110, 2s. each.
Countess Daphne. By Rite, Authoress of "Vienne " and "Like

Dean's Kiss." 3 vols.
Sunrise. By W. Black. In 15 Monthly Parts, is. each.
"Wait a Year. By Harriet Bora, Authoress of "A Young

Wife's Story." 3 vols.
Sarah de Bering-er. By Jean Angelo. 3 vols.
The Braes of Yarrow. By C. Gibbon. 3 vols.
Elaine's Story. By Maud Sheridan. 2 vols.
Prince Fortune and His Friends. 3 vols.

Noble Words and Noble Deeds. Translated from the French of
E. Muller, by Dora Leigh. Containing many Full-page Illustrations
by Philippoteaux. Square imperial homo, cloth extra, ys. 6d.

North American Review the). Monthly, price 2s. 6d.

Notes on Fish and Fishing. By the Rev. J. J. Manley, M.A.
With Illustrations, crown 8vo, cloth extra, leatherette binding, vos. 6d.

Nursery Playmates (Prince of). 217 Coloured pictures for
Children by eminent Artists. Folio, in coloured boards, 6s.

BERAMMERGAU Passion Play. See "Art in the

Mountains."

Ocean to Ocean : Sandford Flemings Expedition through
Canada in 1872. By the Rev. George M. Grant. With Illustrations.
Revised and enlarged Edition, crown 8vo, cloth, Js. 6d.

Old-fashioned Girl. See Alcott.

Oliphant (Mrs.) innocent. A Tale of Modern Life. By Mrs.

Oliphant, Author of "The Chronicles of Carlingford," ike, &c.
With Eight Full-page Illustrations, small post 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

On Horseback through Asia Minor. By Capt. Fred Burnap.y,
Royal Horse Guards, Author of "A Ride to Khiva." 2 vols.,
8vo, with three Maps and Portrait of Author, 6th Edition, 38^. ;
Cheaper Edition, crown 8vo, vos. 6d.

Our Little Ones in Heaven. Edited by the Rev. H. Robbins.
With Frontispiece after Sir Joshua Reynolds. Cap., cloth extra,
New Edition — the 3rd, with Illustrations, 5^.

Our Village. By Mary Russell Milford. Illustrated with

Frontispiece Steel Engraving, and 12 full-page and 157 smaller Cuts
of Figure Subjects and Scenes. Crown 4to, cloth, gilt edges, 21s.

Our Woodland Trees. By F. G. Heath. Large post 8vo,
cloth, gilt edges, uniform with "Fern World " and " Fern Paradise,"
by the same Author. 8 Coloured Plates (showing leaves of every
British Tree) and 20 Woodcuts, cloth, gilt edges, 12s. 6d. Third
Edition.

"The book, as a whole, meets a distinct need ; its engravings are excellent, its
coloured leaves and leaflets singularly accurate, and both author and engraver
appear to have been animated by a kindred love of their subject." — Saturday
Review.

p A INTERS of All Schools. By Louis Viardot, and other
■^ Writers. 500 pp., super-royal 8vo, 20 Full-page and 70 smaller
Engravings, cloth extra, 25 s. A New Edition is issued in Half-crown
parts, with fifty additional portraits, cloth, gilt edges, 31^. 6d.

Palliser mrs. ) A History of Lace, from the Earliest Period.
A New and Revised Edition, with additional cuts and text, upwards
of 100 Illustrations and coloured Designs. I vol. 8vo, 1/. is.

One of the most readable books of the season ; permanently valuable, always in-times.



interesting, often amusing, and not inferior in all the essentials of a gift book."

• Historic Devices, Badges, and War Cries. 8vo, il. is.

The China Collector's Pocket Companion. With towards
of 1000 Illustrations of Marks and Monograms. 2nd Edition,
with Additions. Small post 8vo, limp cloth, $s.

Petites Lemons de Conversation et de Grammaire: Oral and
Conversational Method ; being Lessons introducing the most Useful
Topics of Conversation, upon an entirely new principle, &c. By
F. Julien, French Master at King Edward the Sixth's School,
Birmingham. Author of "The Student's French Examiner," "First
Steps in Conversational French Grammar," which see.

Phillips (Z.) Dictionary of Biographical Reference. 8vo,
1/. us. 6d.

Photography history and Handbook of). See Islander.

Physical Treatise on Electricity and Magnetism. By J. E. H.
Gordon, B.A. With about 200 coloured, full-page, and other
Illustrations. Among the newer portions of the work may be
enumerated : All the more recent investigations on Stria; by Scottish
De la Rue, Moulton, &c. An account of Mr. Crooked's recent
researches. Full descriptions and pictures of all the modern Magnetic
Survey Instruments now used at Kew Observatory. Full accounts of
all the modern work on Specific Inductive Capacity, and of the more
recent determination of the ratio of Electric units (v). It is believed
that in respect to the number and beauty of the Illustrations, the work
will be quite unique. 2 vols., 8vo, 36^.

Pictii7'e Gallery of British Art the). 38 Permanent Photographs
after the most celebrated English Painters. With Descriptive
Letterpress. Vols. 1 to 5, cloth extra, 18^. each. Vols. 6, 7, and 8,
commencing New Series, clem folio, 31J. 6d.

Pinto major Sera). See " King's Rifle."

Placenta Anglo JVormannica. The Procedure and Constitution of
the Anglo-norman Courts (William I. — Richard I.), as shown by
Contemporaneous Records. With Explanatory Notes, &c. By M. M.
Bigelow. Demy 8vo, cloth, 21;,

Plutarch's Lives. An Entirely New and Library Edition.
Edited by A. H. Clough, Esq. 5 vols., 8vo, 2/. har.; half-morocco,
gilt top, 3/. Also in 1 vol., royal 8vo, 800 pp., cloth extra, i8j. ;
half-bound, lis.

Morals. Uniform with Clough's Edition of " Lives of

Plutarch." Edited by Professor Goodwin. 5 vols., 8vo, 3/. 3*.

Poems of the Inner Life. A New Edition, Revised, with many
additional Poems. Small post 8vo, cloth, ^s.

Poganuc People: their Loves and Lives. By Mrs. Beecher
Stowe. Crown 8vo, cloth, 6s.

Polar Expeditions. See Koldewey, Markham, MacGahan,
and Nares.

Practical (A) Handbook to the Principal Schools of England.
Py C. E. Pascoe. New Edition, crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Prejevalsky (IV. M.) From Kulja, across the Tian Shan to Lob-nor.
Translated by E. Delmar Morgan, F.R.G.S. Demy 8vo,
with a Map. i6j.

Prince Ditto ; or, The Four-leaved Shamrock. By Fanny W.
Surrey. With 10 Full-page Fac-simile Reproductions of Original
Drawings by Helen O'Hara. Demy 4to, cloth extra, gilt, ioj. 6d.

Publishers' Circular (The), and General Record of British and
Foreign Literature. Published on the 1st and 15th of every Month, 3^.

JO A MB A UD (Alfred). History of Russia, from its Origin
-**- to the Year 1877. With Six Maps. Translated by Mrs. L. B.
Lang. 2 vols., demy 8vo, cloth extra, 38^.

Recollections of Writers. By Charles and Mary Bowden
Clarke. Authors of "The Concordance to Shakespeare," &c. ;
with Letters of Charles Lamb, Leigh Hunt, Douglas Ferrol,
and Charles Dickens ; and a Preface by Mary Bowden Clarke.
Crown 8vo, cloth, vos. bd.

Reminiscences of the War in New Zealand. By Thomas W.
Gudgeon, Lieutenant and Quartermaster, Colonial Forces, Nez.
With Twelve Portraits. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, har. 6d.

Remusat (Madame de). See " Memoirs of."

Robinson (Phil). See " In my Indian Garden."

Rochefoucauld s Reflections. Bayard Series, 2s. 6d.

Rogers (S.) Pleasures of Memory. See " Choice Editions of
Choice Books." 2s. 6d.

Pose in Bloom. See Alcott.

Pose Library the). Popular Literature of all countries. Each
volume, is. ; cloth, 2s. 6d. Many of the Volumes are Illustrated —

1. Sea-Gull Rock. By Jules Sanded. Illustrated.

2. Little "Women. By Louisa M. Alcott.

3. Little "Women Wedded. Forming a Sequel to es Little Women. "

4. The House on Wheels. By Madame de Stole. Illustrated.

5. Little Men. By Louisa M. Alcott. Able. vol., 2s. ; cloth, 3.5-. 6d.

6. The Old-fashioned Girl. By Louisa M. Alcott. Double

vol., 2s. ; cloth, 3-y. 6d.

7. The Mistress of the Manse. By J. G. Holland.

8. Timothy Titcomb's Letters to Young: People, Single and

Married.

9. Undine, and the Two Captains. By Baron De La Motte

Fouquet. A New Translation by F. E. Bennett. Illustrated.

10. Dray Miller's Dowry, and the Elder's Wife. By Saxe

Holm.

11. The Four Gold Pieces. By Madame Gourd. Numerous

Illustrations.

12. Work. A Story of Experience. First Portion. By Louisa M.

Alcott.

13. Beginning Ag-ain. Being a Continuation of " Woe." By

Louisa M. Alcott.

14. Picciola; or, the Prison Flower. By X. B. Painting.

Numerous Graphic Illustrations*

15. Robert's Holidays. Illustrated.

16. The Two Children of St. Domingo. Numerous Illustrations.

17. Aunt Jo's Scrap Bags.

Stowe (Mrs. H, B.) The Pearl of Orr's Island.
19. The Minister's Wooing".

20. Betty's Bright Idea.

21. The Ghost in the Mill.

22. Captain Kicld's Money.

23. We and our Neighbours. Double vol., 2s.

24. My Wife and I. Double vol., 2s. ; cloth, gilt, y. 6d.

25. Hans Drinker ; or, the Silver Skates.

26. Lowell's My Study Window.

27. Holmes (O. W.) The Guardian Hang-el.

28. Warner (C. D.) My Summer in a Garden.

The Rose Library, continued : —

29. Hitherto. By the Author of "The Gayworthys." 2 vols., is. each.

30. Helen's Babies. By their Latest Victim.

31. The Barton Experiment. By the Author of " Helen's Babies. "

32. Died. By Mrs. Beecher Stowe. Double vol., 2s. Cloth,

gilt, 3s. 6d.

33. Warner (C. D.) In the Wilderness.

34. Six to One. A Seaside Story.

Russell (W. H., LL.D.) The Tour of the Prince of Wales in
India. By W. H. Russell, LL.D. Fully Illustrated by Sydney
P. Hall, M.A. Super-royal 8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 52^. 6d.;
Large Paper Edition, 84/.

Sancta Christina: a Story of the First Century. By
*-* Eleanor E. Orlebar. With a Preface by the Bishop of Winchester.
Small post 8vo, cloth extra, 5^.

Scientific Memoirs : being Experimental Contributions to a
Knowledge of Radiant Energy. By John William Draper, M.D.,
LL.D., Author of "A Treatise on Human Physiology," &c. With
Steel Portrait of the Author. Demy 8vo, cloth, 473 pages, 14^.

Scott (Sir G. Gilbert.) See " Autobiography."

Sea Gull Rock. By Jules Sanded, of the French Academy.
Royal imo, with 79 Illustrations, cloth extra, gilt edges, Js. 6d.
Cheaper Edition, cloth gilt, 2s. 6d. See also Rose Library.

Seonee : Sporting in the Saturn Range of Central India, and in
the Valley of the Nerbudda. By R. A. Sterndale, F.R.G.S. 8vo,
with numerous Illustrations, 2\s.

The Serpent Charmer: a Tale of the Indian Mutiny. By
Louis Rousselet, Author of "India and its Native Princes."
Numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges, "js. 6d. ,
plainer binding, $s.

Shakespeare the Boudoir). Edited by Henry Wendell.
Carefully blackett for reading aloud ; freed from all objectionable
matter, and altogether free from notes. Price 2s. 6d. each volume,
cloth extra, gilt edges. Contents : — Vol I., Cymbeline — Merchant of
Venice. Each play separately, paper cover, is. Vol. II., As You
Like It — King Lear — Much Ado about Nothing. Vol. III., Romeo
and Juliet — Twelfth Night — King John. The latter six plays separately,
paper cover, gd.

Shakespeare Key (Tie). Forming a Companion to "The
Complete Concordance to Shakespeare'' By Charles and Mary
Bowden Clarke. Demy 8vo, 800 pp., 21s.

Shooting: its Appliances, Practice, and Purpose. By James
Daniel Dougall, F.S.A., F.Z.A. Author of "Scottish Field
Sports," &c. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, icxr. 6d.

"The book is admirable in every way We wish it every success." — Globe.

"A very complete treatise Likely to take high rank as an authority on

shooting." — Daily News.

Silent Hour ( The). See " Gentle Life Series."

Silver Pitchers. See Alcott.

Simon jules). See " Government of M. Tiers."

Six to One. A Seaside Story. r6mo, boards, is.

Smith (G.) Assyrian Explorations and Discoveries. By the late
George Smith. Illustrated by Photographs and Woodcuts. Demy
8vo, 6th Edition, i8j.

The Chaldean Account of Genesis. By the late

G. Smith, of the Department of Oriental Antiquities, British Museum.
With many Illustrations. Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 6th Edition, \6s.

Snow-shoes and Canoes ; or, the Adventures of a Fur-Hunter
in the Hudson's Bay Territory. By W. II. G. Kingston. 2nd
Edition. With numerous Illustrations. Square crown 8vo, cloth
extra, gilt edges, Js. 61. ; plainer binding, $s.

Songs and Etchings in Shade and Sunshine. By J. E. G.
Illustrated with 44 Etchings. Small 4to, cloth, gilt tops, 25^.

South Kensington Museum. Monthly is. See " Art Treasures."

Stanley (H M.) How I Found Livingstone. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, Js. 6d. ; large Paper Edition, vos. 6d.

"My Kalulu," Prince, King, and Slave. A Story

from Central Africa. Crown 8vo, about 430 pp., with numerous graphic
Illustrations, after Original Designs by the Author. Cloth, Js. 6d.

Coomassie and Magdalen. A Story of Two British

Campaigns in Africa. Demy 8vo, with Maps and Illustrations, 16s.
Through the Dark Continent, which see.

St. Nicholas Magazine. 4to, in handsome cover, ix. monthly.
Annual Volumes, handsomely bound, 15^. Its special features are,
the great variety and interest of its literary contents, and the beauty

and profuseness of its Illustrations, which surpass anything yet
attempted in any publication for young people, and the stories are by
the best living authors of juvenile literature. Each Part contains, on
an average, 50 Illustrations.

Story without an End. From the German of Carve, by the late
Mrs. Sarah T. Austin. Crown 4to, with 15 Exquisite Drawings
by E. V. B., printed in Colours in Fac-simile of the original Water
Colours ; and numerous other Illustrations. New Edition, is. 6J.

square 4to, with Illustrations by Harvey. 2s. 6d.

Stowe (Mrs. Beecher) Died. Cheap Edition, boards, 2s. Cloth,
gilt edges, y. 6d.

Footsteps of the Master. With Illustrations and red

borders. Small post 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Geography, with 60 Illustrations. Square cloth, 4s. 6d.

Little Foxes. Cheap Edition, is. ; Library Edition,

4J-. 6d.

Betty Fright Ldca. is.

My Wife and L ; or, Harry Henderson's History.

Small post 8vo, cloth extra, 6s*

Minister's Wooing. 55.; Copyright Series, 1^. 6d.; ci, 2s*

Old Town Folk. 6s. ; Cheap Edition, 2s. 6d.

Old Town Fireside Stories. Cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Our Folks at Poganuc. 10s. 6d.

We and our Neighbours. 1 vol., small post Svo, 6s.

Sequel to "My Wife and I."*

Pink and White Tyranny. Small post 8vo, y. 6d. ;

Cheap Edition, is. 6d. and 2s.

Queer Little People, is. j cloth, 2s.

Chimney Corner. \s. \ cloth, is. 6d.

The Pearl of Ores Island. Crown Svo, 5*.*

Little Pussy Willow. Cap., 2s.

• See also Rose Library.

Strive (Mrs. Beecher) Woman in Sacred History. Illustrated
with 15 Chromo-lithographs and about 200 pages of Letterpress.
Demy 4I0, cloth extra, gilt edges, 25J.

Student's French Examiner. By F. Julien, Author of " Petites
Lemons de Conversation et deGrammaire-" Square crown 8vo, cloth, 2s.

Studies in German Literature. By Bayard Taylor. Edited
by Marie Taylor. With an Introduction by the Hon. George
II. Broker. 8vo, cloth extra, 10s. 6d.

Studies in the Theory of Descent. By Dr. Aug. Weismann,
Professor in the University of Freiburg. Translated and edited by
Raphael Mendoza, F.C.S., Secretary of the Entomological Society
of London. Part I. — "On the Seasonal Dimorphism of Butterflies,"
containing Original Communications by Mr. W. H. Edwards, of
Coalburgh. With two Coloured Plates. Price of Part. I. (to Subscribers
for the whole work only) 8s ; Part II. (6 coloured plates), 16s. ;
Part III., 6s.

Sugar Beet (The). Including a History of the Beet Sugar
Industry in Europe, Varieties of the Sugar Beet, Examination, Soils,
Tillage, Seeds and Sowing, Yield and Cost of Cultivation, Harvesting,
Transportation, Conservation, Feeding Qualities of the Beet and of
the Pulp, &c. By L. S. Ware. Illustrated. 8vo, cloth extra, 21s.

Sullivan (A. M., M.p). See " New Ireland."

Sulphuric Acid (A Practical Treatise on the Manufacture of).
By A. G. and C. G. Lock, Consulting Chemical Engineers. With
77 Construction Plates, and other Illustrations.

Sumner (Hon. Charles). See Life and Letters.

Sunrise: A Story of These Times. By William Black,
Author of " A Daughter of Heth," &c. To be published in 15
Monthly Parts, commencing April 1st, is. each.

Surgeon's Handbook on the Treatment of Wounded in War. By
Dr. Friedrich Esmarch, Professor of Surgery in the University of
Kiel, and Surgeon-general to the Prussian Army. Translated by
H. H. Glutton, B.A. Cantab, F. R.C.S. Numerous Coloured
Plates and Illustrations, 8vo, strongly bound in flexible leather, 1/. &r.

Sylvan Spring. By Francis George Heath. Illustrated by
12 Coloured Plates, drawn by F. E. HULME, F.L.S., Artist and
Author of " Familiar Wild Flowers;" by 16 full-page, and more than
100 other Wood Engravings. Large post 8vo, cloth, gilt edges, \2s. 6d.

^TAUCHNITZ's English Editions of German Authors.
■*■ Each volume, cloth flexible, 2s. ; or sewed, is. 6d. (Catalogues post
free on application.)

(B.) German and English Dictionary. Cloth, i*. 6d.;

roan, 2s,

French and English. Paper, i*. 6d. ; cloth, 2s. ; roan,

2s. 6d.

Italian and English. Paper, is. 6d. ; cloth, 2s. ;

roan, 2s. 6d.
Spanish and English. Paper, is. 6d. j cloth, 2S. ; roan,

2s. 6d.

New Testament. Cloth, 2s. ; gilt, 2s. 6d.

Taylor bayard). See " Studies in German Literature."

Textbook (A) of Harmony. For the Use of Schools and
Students. By the late Charles Edward Horsey. Revised for
the Press by Wesley Richards and W. H. Alcott. Small post
8vo, cloth extra, y. 6d.

Through the Dark Continent : The Sources of the Nile ; Around
the Great Lakes, and down the Congo. By Henry M. Stanley.
2 vols., demy 8vo, containing 150 Full-page and other Illustrations,
2 Portraits of the Author, and 10 Maps, \2s. Seventh Thousand.
Cheaper Edition, crown 8vo, with some of the Illustrations and Maps.
1 vol., \2s. 6d.

Tour of the Prince of Wales in India. See Russell,

Trees and Ferns. By F. G. Heath. Crown 8vo, cloth, gilt
edges, with numerous Illustrations, 3-f. 6d.

"A charming little volume." — Land and Water.

Turkestan. Notes of a Journey in the Russian Provinces of
Central Asia and the Khanates of Bokhara and Roland. By Eugene
Schuyler, Late Secretary to the American Legation, St. Petersburg.
Numerous Illustrations. 2 vols, 8vo, cloth extra, 5th Edition, 2/. 2s.

Two Friends. By Lucien Biart, Author of "Adventures of
a Young Naturalist," " My Rambles in the New World," &c. Small
post 8vo, numerous Illustrations, gilt edges, Js. 6d. ; plainer binding, $s.

Two Supercargoes (The) ; or, Adventures in Savage Africa.
By W. H. G. Kingston. Numerous Full-page Illustrations. Square
imperial imo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 7^. 6d. ; plainer binding, 5*.

T J P and Down ; or, Fifty Years' Experiences in Australia,
{~J California, New Zealand, India, China, and the South Pacific.

Being the Life History of Capt. W. J. Barry. Written by Himself.

With several Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, $s. 6d.

3i

Jules Verne, that Prince of Story-tellers. "times.

Celebrated Travels and Travellers. 3 vols. Demy 8vo, 600 pp.,
upwards of 100 full-page illustrations, 12s. 6d.\ gilt edges, 14s". each : —

(1) The Exploration of the World.

(2) The Great Navigators op the Eighteenth Century.

(3) The Explorers of the Nineteenth Century. (In the Press.)

Taller rev. C. H) The Names on the Gates of Pearl,
*" and other Studies. By the Rev. C. H. Waller, M.A. Second
edition. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

A Grammar and Analytical Vocabulary of the Words in

the Greek Testament. Compiled from Ruder's Concordance. For
the use of Divinity Students and Greek Testament Classes. By the
Rev. C. H. Waller, M.A. Part I., The Grammar. Small post 8vo,
cloth, 2s. 6d. Part II. The Vocabulary, 2s. 6d.

Adoption and the Covenant. Some Thoughts on

Confirmation. Super-royal l6mo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.
Wanderings in the Western Land. By A. Gendarmes Vivian,

M. P. With many Illustrations from Drawings by Mr. Bierstadt

and the Author, and 3 Maps. 1 vol., demy 8vo, cloth extra, 18s.
War in Bulgaria : a Narrative of Personal Experiences. By

Lieutenant-general Valentine Baker Pasha. Maps and

Plans of Battles. 2 vols., demy 8vo, cloth extra, 2/. 2s.
Warner (C. D.) My Summer in a Garden. Rose Library, is.

Pack-log Studies. Boards, is. 6d. ; cloth, zs.

In the Wilderness. Rose Library, is.

Mummies and Moslems. 8vo, cloth, 1 2 s.

Weaving. See " History and Principles."

Whitney (Mrs. A. D. T.) Hitherto. Small post 8vo, 3s. 6d.

and 2s. 6d.

Sights and Insights. 3 vols., crown 8vo, 31 s. 6d.

Summer in Leslie Goldthwaite's Life. Cloth, 3s. 6d.

Wills, A Few Hints on Proving, without Professional Assistance.

By a Probate Court Official. 5th Edition, revised with Forms

of Wills, Residuary Accounts, &c. Cap. 8vo, cloth limp, is.
With Axe and Rifle on the Western Prairies. By W. H. G.

Kingston. With numerous Illustrations, square crown 8vo, cloth

extra, gilt edges, Js. 6d. ; plainer binding, 5.5-.
Witty and Humorous Side of the English Poets the). With a

variety of Specimens arranged in Periods. By Arthur H. Elliott.

1 vol., crown 8vo, cloth, 10s. 6d.
Wolsey {C. D., LL.D.) Introduction to the Study of International

Law ; designed as an Aid in Teaching and in Historical

Studies. 5th Edition, demy 8vo, swords
of Wellington: Maxims and Opinions, Sentences and

Reflections of the Great Duke, gathered from his Despatches, Letters,

and Speeches (Bayard Series). 2s. 6d.
Wreck of the Grosvenor. By W. Clark Russell. 6*. Third

and Cheaper Edition.

Hoirtkm:

SAMPSON LOW, MARSTON, SEARLE, & RIVTNGTON,
CROWN BUILDINGS 188, FLEET STREET.
