Vr;^X^^

>^^J!mm^»'^ilSi^mt!t-

c

>%

^^"*Vwu;7-*-

-^

^

LIBRA FLY
OF THE

U N I Ver City
Of Ill Noise

-^

^^t^

Of

a

/

I.

By basil

(Lit ^^^^^

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. I.

^t^

^^

LONDON
SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 WATERLOO PLACE

1S82

All rights reserved

^

\

THIS BOOK

IS AFFECTIONATELY DEDICATED
TO

i^. VANESSA

OF

THE First VOLUME.

CHAP. PAGE

I. In a Temper 1

II. Revenge 21

III. Rev. George Kneeshaw 41

IV. Mabel— Childhood 66

V. Mabel — Girlhood 87

VI. Squire . . 105

VII. Barney McGrath 125

VIII. Miss Masters . 150

IX. Mabel to the Rescue 171

X. ' In the Net ' 193

XI. Reparation 214

XII. Drifting . . 235

XIII. A Proposal 258

XIV. Guardians 280

LOVE THE DEBT.

soi

CHAPTER I.

IN A TEMPER.

You were never asked to the Pickleseses before,
Mabel ? ' in the assured tone of a question with
but one answer.

No, Aunt;

Miss Masters nodded, ' I thought so,' as
plainly as if she had said it, and then read out
the invitation she held in her hand. Having

o

read it, folded it up, and put it carefully away,
she accounted for it. ' I sat beside Mr. Pickles
at the Sugdens' the other evening.'

Yes ; he's your conquest. Aunt,' answered
Mabel, nodding and smiling. ' At least, he's
not mine. He was downright rude to me that
evening.' Miss Masters was still more gratified.

VOL. I. B

The invitation to her niece was, therefore, the
higher compliment to herself. She appropriated
it at once without doubt or disguise.

My dear, he didn't know who you were.
You see he's included you in the invitation.'

Because he doesn't know who I am ? '

Miss Masters would no more take a joke
than a counterfeit coin. She nailed this to the
counter at once. ' Because you are my niece,
my dear. I meant that he didn't know you
were my niece.'

If I go with you, he'll know it, Aunt.
Hadn't I better stay at home and not discredit

you?'

I can't go by myself, Mabel.'

No, Aunt, certainly not. I couldn't permit
you. It wouldn't be proper. And if you're
bent on going, I suppose I must chaperon
you ; though I like Mr. Pickles as little as he
likes me.'

'We must make allowances for him, my
dear. He's self-made, you know.'

Then he doesn't do himself credit, Aunt.
He's like Margaret's home-made wine — no one
but herself can endure it.'

My dear, he's your member ! ' in the

shocked tone in which an old lady, who gave
religion the place Miss Masters gave society,
would say, ' My dear, he's your clergyman ! '

That's just why he should be civil, Aunt.
You expect your member, like your grocer, to
be civil for the sake of your patronage.'

Not in the South, Mabel. Never in the
South.'

Are they never civil in the South, Aunt ? '

Never grocers, my dear, or people of that
kind ; never. I didn't know Mr. Pickles was a
grocer,' with a shudder in her voice ; ' I
thought he was a dyer.' Miss Masters' stupid
mistakes were made, not from mere stupidity,
but from inattention also. She never gave
more than half of her not very large mind to a
subject in which she had no personal concern.

It's his brother who's the dyer, Aunt.
Mr. Pickles is a brewer.'

Oh, a brewer,' much relieved. ' I thought
Mrs. Eoxby said a dyer. But brewers are
always members, my dear. No one objects to
a brewer sitting for anywhere.'

And I don't. Aunt. I only object to his
sitting on me. He's welcome to any other seat
in England as far as I am concerned. And

B 2

I shouldst mind his snubbing so much if he
would be snubbed. But he won't,' in a lamentable
voice. 'You might as well prick a rhinoceros
with a pin. I wasted the most stinging
sarcasms on him the other night when he put
his great clumsy foot down on me.'

It's those long skirts, my dear ; no one can
help treading on them. I think I shall wear
my black silk.'

Do, Aunt,' persuasively ; for her aunt was
given to outraging propriety by light, bright
and juvenile costumes.

Yes ; I think I shall. I wonder who will
be there.'

The Deardens and Matchlocks are sure to
be there ; and, of course, Mr. Augustus Minnie.
He's like that book no gentleman's library
shoukl be without, dull and indispensable.
And the Millions, I think; and I hope Miss
Menzies.'

What ! that plain girl with red hair ? '

'Plain, but wholesome. Aunt. Doesn't
agree with you like Miss Sugdeu, the heiress,
who does nothing else. There's no doubt
about her being there, for Mr. Clarence Tickle's
nveet sake.'

My dear, lie hardly spoke to her in her
own house the other night. I thought it was
yoii he was paying attention to.'

My dear Aunt, you don't talk of people
paying attention to a moth or a beetle. Mr.
Clarence Pickles looked at me so through his
eyeglass, as through a microscope, and asked
such superior questions about my haunts and
habits, that I think he would have stuck a pin
through me and put me in a glass case, if his
father hadn't set his foot upon me and crushed
me.' Miss Masters gathered dimly and not
without complacency that both father and son
had been uncivil to Mabel — ' dans Adversity
de nos meilleurs amis nous trouvons souvent
quelque chose qui ne nous depart pas ' — especially
when their ill-luck is a foil to our better
fortune. Miss Masters' vanity, absorbed and
busy as a bee, ' gathered honey from the
weed.'

He made himself very agreeable to me,
my dear.'

Then it was to you he was paying attention.
Aunt.'

Nonsense, Mabel. I might be his mother,
speaking with perfect seriousness.

So you might, Aunt. Mr. Pickles is a
widower.'

Mabel, I shall never marry,' slowly and
solemnly, as if all her life lay before her
instead of behind her.

Well, Aunt, I shan't press it. I should bethe
last person to urge you to marry them if
you think they wouldn't make you happy.
And, after all, rank isn't everything. " Josiah
Pickles and Son " sounds very well, but it's only
a title. What's in a name ? '

Miss Masters was little likely to understand
irony, especially coming from Mabel, with
whom bitterness of any kind was uncommon.
What was her horror, then, to hear a scion of
the noble stock of Masters talk in this way of
people who had sprung out of the mud, and the
mud of Weston ! Pah !

My dear Mabel ! Do you know what you
are talking about, child ? Rank ! Who was
Mr. Pickles' father ? '

I give it up. Aunt,' shaking her head as at
a desperate riddle.

I believe his father was a draper — a linen-draper,'
emphatically, as if this was the lowest
of a large assortment of kinds of drapers. ' So

Mrs. Eoxby told me. A linen draper in a very
small way in Shrimp Lane. I think it's a pity
Mrs. Eoxby should rake up this old scandal,
but there it is. Mrs. Eoxby has got a piece of
his signboard, she tells me, with Peter Pickles
on it. " Peter Pickles, Linendraper ! " ' in a
low voice of horror.

But is it safe, Aunt ? '

What, dear ? '

Is it safe to keep evidence like that in the
house ? Oughtn't Mrs. Eoxby be taken up at
any moment as an accessory after the fact, I
think they call it, if the signboard was found in
her possession ? If I were she I should burn
it, unless she keeps it as a relic to cure rheumatism.'


What nonsense, Mabel ! You know as
well as I that Mrs. Eoxby can't bear the
Pickleseses because they won't know hers

It's charitable of Mrs. Eoxby, then, to beat
such pains to know them. It is enough for
most people to know Josiah Pickles and Son
without going farther back.'

'But she doesn't know them, my dear.
That's it. It's spite, don't you see ? *

'Well, Aunt, it's very bad ; but, after all,

it was Mr. Pickles' father who so disgraced
himself. Mr. Pickles himself has broken with
this bad past and become a brewer, and may
sit for anywhere, and so we find the noble clay
of the linen draper stopping a bunghole. Don't
you think, Aunt, Mrs. Eoxby had better let
bygones be bygones ? '

I quite agree with you, my dear. It's nota
thing to talk about. We should be only too
thanked that there's nothing of the sort in our
family,' as though it was epilepsy or insanity of
which she was speaking. }

'I don't know, Aunt. If we cut Lies.
Eoxby I fear she'd find some horrible ancestor
for us, " who disappeared about the time of the
assizes." We all have so many ancestors, you
know, if you go a bit back ; and do what you
can you can't keep them all select. There
might be even a hnendraper amongst them. I
mean,' correcting herself at a shocked look
from her aunt, ' I mean in the old days, when
the business wasn't so dreadful. Izaak Walton
for instance, was a linendraper/

'A linen draper! Certainly not. Not
among the Masters, at least. This Mr. Walton
must have been on your mother's side,

Mabel. I know nothing about her family. I
believe they were in trade, but I never inquired,'
with an air of immense magnanimity.

Aunt, I can conceal it from you no longer.
My grandfather was a coal-merchant ! '

My dear,' said Miss Masters, after a pause,
speaking slowly, and as one who weighed well
weighty words. ' My dear, I don't think coal
is such a disgrace. It's better than soap — a
good deal better than soap — and nearly as
good as sugar.'

But not as good as beer, Aunt ? '

Beer ! My dear, beer comes very near
land ! '

'Oh!'

Yes, very near land, and marries into the
peerage.' Miss Masters, after the fashion of
her sex, was generalising from a single instance
that of one of the members for her own
county.

That's unfortunate for Miss Sudden.
With Mr. Clarence Pickles she has no chance
against the peerage.'

Oh, Mr. Pickles ! I was speaking of very
big brewers, Mabel.'

Not of very small beer, Aunt? There is

hope still, then, for the heiress. I have set my
heart upon her marrying Mr. Clarence Pickles

Why, dear ? '

To kill two birds with one stone, Aunt.'
Leaving her aunt to digest this bloodthirsty
sentiment, the young lady — who all this time
had been standing, dressed for going out — took
up a bulky satchel from the table and quitted
the room.

Our heroine is unfortunate in the moment
of her introduction — one of the rare moments
in which she could even appear to be flippant
and ill-natured. No doubt her banter of her
aunt appears unbecoming, and her bitterness
against Messrs. Pickles and Son unamiable ;
but it really was not possible to be serious with
Miss Masters ; while the Pickleseses — father and
son — had been exasperating. The father lead
been insolently uncivil, because the son had
been insolently civil, to Mabel, and because he
thought, and let her see he thought, that she
had encouraged the young gentleman's intolerable
attentions. And this was not the sole or
chief cause of her disgust with them. The
satchel she has just carried out with her was
bulky with supplies for the sick child of Mr.

Pickles' niece. This poor woman had been
left destitute by the death of her husband of
woolsorter's disease ' — a common and sudden
form of death in Weston — and, after a vain
appeal for help to her uncle, had been forced
to go to the mill, to the neglect of her child,
who thus became one of Mabel's little patients.
Mabel, therefore, was wroth with Mr. Pickles
most unreasonably, as that gentleman's reply
to the appeal for help showed. He refused
simply on principle. His niece's father had
drunk himself to death, and he had not the
least doubt that her husband had hastened his
death by drinking ; and therefore he Mr.
Pickles — the brewer who owned all the lowest
pubic-houses in Weston — could not encourage
intemperance by relieving the widow and
daughter of drunkards. He refused, in fact,
on high moral grounds. But women, it is well
known, have no conception of justice or
principle, but are creatures of feeling alone ;
and Mabel, therefore, was rather disgusted
than delighted with the admirable morality of
the letter. She forgot, too, that Mr. Pickles,
since his candidature, was a philanthropist ;
and that, as cosmopolitan are lovers of every

country but their own, so philanthropists, since
the days of Rousseau, have been lovers of
every family but their own. Indeed, at this
very time Mr. Pickles was building a Working
Men's Institute, at a cost of 3,000/. ; and was,
therefore, little likely to be heartless — unless
on principle.

Mabel, then, was not in charity with the
Pickleseses, and was put as much out of temper
as she could be by the prospect of having to
accept their invitation. She knew her aunt
too well to have a hope of escaping it. Go
she must ; and, as the leek was to be eaten, it
was only human nature to swear. We should
be sorry, however, if our readers started with
the impression, which her caustic wit and keen
sense of the ridiculous gave many of her
friends, that there was nothing serious in her
or to her. Beneath the rippling surface lay
unsuspected feelings, secret from their sacredness
and silent from their depth. The girl, for
instance, was religious in her own peculiar
way. She did not, indeed, attend daily
services, or embroider stoles, or distribute
tracts ; but, from a religious motive, she often
bridled a restive ton<:jue, and always felt

remorse if it ran away with her ; and she
visited the sick children of the poor in her
neighbourhood in a manner so furtive and
felonious that her nearest friends had no suspicion
of her eccentricity. In extenuation of a
taste which may be thought morbid in a girl of
nineteen, we must explain, in the first place,
that she had no brothers or sisters, no mother,
and, to all intents and purposes, no father — for
the gentleman who stood to her in that relation
took less interest in her than in any of the
many pamphlets of which also he was the
author ; and, in the second place, she did not
allow these visits to interfere with her proper
work in the world ; for she played, sang, and
went to balls, pic-nics, and parties, as assiduously
as the most exemplary young lady in
Weston.

There was one other singularity of hers, due
also to her isolated life, of which her Weston
friends had as little suspicion. She was portentously
learned. The number and kind of
books she read to please her father would have
satisfied a Civil Service Commissioner ; yet she
so concealed her learning as to seem, to all of
one sex, and some even of the other, the most

agreeable and accomplished young lady in
Weston. How far this estimate of her mind
was affected by her face we shall not undertake
to say. It was a singularly interesting face ;
in repose restful, thoughtful, truthful, like the
ideal quaker face. Her clear grey eyes seemed
to look straight through you, and you seemed
to look straight through them to the pure soul
behind. It was a face in which sweetness and
light shone together, and her little patients
seemed to read in it, as in a commentary, the
meaning of the Gospel stories she told them :

A sweet attractive kind of grace,
A full assurance given by looks :
Continual comfort in a face,
The lineaments of gospel books.

As she left the house, Mabel, after her
manner, was moved with remorse for her
bitterness of speech — a remorse which was
somewhat quickened on her reaching Mi's.
Mathers' and learning that Mr. Pickles had sent
her a load of coals, which she had never got.
It had been shot into the cellar of a Mrs.
Flaherty, an Irish widow and washerwoman,
who lived in the next house but one above.
Mrs. Flaherty ascribed the miscarriage to

Providence ; saying with much unction, that
if Mr. Pickles didn't know where to send a
load of coals, God did.' Her offensively defensive
manner, however, suggested that it was
one of those cases to which Joan of Arc's
proverb applies — ' Aye-toi, Dieu te altera.'
Indeed, there was little doubt that Mrs.
Flaherty had misled the carter by taking the
name, for the nonce, of Mrs. Mathers. But
the thing was done, and couldn't be undone,
at least, according to the disinterested Mrs.
Flaherty. For, in the first place, the coals
were all gone ; in the second place, they were
all dust and would blow away if they were
stirred ; in the third place, they were all slates,
and went off up the chimney like the crack of
a gun — and small blame to them, since, as
slates, they were more at home on the roof
than in the grate. These reasons seemed to
cover the case pretty completely ; but, nevertheless,
Mrs. Flaherty thought it necessary to
reinforce them by adding significantly, and
with arms akimbo, that if there was no coal in
her cellar, there was a coal-hammer there, and
any one was welcome to it who came prying
and prowling about her premises. Mrs,

Mathers, being a meek person, and preferring
to have rather her coals than her brains
scattered about Mrs. Flaherty's cellar, made
no more ado about the matter except to Mabel.
Mabel, however, who was not a meek person,
was so moved by the double motive of anger
and pity, that she set out at once to see Mr.
Pickles' agent, by whom, it seemed, the coals
had been sent — one among many hundreds of
loads which were distributed among the poor,
because of the approach of winter, according
to Mr. Pickles — of the elections, according to
every one else. Only the outrageous Mrs.
Flaherty could have roused Mabel to this
enterprise, from which she shrank more and
more as she drew nearer the accent's office.
At the door she hesitated for full a minute,
but at last mustered courage to ring. In
another minute she found herself in the
office and face to face with Mr. Clarence
Pickles !

Mr. Clarence Pickles seemed somehow all
eyeglass. It gave his face all the expression it
had, and, indeed, all it had any title to have,
for it expressed the dominant idea of his mind
contemptuous wonder at the existence of

any one else in the world besides himself. He
used it, as Mabel suggested, as an entomologist
uses a microscope — to examine creatures infinitely
below himself in the scale of creation ;
and he looked through it now at Mabel as she
entered as at a more than usually interesting
specimen. He had no doubt at all — not the
least — that, whatever her ostensible errand to
his agent's, the real motive of her visit was the
hope of seeing himself. He had fascinated her
the other evening, and filled her with the fond
hope of fascinating him. And so she had,
too; the finest girl in the West Eiding, by
Jove, bar none. And here she was, fluttering
after him, like a moth about a candle ! She
had watched him into the office — not a doubt
of it — and had followed for a little flirtation.
And she should have it too, egad !

A single look in Mabel's face would have
satisfied any one in the world but Mr. Clarence
Pickles that such a motive or action was as
infinitely beneath her as — Mr. Clarence Pickles
himself. But there are people who, like
Narcissus, can look into the purest fountain
and see — not all heaven reflected — but only
the image of themselves.

VOL. I. c

Miss Masters ! Come in. How do ? Gad,
I was ill luck to turn in here this morning.
Come in. Take a seat.'

Isn't Mr. Long in ? ' faltered Mabel.

Long ? No, he isn't. Won't I do ? ' with
a self-complacent grin that was nauseous to
Mabel.

No, thank you. Good morning.'

No, but I say, you're not going ? It's all
right ; Long will be here presently ' — standing
between her and the door.

Thank you, I can't wait.'

Oh, yes, you can, for a minute — eh ? '
Mr. Clarence Pickles' manner was insufferably
familiar, but Mabel thought it ridiculous to put
on tragedy airs with such a creature.

May I trouble you to open the door, Vir.
Pickles ? '

Come, I say. Miss Masters, you can't be so
cruel. To come in only to go out, you know.
Such a disappointment, you know. You forget
me.'

I think you forget yourself, Mr. Pickles.
Allow me to pass.'

Here's Long,' said Clarence, sulkily, as the
outer door was heard to open. In another

moment Mr. Pickles senior entered. He took
in the situation at a glance. It was an assignation,
that was plain enough, and Long had
been got rid of as de trop. He looked from
one to the other — savagely at Clarence, insolently
at Mabel. She felt her cheeks burn
with a blush of indignation, which made Mr.
Pickles' assurance doubly sure.

Oh, Miss Masters ! You've come on
business ? '

I came to see Mr. Long.'

It's very unfortunate he should happen to
be out,' with an undisguised sneer. ' On business,
of course ? '

Yes, on business,' looking Josiah straight
in the face with a fearless defiance that exasperated
him. Anv kind of contradiction, or
opposition, or exhibition of spirit was intolerable
to him.

No doubt my son did as well ; better
perhaps. As a principal in the firm, it would
be more his business than Mr. Long's, I daresay.'


Certainly, it was more his business than
Mr. Long's. It was about the relief of his
cousin, Mrs. Mathers.' Mabel, though at white

c 2

heat at Josiah's transparent insinuations, spoke
with a cutting calmness. But Josiah, so far
from seeming disconcerted, turned savage.

It may be his business, but it's hardly
yours. Miss Masters. Perhaps you will permit
us to look after our relatives ourselves.'

It's just what I came to ask you to do,
Mr. Pickles. Your agent sent Mrs. Mathers a
load of coals, which was delivered at the wrong
house. I came to ask Mr. Long to see the
mistake set right. It was hardly my business,
as you say; but Mrs. Mathers had no idea
you were looking after her yourselves. Good
morning, Mr. Pickles.*

Chapter II.

Revenge.

When Mabel had swept out of the office, the
torrent of Josiah's wrath was turned upon
Clarence.

Look here, Clarence, this is no place for
assignations.*

No, it's too public,' in the languid drawl
he found most effective with his father, who
thought its insolence the essence of gentlemanliness.


Public or private, it's not the place for
them, and they mustn't be made again ; do you
hear ? '

Better tell Long, eh ? '

What's Long to do with it ? '

More than I have, I should say.'

Do you mean that you made no assignation
with that girl ? '

Gad, she's a Hkely girl to make an assignation

with,' exclaimed Clarence with unusual
vivacity. He was beginning to get a dim idea
of Mabel.

What brought her here, then ? ' asked
Josiah, whose suspicions were shaken, not by-clarence's
words, but by his manner.

She's told you, hasn't she ? She came
about that Mrs. What-you-call-her. Here's
Long ; you'd better send him to see if she
hasn't come straight from there ; ' for Clarence
was curious upon this point himself.

Long was accordingly despatched to make
inquiry into this matter and redress ]airs.
Mathers' grievance, if there was one. Mr.
Pickles had now no doubt that the meeting of
Mabel and Clarence was an accident.

Clarence, 111 treble your allowance if you
marry with my approval. Blood or money,
you can have the pick of the market. Whom
Las your aunt asked for the sixteenth ? ' Josiah
regarded parties as markets where his son was
to pick up a bargain if he could.

Oh, the Deardens, Matchlocks, Mlligans,
and that lot, I believe.'

'Dearer is too high-stepping. He'll be
down some day, mark my words. That girl

will be in the gutter again. Is Miss Sudden
coming ? '

She's sure to come. She's everywhere,'
in an aggrieved tone.

Fifty thousand pounds safe isn't everywhere,
I can tell you. A good figure, too,'
speaking of her fortune.

I don't know what you call a good figure,'
exclaimed Clarence, roused to animation by
this outrageous statement. ' She's as broad as
she's long.'

What's her length or breadth got to do
with it ? ' cried Josiah, exasperated by the introduction
of this irrelevant consideration. ' She's
the safest fortune in Weston.'

I don't think her fortune's as safe as you
imagine. Mattock says there's not half of it in
safe bottoms.'

Mattock's an ass. I know where every
penny of it is ; and I can tell you, you might
do a deal worse than Miss Sudden — a great
deal worse. Is that Miss Masters coming ? '

She's likely to come now ! ' growled
Clarence sulkily.

There's an end to that business, then,'
rejoined Josiah with much complacency.

\

I don't think there's an end to the business
at all. Her father is one of those writing
fellows, and he'll have us in all the papers.'

I thought he was a half-pay colonel.'

Yes, he's a half-pay colonel, but he writes
for all that. He's always writing some rot or
other in the " Weston Witness." He'll be glad
to get hold of this, you may be sure,'

This was a palpable hit of Clarence's, for
Josiah was not safe in his seat, and a little
thing this way or that would upset him at the
next election. He had lost ground with the
Liberal party (which had returned him)
because he was too large-minded a man to
represent a single party, or even a single constituency.
What he set himself to represent
was the country at large. When the country
at large wavered between the Liberals and
Conservatives, Josiah wavered ; but when the
country at large inclined decidedly to the
Conservatives Josiah took up a decided Conservative
stand. The local Liberals, who sent
Josiah to Parliament, are too narrow to see
things from this imperial standpoint, and
threaten to unseat him at the next election.
Let us hope that in the meantime those in high

places who look on things ' with larger, other
eyes than ours,' and can appreciate Josiah's
sacrifice of party to patriotism, will honour this
disinterestedness with the baronetcy it has
earned.

Josiah, therefore, through not being the
man

To narrow his mind,
And to party give up what was meant for mankind,

lost favour with the Liberals, who were the
majority in Weston, and had a very precarious
hold on his seat. A slight access of unpopularity,
such as would be caused by the publication
of this scandal of the neglect of his niece,
would ensure his defeat at the next election.

I don't know what business it is of hers
or his,' snarled Josiah, with much asperity.
Clarence maintained a discreet silence. He
was very anxious that this pretty quarrel
should be made up, but he knew that to betray
his anxiety would be to ensure what it feared.

That fellow King has been going right
round, lately,' resumed Josiah. King, the
editor and proprietor of the * Weston Witness,'
had stuck staunchly to his colours ; but Josiah
was under a like delusion to that which makes

the sun seem to us to be going right round —
he was going right round himself. ' Tell Long
to make the woman an allowance of ten
shillings a week,' he growled at last, going
towards the door.

And these Masters ? Hadn't we better
let her hear of it from them, to stop their
tongues ? '

'No, confound them, let them do their
worst now,' slamming the door behind him.

Nevertheless Clarence sat down forthwith
and penned an ample and all but abject
apology in his father's name to Miss Masters ;
thanking her for bringing the case under their
notice, and begging her to be ' good enough to
inform Mrs. Mathers of the allowance she was
to have weekly from Mr. Long.'

Clarence was proud of his diplomacy, and
with some reason ; for there was not the least
foundation for the fear with which he influenced
his Hither. It is true that Colonel
Masters ' misused King's press damnably,' but
only for dreary discussions on scientific subjects.
He cared no more for politics than a
Capitan. Besides, even Clarence felt that
Mabel was above the meanness of the revenge

he had suggested. So Clarence was proud of
his diplomacy, and of his letter too — not a
brilliant production — which he forwarded
forthwith by special messenger. Thus it came
about that a little more than an hour after her
return home Clarence's apology came into
Mabel's hands. She had returned mortified
and humiliated, not least for her own part in a
scene which seemed to her simply degrading.
And there was still further humiliation in store
for her when she attempted to induce her aunt
to decline the invitation. Her aunt had no
notion of declining an invitation from an M.P.,
even though his father had been a linendraper.
It was little use for Mabel to say generally that
both father and son had again been grossly
rude to her; she had to come down to particulars
and go over a scene, which, to go over
even in thought, was like holding a burn to
the fire. The only point in the story, however,
which fascinated Miss Masters' attention was
that with which Mabel started, that Mr. Pickles'
niece was a factory hand. At this point she
made a dead set and followed Mabel no
farther.

He has asked her ? ' — aghast.

Whom, Aunt ? '

This niece. My dear, you are quite right,
it is most insulting. I shall certainly not go to
meet such people.'

Mabel sat silent. What hold could she get
on a mind like this ?

'Eeally it is not safe to go anywhere in
these towns, not anywhere — not even to the
house of the member,' Miss Masters resumed ina
fume.

He has not asked his niece, Aunt. You
will meet no one there lower than Mr. Pickles
himself.'

'My dear Mabel, you said this moment that
Mr. Pickles had sent her and some low Irishwoman
an invitation.'

Xot exactly an invitation, Aunt — a load
of coals.'

Oh ! But why should we cut him for
that? He has to do something for these
people to keep them quiet and hush the
scandal up. You are too particular, my
dear. It doesn't do to be too particular in the
North.'

I was trying to explain. Aunt,' said Mabel
after a pause of despair, ' that Mr. Pickles and

his son were very rude to me when I went to
their office.'

To their office ! But what took you to
their office, my dear ? '

I went to set right this mistake about the
load of coals.'

I must say, then, Mabel, that you deserved
it. Why shouldn't Mr. Pickles send
her a load of coals, even if she was his niece ? '

Oh, dear,' groaned Mabel, yet laughing in
spite of herself. ' The mistake was not in sending
the coals, but in delivering them. They
were delivered at the wrong house, and I went
to see Mr. Long to have the mistake set right,
and found only Mr. Clarence Pickles in the
office, and his manner wasn't pleasant ; and
then Mr. Pickles himself came in — But I can't
go over it all again ; ' flushing at the recollection
of the scene.

It was as well that Mabel didn't put herself
to the pain of going over it all again, for Miss
Masters' mind, being slow working and given
to hanging fire, was still stuck dead at the load
of coals. It was busy and perplexed about
Mabel's fervent interest in it, and in low
things and persons generally. She had a kind

of dim idea that Mabel, tliroufrh her errand-father,
must have coal in the blood.

I still think, Mabel ' — with the air of
having given the most patient and dispassionate
attention to Mabel's statement of her side of
the question — ' I still think, Mabel, that Trickles
wasn't to blame for sending a load of
coals to his niece, whatever she was

Well, perhaps not. Aunt. He may have
meant it kindly,' giving up the hopeless battle
for the present. ' Mit der Dummheit kiimpfen
G otter selbst vergebens.'

Before she could renew it on a more
favourable field, Clarence's letter came, and
she hurried off at once to tell the good news
to Mrs. Mathers ; while Miss Masters had the
presence of mind to take the opportunity of
her absence to write and send to post her
acceptance of the invitation.

Well, my dear, I have written to accept
the invitation,' she said, with perfect complacency,
on ]liable's return.

Has it gone ? '

Yes ; Jane took it to the post. I was
very glad, dear, that I got you to agree with
me about it.'

Mabel took this thing characteristically.
She had brought it on herself, and richly
deserved it. Mr. Pickles had done his penance,
and she had to do hers. Besides, not to
have accepted the invitation would have been
construed into not accepting what was certainly
a most ample apology. So Mabel tried to
reason herself into resignation — not successfully.
She looked forward to this dread party
with a mixed feeling of disgust and dismay.
And yet, as so often happens, it turned out to
be one of the pleasantness parties she ever
enjoyed, though from no fault of her hosts.
They were not'^pleasant hosts. They were too
conscious, and made their guests too conscious,
of their being superior beings. Josiah, for
instance, is, we will not say overbearing, but
overpowering, in conversation. He divides
human knowledge exhaustively into two categories
— things he knows, and things not worth
knowing. If you talk to him upon things he
knows, he cannot help showing you that your
opinion is worthless ; if you talk to him upon
things he does not know, he cannot help showing
you that your knowledge is worthless ; so
that he is not a social success. Nor is Clarence.

He is as like his father as a photograph of a
portrait in oils is Hke the original — that is, a
mechanically correct, but vacant copy, all the
colour, expression, life and soul wanting.
Clarence's idea of gentlemanliness was contempt.
It had been shown to him by the
acknowledged leaders of fashion in Oxford
(where he stayed to be plucked for his Small),
and he showed it in Weston, bettering the
instruction. This made him an even more
unsatisfactory host than his father. As for
Miss Pickles, the aunt, an entertainment meant
to her just what it means on a signboard —
provision for man and beast. Her work began
and ended with the kitchen, and when she was
not in the kitchen, or its purlieus, in person,
she was there in thought, which made her
absent-minded and given to answer in monosyllables,
and at random in the drawing-room.
It was through no fault of her hosts, therefore,
that Mabel enjoyed this party ; for Mr. and
Miss Pickles paid her no attention at all, and
Clarence too much. Nevertheless, she did
enjoy it greatly, owing not a little to the presence
at it of a young divine — Eev. George
Kneeshaw. He was one of the curates of the

parish church, but not in the least like other
curates of Mabel's acquaintance. He was
neither prig, priest, nor coxcomb — the three
varieties she had hitherto known (for Weston
was not fortunate in its curates) — but just a
gentleman who happened to be a clergyman.

Mabel thought him clever and amusing,
perhaps, in some degree, because he plainly-thought
her so ; for even the least vain prefer
the friends, as they prefer the mirrors, that
give back the most flattering reflections of
themselves. And the sweet and subtle flattery
of the deference of Mr. Kneeshaw's manner
was the more attractive by contrast with Mr.
Clarence Pickles' patronage. Mr. Kneeshaw,
on his part, encountered Mabel with a surprise
not flattering to the daughters of the land.

'Have you been long in Weston, Miss
Masters ? '

That's a disingenuous way of asking my
age, Mr. Kneeshaw. I shall not fall into the
trap.'

Lived all your life here r ' with unfeigned
surprise.

All that I remember of it. It's very

VOL. I. D

dreadful, I know,' with a shocked shake of the
head.

Very — for Weston.' Mr. Knecshaw's eloquent
dark eyes interpreted the irony of this
ungallant speech into the highest compliment.
It was a happy form of inoffensive flattery.

There's a great deal of pity wasted on
Weston, Mr. Kneeshaw. We shouldn't have
known we were so Wretched if it wasn't for the
missionaries who are good enough to come to
enlighten us,' with a bow to Mr. Kneeshaw 's
cloth.

Ah, it's use ; you are so used to its
wretchedness you don't feel it, Miss Masters.
Our torments in length of time become our
elements," you know.'

'Or is it " The mind is its own place," etc. ?
You might at least give us credit for being
jolly under difficulties.'

A young lady capping quotations from
Paradise Lost ' sounds formidable, but it is
more the manner than the matter of a quotation
which gives it an appearance of pedantry ;
and in Mabel's easy manner there was not
the least consciousness of learning or cleverness.


Mr. Clarence Pickles, who haunted Mabel
persistently, though he felt himself for the most
part ' out of ' the conversation, gathered
generally that Weston was being abused by
Mr. Kneeshaw, and was wroth. It is true no
one abused the place so liberally as himself.
Like most Weftonians, in conversation with a
stranger he turned queen's evidence against his
native town to escape being confounded ina
common condemnation with it. Just as
Jimmy Button, the Fuegian, abused his
countrymen to Mr. Darwin : ' All bad men —
know nothing — d fools.'

But if Mr. Clarence Pickles' abuse of
Weston was indirect exculpation of himself,
anyone else's abuse of it was indirect condemnation
of him, and was resented accordingly.
Besides, his wrath had been gathering
blackly all the afternoon against this prig of a
curate, who had made himself most offensive
by his monopoly of Mabel.

If Weston is such a hole, a fellow can
keep out of it, I suppose. He's not forced to
come here ; or stay here, eh ? '

Here was a startling explosion from one's
host.

D 2

We come as " missionaries," you know,
Miss Masters,' said Mr. Kneeshaw pleasantly,
smiling towards Mabel after an amazed look at
Clarence. Clarence's temper was not improved
by his being ignored.

To parties ? ' lie sneered ; for the curates
of Weston were gay.

Well, one may meet savages who need
civilising even at parties ; ' this time addressing
himself directly to Clarence, but still keeping
to the tone of good-tempered banter.

They're not likely to be asked more than
once,' retorted Clarence with a readiness which
surprised himself.

'And don't deserve to be if they insult their
host intentionally, Vir. Pickles,' said Mr.
Kneeshaw, who was ashamed for himself and
distressed for Mabel at this supremely silly
encounter. ' I'm sorry you took seriously a
little chaffing abuse of Weston ; but, you know,
everyone abuses the town he's quartered in asa
matter of course; though, as you say, he
wouldn't stay here if he didn't like it.' Mr.
Kneeshaw's apology, which to Mabel seemed
magnanimous, seemed mean to Clarence, who
could imagine no other motive for stooping

than the hope of avoiding a blow. Having,
however, no sharper missile ready, he turned
on his heel, muttering, perfectly audibly,
Confounded cad ! '

I think it's time for me to go said Mr.
Kneeshaw, turning to Mabel with a look of
mixed amusement and amazement.

And for me, too,' said Mabel, who did not
look either amused or amazed, but disgusted
merely. Mr. Kneeshaw saw her and her aunt
off, and then went home, thinking a good
deal about the quarrel, but this above all,
that it seemed to bring him nearer the most
charming girl he had ever met. He could
afford, therefore, to forgive Mr. Clarence
Pickles. Besides, he had his revenge the very
next day.

Next day, as he was going through one of
the narrow lanes of Weston, he stopped to
make a ragged child he knew happy with one
of those gaily coloured balloons which are
hawked through low neighbourhoods. It was
an unlucky present. For, as the little wretch
ran flaunting it in triumph up the middle of
the street, he frightened with it Mr. Clarence
Pickles' horse. It stopped, backed, turned half

round, till a savage lash of the whip sent it
bounding in mad panic down the street. In a
moment it had knocked down and run over the
child, reached the corner of the street, and,
instead of turning with the road to the left, ran
straight on along a short cut for foot passengers
to the Lancashire and Yorkshire station. The
path was broad enough till it crossed the
railway cutting by a wooden bridge of three
planks forty feet above the line ; so that,
whether the horse took the bridge, or the
brow of the cutting at either side, destruction
was certain. The groom had the presence of
mind to leap off, and escaped with a couple of
broken ribs, but Clarence seemed too bewildered
to do more than clings to the broken
reins. Kneeshaw, who was on the bridge,
looked round when he heard the shout, and
saw the trap just as it was dashing from the
street into the footway. He ran back to leave
between him and the bridge a margin for the
struggle, and had a moment's pause for breath
before he sprang at the reins. He missed
them, was knocked down, but brought the
horse down too. It was not a romantic mode

of stopping a runaway horse, as by a stumbling
block, but it was effective.

Clarence was at first too unnerved to swear
at the officious crowd which gathered round
them in a moment, though he had the presence
of mind to intercept some brandy meant for
Kneeshaw. Indeed, he needed it the most of
the two. Kneeshaw, who had no bones-broken,
and did not yet feel his bruises, was
giving collected orders to the men who were
busy about the fallen horse, while Clarence was
shivering as in an ague. The brandy, however,
so restored him to himself that he was soon
able to abuse the men who were cutting the
traces as a set of bunglers, his groom as a confounded
coward, and the child he had run over
as an infernal little beggar's brat.

A man has naturally a very kindly feeling
towards "anyone whose life he has just saved,
but this Clarence soon dissipated.

'Look here, Mr. Pickles,' said Kneeshaw,
quitting the horse's head to come up to the
side of the trap, ' if you can't thank God for
your life except by swearing, you'd better hold
your tongue.' And, without waiting to catch

Clarence's muttered reply, he walked back to
look after the child that was run over.

On the other hand, a man must be very-generous
to feel duly grateful for so big a debt
as his life ; and as Clarence's failing was not
generosity, it would surprise no one who knew
human nature to hear that he was not brought
to feel more kindly towards Kneeshaw through
the mortifying consciousness of owing him
what he never could pay.

CHAPTER III.

REV. GEORGE KNEESHAW.

Isn't Mr. Kneeshaw down yet ? ' asked Mr.
Gant, in an aggrieved voice.

No, sir,' replied the little maid ; ' but I
think he is getting up, and will be down in a
few minutes. Will you step in, sir ? '

Thank you, I shall go up to his room,'
said Mr. Gant curtly.

Mr. Gant, the senior curate of the parish
church of Weston, was righteously enraged
with his colleague, whose weddings he had had
to take that morning. It was Mr. Kneeshaw's
week of surplice duty, but as he lived a mile
from the church, and did not turn up that
morning for the weddings, the clerk had
natural recourse to Mr. Gant, whose lodgings
were at hand. Now nothing tried Mr. Gant's
easily turned temper more than weddings as
they were conducted at the parish church. A

marriage, which was a piece of business to the
clerk and an entertainment to the bridal party,
was a sacrament to him, and seldom was one
celebrated by him without the clashing of
these conflicting views. This morning, especially,
the profanity of the clerk in treating the
weddings as a piece of business, and of the
bridal party in treating them as occasions of
unseemly rejoicing, had been flagrant and
exasperating. Therefore Mr. Gant spoke
sharply to the little maid, and strode sternly
upstairs.

Kneeshaw ! ' he cried aloud, as he
stumbled over the boots at that gentleman's
door. ' Kneeshaw, I say ! '

A profound snore was the response.

Having knocked twice impatiently at the
door, with no better result, ]mr. Gant turned
the handle and entered the room. His first
step landed him in the bath, his next on a pile
of books. Resting here for a moment till his
eye grew used enough to the dimness to steer
him clear through the confusion of books,
boots, bath, clubs, and dumb bells which
littered the floor, Mr. Gant picked his way to
the bedside. Here a chair, with a candle

burnt to the socket and a volume of natural
history upon it, showed for what Mr. Knee-shaw
had borrowed from sleep the hours he
was now paying back with interest. The truth
is, that, partly from the excitement and partly
from the pain of last night's adventure, Mr.
Kneeshaw couldn't get asleep till the small
hours of the morning.

Kneeshaw ! ' cried Mr. Gant, shaking the
sleeper sharply by the shoulder. ' I say, Knee-shaw
! '

Is that you, Gant ? ' muttered Mr. Knee-shaw
sleepily. ' What's the matter ? '

Matter ! Do you know what o'clock it
is?'

I suppose a man must be wide awake to
know what o'clock it is,' growled Mr. Knee-shaw,
with mild but ill-timed facetiousness.
Do you want me to take your matins for
you ? '

Now Mr. Gant's six-o'clock matins, as he
termed that mechanical monologue, which he
pattered over in an empty school-house at the
rate and with the expression appropriate to
This is the house that Jack built,' was'a sore
subject between these uncongenial colleagues.

No,' said the exasperated Gant ; ' but I
don't want to take your weddings for you ; and
you must allow me to say that it is a scandal
and a disgrace to a priest to set such an
example of sloth.'

Well, I don't know,' yawned the imperturbable
Kneeshaw, as he sat up and stretched
himself. ' What saith the Psalmist, " Let the
saints rejoice in their beds " ? I don't call it
rejoicing m your bed to get up at five o'clock.
All the same, Gant, I am sorry I overslept myself,
and let you in for the weddings. Pay you
in funerals next week. Stay and have some
breakfast, will you ? '

'Thank you, I have breakfasted,' replied
Mr. Gant sourly, retreating before his colleague's
coolness with an irritating sense of
impotence. ' I have my sick to see after.
Good morning.'

Good morning. I say, would you mind
telling Fritters I shall be down in half an
hour ? '

Fritters ' was Mr. Kneeshaw's name for
the little maid, in allusion to her person and
toilet generally, which were scant and slippery,
but especially to her mode of dressing her hair.

Fritters, by the way, a maid-of-all-work of
twelve years, took the name from him, as she
woiikl have taken anything from him, very
kindly, but resented its use by another.

Mr. Gant being gone, Mr. Kneeshaw lay in
bed a little with his thoughts turned naturally
upon his colleague. ' What a prig that fellow
is ! He has cultivated his natural dulness by
reading dull books till he has become so stultified
as to think himself clever. Yet the fellow
never really thinks or studies. He cannot
maintain or even understand an argument, and
cannot construe correctly a chapter in the
Greek Testament. He crept through a theological
college, was ploughed for deacon's
orders, and passed a year afterwards only by
cribbing and copying. Yet the bishop's hands
were no sooner off his head than he claimed a
reverence for himself that he would be the last
to yield the bishop. It is good to hear him
show up the ignorance of the chaplain who
plucked him, and the profanity of the bishop
who ordained him on the strength of an apostolic
succession that has changed nothing in
him but his dress. He may well hold on by
apostolical succession,' said Mr. Kneeshaw ;

it's all he has to boast of. K a man has no
natural claims on our respect, he must fall
back on supernatural claims. If the O'Mulh-
gan had been less out at elbows, he would
have bragged less of his descent from Brian
Boroo. That forged draft was all the cash he
had.'

Having thus established to his satisfaction a
natural connection between silliness and ritualism,
Mr. Kneeshaw addressed himself to his
toilet.

Meantime Mr. Gant, on his way to his work,
had his thoughts equally busy about Mr. Knee-shaw.
' What made that fellow become a
priest? He laughs at our Holy Church, lier
orders, her sacraments, even her creeds. He
said to Mawson the other day that the Athanasian
Creed was like Temple Bar with the
skulls on it — out of date, either as a landmark,
a barrier, or a scarecrow, and the sooner it was
swept away the better ! Good Heavens
This man eats the bread of the Church, and
thus bites the hand that feeds him ! '

The question that Mr. Gant asked himself,
What brought this Jonah into the ship of the
Church ? ' — ' Que diable allait-il faire dans cette

galere ? ' — will perhaps perplex our readers as
much as it did Mr. Gant. The truth is, George
Kneeshaw drifted into the Church. His father,
himself a clergyman, always intended him for
the ministry; his mother set her heart upon
his entering it, and he himself did not feel
himself at first unfit for it. But he soon began
to find out his mistake.

To begin with, he had a most uncomfortable
curacy. Dr. Clancy, his rector, the Vicar
of Weston, who originally was a missionary,
then an usher, then head master of the Hertford
Grammar School, and then Vicar of Weston,
treated his curates as fourth-form schoolboys.
As a rule, therefore, no one who had any self-respect
could endure to serve under him. Nor
did he seek such to serve under him. He
preferred to justify the wide interval he maintained
between himself and his curates by
choosing such as were far his inferiors in learning
and intellect ; and as he was neither an
able man nor a profound scholar he had to go
low down for his recruits. These recruits were
promoted to all the livings in and about
Weston of which the vicar had or obtained the
patronage ; and so it came about that the

clergy of the town and neighbourhood were, asa
rule, of a very inferior class. George Knee-shaw,
however, though a gentleman and scholar,
and the last man the Doctor would have chosen
for curate, or who would have chosen the
Doctor for rector, had accepted a nomination
to the parish church of Weston on the recommendation
of his uncle, a college friend of the
vicar. Rector and curate were not long in
finding out their mistake, which could not now,
however, be rectified for two years, the term of
a first curacy. Kneeshaw was the three things
Dr. Clancy ' most highly held in hate ' in a
curate — able, independent, and Broad Church ;
while Dr. Clancy seemed to Kneeshaw, not
perhaps altogether justly, the incarnation of
cant — a man whose idea of religion was
unctuous talk, who believed, so to speak, in
soft money ' — in an unlimited and irredeemable
issue of paper.

Thus, to begin with, Kneeshaw had a very
uncomfortable curacy. But this was not all,
or nearly all, or anything indeed, compared
with another great and growing trouble of his
life. Less than a year after his ordination he
began to find that he had entered a haunted

house, or, rather, a house with a haunted room
in it. We cannot better express his position in
the Church. In most respects it was a very
pleasant position. It made him master of his
own time ; allowed him some leisure to read ;
gave him a choice of friends wide as the parish,
and brought him into a kindly relationship to
the poor that he thought more of and made
more of than most clergymen. But this position
he held on the terms of his acceptance of
creeds, articles, and doctrines that seemed to
him to conflict with each other and with reason.
At first he stilled his conscience with the thought
that, as beyond dispute the Articles looked towards
Geneva and the Liturgy towards Some,
no clergyman could accept the two together
without reservation. But a slight acquaintance
with the clergy of Weston — who, as we have
said, were, as a rule, of a very inferior class —
convinced him that they accepted absolute contradictions
in perfect good faith, their consciences
in this matter being much clearer than
their brains. In fact, his intercourse with the
Weston clergy rather deepened than lightened
his sense of responsibility, for no reasonable
man could listen to their arguments without his

VOL. I. E

faith being shaken. Naturally, though illogically,
Kneeshaw's contempt for the advocates extended
to contempt for their cause, and his scepticism
inter their treatment became more confirmed
and profound. At first he faced and fought his
doubts fiercely.

He would not make his judgment blind ;
He faced the spectres of the mind
To lay them.

But they were not laid. When he seemed
to have exorcised them they returned sevenfold
and irresistible till he fled before them, and
lived now, as we have said, in a house with a
haunted room in it, whose door he shunned to
open and shuddered even to pass. He declined
controversy, put aside apologies and
aids to faith, where he found ' no light, but
rather darkness visible ' — which but manifested
the difficulties they were designed to clear —
and returned to his study of natural history,
in which he delighted most and found most
distraction. Lock the haunted chamber as he
would, however, he could not lock out the
horror of it from his mind. It was always
there, latent or evident, and affected his whole
life, in some respects, curiously enough, for

good. Practically, scepticism wrought in him
the zeal of a religion. It made him sometimes
sour and cynical in speech, especially in his
intercourse with his brother clergy, but in
act it seemed to double his natural kindliness.
Naturally he was very generous — to
the weak and dependent generosity itself —
with women gentle as a woman, with children
childlike as a child, humble with the poor,
homely with the simple, kindly to every
creature with the claim of helplessness. Now
this natural kindliness was raised by his
scepticism into a religion, in part through his
eagerness to atone for the heterodoxy of his
thoughts by the orthodoxy of his life, and in
part through the hope that his life might re-act
upon his thoughts to their reconversion — a
hope founded on a text in the New Testament
and encouraged by the advice of his friend
Archer Lawley, Yicar of Fenton, a Broad
Churchman, with whom George spent every
spare hour. Those who think that he should
not have allowed his conscience to be sophisticated
by this hope may have the satisfaction
of knowing that the sin brought its own
punishment with it. George was haunted and

E 2

Zi^ OF .aiNO.s

unhappy, flying before a spectre he had not
the courage to face again,

Like one that on a lonesome road
Doth walk in fear and dread,
And having once turn'd round, walks on,
And turns no more his head ;
Because he knows a frightful fiend
Doth close behind him tread.

When he had dressed himself with some
difficulty — for he was badly bruised and could
not stir his right arm without pain — and had
got downstairs, he found Fritters in tribulation.
A meerschaum pipe had fallen upon a glass
case containing a loathsome array of specimens
of the British spider which George had collected
and arranged ; and Fritters, stooping over the
wreck, was divided between her horror of the
spiders and her desire to pick the pipe and the
shattered glass out from among them.

Oh, please, sir, I done it,' she cried, with
a fresh outburst of tears. ' I was standing on
a chair abolishing of the bookcase, when I
shook down the pipe from the top on to the
glass case. Eh, whatever maun I do ? '

Pooh I ' said George, taking up the pipe
to find a hairy and hideous specimen crushed
out of all recognition under its bowl. * Don't

be a child, Fritters ' — Fritters was of the
mature age of twelve — ' there isn't much harm
done, and crying won't mend it, anyhow.' He
was under the fond delusion that Fritters was
bemoaning his loss and deprecating his anger,
though nothing could be farther from her
thoughts.

Eh ! but shoo will go on though,' said
Fritters, not in the least consoled. ' Ye mind
how shoo called me for a week for blackening
of your boots, sir, and that was nowt to this,'
looking disconsolately at the shattered case.

George couldn't help a smile at his egotistical
delusion that Fritters' concern was about
him, while at the same time he was pleased by
her faith in his forgiveness. ' She'll think it
was I, Fritters,' said he, putting his hand kindly
on the girl's shoulder.

But, please, sir, if shoo ax you if I done
it ? ^ asked Fritters anxiously, knowing George
was a soft one and fearing he might not have
the strength of mind to tell a direct he.

She can't ask me if I say, " Miss Skinner,
I have had a misfortune ; would you kindly
send Fritters for the glazier ? " '

Fritters was as much tickled as relieved by

the idea of doing Miss Skinner in this ingenious
way ; and her crushing terror of that virago
having been removed, there was room in her
heart for lighter anxieties to stir. ' Please, sir,
was it a particular un ? ' she asked, looking at
the scrunched spider with an expression in
which natural abhorrence and an affectation of
interest struggled together ludicrously.

'It was a specimen of the Argyroneta
aquatic, Fritters,' said George solemnly.

Was it though ? ' exclaimed Fritters, looking
now with awe on the brute. 'And the
glass will be sentence mayhap ? ' Here she
felt on surer ground, for sentence was deducted
from her scanty last quarter's wages for a pane
she put her elbow through. Suddenly, to
George's surprise, she began to cry more
silently, but more profusely than ever. 'I'm
nowt but trouble to you, sir,' she sobbed, ' but
I will learn them tables.'

This heroic resolution referred to tasks Mr.
Kneeshaw set her. He gave Flitters the only
thing he ever grudged to give — his time — borrowing
her from Miss Skinner for half an hour
of an evening to teach her to read, write, and
cipher. The girl was a foundling from the

workhouse, recommended to George by her
friendlessness, and as she took the opportunity of
her evening lesson to tell him her griefs and
grievances, she soon learned to look on him asher
Deus ex macJiind to get her out of scrapes
She felt besides that there was a bond between
them in their common awe of Miss Skinner,
who ruled George nearly as despotically as she
did Fritters.

Of course you'll learn the tables,' said
George soothingly, touched by the feeling she
showed ; ' but I'll tell you what. Fritters, if
Miss Skinner sees you've been crying, she'll
know you've been in mischief.' This was
effective, especially as it was reinforced by a
shrill cry from the kitchen.

Georgia ! ' — the workhouse mistress, who
was childless, had christened the foundling after
her husband — ' Georgia ! 
of-upstairs and - not-a-hand-put - to - the-boots
-and-knives when-it-is-a'most-time-tom begetting
dinner - ready you - lazy idle - 
! ' This discharge of shrapnel,
shot out as one word, was very effective, and
brought down Fritters instantaneously. George
also felt, as it was meant he should, the

reproach of lateness and laziness, and sat down
to devour his breakfast and the Weston
Witness simultaneously, after the manner of
bachelors. He soon came across a paragraph
of some interest, which he read with a grim
smile.

Our readers will be concerned to hear of
an accident, which was like to have had a fatal
termination, and which happened last evening
to Mr. Clarence Pickles, son of our respected
member. As Mr. Pickles was driving down
Sugg Lane — which it will be remembered is
the short way from Driffield Street to the Lancashire
and Yorkshire Station — a little urchin
ran out of one of the houses in that swarming
neighbourhood, waving a red flag in the face
of the horse. The high-spirited animal took
fright, became uncontrollable, and bolted, and,
having knocked down and run over the child
which was the cause of all the mischief, dashed
from Sugg Lane into Slater's Alley — the footway
which crosses the railway cutting by the
plank bridge. Here the groom lost his nerve
and leaped off, but Mr. Pickles fortunately
stuck manfully to his post, though he could not
guide the panic-stricken animal so as to prevent

its knocking down the Eev. Mr. Kneeshaw, one
of the curates of the parish church, who,
however, we are happy to say, escaped without
serious injury. As the shaft struck the reverend
gentleman, the horse stumbled and came
down within a few yards of the cutting, into
which, in all human probability, it must have
plunged but for this timely and most providential
accident. The horse, which was a very
valuable animal, was seriously injured, and the
harness, either maliciously, or, as we prefer to
think, officiously, was cut to pieces by the
crowd that collected about the scene of the
accident. The groom had two ribs broken in
his fall, and the child, which was run over and
had both its legs fractured, les in a precarious
state, its mother obstinately opposing its removal
to the Infirmary.'

In this piece of penny a-lining, George read
the frank hand of Mr. Pickles ; and indeed the
reporter, hearing of the accident, had judiciously
gone to head-quarters to ensure the
correctness of his account. Mr. Pickles would
probably have given a truer, or at least a more
plausible, narrative of the affair if the reporter
had not come upon him while still in a state of

irritation against Mr. Kneesliaw and not cool
enough to calculate the evidence against such a
version of the accident. George was not the
man to talk or think much of his part in the
affair, and was more amused than aggrieved by
the paragraph, so far as it concerned himself;
that part of it, however, in which the reporter,
echoing Mr. Pickles, showed less concern for
the injured child than for the injured horse and
harness, was not amusing. George had seen
the little fellow immediately after the accident,
and could not get the white face, patient from
excess of pain, out of his thoughts as he lay
awake in the night ; and now he hurried over
his breakfast that he might go to see what
could be done for the child.

Su(]^2[ Lane, with its two fforf^eous sin
palaces, many foul and foetid beer shops, and its
sordid, squalid, crowded homes, was like one
of those women who might be seen of a
morning standing about its pavement — frowsy,
slatternly, down-at-heel, and unwholesome-looking,
a tawdry ribbon or two making her
rags look more wretched. In a sunken cellar
in this unlovely lane lay the little child that
was run over — Squire Lumb. ' Squire,' ' Colonel,*

* Captain and even ' Lord are not
uncommon Christian names in the levelling
West Eiding. The little Squire lay lost in a
corner of a great bed which took up a third of
the cellar, and which he shared at night with
his father and mother. His mother had left
the wash-tub to coax him into lying quiet, for
he was very restless and feverish.

Lig thee dean, toy, does nah.' ^

May I come in, Mrs. Lumb ? '

Come forwards, Mr. Kneeshaw, and sit thee
dean. Aw'm fain to see yo.*

How is he to-day ? '

'None so weel,' said the poor woman, as
she rocked herself back and forward in deep
trouble. ' He had some mak' of a sick gird —
a fit like — after you'd been last meet, and doctor
doomed and 'examined him and said we must
tak' him to t' Infirmary. Eh, my pair bairn,
my pair bairn, they'll never tak' thee tot'
Infirmary to be a-cuttin' and assassin' and
train' their experience wi' thee ; for tha knows,
Mr. Kneeshaw, when Joe Webster, our Nancy's
husband's brother, fell off the see ^ and was

^ Lie down, dear, do now. ^ ' Gird,' attack.

3 ( glee,' ladder.

took to t' Infirmary, the doctors felled him there
was nowt for it but he maun have his leg ta'en
off, and he nobbut a lad, as it might be our
James, and as fine a lad as ever stepped,
but they killed him among em did t' doctors,
and cut his leg off, and he never looked up at
after but was brown loam to dee. And then
to be felled that aw'm a-murderin' our Squire
because aw'm agen his gwin' into t' Infirmary !
An' murdered he is, too,' cried the poor
mother, starting up and bending over the bed,
trampled and trodden down like t' stones int'
street, and thowt no more on than t' muck
under t' horses' hoofs. Eh, that ever I should
live to see this day ! '

George said what he could to soothe her,
which wasn't much, and then, knowing that
hard work is the anodyne of the poor, tried to
divert her thoughts. ' I see you have a big
wash to-day, Mrs. Lumb, and I am sure you
won't mind me if I sit and watch Squire a bit,
while you go on with you: washing. I have a
bit of time to myself this morning.'

Its carry good on yo', Mr. Kneeshaw,
aw'm sewer it is, and aw '11 never be out on

' Looked up at after,' i.e. got over it.

your debt said Mrs. Lumb, drying her tears in
her apron. When he was a-rambhn' and a-
ravin' last meet, and that restless that we were
fair bet wi' him, 'twas " Mr. Kneeshaw " an'
"Mr. Kneeshaw " over an' over asrin.'

Squire was still and lucid enough now,
watching with a dreamy interest the grapes and
the flaring picture-book which George added to
the treasures ranged by his bed. These treasures,
which he had asked at different times to
have brought to him, were only a less pitiful
sight than the child himself — a white marble, a
string with a round piece of leather at the end,
a whipping top, twopence in halfpence, and the
burst balloon, which was found clutched in his
hand when he was picked up. He nodded
towards it now, as George sat by the bedside
and took the little feverish hand in his :
Broken ! ' he said, looking up anxiously in
George's face to see how he would take this
terrible disaster. He seemed quite relieved
when George only smiled and said —

Never mind, Squire, we can get another.'
He lay quiet a little to take in this offer in
all its bearings, looking the while at the burst
balloon, his mind wandering from it to the

accident, of which it was the occasion, with the
result of a refusal which was not meant to be
as ungracious as it sounded — ' Don't want
another ; ' and then, after a pause, ' Please, Mr.
Kneeshaw, I shall miss my marks.'

Eh, nun ! he does great over tliim
marks,' said his mother, whose broad Yorkshire
contrasted with the child's school-taught
English. Marks for attendance were given in
the Sunday-school, and a prize at the close of
the year for the full number. It was curious
to find the treasures of a top and marble and
the troubles of the loss of a mark and a sixpenny
prize of such importance as to be remembered
by the child in the midst of his
pain ; and George in his present depressed
mood drew the morbid moral that the treasures
and troubles of the lad's elders would not
look larger if taken from inter the microscope
of their imagination. From this morbid moralising
he was roused by the appearance of a
(special treasure and trouble of his own. He
was startled into dropping a grape he was
peeling with his penknife for the child by a
voice at the door.

Does Mrs. Lumb live here ? '

Mrs. Lumb herself was startled into the
astonishing civility of a curtsey.

Nay, for sewer, Miss Masters ! Ould
Betty sent for yo' after all? I felled her aw
couldn't for shame ax yo' to come into t'
lane, let alone such a soil as this.'

I wasn't sent for, Mrs. Lumb, but I read
of the accident in the paper and thought I
might help you to nurse a bit. How do you
do, Mr. Kneeshaw ? You're not hurt, I hope ? '

Thank you, I'm all right,' said George,
who couldn't help a look of amazement at Miss
Masters' appearance in the last character in
which he would have expected to see her.
Her ministrations had been confined to her
own neighbourhood, which was in another
parish at the far side of the town. ' I didn't
know you knew Squire, Miss Masters.'

I don't know him. Do I, Squire '? ' she
said, as she rearranged his tumbled pillows
with one hand and with the other raised his
head with the deftness of a nurse and the
tenderness of a mother. Squire's wide wondering
eyes were a sufficient answer.

I thought Mrs. Lumb wished to send for

you.

'Noon soa, Mr. Kneeshaw, aw never
thowt on ain' her into such an a hanse as this.
But ould Betty — tha knows ould Betty, Miss,
shoo that hawks brandy snap an' such mak' o'
stuff — shoo felled me that tha visited the sick
chiltern arrant where shoo come thro', up
boon the Green Market, and that tha did 'em
a deal more good nor t' doctors.'

The Prince could not have been more
amazed at the sight of Cinderella at home than
George at this revelation of Miss Masters as
hospital nurse.

Yes ; I do sometimes visit sick children,'
said the young lady defiantly, in answer to
the astonished look which had not yet died out
of George's face. ' There's room in Weston, I
hope, for another Miss Batt.'

Miss Batt was an odious old maid, attached
to St. Gabriel's church as tract and scandal
distributor, the horror of its curates, the terror
of its poor, and George's special detestation,
as Miss Masters well knew.

'I thought you were close behind me,
Jane,' to her maid, who now appeared at the
door wrestling with a big bundle.

Please, Miss, I lost you at the turn

It's a water-bed for Squire, Mrs. Lumb.
He will find it much easier to lie on.'

I'm afraid I can be of no use,' said George
wistfully.

Unless you can make beds, Mr. Kneeshaw.
But even Miss Batt wouldn't turn you out of a
house in your own parish.'

You don't know Miss Batt then. I shall
call again in the evening to hear what the
doctor thinks, Mrs. Lumb, and to bring Squire
the Sunday-school prize he is fretting over.
Good-bye, Miss Masters ; I shall report you to
Miss Batt for poaching.'

As George walked away he thought that
the less he saw of that young lady the better it
would be for his peace of mind, and for his
peace of conscience, too. He must not give
another hostage to the Church that held already
so many securities for his fealty.

VOL. I. F

CHAPTER lY.

MABEL — CHILDHOOD.

An unknown cause of the known effects which
we call phenomena, likenesses and differences
among these known effects, and a segregation
of the effects into subject and object — these are
the postulates without which we cannot think.
Within each of the segregated masses of manifestations
there are likenesses and differences
involving secondary secretions, which have
also become indispensable postulates. The
vivid manifestations constituting the non-ego do
not simply cohere, but their cohesion have
certain invariable modes ; and among the faint
manifestations constituting the ego, which are
products of the vivid, there exist corresponding

modes of cohesion '

« I wish, Mabel, you'd put some expression
into what you read,* said Colonel Masters petulantly.


But I can't understand it, father ; you
might as well expect expression from a barrel-organ.'


Oh, if you take it in that way, and speak
of reading for your father as organ-grinding,
you had better close the book.'

I meant to compare myself to the organ,
not the grinder, father, repeating mechanically
the tunes put into me. I read the whole
chapter over last night, to try to understand it,
that I might read it intelligently to you this
morning ; but it was no use,' said Mabel wearily,
I couldn't make it out.'

Her father's sole reply was a shrug, expressive
at once of his contempt for woman's intellect,
and his martyr-like resignation to the fate
that gave him such a daughter.

May I finish the chapter, father ? There
are only two or three more sentences.'

Yes, you may as well finish it now,' said
Colonel Masters, in an injured tone. ' Head
that last paragraph over again.'

Colonel Masters had quite as good sight as
his daughter, but some years before a doctor
had told him that nothing tried the sight so
much as reading ; and from that day he resolved

r 2

to save his own eyes at the expense of his
daughter's. He had never thought of anyone
but himself since he began to think at all, and
a soldier's life does not tend by any means to
make a man unselfish. If he had married
young or for love, he might have been drawn
out of himself more ; but he was a confirmed
misogynist, and married at thirty-five, in despair
of the dreariness of an Indian life, and in
the hope of having a son, whom he might train
up in certain principles he had thought out for
himself, and was anxious to see tested. His
marriage, however, disappointed all his expectations,
and rather deepened than lightened the
gloom of his disposition and of his life. His
wife had not much spirit to begin with, or she
would not have married him at the bidding of
her parents, and when the little she had was
broken a year after her marriage, her meekness,
which was meant to conciliate, exasperated
him by its insipidity more than any display of
spirit would have done.

To him
She was all fault who had no fault at all ;
For who loved him must have a touch of earth ;
The low sun makes the colour.

And when, after much expectation, she was

confined at last only of a daughter, he lost all
hope of her ever being reasonable, and treated
her henceforth with less consideration than he
showed his syne. The poor woman would
have died of the horrible loneliness of his companionship
but for the arrival of Mabel. Her
she hid away from her father, as some animals
of her sex hide their young from their mates
lest they should devour them, and lavished
upon her in secret all the pent-up love of her
heart. Pet and seclude her as she would,
however, it was impossible to keep the child
from screaming occasionally, or always to keep
these excruciating screams out of the hearing
of her father. Now he had a horror that
was absolutely morbid of noises of all kinds.
Their effect on his exquisitely strung nerves
was such as the whole household, and indeed
the whole community, had reason to dread.
A good healthy scream of Mabel's in the
morning so upset him that he was sure
to beat his syne, abuse his subordinates,
make himself intolerable to his equals,
and to sting and stab his wretched wife
with savage sarcasms. In fact, a scream of
Mabel's in those days created a sensation

like that caused by the appalling scream in
Arising.

Through the open lattice driven,
That horrid voice ascends to heaven ;
And those who heard it as it past,
In mercy wished it were the last.

It was no sooner heard than the men-servants
scuttled out of the house, and the women-servants
made for the nursery, with all kinds of
charms for the soothing of the child. While
one danced it up and down, another dangled
her bracelet in its eyes, a third put a spoonful
of some seductive syrup into its too, too wide-open
mouth, while a fourth made as fast and
air-tight as she could all the doors and windows
— its bewildered mother looking on the
while in helpless trouble. Nor, if Mabel
appeared in all her beauty at that station now,
could she have been more talked of than she
was in those days. Masters was not popular,
and his paroxysm of rage upon the birth of his
daughter, and its recurrence at every scream that
recalled her existence to him, was at first a joke
and at last a grievance to Messrs. Barclay, Pearce,
and Sagar, who had often to depend upon him
to make up their whist party of an evening ;

and thus it happened that Mabel owed to an
idle jest of one of these gentlemen the shaping
of her character and of her early years. They
came to think the child's tempers, which were
neither frequent nor violent, the final cause of
all Masters' tempers, which were both frequent
and violent, so that the facetious Sagar had
furbished up an old joke, and christened Mabel
^ the cherub,' because she ' continually did
cry.'

I say,' said Barclay to that gentleman one
night, ' I can't stand that fellow Masters any
longer.'

You mean you can't stand losing, old
boy,' said Sagar, who, having won considerably,
was much more patient of human
infirmity. ' But Masters is a beast, and no
mistake.'

Barclay, after pulling at his pipe gloomily
for some moments, recurred to his grievance :
'What's that they give 'em to keep 'em in
good temper in baby farms ? '

The bottle, my boy ; try it, it's very
soothing,' said his facetious chum, pushing the
brandy bottle towards him. ' Soothing syrup,
that's it ; why the deuce doesn't Pearce ' —

Pearce was the doctor — 'give it soothing
syrup ? '

What ! murder a patient ? — kill the goose
with the golden eggs ? '

Needn't kill it growled the morose
Barclay, ' stun it a bit ; or, by Jove, order it
home ; they do order them home, you
know.'

Yes, before they're weaned ; put 'em ina
hamper labelled " To be kept dry," in charge
of the captain,' said Sagar, with provoking
flippancy, jingling his winnings cheerfully ; and
then, after a pause, with a sudden change to
seriousness, ' By George, though, it will
do!'

Of course it will do ; send it home with
an ayah,' said Barclay, triumphantly.

Send it home with its mother,' said Sagar ;
that brute is killing her.'

What ! are you going to get sick leave ? '
sneered his chum.

Barclay was too swinish not to misinterpret
Sagar's feeling towards sirs. Masters, which
was made up of a chivalrous mixture of admiration
of her beauty, reverence for her meek
goodness, and pity for her fate.

She could go home with the Sedgwick,'
said Sagar, too much engrossed with his
scheme for rescuing her from Bluebeard to
heed Barclay's sneer. ' I wonder has Pearce
turned in yet. I'll cross over and see ; ' and
before Barclay could muster up any more
clumsy chaff, the kind-hearted and impulsive
lad was across to the Doctor's. The Doctor,
who hadn't turned in, naturally expected an
important patient when Sagar burst in upon
him impetuously.

'Don't be uneasy. Doctor; nobody's ill,'
said Sagar jocosely.

The Doctor tried to look relieved, but
listened rather sourly to Sagar 's scheme. He
didn't like the loss of so good a patient as Mrs.
Masters, and he didn't like the light use which
Sagar proposed to make of his professional
advice ; but, on the other hand, as he also
admired and pitied Mrs. Masters, he suffered
for his devotion to her an hourly martyrdom
from the tongue of his jealous shrew of a wife.
While affecting to listen to all Sagar's sentimental
and irrelevant pleas, he was weighing
the practical pros and cons in his own mind,
and at last decided that he had all along

intended to order Mrs. Masters herself to
England, that he had spoken about the change
to her several times, and even hinted its advisability
to her husband, and that he would put
the matter tomorrow, once for all, plainly
before them. At the same time he made it
quite clear that the idea was wholly his own,
and that it was suggested by the delicacy of
the lady's health, and not of her relations with
her husband. This Mr. Sagar was not
concerned to dispute, but was rather glad to
confirm, knowing enough of human nature to
be sure that the Doctor would be more zealous
in the advocacy of a scheme of his own than of
one suggested by another. It did not need
zealous advocacy, however. Captain Masters
was only too glad to be rid of his wife and
daughter. Mrs. Masters felt, and was shocked
to feel, a timid and secret joy at the prospect
of escaping from such a husband, and of carrying
her little one to a safer nest ; and the only
one distressed by the scheme was its originator.


Poor Sacer had come to regard this sweet,
gracious, and unluippy woman with something
of the chivalrous devotion which an enthusiastic

loyalist would feel towards his imprisoned and
oppressed queen ; and her departure was as
great a cries to him as it was a relief to her
husband. It had, however, the effect of clearing
Mabel's character, for Masters' tempers were
soon found to be spontaneously generated, and
not merely born of the tempers of his daughter ;
and the morose Barclay was fain to admit that
only the devil could be the father of such outbursts
as he once put down to the credit of the
baby.

In this way it came about that Mabel's
early and impressionable years passed from,
under the blighting shadow of her father's
tyranny. Her first impressions, which, like a
pahmpsest, were written over without being
erased, were all of her mother ; that is, of
gentleness, guilelessness, unselfishness, simple
piety, and profound love. When she was six
years old, indeed, her father spent with her
mother and her a fortnight of his two years'
leave — the rest being given to foreign travel ;
but her only impressions of him were, that he
was childish yet hated children, and noisy and
yet hated noise ; to which paradoxical conclusions
she was brought in this wise : while he

was in the house she was taught to sit still as a
stone, and yet when he talked to her, he spoke
in a great and terrible voice. In truth, he
shouted to her as some people shout to
foreigners, through confounding dulness of
intelligence with dulness of hearing. When he
would roar nearly at the top of his voice, ' Well,
Mabel, how do you like your doll ? ' the little
girl, perplexed by a kind question put so terrifically,
could only look up half amazed and
half frightened, and would thus confirm his
impression that she was, like her mother, an
idiot.

By the way, it was curious to see how, after
this tremendous question, she hid her doll away
from him, as by a derived instinct, just as her
mother had hidden her in her infancy away
from him.

Nor was Mabel's opinion of her father's
intellect in those days more flattering than that
he had formed of hers. As, in order to make
himself intelligible to her, he spoke not only ina
loud voice, but as nearly as he could in
monosyllables, or in dissyllables distinctly divided
(as in a primer), she had an idea that he, like
her ayah, and very probably all other Indian

persons, was only at the stage of education
which she had left behind two years ago. So
that she in turn — when she ventured to speak
at all — tried to speak down to the level of his
understanding. Living alone with her mother,
she had come to think in old-fashioned words
and ways ; but these she tried so to translate
that they should be intelligible to the undeveloped
intellect of her father. This mutual
misunderstanding made a conversation between
them rather amusing. Of course, if either had
heard the other speak to a third person, each
might have formed a worthier impression of the
other's understanding. As, however, they met
only at lunch-time — Mabel's dinner-hour — and
as Major Masters made a point of devoting
himself exclusively to her for the few minutes
they were together — in order to draw out the
little intellect she had — there was no such
opportunity of correcting their estimates of each
other. Major Masters would shout ' Mabel, do
you know any stories ? '

Mabel, though by this time she had got
used to the loudness of his voice, would hesitate
about her answer. She imagined that her
father, like her ayah, wished to have retailed to

him the stories she read or heard from her
mother, and she could not at once make
her mind up as to what story would suit him
best.

Tales you, know,' said her father in a still
louder tone, thinking that ' tales,' being monosyllabic,
would be more intelligible than the
dissyllabic 'stories.' 'Tales, you know, like
Who killed Cock Robin ? " or " Babes in the
Wood." '

Oh, dear ! ' thought Mabel, ' is he so far
back as that ? ' and then she went back to the
earliest stratum of stories in her memory. ' I
know the story of " Joseph " and of " Jack the
Giant Killer," and " Sindbad the Sailor," and
the " Three Bears," and Elisha's bears ; he was
bald and hated children,' she explained, thinking
that story might interest him most, as in both
respects he resembled the prophet. 'And
Little Need Eiding Hood," and " Moses in the
bulrushes," and the " Babes in the Wood ; " but
you know that ? ' she corrected herself, looking
up into his face interrogatively.

She's certainly silly,' thought Major
Masters, who was not perhaps singular in considering
no one wise dio did not think him wise.

Or,' continued Mabel, after a pause which
her father didn't fill — she was a terrible chatter-box
once her tongue was loosed — ' or I could
tell you " The Eleven Wild Swans," but you
oughtn't under — care for that,' she substituted,
thinking ' understand ' both too long and too
complimentary a word for her father. He,
meanwhile, had forgotten her existence, as he
often did that of anyone who was speaking to
him, and had gone olF in a reverie about the
son that should have been born to him, and
the education he would have given him.

The Major was sitting back in his chair,
after his lunch, pulling his long grizzled moustache
and staring steadfastly at her without
seeing her. ' How old are you ? ' he said
abruptly, when he had brought his scattered
thoughts back to a focus. Mabel flattered herself
that both the question and the long stare
that preceded it meant amazement at her
acquirements.

Oh, I know ever so much more than that,'
she exclaimed, forgetting to answer the question
in her eagerness to increase the admiration
from which she thought it sprang. 'I
know '

How much are 8 times G ? ' interrupted
her father.

This was a terrible blow. Mabel was as
much below her years in arithmetic as she was
above them in most things. She flushed allover
with the shame and mortification of the
reaction from pride to abasement, and began to
climb slowly in her mind the steep steps from
8 times 2 are 16 upwards. She had just
reached 8 times 6 are 48 when her father
impatiently changed the problem.

How much are 6 times 8 ? *

She would have said at once 48, if in her
confusion it did not seem that as 6 times a
thiner must be less than 8 times a thiner 48
could not be right for both. She puzzled over
this till she got so bewildered that the only
distinct idea in her mind was a crushing sense
of disgrace, which brought the tears into her
eyes. Her father no sooner saw this alarming
sign, which seemed the storm signal of such
screams as used to follow it in her infancy,
than he turned to say sharply to lier mother,
Take her away.' And so poor Mabel was led
away, sobbing bitterly, to be petted and purred
over and consoled by her idolising mother.

In this way Major Masters came to form 8
mean idea of Mabel's intellect from the first
and his prejudiced impression of it was rathe
confirmed than weakened by the little intercourse
he allowed between them in after years
For, as he cared only for — to use De Quince's
distinction — the literature of knowledge, and
she only for the literature of power, he knew
little and thought less of her acquirements.
No doubt he sometimes made her read to him
such books as she delighted in and he despised ;
for whatever his favourite Review recommended,
he thought it right to read, to keep
abreast With the age ; but her admirable rendering
of them was lost upon his listlessness,
and never suggested that she could be interested
in anything uninteresting to him. On
the other hand, Mabel had an extravagant
veneration for her father's learning and intelligence.
If he despised what interested her in
literature, it was, she thought, because he had
left such things long since behind, and they
looked little from the height he had reached.
She darkly felt him great and wise,' and
shared his opinion not only of himself, but of
her. She was told daily for years of her

VOL I. G

stupidity, and was forced to realise it in reading
the dreary and maddening metaphysics in
which he rejoiced, so that the conceit of her
childhood had given place to despairing diffidence
of her own powers, so long as, like
Miranda, she knew no one but her father.
Wlien, however, like Miranda, she came to
know a ' brave new world,' she learned to think
more truly of herself, though not of her father.
Compared with him, she felt herself still what
hie thought her — dull and ignorant ; but she
found she could hold her own very fairly in the
society of Weston. She had, in fact, an advantage
over the young ladies of that society — she
had not had a first-class education. She had
not given the most profitable years of her life
to acquiring stucco accomplishments that were
meant, like female ants' wings, to bear their
possessors to a settlement, and then to be
nipped off and discarded. Till lie was ten
years old, her only teacher was her mother,
who, though she felt painfully her incompetence
to develop the child's precocious powers, could
not bear to resign lier labour of love to a
governess. At ten she lost her mother, who,
in nursing her night and day through an attack

of scarlatina, herself caught the fever, and was
too worn out with watching to resist it. Her
mother's death nearly coincided with the return
of her father from abroad to find himself a
widower in charge of a child so stupefied with
her bereavement as to seem to him more silly
even than he expected. Her mother had been
father, mother, sister, brother, teacher, everything
to Mabel, and she was so much older
than her years as to realise her loss intensely
and at every turn. She flitted about the house
like a shadow, spoke only when spoken to, and
then only in monosyllables, and pored over the
Bible constantly as over a book of travels that
would give her an idea of the kind of place to
which her mother had gone. All these signs,
and the last not least of all, confirmed her
father's first impression that she was sillier even
than the average of her sex. What was to be
done with her ? To send girls to school
seemed to him like ' sending men ruffles when
wanting a shirt.' Women had no minds, and
the fringe and frippery of ornamental knowledge
they picked up, patronise, at school,
was a mere sham to conceal their mental
nakedness. Still, if she stayed at home, there

Q 2

must be somebody to take care of her, and
keep her out of his way. "While meditating
these things, he received a letter from an aged
aunt, the terror of his boyhood and the parasite
of his later years, who periodically extorted
contributions from him under the threat of
disgracing the noble name of Masters by going
out as a governess. This demand and threat
were renewed in this letter, and decided him to
silence a dun and secure a cheap governess by
inviting the old lady to take charge of Mabel's
education. There was but one objection to
the arrangement — the old lady was distressing
deaf; and though he certainly wasn't going to
take the trouble to talk to her himself, still
Mabel's shrieking her lessons to her would be
insupportable. Why not establish a gynecium
set apart one wing of the house to the exclusive
use of Mabel and Miss Murdoch, with
double doors, densely padded, dividing it from
the body of the buildings Miss Murdoch
having accepted the charge subject to this
admirable arrangement, Mabel passed from the
care of her mother to the rule of this spinster.
Age had a good deal softened the sternness
which had kept Colonel Masters' boyhood in

awe, but still Miss Murdoch was a formidable
personage, bony both in body and in mind,
with, however, this singular qualification for
the post of governess — there was one subject
she professed to teach which she really and
thoroughly knew herself. Having had in her
youth an excellent English education, of which
she had the taste and talent to make the most,
she knew and appreciated the best books of
the best ages of our literature, and these she
put Mabel steadily through, finding her an
apter pupil even than she had been herself.
But having, unfortunately, in her old age, and
in view of becoming a governess, taken a fancy
to master the French tongue, she was under
the impression that this acquisition was worth
most because it cost most. She was especially
proud of her Parisian accent, picked up not in
Stratford-atte-Bowe, but from a flattering
French friend. She considered no lady
educated whose French pronunciation was not
pure, and the shibboleth of purity she held to
be the pronunciation of the vowel U. If anyone
will shout some subtle sound into an ear-trumpet
at the top of his voice, he will find a
slight difficulty in preserving the niceties of a

pure pronunciation. It is not to be wondered
at, then, if Mabel, ' the martyr,' not ' of a diphthong,'
but of a vowel, underwent a good deal
of persecution from failing to satisfy Miss Murdoch's
nice ear on this point. There was
hardly a day in which she had not to shriek
many times over a sound not unlike the cry of
the pewit ; yet when Miss Murdoch lay on her
deathbed five years after Mabel came under
her charge, she felt it a weight on her conscience
that the child had not yet achieved a
Parisian pronunciation. Lying on her deathbed,
indeed, does not rightly describe the close
of this grim, indomitable woman's life. She
sat and taught in her chair almost to the last,
seeming to hold with Vespasian that ' a ruler
should die standing ; ' and the Eev. Joseph
Meekins was amazed to hear Mabel shoutiuor
Heu ! ' through the ear-trumpet the very day
before Miss Murdoch's death. He could interpret
it only as a heathen and heartless form of lamentation,
and was not more edified by Miss Murdoch's
response to it. ' Child, child, it's too
late now,' she cried, with a hopeless shake of
the head. ' All these years have been wasted ! *

Chapter V.

MABEL — GIRLHOOD.

]\Iabel, while in Miss Miirdocli's charge, saw
little of her father. At first he allowed them
to take their meals with him ; but as Mabel,
from having so much with Miss Murdoch,
shouted to everyone as she was used to shout
to her. Colonel Masters soon found her society
insupportable. Upon her shrieking in a
piercing treble, ' If you please,' to him one
day at dinner, he turned to the waitress with
this laconic sentence of exile, ' Miss Murdoch
and Miss Mabel will have their meals in their
own apartments in future.' Mabel henceforth
saw her father only

In visits
Like those of angels, short and far between.

Once, indeed, it occurred to him that she
might be of some use to science and himself.
He might mentally vivisect her, find out by

cross-examination when and how the ideas of
personal identity, self-consciousness, God, etc.,
first arose in her mind. She was so young she
could not have had them long, and could not
have forgotten how she came by them.

Mabel was sent for. Her father sat at his
desk in his study with a carefully prepared list
of questions in one hand, and in the other a
pen for jotting down the answers. Mabel
stood before him trembling. He asked her the
most amazing questions, of which one only was
intelligible to the child, and it gave her the
idea that he was anxious about her progress in
religious knowledge. This unlucky prepossession
of hers did not make her answers to the
other questions more apt or acceptable. Her
father despaired of and despised her intellect
more than ever. He had reduced the questions
to the lowest terms of simplicity at the
cost of much thought, and these idiotic answers
were the result !

On another occasion he tried again to put
her to scientific use. He was reading Darwin's
Expression of the Emotions in Man and
Animals,' and wished to verify the expressions
of suffering illustrated by the photographs of

weeping children which adorn that philosophic
work. Accordingly — having given up reluctantly
the idea of making Mabel cry, which
Miss Murdoch, with some warmth, revolted
against — he instructed her and the servants to
give him instantaneous notice of any outbursts
of tears of the child's. He seemed to think
her still of an age to cry in the hearty wide-mouthed
way he saw in the photographs, and
remembered in India. Mabel, it is true, cried
a good deal at this time, but always quietly and
in secret ; and it was so long before she was
surprised in the act that her father grew
petulant and impatient, and took ]\Iiss Murdoch
more than once to task for her remissness.
When at last, however, the housemaid came
flying to him with the welcome news that
'Miss Mabel was a-crying of her eyes out,
sitting on a box in the hattie,' and he had
hurried up the steep steps to the attic with
Darwin's book in his hand, open at the illustrations,
he found to his disgust the wretched
child weeping in silence with convulsed
features over a few relics of her mother. He
was gone again in wrath before Mabel had
recovered from her astonishment at seeing him

in a place which had hitherto been a safe
refuge for her and the rats. She accounted to
herself for his sudden appearance and disappearance
by supposing that he came to seek
something and fled before the sight of her in
the fear of her shouting to him. She felt she
must have been trespassing, that the attic was
in his quarter of the house, and that it was forbidden
ground to her henceforth. Now there
was not a day hitherto on which the lonely
child did not climb up into the attic and brood
over the treasures and the memories of her
mother they called up. The ghost stories her
old nurse used to tell, a terror to her then,
were a solace to her now. She would creep
up in the evening to the dark attic in the hope
that she might see her mother, and in the faith
that, visible or not, she was near her ; and Mr.
Meekins would have been horrified to hear her
in her prayers address her mother as a devout
Catholic addresses his patron saint. In this
way the attic became sacred to her as an
oratory and retreat ; and to quit it for ever, as
she felt forced to do now, was rather a wrench
to her. She had no need to quit it, however,
for her father never sought her again, either in

the attic or elsewhere, till after Miss Murdoch's
death, when the doctor, called in for a bilious
attack, incidentally advised him that nothing
tried the sight more than reading. Hereupon
it occurred to him for the third time that
Mabel might be of use in the world. He sent
for her and set her to read a chapter of
Buckle's ' Civilisation.' She read admirably —
reading for the deaf is a good school at least
for distinct articulation — and her father was so
satisfied that he bade her be in the study every
morning at half past six ; for an Indian habit
of early rising still clung to him.

Thus Mabel at fifteen was introduced to
books that were not the most suitable or edifying
to her age and sex. But she read as most
of us read — assimilating what attracted her,
rejecting what repelled her, distilling ' some
soul of goodness from things evil,' and ' gathering
honey from the weed.' It was Una among
the Satyrs subduing them to innocent service.
She read daily to her father for an hour and a
half before breakfast and an hour and a half
after, and was allowed to do what she would
with the rest of the day. Some of it she gave
to music, in which she was but moderately

skilled, but of wliicli she was passionately
fond ; and much of it to her own favourite
books. In this way she might have grown
silent, eccentric, and unsociable, if it was not
for the Rev. Joseph Meekins. Mabel went
regularly to church ; for, though her father
was an atheist, and would have thought it
worth while to bring up a son in his principles,
he held that women had not soul enough to
receive them, and that they took to church in
their womanhood as naturally and despicably
as they took to dolls in their childhood. So
Mabel went without interference to church
regularly and gladly. It was the one day in
the week in which she could set near her
mother's grave — for the churchyard gates were
locked on weekdays ; and her mother still was
the only friend and companion she had known.
It was the one day in the week, too, in which
she saw the world — admirably represented in
all its elements in church. And, lastly, and
notwithstanding the ineffable dreariness of Mr.
Meekins' discourses, she liked cliiu:ch for its
own sake. In her early years she had gone
with her mother to the Baptist Chapel ; but
when, among other street improvements, it was

swept away and replaced by a gin-palace, and
there was not enough money or members to
establish another, her mother had taken her to
church, and eventually allowed her even to be
baptized. In this way Mabel came by her
creed as creditably as most of us, and was as
reasonably proud of her Church as the hero of
H.M.S. Pinafore ' was of his country : —

For lie himself has said it,
And it's greatly to his credit,
That he's an Englishman.

But she was no more proud, and had no
'more reason to be proud, of her Church principles
than was the Eev. Joseph Meekins.
This worthy man took to himself the credit of
having snatched her as a brand from the burning.
He had grave and great doubts of her
father's orthodoxy, not merely because he
didn't attend church — a neglect he considered
Indian — but because he didn't seem to have
sound views on the subject of infant baptism.
Colonel Masters' views on that question were
not, perhaps, altogether sound ; but he was not
even conscious of having given Mr. Meekins
any reason to think so. He would no more
stoop to argue with a clergyman than he

would stoop to blow clown a child's house of
cards ; and, indeed, in the company of a
clergyman he usually gave way altogether to
the habit he had contracted from living so
much alone of answering at random, without
listening to a word that was said. When,
then, Mr. Meekins, speaking to him of the
virtual heathenism of the Baptist children, and
of Mabel's providential escape from that heresy,
and of her baptism by his predecessor, Mr.
Bray, said that, ' terrible as it was to him to
think of the number of children who were unbaptized
in this Christian country from mere
neglect, it was still more terrible to think of
the number who were left purposely and on
principle unbaptized ' — Colonel Masters, puling
his moustache slowly, gazing steadily into the
lire, and composing a sentence of his forthcoming
pamphlet upon ' The Caecum in Man
had yet room enough in his mind for a hazy
idea that Mr. Meekins was complaining of the
numbers left to him to baptize by the neglect
of his predecessor.

Bray didn't like their squalling, I suppose,'
he said absently. ' Why don't you wait
to christen them till they are grown up, eh ? '

'My dear sir!' cried Mr Meekins in
horror.

He knew that Colonel Masters held strange
and strong opinions upon such unimportant
matters as spontaneous generation and the
ascidian origin of man ; but he never dreamed
that he had advanced so far as to question the
necessity of infant baptism. Yet, damnable as
the heresy seemed, he was, perhaps, as much
pleased as shocked at finding Colonel Masters
inclined to it. He had read up this very subject
lately for the confutation of the Baptists,
who swarmed in his parish ; and here was a
providential opportunity of proving his armour.
Accordingly, he entered into a long argument
to prove the apostolic origin of infant baptism,
laying special stress on the fact that whole
families, and therefore little babies, were then
baptised together. Meanwhile, Colonel Masters,
deep in his demonstration of man's being as
the beasts that perish in having a caecum and
not having a soul, did not look as convinced
by Mr. Meekins' arguments as that gentleman
had a right to expect. In fact, the Colonel had
taken in only a word here and there of the
whole discourse ; though, when roused by the

silence at its close, be said in a tone of the
deepest conviction —

'Quite so, Mr. Meekins, quite so. I should
baptize them in batches — whole families together,
as you say — except, of course, the
infants. The noise is terrible.'

Henceforth Mr. Meekins' opinion of Colonel
Masters was not only that of a man who did
not believe in infant baptism, which was bad,
but that of a man whose disbelief was not
shaken by Mr. Meekins' arguments for infant
baptism, which was a great deal worse. But,
if the father was hopeless, at least the child was
reclaimable. Mabel, brought up under such
influences, might become a Baptist or an Anabaptist
! Something must be done. Why not
get her to the Sunday-school and into Miss
Eoxby's class? But her father, with such
views of baptism, would certainly object to her
learning the Catechism. Nevertheless, it was
Mr. Meekins' clear duty to press upon him
calmly, but firmly, the propriety of Mabel's
instruction in the principles of the Church of
her adoption. Accordingly, having braced
himself for a desperate struggle, he broached
the subject to Colonel Masters, who amazed

Mm by an immediate consent, given as if there
was no need to ask it in a matter of such infinitesimal
importance. Thus Mabel through the
Sunday-school, was introduced into the world ;
for through the Eoxbys, with whom she soon
became intimate, she got to know the Millions,
Deardens, Hawkshaws, etc., and was almost
as much in one or other of their houses as in
her own. In this way her spirit recovered
its spring and elasticity, her shy and shrinking
diffidence disappeared, and her natural humour
and keen wit came into play. But an acquaintance,
however intimate, with the Eoxbys, etc.,
was not satisfying to a nature like Mabel's, and
the accident of the illness of one of her
scholars (after she had become a teacher herself),
which set her upon devoting her spare
hours to the sick children of the poor, gave a
new turn and zest to her lonely life. It was
certainly a singular taste for a girl of nineteen ;
but some allowance must be made for the
singularity of her bringing up.

Mabel being now nineteen, it was quite
time, according to Miss Eoxby, that she should
come out.' Mabel was not particularly
anxious for this epiphany, but she was accus-vol.

I. n

toned to bow to Miss Eoxby's experience in
all social matters.

But how is it to be done, Miss Eoxby ? '

'My dear, you must get your father to
chaperon you.'

At this happy suggestion, the picture of
her father's face on being asked to perform
this duty, and of his bearing in a ball-room,
rising vividly before Mabel, was too much for
her gravity.

'I don't see the joke,' said ]\Iiss Eoxby
severely ; for, though lie was intensely matter-of-fact,
she feared ridicule as keenly as if she
had been of a satirical turn herself.

I'm afraid mv father wouldn't see it
either,' said Mabel, sobered by this severity.

I don't see the use of all your education
if you are not to " come out,' Miss Eoxby
resumed, after a pause, which Mabel was to
construe as a lady-like rebuke. ' Have you
no aunt who could come to stay with you ? '

'Yes; there's Aunt Eebecca, but

Perhaps, though, when father's abroad I might
have her.'

He goes abroad always in autumn, doesn't
he?'

Yes, about the middle of August, and
stays three months away generally.'

The first of the Assemblies is in the beginning
of October ; that will do,' said Miss Eoxby,
with judicial decision. ' Everybody will be
there. A public debut is much the best.'

Oh, dear ! " coming out " seems a formidable
piece of business,' said Mabel, a little dismayed ;
though the portentous solemnity of Miss Eox-
by 's face impelled her to add, ' It couldn't be
done by advertisement, I suppose P '

What ? ' asked Miss Eoxby in perplexity.

Light jests, like soap-bubbles, are not made
to be handled, opened, and examined in the
way in which Miss Eoxby insisted on dissecting
them ; and besides, Mabel regretted her
flippancy in the moment of giving way to it.
She owed Miss Eoxby a great deal of kindness,
and felt ungrateful when she yielded to the
temptation to shock her prim sense of propriety.
' Only a silly joke, Miss Eoxby. I
shall do as you decide. It's rather trying to
begin With a public ball, but I dare say it's
better to plunge in than to wade in.'

The next thing to decide,' said Miss
Eoxby, in the manner of a chairman who had

H 2

got through a deal of business, and bad a deal
still to get through — ' the next thing to decide
upon is — your dress.'

Dress ! Why, the fashion may change three
times before then.*

Fashions change, but not colours, Mabel,*
an aphorism which sounded so like a text that
it quite imposed on Mss Eoxby herself the
impression that she was on the borders of a
solemn subject. ' We must not forget that,
my dear. Fashions change, but not colours.'

Always excepting Mr. Pickles' dyes,' said
Mabel, with a mischievous allusion to a piece
of stuff dyed by Mr. Bacchus Pickles, a brother
• of the member, whose colours Miss Eoxby had
not found fast. Mabel felt here on safe ground,
as Miss Eoxby, by frequent references to this
unfortunate purchase, avenged social slights
inflicted on her by the member's family.

And his family in Parliament, too ! '
snorted Miss Eoxby, delighted by the diversion
into her favourite grievance.

It was since they got into Parliament that
their colours changed, I am told,' said Mabel,
emboldened by the reception of her last mild

joke. But a political allusion was lost on Miss
Eoxby.

Indeed, dear, it was not. It was three
years ago last June, and you know his brother
has not been member more than a year and a
half.' And then Miss Eoxby recounted the
scandalous transaction for the twentieth time,
returning at the close of her tale to the serious
subject from which she had been diverted — the
most becoming style and colour for Mabel's
forthcoming costume — a subject in which
candour compels us to say our heroine took
an unheroic interest.

But arranging about a dress was a small
matter compared with arranging about a
chaperon. Morning after morning Mabel
made her mind up to broach the matter to her
father at the close of her reading, but her
heart always failed her when it came to the
point. At last it occurred to her that it would
he easier to confide in an aunt whom she had
never seen than to break the business to her
father, to whom it would be as unintelligible
as his metaphysics were to her. Accordingly
she put the whole case before Miss Masters ina
letter, which wound up with the request that

her aunt would herself propose a visit to her
father. Miss Masters was charmed with the
naivete of the letter, and still more with the
prospect of chaperonage. There was nothing
the old lady liked better than seeing and being
seen, visiting and being visited. She did not
lose a post, therefore, in announcing to her
brother an intended visit to him in September,
taking her welcome — as she always did everywhere
— for granted. Colonel Masters received
and read the letter at breakfast with less disgust
than Mabel anticipated. In truth he was
unconcerned, because he would be from home
in September.

Your aunt Eebecca writes to say she will
come here in September. Will you mind her
being in the house ? '

He spoke as if Miss Masters was a smallpox
patient.

Mabel, who was truthfulness itself, replied
with some trepidation, ' I wrote to suggest the
visit to her, father.'

I thought you meant, when I was away,
to copy those passages I marked,' said her
father petulantly.

So I do, father. I shall have plenty of
time in the mornings.'

Well, her coming doesn't matter to me, as
I shall be away till the latter end of October.'

But I think she means to stay after your
return,' said Mabel, with growing nervousness.


Why should you think so ? She doesn't
say so,' said Colonel Masters, looking again and
with more interest at the letter. 'No, she
merely says she hopes " to pay me a visit in
September, to make your acquaintance and to
take you about." What does she mean by
taking you about " ? '

To take me to parties, father. It was for
that I wanted her to come,' said Mabel desperately.


Why couldn't Margaret take you to
parties as usual ? '

Margaret was Mabel old nurse, who had
attended her to and from the few children's
parties she had been asked to. It never for a
moment occurred to her father that Mabel
might consider herself grown up. To him, of
course, she Alas a mere child.

I am rather too old for children's parties
now,' said Mabel with a smile.

Then why should you want anyone to
take you about if you don't care to go to
parties ? ' asked the Colonel, in perplexity.

It was only another instance of the utter
unreasonableness of women, and he felt ashamed
of the foolish attempt to find a clue in a chance
tangle of a thousand and one odds and ends of
thread — his conception of a woman's mind.

We had better resume our reading,' he
continued in a tone of impatient disgust.

He wrote the same day to his sister a letter
that would have put off anyone but Miss
Masters, and received from her in reply a line
to say that it didn't need his note to assure her
of a warm welcome. Thus it came to pass that
Miss Masters took Miss Murdoch's place as
Mabel's duenna. For this self-complacent old
lady was not easily to be dislodged from quarters
she fancied. Not that she would not, but
that she could not imagine herself unwelcome.

Chapter VI.

SQUIRE.

Poor little Squire was well visited. Not only
George and Mabel, but the Doctor came daily
to see him. That gentleman, in fact, was no
sooner informed bv the child's father that Mr,
Pickles senior had ordered the Doctor's bill to
be sent in to him, than he redoubled his attentions
to his patient. This redoubled zeal, it
must be said, not being according to knowledge,
was of little service to Squire. Dr. Dredge,
being old-fashioned, and practising exclusively
among the poor — who value only heroic remedies
— bled, blistered, drenched, and drugged as
if Death were his paymaster. No one who has
not mixed much among the poor can conceive
the extravagance of their faith in draughts,
drugs, leeches and blisters, or the pride with
which they parade the grim array of medicine-bottles
they have emptied ; and a doctor.

whose practice lies among the poor, would be
more than human if he did not pander to this
ghoulish passion. Dr. Dredge, who was not
above the weaknesses of our common nature,
prescribed to suit rather the tastes than the
ailments of his patients. He bled, or blistered,
or dosed with the most drastic drugs almost
every disease on this side of consumption ; butin
a case like Squire's, where such treatment
could not immediately be prescribed, he was at
a stand. In such cases he had little experience
and less skill. They were taken, almost invariably,
to the Infirmary, and Dr. Dredge was
not of such standing as to be upon its staff.
Fortunately for himself, though unfortunately
for his patient, his feelings were as blunt as this
surgical skill. Doctors who practise among
the very poor exclusively, often grow callous
to the sight and to the infliction of pain. And
as Dr. Dredge was no exception to the rule, he
had not the least compunction in putting the
wretched child to intolerable and unnecessary
torture, first, in groping after the nature and
extent of his injuries, and next in his bungling
attempts at their cure. He so set the broken
bones that they had to be unset and reset

within a week, and so badly, even then, that the
child, if he lived, would be crippled for life.

However, there was little likelihood of his
living. Mrs. Lumb's sympathising neighbours
were unanimous in their judgment that he was
bean hooam,' ^ which they expressed with a
frankness that sounded a little brutal as they
stood beside Squire's bed. The feelings, like
the hands of the poor, grow horny through
hardship ; and the matter-of-fact way in which
the neighbours spoke to Mrs. Lumb, in Squire's
hearing, of the certainty of his death and of the
expenses of his funeral was revolting to Mabel.
Still more revolting to her was the sordid way
in wdiicli Mrs. Lumb herself often spoke of her
probable loss as in great part a pecuniary one.
It is hardly too much to say that, in the West
Eiding, love of money seems as deep and natural
an instinct as a mother's love of her child ;
and mothers there, of the working class, who
are weeping for their dead children, recur again
and again to the loss of their services or of
their wages as a main element of their sorrow.
Mabel was too young to make allowance for
the sordid lives of which these sordid feelings

1 (

Bean hooam/ i.e. going home.

were the natural outcome, and felt at once
repelled from Mrs. Lumb and drawn towards
the child, whom she alone seemed disinterestedly
concerned for.

T' Doctor says we nun get all the strong
support we can until him, Miss Masters — sherry
wine, or port wine, and some mak' o' stuff he
called " distract o' beef ; " but aw'm sewer aw
dont know where it's all to come thro, aw
dont. Aw've feared more brass ^ on that
bairn than on all the others put together. He
war alius getting' one thing or another — measles,
or scarlatina, or t' chin cough, or t' brownings,
or whatever war going He wad tak' it,' she
said querulously — as if it was something Squire
should have been whipped for stealing ; ' and
aw'd no sooner paid one bill off, a shilling' a
week, nor another cam' in, an' Sam war never
off awr doorstep ' — Sam was Dr. Dredge's
collector of fees. 'But aw alius thowt he'd
addle summit* some day, an' mak' it up to us.
But there's little chance of his addlin' owt na ;
an' him a cripple if he mends up — if ever he
does mend up, which aw'm afeard he never

^ ' Feared more brass,' i.e. laid out more money.
^ ' Addle summits i.e. earn something.

Avill. Dredge gives sma' hopes on him, unless
there's a great alteration. He's a bit rough, is
Dredge. They nun be hard, nun t' doctors,
wi' such jobs in hand. But he alius did well
for me and mine, alius ; an aw said to Mrs.
Slater last meet — nay, aw'm storying — it war
in t' afternoon when shoo cam' in for t' clothes'
prop — aw said, " Mrs. Slater," aw said, " if
there's Oat wrong in t' inside, there's nobody
beats Dredge." '

Eh, nun, he is good at insides ! ' said
Mrs. Greenough, a sympathising neighbour,
who had followed Mabel in, out of pure
curiosity. ' Aw'ra sewer when aw had the
spavins,^ an' thowt it war all over wi' me, he
set me rest wi' an odd ^ bottle ; eh, an' it war
nasty stujSf yo' mind ! He mayn't be good at
bones an' that, for he isn't as mich amaug it as
them Infirmary doctors, but he's a jockey at
insides ; an' if he could nobbut work it rand
to your Squire's inside he'd mend him up,
aw'm sewer he wad.'

This indirect and ingenious receipt for
curing a compound fracture of the leg by
driving it into the stomach, and there securing

^ ' Spavin,' i.e. spasms. ^ * Odd,' i.e. single.

it — like a rat driven from an inaccessible to an
accessible hole — made Mabel smile, in spite of
the spectacle of Squire's wan face.

What do to' think by him to-day, Miss ? '
continued Mrs. Greenough, turning to Mabel.

'I am afraid he's no better,' said Mabel,
putting fresh flowers in the tumbler by the
bedside.

He'll never mak' mich at, aw'm thinking,'
said Mrs. Greenough, looking at him and
speaking of him with as little delicacy as if he
were a sick animal. ' Think on tha sends
t' club brass regular to t' school, Mary Ann,
there's na knowing how soon yo' may need it.'

Nay, Squire himself alius thinks on to send
it at of his own brass, by our Sally, first thing
on Sunday morning,' answered Mrs. Lumb, to
whom this admonition was addressed.

T' club brass ' was a subscription of a
penny or two weekly to a Sunday-school sick
and burial society, which, on the death of a
member, entitled his parents to a few pounds
towards his funeral expenses. Poor Squire,
made old-fashioned by both illness and poverty,
and taught to look on all his sicknesses as
selfish luxuries he had no ric^ht to indulge in,

and on his approaching death as the last and
worst of these inconsiderate extravagances,
made the amends of paying his subscription to
the sick society out of his own money-box.
This put in a new light the greedy way in
which the child took the few pence he was
occasionally given ; and Mabel, who lead
hitherto set this eagerness down to West Eiding
greed, was struck with a remorse that doubled
her tenderness towards him.

How much money have you now,
Squire ? ' she asked, as she sat by his bedside
and took his worn hand in hers.

Fourpence hawpny. But Mr. Kneeshaw
said he'd give me a shilling if I didn't cry
when doctor 'examined me. And I didn't,
did I, mother ? '

Eh, Miss, but he was as good as good !
Wasn't he, Martha ? ' to Mrs. Greenough.

Good ! ' exclaimed Mrs. Greenough.
Aw never seed nowt like it in all my life —
never. T' doctor painted and peopled and
twisted his legs as if he war kneeling dough —
he did. My heart walked for the bairn, as the
sweat rest paired dean his face ; but he never
cried at, not once. Bless him! Dredge

himself wor capped ' wi' him, and said he bet
all he ever had to do wi.'

Mabel smoothed back the child's hair and
stooped and kissed his forehead with a tenderness
she could not trust herself just then to put
into words. Tenderness of this kind and expressed
in this way was such a surprise to Squire
as to suggest to him that he must be dying. His
probable death had been discussed and discounted
before him so often, and in so matter-of-fact
a way, that the idea of it was neither
new nor terrifying to him. It was made up in
his mind of an idea of heaven — which he
pictured as like a Whitsuntide school treat,
when the Sunday-school children marched with
a band and banners to a field, and played and
had buns, and an idea of such a scolding as he
got invariably when he came back from the
field with his new Whitsuntide suit soiled or
torn. Indeed, he had heard enough to know
that his death would cost his parents a good
deal more than a suit of clothes, and would
therefore be a proportionately greater grievance.
And, as he wasn't by any means a bad-hearted
little chap, there was mixed up with these two

^ * Capped,' i.e. surprised.

ideas a third, wliicli troubled him not a Httle —
that there would be no mother, nor Miss
Masters, nor Sally in heaven. After meditating
these thugs a minute, he said, ' Mother, where's
our Sally ? '

Shoo's gone to t' coop, toy ; she'll be
back soon.'

She may have the grapes, mayn't she,
mother ? '

Sally, it seemed, had cried for some grapes
Mr. Kneeshaw the day before had left for
Squire, . and which Squire would then have
shared with her but for his mother's indignant
intervention.

'Nay, toy, tha munnot gie away them
grapes. What 'ud Mr. Kneeshaw say ? '

Mr. Kneeshaw's name turned his mind,
which wandered easily now, back to the
balloon and the accident.

I couldn't help it, mother.'

What, toy P '

Being ruined over. Mr. Kneeshaw said
it wasn't me that did it.'

It wor to be,' replied his mother, with a
fatalism universal among the poor. ' Tha' wor

VOL. I. I

alius an unlucky bairn ever sin' tha wor
born.'

Mabel, who, with the sympathy of love and
(jf long experience of children, had got the clue
to the child's thoughts, tried to counteract this
ungracious speech.

You ! of course it wasn't your fault,
Squire. Do you think Mr. Pickles would send
the doctor to see you if it was your fault ? '

Squire, who certainly had little reason to be
thankful for Dr. Dredge's attentions, was anything
but reassured by this evidence of Mr.
Pickles' feeling towards him. So, disregarding
this comfort, he turned to another.

Mr. Kneeshaw was ruined over too,' lie
said, in an accent and with a look at Mabel
that plainly expressed, ' It couldn't have
been a scrape if Mr. Kneeshaw was in it ; could
it?'

It was a very effective argumentum ad
honiton, and Mabel didn't like the lad the less
for his faith in Mr. Kneeshaw.

'Who has been putting it into the child's
head that he is to blame for the accident ? '
asked Mabel, with some of the irritation she
felt towards Mrs. Lumb in her voice. ' I can't

think how anyone could be so cruel and heartless
as to say such a thing. You know very
well, Mrs. Lumb, that he was no more to blame
for it than you were.'

This unlucky speech was at once and of
course interpreted by Mrs. Lumb to mean that
she alone was to blame for it. We can hardly
say whether West Eiding people are readier to
give or to take offence. Not in the least sensitive
as to your feelings, they are extremely sensitive
in their own. Mrs. Lumb's feelings of gratitude
and respect towards Mabel were strong,
but, strong as they were, they nearly went
down before the shock of this sudden attack.

Me, j\iiss ! ' she cried, in breathless amazement
; ' me to blame ! What war aw to do
wi' him ? War aw to tee him to t' bed foot
to keep him at o' street ? How many hubert
times have aw felled him to come hooam
straight thro' school, and not to lake wi' t'
lads up and dean and in and at in all mak's of
mischief? Nay, nobody can say aw've not
been a good mother till him, and warmed '^
him times and times when he has been taking
and loitering and doomed hooam lat' thro'

^ ' Lake,' i.e play. ^ * Warmed,' i.e. whipped.

I 2

day-schooilor Sunday-school wi' his bits o' tidings
all over muck. And if he'd been at hooam
"svhen t' accident happened,' she ajiked triumphantly,
' wad he have been ruined over ?
What are ta ciyin' for ? ' she interrupted herself
to say, in a voice still sharp, but softened
somewhat at sight of Squire's tears. Squire,
like most Yorkshire lads, was as stoical
as an Indian when well, but weakness had so
unstrung him as to set him crying at the
thought that he had got Miss Masters into a
scrape. When his m. other was half through
her harangue, his hand stole from under the
coverlet instinctively to console Mabel, as he
would have consoled Sally, by putting his arm
round her neck. But as, of course, this was
not to be thought of, his hand, stopping halfway,
nestled itself timidly in hers, and he expressed
the rest of his sympathy in tears, of
which he was thoroughly ashamed. He felt
he had lost the character he had earned by not
crying when the doctor was torturing him.
He hid his head in the bedclothes, wiped his tears
away with them, and, looking out again with a
defiant face, said, in a voice that ' protested too
much,' * I am not crying ; * and then, with great

presence of mind, changed the subject by
asking Mabel a question which had been much
in his thoughts since her last visit — ' Please,
Miss Masters, why couldn't they take the press
away ? ' This mysterious question referred to
the miracle Mabel had read for him, in which
the sufferer had been let down through the
roof when he could not be brought through
the door ' for the press.' Squire thought it
harder to take the roof away than ' the
press,' of which his idea was the press-bed on
which he lay ; and that there must therefore
be some mysterious and malign influence in a
press ' which made against such a miracle
being worked in his own case. While this
difficulty was being explained by him and to
him, Mrs. Greenough, who associated anything
religious with church, and church with her
best clothes, became conscious of the profanity
of her toilet, and made hastily but softly
for the door. Here her reverential impressions
were confirmed by her meeting no less
than two parsons, Eels. Archer Lawley and
George Kneeshaw — two spiritual doctors, who
she imagined, were met together in consultation
over the difficult case of the dying child.

Mr. Archer Lawley's appearance on the
scene was an apt illustration of the lesson Mabel
was giving the child — that such cures as the
Gospel records were not wrought to-day
directly, but intermediately. For Mr. Lawley
came to make Mrs. Lumb the extraordinary
offer to give Squire the one chance of life that
remained, of better air, food, and advice, by
taking him to his own vicarage in the country
must explain that Mr. Lawley justified all
that his friends said of his eccentricity by turning
his house into a convalescent hospital for
the sick children of the very poor. Wretched
little creatures that were fading fast in the foul
and festering back slums of Weston, revived
miraculously when transplanted to Fenton
Vicarage, where there were provided for them
not only pure air, good food, the .care of a
professional nurse, and the skill of the first
doctor in Weston, but games, toys, treats, and
amusements of the most miscellaneous kind.
Mr. Lawley, who was a bachelor, spent upon
this craze somethinG; more than the income he
had from the Church, and lived himself on his
private means, which were not large, and by
his pen. He no sooner heard from Kneeshaw

of Squire's case than he offered to take it under
his care, and the two had come together to
make this offer to Mrs. Lumb. Fortunately
for Squire, exaggerated accounts of Parson
Lawley's good deeds and miraculous cures had
reached Mrs. Lumb, so that she no sooner
heard his name than she divined and rejoiced
over his errand. Such accounts had reached
Mabel also, who naturally so appreciated a
Mitred craze to her own that she looked up at
Mr. Lawley with a beautiful expression of hero-worship
when George introduced him to her.
Mr. Lawley, a very tall man, foreign-looking,
with a cynical mouth, but not unkindly eyes of
a soft deep brown, blushed under her gaze.
His self-possession, which would have been
proof against the presence of an archbishop,
often left him in the presence of ladies, and he
was disconcerted by the sight of the loveliest
face he had ever seen, looking up at him with
a childlike admiration. He muttered something
about intruding, and would then and there •
have beaten a hasty retreat, leaving to Knee-shaw
the arrangement of the affair, if Mrs.
Lumb had allowed him. That good lady, however,
intercepted his retreat, and saved him and

Mr. Kneeshaw any delicacy or difFiculty they
might have felt about broaching the subject, by
taking upon herself the modest duty.

Sit thee dean, Sir,' she said, wiping a chair
with her apron ; ' aw'm fain to see yo'. You've
doomed, aw reckon, to ax awr Squire to your
hanse. Well, aw'm nowt again it. Yo' can
tak' him if you've a mind.'

Neither Mr. Lawley nor Mr. Kneeshaw was
in the least surprised by Mrs. Lumb's modesty
and magnanimity, for both had experience
enough of the West Eiding poor to know that,
however grateful they feel at heart — and no
one can accuse them of ingratitude — they
accept a favour as if they were conferring it.

I think the change would do him good,
Mrs. Lumb,* said Mr. Lawley, as courteously as
if Mrs. Lumb really was doing him a kindness.

It is so good of you, ]\Ii\ Lawley,' burst in
Mabel, eager to cover and make up for Mrs.
Lumb's ungraciousness, yet blushing at the
same time with the consciousness that praise
from her might sound patronising or presumptuous.
The imperturbable Mr. Lawley seemed,
to Kneeshaw 's amazement, absolutely to return
the blush as he muttered something like ' Not

at all,' and turned to ask Squire if lie would like
to come to Fenton. Squire had heard of
Fenton Vicarage from the same source as his
mother — from a schoolfellow who lived in an
alley off Sugg Lane, who had spent a month in
that paradise, of which he had never ceased to
talk since.

Please, may mother and Sally come to seeme?'


Of course they may.'

And Miss Masters ? '

This was a very awkward request. Mrs.
MacGucken, Mr. Lawley's housekeeper and
hospital nurse, who ruled him with a rod of
iron, would as soon see a bailiff as a spinster in
the house, since neither could have any other
business there than ' to take ' the master.
Accordingly, she was simply brutal in her
manner to any eligible spinster who entered
the vicarage under any pretence or pretext
whatsoever. For Mr. Lawley, therefore, to
invite Miss Masters and her chaperon (who, he
supposed, would be her mother) to meet such
a reception as Mrs. MacGucken would give
them, would be more inhospitable than to discourage
them. Yet he would have been more

brutal even than Mrs. MacGucken herself, if he
made no response to Squire's suggestion.

I am sure,' he said hesitatingly, ' I shall
be very glad if Miss Masters will honour my
house with a visit ; but I'm afraid '

Thank you very much,' interrupted Mabel,
hastening to the relief of his evident embarrassment
; ' but I really couldn't think of coming,
except on crutches or in consumption. You
don't take in anything short of that, Mr. Lawley
? ' she rattled on with a flippancy which
seemed, under the circumstances, the truest
politeness, as Mr. Lawley was slow to recover
from his embarrassment. ' Besides, I expect
Squire will be so much better as to be able to
come to see me before I could get my aunt to
make her mind up for an expedition to Fenton.
She thinks any place you get by train to must
be ail immense distance off. It's a good way
for Squire to be moved to, I am afraid.'

It's something over five miles,' replied Mr.
Lawley ; ' but once you get clear of the town,
the road is good. — When may I send for him,
Mrs. Lumb ? '

The question helped Mrs. Lumb to realise
her separation from Squire, which she felt all

the more keenly because she had had so much
to do for him ; and her tears, which began now
to flow freely, affected Squire. It was a bitter
mortification to be unable to choke back his
tears. Could Mr. Kneeshaw now believe that
he hadn't cried yesterday, when Dr. Dredge
had given him good reason? Yet, somehow,
the sight of his mother's tears, and the thought
of leaving her and Sally and Mabel, melted
him, while Dr. Dredge's bungling brutality had
only hardened him.

'Don't freest, toy. Me and Sally will
come see thee,' cried Mrs. Lumb, as she dried
her own tears in her apron.

She won't,' sobbed the child, nodding his
head towards Mabel. ' Mother ! '

What, toy ? '

But Squire wouldn't tell her what, till she
had stooped down to hear it in a whisper.

Nay, aw couldn't for shame ax her. Eh,
Miss, but he thinks the world o' thee ! '

Is it anything I can do for him, Mrs.
Lumb ? '

Deed, Miss, aw can hardly fashion to tell
thee. He wants thee to kiss him as tha did a
bit sin.'

As Mabel was about to stoop to kiss the
child, George and ^Mr. Lawley held their hands
out to bid her good bye, and telling Mrs. Lumb
what hour the cab would come tomorrow for
Squire, they left the house together. When
Mabel did stoop to kiss him, the poor little clap
put both arms round her neck, and cried, and
clung convulsively to her till Mabel's cheek was
wet with other tears beside his.

CHAPTER VII

Barney MCGRATH.

When Mabel left Mrs. Lumb's some time later,
lie was so absorbed in sad doubts about seeing?
Squire again alive that she did not notice, till
she was close upon him, a drunken navvy, who,
leaning against a lamp-post, took up most of the
narrow footway along which she was passing.
As she was stepping hastily out of his reach
into the roadway, he put out his hand, caught
her by the shoulder, and, cursing and swearing
the most frightful endearments, drew her towards
him. Before, however, she could realise
the horror of the position, the brute lay sprawling
in the road, quite still and perfectly satisfied
seemingly, bestridden by a dapper Httle Irishman,
who poured out a mixture of abuse of
him, praise of Mabel, and intellectual asides to
the donkey he drove, shaken up together with
incoherent volubility. At first, indeed, he was

SO inarticulate with rage that the mixture
flowed, as out of a bottle, in gushes ; but soon
it swept along in a continuous and impetuous
torrent.

Oh, ye — ye — ye thief of the would !
ye — ye black-hearted blackguard ! Lie there,
will ye? Lie there till the civil himself flies

away wit ye: ye — ye An angel, bad

luck to ye ! Whose shadow is the sunshine of
the street. Drinking' the bed from under
yere wife and children, and thin waylaid' and
marauding' thin that the saints send to put a
bite in their bellies. Is it a man ye are at all
at all, or a heathen brute baste ? and she, I'll
go bail, just coming' away from the little rather
she's been almost a mother to, God bless her !
ye northern' villain, ye ! Woa, Neddy ! woa,
me lad ! Get up wit ye, ye baste, and go
home, and don't be dirty' the road wit yer
carcass ' — this with a vigorous kick, which
horrified Mabel with the fear that it must rouse
the giant to battle, but which was so ineffective
that Barney continued in a disgusted voice,
'Barra, there's no raisons' wit him, the
insensible omidhawn I Don't be a morsel in
thread, Miss. Sure, I'll see ye safe home,

myself, if ye'll slitop a minute. Bad cess to ye !
didn't ye hear me tell ye to stand still, ye
bothered ^ baste ? Woa, I tell ye ! Just half a
minute to go home to put up the baste, and I'll
see ye safe out of this civil's den, if I may
make so would, Miss. Faix, it's a sin to see
him lying' like that,* he soliloquised — in an
accent of pity, Mabel thought, but really of
regret ; ' if he had a quart less in him now he'd
have been mad for a fight. He would so.
But there's thin that never knows how much is
good for 'em. 'Tis sorry I am to disappoint you,
Miss, but ye might stand here all night before
he'd be in a fit state for a baiting', the misfortune
kalmuck ! ^ I'll just go and put the baste
up, and be back in a jiffy to take care of ye, if
you'll let the likes of me walk behind ye.'

Thank you very much,' said Mabel, terrified
at the thought of being left a moment by
herself beside the prostrate navvy, eager to
make all the haste she could out of the street,
and yet more anxious not to offend her protector
by a refusal of his escort. ' Perhaps you
will kindly allow me to go with you now ? '

'Deed thin. Miss, I'm proud to walk the

^ 'Bothered,' i.e. deaf, ' * Gaumuck/ i.e. idiot.

same street will ye ; and if ye wouldn't be

after minding' But shire it's like the

blessed sunlight ye are that isn't in thread of
been' stained by shining into a poor man's
house. This way, Miss, I must go before ye,
ain' your pardon. Up, Neddy, home, me lad.
It's down this alley. Miss. Faith, and sure
I'm ashamed to bring ye into such a place.'

It certainly was a filthy alley — a parasite,
so to speak, of Sugg Lane. For even Sugg
Lane had its parasitic offshoots.

So, naturalists observe, a flea
Has smaller fleas that on him prey;
And these have smaller still to bite 'em,
And so proceed ad infinitum.

It was the most nauseating street Mabel
ever was in. She had to stoop her head each
moment to avoid the patched, mildewed, half-washed
clothes that were hun across the street
to dry, by lines stretched from window to
window ; she had to pick her steps amongst the
sickly children that crawled, languid as snails,
about her feet ; she had to step out now and
then into the road to avoid some virago who
stood, with arms akimbo and defiant stare,
blocking the narrow footway. When about

half way down this noisome alley, Barney
stopped to speak to a sullen-looking savage who
was leaning lazily against a house front, with
his hands in his trousers' pockets, and a short
clay pipe in his mouth.

Bob's at the ould address,' said Barney,
jerking his thumb over his shoulder.

Where ? '

In the gather.'

'Ay,' said the savage unconcernedly, replacing
his pipe and relapsing into apathy.

He'll be ruined over.'

Like enough.'

Or he'll be ruined in by the bobbies, and
thin it'll all come out,' said Barney significantly
The savage swore a frightful oath, then cleared
his throat, and spat down the grating at his
feet. Whereupon de profundity shrilled a
sharp voice up through the grating —

Bad luck to ye, whoever ye are, that's the
third time ye're done that thrice ! '

Nancy ! '

What ? ' sharp and shrill as a steam
whistle.

Your Bob's fresh.' ^

^ Fresh, i.e. drunk.
VOL. I. K

Yes ? ' interrogatively, as knowing that no
one would tell her only tltat as a piece of news.

He's lying in the street and will be tuk
to the station if ye don't have him fetched
home.'

The civil fetch him and ye too for a pair
of d ,' etc. etc. etc. — fortunately unintelligible
to Mabel.

The savage, swearing horribly once more,
growled to Barney, ' Lend us the cart and I'm

d d if I don't fetch him and shove him

down the grating to her.'

Nothing but consideration for Mabel would
have induced Barney to lend his cart to the
savage for any purpose ; but he knew that if
he refused it. Mabel would hear still more
awful lani^uaG^e than she had heard already,
and that if he lent it he might at once hurry
her out of this infernal region. Besides, he
wasn't sorry to stop short of his home, which
he was ashamed that Mabel should see.

Ye'll not kick the baste ? '

No,' with an imprecation.

And ye'll put him him up when ye're done
wit him ? '

Aren't ye coming' wit me yourself ? '

I'm not. Tell Molly I'll be home in an
hour. He's lying' outside the " Yorkshire
Chicken." — This is the shortest way into Clifford
Street, Miss,' he said hurriedly, pointing up
a narrow but short passage. The savage,
noticing Mabel for the first time, scowled
curiously at her before he turned the donkey
back into Sugg Lane. Barney felt quite guilty
and crestfallen as he walked after Mabel, silent
for a wonder, up the passage. He felt almost
as responsible for the language Mabel had
heard as if he had uttered it himself. As for
Mabel, it was the first time in all her visits
amongst the poor that she had met with insult,
and seen and heard the utmost degradation of
poverty. She felt quite faint and sick, and
stopping at the top of the passage, she asked —

What is your name ? '

Barney McGrath, Miss,' answered Barney
in a subdued voice.

Is there a cabstand near, Barney ? '

Yes, Miss, I'll fetch you a cab,' he replied,
thinking ' She's ashamed of me, small blame to
her.'

Mabel, divining his thought, 'I'd rather
you'd take me to it, if you will. I don't feel

K 2

quite well, Barney ; I don't think I could walk
home.'

Barney, as he looked into her while face,
felt ashamed of his suspicions. ' It's only round
the corner, Miss.'

Barney, I don't know how to thank you,'
said Mabel, as they walked together towards
the cabstand.

For bringing ye into that ins into that

alley. Miss ? ' said Barney bitterly.

For defending and protecting me like —
like an Irishman,' said Mabel, looking at him
with eyes moistened and brightened with a
grateful sense of his chivalry.

The compliment to his country cheered
Barney like champagne instantaneously.

Och, thin, it's little I done for you, Miss,
compared wit what you done for me many
and many's the time.'

'I?'

You've been sermon and priest and mass
to me,' said Barney impetuously, stopping
suddenly to emphasise the statement. ' Sure,
ye seen where I live. Sure, ye heard thin
devils. Sure, ye know that's what I hear and
see every day and all day. Wliat good's Father

Quin's preaching on Sunday, wit thin about
your cart on Monday ? But when I see ye, a
born lady, and a mere ship of a girl — ax in'
yer pardon, Miss — when I seen ye folio win'
trouble from door to door, and from bed to
bed, and brightening' it up — God bless ye !has
the spring flowers brighten the black winter
earth, I knew there war a heaven, and saints,
and angels, and the Blessed Virgin, wit pity in
their hearts for us, glory be to God ! '

Barney was impressionable and felt all he
said, but it must in candour be admitted that
he was less used to the ministrations of Father
Quin than to those of the landlord of the ' Yorkshire
Chicken.' In fact, his very impracticability
was due in part to the state to which a long
and regular attendance at that hostelry had
reduced his nerves. For all that there was a
deal of good in Barney that hadn't been worked
out, as may be inferred from his genuine
worship of Mabel, of whom he had seen much
and heard more in hawking his wares among
the poor of her neighbourhood. Mabel was at
once amazed at Barney's outburst and ashamed
of the Httle she had done to deserve it.
Before, however, she could reply to it, Barney

had sighted a cab, which he ran after, hailed,
and returned with.

You'll come home with me, Barney ? My
aunt will want to thank you, and I haven't
half thanked you myself yet.'

Thank you kindly, ]\Iiss, but I'm onaisy
about the baste. Black George is the civil's
own fist wit his clogs.'

Well, when can you come to see me ? '
asked Mabel eagerly. ' " The Grange," you
know, Bradford Eoad. Can you come tomorrow
? '

Barney felt very sheepish about coming to
be thanked in form for so light, little, and
agreeable a service as that of knocking a man
down, yet he knew that politeness called for
his acceptance of so gracious an invitation.

Well, thank you. Miss,' he said, taking his
cap off, looking stedfastly at it, and turning it
round and round nervously in both his hands,
I might call tomorrow evening, if it would be
convenient to ye. Miss.'

Yes, do. I shall be at home all the evening.
Good-bye, Barney.'

Barney looked at the little gloved hand
held out to him through the window of the

cab, then at his own vast, horny paw ; but
again an instinctive politeness taught him to
take it as unhesitatingly as it was offered,
though he held it as reverentially as if it was
the relic of a saint.

Good-bye, Miss ; God bless ye ! '
Barney stood for a moment looking after
the cab, and thinking with some misgivings
over tomorrow evening's appointment. Next
moment he bethought him of ' his baste,' which
he was loth to leave to the tender mercies of
Black George a minute longer than he could
help. He made his way back into Knacker's
Alley with all speed to find that Black
George's kindly design had not gone well
altogether. As the savage led the cart Into
Sugg Lane he saw Bob, who had been revived
by a benevolent bucket of water flung
in his face, staggering towards him menacingly.
The sight of the cart seemed to remind him
that he had been knocked down by its owner,
so he made for Black George like lightning, ina
zigzag. Black George, having turned the
donkey round, and sent it with a curse and
a kick in the belly to find its way home,
awaited the onslaught with contemptuous

equanimity. Bob, tacking wildly, took about a
minute to bring up alongside Black George,
and had, therefore, time to forget his intention
of vengeance, of which, indeed, he lost sight
with the disappearance of the donkey, and to
become friendly and even affectionate. Black
George was too anxious to get him clear of the
police and coax him home to repel his affectionate
advances, and so the two roamed
together down the sweet arcadia of Knacker's
Alley, an idyllic spectacle, Bob's arm being
wound fondly round Black George's neck.
Half way down they came up with Barney's
baste,' which, being piloted, had got into
difficulty (the cart-wheel being locked against
a lamp-post), and waited patiently for
Hercules to extricate it. Hercules shook Bob
off roughly, since he was now, as it seemed,
safe at the mouth of his den, and led the
donkey to its stable near the bottom of the
alley, where he proceeded to unharness it.
Meantime Bob, roused by the rough shake, by
the sight and sound of the cart, and, above all,
by the inopportune appearance of Barney upon
the scene at this moment, reverted to the revengeful
mood, and made a drunken dash at

Barney. Barney, seeing that Bob wasn't even
yet ' in a fit state for a baiting ',' stood on the
defensive, warding off the wild blows, and
giving a chaffing lesson in boxing.

Hould in yere left ! Hould in yere left,
man ! Now, out wit the right ! Och ! Pugh !
Is it plain' skittles ye are ? '

The scuffle, Bob's imprecations, and
Barney's chaff, hurried Nancy up from the
cellar, armed with a skillet she happened
fortunately to have been scouring. With a
wild warwhoop she made at Barney from
behind with the skillet, and would have felled
him if he had not ducked and allowed the
blow to take effect upon Bob's midriff, bringing
him to the ground with a crash. The row
roused the whole foul rookery, which cawed
and clamoured from every door and window in
the alley, but could not drown Nancy's shrill
blasphemies, which were loud enough to be
heard in Clifford Street, and to bring a passing
policeman to the spot. Just before his arrival,
Barney, having assured himself that Bob was
not seriously hurt, had gone off to look after
his baste,' and the policeman found no one
to contradict Nancy's account of the affair.

which was, of course, that that drunken blackguard
Barney McGrath had made a most
savage and unprovoked assault upon her
inoffensive husband.

Knocked the savin senses out of him, the
rather.'

As there was no doubt his senses were
gone, and some doubt as to whether they had
been driven out as much by drink as by
violence, the policeman thought it safer to
impound Barney than Bob. Following the
afflicted Nancy's directions, he went down the
alley, and met near the bottom Barney and
Black George, who had just come together
from the stable.

Do you know where a man of the name
of Barney McGrath lives ? ' asked the policeman,
with official peremptoriness.

Barney knit his brows and puckered his lips
together into an expression of perplexed consideration,
and muttered musingly, ' Barney —
Barney McGrath ; ' then his face lightened with
a sudden inspiration, as he said to George, ' 111
be bound it's Baste Barney he manes — him
that thrives the donkey.' Then, turning to the
policeman, he asked, ' Is he in trouble now ?

o »

That's no business of yours.'

'Deed, thin, that's three ; and where he
lives is no business of mine, neither. Still, i'll
answer a civil question when I'm axed. He
lives down that cellar just foreninst ye, and
here's his missus coming' up the steps. — Mrs.
McGrath, is Barney at home? '

Molly was quick enough to take in the
situation, even without the aid of Barney's
wink.

What's that to you ? ' she said sharply,
with a vicious look at the policeman.

Oh, nothing's nothing' to me,' said Barney,
in an aggrieved tone ; and then, with a sly
wink at the policeman, ' Ye may takeyere oath
he isn't far off.'

Come, come, my good woman,' said the
policeman, thrusting her aside, 'I must see
him.'

As the policeman descended the steps.
Black George slouched off at a speed unusual
with him, stopping only once to slap his thigh
and exclaim, ' Well, I'm bio wed ! '

Barney stood his ground, as he thought it
safest that the policeman should look to no one
but himself for information.

Go down and keep the children from seen'
me,' he whispered to Molly, who, hurrying
down the steps, met the policeman returning
disappointed.

Are ye aise now ? ' she sneered, as he
passed her.

Isn't he in ?' asked Barney,

No,' replied 43 curtly.

Devil go wit him ; it's in the stable he is,
thin.'

'You're a friend of hiss' said 43, turning
sharply on Barney.

A friend ! He hasn't a worse inimy in the
would,' replied Barney, with genuine bitterness.


Where's the stable ? ' asked 43 reassured.

It's up the origen here. Anyhow, wee
can see if he's come home if the baste's in.'

There's no doubt about that. It's not five
minutes since he knocked a man down in the
alley.'

Barney expressed his horror by repeating
three or four tunes that sucking noise made by
striking the tonf:[ue against the roof of the

O DC

mouth.

Think of that, now ! He wasn't a policeman,
I hope ? '

A policeman ! ' exclaimed 43, with a
disdainful smile, ' no ; a common man

I wouldn't put it past him to tackle even
a policeman.'

Ah ! ' said 43, with ineffable meaning.

'And as for dodging, he'd dodge the civil.'

He's not in the force,' said 43, chuckling
inordinately at his own wit. ' McGrath will
not find it so easy to take the police in, my
man, I can tell you.'

Ah, sure there's no desaivin' ye at all at
all,' said Barney, with wide-eyed admiration.

43 replied by closing one eye altogether for
two seconds.

Begor, it's locked ! ' said Barney, as they
reached the stable door. ' If we knew where
he was, now, we could get the kay.'

If we knew where he was, we shouldn't
want the key, soothed.'

Barren' he locked himself in.*

How could he lock himself in and it padlocked
? '

Three for ye. Ye think of everything,
faith. There's the " Brown Jug," now,' he continued,

scratching his head reflectively. ' He's
always in the " Brown Jug," when he's at home ;
but I aren't go wit ye there. The boys
would bate me like a carpet if they seen me
wit ye.'

The " Brown Jug" ? That's in Limerick
Street. What kind of looking man is this Mcgrath
? ' asked 43, as they walked together
back to Knacker's Alley.

'What sort of a lookin' man is he? Faix
he's as fine a looking clap as ever ye seen,' said
Barney enthusiastically. ' As straight as a
rush, and as strong as a bill, wit a fine open
countenance like a peony. He's a bit like
myself when he's lane and day cent. We'd be
ike to take me for him if ye knew him.'

Poor Barney's pun was ominous, for, as
they emerged into the alley, there stood Nancy
confronting them. She had become uneasy at
the delay in the arrest, which she accounted
for by supposing that Barney was convincing
the policeman of the truth of his own version
of the fray ; and she had no sooner got Bob
into the house than she hurried down the alley
to reiterate her own account with tenfold fury.
It would probably have turned out as she

feared if Barney could have resisted the temptation
of ' gammoning a bobby ; ' for his account
would have been corroborated by the fact of
his sobriety and Bob's drunkenness, by the
skillet in Nancy's hand, and perhaps by the
testimony of some bystander. Now, however,
Barney, like many a better man, had to pay
for being too clever, as nothing short of his
arrest could satisfy the outraged dignity of 43.

Oh, ye're took him, have ye, the northern'
miscreant ? '

'Who?'

Baste Barney, to be sure ! '

No, we haven't found him yet.'

Haven't what ^ And who's that standing
fut to fut wit ye .? '

It's-sit's not '

Yes, it's me,' said Barney, with the most
perfect composure, not to say complacency.
Has she been tellin' ye lies about me ? ' in an
accent of astonishment.

Lies ! ' screamed Nancy ; and then followed
a tirade of accusation, exclamation, abuse, and
scurrility, during which 43 had time to realise
the audacity and disgrace of the imposture
practised upon him.

You come along with me,' he said savagely,
turning suddenly and collaring Barney.

Where am I to go to ? '

To the devil,' cried 43, beyond himself
with rage.

I thought he wasn't in the force.'

What is it now, Barney ? ' asked Molly,
whom Nancy's shrill tirade had brought up
from her cellar, and who heard enough to know
that Barney was identified.

Faix, it's myself that doesn't know rightly,
Molly.'

There's nothing' but trouble,' said Molly ;
nothing.'

Don't cry, mavourneen ; it'll all come
right.'

Will it?' said 43 ; ' we'll see. — Look here,
my good woman ' — to Nancy — ' you and your
husband must be in the court-house tomorrow
at eleven to give evidence. Do you hear?
Come, my man.'

'Hould up, Molly. Find out thin in the
alley that seen the row, and ax 'em to come
spake the truth in court.'

'Molly's reply was lost in the torrent of
filthy abuse which Nancy turned to pour out

upon lier, and Barney was led off in charge
of 43.

Molly was not successful in her attempt to
procure evidence. Under the twofold fear of a
police court and of Bob, Black George & Co.,
every one denied either seeing the affair, or
seeing it distinctly enough to swear to. Bob
himself, as was to be expected, kept clear of the
court, Nancy accounting for his absence by informing
the Bench that ' they couldn't put a
sixpenny piece on any part of his body that
wasn't black and blue.' Her story, which she
told with such volubility and vehemence that it
had to be repeated three times over before the
Bench could make out all its bearings, was
strongly corroborated by 43, who felt that
Barney deserved the utmost punishment he was
likely to get, if only for the profane deception
he practised on a police officer,

Barney, to Nancy's amazement, admitted
having knocked Bob down, but explained that
he had done it in Sugg Lane, and not in
Knacker's Alley, and that he had done it in
defence of a lady whom Bob had assaulted ;
that he had accompanied the lady to Clifford

VOL. I. L

Street and put lier into a cab, and that on his
return he was attacked by Bob, ' who was that
drunk he couldn't hit a haystack. I kep'
him up as well as I could till Nancy came at
me wit a skilled, your worships, and she'd
have tuk me a crack that Avould have knocked
daylight through me — for there isn't a woman
in the alley can come up to her wit a stone in
the fut of her shocking' — and, as I was saying',
your worships, she sh truck at me from behind
wit a skilled, and I ducked, and it tuk Bob in
the wind and floored him as flat as a tombstone.
— Ye did, ye know ye did, ye strap,'
turning suddenly towards Nancy. — ' And thin,'
reverting as suddenly towards the Bench, ' and
thin I went to look after the baste, your
worships, and whin I was coming' out of the
stable I met the policeman, and he axed me,
says he, " Do you know where Barney McGrath
lives ? " says he. " I do," says I, " and well too ; "
and I showed him where I Used, your worships,
I did,' concluded Barney, with a triumphant
expression of conscious honesty.

The presiding magistrate, no other than our
old friend Josiah Pickles, who was as domineering

and dogmatic on the Bench as he was in
society, took the case wholly into his own hands.
He had hardly patience to hear it to its close,
for his natural prejudice against the Irish had
been quickened into abhorrence by their political
desertion of him at the last election.

Where are your witnesses ? ' he asked
sharply.

Barney looked vainly round the court.

The lady you rescued is here, no doubt,'
with a facetious look at his brothers on the
Bench.

Barney had once thought of sending to
Mabel, but all his associations with a court
made him imagine it a degradation to be summoned
there in any capacity, so he put the
thought chivalrously aside.

Ah, I thought not. Is there anyone here
who knows you and can speak to your
character ? '

Barney again looked from face to face till
his eye lighted on Captain Markham, the chief
constable, with whom he, as a witness, had
once been brought into relation.

There's Captain Markham, the chief constable,
your worship, he knows me.'

L 2

I know nothing whatever about you, my
man.'

Barney, with wonderful quickness, turned
even this to this credit.

There, do you hear that ! ' he cried triumphantly.


He says he knows nothing about you.'

'And what could he say more nor that,
yere worships ? Shire, doesn't he know every
thief and drunkard and bla-guard and bad
character in Weston as well as he knows his
own children ? Do ye think he wouldn't know
me if I was the likes of thin ? '

Again poor Barney had to pay for being
too clever. His quickness served only to convince
the other magistrates of what LIr. Pickles
was convinced already, that his circumstantial
story was only an invention from end to end.
After a minute's consultation together, or rather
a minute granted graciously by Mr. Pickles to
his fellow magistrates to consider and endorse
his sentence, that gentleman summarily despatched
the business : ' Io., or seven days.
Call the next case.'

The fine was paid out of a pound which
poor Molly had scraped together by pawn and

loan, and Barney left the court with his faith in
the guardianship of the saints, etc., somewhat
shaken, and his hatred of the law as impersonated
by Josiah Pickles, M.P., intensified.

CHAPTER VIII.

MISS MASTERS.

When Messrs. Lawley and Kneeshaw called to
remove Squire, they heard from his mother a
muddled account of the assault, from which it
appeared that Barney and Bob had a terrific
combat in Sugg Lane, with the result that Bob
was worsted in the field, but Barney in the
police court.

But Miss Masters ? ' interjected George
anxiously.

Eh ! but shoo war flayed they tell me.'
Shoo mud well be flayed ; aw'd 'ave been
flayed mysen,' burst in the inevitable and
irrepressible Mrs. Greenougli, who proceeded
then to recount, as a parallel case, an adventure
she herself had with ' a drufl[en man '
when she was in an interesting condition, from
which she branched off to her different confines

* Flayed i.e. frightened.

merits, the sex and name of each resulting
child, with its death under its proper date, or
its age, if living, the tyranny of the School
Board, her Sarah Jane's extraordinary turn
for 'twining' a washing machine, and Mrs.
Slater's slatternliness in washing on a Thursday,
or even Friday, winding up with that
hearty burst of self-praise which closes a West
Eiding speech as naturally as the Doxology a
psalm. George, despairing of hearing anything
to the purpose in Mrs. Greenough's presence,
found out from Mrs. Lumb where Barney
lived, and leaving Squire in charge of Mr.
Lawley, hurried off to Knacker's Alley.

Meanwhile Barney sat gazing into the fire,
with his elbows on his knees and his head
between his hands, listening, or affecting to
listen, to Molly's scolding, but waking up to
unfeigned interest when she came to an inventory
of what she had pawned.

Ye didn't pop any of the children's bits of
things, did ye ? '

Of course I didn't.'

Or any of yere own ? '

'Deed, thin, I did not, Barney,' said Molly,
softened a little by the knowledge that Barney's

questions were inspired by his affection for
herself and ' the clnldhre.'

Sorra a firkin' bey and five shiUin' would
he give on my Sunday gown, the thief of
the would ! an' it's high mass next Sunday.'

What did ye pop, thin ? ' asked Barney,
relieved.

A pair of breeches '

Shurc, I thought ye said ye didn't pop yere
own things.'

Verra, whisht wit yere nonsense I It's
join' we'd be if they sould the bed from
under us. A pair of breeches, the huygens
of the saints — more be token, he called thin the
forty thieves, the heathen ! '

'He tuk thin for Protestant saints,' said
Barney inopportunely, for just then George
appeared at the door.

Now Barney had come from a part of Ireland
where what was called ' pauperism ' was
rampant, i.e. the interested conversion of
destitute Romanists through soup kitchens,
etc. He therefore regarded, and had fair
reason for regarding, every Protestant clergyman
with a mingled feeling of suspicion, aversion,
and contempt. It was only after a

struggle that his effusive Irish hospitality sofar
conquered these feelings as to give George
a not over cordial invitation to enter and take
a seat. Barney was resolved, however, to
possess his soul as a Turk keeps his wife — well
shut in — as the only certain security against its
corruption. He answered each question as laconically
as he could, lest he should give any
coign of vantage for controversy to take hold
of. ' Yes, he was in trouble.' — ' There wasn't
any fight. He knocked him down, that was
all.' — ' She was a bit frightened and sick-like,
and he put her into a cab.' — ' No, thank ye,'
very ungraciously ; for this was in answer to a
delicately worded request from George — in
which Barney at once scented pauperism —
that he might be permitted to repay Barney
the amount of his fine. George, making all
allowance for Barney's soreness under a sense
of injustice, was disgusted, nevertheless, with
his surliness, and at once took leave, with a
curt apology for the offence he had given.
Molly was more than disgusted.

What's come to ye now ? Is it takin'
lave of yere senses ye are ? " No, thank ye,"

indeed ! an' not a bite or sup in the house for
the children '

Would ye have me turn " souper " ? ' broke
in Barney impatiently. ' Ye may pop me
breeches, but I'm if ye'll pop me soul ! '

Barney could not help being spiritually
puffed up after this pious outburst ; but, fearing
the demoralising effect of Molly's eloquence, he
beat an immediate retreat, under the pretext
of looking after ' the baste.' He took the road,
however, not to the stable, but to the ' Yorkshire
Chicken,' in the hope that his religious
fortitude would be rewarded by Providence
putting it into some one's heart to treat him to
a pint of beer. Barney was little likely to be
disappointed. He was first favourite among the
frequenters of that hostelry, in part from his
generosity when he was in funds, and in part
from his being the only reveller of that choice
circle who could raise a laugh without being
disgusting.

While Barney was making for the ' Yorkshire
Chicken,' George was well on his way to
visit Mabel. He had vowed to avoid that
young lady, as he felt that to fall in love with
her would double the difficulty of a position

which was becoming intolerable ; but he easily
persuaded himself that the merest politeness
required him to call and ask after her. He
rehearsed the interview many times over,
reducing it to the lowest terms of conventional
courtesy ; though, do what he would, day-dreams,
like sunset clouds, obtruded themselves,
and crossed and occult this grey
groundwork. George was too young not to
indulge in what the Greeks aptly called the
Kevrj /xa/capta — the hollow happiness — of a
daybreak. He envied even Barney's inglorious
rescue of Mabel, and made it the
theme of infinite variations of dangers and
deliverance, in which he played the Recross
Knight to Mabel's Una. These soap bubbles
of men are not as harmless as those blown by
children, with all deference to Macaulay, who
attributed to castle building a great part of his
success. It is a kind of mental opium-eating,
which enervates the mind that habitually indulges
in it; and George, who took to it as
men take to opium — to escape harassing or
harrowing realities — felt, when the fit was
over, more helpless and unhappy than before.
He was roused from his reverie and recalled

to his resolution by finding himself in the 
of the gynecium ; for the gynecium
which had been established in the days of deaf
Miss Murdoch as a necessity, had since her
death been maintained by Colonel Masters asa
luxury. Its drawing-room was a curious
and incongruous room, where the severe Doric
style of furniture and ornament introduced by
Miss Murdoch was overlaid, and yet rather
emphasised than concealed, by the florid
Corinthian taste of her successor. It was like
the stern stone statue in the Prologue to the
Princess,' which Lilian had bedizened : —

Lilian had wound
A scarf of orange round the stony helm,
And robed the shoulders in a rosy silk,
That made the old warrior from his ivied nook
Glow like a sunbeam.

The stiff straight-backed chairs and the hobbledehoy
tables — all legs and elbows — were
adorned with gay, not to say garish, draperies
worked or chosen by ]\Iiss Masters ; while the
drab walls were hung with her paintings — glowing
fruit and flower pieces and a few startling
landscapes, which perhaps represented Nature
as she looked in Miss Masters' girlhood, before
the fashions had chanced. There were also

two portraits of Miss Masters herself, one
representing her as a child, holding a shell to
her ear and evidently listening intently — for
the admiring remarks of spectators ; the other
depicting her as a pensive maiden looking out
from a balcony into the night, not quite as
unconscious of observation as Juliet. With
the help of her paintings, these portraits, and
two pier-glasses, Miss Masters felt quite at
home in this room, in which she lived, and in
which George found her at work upon another
gorgeous group of flowers. She received him
with exceeding graciousness, as she set his
visit down to the impression she had made
upon him at LIr. Pickles' party. Of course wee
do not mean that she imagined George to be ina
fair way of falling in love with her mature
charms (though more unlikely things had
happened) ; but she did him the justice to
think that he could not be insensible to the
contrast between her bearing, culture, and conversation,
and those of the ladies of Weston.
It never entered her head for a moment that
his visit might be meant for Mabel or Colonel
Masters,

How do you do, Mr. Kneeshaw ? It is

really very good of you to come to see me. I
know I'm not in your parish,' she said, speaking,
as she always spoke, in gushes, as water
flows out of a bottle.

Politeness prevented George undeceiving
her by asking at once after Mabel. Not until
he had hoped Miss Masters liked Weston, had
complained of the weather, and had admired
the painting in progress, did he venture to ask
if Miss Mabel Masters had recovered from the
shock of yesterday.

Oh, she's quite well, thank you, to-day.
When she came home last night, white and
trembling, and told me how she had been
frightened by a drunken man, I was quite
upset. I felt that I could never again go out
alone in Weston. I have had such a horror of
drunken men ever since we drove over one in
Clifton, some years ago. It was terrible,
having to give evidence at the inquest, and
being in all the papers. Perhaps you remember
it? No? It was in the Times — nearly half a
column. Every one was talking of it. You
may fancy how my nerves were shaken ! I
have not been myself since. The mere
mention of a drunken man upsets me. I don't

blame Mabel. Poor thing, she was so unnerved
that she forgot how I felt about it, or
I'm sure she wouldn't have mentioned it. One
cannot expect young people to be very considerate,
you know, Mr. Kneeshaw,' she said,
with an indulgent smile.

I'm afraid I must apologise also for my
want of consideration,' replied George with
becoming gravity. ' It was you I should have
asked after, and not Miss Mabel Masters. I
hope you have recovered from your agitation.'


Oh, thank you ; it's only upset me for the
moment ; though I'm afraid it will keep me
more at home than I like. I quite meant to
mix with the Weston people ; but now, really,
I dare not venture out alone in such a place. I
aren't, indeed. Do you take an interest in the
Temperance Question, Mr. Kneeshaw ? I
understand that the clergy are taking it up.
And quite time too. It's a shame that one can
hardly walk or drive out in safety. Don't you
think something might be done to clear the
streets of these people ? '

This view of the Temperance Question, as a

minor branch of the great Sewage Question,
was new and interesting to George.

Certainly, Miss Masters ; there might be a
system of moral drainage established to carry
them off to inebriate asylums, or they might be
carted out of the way by the scavengers. I
don't quite see, though, why you should blame
us clergy in the matter. It is the Town
Council, or the Police, I think, who are in
fault : —

Untaught knaves, unmannerly,
To leave a slovenly unhandsome corse
Betwixt the wind and your nobility.'

George was unnecessarily nervous after venturing
upon this flagrant banter, for Miss Masters
took it in perfect seriousness, and hurried away
from the subject only because she feared she
was being drawn out of her depth. George
was infinitely relieved. He was provoked into
the rudeness of raillery by Miss Masters'
atrocious insensibility to the wrongs of her
adorable niece ; but as this adorable being washer
niece, it would have been the worst policy
in the world to have offended her.

Fortunately nothing was further from her
thoughts than offence. She had no sense of
humour, and a deep sense of her dignity, and

could not conceive that anything she said or
did might be held up to ridicule. Lie thought
George had expressed himself a little pedantically,
perhaps, but with perfect propriety, and
was rather pleased to see her idea put into such
fine clothes by him. Her only misgiving was
lest she should lose the credit she had evidently
gained with him for sound sense by attempting
to follow the philosophic turn he had given the
subject. So she changed it.

I am glad you agree with me, Mr. Knee-shaw,
about these people. Mabel has such
queer notions. I'm sure I don't know where
she picked them up, but I do hope the fright
she got yesterday will shake them out of her.
You can't think what ideas she has about these
common people ; she says " they are the best
society in Weston ! " '

This was an epigrammatic version of Mabel's
answer to her aunt's reflection on her ' low '
tastes in visiting among the poor : ' Eeally,
Aunt, they're not half as vulgar as Mr. Pickles?
or half as rude as ffiss Sudden.'

The best society in Weston ! ' repeated
Miss Masters, lookin horror through her
double eyeglass, which she never used in

VOL. I. M

public, but had forgotten to take ofT upon the
announcement of a visitor. ' I'm sure, from
what I have seen of it, the society of Weston is
quite as good as that of any of these manufacturing
towns. I have stayed in Rochdale. Do
you know anything of Rochdale, Mr. Knee-shaw
? '

Rochdale ? I'm afraid I know it only as
beings celebrated for John Bright and the first
co-operative society.'

Well, I should hardly call it the first, Mr.
Kneeshaw ; certainly not the first. You must
go South for the first society. Indeed, I was
going to say that the society in Rochdale was
not so select as that of Weston.'

'I've never mixed with the co-operative
society of Weston,' said George, who now felt
it safe to say anything, and was embittered by
despair of seeing Mabel. Miss Masters' attention
being thus recalled to the word ' co-operative,'
which she thought was a pedantic
expression of George's, and might mean either
a society of operatives or of manufacturers,
escaped committing herself farther by a second
change of subject.

Ah, you'll not have much time for visiting

any but the sick, Mr. Kneeshaw. Mr. Gant
told me all about his work, and the immense
size of the parish — 3u,000 people ! He calls ita
diocese. A most devoted and self-sacrificing
clergyman. He sat beside me for nearly two
hours the other day at Mr. Pickles', and gave
me an account of all the funerals and weddings
and services he had to take. I forget how
many he said he had buried in one day ; or was
it married? It must have been married, I
think, for he said they took it so lightly. He
spoke so highly about marriage. I was quite
pleased. No ritualism, you know, or nonsense
about the clergy not marrying. Is he engaged,
Mr. Kneeshaw ? '

This was the net result remaining in Miss
Masters' mind of a long discourse of Mr. Gant's,
in which he proved conclusively not only that
marriage was a sacrament, but that it was a
sacrament of which the laity alone might
lawfully partake — for Mr. Gant, after infinite
flirtations and entanglements, and one 'hairbreadth
escape ' from an ' imminent and deadly
breach ' of promise, now preached the celibacy
of the clergy with all the vehemence of apostacy.


M 2

He has no engagement at present — at
least, none that I know of,' said George, whose
attempt to express in this way the variety and
frivolity of Mr. Gant's flirtations was wasted on
Miss Masters.

Eeally ! I thought he must be engaged ;
his mind seemed so full of marriage. I am
quite in favour of clergymen marrying, Mr.
Kneeshaw,' she continued graciously, ^vith an
air that would have become an archbishop,
especially in the country. Gives them something
to think of, you know. In our own parish
the clergyman, ]mr. Martin, is unmarried — I
may say an old bachelor. He has got into such
curious ways — candlesticks and confession ;
services every day and at all hours ; communion
Sundays and saints' days : all idleness,
Mr. Kneeshaw,' she decided, with a peremptory
nod of the head.

" Ye are idle, ye are idle, therefore ye
say. Let us go and do sacrifice," ' said George.
You'd have us marry on nothing, and make
bricks without straw. Miss Masters; a little
sharp connubial suffering and oppression would
whip the nonsense out of us. That accounts
for your present pastor's — Mr. Meekins' — Low

Churchism. He's in the house of bondage, I
think ? '

Miss Masters was too much shocked to hear a
clergyman make a profane use of Scripture to
attend particularly to the use he made of it ;
and, being nonplussed now for the third time
by George's enigmatical answers, she began
to form a poor opinion of his understanding.
Young men sometimes seem to imagine that the
way to be thought clever is to show off yourself,
and not to help others to show off. With Miss
Masters the mistake was deadly, as she would
much rather see her own face in the glass than
the finest picture ever painted. She was
coming, therefore, to regard George as stupid
and pedantic, and, worse than all, ritualistic.
Her abhorrence of ritualism, by the way, had a
more substantial basis than the ordinary prejudice
against religious coxcombry. Once,
under Mr. Martin's ministrations, she had taken
very kindly to ritualism, and even (Mrs.
Grundy said ) to him ; but she was providentially
brought back to the Protestant faith by
his refusal to wear a stole she had worked for
him, in which the green was not the precise
shade enjoined on believers, and by his

advocacy of doctrines so extreme as those of
auricular confession and of the celibacy of the
clergy. It was not without good reason,
therefore, that Miss Masters was disgusted with
ritualism, and with George for his obvious bias
that way. Disgusted with him as she was,
however, she could not bring herself to be
disagreeable. Her one aim in life was to be
universally voted charming, and she could not
endure to lose even a single vote. Besides,
George, whatever were his faults, had the m-eat
redeeming merit of being very much taken with
her, as his visit proved. Accordingly it
occurred to Miss Masters that c^ood manners
required her to be complaisant, let her visitor's
views be what they would. Taking George to
mean by ' the house of bondage ' not marriage,
but Low Churchism, she said, with a conciliatory
smile, ' I rather incline that way myself,
Mr. Kneeshaw, but I don't try to persuade anyone
into it. You need have no fear of my
attempting to lead you into '^ the house of
bondage," as you call it.'

George was hardly more amused by her
mistaking the application of his metaphor than
by her confidence in her controversial powers,

and her merciful reL-^lve not to exercise them
on him. He was malicious enough to set her
right as to his meaning. ' I am sorry you
should think me such a bigot, Miss Masters, as
to speak of Low Churchism as " the house of
bondage " — I meant marriage.'

Miss Masters was not in the least disconcerted.
On the contrary, she was pleased, as
she was always pleased, by an opportunity to
speak her mind on marriage, and so give her
friends some faint idea of the obstinacy and
obduracy of her objection to that state which
had resisted such a multitude of brilliant proposals.
These triumphs, to which she occasionally
referred, were not pure and conscious
invention. She took very ordinary for marked
attentions, which would, she considered, have
ripened into proposals under the sunshine of
encouragement, and she had merely to imagine
that she had not encouraged them sufficiently.

Oh marriage ! I beg your pardon. I
quite agree with you there ; quite,' she said,
with a most emphatic nod ; but, remembering
that she had just spoken approvingly of Mr.
Gant's appreciation of marriage, she added, ' I
mean, of course, as far as our sex is concerned.

It's perfect slavery. I could never understand
how a woman with any self-respect could
submit to it. I am sure I was staying with my
married sister last year, near Louth, in Lincolnshire,
you know ; and no one would believe
what a time I had. Three children in the
measles together, and Mr. Hancock, my brother-in-law,
laid up with bronchitis, and my poor
sister nursing them all, night and day. I was
left to myself altogether. Not a soul to speak
to. No one came near us, and we went
nowhere. If it wasn't that I was very fond of
painting, I really don't know what I should
have done, as my sister grudged every moment
she gave me ; in fact, I hardly saw anything of
her. That came of having a husband and
children to look after, Mr. Kneeshaw.'

George was not in a mood to regard the
loss of Miss Masters' society as the crushing
penalty she considered it. Indeed, he had so
reconciled himself to it that he rose at this
moment to take leave, but was prevented by the
entrance of Mabel.

How do you do, mr. Kneeshaw ? Have
you been long here ? You've come to tell me
about Squire, I know.'

Well, no ; I came to inquire after you,
Miss Masters. I wa. very glad to hear that
you had recovered from the shock of
yesterday.'

Oh yes, thank you, quite. But how did
you, hear about it ? '

George then proceeded to explain how he
had heard from Mrs. Lumb of Barney's knight-errantry,
and from Barney himself the true
particulars of the affair. 'He seems rather a
surly fellow,' he continued ; ' but, to do him
justice, he made very little either of what he
did or what he suffered on your behalf. And,
after all, it was enough to put any man in a bad
temper to be taken up and fined for doing the
work of the police.'

Taken up and fined ! '

Mabel's exaggerated views both of the debt
she owed Barney and of the disgrace of a
conviction in a police court made this news
little less than shocking to her. She horrified
her aunt by consulting George upon the
propriety of appearing tomorrow in court,
and getting the conviction quashed. Meantime,
and without a moment's delay, she must go
and see and console the hero and martyr.

Just, however, as she rang to send for a cab,
the maid appeared to say that a man named
McGrath was below, and wouldn't go away till
he had seen Miss Mabel. Please was she to
send for the police ? This was too much.
Mabel hurried downstairs with an apology to
George, only to return immediately in much
distress. The hero and martyr was in a rather
noisy stage of intoxication. Poor Barney had
been treated by a fellow-countryman not to
beer, but to whisky, which, as he had eaten
little, took immediate effect on him, and made
him more heroic than ever. He couldn't rest
till he had expressed to Mabel his intention to
knock down for her sake, the Borough Bench
of Magistrates.

Chapter IX.

MABEL TO THE RESCUE.

Barney's condition, which amused George and
horrified and disgusted Miss Masters, made
Mabel more miserable than ever. For this also
she was responsible, since it must have been the
disgrace of an unjust conviction which drove
Barney to drown thought. His state, therefore,
if it was not a credit, was hardly a reproach to
a man of such a nice sense of honour as Barney
had shown himself yesterday. This, indeed,
seemed so self-evident to Mabel that she not
only did not doubt it herself, but did not think
that anyone With right feeling could doubt it.
Accordingly George's cynical comments were so
ill received that he suddenly became sympathetic
and sentimental. He, too, at once began
to see that Barney's intoxication was of itself a
part of his martyrdom, and to take a deep
and active interest in his case. ' I think I had

better see the poor fellow,' lie said, with much
feeling ; ' I shall be better able to manage him
than you.' While he and Mabel went down to
look after the sufferer, Miss Masters, who had
for some time been speechless with indignation,
in part because of being ignored during the
consultation, and in part because of the maudlin
and monstrous sympathy expressed in it towards
the abominable Barney, at last so far recovered
her presence of mind as to ring for the maid
and send her in haste for a policeman. But
Barney by this time was outside the jurisdiction
of the police — if he had ever been fairly within
it. At the sight of Mabel he had ceased to be
noisy, and the shocked expression in her face
woke him up to a consciousness of not being
altogether presentable. She and George found
him leaning despondently against the back
door, and remonstrating sadly with himself.
Upon their appearance he broke off this conversation
with himself to explain the cause of his
condition at some length, and with many
apologies and parentheses. It appeared that
he had partaken of some cold potatoes, and it
was these that so upset him. Barney was certainly
not happy in his choice of an intoxicating

food ; but it must be said for his account it was
so far true as that, on his return from the court
in the morning he had indulged in those delicacies
as the most palatable food he could find
in the house. He now made merely the common
mistake of confounding post hoc with
'propter hoc.

What does he say ? ' asked Mabel, to whom
Barney's explanation, disguised by brogue,
drink, and parenthesis, was unintelligible.

He says,' replied George, with creditable
gravity, ' that he has

eaten of the insane root
That takes the reason prisoner.'

What ! '

Cold potatoes,' said George sententiously.
He says it was some cold potatoes he ate this
morning that took this effect upon him.' It
was impossible for Mabel not to laugh a little
at the effect attributed to this fiery stimulant.
You see,' continued George, encouraged by
her amusement into a relapse of cynicism —
you see, it was just as you suggested. Miss
Masters, the disgrace of his conviction in the
court has driven him into the wildest dissipation.'


But what's to be done P ' asked Mabel,
recalled to seriousness and sympathy by the
mention of the court.

I should say brandy was the best thing to
counteract the effect of cold potatoes, if they
disagreed with one : unless he's a total abstainer,
lu that case, the best thai£( would be
to put him into a cab and send him home.'
But when Mabel, approving of this last suggestion,
turned to send the discreet Jane for a cab,
she heard, to her consternation, that Jane had
been sent already by Miss Masters for a policeman.
George, however, volunteered both to
intercept Jane and the policeman, and to fetch
a cab ; and while he was gone on these errands,
Mabel ran upstairs to hind her purse, thinking
to take advantage of Barney's state to have the
amount of his fine, etc., smuggled into his
pocket. When she had found it, and had with
some difficulty explained her design to her old
nurse — who, being Yorkshire, was not easily
made to understand how anyone in his sober
senses could refuse ' brass ' — she at last induced
that tetchy old body to come down with her
and, if possible, slip the money into Barney's
pocket. But Barney was nowhere to be found.

George, Jane, the policeman, and the cab, were
all there together, but no Barney. Jane, being
an expert, had at once found her own policeman,
for whom she was so anxious to be sent,
but made the return journey ' linked sweetness
long drawn out,' by a wide detour, so that
George found the two only on his return with
the cab. Meanwhile, Barney having become
sufficiently sober to be conscious of tipsiness,
had ducked his head in the waterbury, and sofar
completed his cure as to feel shocked and
ashamed of himself, and as to be able to slink
homewards with fair speed and directness.
George, having dismissed the cabman with a
fare, and the policeman with a solatium, returned
for orders to Mabel. ' What next ? ' he
asked, with an amused smile. Mabel woidd
have liked to have had the derelict pursued and
towed out of danger, as she feared that Barney
would fall again into the hands of the police ;
but this, of course, she could not ask George
to do. Indeed, it was not without much compunction
that she asked him to do the next best
thing.

I am really quite ashamed of putting you
to so much trouble, Mr. Kneeshaw, but I should

be so much obliged if you could kindly call
some time and see if he got safely home. It
would be too bad if he was again taken up and
fined, or put in prison.'

'Of course I shall call to see him said
George. ' He's on my sick list, you know,
now, since his singular seizure this morning.
By the way, though, seriously, I ought to have
kept the cab, oughtn't I ? I should soon have
caught him up. It's not too late now, perhaps,'
he continued ; and seeing Mabel look infinitely
relieved at the suggestion, he bid her a hurried
goodbye, promising to let her know the result
early the next day.

In this way Barney's lapse became an unromantic
link in the chain of fate which bound
George. For Mabel, who had Barney's rehabilitation
at heart, and could not of course
consult her father or aunt upon the business,
was driven to make use of George's counsel
and help ; and her childlike dependence upon
them completed his conquest.

May we hint here to these of the sex who
thirst for emancipation, that there is nothing so
winning to men who are worth winning — the
strong and self-reliant — as this childlike dependence

? Their own instincts — at least a
mother's instincts — would tell them how love is
drawn out by dependence. A mother always
loves most the child that is most dependent
upon her — the baby at the breast more than
the grown son ; and of the grown sons,
him who is weakest in mind and body rather
than him of whom she has most reason to be
proud. And if we go down to mother's love,
pure, simple, and unsophisticated, as we find it
in the lower animals, we see that it wanes,
waxes, or ceases in precise proportion to the
dependence upon them of their young. It is
strongest when they are weakest, and weakest
when they are strongest, and ceases the moment
they become independent of it. And
how much dependence has to do with love of
other kinds may be seen from this — that, as in
biography so in life, we love most the most
dependent characters — the Steele and Goldsmiths
of our acquaintance ; and also from this
that our expressions of affection are generally
(as, for instance, diminutives) expressive ot
dependence. All this being considered, we
conclude that when the relations between the
sexes are wholly reversed, and men are as

VOL. I. N

dependent on women us women are to-day
upon men, romantic love will again be possible ;
but that in the intervening and intermediate
state of things now dawning upon us, when
women come only abreast with men and have
not yet distanced them, there will be little
place left in life for love as distinguished from
passion. As for Mal)el, truth constrains us to
say that she had not even left Egypt, so that
the intervening desert, not to say the promised
land beyond it, was not in all her thoughts.
On the contrary, her extravagant veneration
for her father's judgment made her share, in
some degree, his extravagant contempt for her
sex's mental capacity, and gave her especially
an inordinately modest opinion of her own.
And this brings us back to the point from which
we started on our dry digression — Mabel's
childlike deference to George's judgment.
Here was a girl at once clever and beautiful
looking up to him with an unaffected and implicit
trust in his wisdom. To be sure it was
in a matter of no moment, but it was the
manner which intoxicated George, and might
well have intoxicated a less susceptible subject.
When he called the next morning — early, as

she had asked him — he found her alone, as
Miss Masters rarely put in an appearance before
noon.

I am so glad to see you, Mr. Kneeshaw ;
you don't know how impatiently I have been
expecting you,' she said, with a frankness
which showed her unconsciousness of George's
having any other interests than those of Barney
to serve by his visit. ' Did he get home
safely ? '

Oh, he's all right,' said George, who, to
tell the truth, had not Barney at this moment
much in his thoughts. ' I overtook him in five
minutes, but nothing would induce him to get
into the cab ; so I dismissed it and dogged him
home to be ready to intercede in case the police
interfered. But he wasn't tipsy enough to be
meddled with. I'm not sorry I followed him,
though, for I found out I had done him an
injustice. I told you how surly he was when
I called yesterday morning. I thought it was
natural brutality, but it turns out he took me
for what his wife called a " souper " — that is,
as well as I could make out, a missionary who
wins souls with soup in Ireland, where they
seem cheap. She said he thought I meant

N 2

to convert him because I offered to pay his
fie ! '

I wish he had taken it — at least — I mean
stammered Mabel, colouring at her vicarious
generosity, ' I wish he had let you pay it to
him from me.'

'To invest it in cold potatoes,' muttered
George, who, however, didn't think fit to mention
that Molly had taken the money from him
last night without the least religious scruple.

You must let me thank you for the offer,
Mr. Kneeshaw% if he didn't. It was my debtor
part of my debt. I really don't know how
I'm to repay the poor fellow for all he has gone
through for me — unless,' she added brightly,
I borrow from you to pay him, like a desperate
debtor. For I still Avant your advice
and help, Mr. Kneeshaw, if I haven't put you
to too much trouble about him already,' looking
appealingly at George.

I fetched a cab for him, and walked home
this way. You could hardly ask me to do
more than that,' he replied, with a pleasant
irony more reassuring than an effusive offer of

help.

'I'm afraid I must, thouizli,' she said,

smiling. ' You see, Mr. Kueeshaw, my father
is so taken up with his studies ; and as for my
aunt, lie was quite disappointed that Barney
escaped the policeman yesterday ; and I have
no idea myself what I ought to do to get his
sentence reversed. Must I appear in court ? '
she asked anxiously. To appear in court
would be not only terrible in itself, but in its
consequences, for it would certainly bringdown
upon her from her father a peremptory
prohibition of her work amongst the poor.

'It's too late for that now,' said George.
By the way, I saw the police sergeant this
morning, and he told me something that gave
me a better opinion of our hero than, to tell
the truth, I had before. He said that he
himself told McGrath his only chance of escaping
a fine or imprisonment was to call you
as a witness ; and when he refused, because, ashe
said, the court wasn't a fit place for such as
you, the sergeant was certain his Avhole story
was an invention.'

Mabel started up and walked twice hastily
up and down the room with an emotion that
seemed out of all proportion to its cause. It
must be remembered that she could not look at

a conviction in a police court from Barney's, or
even from George's, pliiloscjpliic standpoint.

It was noble of him ! ' she said, stopping
suddenly in front of George with her large
eyes as bright with admiration as if Barney had
led a forlorn hope. George also looked all
admiration, only its object was different.
What can I do, Mr. Kneeshaw ? ' she said,
reseating herself, and looking up wistfully at
George.

Well,' said George, ' I consulted three
experts — a magistrate, a dog-stealer, aud a
solicitor, all friends of mine — and all seemed
to think McGrath's character was less damaged
than his purse by the sentence. But,' he
hurried on to say, seeing gathering wrath in
Mabel's face, ' they thought the thing might beset
right either by the prosecution of the policeman
for perjury — which would hardly hold
water — or by a few words from the Bench next
Thursday. In the last case you need not, they
thought, appear at all, as a letter from you to
one of the magistrates — who would not, of
course, publish your name — would ]probably
be enough. My friend, the dog-stealer, ,
saw the whole busmcss from first to last,

though a wholesome horror of the police, and a
modest appreciation of the weight which would
attach to his evidence, kept him from coming
forward yesterday. However, I induced him,
for old acquaintance' sake — for I had attended
him in smallpox — to go with me this morning
to the chief constable. I can't say that his
evidence had an overwhelming effect upon that
functionary — rather the contrary ; so I went sofar
as to say,' continued George, hesitatingly,
that perhaps you would be kind enough to
see the great man.'

George seemed to have worked hard in the
few hours since Mabel had chartered him for
this service, and yet that young lady, in her
breathless interest in Barney's case, did not
pause, for the moment, to thank him, from
which it may be inferred that she at least was
heart whole.

I shall go at once to see him,' said Mabel,
half rising ; but, recollecting and reseating
herself, apologised to George for her rudeness.

I feel so helpless — putting you to so much
trouble on my account, and not being able todo
anything myself. I hope you don't think
me ungrateful, Mr. Kneeshaw ? '

You haven't much to thank me for, Miss
Masters ; and as to Mr. McGratli, lie certainly
can't complain of your ingratitude,' said George
not satirically. If" Miss Eoxby had been as
demonstratively and disproportionately moved
by Barney's chivalry as Mabel had been, the
cynical Mr. Kneeshaw would have pronounced
her either hysterical or affected ; but Miss
Eoxby was not lovely — was, to say the truth,
rather unlovely ; and Mabel's childlike or, if
you Hke, childish impulsiveness made her look
lovelier than ever. An eighth of an inch of
eyelash more or less makes a great difference
in our moral judgments of a young lady ; so
that even if Mabel had affected the feeling she
showed, George would have forgiven her ;
whereas, it had obviously taken her out of herself
altogether, making lier forget herself and
George also, unfortunately, for the moment.

And as for feeling yourself helpless,' continued
George, ' you can do more for McGrath
by seeing the chief constable than could be
done for him by anyone else or in any other
way. For I'm told that the whole Bench of
Magistrates together is not of equal authority
with Captain Markham in a case of this kind.'

When could I see him ? ' she asked
eagerly.

He said he would be at home from eleven
to half-past twelve.'

It's nearly twelve now,' she said, with a
prance at the clock and then at the door ; foro



her aunt — who would certainly do all she
could to frustrate the plan — was almost due.

It's not more than five minutes' drive
from here,' said George, rising resignedly, for
the short interview had been very sweet to
him. ' May I fetch you a cab ? '

'Thank you very much, Mr, Kneeshaw.
To tell you the truth, I'm afraid of my aunt's
coming doest and upsetting our plan altogether.
I shall run up and put my things on
and be at the door before the cab comes.'

She was at the door as she promised, when
the cab drove up. George got out, handed
her in, and was about to shut the door when
she cried out in a surprised and dismayed
voice, ' Aren't you coming, Mr. Kneeshaw ? '

Obviously nothing was farther from Mabel's
thoughts than his beinii in love with her ;
nevertheless, the invitation, despite of its frank
unconsciousness, was delightful to him.

I shall be only too glad, if you tliiiik 1
can be of any use.'

Any use ! ' she exclaimed, as George got
in. ' Why, you didn't really suppose I could
face by myself that terrible Captain, who is
equal to a whole Bench of Magistrates ? He'll
probably take me for another of your dog-stealing
friends. Will he cross-examine me ? '
she asked anxiously, not without a real fear of
some such brutal and browbeating cross-examinations
as she had read in the papers.

It is only in public they cross-examine ; in
private they merely put you to the torture.
He may use the thumb screws for form's sake,'
said George, looking at the little gloved hand
which held the windows-strap, with a lover's
lonsrinfr to have it in his own.

He will allow me to be chloroformed first,
of course ; ' and then, with sudden seriousness,
as if the thought struck her in full force for
the first time, she said, looking at him with
clear, earnest, honest eyes, as lui-self-conscious
as the eyes of a fawn, ' What trouble you have
taken, Mr. Ivneeshaw ! You must have done
nothing else since I saw you.'

I've done nothing since but eat and sleep.

I met my dog-stealer as I left McGrath's, and
the magistrate aud solicitor I dined with at Mr.
Marston's. I only went a few yards out of my
way to arrange an interview for you with
Captain Markham, for which you have every
reason to be grateful.'

'And so I am,' said Mabel heartily. ' It's
the only thing you've left me to do for my
hero. I hope he'll believe me,' she added
doubtfully. ' Shall I have to take an oath ? '

It was impossible for George not to laugh
at the idea of anyone distrusting that face, or
suspecting her of collusion with a drunken
Irishman.

But, you know, he didn't believe your
other friend,' she said, in answer to his laugh.

No ; he said I should procure better
assurance than Randolph,' said George, still
laughing.

• I like not the security,' said Mabel,
shaking her head — ' only a woman. He'll
think that I exaggerate, or that I took one man
for the other, or made some such other slight
mistake, as women, you know, always do.'

We shall see soon,' said George, ' for here
we are.'

Mabel got out and walked with no little
trepidation into the awful audience chamber,
but was relieved to find a quiet and 
man, who in turn found her as
different as possible from what he expected.
Captain Markham, according to his custom,
had prepared himself for the interview by-questioning
those of the force who were likely
to know anything about Miss Masters. It
turned out that she was nearly as well known
to the police as her fellow-witness, the dog-stealer,
but fortunately more favourably. She
was always going about doing good amongst
the poor of her own neighbourhood, and occasionally
of other neighbourhoods, was the
substance of their report. Captain Markham
accordingly pictured to himself either a second
Miss Batt — a sour-visaged Protestant old maid,
who served tracts like writs among the poor,
summoning them, under awful penalties, to
appear in church ; or a second sister Agnes — a
meek and insipid Anglican old maid who
symbolised her being dead to the world by
going about in a costume like a coffin lined
with a shroud. What was his amazement to
see certainly the loveliest face he had ever seen

and Captain Markham had all a soldier's
susceptibility to beauty — and to find this new
sister of mercy as charming in bearing as in
person. Mabel, on the other hand, was hardly
less agreeably surprised to find Bluebeard
courteous, deferential, even apologetic. He
was so sorry that press of business prevented
him from waiting on Miss Masters. He hoped
she would forgive him for putting her to the
trouble to come to his office, and so on. This
was the first effect of Mabel's beauty upon the
gallant Captain, and the second was to secure a
most favourable hearing for her story. Indeed,
even if Mabel had been ill-favoured and ilJ-
mannered, her story, told with simple directness,
would have convinced Captain Markham
that there had been a toss miscarriage of
justice in Barney's case, though he would
certainly not have been so zealous to redress it
as he showed himself now. He rani? and asked
if Barker had returned. Barker was the
sergeant whom George had seen that morning,
and who had been sent at George's suo'o-estion
to make inquiry into the matter in Knacker's
Alley. He had now returned with overwhelming
confirmation of Barney's version of the

affray in Knacker's Alley, to which Mabel
couldn't speak. In fact, every one in the alley
was eager to give unofficial evidence against
Bob and Nancy, who were hated as much as
they were feared, though all had a wholesome
horror of venturing into court.

It's been a very unfortunate mistake for
McGrath,' said George.

Unfortunate ! My dear sir, it's the best
thing ever happened to him. I should say it
will be ten pounds in his pocket if it's a penny.
There's the Mayor two guineas ; Roxburgh,
Need, and Palmer a guinea each ; Pickles
probably three guineas, or perhaps five, as it's
near an election,' calculated the Captain,
counting on his fingers the sums by which
the Bench of Magistrates were likely to
indemnify Barney for their mistake, and to
reward him for his chivalry. ' Ten pounds ! if
it gets into the papers it will be nearer twenty.
He could drhik himself to death upon it ! '
cried the Captain, with an emphatic nod
at Mabel, to confirm this assurance that her
hero would be Avell provided for.

George, seeing that the happy consummation
suggested by the Captain had not a cheering

effect upon Mabel, changed the subject by
asking if Miss Masters need take any other step
in the matter, such as that of writings to one of
the magistrates. This question touched the
Captain on two strong points — his gallantry
and his self-importance.

I have put Miss Masters to a great deal
too much trouble already,' he said, with a
deferential bow to Mabel ; ' the least I can do is
to take the case altogether into my own hands.
I shall lay the matter myself before the magistrates.'
The words where not weighty, but the
tone and manner in which they were uttered
were imperial — expressing at once infinite condescension
and confidence. After this there
was nothing more to be said but thanks and
adieus. Mabel took leave without backing out
of the presence, since the great man himself
politely ushered her out, and George meekly
followed. While the Captain, on his return to
his office, was congratulating himself upon
another and most brilliant conquest, Mabel was
thinking that if the wisdom of Weston was
represented by the Bench, and that of the
Bench by the Captain — as Mr. Kneeshaw had
suggested — perhaps men were not, really, after

all, feo immeasurably superior in mental power
to women as her father maintained.

Will the magistrates really do as lie bids
them ? ' she asked George, not at all reassured
as to Barney's rehabilitation.

So Mr. Roxburgh told me last night.
The Captain is really a very clever fellow, Miss
Masters, though he doesn't show to advantage
in ladies' society. Great soldiers, you know,
never do. I think McGrath's case safe in his
hands.'

Mabel had another trouble in reserve.
Mr. Kneeshaw,' she said after a pause, ' do
you think I could get him to sign the pledge
with me ? '

To sign it, certainly.'

But not keep it ? '

Well, no ; I'm afraid not.' Another
pause.

I haven't courage to go again into that
alley. Mr. Kneeshaw, would you mind going
there once more for me, and asking him to
come to see me ? I'm really ashamed of
putting you to all this trouble.'

George was in'atcful even for this little
commission.

CHAPTEK X.

'IN THE NET.'

Captain Markham had not miscalculated upon
the justice and generosity of the Weft on Bench,
as a whole, in the matter of the apology and
indemnity to Barney ; though Mr. Pickles did
not subscribe to either. He never had been
wrong in his judgment of men and things, and
it was little likely that he should be wrong now
in the case of a drunken Irishman. Captain
Markham, however, for a wonder, so carried
the Council with him that they overruled the
Pope, and Mr. Pickles had to content himself
with an intemperate protest against the public
apology and an angry refusal to have anything
to do with the subscription. The sum collected
amounted in all to thirty pounds, as the report
of the case in the papers attracted some subscriptions
from the public at large. It was an
immense sum to Barney, and held out to him a
VOL. I. o

fair prospect of spending the rest of his days in
delirium tremens. But the very day after he
received it from the hands of Captain Markham,
Barney took the pledge ! No one would believe
it, but it was true. Mabel had seized hold of
the moment when lie was utterly and abjectly
ashamed of the state in which he had presented
himself to her, and had so beset and bewildered
him that he lost all control over himself, and
signed the pledge. The thing did not seem so
terrible to him in the doing of it, but he had
not gone many steps from the house when what
he had done broke upon him in all its horror.
He stopped to lean against a lamp-post, the
picture of remorse. Never more must he go to
the 'Yorkshire Chicken' or the 'Flute and
Fiddle,' and crack the best joke and sing the
best song. And the frequenters of those favourite
hostelries — what would they now think of him ?
He had for ever forfeited the esteem of every
friend he had. The respect of his fellows —
that single consideration, which ballast us
more than all other motives to morality put
together — was gone. And 3'et he had not
done this thing deliberately. He was suddenly
surprised, and, as it were, betrayed into it, and

betrayed into it just at the moment when he
seemed most proof against temptation, not last
week, when he had not a penny, but to-day,
when he had heaps of money to spare and
spend in his favourite haunts. Certainly the
ways of Providence were inscrutable — as inscrutable
to Barney as to Henry IV. : —

She either gives a stomach and no food,
Such are the poor, in health : or else a feast,
And takes away the stomach, such are the rich,
That have abundance and enjoy it not.

At this miserable period of this meditations
Barney turned back towards the house, not to
rail the seal from off his bond, but to ask the
fair Mephistopheles, to whom he had sold himself,
to help him to keep the compact.

What is it, Barney ? ' Mabel asked anxiously,
upon his re-appearance. She feared he
had come back already to repudiate his pledge.

It's this, Miss,' said Barney, in the tone of
a man who was making upon the scaffold a last
disposition of his effects. ' It's no use to me
now,' handing her the purse of sovereigns. ' If
you wouldn't mind keeping it. Miss, for Molly
and the cliildhre, and giving thin a shilling' or
two a week out of it.'



Mabel would have been amused at the
testamentary tone of the request if it hadn't
expressed so plainly and plaintively the sacrifice
she had just induced him to make. 'Couldn't
you put it into the bank, Barney ? '

Is it the likes of Molly to set her fut in a
bank ? '

Well ; would you ask Mr. Kneeshaw to
take charge of it ? He would know best how
to invest it ? '

The parson ? ' asked Barney, in a very
doubtful tone.

Or there's your o^vn clergyman,' suggested
Mabel, answering rather the tone than
the question.

Father Quin ! ' exclaimed Barney, in a
tone not now doubtful at all, but decidedly
adverse ; ' sure, he's building a mission
chapel.'

Since this objection was urged as obviously
fatal, Mabel fell back upon mr. Kneeshaw.

I think you might trust Mr. Kneeshaw,
Barney.'

Why wouldn't I thrust him, why ? 'Isn't
that at all. Miss ; but what am I to sa' to
Father Quin when he calls — and faith, he's as

sure as the gas-rate to call, if he reads of my
bit of luck in the papers ? " Well, McGrath,"
he'll say, " what are you going to do wit that
bit of money," he'll say, " are you going to
make your soul up wit it ? " he'll say. Sure,
I couldn't have the face to tell his reverence I
gev' it to a souper.'

Well, then, I'll take charge of it, Barney,
if you'll allow me to ask Mr. Kneeshaw what's
best to be done with it.'

In course you may. Miss, and thank ye
kindly for all the trouble ye re takin' about it.
There's a father of twenty-three pounds. Miss,
left ; as I gev' Molly five pounds and kep' one
pound for Father Quin's chapel, and throated
the boys wit another.'

Barney,' said Mabel, putting her soft
white hand entreatingly on his sleeve, ' you
will keep teetotal, won't you ? ' and her eyes
and voice, imploring as her hand, would have
converted Bacchus.

I will. Miss, I will,' said Barney, gathering
himself together as for a supreme efibrt, and
going forth from the house as on a forlorn
hope.

Barney was not far wrong about Father

Quin, whom he found waiting for him on
reaching home.

'Glad to see you, McGrath,' said the
worthy Father ; * what about those plants you
were to brin£( me ? '

Sure, your reverence, ye didn't order
thin ; ye only talked about ordering thin.'

Of course I ordered them. You may
bring half-a-dozen — let's see ; how much are
they each ? '

They're sixpence rich to ye yere reverence.'


Sixpence each. I'll say a dozen, then.
You can bring a dozen of them to my house
tomorrow.'

Thank yere reverence.'

Let them be hardy ones that will stand
the smoke, you know. Father Hanlon says
that he couldn't get those you sold him to
grow in his garden.'

His garden ! Hear that now ! Begor,
it's for all the would like the back of an
elephant in a menagerie — hard, dry, and
cracked, wit an odd bristle of grass here and
there ! To think of indecently brought up
plant living' in it ! But any plant would be at

home in yere place, yere reverence,' said Barney,
not unconscious of the rivalry between Fathers
Qiiin and Hanlon as to what they were pleased
to call their gardens.

Well, we shall see. Bring them and
plant them yourself, so that they may have
every chance.' And then the good Father
began to talk about the children, whom he
patted on the head in turn, being especially
taken with the baby. Hearing, however, that
it was not yet baptized, nor its mother
churched, he gave the parents a genial scolding,
and exacted from them a promise to have both
these neglects repaired upon the following
Sunday. On rising to leave, he suddenly bethought
him, before he reached the door, of
Barney's good fortune. ' Oh, by the way,
McGrath, I nearly forgot to congratulate you.
You have been distinguishing yourself, I hear.
In fact, it's in all the papers. I'm sure I was
proud to see a good Catholic so spoken of,
and, better than spoken of, most handsomely-rewarded.
How much was it, eh ? '

Thirty pounds, your reverence,* said
Barney, who wished heartily now that he
hadn't, on his way home, given to a needy

friend half of the sovereign he had intended for
the mission chapel.

Thirty pounds ! ' exclaimed the astonished
Father, with raised eyebrows — ' a most magnificent
present ! What are you going to do
with all that money ? I know what you are
going to do with some of it, my son ; yes, yes,
I've not been mistaken in you. I'll be bound
the first thing you thought of was the mission
chapel. Wasn't it now ? I thought so ; I
thought so,' said the delighted Father, as
Barney fumbled desperately in his pockets, and
produced at last — half-a-sovereign !

Oh, ten shillings ! ' cried the Father, with
a sudden change from the most genial to the
most scathing manner. ' You haven't made a
mistake, have you? It wasn't sixpence you
meant to give me? No? Oh, thank you —
thank you very much — good evening ! '

It must be remembered that, after all.
Father Quin was not begging for himself, but
for a mission chapel, that would give him a
deal more work without more pay. At least
the motive, if not the mode, of his begging
was commendable.

Next day, Ashen Barney had brought and

put in the plants and presented himself for
payment, Father Quin was freezing in his reception
of him. ' Ah ; you've put them in,
have you ? '

I have, yere reverence.'

You're sure they'll live ? '

I'm sure they will, yere reverence.'

Then you're sure of getting paid. I shall
pay you if they live ; not otherwise. Good
morning, McGrath.'

Barney didn't mind much the Father's
refusal to pay, but the rasping manner of his
refusal was exasperating. However, on the
following day — Sunday — when he, Molly, and
the baby presented themselves, according to
promise, Barney was still civility itself, until
the ceremony was over and the fees demanded.

'Do ye think, now, he'll hive, yere reverence
? ' asked the anxious father, looking down
on his newly christened babe.

There isn't much doubt of that,' said
Father Quin, touching with two fingers the
chubby cheek of the child.

Thin there isn't much doubt but ye'll be
paid, yere reverence. If he lives, I'll pay ye.
Good morning to yere reverence.' And before

the amazed Father had recovered himself so far
as to be able to articulate, Barney had hurried
Molly out of the chapel.

Father Quin took Barney's revenge, when
he had realised it, in an unlooked for way. It
was evident that he wasn't angry, or merely
amused, for he chuckled and rubbed his hands
together with an unaccountable self-complacency.
In truth, the thought that came to the
top in his mind was this : ' That will make a
good story.' Story telling was the good
Father's forte. Amonc^ the first of the few
innocent pleasures permitted to his cloth are
eating a good dinner and telling well a good
story — two things that, of course, go together,
as a good story-teller is sure of a good dinner.
Now Father Quin was a capital story-teller,
and owed to his eminence in the art his welcome
at some of the best tables in Weston. No
sooner, therefore, had he realised Barney's
facetious revenge than he set to, like a skilled
chef to prepare the story for presentation at
table ; and was so pleased with his successful
transformation of it, in his own mind, into
something which would certainly tell, that he
began to feel quite kindly towards the man to

whom lie owed it. 'I must cultivate that
fellow he thought; and when, at a dinner-party
on the day following, the story, owing to
his telling, turned out as great a hit as he
expected, he was in the best possible mood for
reconciliation with Barney at their next
encounter. Meanwhile, Barney had repented
of his irreverent audacity. Molly, who anticipated
nothing less than excommunication as its
penalty, led him a harassed life of reproach,
and Barney himself was not at all comfortable
as to the spiritual punishment appropriate
to his sacrilege. He was infinitely relieved,
therefore, as he was slouching shamefaced at
the off side of his ' baste ' past the good Father,
two or three days after, to hear himself cheerfully
and even cordially accosted by ' his
reverence.'

Is that you, McGrath ? We're quits now,
aren't we ? '

'Indeed, thin, we're not, your reverence,'
answered Barney, with much presence of mind.
I'm ten shillings to the bad wit ye yet.'

How's that ? ' asked his reverence, in a
surprised tone.

Barney then told the whole story of his

entrusting the money to Miss Masters-with the
reservation of a sovereign for the mission
chapel, half of which Mat Kenny had coaxed
out of him on his way home.

But here it is, yere reverence,' said Barney,
handinijr it over with a cheerful confidence of
forgiveness. But to his surprise, the good
Father seemed more aggrieved by the peace
offering than by the offence it was meant to
gild over. In fact. Father Quin was affronted
by Barney's banking his money with anyone
but his parish priest, though of course he was
too proud to complain of the slight.

Oh, Miss Masters ; that's the young lady
you rescued,' said lie, after lie had coldly
accepted the half-sovereign. ' She gives you
tracts, I suppose ? '

Sorra a tract, yere reverence. It's her
life that's a tract,' said Barney enthusiastically,
and proceeded to tell the priest all
the good she did, and the last and most wonderful
work of all — his own conversion to teetotalism.


She's made a teetotaller of you, has she ?
She'll be making a heretic of you next.'

Is that the next best thing, yere reverence .^ '

asked Barney, irritated by such an imputation
on his goddess. ' If she can make anything at
all of me, she'll not make me worse than
I am.'

Not much room on that side,' said Father
Quin drily.

• 'Deed, thin, that's three,' throwing back
his head despondently.

^ Well, McGrath,' said the worthy Father,
appeased by Barney's humility. ' I've been
doing you a good turn ; good for evil, you
know. I met Mr. Mullen at dinner the other
night, and recommended him to order all his
bedding-out plants from you.' This was not
strictly true. Mr, Mullen was so tickled by
Father Quin's improved version of Barney's
revenge that he spontaneously vowed he would
buy all his plants in future from the hero of
the tale. ' I hope you'll do credit to my
recommendation. No use trying to do him I
can tell you. He's a deal harder man to deal
with than I.'

Not much room on that side,' muttered
Barney, under cover of stooping to pick up his
whip. Nevertheless he had not the least
compunction in saying aloud, ' He might aise

be that, yere reverence. If all my customers
were like ye, yere reverence, faix, it's in a better
would I'd be to-day,' looking up at Father
Quin with an expression of such absolute
innocence that the priest felt quite ashamed of
his suspicion of the double-entente. Still, as the
only transaction Barney had with Father Quia
was the one we have recorded, and as a
succession of such transactions would have sent
him to a better world, by starvation, it was
not safe to accept the compliment seriously.

Yes, it's a wicked world, McGrath ; but
the wickedness is not all on one side. There's
a little left for the market-gardeners. What
about Father Hanlon's plants ? '

Do ye think, yere reverence. Father Hanlon
is responsible for all the children he christen
out of Haggis Alley? They're good enough
when he christens 'em, God bless 'em, but
nothing' could grow up good in that hole. And,
sure, it's the same wit thin other flowers.
Don't ye know herself, yere reverence, that
Father Ilanlon can't get a decent blade of
grass to grow, barren' he grows it under a
tumbler ? But there's thin that thinks ilowei^s
'11 grow in a chimney ! '

You'll be calling my garden a chimney
next.'

Not if tliim plants grow, yere reverences
with a humorous twinkle.

Father Quin was rather tickled by Barney's
so turning the tables as to put the garden and
not the plants upon trial.

Well, you'll have no fault to find with
Mr. Mullen's garden, anyway, McGrath. You'd
better call to-day, and say I sent you.'

I will, yere reverence, and thank ye kindly
for spoken' a good wurrd for me.'

It will be seen that Barney was not only
a green grocer in a small way, but also ina
small way a middle man between the
nurseryman and the public. The last was
not a paying trade, but Barney's passionate
love of flowers made him stick to it at a loss
which to him was sometimes considerable.
And now the probability of getting Mr.
Mullen's custom encouraged a wild dream
which had been in his head since he became
a teetotaller. His one chance of keeping the
pledge, he felt, lay in his escape from
Knacker's Alley and its associations, and in
his finding employment for his evenings. If

only he could get a bit of a garden, such ashe
had once in the old country, it would bethe
saving and the making of him, he thought.
He must see Miss Masters and ask her about
investing his money in this way. Xo sooner,
then, had Father Quin left him than, nth
Irish impulsiveness, he turned the ' baste '
round and made for the Granite.

Barney's recourse to his guardian angel
involved the guardian angel's recourse to
George ; and in this way Barney's fortunes
became entangled with those of our hero and
heroine, and his plans came to clash with
George's. For George, now realising fully
the danger of seeing much more of Mabel, had
resolved to keep as clear of her as he could.
Of what force were his virtuous resolutions,
however, in the face of this business-like
despatch ?

Dear Mr. Kneeshaw, — Could you kindly
call any morning, between eleven and one,
when you have a minute or two to spare ? I
am really ashamed to have to trouble you
again, but Bayard ' — George's satirical name
for Barney — 'Bayard has put the money
subscribed for him into my hands, and I have

no idea what to do with it. I advised him to
take it to you, but he didn't seem to like
troiibhng either you or his own clergyman
with it, though he consented to my asking
your advice about investing it. I'm afraid
you'll think the kindness you have shown intaking
so much trouble already in the matter
a poor excuse for putting you to more ; but
it's the only one I have to offer.

Believe me, truly yours,
Mabel Masters.'

Now there are two things about this letter
that every young lady will disapprove of.
First, that it was written at all, and secondly
the style in which it is written. It was
certainly not young-ladylike either to write it
at all or to write in that style. It is such
a letter as the late lamented Miss Murdoch
might appropriately have written; and this,
which is the worst thing, is also the best thing,
that can be said for it, since the motherless
Mabel had been educated by that grim
spinster, to whom the proper pronunciation
of the French vowel U and the formation of
a literary style anything but feminine, had

VOL. I. p

seemed of much more importance than the
cultivation of conventional proprieties.

George was not only enough in love to
think the letter all that it should be, but he
was so fond (the reader may take the word in
either its old or new sense, according to his
own age) as to put it among his treasures, and
to hurry off towards the Grange, long before
the earliest hour mentioned in it. In fact,
he had what seemed an age to hover about
the house, like a bird about its nest, before
his watch told him it was time to ring
the bell. Where now was his stoic resolution
? It was not in all his thoughts. The
very mood of mind in which it was formed
was dim as a dream to him. The feeling he
thought he had securely dammed had burst
the barrier, and now with accumulated force
swept all before it. The reader was not
prepared for such an outburst ? George himself
was not prepared for it. Like the fisherman
in the ' Arabian Nights,' he is amazed to
see the power which one moment seemed
sealed securely in its phial, tower the next
moment to the sky, and fill the earth with its
shadow.

The change in George was so marked that
even the self-absorbed Miss Masters might have
noticed it, if she had been present. As for
Mabel, who was the quickest observer in
Weston, she remarked it in a moment. She
was not now absorbed with anxiety about
Barney, and she took in, therefore, indications
that escaped her before, and which besides
were now so much more pronounced. It is
astonishing how instinctively girls, even
children, and even those who, like Mabel, have
not a particle of vanity in their nature, recognise
the most suppressed admiration. About
George's admiration, however, there was no
mistake. He had lost all his cynicism and
self-possession, and become timid, deferential,
even reverential. He was — if the ladies will
forgive a most unromantic metaphor — like a
crab which has shed its shell, and which, from
being the most self-reliant and aggressive of
creatures, suddenly becomes meek, self-distrustful,
and retiring. And what was the
effect of his evident infatuation on Mabel ? It
may be taken as certain that a young lady
rather despises a man for adoration, which she
does not in some degree reciprocate — a remark,

p 2

by the way, which is stolon from Bacon.
Mabel did not despise George. His admiration
had the effect of precipitating a feeling which
had before floated in vague solution in her mind,
indefinite and unrecognised, but which now
took the solid shape of liking. It is not worth
while giving what passed between them at this
interview. It had as much to do with what
was passing in their minds as the soughing of
the wind through the telegraph wires has to do
with the electric messages flying along them.
As for Barney's business, it was a matter of
such moment that George would have to think
over it, and consult experts, and come again
tomorrow to tell Mabel the result. Next day
it was found that there were two or three
other things to be inquired about and reported
on, and even when those were decided, it was
necessary for Mabel to see Bayard and get his
consent, and transmit it at a fourth interview
to George. Barney, however, saved Mabel
the trouble of sending for him by turning up
with his own scheme for the investment of his
fortune. This, again, must be communicated
to George. But how? Certainly not by

letter now ; from which it will be seen that
Mabel was in a fair way of falling in love. She
succeeded in inducing Barney to call himself
upon George, and lay the matter before him.

CHAPTER XI.

Separation. *

Meanwhile, Mr. Pickles was forging another
link in the chain by which George was being
bound. The chairman of one of his local
committees, Mr. Jonas Barraclough, brought
him an important report one evening. Mr.
Barraclough was a pompous and ponderous
man, who would give importance to any report.
He had no doubt that Mr. Pickles owed his
seat to Mr. Jonas Barraclough's influence, and
that Mr. Jonas Barraclough owed his influence
to his oratory. His idea of oratory was
shortly this — never to use one word, or a word
of one syllable, where three words or a tri-syllable
word would serve the same purpose.
He would, so to speak, change a sovereign into
two hundred and forty pence, and imagine that
its value increased with its bulk. Mr. Barra-clough
was shown into a room set specially

apart by Mr. Pickles for the reception of his
constituents. Its walls were adorned with
plans or pictures of the schools, hospitals,
churches, or chapels he had helped to build,
and with photographs of his local committees
in groups, and portraits of their respective
chairmen. There were also two emblazoned
and, indeed, blazing addresses hung at either
side of a magnificent portrait in oils of the
gentleman to whom they were presented —
Josiah Pickles, Esq., M.P. — while on each side
of the fireplace were bookcases stored with
blue-books, reports, etc., relieved by the light
literature of the quarterlies.

In this reception-room Mr. Barraclough was
left some time alone, admiring the counterfeit
presentment of himself ; for it was a rule with
Mr. Pickles to allow his constituents time to
digest the significance of these ornaments, that
their imagination might thereby be helped to a
conception of the greatness and goodness of
their representative. The genius loci however,
did not affect Mr. Barraclough, in part because
he was fascinated by his own portrait, and in
part because there was no room in his mind to
take in any other greatness and goodness than

his own. He was still admiring his portrait,
with his head a good deal on one side, when
Mr. Pickles at last appeared.

How do you do, Mr. Barraclough ? Take
a seat, sir ; take a seat,' said Mr. Pickles, in his
sharp and decisive manner.

Thank you, Mr. Pickles, sir,' replied Mr.
Barraclough, slowly seating himself, and proceeding
in a very measured and impressive
manner to answer the question ' How do you
do ? ' as a question of the utmost importance.

I am tolerably well, sir. I had a bad cold
last week, and my chest seemed, I may say,
choked with phlegm. But I expectorated a
good deal ; I always expectorate when I have
a bad cold, sir,' pausing and looking at Mr.
Pickles with the evident expectation of some
expression of surprise, or at least of interest,
which extracted from ]mr, Pickles, ' Oh, indeed
? '

• Yes, sir ; I always expectorate a good deal
when I have a bad cold. I think, Mr. Pickles,'
he continued, with the manner of a man who
was venturing on a daring hypothesis, ' it to
some extent relieves the lungs of the accumulated
phlegm. But, sir, I am better now, a

good deal better. In fact, I may say quite
well, thank you

I am glad you are, Mr. Barraclough.'
So am I, sir ; so am I,' heartily, as if his
assent must be a gratifying surprise to Mr.
Pickles. ' If I had not been quite well I
should hardly have ventured out so late tonight,
Mr. Pickles, though I have come on
important business ; I may say on business of
considerable importance.'

Political business, Mr. Barraclough ? '
Well, sir, looking at it from the point of
view of politics, you might call it political
business. It is so far political business, sir, as
it concerns the character of public men — of
personages of some political importance and
prominence.'

Ah,' said Mr. Pickles vaguely. Mr.
Barraclough's style was more intolerable to him
than to most men, as being the very opposite
of his own short, sharp, and decisive manner ;
but he had to pay Mr. Barraclough's claims
upon him as graciously as any other extortionate
election charges.

You will not be unaware, Mr. Pickles,'
Mr. Barraclough resumed, 'that an accident

not unattended with serious consequences,
happened to your son, sir, mr. Clarence Pickles,
a short time ago.' Here Mr. Barraclough
paused to make quite sure that the father had
heard of his son's hairbreadth escape from
death.

Yes ? ' said Mr. Pickles, with some impatience.


An account of that accident, as I understand,
sir — I may have been misinformed, and
I am subject to correction, if I am wrong — but,
as I was given to understand, an account of
that accident was furnished by Mr. Clarence
Pickles himself to the representative of the
reporting department of our principal local
journal, the Weston Witness.'

Yes,' assented Mr. Pickles, with a little
more interest.

In that account it is stated — Stay, I have
the copy of the journal in my pocket,' said
Mr. Barraclough, clearing his throat, and drawing
from his pocket an uncleanly copy of the
Weston Witness in which it took him sometime
to find, first the paragraph and then that
part of the paragraph he wanted : ' " The high-spirited
animal Here the groom

but Mr. Pickles " — ah, this is the part of the
paragraph to which I would invite your most
particular attention, Mr. Pickles ; " But Mr.
Pickles fortunately stuck to his post, though he
could not guide the panic-stricken animal so as
to prevent its knocking down the Eev. Mr.
Kneeshaw, one of the curates of the parish
chin-ch, who, however, we are happy to say,
escaped without serious injury. As the shaft
struck the reverend gentleman, the horse
stumbled and came down within a few yards of
the cutting, into which, in all human probability,
it must have plunged, but for this
timely and most providential accident." " Most
providential accident," ' repeated Mr. Barra-clough,
folding up and returning the paper to
his pocket. ' This paragraph, Mr. Pickles, as I
understand it, attributes Mr. Kneeshaw's being
in the way and being knocked down to chance,
sir — to accident pure and simple ? '

Certainly, Mr. Barraclough.'

Would you believe it, then, sir,' said Mr.
Barraclough, stooping forward with a hand on
each knee, and speaking in a low, slow, and
awed voice — ' Would you believe it, then, sir,
that this very day I was contradicted flatly, to

my face, in our club-room-when I repeated
the statement of that paragraph word for word,
and, I may say, verbatim ; ' and Mr. Barra-clough
drew himself back in his chair and
looked to see the horror in his own face reflected
in that of Mr. Pickles. Mr. Pickles,
however, being as Yorkshire as Mr. Barra-clough
in looking at things exclusively from his
own point of view, could not see wherein the
atrocity lay.

Contradicted ! On what point, Mr. Barra-clough
? '

On what point, sir ? ' asked ]\Ii\ Barra-clough,
with some vexation in his tone at Mr.
Pickles' insensibility to the main insult of the
contradiction, beside which the details were
nothing. ' On the point, sir, of Mr. Kneeshaw's
being accidentally, I may say fortuitously, in
the way. They said, sir — and it was not one
or two, but the greater number of the members
asserted it, and maintained it in the teeth of
my deliberate statement to the contrary — they
said that Mr. Kneeshaw was safe on the plank
bridge, but hearing the tumult, and looking
round, and seeing the imminent peril and — and
danger of your son, he hurried back and was

knocked down in trying to catch the reins and
arrest the horse. And they said, sir, that at
least thirty or forty people saw him running back
from the bridge and catching at the reins ; and
they said, sir, that Mr. Clarence Pickles must
have seen it himself, and known that his statement
to the representative of our local journal
was, I may say, misleading and inaccurate, and
indeed inexact.'

Is this a general impression ? ' asked Mr.
Pickles, beginning now to see the justice of Mr.
Barraclough's indignation.

'It is the general impression, sir, of our
club, which is supposed to represent — whether
justly or unjustly I will not presume to say —
to represent the Liberal opinion of the West
Ward.'

While Mr. Pickles, without concerning himself
in the least with the truth or falsehood of
the report, was casting about in his mind for
the best means of neutralising its probable effect
upon the approaching elections, Mr. Barra-clough,
who had, to say the truth, been not
only contradicted, but browbeaten rather
brutally, by those members of the club who
were impatient of both him and Mr. Pickles,

was of course thinking chiefly of his own
credit.

I must see to this, Mr. Barraclough ; thank
you for bringing it to my notice,' said Mr.
Pickles, who equally, of course, was thinking,
and imagined that Mr. Barraclouf^h was thinking,
only of his (Mr. Pickles') credit. ' What
would you suggest as best to be done ? '

I should suggest, sir, that a letter under
the hand of Mr. Clarence Pickles and countersigned
by yourself should be written and
addressed to me, maintaining the substantial
and literal and, I may say, general accuracy of
my statement, which letter should be posted up
in the clubroom and communicated to the
local journals.'

Hem,' said Mr. Pickles dubiously. ' I
shall see my son about it, Mr. Barraclough, and
let you know the result.'

As you please, sir, as you please,' replied
Mr. Barraclough, somewhat hurled. ' You will
keep in mind, Mr. Pickles, sir, that I have
endorsed that statement, and that ray credit in
the club and in the town is at stake, sir ; is, I
may say, bound up and involved and implicated
in the truth of that statement, and in its

bona-fineness. That is a consideration, sir, that
you will not overlook in your decision upon
the matter. I wish you good evening, Mr.
Pickles ; good evening, sir,' rising with much
majesty, and taking a rather stiff leave of the
member.

Good evening, Mr. Barraclough ; I shall
write you the result,' said Mr. Pickles, as he
rang to have his guest shown out.

Upon Mr. Barraclough's departure Mr.
Pickles rejoined Clarence, who was enjoying
this wine after dinner. ' Clarence, was Knee-shaw
trying to stop your horse when he was
knocked down ? '

Can't say, I'm sure,' drawled Clarence,
flushing slightly.

But you did say to that reporting fellow.'

I said what I thouirlit I saw ; but I wasn't
looking at the thing with my hands in my
pockets, you know. I wasn't on the look-out
for Mr. Kneeshaw's safety, I can assure you.'

It will be a confounded awkward business
to settle, I can tell you,' said Josiah, in a tone
of irritation.

'Has the fellow been making a claim on
you?'

Who ? Kneeshaw ? No ; but they're
making a story out of it for the elections.'

They can't make much out of it, I should
say.'

'They can make this out of it, that you
told a lie to shirk a debt. / don't say so, but
they'll say it.'

It's very good of you not to say it,' sneered
Clarence, stung into what for him was an unusually
sharp answer. But steel had no chance
against Josiah's bludgeon.

/ don't say it, because I didn't see the
accident. But those who saw it say it,' said
the father, pushing his chair away impatiently
as he rose to stand with his back to the fire.
Opposition of any kind and from anyone was
intolerable to Josiah, even when he was in good
humour. He was very much out of humour
to-night for many reasons, and was not sorry
that his son should have the benefit of his
mood. He saw in a moment, from Clarence's
manner, that for some reason he had given to
the reporter a version of the accident which he
knew to be untrue, and which, moreover, was
not only a crime, but a blunder that would tell in
the elections. Clarence, being dependent upon

his father, had not such silly ideas of honour as
to resent a hasty word at the cost of a quarter's
allowance.

They may say what they like. I can only
say what I saw,' he said sulkily.

Well, you have said it now, and we can
only make the best of it,' said the father, taking
the falsehood as much for granted as if his son
had admitted it. It was very irritating, but
Clarence didn't care to dispute the matter
knowing that nothing but further irritation
would come of further controversy.

Who is this Kneeshaw ? He's a curate,
isn't he ? ' asked Josiah, with a dim remembrance
of the paragraph in the Witness.

Yes, he's a curate. One of Dr. Clancy's
curates.'

sit wouldn't do to send him a cheque,'
mused Josiah, more to himself than to his son.
He'd take it fast enough, I daresay, but he
wouldn't care to have it known that he took it.
We must set ourselves right with the public.
One of Clancy's curates? I'll tell you what,
I'll give him St. George's. It will kill two
birds with one stone, for Clancy will take it asa
compliment to himself.'

VOL. I. Q

St. George's isn't yours to eve, is it ? '
growled Clarence sulkily, pleased to pick this
hole in the plan.

'If I pay the piper I shall call the tune.
Fve given 2,000/. towards it already, and they
were at me yesterday for 1,500/. more to finish
it. I shall give it if they put my man in ; not
otherwise. I should have had to give another
1,000/. whether or no, so it will cost me only 500/.

Who are the trustees ? '

'There's Gledhill, Deaden, Mills, Matchlock,
and myself; but, except Matchlock, not
one of them has given 1,000/. towards it.'

Matchlock's daughter is married to a parson.*

Let him give the other 1,500/. then. He'll
be glad to have his 1,000/. back in his pocket
again, and more besides he would be glad to
know it was there. Matchlock is at the far
end, I can tell you.'

If you are only one of five, you will not
get the credit of giving it, either with Knee-shaw
or anyone else.'

I shall take credit for it if I give it. You
may be sure of that.' As this was certain as
the sunlight, Clarence was silenced. He was
naturally not in favour of an arrangement

which meant a frank public confession of the
falsehood of his version of the accident.

What are you going to do about it ? ' asked
Josiah sharply, after a pause.

About what ? '

About this — ah — mistaken account you
gave of the thing.'

I don't know that it was mistaken, and I
don't believe it was either.'

Barraclough says there are thirty or forty
who saw it. Shall I have them up before
you ? ' sneered Josiah .

It's this confounded election,' retorted
Clarence. ' They'd say anything for sixpence.'

Look here, Clarence ; " this confounded
election," as you call it, has cost me so much
that I don't care to throw away 1,000/., or
500Z. for nothing. If the thing happened as
you say, you can get four or ewe witnesses —
they're cheap at sixpence a head, you know —
to support your statement, and I shall be glad
to keep my money in my pocket. But if not,
you'll either write to the Witness to say that
you were mistaken, or you'll have 50/. a quarter
docked from your allowance till the 500/. is
paid off.'

Q 2

Josiah, having delivered his ultimatum,
advanced to the table, filled and drank a class
of sherry, looking defiantly at Clarence the
while. Clarence muttered something he took
care should be inaudible, leisurely chose a cigar
from its case, sauntered to the window, and
thence to the lawn. Josiah looked after him
with an unexpected expression of satisfaction.
In the first place, Clarence's supercilious airs
were his father's highest ideal of a gentlemanly
manner, and made up to him in great measure
for his son's lack of brains and energy ; and in
the second place, Josiah felt as certain of the
appearance of the required letter in the Witnes-'^t
as if he had seen it there. And, indeed, as a
quarter's allowance was now nearly due, the
following letter appeared in that print before
the close of the week : —

Sir, — In your issue of the 3rd inst. there
is an account of an accident which happened
to me through the running away of my horse,
which is in one particular inaccurate. It states
that the Eev. Mr. Knecshaw was accidentally
knocked down ; but I find upon inquiry that
he was knocked down in attempting to stop my
horse. I am glad to make through your

columns this public acknowledgment of the
service the Eev. Mr. Kneeshaw rendered me on
that occasion.

I am, sir, yours, etc.,

'Clarence Pickles.
To the Editor of the Weston Witness.'
This letter, which might have been written
by the Prince of Wales in acknowledgment of
a bouquet presented by the daughter of a loyal
mayor, was inserted in the Witness, with the
addition of this curt editorial note : —

The account whose accuracy Mr. Clarence
Pickles now questions was given to our reporter
by Mr. Clarence Pickles himself.'

This editorial comment, which was interpreted
in Weston to express the disgust of the
Liberals with the political tergiversation of their
member, really expressed the disgust of Mr. Ejng,
the editor of the Witness, at being uninvited to
the luncheon with which the Pickles' Working
Man's Institute was about to be opened. It
was, in fact, the invidious invitations to this
lunch which put Josiah into the bad temper
we found him in at the opening of this chapter.
As it was to be a very grand affair, everyone

who was anyone expected an invitation ; but
since not more than one tenth of such expectants
could by any possibility be accommodated
in the building, Josiah, like the French Prince,
was compelled to make ten malcontents and
one ingrate at each card issued. Many of these
malcontents had bites or stings of their own,
which they used with as little scruple as the
editor of the Witness, and Josiah, therefore,
had a rather harassed time of it just now,
especially at the hands of disaffected and
affronted Liberals. But the apostacy of the
Weston Witness, which once stood staunchly
by him though good and evil report, was a
heavy blow and great discouragement. The
day before Clarence's letter appeared, it had
spoken of their member as ' a political Procrustes
who changed, like the chameleon, his
colour with his position, and mangled and
mutilated the principles he professed to fit the
length of his own foot.' This mysterious sentence,
in which the writer seemed to have
rolled into one Proteus, Procrustes, and Paddy
the Piper, was not the less terrible from being
unintelligible, and in the very next issue
appeared the curt and cutting comment on

Clarence's note. The defection of the Witness
brought to a head a resolution which had been
some time maturing in Josiah's mind. He had
been long enough uncomfortably astride, like a
circus rider, on two horses ; henceforth he
would stick to one and stand to win on the Tory
steed. He would take the first public opportunity
of frankly, formally, and finally avowing
his adhesion to ' those good old Conservative
principles which reconciled progress with stability
and order with freedom, making our constitution
the envy of those military despotisms
which transformed countries into camps and
nations into armies, and making her also the
model and the mother, or, if not the mother,
at least the foster-mother of all constitutional
governments throughout the world.' We give
by anticipation the concluding words, as reported
by the Witness, of Josiah's speech at the
luncheon, by Which he broke down his bridges
and burned his boats, and finally and for ever
severed himself from the Liberal party.

Josiah, having made his mind up to the
formal desertion of the party which returned
him, had to consider how best to make to himself
friends of the mammon of unrighteousness

and ensure his welcome into the enemy's camp.
And his first thought was, of course, the Church.
Josiah had been a chapehnan in the days of his
obscurity, but on achieving greatness he took
to church going, as he took to late dinners, as
beinfT respectable. lie had hitherto also subscribed
to Church objects, rather grudgingly
and of necessity, perhaps, than as a cheerful
giver, but still he did subscribe, and sometimes
handsomely ; now, however, he would serve
Baal much. And, as his first service, he would
complete St. George's Church — of coin-se on the
condition that he was allowed to make the
first appointment.

Josiah, having made his mind up on any
matter, was not the man to lose a moment in
moving in it. He was present at the next
meeting of the trustees, laid his offer and the
condition of his offer before them in his usual
ungracious take-it-or-leave-it manner, and mentioned
incidentally Mr. Kneeshaw's name as
that of his nominee. Now Mr. Gledhill, who,
as taking the most active interest in the buildiuir
of the church, was listened to with most deference
by his co-trustees, happened to know a

good deal about George and about his kindness
to the poor, and his recommendation smoothed
down the opposition — urged upon the ground
of Mr. Kneeshaw's youth — which Josiah's rasping
manner aroused. Even Mr. Matchlock,
whose interested opposition Clarence had anticipated,
made no serious objection, as his son-in-law
had already a living of more value than
St. George's. Josiah, when his terms were
accepted, condescended to explain the reason of
his choice of so young a man as Mr. Kneeshaw,
since he wished it to be as widely known as
possible that he acknowledged this great debt
of his son's life to him ; and the explanation
reconciled even Mr. Deaden to an appointment
to which he had given at first a rather sullen
adhesion. As for Mr. ]hills, no one seemed to
think his consent necessary.

'Dear Sir, — I have only just learned the
obligation I am under to you for saving my
son's life. I have great pleasure in offering you
the living of St. George's of the probable value
of 700/. per annum, as I have succeeded in
obtaining the first presentation of it. I have
undertaken to complete the church at an

estimated cost of 1,500/., and hope to have it
finished in a month.

I am, dear sir, faithfully yours,

JosiAH Pickles.'

The letter read rather like a balance-sheet,
but Josiah could do nothing graciously. George,
however, was in no mood to be critical when he
received it. He opened it after an almost sleepless
night of struggle with himself, in which his
conscience at last conquered, and the firstfruits
of its victory was to be the refusal of this living.
So he sat down at once to his desk and wrote
the following reply : —

Dear Sir, — I very much regret to have to
decline your kind offer of St. George's, though
the promotion is far beyond my expectations or
deserts, and a very disproportionate reward for
the service I did your son. I only did what
anyone else would have done in my place, and
what I should have done for anyone else. I
hope you will not think me ungrateful because
I am compelled to decline your generous offer.

Believe me, dear sir, faithfully yours,

'George B. Kneeshaw.'

Chapter XII.

Drifting.

George, having written and addressed his
letter, hurried off to post it at once. He wasn't
sure of himself. He had fought the night
through against the thought of Mabel, to keep
her impose as much as he could in the background,
for to give up the ministry meant
giving up all hope of her. And he must give
up the ministry. What had at last decided
him ? Yesterday was a great Christian festival
commemorating an event which he did not
quite absolutely disbelieve, but in which his
faith was certainly not firm enough to preach
it to others. Yet he must preach it, and preach
it as a thing certain as the sunrise. He did so
preach it, and the preparation of the sermon
and the preaching of it, and the sense of self-degradation
which overcame him as he descended
the steps of the pulpit, forced him

to feel the falsehood of his position as he
had never felt it before. The fact was, though
he was unconscious of it, he was in a much falser
position than when last he looked his faith
fairly in the face. Our minds are never at a
standstill on subjects in which we are interested,
try as we will to shelve them. They are always
more or less at work upon such subjects
through conscious or unconscious cerebration,
and when we come after an interval to take
our bearings with respect to them, we are
certain to have drifted to a new standpoint.
Since George had taken his bearings, his mind
had in this way drifted out to sea much farther
than he had any notion of, and now he was
horrified to find himself so far from shore.
Hence his sleepless night and the struggle with
his conscience, made more desperate by Mabel's
being ranged on the enemy's side. He had
conquered, however, or thought that he had
conquered, and this offer of a living seemed to
come in the nick of time rather to strengthen
than shake his resolution. Everyone knows
how a new resolution, like a j'oung soldier,
longs for action, and is impatient to translate
its ardour into some definite form ; and George

welcomed Mr. Pickles' offer for the opportunity
it gave of realising his resolution. Accordingly,
the writing of the refusal of the living
was a relief to his mind as giving shape and
substance to his determination, and being a
definite and decided step in the right direction.
But, beside and behind this reason for his
eagerness to write and post his refusal at once,
lurked distrust of himself and of his power to
give up all chance of Mabel. In fact, this
brave dash was little more than masked cowardice,
and this prompt decision was but indecision
in disguise. He must commit himself at
once and once for all, or the sight of Mabel, or
the mere thought of her, if he allowed

Th' idea of her life to sweetly creep
Into his study of imagination,

might overpower his conscience. Hence his
hurry to post the decisive letter.

As he opened the gate of the little garden
between his lodgings and the road, a waggonette
drove up and stopped at it. In it were
Squire, four other convalescent little ones, and
Archer Lawley.

Halloa ! ' cried Lawley, 'just in time.'

In time for what r '

To come with us.*

Where ? '

Didn't you get my letter ? '

'Letter? No.'

By Jove ! that accounts for it. She
couldn't have got it either.'

Who ? ' asked George, bewildered.

'Mary Ann,' said Lawley, disregarding
George's question, and turning back to address
the eldest of the children, ' didn't you post
those letters?'

Yes, sir.'

Where ? '

At the station, sir.'

It's very odd,' mused Lawley, pulling his
moustache with a perplexed air.

Very,' answered George drily.

'I wrote to you on Thursday,' Lawley
explained, ' asking you to join us to-day, but
telling you not to trouble to answer if you
could come ; and by the same post I invited
Miss Masters and her niece, as Squire was so
anxious to see her, but got no reply. Are you
sure you posted the letters, Mary Ann ? '

Yes, sir,' answered the child, on the brink
of tears.

Lawley, after a moment's meditation, exclaimed
in a tone of mortification, ' Of course !
Where did you post them, Mary Ann ? '

I put them into the big wooden money-box,'
said the child, now whimpering.

I thought so ! She posted them in the box
for newspapers for the workhouse. What an
ass I was not to tell her where to put them, for
it's the second time I've been played that trick.
It can't be helped now. Don't cry, little
woman, it was my fault,' he said soothingly,
patting the penitent Mary Ann on the cheek.
We must go without them, I suppose.'

At this doleful news Squire also lifted up
his voice and wept.

This is a nice beginning of a treat, isn't
it ? ' to George. — ' Never mind, Squire, you shall
see her if she's in. We shall call there, at any
rate. In with you, Kneeshaw.'

I don't think I can go ; ' in no very
decided tone, however.

Why, what have you got to do ? '

George couldn't say he had anything particular
to do, and Lawley simply took him impatiently
by the arm and shoved him up the
steps, while Squire, to whom this second disappointment

would have been crushing, looked
so wistfully into his face that George's faint
resistance gave way at once.

'The Grange, Bradford Eoad,' cried
Lawley to the driver, as he jumped in after
George. ' If you hadn't come I couldn't have
faced them, Kneeshaw. I'm not a ladies' man,
you know.'

When George read the offer of the living
that morning, the second person he thought of
was Archer Lawley. He felt it to be a kind of
treason to their friendship not to take him into
counsel, or at least into confidence, before
writing his refusal, but he feared at once the
delay and himself and his friend's adverse
advice. Now, however, he had no choice but
to hand Lawley Vir. Pickles' letter. Lawley,
when he had read it, put his hand on George's
shoulder, with a demonstrativeness unusual
with him.

My dear fellow, I congratulate you withall
my heart ! '

But I have refused it.'

What ! ' and then, after a moment's pause,
he referred to the letter. ' Why, you only got
the offer this morning! You can't have
refused it yet.*

George held up the answer. Lawley took
it, looked at the address, and coolly put it into
his pocket.

You can't have considered the matter for
five minutes,' he said. ' It's not a thing to be
refused or accepted like an invitation to dinner.
A day is little enough to think over it,
especially if you are inclined to refuse it.
Anyhow, your letter won't reach Mr. Pickles
sooner by being posted twelve hours before the
box closes.'

George submitted meekly, with a sense that
his childish haste deserved a child's treatment.

I must give the whole thing up, Lawley,'
he said despondently.

Well, wee shall have plenty of time to talk
it over to-day when we get to ourselves. It's
not likely the ladies will come on so short an
invitation.'

Where are we going ? '

To the moors. Doctor says a day there
will do the children more good than a week at
home. Besides, it's the only place that won't
swarm to-day.'

What on earth made you choose to-day of
all days in the year ? '

VOL. I. R

The MacGiicken's off,' whispered Lawley,
that the children might not hear. ' Gone to
her sister's. Couldn't have gone-without her if
she'd been at home, you know ; and I wanted
Squire to see Miss Masters. Here we are.
Shall we take Squire in with us ? '

George looked at his watch before he
answered to see if Miss Masters was due downstairs
yet, and finding that she was, thought it
best to be cautious. ' Let us see if they'll
jon us first. Don't say anything about the
children to the ain't,' he added, as they walked
up the steps together. ' In fact, don't say anything
to her at all. Leave her to me, while
you explain the matter to Miss Mabel.'

Lawley nodded submissively. Where ladies
were concerned he at once resigned the command
he assumed on all other occasions. All
the same, he didn't like the task of explaining
the business to that young woman whose great
eyes seemed to look straight through him.
Fortunately they found only Mabel in the
drawing-room, and George therefore was free
to help him out in his explanations.

It's very good of you, Mr. Lawley,' said
Mabel in a subdued tone, as if she was addressing

a bishop). She had quite made up her mind
that he was at once a sage and saint. ' And I

should so much like to go, but I shall go

and ask my aunt about it, if you'll excuse
me.'

Her aunt, however, saved her the trouble by
appearing at this moment. Lawley, upon being
introduced to her, was blundering out the explanations
which George forewarned him against
giving, when that diplomatist intervened and
expatiated upon the exquisite beauty of the
moors, which he was amazed Miss Masters had
not yet seen and painted. If she could spare
an hour or two to-day to accompany them he
could assure her she could find no better guide
than Mr. Lawley, who knew all the lovely bits.
It was unnecessary to say another word to
convince Miss Masters that the expedition was
got up exclusively for her. She was profuse in
her acknowledgements to the embarrassed Mr
Lawley, and hurried off to get herself and her
sketching materials ready.

Mabel, my dear,' she turned to say as she
reached the door, ' you needn't wait lunch forme.
I shall take a biscuit and a glass of sherry
before I start.'

R 2

But who's to chaperon you, Aunt ? Mr.
Lawley has been good enough to ask me
too.'

It really is too good of you, Mr. Lawley,'
said Miss Masters, highly frittered by this
additional mark of his consideration. ' I
should like to have Mabel with me very much :
she has never had any drawing-lessons worth
speaking of. Come, my dear, we mustn't keep
the carriage waiting.'

What are we to do about the children ? '
asked George, when they had left the room.

How ? '

You see she hates poor people and she hates
children, so poor children weill be doubly
abominable. Would you mind adopting them
just for to-day ? ' urged George persuasively.
Lawley acknowledged this ghastly joke with a
grin, little thinking that George contemplated
carrying it out. ' It was well your invitation
miscarried,' continued George ; ' she'd never
have accepted it if put in your way.'

It would have been the best wav after all,'
retorted Lawley. ' We shall have nothing but
bother trying to keep up your hunAnig.
You're a nice fellow to set up a conscience I '

Hereupon Mabel re-entered for a moment
to say that she was going down to speak to
Squire. The truth was she thought it as well
to spare her aunt the shock of seeing her meeting
with the child. When Miss Masters at
length appeared, George took charge of her
camp-stool, portfolio, etc., gave her his arm,
and, as they were going together down the
stairs, mentioned casually that there were five
little children of the party. ' Mr. Lawless
children, we call them,' he explained, raumbUng-
the last three words rather indistinctly. Certainly
George had little right to set up a conscience.


Miss Masters, seated in the waggonette,
took an amazed survey of the five weakened
creatures ranged in a row on the opposite side.
One had crutches, another had an arm in a
sling, a third had one side of her face and neck
badly burned, the fourth was deformed, and
the fifth worn to a shadow. From them her
eyes glanced with a deeper pity to their unfortunate
father. Of their mother, whether she
was dead or alive (she saw no crape on Mr.
Lawley's sleeve), she could not help having
hard thoughts. Only through gross carelessness

could it be possible that so man' horrible
accidents should happen in a single family. It
was evident their father was not in fault, for
his taking such spectacles out to ride with him
testified to his kindness of heart, of which,
indeed, his invitation to herself spoke still more
eloquently. He must be watching anxiously
the impression they made upon her — the refined
and artistic Miss Masters. She mustn't let him
see how unfavourable it was. Indeed, common
politeness, to say nothing of gratitude, demanded
that she should find some redeeming
feature somewhere. But where ? She looked
in despair from face to face and figure to figure.
At last she fixed on Squire as the least horrible
of the five. ' Don't you think, my dear,' she
said, turning to Mabel, who was seated beside
Squire, with his hand in hers, ' there's a strong
likeness about the eyes ? ' looking, with her
head on one side, first at Squire and then at
Lawley.

Mabel in a moment saw her aunt's mistake
and coloured up to the very roots of her hair.
They are not brother and sister," she said with
great presence of mind, affecting to think that
her aunt saw some likeness between Squire

and his next neighbour, Mary Ann. ' Mercy ! *
thought Miss Masters. ' Two families ! Was
ever a man so unlucky as to marry two such
women ! '

Meantime George, seeing Mabel's misery,
repented bitterly of his foolish joke. * We call
them Mr. Lawley's children, Miss Masters, for
he turns his vicarage into a convalescent
hospital for the children of the poor when they
are recovering from illness.'

This announcement acted like an electric
shock upon Miss Masters. She lost all control
over herself, started up, poked the driver in the
back with her umbrella, while she screamed to
him to stop. She had the most morbid horror
of infection.

What is it. Aunt ? ' asked Mabel, thoroughly
alarmed.

I don't know what it is — scarlatina, perhaps,
or small-pox. Mr. Lawley, I hope you'll

excuse us ; it's very kind of you, but

Mabel, let go that child's hand ! '

Lie can't catch compound fracture of the
leg,' growled Lawley, who forgot his shyness
in his horror of a scene. ' There's no infection
to fear. Miss Masters. — A broken arm, a broken

leg, a burn, curvature of the spine, and general
debility ticking off his patients' complaints ina
very business-like manner. 'I'm sorry you
should think I'd trap you into a fever hospital

George was amazed at Lawley's self-assertion
; Mabel was utterly and miserably ashamed ;
while ]\iiss Masters herself, being reassured and
rebuked by Lawley's words and manner, was
shocked at her hysterical outburst — which,
indeed, only an insane terror of infection could
have provoked from her — and became meekly
apologetic. In explanation of her panic she
told rather a rambling story of her childhood
about a little girl who came to their house to
sell mushrooms, and her brother Henry kicked
over her basket, and their mother made lira
gather up the mushrooms and put them back,
and both the little girl and her brother caught
scarlatina at the same time, and the little girl
died. Hence she might well dread infection
ever since.

" The dog it was that died," ' muttered
Lawley, thinking the allusion would be intelligible
only to George.

Mr. Lawley thinks, Aunt, that the little
girl caught the fever from my father,' said

Mabel, looking over archly at Mr. Lawley. It
didn't need much reading or readiness so to
translate Lawley 's quotation, but it needed
more of both than that gentleman expected
from a young lady, and he was, therefore,
rather taken aback. As for Miss Masters, it
was some seconds before she could take in this
preposterous view of the case. She considered
infection to be, like the poor-rate, a tax which
the lower orders imposed on the upper.

'We never had such a thing in our family
before,' she said with some stiffness.

On the whole, however. Miss Masters was
as amiable as could be expected under the
circumstances. She was really ashamed of her
outbreak, and expressed her penitence by trying
to make herself even more agreeable than
usual. In this way George and Mabel were
again thrown together by fate. If Lawley's
invitation had been properly posted, or if Miss
Masters had known that morning the real
nature of the pleasure party she was asked to
join, she would certainly have declined. As it
was, she was not only there, but gracious,
thanks to this little storm. Yet at the bottom
of her heart — as was only to be expected in so

vain a person — she was irritated less with
herself than with Mr. Lawley, as the cause,
however indirect or innocent, of lier mortification.


Mabel during the drive devoted herself to
Mr. Lawley exclusively, in part to try to do
away the impression of her aunt's ungracious
outburst, and in part for another reason. We
do not say she was in love with George, or
that she considered George in love with her ;
we say only that she could neither look at him
nor speak to him with the frank unconsciousness
and freedom from self-consciousness with
which she would look at or speak to anyone
else in the world. As for George, while affecting
to listen to Miss Masters, he lead eyes and
ears only for Mabel. She never looked so
lovely or talked so brightly, a sweet and secret
excitement speaking through her eyes and
thoughts. Even that gnarled old cynic Lawley
was fain to confess her power. In speaking
afterwards to George on one of his favourite
topics — the general muddle of things in the
world, in which no one could fid either clue
or coherence — he burst out with ' There's that
Miss Masters ! She might have been anything,

and she's a girl ! ' It was not an effective
argumentum ad hominem as George was quite
satisfied with Nature's ordering in this individual
instance ; but it expressed pithily Lawley's
opinion at once of the sex in general, and
of Mabel in particular. The fact was, that
when Lawley could be got to converse with a
woman at all, he conversed with her as if she
was a very young man ; and a conversation of
this kind revealed incidentally that Mabel had
read and thought about what — for a girl — was
an immense and amazing range of subjects.
And this range of thought and reading seemed
to Lawley all the more prodigious in a girl, not
merely because in every case it came out incidentally
and in answer to his lead, but also
because in every case it was submitted to his
superior judgment with a deference that was
unfeigned, and therefore flattering to masculine
vanity. Without this deference, twice her
accomplishments would not have had half the
effect on any man, not even Lawley. Mabel
herself, we may say, was much more inclined
to be ashamed than proud of her acquisitions,
since they were held by the Eoxby School to
be as unfeminine as whistling or smoking.

What ! have you read that, too ? ' asked
Lawley, in reference to some metaphysical
work.

I have repeated it, like a photograph. It's
one of the books I have read aloud to my
father, Mr. Lawley ; but I hope you won't
suspect me of understanding it. I couldn't
pronounce half the words properly.'

It's waste of time reading such stuffs
said Lawley, now perfectly at his ease and
speaking precisely as he would speak to
George, but seeming to look rather through
Mabel than at her. ' Metaphysics are just like
eddies in a river, they whirl you round and
round till you are dizzy, and don't advance
you a yard.'

I'll answer for the dizziness ; but at least
they do me the good of making me feel how
stupid I am.'

Stupid ! It's the book that's stupid.
You're not stupid, and you don't think yourself
stupid either,' he added, in the sudden fear that
he was being trapped into paying a compliment.
Certainly Mr. Lawley, in this intercourse
with ladies, seemed like the teapot in
the ' Bigelow Papers ' —

A teapot made o' pewter
Our Prudence had, tliet wouldn't pour (all she could du) to

suit her ;
Must place the leaves 'ould choke the spout, so's not a drop

'ould green out,
Then Prude 'ould tip an' tip an' tip, till the loll kit lust

clean out ;
The river hinge-pin been' lost, tea leaves an' tea an' river
'Ould all come out kerswosh ! ez though the dam broke in a

river.

It was not an easy matter for Mabel to get
him to speak, but when he did speak he came
out with the shock of a shower-bath. Mabel
was a very womanly young woman, and therefore
liked being bullied by a man she respected.
' I don't think myself stupid in some
things, but I do in others.'

You're not stupid in anything,' said
Lawley decisively, being now reassured as to
her sincerity. ' Understandings such stuff is no
more a proof of cleverness than seeing in the
dusk is a proof of good sight. You don't
think a bat has better eyes than you, do
you ? If you have to read such books out to
your father, like Milton's daughters, it's a good
thing that, like them, you don't understand
what you read. At least, / think so,' said
Lawley, sinking his hands deep into his

trousers' pockets, and leaning back in the waggonette
with a coolness and complacency that
confounded George. Was this Petruchio the
man that couldn't look a girl in the face ? As
for Mabel, this uncompromising disparagement
of her father's favourite studies by the only man
in Weston of whom she ever heard her father
speak respectfully perplexed her considerably.
Her faith in her father's profound wisdom was
unshakable, but she had heard her father himself
say more than once of Mr. Lawley, to Mr.
Meekins, that it was a disgrace to the Church
that such a man should be buried in a wretched
little country living. Colonel Masters, indeed,
knew Lawley only through articles of his
which appeared in a leading Review ; but he
had an inordinate idea of a literary success
which he had vainly sought himself. But if
her father had a high opinion of Mr. Lawley,
Mr. Lawley did not seem to return the compliment
— at least, he spoke very slightingly of
those profound studies of which her father was
a profound student. This, we say, perplexed
Mabel considerably and held her silent. Meantime,
Lawley was regarding her somewhat m
the way in which lie would regard an author

whose first book he was reviewiiif]^. He ou<2;ht
not only to point out its defects and beauties,
but to give the debutante what encouragement
he could.

Do you read new books, too ? ' he asked
suddenly.

I very seldom get the chance of reading
any except what you would " cast to the moles
and bats," ' said Mabel, smiling.

'I wish you'd let me send you one now
and then. I get batches of them every fortnight
nearly, and there's sometimes one worth
reading.'

Mabel flushed with pleasure. ' I should
be so much obliged to you, Mr. Lawley, not
only for the books, but for your choosing those
you think best for me. Since my aunt died I
have had no one ' Here she checked herself,
in the fear that she seemed implicitly reproaching
her father. ' I mean, I've read at
random since I escaped from the schoolroom.'

I'm afraid you'll think you've got back to
the schoolroom, or to the schoolmaster, anyhow,'
said Lawley, suddenly brought to himself.
Hitherto he had been looking rather
beyond Mabel than at her, in a dreamy way

that had grown upon him from having so much
alone. But when Mabel checked herself for a
moment, he naturally looked interrogatively
into the Hushed and lovely face turned up to
this, and his shyness returned upon him in a
moment, and ' covered him all over, thoughts
and all, like a cloak.' For the short remainder
of the journey he relapsed into this reserve, and
Mabel felt as she used to feel when bliss
Murdoch took from her and locked away some
interesting story, when its interest had just culminated.


Her conversation, however, with Mr.
Lawley had the effect of rousing her aunt's
suspicions. It was quite evident to that old
lady's keen penetration that Mr. Lawley was
paying Mabel marked attention, wliicli Mabel
was receiving with marked favour. Now Miss
Masters, as we have already said, was irritated
most unreasonably with Mr. Lawley, and her
prejudice against him made her very particular
to find out his means, prospects, etc., before
she allowed this matter to go any further.
Therefore she did what she could to keep the
two apart for the rest of the day, and manoeuvred
the matter so skilfully that George and

Mabel were thrown together for a great part of
the afternoon, while the unhappy Mr. Lawley
was chained to the camp-stool of the exacting
artist.

YOL. I. S

CHAPTER XIII.

A PROPOSAL.

On reaching the moors a council was held to
decide upon the best site for lunch. Mabel
proposed a hill at a little distance, and was of
course seconded by George and supported by
Lawley, on the ground that it would give Miss
Masters a fine view all round. Miss Masters,
however, being inclined for lunch and disinclined
to walk a foot further than she could
help, thought it would be too far for the gentlemen
to carry the hampers, and that the view of
the hill was probably more picturesque than
the view from it. Accordingly they pitched
their tents where they were and proceeded to
unpack the hampers, which Lawley, after his
manner, had cranuned with enough provisions
for forty people.

Do you think there will be enough ? ' he

asked George doubtfully, as he handed him out
a fourth fowl.

There will hardly be one apiece, but we
may eke it out with the lamb and tongue.
Good heavens ! What an array of bottles ! '

They do look rather a lot,' said Lawley,
himself somewhat dismayed, ' but except the
beer all are single bottles. I didn't know
what wine Miss Masters drank. There's just
one bottle of each,' he said, in a survey of the
corks, ' of port, sherry, champagne, claret, hock,
brandy, mint sauce, and custard.'

I drink custard, Mr. Lawley, thank you,'
said Mabel (who, by the way, had become a
teetotaller with Barney). 'As for Aunt, she
hardly ever touches anything but port, sherry,
champagne, claret, and hock.'

My dear ! '

I didn't know you cared for brandy or
mint sauce. Aunt.'

The brandy was for Squire and another of
the children,' said Lawley apologetically.

I am quite sorry, Mr. Lawley, you took
the trouble to provide so many kinds of wine
for me. I hardly ever take any wine but
sherry,' said Miss Masters, less to acknowledges

2

Mr. Lawley's special consideration for her than
to disabuse him of the impression of her drinking
habits she felt Mabel's wild words must
have given. She sat upon her camp-stool
surveying tli rough her eyeglass, critically at
first, but at last complacently, the various
dishes Mabel and George were arranging as
Lawley handed them out of the hamper. Her
view of the lunch was so satisfactory that she
was positively charmed with the scenery. ' I
wouldn't have missed this for anything. I
really must take that bit.*

Which, Aunt ? The wing ? ' for George
was busy upon a fowl.

Mabel, from intercourse with the wooden
Miss Eoxby, had got into that way of ' uttering
her jests with a sad brow,' which, as we know
from both Cicero and Shakspeare, makes even
a thin joke effective.

'My dear,' replied her aunt with some
scorn in her voice for Mabel's prosaic absorption
in the luncheon, ' I was speaking of sketching
that beautiful bit of hillside. Where are your
eyes, Mabel ? You'll never be a painter if you
think only of lunch with such a view before
you.'

Have you eyes ?
Could you on this fair mountain leave to feed
And batten on this moor ? '

quoted George, pointing to the hill and the
moor, and looking into Mabel's face with a
mixed expression of amusement and admiration.


It was Miss Mabel Masters who wished to
feed on the mountain, I thought,' said Lawley,
while Miss Masters was " the gentle lady
wedded to the Moor." You preferred to lunch
here, didn't you. Miss Masters ? '

From this bewildering pedantry Miss Masters
could at least gather confirmation of her
suspicion of Lawley 's designs upon Mabel. It
was plain that, while Mr. Kneeshaw sided with
herself, Mr. Lawley sided with Mabel, as she
might have expected.

Yes ; I don't think I could get a better
point of view to sketch from. I hope you
will help me after lunch with your advice,
Mr. Lawley,' said that wily chaperon,
mindful of the danger of allowing Mr. Lawley
from her side for a moment. No doubt it
would have been better still to have tied Mabel
to her apron-strings ; but that young person,

not having the least idea of the clanger to be
guarded against, was Httle likely to be as
amenable as Mr. Lawley to discipline.

Lunch, then, being over, to which Miss
Masters did the most ample justice, the distraction
of the scenery notwithstanding, the unhappy
Mr. Lawley, who meditated having a
pipe in retirement, was summoned to her side,
shown her drawings, asked his opinion of each,
and his advice as to the standpoint for the one
in hand, and as to every point in its progress.
Lawley loved tobacco, and did not love the
society of silly old ladies ; and only a perfect
host and gentleman could have stood as lie
stood the severe and continuous strain upon
his manners for two mortal hours. Meantime
Mabel was amusing the children with such
mild games as the invalids could manage, until
they were tired (as they soon were) of movement,
and set to to make daisy chains. Daisies
were to be had only on the skirts of the moor,
and on the hill at its edge, and here Mabel,
Mary Ann, and George gathered them for the
others. Lawley was somewhat comforted to
see Knceshaw reduced to a sillier slavery than
his own, little thinking that the daisies were

flowers of paradise to George. When the
three had reached the hill and wandered round
its base to the other side, George suggested that
Mary Ann had better carry back in her apron
what they had gathered.

They'll have nothing to go on with by
this,' he said considerately. ' You can come
back when you want more, Mary Ann, and
we shall have another lot for you.'

Mary Ann, however, preferred to make a
daisy chain of her own out of the superabundance
of daisies already gathered, and did not
return for more. George was madly in love.
He forgot everything and everyone but Mabel.
The mere touch of her hand in one of the
childish games doubled the beating of his
heart, and sent his blood in so mad a whirl to
his brain as to dizzy it. He walked after her
as in a dream, gathering the daisies she trod on
and treasuring one she dropped. 'Aware et
sapere vix Deo conceited.' He was only a
little madder than most with that delicious
delirium we all have, or ought to have,
endured and enjoyed ; and only those who
have lost their memory or have little in their
lives worth remembering can be so pitiable as

to pity him, or so despicable as to despise
him.

Let us sit down a moment, the view is
lovely from here,' said George, pointing to a
little hollow in the hill from which they could
see nothing, but would there be unseen themselves.


Mabel obeyed him with her heart fluttering
like a newly caught bird. She knew now what
George felt for her as well as if he had expressed
it in words — better than words could
express it. How? We cannot tell. What
we call instinct is made up of a thousand
accumulated experiences and impressions and
associations, so atomic as to baffle analysis.
And a girl's instinct is quicker and truer thana
man's, because she is more observant ; but
she can no more account for her unerring
instinct than a marksman for his unerriufr aim.
which comes not only of a keen eye, but of
numberless minute observations and inferences,
that have been made unconsciously. We
cannot tell the grounds, then, of Mabel's
instinctive inference of George's feeling for her,
nor shall we say how much she was helped by
analogy to such an inference by the response

she found to that feeling in her own heart.
We are not going to pry into that sacred
chamber which she now blushed to look into
herself ; for in a heart like Mabel's the purest
love when first detected ' trembles like a guilty
thing surprised.'

George seated himself beside her, but a
little backward, that he might gaze inoffensively
on her face. There was an awkward
silence, for while George was wrapped in his
worship, Mabel could think of nothing to say
that would not sound forced or foolish. She
reviewed and rejected one topic after another
till the tension became intolerable.

I mustn't forget my painting lesson, or
Aunt will think me more hopeless than ever.'

Don't go ! ' cried George, as she essayed
to rise, seizing her hand, and looking and
speaking as if life and death were in the
balance.

Shall we print in cold blood his headlong,
incoherent, passionate appeal ?

Be wise : not easily forgiven
Are these who, setting wide the doors that har
The secret bridal chambers of the heart,
Let in the day.

I couldn't help it said George desperately,

with a sudden drop to bathos. He
had put it to the touch and thought he had
lost it all, because Mabel sat silent with averted
face. Yet she had not withdrawn her hand,
though George once, at the height of his
vehement pleading, had so pressed it that her
mother's ring bit into the next finger. But
intense longing is sometimes the father not of
belief, but of doubt, and George thought he
had thrown and lost. ' You are angry with
me ? ' in a voice of despair. Mabel turned her
ferocious gaze upon him, and even George was
satisfied with all it expressed.

Don't ; please, don't ! ' she said, in answer
to what next proceeded from his lips uttered
close to her ear, but not addressed to that
organ ; for the reaction from despair carried
George over considerably to the other side. In
fact, Mabel had to disengage her hand to defend
her face.

It is bleeding ! ' he cried.

It's a bad omen,' Mabel replied lightly.
I have given you my hand, and see how you
have crushed it ! '

George cried out upon his brutality', and
bent over the little wounded hand lying lost

in his own great palm as a mother over her
sick child, and kissed and soothed it and was
altogether lovelorn and silly. It would be
hard to find two persons with a keener sense
of the ridiculous than these two ridiculous
creatures, yet neither was in the least disposed
to laugh at the other 1 We old folk of course
can laugh at and — envy them, longing in vain
to exchange our cynical sense for their happy
insanity. For the laugh is not on our side after
all. Our wisdom may be so ripe

Posset ut jiivenes videre fervid,
Multo non sine risii,
Dilapsam in cinerea face.

So these two prattled silly things with a sublime
meaning — bubbles rising from profound
depths. Shall we print their prattle ? As well
gather the drops of which the rainbow was
composed after they had fallen from heaven
their glory was not their own, but of
the sun which transfigured them. Let us
leave them to themselves for the single, sweet,
swift hour that seems to glide from them in a
moment,

Like the snowfall in the river,

A moment white, then melts for ever.

Please, Mr. Kneeshaw ; ' George started
aside like a broken bow. He had been sitting
very close to Mabel, probably to take advantage
of the shadow of her sunshade, for his head
was under it. They were hidden in a cup-like
hollow of the hill, only visible to anyone who
stood, as Mary Ann stood now, directly in
front.

You've come for more daisies, Mary Ann,'
said George in the confused way a man speaks
when first roused from a vivid dream.

Please, sir, we are going home.'

'• Home ! ' cried George, looking at his
watch. ' By Jove ! it's five o'clock ! '

Mary Ann, like most poor people's children
especially if they are delicate children — was
a very precocious young person, and drew her
own shrewd conclusions from George's attitude
and Mabel's scarlet face. These conclusions
and their grounds she afterwards imparted to
Mrs. MacGucken, much to that matron's relief,
for she had great searchings of heart about this
picnic in general, and the invitation of ]Miss
Mabel Masters to it in particular. ' The master,'
she was often heard to say, ' was that soft that
any one who had the mind might whip him upas

easy as a handkerchief off a hedge' an

unflattering comparison suggested by her losses
of linen left to bleach near the highway.

On this occasion, however, Mr. Lawley was
kept quite clear of temptation — unless Miss
Masters is to be considered in that incredible
light. That sagacious and cautious chaperon
never let him stray farther from her side than
to the children, and was so absorbed by her
suspicions of him that it never occurred to her
to think anything of Mabel's stroll with George.
She saw the two go off together with Mary Ann
in their company, and, not having noticed the
child's return in the interval she was in nowise
disquieted on seeing the three return, still
together, after over an hour's absence. Lawley,
though his thoughts were little given to running
such subjects, could not help putting the
right construction on this otherwise unaccountable
desertion of him and his invalids by Mabel
and George. When it came near the time to
return, therefore, he thought it more considerate
to send Mary Ann in search of them than to
surprise them himself; and he felt rather proud
of his discretion when he saw the expressions
on the faces of the three as they hurried back —

Mabel looking still conscious, George confused,
and Mary Ann disgustingly knowing.

My dear Aunt ; how quickly you have
done it ! It's so like, too ! '

Like what, dear ? That's a sketch of
Derwentwater. I didn't know you had been to
the Lakes.'

We shall just have time for a pipe, Knee-shaw.'


I hope Miss Masters doesn't object to the
smell of tobacco,' said George, speaking to the
aunt but looking at the niece.

" Which knit, Bezonian ? " ' grunted
Lawley.

I don't in the least object to the scent of
tobacco in the open air,' said Miss Masters
graciously, admiring, with her head drawn
back and on one side, the last consummate
touch she had given her sketch. George,
having looked in vain for Mabel to interchange
one last glance with him (for that young
woman, conscious of Mr. Lawley 's cynical
scrutiny, would not lift her eyes from her
aunt's sketch), was hauled off a dejected
prisoner in Lawley 's custody.

As they walked away together George

roused himself from his delicious reveries by a
prodigious effort. ' Well, what have you been
doing ? ' he asked coolly.

You may well ask. I've been admiring
the works of the old Masters,' growled Lawley,
giving vent through this ungallant pleasantry
to his long-gathering irritation. ' You've been
going in for the modern, I should say.'

George was silent for a moment, wondering
whether Mabel would object to his confiding
their secret to Lawley. Having determined
this point in his own mind, he said, dien they
had seated themselves, and Lawley had taken
out and filled his pipe, ' Lawley, she has
accepted me ! '

Phew ! ' whistled Lacey, who, being justin
the act of lighting his pipe, dropped the
fusee in amazement. ' Got to that ! Why,
low long has it been going on ? '

Oh, some time,' said George dreamily.

What ! before to-day ? '

Before to-day ! '

'Then you meant to propose when you
refused St. George's ? ' asked Lawley, rather
bewildered.

George thus forced back to face his night-long

struggle and his heroic resolution of a few
hours since, which seemed now so dim and faraway,
was confounded at this presentation of
his folly and feebleness.

No, I didn't,' he said desperately ; ' I
meant this morning to give up both her and
the living.'

'But what about her? If she accepted
you to-day she must have cared for you before
this morning.'

Here was a consideration for a misogynist
to urge ! But Lawley had been extraordinarily
struck with Mabel.

'I didn't know she cared for me, and I
didn't know I cared so madly for her. I was
carried off my feet, Lawley.' And then he
raved frantically about Mabel like a boy, as he
was.

Lawley listened to his wild rhapsody with
more sympathy than he showed. 'By the
way,' he said, when George paused for breath,
we mustn't forget to post this letter of yours,'
taking the refusal of St. Geor<]fe's from his
pocket.

Lawley, it's cruel of you ! God ! what
must I do ? '

o

I'll tell you what you must not do. You
mustn't drag a girl like that into hopeless
poverty, or a hopeless engagement either. If
you must give up the Church and struggle fora
living God knows how, you must give her
up. It won't do to fling yourself out of the
boat and drag her to drown with you.'

I caiit give her up,' groaned George.

You could give her up this morning, and
may be in the same mind tomorrow morning,'
said Lawley, in a tone of irritation that seemed
to George uncalled-for and unaccountable.
The fact was not merely that Lawley, being
himself ' a still strong man,' was impatient of
feeble vacillation, but that he felt indignant
that the happiness of a girl like Miss Masters
should be at the mercy of such vacillation.
Perhaps, at the bottom of his heart, this cynic
and misogynist grudged George the brilliant
conquest he seemed to make and hold so heedlessly.


We had better get back, hadn't we ? ' said
George, with sudden sullenness, repenting
bitterly of having confided his sacred secret to
such sacrilegious hands.

Look here, old fellow,' said Lawley, with

VOL. I. T

a frank friendliness which was irresistible,
putting his hand on George's knee. ' It's no
use being angry with me for looking at this
thing from the girl's side. She's not like other
girls. She'll not accept a man as she'd accepta
partner for a waltz, and change partners as
lightly ; ' speaking with a bitterness which was
the irritation of an old wound that still throbbed
at times. ' When you do come across a
girl like that, it's not fair to make it a toss-up
whether you propose to her or not. It was a
toss-up you know,' nodding at George.

Lawley praise any girl so ! And that girl
Mabel ! He was the prince of confidants !

I tell you, Lawley, I didn't know how I
worshipped her. It seems a whole year since
this morning. And as for her caring for me,
I couldn't have believed it. I can hardly
believe it yet ; ' looking back to where she
stood, as if for reassurance that it wasn't a
dream. 'But give her up now! Can't you
understand that a man might give up a lottery
ticket of one in ten thousand who wouldn't
give up the prize for the world ? '

Well, then, if you are going to stick to
her you must stick to the Church, and to this

living, too,' said Lawley, coolly lighting a
niatcli and holding George's letter over it till it
was consumed.

George watched the auto-da-fe in silence,
but with a troubled face.

'You'll thank me for this before you're a
year older,' continued Lawley.

I don't know,' said George doubtfully.

Are you glad I made you come with us
to-day ? '

Glad ! '

'You see what a difference a few hours
have made in your mind.'

It's not the time that has made the difference.'


Of course it's not the time that has made
the difference. It's change of circumstances.
And a change of circumstances will make all
the difference in the world in your views. You
take what I must call a morbid view of your
position in the Church now — I don't see how
you could help taking it. You got let in for
one of the worst curacies in England — one of
the worst curacies in England, I should say,*
repeated Lawley deliberately. ' Dr. Clancy
may have been a very good man for converting

T 2

the heathen to Christianity — I don't know
about that — but a better man for converting
Christians to heathenism you could hardly find
in England. It's not easy for any thinking
man to listen to him in or out of the pulpit fora
year without his faith being shaken. Besides,
he made you as uncomfortable as he could ;
put you into the most galling harness, and took
care that it should gall ; and when you were
disheartened and disgusted and in the worst
frame of mind for forming a fair judgment of
anything, you had this burlesque of religion
put before you at every turn as the thing you
had sworn to hold and teach. Every parson
you met was appointed by Clancy, and echoed
his ideas of a clergyman's obligations, till you
came to

Think the rustic cackle of your bourg
The murmur of the world.

It will be a different thing altogether when
you have a church of your own, and are no
looser worried, bulged, and muzzled. Toucan
then say out what you believe and what
you don't believe, and can leave the tidings you
doubt alone. You'll get a safety-valve to blow
off* steam and ease the boiler, and you'll come

back to a healthy state of mind. You'll find
then that you believe more than you thought,
and that others believe less than you thought,
and that you have at least as good a right in
the Church as a Methodist like Clancy or a
Romanist like Gant.'

There was some truth and much plausibility
in Lawley's way of putting the thing, but
it would hardly have convinced and converted
George that morning. Now, however, he
could no longer look at things by that ' dry
light ' of which Bacon speaks — ^^^^17 ^rjpr)
cro(l)0JTdT7] — but by a light ' which was infused
and drenched in his affections.'

I shall accept it,' said George, rising
suddenly.

Of course you'll accept it,' Lawley replied,
also rising and putting back his pipe into its
case. ' You're the luckiest fellow I ever heard
of. Here you are, a young fellow of twenty-five,
without interest and with no great good
looks or brains, and you get in one day the
best living in Weston and a girl too good for a
duke ! '

Here, of course, George took up the
wondrous tale, and as they walked back went

wild with praise of Mabel, till Lawley had to
quote, from Bon Gautier, —

"Tis the most infernal bore
Of all the bores I know,
To have a friend who's lost his heart
A short time ago.'

On their return they found the horses to.
Miss Masters seated in the waggonette, and
Mabel lifting in the last of the children.
George was just in time, under the pretext of
helping her in, to press her hand, and to convey
through that dumb alphabet of love all the unutterable
thinii^s he felt in the lonjr interval
since he had last seen her. During the drive
home Mabel was shy and embarrassed ; George,
since he could not bring himself to speak to
her as a mere acquaintance, was silent but
happy in the mere touch of her dress ; while
Lawley amazed them both by an extraordinary
flow of talk and spirits. Mabel's shyness and
embarrassment not only gave him courage, but
suggested that the greatest kindness he could
do her would be to take all the talk to himself.
Now Lawley, when lie was in the vein and
chose to exert himself, was a most brilliant
talker. He had a keen and caustic wit, dry

humour, and a memory, like an old curiosity
shop, stored with all manner of out-of-the-way
and interesting things. Mabel heard him with
the most flattering interest and admiration,
while George was more than once drawn out of
his delicious reveries to listen. All three were
so absorbed, that the sudden pulling-up of the
carriage at The Grange was their first warning
of the close of the journey.

Here we are ! ' said Lawley, with something
like a sigh. Mabel turned suddenly
towards George to look her farewell. George,
however, had no idea of being put off with a
look, however loving.

'Would you kindly allow me to write a
note in your house, to post on my way home ? '
asked he of Miss Masters, whom the sudden
pull-up had waked out of an uneasy sleep.

Certainly, Mr. Kneeshaw. Perhaps Mr.
Lawley, too, would come in and have a cup of
tea ? ' with, however, a doubtful look at the
children. Mr. Lawley politely declined, on the
plea of having to see his charges home ; and so
the party broke up.

Chapter XIV.

Guardians.

George whispered to Mabel as he handed her
out, ' I must see you for a moment ; ' and
Mabel, speaking upon this hint, said to her
aunt as they entered the house —

Mr. Kneeshaw might write his note in the
nursery, Aunt, while tea is getting ready.'

The nursery ' was the study of the
gynecium : first a nursery, then a schoolroom,
now Mabel's sanctum, it had kept its original
name.

Very well, my dear ; you can show Mr.
Kneeshaw into it,' said this incomparable
chaperon.

Is this the nursery ? What a pretty
room ! ' It was not a pretty room in itself, but
books, pictures, flowers, nicknames, arranged
neither primly nor confusedly, but with a

sweet disorder, a wild civility,' redeemed its
natural plainness.

'Yes, this is the nursery. You're looking
for the broken toys ? There have been plenty
of them, but they're hidden away,' said Mabel,
with an undercurrent of deep and sad meaning
in her voice and in her eyes. ' It has always
been my own room ever since I can remember.
My very own you know.'

My very own ! ' echoed George, with
another meaning expressed through his eyes,
and through his hands holding both of hers,
and through his lips pressed passionately to
hers.

Is this what you wanted me for ? ' makinf:^
her escape to a table where, with her back
turned to him to hide her burning blushes, she
opened a desk for him to write at. George
followed, and put his arm round lier, and told
her for the first time of the offer of the living,
and showed her Mr. Pickles' letter.

What does he mean by saying, " I have
only just learned the obligation I am under to
you for saving my son's life " ? '

He thought I was knocked down by
accident.'

Weren't you ? '

Then George had to explain how the thing
had been, and Mabel learned for the first time
her hero's heroism, not merely in risking his
life to save that of the worthless Clarence
Pickles, but in leaving that gentleman's account
of the affair uncontradicted. Indeed, this contemptuous
magnanimity of silence struck Mabel
as more noble than the rescue itself, which it
was a mere matter of course that her hero
should attempt.

'Bayard!' she said jestingly, but showing
her earnest admiration through her shining
eyes.

Vice Barney dismissed,' laughed George.
But shall we accept it, dearest ? ' asking the
question for the opportunity it gave of this
delightful identification of their interests. It
also gave him an opening to speak of their
marriage as contingent on his induction into
the living ; but Mabel put this startling subject
aside to speak on another that was uppermost
in lier mind. To her secrecy seemed deceit,
and she could not feel happy in her engagement
until her father knew and approved of it.
And yet she had a miserable misgiving that her

father would disapprove of it, and that it would
be another of the broken toys of her life to be
hidden away. George, when she expressed
her scruples to him, fell in at once with her
wish, as he himself, from a feeling he would
not face, was eager to rivet irrevocably their
engagement.

Accordingly it was arranged that he should
have the fateful interview with Colonel Masters
that evening, if possible. Then the pair
relapsed, after this lucid interval, into delirium,
from which they were roused by Miss Masters
calling for Mabel.

There ! Tea is ready ! ' cried Mabel, in
dismay ; ' and you haven't written your note,
and I haven't taken my things off. What will
Aunt think ? '

She'll think the tea cold ' — which was precisely
what she did think. She was simply
disgusted at being kept waiting. Even when
all went well with her, and she was in the best
temper possible, she hadn't much thought to
spare to anyone else ; but upon the least discomfort
she shrank into her shell altogether.

What a time you've taken to get ready,
Mabel,' she said peevishly. ' And Mr.

Kneeshaw hasn't written his note yet, I suppose.
I'm sure he'd not wish us to wait tea for him.
Shall I send him a cup into the nursery ? '

This happy thought was welcomed by
Mabel, who did not care to take her aunt into
confidence as to the reason or result of
George's interview with her father. George
could go to him direct from the nursery, where
she would await his return and report.

Jane could take it in to him, ' urged Miss
Masters.

I think I shall take it myself,' said Mabel,
looking as unconscious as she could, with such
little success that even a man would have taken
in the situation at a glance. Miss Masters'
only thought, however, was that it was
undignified in Mabel to attend upon Mr.
Kneeshaw,

My dear, I think it would look better if
Jane took it in.'

But Mabel, without arguing the point, proceeded
to prepare a tray, and as the matter
was of slight importance to Miss Masters compared
with her having her own tea at once and
in comfort, Mabel was allowed to take it to
Geori2je without further remonstrance.

I was just coming,' said George.

I thought it better you should go from
here to see my father,' said Mabel, with a
tremor in her voice. Lie felt that the happiness
of her life would be decided in a few
minutes.

He'll give his consent, dearest,' said
George, speaking assuredly, but looking up
interrogatively into her wistful eyes.

I don't know,' she answered tremulously.

But if not ? ' he asked, clasping both
her hands in his, and appealing to her as for
life.

If not,' she faltered, with a childlike expression
of piteous helplessness in her face — ' If
not, you must help me to do my duty, George.'

My darling, I can't give you up,' he cried,
rising and straining her to his breast.

She lay passive in his arms a moment,
thinking it might be a farewell embrace ; and
then, disengaging herself with a smile that shone
through tears, said, ' It mayn't be good-bye
after all, you know ; ' and then, after a pause,
I shall ask him to see you now,' she said, and
was gone.

Father, Mr. Knecshaw wishes to see you.'

Colonel Masters Alas sitting solitary over his
wine.

Mr. Kneeshaw ? Who's he ? '
One of the curates of the parish church.'
What does he want ? At this hour, too.'
Shall I ask him to call tomorrow morning?'


What does he want ? ' he asked again
petulantly ; and then, after a pause, which
Mabel didn't fill, ' No ; I'd better get it done
with at once, whatever it is. Tell Jane to
show him in.*

Here, Father ? '

Yes, here. It's a subscription, I suppose.'
This was not encouraging. Mabel returned
to George pale and dejected, but trying to look
cheerful. ' Come,' she said, with rather a wan
smile. ' You'll be patient and forbearing,' she
turned to say entreatingly, before they entered
the dining-room together. Georf]fe nodded
with a smile, thou<:^h his heart rather foiled
him. This lion that guarded his Una must be
rather a savage beast. Yet Mabel's warning
was uncalled for. Colonel Masters was brutal
only at home, but exquisitely polite to
strangers. He prided himself on being a

gentleman, and he knew that gentlemanhness
obhgecl him to be courteous to everyone but
those of his own household, and to be specially
gentle with women, children, and clergymen.
No doubt he lost his self-command when he
lost his temper, but under ordinary circumstances
he was punctiliously and even painfully
polite.

Mr. Kneeshaw, Father.'

'How do you do, Mr. Kneeshaw? Pray
take a seat. Mabel, tell Jane to bring another
glass.' Colonel Masters was favourably impressed
with George's appearance. In the first
place, he didn't look a clergyman, for, like his
friend Lawley, he was ritualistic enough to
express his disbelief in sacerdotalism through
his dress, which was little distinguishable from
that of a layman ; and, in the second place, he
was a perfect gentleman in appearance and
bearing.

After a glass had been brought for George,
and nervously filled and sipped, and after a
few commonplace remarks on common-place
matters, there fell an awkward silence, which
grew more difficult to break the longer it
lasted. ' Colonel Masters,' George at last

blurted out, * you will he surprised at my calling
upon you, at such an hour, but the fact is I
— I — proposed to-day to Miss Masters, and she
has accepted me, subject to your approval.'
George had arranged and repeated aloud to
himself in the nursery a gradual and most
diplomatic approach to this delicate subject,
and this headlong plunge was the result!
Colonel Masters set down untasted the glass
he had half raised to his lips. 'With Miss
Masters ! ' he exclaimed. He had for a
moment an idea that George meant his sister.
But no ; this was not possible. He must mean
Mabel.

Mr. Kneeshaw, do you knows her age ? '
It was now George's turn to think the aunt
was in question. He could not help being
more amused than enraged at this revolting
misunderstanding, and exclaimed in turn, with
an irresistible smile, ' Her age ! Your daughters

age?'

'Yes,' replied the Colonel, to George's
amazement, not disconcerted in the least ; ' my
daughter's age. You must have known, Mr.
Kneeshaw, that she was little more than a child ;
yet you put this thing into her head ! '

Was it possible, thought the bewildered
George, that Mabel, with a mind and body so
superbly developed, was only fourteen or fifteen
years of age ? He had heard of the precocious
mental and bodily development of Indian-born
children ; could Mabel be a singular instance of
this singular precocity?

I hope you'll excuse the question, Colonel
Masters ; but how old is your daughter ? '

Colonel Masters was puzzled in his turn.
How old Alas Mabel ? By an intricate calculation,
made upon a comparison of the dates of
his going to India, of this first furlough, etc., he
found, to his utter amazement, that Mabel must
be nineteen, and might be twenty-one. Upon
this confounding discovery, his first thought
was, as usual, of himself, and of what to him
was the sorest of subjects — his age, which
seemed to hurry on by a kind of geometric
progression — each year so much shorter than
the last — credit undo. His next thought was
how to extricate himself from the rather
absurd position he had taken up without compromising
his dignity.

You must allow us elders to have different
ideas from yours of youth, Mr. Kneeshaw,' he

VOL. I. U

said, evading, of course, a direct answer to
George's question. ' I daresay we are behind
the age, but we think our daughters should not
marry earlier than their mothers before them.'
(Mabel's poor mother, by the way, had been
married at eighteen.) 'But, even putting that
point aside, Mr. Kneeshaw,' continued Colonel
Masters, with an air of much magnanimity,
you are yourself very young — only just
entered the Church, I should say,' looking
interrogatively at George, who nodded acquiescence.
' Now the Church is a very
honourable profession — a most honourable
profession — but a very precarious profession.
Promotion in the Church, I need not tell you,
always depends on some one beside a man's
self, and on something beside his merits.
Indeed,. it seems to me that in the Church the
best men are always the last promoted, and
the silliest, like froth, get to the top at once.
Not a promising look-out for you, Mr. Knee-shaw,'
with a- complimentary bow.

I have strong confirmation of your view
of Church preferment in my pocket,' laughed
George, with new hope ; 'it's a letter from

Mr. Pickles offering; me the livinfi^ of St.
George's

Indeed ! A good living, Mr. Kneeshaw ? '
He says it will probably be seven hundred
pounds a year.'

Colonel Masters woidd have given way at
once if he hadn't made such a foolish fuss about
Mabel's youth. He knew as little of his
daughter's character as he knew of her age,
and he had no doubt at all that she would
marry Mr. Kneeshaw, whether he gave his consent
or not. Besides, she was as likely as not
to fancy some parson or other, and Mr. Knee-shaw
was much above the average parson of
Colonel Masters' acquaintance in bearing,
appearance, and prospects. He didn't seem
like a man either who would dun him for
money if he needed it, while he was unlikely to
need it with a good living to start with. This
was a great point with the Colonel. But, on
the other hand, who was to read for him ?
That was the main thing to be thought of, after
all. He had cot used to Mabel, and was not
likely to find one who would suit him so well.
Besides, he would have now to pay for such
help. It was disgusting how selfish people

u 2

•

were. After all the expense and trouble he
had been at to bring this girl up, just when
she was beginning to be of some little use to
him, she was ready to leave him for the first
man that asks her. Still, as she was sure to
leave him some time for some one, it was as
well she didn't fall into the hands of an adventurer,
who would have been always trying to
extort money from him. On these grounds
the Colonel would have given his ungracious
approval of their engagement, if he had not
committed himself against it on the absurd plea
of Mabel's extreme youth. At this point of his
meditations, which passed in a moment through
his brain, a way out of the difficulty suggested
itself, by which he would be rid at once, and
once for all, of the business.

'I think this is rather a woman's matter,
Mr. Kneeshaw,' he said, in a tone of some contempt.
' My sister will be fitter to deal with it
than I. If you will permit me, I shall refer
you to her.'

If I can get her approval, I may hope for
yours ? ' asked George, relieved, and indeed
overjoyed, but contemptuous of Colonel Masters*
contempt.

o

Certainly,' said the Colonel, decisively,
dismissing the subject as having not much in
it to begin with, and being now thoroughly
threshed out. He passed at once to topics of
some importance, in w^liich, however, George
showed but a languid interest. He rose, as
soon as he could, without ungraciousness, and,
making an apology for intruding at such an
unseasonable hour, hurried away to report to
Mabel.

Meantime Mabel, after going through the
form of taking tea with her aunt, had returned
to the nursery, where she paced up and down
in a suspense that would have shocked Miss
Eoxby. Indeed, that correct person would have
disapproved of the facility, not less than of the
intensity, of Mabel's affections, and in this,
perhaps, some of our readers may agree with
her. We must again remind them that Mabel,
since her mother's death, had been famishing
for love, as her father simply tolerated her, and
Miss Murdoch was as stern as steel. It was
their indifference which made George's conquest
of her seemingly so easy. When he,
seeming ' scarce other than her own ideal
knight,' fell down and worshipped her, the

gratitude she felt at first slipped easily and soon
into a warmer feeling. And this feeling had
lain so long fallow that it yielded now all the
richer harvest. Thus .George got more than
the reversion, which was the most the Duke
looked for from Olivia: —

Lie that bath a heart of that fine frame
To pay this debt of love but to a father,
How will slice love, when the ricci golden shaft
I lath killed the flock of all affections else
That live in her !

The affection which had been chilled by her
father and aunt now broke into blossom all the
more luxuriant from the long winter that had
kept it back. Her heart was like a tree that
struggles up in the gloom of a dense forest,
which cannot put forth a single shoot till it
gains the sun at last ; but then its whole pent-up
life burst's out together, and it is crowned
like a palm, all its glory at the top.

Well ? ' she asked, as she met George at
the nursery door. George at first reassured
her only by his look, for he was eager to set at
rest an anxiety of his own. Putting his hand
inter her chin and lifting up her fjxce towards
him, as if she were a child, he asked in turn,
How old are you ? '

How old ? Oh, I'm ever so old. I shall
be twenty in October,' she said, with the regretful
air of a septuagenarian.

Twenty ! Thank God ! ' said George,
affecting to laugh off as a joke a relief that was
real. ' I thought you were an infant phenomenon.
Your father seems to think you about
twelve.'

He said I was too young ? '

He said you were little more than a
child ; but in the end he referred me to your
aunt.'

Mabel knew her father's utter contempt for
her aunt, to whom he would certainly not refer
anything he thought of the least importance,
and she was provoked into saying, with a
bitterness unusual in her, ' He refers all little
housekeeping matters to aunt.'

Gorse hastened to heal the hurt.

I'm not sure that he didn't think it was
your aunt's hand I was asking for. He seemed
rather hazy about it, and thought it safest to
refer me to her,' he said, laughing.

This irresistible joke cleared the cloud off
Mabel's face.

Aunt will make the same mistake, if you
don't mind. I don't think I shall trust you ina
tete-astute with her.'

Let's go together, then, and ask her blessing
on our knees. Is she still in the drawing-room
? '

Yes ; she expects you there when you
have finished your letter. I needn't announce
you this time.'

You'll not come ? '

Come ? No. I should be de trop. Besides,
I have heard your proposal speech
already at the rehearsal this afternoon.'
George's answer was not in words, and Mss
Masters had to wait some time longer in the
drawing-room before he appeared.

It must have been a foreign letter, !Mr.
Kneeshaw. When my brother was in India it
took me hours to send him all the news.'

No, indeed, Miss Masters, it was a letter
to Weston — to Mr. Pickles, accepting a living
lie was good enough to offer me.' George was
determined to begin at the right end this
time.

I hope it's a good living, Mr. Kneeshaw.'

It will be about seven hundred pounds a

year and a bouse. It is the new clun-chi of St.
George's.'

Miss Masters' opinion of George went uj) ;il
a bound. ' I'm sure I congratulate you
heartily, Mr. Kneeshaw. Lt's very quick promotion.'


And yet I'm not satisfied, Miss Masters. I
came to ask you for something more.'

Me ! ' If George had given the old lady
time to get her thoughts together, she would
certainly have made the mistake Mabel predicted.


Yes,' he hurried on to say ; ' I came to
ask you for the hand of your niece.'

'Mabel! Why I thoughtful you'd
better see her father.'

I have seen him, Miss Masters, and he
referred me for an answer to you.'

Miss Masters was very much flattered by
this proof of her brother's confidence, and
pleased at the consequence it gave her ; but
her first thought, like her brother's, was, of
course, of her own convenience and comfort.
If Mabel married, her chaperon's occupation
would be gone.

You are both very young,' she said, in the

hope of at least postponing the wedding. This
was too bad. She also, like her brother,
seemed to expect that George's

Vejret alle love should grow
"Vaster than empires, and more slow ;
While she should, if she please, refuse
Till the conversion of the Jews.

Mabel is twenty, and I twenty-five. ' Besides,'
George adroitly added, 'she would
always have you to advise her. Miss Masters.'

Mss Masters, thinking with her brother
til at the marriage would come off with or
without her consent, decided that it would be
wisest to make to herself new friends and a new
home. But she must first make the most of
her new importance.

You've taken me so much by surprise,
Mr. Kneeshaw, that I hardly know what to
say. You must give me a little time to think
the matter over, and talk it over with my
brother, before I can give you an answer. A
woman's happiness is a very serious thing
she added sententiously and solemnly, as if
matrimony and misery went together invariably.


You don't think I shall make her happy ? '

asked George, rather taken aback by this
dismal way of looking at the thing.

I think she will be as happy with 3'ou as
with any one, Mr. Kneeshaw — quite ; but a
woman is much happier unmarried,' nodding
very decidedly.

But you shoidd consider our sex,' urged
George, much relieved ; ' a man is so much
happier married. Isn't it a little selfish of
you to look only at your own side of the
question ? '

Perhaps I was a little selfish,' confessed
Miss Masters musinojlv, as if recalling all the
hearts she had broken.

You've done mischief enough already, Miss
Masters. You owe our sex some reparation.
Make it to me by giving me Mabel.' It was
an audacious venture, but perfectly successful.

Well, we shall see,' she said, with a smile
that made George happy.

End OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

1.05UOX J Printed Ii

SrOTTIB'.VOOUB A3CD CO., SKW-STIIRKT SQCAaB

AND PAaLIAMKST STaSBT

■'.■■fr

University OF ILUNp(9-URBANA

3 0112 047663940

• 7 ■■ '■ '

,< ■^:''

•.,

-im.

*>".>'■>
j^^

>-/,^

:- ■-:t.^'^ ■ ■

•^ : .- :-■, * ■ * 0;^>,. :
• * ' '■■»■■ ; (

^■:v^^:r-:': ^f^

*'.

:'/*.

m

^' ., v-:»>-*-

fi-^

Sv

?^w

.f:v^<'-^>^>;:sj&»^bC^.

/

A^ —

II.

•>*

By basil

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. II.

LONDON
SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 WATERLOO PLACE



All rights reserved

CONTENTS

OF

THE SECOND VOLUME.

-•c*-

CHAP. Talk

XV. Me. Robert Sagar 1

XVI. Miss Tubes' Pets 22

XVH. George's Confession's . . . .41

XVIII. Fenton Folk 61

XIX. Friends in Council 81

XX. Won by a Neck 102

XXI. Struggles of the Infant Church . . 121

XXII. Mabel's Reprieve 140

XXIII. A Storm in a Teacup 160

XXIV. Women of the Future . . . . 182
XXV. Mabel's Anodyne 201

XXVI. Penelope 221

XXVII. Ruin 241

Xxiii. Friends in Need 261

XXIX. Advisers 283

XXX. School 303

-*o*-

CHAPTER XV.

ME. ROBERT Sugar.

Mabel felt very nervous as lie entered her
father's study next morning to read for him,
and was not put more at her ease by his paying
her the unusual attention of looking at her
when she greeted him. Probably the last time he
had looked at her with the least attention was
when in her childhood he wished to verify in
her weeping face the expressions of suffering
illustrated by photographs of crying babies in
Darwin's ' Expression of the Emotions in Man
and Animals.' Certainly she had grown since
then, and grown into a truly lovely and graceful
woman ; but her father's only thought as he

VOL. II. B

looked at her was, ' How old I am getting ! '
Mabel was to him simply a figure on the dial
of life which indicated how far the lengthening
shadow had crept insensibly. He was quite
angry with her for indicating it so unmistakably,
and showed his ill-humour so sharply
that Mabel was wretched all through the
reading. She of course interpreted his ill-temper
to mean disapproval of her engagement.
Would he take the matter back into his own
hands and break it off? Her suspense during
that hour and a half was terrible and intolerable
; and when upon her rising to withdraw at
its close her father arrested her retreat with a
sharp ' Don't go yet,' she was glad to sit do^vn
again, as her heart seemed suddenly to stop fora
moment.

I shall be glad if you will give me an
additional hour in the day while you are here,' he
growled, speaking as if she was on a short visit.

Yes, father,' was all she trusted herself to
say.

Two hours at each sitting, if it's not too
much to ask you.'

I wish I could be of more use to you,
father. If you will also let me come for

another hour in the evening to write for you, I
could '

You left off, I think, at the " hypothetical
imperative." '

Mabel, thus ungraciously cut short, resumed
her reading. ' " Accordingly the hypothetical
imperative only says that the action is good
for some purpose possible or actual. In the
first case it is a Problematical, in the second an
Assertors, practical principle. The categorical
imperative, which declares an action to be
objectively necessary in itself, without reference
to any purpose, i.e.^ without any other end,
is valid as an Positive principle," ' etc., etc.

At the close of another half-hour Mabel
escaped with a fluttering heart, expecting at
each step towards the door to be recalled for
sentence. Her father, however, made no
further allusion to her engagement. He resented
it bitterly, and would gladly have broken
it off if his veto would have done it ; but he
knew so little of his daughter as to imagine
that his interference would only precipitate the
match. Mabel, on the other hand, knew her
father so little as to imagine that consideration
for her had something to do with his standing

B 2

neutral in a matter of which lie evidently disapproved.
His evident disapproval, however,
was a deep trouble to her, and served the
proverbial purpose of alloying her otherwise
perfect happiness.

Nulla est sincere voluptas
Sollicitique aliquid Isetis intervene.

As for her aunt's most mournful condolences,
which Mabel had next to encounter, they failed
of their effect, as their subject was clergymen
and matrimony in general, and not the special
man and match on which Mabel's heart was
set. The old lady always took her breakfast in
bed. Only Mabel was allowed to take it to
her, and not even Mabel was permitted to see
her in dishabille. The breakfast was set out
on a little table outside the bed-curtains, which
were kept close drawn while Mabel was in the
room. She persuaded not merely Mabel, but
herself, that it was extreme modesty, not vanity,
that would allow no eye to see her till she had
given over an hour to her toilet. Wlien Mabel
had answered her aunt's breakfast bell this
morning, and had entered bearing the tray.
Miss Masters greeted her in a mingling, muffled,
and lamentable voice from within the veil.
Is that you, dear ? How are you this morning ? '

Much better, thank you,' answered Mabel,
laughing. ' I hope you liacl a good night, aunt ? '

That wasn't to be expected, child. I had
a very poor night.'

This meant with Miss Masters a parenthesis
of half an hour's wakefulness interrupting an
otherwise sound sleep of nine hours.

A very poor night. I was thinking of my
old schoolfellow, Mary Maltster. She, too,
married a clergyman. He was a widower with
seven children. They used to sit in the gallery,
and stick pins in the servant, I remember, and
he would shake his head at them from the
reading-desk. For he was only a curate, you
know, and Mary would marry him. And then
she was always writing letters to get them into
one school or another. I had to give up
answering them at last, poor thing ; and it's
only the other day I saw his death in the
paper — " George Gilmore, aged 76, for 23
years vicar of Long Flagstaff." She will bea
clergyman's widow now. I have always
remarked,' she continued with increased dolefulness,
'that clergymen have more widows
than other professions. Wherever I go I am
asked to support a society for the relief of the

widows of the clergy of that diocese. I don't
know how it is, I'm sure.'

'Perhaps it's because they have more wives,
aunt. You know Mr. Gilmore was married
twice.'

Perhaps so, dear,' said her aunt placidly,
completely taken in by this confusion of the
Mormon with the Historian heresy. 'But
there she is, poor thing, a clergyman's widow,
now ! '

But she may have died first,' suggested
Mabel hopefully.

'My dear, she was only five years older
than I.'

Then she's Hkely to marry again, aunt,
and may not be a clergyman's widow after
all.'

If they married again, child, how could
there be so many of them ? ' asked her aunt
triumphantly. ' I'm sure I never take up a
paper but I read, " The widow of a clergyman
is willing to take in two or three children to be
educated with her own," or, " The widow of a
clergyman would be deeply thankful for twelve
postage stamps to get her orphan child into a
Clergy Son's School'' It's but a poor prospect,

Mabel, my dear, and I must say I think
you would have done better to have refused
Mr. Kneeshaw.'

He didn't ask me to be his widow,
aunt.'

Well, my dear, young people always know
best,' said the old lady, somewhat huffed. ' I
only hope you'll not regret it. If / had accepted
the first person that asked me I might
have been a clergyman's widow myself to-day.'

The gentleman here described by poetic
licence as ' the first person that asked me,' was
not a clergyman, but an usher in a school, who
hoped one day to be ordained, and had not
proposed for Miss Masters, but had shown her
what she considered marked attentions, which
she thought must have culminated in a proposal
if she had not erred on the side of coyness.

Did you love him, aunt ? ' asked Mabel,
now serious and interested.

I never permitted myself to love any man.
I had too much self-respect,' replied the old
lady with much dignity. ' I can truly say that
I have never given any man the slightest
encouragement, and I never shall — never.'

In the ardour of her heroic resolution, Miss

Masters, forgetting that her hair, teeth, and
complexion were on the toilet table, pushed the
curtain aside, and presented to Mabel ' a sight
to dream of, not to tell.' Mabel, notwithstanding
her keen sense of the ridiculous, felt only
shocked and sad at the pitiable spectacle, and
turned hastily away to busy herself with the
breakfast things. The sight, indeed, had the
unexpected effect of making her regret her
flippant answers, and resolve to be more gentle
and considerate with her aunt in the future.

Here I am chattering away and your
breakfast getting cold,' she said, with her back
turned to her aunt, who, being extremely
short-sighted, flattered herself, as she shot back
under shelter, that Mabel had not seen her.

Bring the table a little nearer, my dear.
Thank you, that will do. It's T that have been
chattering ; but it's all for you" good, child.'

Mabel, on leaving her aunt's room, went
straight to her own — and to her glass, for he
would be here in forty minutes more. Was
love making her vain ? She looked long in the
glass with an expression that was at first
pleased, then critical, then dissatisfied. She was
not half as pretty as she longed to be, as lie

ought to have been for him. She smoothed
her hair, tried one ribbon after another, till at
last, in an outburst of disgust with herself and
her silliness, she bundled them one and all
away, shut the drawer, and ran down to the
drawing-room. Here she walked restlessly
about the room, sat down and read a few hues,
got up, opened the piano, played a few bars,
then turned round upon the piano-stool to look
again at the timepiece on the mantelshelf and
to compare it with her watch. He would be
here in twenty minutes now. He is here ! fora
loud ring of the bell brought the colour in a
flood to her face. In another minute the
demure Jane entered bearing a card. Mabel
looked at the card, and for a moment her disappointment
so filled her mind that the name
thereon was unrecognised. Next moment it
brought with it a rush of sad and sweet
associations. It was her mother's dear old
friend who used to write to her from India
month after month long letters about her
husband (who never wrote himself) and other
Indian interests ; who came to see them long
ago when they were at Scarborough, and
brought sumptuous presents, and made the

week he stayed the happiest in all Mabel's
remembrance. It was indeed, no other than
our chivalrous and facetious old friend, Bob
Sagar, to whose considerate intervention Mabel
owed her being sent home in her infancy with
her mother to be brought up m England. He
was himself now home for good, and had not
been many months in England before he
bethought him to look up the daughter of his
old friend. He had reached Weston the night
before, had stayed at the ' Queen's,' and had
come on to call next morning at this Indian and
unearthly hour. And now, following close
upon his card, ha filled the doorway, ' a good
portly man, i' faith, and a corpulent, of a
cheerful look, a pleasing eye, and most noble
carriage.' He was advancing into the room
with his usual free foot, when the sight of
Mabel coming to meet him stopped him dead
short.

It's — it's not Miss Masters ? '

'No, it's Mabel,' said that young lady,
blushing and laughing at the expression of
amazed admiration in Mr. Sagar's ftice. ' Have
you forgotten Queen Mab ? ' (the name he
christened lier in those old Scarborough days,

when she exercised a sweet and absolute
tyranny over him).

Mr. Sagar took the little hand offered him,
held it in his hesitatingly for a moment, and
then bent and kissed it with a real homage,
which he laughed off as a burlesque tribute to
Her Majesty.

The queen has become an empress,' he
said, expressing in looks the surprise at her
developed beauty, which his words only suggested,
' and as an old Indian I've come to
court to kiss hands.'

This speech was most creditable to his
presence of mind, in which, to do him justice,
Mr. Sagar was seldom deficient, as he was not
in the least prepared for such a development.
It seemed but yesterday that this lovely and
stately girl had sat on his knee with her head
pressed against his shoulder, and both arms
clasped about his neck, while he told her
terrible stories (not strictly true) of his adventures
with tigers and Thugs.

'I am so glad to see you,' said Mabel
simply, too much moved and pleased to keep
up this badinage. ' I thought I should never
see you again.'

Mr. Sagar, who looked little like a saint,
was nevertheless canonised in Mabel's mind asher
dead mother's ideal of goodness and kindness.
Long before Mabel had seen him she
had heard so much of him as to have formed
an extraordinary, and even extravagant,
childish idea of his goodness ; and he still
remembered the look of awe with which the
little girl regarded him at their first interview.
He soon, indeed, squandered this reverence by
showing himself, in their games, much more of
a child than his old-fashioned playmate ; but
he Avon, in its stead, an enduring affection.
He had, however, so little idea of the impression
he had made upon the solitary child that
he doubted her having the slightest recollection
of him, and was touched and surprised by the
warmth of his welcome.

I never thought you would have cared to
see me again. I began letters to you three or
four times, but always tore them up, thinking
you had forgotten me.'

I think I know you' letters by heart, Mr.
Sagar.'

My letters ? '

Mother, when she was dying, gave them

to me with two or three other things she
thought much of. She said I might like to
read them when I grew older.' Here Mabel
stopped, as her voice was growing unsteady ;
but Mr. Sagar did not speak. He was looking
away from Mabel, out through the window,
with a far-off expression in his dimmed grey
eyes. ' There was a half-finished letter to you,
dated the day before,' Mabel continued, after a
pause ; ' but — but — it was all about me, and I
didn't like to part with it. I'm sure you'll forgive
me, Mr. Sagar.'

Mr. Sagar was still silent, resolutely mastering
an emotion of which he need not have
been ashamed. At last he said rather huskily,
turning to Mabel, ' She bequeathed you to mein
it ? '

She asked you to be to me what you were
to her. I have the letter here,' she said,
taking out a morocco case, in which she
carried always about with her this last letter
and two or three other relics of her mother.
It's yours, Mr. Sagar ; but I hope you will let
me keep it.'

He didn't answer at once, but took, with a
hand that trembled a little, the folded sheet of

foreign paper, opened it reverently, and read
the faded, blotted, tremulous, and uncertain
writing : —

Dear Friend, — When I wrote last I was in

great trouble. My little Mabel was very ill in

scarlatina ; but it has pleased God to give her

back to my prayers. Still I have only sad

news. I am very ill myself — I think, dying ;

indeed, the doctor just now almost said as

much. What shall I do? What is to become

of my little girl ? I ought to thank you with

my last breath for all you have been to me ;

but I cannot think of anything but my child.

T cannot think of God as I ought. Oh, it is

cruel ! I don't know what I say ! Dear, true

friend, you will be to her what you have been

to me — what you have been to me. She is

not like other children ; she will die without

love. You will let her love you. You will

write to her every month, and come to see her

when you are in England. She loves you next

to me in the world. She has no one else to

love, and oh, she will die without some one to

love ! Her other is so taken up My

darling, you mustn't cry, and you must be very
still and patient. Your father will come to

love you in time, and there is always God,
always God '

Here the letter broke off, the writer,
wandering through weakness, addressing her
child in the last sentence. The nurse put away
the half-finished letter into the desk, and here
Mabel found it a month after her mother was
buried. It was holy to her as her mother's
last words ; for, though she Used over another
day, she never recovered consciousness. Mabel,
child as she was, felt that she ought to have
forwarded the letter to Mr. Sagar; and, indeed,
did enclose it in a note to him, but took it out
again at the last moment, and re-wrote her
note, saying in it that her mother had left a
half-finished letter to him, of which she enclosed
a copy.

Mr. Sagar had turned away to the window,
with his back to Mabel, to read the letter, and
still stood turned away from her for a minute
after he had read it, and even when he at last
broke silence.

It was my letter,' he said, in a voice that
shook a little. ' You should have sent it tome.
I should have let you had it back.'

I wrote to tell you about it, enclosing a

copy of it ; but whither threw the letter in the
fire. He said you had forgotten my existence.

Mr. Sagar, listening still to the dead voice,
hardly seemed to hear Mabel's apology He
slowly re-read the letter, blurred now with the
tears of a third sorrow ; then folded it reverently,
as a man covers with the sackcloth the
features of his dead, and handed it back to
Mabel.

She did leave you to me, Mabel, and you
robbed me of the legacy,' he said with a sad
smile. 'It might have been so different. I
should have had some one to care for, and to
care for me, perhaps, all these years. You
can do without me now.'

I have never done Without you, Mi Sagar.
Next to my mother you have been most in my
mind. I remember distinctly every day of that
week in Scarborough, and every game we
played, and every story you told ; and I think
I could say by heart all you' letters to my
mother.'

Mr. Sagar could not help thinking how
lonely and like his own must have been the life
of which these thin shadows were the dearest
companions. ' It might have been so different,

he said again, answering other his thoughts
than her words. ' But it's too late now.
Somebody will come soon who will be everything
to you Come already,' he muttered,

as the door opened and George entered, and
Mabel, all blushes and brightness, advanced to
meet him. There could be no mistake about
it ; and Mr. Sagar felt unreasonably bitter
when he rose to go within a decent interval
after his introduction to Mr. Kneeshaw.

Are you going, Mr. Sagar ? '

Yes ; I have to catch the 11.30 for town.'

Not away altogether ? ' exclaimed Mabel
in a tone of unmistakable distress.

I only came to satisfy myself that you
were well and happy, and I am quite satisfied.'

I shall not be happy if But you are

not really going ? ' with such a pained expression
in her voice, and in her face, as Mr. Sa^ar
was the last man in the world to withstand.

Of course I shall stay if your majesty
commands me,' he said, smiling and bowing,
thoroughly ashamed of his childish outburst of
spleen. ' I have not forgotten my old allegiance.'


But you didn't really mean to go ? ' per-vol.

II. c

sister Mabel, naturally quite perplexed by the
seeming sudden change in her old friend.

'Oh, I should have come again after
another ten years,' he replied, somewhat embarrassed
for an answer. ' Eip Van Winkle,
you know. It is a lonely role and just suits
me.'

The Avoids were said in jest ; but there was
something in the tone that touched and
troubled Mabel. ' It doesn't suit yoiu^ friends,
though,' she said sadly ; ' it is enough to have
tried them so once.'

I don't deserve to have any,' he said
heartily and sincerely, more and more disgusted
with himself. ' I may come again tomorrow ? '

You must come again this evening, and
see aunt and — and my father. I have so much
still to say to you. No ; I shall go down with
you. Mr. Kneeshaw will excuse me for a
moment.'

As they went down the stairs together Mr.
Sagar thought he might venture to ascertain
the truth of the suspicion which made him so
morose for the moment. ' It was a levee ^ then,
this morning, Queen Mab ? He came to court,
ell ? ' pointing upwards to the room in which

they had left George. There was not only no
possibility of mistaking, but no possibility of pretending
to mistake, Mr. Sagar's expressive pantomime
and pun. Facetious flippancy was Mr.
Sagar's chief social fault and forte ; but Mabel
was little likely to resent it from him, even
when applied to so sacred a subject.

We are engaged, Mr. Sagar,' blushing exceedingly.


Long ? '

Since yesterday.'

There was an awkward silence of a moment
as they stood together at the bottom of the
stairs, during which Mr. Sagar looked wistfully
into Mabel's scarlet face, while she was desperately
intent upon smoothing with her foot a
rebellious lock upon the mat.

Well, God bless you, dear ! I hope he
deserves you,' he said at last, as he stooped,
kissed her on the forehead, and departed.

Mr. Sagar, as he walked away to his hotel,
took himself severely to task for his senseless
petulance. What would lie have had ? When
he left the ' Queen's ' in the morning he really
did mean to return to town by the 11.80; for
he thought Mabel would have wholly forgotten

c 2

him. So far from forgetting him, she had
made his mere memory a friend during all
those long and lonely years in ^v]li^•h he had
completely neglected her. And now, when
light had come into her life from another
quarter, he was — jealous !

The word brought with it ideas and dreams
at which Mr. Sagar, albeit not given to blushing,
blushed. She was engaged only yesterday.
Suppose he had come, as he was within an ace
of coming, two months earlier : would he have
had a chance ? Pshaw ! the loveliest girl he
had ever seen throw herself away on a man
twenty-two years her senior, who might be her
father I

Mr. Sagar might well blush — a middle-aged
bachelor smitten at first sight of a girl in her
teens ! But, apart from Mabel's beauty, there
is to be said in excuse, first, that Mr. Sagar
grew to middle-age in India, where girls, if
they do not marry immediately, do not improve
in manner, mind, or person ; and, secondly,
that Mabel again and again recalled
her mother to him, and her mother was his
ideal of all that was most winning and worshipful
in woman.

You will be to her what you have been tome,'
he muttered, quoting from her last letter.
Always the " Peri at the gate." It's but a
poor part ; and poorly I've played it, too,' with
a sudden relapse into remorse. As he walked
up the steps of the ' Queen's ' he felt terribly
out of it all,' and realised ruefully the truth of
the hackneyed comparison of the world to an
inn: —

The world's an inn, and there, unknown,

1 solitary sit me down ;

Many I hear, and some I see —

I, nought to them ; they, nought to me.

CHAPTEK XVI.

MISS Tubes' PETS.

Of the five trustees of St. George's, Mr. James
Mills had the most interest and the least voice
in the appointment of its first vicar. He
alone of the five lived within the new parish
and would attend the church ; but this expresses
only a small part of his stake in the appointment.
Not only his Sunday but his weekday
comfort depended upon the choice of his co-trustees
— of his co-trustees wee say advisedly,
for Mr. Mills did not venture even to pretend
to have a will of his own in the matter. And
it was this very lack of a mil of his own that
was at the root of the discomfort in store for
him in the event of the first vicar beinir other
than he should be. For Mr. James Mills was
henpecked — not by his wife, for he was a
widower, but by his sister-in-law. Miss Tubes.
It was now over ten years since Miss Tubes

came on a visit of three weeks to lier sister,
Mrs. Mills ; ' and when goes hence ? ' Well,
life is uncertain ; Mr. Mills may survive
her.

Miss Tubbs, even before her sister's death,
bore such ' solely sovereign sway and masterdom
' in Mr. Mills' house as that her two pugs
and her black-andaman terrier were much better
attended to than her little nephews and nieces.
So also were their successors, a monkey and a
macaw — a perfect devil of a bird which, in its
gentler moods, imitated a steam-whistle so
admirably as sometimes to mislead the Midland
signalman a quarter of a mile off. A month
after her sister's death, however, these two pets
were packed off, like their predecessors, at a
moment's notice, and her nephews and nieces
reigned in their stead. She petted them in the
same maudlin and immoderate way in which
she had petted their predecessors, so that they
soon came to fill the vacant places respectably,
becoming nearly as mischievous as the monkey
and nearly as noisy as the macaw. Still Miss
Tubbs seemed sometimes to miss her pet pugs
also, for she had now much at her table the
Eev. Samuel Sherlock, vicar of St. Silas', and

the Eev. Hickson Gaunt, senior curate of the
parish church. These two gentlemen were
recommended to her by something more than
their intrinsic merits — by spiritual kinship in
fact, as being children of the same mother, the
Catholic Church. For Miss Tubbs, on her
return from one of her annual visits to London,
brought home a gorgeous and complete set of
vestments, &c., with her. She had been to an
auction with the intention of bung old china,
and had bid for as a bargain, and had knocked
down to her, some altar-cloths — the work of
the deceased spinster whose goods were being
sold, put up by the order of her sacrilegious
nephew and heir. When Miss Tubbs bid for them
she was under the impression that they were
designed for secular use, but when she paid for
them their sacred purpose was explained to
her by the auctioneer. She was naturally a
good deal disgusted at first ; but, to make the
best of a bad bargain, she bought from a
sisterhood the complementary vestments and
came back to Weston an advanced ritualist.
The next thing to be done was to build a
church for her vestments, and it is not at all
improbable that she would have bulged the

meek Mr. Mills into this extravagance if it had
not happened that Messrs. Gledhill and Matchlock
about this time set the project on foot of
building and endowing St. George's. Miss
Tubbs took it up with extraordinary enthusiasm,
got up a bazaar which brought in nearly
two thousand pounds, forced Mr. Mills to
become a liberal subscriber, and so at last he
got thrust upon him the greatness of the trusteeship.
Much credit was due to her, but she
claimed all. She spoke always of the new
church as hers as if she was the undisputed
founder and patron ; for she had not the least
doubt that the trustees would accept the
nominee of her nominee, Mr. Mills — that is, of
course, her choice as communicated to them
through her brother-in-law.

Having, then, provided vestments and a
church, the next thing was the choice of a
priest. It fell on Mr. Hickson Gant. She
could not have done better, for Mr. Gant's
ritualism was as soundly based as her own.
He loved it for the importance it gave him ;
for Mr. Gant's importance, like everything else
he called his, was borrowed. He was the
merest echo and shadow of a man. The

political opinion he heard from one friend he
would retail as his own to the next he met, and
would sometimes even produce to you to-day,
as his own manufacture, the brilliant paradox
you had yourself suggested to him yesterday.
Sitting opposite to him at Miss Tubbs' table we
have even heard him entertain his fair friend
on his left with the remarks he had just overheard
from the gentleman who sat next but
one to him on his right. Like everyone who
lives on borrowed means, too, he was wild and
reckless in the expenditure of his loans. He
would rattle off volubly sometimes the most
idiotic and sometimes the most tremendous
opinions without having the faintest idea of
their character, and that with such boldness as
to impose upon other people besides young
ladies ; for he differed from a natural clio in
this, that he was always much louder than the
original voice, resembling, in fact, rather the
reproduction of the voice in the whispering
gallery of St. Paul's. This was not the least of
his recommendations to Miss Tubbs, who was
given to impatience of any other voice than her
own or its echo. His fondness for children was
another of his recommendations to her. Mr.

Gant detested children, but among his affectations
— he was a mere bundle of affectations —
he professed an infatuated fondness for children,
and Miss Tubbs took him at his word. Her
nephews and nieces, as we have said, took the
place of her dogs in the house. She so petted
them herself and insisted on others so petting
them that they became the most maddening little
ruffians imaginable. Never, not even in an
examination hall, did Mr. Gant undergo more
misery than in the nursery of ' The Elms,' till at
last he could stand it no longer. One day, after
lunch, when the vestments, &c., had been
examined and admired for the hundredth time,
and Mr. Gant was trying to think of some
excuse to escape which was not transparent and
had not been used before, Miss Tubbs said
archly, ' Now for your romp. Vicar ' — in private
she always called him ' Vicar ' by prolepsis —
your mind has been in the nursery for the last
ten minutes ' — it had indeed ; ' come along, I
like to see you in their midst.'

That was the worst of it ; so she did. If
she had only cast him into the arena, left him
there, and departed, he might have made a
little defence or a speedy escape ; but she sat

like Nero, with thumbs turned down, while he
was tortured and torn to pieces.

I couldn't think of going without seeing the
little ones,' gasped Mr. Gant, with a sickly smile.

The little ones were four in number : Mark,
aged twelve ; Margaret Maria, better known
as * Maggot,' aged nine ; Falstaff Tubbs, or
Tubby,' aged six ; and Dicky, or ' Weenums,'
aged five.

That's Maggot ! ' cried Miss Tubbs, quickening
her steps as hideous howls of rage
tormented the air. • Poor child, she's in some
trouble ! '

It seems that while Emily, the stretched
nursemaid, was seated quite worn out in an
arm-chair, Mark, a lad of most precocious and
diabolical ingenuity, who will one day inventa
gallows, if he's spared, took off her cap, let
down her hair, and, under pretence of plaiting it
caressingly, tied it firmly to the chair-back.
He then sent Maggot to fling the cap into the
fire suddenly in front of Emily, who, starting
up instinctively, was nearly scalped. It was a
capital joke until Emily, having at last unknotted
her hair, boxed Maggot's ears. Hence
the howls.

Hush ! Maggot ! What's the matter ? '
asked Miss Tubbs on entering.

She's b — b — boxed my ears ! ' sobbed
Maggot, pointing to Emily, with such fire in
her eyes as might have scorched up the few
tears of fury she had shed.

'Please, ma'am '

Oh, auntie,' interrupted Mark, ' such a
lark ! I tied Meely's hair to the chair-back and
Maggot shied her cap into the fire, and Meely
jumps up like jack-in-the-box and nearly
chucks her head off. Didn't you, Meely ?
Nasty, ill-tempered thing ! You'd like to box
my ears, wouldn't you ? Bah ! ' with a horrible
grimace, his tongue out, and his thumb to his
nose.

Miss Tubbs interchanged glances of admiration
of Mark's cleverness with Mr. Gant, whose
perverted sympathies were, however, really and
profoundly with his wretched fellow-martyr,
Meely.

Emily, you had better find another place,'
said Miss Tubbs, with stern calmness — ' not asa
nurse. You are no more fit to be a nurse
than that baby,' pointing to Weenums. ' lolling
in an arm-chair with your hair down and

your cap off! The poor child might have been
burned before you could have got free to save
her. Come here, Maggot ; uum — did they ?
poor little possumus ! ' patting Maggot's head
precisely as she would pat a pug's. ' See ; I
have brought Gantums for a romp.'

At this there were such howls of savage joy
as when a rat, fished out of a bag, is held up
by the neck before being dropped among the
dogs. ' Hurrah ! Let's play at horses ! '
shouted Mark. ' Horses ! ' screamed Maggot,
Tubby, and Weenums with wonderful unanimity.
'Horses,' or, as it should, perhaps,
more properly be entitled, ' Horse,' since there
was but one animal of the kind in the piece,
was a most popular drama in two acts, in
which Mr. Gant sustained the principal part.
The first act presented the grooming of the
horse, the second the driving. The grooming
consisted in scrubbing Mr. Gant's head and
face with a nail-brush, representing a currycomb,
wielded by Mark with much energy and
many hisses, while Mr. Gant, of course, was on
his handy and knees. The currycomb was not
applied to the horse's back and sides, in part
because they were not sensitive, and in part

because the animal was bestridden by Maggot,
Tubby, and Weenuras together ; who, being
excluded by Mark from all share in the grooming,
consoled themselves by jumping up and
down on the beast's back. The horse, having
been thoroughly groomed down, was dragged
by the forelock (fiery red) to a rockmg- chair to
be harnessed. During his progress from the
stable to the boathouse Tubby and Weenums
kept their seats on his back, but Maggot got
off to walk by his side and stamp with her foot
on his hand whenever it touched the floor. It
was a sight to make an old man young to seethe
joy of that child each time she scrunched
it. Her laugh was like sunshine set to music.
Mr. Gant, however, not having ' the child's
heart within the man's,' though not quite unmoved,
was unmoved to laughter. The horse
having been most elaborately harnessed (for
Mark was particular to pedantry in imitating
every detail he could remember — be sure he
remembered the bit), the second act opened
with the driving of the carriage. Tubby and
Weenums, observing the unities, stuck still to
the beast's back as postillions whose duty it
was not to spare the spur. Nor did they.

Mark and Maggot drove, Mark having the
command of the reins and Maggot of the whip.
Maggot, however, using the whip ^vith such
zest and zeal as not to spare even the postillions
— whose howls were sweet to Mr. Gant —
was promptly disarmed by Miss Tubbs and
retired in a sulk to the window. Finding no
one but herself a pin the worse for this move
she became more and more splenetic, till suddenly,
and as one possessed, she darted back
to the scene, caught the unhappy horse by the
forelock of fire and gave it so vicious a tug,
that Mr. Gant, considering no living in England
worth this, suddenly started up. The carriage,
being a rocking-chair, was knocked backwards
upon Mark ; Tubby and Weenums, ' like
tumbled fruit in grass,' rolled over and over
on the floor, and Maggot, as amazed as Balaam,
ran to her aunt. Mark, who withal was a manly
little ruffian, thought the thing a joke, was up
in a moment, and, being reminded of the breakdown
of a cab he had witnessed in Weston,
shouted at the top of his voice, ' Sit on his
head ! Sit on his head ! ' So screaming, he
sprang like a tiger upon Mr. Gant from behind,
clasped him round the throat, and tried to pull

him down ; in a second Maggot reinforced
him, and between them Mr. Gant, taken by
surprise, was borne backwards to the ground.
Here Mark sat on his slice in a most business-ike
manner and gave cool and clear orders to
his helps. ' Cut the traces ! Keep clear of this
hind legs there ! Woa ! would you ? ' This
last admonition was addressed to Mr. Gant,
Who was as restive as he was able to be under
the weight of four very fine children sitting on
his face and chest. Having succeeded at last
in oozing from under them, he gave Mark such
a sounding box in the ear as convinced even
this vivacious youth that the game was over.
Mark, red as fire, looked up amazed for a
moment, and then flew at Mr. Gant and gave
him a furious kick on the shin.

Mark, come here ! ' cried Miss Tubbs, in a
cold, clear-cut, commanding tone. She felt
shocked at Mr. Gant's childish loss of temper',
but she must conceal this feeling from the
children lest they should lose respect for their
priest — ' Gantums,' to wit. She must even
affect to think the poor children in fault.

Mark, did you hear me speak ? ' Perhaps
Mark couldn't hear his aunt speak because of

VOL. II. D

the noise of his own Avhisthng. For he so
accompanied with a few careless notes his
defiant little swagger to the nursery door.
Having reached and opened it without obstruction,
he shouted, ' Come along. Maggot ! ' when
not only he and Maggot, but Tubby and
Weenums, shot out of sight like a shoal of
minnows.

Mark ! Come back this instant ! ' The only
reply was ' Ganderumumumum Gantums ! Ganderumumumum
Gantums ! Ganderumum Gantums ! ' repeated hundreds
of times with maddening persistence, fii"^t
by a single shrill voice, and then by a still
shriller chorus. Miss Tubbs strode out of the
]misery and along the corridor to the stair-head,
the voices ceasing suddenly when she was halfway,
and being succeeded by the sound of a
scramble and scamper downstairs. She then
returned to the nursery, where Mr. Gant, having
recovered his temper and lost his courage, was
awaiting her in some trepidation. ' It needs
some forbearance to play with children, Mr.
Gant.' (Neb.— Not * Vicar,' but ' Mr. Gant '—
a change of title as significant as Caesar's ' Qui-rites')
She could not forgive his ferocity in a
moment. * Mark, you know, is only a child.'

Only a child.' To Mr. Gant it sounded as
though she said ' Only a mad dog.' Was there
a more devilish being in existence than a child ?

He is high-spirited and hasty, but very forgiving,'
continued Miss Tubbs, ' and I have no
doubt that when next you come he will have
forgotten it and be the same as ever with you.
I want you to get on Avell with him, for I mean
him to be one of your choir. Vicar.' (Caesar
had returned to ' Mites.' ' One of his choir ! '
Merciful Heaven ! that little demon to haunt him
Sunday and weekday at rehearsal and service !
At this moment the future chorister, conducting
his own little choir, was heard serenading
them under the window ; ' Ganderumum
Grants ! Wandering Gantums ! Ganderumum
Gantums ! Ganderumum Gantums ! ' ad infinitum ;
imtil Miss Tubbs herself seemed to think it a
little monotonous.

Tiresome child ! The best way is not to
notice him. I always find that he comes right
if he's let alone. And if I where you. Vicar, I
shouldn't say a word to him about being sorry,
or that, when next you come, as ten to one he
will have forgotten the blow by then. Dear,
dear ! that sing-song is very trying. Let us go

D 2

into the library, and we shan't vicar it, and
they'll never fid us out.'

Thank you, I must go, Miss Tubbs.
Would you kindly allow me to set myself to
rights a little in Mr. Mills' dressing-room ? '

Mr. Gant looked as if he had been in a
street fight. His fiery red hair, which he kept
accurately parted in the middle, and smooth as
glass at the sides, was shooting out tongues of
flame, as in a pentecostal picture. His cassock
waistcoat, having lost some of its mysterious
fastenings, had slipped away from the dog-collar,
and exposed an expanse of dingy-looking
flannel shirt, Awhile his coat was torn at the
collar and dusty down the back.

Certainly, Vicar. Why, you've torn your
coat ! If you will take it off I shall get Inns
to put a stitch in it.'

Oh no, thank you. I am going straight
home.'

While Mr. Gant was refitting in the dressings
lie racked his brain to think of some
excuse for asking Miss Tubbs to accompany
him down the drive to the irate. He felt
certain he would otherwise be waylaid and
mobbed by those Here he clenched teeth

nd hands. He could have prayed for those
children.

You might come as far as St. George's
with me, Miss Tubbs.'

St. George's! Why, we went over it
together only last Monday. Has anything
occurred since ! '

Well, no ; but I thought, perhaps — there
were the Prayer Book markers, you know.'

'I told the man plainly as words could
speak that he must make the clergy stalls
higher to hold such Prayer Books as would fit
my markers. He cant have misunderstood
me. Perhaps you had better go to-day, Vicar,
and mention it again. These men are so
stupid.'

So there was nothing for it but that the
wretched man must go sounding on his perilous
way alone. Mark, Maggot, & Co., however,
had by this time forgotten his existence.
While they where singing their plain-song of
^ Ganderumum Gantums ! ' with undiminished
energy, old Shorrocks the gardener, of whom
Miss Tubbs herself almost stood in awe, took
Mark smartly in the rear with the flat of his
spade for trampling upon the bed that was

under the nursery window ; ' and one,' as
Tennyson sinners, of the whilom joyous Hnnet —

And one is sad ; this note is changed.

But not for long. Mark rallies his forces at
the far side of a manure heap near the back
gate of the garden, and suggests a raid upon
the pot-house to carry off two flower-pots each
for cock shots. In the pot-house, however, his
attention is diverted by two pots of paint, red
and white, for the woodwork of the frames,
when it occurs to the ever ingenious Mark that
it woukl be a sweeter revenge to paint old
Shorrocks' white camellias red and the red
white. For Shorrocks carried off prizes for his
camellias. Accordingly Maggot is entrusted
with the white paint for the red Ciunelhas,
while Mark set to work with the red paint
upon the white. This having been done pretty
perfectly, and nmch paint remaining over
which it seemed a shame to waste, Mark suggested
their disguising themselves as Need
Indians, to frighten crabbe old Mcely. led
paint and feathers only were required. A
cock, after a smart chase, was run into the hen-bouse,
and had his tail plucked out by Mark

while Maggot was painting Tubby and
Weenums. Weenums didn't like it at first, it
was too like washing. But a sight of Tubby's
face when finished convinced him that the
resemblance was only superficial, and he submitted
with an excellent grace. Then Maggot
painted Mark, and Mark Maggot, and flowerpots
of suitable sizes for helmets having been
picked out and adorned with feathers stuck in
the bottom, were fitted on each of their heads
by Mark, and the tribe set forth in Indian file
upon the war-path. Outside the garden gate
they came all but face to face upon Shorrocks
wheeling a barrow. Mark and Maggot, mounting
their feathered helmets, fled, leaving their
rearguard in the enemy's hands. Mark, when
near the house, tripped and came down, and
looked back as he rose to see if the enemy was
hard upon him ; but, finding him far off with
Tubby and Weenums in either hand, making
slowly for the house, he shot *away in the
opposite direction. Maggot sped past her
fallen brother without once looking back, and
dashed headlong into the house, into the
hall, and almost into the arms of her aunt.
Gracious Heavens ! ' exclaimed bliss Tubbs, so

]horrified to see her darling in a panic, and
covered, as it seemed, with blood, that she had
Hardly strength to half carry and half drag the
child to the nearest sofa, which happened to be
in the drawing-room. Maofo'ot in this way was
enabled to print an Indian ]proof impression of
her face and frock upon lier aunt's sumptuous
silk dress, and a fainter but still fair copy upon
the sofa.

This, in brief, explains Mr. Gant's escape.
When he got down the drive, and out on the
road, and breathed freely, he resolved never
again, while he lived, to affect a love of
children. If then and there he had abjured all
his other affectations of liking things he had no
taste foi*, and reading books lie had never
opened, and understanding subjects which were
Greek to him, there would, it is true, have
been but little of him left, but the balance
would not have been unendurable.

CHAPTER XVII.
George's confession.

We have discreetly left our lovers to themselves
for the last chapter. It would have been in
the worst taste to have intruded upon them,
and, besides, would have been a blunder no
less than a crime. Love, like lotos-eating, is
delicious, but stupefying, and lovers' talk to
outsiders is

Like a tale of little meaning, though the words are strong.

Nor should we now return to George and
Mabel if their happiness were cloudless ; for
cloudless happiness, like a cloudless sky, is not
]picturesque. But it was not cloudless. Far
from it. Mabel, quick to read the slightest
shade of expression even in a little child's face,
saw that all was not right with George before
they had been a week engaged. The cloud
which crossed his face at times threw its shadow

upon hers, and made her miserable for the
moment and tormented her afterwards. He
was not perfectly happy in their engagement.
That was plain. But why? Mabel could
think of only one reason — that he had mistaken
fancy for affection, and had found out his
mistake. And yet — and yet, who ever loved if
he did not? She recalled again and again
every word and look and tone and gesture by
which he seemed ' to catch up the whole of
love and utter it ' more and more passionately
and impetuously at every fresh meeting. Still,
in the very midst of such a transport, this dark
mood seemed to seize him, involuntary as a
shudder, and carry him away for the moment,
and estrange his very thoughts from her.
Whence was it ? Surely, if it lead nothing todo
with her, he woidd have confided it to her.
He seemed to open out all his whole heart to
her, except this Bluebeard chamber. Her fate
must be hid away in it — her life itself. Mabel
was no silly lovesick sentimentalist, but she felt
she had staked all on George's love. If she
lost, she oughtn't die ; but it would be better
ibr lier if lie did die. The mere shadow of
such a cloud and eclipse ' lead power to slake

her as it passed.' Night after night she paced
up and down her room, recalling and repeating
his most passionate words, as a charm against
the memory of his moody and miserable looks.
But the charm would fail, and these looks
would haunt and terrify her, working upon her
exceeding self-distrust and lowliness. For
what was there in her to hold such a heart as
George's? You see, her father's supreme
contempt for her, making its mark upon her
character in her most impressionable years, was
not easily feasible. In moments of depression
she thought of herself as her father thought of
her ; and those moments, when George's
moody looks recurred to her, were moments of
miserable depression.

At the same hour and in the same mood
George also would be pacing up and down his
narrow room. What can we say for him ?
We can say nothing for him. That he was
a weak man — pitifully weak, perhaps — our
readers will long since have decided. Well, he
was weak. He is not an ideal hero by any
means. He was not stronger than nine
hundred and ninety-nine out of every thousand,
but he was at least as strong. It is not easy,

out of a novel, to be brave against the world,
especially if the world includes a girl like Mabel ;
and though George up to this was a slave, if
you like, as

All are slaves who dare not choose

Hatred, slander, and abuse,

Rather than in silence shrink

From the truth they needs must think ;

yet he was a slave in very good company,
and in a very large company, which may even
include the reader who condemns him. But
even the reader who condemns him would pity
him if he saw his naked heart, as he paced up
and down his room. His life a lie, and such a
lie ! A lie at the fount of truth, poisoning
every word and every act and every relationship.
The dress he wore a cheat — his position
a sacrilege — his bread, holy bread, profaned
and stolen. A false priest ! God in heaven !
no more loathsome creature crawls the earth.
He must strangle this foul serpent before it coils
thither fold about him, binding his helpless
hands to his sides. At least he must confide in
isabel, and not make her also his dupe. How
he abhorred himself for the Wicked weakness
which made him catch at this innocent life ashe

was being swept away, and drag it also into
the vortex. It might be supposed that George
could think of nothing but Mabel in the very
first week of their engagement. Xor could he.
It was the thought of Mabel made his cowardice
and dishonesty more insupportable than ever.
Her love, like an honour conferred by a prince,
made the man who won it long to prove himself
worthy of it. Worthy of it ! Was he
worthy of it ? He was a living lie to her, as
to all. Thus it was that George never felt the
falsehood of his position more intensely than on
the very morning after his engagement. It
was no inconstancy that made his mind recur
again that morning to the misery that tormented
it the morning before? or it was an
inconstancy like Lovelace's : —

Yet this inconstancy is such

As you too shall adore ;
I could not love thee, dear, so much.

Loved I not honour more.

It was love itself woke his conscience, which
had been lulled to sleep for a few hours. It
was true there were baser agencies at work to
waken it. Mr. Gant, in his zeal ibr the Church,
lost not a moment in rousing Weston to a sense

of the clanger which threatened it by the
appointment of such a man as Kneeshaw to
such a living? as St. George's. Gorse heard

O DO

from friend and foe the venomous reports he
was at the pains to spread pout him ; and,
though he could conscientiously contradict
many of them, there were some whose truth he
had to admit, and lie saw then in his friends'
.shocked faces, as in a glass, the reflection of
his own re-awakened conscience. ' A poor
creature,' you cry, ' who has to look for his
conscience into ever)- face he meets ! ' No ;
his conscience was no echo, but a voice which,
louder or lower, said still the same thing. But
he had listened also to other voices — the voices
of two men who were older, wiser, better than
himself — one, Archer Lawley's ; the other, that
of a London light of the Broad Church party ;
and both had said, ' You thought differently two
years since ; you will think differently two years
hence. Wait.' But dio had advised him to
fling himself, in the interval, into the way of
such a girl as Mabel, to seek and gain her love,
and blacken her life with the dark shadow of
his own? It was criminal and abominable
selfishness. He palliated it to himself with no

excuse. There were excuses for it, and Mabel
herself the most overpowering of all ; but he
admitted none. No one could condemn him
more absolutely and pitilessly than he condemned
himself, and no one would have imposed
upon him a more terrible penalty than
his own remorse. The reader will have seen
that he was one of those men who, like children,
abandon themselves in joy or sorrow to the
mood of the moment ; and the agony of his
hour of remorse was as utter as the rapture of
the hour of his acceptance.

Thus it was that at times, as he locked into
Mabel's face, he felt as the Tempter might have
felt, if he could have known remorse, as he
looked into the peaceful loveliness of the Eden
he was about to desolate. And Mabel would
catch this expression clouding his face, and
would treasure it, as we treasure bitter
memories, and put her own modest and miserable
construction upon it, and keep her own
sad vigil, as George kept his, half the night
through.

What is it, George ? '

She had been arranging some flowers in a
vase on the mantelpiece, and had drawn herself

back with her head on one side to admire the
effect, and, finding that a camilla would not
Harmonise with its surroundings, had taken it
out and turned suddenly to fix it in George's
coat, when she met his miser-able look.

What is it, George ? '

There was not much in the words, but a
world of meaning faltered in lier voice and
looked through her yearning eyes. There was
no misunderstanding or affection misunderstand
her, and indeed George had made his
mind up that morning to confess all, and abide
by Mabel's decision. He had no fear of this
confession affecting her fate.

Leave thou thy sister when she pray?,
Her early heaven, her happy views;
Nor thou with shadow'd hint conl'u.'^j

A life that leads melodious days,

was advice which did not seem to apply in
Mabel's case. George had heard of estrange
training through which lier father had
put her, and seen how she had grown up as a
lily in a rank soil, drawing only sweetness and
purity out of corruption itself.

He took both her hands in his, drew lier
towards him, kissed her with a fervour which

was itself a reassurance of unwavering love,
and, seating her by his side on the sofa, told
hier all.

Mabel was infinitely relieved. No doubt
she ought to have been shocked, or even
horrified ; but such is the selfishness of human
nature that her first feeling was a sense of relief
that George was loyal to his love. Nor again
was his disloyalty to his Church, when she
turned to think of it, as terrible to her as it
would have been to most of her sex. Having
the strangest and strongest faith in her father,
she had come to think religious doubt was
the special temptation of very clever men, who
were high above other temptations. Having
no earthly battles to fight, they had to fight in
the air. George, therefore, in right of his
iinworldliness and cleverness, was naturally exposed
to this temptation, and by the same right
would overcome it at last. It was only a
question of time. For these reasons Mabel was
not as shocked as she ought to have been by his
confession — was rather relieved by it, as we
have said, and looked her relief, and almost
expressed it.

I thought — I was afraid ' and then she

VOL. II. E

]paused, ashamed of her selfish relief and of her
doubt of George.

It's your turn to confess now,' lie said,
turning her face upwards to his with his hand.
He felt a great weight taken off* him by his
confession, and by her calm reception of it.

What is it ? '

Then with her head leaning against ]m
shoulder, she made the confession — incredible
to him — that she imagined his moodiness meant
repentance of his engagement. After he had
exacted a hundred penalties for this treasonous
suspicion of treason, and had come to himself
again, he said, while an expression as of acute
physical pain crossed his face, ' But it is our
engagement which maddens me, my darling.
It was not enough to steal the very bread I
cat, but I nuit steal also your hand and happiness.*



Steal ? '

Wasn't it to steal it, to gain it under false
pretences ? '

Well, I am inter no delusion about you
now,' she said, smiling, ' and I give it to you
all over again,' putting her hand soothingly
upon his.

But your father wouldn't have given it ;
your aunt wouldn't have given it to a man of
no profession and no prospects. For I must
give the Church up, Mabel,' looking anxiously
into her face.

Of course you must — for a time,' she said
in a clear, decided tone.

For ever, darling.'

No ; for a time. It will all come back,'
speaking with an unfaltering assurance, as of a
settled certainty.

But even if it did, St. George's will never
come back, nor any other promotion. I
should be a marked man, and a curate all my
days. I must give you up, Mabel. I must
give you up with all the rest,' living, turning
from her, and hiding his face on his folded arms,
which rested on the mantelpiece. Mabel rose
also, and, putting her hand upon his shoulder,
said playfully, ' I see how it is. I was right all
along. You give up St. George's to escape your
engagement. But it's no use. I shall hold you
to it. I shall never give you up.' George
turned, clasped her in his arms, and strained her
to his breast, murmuring incoherent words of
endearment, between his kisses. Mabel, having

■E 2

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS

with difficulty disengaged herself, thought it
safer to change the subject.

But wliy didn't you decHne St. George's at
first?' she asked, rather perplexed.

I had written to decline it, but Lawley
thought it a passing mood, and that I should
come right in time ; and I tried hard myself to
think so, for to give it up was to give you up.
It was the day of the picnic,' said George expressively,
as if the intoxication of that day
might excuse anything.

But,' asked Mabel, completely bewildered,
did Mr. Lacey think it right that you should
say in church and say to dying people what
you didn't believe ? '

He thought I should come in time to
believe it.*

Mabel was silent. She had a feelings little
short of reverence for Mr. Lawlev, from all
she had heard of his goodness, and she had the
deepest distrust of her own judgment ; but this
seemed to her a matter of plain right and
wrong, truth and falsehood, on which there
could be no two opinions. George marked her
significant silence.

'Lawley didn't know how deep it had

gone ; and, besides, it wasn't he persuaded me.
It was my own selfishness and weakness and
cowardice, Mabel.'

But you're going to resign ? '

Yes ; too late,' said George bitterly. ' Do
you think this thing is but a vveek old, Mabel ?
It lias been growing ever so long — long before
I knew you ; and yet I must pursue you, and
win you, and bind you to me, and drag you
down with the wreck. I have been a selfish
brute all along,' he groaned.

I don't see how you could have helped
loving me,' said Mabel, thinking it better to
treat lightly wdiat he seemed to take most to
heart ; ' and if I fell in love with you, it wasn't
your fault. Besides, perhaps my love, after
all, may not be the misfortune you think it.'
But, seeing no answering smile in his haggard
face, she added, with a sudden change to
solemnity, all her soul in her eyes, ' George,
your love came to me when I needed it most,
and, perhaps ' — speaking hesitatingly, with a
timid diffidence — ' my love may be some help
to you in your great trouble.'

The girl's ideal of life was to live for
another, and in her heart was something like

the suggestion of Mordecai to Esther, ' Alio
knoweth whether thou art come to the kingdom
for such a time as this?' Lie felt more
happy than ever in lier engagement, for slice lead
a hope, a faith, an assurance that she could
help George in a ^vay of which we shall not
speak here. George, as he looked into a face
that was as the face of a guardian angel, felt
more deeply stricken than ever with love and
with remorse.

Your love ? What right have I to your
love ? I have robbed you of it. I have been
an impostor even to you '

'George, do you think I fell in love with
jour white tie?' with a suspicion of scorn in
her voice. She resented this recurrence to
such a sordid consideration as the loss of
position and prospects.

A white tie means a good deal, Mabel,
put on or put ofi"; and means more still if left on
when it oucjht to have been torn ofT. It's the
coward's white flail And you did aivc your
love to it, so far as you heave it to what it stood
for at the very lowest — common truth and
honesty.'

And now that I fid you so false and dishonest

as to give up everything for what you
think the truth, I may take it back, may I ?
It is you, George, that have given your give
under a mistake, if this was your idea of me.'

No, Mabel,' he said sadly, ' it is because I
knew too well what you were that I cannot
forgive myself. I knew that in giving me
your love, you were giving me your life, and
yet I took it, with this ruin plain before me.
It was dastardly selfishness, my darling, and
you are the only one in the world who Avould
not say so.'

It's as well, then, that I'm the only one in
the world it concerns,' as a thought of her
father's indifference and her aunt's doleful ideal
of a clergyman's wife crossed her mind. ' Do
you think I should have thanked you for being
so heroic as to give me up ? You can't forgive
yourself for having proposed for me, but, perhaps,
/ shouldn't have forgiven you if you
hadn't. Which would you rather have, sir ? '
she said, reverting again to cheerfulness as
likely to be the most effectual exorcism of
George's remorse — as indeed it proved. There
ensued a ' fond ' comparison of dates as to the
dawn of love in each of their hearts, in which

Mabel, by most certainly, but unconsciously,
antedating her attachment, convinced George
that, if he had given her up when he first resolved
to do so, botJi would have been heartbroken.


By the time they had come to this con-song
conclusion Miss Masters was nearly due
in the drawing-room, and they therefore
adjourned to the ' nursery ' to write the
necessary letters of resignation to Dr. Clancy
and Mr. Pickles, and to decide upon their plans
for the future.

In most girls there is something of the
spirit burlesqued in Lydia Languish which is
attracted towards romantic sacrifices. Man is
as God made him ; but Avoman is as man has
made her, and centuries of our exacting selfishness
have implanted in her self-enhancement as an
instinct. Mabel had, besides, the advantage of
an excellent education of this kind from her
father. George's resignation, therefore (its
cause and his distress apart), was almost welcome
to her. It not only drew them closer
together, but gave her an opportunity' of self-devotion.
She felt quite happy in this thought
as she leaned lovingly over him while he wrote

this letters — curt to his rector, and courteous to
this patron — and suggested the softening of a
phrase or the lengthening of a sentence With
a delightful sense of identity of interests.
George, you may be sure, would have gladly
spent the day re-writing his letters with her
hand on his shoulder and lier head almost
touching his. When they were at last written
and addressed, there remained the more important
question of his future. What was he
to do ? It was a dismal outlook. Mabel suggested
tuition, as it could be carried on with
one foot, as it were, still in the Church, to
Avhicli he might thence most easily return with
the return of his faith. But George, not
sharing' her assurance as to the return of his
faith, and having, besides, the deepest distaste
and even disgust for pedagogy, convinced himself
and her that heresy would be a bar to a
decent appointment of this kind, even if he
had any university distinction to recommend
him for it, which he had not. There was the
Bar, but that meant a slow death by starvation
to a man of small private means ; and there
was the medical profession, but here, too, more
money than he could command was essential.

For any otlicr Chilling they coiikl tliiuk of lie
was disqualified eitlicr by age, or training, or
poverty, or incompetence. There remained
only emigration, to which Mabel was as
strongly opposed as George was inclined. It
vas not merely that it Avould separate him from
her, but it would separate him from the
Church, she thought, more hopelessly than any
of the other alternatives.

'Well, what else can I do, dearest?' he
asked despondently. Certainly it was a hopeless
outlook.

I think I should ask Mr. Lawley's advice,
George

George lead never seen Lawley since the
day of the picnic. lie was utterly ashamed —
as well lie miulit be — of his wicked vacillation.
That morning of the picnic lie had written to
decline St. George's ; in the evening he had
allowed Lawley to burn the letter ; now he had
just re-written it. Between then and now he
lead done the very think; Lnwlev had denounced
so justly and bitterly — caught Mabel with his
drowning hands and drac^c^ed her down with
him. Thus the mere mention of Lawley's

name awoke the self-reproach Mabel lead lulled
to sleep.

You're only a child,' he groaned a])riipt]y.
You don't know what you're doing, or what's
before you. But I know, and yet — I can never
forgive myself.'

Here was her work to do all over again.

George, promise me never again to speak
of our engagement in this way.'

But '

Promise me.'

You don't '

Promise me.'

Of course George had to promise ; with the
reservation, admitted with much reluctance,
that he might at least talk of it to others in this
way. In speaking of others he was thinking of
Lawley, who would talk of it and force him to
talk of it in no other way.

At this point Miss Masters' voice, calling for
Mabel, put an end to their deliberations.
George, having taken a lingering leave, as if he
were on the eve of embarking for Australia,
went straight to the Post Office with the
momentous letters. It was curious to feel, ashe
held them between his finger and thumb fora

moment before droppings them into the box,
that lie was al^out to let go with them for ever
this past hfc, his position and prospects. In
another moment they were wne out of this
hands, and, having tuis burned his boats and
bridges, lie set out forenoon to consult Archer
Lawley.

Chapter Xvii.

Fenton FOLK.

Wk possess one of the only three copies wliicli
Averse sold of a ' Lecture on Local Names,' given
by Dr. Clancy, and printed at the request of an
enthusiastic audience. To it we are glad to
confess our obligation for the derivation of the
word 'Fenton.' The village was so called
because it was perched on a hill. The learned
lecturer adduced the analogous derivations by
antiphrasis not only of ' lucas a non lucendo,'
but of ' Indus a non ludendo,' of ' bellum a nuliri
re bella,' and of ' coelum a orlando — quia
aperture est.' ' There were other theories anent
the name,' he said, ' far fetched and fantastic
theories, which it would be a mere waste of
words to consider in the face of these two indisputable
facts that the place was call Fen-ton,
or town, and that it was seated on a hill.'

Anyhow, Fcuton was seated on a hill, liigli
above the liii and smoke of Weston : —

In regions mild, oi calm and serene air,
Above the smoke and .stir of that dim spot.

It concluded a view of one of the loveliest of
all the lovely valleys in the West Riding, the
vista ending in — Weston. It is said that Mr.
Ruskin, on the occasion of a visit to Weston,
was brought by this host to admire the view
from Fenton Crac;. He looked at it lonir and
earnestly till the involuntary tears came into
this eyes, and he exclaimed, in a voice that
faltered with emotion, ' Out, damned spot !
out, I say ! ' This view of murky Weston notwithstanding,
Fenton is so exquisitely situated
that we might have expected it to be the favourite
and fashionable suburb of that food to^vn :
yet, by some curious irony of fate, it is inhabitant
mostly by colliers, dio work deep down in the
]bowels of the valley beneath, and seldom seethe
sun, to say nothing of the view it shines on.
On this account, and on account also of the
wretchedness of its endowment (140/. per
annum), Fenton was considered so undesirable
a living that Archer Lawley was presented to it.
Only lay patronage, and rather reckless lay

patronage, would have given such a man as
mr. Lawley the charge even of these few sheep
in the wilderness. Certainly neither Dr. Clancy
nor his lordship of Winchester would have
trusted him with a flock of goats. The man,
by the accounts of his clerical brethren, who
ought to know best, was hardly even a Churchman,
not to say a Christian. They said that he
once took a service without a surplice (the
vestry key being lost), that he read the burial
office over unbaptized adults and infants, that
he had attended the funeral of a Unitarian
minister, that he never read the Athanasian
Creed, that he spoke of Apostolical Succession
as an Irish pedigree, of the two Houses of Convocation
as Pyramus and Thisbe played by
Bottom and Co and of Lord Penzance, of the
Court of Arches, as Matthew Hopkins, the
witch-finder. In a word, he made light of all
those things which all parties in the Church, as
represented in Weston, agreed to regard as of
the most awful and vital importance. That
such a man should have been appointed to a
living by professing members of the Church of
England was a lamentable abuse of patronage
which shocked Dr. Clancy to the soul. It is

true that the patrons asked Dr. Chiiicy to
appoint to the post and that the vicar could
induce no one to take it, not even this junior
curate (an ex national schoolmaster, who was
tlieii within a month of his ordination as priest) ;
still, surely in all England a fitter man than
Mr. Lawley might have been found? Probably
the patrons had not the means or will to
search all England, and so they laid hands suddenly
on Mr. Lawley who was glad to accept
the living as an escape from an intolerable
curacy. It is only fair to say at the same time
that the people of Mr. Lawley's parish did not
hit all take the clerical view of the appointment.
They where perfectly satisfied with their pastor.
The fact is, they were one and all what Bacon
calls ' common people ; ' and as he says, ' the
common people understand not many excellent
virtues. The lowest virtues draw praise from
them ; the middle virtues work in them
astonishment or admiration ; but of the highest
virtues they have no sense or perceiving at
all.' The Fenton folk being, as wee say,
common people,' had no sense or perceiving
of the highest ecclesiastical virtues of views
and vestments, and would hardly have appreciated
even Dr. Clancy himself, who was all

views like a sketch-book. They would probably,
ill their swinish appreciation of what
is ecclesiastically precious, have likened him to
one of their own eui>ines if all its steam was
allowed to escape through the whistle and iioi:e
turned on to the wheels. But Archer Lawlev s
virtues, such as they were, came within their
narrow horizon, and ' drew praise from then ,'
and even love. They were a very warmhearted
people — as warm-hearted as any in
the West Eiding, and that is saying a great
deal — and all their warmth of heart was drawn
out by a man who seemed to consider helplessness
of any kind as having a claim like a claim
of kindred upon him. He had the deepest
pity for the poor, and sympathy with their
dreary lives and weary struggles ; and when to
poverty was added sickness or old age, or
orphanage, there was no sacrifice of his own
comfort he would not make for its relief. When
one of Napoleon's suite at St. Helena would
have bundled off the footpath out of his way an
old woman bent double beneath the burden of
age and of a few sticks she had gathered for
firewood, the ex-emperor rebuked him and
gave place to lier with the words, ' Respect the

VOL. II. F

burden Now Lawley, among this other eccentric
notions, held that these words expressed
the spirit of Christianity almost better than the
Athanasian Creed. For himself, he always respected
burdens of all kinds — of poverty, of
sickness, of trouble, of the weakness of childhood,
or of old age. And in his kindly dealings
with those thus burdened he would always
confer a favour as if he were receiving it. It
was not to be wondered at, therefore, that
the Fenton folk, with all their love for him —
and they really did love him — could not but
admit among themselves that he was ' soft,' i.e.
not quite 'rest in his yet.' He couldn't pass a
dirty little squalling brat knocked into the
gutter by his playmate without lifting him out
and consoling him with a penny ; nor an old
Avoman gleaning crumbs of coal dropped from
the waggons on the roads without helping to
carry her heavy kitload. When old Betty Barth,
who lived all alone in a lair she called a room,
was knocked down and run over, he had her
brought to his house and nursed and doctored ;
and he sat up the night through with Dick o'
Bob's, a collier, whom no one else dare go near,'
as he was supposed to have been seized with

FENTON FOLK. 67

Asiatic cholera, of wliicli there lead been some
cases in Weston. In truth, Archer Lawley,
though by all clerical accounts a most discreditable
clergyman, was a very kindly man, and a
very able man besides. It is true, the Fenton folk
reckoned nowt on him as a preacher.' He was
not fit to hold a candle to the Eev. Ephraim
Howled, a neighbouring clergyman, one of Dr.
Clancy's appointments, whose sermons were
terrible as

A tale
Told by an idiot, full of sound and fury,
Signifying nothing.

And, in truth, Lawley was not a brilliant
preacher by any means. He was homely,
wholesome, and matter-of-fact, and seemed to
tell them nothing they did not know already.
Now the secret of popular preaching among the
poor is, if possible, to preach always funeral
sermons. But, if this is not possible always,
then to explain to them all mysteries in each
sermon. ' Cupidity humani ingenii liberties
obscura creduntur,' saith Tacitus ; and Caesar
might have had in his prophetic eye the popular
preachers of our day when he wrote, ' Commit
fit vitio natura?, ut invites, latitantibus atque

V '1

incognita rebus magis confidants, vehciiien-
tissue exterreamur.'

When, however, we say that the would-be
popular preacher to the poor should (faihug a
funereal subject) explain all mysteries, we do
not advise his explaining them so clearly and
conclusively that there can be no doubt or
difficulty left in the meanest mind. This would
be to err on the other side, for the poor like
mysteries to be mysteriously explained. To
make things too plain to them is to insult their
understanding. ' Sir Joshua,' says BoswelL
'once observed to Johnson that he had talked
above the capacity of some people with Avhom
they had been in company together. " Xo
matter, sir," said Johnson, '* they consider it asa
compliment to be talked to as if they were
wiser than they are. So true is this, sir, that
Baxter made it a rule in every sermon that he
preached to say something that was above the
capacity of his audience." ' And it Avould be a
mistake to explain all mysteries too clearly, not
for this reason only, but also because mystery
in medicine is all but indispensable. In the
eyes of the poor a sermon is like a prescription
the more enigmatic and mysterious it is the

more potent must be the medicine it prescribes.
Now Lawley was not enigmatic and mysterious,
but intelligible, and therefore contemptible as a
preacher. Besides, he was a great cricketer,
and it was absurd to suppose that a man who
could handle a bat as he did could also handle
a text in a masterly manner. The Fenton folk,
however, thought well of the man, if not of his
sermons, and, taking him altogether, would not
have exchanged him even for the Eev. Ephraim
Howled.

On his part, Mr. Lawley also thought much
of the Newtonian. ' Sweetest nut hath sourest
rind.' They were rough and sharp of speech
and manner, but at heart most kindly and
generous, and Lawley, at first disgusted, was at
last delighted with them. He went in and out
amongst them, welcome as sunshine, and was
at home in every house in the place — except
his own. For now we come to the skeleton in
the cupboard — the MacGucken.

Lawley 's house had not been built for a
parsonage, but was a rambling old farm-louse
a random collection of after-thoughts put
together piecemeal and higgledy-piggledy,
generation after generation, as fantastic and

incoherent as a dream. Of the score or so of
rooms in it, Lawley and his servant occupied
but four, and the rest were wasted ; until in an
evil hour it occurred to oui eccentric friend,
five years before the opening of our story, t(j
convert it into a convalescent hospital for two
or three children who had been ill with other
than infectious disorders. It was a silly whining
doubt ; but he certainly paid more dearly
for it than he deserved, since it led to this
enhancement of the MacGucken. The 
had been a nurse in the children's ward
of Weston Infirmary, and a very excellent
merse she was — clean, firm, kindly, patient,
and indefatigable, but intensely and intolerably
Yorkshire. Such a Pharisee never breathed in
or out of Judaea. The woman could hardly
make a bed without bragging of it, and 
of it at such lentj^th and with such triumphant
references to all the bad betakes in
the world, that a man like law lev would rather
lie on straw for the rest of his life than have to
]pay daily this price for his bed. Xot a day
passed without a scene of this kind occurring
at least once. The MacGucken would come to
the study door and knock — she always knocked

most scrupulously' . Lawley would give a despairing
look at the article he was deep in composing,
and say meekly, ' Come in.'

Mr. Lawley, sir, could you spare me a
moment, sir, if soit please ? '

Lawley would rise with a gloomy resignation
and follow her through the lone: and winding
passage to the far-off kitchen. Striding into
the middle of the kitchen with the mien of Lady
Macbeth, she would turn, face her master with
an expression that plainly said, ' Now, be prepared,'
and, pointing to the fireplace, cry, ' Just
look at that, sir ; look at that, sir, if you please.'

Lawley looks vaguely and vainly at the
fender, the fire irons, the oven, the boiler, the
fire, the hissing kettle upon it, the blinking cat
beside it, the burnished asian beneath it. What
was it ? Was it something dreadful or admirable
? He tries to throw into his face and voice
an expression that would do for either : ' Ah ! *

What do sou think of that, sir ? '

What incas he to think ? lie hits happily
upon a skeleton answer that would fit anything
: ' I don't know what to says, Nurse.'

Now, sir, you see for yourself! That's the
way Sarah Jane does her work. I do believe

sliced sit ill the clair twirliiiir lier thumbs with
that' — pointing to the still mysterious abomination
— ' staring her in the face all day, and
never stir hand or foot to fettle it. It caps me
how ever she gets her time on. It dees indeed.
She hasn't a half day's work to do any day in
the week, let alone Sunday, and half of that
wouldn't be done if it wasn't for me. I can't
help myself. I must be among it. I can no
more see a job the like of that waiting to be
done, and not do it, than I can hear a bairn
cry and not go to it. When I was in the
Infirmary them other nurses would let the
handles of the doors get so as you wouldn't
know whether they were brass or brick, and
many and many's the time I couldn't sleep with
them on my mind, and I've got up and gone
round and scoured them, I have, till you could
see the whole ward in (mc of them. Wherever
there was a job that was nobody's job, it was
always Nurse MacGucken's job. And t' Doctor
would eay, t' hanse Doctor — Svkus they called
],iii^ — lio'd say. " What brings you down here,
Nurse ? This is not your place." And I'd say,
Yes, Doctor," I'd say, " wherever there's work
to do that nobody else will do is always Nurse

MacGuckeii's place," I'd sa'. And he'd say,
"Nurse, never a better worker was born into
this world." '

By the way, to appreciate the MacGucken's
modesty properly, it must be remembered that
in her system of ethics hard work was the
simple sum and substance of all virtue : ' " Ever
a better worker was born into this world," he'd
say. And I'd say, " It's my one fault ; I know
it is. I can't help it. Doctor. I can't see work
going to waste, as a body may say

At this point the wretched Sarah Jane, the
Helot who was the foil to this Spartan, would
be heard coming along the passage, and the
MacGucken would pause, and Lawley would
slink away respited. But only respited. Half-an-hour
later, when he had happily forgotten
her existence, and was deep in his work
again, that thrice-confounded knock would be
heard.

Come in ! '

Now sir ! '

'Yes?'

You'll see a difference now, sir, I promise
you.'

There was nothing for it but the wretched

man must leave his work and follow her again
to the kitchen.

Now, sir ! Does it look the same thing ? '

Well, it did. Except tluit the cat had gone
he couldn't see the shadow of a shade of difference
in anything. It wouldn't do to say,
No ; the cat's gone, I see ; ' so he said safely,
It's better now.'

Better I It's ten shillings better. It's just
as when it comet through the shop — so it is.
When I was at the Weston Infirmary,' &c., &c.

Lawlcy Alas lucky if he had to submit to
these maddening interruptions only twice a
day. And yet he put up with them. The fact
is, he was a most abject coward where a
woman, and especially a woman-servant, Alas
concerned. The MacGucken had him, and felt
she had him, wholly at her mercy. So Lawley
ate his leek, and eke he swore, so to speak, at
lier from the pulpit. From this coward's castle
he preached sermon after sermon against
Pharisaism as a special West Eiding characteristic
— as indeed it was — .but With a special aim
at his enemy. Even this cowardly revenge,
hoAvev^er, he had to forego after the delivery of
a terrific blow at her from the text of the

Pharisee and publican parable. He was no
sooner seated in his arm-chair on his return
from church than lie attacked him before she
had taken her things off.

The sermon came home to me this morning,
sir.'

Lawley shivered in his shoes, and repented
abjectly of his temerity. ' Ah ! ' he gasped
nervously.

Yes, sir. Before I went to the Infirmary
I was in service with a publican. Eh ! but he
was a shocked, ye mind ; alius a-swearing and
a-calling names, and a-treating folk as if they
were the very dirt under his feet ; just for all
the world like him you was practising about.
And I told him one day just what you said, sir,
that he wasn't one bit better than other folk,
nor as good ; and he gave me notice then and
there to leave, and I lost my place through
telling the truth plain out. But truth I've alhis
told and alius will — alius.' When excited she
slipped back into Yorkshire.

Lawley tried to explain that she mistook
the Pharisee for the publican, and mistook the
publican for a beer-seller, whereas he was a
farmer of the taxes.

No, nor Slicer wasn't, in a way of speaking,
a beer-seller altogether, sir, but a bit of a
farmer, as you say, sir ; and kep' tln^ee cows
and a pony; and I had all the milk to look
after, and the butter to make, and many's the
lime the missus said to me — she was non a
bad sort of a woman, wasn't the missus, and
she and me had never a wrong word all the
tiuie I was with her — " Mary Ann," she says, for
she alius called me Mary Ann — " Mary Ann''
she says, " there's thin that can make butter,
and there's thin that can make cartwheel-
increase. But of all the butter-makers I've ever
had, and I've had a many (for you know what
a sharp tongue Slicer has, and he sends 'em
]packing faster than I can get 'em, he does) —
but of all the butter-makers I've ever Jiad,
there's none," she sap's, " could come up to you,
Mary Ann, for shallowness and cheesiness ; and
as for honesty, I never mark a till sixpence
now ; " thin was her very words, and she lived
near Bradford, past the " Cock and Bottle," up
the Motley Eoad.'

Lawley gave u]) preaching personal sermons.
Nor was this the only price he had to pay for
the incomparable MacGucken. Through in

robust health he was regarded by her as in an
extremely critical condition ; and as she had prolong
to do not only with invalids, but with
infantile invalids, she would treat him as a sick
child. Holdings beef to be indigestible hind
pastry deadly, she restricted him to mutton —
mostly mince or chops — and to sago and arrowroot
puddings. These last the Helot, who
enjoyed the reversion of them, pronounced ' the
nothingness things she had ever tasted ; ' but
Lawley took them meekly, as part of the dispensation.
Indeed, if this was all, he would
not have minded much, for as regards food he
was as imbecile as the dotard Barzillai, who
tasted not what he ate or what he drank. But
this was not all. She was also always on tie
look-out for an excuse to dose him. If he
coughed, or even blew his nose, she would
administer to him either an earthy decoction
she called herb tea, or a o^ruesome cornel in which
he detected at least two of the three ingredients
of gunpowder — nitre and sulphur. This ho
would find in his bedroom on one side of a
roaring fire, and at the other, on a chair, a red
petticoat and a strip of flannel which looked as
if in its youth it had been a garter. The garter

he knew Ava.s meant to be bound about this
throat, but ^vliat purpose the red petticoat was
meant to serve he did not know. Nothing
would have induced our misogynist to touch
either of these articles with the tips of his
fingers, yet the noisy resentment of the 
must on no account be provoked by
their appearing next morning to have been
unused. So Lawley would take them up with
the tongs, and lay them one upon the other ina
corner, and smuggle up his dog and induce
him to lie all night upon them to give them the
comfortable look of having been slept in. But
as even the dog couldn't be induced to drink
the gruel, it had to be spooned into the fire.

There was not much to complain of in this
grandmotherliness? Well, no; but there was
the next morning. Lawley would hardly have
got into his study before she'd bustle in — breakfast
being put back half anhour for the purpose —
and take out of him the value of her considerateness
ten times told in brag and obligation.

Well, sir ? '

Eh ? ' Lawley loathed the odious self-complacency
of her manner on these occasions.

You found all ready, sir, last night ? I

thought I'd surprise you. If I had mentioned it
you'd have said, " No, Nurse, thank you, there's
nothing the matter." But it isn't like that I'd
be in the Weston Infirmary fifteen years and
not know a churchyard cough when I hear it,
a-tearing and a-wheezin' back and forwards Hke
a saw. I count sleep for hearkening for it.
I couldn't deed.'

This, like many of the incomparable 's
statements, must be taken with a grain
and a half of salt ; for, as she slept with the
children at the other end of the rambling old
house, only a telephone could have conveyed a
cough to her.

But I think I have given it a check, for
you look a deal better this morning, sir, a long
sect better ; and well you may, for I never
knew that gruel to fail. It's what I alius takes
myself, for I'd never give you anything, sir, I
wouldn't take myself.' This last boast was
always on the Incomparable's lips, and was one
of the few of her brags that were true without
qualification. For, indeed, it is only justice to
her to say that she always did treat Lawley
quite like one of the family. ' Yes, it's Avhat I
alius takes myself when I'm that done with
work that I can't bide to stand, and I shiver so

that I shake the chair I sit in, and break out
all over in a cold sweat,' &c., &c.

Sometimes, after half-an-hoiir of this,
Lawley would be wrought up to a pitch of
such exasperation that, if he lead had a spark
of courage, lie would have <^iven the woman
notice then and there. But he was a poor
creature where women were concerned, and he
would at last leave the study in the enemy's
possession, and go into the garden and walk
violently up and down and work it off a bit.
Here George, coming to consult him, foimd
him walking like Weston, as for a wager, u[)
and down a side-walk.

Kneeshaw ! ' he cried excitedly, after tliev
]had greeted each other, ' I must give it up.'

What ? '

The living. The Church.'

I thought so.'

It's become insupportable.'

Just what I came to sav to you.'

You ! what's she to you ? '

Who ? '

The MacGucken.'

Oil ! '

It's the only way to get rid of her.'

CHAPTER XIX.

Friends IX COUNCIL .

Lawley was not jesting by any means. Hj
really meditated burning the house, so to
speak, to get rid of the vermin. Being in the
habit of putting press work off to the last
moment and working then at a pressure of two
hundred and fifty pounds to the square inch,
lie would sometimes get into a state of such
nervous irritability as made a noisy interruption
of any kind intolerable. On the day of
George's visit he had been in this way racing
the post, when in came the MacGucken for the
fourth time that day, and her blatant brag had
the soothing effect upon him of the strut and
screech of a peacock. When he could stand
it no longer lie simply locked the MS. in his
desk and shot out of the room like a shell.
The MacGucken concluded he was ill (the true
reason was not even conceivable by her), and

VOL. II. G

bustled off to prepare him some herb tea ;
while Lawley, as we have seen, was found by
George lettin<]c off steam in the iX'^^rden.

It was impossible for George, notwithstanding
Ills friend's i^lum face and this own trouble,
not to laugh at Lawley 's sole hope of escape
from his Tsetse fly.

Couldn't you try giving up the hospital,
first ? '

'It wouldn't do. She'd not leave. She'd
only give all her time to me,' with a refit
grin at this appalling consummation.

Then I tell 3'ou what. I'd go away and
give her notice by letter, and not come back
till she had cleared out.'

I did,' said Lawley, in a tone of profound
despondency, ' but it was no good. She wrote
back to say that she knew tidings were not
made as comfortable for rae as they ought to
have been, but that I was to send away' Sarah
Jane, and take in her stead the ^MacGuckcn's
sister (who might be persuaded to come to tete
for a few pounds more wage than Alas wasted
on Sarah Jane), and then I should be perfectly
]happy, and might sec myself in the bari of the
ingrate.'

Lawley lead perforce to join in the laugh
with which Gnome greeted this characteristic
letter.

And Sarah Jane,' continued Lawley, ' is the
best servant I ever had. I hardly ever see her,
and she never opens her lips to me when I do.

But that woman ' Lawley's face filled in

this ferocious aposiopesis. ' In the summer I
can write in the class-room of the school in the
evenings, but for the rest of the year a night-school's
held in it, and I have nowhere to ao.
I'm not safe in my bedroom. If I stay half-anxious
in it she comes up and knocks and asks if
I have been taken ill, and then she's sure to
concoct some devil's broth for me to drink at
night. No ; I don't see anything for it but to
resign. I don't, indeed.'

'I think I'd try giving her notice again,
first,' hesitatingly suggested his feeble fellow-bachelor.


It's easy to talk. Besides, she'd not take
it, and she'd be more attentive than ever afar
it, as she was after the last.'

You might marry,' hazarded George, after
a pause, in a still more doubtful manner.

Marry ! What ! cast out a devil through

G 2

]beelzebub ? It's the cure of the ]\r(kleciii
Mal^re Lui for Gente's being? deafened now
and then by Lucid, to deafen liii altogether.'


These pleasantries against the sex of his
arch-enemy had the soothing effect on Lawless's
irritation that Mr. Shandy's caustic Witticisms
had upon his ill-humour. And they not only
dissipated the remains of his ill-temper, but
turned his thoughts to George's affair of the
heart.

'I ought to ask your pardon, Kneeshaw,
as a Benedick : how is your affair getting
on?'

Then Geori^je toil all with much hum filiation
of heart.

Did you say you had posted the letters to
Clancy and Pickles ? '

Yes ; I posted them on my way here.'

Lawley was silent, lie couldn't say anything
pleasant. This vacillation in his eyes was
contemptible, and cruel too, for his thoughts
lingered about Mabel as a miracle of womanhood.


George was at no loss to interpret his
silence.

You cfai't think worse of me than I do of
myself, Lawless.'

Wliat are you going to do ? ' asked Lawley
abruptly. He couldn't sincerely say anything
in mitigation of George's self-condemnation.

I don't know. I was tlnnkin^ of emii^^ra-
tin2^.'

EmiorratiniT ! As what ? '

I thought of buying land in Canada to
farm.'

You don't know much about farming, I
suppose ? '

'Xo. I know nothing of anything,' said
George despondently.

Did you ever try writing ? '

I have contributed papers to an entomological
journal, if you call that writing. Dry
and technical descriptions of what I have
noticed, as mechanical as reporting, and they
have been accepted rather as a favour done tome.
But the few attempts I've made at literature
proper have been failures. No ; my
writing wouldn't pay for the paper it's written
on.'

Well, it's not a thing to marry on at best
" a great staff but a sorry crutch," as Scott

calls it. There's that first cousin to pardoning,
pedagogy.'

George shook his head. ' I've neither
inclination nor qualification fur it. There's
nothings for it but farming' in Australia or
Canada, Lawley.'

I don't think you've much inclination or
qualification for that either,' growled the
relentless Lawley. 'And what of Miss
Masters ? Is she to seek her fortune with
you, or wait for you till you have found it ? ^

Look here, Lnwley,' cried George, stopping
suddenly on the pati and turning to
stand face to face with ]his friend. ' I know
what I seem to you, and what I have been —
silly, senseless, selfish, brutal — no words are
too strong for it. Yet, I tell you that, though I
love that girl like my life, I woukl be glad —
l/lad^ I tell you, if she could forget me.'

There was no disbelieving: and no resisting
the intense earnestness of George's lia«jc^ard
face. Lawley was moved by the misery in it,
and put his hand soothingly on his slioukkn\

It's too late, now, Kneeshaw,' he said
sadly, in a tone that belied the seeming
reproach of the words. The two friends

walked up and down together in sad silence fora
few moments.

May I ask, Kneeshaw, how much money
you have to start upon P '

About one thousand two hundred pounds.'

You will not think it a liberty if I offer
you a loan of a few hundreds I have no use
for ? ' asked Lawley, hurriedly and shamefacedly.
' You see,' he hastened to add, ' I
shall be a rich man in a year or two, as I'm
my uncle's heir ; and, besides, the money is
really and truly lying idle.' They had known
each other only for a few months, but in that
time each had shown the other his whole heart,
and a life's acquaintance could not have
brought them nearer together.

Thank you, Lawley,' said George, taking
and pressing for a moment his friend's hand ;
but I believe I should be better able to
mana<:,^e a small farm than a bi one to beo-iu
with. I promise you that if I find I need it
I shall ask you for it.'

Lawley, however, was not satisfied. lie
pressed the matter with such eagerness and yet
with such delicacy — putting it, as he always put
any kindness, as a favour lie was not offering,

but asking — that George at last consented to
accept such a loan as would raise this little
capital to two thousand j)()un(ls.

Lawley. being allowed his way, felt towards
George as we always feel towards the
man we befriend. For benefits stir an even
kindlier feeling in the heart of the benefactor
than in that of the beneficiary. Lawley therefore,
already moved b}" George's miserable
remorse, Alas conquered by his acceptance of
the loan, and began to make the allowances
which we hope our readers, too, will make, for
his vacillation. Even the image of Mabel,
which, a moment a^o, lingered in his mind
as an aggravation of George's recklessness,
appeared now to him as its palliation. Who
could know such a q\v\ without loving her, vy
love her without foro'ettino- all else in his lover
This was not bad for a misogynist, who lead
good reason for his misogyny, too. Still he
was perplexed, as well he might be, with the
suddenness of George's chaufrcs of mood and
mind. Within a Aveek he had written letters
to decline, to accept, to resign St. George, and
had resolved not to try to link his precarious
fortunes to Mabel's, had linked them, and had

repented of it. It was not enough to say that
within that week George had realised the fill
force at once of a feeling and of a conviction,
each of which had grown insensibly to an extraordinary
strength ; or to say that this
feeling and this conviction had a terrible
struggle for the mastery in his mind. There
remained besides to be explained, what to
Lawley seemed inexplicable, the absolute and
decisive victory which the feeling won yesterday
and the victory, equally absolute and
decisive, which the conviction won to-day. It
seemed to Lawley to indicate nothing less than
a mind like a wind-shaken reed. Yet, in truth,
the feeling itself, as we have said already, helped
George's conscience to conquer.

For Love himself took part against himself,
And Duty loved of Love.

For Mabel's love, which Lawley thought had
lulled George's conscience to sleep, only woke
it to a keener sense of the falsehood of his position,
and decided at once and once for all his
wavering resolution. Such a love, George
thought, would make a lying slave brave and
honest ; and for himself he felt

The nobler throiiji-h her love,
three times less unworthy I

We ]have taken the opportunity of ^[r.
Lawley's absence to explain the different standpoints
from wliicli the two friends looked at
the situation. For Lawlev, who was an inveterate
smoker, had gone in to fetch out
2:)ipes. On his return he said, while fling his
pipe—

I thought you had made your mind up to
<j:ive the Church another chance under more
favourable circumstances .'

So I had, and so, perhaps, I might have
given it another chance"' as you put it
pleasantly, if she had refused me.'

If she had refused you ! '

Yes ; Lawley, the love of a girl like
that makes a man honest in spite of himself.'

Lawley was silent for a moment, pondering
upon this effect of love. ' You have discovered
the true Ithuriel's spear, Cupid's arrow : —

No falsehood ran endure
Touch of celestial temper.

Still I think, if you told her all, she would herself
have advised you as I did.'
I did tell her all.'

Yes ? '

She said I must, of course, quit the Church.'

Did she ? ' exclaimed Lawley in a tone of
amazement. This girl was by no means to be
confounded with the rest of her sex. 'And
wasn't shocked ? '

Shocked ? Xo. She seemed to look at it
as a trouble more than as a sin. I think she
had her father in her mind ; and, besides, she
was quite assured I should come back in time.'

She incas of my mind, then ? '

Well, no ; not exactly,' said George,
smiling. ' When I told her your advice she
couldn't believe it was yours. You must know
she has an immense veneration for you, and I
put the thing so clumsily to her that she thought
you advised me to go on saying what I didn't
believe until I came to believe it.'

This didn't seem an altogether perverted
version of his advice even to Lawley himself.
But it certainly set it in rather a preposterous
light. The thing, however, which most struck
Lawley and lingered afterwards in his memory
was the news that ' she had an immense veneration
for him.' lie was too proud to be vain.
He thought little of most people's praise, and

least of all of the good opinion of the sex ; but
Mabel's good opinion vas a different thing, and
a very pleasant tiling to liii. When a good
thing does come out of Galilee, we prize it in
proportion to its rarity, and Mabel seemed to
Lawley such an exception to her sex that he
was surprised into an extraordinary andperha])s
extravagant opinion of her. lie pulled silently
at his pipe for a few moments, chewing the
while the cud of sweet and bitter fancies.

She has no great veneration for my
honesty,' he said at last.

She thought at first that your views were
as extreme as mine ; but I set her riixht as to
this, and you still keep your pedestal. Still,
she certainly does seem to have extraordinary
ideas of clerical honesty or dishonesty,' continued
George with some bitterness. ' She
doesn't seem to think, for instance, that a
clergyman's standard of right and wrong, trull
and falsehood, ought to be so very much lower
than a layman's.'

My withers are wrung,' said Lawley
placidly.

You ! How could you think I meant you ?
I was thinking of the Weston chapter-meeting.

You should have heard Aisle and Clancy
proving opposite things from the same book.'

The book is like the dam there,' said
Lawley, pointing down to the reservoir of a
factory ; ' it reflects heaven, but every man
that looks into it sees only his own reflection.
Look at the gathering on that common. There
are a flock of geese, some sheep, two donkeys,
and a pig, all grazing on the same grass, and
each assimilating what suits itself The same
pasture clothes the geese with feathers, the
sheep with wool, the donkeys with hair, and
the pig with bristles. A clergyman's conscience,
Kneeshaw, is like his digestion : it has a
wonderfully assimilative power.'

Lawley had certainly no reason to love his
cloth, and his words were bitter ; but weren't
they stones thrown from a glass house ? This
thought couldn't but cross George's mind and,
perhaps, Lawley 's own also. And yet, that the
MacGucken should be his sole reason for resignation,
if he resigned !

YoicYQ out of Egypt, anyhow,' continued
Lawley. ' When do you think of sailing ? '

The sooner the better,' with a sigh from
the very bottom of his heart given to Mabel.

'I shall sec you off, if you'll allow nic, old
fellow,' said Lawley warmly, striving in this
way to express this sympathy.

George understood his friend well enough
to know that this offer meant more from him
than his other offer of money, of which Lawley
Alas extraordinarily' careless.

'Will you? I don't know anything 1
should like better, unless — unless — Lawley, if
you would ]promise to write to me now and
then and tell me anything you know ov hear
about her, I should leave England with a lighter

heart.'

Of course I shall write to you. But she'll

Avrite herself? '

I don't know. If her father forbids her,

she won't.'

But I shall never see her, or even hear of

lier after you go.'

You might call,' urged George persuasively.

I can't get on with them,' pleaded Lawley,
alluding' to the intractability of the sex iu

general.

You o't on very well together the other
day. You might have known each other for
years.*

She's not like the rest, certainly. But I
should oiilv bore her.'

Bore her ! Shall I tell you what she said
about you yesterday? "That a talk with you
was like looking through illustrations of the
best authors by the best artists." She has an
extraordinary opinion of you.'

I shall soon disenchant her. Well ; if she
is forbidden to write, I promise you to call and
report.' .

The two friends were silent for a minute or
two, lost in anxious thou^i^ht : Georw torturing
himself with the fear of all direct intercourse
between Mabel and him being stopped, and
Lawley troubled about the possible consequences
to himself of intimacy with Miss Mabel Masters.
He began to feel a keen personal interest in
Kneeshaw's being permitted to communicate
himself with her.

Doesn't her father know of your Qucrn^G-

J DO

ment ? '

Her father ! He lives in Laputa. When
I asked this consent at fu'st, he wasn't quite sure
whether she was twelve or twenty, and then lie
couldn't see what he had to do with so small a
matter.'

• lie's not likely to interfere, then, one way
or the other.'

Xo ; not unless his sister sugj/csts it to him.
But he lias made all his authority over to her,
and you know what she is. I can't ima<]fiiie
how a girl like Mabel can come of such a.
strain.'

It's wonderful, no doubt, how

The music of the moon
Sleeps in the plain eggs of the nightingale.

I don't know her father ; but certainly there's
not much of her aunt in her. That woman
reo' birds the world as a lookin(]^-<>'lass in which to
see flattering reflections of herself. By the
way, Kneeshaw.' he asked, as a horrible 
chilled his blood, 'am I likely to see
nuich of her when I call?'

Xot if you call in the mornings She's
never down before twelve.'

That's very early to call, isn't it ? '

'Then she has, besides, a beauty sleep every
afternoon from two to three, of which I often
take advantage. I did to-dav.'

I had more than an hour of lier t(^ myself
on the day of the picnic, and she put me to the
rack the whole time to extort compliments.

She's a kind of porcelain MacGucken, by Jove ! '
he cried, warming up with the remembrance of
that bad hour ; ' and ten minutes of her goes a
long way. Not that I'd mind it if it did you
any good, you know,' he added with his usual
generosity, ' but there's no use facing it for
nothing.'

George, however, reassured him that he
might venture without foolhardiness any day
between two and half-past three, as she took at
least half-an-hour to make herself presentable
after her beauty sleep.

Still Lawley was not quite happy in his
engagement as internuncius. ' If you would
condescend to flatter her, I don't think she'd
interfere between you,' he said.

'I don't know. She wouldn't have consented
to our engagement if I hadn't been vicar-designate
of St. George's, and now I'm not a
curate even. No ; I'm afraid she'll influence
her brother to forbid her writing. Besides,
even if she was allowed to write, there are some
things she wouldn't tell me — if she was persecuted,
for instance, or made miserable on
my account. Lawley, you couldn't do mea
greater kindness than to keep up your

Volsci. H

acquaintance with her in any case, and let me
know how things go on there.'

I don't see what good it would do you to
know she was made miserable if you couldn't
help her.'

At least it would do me good to know she
was not made miserable, as I should be always
fancying she was, no matter how cheerfully she
wrote ; and this you might be able to tell me.'

You'll think I'm making a great fuss about
a small matter, Kneeshaw ; but the truth is I
feel I'm not the man for so delicate a mission.
If you can't get better, of course I shall undertake
it, and do the best I can.'

George thought Lawley's self-distrust sprang
from the very opposite of its true source. He
imagined that his miso2[vnist friend feared the
embarrassment of Mabel's society, while what
he really feared was its fascination. * In the
matter of love,' says a Spanish proverb, ' you
begin when you Avill, and leave off when you
can ; ' and Lawley felt that he might have only
the beginning of this business in his own
power.

I know no one else that could do it forme,
and there's no one else she would like so

much to see,' urged George. ' I think you'd
get to like her when you knew her.'

Just what Lawley thought.

I'm not quite such a Goth as you think,
Kneeshaw. I don't object to the commission
on that ground at alL I simply think I'm not
the man for it. But there's no help if you can
get no one else. How often would you wish
me to call ? '

If I said as often as you write, I'm afraid
your letters would be few and lar between. I
think you'd better not burden yourself with any
fixed arrangement.'

Well, perhaps it's better for both to leave
it open, and then you'll not be disappointed,
and I shall be easier about it. I hate work I
have to do in a certain time, and I've enough of
that kind on hand already,' his thoughts reverting
to the odious interruptions of the ,
whose image, in turn, suggested tea.
It's about time we had some tea, though. I
say, Kneeshaw, would you mind going in and
ordering it ? — she'll not fasten on you.'

But she did. Taking for her text the herb
tea she had just brewed, she described to
George at great length, and in minute detail,

H 2

all the means by which she managed to keep
her master alive — not omitting the garter nor
the red petticoat, which last, it seems, was
meant to be wrapped round the head as a cure
for a cold. (Lawley in his most savage mood
never suspected its being meant for more thana
sentimental blanket.) Nor did lie confine
her care to physical means of recruiting him,
but had recourse also to mental stimulants.
She never left him too long to himself, as he'd
mope and that ; but she would break ofi* often
three or four times in the day in the very
midst of her cleaning to come in and talk to
him and rouse him up a bit like. Yet for all,
at times, he'd go that low that even after her
talking' to him for half-an-hour together he
wouldn't look a bit the clieerfuUer ! The fact
was (this in the mysterious whisper of the
keeper of a dangerous lunatic) in his state of
health he wasn't fit to be left to himself, and
leave him to himself she would not, even if
Tuesday's work stared her in the face on Wednesday
morning ; not that it ever did or ever
would, for work was work, ' choose how ' — and
no one could say of her that she ever left one
day's work atop of another, like that pile of dirty

dinner plates which Sarah Jane should have
washed three hours ago ; but there they were,
and there they'd be till she took *em in hand
herself, for there was nothing in this house
almost, from the beds to the boots, that she
hadn't to follow.'

At this point George pretended to hear
Lawley call, and shouting, ' Yes. All right ! '
escaped. •*

Lawley, do you know what the red petticoat's
for ? ' George had already heard of the
abomination from his friend.

What ? '

A turban to be wrapped about the head ;
she's just told me.'

Lawley 's face was a study as he shuddered.
It was the face of a man who finds a cockroach
in his soup.

CHAPTER XX.

AVON BY A Neck.

It was on Monday George posted his fateful
letters. Dr. Clancy on receipt of his on
Tuesday morning would at once have hurried
off to Mr. Pickles to secure the vacant living
for his son Augustine, if he had not unhappily
had a class that, morning for the study of the
early Fathers. This class was attended by
most of the curates and by two or three of the
vicars of the Weston churches, who learned at
least at it the incalculable importance in the
work of the ministry of a minute philological
knowledge of these Christian classics. ' Weare
kept four or five years to learn words only,
and to tack them together into phrases ; as
many more to put larger masses of these into
four or five parts ; and other five years at least
to learn succinctly to mix and interweave them
after some subtle and intricate manner.' Such

is Montaigne's description of the education of
his day, and we have not, perhaps, improved
upon it so much as that words, as ivords^ are
not still the chief study of our impressionable
years. Now, let us suppose when a boy
reaches manhood that instead of going out into
the world and learning there something of
those realities of which words are the counters,
he remains shut up still within the walls of a
school, first as an usher, and then as a schoolmaster
— must he not, of course, come at last to
think that ' words are things ' in a solider sense
than Baton's ? No man, after a lifelong training
of this kind, is to be blamed if he become
an absolute slave to mere words. Of course
we all are more or less under the dominion of
mere words, but owing to their training clergymen
very often, and schoolmasters nearly
always, are their slaves. Now, words ruled
Dr. Clancy, who was an ex-schoolmaster, with
a rod of iron. Even the shabby little Greek
particle az, which had kept them all fussing
about her for the whole hour last Tuesday,
must have another full hearing this morning to
have anything like justice done to her. Mr.
Gant, indeed, overhearing a whispered controversy

between Mr. Williams and mr. Snepp
about the force of the to in the next sentence
to that in which the exacting ai occurred,
thought he'd score by shouting across to Dr.
Clancy, ' Dr. Clancy, I should like to know the
force of the to ? '

Which TO ? ' asked the Vicar petulantly,
more than usually impatient that morning of
Mr. Gant's confident, but idiotic interruptions.

The TO in the next sentence,' cried the
unabashed Gant, having, however, the discretion
not to attempt to read the sentence
out.

The next sentence ! I didn't know we
had got to the next sentence, Mr. Gant. Gentlemen,
we're too slow for Mr. Gant. If Mr.
Gant will have the kindness to take my place,
we shall get on much faster, very much faster,
I have no doubt.'

The Vicar treated the Weston clergy
generally, but especially the curates, and more
especially his own curates, as fourth-form
schoolboys. Mr. Gant having been snuffed
out, as far as he could be snuffed out (for he
always smouldered and was easily relit), the
Vicar resumed his lecture on the inexhaustible

av. It seemed at the last lesson
they had considerably cleared the ground for
to-day's discussion, They had gone over
together all the different places of importance
in which ai appeared in the writings of this
author, and they seemed at first to be almost ina
position to make an exhaustive catalogue of
its different uses in his works, and from thence
to infer its precise signification in the present
passage. But, unfortunately, the thing wasn't
such plain sailing as it seemed. For he — the
Doctor — could not conceal from them that
there were many serious differences of opinion
among the best critics as to the use of this
particle in the other passages themselves.
And, as it was certainly not a matter which he
could venture to decide summarily and ex
cathedra, he would first put as fairly as he
could before them the conflicting views of these
supreme critics, and then hazard his own
humble opinion. The Doctor then gave at
some length the views on the one side of the
question of Hermann and Klotz, and, on the
other side, of Parting, Thiersch, and Bateman,
stigmatising, in passing, the views of Thiersch
as little short of monstrous. For himself, he

was free to confess that he inclined very
strongly to the theory of Hermann ; not, of
course, accepting it implicitly and in all particulars,
but, taking it as a whole, it seemed, in
this poor judgment, to come as near the truth as
it was possible for us to get in the present state
of our faculties and information. Still he would
not have them make their mind up on a subject
like this without at least consulting also B.
Matthias in his ' Lexic. Eurip.' i. 188 sqq.,
Brumlein on the ' Greek Moods,' and Miller
in ' Schneidewin Philologist.' vi. 719 ff. Taking,
however, for the moment Hermann's theory asa
working hypothesis, they would see that the
av in the passage under discussion mijiht have
been omitted (and in like cases often was
omitted) without in the least degree affecting
the sense of the sentence. The Doctor having
read the sentence and shown that the mood of
the verb made its meaning unmistakable with
or without an ave brought that day's lesson to
a satisfactory close.

I say,' said the facetious Todd as he
walked from the vicarage with his bosom friend
Smalley, who had taken profuse and profound
notes, ' those notes will come in handy for your

cottage lecture tomorrow night, old fellow!
To think that that beast of an Ann had no
business there after all ! '

Meantime the Doctor had detained Mr.
Gant when the rest of the class broke up. At
first Mr. Gant was very much alarmed by this
distinction, and felt that the Doctor was quite
capable of setting hin an imposition for his
irrelevant interruption ; but he was reassured
by being asked if he would kindly undertake
a commission. The fact was, that the Vicar
was nearly due to take a grand wedding at the
parish church and could not yet, therefore,
call upon Mr. Pickles on behalf of his son
Augustine. He resolved to write at once to
him and entrust the letter to Mr. Gant. He
felt that he had been unduly harsh to Mr.
Gant and wished now to soothe his hurt feelings
by sending him, instead of his buttony
page, with the letter.

Perhaps you will kindly take this letter to
Mr. Pickles for me, Mr. Gant. It is a very
important letter, and I wish him to get it as
soon as possible. You pass his office, I think ?
Ah, I thought so. Thank you. By the way,'
as Mr. Gant was leaving the room, ' I suppose

your colleague, Mr. Kneeshaw, lias told you
that he's quitting the ministry?'

Isis curacy ? '

No ; the ministry. He's giving the Church
up altogether.'

'What! Has he resigned St. George's?*
cried the amazed Gant.

Yes ; he has written to say that lie cannot
conscientiously remain in the ministry. I'm
sorry to say, Mr. Gant,' said the Vicar, sadly
shaking his head, ' he's not leaving it a day too
soon — not a day too soon. Good morning, Mi*.
Gant. Thank you.'

Mr. Gant, as he stood on the steps, felt that
he had his fate in his own hands. He had no
doubt whatever that the letter he held contained
an application to Mr. Pickles to give St.
George's to Augustine Clancy. The Vicar
grasped at every one's patronage, and was Httle
likely to let this living slip by him without a
snatch at it. Mr. Gant's mind was made up ina
moment. He hurried to the nearest cabstand,
hailed a hansom, and promised the
driver double fare ' if he reached The Elms in
ten minutes.' The driver earned his premium,
and in twenty minutes from the moment of his

engagement he was driving Miss Tiibbs to Mr.
Pickles' office.

Mr. Gant had told Miss Tubbs that Knee-shaw
had resigned St. George's, and, indeed,
given up the ministry, and that Dr. Clancy was
going to apply for it for his son Augustine ;
but Mr. Gant had said nothing of the letter
which lay in his pocket.

'I shall send my brother to Mr. Pickles
after luncheon,' said Miss Tubbs decidedly.

I'm afraid it will be too late then. Miss
Tubbs ; the Vicar's letter will be in Mr.
Pickles' hands this morning.'

What kind of a Churchman is this young
Clancy ? ' asked Miss Tubbs.

Mr. Gant was disgusted with this wholly
heartless question, but dissembled his disgust
and answered carelessly, ' He preaches in his
gown on Wednesday evenings.'

This was enough.

'I shall go myself this moment to Mr.
Pickles,' cried the aroused patroness. ' The
carriage has gone with James. I shall send fora
cab.'

I have a hansom waiting here, Miss Tubbs,
if you wouldn't mind making use of one for
once.'

'Mind! It's just the thing. It's faster
than those creeping cabs. I shall put my
bonnet on in a moment,' and away she bustled,
returning in two minutes. ' You'll come.
Vicar.'

It would not have done, however, for Mr.
Gant to have presented Miss Tubbs, himself,
and the letter at the same moment to Mr.
Pickles.

Thank you, I think I"d better not. Miss
Tubbs. You could talk me over with more
freedom in my absence. I shall walk and
meet you on your return.'

Miss Tubbs, as she looked into the weak
and foolish face of her protege thought it as
well, perhaps, that Mr. Pickles shouldn't see
him.

'Very well. Vicar. I shall not be long.
Au revoir' And the masterful little woman
took her seat in the hansom with a pleasurable
sense that thereby she was shocking the minor
proprieties of Weston.

Mr. Gant had done the one clever and
original thincj of his life. He felt reasonably

CO *

elated, but there was one drawback to his exultation
— he could not boast of it. There

were a great many people who would have
done as he did, if they had had the wit to
think of it, but Who yet would pronounce this
thing, if done by another, dishonourable. The
fear of these Pharisees and of Dr. Clancy must
keep him silent. Still the consciousness of his
cleverness must express itself somehow — if not
in words, then in mien and manner. There is
somewhere in the Spectator a paper of Addison's,
describing the airs assumed suddenly by a
little gil for no obvious reason. One Sunday
morning she comes down with an air of extraordinary
pretension and importance, which was
maintained throughout the week. It seems
that this morning she had put on for the first
time a chemise with a lace frill. No one could
see this lace frill, and modesty forbade the young-lady
calling attention to it, but the consciousness
of it inspired the dignity of her demeanour.
Mr. Gant's grand stroke of policy
was like this lace frill, to which he could not
call attention, but which added in his own eyes
a cubit to his mental stature. He was unusually
self-complacent and elated as he walked
back briskly to town.

Meantime Miss Tubbs went boldly upon

her bold enterprise. In ten minutes she found
herself seated in Mr. Pickles' official sanctum,
face to face with that great man, who glowered
at her most inhospitably. Women, thought
Mr. Pickles, should have fortunes and children ;
otherwise they were always useless and sometimes
noxious. Miss Tubbs he thought noxious.
Miss Tubbs, however, was the last person in the
world to be disconcerted by the chilling reception
she met. Who was Mr. Pickles that she
should cower under his frown ? It was not two
months since she had given his nearly naked
niece some underclothing.

Mr. Pickles,' she began, as she made herself
perfectly at home by the office fire,
you're a business man, and I'm a woman of
business, and I shall come at once to business,
as I know the value of your time. I hear that
Mr. Kneeshaw has resigned St. George's.'

Mr. Pickles had been very much disgusted
with George's letter of resignation that morning.
He did not know how to get out of his
1,500/. subscription, and what now was thereto
show for it? Therefore Miss Tubbs' subject
was as distasteful to him as herself.

Yes ; he's resigned,' he answered surlily.

I want the living for Mr. Gant, the other'
curate, the senior curate, of the parish church.

Mr. Pickles merely looked his amazement .

Yes,' continued the imperturbable Miss
Tubbs, With a confirmatory nod, ' I want you
to give it to Mr. Gant. I have some claims
myself on the patronage, as you know ; but
I've not urged them, and I'm not going to urge
them, as I understand from my brother that
you bought the appointment from your co-trustees
for 1,500/. But you know it's not
worth 1,500/. to you now, Mr. Pickles, nor
500/. ; and I thought perhaps you might be glad
to sell it again.'

Certainly the audacity of this woman is
astounding,' thought Mr. Pickles ; ' and yet —
and yet, why not sell it and still get the credit
of the appointment, and perhaps of the subscription
too? There was, after all, some
sense in this cynical way of putting it.

'Do you mean you'll give the 1,500/. to
the church if your man is put in. Miss Tubbs ? '

Certainly not. It is no more worth 1,500/.
to me than it is to you. Besides, we can't afford
it. You know, Mr. Pickles,' looking her man
steadily in the face, ' all Mr. Mills' hands are

VOL. II. I

his tenants, and last winter, when trade was
at its worst, he not only kept them in full
work at a very heavy loss to himself, but remitted
their rents. I think he was a fool for
his pains ; but that's neither here nor there.
The money's gone — a dead loss. We've nothing
to show for it, unless you call popularity
anything — and certainly there isn't a man
about the place who wouldn't go through
fire and water for Mr. Mills. But popularity
is a poor thing, unless,' she corrected herself
with a pleasant nod at Mr. Pickles, ' at an
election, and to a member. However, there's
no use crying over spilled milk. The money's
gone, as I say, and we can't afford to throw
more after it.'

Mr. Pickles perfectly understood Miss
Tubbs' hint. There was no doubt at all that
at the approaching election James Mills' hands
would vote ' solid ' for the candidate of his
choice, and there was no doubt either that his
choice meant Miss Tubbs' choice. mr. Pickles
began to respect Miss Tubbs as a remarkably
clever woman. He must keep her at all costs
on his side. After all, 1,500/. wasn't much to
pay for the three hundred voters she could send

to the poll, even if he could otherwise get out
of the promised subscription, which he certainly
could not without the loss of as many or more
church votes.

Your allusion to an election, Miss Tubbs,
reminds me how much I owe your brother-in-law.
At the last contest I believe every single
man in his employ plumped for me. I think
that solid vote turned the day. I haven't
forgotten my debt, I assure you, and I shall
be glad, Miss Tubbs, if you will take this
appointment as part payment.'

I'm much obliged to you, Mr. Pickles,'
said Miss Tubbs, not at all effusively. ' I
believe both of us have been committing;
bribery or simony, or something terrible, but
I dare say we shan't turn Queen's evidence
against each other. Would you kindly let me
have a line offering Mr. Gant the appointment,
as I should very much like to have the pleasure
of handing it to him myself? '

Certainly,' said Mr. Pickles stiffly.

Miss Tubbs' cynicism and insensibility to his
gracious concession were very exasperating.
The fact was. Miss Tubbs not only felt little
gratitude for a concession extorted at the point

I 2

of the bayonet, but still felt sore at the insolent
impatience with which Mr. Pickles had endured
her at the beginning of their interview.

What name did you say ? ' asked Mr.
Pickles icily.

Gant. Hickson Gaiit. Thank you.'

Having made the offer to Mr. Gant in the
current possible form of words, and folded and
addressed it, Mr. Pickles bowed Miss Tubbs
ceremoniously out of his office. ' After all,'
he thought,' as the door closed on her, * I
should have had to give the 1,500/. in any case.'

After all,' thought Miss Tubbs, as the
door closed on her, 'we should have had to
vote for Pickles in any case. Tarbutt is such
a Radical.'

Miss Tubbs had hardly cleared the town
before she saw Mr. Gant afar off, and rising
from her seat and grasping with one hand the
hood of the hansom, with the other she waved
the note triumphantly in the air, to the amazement
of the driver. It was not a dignified
performance, but Miss Tubbs felt proud of
a victory won without the cost of a drop of
blood.

All right ! ' she cried exultingly, as the

driver pulled up at a signal flora Mr. Gant.
Get in, and I shall tell you all about it.'

I must go on to Weston, but I shall be
back in half-an-hour,' gasped Mr. Gant, breathless
with excitement.

Well, it's yours ; here's the note.'

Mr. Gant looked this way and that, and,
seeing no one, kissed the hand that held the note
in a rapture of gratitude. He was hers, body
and soul, for the wretched remnant of his life,
or her life. However, there was no time to
lose now, as Dr. Clancy might call at Mr.
Pickles' office on his way from the wedding ;
so Mr. Gant, having pressed once more the
hand of his benefactress, hastened on to Weston.
Having reached Mr. Pickles' place of business,
he went into the outer office, and, giving a
clerk the Vicar's letter, with a charge that it
should be delivered at once to Mr. Pickles, he
hurried back to The Elms.

The Vicar did not call at the office on his
way from the wedding, as he had to accompany
the bridal party home to breakfast ; nor,
'indeed, did he get back to his own house till
late in the afternoon. Then he found Mr.
Pickles' answer awaiting him, and though he

was amazed to learn I'rom it that Mr. Gant
had already been offered the living, he never
for a moment suspected the trick that had been
played him. Indeed, he thought Mr. Gant had
been chosen in compliment to himself. Xor
do the people of St. George's know to this day
why it is they are extreme Kituahsts instead of
extreme Calvinists, as they would have been if
Dr. Clancy had not generously sought to soothe
Mr. Gant's hurt feelings by sending him on a
message instead of the buttony page. It was
simply such

A lucky chance as oft decides the fate
Of mighty monarchs

which cave them the Eev. Dickson Gant for
their priest. ' A lucky chance ; ' foi' it is only
fair to say of him that he threw his whole heart
and soul into his work, until he had in his
church every banner, vestment, ornament,
and altar cloth necessary to salvation.

Mr. Gant, however, had a stretch of desert
to cross before he reached this land of promise.
The church he won was new — virgin soil — but
the nucleus of the congregation was not new,

but soil which had been sown with tares.
While the church was a-building, a weekly
service was held in a neighbouring schoolroom
to nurse this nucleus into life ; and this service
was conducted by what is known in the trade
as a ' guinea-pig,' that is a clergyman who does
Sunday duty at a guinea a service. The
guinea-pig, in this instance, was a grammar-schoolmaster,
who did not sow either wheat or
tares, but chaff only — exceeding dry and empty
words. But there was an antediluvian clerk, of
whom even St. Peter's — itself a survival — grew
ashamed, and whom they were glad to turnout
on the yet unoccupied common of St.
George's : this man sowed the tares. Being
appointed to do duty on Sundays as clerk, and
on weekdays as Scripture-reader, he came to beheld
an oracle by the nucleus, and used his
influence to propagate his own views. These
views were of the same strength and character
with those of Mr. Gant, but of the opposite
school. Briefly expressed, they came to this :
that a choral service, or any service in which
the clerk did not make the responses, was
popish. His religion was perhaps almost

narrower than Mr. Gant's, but was all the more
intense on that account.

Leaving George and Mabel for a moment
to their sad adieus, we shall still follow the
fortunes of Mr. Gant in the next chapter.

CHAPTER XXI.

STRUGGLES OF THE INFANT CHURCH.

Mr. Gant, as we have said, had a short stretch
of desert to cross before he reached the land
of promise. The nucleus, which consisted of
about a score of mothers, two paterfamilias, and
a Sunday-school of about fifty children and
teachers, was much excited upon hearing from
their oracle Hedges, that they had been made
over to a popish priest. Hedges discovered his
new pastor's religion on the very first Sunday
of his appearance amongst them, not from Mr.
Gant's mentioning the prayers, for that the old
clerk, being very deaf, could not distinguish,
but from his rebuking Hedges for his Low-church
pronunciation of 'Amen,' — 'eh-men'
instead of ' ah-men.' Mr. Gant, who never
showed the least regard for anyone's feelings
but his own, took the old man very severely to
task for this mispronunciation, and even made

him repeat after him two or three times, like a
child, the Catholic pronunciation of this shibboleth.


Now ' Amen ' is, one may say, an old-fashioned
clerk's stock-in-trade, and no such
clerk would like being told that the one article
in which he had dealt ibr ' a matter of forty
year or more' was spinous or adulterated.
But Hedges, having a dine and undefined idea
in his mind that his ' Amen ' was to a prayer
what an indorsement is to a cheque, and that
without such indorsement the draft would not be
honoured, was really cut to the heart by being
told that his indorsement was a forgery. He
visited many members of the nucleus in their
homes that week and succeeded in arousing: a
very bitter feeling against Mr. Gant. Indeed,
there was a kind of indignation meeting: held
in Mr. Hedges' house on Thursday evening, at
which the matter was discussed with nuich
acrimony. One old lady, a j\irs. Binns, a very
small shopkeeper, but one of the most respected
members of the nucleus, carried the meeting
with lier when she explained, what her more
ignorant sisters seemed not to have known, that
Amen ' was simply the cannon Yorkshire

exclamation of awe and wonder. ' Eh, nun ! '
called forth by the beauty of the prayer which
preceded it. This settled the question, for,
as Hedges pronounced • Amen ' precisely as
they pronounced ' Eh, nun,' if Hedges was
wrong, they must be wrong, which was absurd.
Hedges himself, of course, knew better. — knew
that the ' Amen ' was the counter-signature
without which no prayer could pass ; yet seeing
that Mrs. Binns' etymological criticism, involving
as it did ' an aspersion upon their own
parts of speech,' roused the indignation of the
assembly against Mr. Gant to a furious pitch,
he diplomatically held his peace. It was
unanimously resolved that, as the bitterest
revenge that could be taken upon Mr. Gant
was for them to give up religion altogether,
they would never darken a church door again.
Accordingly, on the following Sunday Mr.
Gant had only half the usual congregation to
preach to. Mr. Gant was at no loss to account
for this lamentable state of things. It never
did and never could enter his head that something
said or done by him was to blame in anyway
for anything. This was out of the
question. The real reason for the defection

of half the nucleus was, as he explained to bliss
Tubbs, that they were never taught church
principles. Probably some of them were unbaptized,
many unconfirmed, and ail untrained
m Catholic doctrine. He must begin at the
very beginning and find out all the unbaptized
children in the place, and christen them in a
body on a set Sunday. He must also make the
service more attractive by changing the hymnbook
and instituting a surpliced choir.

Miss Tubbs, suspecting a more specific
cause for the defection of half the congregation,
interviewed Hedges, discovered the reason and
learned that, as things stood, the introduction
of a new hymnal and the institution of a
surpliced choir would kill the little life left in
the nucleus, and old Hedges himself also,
probably. The old man had been all his life
used to the dreariest of all dreary hynmals, a
compilation called ' Cotterill's.' Out of this he
chose seventeen hymns, not because they were
the best, but because he knew by heart the fii^t
verse of each, and in giving it out eras independent
of gaslight or spectacles. These seventeen
hymns, at the rate of four a Sunday, lasted him
a month. Miss Tubbs found that a high-handed

change of the hymnal would alienate
utterly and for ever not only Hedges, but the
whole congregation, whom Hedges swayed ashe
would. Yet this insupportable hymnal
must be changed. How ? She hit upon a
happy plan. Hedges was to have the sale of
the new book and make threepence profit on
each copy sold. If any man in the West Eiding
could withstand such an argument for the
change of a hymn-book. Hedges was not that
man. He became a convert in a moment to
]Mr. Gant's views, and next Sunday, as a consequence,
the congregation again appeared in
full force. Mr. Gant gave out his notice of a set
Sunday for christening all unbaptized children.
And Hedges, full of the anticipated profits of his
new trade, gave out notice also of having the
hymns on sale. Owing, however, at once to
his deafness and to his prepossession, his
proclamation rather clashed with his Yicar's,
who he naturally imagined was announcing the
change of hymnal of which his own mind was
full. When, therefore, Mr. Gant gave out
notice that ' All those who had unbaptized
children should bring them next Sunday to
church,' Hedges rose to add, 'And those on

ye who have none may get them at my hanse :
plain, one shilling ; red, with strong backs, one
shilling and sixpence.'

This unfortunate mistake threw tidings back
a bit. For as it got abroad outside the circle
of the nucleus, many profane wags beset
Hedges' house that week demanding peremptorily
either a plain baby at a shilling, or, if
they weren't in stock, a red one with a strong
back for one shilling and sixpence, so that the
old clerk was coated to frenzy.

In this mood Mr. Gant, who had the
delicate tact of a bull in a rhine-shop, comes
upon him, and bids him sharply hold his
tongue in church in future. He mustn't say
even the ' Amens,' for Mr. Gant would have
them sung by the Sunday-school children until
he got a choir together. Mr. Gant had no
sense of the ludicrous, and the only light in
which Hedges' mistake struck him was as a
breach of the rubric which enjoins that
nothing shall be proclaimed or published in
the church during the time of Divine service
but by the minister.' This second attack of
Mr. Gant's reconverted the old clerk, and
through inn half the congregation, to Protestantism,

and, accordingly, on the following
Sunday Mr. Gant found the nucleus finished
and brought low a^^ain. Again he had recourse
to his Deus ex machine.

What have you been doing now ? ' asked
Miss Tubbs sharply.

I ! I've done nothing.'

You've not been scolding Hedges ae^ain ? '

Hedges is an idiot,' cried Mr. Gant with a
flash of temper ; and proceeded then to the tale
of the jumbled notices of last Sunday. Miss
Tubbs laughed. Mr. Gant was shocked by her
levity. * It's directly against the rubric,' he
said rather sulkily.

What ? The sale of unbaptized infants ? '

No ; but his giving out any notice during
Divine service. There's an express rubric
against it,' said Mr. Gant, drawing forth triumphantly
his Priest's Prayer Book and pointing
out the said rubric to Miss Tubbs. Miss Tubbs
for the first time felt some twinges of remorse
for putting this poor creature into an important
living. She must indemnify the Church by
being herself Vicar of St. George's, retaining
Mr. Gant as her curate.

You have been worrying Hedges, then.'

No ; I said nothing to him except that he
must hold his tongue during Divine service in
future. The Sunday-school children will answer
the responses until we have our surpliced
choir.'

I shall set this thing right, Vicar said bliss
Tubbs, too much irritated and too contemptuous
to be entertained by her protege s wooden
deadness to everything and everyone but
himself and his dignity. ' I shall set this thin
right, Vicar ; but only on condition that you
let Hedges alone in future, and that you take
no step of any kind without coming first to
consult me about it.'

I said nothing but what I have told you to
Hedges,' cried Mr. Gant in amazement ; ' and
as for consulting you. Miss Tubbs, I couldn't
think of doing anything without first coming to
you.'

Send Hedges to me,' said Miss Tubbs
impatiently. ' Tell him I shall be glad to sec
him here any time between five and six this

evening.

Miss Tubbs judged that she could impress
Hedges more effectually in her own house than
in his. Mr. Gant, thus dismissed, went away

cheered with the confidence that his patroness
would set all right again, as in truth she did.
When Hedges came in the evening, Miss Tubbs
soothed the old man with gin-and-water and
apologies ; asked him how many hymn-books
he had sold ; promised him an enormous sale
when the church was consecrated and open for
service, and proceeded then to make interesting
and also interested inquiries about his wife and
children. She learned in answer to these
inquiries that ' 'Mis. Hedges was a deal
younger than him, but was coined ^ wi' hardwork
and wishing, and troubled at times withe
spavin ; and that all his children but one
were doing for theirs ; this one was a bit
declining and fit for nowt but a schoolmaster,
and promised to be a rare scholar. For all he
was nobbut twelve year old next August, he
could read the clerk's verses of the Psalms
faster than he — Hedges — himself, though he'd
been forty year and more at 'em.' Upon this
our wily diplomatist suggested that it would be
as well for Hedges to overlook Mr. Gant's
hastiness, as he was very good-natured, and
would probably — if he did get up a surpliced

' Joined,' i.e. harassed.
VOL II. K

choir — give Mrs. Ileclges the washing of the
surplices — in itself a fortune, and take the
infant phenomenon Hedges into the choir. At
any rate Miss Tubbs was prepared to use her
influence with Mr. Gant to induce him to confer
these favours upon the Hedges family. From
this Miss Tubbs proceeded to congratulate the
old clerk upon the wonderful work he had
done as Scripture reader in the neglected parish,
and the good congregations he had got together
on Sundays in the schoolroom. Indeed, she
had heard so much about it that she was bent
upon seeing for herself, and meant to attend
the School service next Sunday, and every
Sunday till the church was opened. We need
hardly say that after this old Hedges relapsed
into Popery, and made a most energetic whip
to £set into the school next Sunday not only all
the old attenders, but many new ones. Indeed,
candour compels us to confess that the Worthy
old man's zeal outran his honesty a bit. He
not only dropped strong hints of a probable
tea-party, ' or summit,' to be given by Miss
Tubbs to all the attenders at the school in
celebration of the opening of the church ; but
he borrowed at least a dozen teachers from his
old friend and crony, the superintendent of S.

Peter's Sunday Schools, promising to pay them
back with interest at the next anniversary
sermon at S. Peter's. The result was such a
congregation on the next Sunday as would have
amazed Mr. Gant if he hadn't preached on the
afternoon of the preceding Sunday on the
sin of * forsaking the assembling ourselves
together.' As it was, he wasn't surprised in the
least.

In this way the old clerk was brought by
Miss Tubbs to adore what he once burned, and
burn what he once adored, lor did he waver
in his new faith even when, on the opening of
S. George's Church, he was degraded to the
position of verger ; for, while his salary remained
the same, his own perquisites as seller of the
Hymnal, and his wife's as washer of the
surplices, were considerable. Besides, he
enjoyed the bliss of Longfellow's Village Blacksmith
— he heard, or thought lie heard, his offspring's
voice in the choir.

The choir was another trial to Mr. Gant in
the early days of his incumbency. All choirs
are trials. ' Certain sorrows and uncertain
comforts,' to borrow the Widow Madman's description
of children. But Mr. Gant's choir was

K 2

a fiery trial. Miss Tubbs kept lier kind
promise and dedicated Mark, like an infant
Samuel, to the service of the sanctuary. Mr.
Gant made his own mental dedication of the
youth when Miss Tubbs graciously presented
him to the Temple.

'I don't think he has much voice or ear,
Vicar, but I should like to see him in a cassock
and surplice ; and, besides, I think his presence
will have a refining influence on the other boys.
These common boys are so rough and unruly,
you know.'

Certainly Mark had an immense influence
on the common boys, not in right only of his
innate refinement as a gentleman, but in right
also of his audacity and ingenuity. So far as
singing went, he was of no use whatever, having
absolutely no car and no voice ; but this conduct
and example told with great effect upon ' his
rough and unruly ' fellow-choristers. lie succeeded
in keeping the boys, and even the men
sometimes, awake and attentive during the
longest and dreariest of Mr. Gant's discourses
at the school service. On the very first Sunday,
too, of the choir's appearance in St. George's —
the Sunday after the consecration of the church

Mark's influence made itself felt even beyond
the limits of the choir — by the congregation
at large, in fact. On this Sunday Dr.
Clancy was the preacher, and Mr. Gant, leaning
back in his stall, Alas listening, critical and
contemptuous, to his late rector's discourse.
Mr. Gant, even in church, couldn't help the
thought, ' How lucky some men are, to be
sure ! This poor stick of a preacher is vicar of
Weston ,and I merely vicar of S. George's ! '
Mr. Gant forgot that he was yet a young man.
Unless the Church revolutionists her present
equitable system of promotion, Mr. Gant, at
Dr. Clancy's age, will probably be ons of her
most favoured and famous sons. While, as we
say, Mr. Gant with folded legs, folded arms,
and head leant backwards against the corner of
his stall, was mentally contrasting Dr. Clancy's
merit and promotion with his own, .not only
were the choir, boys and men, on the broad
grin, and trying to stanch their laughter
with their surplices, but a good part of the congregation
in the south transept were no less
attentive and lively. Miss Tubbs herself even,
who sat in the south transept, was busy burying
the wrinkles of a smile in the deeper

wrinkles of a frown. The fact was that Master
Mark had been very much struck by the process
of nail making which he had witnessed
during the week in a suburbs of Weston, called
Clay gate, and was now imitating the process
with astonishing exactness and more astonishing
seriousness. Stretching forth the forefinger
of his left hand till it almost touched the fiery
head of Mr. Gant, he left it there for a moment
to become red hot in the furnace. Then he
withdrew it sharply, laid it on the desk as on
an anvil, and hammered it with his right fist,
I now on the back, now on the front, and now
on either side, till the nail was made and
dropped into its place, when he again thrust
his finger into the burning fiery furnace and
went through the whole process da capo. It was
not so nuich the act itself as the doomed and
deadly earnestness of the doing of it — really surprising
in a boy of twelve — Avhicli upset the due
decorum of the choir and those of the congregation
who could command a view of it. Presently
Mr. Gant, shooting a meaning glance
towards Miss Tubbs at some Low Church
heresy in the vicar's sermon, found all eyes
fixed on something behind him. Looking

round suddenly, he caught all the choir grinning,
except Mark, who, gazing upwards with
an awed and breathless interest in Dr. Clancy's
sermon, had neither eyes, ears, nor thoughts,
not to say smiles, for whatever silliness distracted
and amused his more profane fellows.
Mr. Gant was so struck with the little lad's
devotion that, much as he disliked him, he
could not help holding him up to the whole
choir as an example, after service in the
vestry.

This child,' he said, laying his hand on
Mark's meek head, ' this child, and he's only a
child, put to shame this morning not merely
the boys, but — I must say it — the men of the
choir. Boys, I hope you will take example,
not by the men of the choir, who set you and
the whole congregation so bad an example this
morning — but by this child. Mark, my boy, I
shall take the opportunity next Sunday of
the presence of the whole Sunday School, to
present you with a copy of the Holy Scriptures
for your excellent and exemplary behaviour
during the sermon this morning.'

The presentation, however, was never made.
One of the men of the choir was ill-conditioned

enough to tune the tables, and exonerate himself
and his colleagues at the expense of poor
Mark. In fact, he told the whole story with
Yorkshire frankness to Mr. Gant, who, being
extremely sensitive about the colour of his hair,
was fired with such fury as to insist upon
Mark's dismissal from the choir. Miss Tubbs
herself, indeed, made but a feeble resistance, as
the offence was so flagrant ; and in order to
appease Mr. Gant and pave the way for Mark's
retiuii at an early date, she affected to feel
wroth with the lad, and condemned him to the
appalling punishment of sitting with the school-children
in the west gallery on the following
Sunday.

As it turned out, this hardly mended
matters. Mark enjoyed his exile immensely.
Nor was this all — lie made others enjoy it also.
Even in that S. Helena he made his influence
felt. Mr. Gant preached after the fashion of a
hen drinking. He bent down, took a sip from
his MS., and then lifted up his head to heaven,
stooping again for another sip, and again, as it
seemed, returning thanks for the delicious
draught. On the following Sunday morning,
while in the middle of his sermon and in the

middle of a sip, his head just being raised above
the horizon is arrested and organised. The
half finished sentence falters and flutters and
drops dead in mid flight, like a shot bird.
There, opposite to him, he sees, or thinks he
sees, old Hedges beings translated to heaven, as
it were piecemeal and in numbers. At least
his hair is soaring aloft of itself in the most
mysterious manner — Hedges himself the while
bald as a coot, sitting listening seemingly withall
his ears to Mr. Gant's dreary discourse,
utterly unconscious that

his fell of hair
Did at this dismal treatise rouse and stir,
As life were in 't.

In fact, the old man never looked more
absorbed in devout attention, for he was
counting up the profits of his week's sale of
Hymns. Mr. Gant's sudden silence opened
dozing eyes and fixed wandering attention on
himself for a moment ; next moment his wild
stare turned every eye in church to the west end.
There they see, bald as a billiard-ball, old
Hedges looking preternaturally devout while his
head of hair rises, still and steady as a balloon,
towards the ceiling. At first everyone was

too amazed to laugh ; Ijiit when the welcoming
down suddenly by the run plop in the
old clerk's face, Alas identified by him and
clapped in much confusion on his head, it was
wholly impossible for anyone to keep his
countenance. Mr. Gant had, in fact, to bring
one of his best sermons to a sudden, lame, and
impotent conclusion. It was Mark of course.
He had made wear with fire and sword upon
old Hedges' wig during the rehearsals in the
school-room — sometimes clipping it with a pak
of scissors, but more often singeing it, and then
sending the unconscious victim to find out
where the smell of burnt hair came from. For
Hedges stood in awe of Miss Tubbs' nephew.
This morning the sight of his old enemy, the
wig exactly underneath, and the presence in
his pocket of a new fishing-line, &c., which he
had brought with him to church as a help to
fix his serious attention, suo-crested the brilliant
idea of hooking and hauling up the wig.
Just as he was about landing it the sudden
silence and the sight of the eyes of the whole
congregation fastened on his handiwork
unnerved him. He dropped the wig with the
line and hooks attached into Hedges' face, who,

catching it incautiously and clapping it hastily
on his head, got one of the hooks embedded in
the palm of his hand. He had to lean pensively
with his head upon his hand for the rest
of the service, since, if he moved his hand, his
wig must come away with it. As the congregation
filed past him out of church and
saw him, instead of opening the doors, sitting
still with his head upon his hand, the picture
of misery, they thought the shock had affected
his mind, and gave him a wide and safe berth.
Mark, however, now no longer disconcerted,
came to him in something of a temper. He was
not pleased to find the hook so fixed in Hedge's
hand that it would take some time and trouble
to extricate it. While busy upon this operation
— abusing the old clerk the Awhile for a
muff and a mole — Miss Tubbs and Mr Gant
came upon them, and Miss Tubbs, to her
honour be it spoken, reprimanded Mark, and
even took the fishing-line from him, nor did
she restore it till they got home. Mr. Gant, it
will be seen, had his troubles in the first days
of his incumbency, and troubles, too, of an
appropriately heroic kind. A man with high
aims must reckon upon high obstacles.

CHAPTER XXII.
Mabel's reprieve.

It is time we returned to Mabel. She at once
fell in with George's decision to emigrate to
Australia because it was George's. She even
began to see advantages in the scheme, and
among others this — that when he returned to
his faith and his profession he might work as a
missionary among the heathen. Of his return
to his faith and his profession lie was assured.
George shunned the subject, but talked hopefully
of this plans and prospects as a farmer.
He felt the relief of a man who lias roused
himself by a supreme effort from a nightmare,
and he never now passed the parish church
without something of the feeling with which a
released prisoner passes under the walls of his
late prison. On the other hand, Mabel's utter
self forget fulness deepened his remorse for his
selfishness in involving her fate with his own.

He kept his pledge not to recur to this side of
the subject in her presence, but she could see
and interpret truly the cloud that settled now
and again on his brow. At such times she
would speak in the lightest and cheerfulness
way of life in Australia as the happiest of
happy projects, and draw pleasant and humorous
pictures of it put together out of books on
Australia she had taken to reading. Thus they
spent hours each day together, uninterrupted
and unpr vented by Miss Masters. Mabel
flattered herself that her aunt's indulgence was
due to her own eloquent pleading for a continuance
of her approval of their engagement,
but in truth it had quite another origin, which
we had better explain here. Mabel had wisely
prevented George announcing his resignation to
her aunt, as she knew his self accusations
would only suggest a text for her aunt to
preach upon. She took the thing in hand herself
and broached it to her aunt as a commonplace
piece of news. Her aunt's first idea was
that George had been compelled to resign for
some iniquity. ' Why has he been forced to
resign P ' she asked, prepared to be shocked by
some scandal.

lie has not hccn forced to resign, Aunt.
He has resigned of this own accord. lie is
quitting the Church altogether.'

Light now began to break in upon Miss
Masters. Mr. Kneeshaw, whom she had long
suspected of ritualism, was going over to
Some.

Going to be a priest ! ' she cried in
horror. ' It was a mercy you weren't married
to him. You'd have lead to become a nun ! '
This fate seemed even more horrible than
that of a clergyman's widow, as the widow, at
least, hadn't to wear an outrageous costume.

No ; he's not going over to Eome, Aunt.
He's quitting the Church, that's all.'

But why ? '

There are some tidings he had to preach
as a clergyman which he didn't quite believe.'

But he might have paid a curate to preach
them. It's a food living.' This suf^cTestion
was unanswerable and unanswered. Miss
Masters, having paused in vain for a reply,
resumed : ' What is he going to do, then ? '

He's thinking of £rom<x to Australia.'

To Australia ! ' In Miss Masters' young
and impressionable days Australia was known

chiefly as a model moral sewage farm fertilised
by our felons. Hence lier horror. ' Wliat
takes him to Australia ? '

He is Roini]^ to tarn farmer there.'

This didn't put a better aspect on the case.
Miss Masters had in her mind's eye but one
picture of a farmer — a Lincolnshire lout, with
one very dirty hand scratching his head and
the other holding his hat (reverentially removed
in her honour), while his wife — draggled and
depressed, with a half-peeled potato in one
hand and a broken knife in the other — accompanied
every fourth word with a curtsey, with
the regularity of an orchestral conductor beating
time.

All I can say is you're well quit of him ; '
and she said it most decidedly.

But I'm not quit of him, Aunt.'

Do you mean to say he insists on holding
you to your engagement ? '

No ; he would have given me up with
everything else if I had let him. But I
wouldn't let him.'

At last the truth dawned on Miss Masters.
This was George's ingenious, if not ingenuous,
mode of jilting Mabel. That he should change

his mind about her in a week seemed improbable,
but not as improbable as that he should
change his mind in a week about his life-long
creed and convictions.

Ah ! ' she exclaimed, ' I see. I couldn't
have believed it. Only a week engaged ! It's

abominable. I should Has he private

means ? '

Mabel was puzzled by her aunt's excitement.
' Very little.'

He says he has very little, I dare say.
Still, it's no use, my dear ; you can't help yourself;
you must let him go ; it wouldn't do to
take it into court, you know ; the scandal ; and
/ should have to give evidence like that I gave
at the inquest upon the drunken man we ran
over at Clifton. I couldn't do that again for
anybody — not for anybody. No, no, my dear,
he has behaved abominably to you, but there's
no help for it ; you must let him go.'

Mabel at last took in her aunt's flattering
view of the situation — that George wished to
get rid of his engagement at any sacrifice of
fortune, and that she, at any sacrifice of self-respect,
wished to keep him to it. It was a
generous construction of their motives and

mutual position. She generally dutifully endured
her aunt's silliness, or met it sportively,
but this was too trying, as it profaned George's
love no less than her own.

You do not understand,' she said contemptuously.


Her aunt, interpreting the words by the
tone in which they were uttered, took them asa
reflection on her old-maidenly ignorance of
affairs of the heart — a viperous stab in the
most vital part — her amour propre.

!Neo, / was never jilted,' she retorted venomously.


You do not understand, aunt ; ' repeated
Mabel, with quiet dignity, not now contemptuous.
Her aunt's retort had the effect
only of making her feel it ' weakness to be
wroth with weakness.' ' George has no wish
to break off his engagement.'

Why, then, should he give up the living
and offer to give you up at the same time ? '
lie asked triumphantly. When her vanity —
that is the profoundest depths of her soul — was
stirred, the waters took a time to settle.

Well, then. Aunt,' said Mabel in despair,
I shall take your advice. When next he

VOL. IT. L

comes I shall tell him that I am willing to
release him from his enf]:a<^emeiit/

That's the proper course, Mabel,' replied
her aunt with much dignity.

]3ut suppose he should still continue to
come ? ' Mabel asked anxiously.

There's not much fear of that,' with a nod
of the most perfect self complacency.

She was absolutely absorbed in the contemplation
of her own shrewdness, to the exclusion
of all thought of the agony of wounded
love and pride which her niece must be enduring
if this construction of George's conduct
were the true one. There is no callousness
like the callousness of vanity. There is some
hope of getting into an inhospitable house, but
none of getting into one full to overflowing,
and a churlish heart is more sympathetic thana
vain one which is crowded-out with thoughts
of self.

When, however, George came not only
every day, but twice a day, Miss Masters began
at last and with reluctance to think she had
wronged him, and we need not sav that this
consciousness did not dispose her more favourably
towards nim. In the first place, 'he ne'er

pardons who has done the wrong,' and in the
second place George's constancy convicted her
of error in a matter in which she considered
herself an expert. When a whole week of such
visiting put the thing beyond question, she
recurred to the subject, on which Mabel had
kept a discreet silence. Even now, however,
Miss Masters had no idea of admitting a
mistake. She affected to think she had desired
Mabel to break off the engagement, and not
merely to permit it to be broken off.

Mr. Kneeshaw has been here again to-day,
Mabel ? '

'Yes, Aunt.'

I thought you agreed with me that the
engagement had better be broken off.'

If he wished it broken off.'

'If he wished it ! My dear, no girl of
proper spirit should care what a man wished '
this was lofty and sweeping — ' I dare say
he'd wish you to go to Australia like a felon,
and peel potatoes,' an allusion, not to the chief
industry of Botany Bay, but to the occupation
in which she had surprised her Lincolnshire
farmer's wife.

l2

He doesn't wish me to go to Australia,
Aunt — at least, not now.'

It doesn't matter when, if he wishes you
to go. I never heard of any decent person
going to Australia, Mabel — never; and if he
has to go, depend upon it there's a reason for
it,' with a nod which suggested forgery at least.

Mabel stood silent, with her elbow leaning
on the mantelpiece and her head upon her
hand, looking down upon her aunt, who, in the
intervals of her utterances, was painting away
unconcernedly. The girl yearned for a mother's
sympathy, and this was the nearest approach toit
within her reach

I think, perhaps, you had better write to
him to say that all is over between you, Mabel.
It is more satisfactory than an interview, you
know, and easier too.'

'I love him. Aunt.' The words were in
themselves little likely to impress Miss Masters,
but the tone in which tliev were uttered disclosed
even to lier a shocking depth of feeling.

My dear ! ' exclaimed Miss Masters, looking
fearfully towards the door, which might
have been ajar, or behind which some eavesdropper

might have heard the degrading confession.


Yes ; I love him. I cannot do it,* said
Mabel miserably.

My dear Mabel ! ' again exclaimed her
scandalised aunt, looking this time her horror
through her double eyeglass levelled at her
niece. ' Such feelings are most unbecoming ina
young girl — most unbecoming. Love a man
who says he is willing to give you up and who
is going to Australia ! It is shocking ! What
will your father say ? A farmer, too ! A
thing we never had in our family ! To say you
love him in that tone ! It's not modest — it's
not, indeed. I must see your father about it
this very day.'

Do not take it from me ! ' cried Mabel, ina
tone of agonised entreaty. She felt that her
very life lay in the hands that wielded her
father's authority. ' Do not take it from me.
It's everything — it's the only thing I have in
the world. Do not take it from me.' She
had stepped to the table where her aunt sat,
and stood opposite her with her hands clasped
and wrung hard together, and an expression of
intense and pained suspense in her face.

Before her aunt could answer, the door opened
and the servant announced Mr. Sagar.

Mr. Sagar, following close upon the maid,
took in the situation at a glance. Mabel had
told him of George's resignation and of his
resolution to emigrate to Australia, and he had
doubly endeared himself to her by his generous
approval and appreciation of George's
motives. In fact, Mabel had come to look on
Mr. Sasrar and to confide in him as a father — a
filial regard which poor Bob Sagar was fain to
be content with. For himself, he had enough
regard of another than the paternal kind for
Mabel to make his praise of George and his
advocacy and furtherance of the lover's plans
nothings short of magnanimous. The truth is,
Mr. Sagar was an Irishman, and anything
chivalrous had a fascination for him. An
Irishman may have no more idea than a woman
of justice, but of generosity he has as high an
ideal as any man in the world. Wliat could
be more generous than to forward the suit of
a successful rival ? Xo one had better reason
than Bob Sai2;ar to know that it was absurd to
speak of rivalry between himself and George
Kneeshaw ; that lie did not love Mabel with a

lover's intensity ; that George had won her
before he appeared ; and that even if George
was out of the field altogether, it was in the
last degree improbable that Mabel could ever
have been brought to care for a man twice her
age. Mr. Sagar, if he looked the thing fairly
in the face, would have been forced to confess
this ; but an Irishman is not given to looking
unflattering facts fairly in the face, and Mr.
Sagar preferred to regard George as a successful
rival. Xow the magnanimity of helping
a rival to gain his mistress's hand had an
irresistible fascination for so chivalrous an
Irishman as Bob Sagar. It seemed an heroic
thing to do, and was therefore done with all
the greater glow and zest.

Mr. Sagar, as we said, following closely upon
Jane's heels, took in the situation at a glance.
He felt certain Mabel had been making; a
despairing appeal to her aunt to renew her approval
of their engagement under the altered
circumstances of the case, and he resolved to do
all he could to reinforce her appeal. His help
was not to be despised. For, we need hardly
say, perhaps, that the moment Mr. Sagar
appeared on the scene Miss Masters set Tier

cap at him, and was by this time absolutely
certain that a proposal was only a question of
time. Why else should he call day after day,
and sometimes sit tete-astute with lier for half-an-hour
together ? It was true. The wretched man's
visits were occasionally so ill-timed that Mabel
was either out or reading for her father, and he
would have to endure the aunt for half-an-hour
for the sake of five minutes with the niece at
its close. When Mr. Sagar was announced,
Miss Masters, having hurriedly snatched off her
double eye-glass, rose and advanced graciously
to greet him, and in reseating herself took care
to have her back to the liijht. Mr. Sauar
having; returned the aunt's £greeting]: in his
genial, jovial way, took Mabel's hand, and,
having shaken it, led her by it to the door.
I have brought you a box of bonbons,
child,' he said, with a meaning look. ' Go ;
you'll find them in the 'nursery." Don't be
greedy.'

Mabel knew at once it was (jqov^o He
and Mr. Sacer had entered the house together,
and Mr. Sairar had sent him to the ' nursery '
with the promise that Mabel would join him
there. If, however, Mabel was at no loss to

interpret Mr. Sagar's words, neither was Miss
Masters. She had no doubt at all that Mabel
was sent away as de trop and that the expected
proposal was upon her.

It makes us long to be young again when
we see these youus^ folks billings and cooing,
Miss Masters, doesn't it ? ' said Mr. Sagar, opening
the campaign as he thought very brilliantly
by speaking of the old lady as his coeval, that
is, knocking twenty years at least off her age.
This is coming promptly to the point, thought
Miss Masters.

T — I don't know,' she stammered, as
modest and embarrassed as if the proposal
itself underlay Mr. Sagar's words.

But you feel a kind of sympathy with them,
don't you, eh ? ' urged Mr. Sagar, thinking
what a confirmed and confounded old prude
she is, to be sure.'

Oh, Mr. Sagar, women are weak creatures,'
glancing up timidly for a moment into Bob's
amazed face, and then casting down her modest
eyes.

Bob was nonplussed. He was on the
wrong scent altogether. It never entered his
head that this old thine? could be dreaming of

a husband, to say nothing of him. He thought
it was just the other way, that she was so
inveterate a ])rucle as to affect an aversion to
the very memory or mention of love, and that
she was praying him not to press his appeal on
behalf of Mabel and Kneeshaw. In fact, the
mind of each was so fully prepossessed with
its own idea that there was no room in it for
the idea of the other.

» ' Come, come, Miss Masters, you can't be
so cruel as to cross the course of true love,'
pleaded Bob in a wheedling tone, putting his
hand out to touch the back of hers.

'I — I don't know what to say.'

Say " yes," and make two people happy for
life,' said Bob, quite pleased with the enemy's
wavering at the very first onset.

Miss Masters' heart leaped within her. ' At
last ! ' She had, however, silly as she was, the
woman's instinct against cheapening herself.
A little tantalising made the prize more precious.
With her eyes downcast upon the
paint-brush she was nervously fingering with
both hands, she faintly whispered : ' But the
acquaintance is so short, ]mr. Sagar.'

There isn't much time to lose, you knows

said Bob, alluding to Georges immediate emigration.


Miss Masters thought it an uncalled-for and
ungracious allusion to her age. She would
punish him by withholding her consent a little
hosier.

No, I don't think I dare ; I don't, indeed,'
she said, pronouncing each fatal word slowly
and staccato.

Do you mean your brother would be
angry ? ' asked the perplexed Bob.

It's no business of my brother's,' she
replied sharply, thinking that Mr. Sagar was
taking her own willingness too much for
granted.

I thought, perhaps, he might have just a
little to say to it,' said Bob drily. She must
be the devil's own tartar, he thought, if she has
reduced Masters to meekness.

No ; he has nothing to say to it,' still
tartly.

Then it's all right,' said Bob cheerily.
You'll not have the heart to hold out, Miss
Masters. It is'nt in you. You must consent.
You will, won't you ? '

You'll always be kind to me, Eobert ? ' she

said in a timid and toiicliing voice, looking up
pleadingly into Bob's face. For a moment he
thought her mad, next moment, Avitli an Irish
quickness, he took in the situation. ' Miss
Masters ! ' he exclaimed, starting up suddenly
as if stung.

Call me " Eebecca," ' lie said softly,
taking his exclamation for an expression of joy,
and his sudden rising as the first move of an
approaching embrace.

Certainly ; I'll call Eebecca With pleasure,'
said Bob with extraordinary presence of mind,
hurrying to the door and affecting to think
Eebecca ' was the name of Miss Masters' maid.
Eebecca I ' he cried at the top of the stairs
and at the top of his voice, ' Miss Masters
wants you,' and descended the stairs three steps
at a time, not stopping to draw breath or bridle
till he reached the road.

Here he leaned against a wall, and first
laughed immoderately, then, wee regret to say,
swore and then laughed assail till the tears
came. ' Faith, it was a narrow squeak,
though,' he said once more, turning serious ashe
walked away. ' '" Call me Eebecca ! " *
Here ]mr. Sagar stopped again t(^ pinch himself

and make sure it was not a horrible nightmare.
'Faith, you must be getting old, Bob Sagar,
when grim death can stare you in the face like
that ! ' Thus meditating, Mr. Sagar hurried to
his hotel, consulted a time-table, called for his
bill, packed his portmanteau, wrote a short note
to Mabel, threw himself into a cab, and never
felt quite safe till he found himself well underway
in the Great Northern express for London.
Meantime Ariadne, thus abruptly abandoned
by Theseus, was by no means in despair.
Quite the contrary. She was exultant. She
had no doubt at all that Mr. Sagar had
misunderstood her — hadn't heard her distinctly
for she spoke soft and low as became a
maiden, timid and tremulous as an aspen leaf
stirred by the first breathing of spring.
Under the wrong impression, then, that she had
finally refused him, the wretched man had
rushed away in a frenzy of despair. It was
to be hoped he would do no violence to himself.
If not, the thing was remediable and should
be remedied. When Mabel returned to the
drawing-room, she found her aunt too full of
triumph and transport to be unamiable.
Besides, the old lady felt that if Mabel was to

be on her side in her love affair, she must be
on Mabel's side in this business, bad as it was,
of that felonious farmer, George Kneeshaw.

Have you written to Mr. Kneeshaw,
Mabel ? '

'No Aunt,' said Mabel, looking up
piteously for her death-warrant.

Well, my dear, if it is such a pain to you
to part with him, I cannot ask you to give hin
up.'

Mabel could hardly trust her ears. ' Dearest
Aunt,' she cried, as she kissed the old lady
with much fervour, ' how can I thank you ?'

My dear, I could not ask you to do what
would break your heart.'

Here was a sudden conversion ! Nor was
Miss Masters less exultant and amiable an hoi*
later when Mabel read Mr. Sagar's note to her.

Mr. Sagar's gone ! ' exclaimed Mabel, when
she opened the note.

Miss Masters was not in the least surprised.

What does he say ? ' she asked excitedly.

He says " he has lead most unexpectedly
to hurry off* to town, and that what has taken
him there will prevent his return. But he
hopes that I shall write regularly and tell him

all that happens, as there's nothing he'll be so
anxious to hear as news from me." And then
he gives his London address. I am so sorry,'
said Mabel, suddenly saddened again.

'My dear, he'll be back soon,' said Miss
Masters, with a roguish nod and smile which
Mabel was wholly at a loss to interpret.

Miss Masters took the letter from her, noted
the address, and made use of it in directing that
evening the following recall to the happy Mr.
Sagar. It read like an advertisement in the
agony column of the Times. ' Come back.
I did not know my own heart. You alone of
all have touched it. Come back to your
Eebecca.' Though Bob did not come to
Eebecca, yet Miss Masters could not recall
her approval of Mabel's engagement, given
under the fond delusion of her own love affair,
and thus the lovers were allowed to spend
the last few sad and sweet days together
unmolested.

Chapter XXm.

A STORM IN A TEACUP.

George's resignation created a stir in Weston
generally, but a storm in the parish church.
George was popular with the poor, and with
most of the Sunday School teachers. Those
young ladies, indeed, who attended the Sunday
School with mixed motives, not so much from
love of souls generally as from love of souls
swathed in cassock waistcoats, rather feared
than liked him. He was cynical and satirical,
they said, and they felt that he saw through
and through them. But the other teachers and
all the children worshipped him with that kind
of hero-worship which any kindly clergyman
can win by a little sympathy and self-sacrifice.
Accordingly, when the news spread of his promotion
to S. George's, there was an outburst of
feeling in the schools and parish very creditable
to both pastor and people, which of course

sought expression in the usual presentation.
Notwithstanding that the times were not good,
and Dr. Clancy looked askance and sour at the
movement, a considerable sum was subscribed
before George's next step, his resignation not
only of the curacy, but of S. George's and of
the ministry itself, became generally known.
Dr. Clancy at once thought, and was pleased to
thhik, that this startling news would put an end
to the project and put to shame its promoters.
But it didn't. Such was the ignorance or
apathy of the poor concerning real religion,
that sympathy was rather deepened than
deadened by the report, which got about in a
day, that sir. Kneeshaw was giving up everything
— income, position, and prospects — for
conscience sake. Subscribers increased their
subscriptions, new subscribers in numbers gave
in their names, and only very few were Christian
enough to take the view of Dr. Clancy and Mr.
Gant, that Mr. Kneeshaw was a criminal of the
deepest dye.

We have too much respect for Dr. Clancy
and Mr. Gant to quote here their conversations
upon this terrible Kneeshaw scandal. Nay, we
shall even refrain through the same motive

VOL. II. M

from giving the views on the subject of an old
woman, a great friend of Mabel's, who understood
from Mr. Gant that Mr. Kneeshaw had
stabbed his mother in church because she was
a Catholic. This old lady had a poor opinion
of Catholics, that is, of the Irish ; ' they were
drunken folk, an' inmost alius fratchin', still a
man's mother wor his mother, choose how ; '
and, the old woman being herself a mother,
abused George to Mabel with a clerical zest
and zeal. But the abuse was so like that of
Dr. Clancy and Mr. Gant, that in respect for
them and their cloth wee decline to print it.

We must, however, as it has a bearing on
our story, say something of the practical effects
of Dr. Clancy's feelings towards George as they
showed themselves in his opposition to the
proposed presentation.

No one was more scandalised by the movement
than Mr. Gant, in part because the presentation
was to be to a heretic, but chiefly
because it was not to be to himself, who also
was about to leave the parish church Hearing,
til en, Mr. Sherlock stigmatise George's desertion
of the Church as ' a kind of matricide,' and Dr.
Clancy describe all subscribers to the presentation

as ' accessories after the fact to his offence,'
Mr. Gant bustled about repeating and exaggerating
after his manner these two statements to
all he met or visited. Some, like Mabel's old
friend, somewhat misunderstood him ; others
understood him, but disagreed with him ; and
only a few could be brought to see the thing
from anything near his standpoint. Accordingly
the movement was not in the least checked
by Mr. Gant's crusade, and he had to report to
Dr. Clancy that this disgraceful scandal to the
Church was being promoted by almost all the
Sunday School teachers, and that a meeting to
fix the day and form of the presentation was to
be held the next evening in the Parish Church
schools.

This thing should be stopped, Dr. Clancy.'

'It shall be stopped,' cried the Doctor,

who was a dictatorial little man. ' You will

attend the meeting, Mr. Gant, and let it know

my views on this subject.'

Yes ? ' replied Mr. Gant, interrogatively,
expecting the Doctor to arm him with a more
formidable weapon than his views on the subject.
Hadn't they heard Mr. Gant's views unmoved
?

u 2

Tell them plainly what / think about it,
Mr. Gant,' repeated the Doctor, at a loss to
interpret Mr. Gant's expectation of further
instructions.

But suppose they still persist in going on
with it ? *

The Doctor thought Mr. Gant had waxed
fat and kicked since his appointment to
S. George's, and that the audacious suggestion
was ill-disguised insolence. ' Be good enough,
Mr. Gant, to follow my instructions, and we
shall hear no more of the matter,' he said
sharply, in a manner at once offended and
offensive, and dismissed Mr. Gant by the simple
process of turning his back upon him.

Mr. Gant attended the meeting, and expressed
the Doctor's views, as it were, through
a speaking-trumpet ; exaggerating Dr. Clancy's
abhorrence of George's offence, and his disgust
with those who showed plainly that they condoned
or approved of it by their promoting the
presentation. Mr. Gant's language was so
strong, will, and metaphorical, that many of
the teachers and others present were at last
convinced that Mr. Kneeshaw must have committed
some crime unmentioned, because it was

unmentionable, which forced him to resign
S. George's and quit the ministry.

Xow many of the teachers were factory
girls ; and there is no known mode of advertisement
comparable to getting together thirty or
forty factory girls, one from each mill in the
town, and telling them a piece of scandal. At
6*30 the next morning it Avill be in every
mouth in every mill, and at 6.30 next evening
it will be sown in six thousand households,
each itself a hotbed for its propagation in its
neighbourhood.

Xow of course in each victory there is a
church faction and a chapel faction, who battledore
the shuttlecocks of ecclesiastical scandals
back and forwards with polemical moderation
and mildness. To the chapel faction this unknown
and unnameable wickedness of a church
parson was a welcome weapon. It was all the
more handy and horrible for being unknown.
The dullest imagination can picture more
horrors ' than vast hell can hold,' and is sure at
any rate to fill a blank with its own favourite
sin. But, we need not say, that as the chapel
hands grew more and more horrible in their
hints, and certain in their conclusions, the

cliurcli hands, who lead themselves set the thing
alioat, repented them of their lack of charity, and
began to doubt a scandal which was flung back
in their owai faces. As often as not in Church,
State, and Society, a devil is cast out by the
help of a devil. Many of these girl teachers,
then, finding themselves hoist with their own
petard, became on a sudden cautious and
charitable, and agreed to see the superintendents
of the Sunday Schools, and set them upon
ascertaining from Mr. Gant what the crime was
of which he gave such horrible hints. The
superintendents, nothing loth, presented themselves
that evening at Mr. G ant's lodgings as a
deputation from the schools, to ask Mr. Gant to
put in writing his charges against Mr. Kneeshaw\
Mr. Gant was amazed and confounded. He
had made no charges against Mr. Kneeshaw.
What ! not the other niorht at the meeting ? '
No. He had said at the meeting merely that
Mr. Kneeshaw^ was an Atheist, or an Infidel, or
at all events didn't believe what the Church
believed.' ' Mr. Gant would not mind, then,
attending another meeting and making this
explanation to it ? ' ' Mr. Gant wouldn't
mind.'

Now the best service you can do a man is
to spread about him some infamous calumny
Which can soon and certainly be disproved; for
of course, in the reaction an unpopular man
becomes popular, and a popular man heroic.
This was the service Mr. Gant did Mr. Kneeshaw.
When he was forced to explain at the second
meeting that Mr. Kneeshaw 's crime consisted in
not believing what the Church believed, that is,
what Mr. Gant believed, that is (in the judgment
of the superintendents, both grim Protestants)
what the Pope believed, the enthusiasm
for Mr. Kneeshaw and against Mr. Gant
rose to fever heat. Mr. Gant was absolutely
hissed, and rushed off in a rage to report to his
rector.

Meanwhile the meeting, having buzzed a
bit like an angry hive, settled down to arrange
about the time, place, and character of the presentation.
The first question was whether it
should be a purse of sovereigns and a timepiece
or piano, or a purse of sovereigns alone.
There was some captious objection to the piano,
on the grounds that Mr. Kneeshaw didn't play,
wasn't married, and couldn't take it about with
him easily to or in Australia. The timepiece

was popular, and woiild have carried the dav,
but for the unfortunate fact that there were two
watchmakers among the subscribers, and it was
not possible to order the clock from either fer
neither without offence. Besides a piano and a
timepiece, the only presentation that had been
made, and was therefore conceivable by unimaginative
and precedent-ridden Yorkshire
folk, was a work-box ; but the strong good
sense of the meeting held this an inappropriate
present to a bachelor. There remained, therefore,
only the other alternative of a purse of
sovereigns in its naked simplicity, Avliich finally
was carried unanimously. As for the day, as
Monday and Tuesday were ' washing days,'
Wednesday service night, Thursday baking,
and Friday ' fettling day,' Saturday was carried
without discussion. As for the place, of course
it should be presented in the school, and equally
of course, after a tea-party. There remained
only the arrangements for the tea. Just at this
point of the proceedings Mr. Gant returned,
held a hasty conference with the superintendents,
and marched off again With an air of no little
triumph. The senior superintendent then
announced to the breathless meeting: that he

and his colleague were sent for by Dr. Clancy
but would return soon and communicate the
conference and its result. This announcement
created a erect sensation in the House, which
remained in a very excited state till the return
of its leaders from the foot of the throne. We
must explain what took place there. Mr. Gant,
as we have said, rushed off to the Yicar to
complain of the indignity done to him, Mr.
Gant. If he could have emptied himself of
himself for a single moment, he would of course
have represented the indignity as done in his
person to the Doctor, whose ambassador he
was, and thus secure the violent revenge he
was hot for. But Mr, Gant could no more cet
himself out of his mind for a moment than he
could leap away from his own shadow. However,
as the Doctor happened to be a self-important
little man, this did not much matter. The
insult of which Mr. Gant gave, as usual, an
exaggerated account, would not have seemed
to Dr. Clancy terrible if it had not glanced off
Mr. Gant and touched himself. This was
terrible.

Do I understand you to say, Mr Gant,
that when you told them of my disapproval of

this scandalous subscription they hissed you ? '
asked the appalled vicar.

They hissed my whole speech ! ' cried Mr.
Gant, as if this was the superlative of the
positive insult the Doctor incredulously questioned.


Did they know, Mr. Gant, that you were
expressing my views on the subject? ' asked the
Doctor, pale but composed.

Certainly ; I said I came there at your
request to tell them what you thought about
it.'

There was a solemn silence, broken at last
by the Doctor's saying in an awful voice, ' Send
the men to me.'

The superintendents ? '

Yes.'

Now ? '

If you find them still in school, Mi. Gant.
Thank you. Good night.'

Hence the summons to the superintendents.
Mr. Lightowlers, the senior superintendent, was
a difficult man to deal with. He was a grocer,
but of an grocer-like mien and manner. An
immense man, slow of intellect, speech, and
movement, with a face like a full moon, gashed

by an enormous mouth. Wlien he smiled
there seemed no room for another smile in the
school. But he seldom smiled, or indeed
opened his mouth except to eat or drink. He
swallowed an idea as slowly as a snake crushes,
lubricates, and sucks down a rabbit, and took a
snake's time to digest it. But there was one
thing harder than to get an idea into his
head — to get one out of it ; for his mind was
like a missionary box ; you might get one thing
at a time with some difficulty into it, but
hardly any amount of shaking would get a
thing out. Possibly his vast height made him
seem so slow. Sounds took so long to reach
him. After you had talked to him for five
minutes on various subjects, he answered only
your first sentence. He might have answered
the last sentence next day, perhaps, if you had
come upon him at the precise moment of its
reaching him. ' His soul was like a star and
dwelt apart.' It was so high up that it gave
little light, and that little took long to travel.
He had already overtaken the idea that Mr.
Kneeshaw was leaving the parish church, and
that a presentation was to be made to him ;
and he had got abreast of the idea of his giving

up S. George's and the ministry, his reason
therefor and Mr. G ant's rage thereat ; but Dr.
Clancy's feeing in the matter was not yet quite
clear to him. It was clear to his colleague,
Mr. Garside, who, thongs no genius, was
brighter than Mr. Li<^htowlers, to whose
judgment, however, Mr. Garside deferred sincerely
as to a man whose father lead left him
4,000/. These two dignitaries, we may say in
passing, were not the superintendents of the
main and mother parish church schools, but of
an outlying daughter in Mr. Kneeshaw's
charge.

Smuniat up ? ' said Mr. Garside interrogatively,
as the two left the school together.
Weston folk are the most terse and laconic
speakers in the world.

Summit up ? '

After some seconds' deliberation Mr. Lignite
replied, ' Ay.'

Happen it's t' presentation ? ' again interrogatively.


Mr. Lightowlers, after half a minute's
consideration, replied ' Ay.'

lie's again it,' resumed Mr. Garside, referring
to Dr. Clancy ; but Mr. Liglitowlers,

understanding him to refer to Mr Gant, was
again able, after a few seconds' pause to reply,
Ay;

As Mr. Garside was himself slow and
"weighty of speech, this conversation lasted
them till they reached the vicarage and prepared
Mr. Lightowlers for the subject of the
.Doctor's lecture. It was as well that he was so
prepared, not merely because his mind was
slow to turn as a tortoise, but because the
Doctor was not pompous in speech, but short
and sharp rather.

Mr. Lightowlers no sooner filled the doorway
of the study with his enormous person
than the Doctor flew straight at his throat so to
speak.

Good evening, gentlemen. Am I to
understand that you persist in making a presentation
to my late curate, Mr. Kneeshaw, in
the teeth of my express disapproval ? '

Here the Doctor paused for a reply, which
Mr Lightowlers was able to make with unusual
promptitude. He was prepared for the question
about the presentation, and answered, after
a moment or two, without thought, ' Ay.'

It was not the answer itself, but the manner

of the answer, that was maddening. Mr.
Lightowlers Avould have some difficulty in
digesting the Doctor's fine language, even if he
had taken time in the process ; but as he had
the idea of the presentation already in his
mind, and the answer on the tip of his tongue,
he shot it out after only a second's pause, and
long before he could have mastered the spirit
of the question. Therefore he grunted 'Ay'
with a placid indifference a thousand times
more exasperating than expressed insolence.

Then, gentlemen,' retorted the Doctor,
white with passion, ' the sooner you follow the
example of your friend Mr. Kueeshaw and
quit the service of the church the better.
Such a presentation is an insult to the church,
an insult to religion, and an insult to myself '
a really line climax — ' and I shall not permit
it to be made by nne teachers, or in my schools.
Good evening:, gentlemen.'

During this outburst, Mr. Lightowders stood
fronting the Doctor with the precise expression
in his face of a ruminating cowlookincf through
a gate at you Avitli a mild, dull, puzzled
curiosity, and he Avould probably have stood
thus for half a n:iinute more (for he found rest

after a heavy meal as promotive of mental
as of physical digestion), if Mr. Garside had
not pulled him by the coat-tails and piloted him
out. The two walked half way down the road
together without the interchange of a word.
Mr. Garside was in deep trouble, too deep for
words, as the Sunday School was a crown and
kingdom to him.

Mr. Lightowlers was plunged in profound
thought. After three minutes of such wrapped
meditation he stopped suddenly to face Mr.
Garside and electrify him with his discovery —
Hes again it, too ! ' pointing with his thumb
over his shoulder to the vicarage behind him.

Ay, he's again it,' replied Mr. Garside, not
in the least amazed by the information. ' He's
given us the sack rest — teachers an' all. He
has for siu-e.'

Mr. Garside then relapsed into despondent
silence, while Mr. Lightowlers incubated, also
in silence, on this new idea suggested by his
colleague, which, as being expressed in the
vernacular, was soon developed in his brain.
It was in full possession there, even before he
found himself again on the platform, face to
face with the anxious and breathless meeting.

Ladies and gentlemen,' he began slowly,
and with extreme impressiveness, ' he's given us
the sack.'

After the delivery of this Spartan despatch
there was dead silence — not the silence of
expectation, for it was rather a long speech
for Mr. Lightowlers, and no one dreamed of
his saying more — but the sultry silence before
a thunderstorm. Then it burst in a tumult
of angry exclamations and questions. Mr.
Garside, as being the Mercury of their two
leaders, was beset by a host of eager and enraged
teachers demanding the particulars of the
inter vicar. He gave always and to all the
same stereotyped answer : ' He said we nun
gie up school or presentation — one or t'other.'
We need hardly say that the excited meeting
decided unanimously to give up the school.
The West Eiding people never tire of telling
you that they may be led but not driven, and
certainly Dr. Clancy's attempt to stop the movement
was about as effective as an attempt to
turn back a pig by tugging at its tail.

When this phase of the movement became
thoroughly known through the medium of the
mills, the Independents generously came forward

with an offer of their school for the tea-party
and presentation. They thought it a
good opportunity to display Christian charity
and to stir up deadly strife among the church
party. While the teachers hesitated between
this offer and a proposition made by the leader
of a fife and drum band to head a procession
of the subscribers through Weston to Mr.
Kneeshaw's lodgings, where the presentation
might be made in the open air, the whole
movement collapsed suddenly at a pin-prick.

George heard of the business for the first
time from his tailor, an Independent, who,
though he know it was to be kept a profound
secret, could not resist the temptation of parading
the magnanimity of his sect. George was
at once surprised, pleased, and disgusted. He
thought he had made no way among a people
who took a kindness as if they were doing it,
and whose most cordial manner seemed just
to stop short of heaving half a brick at you.
He was therefore very much surprised and
pleased by the feeling that underlay the movement,
but the movement humiliated him, as
praise undeserved humiliates one, and its consequences
and accompaniments disgusted him.

VOL. II. N

He rushed ofT at once to see the junior superintendent,
as there was not time enough to get
an idea into Mr. Lightowlers' head, and begged
Mr. Garside to summon the subscribers as soon
as possible to a meeting in the school Mr.
Garside was disappointed to find him informed
of the movement, but at the same time was
pleased with the hope of his advice at this
crisis. He had not the least doubt that ;Mi
Kneeshaw meant at the meeting to give advice
about the place, time, manner, and perhaps
even form of the presentation to be made to
him, nor would such advice have struck him
as out of taste or odd. He promised to have
a full meeting of the subscribers at the school
on the following evcninir — and lie had. The
place was crowded to suffocation, and George
met with an overwhelming reception. It
seemed as though feelings which had been
rigidly suppressed for nearly two years had
reached bursting pressure and exploded in a
moment. George was overpowered, and was
glad of the live minutes' respite to recover
himself which Mr. Lightowlers* introductory
speech gave him. Mr. Liglitowlers rose,
waited till there was perfect silence and for

half a minute after, and then addressed the
meeting thus : — ' Ladies and gentlemen,' —
pause — ' aw've nowt that's owt to say,' — long
pause — ' aw've been nine year superintendent
of this ere school and aw've alius done my
best, alius, aw lev.' Here Mr. Lightowlers
resumed his seat slowly and deliberately, and
looked round upon the meeting with an air
of self-complacency. Mr. Garside, however,
after two minutes' whispering, got it into his
colleague's head that Mr. Kneeshaw, and not
himself, should have been the subject of his
address, whereupon Mr. Lightowlers again rose
without haste and without hesitation, and recommenced
: ' Ladies and gentlemen. Muster
Kneeshaw is bean to speak' an' odd word to t'
subscribers. Aw'm a subscriber mysen ; an'
aw'm nowt again' given' five shilling' more towards
t' presentation.'

At this the applause was deafening, and
Mr. Lio'htowlers resumed his seat with the
pleased and proud expression in his face of a
patriot who had done and suffered great things
for a not ungrateful country. Indeed the
meeting was so moved by the grace and generosity
of this reference to the presentation, that

N 2

a verse of the aonrr ' The Fine Old English
Gentleman,' struck up by Mr. Binns, of the
parish church choir, was sung by the whole
audience enthusiastically in compliment to Mr.
Licrhtowlers. It might have been thought that
the enthusiasm had now reached its climax.
Far from it. When George rose to speak, the
audience dwarfed all preceding demonstrations
by standing, cheering, clapping hands, and
stamping feet for the space of two minutes.
Of course much of the feeling displayed was an
answer to Dr. Clancy's insulting ultimatum,
but, taking all discount off, an immense amount
remained to the credit of George. He had
prepared a really good speech, but did not
deliver a single word of it, not merely because
it was an inadequate answer to this confounding
demonstration, but because it all vanished
like a dream when he stood face to face with
the surging, cheering crowd. He stammered
out some words of surprise and thankfulness,
more eloquent infinitely than any prepared
speech. He spoke then sincerely of the little
he had done, and of the half-hearted wav in
which he had done it, and came thus to the
point of his speech, which was that this little

would be undone if he left nothing but strife
behind him ; that the subscribers would add
even to the extreme kindness they had already
shown him by accepting a suggestion he ventured
to make as to the form of the presentation
— great applause here — and that this
suggestion was that the subscriptions should
go to purchase books for a Sunday School
library. This suggestion was accepted after
much demur and remonstrance ; Dr. Clancy
was conciliated, peace restored, George immensely
relieved, and Mr. Garside re-established
on his throne.

CHAPTEK XXIV.

WOMEN OF THE FUTURE.

We rather hurried and huddled together the
close of the last chapter. We ought to have
said something of the disappointment of the
subscribers at George's renunciation of all personal
advantage from their generosity, and of
the proportionate wrath of the village
Hami)dcns amongst them against Dr. Clancy
and Mr. Gant, to whose spiteful interference
they put it down. George, to do him only
bare justice, did all he could to convince them
that in no case could he have accepted the
purse or its value with a clear conscience, but
they wouldn't be convinced. Mr. Gant, never
popular, was now odious, as the jealous instigator
of the Doctor in the business. On the
other hand, George's magnanimity increased
his popularity tenfold, and as tins main
channel for its expression was blocked, it overflowed

into a hundred rills and divides of
private presents of all kinds, from a valuable
timepiece down to such a spacious pincushion as
would have gladdened the soul of Mrs. Gamp.
J^or did he escape a presentation after ail.
There was in the day-school a young lady
named Eachael Ann Hodgson, of the mature age
of ten years, a very pretty and precocious
child, who took it ito her head to set on foot
a subscription among the school children for a
present to Mr. Kneeshaw. George took great
interest in the day-schools, and had a class, of
which Miss Hodgson was a pet member, and
the news of his leaving them was taken very
much to heart by them all. Miss Hodgson eat
nothing on the day she heard it, and did not
sleep the following night, and would probably
have made herself ill by fretting if the bright
idea of the presentation had not occurred to
her. She mentioned it to the mistress, who
privately approved very strongly of it, and
even expressed her strong approval to the
child ; but, with the fear of Dr. Clancy before
her eyes, she did not dare do more than
encourage Eachael Ann to take the whole
business in hand herself Hereupon Eachael

Ann had recourse for advice to her father, a
busy member of a local Liberal committee.
Mr. Hodgson, as a father, as a Liberal, as a
committee man, was immensely pleased with
Eachael Ann's idea. He advised her at once
to form a committee, to elect a secretary and
treasurer, and to assign a district to each
member of the committee, to canvass for subscriptions.
He also minutely instructed her as
to the mode of procedure at their meetings,
of which she, of course, was to be chairwoman.

Eachael Ann, a busy, important, clever, and
original young woman, took the thing very seriously
and sedately. Having appointed the whole
class as a committee, she called a meeting of it
for the assignment of a district to each of its
members, and for the election of a treasurer and
secretary, to be held in her house that evening.
She chose lier home instead of the class-room
for the place of meeting, as she wished to have
her father at hand to consult as leal adviser.
He was not, however, to be admitted into the
board-room, as his presence might overshadow
the majesty of the chair.

Of course, an hour before the time appointed
for the meeting, every child on the committee.

was present in her place. And, if the truth
must be told, the chairwoman herself was in her
place more than two hours before the appointed
time. She had cut out slips of paper, two for
each member of the committee, to write the
name of the secretary and treasurer she wished
to vote for, and she had written the name of
each in collecting books provided by her
father, notwithstanding that she was told again
and again by her legal adviser that this was
the future secretary's work. However, she
couldn't resist the temptation, as anyone who
remembers his childhood may imagine.

Polly and Sarah Jane, give up,' cried the
chairwoman, with a peremptory nod. Polly and
Sarah Jane were making cats-cradles. ' We're
first to elect a secretary. You've all to write
the name of the person you vote for on one of
the slips of paper, then fold it up and put it
into the mug.' The mug was Eachael Ann's
very own, a gorgeous vessel, with ' A Present
from Blackpool for a Good Child,' inscribed inlarge
gold letters upon it. As there was but
one pen, and each child wrote with her head
on her left arm, her tongue out, and her eye
following the slow trail of the pen as intently

as a sportsman his game, the election took
some time. As the other ^^irls were not allowed
to look over the voter's shoulder, they lead to
be allowed to play ' hunt the slipper,' which
they did, all except the voter and the charwoman,
whose dignity, after a desperate struggle
with her baser passions, conquered and kept
her in the chair. When the voting papers
were all at last written, folded, and dropped
into the mug, it was foimd that this elaborate
imitation of the ballot was not as effective as
might be wished. For, in the first place, every
child knew every other child's handwriting ;
and, in the second place, every child, except the
chairwoman, artfully voted for herself. As,
however, the chairwoman had voted for Elizabeth
Tennant, this young woman headed the
poll by a majority of one. Whereupon she
rushed at the chairwoman, and scandalised herby
flinging her arms round her neck, kissing
her effusively, and then dancing round the room.

Lizzie ! ' cried the charwoman, in a
shocked voice.

What ? '

Sit down,'

But what am I to do ? ' asked the secretary,

sobered suddenly by the sense of responsibility.


Hereupon the chairwoman flushed red as
fire. What was there to do ? Hadn't she
herself done already all the secretary's work ?
After fidgeting uneasily in the chair for a
moment, she slipped off it without a word,
marched to the door, whose handle she succeeded
in turning with both hands, and disappeared
to consult her legal adviser.

'I told you how it would be, Eachael Ann,'
said Mr. Hodgson, shaking his head sadly and
solemnly.

I couldn't help it, father,' pleaded Eachael
Ann penitently.

Did you write the date ? '

No, I didn't,' eagerly.

She can write the date,' said the oracle,
really proud of the suggestion.

Eachael Ann was back in the board-room
in a moment. ' Lizzie, you're to write the day
of the month in each of the books.'

Is that all ? '

And the day of the week,' added the
chairwoman, with some presence of mind.

Miss Tennant would have rushed at once at

her work if the cliairwoinaii Jiadii't stopped
her.

We want the pen to elect a treasurer.
You're all to write the name of the person you
vote for — same as before,' she said authoritatively.


What's the good ? * snapped Miss Breaks ;
Lizzie voted for herself.'

So did you,' retorted Lizzie.

As this was a ticklish topic it vas pursued
no further, but the feeling of the meeting
was obviously and unanimously against the
ballot.

It's all nowt,' cried Miss Angles ; while
Miss Mathers declared she ' wouldn't ]play at
it,' and Miss Terry horrified the chairwoman
still more by the suggestion that they should
play French blind man's buff — the chairwoman
being blindfold, and whoever she touched first
should be treasurer. Though this was the
democratic principle of election carried out to
a perfection almost ideal, the chairwoman was
not advanced enough to approve of it, and
things came to a deadlock. Recourse had to
be had acjain to the lei::^al adviser, who was
more prompt this time with an opinion. As

his own committee were always got out of a
rut of sullenness by an order of 'glasses round,'
Mr. Hodgson at once suggested that the cake,
meant to be distributed amongst the committee
at the conclusion of their labours, should be
administered forthwith. The chairwoman, not
herself altogether disinterested, jumped at the
suggestion actually and metaphorically, but
resumed her official manner on her reappearance
in the board-room, bearing the plate of
cake with the solemnity of an acolyte. The
appearance of the cake had the effect of the
approach of a general election upon the
members, converting waverers and convincing
obstructions ^ Even the snappish Senna Breaks
became a courtier, and suggested that the
chairwoman should choose the treasurer ; while
Louisa Terry outdid and outbid her by proposing
that the chairwoman herself should be
treasurer, which was carried by acclamation.
The chairwoman again retired to consult her
legal adviser, who decided that as both Lord
Beaconsfield and Mr. Gladstone had held other
offices in conjunction with the premiership,
Rachel Ann might accept the post of treasurer,
which was accepted accordingly.

There remained only the assignment of
districts to the canvassers, a delicate and difficult
business ; for, as it was decided to go by
standards, no one liked collecting among the
first standard, the most in number and least in
age. Miss Angles expressed the precise sentiment
of the meeting in complaining that ' they
would be nobbut twenty-four to a shilling,' a
terse and Yorkshire way of calculating the
subscriptions at a halfpenny apiece. Noblesse
oblige ; the charwoman generously volunteered
to take half the first standard herself, and her
example so influenced the committee that the
other half and the other standards were undertaken
at once. Then the committee paid an
unofficial visit to the chairwoman's doll, which
was upstairs in a gorgeous cradle (won in a
bazaar raffle), and each of the members was
allowed to make it squeak by squeezing its
stomach, and sleep by laying it on its back.
Parliament was then prorogued till the following
Monday evening, when the subscriptions
were to be brought in to the treasurer ; and
the members — each made happy by the present
of a bit of toflee — dispersed for the recess.

We have given the proceedings of the

committee at IcDgtli because, owing to Mr.
Gant's excess of zeal, they had results out of
proportion to their importance. On the following
Monday the committee reassembled two
hours almost before the assigned time. Its
members where in a state of intense and intolerable
impatience. Each bore an immense blue
envelope sealed with an immense red seal,
addressed duly, but with this additional inscription
underlined : ' To he opened only by the
Chairwoman in committee. ' It had been left
that afternoon at each of their houses by a lady
in a grand carriage. The chairwoman at once
took the chair, and with trembling hands, and
in a silence that might be felt, broke the seal
of her own envelope first. It was a crushing
disappointment ; there was only a blank piece
of paper in it. She must cry, but could not
cry in committee ; so she rushed to the door,
and in another minute was sobbing on her
father's knee. Her father took the envelope,
looked at the enclosure, put the child down,
and cheered ! It was a ten-pound Bank of
England note.

It's ten pounds, toy ! ten golden sovereigns
two hundred shillings ! ' exclaimed the

(lelifrlited Mr. IlocVson, waving the note round
his head.

Eachael Ann stood for a moment looking
up at the note with a face of flame, too much
stunned by the reaction and by the discovery
of this fabulous treasure to do more than gaze
and gape. In another moment she leaped up
at it, and cried breathlessly, ' Give it to me,
father ! ' and rushed back with it into the
board-room.

It's ten pounds ! ' she exclaimed, rushing
to show it to the secretary in the wildest excitement,
utterly forgetful of her official dignity.
Two hundred shillings, Lizzie ! '

Lizzie's first impulse, and the first impulse
of every other member of the committee, was,
of course, to open her own envelope. But this
was to be done only by the chairwoman, who
tore open Lizzie's first, calling her father, at the
same time, to come and interpret. Mr.
Hodgson pronounced Lizzie's a five-pound
note. A five-pound note was found also in
every other envelope, and, as there were nine
members of the committee besides the chairwoman,
the sum total of the enclosures
amounted to 55^. ! The school subscriptions

came to 41. 13s. 3^6^., making in all
59/. 135. 34(i. The members of the committee
danced, and screamed, and hugged each other,
without any rebuke from their chairwoman,
who herself, indeed, was jumping up and down,
holding by each breast of her father's coat.
When this ecstasy had somewhat subsided, the
first question was, ' Who was the fairy godmother
? ' No one knew.

She was an old lady with a red wig,' said
Mr. Hodgson.

It's nothing of the sort,' cried the sharp,
clear, decided voice of Miss Tubbs, who
entered at this moment. * It isn't a wig, and
it isn't red.'

It was not. Her hair was of the reddish-brown
hue which is a favourite colour for old
ladies' wigs ; hence Mr. Hodgson's mistake.
Miss Tubbs was in such high good humour
with herself for her own kindness that she
forgave it.

What ! opened them already ! I wanted
to have the pleasure of seeing you open them.
I didn't think the committee met till half-past
five, Mr. Chairman. This is the chairman, isn't
it ? ' patting Eachael Ann on the cheek.

VOL. II.

I beg your pardon, ma'am,' stammered Mr.
Hodgson at last. ' I didn't see you near to-day,
ma'am, I'm sure. Yes, ma'am, that's my
daughter, Eachael Ann. Eachael Ann, thank
the lady.'

No ; she mustn't thank me. I'm only one
of the subscribers. I heard the children were
getting up a present to Mr. Kneeshaw among
themselves, and I went to offer a subscription to
the mistress, when she told me of the committee,
and the chairman, and the secretary. Which
is the secretary ? This ? I thought so ! And
I was so pleased with the business that I went
round amongst the rich Parish Church people,
and a few of my own friends, and collected the
money. I can assure you it was all given with
the greatest goodwill, both for Mr. Kneeshaw's
sake and for the sake of the chairman and her
committee. Well, Mr. Chairman, were you
pleased ? And what arc you going to buy, eh ? '

Eachael Ann stood speechless, looking up at
Miss Tubbs with exceeding reverence ; the other
children also, frozen where they stood, and in
the positions in which they were surprised,
gazed with wide-eyed awe. at the fliiry godmother.


Eachael Ann, do you hear ? ' exclaimed
Mr. Hodgson, in an accent of reproach. ' You
should have been here a minute ago, ma'am,
and seen them ! They were fit to tear the
house down for joy.'

I heard them. They made such a racket,
that I got in without your hearing me.
But what are you going to buy, Mr. Chairman
? '

Please, ma'am,' said Eachael Ann timidly,
with a very becoming curtsey, ' will you tell us,
please ? '

What do you think of a watch ? '

A watch ! The whole committee looked
blank with the same thought. Sixty pounds
for a tiny watch ! The Town Hall clock
would have seemed a little thing for 60/. Miss
Tubbs perceived the look and its meaning ; she
knew how children and Americans judged
everything by size.

Or you might give him the money. You
might change it all into shillings and give it to
him in a big; bar.' At this suoffrestion the
countenance of the committee brightened again.
Or suppose you bought him a watch and
chain, and a dressing-case, and a writing-desk,



ad a gold pencil-case, and a photographic
album with the photographs of the committee
in it. It would nearly take a cab to carry them
all;

Eh ! that would be grand ! ' Miss Tennant
involuntarily exclaimed, and it was evident she
expressed the feeling of the committee. That
their own photographs should form part of the
presentation was an irresistible argumentum ad
seminal. Thus Miss Tubbs, as usual, got her
way, and smuggled the watch in under a heap
of other things. In everything, great or
little, with which she meddled, she must have
her own way.

Well, children, will that do ? '
There was a universal shout, ' Yes, ma'am.'
And when would you like to buy them ? '
Oh, ma'am, please ! ' pleaded Eachael inn,
with clasped hands and an expression of life
and death earnestness, ' Could we get them tonight
? '

To-night! my dear child. It's past live
o'clock.' But seeing the look of disappointment
on every little face, and understanding
that, in such a case especially, ' A day to childhood
seems a year,' and not forgetting either

that it would be to her own convenience to get
the thing done with in one journey — for, of
course, she must herself choose the articles
under the pretence of allowing a free choice to
the children — she said, ' If you wish it very
much, we must try and manage it, Mr. Chairman.
Let me see : how many are there of
you? Ten. Mr. Hodgson, will you kindly
call a cab, and take five of the children with
you in it to Banks', the jeweller's, and I shall
take the other five there in the carriage. Go,
get your bonnet on, Mr. Chairman. I shall
take you, and the secretary, and these three,'
picking out the shabbiest-looking of the girls —
not, to tell the truth, because it was the
kindliest, but because it was the oddest thing
to do. She rejoiced in the thought of being
seen driving about Weston with a carriage full
of shabby-looking little girls. As for the
chosen children, they were in the seventh
heaven of delight at the prospect of riding in a
grand carriage, with a grand lady, to a grand
jeweller's shop, to buy there 60/. worth of
things ! They thought 60/. should buy the
whole shop, grand as it was. And, indeed,
this was Miss Tubbs' difficulty : to persuade

the children that they had got full value for
their money in a few articles that one of them
could carry out of the shop. But she did at
last so persuade them, and truly too ; for she
haggled with the jeweller, and beat down his
prices, in a way that would have extorted the
admiration of a Jew. The only regret left in
the minds of the children as they quitted the
shop was that the articles had to remain at the
jeweller's to have suitable inscriptions engraved
upon them, and to be displayed for three days
,in his window ; but even this last lingering
regret was dispelled by Miss Tubbs asking the
committee to tea, on the evening of the fourth
day, to meet Mr. Kneeshaw and make the
presentation.

And on the fourth day, at evening, they
did accordingly meet Mr. Kneeshaw at Miss
Tubbs' house. Eachael Ann, after tea, advanced
to make a very pompous and hollow
speech, composed for her by her father ; but
fortunately forgot it all in her nervousness.

Please, Mr. Kneeshaw ' — long pause,
during which the bright brown eyes, looking
up wistfully at George, filled slowly with tears
' please, Mr. Jvnceshaw, these are for you,'

and the little woman broke down and cried
with nervousness and mortification.

George, in the most natural and fatherly
way in the world, took her on his knee and
kissed her (to the horror of old Mrs. Ashton, a
Parish Chnrchite, but to the delight and admiration
of Miss Tnbbs), and told her how
pleased and touched he was, and how he would
always remember her, and sometimes write to
her, and send messages to his class ; and so
soothed her that she soon forgot her breakdown,
and was bright and happy again.
Indeed, George was only too glad to hide his
own emotion in soothing hers. He therefore
spoke no speech ; but took occasion during the
evening to say a word or two of simple, earnest
acknowledgment to each of the subscribers
present, children and adults, which came from
his heart and went to theirs more directly than
any set speech could have done.

George, as we have said, owed the large
share in the business taken by Miss Tubbs to
the kind offices of Mr. Gant. That gentleman,
being in the habit of unbosoming himself pretty
freely to Miss Tubbs, had again and again
detailed George's iniquities to her. and the

iniquities of his partisans. He boasted, too, of
having brought to nought the Sunday School
presentation, and complained bitterly of Dr.
Clancy's declining to interfere with that set on
foot by the little children of the Day School.
Now Miss Tubbs' Christianity did not go very
deep, and she was, therefore, not in the least
scandalised by Mr. Kneeshaw's giving up everything
for conscience sake. On the contrary,
Mr. Gant's zeal against him, which she took for
jealousy, disgusted her. This, however, alone,
would not have stirred her to active opposition.
But Mr. Gant had the audacity to resent a
stinging sarcasm of hers by the retort that all
who sided with Mr. Kneeshaw must be infidels
at heart. Hence Miss Tubbs' call on the
school-mistress to offer a subscription. On
hearing from her, however, of the committee,
chairwoman, &c., she was so pleased (being a
Women's Eights zealot herself) that she went
hound amonix her own friends and the richer
Parish Church people, roused them by a recital
of what she called Mr. Kneeshaw's wrongs and
merits, amused them by the story of the
committee, and extracted, without the least
difficulty, the sum of which she disposed to
such advantage.

« 3

Chapter XXV.

Mabel's anodyne.

Four days after the children's presentation
George sailed from Liverpool. The Committee,
in fact, had only just time to have their photographs
taken and presented to him in the
station, five minutes before the starting of the
train. Beside the children and Archer Lawley,
who was to accompany him to Liverpool, a
crowd of his well-wishers had come to bid him
good-bye. An immense depth and warmth of
heart lie hid beneath the chilling surface of
these West Eiding folk, which only a rare and
great occasion discloses ; and George was
surprised to see in the crowd many a man and
woman who had seemed barely to tolerate his
visits, and who had seemed to accept any
kindness he had done them ungraciously, and
almost offensively. In some cases the general
feeling expressed itself in tangible and embarrassing

shapes. One old lady, for instance,
thrust into the carriage to him kindly, but of
course ostentatiously, a vast pasty. ' Tak' it,'
she said ; ' it's good. There's boon four dance
of butter in it.' While another, her near
neighbour, not to be outdone, had wrapped up
a sparerib of pork in a red pocket handkerchief,
which she forced on George, probably as a provision
in case of shipwreck. ' It's hooam fed,'
she said ; ' there's little like it where thwart
bean, thou knows.' Mr. Lightowlers too was
there, in the midst of a group of millgirls,
teachers — mostly in tears — who had sacrificed
half a day's wage to this farewell. Mr. Light-owners
had now got abreast of the speech he
should have made at the mcetinir. Short as it
was, it had cost him much time and thought,
and would, no doubt, have done him and the
school he represented credit, if he had got it
out, as he meant to do, at the station. But he
didn't. He had nearly begun it, however,
when the train started, and George swept past
the platform (on which Mr. Lightowlers stood,
hemming to clear his throat) amid cheers, tears,
and waving of wet handkerchiefs.

What a kindly people, Lawley ! ' exclaimed

George, very much affected, turning from the
window, when a curve at last hid the crowd on
the platform from his sight.

They're the kindest people in the world,'
replied Lawley, ' and they know it.'

It was a great demonstration of feeling in
favour of a man who had not been two years
amongst them, but the crowd was brought
together not only by a sense of George's merits,
but by a sense of his wrongs. Why should they
have to take this public farewell of him at a
railway station? Because Dr. Clancy, at Mr.
Gant's instigation, had forbidden any meeting
for the purpose in the schools. And besides
this sense of George's kindliness, and this sense
of injustice done him, there was also the sense
of a parting like that of death — for a voyage to
Australia is almost as dim and dreadful in
the imagination of the inland poor as the
voyage to the other world. All these feelings
brought such a crowd to the station that
strangers were under the impression some
prince or murderer must be in the train.

It's nobbut a parson,' answered a railway
porter in reply to one such curious inquirer.

But what's he done ? '

Nowt.'

With this explanation the anxious inquirer
had perforce to be content, for his informant
was a Lancashire and Yorkshire railway porter,
and extraordinarily courteous and communicative
for one of that company's officials.

Quitting George himself, we shall follow
his thoughts back to the Grange, to 'the
nursery,' to Mabel, utterly miserable for the
moment, seated at the table, with her head
resting on it, buried between her clasped hands.
She had kept up all through with wonderful
courage and cheerfulness, until, just at the last
moment, some remark made by George (insetting
a watch he had given her) about the
difference between English and Australian
time, brought suddenly the distance which was
to separate them vividly before her. All her
spirit in a moment slipped away from her like
water, and left her sobbing and clinging to
Geordie like a little child, as he folded her in a
last embrace. It was not like Mabel, but for
the last few weeks she had been on the strain
to keep cheerful, hopeful, and happy in
George's company, and the reaction came upon
her just a minute too soon. In another minute

he was gone. She heard him hurry down the
stairs, heard the hall-door open and shut, heard
the cab drive off, in a kind of stupor, as in a dim
dream ; and still the same sounds followed each
other in the same order, over and over andover
again in her mind — his step on the stairs,
the opening and shutting of the door, and the
rattle of the cab on the pavement. She
could no more get them out of her head than
we can get a haunting tune out of our head ;
and behind them was a great trouble, which
she knew was there, but shrank from facing.
Out of this stupor she at last roused herself.
Her spirit rallied and reasserted itself, and
forced her into doing what certainly no other
girl in Weston would think of doing in the
same circumstances — sick visiting.

There are a great many receipts for the
cure of melancholy. There is that in The
Spleen : — ' Fling but a stone, the giant dies ! '
There is old Burton's : — ' Be not solitary ; be
not idle.' There is Johnson's improvement
upon it : — ' If you are idle, be not solitary ; if
you are solitary, be not idle.' But the best
receipt in the world we believe to be this — •
Find some one more wretched than yourself,

and get out of yourself in trying to relieve him.
It includes Green's, Burton's, Johnson's receipt
of occupation and company ; but it prescribes
an occupation that will take you out of yourself
most, and a company that puts to shame your
discontent. Anyhow, Mabel had found it of
old the most effective remedy for depression,
and now, by a great effort, she forced herself to
a recourse to it. She chose the worst case on
her hist, that of the sick child of a poor woman,
who was expiating by starvation the crime of
being kicked almost to death by her drunken
husband. He had been sent to prison for a
month for the assault — just in the nick of time
for him ; for, as he had pawned all he could
lay hands on for drink, till there was not
another drop to be had, and nothing left, therefore,
to live for, he was perfectly content to betaken
care of by the Queen. Meantime his
wife was left to console herself with such sweet
memories of him as remained to her — five
tender pledges of his love, the youngest five
weeks old, and the tickets of eight other
pledges in the generous charge of an uncle.
It is said that the children of the very poor die
in heaps, and that the mortality amongst them

is out of all proportion greater than that
amongst those of the more comfortable classes,
and this, no doubt, is something to be thankful
for. Of them, at least, it is true : —

M?) cjivvai TOP anavra vlko. Xoyov

To 8', 67761 </)ovr/
BJyi^ai KeWev oOevnep rjKeL
IIoXu Sevrepov o)s rdxi-(rTa,

We give this pessimist sentiment as we find it
in the Greek chorus, in order not to shock the
sensibilities of the sex, who are optimists to a
man. But though, as we say, vast numbers of
the children of the poor die, it is amazing how
much it takes, in many cases, to kill them.
Certainly it cost Death as much trouble to kill
a brace of Mrs. Houldsworth's children as it
would have taken him to empty a palace. He
had fair game to bec^in with in children born of
a drunken father and an ill-used and half-starved
mother, while from their birth they
were themselves half-starved and ill-used, and
so clothed that it would have been almost better
to have let them go naked. At least, then, the
rain would have run off, and not lodged in
their broken boots and tattered shirts. Then
Death served out to them in quick succession

almost every childish disease in his dispensary,
and followed up this volley with the bayonet,
in the shape of Dr. Dredge's lancet and leeches,
in vain. He then ran over the eldest boy with
a hansom, who, however, emerged almost as
unhurt as a hen from under the vehicle, while
the youngest but one drank from the spout of a
boiling kettle without beinf:^ much worse than
his father from his fiery potations. But at last
the health of the eldest boy gave way, after
three years' siege, during which it was almost
continually mined Within by starvation and
assaulted without by disease and cold. He
broke down suddenly and died in three days,
to the inexpressible grief of his mother, who
complained piteously to Mabel, that in five
wrecks more he would have been a half-timer,
and brought her in three shillings a week. He
was buried in a parish coffin and in a pauper's
grave, a week after his father was committed to
jail ; and the funeral cortege consisted of his
mother (with a borrowed veil hiding her two
still black eyes), a warm-hearted old Irish
washerwoman, his two brothers, and his little
sister Minnie. The day was wet and bitter,
the cemetery exposed, and that corner of it in

which paupers were flung together was ankle-deep
in water, and Minnie's boots seemed made
of rather stout blotting-paper. Her brother
John George, in a black box, being lowered
roughly into a filthy hole, and scolded to the
last by a man in a white nightshirt, was
Minnie's idea of the ceremony. She was at no
loss either to account for this frightful punishment
which had overtaken her brother. For
the day before he died he would get out of bed
(the child was wandering), in spite of his
mother's threat ' to put him in the black man's
cellar if he stirred.' This then was the blackman's
cellar into which he was now being put.
It was a horrible punishment, and had its due
effect on Minnie when her turn came, which it
did the next day. For the cold, which seemed
to turn to ice the very marrow in her bones,
settled deep on her lungs, and she took her
brother's place in bed. Be sure she was
docility itself with ' the black man's cellar '
always before her eyes, and was afraid to
disturb her mother at night by asking for a
drink, though she was parched with thirst.

This was the patient little patient Mabel set
forth to see. Certainly wee have taken an

VOL. II. p

unconscionable time in introducing her, but

Minnie was once a pet of ours, and pets are

always bores to strangers. She'll not trouble the

reader much longer, however, or anyone else

either. Mabel, having put up, nth her usual

stores for the replenishment of Mrs. Wordsworth's

empty larder, a most gorgeous doll, set

forth to find, in helping this hopeless household,

the anodyne she sought. Mrs. Houldsworth's

was a horrid little hole of a house — a single

room, of such narrow dimensions that, if it was

not for the consideration of Mr. Houldsworth

in taking out of it every stick of portable

furniture, Mabel would hardly have found room

to move without tumbling a chair over, or over

a child. Almost the only furniture in the

place, in fact, was a bed, and a settle made upas

a bed at the far side of the fire. Minnie

was lying still as death on the settle, and took

no more notice of Mabel than she had taken all

the morning of her mother, or of her two

brothers, who were having rather a noisy game

of funeral, digging a hole in a little heap of

coals (kept inside the door for safety and for a

seat), and tryuig to force a half-starved cat to

he in it till they covered her well up. Their

draggled and dogged-looking mother, who had
a baby of about six weeks old at her breast,
would now and then object in really tremendous
language, not to the game itself, but to
the noise they made in playing at it. They
didn't mind her in the least, but at Mabel's
entry they lost their presence of mind, and
thereby the cat, which escaped out of doors,
while their mother, at sight of the basket, rose
and looked as amiable as she could, which
wasn't much.

How's Minnie, Mrs. Houldsworth ? '
Shoo's a deal w^aur. Miss. I can mak'
nowt on her to-day. She take no notice of
nobody.'

Mabel stepped across to the settle and
smoothed aside the hair from the fixed eyes
which had a far-ofi* and fearful expression in
them. She was locking into ' the black man's
cellar ' with a presentiment that she would be
thrust there soon herself by her mother.
Don't you know me, Minnie ? '
No ; Minnie didn't know her. Mabel then
produced the dazzling doll. She had promised
it yesterday morning, and the chill looked and
longed for it with the double impatience of

p 2

childhood and illness all that day and all the
night through, and still this morning she kept
worrying her mother about it with fretful persistence,
till that good lady, pouncing upon her
savagely, brought at once before the child's
eyes, by her shrill smoking, the horrible hole
into which her brother had been shut up for
his naughtiness. That picture of the funeral,
changing from moment to moment, like a
kaleidoscope, into different phases, all of tliera
frightful, cowed and fascinated her, and fixed
her eyes for hours with the expression which
seemed to look through Mabel at some grisly
spectre in the distance. But the doll, gorgeous
as a sunset, caught and recalled her notice.
She clutched it greedily, and hugged it and
held it from her to look at, and hugged it to
her again with extraordinary energy and
interest, her weakness being considered. Then
she looked up from it to Mabel, at first with
the puzzled expression of one who is trying to
make out the meaning of a sentence in a strange
tongue — for kindness was Greek to her — and
then with a wan, faint, and flickering smile, as
if she had mastered the meaning and found it
very good.

Do you like the doll, Minnie ? '
Minnie's reply was more eloquent than
words. She again held the doll from her for a
moment to admire, and expressed her admiration
by hugging it again to her heart.

You must give it something to eat, and
show it how to eat, Annie.' For Minnie had
refused all food, even beef-tea, for three days,
and Mabel was trying by this stratagem to coax
her into having some jelly she had brought.
It was no use. Minnie tried, but couldn't
swallow, and held out the doll to Mabel to be
fed in her place. Just then the two boys,
whom the sight of the jelly attracted, pressed so
importunately against Mabel that their mother
cuffed one and scolded both so shrilly that
Minnie's terror returned upon her. She
clutched Mabel's hand, just as it was taking the
doll from her, and clung to it while the old
fixed and fearful and far-off* expression came
back into her eyes. Mabel saw in a moment
that Minnie was in mortal terror of her mother,
and saw also no less clearly that the child had
not long to live. It was horrible to think she
should die shrinking from the only hand there
was to minister to her.

Mrs. Hoiiklswortli, I shall nurse Minnie
for a few hours, if you will kindly call at the
Grange, and say that I shall not be home for
some time. I dare say you have marketing todo,
and will be glad to get free. You need not
hurry back, as I shall stay at least three hours.'
Mabel reinforced her marketing suggestion
by putting a few shillings into Mrs. Wordsworth's
hand, and got rid of both boys at the
same time by giving them threepence each to
spend with their mother in the market.

Having Minnie to herself — we need hardly
say that ' Minnie ' was Mabel's name for the
child, not that current in the Holds worth
household, where she was known as ' Wilhelmina'
— having Minnie to herself, Mabel recalled
her attention by pretending to force the
doll from her grasp, and then, being an adept
in dealing with children, got out of Minnie
piecemeal, by coaxing and skilful questions, the
cause of her terror. She found it no use to tell
the child that her brother lead never been in
the black box at all, since her mother,
according to the invariable custom of the poor,
had held her up and shown her this ghastly face
as he lay in this coffin the moment before it was

closed. So Mabel had to try another tack, and
tell her that God had taken her brother out of
the black box and out of the filthy hole, and
brought him to a beautiful palace, in the midst
of a lovely garden. This didn't mend matters
much. Minnie had heard the name of God
daily from her father, and often from her
mother, but always coupled as inseparably
with the name of hell, and with the ideas hell
suggests, as it is in some Christian creeds.
Mabel therefore had to avoid this discredited
name altogether, and to speak of a very kind
person taking care of her brother.

Kind as oo ? ' asked Minnie, looking
anxiously up at Mabel.

Oh, ever, ever, ever so much kinder.'
This was too much for Minnie's imagination.
She lay still for a moment, looking at
the doll and trying to grasp this overpowering
idea, till she had to give up the attempt in
despair.

Will 00 tak' me at of black box ? '

From which question it was plain both that

Minnie had made her mind up that she was to

be put into the black box, and also that she

preferred to trust to mercies she knew to take

her out. Ilereiipon Mabel, like a modern
theologian, had again to modify her system
to suit the new situation. To make herself
at once intelligible and credible to Minnie,
she seemed to represent lier brother as sent
by post to heaven ; as put into his coffin
as into an envelope, which, having been
posted in the grave, was broken open on
its arrival in heaven, where he was released.
She had now to return to a less materialistic
view.

They won't put you into the black box,
Minnie ; angels will take you up in their arms
to heaven.'

The imagination even of a child in the West
Eiding is torpid. Minnie made a feeble
attempt to follow Mabel's pictures of angels and
of heaven, but fell back tired, and contented
with the assurance that she was not to be put
into the black box. Her fliith in this assurance
was absolute, and it took a dead weight of
horror off her heart ; at the same time it was
bound up with Mabel's presence. Thus comforted,
Minnie, for tlu^ first time since she was
taken ill, fell into a sound sleep, with Mabel's
forefinger clutched in her little hand. An hour

later her mother's shrill voice roused her, and
conjured up a frightful nightmare, which
seemed to take four days in unfolding its
funereal horrors, though it really lasted only the
few twilight seconds between a sound sleep and
thorough wakefulness. She started up with a
truly heart-aching scream : ' I'll be good — I'll
be goo — id ! ' This last word being prolonged
into such a cry of agony as haunted Mabel for
many a day. Minnie, in her dream, had got
to that climax of horror in her own funeral,
when the coffin having been screwed down
upon her, and borne to the cemetery, and
lowered into the foul and slimy grave, the
mourners turn to leave it for ever, as the impatient
sexton flings upon it the first shovelful
of mud. The perspiration stood in beads on
Minnie's forehead, her eyes were starting from
her head, and her cheeks were drawn with
such an expression of horror as made her look
old and weird and withered. ' Minnie ! ' cried
Mabel, almost in a scream, startled out of
herself, and seeking to rouse the child instantaneously.
At the sound of Mabel's voice, as by
an exorcism, the horrible possession gave place,
and a smile of the most perfect relief and love

and trust dawned in the child's face as she
recognised Mabel bending anxiously over her.
Let us hope life is such a dream, with such an
awakening.

This paroxysm seemed to exhaust Minnie's
remaining strength. She lay back, quite still,
with closed eyes, and breathing that grew more
and more quick and laboured till, as the rattle
began in her throat, and the old terror was
returning into her face (for she vividly remembered
the rattle in her brother's throat,
and what followed), she opened her eyes, and,
stretching her arms to Mabel, cried in a terrified
voice, ' Do tak' me in or arms ! ' Mabel
took up the dying child with exceeding tenderness,
and was again rewarded with a smile
of such peace and trust as she has never forgotten.
Minnie, with her head nestled against
Mabel's bosom, kept her ej'cs fixed on her face
with the look a dying Catholic fastens on his
crucifix. She tried twice to say something,
but Mabel could not catch the whisper. It
was, no doubt, something loving, for Minnie,
after the second attempt to speak, made an
efibrt to raise her arm to Mabel's neck ; but
it fell back, and she could only pout her hips as

for a kiss, when the last long breath came and
went, and life with it.

She's — she's gone ! ' cried Mabel, awed
and moved profoundly.

Ay, shoo's groan,' said the mother, looking
critically into the still face which had fallen
back over Mabel's arm. ' Shoo's at of it all ;
shoo is.'

Without another word she took the body
from Mabel, and laid it gently down on the
settle, while a single tear found its way down
a deep furrow in her cheek and dropped on the
child's dead face. She had been a loving little
child herself once, but misery had scorched up
her heart into a desert. Going to the door,
she screamed out to James Henry, who was
pegging a top bought out of Mabel's threepence,
and bid him ' tell Mary Morony that
our Wilhelmina is dead, and ax her if shovel
come and help to lig her at.' Meantime
Mabel stood by the settle thinking, not without
tears, what a sad little life it was, and wondering
reverently what was its meaning : —

Riddle of destiny, who can show
What thy short visit meant, or know
What thy errand here below ?

She was not left long to such musing, for the
neighbours, hearing of a death — a death is one
of the few treats in their dull lives — crowded
in, and disgusted Mabel with their cool criticisms
on the corpse. 'Mrs. Houldsworth,'
she said aside to that good lady, giving her
some more money out of her slender purse,
don't let the coffin be black. I shall bring
some flowers tomorrow.' Next day she
brought the flowers, and on the fourth day she
was in the cemetery chapel before the funeral
arrived, and was the last to leave the little
grave.

By this sad diversion Mabel softened the
first sorrow of separation. It is a good receipt,
if Misery attack you, to carry the war into her
own camp and head-quarters, and we beg any
despondent reader to try it : —

Si quid novisti rectus isis,
Candida imperii ; si non, his utero mecum.

Chapter XXVI.

PENELOPE.

George's last words to Lawley as he left the
ship was a reminder of his promise to see
Mabel often, and report upon her persecutions
or otherwise. He had, besides, told him
twenty times over of Mabel's delight at the
prospect of having such a friend to confide in
and advise with, and of her extraordinary
esteem for him.

These reports of Mabel's good opinion of
him did not lose their effect on Archer Lawley,
but their effect was the opposite to that intended
by George. It made his friend shrink
all the more from the guardianship imposed on
him ; not, we need hardly say, that he thought
Mabel likely to fall in love with him (he was
the least of a coxcomb of any man in England),
but that he thought himself likely to fall in
love with Mabel. And we do not need Much

Ado About NotldiKj to teach us that nothing so
disposes a man to love as the reported good
opinion of a girl he admires. ' Ce qui fait que
les amants et les mattresses ne sentient point
d'etre ensemble, c'est qu'ils parlent toujours
d'euxmemes.' Now this ever-delightful topic
not only cements but creates love ; nor was
Mr. Archer Lawley more above this human
weakness than most of us. Therefore the
strong impression Mabel had made on him was
by no means lessened by the report of the
impression — such as it was — that he had made
on her.

There was no help now for it, however.
He must 2^0 see her, even if he has to eo with
his heart in his hand. Accordingly, half an
hour after her return from Minnie's funeral,
Mr. Archer Lawley is announced. Mabel had
got only three letters from George in four days,
and was, therefore, impatient to hear of him
from his friend. She rose to greet Mr. Lawley
with extreme cordiality, though colouring a
little with the consciousness of his mission.

How do you do, ]\[r. Lawley ? I'm so
o;lad to see you ! '

Mr. Lawley made the usual response, and

an embarrassing silence ensued. He was nearly
as shy as Mabel of introducing the subject of
the link which brought them together. At
last he mustered up courage to say : ' Mr.
Kneeshaw commissioned me to bring you this,
Miss Masters,' handing Mabel a small packet.
He had prevented George posting it in order to
have a text and a tangible excuse for his first
visit. As Mabel took it, blushing 'celestial
rosy red,' and murmured inarticulate thanks,
Mr. Lawley's courage proportionately rose, and
he proceeded to describe the perfection of the
appointments of The Southern Cross George's
ship. Mabel listened with breathless interest,
and, indeed, would have found something to
interest her in a description of the railway
carriage in which he travelled to Liverpool.
Mr. Lawley having exhausted The Southern
Cross, bethought him to describe the scene at
the station at starting. This also to hear ' did
Desdemona seriously incline,' though she had
four pages of minute description of the scene
near her heart and nearly by heart. Those
great grey eyes looking up at him, wide with a
childlike interest and absence of self-consciousness,
made havoc the while in Lawley's heart,

and warned him to get out of range as quickly
as possible. He started up rather abruptly,
and held out his hand to take leave.

Are you going ? ' in a tone of the most
flattering disappointment. 'I wanted to hear
something of Squire.'

Oh, Squire is as well as he'll ever be,' said
Lawley, resuming his seat with no great reluctance.
' He'll be a cripple for life. I wrote to
ask Mr. Pickles to undertake his education and
fit him to earn his bread as a clerk or something
of that kind, and he has promised to do
what he can for him.'

That's very good of him.'

Yes ; it's near the election,' said Lawley
drily.

'To secure Squire's vote? Votes haven't
come as low as women and children yet, mr.
Lawley.'

She thought Lawley 's suggestion uncharitable,
and was, besides, rallying his misogyny.

'There are women of both sexes who think
with the heart, and act on feelings as on
principles, Miss Masters,' said Lawley, who
would stand to his guns even against Mabel ;
and fifty pounds spent on Squire would have

\

more effect than five hundred arguments in
making them Whig or Tory.'

But who would hear of it ? '

Who wouldn't hear of it if he did not do
something for the child ? It would be in every
opposition speech and placard.'

It seems hard,' said Mabel, who had forgiven
Mr. Pickles all his rudeness because of
his discovery of George's transcendent worth —
it seems hard that because a man is a member
of Parliament he should only get the credit of
his faults.'

It depends upon the member of Parliament.
You see. Miss Masters, with some
members their seats are due to their virtues ;
with others, their virtues are due to their seats.
I'm afraid Mr. Pickles' are ex-officio virtues ; at
least no one ever heard of them till he became
a candidate.'

Mabel was disappointed to find Mr. Lawley
so cynical, and yet it somehow seemed to her
that his cynicism was an essential part of his
superiority. Her father was cynical, George
was cynical ; probably, therefore, extreme
cleverness and cynicism went always together.
All those who eat, as they did, of the tree of

VOL. II. Q

knowledge found its fruit, she supposed, bitter
and embittering.

'I shall have to fall back upon the woman's
argument, Mr. Lawley, which is, you know, to
say the same thing over again more positively I
I think it very good of Mr. Pickles to provide
for Squire,' — with a defiant nod.

Lawley would have been very much disappointed
if he had brought Mabel over to his
views. He thought trustfulness as becoming
in a woman as in a child. In fact, his ideal of
a perfect woman was a child's heart and a
man's brain, and he fancied he found it in
Mabel. How much this fancy was assisted by
the loveliness of the face through which heart
and brain expressed themselves we shall not
say.

Squire thinks so too. Miss Masters. When
I told him of Mr. Pickles' promise it seemed to
take a load off his mind. Wliat do you think
the load was ? — The fear of being a burden to
his mother. You see rich people's children
haven't even themselves to think for, but even
the little children of the poor are made to think
for others — nurse the baby, or * twine ' the
washing-machine, or ' addle ' a penny a day by

carrying dinners. Squire's mother seems to
have spared no ]pains to teach him that he lead
Httle business to come into the world at all,
and none to stay here unless he could ' addle
brass.' He told me one day in a burst of confidence
that he had saved five shillings. For
what ? — For his funeral 1 I broke it to him as
gently as I could that the doctor gave no hope
of his funeral at all, and that he must prepare
himself to live. He took the news very calmly,
and simply said he thought then he would
spend his five shillings in crutches. However,
he chant-ed his mind once more. He ac^ain
took me into confidence, and told me of the
children's presentation to Mr. Kneeshaw, of
which he had heard, and to which he wished
to devote his whole fortune ; but what would
his mother say ? His mother, whom I sent for,
cried a good deal and kissed him and said it
should all go and more to it from their Sally •
and, as for crutches, he should have crutches
if they were all to pinch for it. Poor little
chap ! I think I never saw a child so happy
as he was when this mother approved of his
idea.'

Mabel was too much moved to speak for a

Q 2

inomGnt, then slice exclaimed, ' I should so like
to see him,' adding hurriedly, ' Ashen he gets
home again,' for she remembered Mr. Lawley's
hesitation when Squire suggested her coming
out to Fen ton to see him. This time, however,
Mr. Lawley, with an eagerness about which
there was no mistake, hastened to say, ' Could
you and your aunt come out to lunch on
Wednesday next. Miss Masters ? I cannot tell
you what a kindness it would be to Squire and
and to me.'

Where now was his prudent resolve to
keep clear of the siren ? He was caught in the
whirlpool into which George had been sucked,
when his friend could not find words stroma
enough to denounce his folly and feebleness.
We need not say that he chose Wednesday
because the MacGucken was to spend that day
with her sister.

'I should like very much indeed to go,'
said Mabel, accepting the invitation as heartily
as it was given, and attributing the hospitable
change in Lawley to his friendship for George.
'Perhaps, Mr. Lawley, if it wouldn't be too
much trouble,' she continued hesitatingly, you
would kindly write and ask my aunt, and say

you would be glad to see me too, if she would
take me.'

The girl blushed at the insincerity of the
7nise she was sug^cfestino^. She had an unfem-

Co o

nine abhorrence of artifice. Lawley, affecting
not to see the stratagem of which she seemed
ashamed, said lightly, ' Of course I shall write
to Miss Masters,' and hurried on to add, 'Do
you remember, when Squire wished me to ask
you, and how I hesitated then to take this
chance of a visit from you ? What a Goth
you must have thought me I The truth is.
Miss Masters, I have a servant — the nurse of
my hospital — who is a brute to visitors, and I
aren't ask you dien she's at home. She will
be away on Wednesday, thank heaven ! '

Here was a new light let in on Lawley 's
character ! Afraid of his servant ! Probably,
thought Mabel, he endured her for the children's
sake, because she was so excellent a
nurse. Anyhow, both this fear of her and his
endurance of her went much to his credit with
Mabel, as ladies will well imagine.

You're afraid of her, Mr. Lawley ? ' her
voice expressing the surprise and amusement
she felt at the revelation.

Well, yes ; she's like fire — a good servant,
but a bad master. As a servant she is everything
that could be wished, but as a master '

Here Lawley filled up the aposiopesis with a
shrug which spoke volumes.

'But whose servant is she?' for it was
evident she stood in the opposite relation to
Mr. Lawley.

She serves tables, so to speak. She is
always polishing the furniture. She is a perfect
slave to it, and is not happy unless she can see
her face in everything.'

That's the vanity of our sex, perhaps, Mr.
Lawley. But why don't you give her notice ? '

I did, but she wouldn't take it — for my
own sake, she said. She is sent for my good,
perhaps,' said Lawley, so much in the manner
of Mr. Meekins condoling with a bereaved
parishioner, that Mabel could not help laughing.
His confiding his domestic trouble to her made
her feel more at home with him than a month's
intimacy would have done. She at first stood
in awe of the man whom even her father
respected, but his shyness and the deference of
his manner to her made him less formidable,
and now this confession of his domestic

helplessness brought them closer together.
Lawley, on the other hand, was himself
sm'prisecl by the courage of his confidences.
He could never have believed beforehand
that he would have ventured to amuse Miss
Masters with a picture of the MacGucken, but
Mabel's owen manner was so frank and confiding
as almost to force his confession from him.
Having now broken the ice he went on to describe
to Mabel, with a dry humour which was
irresistible, the sufferings he endured at the
hands of his enemy. He had the art of
saying preposterous things with the solemnity
of a preacher. While his tongue was describing
ludicrous situations, or painting humorous
pictures, his grave, sallow, thoughtful face never
moved a muscle, and his melancholy dark eyes
seemed to appeal for sympathy. Mabel — herself
in some measure mistress of this manner —
appreciated it thoroughly, and of course her
appreciation of it made Lawley more pleased
with himself and with her. In a word, at this
first interview Lawley found Mabel even more
fascinating than he feared, while Mabel found
Lawley all she expected, which was much.
When he rose at last to go, she felt as if she

had known him for years instead of for days,
and expressed this feeling in the frank cordiality
of her manner.

'I may tell Squire, then, you'll come on
Wednesday, Miss Masters ? '

Thank you ; I shall be very glad indeed to
go if Aunt can take me, and if Mrs. Mac — ah —
Massinger is certain to be away.'

She hesitated over the name in the most
natural way in the world, and pronounced it at
last as innocently as Lawley himself could have
done. The jest, and the manner in which it
was uttered, showed the confidential terms on
which they had got already.

I shall make a note of it, or telegraph if
Mrs. Massinger should change her mind,' said
Lawley laughing, as he took leave.

Miss Masters accepted Mr. Lawley's invitation,
and the MacGucken didn't change her mind :
nevertheless, Squire was to be disappointed, as
we shall see.

Mabel and her aunt were due at a ball the
next night at the Sugdens'. Mabel, of course,
loved dancing, not the less because, as the belle
of Weston, she had all the best ]partners competing
for her hand. Still she was in no mood

to go to a ball to-night, and Avould have escaped
this if her aunt had allowed her. But her aunt
would not allow her. The old lady loved to
show herself, feeling with Waller that —

Small is the worth
Of beauty from the light retired.

And as she could not well go without Mabel,
she would not hear of her niece moping at
home.

Mabel, then, went to the ball bent on being
bored and miserable, and as such expectations,
like dreams, go generally by contraries, she was
shocked to find herself disgracefully happy now
and then. She was exquisitely dressed, simply
and in perfect taste, how, we dare not attempt
to describe. It would be ' murder to dissect '
(as Bob Sagar would have said) a dress which,
like a bird's plumage, seemed a part of the
wearer ; and since dress adds as much to the
beauty of a girl as sun and shadow to that of a
landscape, she looked her loveliest to-night. Of
course, therefore, she was beset by a crowed of
pretenders to her hand for every dance, and
had her card filled five minutes after her
appearance.

Mr. Clarence Pickles' name figured upon it

for two dances. He Avould have put himself
down for five if he could have <2ot them, for
Mr. Pickles' passion has grown since we last
saw Mabel and him together. They had met
two or three times in the interval, and each
time Mr. Pickles' passion had ' advanced by
leaps and bounds,' till to-night he was as much
in love as it was possible for him to be with
anyone besides himself. Mabel too, to-night,
was less ungracious to him than usual. She
was even almost gracious to him, because lie
set down to his influence the promise made by
his father to provide for Squire.

Therefore she gave him two dances, even
waltzes, which he would ask for, though he
could no more dance a waltz than a kangaroo.
Having no ear, he plunged about to his own
time, but took care to mark it for his partner
by treading if possible on her foot at each
critical third step of the waltz. Mabel's one
absorbing: aim in dancing with him was to make
this impossible by going delicately like Aga,
and not allowing her feet to straiic^le outside
her own lines.

Iter feet beneath her petticoat
Like little mice stole in and out,
As if they feared being trapped.

But do what she would she was sure to get
so bruised and torn, that after two or three
rounds she was fain to give up the struggle and
be bored by Mr. Pickles' conversation. Mr.
Pickles was at no loss to interpret Miss Masters'
preference of a tete-astute with him even to the
rapture of being whirled about in his arms.
The girl, like every other girl in Weston, would
catch him if she could. Indeed she had already
caught hun. Only the fear of his father prevented
his surrendering to her before now ; but
now even the fear of his father was forgotten at
sight of her beauty, and at sight also — for this
weighed as much with him — of others' admiration
of her beauty.

When, then, Mabel after supper had given
up an attempt to waltz with him after the
third round of the second dance, he was moved
to say to her with much expression in his eyeglass,
'Ii's very hot.'

Very,' replied Mabel absently, thinking of
her absent George. Misfortune brings friends
to remembrance.

So glad you came.' This, from Mr.
Pickles, was almost equivalent to a proposal.

Of course I came. Weston isn't so gay

that I could afford to refuse an invitation to a
ball, Mr. Pickles.'

Beastly place ! ' with ineffable disdain.

Well, I like it ; but I know no better, you
see.' Mabel was giving about a third of her
mind and attention to her partner, the rest
was Wandering far out to sea. Mr. Pickles
construed her pre occupation as the nervousness
of a girl expecting a proposal. Even he
himself felt nervous.

It's awfully warm,' he said, after a pause
for thought of which this remark was the outcome.


Very.'

Let's ceo into the conservator. It's
cooler there.'

The conservatory opened into the ballroom,
and was provided with lights and seats.
Mabel mechanically took his arm, with a dim
idea of where she was going. AEr. Pickles
brought her to the most secluded corner of the
conservatory, invited her to sit, and sat down
beside her. He was ill at ease. He was as
deep in love as it was possible for him to be,
but he could not keep down the thought that
he was about to make a confounded ass and

sacrifice of himself. Meantime the scent and
sight of flowers recalled Mabel to herself. She
loved flowers and was delighted with the conservatory
— a very fine one — and much more
interested in its contents than in the conversation
of Mr. Pickles.

What a lovely camellia ! ' she exclaimed,
starting up to examine it.

To understand Mr. Pickles' next move we
must remember that he imagined that no girl
in Weston, and least of all a penniless girl,
could have any higher hope of happiness than
the possession of his hand, not merely and not
chiefly because he was heir to 10,000/. a year,
but also and especially because he was such a
perfect gentleman. He saw thoroughly through
all Mabel's coquetries, that is, her snubs,
rebuffs, and sarcasms (such of them as he
understood), and knew perfectly well that they
where meant to pique and stimulate him and
give the zest of difficulty to his suit. He saw
also through her graciousness to-night, which
was simply an invitation to the proposal she
held to be ripe ; and through her distrait
manner, which was the natural and becoming
expression of her nervousness on the brink of

this proposal. All these ' tricks of the trade,'
as he called tlieni to his confidant, Bob Bate-son,
in the supper room, Mr. Pickles saw
through and forgave, in part because they were
tricks of the trade,' that is common to all
women, and in part because Mabel was so
beautiful. In fact Mr. Pickles judged Mal)el
as he judged the barmaid at the ' Bell,' or any
other woman, for he was of the opinion —

Nothing's new beside their faces,
Every woman is the same.

Having, then, this perfect knowledge of Mabel's
mind and motives, he proceeded to propose for
her in his own simple and direct way. As she
bent over the camellia he sprang up, put his
arm round her, and kissed her Without a word.
Mabel turned upon him as much astounded as
enraged.

'Mr. Pickles ! '

Her look and tone utterly disconcerted even
Mr. Pickles.

I — I mean to marry you,' he gasped, confused.


You — mean — to marry me ? You ! '

No number of notes of admiration could
adequately convey the withering scorn she put

into the words. Mr. Pickles looked as confounded
as the fisherman in the 'Arabian
Nights' before the towering genie he had
evoked, and was infinitely relieved when Mabel
turned her back upon him and marched, stately
as a queen, out of the conservatory.

At its door she met her aunt.

I was just coming to look for you, dear.'

And I was coming to look for you, Aunt.
We must go home at once.'

They've told you, then ? '

'Told me? No; what?' asked Mabel
anxiously, thinking at once of her whither.

Your father has been taken very ill ; fallen
in a fit, I believe ; and the doctor has sent for
us. I think he must be dying by their sending
for us,' said the considerate creature. Mabel
stood for a moment, white, with parted lips,
stock-still, as if turned to marble, then she
hurried through the ball-room, looking neither
to the right or left, out into the corridor, down
the stairs to the hall door.

Mabel,' shrieked her aunt after her from
the stairhead, ' you've forgotten your cloak.'

Please come, Aunt,' cried the girl, with a
piteous ring in her voice.

As a footman opened the door, Miss Tubbs,
to whom Miss Masters had told the news (as
indeed she had told it to everyone she met),
and who had seen the misery in Mabel's face,
hurried forward, threw her own cloak round
the girl's shoulders and kissed her. Miss Tubbs
hardly knew Mabel, but the generalissimo had
a kind heart, and liked withal to do a striking
thing. The delay gave Miss Masters time to
come up with her niece and they got together
into the doctor's carriage. Miss Masters talked
the whole way home very feelingly of her
share in the trouble ; how sickness in a house
unnerved and prostrated her, and what sufferings
she endured while staying with her sister's
sick household in Louth. Mabel sat deaf and
silent, stooping to look out now and then to
see how near home they had got. If her
father had spoiled her, would she have been
more miserable ? Human nature, and especially
woman's nature, values even kindness, as
it values gold, from its rarity.

Chapter XXVII.

RUIN.

While Mabel was dressing for the ball her
father was lying struck down by paralysis
within a few feet of her. He had lain for hours
thus before he was discovered, and would have
lain so all night — such was the wholesome
dread of intrusion with which he had inspired
everyone — if Jane had not ventured in to
announce a visitor on urgent business. But the
urgent business of the visitor had already been
anticipated by a telegram found clenched in
Colonel Masters' hand. It told him in twenty
words that he was ruined. The Caledonian
Bank (Unlimited) had failed for a few millions,
with assets of a few thousands, and therefore
six of its shares, held by Colonel Masters,
would suck with them into the vortex of ruin
every farthing he possessed. Yet the Caledonian
Bank had been a promising and pious specula-vol.

II. R

tion. Its directors were elders of the straightest
of all Christian sects — the Scottish Kirk. Its
chairman, Gilead Gedge, would not take cream
in his tea on the Monday morning, fearing lest
the cow from which it came had been milked
on the Sabbath day.

Mr. Gilead Gedge had started many speculations,
which had failed, as they deserved to
fail, through one defect in their foundations —
they had not been based upon religion. The
Caledonian Bank (Unlimited) being, however,
60 based, was a magnificent success. It
numbered its shareholders by thousands, its
capital by millions. Eobert Macaire says to his
accomplice Bertrand, in one of M. Philip's
caricatures, 'Mon ami, le temps de la commanding
va passer, mais les badauds ne passeront
pas. Occupies-nous de ce qui est eternal. Si
nous passions une religion ? ' Other companies
having' failed with Mr. Gilead Gedfre also, he
started the Caledonian Bank on these two
sound principles : ' Les badauds ne passeront
pas,' and ' Occupies-nous de ce qui est eternal.'
The bank was to be a strictly religious concern ;
its directors elders, its shareholders, as far as
possible, ministers of religion, or at least those

whom the Christian region binds us specially
to consider — the widow and the fatherless and
him that hath no helper. To these it gave
bread with a full and free hand until unfortunately
it failed. But it did fail disastrously — for
the shareholder at least — and involved in it the
fortunes of our heroine.

When Mabel reached home the doctor
assured her that her father was in no immediate
danger, though mind, memory, speech, and
motion were gone. She sat by his bedside for
the rest of the night in her ball-dress, with a
shawl thrown over it, and the ghastly contrast
between her face and her costume struck even
the unimaginative Jane. The discreet Jane had
her faults and her policeman, but had also the
merit — if a thing so inevitable can be considered
a merit — of worshipping Mabel. She sat, like
a dog, on a stool at her mistress's feet for the
rest of the night, all Mabel remonstrances
notwithstanding, and in the morning under the
pretence of taking off the incongruous ball
clothes before the doctor came, bullied and
wheedled her mistress into bed for a couple
of hours. However, Mabel was up again and
dressed when the doctor did come, and heard

R 2

his opinion from his own lips. He pronounced
her father, to her immense relief, better and
likely to live, but certain to have his powers of
thought, speech, and motion woefully impaired.
It was, in fact, a bad case of paralysis, that
true ' nightmare life in death.' For the rest of
his days his body just held together the wrecks
and ruins of his mind, and his life, like the
light in a Woman vault, shone only to show the
pitiable decay of mortality. Absolute death
would have been better, but Mabel was thankful
for the little life left. By unremitting
devotion to him now she mi<>-1it atone for the
past unkindness and neglect of which she accused
herself — of course without the least cause, for
her father had repulsed every timid advance
she had made.

As for Miss Masters, her brother's seizure
bore hardly upon her. Sickness in a house discomposed
and upset her. She was often forgotten
in the fuss, and sometimes had no one
to talk to or even to attend upon her. Her
breakfast was cold often, and often late, and
was taken up to her by Jane instead of by
Mabel. Indeed she saw nothing of Mabel for
three days," since the girl was always in her

father's room, and her aunt was too sensitive to
face the sight of sickness. Miss Masters, therefore,
felt her brother's illness very acutely, and
spoke of it with deep feeling to anyone who
would listen to her. It weighed upon her so
much that she began to think herself in the
way, especially when she heard from Mr.
Broughton, her brother's solicitor, that every
penny Colonel Masters had in the world would
be swallowed up in the huge hole Mr. Gedge
had been digging out for years. So long as her
brother was well off she had, of course, no
compunction about having in his house at his
expense. But it was very different now. All
he and Mabel would have to live on would be
Mabel's seventy pounds a year. She couldn't
think, therefore, of putting them to the expense
of her support any longer. She would go to
Bath and try to live upon the pittance of a
hundred and fifty pounds a year, which was all
she had in the world. Thus, as she observed
to Mr. Broughton, the kindest thing she could
do would be to relieve the ruined household
of the expense of her support. When Mr.
Broughton had taken his leave, wondering nota
little at the old lady's fortitude and philosophy,

Miss Masters, in the first flush of her dehcrht at
her extraordinary consideration, and also, it
must be said, at the hope of an immediate
escape from an uncomfortable house, sent for
Mabel forthwith, and told her of her generous
resolution. Then Mabel heard fcr the first
time of their ruin.

All ! ' she exclaimed aghast.

'All but sour seventy pounds, my dear,'
replied her aunt with a confirmatory nod.

Seventy' pounds ! Mabel had found it
little enoui:^li for the little she had to do
with it, but to support an invalid father upon
it!

But, Aunt,' cried Mabel, with a sudden
hope in her voice, ' you have something ? '

Yes, dear ; only a hundred and fifty
pounds a year, but I hope to make it do with
management. Don't fret about me, child ; I
shall get on somehow.'

Mabel was silent for a moment, wondering
if she understood her aunt. No, she couldn't
have understood her.

You mean we should all remove to Bath,
Aunt ? Is it a cheap place ? '

Cheap ! No, indeed, dear. I shall find

it hard enough to make ends meet on my little
pittance. But seventy pounds a year would be
nothing there.'

If we lived too-ether, Aunt,' said the <?irl
in a voice that trembled a little, ' we should
have two hundred and twenty pounds, besides
what I might earn by teaching.'

What ! Another governess in the family,
and going out from the house ! She could
never hold up her head again. To say nothing
of being saddled with a helpless invalid.

If you're bent on being a governess,
Mabel, you had much better stay in the K'ortli
much better. The salary is better, and —
and the position too. And as for taking
charge of your poor dear father in your absence,
I'm not equal to it ; I'm not, indeed.'

I might be a daily governess,' urged
Mabel, meaning, of course, that then she might
take the burden of attendance on her father off
her aunt's shoulders.

So you might, my dear,' replied her aunt,
nodding approvingly. She considered that she
had finally disposed of Mabel's preposterous
plan of their all living together, and was only
too glad to approve of any alternative. ' So

you Blight, my dear, and in Weston, too, where
you have plenty of friends.'

Weston was a long way from Bath, you see.
Mabel was a<]^ain silent for a few moments.
She knew now that she had rot misunderstood
her aunt at first. She was to be left to struggle
with the world alone. Her heart sank at the
prospect, but there was no help for it. As fora
hope of help from her aunt, it was plain now
that there was no room in Miss Masters'
thoughts or plans for anyone in the world but
herself.

When did you think of going. Aunt ? '
asked Mabel, in a cold, proud voice.

I don't think it's right, my dear, to stay a
day longer than I can help. You have so
much expense now — doctors, and nurses, and
one thing and another — that I don't like
saddling myself upon you any longer. I
should go to-day if my things were packed,'
with an air of extraordinary generosity, ' but tomorrow,
my dear, I shall be off your hands.*
Miss Masters seemed to expect some acknowledgment
of her generous consideration from
her niece, but Mabel was most ungraciously
and ungratefully silent.

I suppose that was all you wanted me for,
Aunt,' she said wearily as she rose to return to
her father.

That was all, dear, except that I was
going to ask you to spare Jane for a couple of
hours to pack for me.'

I shall send her at once, Aunt.'

Thank you, my dear.'

After Mabel had gone, and before her aunt
had got together her paintings and other
belongings which adorned the drawing-room,
Mr. Archer Lawley was announced. Miss
Masters explained at once her raid on the
glories of the drawing-room by telling Mr.
Lawley the whole story from first to last of her
brother's seizure and utter ruin, and of her own
thoughtful consideration in disburdening the
impoverished household of herself. Mr. Lawley
had already heard (in Mabel's letter of
apology for not keeping her engagement to
lunch with him) of Colonel Masters' dangerous
illness, but of his ruin he had not heard. Miss
Masters' confidences thereabout to a comparative
stranger were not in the best taste, but she
had really talked herself into a belief in her
own considerateness, and was as proud of it as

everyone is of a feat in a field wholly foreign
to him. Lawley, however, knew her well
enoni^h to feel sure she was rattinir. He made
no reply whatever to her confidences, but
started up and walked backwards and forwards
in a quick, disturbed way, as if he was in his
own room. In fact, he forgot Miss Masters for
the moment altogether. Miss Masters was nota
person to allow herself to be altogether forgotten,
so she brought Mr. Lawley to with the
shock of a startling announcement.

o

I'm going tomorrow, Mr. Lawley, and I
don't suppose I shall ever come back to Weston
airain.'

Lawley was brought to. He stopped
opposite Miss Masters and held out his hand.

Good-bye, Miss Masters. It's veri kind
of you to leave them now.'

I couldn't bear to be a burden to them,
you know,' she replied with absolute self-complacency.


Lawley walked slowly and meditatively
downstairs, opened the hall door, shut it, stood
for some seconds on the steps, and then turned
and rang the bell again. Jane looked rather
surprised at this quick succession of visits.

Could I see Miss Mabel Masters for a
moment ? '

He looked so troubled that Jane had no
hesitation in saying : ' Yes, sir. Please come
into this room, sir,' showing him into the
nursery.

Lawley having asked before by mistake for
Miss Masters, Jane did not think it necessary
to intrude into the sick room and mention his
visit to Mabel, who knew nothing of it therefore.
Now, however, when Jane told her of
both visits, she felt a relief which would have
been the sweetest flattery to Lawley, if he had
known of it. She had only just heard of
their ruin and was still stunned by this second
blow, and in her utter friendlessness and sore
need of advice Mr. Lawley seemed heaven-sent.


How do you do, Mr. Lawley ? ' in a voice
that failed to sound cheerful.

Lawley said nothing, or rather spoke only
through the yearning and wistful expression in
his dark eyes, holding her hand in his for a
moment after he had shaken it. It weill be
seen that his courage had risen astonishingly, but
trouble is a great leveller, and Mabel didn't

someway seem so far ofT from him now. The
depth of silent sympathy expressed in his face
was too much for Mabel, after four days and
nights of misery, during which she had hardly
slept or eaten, and could not shed a tear.
Nothing melts a heart thus ice-locked like
sympathy. It is deep calling unto deep ; and
Mabel, do what she would, could not keep
back now the tears she could not weep before.
She turned away to the window, ashamed of
her breakdown, and wept silently for a few
moments. Lawley, also silent and reverent as
if her aries hallowed the room, leaned his
elbow on the mantelpiece, looking for a
moment ^vith a profound depth of sadness in
his eyes at the girlish figure averted fi'om him,
and then he turned to steal from the room and
from the house, to come again tomorrow. He
knew that Mabel had broken down unexpectedly
and in spite of a desperate effort to
control herself, and he felt it profanity to
intrude on so sacred a sorrow. Mabel, hearing
his hand upon the lock, turned quickly and cried
anxiously : ' Don't go, Mr. Lawley. I want to
speak to you. I want to ask your advice.
I've nobody . You'll wonder that I come

Q

to you : but you're always kind to those in
trouble, Mr. Lawley, so I've a claim on you,
like Squire,' With a wan smile.

If you could let me be of use to you ? '
pleaded Lawley with perfect sincerity, reversing
the situation and becoming the suppliant.
Indeed, there was a depth of earnestness in his
tone and look which surprised and touched
Mabel greatly, and which drew her towards
him as towards a brother.

You're so generous,' she exclaimed, surprised
out of this direct compliment, and looking
up to him with a glow of admiration in her
face. Poor Lawley felt rebuked by the
undeserved praise. He generous ! What
would she or George think of his generosity if
they saw his heart. ' But,' lie hurried on to
add, seeing his embarrassment, and attributing
it to his dislike of compliment, ' you don't like
being thanked even.' She paused for a
moment and then resumed. ' I have just
heard of another trouble. My father had some
shares in that bank which broke. But you
have heard of this from my aunt .^ ' reading
Lawley 's face with her usual quickness.

Yes ; she told me,' with a ring of bitter

contempt in this voice, Avliich Mabel was at no
loss to interpret.

Do we lose every tiling ? '

I'm afraid so.'

I thought perhaps aunt might have misunderstood
Mr. Boughton.'

'I'm afraid everything goes — at least,
everything of your father's.'

'There's very little else,' lie said, looking
with a thoughtful and troubled face into the
fireplace, while her hands lay listlessly together
in her lap. ' I do so wish I had been brought
up to do anything. I'm only fit to be a
nurse. I'm too ignorant for a governess. I
don't know anything of drawing, or music, or
German, or Italian,' looking up into Lawley's
face with childish simplicity and sincerity.

No ; you're nut fit to be a governess,' said
Lawley, starting up brusquely and fiddling impatiently
with one chimney ornament after
another. 'You don't know everything and
nothing'. Besides, you're not fit in anv way —
not in any way,' his face and voice suddenly
softening, as he reiterated the words, into the
most unexpected expression of tenderness, like
that of a mother soothing a sick child. Mabel,

who Alas drinking in the words of the oracle
with absolute faith, could not, with all her
modesty, help seeing that he thought her much
above and not below the position, and that he had
an interest in her of which she never dreamed.

But what can I do ? I must do something,
Mr. Lawley.'

Miss Masters, if you were my sister, and
had to make your way in the world, I should
say, " Take a school." Not a young ladies'
school, mind. A national school. You would
be absolutely independent and would do an
incalculable amount of good.' A national
schoolmistress, Hke Miss Pochin !

A national school ! ' faltered Mabel.

Yes ; a national school. There is no
other position that I know of in which a
woman can do so much good and be so independent.
. You'd never be happy in any lower
position — certainly not as a governess or as the
mistress of a young ladies' seminary.'

Here was a revolutionary reversal of civilised
ideas ! A governess or the mistress of a
seminary for young ladies ranked below the
mistress of a national school ! Mr. Lawley was
a Eadical in many points, and in some an

eccentric Eadical. He judged of a position by
the influence it would have on oneself and on
others, rather than by its respectability in the
eyes of ]airs. Grundy. Mabel was silent for a
moment, taking in this new idea and looking at
it from all points. The more she thought of it,
the less she disliked it. It was certainly a
position in which she could do most good to those
who needed it most, with the least loss of independence
and self respect. She would have todo
also with the children of the poor towards
whom she had always felt a yearning. But,
was she qualified ? You might be a governess,
or the mistress of a seminary for young ladies
without knowing anything, but you must
know something and pass some examinations
to be a national schoolmistress.

But you must know something ? '

Yes ; you must know something ; but
nothing that you don't know already, or couldn't
master in three months.'

Mabel was again silent for a little.

And there's a long apprenticeship, isn't

there ? '

No ; not necessarily. If you like you can
act as assistant mistress for six months and then
pass. Or you can give a lesson before the

Inspector and qualify to sit on his certificate.'
Lawley hid his heart as he could under a
business-Hke manner, but the impression which
Mabel, looking up suddenly, caught in his face,
belied his brusqueness.

Do you remember my saying, Mr. Lawley,
that I couldn't think of coming to you except
on crutches ? ' she said, answering the more
than kindly and compassionate look she caught
in his face with a smile of inexpressible sweetness.
' I didn't know then how soon I should
have to come to you on crutches — or,' she
added hesitatingly and diffidently, ' that you
would have been like a brother to me.'

I've been like a brute to you ! ' broke in
Lawley, with a most unusual impulsiveness ;
I've spoken of you — you becoming a national
schoolmistress almost as if it was your natural
position. Whereas ' Here he pulled himself
up with an effort and a jerk, and, diving
his clutched hands deep into his trousers'
pockets, turned his back upon her, and walked
to. the window. The most subtle and exquisite
flattery could not have said so much as this
blunt outbreak and break-off and impulsive
turning of his back upon her. This Mr. Lawley,

VOL. II. s

the cynic and misogynist ! ' Still,' he continued,

after a pause, facing her, but replying rather to

his own thoughts, ' still, its no degradation even

to you. You will be absolutely independent.

You'll have only your own conscience to fear

and serve. And there's no end to the good

you can do where it's most wanted — to the

children of the poor. School is their one

chance, and our one chance with them. And

the influence of such a teacher as you would

change their whole lives and last their lives,

and be passed on still to their children. A few

such teachers in each of our large tOA\Tis,' he

exclaimed enthusiastically, ' would do more

good than all the churches.' Lawley was not

merely justifying his advice, but airing a

crotchet of his own. He had an inordinate idea

of the importance and influence of elementary

teachers, who had to do with plastic material,

and who were, he held, the real clergy of the

poor. And the position itself he considered

intrinsically higher than that of the highest paid

or placed governess. Still, though he held it

the best position open to Mabel, his heart bled

for her as he looked at the worn and Evan face,

and thought of the troubles that had come so

thick upon her, and of the dreary, if divine,
drudgery before her. ' At worst,' he continued,
still answering his own thoughts, ' it is the less
of two evils. It's at least better than being a
governess.'

You've convinced me that the position is
above me and not below me,' said Mabel with
one of her old smiles ; ' but I think of Miss
Pochin and take courage.'

I spoke of the position, not as Miss Pochin
has made it, but as you will make it.'

I only wish I could.'

You will,' said Lawley dogmatically ;
that is, if you've made up your mind to try it
at all.'

Yes, I've made up my mind ; or, you've
made it up for me, Mr. Lawley. I don't know
how to thank you, but you would need no
thanks if you knew what strength and courage
you have given me. I cannot tell you how
lost and lonely I felt just before you came —
before you were sent to me,' in a low and
reverent voice. ' But everything looks different
now. You'll come again soon ? '

I shall come tomorrow,' he said, holding
the little hand longingly in his own, and

8 2

looking "wistfully into the trustful and thankful
face upturned to his. ' Good-bye.'

Mabel hurried upstairs to thank God for so
speedy an answer to her prayers, while Lawley
set off to seek Her Majesty's Inspector of
Schools.

CHAPTER XXVIII.

Friends IN NEED.

Mr. Woodward, H.M. Inspector of Schools for
the Weston district, was an old college friend ,
of Archer Lawley's. He had beaten Lawley
in every Academic battle ; for being plodding
and painstaking, and doing almost as much ina
month as Lawley did in a week, and working
more months than Lawley worked weeks, he
won every race by a neck. For all that he
looked up to Lawley as a man who, though he
did and was nothing, might have been and
done anything, while Lawley respected in him
the slow but sure intellect, the cautious judgment,
and the conscientious industry in which
he was consciously so deficient himself. So
the two kept up still their old friendship, all
the firmer, — like a mortise and tenon joint
for the one being the complement of the
other.

To Mr. Woodward, tlieii, Lawley at once
repaired upon quitting the Grange, knowing
this to be the hour in wliicli lie Alas most likely
to be at home. He was not disappointed.
Mr. Woodward was at home, and disengaged,
and only too glad to take the walk to which
Lawley invited him, expecting, of course, a
battle on any or all of the subjects in constant
dispute between them. What was nis amazement
to hear Lawley speak only, and speak
highly, of a woman ! Lawley thought himself
justified under the circumstances in confiding
to his old friend Mabel's enora<:]jement to Knee-shaw,
their separation and its cause, as well as
the hopeless illness and ruin of lier whither. He
then described Mabel in such terms of praise as
took his friend's breath away (forLawley's contempt
of the sex was one of the subjects on
which they habitually fought), and wound up
with her intention, on his advice, to take a
national school. Mr. Woodward was not in the
least surprised at Lawley 's advice, for he knew,
and even shared his friend's ideas on this point ;
but lie was very much surprised by Miss
Masters' acceptance of it. She must be an
extraordinary girl, lie thought, of whom Lawley

can so speak, and who had the sense to take
such unpalatable advice.

• Now I'll tell you what you must do,
Woodward,' said Lawley impetuously. ' You
must see Miss Masters when she is able to see
you, and you must tell her all about the
examination. Perhaps she'll let you prepare
her for it,' he interrupted himself to suggest, as
if H.M. Inspector must think it a priceless privilege
to coach Miss Masters.

I don't think I could find the time,' objected
Mr. Woodward.

You'll find the time when you know her,'
rejoined Lawley decisively.

He was right. Next day Lawley called on
Mabel according to promise, and arranged for
her interview with Mr. Woodward on the day
but one after. On that day Mr. Woodward,,
expecting great things, called, and was not disappointed.
He lingered out the interview as long
as possible, explained everything in the minutest
detail, and at its close begged as a favour to be
allowed to help Miss Masters in her studies.
The offer was all but irresistible to Mabel, who
had the deepest distrust of her own powers, but
she could not be so unreasonable as to accept it.

Mr. Woodward, seeing her reluctance was due
only to consideration for him, pressed the offer
upon her so cordially that r.he was forced to
accept it. She should not hear, however, of his
coming to the Grange, but insisted, and at last
carried her point, that she should go to his
house. So it was finally arranged that she
should go once a Aveek to Mr Woodward's, an
arrangement of which Mrs. Woodward was
pleased to approve. Indeed, that impulsive
and rather fussy matron, hearing from her husband
the story of Mabel's troubles, called and
made friends with her, and always took care to
be out driving casually in a cab, and to pick up
Mabel quite incidentally on the day when she
was due at her house. She was jealous indeed
of the length of lesson her husband grave Mabel,
but jealous only because it left herself so little
time for a chat with her charming protegee.
For Iii's. Woodward with all her kindness of
heart, was a patronising little person, and would
always treat Mabel — who at ten had more sense
than Mrs. Woodward had nov — as a child. If
Mrs. Woodward had knoAvn Mabel a fortnight
ago, she would have formed the precisely opposite
impression of her ; but by some curious

confusion of thought, the helplessness of misfortune
was confounded with the helplessness of
childhood in her mind, an impression much
assisted by the fact of Mabel's taking lessons like
a school-girl. Mabel accepted the assigned
position gravely and gracefully, and found some
relief from the set grey sadness of her life in
those days in playing at being a child in Mrs.
Woodward's company.

Well, my dear, how have you done today
? ' the little woman would ask when Mabel
came out of the awful study of H.M. Inspector.

I've been a good girl, Mrs. Woodward,'
Mabel would answer, resisting the temptation
to sav ' a good dirt,' but looking as if she
should have said it, that is, with the wide
intense eyes and grave nod of a little child.
She would have made a consummate actress.
Mrs. Woodward, who was constantly zigzagging
like a butterfly about the room, making for one
thing, and then, midway, checking herself and
darting aside for another, would nod her head
approvingly.

That's right. Now sit down and have a
cup of tea.' She would always have cake for
Mabel — all children liked cake — and would set

her clair at the proper distance from the table,
and all but help her on to it. When Mabel sat
down, Mrs. Woodward, standing by her, could
reach her head, and would smooth her hair
caressingly with her hand before she sat down
herself.

You'll find the tables hard. / did, when I
was at school, and the geography, especially the
definitions, but wc used to christen the girls by
them and remember them in that way. I still
write to Lydia Parker ' My dear Iste,' short for
Isthmus, you know ; she had such a long thin
waist. It wasn't right, my dear,' fearing Mabel
might take to such demoralising mnemonics,
but we don't always do what is right.'

I know all the definitions, Mrs. Woodward,'
said Mabel, with some natural triumph
in her tone and look.

'Do you, my dear? Mr. Woodward says
you're very clever. He says — but it wouldn't
do to tell you all he says about you ; it might
make you vain. And cleverness isn't everything.
/ wasn't thought clever at school.'

Mabel had to look amazed in common
politeness.

1^0, my dear, I wasn't,' nodding her head

positively, as asseverating an incredible statement.
' They used to call me " the Claimant,"
not only because I was stout, but because of
my " impositions." I had ever such a lot of
impositions to do — you can't think. That's
why I'm so good at history. I think I have
written out the names and dates of the kings
and queens of England five hundred times at
least. Every girl ought to know history, the
names and dates are so important. You know
history, my dear ? '

A little.'

I should study history if I were you,'
speaking very earnestly, and ex cathedra, as an
expert. ' If you wrote out the names and
dates of the sovereigns of England so many
times every day you would soon get to know
it.'

And the battles ? ' suggested Mabel. She
would take herself to task afterwards for ingratitude,
pertness, flippancy, &c., but the
temptation at the time to play the child was
irresistible.

I don't think I had the names and dates
of the battles to write out,' replied Mrs. Woodward
thoughtfully, ' but the genealogies I had.

I remember when Mr. Tinting, the clergyman,
examined us in history, I was the only one in
the class that could give the genealogy of
Edward III., and how he claimed the throne of
France. I forget how now. Through another
mother, I think,' reflectively.

How many had he, Mrs. Woodward ? '
asked Mabel, with perfect composure.

I forget it all, now, my dear. Not as
many as .Henry VIII. — those were wives,
though. No ; I can't remember, now,' shaking
her head impatiently. 'But I got the prize
then for history. I have it still, beautifully
bound and full of dates — " Maunder's Menagerie
" — a very clever book.'

Mabel had to keep silence, to keep her
countenance at this happy confusion of
Maunders of Menagerie fame with his namesake
of the 'Treasury,' and at the still happier
description of that brilliant and original work
as ' a very clever book.'

But ycu haven't eaten your cake,' continued
Mrs. Woodward, who could not endure
a moment's silence.

I don't want any, thank you, Mrs. Woodward.'


Not cake ? You shall have some jam,
then,' in a tone not unlike that of a soothing
nurse, ' It shall have its jam, then.'

But I haven't brought my pinafore, Mrs.
Woodward.'

Your " Pinafore " ? We have a copy of
it, my dear, if you'd like to play for me. Do.
I should like very much to hear you ; I should,
indeed.'

Mrs. Woodward was under the impression
that Mabel, like any other child, was eager to
show off her latest accomplishment or acquirement.


No, thank you, ]\fe. Woodward. I didn't
mean the opera, and I can't play it. Besides,
I must get home, as I expect a friend this
evening. I feel your kindness very much,' said
Mabel, taking and holding the little woman's
hand. The words were not much, but the tone
and look were as tender music to them, and
gave them expression. Mabel, as usual,
towards the end of her visit was filled with
compunction for what she felt to be ungrateful
ridicule of her hostess, though in truth it would
have been hard to accept Mrs. Woodward's
grandmotherly patronage seriously.

My dear, you deserve kindness,' raising
herself on tip-toe to kiss Mabel and pat her on
the cheek. ' And I've got you a Httle present,'
handing her a small parcel Which Mabel lead
seen her take up and put down again furtively
and fidgeting half a dozen times. Mabel half
expected it to be a doll, but it turned out to bea
very pretty little housewife, with the one disadvantage
that the thimble &c. where too small
for even Mabel's fingers. ' You mustn't look at
it till you get home. I hope you'll learn to use
it, m}^ dear.'

When Mabel had thanked her, and was
leaving the room, Mrs. Woodward first trotted
to the bell to ring; for the servant to show the
visitor out, and then hurried after her to show
her out herself, chattering the while. Lie-seas
left speaking,' in fact, like the House of
Commons, and even when Mabel lead got
almost to the bottom of the dozen steep steps
that led up to the hall-door, Mrs. Woodward
called after he', ' My dear ! '

Mabel was back in a moment.

You needn't have come back, my dear. I
was only going to tell you to be careful in
going down the steps. They are so steep, and

it was only the other days I saw in the paper
that a poor old woman in Manchester had
slipped on a piece of orange-peel on the pavement
and broke all her eggs and her ankles,
and was taken to the Infirmary. You can't be
too careful, my dear.'

Certainly Mrs. Woodward was mistress of
the art, which is described by no less venerable
and ponderous an authority than Hercules as
getting on horseback in a ship ' — a happy
example of fuss.

The friend whom Mabel was at last allowed
to hurry home to see was Mr. Eobert Sagar.
Mabel had written to him in the first days of
her trouble, but got no answer, and knew,
therefore, that her note had not reached him,
rightly conjecturing that he had left London.
He had left London to roam here and there
over the Continent, as chance, or a chance
companion, might lead him, and found Mabel's
letter on his return. He telegraphed at once
to explain his silence, and to promise to be
with her the same evening;. It Alas a generous
promise. Mr. Sagar completely conquered and
suppressed himself in making it, for he imagined
Miss Masters still at the Grantee. Mabel,

having nothing good to say of that estimable
lady, had made no mention of lier in her letter,
and Mr. Sagar therefore was almost as miicli
disquieted about this own prospects as about
Mabel's, when he had time to think things over
in the train. Wliat about ' Eel)ecca ' ? How
was he to face, or rather flee her ? He lead
almost put in the telegram an announcement of
his marriage, accounting for his absence from
town by his honeymoon, only he couldn't bring
himself to tell a lie, or at least, that lie, to
Mabel. He thought with much ]perturbation
and perspiration of the case of his friend Dick
Burkitt, an old Indian and an old bachelor like
himself, and like him, too, retired, who was
advised to marry and even whom to marry — a
Manchester maiden with a lac of rupees to her
dower. Dick ran down to inspect what Sir
Anthony Absolute calls ' the live stock on the
estate,' and promised to report to Bob the
results of his inspection of the heiress. Accordingly,
two days after Dick's departure Bob
received, not a letter, but this terse telegram :

She's as old as the devil.'

Two months after he saw in the Times
the announcement of his friend's marriage to

this very maiden. Still, there's the lac of rupees
thought Bob. If his friend had married the
devil, at least it was a consolation to remember
Milton's assurance,

That riches grow in hell.

But his shamefaced friend, being met by him
shortly after, and congratulated upon the lac of
rupees, replied with laconic bitterness :

'A plentiful lack.'

What ! Hadn't she a fortune ? '

'A thousand pounds. Bob, in Consols, all
told. Thirty pounds a year ; cigar money if I
smoked. But I've given up smoking since I
got married,' continued Dick dismally, ' so I
may call it sixty pounds a year.'

You'll be giving up living next. There's
a deal to be saved in that way, my boy ; ' for
certainly Dick seemed to have suicide in his
eye. ' Look here, old fellow,' continued Bob,
linking his arm sympathetically in Dick's,
we've known each other a matter of twenty
years, so you'll not think me intruding on
you in your trouble if I give you a word of
advice. Ease the boiler a bit ; let it off
through the whistle ; it'll do you good.'

VOL. ir. T

Tien Bob heard the tale Which now fluurr
him into a perspiration. For it seems his
friend's case was precisely analogous to his
own. It was the old lady's niece who was the
heiress, as Dick found a fortnight after he had
telegraphed to Bob, and before he had fully
committed himself; yet he married the aunt.
How, he couldn't say. She had misunderstood
something he said as a proposal, and he
couldn't get out of it somehow. He did buzz
about a bit and shake the web, but it was no
use.

And after all,' concluded Dick, with a sigh
like a sob, ' it might have been worse. Bob.
She's religious, and has the devil's own temper,
but she makes first-rate curries.'

Bob was so touched by the frankness of his
friend's confidences, and so struck by the astonishing
similarity of the case even in detail to
his own, that he made in turn a clean breast of
this miraculous escape from Eebecca.

By George ! the same trick. The confidence
trick ! ' cried his astonished friend. ' I'm
hanged if they're not taught it at school. Those
girls' schools are the mischief. Bob. But look
her) my boy, do you remember how we

bagged " Auld Cloots"('Auld Clouts ' was a
man-eating tiger). ' We tied a calf to a tree asa
bait, and potted Clothe in act to spring on it.
Keep clear of the calf, my boy, or it's all up
with you.'

Bob was not well pleased to hear Mabel so
described, but after all, Dick's being a sin of
ignorance, as he didn't know Mabel, was venial,
not mortal, and he was any way pardonable as
being pitiable. Besides, the advice was certainly
sound, and it was this sound advice that
now recurred to him and disquieted him. But
though Mr. Sagar was not in some respects a
man of the most refined feelings, as mig-ht be
inferred from his intimacy and this conversation
with Mr. Burkitt, he was essentially generous,
and even chivalrous, and did not repent of
gohig upon this forlorn hope to the relief of
Mabel.

Having reached Weston and recruited himself
at the ' Queen ' with some dinner, he took
a cab to the Grange, but did not pay the driver
until he had satisfied himself that Mabel was at
home. He aren't risk walking back in case
Eebecca was at large.

T 2

Is Miss Masters at home, Jane ? '

Yes, sir.'

I mean Miss Mabel ; ' standing like a Janus
with one side face towards the open door, and
the other towards the cab, for she might be
upon him at any moment, and he must pretend
not to see her.

Didn't you know, sir ? The old lady's
gone, sir,' said the discreet Jane, with a guarded
grin. She had made merry many a time over
Mr. Sagar's headlong flight, the cause of which
she had penetrated through a keyhole.

Gone ! To London ? ' cried Bob with a
new alarm in this voice.

No, sir. To Bath, sir.'

Bob looked doubtfully at the Discreet,
suspecting her of wit. Living much in hotels,
he had a vast intimacy with pert barmaid.

'Ordered there?' he asked jocosely, to
draw forth the lurking jest, if there was one.
But no, there wasn't. The Discreet looked by
no means humorous, but wroth rather.

No, sir ; because her breakfast was late,
sir, since Master was took,' venomously ; for
Jane had had most to do with and most to hear
and to bear about this grievance.

You took it late to her ? ' asked Bob in
will spirits.

Yes, sir,' rather doggedly.

Bob could have kissed her, and would, too,
but for the cabman. He couldn't, however,
resist chucking her under the chin with one
hand, and presenting her with half-a-crown
with the other.

Bead, if you'd only kept her dinner late,
you might have sent her to Jericho.'

Jane didn't understand this as the superlative
of ' going to Bath,' but she quite understood
Mr. Sagar's high spirits, his caress, and
above all his half-crown. It wasn't the first
half-crown she had had from Mr. Sagar, nor
the first caress either. Mr. Sagar, having made
the cabman rejoice with him by a bounteous
over-payment, followed Jane up to the dismantled
drawing-room. It looked like a
plucked peacock, as of course Miss Masters had
not left a single feather behind. Mr. Sagar
dwelt on every token of her fair absence with
a lover-like delight. The old lady, wee need not
say, had taken care to let him know that all the
glories Avhose absence he gloated over were the
work of her own hands. He was not, however.

left long to these sentimental musings, as
Mabel at once hurried in to see him.

'I knew you would come,' with socii a
bright welcome in her face and outstretched
hands, that if Bob hadn't been in love with her
he must have kissed her.

Come ! I should have come from India.
How's your father ? '

He's as well as he ever will be, Mr. Sagar,
the doctor thinks. He's as helpless as a little
child,' and far more fractious, she might have
added, for she was tried, and tried sorely, by
his ceaseless petulance, and frequent, violent,
and causeless outbursts of passion. Bob looked
sadly at the sad face.

I suppose it was this bank ? '

Brought it on ? Yes, I think so. The
telegram telling him of the failure was found
clenched in his hand.'

It's utter ruin ? '

Everything goes except seventy pounds a
year. But I'm going to make my fortune, Mr.
Sagar,' with a smile, but not without trepidation.
She could defy Grundy, Eoxby & Co's
disapproval, but not Mr. Sagar 's.

You ? '

'Why not? We have made our way into
the professions, you know,' with an assumption
of sauciness.

'A doctor,' thought Bob. and his heart
fainted within him.

Not a doctor,' said Mabel, answering what
she knew would be his first thought. ' A
schoolmistress.'

What ! ' like a shot from a gun, and in a
brogue as broad as the Shannon at Kerry
Head. His one idea of a schoolmistress was
Miss McCormack of Ennis — a griffin. His
lively imagination tried in vain to picture
Mabel ' old and formal, fitted to this petty
part.'

A national schoolmistress,' Mabel hastened
to add, to set it over.

Who's put this into your head, Mabel ? '
in a lamentable voice.

Mr. Lawley thought it would be pleasant
than being a governess, and I quite agree with
him. Don't say anything against it, Mr. Sagar,'
pleaded Mabel persuasively ; ' I've set my heart
on it.'

As, indeed, she had. She had got it into
her wise head that it was a kind of missionary

work to which she was called. Bob, too,
thought it was some idea of this kind, put into
her head by a pet parson, Which made her so
bent upon it.

Hang those parsons,' he muttered bitterly.
'They think no one can get to heaven without
peas in his shoes.' But aloud to Mabel he said,
with a sudden change to tenderness in his
voice and face, ' Mabel, your mother left you tome
on her death-bed, and now that your poor
father is helpless, I claim the right to take care
of you. You're my ward, dear,' he said, taking
her hand in one of his while his thumb moved
back and forward over it caressingly. He forgot
for the moment even his love in his pity.
I cannot let you do this — this degrading thing.'

'I'm so sorry you think it degrading,' she
said humbly. Mr. Sagar's tenderness disarmed
her of argument. ' I don't think it's more degrading,
or so degrading, as being a governess.'


But why should you be a teacher at all,
Mabel? Why shouldn't you let me take care
of you, and be a father to you ? It was your
mother's wish, dear — her dying wish.'

Father ! ' It was the hardest word in the

world for poor Bob to speak, but it was spoken
bravely and sincerely.

Dear Mr. Sagar, I cannot say what I feel
about your great goodness to me. But I do
feel it. I do with all my heart. You will be
to me, I know, dear friend, all that my mother
asked you to be in that letter ; but I was a
child when she wrote it — I could do nothing
for myself. Now I am a woman, and I can
work. Do you think my mother would have
liked me to be a burden to you? Do you
think I should be happy if I was a burden even
to you ? You are so generous, Mr. Sagar, that
you can understand — no one could understand
better than you — how much happier I should
be earning my own bread. Don't you feel that
I should ? ' with an appealing look, and laying
an appealing hand on his.

You should think something of the happiness
you would give me, Mabel,' said Bob,
evading an answer. ' I don't know anything,'
he added, with an energy and emphasis that
trebled the meaning of the words, ' which
would make me so happy as to be of use to
you.'

Of use to me ? Didn't I write to you at

once when I lieaixl of our ruin ? Didn't I
bring you all the way from London ? Do you
think I shall spare you in future, Mr. Sagar?
You'll find I shall give you trouble enough to
satisfy even you,' she said, with a smile that
shone through tears, for she was touched exceedingly,
as well she might, by the depth and
tenderness of affection shown in Mr. Sagar's
manner, more than in his words. Bob, however,
still held out against the Quixotic national
schoolmistress scheme, and suggested her taking
charge of children of Indian parents, of whom
he could have procured her half-a-dozen, but
Mabel at last coaxed him into a sullen assent to
her pet plan.

Chapter XXIX.

Advisers.

Miss Tubes had an Irish preference for generosity
to justice. She would much rather impose
than discharge an obligation, and would give most
to those with least claim upon her. If Mark,
Maggot, Tubby, and Weenums had been her
own children, they would not have been spoiled
but bullied rather. Mr. Gant's chief claim in
her eyes to S. George's was that he had no
claim ; he was her creature. She would not
have given a penny towards Mr. Kneeshaw's
presentation if it had been got up in the ordinary
way ; but she gave 10/. for the pleasure of
having it wholly in her own hands. Her
delif]jht in doinf]^ outre and startling things was
delight in the sense of power which she felt in
defying Mrs. Grundy with impunity, and to this
delight in the sense of power was due much of
her high-handed generosity.

Having conquered S. George's Church —
patrons, parson, choir, and Sunday School — she
turned her arms against the Day School, and
put to rout its master and mistress after two or
three sharply fought battles. Both at last surrendered
at discretion, and allowed Miss Tubbs
to revolutionise the schools — very much to their
advantage it must be said — and all would have
gone smoothly henceforward, if it was not for
the righteous zeal of Mr. Gant. Having a
ritualistic abhorrence of irreverence to holy
things, he ragged at the schoolmistress, while
still smarting from her defeat, for the disrespect
shown him by the girls in her charge. These
girls were taught to curtsey with their arms
looped to their shoulders like the handles of a
sugar-basin, yet many of them, on meeting
the' priest, if they were carrying anything,
instead of putting it down and presenting arms,
would honour him only with wdiat Dr. Primrose
calls ' a mutilated curtsey,' while some passed
him without any salute. A slight like this
passed upon a priest was no light thing, and
Mr. Gant could not overlook it. Whenever it
occurred — and it occurred almost daily — he
took Miss Garth waite querulously to task for

neglect of the religionis training of the chikh^en
as exemplified by their reverence towards their
priest. Now Mr. Gant's nagging was maddening.
He was always so full of himself that he
never had a thought to spare to the feelings of
others — least of all when his own self-importance
was touched — and poor Miss Garth waite had at
last to give in and give notice. It was the last
straw on the overburdened camel. Then, too
late. Miss Tubbs intervened. She had no notion
of allowing Miss Garthw^aite to be bullied by
anyone but herself, and when Lir. Gant came to
announce her notice and his version of its
cause, he got a sharp and sound scolding.

I shall have to take the school into my
own hands altogether,' said the generalissimo in
conclusion. And so she did. She invited Mr.
Sandal, Mr. Woodward's colleague (she did not
know Mr. Woodward) to dinner, told him that
she meant to make the school the first in his
district, and asked him to recommend a first-class
mistress. Mr. Eandal knew of no such
mistress disengaged in his district, but promised
to make inquiries, and the result of his inquiries
was the recommendation of Mabel. He enclosed
to Miss Tubbs Mr. Woodward's letter to himself

in answer to his inquiries after such a mistress ;
and in this letter Mabel was described in terms
that seemed extraordinary to Mr. Eandal, with
his knowledge of his colleague's phlegm. bliss
Tubbs had no difficulty in identifying Mabel
with the belle of the Sugdens" ball, as her
address Alas given in Mr. Woodward's note, and
it was the address of the young lady from whom
she had so graceful a letter of thanks in returning
the cloak Miss Tubbs had thrown over her
shoulders that night. jNIiss Tubbs had heard of
Colonel Masters' illness and ruin, and had
given a thought of passing pity at the time to
the young girl forced to face and fight the
world alone at a moment's warning, and now
this pity was warmed into active benevolence.
It was just such a case as Miss Tubbs delighted
to take up — striking, interesting, pathetic, with
no special claim upon her. She must certainly
take this friendless iii under lier protection.
She a national schoolmistress ! beyond all comparison
the loveliest and most ladylike girl in
Weston ! Miss Tubbs wouldn't hear of such a
thing. Why not be a governess, be Iter governess,
and have the privilege of teaching Maggot,
Tubby and Wecnums — the very thing for her

and for the children too. She mustn't lose
another moment in making the girl happy with
this offer. Accordingly the bell was rung, the
carriage ordered, and Miss Tubbs was at the
Grange an hour after the receipt of Mr. Eandal's
letter. Having inquired after Colonel Masters,
and condoled watli Mabel upon the trouble and
anxiety she had gone through, she broached
her business with less than her usual abruptness.


I have come, too, on business, Miss
Masters — on a business I should not have
ventured to come upon if I had not the
warrant of two of Her Majesty's Inspectors. I
can hardly believe even them, that you mean
to become a national schoolmistress.'

I mean to try, Miss Tubbs. I'm not sure
that I shall pass.'

Pass ! You should read what Mr. Woodward
writes about you. He says you should
have been professor of English literature at
Girton. Why throw yourself away as a
national schoolmistress ? If you like teaching,
why not be a governess? I am selfishly interested
in persuading j^ou, Miss Masters, as
I should like to secure you for myself — for my

niece and her two little brothers — really
charming children. You'd find it quite a
pleasure to teach them.'

Miss Tubbs felt she was making a generous
offer graciously. She always did generous
things graciously.

It is really very good of you, ]\Iiss Tubbs,
and I should have been glad to accept your
kind offer if I had not made up my mind
against being? a governess. You see mv father
is very helpless, and I couldn't think of leaving
him.'

But you might be a non-resident governess.
I can guarantee you as many pupils as
you choose to undertake.'

I should like being a schoolmistress better,
I think, Miss Tubbs.'

You don't know what you're undertakings,
Miss Masters,' positively with a very decided
nod. ' You'll find the drudgery disgusting.
It's not like having: to do with gentlefolks'
children, you know,' — contrasting in her own
mind the sweet reasonableness of Mark,
Macfcfot, &c. with the lawless brutality of the

DO ' •■

children of the poor.

I've a fancy to try it, Miss Tubbs. I

think I sliaU be more independent. Besides,
I don't know the things a governess is expected
to teach — music, German, and Italian.'

Don't you ? ' cried Miss Tubbs eagerly, hier
idea of Mabel's qualifications as a governess
being raised immensely. ' Give my children a
trial, Miss Masters. Try them for a few
months. I have no fear at all that you'll
ref]^ret it. One so seldom meets with a soberness
who doesn't profess to teach everything

I should be found out in a day,' answered
Mabel, smiling at Miss Tubbs' eagerness and its
cause. ' So it wouldn't do to profess it. If
anything could tempt me, though, to be a
governess, your kind offer would. Miss Tubbs ;
DUt I feel that I should be more happy and at
home as a national schoolmistress.' Mabel of
course was perfectly sincere in her acknowledgment
of Miss Tubbs' offer, as she had not the
happiness of knowing Maggot and her hopeful
brothers.

Well, Miss Masters, if you're bent upon it,
I've nothing more to say — nothing more to say,
that is, against your choice. But if you ivill bea
national schoolmistress, I should be so glad
if you would accept S. George's Girls' School.'

VOL. 11. u

S. George's ! Three montis ago Mabel
Alas to have been the wife of its Vicar ! This,
though, was not the thought in her mind on
Miss Tubbs' mention of the school. ' I should
be under Mr. Gant,' she reflected. She knew
from Mr. Lawley that as schoolmistress of a
Church of England school she would be much
at the mercy of the Vicar — of Mr. Gant ! She
had often charitably pleaded Mr. Gant's cause
with George, whose contempt for his fellow
curate was unfathomable, but no charity could
be blind to his silliness and his insensibility to
everyone's claims and feelings but his own.

Mr. Gant's school ! ' exclaimed Mabel,
surprised out of the exclamation. That the surprise
was no pleasant one, was plainly expressed
in her face.

You know Mr. Gant,' said Miss Tubbs
with a smile, and with a suspicion that her
protege had, perhaps, been refused by Mabel.
'But you'll have nothing to do with him. Miss
Masters. He has promised me not to meddle
with the Day Schools in future I shall take
charge of them myself,' said the generalissimo
decisively.

Mabel could not help the thought that as

the mistress of a school in Miss Tubbs' charge,
she might not altogether reaHse her ideal of
independence. ' But I cannot sit for my certificate
for six weeks yet, Miss Tubbs.'

We shouldn't want you before then, probably
; or, if we should, we could easily makeshift
for a while, till you were ready.'

If you could kindly leave the offer open
for a day or two. Miss Tubbs, I shall think
over it and write to you.'

Couldn't you spare me an evening ? If
you could dine with us any evening this
week or next, we could talk matters over
together. You see I don't want you to
escape me. Would Thursday do ? or Monday
next ? '

It was impossible to refuse this invitation,
though Mabel felt that her acceptance of it was
a step towards the acceptance of the school.

Thank you ; I shall be glad to come on
Monday next. I must thank you very much
for the kind interest you have shown in me.
Miss Tubbs,' as that lady rose to go.

I assure you it's all selfish, Miss Masters.
If you read Mr. Woodward's letter about you,
you would understand it all. I didn't lose a

u 2

moment after I read it in trying to secure you.
I only hope I have succeeded.'

Miss Tubbs went* away more favourably
impressed than ever with Mabel, and more
delighted with herself and her scheme of taking
her up. k^he would take care that the girl did
not lose caste through her eccentric choice of a
callings, for she would have her at her house
and at her ]parties, and keep her still, where
she had every claim of birth, beauty, and bearing
to be, in the first society of Weston. This
was precisely the kind of enterprise in which
Miss Tubbs took most delight, and in which,
too, she was sure of success, for she ruled even
the fashionable world of Weston with a rod of
iron. Upon leaving the Grange, she drove at
once to the office of Mr. Mills, and Mr. Gant's
colleague in the management of the Day
Schools, Mr. GledhilL and put the case clearly
before him. She explained Mabel's circumstances,
expatiated on her qualifications, and
produced Mr. Woodward's tribute to them.
With Mr. Woodward's testimony Mr. Gledhill
was as much struck as Mr. sandal had been,
for as a manager he had to do with that
phlegmatic Inspector, and knew how he

weighed his words and grudged his praise.
Miss Tubbs, therefore, had no difficulty in persuading
Mr. Gledhill — a very kindhearted man,
who was much moved by the story of Mabel's
troubles — to osier her the school at a salary of
150/. — that is, half as much again as Miss
Garthwaite had.

We shall more than recover it in the
grant,' pleaded Miss Tubbs, ' for Mr. Woodward
is sure to give her a flaming report.' This
consideration was not without its weight with
Mr. Gledhill, but he did not need it to convince
him that he was doing a wise, as well as a kind
thing, in securing the services of a lady of whom
even Mr. Woodward spoke so highly.

Meantime Mabel wrote to Mr. Lawley,
asking his advice upon Miss Tubbs' offer, and
was of course answered by that gentleman in
person as soon as possible after the letter
reached him the next morning. Lawley had
visited Mabel twice to advise with her since
last we saw them together, and each time grew
more desperately and miserably in love, indeed,
if he had not been already m love, Mabel's
implicit dependence upon him and recurring
recourse to him for advice would have been

irresistible ; as it was, they heaped fuel on a
furious 11 amc. The strength of love is as the
strength of the man in love, and Lawley's
heart was like a fortress, hard to win, but once
won and garrisoned in force, impregnable. His
love for Mabel had grown to be part, and the
better part, of his life. He could not work, or
write, or cat, or sleep, for thinking of her — of
how she looked and spoke the last time he saw
her ; of what she would look and say at their
next meeting ; while mixed like poison with
these sweet reveries was the thought of the
hopelessness and of the treachery of his passion.
It is only just to him to say that he would
have had the will and the wisdom to wrench
himself free when first he felt his bonds, if it
was not for Mabel's helpless dependence upon
him. When she wrote and asked his advice as
to her next steji in a path on Which he had
himself set her, what could he do? Write?
She asked him to call when next in Weston ;
and besides, a dozen letters could not express
or explain adequately what she asked about.
No ; it Alas Mabel's helplessness, not his weakness,
which drew him to the Granite. He was
not a weak man by auy means — a still, strongman

rather, who could ' bide the beating of so
strong a passion ' without a cry. If he could
not strangle it he could imprison it, deep down
where no one, and Mabel least of all, should
hear or see it. But we know that suppressed
suffering, like suppressed gout, is the most agonising.
Wise is the warning of Pythagoras — Mr)
lorOUiv KapSiav, —

The grief that does not speak
Whispers the o'er-fraught heart, and bids it "break.

And Archer Lawley suffered such mental
tortures as only a lonely, strong, and silent
man can know. In Mabel's presence most of
all and hardest of all he had to hide his heart,
and he hid it so that sometimes she imagined
she had outworn even his kindness ; but then
again, looking up suddenly, she would surprise
a yearning expression in the dee[) dark eyes
fixed on her, which she construed as the earnest
pity of a man who could not, unmoved, see
even a little child suffer.

Not long, then, after he had received Mabel's
letter, Lawley was walking up and down the
grim drawing-room of the gynecium, where she
soon joined him.

I'm such a trouble to you,' she said, with
unmistakeable sincerity as they shook hands.

It would be a trouble to me if you thought
so, Miss Masters,' he answered with a sincerity
equally unmistakeable. ' You could not have
done me a greater kindness than to make use
of me.'

The words seemed cold and of course to
Lawley, compared with this longing to be
allowed to do or suffer anything]: for her ; but to
Mabel they sounded gracious.

I have loaded you with kindness, then, Mr.
Lawley, and have plenty still in store for you,'
looking up with a grateful smile into his wistful
fiice. ' Well, what do you think of Miss Tubbs'
offer ? '

'Offer? Order. I know Miss Tubbs'
glad to put on his cynical mask — his usual
disguise.

Indeed, no ; she put it in the most flattering
way, as a favour. She was rather asking
than offering. She even wished me to be her
<X<.)verne3s.'

What ! to those children ? '

To her nieces and nephews ; she said they
were charming children.'

Lawley was speechless for a moment, and
said then drily —

You'd a narrow escape. But I don't know
that the school will be much better. It's Mr.
Gant's school.'

No ; it's Miss Tubbs' school, Mr. Lawley ;
Mr. Gant is not to be allowed to enter it. At
least he has given her a promise not to meddle
with it. Don't you think I might take it on
that condition? '

He'll not keep it,' said Lawley decidedly.
He felt that the inducement to that gentleman
to meddle with a school of which Mabel was
mistress would be irresistible. ' I should like
you to be under a gentleman ' — a biting speech
that lost none of its bitterness in the short and
sharp way in which he uttered it.

I think I shall be under a lady altogether,
Mr. Lawley. I'm sure Mr. Gant aren't disobey
Miss Tubbs.'

It would be flying in the face of Providence,
you think. Certainly if anyone can
keep Mr. Gant in order it is Miss Tubbs. But
who's to keep Miss Tubbs in order ? '

Miss Tubbs likes her own way, but she
likes being kind, too, and I think I'd as soon

be under lier us under any other vicar here.
Besides, Mr. Lawlcy, I have another and very
strong reason for accepting Miss Tubbs' offer.
I put it hist like a lady's postscript, but it's my
real reason, and has converted nie to the
amiable views of Miss Tubbs and even of Mr.
Gaunt. The salary is enormous — 150/. a year!
And I don't think it's charity either,' she continued
hesitatingly. ' I think it's the ordinary
salary. At least the offer does not come from
Miss Tubbs, but from ]mr. Gledhill, one of the
managers, and is made in a very business-like
way, you see.'

Lawley took the letter and read it without
having his conviction shaken that it was inspired
by Miss Tubbs, of whom he came therefore
to think kindly.

'"A thousand ]pounds ! Thou hast touched
me nearly," ' quoted Lawley, and then added —
You've made your mind up to accept it.'

Indeed I have not, Mr. Lawley. I have
made uj) my mind to do as you tell me.'

I should say, take it, if I was sure of Mr.
Gant.'

He writhed mentally at the thought of the
insolent patronage, or still more insolent attentions,

with which Mr. Gaiit was likely to favour
Mabel.

I am sure of Miss Tubbs,' replied Mabel
confidently. ' She spoke as if she had Mr.
Gaiit in coni})lete control, and she's not likely"
to let anyone bully me but herself, if she can
help it.'

She's pretty sure to bully you .^ '

A little ; but it would be absurd to mind
being bulged by Miss Tubbs. It's the common
lot, you know ; and I should feel as the poor
people say when they're down in fever — " Xo
one can stand agen it." '

But you needn't put yourself in the way
of infection.'

" A thousand pounds ! " ' echoing Lawley s
quotation.

Lawlev did not return her smile. He sat
silent and gloomy He felt sick of the light
and unconcerned tone he had affected up to
this, when he thought of such a girl having to
sell herself into such a slavery. He sunk his
hands, after his inelegant fashion, deep in his
trousers' pockets, and sat glowering at Mabel
abstractedly, as at an insoluble problem.
Presently the penetrating look in this eyes softened

into tenderness, as sunlight softens slowly
to twilight.

I still think I was riu'ht,' answering;? his
own thoughts. ' You'll forget the drudgery in
the good you arc doing.'

Of course you were right, if you mean in
your advice to me, Mr. Lawley. There's no
drudgery in work you can do and have a taste
for.'

No ; I don't think you'll find it drudgery.
After all, with one's work, as with one's clothes,
the first thing is the fit. If your work doesn't
fit you you are uncomfortable, no matter how
grand it is. You don't care for tinsel. Miss
Masters, and I think you could get nothing to
fit you better than work amongst the children
of the poor. Anyhow, you can try it and see.'

*I have no doubt at all of its fitting me, if
I can only fit it, and Mr. Woodward thinks I
shall pass.'

Mr. Woodward thinks you could pass for
anything you chose.'

You should ask him about mv arithmetic'

Why, you've surprised him most with that.
You've made such progress with a thing you
had so little liking for.'

*I am quite getting to like it, though. A
mother Hies most the child that's most " newcome,"
^ you know ; and it's been " tewsouie "
enough, I can assure you. But Mr. Woodward
has been so kind and patient with me ; I wish
you would tell him how deeply I feel his kindness.
I always mean to say so myself every
time I go, but somehow I lose courage dien
the moment comes, and can only thank him
in the coldest way. He is very awful, you
know. I suppose one must be awful to get toto
be Her Majesty's Inspector of Schools.'

He's very shy, that's all. He probably
thinks you as awful as you think him.'

Me ! '

Your sex. Like the elephant, you don't
know your power, and it's well for us you
don't ' — hiding under these light words a
personal application Mabel little suspected.
Having now stayed as long as business and
courtesy required, he had the resolution to rise
to go.

'Must you go? When your il tie children

^ ' Newcome,' Yorkshire for * giving plenty of Trouble.'
Usually applied to an intractable child.

quit your hospital, heave you done with them
ahogetlier, Mr. Lawley ? '

When they're outside my parish r Yes.
I luiven't time to look them up.'

Will you make an exception in flivoiu' of
me ? ' looking up pleadingly into his face.
You'll not give me up altogether when I'm off
3-our hands, will you ? You'll still come sometimes
to see me ? '

lie stood silent for a moment with her
Jiand in his, looking down upon her with a
troubled expression Mabel couldn't interpret.

Yes, I'll come.'

The words were not gracious, but Mabel
read a gracious answer in his manner.



Chapter XXX.

SCHOOL.

Mabel passed with flying colours, getting a
first-class certificate, and entered at once upon
her duties. They were light for the first week,
as Miss Garth waite had taken with her not
only all the staff, but nearly all the school.
This put Miss Tubbs upon her mettle. She
gave out public notice that no child so withdrawn
would ever be readmitted, and stuck toit,
too, in the teeth of the law. This proclamation
put the school at premium, and had no
little effect upon the neighbourhood. Again,
the districts in which Mabel's name was a
household word sent every eligible child.
Lastly, Barney McGrath developed extraordinary
talents as a ' persuader.' It is hardly
too much to say that Barney was as deeply
shocked and saddened by Mabel's troubles as
Mr. Sagar, or even Mr. Lawley. For the

04 LOVE THE Debt.

first fortnight after' her father's seizure, lie
never missed a day in calling to ask after her,
and to bring her a few flowers, and sometimes
some vegetable delicacy. In the latter case,
the discreet Jane was instructed to say nothing
of whence it came, lest Mabel might think the
present a liberty, and a liberty, too, lo which
he mif^ht seem to have been emboldened bv
her fallen fortunes. Havinfj^ made his oflTerinir
he would retreat precipitately unless Jane had
special orders — as she nearly always had — to
show him into the ' nursery.' Here Mabel
would receive him, and he would show her, if
possible, more respect than ever, and speak to
her on any subject but that nearest his heart —
lest she should be pained or humiliated e\eu
by his sympathy. Inborn in these scorned
Celts there is a gentlemanly feeling which the
pure Saxon acquires only by education. Mabel
was profoundly touched by this reverential
sympathy, and rewarded it in the way in
which she rightly judged he would value most,
by confiding to him unreservedly her position,
plans, and prospects. When Barney heard she
was about to become a national schoolmistress,
the fall seemed more shocking to him than to

any other of her friends. He stood speechless
before her with wide open eyes and mouth fora
moment ; lie then dropped his eyes to his fur
cap, which he began to smooth mechanically
with his right sleeve.

He was quite upset. That his princess
should have to support her father by becoming
a national schoolmistress like Miss MacNamara !
But it was for the sake of • the children of the
poor.' Of this he felt certain. Such a sacrifice
was more easily conceivable by a Catholic
with all kinds of sisterhoods at work around
Iii, and was besides suggested to him by
Mabel's devotion to the sick children in her
neighbourhood. ' God will reward ve, Mss,'
he said, with much fervour.

It was vain for Mabel to explain that lie
'couldn't help herself; ' that it was for her
own sake, not the children's, that she had
chosen to become a national schoolmistress.
Nothing could shake Barney's faith in her disinterestedness.


No ; ye c.in't help herself, Miss, and the
sun can't help shining,' he said, with unshaken
certainty of conviction ; ' an' will ye be for
takin' any children that comes, Miss ? '

VOL. II. X

I shall be only too glad to take all I caught
Barney.' Barney meditated a minute,
fingering the fur cap nervously the while.
What is it, Barney ? '

'I was thinking', Miss, if I might make
so would as to ax ye to take my two girls,
Koran and Kathleen,' he said shamefacedly.

Barney, if you'll send me your daughters,'
began Mabel eagerly — she Alas longing for an
opportunity to show her gratitude to Barney
for all his devotion — ' but,' she checked herself
to object, ' What would Father Quin

'All, sure Father Quin hasn't a bit of
religion about him at all at all. Miss.'

Religion ' is often used by the Irish as a
synonym for ' bigotry,' and it was, of course,
in this sense that Barney used the word.
Mabel, understanding the word in its obsolete
sense, was rather astonished at Barnes's
encomium upon his priest, which had, however,
the intended effect of silencing her
scruples.

Well, Barney, if you'll let me have Kathleen
and North, I shall not forget they're your
daughters,' With a look which grave the words a

depth of meaning that made Barney more her
shive than ever.

Barney's extraordinary infatuation With
Mabel did not blind him to the consequences
of withdrawing; his osiris from the Catholic care
of Miss MacNamara and transplanting them to
what Father Quin, and Molly too, probably
would consider a hothouse for Hades ; still he
resolved to brave his wife's tongue and his
priest's frown, and a hotter purgatory in reversion,
to e^ive ' his o'urls ' the benefit of the
training of ' a real lady ; ' and such a lady ! We
may as well say here, that as far at least as this
world was concerned all his expectations were
more than answered. Father Quin and Molly
paid him a good deal of purgatory down, and
promised him the balance, and a large balance,
hereafter. On the other hand, Mabel took socii
exceeding pains with the two girls (who, to beij^in
with, were far the quickest in her charge), that
both became successively monitors, pupil-teachers,
assistant mistresses, and eventually
mistresses of the best schools in their respective
districts. They repaid Mabel with a Celtic devotion
almost religious in its reverence and intensity.
But to return to Barney. On the day of the

X 2

opening of the school under Mabel, he himself
led North and Kathleen like lambs to the
shambles of their souls, and ventured to lookin
to greet Mabel and see low she fared.
There wasn't a score of girls in the schools.
His heart was hot within him, and he raged
furiously, and not altogether without reason,
against the swinislmess of the Saxon generally,
and of the Weftonians in particular. ' They
care for nothing they can't put in their bellies
or pockets,' he soliloquised, as he led the
baste ' from the schoolroom. ' To ate and
drink and get brass, that's all their business in
the would. Begor, it's a pig's business,
shilling' and swallowing' and getting' fat. And
they'll talk of the " low Irish," bad luck to
them ! I'll be bound a cabbage thinks a rose
low because it can't be boiled.' Barney

•

had both illustrations before him in his cart,
for he was in the transition staij^e between a
green grocer and a florist, having a very pretty
harden of his own now, not far from S.
George's, that is, at the best side of Weston.
This garden was the saving of him. If teetotalism
made him a gardener, on the other
hand gardening kept him teetotal (employing

his vacant hours) and both made him prosperous,
lie felt that he owed all to Mabel, and
burned to pay any part of the debt. He saw
a change of paying a very little of it to day,
by going round as a ' persuader ' in the disguise
of a green grocer. He had at least one qualification
for the post, a thorough knowledge of
the Weftonians. Instead, therefore, of urging
in Mabel's favour what would have sleight with
himself, her gentleness, cultivation, and refinement,
he simply said nothing of these things,
since they cared for none of these things ; but
invented for her without scruple a qualification
to which she had no claim whatever,
but which alone would tell with Newtonian.
He decided to give her a salary of 300/.
a year. He would have given her 500/. a year,
but he feared that salary would have sounded
incredible to them, even if ascribed to a pot-housekeeper,
so he had to content himself
with 200/. less. It was a weak point in
Barney's character, as in the character of his
countrymen generally, that he had little
scruple about any lie and no scruple about a
beneficent lie. This lie, then, he introduced
diplomatically and incidentally here and there

10 Love Tick ];]:i;t.

in each street (always choosing a gossip for this
confidant), with such effect, that before evening
the conversation over every clothes' line was
about the new missus of S. George's and her Ga
week of a wage. If Barney could have
described Mabel as lie was, or even as he
imagined her, and if his description had been
implicitly accepted, he would have won for her
nothing like the respect which his report as
to her salary secured. It not only brought
children in shoals to the school (all accompanied
by their mothers, eager to see a missus
possessed of such virtue) ; but it made them
while there as respectful as it is possible for a
West EidiniT chill to be.

In fact, Mabel owed the very fair start lie
made more to Earned's lie than to all other
causes put together. Once fairly started, however,
she owed her extraordinary success to
herself and to an exemplary assistant mistress
Mr. Woodward secus-ed for lier. ' Anybody
can make things, but the real art is to make
things maivc themselves,' says Kingsley ; a wise
and deep Darwinian saying, which we venture
to change and apply to teaching. 'Anybody
can teach children ^ but the real art is to teach

children to teach themselves ; ' and this Mabel
attempted with a success which was striking,
considering the dense material she had to deal
with, and the short time it was in her hands.
She taught, and taught her teachers to teach
the children rather by head than by heart,
making the memory a mere ba^o-acre animal to
carry food for the intellect on its march. To
this end she abolished, as far as practicable,
the use of all textbooks ; teaching rules, &c.,
orally in varied words and ways, that the
child's intelligence mii^^ht not be droned to
sleep by a sing-song set of words which lost all
meaning through repeated repetition. The
system repaid the patience it cost by the interest
it excited. It is harder to learn the piano
than the barrel-organ, but the piano, when
learned, is the more interesting of the two instruments
to play.

As for the success of the system it surpassed
Miss Tubbs' calculation (based, by the
way, on the erroneous supposition that Mr.
Woodward would be the Inspector, whereas he
was invariably, and for obvious reasons, Mr.
Eandal). Mabel passed 98 per cent., and
earned almost the highest possible grant, and

S. George's Girls' School was singled out in ll)e
general report of the Inspector as an example
of the perfection to which a national school
could be brought.

But her best work was not appreciable ]>y
H.M. Inspector. She seemed to put the
children through a process analogous to that
by wliicli the first millionaire of Weston invade
his fortune. He succeeded in transforming the
coarse refuse of coarse goat's hair into) a soft
and fie and glossy cloth. Mabel similarly
transformed Weston girls. She made them
more than decent, even modest, and in many
cases really refined. She taught them manners
at once respectful and self-respecting ; and,
better still, principles which kept alight and
alive in the foul air of a factory. To have
been brought up in S. George's Girls' School
became a certificate of conduct and character,
and a certificate which in most cases had no
need to be produced, as it expressed itself in
the bearing of a girl who had passed through
Mabel's hands. As for these girls themselves,
they loved her through life with a heartiness
and a constancy characteristic of West Eidiug
folk.

111 tliGse respects Mabel more than justified
Lawley's expectations. Nor was he wrong
either as to her liking for the life. No other
calling open to women would have so suited
her, and, as he truly said, with one's work, as
with one's clothes, the first thing is the fit.
Neither the work nor the children were interesting
in themselves, but she made both interesting,
and so shared the good she did — for it
is, of course, true, not of mercy only, but of
all other beneficence —

It is twice blessed ;
It blesseth him that gives and him that takes.

Lastly — Miss Tubbs notwithstanding — Mabel
was as independent as she cared to be. She
was quite right in expecting Miss Tubbs to be
as tolerable as any other vicar. Miss Tubbs
took to her, first as a protegee but at last as a
daughter. She got so to love her that a day
must not pass without her coming to the school,
or Mabel i^oino' to ' The Elms.' She uoi so to
love her, indeed, that at last she would allow
lier to correct Mark and Maggot. Mark, we
may say in passing, kissed the rod, was consumed
with a secret and absorbing passion for

14 LOVE THE Debt.

Mabel, and, to his aunt's amazement, t\-ou1(1
fetch and carry for her, and follow her about
like a dog. There was some soul of goodness
in that young ruffian which Mabel distilled.

On the other hand, against all this was to
be set Mr. Gant. Of course he didn't keep his
promise to hold aloof from the school. How
could he ? Of course, too, Mabel never complained
of his breach of promise to Miss Tubbs.
She was the last girl in the world to do anything
so imdif^^niiied. Not that there was much
merit in her magnanimity, for she had at her
command a manner with which she veiled herself,
as with a mosquito curtain, against the
petty and pestering impertinences of that gentleman.
In the days of her prosperity, Mr.
Gant had more than once attempted with her
one of his flippant flirtations, but on each occasion
he was made to feel foolish — a feeling as
rare as it was becoming in him. Now, however,
she was at his mercy, and he woidd be merciful.
He would condescend to notice her, patronise
her, and even flirt with her, of course in an
official fashion, and at a discreet distance.
Accordingly, as Barney was leaving, Mr. Gant

was entering the school on the day of Mabel's
instalment.

How do you do, Miss Masters ? Hope
you'll like the place, I'm sure.'

Yes, I think I shall like it.'

You'll not find me hard to please. There
are just one or two things I am very particular
about, which I'm sure you'll attend to, Miss
Masters. There's the manners of the children.
Eeally they don't seem to have any manners —
any idea of respect for others, you know.'

It is a strange thin<]j, which is nevertheless
attested by the proverbs of all countries, that
we are the first and worst to denounce in others
the fault to which we are most given ourselves.
We not only —

Compound for sins we are inclined to
By damning those we have no mind to,

but we compound for sins Ave are inclined toby
damning those who have a mind to them.
Ugh ! ' says Death to the man with his throat
cut ; ' ugh, how ugly you are ! ' The Catalan
version of a worldwide proverb.

Eeally, they don't seem to have any
manners, any idea of respect for others, you

know,' said Mr. Gant, standing with his hat on
before Mabel ' Xot for their priest even !
And then, there's another tiling 1 should like
set ricrht — those closes ! I Lavish they could be
cot not to come to school in choirs. T can
hardly hear myself speak sometimes, they make
such a clatter.'

They should be taught to ]put off their
shoes from off their feet in your presence,
Vicar,' said Miss Tubbs, who, coming also to
see Mabel installed, had the sound of her
approach drowned by the clogs in question.
Mr. Gant, looking very confused, at once took
off his hat and muttered something about wishing
to see if Miss Masters wanted anything.

Remember your bargain. Vicar,' said the
generalissimo. 'Miss Masters would accept the
school only on the condition that you kept out
of it.'

This was strong, and made Mabel uncomfortable
; but she little knew Mr. Gant. lie
was not in the least made uncomfortable, for
he was certain that if Mabel said so she didn't
mean it, and couldn't mean it, but felt bound
to say it either to please Miss Tubbs, or as the
protest of a prude. Accordingly Mr. Gant

SCHOOL. 31 <

visited the school whenever he felt secure
against surprise by Miss Tubbs, and as Isabel
never condescended to complain of his visits,
he of course assumed that she enjoyed lliem.
Venit they were not enjoyable. The stupidity of
the man was maddening. It was not the torpid
and unobtrusive stupidity of a slug, but the
fretful stupidity of a bluebottle, which icill buzz
about you and light upon you with no more
idea of its being offensive after the hundredth
time you have hit out at it than after the first.
As lie was practising the art of extempore
preaching, he experimented upon the vile
bodies of the Sunday and Day Schools. He
would get up into the desk in the day school at
the hour set apart for religious instruction, and
harangue the little children at the highest pitch
of his voice, chiefly upon their duty to the
Church, whom, as he called it ' she,' the
children identified with Miss Tubbs ; and upon
the sin of schism, which they generally understood
to be not curtseying to Mr. Gant with
their arms looped to their shoulders. Then he
woidd descend from the rostrum and buzz
about Mabel, for whom he had two manners,
the pompous and the flippant ; the latter

specially nauseous, since it was employ eel for
flirtation. These two manners often followed
each other, for the pompous was used to cover
the retreat of the flippant when Mabel succeeded
ill putting the latter to flight by such a
snub as even he was forced to feel. When,
however, as more usually happened, no snub
could pierce the triple brass of his armour,
Mabel set the children to sing, and the singing
of untrained Yorkshire children is like the
sino-mos of Scott and his brothers, which called
forth the remonstrance of their neighbour, Lady
Gumming, ' who sent to beg that the boys
might not be all flogged precisely at the same
hour, as, though she had no doubt the punishment
was deserved, the noise was really
terrible.'

Whether flippant or pompous, Mr. Gant
was offensively patronising for the first fortnight
of Mabel's engagement, but after that he was
meeker and more subdued from a characteristic
cause. He had succeeded in securing a great
local light to preach for his schools, Bishop
Bussell, Yicar of Widcross. Dr. Bussell, sometime
Bishop of Blefuscu, was one of those
devoted and devout missionary prelates now in

England, who, having Worked some years in
exile, have at last gone home to their reward.
No one could know Bishop Bussell for live
minutes without learning how his health had
been so shattered by hard and heroic work in
the deadly climate of Blefuscu as to necessitate
his return to England, and his undertaking here
the charge of a parish as populous as his late
diocese. Yet this sphere is not wide enough
for the energy left still unconsumed by the
fevers of Blefuscu. Whenever talk is to be
reported, there Bishop Bussell is sure to be
heard ; and the chances are, that as lie was
rewarded for quitting his post in Blefuscu by a
large living in England, he will be rewarded
for the neglect of his living in England by a
canonry, deanery, or bishopric. This ubiquitous
dignitary Mr. Gant succeeded in netting,
and was proud of the not very difficult achievement.
He boasted about it to everyone, and
not least to Mabel. He even promised her
that he would, if possible, bring him to the
school and let her see him, and, perhaps, talk
to him, or at least hear him talk. Mabel had
in her pocket at the time an invitation to meet
the great man at dinner at Miss Tubbs', where

he vas to stay, of which, of course, she did not
think it necessary to tell Mr. Gant. Indeed Miss
Tubbs had insisted not only on lier accepting
the invitation, but on her staying overnight at
The Ens,' whence she would be driven to
school the next morning.

Accordingly, the first thing that struck Mr.
Want's amazed eves as he entered the drawings
of ' The Elms ' was the spectacle of
Bishop Bussell and Miss Masters seated side by
side on the sofa, deep in the subject of the
fevers of Blefuscu. Even he could not help
feeling foolish at the recollection of his patronising
and preposterous promise made that
mornin<]j to treat Miss Masters to a si<>ht of the
right reverend prelate. Mabel, however, betrayed
no recollection of it in her manner as
she shook hands with him with her usual
chilling composure, and immediately resumed
her conversation with the Bishop. ' Will Miss
Tubbs make me take her in to dinners' was
this next mortifying thought. Miss Tubbs,
however, was the last person to do anything so
cruel. She sent Mabel in with a gentleman —
the most perfect gentleman of the clergy of her
acquaintance — Archdeacon Wolfe. Mr. G ant's

next subject of meditation was characteristic.
What would the Bishop and the Archdeacon
think if they knew that they were tricked into
honouring a national schoolmistress ? ' But
neither was he left long in suspense as to this.
When the ladies had withdrawn he overheard
Archdeacon Wolfe confiding to Mr. Mils his
opinion of Mabel as the most fascinating young
lady he had ever had the pleasure of meeting,
and his deep sympathy with her in reverses
which forced her into the drudgery of teaching
a national school. While, next morning, as he
was returning from an early wedding, Mr
Gant came upon Miss Masters being handed*
out of Miss Tubbs' carriage at the school 
Bishop Bussell, who was on his way to a
Missionary breakfast. Mr. Gant took t he-lesson
to heart.

END OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

LOXnOX : PRlSTKn BY

BPOTTISWOODK And CO XEW-STEKKT Scabbard

Parliament BTBEBT

VOL. n.

LIFE AND WORKS

OF

CHARLOTTE Bronze

(CURRER BELL),

AND HER SISTERS

EMILY AISTD AISTNE Bronze

(ELLIS AND ACTON BELL).
In Seven Volumes, Large Crown 8vo, handsomely bound in cloth.

Price ^s. per Volume.

The descriptions in ' Jane Eyre ' and the other Fictions by Charlotte Bronze and her
Sisters being mostly of actual places, the Publishers considered that Views are the most
suitable Illustrations for the Novels. They are indebted for a clue to the real names of
the most interesting scenes to a friend of the Bronze family, who enabled the artist, Mr. G.
M. Imperii, to identify the places described. He made faithful sketches of them on
the spot, and drew them on wood. It is hoped that these views will add fresh interest to
the readings the Stories.

I.— JANE EYRE. By Charlotte Bronze. With Five Illustrations.

Logwood. I MOOR HOUSE.

GATESHEAD HALL. I FERNDEAN MANOR.

Cornfield HALL. I

2.— SHIRLEY. By Charlotte Bronze. With Five Illustrations.

YORKe's HOl'SE. I hollow's MILL.

NtlNNELV COMMON AND WOOD. I Cranfield CHURCH.

FIELDHEAD HALL. I

villette By Charlotte Bronze. With Five Illustrations.

THE PARK, BRUSSELS.

DOME OF ST. Paul's.

PENSION NAT DES DEMOISELLES,
BRUSSELS

GARDEN IN THE RUE FOSSETTE
GRANDE PLACE, BRUSSELS.

.-THE PROFESSOR and POEMS. By Charlotte Bronze. With Poems by
her Sisters and Father. With Five Illustrations.

PROTESTANT CEMETERY

VIEW FROM Chatsworth HALL.
HOUSE IN DAISY LANE.
RUE ROYALE, BRUSSELS.

5.— WUTHERING HEIGHTS. By Emily Bronze. And AGNES GREY. By Ann
Bronze. With a Preface and Biographical Notice of both Authors, by Charlotte
Bronze. With Five Illustrations.

HAWORTH CHURCH AND PARSONAGE.
VALLEY OF GIMMERTON.
WUTHERING HEIGHTS.

6-the TENANT OF WILDFELL HALL. By Anne Bronze. With Five Illustrations.


VIEW OF THE MOORS.

THE MOORS.
HORTON LODGE.

ON THE MOORS.

WILDFELL HALL {seCOIld View).

WILDFELL HALL.
GRASSDALE MANOR.
HARRINGBY HALL.

7-life OF CHARLOTTE BRONTE. By Mrs. Gaskell. With Seven Illustrations.

PORTRAIT OF CHARLOTTE BRONTE.
PORTRAIT OF THE REV. PATRICK

BRONTE.
Chatterton SCHOOL.
ROE HEAD.

HAWORTH PARSONAGE.
THE Bronchi WATERFALL
FACSIMILE OF A SKETCH BV PATRICK
BRANWELL BRONTK.

London: SMITH, ELDER. & CO., 15 Waterloo Place.

MRS. GASKELL'S NOVELS AND TALES.

In Seven Volumes, each containing Four Illustrations.

Price 3^. 6d. each bound in cloth, or in Sets of Sez>en Volumes handsomely

bound in half-morocco, price £2. vos.

CONTENTS OF THE VOLUMES

Vol. I.

WIVES AND DAUGHTERS.

Vol. II.

NORTH AND SOUTH.

Vol. III.

SYLVIA'S LOVERS.

Vol. IV.

CRANFORD.

Curious IF Tia'B.

COMPANY MANNERS.

THE WELL OK TEN-morphia.

THE HEART OF JOHN MIDDLETON.

TRAITS AND STORIES OF THE

HUGUENOTS.
SIX WEEKS AT HEPPENHEIM.
THE squire's STORY.
LIBBIK marsh's THREE ERAS.

THE MOOKI.AND COTTAGE.

THE sexton's HERO.

DISAPPEARANCES.

RIGHT AT LAST.

THE MANCHESTER Marriage

LOIS, THE WITCH.

THE CROOKED BRANCH.

COUSIN I'HIl.l.IS.

MY FRENCH MASTER.

THE OLD nurse's STORY.

THE GKHV WOMAN.
MORTON HALL.

A DARK NIGHTS WORK.
ROUND THE SOFA.
MY LADY LUDLOW.
AN ACCURSED RACK.

Vol. V.

MARY BARTON.

I Bess's troubles at home

CHRISTMAS storms AND SUNSHINE

Vol. VI.

RUTH.

MR. Harrison's confessions.

HAND AND HEART.

Vol. VIL
LIZZIE LEIGH.

i THE DOOM OF THE Griffiths.

HALF A LIFETIME .ego.
I THE POOR Clare.

I THE HALF-BROTHERS.

London: SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 Waterloo Place.

UNIVERSITY OF lUUNOIS-URBAWA

3 0112 047663957

■'■■<■: ■;■•■:

'

/■

,.1 .•^:^ -:;•'-■■••;>>"r*^,■^^^

',1 ^

,-:<>. Jf?

^•^■-

:v^^^^

.t .■' :-'

,' '.''■ ^ ' ;
r * ♦ r ,.'

■

A"**

f-'-

J.^ f 07

^H

^m

^H

*~l.*ti

m

■

■

■

H

■I ^B|

M

■-.-J.

:••>*• /-.ir

^^H

^^H

■
^1

■

OF THL
UNIVLR5 City
or alli Noise

v.3



V£* r

By BASIL

IN THREE VOLUMES

VOL. III.

LONDON
SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 WATERLOO PLACE



All rights reserved

CHAPTER XXXI.

MK. Sugar BECOMES A MAN OF BUSINESS.

In the last chapter we have summarised Mabel's
work and success as a national schoolmistress,
since we do not mean to recur to that side of
her life. She had other interests and troubles
than those of the school, for which we wish to
save up the patience of the reader.

The first thing that helped her to realise
fully their ruin was the sale of the ' Grange '
and its furniture. It was a sharp wrench to
have to leave a home consecrated by all her
memories of her mother and by a thousand
associations which, if sad for the most part,
were like far-off and plaintive music, sweet
in their sadness. The sale of the furniture

VOL. III. B

of a lifelong home affects us almost like the
dismemberment of the body of one dear tous
in life by cold, callous, calculating professional
hands.

Mabel's dearest treasures, however, were
not submitted to this desecration. The day
before the auction Bob Sagar called upon Mr.
Slagg, the auctioneer, to negotiate for the buying
in of the books and furniture of the
1 nursery ' and of the study. Mr. Slagg's
countenance fell. If the gent had been two
hours sooner, he (Mr. Slagg) might have stimulated
a brisk bidding between him and the
other gent for all the furniture of the study
and most of that of the ' nursery.'

Very sorry, sir,' said Mr. Slagg sincerely,
6 every stick and leaf in the study's sold, and
best part of the things in the ground floor
sitting-room likewise.'

Mr. Slagg, however, cheered up when Mr.
Sagar appeared bent on buying something, and
was still further comforted by his buying a
great deal. In fact, more furniture was bought
in than could conveniently be stowed away in
Mabel's new and much humbler home, a
cottage near the school. Mabel was so certain

that Mr. Sagar was the purchaser that she had
ventured to put the question to him pointblank,
thinking the risk of his embarrassment
through her being mistaken infinitesimal.

'No such luck,' said Bob regretfully.
There was some fellow before me. I thought
you might have employed him, and he left me
little to buy. He bought in every stick and
book in the study, and most of the " nursery "
things.'

5 1 knew it was you,' said Mabel warmly,
taking a part for the whole, and the will for the
deed. ' I hoped it was you. I can bear being
under an obligation to you, Mr. Sagar ; ' a very
grateful and gratifying acknowledgment to
Bob.

You don't owe much of it to me, Mabel.
I wonder who it was ? '

1 1 think I know,' said Mabel meditatively
and hesitatingly.

Who ? Miss Tubbs ? '

Mabel shook her head. ' No, not Miss
Tubbs. I think it was Mr. Lawley.'

What ! the parson in mufti ? '

1 Yes ; he has been like a brother to me
since my troubles.*

B 2

Bob liked not the relationship. These
confounded parsons, being half women themselves,
knew all the weak places in the fortress.
Kneeshaw was bad enough, but here was this
other padre, Lawley, elbowing himself between
him (Bob) and Mabel.

Don't you think it was rather a liberty ? '

A liberty ? In the way he has done it, if
it is he? Besides, Mr. Lawley couldn't take a
liberty.'

This was conclusive. Woman's logic, like
faith, is of course not against, but above
reason.

1 1 wish you'd let me arrange with him,
Mabel.'

Do you mean pay him back, Mr. Sagar P '
asked she in some consternation.

Yes ; as your guardian, you know.'

But it mayn't have been he, after all.
Besides, Mr. Sagar, you wouldn't like it yourself,
would you ? You wouldn't like, I mean,
to be paid back yourself for all your great
kindness to me ? '

4 You've taken care that there isn't much to
pay back,' growled Bob. t But even if there
was, it's a very different thing, because your

mother made you my ward, Mabel, and I've a
right to look after you ; but I don't see what
right Mr. Lawley has to interfere in your
affairs.'

" The quality of mercy is not strained," '
said Mabel, smiling at the idea of Mr. Sagar, of
all people, being for confining generosity in
conventional fetters. ' Generosity has its own
generous laws, and Mr. Lawley has kept within
them in doing this — if he has done it — by
stealth. Don't you think so ? Of course you
think so, Mr. Sagar. By what right were you
so generous to my mother ? ' laying her hand
on Mr. Sa gar's great brown fist which rested
clenched on the knee nearest her as they sat
side by side on the ' nursery ' sofa which had
been transported to the sitting-room of the
cottage.

1 There's no use arguing with a woman,'
said Bob, feeling himself beaten in argument,
taking the little hand in his, and looking into
the grey eyes, whose expression seemed always
to accompany her words like exquisite music.
If you like being under an obligation to Mr.
Lawley there's nothing more to be said ; '
taking, however, all pettishness out of the words

by the pleasant manner in which he uttered
them.

Yes, I do. Is it very mean of me, or very
generous ? I think it's very generous of me to
forgive both you and him all you have done forme
and all you have been to me.'

No ; you've not been generous, or even
just, to me, Mabel,' said Bob, ' or you would
have given me what your mother left me — the
care of you.'

1 Dear Mr. Sagar, what w r ould you have me
do ? Do you think I could bear to be a burden
to you when I can do something for myself?
I should be miserable. And for the rest,' she
added, smiling, ' I really think you are most
unreasonable in expecting me to give you more
trouble than I have done. 1 have given you
all the trouble I could think of ; letters, lawyers,
house-agents, auctioneers, bills, butchers, bakers,
everything. Haven't I ? '

She certainly had. Bob had become a man
of bustle and business in the last few weeks,
and had developed, he considered, extraordinary
administrative and financial abilities.

The great secret of business,' he said to
Mabel — with an air which would have become

the communication of the discovery of the
philosopher's stone — ■ the great secret of
business is to have everything down in black
and white. Then you have them.' ' Them,'
i.e. the tradesmen &c, who would be awed
into honesty by being compelled to the extraordinary
practice of furnishing written bills.
In truth the practice was extraordinary to Bob,
whose own tradesmen never had to trouble him
with bills or receipts either. He would pay at
the time, or the next time he was in the shop
or neighbourhood, and would never suspect
that he was being charged too much, or twice
over, or for things he had never got, as he often
was. But it was different with Mabel's affairs.
Here he must be lynx-eyed and serpent-witted.
Accordingly, he now took the extreme and
extraordinary precaution of having every bill
in black and white, receipted, stamped, and
dated. Yet the security even of this system
was not perfect. No doubt the singular and
awful ordeal would have something of the
solemnising effect of the administration of an
oath in a court of justice on the tradesmen
subjected to it ; but even this effect might wear
away in time, and as Bob was nearly sure to

lose the receipt, it might almost as well not
have been set down in black and white. His
loss of the receipt, however, by no means
involved loss of his faith in it, or in his discovery
of the soul and secret of business. Even to
Mr. Broughton, the attorney, he thought it
necessary to communicate it with a knowing
nod and wink as he was exacting a receipt from
him.

6 Take my advice, Mr. Broughton, and have
everything down in black and white.'

Like most of our greatest inventors, however,
Bob profited little by his brilliant discovery, for,
as he omitted himself to set down in black and
white the sums he had disbursed, and as he
could not find one in ten of the receipts so set
down when he came to look for them, he
couldn't tell whom or what he had paid at the
end of a month. As far as Mabel was concerned
this was all right ; for, as she insisted on a
settlement, and a settlement in full, Bob could
produce with a safe conscience his tithe of
receipts and assure her with evident sincerity
that these were all he had.

But what if those tradesmen whose receipts
he had lost were to send in their bills again t<>

Mabel ? You see his discovery had made Bob
suspicious. Of what use was his discovery, if
tradesmen were not rogues ? Therefore tradesmen
must be rogues. The discoverer of a cure
for a certain disease is sure to discover simultaneously
that half the world are so diseased.
And by astonishing coincidences, a vast number
of such simultaneous discoveries have been
made in the domains of politics and of theology.
Bob's discovery, then, naturally made him
suspicious, and having given Mabel strict injunctions
to refer all claims to him, he invested
in a ponderous ledger, in which he put two or
three entries here and there, so lost in a
wilderness of leaves as to need an hour's search
to find them, and this he took down solemnly
to conscience-smite the creditors who subsequently
applied to him.

4 Ah, let me see,' he would say, ' I make ita
rule to put down everything in black and
white.' Then he would lift down the intimidating
ledger, and looking the creditor through
and through would ask : ' What name did you
say ? Sudden ? S ; ' and after a rattle of
leaves and another insupportable glance, would
exclaim in an accent of astonishment and

reprobation, with his finger resting on an imaginary
entry, ' Not been paid before, Mr.
Sudden ? '

4 No, sir,' Mr. Sudden would reply briskly,
not disconcerted in the least. Whereupon
Bob's voice and manner, without the slightest
gradation or preparation, would drop from
shocked astonishment to perfect confidence.
1 All right, Mr. Sudden, here you are.'
But, indeed, Bob was always making some
brilliant discovery or other which he would
often run to death and replace in a week. For
the time being, however, he did not so much
possess it as it possessed him. He must communicate
it to everyone, even to those whose
very profession it was to master it. He would
tell a doctor that ' the secret of happiness lay in
the stomach,' or try to persuade a parson ' to
take things easy,' or advise a lawyer ' always to
count his change.' The discovery, whatever it
was, was new to Bob, and therefore must be
new to everyone. We have even overheard
him, as we stood on the steps of the ■ Queen,'
giving this necessary advice to a postman whose
emaciated appearance he was commiserating,
and who pleaded guilty to being ' bad in his

inside.' 'If I were you, my man, I should
take a walk every morning before breakfast.
Nothing like it for the digestion.' The postman,
we thought, didn't look pleased. Indeed,
Bob himself seemed to perceive his offence and
its cause, for he sent the man away appeased
with another tip in the less equivocal shape of
half-a-crown. For Bob was Irish both in the
thoughtlessness with which he would blurt out
the first thing in his head, and in the quickness
and kindness with which he would perceive and
atone for the offence it often gave. Sometimes,
it is true, the advice which Bob would incontinently
let fly was irreparable and would cover
him with shame and confusion ; when, for
instance, Mr. Meekins,

A little, round, fat, oily man of God,

came to condole with Mabel, but as usual with
him, condoled only with himself, on the immense
amount of work he had to do, on the neglect
of his godless predecessor, Mr. Bray, on the
prevalence of Dissent, especially in its Baptist
form, and on the general activity of the evil one
in all directions in his parish, Bob, who was a

Unitarian, rattled out his panacea with his
accustomed glibness :

1 You should join us, Mr. Meekins ; we don't
keep a devil at all.'

Mabel, though shocked herself, and shocked
by the shock to Mr, Meekins, couldn't help a
smile at this presentation of Satan as a kind of
dog whom you might keep or drown at will.
Mr. Meekins, however, took mortal offence and
rose at once to leave, cutting Bob in the act.
Bob was equally ready with a mode of exorcism
for the MacGucken when he and Lawley
became intimate, as they soon did. Lawley,
after a walk, had brought him home to a
meagre meal provided by the grudging ,
supplemented, however, with excellent
wine and cigars. The host, in apologising for
the repast, took occasion so describe the '
s odious characteristics.

I should sack her,' said Bob, taking his
cigar from his mouth and using it to emphasise
this recondite advice.

Lawley explained how this was easier said
than done.

Try ratting,' said Bob with a knowing
nod.

Lawley replied that he had thought of that,
understanding Bob to mean migrating.

That's your tip,' said Bob, encouraged into
slang by the success of his suggestion.

I tried it when I was a boy on an old cook
who brained a ferret of mine she found in her
bed. She was off in a week, faith. We had
the hunt always in the meat cellar ; but you
might have it anywhere,' said Bob, casting a
critical eye round the dining-room to take in
its fitness for the purpose. ' You might give a
young rat the run of the house with a good
dog, then she would never know where it might
turn up, bed or board. You see if it doesn't
fetch her,' with an eloquent wink.

From these specimens of unconsidered
counsel it will be seen that Bob was what so
many Irishmen are through life — a boy. Not
dull in brain or feeling, quick rather, but
quicker still in tongue.

But to return from this long digression.
Bob, as we say, was riding now the hobby of
business furiously. He had made an inventory
of the furniture of the Grange (as a check on
that of Mr. Slagg's assistant) which would,
doubtless, have been invaluable if it had been

coherent. He, however, followed, so to speak,
the order of nature, setting things down in
black and white faithfully as they came under
his eye, as thus : ' One sofa, two antimacassars,
one coalbox, a chimney piece gimcrack, one
timepiece, another gimcrack, one desk or workbox,
" Yorkshire Past and Present," four vols.,
a thing like a small punkah, one vase, one
leather mat, one table, eight chairs, one fender,
do. poker, do. tongs, do. shovel, one Parian
bust of a young woman, do. of a young man, one
carpet, one rug, five pictures, one ottoman, one
Pilgrim's Progress ' (by John Bunyan), two
spill-holders, one pier-glass, one paper-knife,
two things for holding anything, one piano, &c.
&c.' Mr. Slagg's assistant, on the other hand,
to dodge him, as Bob hinted to Mabel — for
Bob, having taken to dodges took to suspecting
dodges — had inventoried the things in an arbitrary
order of his own, skipping confusedly from
one side of the room to the other, or sometimes
even from one room to another. In this way
Bob's inventory, of which he was naturally
proud as the most business-like thing he bad
ever done, was made valueless, at least as a
check upon that compiled by Mr. Slagg's young

man. But Bob could not bear that it should
be altogether valueless, and he made it therefore
the groundwork of a new inventory he set
to to compile of the translated furniture in the
cottage. Mabel urged that there was no
necessity, or prospect of any necessity, for this.
But Bob, having old material to work up, and
having discovered in himself a talent for compiling
catalogues, shrewdly observed that ' It
was as well to have everything down in black
and white, to refer to when a servant was
leaving.' And it's only fair to say that Bob's
inventory was a perfect security against a
housemaid walking off undetected with any
considerable quantity of furniture concealed
about her person.

But Bob's enthusiasm for business was not
only the enthusiasm of an artist for the art he
excels in, but a longing to do something or
anything for Mabel, to whom he became a
perfect slave. Having finished the inventory,
he found or made himself as much work as a
plumber. He had to put down carpets, to find
the fittest corners for sofas, &c, to shift them
back and forward into ever new positions, and
to hang the pictures. When Mr. Gant called

one day and was ushered into the sitting-room
to wait Mabel's momently expected return, he
found Bob high on steps with his coat off,
hanging a portrait of Shelley between Keats
and Burns, and of course took him for a joiner.

4 Too stiff, my man, too stiff,' said Mr.
Gant authoritatively, alluding to the three portraits
being too much in a line. Bob looked
down on his cool critic, and revenged himself
for his unflattering mistake after his own
fashion.

• Stiff, is he ? ' said Bob, speaking in the
very broadest Clare brogue. ' We'd be stiff
enough herself if we'd been hanging as long ashe.'


Mr. Gant thought he would consult his
dignity best by an indignant silence.

1 How is it wit him now ? ' asked Bob after
a pause, lowering the portrait two or three
inches. ' Is he low enough for ye ? There's
them thinks nobody low enough for 'em ; there
is so,' sotto voce, but not inaudibly.

In palliation of Bob's having recourse to
the kind of wit current among the Dublin
cabman, we must explain that he knew Mr.
Gant, not wisely but too well, as a preacher,

and still better by reputation from Mabel's
account of him. From both he had formed an
extreme dislike and even disgust to the man, to
which he took the opportunity of Mr. Gant's
mistake to give whimsical expression.

6 Come, my man, that will do cried Mr.
Gant, boiling with rage, and finding silence
impossible as well as ineffective.

Bob slowly and lumbering ly descended the
steps, looked critically for some seconds at the
arrangement of the portraits, and said with
judicial calm :

c Ay, that 'ill do. Give us a lift wit the
steps, will ye ? '

Mr. Gant, white and trembling — men
whose dignity is based on accidents are
morbidly sensitive to disrespect — strode to the
bell and rang it furiously. The discreet Jane
hurried inc

This — fellow has been drinking ; have him
turned out at once,' stammered Mr. Gant.

Ay, which ? ' said Bob, with a jovial wink
to Jane, who was looking bewildered from one
gentleman to the other.

vol. in. c

It's Mr. ' began Jane, intending to

enlighten Mr. Gant about Mr. Sagar.

4 Gant ? ' interrupted Bob, affecting to
think the explanation addressed to him. c I
thought it must be,' in a by no means complimentary
tone. ' It's all right, my dear, L don't
mind him,' coolly reversing the situation, and
dismissing the Discreet with a cheery nod.

Mr. Gant looked after the retreating Jane
as at an apparition, with wide eyes and a quick
gasp, then he rushed from the room and from
the house.

When Mabel returned, Bob was again on
the steps hanging other pictures.

1 Mr. Gant has been here, Mabel,' he said,
looking critically with his head on one side at
a picture he had just hung. ' He took me fora
joiner, but faith I heaped coals of fire upon
his head,' in jocose allusion to the colour of
Mr. G ant's hair. Then Bob described the
scene exactly and graphically, and was rather
taken aback at the concern visible in Mabel's
face for the offence given to Mr. Gant.

1 I couldn't help it,' pleaded Bob, on whom
a look of Mabel's had more effect than a broadside
of abuse from Mrs. Grundy. c He's such

a cad. I was only too glad to pay him back a
bit for his treatment of you. Besides, I think
we're quits

Well, no,' said Mabel smiling ; ' you don't
care a pin about Mr. Gant's taking you for a
joiner, but Mr. Gant cares a great deal about a
joiner's taking him for a butt. I must explain
to him who you were, and then he'll be sure to
think you had quite provocation enough.'

As, indeed, Mr. Gant did when the matter
was so explained.

C k J

CHAPTER XXXII.

TWO PRESENTS.

Even if Mabel had been plain and uninteresting,
Miss Tubbs could have imposed her with
ease upon the society of Weston ; as it was, it
became a kind of fashion to have this wonder
of a national schoolmistress on the only evenings
when she was to be had, Friday or Saturday.
Parties even were sometimes arranged
for either evening only to secure her. You
see, everyone would be generous if generosity
cost nothing, for its exercise is accompanied
with a consciousness at once of power and of
goodness. In Mabel's case the generosity of
an invitation not only cost nothing, but paid.
She was both the most beautiful and the most
agreeable girl in and about Weston, and yet,
being but a national schoolmistress, was little
likely to attract the serious attentions of the
golden youth of the neighbourhood. Mabel,

therefore, became the rage, and had the society
of Weston all before her where to choose, and
chose, of course, the inner circle, to which Miss
Tubbs introduced her. It was not that she was
proud, or that the self-made magnates were
intentionally offensive, but somehow they
always succeeded in making her feel that, if
they forgave, they could not forget, her crime
of poverty. And the generosity even of their
forgiveness, like all their generosity, was loud
and exacting. As a rule, if a self-made West
Eiding man gives you a shilling, he exacts a
sovereign's change for it from you, in one form
or another. By the gentlefolk of Weston,
however, Mabel was petted without being
patronised, and took the pleasant place assigned
to her as gracefully as it was conceded. Miss
Tubbs, of course, fell more in love than ever
with her fascinating protegee, and indeed took
to herself the credit not only of Mabel's
introduction into the inner circle, but of her
popularity there.

Thus Mabel owed her social promotion to
her social ' degradation.' She had ' come out *
under the auspices of the Eoxbys &c, who did
not move in the best society of the place ; but

under the wing of Miss Tubbs she was welcomed
into the much pleasant and more
appreciative circle of the few county families
whom the smoke and smoke-makers of Weston
had not driven yet from its neighbourhood.
We do not, of course, mean that Mabel cut her
old friends the Eoxbys. There was no question
of that. There was some question, indeed,
at first of the Eoxbys cutting her. When Miss
Eoxby hurried back from ' The Grange,'
breathless, with the news that Mabel Masters
had made her mind up to become a national
schoolmistress, the whole household held up
their hands in horror. They were sorry for
her, of course ; but as self-preservation is the
first law of life, they were chiefly concerned
with the bearing of this bad business upon
themselves. It was as though the girl had
committed social suicide, and they were em-pan
elle as a jury to decide if the case were to
be treated as one of temporary insanity or of
felo de se. Mrs. Eoxby was inclined to take
the worst view of the case ; but Miss Eoxby,
being a superior young person, who carried
about with her the consciousness of setting a
Christian example, was not for utter outlawry —

for the exclusion of the corpse, so to speak —
from Christian fellowship and treatment.

c We can " move to her " in the street, Jane,
if you mean that, and we can send her and her
pa things, as he's ill and they can't afford to get
them, but we can't keep on visiting her and
having her here, as if nothing had happened.
It's not likely. What would the Sugdens
think ? '

We need not have her when the Sugdens
are here, mamma. We might have her for a
quiet evening when we're by ourselves. It's
not her fault that she's poor.'

It's her fault that she should take to be a
national schoolmistress. So unladylike. But
I always thought she had low tastes, grubbing
about in those filthy houses.' Indeed, Mabel
had been detected by Mr. Eoxby himself in
one of those filthy houses, of which, however,
Mr. Eoxby was not ashamed to be the landlord.


I think she's more to be pitied than
blamed, brought up as she has been, with no
mother, and a father who is an atheist,' pleaded
Miss Eoxby, in extenuation of Mabel's visiting
the sick poor.

4 We have always been so kind to her,' said
Mrs. Eoxby, querulously, as if Mabel's choice
of this low calling was an act of the grossest
ingratitude to the Eoxby family. ' We introduced
her into society, I may say, and had
her at our best parties, and sent her in last
Christmas with Major Stare, you remember ;
but she always was a queer girl.'

Well, but, mamma, it isn't as if she was a
national schoolmistress then. How could we
know that this would happen ? People can't
say we took them in then, you know ; and now
we needn't ask her to our parties, of course not
she couldn't expect it — but we might have
her now and then, when we're alone.'

Miss Eoxby had special reason for clinging
to this point, since she had promised the amused
Mabel an occasional treat of the kind. Accordingly,
she kept dunning her mother, with the
dogged and w r wooden persistence characteristic of
her, until she won permission to ask Mabel to
tea. She was not to be asked, however, until
the scandal of her becoming a national schoolmistress
had died down a little ; nor would she
have been received graciously then if Mis.
Eoxby hadn't heard that no less a person than

Miss Tubbs had taken her up. Then, indeed,
when this good Samaritan found that Mabel
was so well befriended already, she had compassion
on her, and went to her herself — she
and her exemplary daughter — with two bottles
of port wine and a shattered jelly in a jam-pot.
She chose, of course, Saturday for the visit, but
took care in no other way to remind Mabel of
her disgrace. She was helped to keep this
ladylike resolution by finding, to her surprise,
Mabel Dot changed in the least. What change
she expected she could not have accurately
defined, perhaps, but some change was natural,
and would have been becoming. Mabel should
have looked more like Miss Pochin — a draggled
and blouse person, whose fingers seemed
tattooed with ink, for it never seemed to come
out — and, above all, she should have borne
herself more like Miss Pochin, in a subject and
subdued manner. But Mabel was buoyant.
She had that morning got a letter from George,
and was in the happiest spirits.

How do you do, Mrs. Eoxby ? I thought
you had given me up altogether, Miss Eoxby.'

4 No, Mabel, I shall always be glad to come
and see you,' said the Exemplary exemplarily.

That's very good of you. You don't
forget your old friends either,' to Mrs. Eoxby,
in allusion to that good lady's slowly but
surely identifying every article of furniture.
You recognise them all. They are all presents,
anonymous presents. They make me feel quite
at home here.'

The mention of presents recalled the two
bottles of port wine and the jam-crock of jelly
to Mrs. Eoxby 's mind.

Jane, tell Arnold to fetch in the wine and
jelly. I brought a couple of bottles of port
wine and a crock of jelly, Miss Masters, for
your poor papa. I hope he's better.'

No ; he's not much better, thank you. I'm
much obliged to you for the port, Mrs. Eoxby,
but I don't think the Doctor will allow my
father to have it.'

You'd better keep it, Miss Masters. It's
always as well to have a little wine in the house.
You can set it on the table, Arnold ; that will
do.'

Accordingly, the basket with the two
bottles and jam crock in it was set, among the
other ornaments of the table, in full view of
donor and donee.

'The Doctor can say nothing against his
having the jelly, I'm sure. It's very good,
from Grierson's, you know ; some we had at a
dinner party on Thursday.'

Mabel was not in the least affronted. If
Miss Tubbs had tossed her the bones of her
dinner, she would have been hurt ; but Mrs.
Eoxby — one can't resent a blind man's blundering
against one in the street.

Jane, you had something to say to Miss
Masters.'

Jane, you see, was to have all the whole
credit of the coming invitation to herself, as her
very own.

'I was going to ask you to spend this
evening with us, Mabel. You might bring
your work, as we shall be quite by ourselves.'

Thank you, Miss Eoxby. I should be
glad to go, but I'm engaged for this evening,'

Jane looked at her mamma, and her mamma
was graciously pleased to respond to the silent
appeal.

■ Jane will be glad to have you some other
evening, then, Miss Masters.'

Mabel was silent. Mrs. Eoxby 's manner was
a little too oppressive. The silence spread and

deepened, but was broken by an exclamation
from Miss Eoxby — 'Sedgwick is driving off! 5
And, indeed, the brilliant Eoxby equipage was
under way, but soon cast anchor again, giving
place to a ponderous and ancient family coach,
probably drawn by the fattest horses and driven
by the laziest coachman in all England.

It's Lady Saddlethwaite's carriage ! ' cried
Miss Eoxby, in a voice of awe.

To know Lady Saddlethwaite's carriage was
itself something ; to know Lady Saddlethwaite
herself, and to be known of her, was everything.
She was but a baronet's widow, but, in right of
the very blue blood which flowed in her own
veins, she assumed and had conceded to her the
first place among the county families in the
neighbourhood of Weston. She was extremely
proud and exclusive, and withal one of the
kindest-hearted women in the world. She
utterly ruined every servant, dependent, tenant,
and villager she had to do with. She was the
same to gentle and simple, but to those who were
neither gentle nor simple, to parvenus, plutocrats,
self-made men, she was implacable — in
part through pride, but chiefly through a lost
lawsuit with one Zachary Baines, who intercepted

the loveliest view over her park with a
vast and vile factory, piled up at her very gates.
Almost the only person she condescended to
know in Weston was Miss Tubbs, who herself
was of very good family, and through Miss
Tubbs she heard of Mabel, not for the first
time, for her under-housemaid's sister, who was
married to a shoemaker in Weston, used to rave
about Miss Masters' kindness to her dying child ;
and as Lady Saddle thwaite made her servants'
troubles her own, she got to hear all Mabel's
praises at third-hand. They were still fresh in
her recollection when Miss Tubbs told her the
story of Colonel Masters' ruin, and of Mabel's
eccentric choice of a calling. Lady Saddle-thwart
thought it not in the least eccentric,
but held the position to be much higher and
happier than that of a governess.

Wait till you see her,' said Miss Tubbs,
and then tell me what you think of such a
girl turning national schoolmistress.'

Lady Saddlethwaite did see her (indeed,
Miss Tubbs arranged that they should spend a
Saturday and Sunday together in her house),
and pronounced her the most ladylike and
delightful girl she knew ; while Mabel, the

most reserved of girls, who had never yet made
a confidante, felt almost mesmerically compelled
by the charm of the dear old lady's motherly
kindness, to tell her everything ! Henceforward
there wasn't a week in which Lady
Saddlethwaite didn't either write, or call, or
have her at Hollyhnrst — to the growing
jealousy of Miss Tubbs. In truth, Mabel was
a model pet— lovely, lively, artless, witty,
graceful, and grateful with a kind of gratitude
which, like a subtle and exquisite flavour, was
never absent and never obtrusive.

Mabel met Lady Saddlethwaite at the
sitting-room door, and the old lady — not
seeing Mrs. and Miss Eoxby — kissed her affectionately.


Well, my dear, are you ready ? '

1 But, Lady Saddlethwaite, you said half-past
four. It is only a quarter-past three.'

I said I'd send for you, but I've come for
you. I want to take you a drive that will do
you good, and to have a chat with you that
will do me good. What's the name of that
pretty servant of yours: Jane? I like her
face. Being for her, and tell her to pack your
things.'

4 She wouldn't know what to put in, as I
always pack for myself. And, indeed, I don't
know what to put in myself, Lady Saddle-thwart.
Miss Tubbs said you were having a
party.'

Yes ; it's a party. That's the reason I've
come so early for you, as I shall see hardly
anything of you to-night. But ' — here Lady
Saddlethwaite perceived Mrs. and Miss Eoxby,
who were standing, looking nervous and
seemingly expecting an introduction.

8 Don't hurry yourself, my dear ; I see
you're engaged. I should like to sit a bit, and
as for Eoger and the horses, they need a rest
too ; I don't think they have had a wink of
sleep for two hours. So you still keep up
your sick visiting ? ' seeing the hideously
obtrusive basket, bottles, and jam-pot.

No, I have been sick-visited ; I mean,' she
hurried on to add, feeling that her words were
unintentionally ungracious, ' Mrs. and Miss
Eoxby, who are old friends of mine' — Mrs.
and Miss Eoxby here bowed low, taking this
for the expected introduction, but Lady Saddle-thwart
never saw the salute — 'old friends of
mine,' stammered Mabel, ' have been so kind

as to — as to' — bring me two bottles of port
and a jam-pot of broken jelly ! — she could t
say it. Lady Saddlethwaite, seeing her embarrassment,
came at once to her relief by
asking about the school, of which she spoke as
she might speak to a clergyman about his
parish, to the Eoxbys' amazement. And, to
their still greater astonishment, Mabel entered
into the subject with extraordinary zest and
spirit, describing her difficulties with the
children and their parents with a humour
which delighted Lady Saddlethwaite and
puzzled the too, too solid Mrs. Roxby, to
whom, out of politeness, Mabel chiefly addressed
herself.

Indeed, Mrs. Roxby, feeling a good deal
out of it,' notwithstanding Mabel's politeness,
was trying nervously to make her mind up to
rise, and at last summoned courage for the
effort. She shook Mabel's hand now with
extreme cordiality, bowed nervously to Lady
Saddlethwaite, who slightly acknowledged the
salute, and managed somehow to get out of the
room, followed by her daughter, and by Mabel,
who went with her to the carnage.

When mother and daughter had been shut

in by Arnold, they looked one upon another.
The whole scene seemed as a dream to them.
That Mabel's engagement should have been to a
grand party at Lady Saddlethwaite's ! That
Lady Saddlethwaite should kiss Mabel, and
treat her altogether like a daughter !

6 The old lady is quite flighty,' decided Mrs.
Eoxby. ' Did you notice how she laughed at
nothing at all ? '

Nothing at all ' was Mrs. Eoxby's flattering
description of Mabel's humorous recital of her
school experiences, which seemed low, or was
lost upon both mother and daughter.

A jest's prosperity lies in the ear

Of him that hears it ; never in the tongue

Of him that makes it.

Miss Eoxby was sad, solemn, and unconvinced,
chiefly because she saw a chance of
vindicating the wisdom of her advice.

1 You should have let me ask Mabel when I
wanted to, mamma,' which, being interpreted,
meant, ' I have lost through you a chance of
getting into the charmed circle.'

1 It would have made no difference. You
wouldn't do for a doll, Jane ' — which was just

VOL. III. D

what Jane would do for — at least, for a wooden
Noah's Ark doll, in a serious household, to be
produced only on Sundays. Still, neither
mother nor daughter in their hearts believed
either that Lady Saddlethwaite was doting, or
that Mabel filled the place of a pet pug in
Hollyhurst. The whole matter was a mystery,
and remained so to the Eoxby mind.

c I am so sorry to keep you, Lady Saddle-thwart,'
said Mabel, on returning from ushering
Mrs. Eoxby to her carriage. ' But I shall
not be many minutes.'

You needn't hurry, my dear. And you
needn't be anxious about your dress, child ;
Parker' — ParkerwasLady Saddlethwaite's maid,
who was sent to embarrass Mabel with her help
at her toilet. ' Parker says you would look what
you are, if you dressed like Miss Baines.' bliss
Baines, daughter and heiress of the aforementioned
Zachary, dressed so as to kill the colour
even of the garish window, erected to her
mother's memory, under which she sat in Selden
Church. ' And so you would,' added the
old lady, nodding dogmatically, for in this
matter she held herself and was held to be an
expert.

Mabel, with Jane's help, was soon ready,
and hurried down to Lady Saddlethwaite.

My dear, I wish you would ask Eoger,
from yourself, to drive round by Walton. I
want you to see it. It's four miles round, and
he'd grumble if I asked him ; but I know he'll
do it for you. He's very good-natured, but a
bit spoiled, you know.'

Mabel undertook the commission rather
nervously. ' Eoger ! '

Yes, Miss,' waking up to touch his hat and
blink benignly at her.

Do you think it would be too much for the
horses to take them round by Walton ? '

Eoger looked down upon the bloated beasts
as if calculating to a nicety what further effort
their exhausted energies were equal toc

I have never seen it added Mabel,
plaintively.

Eoger looked back into her face and
offered up to it in sacrifice himself and the
sacred steeds without another moment's hesitation.


I shall take you round by Walton and by
Scarscliffe, Miss ' — two miles further I

D 2

It never for a moment occurred to Roger
that the round was his mistress's suggestion, or

CO '

required her sanction.

'Well? ' asked Lady Saddlethwaite.

c He says he'll take us round by Walton and
Scarscliffe,' said Mabel, triumphantly.

My dear, nobody can resist your face and
manner,' said the old lady, patting Mabel on the
cheek. 4 He'd have done it for me, I dare say,
only he'd have grumbled so.'

Lady Saddlethwaite, of course, said nothing
directly of Mrs. Roxby and the jam-crock ; but
during the drive she took occasion to descant
upon her favourite theme, the brutality of those
upstarts.

4 Their very kindness is an insult,' she said
warmly, thinking of the jam-crock.

1 It's want of manner,' pleaded Mabel,
thinking also of the jam-crock.

It's want of blood, child

1 But the poor people are not so.'

'It's in them. Sunshine brings it out.
What are the others but poor people — set on
horseback ? '

Well, but, Lady Saddlethwaite, if all are
like that when they get up in the world, it can't

be their fault. If one or two were so, you
might blame them ; but if all are so, it must be
through something they can't help.'

No ; they can't help it ; it's their nature,
my dear. A toad can't help being a toad, but
it makes you shudder all the same. Still, one
must make allowance, as you say, child, and I
always do. I think it's one's duty as a Christian.
I never hear that verse read in church about
creeping things after their kind," but I think
of these people and pity them.'

It was impossible for Mabel not to smile at
this extreme pitch of charity to which Lady
Saddlethwaite was wrought up in her better
moments — in church and through the reading
of the Scriptures — towards Messrs. Baines, &c.

And that's why pride of birth is wrong,'
continued one of the proudest of women, after
a pause which Mabel didn't know how to fill.
4 We can't help ourselves any more than they.
It's no credit to us, and we have no right to be
proud of being born ladies and gentlemen.'

But, Lady Saddlethwaite,' objected Mabel,
8 1 think people always are more proud of
things to which they are born than of things
which they get themselves. Don't you think

8 LOVE THE DEBT.

so ? I know at school a child would not be a
bit pleased to be told she was dull but plodding,
while she would be proud of being thought
clever, though idle. And I think people always
are more proud of being clever, or handsome,
or well born, than of getting on in spite of their
being ugly, or stupid, or humbly born.*

6 But, my dear, you are not proud.' A very
graceful answer to an unanswerable position.

When Mabel had done to her room to di
for dinner that evening, a knock came, which
she took for that of the embarrassing Parker,
but which heralded Lady Saddlethwaite herself.
My dear,' she said hesitatingly, in a fluttered
and nervous way most unusual in her, ; I have
had that box taken to your room with your
luggage. I hadn't the courage to tell you today
when you asked about your dress that I
had taken the liberty to order one for you.'
In fact, it was Mrs. Eoxby's present which
scared and discouraged her. w I'm afraid you
will think I have not known you long enough
to take such a liberty, but I feel as if I had
known you all my life, .Mabel. You must let
me call you Mabel, and you will wear the dress,
to please me, dear, won't you?' She read

Mabel's answer in her face, and prevented any
answer in words by a kiss, and was gone. It
was a dress exquisite in its simplicity, and
Mabel never was so much and so justly admired
as that evening.

CHAPTER XXXIII.

MURDER.

Mabel, as we have said, had a letter from
George on the morning of the day of Mrs.
Roxby's visit. It was a voluminous production,
describing brightly his voyage, his fellow-passengers,
his plans and prospects, and his first
impressions of Melbourne ; while a passionate
love, like the wild music of a Greek chorus,
filled every interval and lent the light in which
everything was looked at, We know nothing
of Australia except from George's letters, and
not much from them, which, if torn from its
sacred context, would be worth putting in the
melting-pot and moulding into a link or two of
our tale. Indeed, Australia itself did not figure
largely in the unsentimental parts of this letter,
which were taken up chiefly with a certain
Henley Shorthand, one of George's fellow-passengers
on board the steamer, and his

partner afterwards in the colony. Mr. Short-land
had been a doctor with a large, increasing,
and well-deserved reputation and practice, but
some chemical experiments casually made set
him upon the scent of a discovery which would
make not only his own fortune, but the fortune
of the continent he sold his practice to seek.
He had discovered a cheap, safe, and infallible
chemical means of keeping meat sound and
fresh in any climate and for any time. That
the man was a genius George had no doubt at
all, but he had great doubt of the infallibility
of the process until he dined in Melbourne off
part of the carcase of a lamb which had been
killed in Liverpool. It was certainly as fresh
and sweet and succulent as the day it was
prepared, packed, and put on board in Liverpool.
Dr. Shortland had sold off his practice
impetuously and at a sacrifice, and needed at
least as much more capital as he possessed to
start the enterprise. There were some
capitalists among his fellow-passengers, and of
these he had his choice of partners, for all were
eager for a share in an enterprise of whose
success they had such a practical demonstration
for the Doctor had entertained the cabin-passengers

to dinner on the lamb, whose transfer
from the ship to the kitchen and from the
kitchen to the table he had insisted on being
watched by a deputation of their election. But
Dr. Shortland declined the most tempting
offers, and even bids mounting extravagantly
one above the other, and chose George, who
did not even venture upon a competition in
which his little fortune would be nowhere.
The two men had become close friends onboard,
and had interchanged full confidences ;
and the Doctor, who was really the most
generous and disinterested of men, was as much
bent on making his friend's fortune as his own.
Thus he and George became partners. George
went up country with an expert to purchase fat
cattle and sheep in the cheapest market, and
have them driven to Melbourne, where the
Doctor remained to establish a laboratory and
educate assistants, who, we need hardly say.
knew nothing of the composition of the antiseptic
with which they were instructed to deal.
Among these, and the ablest of these assistant-was
a man named Caleb Spaight, who was
induced to apply for the post, not through the
advertisements in the Argus, but through the

notice of the dinner which appeared in the
news columns of the paper. In fact, he meant
to steal and sell the secret. He had himself
been a doctor in Bath, but had to fly to escape
prosecution for forgery, and after his flight
evidence, circumstantial but overwhelming, of
his having poisoned a sister-in-law in whose
death he had an interest, came to light. Since
his disappearance he had been everywhere and
everything, and found no place or calling too
disreputable to be disgraced by him. He had
the advantage of uniting in himself two
unusually incompatible characteristics — daring
and subtlety — and was equal at once to the
meanest and to the most desperate enterprise.

Dr. Shortland, who was as simple, generous,
and impulsive a little man as ever lived, took
to this fellow extraordinarily and had not the
least suspicion of his having been in the profession.


Spaight, we need not say, affected ignorance
of the very first principles of chemistry, or of
medicine, or of anything but butchering, to
which, he said truly, he had had to take in his
time. Indeed, being a man of immense strength
and iron nerve, he acquitted himself of the

butchering part of his business better than the
professional who was also engaged.

Spaight abstracted and carried home to his
dingy lodgings, for analysis, the Doctor's composition
; but not being able to make much of
it, he bided his time. It seemed to be a kind
of air-proof varnish, removable only by another
chemical preparation, but of course to be
neutralised by puncturing any portion of the
prepared carcase. For the present Spaight
contented himself with so puncturing every
carcase — all came under his hands as foreman
before it was put on board the vessel
chartered for the venture. When he had discovered
and appropriated Shortland's secret, he
could point to the utter failure of the Doctor's
antiseptic as a proof of its essential difference
from that which he would profess to have hit
upon himself,

But the Doctor's secret was difficult of
discovery. Open as day in all other things, he
was close and guarded about his discovery,
whose nature he did not volunteer to communicate
even to George, who, of course, did not
ask for this confidence.

He took a lonely house perched on the

summit of a railway embankment (which had
been built, we believe, for an engineer or contractor
of the line), and had the inner room
fitted up as a laboratory, with double doors
and ingenious locks guarding the entrance. In
truth, the little man, if childlike in heart, was
often childish in conduct, and in many things
was very French ; fussy, fidgety, and self-important.
He was specially so about his
secret, which he seemed to regard almost as a
religious mystery which it was profanity to
attempt to pry into. He would speak of it to
George in the low and reverent tone in which
a man speaks to his bosom friend of his
religious faith or feelings. He would allow no
one but himself to enter the temple dedicated
to this great mystery, and would himself even
enter it and work in it only at night, when the
sole servant he employed — a kind of charwoman
had gone home.

It will be seen, then, that Mr. Spaight had
set himself a difficult task, but he was a patient
man, bided his time, and watched his opportunity.
It came at last when the ship in which
the fortunes of George and the Doctor were
embarked had been five weeks gone. It came,

in fact, on the very night when their ship got
back to Melbourne, having had to throw overboard
its whole putrid cargo. During the
Doctor's absence in the afternoon of that day
Spaight forced his way through the window
into the laboratory and found there just the
thing for his purpose — an old clothes press, in
which the Doctor had hung gruesome specimens
of meat in all stages of arrested decay.
In one of the leaves of the door of this press
Spaight bored two holes on a level with his
eyes, and then proceeded to ransack the laboratory
for some written receipt in vain. Next
he observed with extreme care and accuracy
the place and nature of every drug on the
shelves and in the boxes, helping his memory
to retain their relative positions by mnemonic
notes. This done, he drew from his pocket a
revolver, which for twelve years had never
been out of reach of his hand day or night,
and assured himself of its being in perfect
order. After this, time hung heavy on his
hands and he was driven to smoke ! It is true
that the Doctor himself smoked in the sanctum,
and that the smell of stale tobacco hung about
it ; still not many burglars besides Mr. Spaight

would have risked filling a room with fresh
smoke within two hours of the probable entry
of the master of the house. The truth was,
not only that Mr. Spaight was the coolest of
scoundrels, but also, as the sequel will show,
that he did not think detection fatal to his
design.

It was nearer three hours, however, before
the Doctor returned. He went straight to the
laboratory (where the smoke had now cleared
away and Spaight had secreted himself), lit
his lamp, sat down, pulled out a paper, and
began to read. He read steadily for another
hour, to Spaight's considerable annoyance ; but
at its close he rose and set the lamp on a kind
of shelf, where the shade with which it was
fitted would throw its light down upon his
compound king-board. Spaight began to breathe
more quickly, and wondered that, in the
deathly stillness of the night and of that lonesome
place, the Doctor didn't hear him. But
no. The Doctor put out his hand for a phial
took it down, shook it, replaced it, got up,
walked to the press, opened it, and stood face
to face with his foreman. He stood speechless
for a few seconds, and then gasped ' Spaight ! '

c Shorthand ! ' echoing the Doctor's tone and
stepping from the pre. . Was this the
obsequious assistant? This startling change in
the fellow's manner from servility to contemptuous
familiarity was itself ominous, but
still more ominous was the dogged and
desperate determination in his face. A much
bolder man than the Doctor might well have
been unnerved at the expression in it.

What do you want here ? '

I want your secret,' answered Spaight,
drawing out his revolver, breathing on the
barrel, then rubbing it on his sleeve, and
finally cocking it as coolly as if he was about
to practise at a target.

1 1 give you five minutes to write it out.'

There was no mistaking his manner. He
meant murder.

If I don't ? ' faltered the Doctor.

I must shoot you, and I will by G — ! '

You'll be no nearer it then.'

'I shall then take that phial to the first
analyst in London,' pointing with his revolver
to a phial, full of the compound. ' Nearly one
minute's gone.'

There was a frightful composure in the tone

in which he spoke and the way in which he
looked at the watch held in his left hand.
Great beads of perspiration stood on the
Doctor's forehead. He went to a little table
with pen, ink, and paper upon it, wrote down
a formula with a trembling hand, and held it
out without a word to Spaight. Spaight put
back his watch in his pocket to take it, read it,
held it over the lamp till it took fire, and let it
burn slowly in his fingers. While it burned
he translated the symbols aloud as only a
chemist or doctor could.

What ! You'd poison me like a rat ' —
and indeed the Doctor's prescription would have
been an effective ratsbane. C I can tell what
the secret is not and what it is too, when I see
it. Come ; you've two minutes ' — savagely.

The Doctor hesitated for a moment, looking
into Spaight's face for any sign of a
meaning less horrible than murder. There
was no such sign. The man meant what he
said. Then the Doctor stepped quickly to a
drawer, unlocked it, drew out a revolver, faced
round, and fired three chambers almost together
like a volley, point blank at Spaight.
Before he could fire the fourth he was dead.

vol. in. E

The Doctor was flurried and fired wide, but
Spaight was not flurried, and sent his bullet
crash through Shortland's forehead into the
brain. The body fell back against the drawn
and slid down thence to the floor, where it lay
in a limp heap. Spaight examined it to make
sure it was quite dead and needed no other
bullet before he put his revolver back into his
pocket. Then he felt for and found the
Doctor's purse (which was satisfactorily full)
and appropriated it ; but his watch, chain, and
rings, he thought it prudent to forego. He
next turned his attention to the locked drawers,
of which there were four, and for which he
soon found the keys in the bunch hanging
from that the Doctor had opened. There were
plenty of papers in them, but no prescription
of any kind and no valuables. He locked
them, took out the keys, lit a candle from a
lamp, went to the door, kicking aside with his
foot the Doctor's body, which was in the way.
with no more compunction than if it had been
a dead dog. When we read in a book <>r
paper of a brutal murder, we inter the
murderer's feelings from our own, and fancy
him affected with a creeping horror of the

corpse of his victim ; whereas to have been
such a murderer at all, he must have long got
rid of feelings of the kind.

Spaight took up the candlestick, and stepping
carefully, he unlocked each of the double
doors and proceeded to ransack the house.
Two of the rooms were locked, but he went
to an outhouse used as a shambles, fetched an
axe, and broke open both doors. In the
Doctor's rooms he found nothing which he
dared to take ; but in George's bedroom — for
George, when in Melbourne, lived with the
Doctor — he found man) 7 things which might
be appropriated w T with more advantage and
impunity. George, having gone into the bush
to learn the farming part of the business, had
left in the Doctor's care most of his valuables ;
among the rest even his grand watch with the
inscription inside the case which had been
presented to him by the children. He did not
like risking it in the bush, and had therefore
locked it in his desk, where Spaight, who
prized the desk open, found it. This and
many other portable treasures he pocketed,
and then returned to the laboratory for the
phial. What he had before abstracted of the

E 2
'.i OF Illic

elixir he had used up in attempting to analyse

it. As he repassed the front door, which he
had forgotten to shut after him, a gust of wind
blew out the candle, and lie had to grope his
Away to the laboratory in the dark. There
was a passage, which midway turned sharply at
right angles, leading out of the hall to the first
door of the laboratory, and along this he
groped his way ; reached the door, felt over its
surface for the handle, but before lie found it
the door was pushed slowly open from the
inside. Spaight staggered back, his heart stood
still : and when a cold and clammy hand
clutched his throat he could not repress a cry
of horror. Next moment a strong smell of
rum convinced him that there was no other
spirit in the case. But the man, whoever lie
was, must have been in the laboratory and
seen the corpse. Spaight recovered his coolness
quickly, drew out his revolver, and
asked in a fierce tone, ' Who the h — are
you ? '

1 Well, if it comes to that,' said a gruff
voice, 'who the h — are you? You're not the
Doctor, are you ? '

Spaight breathed more freely. The man

couldn't have seen the body. ' I'm the Doctor's
assistant. Did you want him ? ' in a conciliatory
tone.

'Ay — I must see him. There's the devil
to pay. All that meat stank like bilge water
before it had been a fortnight on board. We
had to heave it over to the sharks and put back.
4 Where is he ? '

It was the mate of the ' George Roberts,'
who was sent by the captain to break the bad
news to the Doctor. Finding the front door
open, he had walked straight in and groped his
way along the passage to the first door of the
laboratory, which opened into what he thought
must be a closet or cupboard. He was about
retracing his steps when Spaight came to the
door and felt the hand, cold and wet from the
rain, touch his throat as it was stretched out to
grope.

He's busy,' said Spaight, ' I shall tell him
you're here. Come along into the kitchen and
have a drop of something.'

That's your sort. You must pilot me,
mate. I'd just got aground in a cupboard or
summit, and had to go astern. Show a light,
can't you ? '

1 All right; this way. I shall fetch a light
in a moment.'

Spaight led him into the kitchen and left
him there for a moment while he went back to
light the candle at the lamp in the laboratory.
He picked his steps very carefully this time,
and took the precaution in leaving to lock the
inner door behind him, and put the key in his
pocket. He went then to a little pantry off
the kitchen and fetched thence some bread,
beef, and brandy, which he set before the
mate.

Let's hear about this business, and I shall
break it myself to the boss.'

The mate told what there was to tell,
which wasn't much, in rather strong language,
muffled by bread, beef, and brandy ; and
Spaight left him on the pretence of breaking
the bad news to the Doctor. While the
mate was telling his story, Spaight conceived
the idea of making it appear that the Doctor
had committed suicide upon hearing of the
failure of his venture. In pursuance of this
idea he returned to the laboratory, put back
into the Doctor's pocket his purse with two or
three coins left in it, exchanged revolvers, as

the bullet in the Doctor's brain was lamer than
that fitted to the toy implement the Doctor
trusted to ; locked both doors on the inside, and
got out of the window. Entering the house
through the still open front door, he rejoined
the mate.

How did he take it ? ' asked that gentleman,
who had done eating, but not drinking.

Spaight shook his head. ' He couldn't speak
for a bit ; then he paid me a quarter's salary,
shook hands with me, and said, " It would
be all one in the morning." '

That has a bad look,' said the mate with a
sagacious nod. ' I say, I wouldn't leave him to
himself to-night, if I were you ; I'm d — if I
would.'

But he's locked himself in.'

The devil he has ! It's time I was off, as
Careen will be expecting me,' — suddenly recalled
to a sense of duty by the fear of being
mixed up in an untoward business. Spaight
made no objection, as the mate had drunk
already more than quite suited his purpose.
He saw his guest out, waited till he had
gone two or three hundred yards, and then,
having discharged the fourth chamber of the

Doctor's revolver, he ran after and overtook
him.

1 Did yon hear it ? ' lie asked breathless! v.

1 Ay, ay — I thought so. It's a bad job.'

1 You'll come back and help me to break
in?'

The mate would have kept out of the way
of the business while it was in posse, but he
was not the man to turn tail when he found
himself face to face with it. The two hurried
back and knocked and shouted again and again
to the Doctor at the outer door of the laboratory.
Receiving no answer, not a groan even, the
mate tried to burst in the door, but the
Doctor's strong and ingenious lock resisted all
his efforts.

1 Is there an axe about ? '

Spaight thought there was one in the outhouse,
whither they went to look for it, but
returned, of course, without it, as it was in
George's room. He did not wish the mate to
get in and find that the Doctor had been sometime
dead, his blood congealed, and his body
cold. ' There's another door inside this, 1 he
said.

'It's what I took for a cupboard, isn't it ?

Look here, messmate, there's no use losing
time breaking your teeth against one door like
this, let alone two. Isn't there a window ? '

Yes, but it's barred like a jail.'

8 Then we must fetch the police, mate, and
the sooner the better.'

Spaight agreed, and the two hastened into
Melbourne and returned in two hours with the
police. There was little doubt in anyone's
mind that the Doctor had committed suicide,
even before the inquest ; but after the evidence
of Spaight — given with some natural and creditable
emotion, but clearly and circumstantially
corroborated in all important particulars by
the mate — the jury, after a minute's consultation,
brought in a verdict of suicide while ina
state of temporary insanity ; and everyone
felt that no other verdict was possible, and no
other hypothesis even conceivable. Not until
after the inquest was it found by Spaight himself,
who informed the police, that two doors
had been broken open and one room ransacked
by some one who took advantage of the suicide
to commit burglary with little fear of interruption
or detection.

Chapter XXXIV.

8 THE NIGHTMARE LIFE IN DEATH.'

Mr. Spaight did not carry the elixir straightaway
to the first analyst in London. He found
other fish to fry at present. He appropriated
among other articles a pocket-book of George -
which he found with the watch in the desk.
He did not examine it particularly at the time,
but finding it put away amongst unquestionable
treasures he took its value for granted and
reserved its examination to a more convenient
time and place. He was at first disappointed
with its contents when lie did examine it
thoroughly. There were no bank-notes and no
marketable secrets in the papers it contained.
Among these papers, however, he found a
letter signed Archer Lawley, which, on second
thoughts, seemed of some promise. It spoke of
sending, in six or eight weeks, 300/ the
balance of a promised loan. Mr. Spaight was

an accomplished and successful forger, and had,
indeed, distinguished himself as such even in
America, and he did not despair of intercepting
the 300/. by the aid of this art.

There was no difficulty about getting the
letters addressed to Mr. Kneeshaw. Such
letters had already passed through his hands,
as he had brought them from Melbourne to Dr.
Shortland, to whose care they were addressed,
and again, when they had been readdressed by
the Doctor, Spaight had taken them back to
post. He still, as the representative of the
firm, called and got their letters, and would
continue to get them until the one he wanted
fell into his hands. In this way Mr. Spaight had
the pleasure of reading over two letters from
Mabel, which he had the bad taste to burn, before
the one he looked for from Lawley came to hand.
It contained explicit instructions as to the best
way of getting the draft it enclosed cashed, by
following which, and by forgery, Mr. Spaight
was able to put three hundred sovereigns in his
pocket.

Having netted now nearly 400/., he made
his mind up to get his debts in and start for
England. His debts were of two kinds — debts

of honour, or gambling debts, and debts of dishonour,
or hush-money, extorted under threat
of bringing charges, sometimes true and sometimes
trumped up, against cautiously-chosen
victims. Among these victims was a young
man named Dewhurst — a wool-buyer for a
great Melbourne firm — who was engaged to
the daughter of the junior partner, Jabez Deane,
a very strict and even ascetic Methodist. His
engagement had steadied and reclaimed him
from a life that was not very reputable — was,
indeed, disreputable enough to bring him into
the company and at last into the clutches of
Spaight. Spaight got hold of letters of his
written to a wretched girl — not nice letters
by any means — and from time to time extorted
money by the threat to put them into the
hands of Mr. Deane ; that is, to ruin his prospects
in life as well as in love. The lad's life
had not been over-respectable, but even Mr.
Deane would have pardoned him if he could
have known the horrible tortures to which
Spaight put him in slowly sucking his blood.
Spaight, having resolved to make off to England,
sought up all his tributaries to put tin'
screw on tight and once for all, and called last on

Dewhurst. The wretched youth was dressing
for a dinner-party at Mr. Deane's when his
landlady knocked to say Mr. Spaight was
below. Dewhurst dashed the brush he was
using against the looking-glass, and shivered it,
and having exhausted his manliness in this
hysterical outburst, he sat down and all but
cried. However, there was no help for it. He
must see this devil. He put on his coat and
waistcoat and came down in sullen despair.

You said you wouldn't come again for
three months.'

No more I would,' said Spaight cheerfully,
1 if I wasn't going away. I'm off for England,
and I came to give you up those letters, my
boy.'

Dewhurst expressed his incredulity by
something between a grunt and a groan.

1 Look here,' said Spaight, in answer to this
well-understood distrust, pulling out and handing
Dewhurst a receipt for a first-class passage
by the Australasia.

How much ? ' asked Dewhurst, with a
gleam of hope.

1 Let us say 10/. a letter. There are thirteen
in all ; that is 130/. It's cheap,' he went

on to say, in answer to Dewhurst's sinking his

head upon his arms in hopeless misery at the
mention of the sum. ' This letter alone is worth
50/.,' picking out from the packet and proceeding
to read the most disgusting of the batch ina
disgusting tone.

Dewhurst started as if stabbed, and snatched
at the letter, which Spaight held out of reach,
coolly read to the end, and then put back into
the packet and into his pocket.

Well, what do you say to 10/. a letter ? '
'I haven't 10/. in the world, I tell you.'
8 You can get it where you got the last."
Dewhurst had to embezzle his employers'
money to pay Spaight's last call.
8 I can't and I won't.
4 Then I go straight to old Deane's.'

You may go straight to li .'

Very good,' said Spaight coolly, rising and
going towards the door. c I shall not get as
much from old Deane, but I shall get something
out of him, you may depend.'

Dewhurst's hysterical strength of mind was
spent in this effort, and before Spaight reached
the door he was recalled, as he expected.
< Say 50/.'

No, I said what I meant, 130/.

Dewhurst relieved his mind by an imprecation.


6 How lomb will you sive me ? '

I can only give you a week, as I sail on
Wednesday next.'

Call in a week, then,' he groaned.

Anyhow, there was a week's reprieve,
which was something. Spaight having taken
himself off, Dewhurst sat down, and wrote an
apology for being unable to keep his engagement
at Mr. Deane's, and, having sent it by
the servant, set out to seek his friend and confidant,
Hodson. Hodson had gone to a resort
which was very popular with young gentlemen
of his class and spirit, called the ' Digger's
Dairy,' which seemed to combine the attractions
of a hell, a dram-shop, and a music-hall,
and here Dewhurst followed and found
him.

\ He's been to you, too ? ' was Hodson's first
greeting.

4 How did you know ? '

He's been putting the screw on all round.
You should hear Larry swear at him.'

Larry was not an Irishman, but a Mexican

half-caste, whose skill with the lasso — called in
Mexico 'lariat' — had earned him the name.
Larry owed Spaight a debt of honour, and so
did three of those of whom Hodson spoke, but
himself and two others were in Dewhurst's
plight, and were tributaries of hush-money.

1 I'll tell you what, we'll hold a council of
war, by Jove,' exclaimed Hodson, and without
waiting for the assent of his feeble and irresolute
friend, he went across to Larry and asked
him to come straight to his lodgings. Larry
was the only one who owed Spaight other than
hush-money debts whom Hodson summoned to
the council, but Larry's invitation thereto was
due to his undisguised and desperate hatred of
Spaight. The other four present at the council
had suffered such infernal tortures from that
vampire that they would have knocked him on
the head with no more remorse than if he had
been a weasel — if they could have done it with
impunity. However, at the council no one had
a chance even of being heard but Larry, who,
though he owed the common enemy only five
pounds, and that won fairly from him at billiards,
was the most violent and vindictive of
them all. The fact was that Spaight had

lodged for a short time in his house, and Larry
suspected him of an intrigue with his wife.
Larry proposed to lay a trap for Spaight and
bait it with Dewhurst, who didn't at all like
the role assigned to him. What if the tiger
should bury his fangs in the bait in the very
act of being trapped? This objection was
overruled by the rest, who naturally couldn't
see the point of it.

There's no one else big enough for bait.
A hundred and thirty pounds ! Hell leap
at it ! ' said Hodson, his own familiar friend.

Pshaw ! ' broke in the impetuous and
imperious Larry, ' there's nothing to frighten a
chicken. You tell Spaight you're going upcountry
with 200/. of your employers' in your
pocket — going to buy wool — and arrange with
him to rob you at a certain point. Before he
comes to that point we shall settle with him,
and you can skulk home if you like.'

4 But how are we to settle with him ? ' asked
Boothroyd.

1 1 shall bring him down with the lariat, and
when he's down and his arms pinioned, maybe
you'll have the pluck to bear a hand,' sneered
Larry T .

vol. in. f

Hereupon, everyone, even Dewhurst, disclaimed
being in the least afraid ; Hodson and
Bennet with perfect truth, but Boothroyd and
Dewhurst not so sincerely. As for Larry,
he was as truculent, if not as subtle, a
scoundrel as Spaight himself, and knew as little
what fear meant. Then the details were gone
into. Dewhurst was to arrange with Spaight to
meet and be robbed by him at a lonely spot
called ' The Ovens,' twenty miles out of town,
on the following Monday evening at sunset,
and as Spaight reached the rendezvous he was
to be lassoed, bound, and lynched. Dewhurst,
who had as little brain as nerve, was coached by
Hodson to put Spaight off his guard by bargaining
particularly to have half the letters in
hand and the other half at the rendezvous, and
to be allowed to keep for himself 70/., or at
least 50/., out of the 200/.

Spaight fell into the trap without the least
suspicion, gave up half the letters, and promised
to give back 50/. out of the 200/. ; a promise
he had not the least intention of keeping.
Larry chose for the ambush some scrub near
the rendezvous where the road w T as in such a
state that Spaight would be forced to walk his

horse, and the doomed man had no sooner
passed this spot at a walk, whistling cheerfully,
than he was lassoed and jerked off his horse by
the unerring aim, strong arm, and iron nerve of
the Mexican. In a moment, Larry, Hodson,
and Bennet were upon him (Dewhurst and
Booth road being extremely anxious to secure
his horse, which they let loose next moment),
Hodson and Bennet holding him while Larry
secured and strengthened the pinioning of his
arms. Spaight struggled desperately to get
one hand into the pocket where the Doctor's
revolver was, and failing, and finding himself
wholly helpless, he kept sullen silence. He
would not have begged for mercy even if he
had the least chance of it ; but he had not the
least chance of it, and he knew it.

Now, boys,' said Larry, when he had
bound and swathed him like a mummy, ' thais
it to be ? '

8 Hanging,' said Hodson.

Larry looked round, not for a tree, but foi
a rope. ' Wont do,' he said regretfully ; ' I
can't cut my lariat.'

Well, then, shooting.'

Who's to do it ? ' asked Bennet.

1 2

Let's cast lots,' suggested Hodgson.

No,' decided the masterful Mexican, c we
must all be in it. Xo skulking, and no peaching.
All shoot together.'

But I've no pistol,' objected Dewhurst.

Larry looked at him with withering scorn,
stooped and pulled from the pocket Spaight
tried to reach the Doctor's revolver, and flung
it to Dewhurst.

I say,' he said, with sudden suspicion of
his two craven allies, ' pass round the pops.
Let's see if all are full loaded. We shall have
a look at them again afterwards.'

Accordingly the revolvers were passed
round, and every chamber of each was found
to be charged.

1 All right. Now, boys, bear a hand.' So
saying, Larry took hold of the long loose end
of the lasso, and the others fell in behind him,
each harnessing himself to the strong silk rope,
and by it they dragged the body of the wretched
man as if it had been a log of wood, tearing it
through the scrub, and bumping it over the
stones and hillocks at the high speed set by
Larry, until they pulled up at last at a tree a
fair distance from the track. Here they lifted

up the body, and Larry lashed it securely to
the trunk of the tree.

Ten paces ! ' he said, striding it.

Hold on ! ' said Hodson, pulling out ibis
handkerchief, and proceeding to blindfold the
doomed man in due form. To this operation,
however, Spaight made the silent objection of
biting Hodson's fourth finger to the bone, and
spitting back the blood into his face. Hodson
used his handkerchief to wipe his face and to
bind up his finger, and then retired ten paces
with the rest.

Ready ? ' asked Larry. ' Stop ! ' he shouted.
Fire above the elbow. Don't cut the lariat.'

Stop ! ' echoed Spaight, in a clear, commanding
voice. 'I'll give the words myself,
bl ye ! Ready ! Present ! Fire ! '

Blood flowed almost with the word from his
lips, as the Mexican's bullet pierced between
the eyes. His head fell upon his chest, and his
body hung limp from the fastenings.

4 Died game, anyhow ! ' said Larry, with
extorted admiration, as he strode towards the
tree. * By G — , you've cut it ; I knew you
would,' he added fiercely, for one of the three
balls which pierced the body cut clean through

the lasso. lie examined the corpse critically,
and finding only three wounds he turned and
snatched Dewhurst's revolver and then Booth-road's.
Both had been discharged, so he
tossed them back contemptuously. He then
proceeded to knot and unwind the lasso,
with many muttered curses at the lack of skill
or nerve of the marksman who severed it, but
was restored to good temper on finding over
300/. on the body, and became quite genial
when both Hodson and Dewhurst declined to
take their share. Dewhurst was satisfied with
his letters, and Hodson with his revenge. Even
Larry wouldn't meddle with the murdered
man's watch, pocket-book, or papers; the
might be criminating. As for his horse, it
started off at full gallop at the sound of the
volley. The confederates then dispersed and
disappeared, only Dewhurst and Boothroyd
keeping together.

They disappeared just in time. A minute
after they were lost to sight in the scrub, four
men reached the spot. They were on their
way up country from melbourne, and hearing
the volley and seeing Spaight's horse gallop
wildly towards them, they stopped and caught

it ; then dismounted, tied all five horses to
trees, and pushed through the scrub towards
the spot whence the firing seemed to come.
After some search they came upon Spaight's
body, still warm and bleeding, lying at the foot
of the tree. His pockets were turned out, but
his pocket-book and papers lay on the grass,
while his watch was yet in his pocket. They
concluded that he had been murdered bv
robbers, who dragged the corpse, which bore
every mark of having been dragged to this
spot, and were interrupted in rifling the body
by their approach. This would account for
his purse being taken while his watch was left.
It was no use whatever attempting to pursue
the robbers in the scrub, and in the gathering
darkness, even if they had much heart for that
adventure, which they hadn't. The best thing
to be done was to take the body with them to
a little settlement five miles ahead, called
Mapping. They would so save the murdered
man's watch and papers, which the robbers
were sure to return for when they found the
coast clear. They carried the body between
them with some difficulty to the track and
slung it across the horse, which each took it in

turn to walk beside, to stay the corpse from
slipping off. At Mapping the body waa identified
by the letters and papers in the pocketbook,
and by the inscription within the watch-case
as that of the Eev. George Kneeshaw. lala
curate of the parish church of Weston, Yorkshire,
England, who had, as the letters showed,
given up the Church and left England to seek his
fortune as a farmer in Australia. The murder
made a sensation in Melbourne, and the Argus
therefore devoted to it, and what it coidd learn
of Mr. Kneeshaw, a whole column one day and
two or three paragraphs on subsequent day-and
the news was copied at some length
from the Argus into the Times and other
English papers. In this way Larry and his
confederates escaped even a suspicion of the
murder, which they would certainly rot have
done if the body had been identified as
Spaight's. Spaight, indeed, had disappeared,
but as those who knew anything of him knew
that he had taken his passage by the ' Australasia,'
his disappearance was not unlooked for
and certainly not unwelcome. Iu this way ab
it came about that Archer Lawley read in the
Times a most circumstantial account of the

robbery and murder of this friend, Eev. George
Kneeshaw, late a curate of the parish church,
Weston. And in this way also it came about
that the Eev. George Kneeshaw himself read in
the same number of the Times the startling
news of his own murder, of which he had not
heard, and had no chance of hearing till more
than three months after it was said to have
occurred. But how did it come about that
George was so far and so long out of earshot
even of the far-off hum of civilisation ? Mr.
Spaight, who calculated his days and plans to
a nicety, had reckoned upon only three months'
absence from Melbourne of Mr. Kneeshaw. It
was the length of absence agreed upon in
Spaight's hearing between him and the Doctor ;
and Spaight, when he booked himself to sail in
the ' Australasia,' felt he was running things
rather fine, as Mr. Kneeshaw was due in
that week George, however, did not turnup
in Melbourne till some days after the
Australasia ' had returned to it again from
Liverpool. The truth was, George had written
to the Doctor a letter which reached Melbourne
the day after Spaight's death, in which he
announced an irresistible speculation that would

take him 200 miles further into the bush,
and keep him at least six weeks longer from
Melbourne. It kept him a little more than
three months longer. The speculation in
really promising, and would have turned out as
it promised if George had not broken down
from overwork and exposure, and hovered
between life and death for the better part of
two months. During his illness his men robbed
him, some negatively by idling and drinking,
others positively by decamping with the best
part of his stock ; and on his slow recovery
George found himself little better than a beggar.
He made his way back as he could to Melbourne,
broken in body and spirit. What account of
his stewardship could he give the kind-hearted
Doctor? He had but a few shillings in his
pocket, and the 300/. which would be waiting
for him in a letter from Lawley was a poor
equivalent for the capital he had lost. With
these bitter thoughts in his heart he climbed the
little hill to the lonely house above the railway
embankment. He was walking straight into
it, and had got half-way along the passage to
the laboratory, when a surprised voice shouted.
1 Halloa ! '

It was the owner who had let it to the
Doctor, but had returned to live in it himself.

Where's the Doctor ? ' asked George.

< Who ? '

Dr. Shortland.'

The owner looked curiously at George.
Just come from England, eh ? '

No, I've been up country. Can you tell
me where Dr. Shortland's gone to ? ' as a second
look round convinced him that the Doctor must
have moved.

6 You must ask his parson,' replied the
owner, who was a coarse and facetious person,
but not hard-hearted by any means. ' He blew
his brains out in that there identical room,'
pointing to the door at the end of the passage,
at whose elbow George was pulled short up.
8 That pickling business failed, and the shock
was too many for him.'

George had not long got back or got back
very far from the brink of the grave, and was
still weak as water. He staggered and had to
lean against the wall.

I beg your pardon, sir. Here, James, bear
a hand.'

James was his son, a lad of eighteen.

Between them they helped George into the
nearest room, and set him in a chair, and gave
him some brandy.

I really beg your pardon, sir,' repeated his
host, very much concerned; 'I didn't know
you were a relative of his. You're a bit bett
I hope.'

Thank you very much,' replied George ;
1 I'm all right now.'

It was an unlucky firm altogether, sir,'
continued his host, thinking it better to turn
George's thoughts from the Doctor's death.
1 The other partner, Kneeshaw, was robbed
and murdered a month after the poor Doctor
died. It was a queer affair. I see it's got
into the Times, pointing to a copy of that
journal which had just arrived by the returned
Australasia,' and lay on the table.

George stared at him with such a look as a
man might have who, dying in his sleep, wakes
in another world. His host, thinking he was
going into a fit, plied him again with brandy
very seasonably and effectively. George
would not trust himself to look then and thereat
the Times, but rose, resisting his kind host's
hospitable effort to detain him, took leave with

many thanks, walked as in a dream into
Melbourne, bought a copy of the Times, took
it with him to a lonely place, and read and reread
of his murder till he had to give up
the attempt to realise then the meaning of the
words.

CHAPTER XXXV.

A CLUE.

George was too weak for continued or coherent
thought. His mind reeled to and fro
and staggered like a drunken man from point
to point of the strange stories he had just
heard and read, but could not grasp any one
particular of them firmly or for long. These
particulars seemed to come and go in his mind
at their own will and not at his, and eluded
and escaped his efforts to stay and question
them. They were mysterious

Fallings from hin, vanishing,
Blank misgivings of a creature
Moving in a world not realised.

He rose at last from the stone on which he sat
by the roadside, put the Times in his pocket,
and crept back to Melbourne. He put up in
the first inn lie came to, went straight to bed,
and fell, alter a little, into a long and sound

sleep. He woke late next morning, still weak,
but able to think things clearly over. Indeed
his thoughts seemed to have got themselves
into order while he slept, for he had a clear
idea when he woke that Dr. Shortland had been
robbed and murdered, and that the robber and
murderer, having his (George's) watch and
papers upon him (for by these, said the Times'
report, the body had been identified), had himself
been robbed and murdered soon after.

This theory, however, he had to give up in
great part on inquiry at the police office ; for
the evidence of the police went to show that
the Doctor had beyond doubt committed
suicide, and that the robbery of his and his
partner's property had taken place a day or
two later. From the police office George went
to the post office, but found no letters for him
not one. From the post office he went to
the bank, and learned that Lawley's draft had
been cashed more than three months since.
When he left the bank he took out his purse
and counted the silver — there was no gold —
17s. ! It was all he had in the world. He
went back to the inn, paid his bill, and sought
lodgings in the meanest part of the town. At

last, when utterly worn out, lie found a room
frowsy enough to be probably the cheapest he
could get. He had to pay for a week in
advance, and this payment left him with Is. cl.
He had eaten nothing since morning, and little
then, and feeling now even weaker than he
had felt yesterday, he flung himself on the foul
bed in the frowsy attic. Here he lay long, not
asleep, but just as he was yesterday at the
same hour, dreaming awake, that is, having no
control whatever over his thoughts, which, as
in a dream, came and went and did as they
pleased, like schoolboys escaped from their set
tasks in their master's absence.

At last the landlady became uneasy about
him. She used not to feel much interest in
her lodgers, but since on that very bed where
George had flung himself one lodger had
committed suicide, and another had died of
what the doctor called disease of the heart
accelerated by want of food, she had grown
morose and suspicious. Indeed, she hesitated
at first about taking George in, as she thought
he had the look of a third inquest in his face.
However, as the room had been six weeks tolet,
she risked it and reconciled her weakness

o*

to her conscience by an addition of two shilling
to the rent. She was beginning to doubt the
wisdom of having accepted George even at this
heavy insurance premium after he had been
seven hours in the house and had never stirred
from or in his room. At last her womanly
anxiety drove her up the steep stairs to the
attic.

Come in,' answered George to her knock.

4 Thought you'd want summit to eat,' said
Mrs. Sprouts, relieved to see that the dark
stain of blood on the mattress, which the scanty
bedclothes did not hide, was not freshened ;
4 tea or summit.'

Thank you, I should like tea.'

Bread to it ? '

Yes, thank you.'

Butter ? '

4 Yes, thank you.'

'Sugar and milk,' added Mrs. Sprouts,

picking each item off upon her fingers as she

mentioned it — 4 Ninepence ' — shutting her lip

like a steel trap upon the price as something

that was likely to try to escape her if she

wasn't firm.

George fumbled in his pocket and produced

VOL. III. G

half of all he had in the world, but hesitated to
hand it to her. C I don't think I shall want
butter, milk, or sugar ; only tea and bread.'

Sixpence,' if possible more snappishly.

George handed her the money, and in due
time got very good bread, and plenty of it ; but
tea that seemed brewed from Irish thatch —
smoked straw. After tea he lay down again on
the bed in his clothes — he could not bring himself
to undress and lie between those horrible
sheets — and at last he got to sleep, and slept at
intervals till morning.

In the morning he breakfasted off the
remainder of the bread, and was clear-headed
enough to realise his position. What was he todo
? He longed to write to Mabel, or at least
to Lawley, and let her know through him that
he was alive. But would he be alive when the
letter reached England ? or, if alive, in what
position ? In a position to keep such a girl to
her engagement ? It would be dastardly selfishness.
No ; better she should think him dead
and herself free. She would forget him. Had
she not forgotten him already? Not a line
from her for six long months. But his other
letters his letter from Lawley — had been

intercepted — why not hers? Yes, she must
have written ; but her very disinterestedness
and constancy pleaded with him for her that he
should not bind her to his broken lot. And
then George came back to the despondent
thought with which he had started, that the
report he longed to contradict might possibly —
probably — be true before the contradiction
reached Lawley. You see he was ill, exhausted
and shaken by the shock of one piece of bad
news upon another, and saw everything in the
blackest colours. Having decided, after a
struggle, against spending his last shilling in a
letter to Lawley, he forced his mind to turn
altogether from an idea about which it longed
to linger, and set himself to face the present.
He must do something or starve. But what
could he do or get to do ? It was a hopeless
outlook. He would have more chance of
keeping alive in a desert island in a deserted
sea than in this teeming city of Englishmen, and
he would have been less lonely. 'EprjiAia
fieyakr) *<jtiv rj fxeydkr) 7ro\i?. It is strange how
the mind escapes some present pressing misery
by wandering off at the first turn it comes to.
This Greek line coming into his head trans

2

ported him to Bolton Abbey and the Staid, and
a conversation he had held there with Lawley,

in which his friend had quoted it. The whole
scene, set in exquisite scenery, wad before him
as in a vivid dream, himself sitting Bulging
stones into the rushing water, Lawley lying on
his back with his hands clasped beneath his
head, and eyes half closed against the sunlight,
arguing for the civilising influence of the
country, as against the so-called civilisation of
towns. Lawley had quoted Wordsworth's
exquisite lines, beginning —

The stars of midnight shall be dear

(the very lines, irrelevant as they were to his
misery, haunted George's mind throughout this
sickening day), and wound up by saying that
men, like wolves, were most savage when in
packs.'

With these ominous words in his mind,
almost in his ears, George started up from the
truckle-bed on which he had been sitting, went
down the steep stairs, and out into the street.
He bought a cheap local paper, and looked
eagerly at the vacant situations in the advertisement
columns. There were only three clerkships
advertised as vacant, while there was half
a column of advertisements from clerks seeking

situations. It was not promising, and he was
prepared for the reception his application met
in each case. At the first two offices where he
applied, the master or manager, after a look at
his gaunt and ghastly face, said coolly that the
vacancy was filled up. At the third he was
asked for references or credentials, and having,
of course, none to give, was bowed politely out
of the office.

It was now well on in the afternoon, as the
three places were nearly as far apart as they
could be, and as George was too weak-to walk
fast. He felt too weak to walk much further.
He sat on a doorstep and pulled out the local
newspaper to look again at the advertisements,
but the lines and letters ran into each other,
and he could read nothing beyond the name of
the paper. He must have something to eat.
He put his hand in his pocket to count again
the few pence he had left and pulled out with
them the gold pencil-case the children had given
him, with his name neatly engraved upon it.
Then the pawn-office occurred to him for the
first time as a resource. He might pawn his
watch — the old one — the pencil-case, and his
portmanteau and its contents, which would

probably be at the station to-day, or at latest
tomorrow ; for as he rode on horseback to the

nearest station from the bush, he could not take
it with him, but left it in safe hands to be forwarded
by the first wagon. In this way lie
might stave starvation off a little longer, and
need hesitate less about spending the few pence
he held in his hand upon some kind of dinner.

There were other eyes fixed greedily on
these few pence at the same moment — eyes that
looked large in the white, worn face of a young
woman in a worse plight than George's. She
was the widow of a drowned merchant captain,
left with two children — destitute and as helpless
as the children in her charge. If she could
have parted with her children, or if she had
been less of a child herself, she certainly need
not have starved for lack of honest work in
such a town as Melbourne. But she was
starving, and, worse still, her children also.
She stopped and fixed her eyes greedily on the
few pence in George's hand until George looked
up, when she hurried on 'like a guilty thing
surprised.'

Relief of suffering had grown into an instinct
with George, and the suffering expressed

in the girl's face was irresistible in its appeal to
him — a kind of mute, meek misery like that of
a timid, hunted, and helpless animal. George's
weakness and its cause made him only the more
impressionable in this case.

1 1 beg your pardon,' he said hesitatingly.
The woman stopped. ' I can spare this, if it
would be of any use to you,' offering half what
remained to him. The woman looked into the
gaunt face uplifted to hers, and read her own
story only too plainly in it.

You are starving yourself, sir,' pitifully.

6 I've been ill,' he said evasively. She shook
her head, not trusting herself to speak.

I can't be starving with this,' said George,
pulling out his watch, his face lit up for a
moment with one of his old kindly smiles. He
rose as he spoke, and forced the few pence into
her hand.

'I can't help it,' she said with a great sob.
I have two children ; they've not had a morsel
of food since yesterday. God forgive me, I
can't help it.'

fc Nonsense,' said George cheerily, 4 I'm all
right. I only wish it was more,' trying at the
same time to force the rest of the money upon

her. But she was firm. She shook her head
more decisively than before, and thanking him

only with her tears — for she couldn't speak —
she hurried away.

While George was feeling the shame of
having been disproportionately thanked for so
little, a sudden thought struck him as an open
carriage with a gentleman in it, intent on a
book, was passing. He stopped the driver,
stepped to the side of the carriage, and, taking
his hat off, apologised for the liberty he was
venturing upon. ' That poor woman,' he said,
nodding towards the figure in black, now someway
ahead, ' is starving, and she has two little
children depending on her. I think, sir, if you
will kindly inquire into the case, you will forgive
me for calling your attention to it.'

The little man looked up from his book and
listened with some surprise. He was a celebrated
doctor, and saw at a dance that Genre
himself was in as sore a plight as the woman he
pleaded for. Still George's manner was so perfectly
self-respectful as well as respectful, that
lie felt some embarrassment about saying so.

4 Not very well yourself, eh ? '

4 I've had a long illness, but I'm better,
thank you, now.'

George was unmistakably a gentleman, and
a gentleman who had unmistakably come to
grief.

You want strong support. If you'll allow
me to prescribe for you — I'm a doctor, you
know,' said the little man, taking his purse out
and a sovereign from it, in a very embarrassed
manner.

8 Thank you,' interrupted George, so cordially
and gratefully that there could hardly be
suspicion of his being offended. ' I thought
you would be kind enough to help her.' He
again raised his hat, and the Doctor returned
the salute with a politeness which he hoped
would efface any offence George might have
felt, and disgusted at his evident intention to
offer him the sovereign. George watched the
carriage, saw it stop when it overtook the black
figure, saw her and the Doctor look back at
him, and then turned and walked away.

It was well the widow had refused the few
pence left to him, as he had not strength to
walk to the nearest pawn-office. In his weak
state the interview with her and the Doctor was
an excitement which was followed by a reaction,
and he had to rest more than once before he

came to a little eating-house in a back street,
which looked nasty enough to be cheap. He
entered, and sat down at the foot of a long and
bony deal table. All the flesh or soft parts of
it had been worn down, leaving an archipelago
of knobby islands. There were a good many
guests, all seemingly navvies — huge, dirty,
savage or sullen-looking, who ate like hyaena
suspiciously, ferociously, with occasional
growls, which the one coates waiter was
skilled in interpreting. George sat beside perhaps
the most tremendous and truculent-looking
ruffian of the gang, who glared at him savagely,
with his knife pausing midway between his
mouth and the saltcellar for a moment. For
the guests not only ate, of course, with their
knives, but dipped them, before each bite, into
a common saltcellar. However, Caliban did
not bury the knife in George's bosom, as he
seemed inclined to do, but carried it forward to
his mouth with a grunt. After some time the
waiter came up to George and said roughly,
Well ? '

1 Let me have what you can give me for this,'
said George, handing him the few pence. The
waiter looked al them contemptuously, and was

evidently 'hesitating whether to order such a
beggarly customer out, when a far-off guest
called him to him. From him he went to the
proprietor, who was near, to refer George's case
to him ; and the proprietor, who was the carver,
cut a scanty and carefully-calculated slice, and
sent it with potatoes to match. It wasn't
much, but it was too much for George. He
tried to eat, but couldn't. He should have
ordered some stimulant. He laid down his
knife and fork, and leaned his head wearily on
his hand, and fell into a kind of dull stupor,
from which he was aroused by a fierce shout
from his neighbour. The savage was merely
summoning the waiter in his ordinary tone.
George, thus roused, meditated, asking the
waiter, when he came at the summons of the
savage, to change the pittance of meat for a
pittance of drink ; but before he could muster
up courage for the request, the waiter had
gone again. He returned soon with a glass of
brandy-and-water for the savage, who took it,
paid for it, and set it down before George with
a surly grunt. George was completely taken
aback. He never saw a man who so thoroughly
realised his ideal of a brutal murderer.

'For me?' he exclaimed at last. The
savage grunted. George thanked him very
cordially, and the acknowledgment was acknowledged
with another grunt. When he
had drunk some of the brandy-and-water, he
found he could eat, and eat a great deal more
than the morsel before him. He had just
finished it, when the savage got up to go,
receiving George's renewed thanks as ungraciously
as before. When he got to the door
he summoned the waiter in a ferocious voice,
crowded out something, gave him something,
and departed. Presently the w T after came to
George with a vast plateful of meat and
another of vegetables and potatoes, and set
them before him.

Not for me,' said George, shaking his head.

1 Paid for,' said the waiter gruffly, poking
his thumb towards the door by which the
savage had just departed.

4 Does he come here every day ? ' asked
George, hoping to thank him some day. The
waiter, of course, imagined George meant to
prey upon him daily and did not condescend to
reply. George was exceedingly touched by
this unlooked-for-kindness, coming close upon

that of the Doctor, and contradicting Lawley's
cynical sentiment about men and wolves, which
had been much in George's mind all day.
Indeed, he was almost as much refreshed by
the savage's kindness as by the dinner it
provided, and began to look out into the wide
world with more hope. Having dined, he
pulled out the paper, which he now found he
could read, and read every advertisement in it
without finding one of the faintest promise
for him. As he was folding it up again, his
eye caught his own name in striking capitals.
It was simply a short article copied from the
Daily Telegraph into the local Melbourne paper
commenting on the murder of the Rev. George
Kneeshaw. There was nothing very striking
in the article, but it had the effect of turning
George's thoughts upon the difficulty of
establishing his identity, if he cared or needed
to establish it. Shackleton — the settler to
whom he joined himself to learn farming —
alone could prove it conclusively. The
thought of Shackleton suggested the happy
idea of rejoining him. He could pawn his
watch and borrow on it more money than he
would need to get to ' Turner's Take ' —

Shackleton's place. There was not the least
doubt of Shackleton's taking him on as a hand
and helping him forward in any way he could.
This idea put new life into George. He
started up and left the eating-house to look
about for a pawn-office. He felt a kind of
shame about asking his way to one, so that he
had wandered far and long, and was worn out,
before he came upon one at last. He went in,
produced his watch and chain and got hi. 10s.
advanced upon them. It wasn't much, but it
was ample for his purpose. He then debated
in his own mind whether it were worth his
while to return to his frowsy lodgings to recover
the knapsack he had left there, containing his
toilet necessaries, and unfortunately decided todo
so. It was a long way through the worst
part of the town, where there was not a cab to
be had, and before he had crawled much more
than half the distance he reeled and fell
fainting on the pavement. At once there was a
crowd round him, and in the crowd a policeman.
Of course the policeman knew that
George was drunk before he saw him, and
hardly needed the strong smell of brandy he
detected, to put the thing beyond a doubt in

his mind. As, however, George was dressed
like a gentleman, he decided it would be more
to his advantage to have him conveyed to his
own house than to the station. To find where
he lived the policeman had to search him, and
his search was rewarded with the discovery of
a gold pencil-case with Eev. George Kneeshaw
engraved upon it ! Here was a discovery ! A
clue to the murder which made such a stir, not
only in Australia, but in Europe and throughout
the world. The policeman's fortune was
made. With trembling hands he proceeded
with the search, and found in George's breast-pocket
a pocket-book with two letters addressed
Eev. George Kneeshaw — probably the pocketbook
in which his money was — and in his
other pockets two newspapers, the Times and a
local journal, containing European accounts of
the crime. The murderer had evidently bought
tli em to gloat over the wide spread of his fame.
The policeman sent for a cab, which came just
as George was recovering consciousness, shoved
his man into it, and drove to the station.
George was too dazed and confused to say or
think of anything till he reached the station,
and the breathless policeman had told the great

news. Here George asked for a glass of water,
got it, drank it, came fully to himself, and asked
where he Was.

'In the hands of the police, my man, at
last,' said his captor triumphantly.

1 What for? ' asked George, bewildered.

c What for ? — for the murder of the Ev.
George Kneeshaw ! ' said his captor, first
stooping forward impressively, and then drawing
himself back, to take in the full effect of the
announcement. George was still very sick and
shaky, but it was not possible to help a laugh
at the ludicrous and original notion of being
taken up for the murder of himself. The laugh
only convinced his captor and his comrades,
including the sergeant, that they had to do with
a hardened and desperate criminal. Without
more ado they thrust George into the foulest
and securest cell at their disposal till morning.
In the morning he was in a raging fever, and
had to be taken to the hospital.

CHAPTER XXXVI.

UNMERCIFUL DISASTER.'

George's imprisonment in the slimy cell of the
police station probably only hastened an inevitable
relapse, but it certainly aggravated it.
There would not have been the least chance for
him if his second attack, like the first, had
seized him in the bush. There would not have
been much chance for him even now, if Dr.
Garstang — the first doctor in Melbourne — had
not taken an extraordinary interest in his case.
Dr. Garstang was the little doctor George
sought to interest in the case of the widow.
He recognised George at once in the hospital,
and laughed when he was told that a policeman
must be admitted with him to look after
him, as he was without doubt one of the
murderers of the Eev. George Kneeshaw. It
was impossible for a doctor not to doubt the
judgment on any and every subject of men who

VOL. III. II

could mistake such a case as George's for one
of drunkenness ; while Dr. Garstang, we know,
had his own reasons for thinking George incapable
of robbery and murder.

1 I shall be answerable for him,' said the
little Doctor decisively. ' I can't have policemen
prowling and parading about here.
They're too clever, sergeant ; they'd have half
the fever ward in the police cells for drunkenness,
and the other half for creating a disturbance
in a public place. You may take Mm
back to your own fever cells if you choose ; but
if you leave him here you must leave him tome.
I shall take care he doesn't cheat you or
the gallows. Good morning.'

The sergeant in his heart w r as not sorry to
escape, and for his men to escape, duty in a
fever ward, so he made but a mild protest
against the Doctor's decision, and took himself
off out of the reach of infection without more
ado. The Doctor, upon the pretext of securing
George more perfectly, had him removed to a
private room, and provided for him a nurse
that could be relied on not to mention the
charge hanging over him until he was quite
strong again. The woman, who was a vast

Scotchman, silent as a fish, and with about
as much warm blood in her veins, did well for
George in his unconscious and delirious stages ;
but afterwards, when he was convalescent, the
Doctor replaced her by a more sympathetic
attendant — no other than the widow. The
Doctor took a deep interest in this poor woman's
case, and bullied her as he bullied every pet
patient. He took her children from her, put
them where they would be well fed, taught,
and taken care of, and ordered her into the
infirmary to learn nursing as under-nurse of the
children's ward, and finally transferred her to
the hospital to nurse George, seven weeks after
he had been admitted. George had dim associations
with the face of his new nurse, but
whether they were born of dreams or not he
could not decide.

4 Is Henderson ill ? ' he asked, with the
feeble interest of feebleness. Henderson was
the mass of ■ flesh fishified ' who had hitherto
nursed him.

No, sir,' replied Mrs. Minchin. She was
penetrated with gratitude to George, and expressed
part of it through a profoundly respectful
manner. The belief, universal in Mel

2

bourne, and especially dear to the hearts of all
the other nurses in the hospital, that George
was an atrocious murderer, roused the wrath of
the meek Mrs. Minchin outside George's room,
and inside impelled her to the implicit protest
of a most deferential bearing.

No, sir ; please, sir, she's been transferred
to Ward No. 3.'

6 Are you going to stay ? ' asked George
after a pause, during which he was trying to
make out the meaning of the new nurse's
manner, which was as like to that of her predecessor
as a bow is to a blow. Had he been
murdered again, and had his soul transmigrated
into some one else? For all through his
delirium the idea of his murder had been before
him in various forms, and so expressed itself in
his ravings as to rivet the belief in his guilt of
Henderson and any other nurse who happened
to hear them, or hear of them.

8 Yes, sir, I'm to stay if I suit.'

George lay with his eyes fixed steadily on
her for a long time, trying to get fast hold of a
memory which danced about and dazzled and

■

tantalised him like a flickering reflection.
Were you ever in Yorkshire ? '

1 Yorkshire ! No, sir. I was never in
England. I come from Canada.'

George was completely baffled.

1 I've seen your face before ? '

Mrs. Minchin was doubtful whether to help
his struggling memory out or not. The Doctor
had strictly forbidden the remotest reference to
Kneeshaw's murder till the patient was strong
enough to stand the shock of the charge hanging
over him, and Mrs. Minchin feared to recall
a single incident of that fatal day to his recollection,
lest it might lead it up to the scene at
the police station.

4 Where, sir ? ' she answered with much
presence of mind.

8 Ay, where ? ' he said, giving up the wearying,
worrying effort in despair.

He then relapsed into the delicious lotos-eating
and selfish languor of early convalescence,
from which the surprise of a new face by his
bed had roused him, and took for some days all
her gentle, watchful, unwearied ministrations
as a matter of course. Seeing, however, the
Doctor and her standing together by his bedside
one day, the who£ scene of their first meeting
together flashed upon him in a moment. He

started up in bed, exclaiming, ' Why, you're —
you're the poor woman ! Are the children
well?' hesitatingly and with a sudden glance
at the deep black in which she was dressed.

'They're quite well, thank you, sir, and
thank the Doctor,' turning from one preserver
to the other with her eyes full of tears.

'And you're the Doctor,' turning to the
little man with hardly less gratitude in his face
and voice than that of the widow.

Yes, I'm the Doctor,' said the little man
genially. ' Very clever guess of yours, considering
I've been dosing you for two month-you'll
find out next that you're the man who
wants strong support, eh ? And so you do — so
you do. You can't run away from me now, eh ? '

I believe I owe my life to you,' said
George, with much emotion, putting out his
white, wasted, trembling hand to grasp the
Doctor's.

Pooh ! You owe your life to a good constitution,
and a good nurse, and a good God,'
said the Doctor reverently. George was silent
for a moment, offering up a silent grace.

But how did I get here ? ' he continued.
I remember when you drove on going to an

eating-house — and the brandy-and-water the
navvy paid for for me — and the dinner — and the
long walk to the pawn-office, and his saying
the chain was worn — and the hi. 10s. — and
my taking a cab. No, I didn't take a cab.
Was there a cab ? No ; I set out to walk to
my lodgings, and stopped to lean against a shop
with a stuffed kangaroo in the window, and '

The Doctor listened anxiously, but George
couldn't follow himself further. He shook his
head. ' I can't remember anything more. I
must have fainted and been carried here ? '
looking inquiringly up at the Doctor.

Yes, you fainted and were brought here,
and so we three meet again,' said the Doctor
cheerfully, much relieved to find George had
no recollection of the police. He was resolved
that he should not be troubled by them for
another month, at any rate. They so exasperated
the little Doctor by their daily inquiries
after their prey that he never now gave
them a civil answer, and they were fain to
pump his assistant, or even his servant. Indeed,
as the Doctor was going down the steps to his
carriage to-day, he was delighted to overhear
Mick Kenah, his coachman, giving this vain-able

information to the very policeman who
captured George.

1 How is he, Mick ? '

Mick shook his head ominously.

Worse ? '

Devil a one of me knows how he is,
barren' what the master tells me now and
thin.'

And what does he say, Mick ? '

He didn't say nothing to me yesterday ;
but the day before he ses to me, he ses, " Mick,"
ses he. " Yes, yer honour," ses I. " I'm bate,"
ses he. " Wit what, yere honour ? ' ses I.
Wit the murderer," ses he. " Is he dying,'
yere honour?" ses I. "Dying?" ses he.
Begorra, he's dead these two months ; only
he's too lazy to close his eyes," ses he. " Oh,
the blackguard ! " ses I.'

Indeed, all Melbourne showed an eager
and flattering interest in George's health — an
interest which reached even England — c£ course
in a spent wave. The Melbourne papers discussed
the matter with studied impartiality in
articles which began with a disclaimer of the
inju time and cruelty of prejudicing their
readers in a case where life was at stake, and

ended with a hopeless and unhappy shake of
the head over the improbability of any theory
compatible with the accused's innocence being
established. What seemed to weigh most with
the writers was not the property but the newspapers
found in the possession of the accused.
He might innocently and indirectly have come
into possession of the murdered man's pocketbook
and pencil-case, but why should he
buy just those two newspapers which contained
English accounts of the crime ? It was
evidently the morbid vanity so often found in
murderers, or, to quote the passage from
Tacitus which the Victoria Telephone thought
appropriate to the case, in an article probably
contributed by a wag in reliance on the editor's
ignorance of Latin — * Etiam sapientia cupid
glories novissima exitus.'

Meanwhile, the criminal himself was the
only person in Melbourne — we might almost
say in Australia and in England — who knew
nothing of his crime. He gave himself up to
thinking of the unmerciful disasters which had
come upon him in ' battalions,' and of Mabel.
He yearned to write, but, notwithstanding his
weakness, he kept firm to his original resolution

not to bind her to such a wreck and ruin as he
was. If lie could recover his health, strength,
and prospects, and make some way in this new
world, he might write to Lawley, find out
through him if she was still free, and, if so,
through him break the news of his being yet
alive. Meantime, he must keep his secret not
only from her, but from every one ; since this
strange case of mistaken identity, if made
known in Melbourne, would get into the
English papers as certainly as the account of his
murder. He therefore determined to assume
his mother's maiden name of ' Barrington.'
Only after a truly terrible struggle with himself
was he able to resolve finally upon this
renunciation of Mabel. It Alas one of those
cases of which De Quince speaks, where
there's but a step between the heroic and the
dastardly — no middle course being possible.
To do this thing is heroic, not to do it, dastardly,
and there is nothing between —

Oli, the little more, and how much it is !
And the little less, and-what worlds away !

But such acts should be valued not by what
would have been if they had been left undone,
but by what they cost to do ; and so estimated,

George's renunciation was really heroic. It all
but cost him his life. The Doctor was at a
stand with his case. With extraordinary skill
and care he had brought him over the dead
point, so to speak, where Nature's recuperative
force should have come into play, and done
the rest itself, yet his patient seemed to make
no headway.

After a week of such disappointment, the
Doctor, standing by George's bed with knit
brow and pursed-up lips, said suddenly :

I tell you what, Mr. Barrington, you must
have something on your mind.'

6 I'm utterly miserable,' said George, with
the impetuous confidence of a mind in which
trouble, long gathering and close-pent, bursts
suddenly the weak barriers of broken health.
Then, recovering himself, he added with a wan
smile, ' You can't minister to a mind diseased,
Doctor, and pluck from the memory a rooted
sorrow ? '

Therein the patient must minister to himself,'
looking curiously at George with the
passing thought, ' Is it possible he has had
something to do with this murder, after all ? '
No, it was not possible ; and the Doctor felt

thoroughly ashamed that even the shadow of
such a suspicion should darken his mind for a
moment. ' There's such a tiling as mental
phlebotomy,' continued the Doctor ; ■ you must
open your mind to some one. Write to your
friends.'

You've put the lancet to the vein, Doctor.
I have none. They're dead to me ; or I to
them, rather. The only two I dare call my
friends in the world at this moment are you
and my kind nurse there, and good friends
you've been,' said George, looking with
moistened eyes from one to the other.

1 Then tell nurse your troubles. She's
secret as the grave, or she wouldn't be here.
Would you? ' turning to Mrs. Minchin. ' You
must pump all his secrets out of him, nurse, or
he'll be still waterlogged, and we shall never
get on.'

The Doctor's advice was good, and was
followed to some extent. Mrs. Minchin was
the most receptive and sympathetic of confidantes,
and had the essential qualification of a
deep interest in George. She was not a very
helpful person, or quick of resource or advice,
but she was refined and affectionate, and had

all a woman's tact and tenderness. George
was not the strong and self-reliant man of a few
months since. He was broken down with illness
and trouble, and with a woman's weakness
came a woman's longing to lean upon someone
— even on Mrs. Minchin. He told her his
story under such a necessary disguise as would
prevent her identifying him, and was of course
advised by her to write at once to Mabel.
George, however, held to his renunciation, at
least for the present, but was at last persuaded
to promise that if in a few months he saw any
prospect of getting on, he would write to
Lawley. With this prospect kept by his kind
nurse continually before him, George began to
get better, and the Doctor congratulated himself
and his patient upon the speedy and
complete success of his advice.

Still another month elapsed before he could
be prevailed on by the police to pronounce his
patient cured, and then he had to break it to
George that he must pass from the hospital to
the jail. George himself led up to the disclosure
by a casual remark upon the loss of his
pencil-case. He and the Doctor had long
since discovered that they had a hobby in

common — entomology — and as George one
day had to borrow the Doctor's pencil-case to
sketch a rare specimen of the Cteniza nidulam,
he mentioned, casually, the loss of his own
pencil-case and of his pocket-book.

1 They're safe enough,' said the Doctor.
They're in the hands of the police.'

Of whom ? '

1 Of the police. When yon fainted they
picked you up, and picked your pockets, and
found a fine mare's nest in them. They think
you're mixed up in some way with that parson's
case.'

What case ? '

4 That parson that was robbed and
murdered — Knees a w . '

'What! Do they think 1 murdered him: '
asked George, laughing heartily at this irresistibly
humorous notion.

If the Doctor had had the slightest suspicion
of George's guilt, this laugh would have dissipated
it.

'By George ! though,' said George, with a
sudden seriousness, ' the pencil-case had his
name on it.'

'And the letters in the pocket-book were

his. You'll only have to account for how you
came by them, you know.'

'But I can't,' said George, looking perplexed;
then, catching a look of perplexity in
the Doctor's face also, he added, laughing, with
a sudden impulse to confide in so confiding a
friend, ' At most they can't make it more than
felo de se, Doctor.'

The Doctor looked puzzled for a second,
and then whistled : ' Phew ! A case of mistaken
identity ! I thought so till you told me
your name was Barrington.'

It was my mother's maiden name. I was
glad to be clean forgotten as a dead man out
of mind said George sadly.

But it must all come out now,' said the
Doctor.

George mused for a moment. ' I don't
think it need, Doctor. It will be enough if I
prove an alibi. Shackleton, with whom I was
when the murder was committed, can prove I
was two hundred miles off at the time, without
identifying me by name.'

You'd better write at once to him. I
wish I had told you of this before, but I was

afraid it would throw you back. How Ion**
will it take him to turn up ? '

1 Only a day or two ; or a week at most.'
1 You must write at once. These confounded
fools ! ' — the Doctor, beiiiL f an impatient
little man, had been horribly exasperated
by the pompous officiousness of the
police — ' these confounded fools have made
such a cackle over this rotten egg that you've
got into every paper in England by this

c What ! As a murderer ! By Jove ! ' said
George, sitting on the bed to laugh. 'First I
go the round of the world as the subject of an
atrocious murder, then as an atrocious
murderer ; the next thing will be my impale-ment
alive at a cross-road as a suicide.'

The Doctor also laughed. It was certainly
a series of grotesque police blunders, and there
was no blunder of which the police were not
capable, to the Doctor's thinking.

1 say, though; said the Doctor, relapsing
into seriousness, ' I wish I hadn't told them you
were well, or that I had told you of this intime
to have your witness here. I really don't
think they'll bail you, they're so cock-sure of
their discovery.'

It will be only for a day or two, Doctor,
and it will be rather a convenience to me to
have a roof over my head till I see Shackleton,'
said George, with rather a forced and affected
cheerfulness.

But it was a much more serious business
than either George or the Doctor expected,
Shackleton had gone to San Francisco, and his
hands were dispersed no one knew whither,
pending the disposal of his land, &c, by
auction. George's letter therefore never
reached him, and when the time George had
asked to be remanded had expired, there was
no one to prove the promised alibi, and he
therefore was committed for trial. The evidence
against him was very slight, after all,
certainly not sufficient to hang any man in any
country ; but as he could or woidd give no
account of how he came by the articles in his
possession, there was nothing for it but to
commit him on the charge either of being
principal or accessory before or after the fact
in the now famous robbery and murder of the
Eev. George Kneeshaw. It was a dull time
for the newspapers, and the case was a godsend
to them of which they made the most. They

VOL. III. I

did not mean to be unfair, but it was impossible
not to pander to the popular view, which was,
of course, the hopeful view — that George
would most certainly be hanged. This view
took a deep hold of one, at least, of their
readers — no other than Hodson, who convoked
the court-martial that sentenced Spaight to
death. He had no compunction for his share
in Spaight's execution, but he was miserable in
the thought that an innocent man might be
hanged for the murder. He couldn't rest with
it on his mind, till at last, with some difficulty,
lie got permission to see George in jail, and
dashed headlong into the confession he had
resolved on.

1 This is all a muddle,' he said, without
preface or preparation of any kind. ' It was a
fellow named Spaight who was shot, and I shot
him.'

c Spaight ! ' cried George, a new light upon
the whole business breaking in upon him in a
moment.

1 Yes, Spaight.'

Hodson then gave an account of Spaight's
crimes, trial, and execution, and wound up

with a brave and sincere resolution to take
George's place on the scaffold, if the worst
came to the worst. Hodson's confession convinced
George that Spaight had robbed and
murdered Shortland. He was not so shocked,
perhaps, as he ought to have been at Hodson's
part in the lynching of such a scoundrel,
and he was touched by his offer to take his
place on the scaffold — made, though it was,
rather melodramatically. George assured him
of his own perfect security against such a fate
assured him that, in fact, only the day before
he had heard that four witnesses would be
forthcoming at the trial to prove an alibi.
These witnesses, who had worked with George
under Shackleton, had been hunted up by the
unwearied kindness and energy of Dr. Gar-stand,
and on their evidence George was
acquitted without being identified by name.
Indeed, George, by reason of his irrepressible
entomological mania, had gone among the men
by the nickname of • The Kerrogue,' itself a
nickname for a creature that lived on insects.

His confinement in prison just at the
critical time of convalescence, told sadly on

i 2

George, and upon this acquittal he left Melbourne
to go again up country; broken in
health and spirits, with no means and no
prospects, alone and lonely, miserable memories
and anxieties his only companions.

Chapter XXXVII.

BAD NEWS.

We shall now follow the flight of the flock of
George's thoughts in his wretchedness, thoughts
which in a continuous and incessant stream
crossed the ocean to Mabel — like swans driven
south by desolating winter.

Lawley happened to be in the Weston
Church Institute on the morning when the
Times containing the new T s of George's murder
was brought in. His eye soon caught the
paragraph, which he read and re-read, as
George himself did some weeks later, without
taking it thoroughly in for a moment. He was
stupefied and even horrified by the news, but
soon recovering himself, he hurried from the
Institute, took a hansom, and told the man to
drive to St. George's Schools. Miss Masters
must not come as suddenly as himself upon
this horrible story. But how break it to her ?

If there was an hour to spare, lie might have
got Miss Tubbs or Lady Saddlethwaite to do a

duty which required all a woman's tact and
tenderness and sympathy, and which, besides,
he felt least fit of all men to undertake. But
there was not an hour to spare, and indeed, if
there had been, he was not sure if either Lady
Saddlethwaite or Miss Tubbs knew of Mabel's
engagement. No ; he must do this thins himself,
as he could. He tried to think of some
delicate and deliberate mode of breaking the
news to her, but his own part in this trouble
was great enough to disorder his thoughts.
His mind was still confused when he stood nice
to face with Mabel in the school-room.

Mr. Lawley ! You've come to in

There's something wrong ! ' seeing legible
trouble in Lawley's face, and thinking at once
of George.

Yes ; there's something wrong, Miss Masters.
Could I see you at home for a moment ? It
mayn't be anything, or may be untrue,' he
hurried to say, seeing Mabel growing white.
Certainly he wasn't the best man or in the best
mood to break bad news.

1 In a moment,' said Mabel, putting her

things on with trembling fingers. George was

certainly ill or . As she put her things on

she rather felt than thought, * if he had been ill
only, I should have been the first to hear of it
myself ; it must be worse.' When she got outside
the school she felt quite dizzy, and took
Lawley's arm without a word, and as naturally
as if he had been her brother. Lawley felt,
and was ashamed at such a moment to feel, a
thrill of pleasure as her arm rested on his.
When they got into the cottage, which was
beside the school, Mabel sank into a chair.

Pray sit down, Mr. Lawley ; what is it ? '
looking up appealingly into his face.

It's only a report,' stammered Lawley,
still standing, ' which I was afraid you might
chance to hear, and think more about than
perhaps it's worth.' Here he paused, perplexed,
for a moment.

What is it, Mr. Lawley ? ' in a voice that
tried to be calm and firm, but which trembled
and had a piteous ring in it. What would not
Lawley have done or given to spare her the
anguish he was forced to inflict ! Mabel read
in his face a yearning sympathy for which she

felt the deepest gratitude, but from which she
augured the worst.

'It's a report from Australia — only a report,'
seeing reflected in her face the fatal news
he was clumsily trying to break to her ; ' that
Mr. Kneeshaw has been attacked and robbed.'

Mabel sat silent, looking up into Lawley 's
face without seeing it or anything. There was
no doubt now that Lawley had come to tell
her George was killed — murdered. The news
of his death w r as in Lawley's face from the first.
She read her doom in it as the prisoner reads
his doom in the judge's donning the blackcap
before he pronounces sentence. Still the
prisoner listens for the sentence with a hopeless
hope. Even yet Lawley had not told all
in words. He had stopped short at the word
robbed,' and left the horrible rest unspoken
except by looks. Mabel read it in his looks,
clear as speech, and yet she waited and wished
to hear it, wished and abhorred to hear it, but
could not ask to hear it. She sat silent, with
eyes that seemed to look through Lawley at
some ghastly apparition beyond. Lawley saw
that if he had thrust the Times under her
eyes he could not have conveyed the news

to her more clearly or certainly. He mentally
cursed his clumsiness, and groaned over
his helplessness to help her in any way. There
was nothing he would not have done to spare
or soothe her, but what could he do ? He took
Mabel's cold hand in his as by an irresistible
impulse, and spoke his silent sympathy in this
way and through the deep trouble in his eyes.
Mabel, recalled to herself by the touch of his
hand, and seeing in his face inexpressible sympathy,
and even tenderness, tried to speak-to
ask the horrible question she knew there was
no need to ask. But her voice broke into a
sob. Tears were a rare relief with Mabel,
which only the exceeding depth of sympathy
expressed silently by Lawley could have called
forth in this first stupefying stage of her trouble.
Lawley felt it was best to leave her, and yet
cruel to leave her to herself.

I am going to telegraph to Melbourne to
ask if there is any truth in this report. Will
you let me send any one to you you would
like to have with you ? '

4 There's no one,' said Mabel, desolately.
Was it in the newspapers ? '

Yes ; I saw it in one of the papers. But

it's only a report' — falling feebly bade on this
frail comfort.

4 In what paper ? '

1 It was in one of the papers in the Church
Institute,' said Lawley evasively. ' I can get
you the paper after I hear from Melbourne. I
shall probably hear this evening. I shall come
up at once.'

4 Mr. Lawley,' said Mabel, in a broken
voice, ' I cannot thank you now. I shall
never forget your kindness.' Here she broke
down, and Lawley, having pressed her hand in
both of his, stole from the room.

After Lawley left, Mabel relapsed into a
tearless, stony, stunned state. She could not
open her eyes to look again at this ghastly
spectre, but its presence was felt like the horror
of a great darkness. She was in the state of
a man in the first moment of his waking on the
morning after a crushing disaster. He feels
that a terrible thing has happened to him, bin
what it is he does not yet know clearly. This
is Nature's chloroform. When
Livingstone was being worried by a lion he
felt no pain, and only a dull and distant
interest, no keener than curiosity, in the

laceration of his arm ; next day, and for
weeks, he was in agony. So the heart at the
moment of its being lacerated is only semiconscious
— its suffering is distributed over
years.

Mabel was roused at last from this stupefied
state by the casual entrance of Jane, who did
not know but that her mistress had left the
house with Law T ley. Jane had a good deal of
affection over and above that she gave her
policeman, and the whole surplus was made
over to Mabel. When she came suddenly
upon her mistress, lying with closed eyes, white
and still as death, she could not repress a cry :
Miss Mabel ! '

Mabel thought it was more bad news, or
rather the confirmation and the details of what
she had heard already, and which, like some
horror hid in darkness, was still rather felt than
seen.

c What is it, Jane ? ' startled from her
stupor.

'Eh! Miss Mabel, I thought— I thought

You're the picture of death, Miss ! Whatever

is the matter ? ' Jane was chafing her

mistress's cold hands by this, as if she had been
in a fit or faint.

'I'm not very well, Jane.'

I'll fetch doctor, Miss.'

4 Don't fuss, there's a good girl,' taking and
holding in her own the hand of her devoted
friend. ' I've just heard some bad news,
which lias upset me ; that's all. Put your
bonnet on and tell Miss Birdwhistle' — the
assistant mistress — ' that I shall not be in
school to-day ; and then go into town and get
me all the London newspapers. No ; I'm not
really ill' — in answer to a doubtful and anxious
look of Jane's.

1 I'll go, miss, when I've got you to bed.'
said Jane, with a dogged determination which
she showed only when Mabel was either sacrificing
or neglecting herself beyond human endurance.


Yes ; I think I should like to lie down for
an hour without undressing, Jane,' admitted
Mabel, knowing that resistance would cost her
more than concession, and feeling besides thai
she would be best in her room, safe from
intrusion. Jane was fain to be content with
this concession, and with the permission to

make her some strong tea — Jane's panacea for
everything and every one. The length of time
she lingered about her ministrations and her
mistress was a really extraordinary proof of extraordinary
devotion ; for if ever there was a
curious handmaiden in this world it was Jane,
and her curiosity was at fever pitch about the
news in the London papers which had so prostrated
her mistress. She felt all but certain it
must be about Mr. Kneeshaw, for if it had been
about any one else, wouldn't her mistress have
confided it to her? And, indeed, she hadn't
got far into Weston before she heard Knee-shaw's
name shrilled out by a newsboy anxious
to dispose of the second edition of the Weston
Witness : ' Murder in Melbourne of the Ev.
George Kneeshaw, late curate of the parish
church, Weston ! ' proclaimed the boy at the top
of his shrill voice. Jane was so much agitated
that she leant against a shop window for
support, and let the boy pass, without the
power to ask for a paper. Mr. Kneeshaw had
not only been generous to her always, but
always courteous, and so she had her own share
in this trouble. But her mistress's share !
The girl really felt quite faint and ill, and

grasped for support the bar in front of the shop
window. It took her some time to recover the
sudden shock and to overtake the boy, from
whom she bought a copy of the paper. Xow
what was she to do? Take it to her mistress
? Impossible ! While she stood wavering
in pitiable perplexity, Lady Saddlethwaite's
carriage pulled up at a shop near. Jane
hurried to the carriage door as the footman
opened it.

Oh, please, ma'am, your ladyship, could I
speak to you for one moment ? '

'Why, it's Miss Masters' maid, isn't it? la
there something wrong?' for Jane's distress
was deep and unmistakable.

'Oh, yes, ma'am. If 1 could speak to you
for a moment ! '

Is she ill ? Come in. George, tell Eoger
to drive to Miss Masters'. Is she ill ? ' They
were now seated in the close carriage.

No, your ladyship ; that is, not to say ill,
your ladyship, but in great trouble.'

Here Jane paused. She didn't think Lady
Saddlethwaite knew of Mabel's engagement, and
that she should hear of it from a servant didn't

seem a proper thing to the proper Jane even in
the present circumstances.

Is her father dead ? '

4 No, your ladyship, but there's been awful
news from — from Australia.'

What ! About Mr. Kneeshaw ? Has
anything happened to him ? '

8 He's murdered, ma'am ! ' said Jane, ina
burst of tears, handing Lady Saddletlrwaite
the paper. Lady Saddlethwaite was deeply
shocked. She was Mabel's only confidante,
and she knew it, and this seemed to give her a
peculiar interest in the news. She took the
paper and found the paragraph copied from the
Times , and read it with the deepest pity in her
heart for the friendless girl, from whom trouble
seemed inseparable as her shadow.

Has she seen this ?

8 No, your ladyship. Mr. Lawley was with
her this morning, and I think he must have
told her about it, for when I came into the
room afterwards she was lying back in the
chair like death. Eh ! I thought she was dead,'
exclaimed Jane with another interruption of
tears. * And when she come to, your ladyship,
she sent me to get her all the London newspapers,

and as I was a going to get them I
hears the boys a-crying of it all over the town
as if he was a stranger, and him always that
good to children ! ' — indignantly. This lack of
sensibility in the Weston newsboys seemed
nearly as shocking as their news to Jane.

Well, Mary — it's Mary, isn't it ? '

Jane, please your ladyship.'

4 Well, Jane, you mustn't show her this
paper.'

No, your ladyship ; that's why I made so
free as to speak to your ladyship. The news
came upon me that sudden I didn't know what
to do; and Miss Mabel has no friends, only
them as has no friends themselves ' — with
renewed tears.

Lady Saddlethwaite was very much pleaded
at the feeling shown by Jane, not through her
tears merely, but through her pale face and
trembling hands. She drew her out on the
subject of Mabel, and heard such accounts of
her kindness to the sick children of the poor,
and of her unwearied devotion to her morose,
irritable, and exacting father, as increased even
her esteem for her protege. Lady Saddle-thwart
had, besides, another object — very

characteristic and creditable to her — in drawing
out Jane on this subject — she wished to
relieve the girl's pent-up feelings. This extremely
proud woman, with her heart full of
Mabel's sorrow and of her own sorrow for
Mabel, could yet feel for the distress of a maidservant
whom she hardly knew by sight.
When they reached the cottage, Lady Saddle-thwart
sent Jane up to ask if Mabel would see
her.

1 Lady Saddlethwaite ! But where are the
papers, Jane ? '

There weren't none, Miss. They was all
sold,' said Jane, without the slightest hesitation.
But Jane's face was more truthful than her
tongue. Mabel saw in a moment, as, indeed,
she couldn't but see, that Jane had learned the
news, probably from a newspaper she dared not
show. Mabel dared not press for it. Her
heart failed her at sight of Jane's face. But
Lady Saddlethwaite's visit was a gleam of
comfort. She was the one person in the w T old
Mabel longed to see — the only person, except
Lawley, she could bear to see.

Tell Lady Saddlethwaite I shall be down
in a moment, Jane.'

VOL. III. K

She says you're on no account to be disturbed,
Miss. She wants to come up and sit
with you a bit. Eh, Miss Mabel ! ' cried Jane,
no longer able to contain herself at the sight of
Mabel's misery and at the thought of its cause ;
1 eh, my poor dear ! ' seizing Mabel's hand,
pressing it to her lips, and wetting it with her
tears.

'Don't, Jane,' said Mabel, in a soothing
tone, as though Jane's trouble were more in her
thoughts for the moment than her own, of
which it was but the reflection. ' Your affectionis
a great comfort to me. There ! dry your
eyes, and run down and tell Lady Saddlethwaite
I shall be with her in a moment,' patting Jane
on the cheek as though she were a child. Jane
dried her eyes on her apron, and finding her
mistress bent on going down, she contented
herself with expressing her feelings through a
few caressing touches bv which she smoothed
Mabel's disordered hair and crumpled dress.
Then Mabel and she went downstairs together,
and while Mabel hurried in to see Lady Saddle-thwart,
Jane hurried to the kitchen to sup full
with the horrors of the account of the murder.
Horrors are the dearest of the rare enjoyments

of the uneducated poor, especially of the
gentler sex, and the widow of a murdered or
self-murdered man derives no little consolation
in hearing or in telling the ghastly details of
the crime — of course after she has recovered
from the first shock of the news. If Jane's
own policeman had been kicked to death in
Knackers' Alley, she could not for her life have
withstood the temptation to read the account
of the murder in the Witness, though its
horrors, she knew, would haunt her for many
a sleepless night.

'I'm sorry you've come down, dear,' said
Lady Saddlethwaite, kissing Mabel with a
mother's tenderness. ' Jane told me you had
been lying down with a bad headache, and I
wanted you to let me sit by you a bit.'

I'm so glad to see you. I think you were
sent to me, though I couldn't pray. Oh, I
couldn't pray. It is hard. All that was left
me in the world ! It can't be true. It isn't
true?' looking with an appealing wistfulness
into her friend's face.

Mabel's mind, which had, as it were, fainted
under the blow, was now coming back to
full consciousness. A breath of sympathy

K 2

revived it. Lady Saddlethwaite made no reply
in words. She led Mabel to the sofa, made
her lie down, sat by her, smoothed back the
silken hair from the hot brow, stooped and
kissed her on the forehead, and dropped a tear
upon it as she stooped. It was deep callers
unto deep. When the heart is frozen, ' hid as
with a stone,' sympathy melts it like sunshine,
breaks up the chill crust, and sets free the pent-up
and imprisoned sorrow. Mabel hid her
face, and wept till her whole frame was shaken
with sobs. Lady Saddlethwaite sat in silence
by her, holding one of her hands, and pressing
it now and then in mute sympathy, till the
paroxysm passed away. Lady Saddlethwaite
was childless, but had once had a daughter who
died just at the opening of womanhood. It
had been as sore a sorrow to her as her
husband's death seven years before, and it was
a sorrow that not only taught her sympathy
with Mabel, but drew the childless mother
towards this motherless and friendless child.
She remembered too well how vain, wearying,
almost worrying, were the Avoids and commonplaces
of sympathy every one thought it right
to offer her in her trouble. So she said nothing

for some time to Mabel, but sat with her hand
in hers in that kind of silence which is the
speech of feelings too deep for words : —

Sacred silence ! Thou that art
Floodgate of the deeper heart,
Offspring of a heavenly kind ;
Frost o' the mouth and thaw o' the mind.

When she did say anything beyond words of
endearment, she spoke only to draw Mabel out
upon her great love and loss, and so got the
poor girl to pour out her whole heart to her as
to a mother. The relief was immense and
immediate, and certainly saved Mabel from
illness. Then Lady Saddlethwaite would have
carried her off with her then and there, if it was
not that Lawley was momently expected w r with
the reply to his telegram.

Meantime Eoger was forgotten ! But
Eoger was not a man to be forgotten long.
He sent George to ask Jane to ask his mistress
4 if he was to put up anywheres?' — a bitterly
ironical question, to which he got the astounding
answer, ' Yes ; he might put up for an hour
and a half somewhere.' Eoger abhorred putting
up anywhere, not merely because the beds for
his massy steeds were sure to be damp, but

because, like Archbishop Leigh ton, he felt that
an inn was no place for repose —

For there,
Men call and storm and drink and swear.

There was no help for it, however, and after
a minute of amazement he made for the
• Queen

Before Roger returned Lawley called. He
was self-forgetful enough to be ijlad to a
Lady Saddle th wait e with Mabel, though her
sympathy robbed him of Mabel's sole and sweet
reliance on himself.

I've got no answer, and cannot hope for
one before tomorrow, Miss Masters.'

Mabel was now so certain of the terrible
certainty as to be glad of the suspense, if we
may speak, as the mind of the most logical often
thinks, more Hibernian.

Then, dear, there's nothing to prevent your
coming with me to-night.'

'But, Lady Saddlethwaite '

There, my dear, it's settled,' interrupted
Lady Saddlethwaite decisively, ringing for Jane.
I'm sure, Mr. Lawley, you will be kind enough
to come out to llollyhurst with the answer tomorrow,
and perhaps stay over-night. We

shall be very glad if your engagements will
permit — [Jane, pack Miss Masters' things. She
is going to stay with me for a few days] — We
shall be very glad if you can dine and stay overnight,
Mr. Lawley.'

Lady Saddlethwaite had heard of all, and
more than all, Lawley's virtues from Mabel,
and thought he would be a help to her in
diverting Mabel's thoughts. The invitation,
which Lawley couldn't resist, led to another,
made to him in the following week, that he
should accompany Lady Saddlethwaite and
Mabel in a projected Continental tour. It
came out casually that Lawley knew the-continent
thoroughly, and he made such way
in Lady Saddlethwaite's good graces that she
devised this scheme with — must we confess it ?
a matchmaking object. She saw, as she-could
not help seeing, that Lawley was desperately
in love with Mabel, and she hoped — but
here she was not at first very sanguine —
that Mabel might come in time to return his
love. Accordingly, six weeks later, in Mabel's
holidays, she, Lady Saddlethwaite, and Lawley
were en route to Italy. In those six weeks
Lawley had become a still more eligible parti

in Lady Saddlethwaite's eyes, not merely or
mostly because he had succeeded to his uncle's
property, but because she found that this uncle
was a man of good family, and even a remote
connection of her own. Mabel had less regret
in leaving her father in the charge of Margaret
and Jane, since he showed the most violent
aversion to her latterly — probably because, as
his former reader, she reminded him of the
failure of his powers.

Chapter XXXVIII.

LORD Charlotte.

Lady Saddlethwaite of course did not expect
that the match she planned for the far future
would be directly advanced during their continental
tour. She would be the last person to
credit any girl with such callous inconstancy,
Mabel least of all. But she did think, and had
every right to think, that a heart so harrowed
as hers, like a soil in which every green thing
has been torn up by the plough, was in the
best state for the sowing of the seed of future
love. It could not remain for ever in bare,
black and bleak desolation, and the first seed
sown now in this cleared, softened, and impressionable
soil, would have the best chance of
ripening hereafter. Nor, again, did she think
it to Lawley's disadvantage that he should be
associated inseparably with George in the mind

of Mabel ; with his death as well as with his
life. It is true that —

The first bringer of unwelcome news
JIath but a losing office, and his tongue
Sounds ever after as a sullen bell,
Remembered tolling a departed friend —

that is, when this unwelcome news is our sole
association with its herald. But when the
herald shares the sorrow he announces, and
helps by sympathy to heal the wound he makes,
his image is more likely to be associated with
love than grief.

On the whole, we think Lady Saddlethwaite
showed some knowledge of human nature, and
of woman's nature, in considering that when
Mabel's ' heart in the midst of her body was
even like melting wax,' it was in the fittest
state for a fresh impression.

On the other hand, it must be said that
neither Mabel nor her love was of an ordinary
type. Both her character and bringing up,
her reserved nature and her lonely childhood,
disposed her to love altogether and intensely
where she loved at all. She had so loved
George. When he was taken so suddenly and
terribly from her, her heart was not merely asa

bed from which a plant has been wrenched
up by the roots, and which lies torn and tossed
and in wild confusion, but as a bed from which,
not the plant only, but the soil itself in which
it grew, has been taken. She seemed to have
no heart left to love with. There was hardly
a day in which she did not take herself to task
for the ungrateful apathy with which she met
Lady Saddlethwaite's kindness and Lawley's
devotion. When Lady Saddlethwaite pressed
this continental trip upon her, urged it, forced
it upon her, she seemed to have the spirit
neither to decline nor accept it whole-heartedly.
She simply submitted to be petted with the
listless languor of a spoiled child in the first
stage of convalescence. But this ungracious
apathy was most unnatural to her, and at times
she woke from it overpowered with self-reproach,
and would pain Lady Saddlethwaite
by the depth of her penitence. For Lady
Saddlethwaite understood her, and loved and
admired her more in her bereavement than
ever. No vain beauty could delight more in
the reflection of her loveliness in the glass than
Lady Saddlethwaite delighted to see her kindness
reflected in smiles from every face about

her ; but she made allowance for the glass in
Mabel's case being dimmed with tears, and set
herself to do all she could to bring back something
of its old brightness.

As for Lawley, he looked for no acknowledgment.
He was content to be allowed to
devote himself to her without hope or thought
of a return — at least in these first days of her
trouble. She had, as it were, taken the veil of
sorrow, and her vestal dedication to it was to
be respected. So Lawley fancied his feeling
towards her was best expressed in hues of his
favourite Shelley he was ever repeating to himself—


The worship the heart lifts above.

And the heavens reject not ;
The desire of the moth for the star,

Of the night for the morrow ;
The devotion to something afar

From the sphere of our sorrow.

But, in truth, he was wildly, passionately,
hopelessly in love, and little likely to be reconciled
for long to this cold comfort —

In her bright radiance and collateral light
Must I be comforted, not in her sphere.

For the present, however, in the first few

months of her sorrow, it was the utmost he did
or could look for. As for Mabel, she soon fell

into the way of looking to him and relying on
him always and for everything, except conversing
with the natives. Langley either
couldn't or wouldn't speak French. He
acknowledged to being able to read it, but
speak it he wouldn't. Lady Saddlethwaite
couldn't. Mabel, therefore, had a chance of
turning Miss Murdoch's lessons to advantage.

But I only know words with a " U ' in
them,' said Mabel, with a flash of her old fun,
as they stepped off the steamer at Calais. ' My
aunt, who taught me, discovered that the great
secret of the French language was the pronunciation
of the vowel "U"; so she picked out
of the dictionary all the words with a " U ' in
them, and made me string them together in
sentences. " U," she said, was everything in
French.'

In England " I ' is the all-important
vowel, which accounts for the difference in the
manners of the two countries,' said Lawley.

6 1 hope there's a " U " in soda-water,' said
Lady Saddlethwaite, who, though the sea had
been as glass, felt slightly qualmish.

4 Oh, here they all speak English — of a sort.
I think they must have been taught it by their

aunts, for they only know words with a M V ' in
them. a Vee will ave soda-vater" will fetch
them.'

Not from their aunts. Their aunts would
not have taught them such a Cockney pronunciation,
Mr. Lawley.'

Then they must have learned it from the
exclamation on landing of the qualmish passengers,
" de V ! " '

This certainly was a wild joke, but Lawley
was in wild spirits at finding that the bustle
and strangeness and excitement were rousing
Mabel out of her listlessness. It was, indeed,
for this reason he insisted on her being interpreter,
as it was something for her to do, and
for them to laugh at. Not that her French
was bad — it was singularly, though rather
pedantically, good. Nor that her accent was
detestable — as, though it truly was, they didn't
know it — but that she would speak every
syllable with staccato distinctness, as if she
were shouting through an ear-trumpet.

This joke, mild as it was, was a joy for ever,
as Mabel was almost incorrigible through her
childish association of French with deaf Miss
Murdoch ; while there was, of course, besides,

the natural tendency to shout to a foreigner
through confounding unconsciously dulness of
intelligence with dulness of hearing.

During their tour nothing so pleased Lady
Saddlethwaite — not cities, scenery, statues,
paintings — so much as the sensation Mabel
created wherever she appeared. In Weft on
and its neighbourhood Mabel was admired, but
not enthusiastically admired; not so much
admired as Miss Mothers, who might have won
a prize at a cattle-show. The taste of the
people in beauty, like their taste in everything
else, was coarse. They liked it as they liked
their wine, ' full-bodied.' But in Borne, the
foster-mother of the art of the world, Mabel
distracted the attention of the artists in the
Pinacotheca of the Vatican, and in the galleries
of the Pamfili-Doria palace and of the Capitol.
It was not so much the beauty of her face
which attracted them, as its expression, 
in its sad sweetness and in its utter
lack of self-consciousness. Mabel was never
given to self consciousness, and her sorrow had
taken her out of herself more than ever, and
she walked through the galleries as unconscious

of admiration as the pictures and statues themselves.


Lady Saddlethwaite cared very little for
pictures and statues, and yet she endured them
for the pure pleasure of watching the admiration
Mabel excited. All eyes seemed to follow
her as sunflowers the sun. Lady Saddlethwaite
felt something of the pride and pleasure of a
virtuoso who excuses a gem by an old master
from the rubbish of a garret, and exhibits his
discovery to appreciative connoisseurs. She
was especially pleased when these connoisseurs
happened to be English (for foreigners are but
foreigners at best), most of all when they were
unexceptionable English of her own sacred set.
For no grocer or college don could have a more
superstitious veneration for blue blood than
some in whose veins it flows. As for Lady

•

Saddlethwaite, she believed in the immaculate
conception of the well-born, and in the papal
infallibility of their opinions on social subjects
when they agreed with her. Lord Charlotte,
for instance, whom she chanced upon ina
corridor of the Vatican — a young gentleman
much given to the turf, who canted cynicism
in opposition to his companion Clifford's cant

of sentiment — was consecrated as an oracle
because of his enthusiastic admiration of Mabel.

4 Lady Saddlethwaite ! You here ? Everyone's
here, I think with a slight querulousness.
4 But, I say, who's that girl that goes walking
in her sleep — do you know ? There, looking
at that old saint with a crick in his neck, with
the grey thing amy jig on.'

4 You'd better mind what you say of her,
my lord ; she's in my charge

Is she, though ? ' with a new interest in
Lady Saddlethwaite. * No harm in saying she's
the loveliest girl in Eome, bar none, eh ? Who
is she ? '

She's a Miss Masters. Shall I wake her
and introduce you ? '

i If you would. But, I say, Lady Saddle-thwart,
can she talk ? I can't make the running
with these things, you know,' pointing to the
pictures. l Does she hunt, or that ? '

1 Oh, she can talk on any subject when she's
awake. Mabel ! '

Lady Saddlethwaite w T as as proud of Mabel's
conversational powers as of her beauty, and
seized every opportunity to show them off.

VOL. III. L

Mabel came at call, and was introduced to Lord
Charlotte.

1 Lord Charlecote thought you were walking
in your sleep, Mabel, and wished me to
wake you before you fell downstairs,' said
Lady Saddlethwaite mischievously, and not in
the best taste ; but she wished to rouse Mabel,
that she might show to advantage in the eyes
of a person of Lord Charlecote's exquisite discrimination.


4 Oh, I say, you know, Lady Saddlethwaite,
I meant that Miss Masters was like La Sonnam-
bull,' said his lordship, with great presence of
mind. ' Patti, you know.'

4 But it is like a dream to me being here
said Mabel.

'Like a nightmare, by George ; there's no
end to it. I thought I was through, but
there's all this yet,' looking ruefully at his
catalogue.

1 I think, if I were you, my lord, I should
go by Murray. He skips most of it,' said
Mabel.

Happy thought ! This beastly thing skips
nothing. It expects you to do the ceilings,
even,' with a bitter remembrance of the Sistine
Chapel.

4 Lady Saddle thwaite lias a Murray with
two leaves missed out iu the binding. It has
been a great comfort to her,' said Mabel with
perfect truth.

I'll borrow it, by George ! '

'But I'm afraid those are the leaves you
have done if you've got to here.'

Lord Charlecote groaned. Dare we to
confess that our heroine to some extent sympathised
with him ? She could appreciate about
one-tenth of all the wonders she had shown her,
but her appreciation even of it was blunted by
the weariness of having gone through the other
nine-tenths.

I have a lot of old masters and that soi t,
of thing at home, and the public are admitted
to do them on certain days ; but when I get
back I'll put a stop to it. I never thought it
was like this,' said Lord Charlecote, remorsefully.
It was the remorse of Lear exposed to
the pelting of the pitiless storm, and so reminded
of the houseless heads of the poor —

O, I have ta'en
Too little care of this ! Take physic, pomp ;
Expose thyself to feel what wretches feel.

Mabel laughed at this instance of sympathy

I 2

learned through suffering, and turned to tell it
to Lady Saddlethwaite and Lawley, who were
walking behind them.

1 Let us give it up for to-day,' cried Lady
Saddlethwaite eagerly.

For ever and a day — unless you are
coming again,' said Lord Charlecote, speaking to
Lady Saddlethwaite, but looking at Mabel.

Mabel was looking at Lawley, to whom she
had already confessed her Philistinism, but of
whose judgment she stood in awe. Alas for
Lawley! he had no judgment in her presence,
no thought, no taste, no eyes, no admiration
but for her only — only her. The fierce fire of
love consumed him utterly, burning now with
the green flame of jealousy. Lord Charlotte's
admiration w r as clear, and that he should
win even a laugh from Mabel was bitter. It is
natural that * love strong as death ' should be
joined in the same verse with 'jealousy cruel as
the grave.'

4 Let's go to the circus.'

■ The what ? '

1 The Coliseum,' replied his lordship unabashed.
' It's the best value in the place.
Clifford tells me there used to be races there,

but I can't for the life of me see how they
managed it. It's a grand stand anyhow.'
Accordingly it was agreed that they should
drive to the Coliseum, for his lordship to look
a little more into this mystery.

It's a mouldy old place, isn't it ? ' he said
to Mabel as they drove through Rome. ' It
always reminds me of an old cemetery ; all
chapels, statues, monuments, broken pillars half
buried in clay. It gives me the shivers, by
George ! I'd have gone a week ago but for
Clifford. He hasn't my feeling about it at all.
I tell him he's no imagination.'

Mabel was quick enough to gather from his
manner that Mr. Clifford was, or fancied himself,
a very imaginative person, who probably
took his friend's facetious irony seriously and
ill.

1 Rome is a dangerous place for any one with
a quick imagination. It runs away with one
so soon.'

To Naples ? that's where mine would have
taken me. Glad it didn't though, or I should
have missed you, Lady Saddlethwaite.'

His lordship's compliment was, of course,
meant for Mabel, whom, because she understood

his wit, he began to think witty. A little
Wit goes a long way from the lips of either
rank or beauty, probably for the reason mentioned
by Barrow in his definition of wit : 4 It
procure delight as monsters do, not for their
beauty, but for their rarity.' Mabel, though
she indulged sometimes in the luxury of silence
and sorrow in Lawley's or Lady Saddlethwaite's
company, always exerted herself when with
strangers ; and to-day the whole burden of
entertaining Lord Charlecote seemed to fall
upon her. Lawley was gloomily silent, while
Lady Saddlethwaite was tired and half asleep.

Here's the circus ! ' Mabel exclaimed, as
they drew near the Coliseum. ' Your imagination
doesn't always take a gloomy flight, my
lord. Girls on piebald horses leaping through
hoops is a cheerful exchange for the dying
gladiator and the Christian martyrs,' said Mabel
with a smile, to show she saw through his
affectation of Philistinism.

4 Why, what-you-call-him, Byron, calls ita
circus, doesn't he ?

Such was the bloody circus' genial laws.

But the gladiator's bloody circus stands
A noble wreck iu ruinous perfection.

Not but that you may be quite right, you
know, Miss Masters,' he hastened to say with a
face of perfect seriousness. c Dare say Byron
was thinking of girls in spangles on piebald
horses leaping through hoops when he called ita
circus.'

Certainly Mabel had caught a Tartar in this
sleepy-looking young nobleman.

When he called it a gladiator s circus he
was probably thinking of gladiators, not of a
grand stand,' said Mabel archly.

4 Well, but it is a grand stand for looking
down at the race of ideas, religions, empires,
&c. Will that do ? '

Lord Charlecote was amazed to meet a
beauty with brains, who was neither gauche nor
blasee, and could say something besides ' Yes
No,' ' awfully,' l nice,' ' tiresome.' He paid
her the compliment, as they walked together
within the Coliseum, in front of Lady Sadclle-
thwaite and Lawley, of unmasking the really
strong, if not deep, feeling that underlay his
assumed cynicism.

In truth his lordship was a most poetic
and impressionable person, and ' protested too-much
' through his assumption of cynicism.

Mabel also became confidential, and confessed
to her imagination being overpowered and
oppressed by all that was suggested to her, and
to her feeling, as she had often felt in trying to
master the full meaning of a grand poem or
piece of music, wearied and confused.

You've been doincr too much. It's a fit
of mental dyspepsia. No mind could digest all
that you've been trying to digest in a week.
You should have taken a month to it.'

1 But I hadn't a month to take.'

4 What on earth have you to do ? I never
knew a young lady have anything to do.'

You never knew a young lady who was a
national schoolmistress, then, my lord.'

4 A national What in the name of

fortune made you take up that craze?'

4 Necessity. I couldn't help myself.'

He was silent for a second or two from
sheer surprise, but soon recovering himself, he
showed the truest tact in continuing, instead of
turning, the conversation.

4 Don't you find it very dreary, Miss
Masters ? '

1 Oh, I find everything dreary sometimes,'
with a dreary sigh, 4 even the old masters,' pulling

her wandering thoughts together again with
a smile.

Lord Charlecote, as we have said, was a
most poetic and impressionable person, and had
his original admiration for Mabel immensely
increased by this discovery of her fallen fortunes.
That the fall had been extraordinary
he had no doubt at all, as Mabel had the bearing
of a princess. When he had returned with
them to their hotel, he found an opportunity to
rave about her to Lady Saddlethwaite.

4 Well, do you know what she is, my lord ? '

I She told me — she wasn't bragging of it,
you know. It came out casually.'

4 Bragging of it ! '

Any other girl would either hide it or
brag of it.'

I I think I'd better warn you that there's no
use falling in love with her, my lord.'

4 Engaged to the parson ? '

4 No, but she was engaged to another of the
cloth, who was murdered in Australia.'

4 Murdered ! That was the sleep-walking
look. Poor girl ! she's had it hard.'

4 Yes, she has had it hard, and yet she's
of good family.' Perplexing paradox to Lady

Saddlethwaite. ' At least her father lias good
blood in his veins. He's ii Colonel Masters,
and lost all in that Caledonian Bank. The
shoe struck him down with paralysis, and she
had to take to teaching to support herself and
him. Then came this other trouble, poor
child ! '

She might get over it in time,' said his lordship,
with a meaning Lady Saddlethwaite read
and answered.

My dear Lord Charlecote, by the time she
has got over it you will have been in and out
of love with twenty others.'

Lord Charlecote laughed. It was a true
bill. He was as impressionable and as unstable
as water, and was in and out of love once a
month on an average.

CHAPTER XXXIX.

LOVE STRONG AS DEATH.

Lord Charlecote was devoted in his attentions
to Mabel, not only for the few remaining days
of her stay in Koine, but also throughout her
tour. He deserted his friend Clifford, the
warmth of whose aesthetic enthusiasm had
soured him to cynicism, and had become at last
too oppressive, and begged Lady Saddlethwaite's
permission to join her party. Lady Saddle-thwart
could not, of course, have done otherwise
than have conceded the permission, even
if the concession had been distasteful. But it
was not distasteful. Lord Charlecote was a
personage of very considerable importance in
her mind and world, and his admiration of
Mabel was admiration of Lady Saddlethwaite's
taste. As for Lawley's chagrin at the arrangement,
it, too, was a good thing. Love, like
light, was doubled by reflection, and Lawley's

worship, like all worship, would be quickened
by being shared. It was shared. Lord Charlotte
fell, as far as he could fall, in love with
Mabel. He did not mean to do so, of cour-w
at first, but ' in the matter of love,' says the
Spanish proverb, ' you begin when you like
and leave off when you can.' It was not, to
tell the truth, a very brilliant conquest of
Mabel's. In the first place, his lordship was
always in love with some one or other ; in the
second place he felt safe with Mabel, for the
ignoble reason that Lady Saddlethwaite had
guaranteed her to be love-proof, and there was
therefore no fear of a serious entanglement ;
and in the third place his love, such as it was,
was due less to Mabel's being lovely and lovable
than to this very fact, that she was love-proof.
For we may say that what is true generally of
all the children of men, is universally true of
all spoiled children — grown or other — a
thing needs but to be beyond their reach to
be longed for. Lord Charlecote had been a
spoiled child from his birth, and had learned
what it was to be happy in everything but
happiness —

Happy thou art not ;
For what thou hast not, still thou strives to get,
And what thou hast, forgets.

And this he found true specially in affairs of
love. Here, too, he was a spoiled child, and
had grown from being petted to being as
pettish as the sex he pursued —

Ubi veris nolunt ; ubi nolis voluut ultra ;
Confess puget ire via, —

as Lucan has it ; or, as it is put prettily in
French, ' Une femme est comme votre ombre :
courez acres, elle vous fuit ; fuyez-la, elle court
acres vous His lordship's success with the
sex had made him wayward as they in this, and
Mabel's absolute indifference to him became
her chief charm in his eyes. Her conquest,
then, was not very brilliant.

May we say here, that if we seem to make
all men fall in love with our heroine, it is because
we have to do only with those who did
fall in love with her? There were a vast
number of golden youth in Weston and its
neighbourhood who saw nothing in her; but just
for that reason we have not to do with them.
1 See,' said some one to Diogenes, pointing in
Neptune's temple to the pictures of those who
had escaped shipwreck ; ' see the wonderful
power of the god ! ' 4 But where are they

painted who were drowned ? ' asked the cynic.
So we paint only those who attest the power of
our goddess ; the multitude who did not attest
her power arc for that reason unrepresented.
What really needs explanation is the fewness
of her suitors, and this is explicable only by
her living all her life in Weston. As a rule,
indeed, we believe that girls have more choice
of suitors than we men imagine. We know of
those who have proposed and been accepted,
but of those who have proposed and been refused
we never hear, and so we get to speak,
and perhaps think, as if most girls took, or
would take, the first man that offered. It is
only fair to us to say, however, that for this
vulgarity of thought and speech match-makers
and women generally are chiefly responsible.
1 Why don't you marry So-and-so ? ' they'll say,
speaking to the meanest of our sex of the
fairest of theirs. And, indeed, women owe it
all to their own valuation of themselves that
men think less of them than they deserve. A
misogynist might say of them what Johnson
said of the Irish : ' The Irish are not in a conspiracy
to cheat the world by false representations
of the merits of their countrymen. No,

sir, the Irish are a fair people, — they never
speak well of one another

Mabel then, as we said, won Lord Charlotte's
facile and fickle affections, but won them
quite unconsciously. She was in no mood to
be on the look-out for such a conquest ; while
besides, Lady Saddlethwaite had more than
once alluded casually to his lordship's multitudinous
attachments. Mabel, therefore, took
his devotion as due, in part, to his gallantry,
but in chief to his compassion ; because the
deference of his manner had evidently deepened
since he came to know of her position in life.
She felt very grateful to him on this account,
and exerted herself to entertain him — an
exertion which did herself as much good as the
excitement of ever-changing scenes — for she
was thereby roused out of herself, and could
not indulge in those long lapses of silence and
sorrow she sometimes gave way to when with
Lady Saddlethwaite and Lawley.

What shall we do to-day ? ' asked Lord
Charlecote on the second morning after their
arrival in Genoa.

1 Oh, nothing,' sighed Lady Saddlethwaite

wearily ; ' it's the only thing we haven't done,
except the Palazzo Doria.'

And it should be done as being a great
Italian work of art, dolce far niente,' said
Mabel.

'Let's do it on the sea, then,' said Lord
Charlecote. ' There's no sseins* Genoa in
Genoa. One cannot see the wood for the
trees, the streets are so narrow.'

Lady Saddlethwaite felt qualmish at the
mere mention of the sea. ' The very sight of
the sea makes me dizzy,' she said.

1 Why, it's like glass.'

4 It's like Genoa — looks best in the distance,'
with a shake of the head. 'But you'll all go.
I shall be glad to be rid of you to get an hour
or two's rest.'

4 1 shall stay with you, Lady Saddlethwaite,
if you'll allow me.'

4 You shall do no such thing, child. I'm
going to bed. If that's the only way to seethe
place, you must see it in that way. I can't
pay the price. It isn't " see Genoa and die"
you know, and I'm not called to martyr myself.'

Lady Saddlethwaite's old-fashioned notion
of the propriety of chaperoning Mabel always

and everywhere got worn out as she got w T born
out herself; and, indeed, even a more particular
chaperon would have felt there was
something almost ludicrous in safeguards such
a girl as Mabel.

Mabel went to get ready, and soon returned
looking her loveliest, as Lady Saddlethwaite
thought, and as Lord Charlecote thought, and
as, most of all, Lawley thought, and the three
set out together for the port. They chartered
a boat — not over clean, but the cleanest
procurable — provided with a pair of oars and
a light sail which they could rig up if there
was a breath of wind outside the harbour. But
there wasn't : so they pulled and rested at
intervals, chatting the while. There are few
more superb views than that of Genoa from the
sea, as even Lord Charlecote — who still affected
cynicism in general conversation — was forced
to admit.

But the place looks in pawn while you're
in it,' he said, ' with such frowsy tenants in its
palaces — like jewels in the hands of a Jew
pawnbroker.'

4 They may be redeemed one day,' said
Lawley dreamily.

VOL. III. M

1 Not they,' said Lord Charlecote decidedly ;
commerce, like the sea it sails on, floods one
coast and leaves another high and dry.'

1 Everything goes,' said Mabel, with a sadness
born of her own trouble.

1 (Ja ira ! It's the time time marches to,'
said Lord Charlecote, humming it. ' It's a
provision of nature for Englishmen ; for you
see, if there were no ruins there would be no
picturesqueness, and if there were no picturesqueness
there would be no Cook's personally-conducted
tours.'

4 1 wonder why ruin makes everything
picturesque,' said Mabel.

Its associations with death, I think,' said
Lawley. ' The shadow of death, like night,
makes the most commonplace thing impressive.
Every ruin is a shadow of the coming event,
and it's the presentiment that unconsciously
fascinates us.'

This was rather a dreary topic, and Lord
Charlecote changed it. ' I don't think it was
ever much of a place to live in, or that they
were ever much of a people,' he said cynically,
referring to Genoa laSuperba. ' The view you
get from history is like the view you get from

here — a distant view. You see only what was
splendid, as we see from here only palaces and
churches. What was sordid and narrow and
frowsy is out of sight. They were a commercial
people,' he added contemptuously,
and commerce is always mean. It's the dry
rot of a nation. "Honour sinks where
commerce long prevails." '

Isn't it Bacon who says that in the infancy
of states arms flourish, in their middle
age arts, and in their declining years commerce ?
Under its other name of avarice, it is the usual
characteristic of old age.

That meanest rage
And latest folly of man's sinking age,
Which rarely venturing in the van of life,
While nobler passions wage their heated strife,
Comes skulking last, with selfishness and fear,
And dies, collecting lumber in the rear.

Both gentlemen were thinking of another
people than the Genoese, Lawley with good
reason, having lived so long in the West Eiding.
It was rather a stiff conversation for a sultry
day, when any kind of effort, physical or
mental, was exhausting, but they drifted into
the subject, and were stimulated by the presence
of Mabel to talk their best upon it. They sang

M 2

as the thrushes sing in spring — in rivalry.
The languor of the day, however, had the effect
of making their talk discursive. It passed
from Genoa and its siege in 1799, when twenty
thousand of its inhabitants perished by famine,
on to deaths of different kinds, and to that
by drowning as the easiest. Lord Charlecote
quoted a great London doctor, who told him of
two men he had attended at different times in
hospital, both of whom had been all but drowned,
while both, upon their recovery, described their
latest sensations before absolute unconsciousness
as delicious. Lawley, by a double association,
was reminded of his favourite Shelley, drowned
in this sea, and quoted one of the stanzas
1 Written in Dejection near Naples ' : —

Yet now despair itself is mild,

Even as the winds and waters are ;
I could lie down like a tired child,

And weep away the life of care
Which I have borne, and yet must bear,

Till death like sleep might steal on me,
And I might feel in the warm air

My cheek grow cold, and hear the sea
Breathe o'er my dying brain its last monotony.

Mabel, looking down through the still clearwater
at

The deep's unexampled floor,

With green and purple seaweeds strewn,

felt that the lines Lawley quoted exquisitely
expressed her own deepest longing. Suddenly
the glass through which she looked became dim
and broken. A breeze had sprung up and
ruffled the still surface.

A breeze at last ! ' cried Lord Charlecote ;
1 let us hoist the sail.'

While they stepped the mast, the boat
swung round broadside to the rising waves,
which, though not very formidable, tossed the
cockleshell of a craft up and down like a
shuttlecock. The mast being fixed, Lord
Charlecote stood on the seat for a moment to
secure the tackle of the sail above ; Lawley,
standing also, unfurled it below. While the
crazy little craft was thus top-heavy, with the
weight so much to leeward as to bring her
gunwale level with the water, a sudden gust
and a strong wave from the swell of a passing
steamer sent her over. She went down like
lead. Such was the intensity of Lawley's love
that his first thought, when he could think,
was of Mabel. As he struggled up to the
surface, it was of her life he was thinking, not
of his own. They rose almost together; he
swam towards her and caught her just as she

was about to sink the second time. She
clutched his coat convulsively, but he slipped
out of it, left it in her hands, and swam shorewards,
pushing her before him. He was a
strong swimmer, but it was a long swim. He
had not struggled through half the distance
before his strength began to give out. Mabel,
who had now recovered consciousness and comparative
calmness, felt it was giving out.

Let me go ! ' she cried, trying to disengage
herself.

Lawley silently held firm, with an effort
that cost him much of his fast-going strength.

You could have saved yourself. It is too
late now ! ' she cried again despairingly.

Yes, it was too late now. Even if Lawley
had let her go, he could not have struggled on
very much further.

Mabel ! ' he gasped, ' I love you — one
kiss ! '

Even at that awful moment the revelation
came with a kind of shock to her. She turned
her face to his ; their lips met, ere they sank
together with a cry to the mercy of God.

Chapter XL.

CHANGED RELATIONS.

The wave that helped to swamp the boat was
itself helped by the swell of a large steamer,
which was much nearer Lawley, if he had
known it, than the shore. But he did not
know it. Mabel rose between him and the
shore, and he swam towards her with the
steamer behind him. Lord Charlecote, however,
rose with his face to the steamer, and
made for it with no thought at the moment of
any one but himself. He had been taught all
his life to think only of himself, and it was not
to be expected that he should forget the lesson
when life itself was at stake. He, too, was a
good swimmer, even better than Lawley, had
only himself to save, and only a short distance
to cover, since a boat from the steamer put out
to meet him. Safe in the boat he had thought
to spare to Mabel and Lawley. He directed

the men to pull towards where the boat went
down, while he himself looked anxiously in all
directions for any appearance of his companions.
At last he saw them together making for the
shore. He felt a twinge of shame, remorse,
and jealousy at the sight of Mabel being saved
by his rival. He pointed to where they were,
pulled out his purse, poured a heap of sovereigns
into his hand, and by these signs stimulated the
men (who spoke only Italian, of which he did
not know a word) to the utmost exertions.
While, however, they were still a good way off,
Mabel and Lawley disappeared. Lord Charlotte
shouted, pointed, urged the men by excited
gestures till they pulled as if their own lives
were in the balance. As they shot over the
spot where the two had disappeared, Mabel
and Lawley, still clinging together, rose for
the second time to the surface, and before
they could sink again Lord Charlecote had leapt
out, swum to them, and supported them until
the boat put back and took them in. Mabel
was still alive, but Lawley was to all appearance
dead.

The boat then made for the harbour, to
which the steamer had already preceded them.

It was the nearest refuge where they were sure
to find a doctor. Lord Charlecote's assumed
impressiveness was submerged beneath a wave
of impulsive feeling. He felt Mabel's faint
pulse, chafed her hands, rose and sat down
again a dozen times in extreme excitement,
gesticulating unintelligible directions to the
men, and bending forward over the bulwarks
as if that would hasten by a handbreadth her
speed. At last they rounded the harbour pier,
and passed ship after ship, whose crews looked
down over the bulwarks on their ghastly
burden. They hailed each as they passed,
asking if there were a doctor on board. No.
Lord Charlecote, in a frenzy of passionate impatience
at each vain stoppage, was trying to
intimate to the men that they must go straight
to shore without slackening to ask again this
hopeless question, when a small boat with an
Englishman in it, making for the harbour mouth,
pulled up alongside.

1 You ask for a doctor ? ' asked the Englishman
in execrable Italian.

1 Are you a doctor ? ' asked Lord Charlecote
simultaneously.

The stranger made the sole reply of stepping

into the boat and altering at once the posture
of the two bodies, which he saw only when he
came alongside. He then gave directions to
both the men in his own boat and to those with
Lord Charlecote, and turned again to examine
the lifeless bodies.

She's not dead ? ' cried Lord Charlecote
eagerly.

No, she's not dead,' replied the doctor after
an intolerably deliberate delay ; ' she'll be all
right in a few days, I should say

And he ? '

The doctor took some time before he
answered by shaking his head. ' How long has
he been under water ? '

8 Not live minutes.'

Five minutes ! '

4 But he had a long swim first, holding her
up.'

6 He must have been nearly dead before he
sank.' Which indeed was true, as Lawley had
a spirit much stronger than his strength.

« He's dead, then ? '

The doctor again proceeded to examine
Lawley carefully and exhaustively, trying the
while to stimulate artificial respiration, but was

interrupted by the boat's touching the landing-place.
The doctor's boat, being much the
lighter and swifter, had beaten them by time
enough to have a conveyance in waiting, and ina
few minutes he and his patients and Lord
Charlecote were in the nearest hotel. Lord
Charlecote waited to be assured that Mabel was
restored and out of danger, before he hurried
off to be the first to tell Lady Saddlethwaite of
the accident.

When he appeared before her, drenched
and dripping, alone and with trouble in his
face, Lady Saddlethwaite realised her love for
Mabel.

Where's — where 's Mabel ? ' she asked in a
tone of great agitation.

She's all right, thank God. We had an
upset, but we were picked up, and she has been
some time coming to. The doctor says she'll
be all right in a day or so.'

But where is she ? ' still anxiously.

She's at some hotel near the harbour.
I forgot to ask its name; but I've kept the
cab.'

I shall not be a minute,' said Lady Saddle-thwart,
hurrying towards the door, but pausing

as she readied it to turn and ask, ' And Mr.
Lawley ? '

Lord Gharlecote shook his head.

Drowned ! '

4 The doctor says there's no hope, but he's
doing all he can to restore him.'

Lady Saddlethwaite stood transfixed at the
door.

'He has lost his life — if he has lost it — in
trying to save Miss Masters,' continued Lord
Charlecote, finding a relief in giving expression
to his self-reproach. ' I took care of myself,
but he held her up to his last breath. The
doctor says he must have been all but dead
before they sank.'

Lady Saddlethwaite was much moved. ' Is
there no hope ? '

Lord Charlecote again shook his head.
Lady Saddlethwaite hurried off to get ready,
and having given some confusing instructions to
Parker about following her — where and with
what she did not say — she entered the cab —
without waiting for Lord Charlecote, who had
to change his soaking clothes — and was soon
by Mabel's bedside.

Mabel was restored and conscious, but weak

and confused. She recognised Lady Saddle-thwart,
who stooped to kiss her with a mother's
tenderness, and smiled faintly in acknowledgment
of the caress.

Where's George ? ' she asked in a voice
barely audible. George and Lawley had got
confused together in her drowning delirium,
and she had not yet come to distinguish them.

Who, dear ? '

Mabel felt she had used the wrong name,
but could not think of the right one. She lay
silent for a little, trying to collect and concentrate
her scattered thoughts.

8 You mustn't trouble yourself about anything
but getting better, dear. Try to go
asleep.'

1 He's drowned ! ' with a kind of terror in
her wide and wistful eyes.

He's nothing of the sort. You're only
dreaming, and you had much better dream
asleep. There, be a good child and go asleep
when you're told,' patting her pale cheek.

Mabel smiled again faintly and closed her
eyes.

Lady SaddlethwaHe could say with a safe
conscience that Lawley wasn't drowned, but it

was all she could say, or the doctor either.
The flame of life flickered faintly in his breast,
but there was no fuel for it to feed on, and it
threatened every moment to go out altogether.
In fact Lawley was like to die of exhaustion.
He found, however, what he needed most in
Dr. Pardoe, not a very brilliant, but an
extremely painstaking physician, who not only
doctored but nursed him. He was very much
interested, not in the man but in the patient ;
and death, when he seemed to have it all his
own way, found he had the battle to fight allover
again with a plucky and tough antagonist.
Dr. Pardoe had that blind and doircrcd English

ere!? V-*

courage of which the French prince in
'Henry V.' complained — ' If the English had
any apprehension, they would run away.' He
would, perhaps, have despaired if he had seen
clearly the desperation of the case. But he didn't,
and he fought death to the death with stolid
and stubborn hardihood. It was a loniz and
doubtful battle. When Mabel was qui to well,
as she was in a few days, Lawley lay still in the
shadow of death — in a twilight, whether of life's
dawn or setting no one could say. Mabel, if
she could, would freely have given her life for

Ins. It was all she had to give, for her love
was buried in George's grave. The girl was
utterly miserable. If Lawley died, his death
was at her door ; if he lived, at her door, too,
would be his unhappiness. For she knew
enough of him to feel that his love would be
life-Ions: and life-absorbing. Here was the
greatest of all the debts she owed him — his love
greater even than the debt of her life, and
she could make him no return for it. For such
love as she could give was as different from that
he gave and that he asked as moonlight is from
sunlight — different not in degree only, but in
kind. She was most miserable.

Lady Saddlethwaite put her extreme dejection
down to her despair of a life which was
given for her own, and was doubly rejoiced to
be at least able to say on the authority of the
exasperatingly cautious doctor, that Lawley
was out of danger. A great weight was lifted
off Mabel's heart, but a trouble almost as deep
remained. Lady Saddlethwaite was perplexed
to find she had given so much less relief than
she expected.

4 Why, you're as miserable as ever, child ! '
1 It's a great debt to owe,' said Mabel,

thinking as much of Lawley's love as of his

life.

'That's not like you, Mabel. I thought
you were generous enough to forgive a debt
you couldn't pay. You should think what a
happiness it is to him to have done you this
service. It's a debt that pays itself.'

'All my debts have to pay themselves,'
said Mabel drearily. ' You don't know what
it is, Lady Saddlethwaite, to owe what you
never can pay. You are always doing kindnesses
that can never be repaid.'

1 Tut, my dear. I know there's no greater
pleasure than doing you a kindness, and I
know that Mr. Lawlev thinks so too. It was
you he asked after the moment he became
conscious.'

Lady Saddlethwaite began to suspect that
Mabel had at last discerned Lawley's love, and
shot this arrow at a venture. It was a palpable
hit. Mabel coloured and looked distressed,
and Lady Saddlethwaite, perfectly
satisfied, turned the embarrassing conversation.


Meantime, the accident which revealed
Lawley's love to Mabel, revealed Lord

Charlecote's love to himself, not directly so
much as indirectly. He got a long letter
from his mother, asking for an immediate,
explicit, and positive contradiction of a scandalous
paragraph in the Times which had
been copied from Malignant. In this paragraph
the accident was reported at some
length, and with many new and interesting
particulars. It seems the boat was Lord
Charlecote's private yacht, Mabel was his
Jianr.ee, and Lawley was Mabel's guardian, and
that Lord Charlecote, by the most heroic and
all but impossible exertions, swam to the
steamer, holding up Mabel with one hand and
Lawley with the other. Upon the text of
this paragraph the Dowager Lady Charlecote
held forth — very furiously after her manner.
Some gases liquefy under tremendous pressure,
and Lord Charlecote's love, which was of a
volatile and gaseous nature, needed some such
opposing pressure to condense it to anything
substantial. Mabel's indifference and Lawley 's
rivalry did something in this direction, but his
mother's furious letter did much more. Like
many another woman this good lady seemed
to think that a match was best kept from
vol. in. N

lighting by friction. The result of her intervention
was that Lord Charlecote not only did
what he could to overtake.' and suppress this
absurd newspaper report, but also did what
he could to make that part of it true which
connected his name with Mabel's.

The accident also affected indirectly the
relation of Gnome to Mabel. The original
version of it was copied into a Melbourne
paper, and there caught George's eye more
than a year after the accident it referred to
occurred. He read it on a scrap of wastepaper
which contained specimens of wheat
that had lain aside for months in a drawer.

Chapter XLI.

THREE CONFESSIONS.

The first meeting of Mabel and Lawley after
their farewell kiss was a sad one. Lawley
was miserable in the thought that his secret
should have been wrung from him even in
the agony of death, and in the thought that
its untimely disclosure destroyed what little
chance he had of her hand. He could make
her but one reparation, to renounce what had
become the happiness of his life — her society.
If he had done her no service, he might —
notwithstanding his dying declaration — have
allowed himself this happiness ; but now he
would seem to her, when they met, not only
an unwelcome suitor, but a suitor who sued,
not in forma pauperis, but as a sordid creditor.
For he knew she would take an exaggerated
view of his effort to save her. Yes ; he must

N 2

do her now the infinitely harder service of the
sacrifice of his happiness to heron

the other hand Mabel certainly did
feel overwhelmed with her debt to Lawley,
but it was the debt of his love, not of her life,
which weighed most upon her. It was not,
Ave need hardly say, that she thought little of
his saving; her, but that she thought so much of
his loving her. She thought Lawley utterly
despised her sex ; and perhaps, woman fashion,
she respected him the more for his contempt ;
the compliment of his love, therefore, was all
the greater and more surprising and more
distressing. For what could she do? like
Bassanio, she would give him anything in
all the world but the worthless thing he asked.

4 Mr. Lawley is coming down to-day, Mabel,'
said Lady Saddlethwaite. They had all migrated
to the hotel to which Mabel and Lawley
had been carried. ' I've just looked in at him
and said something about your anxiety to see
and thank him, and all that, and he seemed
quite distressed. He begged me most earnestly
to ask you to think and say nothing about it,
and I promised you wouldn't. I think proud

people never like being thanked. They prefer
to keep every one in their debt, perhaps

I don't think Mr. Lawley is proud said
Mabel, thinking with a deep blush of his love
for her. Lady Saddlethwaite put a most
favourable interpretation upon the blush, and
began to be more hopeful than ever about her
matchmaking scheme. Not that she imagined
for a moment that Mabel had any heart yet to
give away. But she would have in time, and
it was enough now for her to know, as she
plainly did, that Lawley loved her. Lady
Saddlethwaite was not in the least driven to
speculate as to how Mabel came by her knowledge
of Lawley's feelings towards her, since
the only wonder was that she hadn't divined
them long since.

When, however, Lawley entered the room,
Lady Saddlethwaite saw in a moment from
their mutual embarrassment that something
definite must have passed between them.
Mabel rose and advanced to meet him with the
pained and wistful expression of one who had
done him some deep wrong and deeply repented
of it ; while Lawley also, on his side,

looked more conscious of having embittered
than of having preserved her life.

You re better?' asked Mabel, as their
hands met, in a voice she couldn't quite steady.

4 Oh, I'm all right again, thank you,' he
replied, with his last words and the kiss winch
sealed them vividly in his thoughts and in his
eyes. What a bathos was this conventional
meeting as a sequel to that scene !

You look all right ! ' exclaimed Lady
Saddlethwaite, who saw that she must create a
diversion ; ' you're as white as a ghost. You
must lie down on the sofa here, and submit to
be nursed and made much of.' Mabel stepped
to the sofa and arranged the pillows with
the deftness of a skilled nurse — as she was.
Lawley, who was about to scorn the sofa,
became suddenly glad of it.

I've just been telling Mabel,' said Lady
Saddlethwaite, thinking it better to have this
business of Mabel's thanks settled; 'I've just
been telling Mabel that you won't hear of being
thanked for saving her life, Mr. Lawley.'

One doesn't like being thanked for what
one didn't do, Lady Saddlethwaite. "Praise

undeserved," you know. In fact, it was Lord
Charlecote saved us both.'

'Mabel would have been drowned many
times over if she'd had the politeness to wait for
Lord Charlecote to save her. But, as I was
saying to her before you came in, proud people
never like being thanked.'

Then I must forego my thanks to you,
Lady Saddlethwaite, for all your kindness. I
meant to have made you a long speech of
acknowledgment before we parted tomorrow.'

4 To-morrow ? '

Yes ; I find I must get home sooner than
I expected.'

'But we, too, must get back before the
twelfth. We may as well keep together. It
will make only two days' difference. Besides,
you are certainly not strong enough to undertake
such a journey at once and alone.'

But I wasn't thinking of returning by rail.
Dr. Pardoe says a sea-voyage would set me
up.'

By sea ; ugh ! I didn't know Dr. Pardoe
was a homoeopathist. I should have thought
you'd had enough of the sea.'

I hope to have only a homoeopathic dose of

it this time. I should not have taken the
prescription, Lady Saddlethwaite, if you'd not

had Lord Charlecote to take care of you. 1

4 To take care of ns ! Who's to take care
of you ? '

1 Why, I shall have nothing to do but lie on
deck all day and smoke.'

8 Well, it's a very ungracious way of thanking
you for your escort, Mr. Lawley, to get into
a pet about your leaving us, but we couldn't
pay you a higher compliment, you know. We
may as well leave tomorrow, too, Mabel, if
it suits Lord Charlecote. What do you say,
dear ? '

Mabel assented absently. She knew perfectly
well that Lawley was leaving them for
another reason than that of health, as, indeed,
did Lady Saddlethwaite. That kindly old lady
was distressed by their estrangement, and began
to think they would come to a better understanding
if left to themselves. Accordingly
she rose in the most natural way in the
world, and left the room to see Parker about
packing. Then there was silence that might
be felt for half a minute, broken at last and
desperately by Mabel.

4 1 haven't thanked you because I couldn't
thank you, Mr. Lawley,' speaking hurriedly
and tremulously.

I ask you only to forgive me,' Lawley
answered in a low voice.

Forgive you ? It was not of my life only
I was thinking when I said I couldn't thank
you.' Here she paused for a moment, and
then went on as if with a brave effort, ' I was
thinking of another and dearer debt which is
worth more than my life, and which I value
more, but which I cannot pay — I've nothing to
pay with,' with a kind of piteous appeal in her
voice.

I never thought I was anything to you.
I never hoped it. How could I hope it ? '
exclaimed Lawley, rising impetuously, standing
before her and looking down upon her. 8 But
it sweetened death to me to speak.'

You are more to me than any one left tome,
than any one ever can be to me again ; but
no one can ever be to me again what — what
you wish. And now I've lost you, too!-' she
added, following her thoughts more closely
than her words, and looking uji at Lawley with
the deepest, sweetest distress in her face.

It was impossible for any man, even for Lawley,
not to gather some hope from these hopeless
words and joy from this set sad face. Mabel
was as certain of her constancy as of her life,
and expected others to be as convinced of it ;
but even Lawley was little likely to think it
absolutely proof against time, or to despair
upon being told with the simplest and sweetest
sincerity, ' You are more to me than anyone
left to me — than any one ever can be to me
again.' At the same time this ingenuous assurance,
of course, only confirmed his resolve to
spare her the embarrassment of his presence in
these first months of her bereavement. Lover-like,
he was more depressed by the imminent
separation than cheered by the hope her words
conveyed. For love is well painted a boy and
blind, that is, impatient and improvident. He
was still standing before her as she looked up at
him with such sweet and simple sadness in her
face. As he looked down upon it he would
have

Given all earthly bliss,
And all his worldly worth for this,
To waste his whole heart in a kiss
Upon her perfect lips.

The yearning so expressed itself through

his dark eyes that Mabel blushed under their
gaze, and thereby brought him back to himself.
He took her hand in his. ' Mabel, I loved you
so that I should never have told my love if
death had not wrung the secret from me.
Now I can only help you to forget it and me.'

But you will forget it, and we shall be
again as we were.'

4 As we were ? I have always loved you, I
think, from the first day I saw you, and I
always shall, always — always.' He repeated
the word with ineffable tenderness, and its
plaintive echo lingered in Mabel's memory, and
long afterwards recalled the whole scene daily,
and often many times a day, and pleaded for
him piteously and powerfully. There was a
moment's silence, during which he still held
her hand, while she looked up helplessly at him
with eyes now larger and brighter through tears.
This was an effective way to make her forget
him and his love !

I thought our last good-bye was the very
last,' he said, ' but there is this one more
Mabel could not speak just then, but the
trembling tears welled over and spoke for
her.

4 Good-bye ! ' he said. Did he expect her
once again to bid him a lover's good-bye with
speechless lips ? He did not know what he expected.
He was delirious with love. Mabel
still could answer only with her now fast-falling
tears. He stooped and pressed a passionate
kiss on her quivering lips and was gone.

He was wise enough and strong enough to
keep to his resolve that this should be their
good-bye. He kept his room till the hour
came next day for him to embark, having
in the meantime made a clean breast of the
whole business to Lady Saddlethwaite. It was
as well he did so, for otherwise the kind old
lady might have taken ill Mabel's persistent
keeping of a secret which was not her own,
while Mabel would not have had the inexpressible
relief of her sympathy. Lawley himself,
however, was the chief gainer by his confession.


While you were drowning ! ' exclaimed
Lady Saddlethwaite in answer to Lawley 's
rather bald account of the business. He had
said nothing, and could not bring himself to
say anything, of the clinging kiss which was
their last farewell, but of this, too, Lady

Saddlethwaite heard later from the lips that
suffered it.

1 While you were drowning ! I never
heard anything so romantic. What did she
say?'

We weren't sitting together in a drawing-room,
you know, Lady Saddlethwaite,' answered
Lawley with a short laugh. ' It was hardly to
be expected that she should blush and hesitate
and hang down her head, or that she should
draw herself up to her full height and cry
Unhand me, sirrah." She said nothing.
It's not easy to say anything when you're
drowning.'

'Yet you managed to do it to some
purpose,' said Lady Saddlethwaite, laughing
also. ' But you've been sitting together in a
drawing-room since. Was it " Unhand me,
sirrah," this morning ? '

4 In a mild form. She said " I was more to
her than any one could ever be to her again,
but no one could be to her again what I asked

5J >

to be.

A very mild form ! With any other girl
in the world but Mabel that would be an
acceptance : but she meant it.'

Yes, she meant it,' despondently.

8 She meant it, but how lorn? will she mean
it ? My dear Mr. Lawley, you don't suppl i
a young girl barely out of her teens can be
crushed for life under any blow ? In spring a
rose can stand any storm and raise its head
after it and smell all the sweeter for it ; it's
only in autumn there's no recovery,' said Lady
Saddlethwaite sadly, thinking, as she thought
daily, of her dead daughter.

'Recovery will be very slow with her.'

Of course it will be slow with her. Would
you have it quick ? What would you think
of a girl who could listen to the suit of a
second lover three months after she had heard
of the murder of the first ? And Mabel of all

girls ! '

I didn't think we had a minute to live,' he
said apologetically, thinking Lady Saddle-thwart
was echoing his own self-reproach for
the avowal of love which death had surprised
him out of.

1 Why, you don't think I blame you, or she
blames you?' exclaimed Lady Saddlethwaite,
expressing her surprise by articulating each
word with staccato distinctness. ( To think of

her in death, to forget death in the thought of
her ! It was magnificent ! '

But not war ? ' added Lawley, smiling,
highly gratified at his honourable acquittal
by so competent a judge as Lady Saddle-thwart.


'Yes, and war too. You've won her heart
by it — at least the reversion of her heart.
But you must wait. Such a girl is worth ten
years' siege.'

She's worth a life's siege ! ' he cried enthusiastically
; ' but a month without her is ten
years,' he added with a sigh.

You must make your mind up to be many
months without her. Your absence and its
cause will plead for you better than anything
else in the world. You are quite right to leave
us at once. She will think of you more, and
think more of you, than if she saw you every day.
You must make the most of your last interview
with her.'

8 It's over,' he said with something like a
groan.

4 Over ! Was it ? No ; it's too sacred

to talk about,' with a kind and approving
smile. She understood and honoured Lawley's

reticence on a subject that really was sacred to
him, and she knew besides that she would now
hear from Mabel — as of her own sex — what
Lawley could not have brought himself to confide
to her. She rose and left him with the promis
that she would do all she could for him, and
would write from time to time to him letters of
which Mabel would be the burden.

Notwithstanding the comfort and encouragement
Lady Saddlethwaite gave him,
Lawley relapsed into depression — due in part
to his weakness — and after a sleepless night
was in such a state that his cautious Scotch
doctor declined to answer for his life if lie embarked
— which gave him, of course, a gloomy
satisfaction in embarking. Dr. Pardoe was
very much annoyed. He would have regarded
Lawley 's death as vexatious. It would haw
been to him as the loss of a forty-pound salmon
to an angler who had played him for hours
with consummate skill and patience, and saw
him break away on the brink of being landed.
Lawley, however, did not ' go off the hook-and
the doctor was appeased.

Meantime he had Mabel again on hands.
The girl was completely prostrated after the

distressing scene with Lawley. Her worst fears
as to his love were realised. It was the love of
a strong man, which is as his strength, and
would last and mar his life. That he would
ever cease to love her was unlikely, that she
should ever come to love him was impossible.
She had no heart to give him or anyone, and
never w T ould have if she lived to old a^e. Of
this Mabel w T as as certain as any girl of her age
in her circumstances would be, and with much
more reason than most. She was hardly less
certain of Lawley 's constancy. He would not
forget her. Would she have had him forget
her ? Well, not forget her, but — but — No ; she
could not sincerely wish that he should cease
to love her ! She could not love him, yet she
could not resign his love. It was as a caged
bird which she prized so dearly that she could
not bear to free it from the restless misery of
its imprisonment. The most she could sincerely
wish was expressed in an exquisite poem she
knew by heart before she had reason to take
to heart its last sigh, or sob rather, of farewell
:

Should my shadow cross thy thoughts
Too sadly for their peace, remand it thou

VOL. III.

For calmer hours to memory's darkest hold,
If not to he forgotten — not at once —
Not all forgotten.

lint if Mabel could not bring herself to wish
that Lawley should forget her, or even that he
should altogether cease to love her, she took
herself cruelly to task for her selfishness ; and
was, perhaps, the more wretched of the two.
For while Lawley had some hope, and at times
good hope, inspired by Lady Saddlethwaite, of
Mabel's coming at last to love him, Mabel, of
course, believed her love could no more be
brought back to life than her murdered lover.
She was, then, intensely wretched, and her
wretchedness told on her strength, not yet reestablished,
and returned her, as we have said,
upon the doctor's hands.

The doctor did and could do little for her,
but Lady Saddlethwaite did much. She told
Mabel of Mr. Lawley's parting confidence, and
so set free the floodgates of her heart. It was
a profound relief to Mabel to pour out self-reproaches
and praises of Lawley mingled
rather incoherently.

He'll get over it, my dear,' said Lady
Saddlethwaite cheerily. She was using, so to

speak, a stethoscope, to hear how Mabel's heart
beat.

Do you think he will ? ' asked Mabel, not
as happily as might be expected.

Of course he will. Men always do.'

But I think Mr. Lawley is different.'

He's a man like the rest. Men don't hold
by one anchor, my dear, as we do. They've so
many more things to think of.'

'If I was sure he would forget me,' said
Mabel, speaking very slowly, c I should '

8 Be very much disappointed ? Of course
you would.'

Yes, I should. I couldn't bear that he
should forget me altogether,' she confessed
honestly with a wan smile. fc He has been so
much to me, Lady Saddlethwaite. But if he
would only come to like me as I like him ! '

I've no doubt, dear, in time you will come
to have the same kind of feeling for each
other.'

Do you think so ? ' cried Mabel eagerly,
not for a moment suspecting Lady Saddle-thwart's
double entente. Indeed, Lady Saddle-thwart
would not have risked it if she had not

o 2

been perfectly certain of Mabel's being above
such a suspicion.

4 I've no doubt at all about it,' replied her
ladyship decidedly. And she hadn't. She felt
as certain that Mabel would come in time t<>
return Law ley's love as that she didn't and
couldn't return it now. Well ; time will tell if
she w r as right, and we shall leave our heroine
to its influence for a year before we return to
her. Meantime by a change of scene we hope
to help our readers' imagination over the
interval. It may, perhaps, have occurred to
some of them to wonder where all this time
was Mabel's faithful factotum, Mr. Robert
Sagar. Mabel didn't know. Xo one knew.
It was a great mystery. We shall proceed now
to unravel it. Mr. Sagar had fled a second
time in a panic from Weston, not now, like St.
Kevin, shunning the shafts of ■ eyes of most
unholy blue,' but a more insidious and pertinacious
foe even than Miss Masters or any of
her sex.

Chapter XLII.

BOB AS A REFORMER.

Mr. Sagar, like everyone who lias nothing to do,
was a very busy person. There was hardly
any kind of work which he did not touch, and
he touched nothing of which he did not tire.
His work was like his life, a perpetual spring
' the eternal boyhood of an Irishman,' of
which somebody speaks — beautiful and numberless
beginnings, which, like an Irishman's
promises, were leafy and luxuriant, but unfruitful.
Leafy and luxuriant promises generally are.
Now, though Mr. Sagar kept his own promises,
his designs didn't. His life was like an artist's
studio — all sketches. Bob was not without
brains, but he had no staying power, and was
thus outrun in the race of life by men who
w r ere as dull and dogged as a mill-horse.
However, he returned from India with a
good pension, and plenty of time to begin a

thousand tidings. Not that nil his beginnings
were aborted. Anything that could be begun
and ended in a day was done. Hence his opus
magnum, the inventory of the goods of the
Grange. Bob threw himself into anything with
a terrific force and fury for the first few hour-and
if in that time it could be carried by
assault, he carried it, not without the beat of
drums and blare of trumpets. But there are
not many things worth doing which can be so
done, and Bob therefore did not do many
things worth doing. On the other hand
there are few tidings which cannot be undone
in a day, and Bob therefore was great at destruction
— destruction, of course, as the first
step to reconstruction. Mabel's cottage, for
instance, was, within, in a state of the most
perfect preparation for the introduction of
every modern improvement. Under Bob's
busy hands, the old order changed to yield
place to the new, but unfortunately all things
remained in this transitional state. Xow all
intermediate states, not excepting Purgatory,
are uncomfortable, and it was so with Mabel's
cottage. It was not comfortable. Bob was
struck with the convenience oi' electric bells and

clocks in the vast hotels where he stayed, and
saw at a glance the advantage of their introduction
into Mabel's cottage, where the ticking
of a clock in one room could be heard in the
other three — the doors being open. Bob accordingly
tore down the bells, disembowelled
the kitchen clock, and introduced for experiment
three different kinds of batteries, one of
which, being charged with nitric and sulphuric
acid, filled the little place with the foulest
fumes, and cost Bob a suit of clothes for himself,
and a gown for the discreet Jane, his assistant.
Everything, in fact, was in hushed preparation
for the great improvement.

But it never came to birth. In truth, Bob
was as sick as Jane of it in a day, and was glad
to consign bells, batteries, and clock-bowels to
the cellar ' until he had a little more time. 5
He hadn't a moment to spare at present from
the pursuit of a rat which Jane had seen in
the cellar and which besieged the house. At
night, at least, no one dared hardly move from
room to room, and as for the cellar and the beer,
they were unapproachable. Bob, however,
stormed the stronghold with extraordinary
spirit. Armed simply with a pickaxe and a

crowbar, lie went clown into the cellar, and ina
few short hours had uprooted half its flag
Having assured himself by this simple mean-that
he was on the wrong tack, he retired,
leaving the cellar in this picturesque condition
as if it had been blown up with dynamite —
and after a little consideration hit upon a happy
and infallible ratsbane. He would purchase u
couple of rats, tar them, and let them loose in
the cellar, and so kill two birds with one stone.
For he would not only banish the rats — since it
was well known that these creatures could not
bear the smell of tar — but he would, bv the
track of the tar, trace their route, block it up,
and secure the cellar for all time against their
return.

Jane objected strongly to this homoeopathic
remedy, but Bob chucked her under the chin,
told her she was a goose, and, by comparing a
tarred rat to a policeman, brought the conscious
blush to her cheek and silenced her remonstrances.
When, however, the rats had b<
bought, tarred, and let loose in the cellar,
matters were not much mended. One of them.
which Bob had chosen for its real size and the
vast taxable surface it presented, proved to be

of the interesting sex, and in an interesting condition
; and the cellar soon swarmed with rats
and rawlings, who made themselves at once at
home, burrowing easily under the untasted
surface Bob had prepared for them at some
pains. Then Bob began, as usual, to tire of the
enterprise, and made it over to the flycatcher
from whom he had bought the beasts. This
professional gentleman proceeded as a preliminary
to empty the beer barrel, probably
under the impression that the rats had taken
refuge there, and was reduced to a state of such
stormy intoxication that he was nearly as hard
to get rid of as the rats. Bob then advised
the introduction of a cat, a suggestion which,
though brilliant, was not original, as Jane had
had many battles upon this subject with Margaret,
who had an instinctive and intense
antipathy to cats. However, a cat was
borrowed, introduced surreptitiously, and shut
in the cellar with the best results, for which
Bob took much credit to himself.

Meantime he was not idle, but made himself
useful in many other ways in the house. In
one room he took the lock off a door to free
the bolt : in another he took the door off its

hinges to cure a draught ; lie took down the
cavalier in the drawing-room to ascertain if it
was supplied with water, and lie took Mabel's
sewing-machine to pieces to silence an irritating
squeak it made at each revolution. It is true
that things were left lonir in the state of chaos
which precedes creation — the door without its
lock, the room without its door, the drawing-room
in darkness, and the sewing-machine in
bits ; but eventually everything was set right
by the British workman whom Bob had at last
to call in to put the finishing touch to his work.
For Bob spoke of the reconstructive work of
these hirelings as a Stephenson might speak of
the work of navvies in the employ of his contractor.


Rather an improvement, eh ? ' lie would
say, with the utmost self-complacency, of something
which had at last been put back into the
state in which it was before he had meddled
with it.

Fortunately for the tormented house,
however, Bob found a new field for reform —
no other, indeed, than political reform, for
which, perhaps, this cutting down o( domestic
upas-trees was the best possible training.

Besides, Bob was as choke-full of grievances as
any other old Indian. In India grievances —
like livers — are forced as in a hot-house, in a
rank soil of idleness and luxury, and under a
blazing sun. And Bob's grievances were the
more grievous from being driven inward* so to
speak, and suppressed, since the full and free
expression of them would have made matters
tenfold worse. Therefore Bob's wrath was like
the wrath of the dumb, intemperate because inarticulate.
But now there came to him in
Weston, in the shape of a general election, a
golden chance of lifting the lever and letting off
the pent-up pressure of years. For who should
come down to seek the suffrages of the electors
of Weston but an old friend of Bob's, Benton
Crowe, Esq., barrister-at-law. Bindon was a
clever compatriot of Bob's, who had gone to
India, realised there a rapid fortune at the bar,
and then hurried back to England to get his
foot on the first step of the lawyer's ladder of
promotion, a seat in the House. Bindon was
not what you would call a well-principled man ;
in fact he had to apply for principles to \\\>
agent, a first-class Weston solicitor, John Coates,
of the firm of Coates, Jingle, and Candy.

Bindon, being under the impression that Pick
was still a Liberal, had composed speeches,
which almost convinced himself, against the
suicidal policy of integration ; i.e. the separation
of Church and State, of England and
Ireland, of Great Britain and the Colonies, of
the Empire and the sun, which would soon set
upon it if the Socialist, Libertinism, Home
Ruler, and Cosmopolitan had their way.

But Pickles has turned Tory,' objected the
practical Mr. Coates, to whom Bindon was delivering
an epitome of his speech with much
fluency and fervour. Bindon looked blank fora
moment, but quickly recovered himself.

You should hear me out, Mr. Coates ; I'm
at the same time in favour of Home Rule in
the best and broadest sense. I'm not against
the Church being allowed to rule herself without
being hobbled and hampered by the State,
and I think England had much better rule
herself and attend to domestic reforms than
attempt to rule Europe. I don't believe in
having a linger in every pie, you know, and I
don't see what business we have to interfere
with the Home Rulers of Afghanistan or Zulu-land.
As for the Colonies and Ireland, they

ought to know best where the shoe pinches.
We English are too much like the shoemaker
in " Le Bourgeois Gentilhomme," who insisted
that he knew better than M. Jordan whether
the shoes he made for him hurt or no. Faith,'
said Bindon, beginning now to fall in love with
his new programme, or rather with his own
setting of it ; ' faith ! it wouldn't be a bad cry,
Mr. Coates, " True Home Eule ! " — Home
Eule at home and abroad ; in Church and
State ; in England and Ireland, Canada, Australia,
Zululand, and Afghanistan. Mind your
own business ; sweep before your own door.
That would fetch there, eh ? '

'You've got the right principle, my dear
sir, but you must push it a step farther. The
people of Weston are Home Eulers to a man
to a man. They mind their own business,
as you say, Mr. Crowe, and don't concern
themselves with these imperial questions at all.
They don't want to interfere in other folks'
affairs, but they don't want other folks to interfere
in their affairs either. There's vaccination,
for instance, my dear sir ; they don't want compulsory
vaccination. Then there's flogging in
the army and navy ; there are some Weston

men in Her Majesty's uniform, and that a Weston
man should be liable to be flogged, sir, is
monstrous. Then, sir, there's Local Option ;
that's a Home Rule measure, if you like, Local
Option ; a most popular measure. Then ther
the Burials Bill. The Weft on folk are so independent,
my dear sir, that they can't bear to
be oppressed even in death. They must be
buried when and where and how they like.
Then there's — let me see,' said Mr. Coates,
counting off upon his fingers the subjects
of any political interest to the Weftonians ;
the Burials Bill, Local Option, Vaccination,
Flogging in the Army and Navy — Flogging in
the Army and Navy — ah, yes, the Burners
Bill.'

'The Burners Bill; what the deuce is
that?'

It's a bill against the use of steam-whistles
in factories, which has, my dear sir, done more
to alienate the loyalty of the working folk of
Weston than any measure of our time — any
measure of our time — a most vexatious measure,
which must be repealed, Mr. Crowe, before the
discontent grows to a dangerous head.'

Am I to say nothing on home or foreign

politics ? ' asked Bindon petulantly, for he
could talk endlessly en either subject and on
either side of either.

4 1 should fill in with them, Mr. Crowe, for
the newspapers. But the main questions are
those I have mentioned — and trade. Trade
has been very bad ; harvests have been bad for
years, very bad. You must make the most of
that, Mr. Crowe.'

1 We must change all that,' said Bindon,
laughing. ' What would you suggest, Mr.
Coates ? Bring in a ten hours' bill for the
sun, eh ? '

1 My dear sir, you must show that the sun
had nothing to do with it, or if it had, that
the sun is on the Liberal side. " The stars in
their courses," you know. You must point out
to them that the years of famine are always the
years of Tory rule, and the years of plenty the
years of Liberal rule. You must bring in the
Corn Laws and Free Trade, and so on. But
the things of real interest and importance to
the people at large are Compulsory Vaccination,
the Burners, the Burials Bill, Flogging in the
Services, Local Option, and bad trade. Stick
to them, and the thing is done.'

1 But how about the publicans? '
We must take every important public-house
for our committees, my clear sir. and
you must explain to each how greatly he will
benefit by Local Option.'
4 Benefit ? '

'To be sure. If his house is shut up, he
must receive four times its value for compulsory
expropriation ; if it is not shut up, he
gets all the custom of his neighbour's house,
which is.'

4 So he does, by Jove ! ' exclaimed Bindon,
delighted at the prospect of hauling in publicans
and teetotallers in the same net. ; But,'
he suggested after a short pause, ' there are the
Home Eulers. They are awkward customers
to meddle with, one Away or another.'

Not they, my dear sir. If you call it
Home Rule," we shall lose two votes for even-one
we gain : but call it " Justice to Ireland."
which means just as much or as little, and we
have the Irish without losing the English vote.
What the Liberal party want, Mr. Crowe, at
this crisis, is a man who will divide them least,
and to do that you must be vague. Give them
a blank cheque, you know, Retrenchment, Reform,

Religious Equality, Justice to Ireland ; a
great word, like a great-coat, will fit anyone.'

My head is twice as big as yours,
They therefore needs must fit,'

quoted Bindon.

John Gilpin ? Ay, and he dropped them
on the road — for why ? they were too big,' responded
Mr. Coates, looking slily and suggestively
at his client. ' What a good many
of you gentlemen do on the road to St.
Stephen's, Mr. Crowe, drop your pledges — for
why ? they were too big — ha, ha, ha ! ' with a
laugh which would have revolted a righteous
Radical, but in which, we regret to say, Mr.
Bindon Crowe joined. Mr. Coates, thus encouraged,
continued his sage instructions.

'There's another cue we might take from
our Liberal leaders, Mr. Crowe. It's not only
a good thing to have pledges wide enough to
fit anyone, but it's not a bad thing to have two
sets of pledges, one set for the Eadical and
another set for the Whig. I don't mean of
course — of course not — that you should promise
one thing to a Whig and another thing to a
Eadical, but that you should put your pledges
differently — give them neat to the Eadical, and

VOL. III. P

water them down a bit for the Whig. A great
deal depends upon the light you put things in.
my dear sir ; what looks blue by daylight looks
green by candle-light, and the same political
colour looks different in different lights. There

are our leaders, for instance, Mr. G and

Lord H . There are not two honest menin

England, I should say — not in England.

Yet you see, while Lord H roars as gently

as any sucking dove for the stalls, Mr. G

roars till it would do any man's heart good to
hear him for the gallery.'

1 Ay, begad, they're like Face and Sustain
the Alchemist,' chuckled Bindon, whose political
leanings, such as they were, inclined to Coii<lt-
vatism. Mr. Coates knew not the Alchemist

1 Well, my dear sir, in choosing canvassers
Ave must take a leaf out of their book, and
employ Home Eulers for the Irish, Whigs for
men of position and education, and Radicals for
the Dissenters and proletariat. Then your
views will get to be thoroughly interpreted,
thoroughly interpreted, my dear sir.'

Now it was to this piece of golden counsel
that Bob was indebted for his political employment.
Mr. Bindon Crowe, on the day of his

receiving it, came upon Bob in the coffee-room
of the c Queen,' to his amazement.

Bob Sagar ! '

Bindon ! '

4 What wind has blown you here of all
places ? ' asked Bindon, with a moment's misgiving
that Bob had come upon the same errand
as himself.

I came to see a friend, and I've found
two, my boy. And what's brought you hereof
all places ? '

I came to woo, Bob.'

'To woo? Have you seen Dick Burkitt
lately, Bindon ? ' Bob asked solemnly.

'Burkitt? No.'

Faith, then, Bindon, I'd go see him if I
were you before I committed myself,' said Bob,
with a nod.

What ! Is Dick married ? Poor devil !
he was always unlucky. Do you remember
his falling into Eatable's clutches ? '

Ay, begad, and his being pulled up by old
McClmtock. He had a squeak for it then, but
he's run in now, and no mistake. He goes
about in the clubs like a scarecrow, and

p 2

frightens all the fellows out of the noon You
go and see him, my boy ; take my advice. 1

Too late, Bob.'

1 You're engaged ? '

1 I'm married, old boy, and a father. I".
a stake in the country, now, Bob, and I must
look after its interests. It's the constituency
I've come to woo and to win. Member for
Weston, Solicitor-general, Attorney-general,
Lord Hmdi Chancellor of England ! '

Bob listened breathless to this modes! programme.


4 You'll do it, too ! ' he cried, with extorted
admiration, given rather to the brass than the
brains of his old school, college, and Indian
chum.

k Of course 111 do it, with your help, my
boy. I remember how you used to fire away
at the Historical.' And indeed, Bob, in thos
old Dublin days, had been ' the Rupert of
debate,' first in the Philosophical, and afterwards
in the Historical Society, answering to
the Union in Oxford and Cambridge. In thos
dim clays of old he far outshone the sucking
Lord Chancellor who had since far outstripped
him.

Ah, that tap's run out, Bindon, long ago,'
sighed Bob.

1 Not it. You're like an old pump ; you
only want priming to spout as well as ever.
And it's the old liquor too, my boy, Kinsman's
LL Genuine Irish Whisky. Home Eule —
Ireland for the Irish — " Who fears to speak of
'98 ? ' Only we must let it down a bit for
English consumption.'

Why, you used to be an Orangeman, and
pitch into me as a snake that stung the bosom
of my Alma Mater in which I was warmed,
and invoke another St. Patrick to banish such
pestilent vermin from the country they cursed.

'I've learnt the error of my ways, Bob.
Xot too late, I hope,' pleaded this exemplary
penitent, who then proceeded to put his programme
before Bob, not with Mr. Coates'
cynical frankness, for Bob, among his other
weaknesses, held fast by his political principles.

We'll do it.' cried Bob enthusiastically.

4 Of course we'll do it,' reiterated Bindon.

CHAPTEK Xlii

BOB AS AX ORATOR.

We are still some way off the reason for Mr.
Sagar's most mysterious disappearance from
Weston, but we are making for it as fast as the
importance of the matter will permit us.
Corporal Trim could not have been more eager
to tell the story of ; the King of Bohemia and
his Seven Castles.' Besides, we have to fill the
stage with a advertisement some time while the
carpenter is preparing the next scene. The
interval of a year takes some time to fill in.

By a lucky chance Tarbutt, who was to
have opposed Josiah Pickles at the approaching
election, gave offence to the Liberal caucus.
This caucus, composed of Dissenters, who were
accustomed to choose their ministers by a competitive
examination in preaching and to keep
them up to the mark afterwards by a criticism
which was frank to brutality, had stretched

poor Tarbutt on the same bed of Procrustes.
Tarbutt was not thin-skinned by any means,
and stood all the heckling and hectoring without
wincing, but could not succeed in satisfying
the Tooley Street tailors. On the contrary, he
succeeded in giving offence to the most influential,
that is, the most wealthy, of their number,
a man named Jagger, a machine-make*, a self-made
man, whose education just enabled him
to write and spell his name correctly. Mr.
Tarbutt, upon being brutally bullied at a
meeting by Mr. Jagger, ventured in reply to
object to ' the pragmatical dogma of Mr.
Jagger.' Mr. Tarbutt, being half educated and
of Scotch extraction, always used the very
longest and hardest words at his command
Mr. Jagger jumped up and appealed to the
chairman for protection, at least from ' such
blackguard language as that.' Mr. Tarbutt
mildly defended the words as innocent in themselves
and innocently meant. The chairman,
an oil and colour merchant, ruled that the
words were no doubt very offensive, but that
they had probably slipped from Mr. Tarbutt in
the heat of debate. Mr. Tarbutt instead of
apologising laughed, and the laugh exasperated

Mr. Jagger to use language so outrageous as to
rouse Mr. Tarbutt to a retort which cost him

his candidature.

Thus the caucus, with the election cl
upon them, were at sea for a candidate. Local
jealousies prevented the choice of one of their
own number, and there was no time to look
abroad for a suitable man. At this juncture
Bindon Crowe turned up. a man of brains and
brass,' not only in Bob Sagar's sense, but in
the Yorkshire sense of the word. For Bindon
had both made and married a fortune. Thus
Bindon stepped at once into Mr. Tarbutt's shoes.
He rather overdue his part, but that was a fault
on the right side ; the only difficulty the caucus
had with him was to cool and control him. It
w r as with extreme reluctance he could be dissuaded
from £ons? in for the Disestablishment
and Disendowment of the Church, and reducing
the Bishops to be doorkeepers in the House of
Lords. This, the caucus considered, was not
yet within the range of practical politics, and
Bindon therefore had to bow to their decision
with as good a grace as he could. For the
rest, they approved of his principles, but suggested
that he should moderate his expression

of them, which indeed was a little too, too
strong.

Tli us Bindon's chances were good, and were
bettered beyond all expectation by Bob. He
was told off to secure the Irish vote, which was
strong and solid, and was so successful not
merely as a canvasser but as an orator, that his
compatriots plumped like one man for his
friend. Bob carried them away with eloquence
which was after their own heart, fluent, fiery,
and imaginative, full of daring illustrations and
exaggerations, and relieved by ready, racy, and
rollicking bursts of humour. He painted
piteous pictures of Ireland, describing her as
not unlike the Hall of Eblis in ' Vathek,' in herself
glorious as the mind of man could conceive,
with everything the eye loves to see, or the ear
to hear, or the hand to handle, or the senses
to enjoy, but there was no enjoyment. The
unhappy inhabitants, like the doomed multitude
in the Hall of Eblis, whose right hands hid
hearts on fire for ever, were plunged in restless
and ceaseless misery, which they had to hide,
since their tyrants held it to be treason even to
disclose it. Then Bob would paint the millennium
which the return of his friend Bindon was

to hasten, when the accursed Saxon would have

to take his iron heel from Erin's neck, and the
rapacious landlord would have to withdraw his

griping hand from her pocket ; when her
daughters would once more smile like her
lovely plains, and her sons again stand erect
and strong as her towering hills; when plenty,
like her rivers, would flow everywhere and forever
; when, to put all in one word, the tenant
would own the land he tilled, and the landlord
would have to till what little land he was
allowed to own. (Frantic applause.) Bob
eloquence always got out of hand towards the
end of a speech, and hurried him into the
rankest and rotten cst socialism.

There was, too, another contrast on which
Mob was eloquent beside that between the
Ireland of to-day and of tomorrow, the contrast
between the two candidates, Mr. Bindon
Crowe and Mr. Pickles. lie described Mr.
Crowe's brilliant university career (Mr. Crowe
had carried off one prize, that for putting the
weight at the university athletic sports), and the
rich rewards which Ireland, England, and the
three learned professions had held out to him if
he would stay at home. But no; Mr. Crowe's

heart had been stirred to its depths by the tales
of Saxon oppression brought by every mail
from that Ireland of the East — India. Thither
lie would go and devote the best years of his
life in a foreign and far-off land, and in a deadly
climate, to the defence of those defenceless and
down-trodden millions — aliens to him in race,
in creed, in colour, bound to him only by the
bond of a common oppression and a common
oppressor. It is true that Mr. Crowe had come
back from India. Was it merely because his
health was shattered in that cruel climate, and
his energies impaired by an unequal struggle of
twenty years with bayonet-backed tyranny ?
No ; though those twenty years had left their
mark upon his body, had silvered his hair,
bowed his frame, brought down his strength in
his journey, and shortened his days, his spirit
they could not blanch, or bow, or break ; it
was still what it was and where it was, foot to
foot with the foe ; and he came back to England
to give him battle in a better field, to stem the
torrent of these terrible abuses, not at their
mouth in India, but at their source in the
British House of Commons. He came back to
plead the common cause of India and Ireland

in that stern Star Chamber. But how was he
to enter it? He thought of his native town,
Ennis, that 'pole star of the south,* as it
greatest poet, Dan Dermody, had failed it with
exquisite propriety, but lie knew too well that
no representative of an Irish constituency had
a chance of a hearing in an alien and intolerant
assembly. He must seek this honour
from — might he not say, confer this honour
on? — an English constituency ; but an English
constituency in which the dear old country was
weightily and worthily represented. He had
chosen Weston, and he had chosen well. (Wild
cheering.) He had come to Weston as he had
crone to India, to defend the defenceless and
represent the unrepresented. For who represented
the Irishmen of Weston? Mr.
Pickles ? Yes, as the cuckoo represents the
sparrows she smothers in their own nest. He
had got into the nest under false pretences, and
now that he was h\<z enough he showed his
true colours. His true colours ? Were they
his true colours? Bead, nobody knew. He
read in the Weston Witness that morning a list
of the Liberal candidates in the Parliament just
dissolved in which Mr. Pickles' name did not

appear ; but at the foot of the list was a note
explaining the omission. The editor had no
return of Mr. Pickles' politics later than the day
before yesterday, so he couldn't safely count
him. Faith, the poor editor was like Paddy
Pure, the omedhaun of Clonakilty.

Paudheen,' said his master, 6 did ye count
(lie litter of pigs ? '

6 1 did, yere honour, barring one little one,
and he ran about so I couldn't count him at
all at all.'

Put if there was some doubt as to whom
Mr. Pickles represented, there was no doubt at
all as to whom he did not represent. He did
not represent the Irishmen of Weston. The
Irish in Weston had no more bitter enemy.
Was there a single Irishman in his works ?
Was there a single Irishman in his service?
Was there an Irishman tolerated even in Lis
Institute ? cried Pob, drawing a bold bow at a
venture. Nay, it was well known that ' no
Irish need apply ' to him even for justice on
the bench. And this man, who treats 3^011 as
outlaws, asks you for your vote. (Three groans
for Josh, given with heart-shaking savageness.)
Then there was a surging towards the platform,

by which a woman had her baby nearly
crushed. Bob, with great presence of mind,
stooped over and had the baby handed up
him, to the frantic delight of the audience. It
was a great stroke for Bob, though not. perhaps,
for the baby, which he held by the neck
and heels as if he was measuring it, and which
howled thereat like a demon. ■ Give it the
breast, sir. Lord bless you, sir, give it the
breast,' shouted a facetious youth in the gallery
in an accent of life and death earnestness.
(Ears of laughter, during which the mother
was hoisted on to the platform, and received
the racked infant with a grateful curtsey.) I'm
not a mother myself, resumed Bob in a plaintive
tone, but faith, I'm as lit to nurse a baby
as Mr. Pickles is to nurse a constituents. He
drives it the bottle instead of the milk of human
kindness. (This allusion to Mr. Pickles being
a brewer was taken up in a moment and
uproariously received.) ' And I tell you what,
boys, I'd rather send that baby to Parliament
as your representative than Mr. Josiah Pickles,
It would make a deal more noise there, and if
it did do little good, it 'ud do no mischief.
Yes, by George, if you had to choose between

Josh and the baby, I'd say, " plump for the
baby," for the same reason that Mick Molly
told me yesterday he stuck an old hat in his
broken window, not to let in the light, but to
keep out the rain.' Then lie proceeded to
describe the millennium which the baby would
live to see. and of which they were now to lay
the foundation stone by the election of Mr.
Crowe.

We've given but a meagre epitome of one
of Bob's speeches, all of which, by the way,
owed their success rather to the manner than
the matter at the command of the orator.
Bob's jovial, genial manner, rolling voice, and
rich Clare brogue, put on double strong for the
occasion, were irresistible with an Irish audience.
And not the Irish only, but the English
Radicals, flocked to hear him as his fame
spread, and Bob for the nonce became the
most popular man in Weston with his own
party. To the other side he was, of course,
proportionately detestable. Xow if the Radicals
had the best speakers — as truly they
had — on their side, the Tories had the best
caricaturists, and poor Bob therefore was
gibbeted in every shop-window in Weston.

He and Bindon were sometimes represented as
4 carpet-daggers,' Bindon as thin as a lath, and
Bob as fat as Falstaff. Indeed, Falstaff was

the usual character in which Bob figured when

he was not represented as a carpet-bigger or asa
wild Irishman. In one cartoon as Falstaff
one of his wild exaggerations streamed out of
his month, while underneath was the quotation,
4 These lies are like their father that begets
them, gross as a mountain, open, palpable.'
In another a piece of sheltering blarney was
on his lips, and underneath the quotation,
Didst thou never see Titan kiss a dish of
butter?' In another lie was represented as
spouting a high-saluting panegyric on Erin to an
audience wholly hidden from him under his
enormous paunch, and underneath, 'How now,
my sweet creature of bombast ! How long
isn't ao-o, Bob, since thou safest thine own
knee?' till poor Bob, like Warren Hastings
to believe himself the monster his
enemies painted him. lie went privately and
got himself weighed — 232 lbs. It wasn't so
monstrous. But perhaps his stomach was
disproportionately prominent. He looked at
it in and out of the glass twenty times a day

from every point of view except that of which
his audience in the cartoon (sitting as it were
under the shadow of a great rock) had the
command. He yearned to ask an impartial
opinion on the point, but it was a difficult and
delicate subject to broach, even to a friend.
Besides, the only friend he could broach it to,
Bind on, was as jocose on the subject as the
cartoons themselves. To him Bob was always
4 Sweet Jack,' ' Plump Jack,' or ' Sir John Sack
and Sugar ; ' and Bob's occasional melancholy
meditations upon this infirmity of the flesh,
were mocked by the advice, ' A plague of sighing
and grief, it blows a man up like a bladder.'
Thus Bob's trouble, like all incommunicable
miseries, was consuming. For the present,
however, the excitement of the contest and the
opportunities of revenge it gave him on the
enemy kept him from brooding over it. If the
windows abused him, the walls flattered him,
for ' Mr. Eobert Sagar will address, disappeared
on every dead wall in letters large as
those announcing the appearances of the candidates
themselves. And if a new caricature of
him appeared every morning, a new oratorical
triumph consoled him every evening. For Bob

VOL. III. Q

never tired of speaking, and his audiences never
tired of hearing him. They would have
thought themselves repaid for being packed
like herrings in a barrel, if they had only seen
Bob come rolling on to the front of the platform,
with a face like the welcome of an Irish
hearth, frank, free-and-easy, glowing, and
generous, and heard him take his revenge, ashe
always did m the first few sentences.
Well, boys,' he would say, in a brogue round
and rich as a roll of Cork butter ; ' well, boy-what's
the news with ye to-night ? Have ye
seen my new portrait ? ' Then, with a startling
change of manner, ' Isn't it disgraceful ? For
what do you think they call me now?' half a
minute's pause, during which you might have
heard a pin drop, for Bob's rage seemed so
savage that everyone expected the announcement
of a new and abominable cartoon. They
call me AN IRISHMAN.' At this unexpected
calumny there was of course a roar of laughter,
all the more hearty for the preceding suspense.
Ay, ye may laugh,' continued Bob, without
the least relaxation of muscle or manner, ' buta
man had better be called a thief than an
Irishman in this country ; and Josh knows that,

and takes advantage of it, and thinks he'll win
the election by it, and blackguards me and you
and our country in every window in Weston,
and then — asks you for your vote,' with a
sudden drop of the voice which was very
effective. ' Ye '11 give it to him, won't ye ?
Ye'll go to him, and ye'll say to him, " Mr.
Pickles, yere honour, don't be too hard on us.
You shut us out from your Institute, you shut
us out from your works, you shut us out from
justice when you're on the bench, you'd shut
us out from Weston if you could, ay, and from
England if you could. But ye'll not shut us
out from the polling-booths, yere honour, will
ye ? Ye'll allow us to vote for ye ? God
bless yere honour, do now." Maybe he'll let
ye. If not, ye'll have to put up with Mr.
Bindon Crowe, who is only one of yourselves,
only an Irishman, who is not ashamed of his
country, and not ashamed of his family ' (here
a significant pause to let the audience take in
the allusion to Mr. Pickles' neglect of his niece,
which was taken in accordingly with intense
gusto) ; ' and not ashamed of his colours. He
doesn't change his colours like the chameleon
to suit the prevailing hue — yellow when yellow

q 2

is at the top, blue when blue. No, he's not
ashamed of his colour, though it's not blue, and
it's not yellow, but green. That's his colour,
boys, and to that he'll stick, as nature sticks toit,
for the blue goes with the spring, and the
yellow with the autumn, but green lives and
lasts all the year round.

Ashen laws can stop the blades of grass

From growing as they grow ;
And when the leaves in summer time

Their colour dare not show ;
Then he'll change that colour too

lie wears in his canteen,
But till that day, please God, he'll stick

To the wearing of the green.'

Bob might have been giving out a hymn, for
the audience rose like one man, and sang the
truly spirit-stirring song, ' The Wearing of the
Green,' amid the wildest excitement.

From the foregoing specimen it will be seen
that Bob's eloquence was dramatic, and gave
scope for good acting, and to this it owed its
success, for Bob was a born actor. As with
every successful speaker, it was not what he
said but how he said it, that told, and an
extract from his speeches gives no better idea
of their effect than the mere reading of ' The
Wearing of the Green ' gives an idea of its

effect when sung by a crowd of excited Irishmen.


Anyhow, Bob's eloquence, such as it was,
answered its purpose. Every Irishman in
Weston, out of jail or a sick bed, went to the
poll and voted for Bindon, and the Irish vote
turned the election.

Bindon Crowe, Esq. . 7,341

Josiah Pickles, Esq. . 6,212

Maj ori ty for Crowe . 1,129

It was a glorious triumph, of which Bob
deserved much of the credit and assumed it all.
The poll was no sooner declared late on Thursday
night than Bob anticipated the candidates
by starting up and in stentorian tones thanking
the electors. It was Bob, too, not Bindon, who
was chaired, a really stupendous honour when
his weight is considered. Of course, two days
later he appeared in a cartoon as Falstaff in the
buck-basket, coiled in it like a colossal snake,
covered with filthy Irish rags, and carried by
twenty staggering men to be pitched into the
Irish Channel. This cartoon Bob never saw.
He had disappeared from Weston. Instead of
waiting to enjoy (and no man would have

enjoyed them more) the golden opinions bought
from all sorts of people to he worn now in
their newest gloss, he had lied, no man knew
why or whither. He might have been baulked
by the janissaries of the furious Pickles for all
anyone knew, but Mabel and Mabel only knew
that some awful and ineffable business summoned
him away. Speculation was rife about
this grave mystery. His political friends
hinted that he was hurried off by telegram to
Ireland to advise Mr. Parnell. His foes gave
out that he was hurried off to jail to join the
Claimant on a kindred charge of forgery.
Bindon believed he had gone to pick up a seat
somewhere for himself, for Bob had more than
once bragged to him of this being in his power.
Mabel imagined from his sad and solemn and
mysterious leave-taking that he had been
summoned to help some old friend out of a
horrible scrape. He had told her (the day
after the election and two days before she
heard from Lawley of George's fate) that he
had to leave Weft on at once on very private
and pressing business, but what it was, where
it took him, and how long it would keep him.
he had not hinted. The truth was, Bob had

become an Omphalopsychyte. Those thrice
accursed cartoons had brought on stomach on
the brain. An advertisement of a famous
medicine with the attractive heading ' No more
Stomachs ' caught his eye in the Weston
Witness. The advertisement referred to an
article in the Lancet. The article in the
Lancet said it was either double or quits, but
that whether the medicine aggravated or abated
the stomach, the patient must take it in retirement.
Double or quits ! It was an awful
risk. He would risk it. He did. In three
weeks he left his lonely cottage in Wales to
get to the nearest scales. He was 263 lbs. !

CHAPTER XLIV.

TWO MORE PROPOSALS.

During the year which has elapsed since we
last saw Mabel, Lady Saddlethwaite contrived
that she should meet Lawley occasionally and
hear of him continually ; and all that she saw
and heard of him forced her to feel that lie was
more deeply and wretchedly in love with her
than ever. And, indeed, Lawley was not
happy about his prospects. Lady Saddle-thwart
admitted that the only symptom she
could see of the softening of Mabel's sorrow
was her willingness, or rather eagerness, to
talk about George and his fate — a subject from
which she shrank in the first weeks of her
bereavement. On the other band, it is true,
Lawley 's love for her was certainly the next
thing in her thoughts and among her troubles.
Lady Saddlethwaite had not the least doubt
in the world that Mabel's yielding was only a

question of time, though of a longer time than
she had anticipated ; but Lawley was not sanguine.
He had all a lover's impatience, without
a lover s hopefulness.

4 1 am crying for the moon, Lady Saddle-traite
'

I don't think she's quite so changeable as
that,' she answered smiling, ' but she'll change.'

There's not much sign of it.'

4 There's every sign of it. She thinks
about you almost as much as about him.'

Yes, but very differently. She thinks of
me as a creditor to whom she owes what
she can't pay. It's not so, but I can see she
thinks it is so and that's against me. A woman
likes to give her love, not pay it, Lady
Saddlethwaite.'

'I thought we were supposed to pay it.
You first give us your love and we return it ;
isn't it so? And that's the debt which is on
Mabel's mind, Mr. Lawley. Not her life,
which she owes you also, but your love, which
she thinks a great deal more of, and which she
is bound to pay you back one day.'

Do you think so ? ' eagerly.

Of course I think so, and you know that I

think so. What else have I been saying for a
year ? '

w For a year ! ' lie echoed with a sigh.

1 Yes ; a year. What would you have ?
Would you have the funeral baked meats
furnish the marriage tables ? '

'But it seems no nearer now than a year
ago,' with another and profounder sigh.

It's a year nearer ; that's all. It looks the
same on the surface, but her heart is being
slowly undermined.'

1 Lady Saddlethwaite, I'd give all I have in
the world to think so.'

That's why you don't think so. The wish
is not always father to the thought, Mr.
Lawley, not when the wish is a passion. But
it's not in human nature that she should hold
out much longer. A girl who is always thinking
and talking of you, and is almost as miserable
about it as you are ! '

It was quite true, and Lady Saddlethwaite
had taken good care to make it so. In spite
of her love, or rather because of her love for
Mabel, she kept her wretched by dwelling continually
on Lawley's wretchedness.

4 Mr. Lawley has been here again this

morning, Mabel, and has been making love tome
as usual.'

I think I should accept him if I were you,
Lady Saddlethwaite,' with an assumption of
gaiety.

I am glad to hear you say so, dear, for
you are me in this case. Fin only the Talking
Oak, and you're Olivia.'

1 What would you have me do, Lady
Saddlethwaite ? ? in a distressed voice.

1 I'd have you keep him as long as Rachel
kept Jacob ; seven years, or fourteen, was it ?
if he wasn't such a bore to me. But, to tell
you the truth, dear, one year of him is enough
for me. You know how I hate to have unhappy
faces about me, and to have this knight
of the rueful countenance come every other
day, and sit, and speak, and look like a lost
soul glaring through the gates of Paradise, is
too much, really. I can't well tell him to go
about his business, you know. But you could,
and you ought, too, if you don't care for
him.'

'But I do care for him — only not as he
wishes, not as he deserves.'

Oh, if you are only anxious about what he

wishes, I have no doubt he will be satisfied
with what you can give him. But, speaking
seriously, Mabel, dear, it makes me wretched
to see how unhappy he is about you ; more
unhappy, I think, every time I see him. You
should put him out of pain ; you should
indeed, dear. If you feel you do not and
cannot care for him, tell him so once for all.
It will be best for both. It couldn't make him
more wretched than he is, and you will be
easier when you are no more reminded of his
misery. For of course he will leave the neighbourhood
— leave the country, probably. He is
so chivalrous that he will do what he can to
help you to forget him, if he is persuaded that
the thought of him gives you pain.'

Mabel sat silent, looking straight before
her, her hands lying palm upwards in her lap,
with the fingers intertwined and pressed convulsively
together. She looked a piteous
picture of distress, and moved Lady Saddle-thwart
with remorse for the pain she had
given and had meant to give for her good.

It's not your fault, dear, if you can't care for
him,' she said, standing over Mabel and smoothing
back her hair with her hand soothingly.

1 You mean love him — love him as I loved

as I loved My love died with him. I

cannot bring it back to life. What shall
I do, Lady Saddlethwaite ? ' looking up helplessly
and appealingly into the kind face above
her.

4 Do you think he would make you happy,
Mabel ? '

6 It's not that ; but should I make him
happy ? '

4 It's the same thing dear. He'll never be
happy without you in this world ; I know that,
and it will always be a trouble to you to think
so.'

1 But could he be happy with me ? How
could he be happy? He's too noble to be
happy without love, Lady Saddlethwaite.'

1 But I think you do love him, child. How
could you help it ? '

Not as I ought to love him, and he ought
to be loved. I love him as well as I shall ever
love anyone again ; but the love he asks for I
haven't it to give anyone — it's gone from me
for ever.'

1 If you love him as well as you can love
anyone, there is no more to be said. It would

be wrong and cruel, too, and not like you,
dear, to keep him wretched an hour long* r."

'To make him wretched for life! Dear
Lady Saddlethwaite, it would come to that.'

Indeed, my dear, it would come to nothing
of the sort. You've love enough left in your
heart to make any man happy.'

Mabel was silent for a moment.

1 might have thought so if I hadn't loved,'
she said at last in a low voice.

But Mr. Lawley thinks so, and he is the
best judge of his own happiness, Mabel. He
doesn't want finer bread than can be made of
wheat. He is starving while you are hesitating
whether what you can give him is choice
enough.'

4 Hesitating whether I should drive him a
stone w T hen he asks for bread, Lady Saddle-thwart.'


My dear child, the love you can give him
is not wedding-cake, but it's just such good
plain wholesome bread as all married couples
have to come down to when the honeymoon i^
over.'

Mabel was silenced, or silent at least.
Lady Saddlethwaite resumed after a pause. ' I

know you and Mr. Lawley, Mabel, better than
you know each other, perhaps better than you
know yourselves, and I'm sure of this, that no
two people in the world would be more happy
together or more unhappy apart. At least I
can answer for his unhappiness ; it will last his
life and mar all his usefulness. I speak most
of his happiness, dear, because I know that is
most in your mind ; but it is of your happiness
that I am thinking most. If you had been my
daughter — and I think you were sent to me,

Mabel, in place of my dead daughter ' Here

Lady Saddlethwaite paused in some agitation,
stroking Mabel's hair with a trembling hand
the while. But soon mastering her emotion,
she continued — ' If you were my own daughter,
dear, I would urge and press his suit on you
even more earnestly than I venture to do now ;
I should be so certain of his making you happy.
When Lord Charlecote proposed to you last
autumn I said nothing in his favour, did I ?
though he was one of the best matches and of
one of the best families in Yorkshire. But I knew
you would be happier with Mr. Lawley, happier
with him than with anyone else in the world ;
and you will make him so happy, and me too,

Mabel.' Who could resist such pressure? Lady
Saddlethwaite pleading so for Archer Lawley
the two people dearest to her in the world !
It was irresistible. As for Lord Charlecote, it
was quite true that Lady Saddlethwaite had not
urged Mabel to accept him, probably because
she, no more than Mabel, was prepared for his
proposal. His lordship had rushed down from
London on one of his mad and sudden impulses,
bent upon carrying Mabel by storm. It was
four months since he had met her in Eome,
and he might almost have forgotten her, after
his manner, by this, if his mother had not
judiciously kept her name and image ever
before him by twitting him thereabout perpetually.
He had rushed off to Weston, then,
after his impulsive manner, one morning upon
the receipt of a letter from Lady Saddlethwaite
in which Mabel was casually mentioned ; and
he was in St. George's Girls' School the same
afternoon at 3.30. Mr. Gant was just about to
begin his religious lecture to the children, but
was struck speechless by hearing Mabel address
the intruder as * Lord Charlecote.' Lord
Charlecote, was a great name in the West
Biding.

Lord Charlecote ! ' she exclaimed.

Had you heard I was dead ? ' in answer to
Mabel's look of amazement.

No ; but it's a surprise to see you here,
my lord. Some way, I always think of you as
in Italy.'

'It's a pleasant association. I, too, think
of you always ; ' here he paused intentionally
or unintentionally and changed the subject.
They were standing together near the classroom
door, out of earshot of the children, the
teachers, and even of Mr. Gant, who had
retired in dudgeon to the far end of the room
because Mabel had not introduced him. Still
it is difficult, off the stage, to be sentimental
with two hundred pairs of eyes fastened on
you. ' And so this is a national school,' said
his lordship, changing the subject, and looking
round at the children with such an expression
of scientific interest in these strange creatures
as made Mabel say —

You should see them under a microscope,
my lord. They're very interesting.'

Lord Charlecote laughed. ' Can you tear
yourself away from them ? I should like, if you

VOL. III. R

will kindly accompany me, to call upon Colonel
Masters.'

'He's too ill, my lord, thank you. lie
knows no one now, not me even.'

I am very sorry.'

1 But you'll come in for a moment ? '

4 Thank you.'

Having said a word to Mr. Gant and the
assistant-mistress, and put her things on, Mabel
accompanied Lord Charlecote to the cottage.
She was gratified and even grateful for his
attention, which she had not the least idea of
construing into ' attentions.' He had, indeed,
all but proposed to her before they parted in
Italy, but Lady Saddlethwaite had warned her
to consider his attentions as of the value of
Gratian's conversation — two grains of wheat to
a bushel of chaff. It was only ' his way ' with
every attractive woman he met. Mabel, therefore,
not being given to fancy everyone in love
with her, was duly fortified against what she
considered to be only a brisk discharge of
blank cartridge. Lord Charlecote, on the other
hand, was perhaps as deeply in love with her ashe
could be with anyone except himself. She
was the only woman he remembered a month

after she was out of his sight ; and, while she
was an ideal Cinderella, there was no part he
would better like to play than that of the
magnanimous prince — King Cophetua in fact.
It was a startling and eccentric part, would set
everyone talking in amazement, first at the unworthiness,
and afterwards (when he exhibited
his prize) at the worthiness of his choice. But
somehow when the time came for him to put
out his hand and raise the beggar-maid from
the dust and offer her a coronet, he was nervous
and embarrassed, and began to doubt how the
beggar-maid would take it. Mabel, although
a national schoolmistress, was a stately personage,
and he was constrained in her presence
rather to look up to her than down upon her.
In fact, when he sat face to fact with her in the
cottage sitting-room, all the beggar-maid series
of scenes which had filled his mind while coining
down in the train seemed absurdly inappropriate,
and King Cophetua was fain to become
the fated fairy prince While he was accommodating
his mind to the new role they talked
together, of course, of Italy.

8 1 am glad,' he said at last, nerving himself
for the spring, 4 1 am glad you associate me with

R 2

>

Italy. I always associate Italy with you.
A graceful turn to the compliment, making
all the charms of Italy but the background to
hers.

'It's a doubtful compliment from you, my
lord.'

What ? to be associated with Italy ? '

8 With the old masters, and other dreary
things you had to do.'

With the happiest hours of my life,' he
said, speaking hurriedly and nervously. ; I
never was so happy before, and I've not had a
happy moment since we parted — Miss Masters
—Mabel '

There could be no doubt now of what was
coming, and Mabel, amazed and confounded as
she was, hurried to interrupt, and save him
from the humiliation of a refusal.

4 They would have been very happy hours
to me, too, my lord, but that I've had a great
sorrow — a great sorrow which has left me no
heart for anything.' They were both standing :
he having risen to make, and she to meet and
ward of! his proposal. There was no mistaking
her meaning, and he, though a good deal taken
aback, didn't mistake it. It was not their

words but their manner that made the meaning
of each so unmistakable to the other.

4 1 ought not to have intruded on your
trouble. I hope you'll forgive me, and in time

perhaps in time ,' pleadingly taking and

pressing her hand. Mabel did not withdraw it,
but again interrupting him, said very gently,
but very firmly —

1 have no hope, my lord, that I shall ever
feel differently about it than I do now ; but
your — your sympathy has touched me deeply
more than I can express to you.' There was
a pleading look in the pained face raised to his
that said more eloquently than words, 'Do not
urge it,' and Lord Charlecote saw that to urge
it would be cruel and useless.

c You will forgive me,' he said again.

1 1 can never forget your kindness / my
lord.'

So they parted ; Lord Charlecote, of course,
more in love than ever, and Mabel taking herself
sternly to task for the unfeeling and unbecoming
levity which could alone have encouraged
so true a gentleman as Lord Charlecote
to think her heart free.

It was to this proposal Lady Saddlethwaite

alluded — of a second, which Lord Charlecote
five months later made to Mabel by letter, she
had never heard ; but of the first she had heard
from his own lips. He had gone direct from
Mabel's house to Hollyhurst, to pour all his love
and loss into her sympathetic ears.

Lady Saddlethwaite, therefore, didn't deserve
the credit she claimed of not pressing
upon Mabel a suit which had been rejected
before she heard of it. But she did deserve
much credit for referring to Lord Charlecote's
brilliant birth and position not more than once
or twice each time she met Mabel, and for
throwing the weight of her influence into Lawley's
scale. It is true it was the scale in which
alone it had the least chance of telling. It told,
as we have suggested above, and Lady Saddle-thwart
lost not a moment in letting Lawley
know of her success. It was Friday evening
when Mabel appeared to capitulate, and Lady
Saddlethwaite, when she went upstairs to dress
for dinner, scrawled a hasty pencilled note to
Lawley, bidding him be at Hollyhurst the next
morning at a certain hour, when he would find
Mabel alone in the library — (if Lady Saddle-thwart
could so contrive it) — and might press

his suit at last with some hope of success.
Having committed this happy despatch to
Parker, to be sent at once to the post Lady
Saddlethwaite joined Mabel in the drawing-room,
with a face dressed in such innocent
smiles as might have aroused the girl's suspicions
if she had been suspicious. But she
wasn't, and she fell into the trap (the library)
set for her, and was duly caught therein the
next morning by Mr. Archer Lawley.

She was standing on an improvised ladder
of two hassocks, on a chair, her back to the
door, her right hand raised above her head, to
reach down a book from the bookcase — an
attitude which showed her perfect figure to
advantage. She didn't turn round upon hearing
the door opened — by Lady Saddlethwaite
as she supposed.

I have found " Celebes, " Lady Saddle-thwart.'
For, indeed, Lady Saddlethwaite
had told her facetiously to look out for
1 Celebes in Search of a Wife.' It wasn't the
most refined or exquisite of jokes, but Lady
Saddlethwaite had to express her irrepressible
triumph in some veiled form or other.

It's I, Miss Masters.' In a moment Mabel

saw the trap which had been set for her, an 1
the dull point of the poor joke Lady Saddle-thwart
condescended to in the exuberance of
her triumph. It was not in human nature to feel
no annoyance at being so betrayed, and even
Mabel was a little annoyed even with Lady
Saddlethwaite, and expressed the feeling in the
tone of her greeting to Lawley.

Mr. Lawley ! ' with a little vexation as
well as surprise in the tone of the exclamation,
and in the expression of the flushed face she
turned towards him. Lawley 's heart sank
within him. It was not encouraging, and he
was easily discouraged.

4 1 should apologise for intruding,' he said
hesitatingly, without advancing. Mabel was
ashamed of her pettishness, and touched to
the quick by the dejection expressed in his face.

For startling me, you mean, Mr. Lawley.
You couldn't think a visit from you an intrusion.
At the same time you could hardly
expect me to be grateful to you for surprising
me perched up here, could you ? However, if
you'll help me down I'll forgive you.' Lawley
was not slow to earn his forgiveness.

4 Thank you. Have you seen Lady Saddle-thwart

? she doesn't know you are here,
perhaps,' going towards the bell. She would
have done or given anything to put off the
decision which she felt must be made in a
moment.

No. Don't ring. I came to see you, 1 in
short, quick, agitated gasps, which, coming
from Lawley, suggested a volcanic force and
fire of feeling that awed and arrested Mabel.
6 Mabel, I bade you good-bye at Genoa, but I
didn't mean it. I couldn't mean it. I hoped
you would come one day to feel differently, and
the hope has been my life — my life. I cannot
live without it.' The words were strong ; but,
like the escape of steam at a tremendous pressure,
they rather indicated than fully expressed
the force which underlay them. But the very
greatness of his love only made Mabel falter.
What had she to give in exchange for this
Titanic passion? Such a return as the cold
pale light of the moon makes to the glow and
glory of the sun it reflects. There was a kind
of childlike awe in her heart and in her face
as she looked up at the intense light of love
that shone down upon her out of Lawley's
dark eyes.

'What shall I say?' in a voice that
trembled and seemed to plead for forgiveness.
I have no love like yours to give. I like you,
and shall like you always, better than anyone
else, but that is not enough.'

It is enough and more than enough,' cried
Lawley, with an impetuosity which was startling
from him, seizing and imprisoning both her
hands in his. ' Only take my love. Do not
reject it. It is all I ask.'

1 But you will want more. You will not
be happy ; it is of your happiness I think.'

My happiness ! ' He drew her to him and
passionately kissed her on the brow, cheeks.
and lips, rebuked only by her burning blushes.
Yet Mabel's heart rebelled. These kisses recalled
the dead to her, and accused her of
unfaithfulness to his memory. Besides, the
wild, devouring passion they expressed only
made her realise more miserably the fifteen
between the love she was given and the liking
she had to give. A love which was a mere
liking, though the strongest of likings, was not
what he asked or gave, or what she must vow
to him at the altar. On the other hand, she
had been so used all her life to find her happiness

in the happiness of others, that Lawley's
perfect joy was sweet to her. Not as the
sweetest of flattery only, but as something she
had given him for all he had been, and done,
and suffered for her sake.

On the whole, the probabilities w r ere all on
Lady Saddlethwaite's side when she said that
night to Mabel, ' I thank you now, my dear,
but the time will come when you will thank
me for praying you, like an Italian beggar, todo
good to yourself." \

CHAPTER XLV.

PUSHED FROM HIS STOOL.

Lawley stayed over Sunday at Hollyhurst.
The large fortune left him by his uncle enabled
him to keep, among other luxuries, a curate,
whom he overwhelmed by a telegram asking
him to take all the duty of the day following.
One sermon was nearly as grievous a burden
to the newly-ordained curate as to his hearers,
and two were crushing, especially when ordered
late on Saturday afternoon ; but, though Lawley
knew this, and felt for his wretched victim,
he could not tear himself away from Mabel.
She had no need to be concerned for his
happiness if these first hours of their engagement
were any augury of the future. ' Usually
in love,' says the cynical Frenchman, ' one loves
and the other submits to be loved ; ' and again,
In love, to love a little is the surest way to beloved
much.' Whatever truth there is in these

maxims — and no doubt there is some truth in
them — helps to explain the intensity of Lawley's
love and happiness. It was enough for him
that Mabel accepted his love and his life.
Mabel took these great gifts with awe and
exceeding diffidence, and found them even
greater than she had imagined. Lawley disclosed
to her a depth of tenderness of which
she had no conception. Even when Lady
Saddlethwaite was present all his cynicism was
sheathed. Out of the depths sprung up a
fountain of kindly humour as a fountain of
sweet water sometimes springs out from the
depths of the ocean, in strange contrast to the
acrid cynicism he was given to. But when
Mabel and he were tete-astute, and he opened
his whole heart to her, she found in it, as we
say, a depth of womanly tenderness which
amazed and touched and drew her to him
irresistibly. He told her frankly of the source
of his cynicism and misogyny — the treachery
of his first love, a young lady who jilted him
for his elder brother — now dead — and to whom
he allowed no small proportion of his income.
About her, we need hardly say, Mabel
was extremely curious. Lawley, however, was

much more anxious to speak of his present love,
and could hardly be got off this fascinating
subject. He had the tact, too, scarcely to be
looked for from a lunatic or a lover, to dwell
upon the amount of good Mabel could do clergyman's
wife among the poor and in the
schools, and to himself. For, he gave her to
understand with perfect truth, that since he alost
in love he had no heart for sacred or
secular work, or anything but her. Mabel
archly suggested that this great work of reclamation
put at such length before her might
have been tersely expressed in one word — ' the
MacGucken;' that she was chosen as the less
of two evils, on the same principle as that by
which a special fiery sherry was tried by the
late Lord Derby to expel the gout, and with
probably as unsatisfactory a result, for his lordship,
upon trial of both, preferred the gout.
But, indeed, Mr. Lawley had hit upon a happy
plan for ridding himself of the MacGucken, or
lather, for ridding the MacGucken of himself.
He would build a vicarage, leaving the ould
house as a hospital in her charge. He intended
to make the church some present, and might
as well put it in a form which would benefit at

the same time his parish and himself. But
while the vicarage was being built he meant to
go abroad — with Mabel. In other words, he
meant that they should be married at once and
spend a long honeymoon in those places —
treasured carefully in his memory — which he
had heard Mabel at different times express a
wish to see. Mabel, thus startled into realising
her betrothal, recoiled from an immediate
marriage, and was with difficulty wearied into
consenting to its taking place three months
hence. With this hardly-wrung concession
Lawley was fain to be content, and for the rest
was absolutely and supremely 'happy, too
happy, fey. As he drove into the school with
Mabel on Monday morning he dwelt on the
happiness she had given him in terms which
almost terrified her. Even if she loved him
with her whole heart she could not have made
him half as happy as he hoped, but as it was —
her heart sank within her. But he — he had
no misgivings. He was in wild spirits, intoxicated
with that true vino Dcemonum, day
dreams, and little thought that the passionate
kiss he pressed upon her lips as they neared
the school was his last.

Two hours after they parted at the .school
door he was again at Hollyhurst, wild and
bewildered with an unopened letter in hill
hand.

4 Mr. Lawley ! what has happened ? '

He handed Lady Saddlethwaite the unopened
letter, whose address, however, told
her no story.

4 From him,' he said, sinking into a chair,
and looking wildly up at her. Lady Saddle-thwart
began to think his brain was affected.

4 From him ? From whom P '

4 Kneeshaw ! '

4 The murdered man ? '

Lawley nodded.

4 Nonsense ! Impossible ! You haven't
opened it.' She still thought his head turned.

4 1 can't,' he said hoarsely, starting up and
striding to the mantelpiece, and leaning his
face upon his folded arms.

4 You open it.'

Lady Saddlethwaite tore open the envelope
and looked at the signature of the letter.
4 George B. Kneeshaw.' She looked back to
the address and date, in the hope which Lawley
had been too stunned to think of, that the

letter was an old one. No, it was elated seven
weeks since. She sat down, stunned also.
Presently lie faced round, white, haggard, looking
ten years older than he looked two hours
since.

What does he say ? '

I haven't read it, but it's from him.'

Yes, it's from him. He was my dearest
friend, yet I wished him dead. God ! how I
love that girl ! '

He turned from her again and buried his
face in his hands. Lady Saddlethwaite looked
on in helpless pity. At last she said,

He cares nothing for her. Why didn't he
write to her all this time ? He has forgotten
her. I should let her forget him.'

Does he say nothing of her ? ' he cried
with sudden hope, turning once more, and
taking the letter from her hand. Its very first
words had an application little intended by the
writer.

My dear Lawley,

The times have been,
That, when the brains were out the man would die
And there an end, but now they rise again,
With twenty mortal murders on their crowns,
And push us from our stools.

VOL. III. S

(ray "push us from our stool.' repeated
Lawley bitterly.)

1 You at least will rejoice to hear that I am
alive ; aud yet I left you all this time iu the
belief that I was murdered ; aud I should not
have written even now even to you if it was
not for the horrible news of her engagement,
which I came upon by an accident in a scrap of
an old newspaper. I've gone through terrible
sufferings since we parted, but I never knew
what agony was till then. I thought I could
write calmly ; I cannot '

Here the letter broke off and resumed under
a new date a day later.

4 1 allowed her to think me dead that she
might be free to do as she has done ; but I did
not realise what it would be to me, or I could
not have done it. Poor as I was, broken infortune
and health, a beggar and on the brink
of starvation, I should have kept her to her
miserable casement sooner than suffer this
if I had known what torture it would be to me.
I did try to keep her to it when too late, when
it would only have made her wretched without
lightening my wretchedness. When I read the
news I started for Castlemaine as I was, iu

workman's clothes, meaning to telegraph both
to her and you. But when I reached the town
I had no money, and could get none, and had
to go home, two days' journey, and so had time
to come to myself, and to come to thank God
that I was saved from doing a cruel and dastardly
thing. But I was mad in those first
moments, and am mad, or at least, not sane, at
times now. That she should engage herself,
within two months was it ? of the news of my
murder ! It is maddening. Who was this
Lord Charlecote ? She w r as the last girl in the

world I should have thought . Lawley,

you can never know how I loved that girl. I
could have died for her. It would have been
easier and better for me to have died for her
than to have allowed her to think me dead
that she might be free to forget me — in two
months ! Yet since the day we parted there
has not been one waking hour in which she
was out of my thoughts. It was my own
fault, you will say. I should have written and
prevented or contradicted the report of my
murder. You will not say so when you hear
my story.'

The letter then proceeded to give in out

2

line the story we have already told of George
fortunes, carrying it on to the day when he
came upon the news of Mabel's engagement
to Lord Charlecote. Just before he chang
upon it, a wool speculation had turned out so
extraordinarily well that he had made his mind
up to write home and break the news of his
being alive and prosperous, through Lawley, to
Mabel, if she still were free.

George's letter closed with a short, simple,
and touching allusion to their friendship, the
only thing now left to him in the world.

The letter touched Lawley with remorse,
and brought him back to his stronger and better
self. Nothing showed the intensity and almost
insanity of his passion more than the breakdown
of his strength of mind. That he, of all
men, should not have had the courage to open
the letter, or the fortitude to bear the bitterness
of the blow alone. He must forsooth rush
off to Lady Saddlethwaite, like a hurt child,
and hand her the unopened letter. And what
was this horrible news which he could not read
himself, or bear alone ? That his dearest friend,
whose murder had been horrible news to him,
was alive ! But the letter recalled him to himself.

He was shocked with himself, ashamed,
and humiliated.

You must break it to her,' he said, handing
Lady Saddlethwaite the letter, which, to tell
the truth, she would have liked to put in the
fire.

And you ? ' she asked, with the deepest
sympathy in her voice.

Oh, I'm de trop. It's my turn to go to
Australia now,' he answered bitterly, rising to
take leave.

8 Don't go,' she said entreatingly, ' wait till
I come back. There will be some message.'

Lawley shook his head. ' She will not
have a thought to spare to me. I must go,
Lady Saddlethwaite, I am better alone.'

After Lawley had gone, Lady Saddlethwaite
sat with the letter in her lap, enraged at heart.
Who was this man that came in to upset her
plans at the moment of their success, to disturb
and destroy the happiness of the two people in
whom she was most interested ? This do£ in
the manner who showed a fine indifference to
Mabel when no one else wanted her, but began
to whine when she was won by another. And
who showed this fine indifference not to his

own feelings only, but to hers, since a telegram
would have saved her all the cruel and crushing
anguish she had gone through for him.

Lady Saddlethwaite hadn't taken in what,
however, was plainly put in the letter, that the
news of his murder did not reach George until
months after it had reached Mabel. Indeed,
she was too thorough a woman to be just, and
Alas really enraged with George because lie
wasn't Lawley. However, there was no help
for it, she must herself be the instrument to
unravel all the work she had painfully knit up
in the last year. She must at once see Mabel,
and break this thing to her, and let her be
happy in her own perverse way. There waa at
least the consolation that the girl would be
happy. Still Lady Saddlethwaite set forth on
her joyous mission in not much better heart
than she had gone on her mission of consolation
more than a year since.

As it was past twelve before Lady Saddle-thwart
reached Weston Mabel was at home,
and on seeing the carriage stop she hastened in
some disquietude to meet her kind friend at the
door. What could have happened to bring
her in little more than three hours after they

had parted ? Mabel was — what with her was
most unusual — nervous and unstrung, in the
mood for imagining evils of all kinds. Lawley's
wild raptures had frightened her. Such a love
must be exacting, and what had she to pay ?
It was wrong to marry him — wrong to him,
wrong to herself, wrong; to God. And to the
memory of George what was it ! She read his
letters over, and looked over all the relics of
him she had treasured until her sorrow came
upon her almost fresh as the first day, and
flooded her heart till it overflowed in unusual
tears. Traces of her trouble on her face made
Lady Saddlethwaite ask the question which, at
the same moment, was on the lips of Mabel.

Has anything happened, dear ? '

No, nothing. Had you heard that something
had happened to me, Lady Saddle-thwart?'
asked Mabel, surprised and perplexed.

No, dear, but you have trouble in your
face. The old trouble ? '

Mabel was silent. She felt that Lady
Saddlethwaite would almost resent her relapse
into mourning for George at the very moment
of her engagement to Lawley. She was

relieved when Lady Saddlethwaite said
pleasantly,

You're incorrigible, my dear ; but I
suppose I must let you be happy in your
own way,' which Mabel of course construed to
mean, ' if fretting is a relief to you, I mustn't
scold you for it.'

You're already regretting your engagement,
child ? ' interrogatively.

'Dear Lady Saddlethwaite, I'm regretting
only my ingratitude and heartlessness. He
gives me so much for — for nothing.'

You don't know how generous he is,
Mabel,' cried Lady Saddlethwaite impetuously.
And then, after a pause, 'He's been with me
since we parted this morning, and asked me
to come to see you.' Another pause, during
which Mabel was plunged in perplexity.

6 He's had news from Australia, dear.
Good news,' she hastened to add, for the girl
looked aghast at the mere name.

Good news ! '

Mabel sat, white as marble, with wide eyes
and parted lips, as though she saw a spirit —
George's spirit. Lady Saddlethwaite ros

alarmed to ring for some wine, but Mabel
clutched her dress with a convulsive grasp.

He's not dead ! ' she gasped.

Lady Saddlethwaite was distressed and disgusted
with her own clumsiness.

1 There's a report, dear,' she began hesitatingly.


1 Only a report ! You wouldn't bring me
only a report. He's not dead ! ' she cried
breathlessly, with a desperate intensity in her
look which frightened Lady Saddlethwaite.

8 No, he's not dead ! ' she said bluntly,
thinking the shock of the truth better than the
strain of the suspense. Mabel's hand relaxed
its hold of Lady Saddlethwaite's dress as she
fell back — not fainting — conscious, but helpless
as in a dream. Lady Saddlethwaite rung the
bell, and Mabel followed her movements with
her eyes with the listless curiosity of a convalescent
who cannot collect or concentrate his
thoughts. The shock had, so to speak, knocked
reason off the box, and the scattered team of
her faculties wandered at will without direction
or control. Jane brought in wine, which Lady
Saddlethwaite administered like a medicine to
her patient, and so woke her up as from sleep.

'It is true?' she asked, seizing Lady
Saddlethwaite's hand, and looking up appealingly
as for life into her nice.

Now, Mabel, I shall tell you nothing till
you are calmer,' Lady Saddlethwaite answered
with calculated severity. 'Let me help you t<>
the sofa, and lie down a bit till you are more
composed.'

4 1 think I can manage that without help,
dear Lady Saddlethwaite,' she said, rising with
an assumption of composed strength, but she
had to sit down again, her head swimming, and
her limbs trembling and failing her. Lady
Saddlethwaite made her finish the glass of
sherry and then helped her to the sofa. Mabel,
laid on the sofa, did not trust herself again to
speak, lest the unsteadiness of her voice would
belie any assurance of calmness, but she expressed
her yearning more eloquently through
the pressure of Lady Saddlethwaite's hand,
through her parted lips and her eyes feverishly
bright fastened on her friend's face with a
devouring eagerness.

Yes, he's alive, dear,' said Lady Saddle-thwart
in a voice that would have suited better
with an announcement of death, for she could

not forgive George his unconscionable resurrection.
' Mr. Lawley brought the news this
morning, and asked me to break it to you.
There was no one to break it to him she continued,
thinking it both wise and just to divert
to her displaced lover Mabel's strained attention.
' I never felt so much for anyone — not
even for you, dear — as I felt for him this
morning. I hardly knew him, he looked so
wild and haggard. He scarcely knew what he
did or what he said, and could not bring himself
to open the letter.'

A letter from George ! ' exclaimed Mabel.
Alas, for Lawley ! All his love and grief could
not secure him now a higher interest than that
of a postman. Love is as jealous and cruel
as an eastern despot who slays all his kindred
that he may reign in secure loneliness. Lady
Saddlethwaite resented, as well she might, this
insensibility to the sufferings of her ill-used
protege.

'Yes; a letter from Mr. Kneeshaw. He
wrote in good time,' she said bitterly.

Mabel heard without heeding the sarcasm.

But why didn't he write to why

didn't he write before ? '

1 Why, indeed ! ' cried Lady Saddlethwaite,
more and more embittered.

4 Doesn't the letter explain?' a kind of
terror in her tremulous voice. A horrible
heart-sickness seized her. Was he faithless
Lady Saddlethwaite's sympathies deserted at
once to her side.

4 It's your letter, dear. It's all about you.
You'd better read it. It can't upset you more
than my bungling.' She drew the letter from
her pocket and handed it to Mabel. Mabel
held it in her shaking hands and tried to read
it, but a mist dimmed her eyes and the letters
ran together. She could not read a word.

8 I cannot read it,' she said helplessly.
4 Will you read it for me, Lady Saddle-thwart
? '

There's nothing but inxxl news in it,
child. He loves you still to distraction ; but
lie's been ill and unfortunate, and did not think
it fair to keep you to a hopeless engagement.'

Oh, it was cruel,' cried Mabel, trying
again to read it in vain. ' Fleaseread it for me,
Lady Saddlethwaite.'

Lady Saddlethwaite read the first few
lines.

'What engagement?' cried Mabel, starting
up into a sitting posture.

Oh, it was some story of your engagement
to Lord Charlecote that got into Malignant and
was copied into an Australian paper.' Mabel
stood up strong with excitement.

1 1 must telegraph. Will you kindly drive
me down to the office ? '

That's a very good idea, dear,' said Lady
Saddlethwaite, knowing that nothing would
o-ive such relief to Mabel as immediate action.
1 shall just finish the letter and take you
down with me. There, sit down, child. It
won't take many minutes to read it through.'

Mabel sat down and heard the long letter
to the end. But when Lady Saddlethwaite had
finished it, and Mabel attempted to rise, she
trembled so that she could hardly stand, and
was fain to sit down again.

'You will go ; you will send it,' she sobbed.
a kind of tearless sob.

I shall send Jane with it at once. There,
lie down, dear. I shall stay with you, and
Jane will take it at once.' She rose and went
to the table to write it.

'Tell him to come home, Lady Saddle-thwart.'



4 1 have told him, child. He'll get it in a
few hours and be here in a few week-she

rang and gave Jane due instruction-and
nearly sent her also into hysterics with the
news. But as Lacy Saddlethwaite told her she
must not lose a moment, the discreet Jane suppressed
her feelings for the present. In a short
time she came back breathless.

Please, my lady, the post-office man
wouldn't send it at first. He said there mu-t
be some mistake, for he had sent it off half-an -
hour ago.'

Mr. Lawley ! ' exclaimed Lady Saddle-thwart.


Yes, my lady ; he asked me if I wasn't
Mr. Lawley 's servant, but when I told him it
was from your ladyship he sent it.'

Yet Mabel had forgotten him.

She will not have a thought to spare tome,'
he had said, and said truly.

Chapter Xlii.

THE BRATTLE.'

Lawley had an eccentric habit which had done
most — next to his carelessness about money — to
get him the character of being ' a bit touched '
among the shrewder folk of Fenton. When
he couldn't sleep, either from over-smoking or
over-working his brain, he would get up and
go out at all hours of the night or early morning
to take an exhausting walk, and so force
on sleep by means of bodily fatigue. But now
sleep seemed to have gone from him altogether,
and beyond recall. For two nights after the
receipt of George's letter he had not closed his
eyes. On the third he went to bed late — or
?army, rather — at about two in the morning ;
and, after tossing miserably for three hours, got
up and went out to walk himself weary. On
starting he took bye-paths, out of the track of
men on the way to the mine, and girls to the

factory ; but ass these streams ceased to flow at
six o'clock, he ventured to return home by the
highway, and was thereby caught in a torrent
he little expected. A crowd of women, not
girls, but matrons, breathless, frenzied, flying
as for life, overtook him at a crossing, and
swept him on with them. They were colliers'
wives and mothers, and he knew at once that
there had been a pit accident.

An accident ? '

'Aye.'

Where ? '

4 Garth ogles.'

How many down F '

Four.'

Four, indeed, was the number that this
poor woman had in the pit — a husband and
three sons, and she had no room in her mind
for the sixty-three others who were down also.
A railway accident in which twenty are killed
creates a greater sensation than a pit accident
in which three hundred lives are lost, because
everyone travels by rail, but only the poorest
work in a pit. For this very reason, however,
a pit accident is the most deplorable possible,
since all the killed are poor, and all breadwinners

; and the ]inviting of a pipe or the
opening of a lamp desolates a whole village like
an earthquake. In this case, however, it was
not the recklessness of any of the sufferers, but
the carelessness of the engine tenter that caused
the accident. The man was bemused from the
effects of a drunken debauch, and overfond
a heavy curve of coal which, carried over the
top gearing, broke loose, thundered back down
the shaft, and, crashing against some massive
oaken beams more than two-thirds of the way
down, shivered them to watchword, and wrecked
the lower part of the double shaft of which they
were the support. More than 100 tons of earth,
rock, and timber fell in and choked the shaft,
cutting off not only the escape of the miners,
but their air supply also, since the air trunks
were wrecked. There were sixty seven men
and boys down at the time, fifty-four of them
in the better-bed seam, which was forty yards
below the black-bed, and was connected with
it by a small shaft. Their case was desperate.
Only three men would have had room to work
at removing the rubbish, and these could work
only at the risk of their lives, since earth
and stones fell at intervals from the shattered

VOL. III. T

sides of the shaft. Long before so few men,
-working under such difficulties, could have
cleared the shaft, the imprisoned pitman would
have been starved to death ; and long before
they could have been starved, they would haw-been
suffocated, for the ventilating shaft, which
was divided only by a partition from the main
shaft, was choked with its ruins.

It was hopeless to attempt anything, and
nothing was attempted. A few men stood
silent and paralysed, looking down the mouth of
the shaft ; round them was a crowd of women,
the wives and mothers of the doomed miners —
some still, as though turned to stone, others
shrieking piteously ; a few besieging the engine-house
and clamouring savagely for the engine
tenter, while those nearest the inner circle of
men clutched and clung to them, asking the same
question in the same words a hundred times
over. A sudden and a moment's silence stilled
them all when Lawley appeared. It was a
touching tribute to the character he had earned
for helping the helpless. There was hardly a
man or woman there whom he had not helped
at some time and in some way. and who had
not a vague hope of help from him now. In

another moment, and as they made way for
him to approach the pit's month, the silence
was broken, the women appealing to him in
heart-rending tones for the lives of their sons
and husbands, as if he held them in his hand.

It's awr Tom ; he tailed i' t' Sunday
school.'

Another, pushing her roughly aside and
clutching his arm with the grip of a vice, cried
in a fierce hoarse voice, ' Think on, aw've nowt
boon ground nah. Aw've five dawn, do ye
hear, five ! '

Another, with an insane look in her eyes,
pressed upon him a basket with her husband
and boy's ' drinking ' in it, which, upon hearing
of the accident, she had set to deliberately and
packed. * Tak' it to 'em, wilt ta ? Shoo says,'
nodding towards a neighbour, ' they'll never
coom up again no more.'

Lawley made his way through all this
misery to the pit's mouth.

How was it ? '

The pit steward told him.

4 Have you been down ? '

We've lowered the bucket, sir, and it
won't go much more than half-way ! '

T 2

Lawley stepped into the bucket, taking a
safety-lamp from one of the men. 'Lower
away ! ' he cried.

The voices of these poor women in his ears
drove him upon action of some kind.

4 The sides are falling in, sir! '

'Lower away! ' he cried again, impatiently.

4 For God's sake, Mr. Lawley '

4 1 shall not stay down more than a minute.
Cook. Lower quickly, and draw up quickly,
when I pull the rope.'

The men lowered him at first slowly, but
very fast as the bucket neared the wreck. It
stopped, and while it stayed below the men, as
they stooped over, could hear another fall of
debris. Then the rope was chucked, and they
hauled up the bucket swiftly, and Lawley soon
reappeared with a very ugly gash in his forehead,
from which the blood streamed down his
pale face, giving him the ghastly look of a
messenger of death. A groan burst from the
wretched women at his appearance, from which
they augured the worst.

8 It's a terrible business,' he said, as he
reached the top.

4 You're badly hurt, sir.'

l No; it's nothing, thank you. How deep
was the shaft ? '

Thirty yards to the black-bed, sir. Let
me tie your handkerchief round it.'

1 Thank you. It would take ten days to
clear ! '

1 Ten days, sir ! It wouldn't be cleared in
three weeks if men could go to work at it at
once. But they'd have to repair the sides first
before they dared put a spade into it.'

Lawley sat on the bucket turned bottom
upward, while Cook bound the handkerchief
about his forehead. Suddenly he sprang up,
dislodging the bandage and reopening the
wound.

4 Where does it drain into ? '

4 By Gow ! ' cried one of the men, 4 I believe
there's a water hole into " the Brattle."

4 The Brattle ' was an old pit which had
been worked out years ago.

Just at this moment Mr. Murgatroyd, the
manager, drove up, leaped out of the dog-cart,
and joined them. Cook explained the accident
to him, while one of the men rebound the
bandage about Lawley 's forehead.

4 Mr. Lawley has been down, and got badly

hurt, as you see, and it's a wonder he wasn't
killed. There's another ! ' as a sound like
distant thunder came up through the shaft.

1 Does it drain into the Brattle, Mr. Murray
? ' asked Lawley.

Yes ; but that won't help us much, the
Brattle's foul as a cesspool. It hasn't been
worked this twenty years.'

4 Does the drain come out near the shaft ? '

I can't say. It was before my time.'

1 Who knows anything about the Brattle ? '
asked Lawlev of Cook. He w r as irritated at
the calculating coolness of Mr. Murgatroyd,
who, to tell the truth, was thinking more of the
blame that might attach to him for the accident
than of the lives of the miners.

'Bob o' Ben's has worked in it. Him that's
watchman at the coal stays.'

Mr. Murgatroyd,' cried Lawley excitedly,
will you order a curve and windlass to be taken
to the mouth of the Brattle, and let us pick up
Bob o' Ben's and drive there at once ? '

'What's the use? Who'll go down when
we get there ? '

I'll go.'

It's all nonsense 1 ,' began the manager,

piqued at the management being taken out of
his hands in this way.

Lawley was a very decided person when lie
chose, and now life and death seemed to hang
upon his decision.

1 Cook,' he said imperiously, ' take that rope
and bucket to the dos-cart. We haven't a
moment to lose, Mr. Murgatroyd.'

The manager, seeing that the responsibility
he dreaded would be crushing if he was the
means of shutting off this last chance, such as
it was, followed Lawley sulkily to the dog-cart.
While they were waiting for Cook to join them
with the rope and bucket, Lawley again suggested
that a curve and windlass be sent on at
once to the Brattle, and the manager rather
sullenly gave the necessary order. Then Cook
joined them with the rope and bucket, and got
up behind as they drove off first to pick up
Bob o' Ben's. On the way, Lawley took out
his pocket-book, wrote in it for a few minutes,
and then asked the manager and Cook to attest
their signatures. 4 It's my will,' he said, 'incase
anything happens me.' Whereupon the
manager became amiable, reflecting that, after
all, he who paid the piper might well call the

tune, and that the parson was certainly paying
the piper in this case. From Bob o' Ben's they
gleaned (out of an immense mass of valuable
but irrelevant information about his experiences,
man and boy, in the coalpits) that the watercourse
came out close to the bottom of the
Brattle shaft in a direction which he made
plain enough to Lawley, who had been down
a pit many times before. Bob o' Ben's was of
opinion that the air at the bottom of the
Brattle's shaft might be pure enough for anyone
else to go down, but he didn't care himself
to have to do with the adventure, 'He wasn't
paid for it,' he said.

But when you did get down, Bob o' Ben's
believed the next thing you would have to do
would be to come up again, for the drain was
sure to be too narrow, and pretty sure to be
too foul, for anyone to crawl along it. With
which view both Cook and the manager were
disposed to agree.

1 But is there any other chance for the men ? '
asked Lawley.

1 Well, no ; I can't say there is.'

And it is a chance ? '

Yes, it's a chance. Do you think, Cook,

t any of the men themselves are likely to know of
the passage ?' asked the manager of the steward.

Cook shook his head, while Bob o' Ben's
was even more positive as to their ignorance.
Indeed, he seemed to think no one knew anything
but himself. By this time they had
reached the bye-path leading to the Brattle,
and leaving the horse in charge of Bob o' Ben's,
they hurried to the pit mouth, which was
covered in with planks. There was already
a large crowd about it, but the curve and windlass
had not yet come.

4 There's not a moment to lose,' cried Lawley.

4 Come, my lads,' said the manager, ' which
of you will go down ? ' He hoped some unmarried
collier would volunteer, since his life
was worth less and his experience more than
Lawley's. No one spoke.

4 It's all right,' said Lawley, who had
already taken off his coat and waistcoat
and put them and his pocket-book (in which
his will was) into the manager's hands. • It's
all right. If it's a fool's errand I ought to goon
it myself.'

In a few minutes the planks were torn up,
and Cook and two other men brought the

rope and bucket and safety-lamp from the
dog cart. Lawley stepped into the bucket, took
the safety-lamp, and was just about to be
lowered into the shaft, when a gigantic miner
stepped forward, took his hand, gripped it till
the blood left it and the tears came, and said —
probably to encourage him — ' Good-bye, sir.'

It wasn't encouraging, but it was affecting,
and affected many of the men. Certainly
Lawley was not a cheerful picture, with the
soaking bandage, like a coronet of blood,
round his forehead, and his pale nice all the
paler for its crimson stains.

1 Not " Good-bye," I hope, Mathew, but,
u God be with you." God bless you all ! '

Those who could trust themselves to
answer said, * God bless you, sir ! ' huskily, some
of them ; others were silent, but looked the
blessing through tears. It was not this single
act of self-devotion that so moved and unmanned
them, but the life lived for others of
which this act was the crown.

1 Lower away, my men.'

In another moment he had disappeared,
and there was the silence of death while the
rope was being paid out, when the bucket at

last bumped the bottom, and for the first five
minutes after, while they waited for the signal
to draw up which most of them expected. It
did not come. Whether he would not or
could not give it, no one could say. He might
be lying dead, suffocated, at the pit bottom, or
he might be making his painful way along the
drain. In the hurry of the moment they had
forgotten to pre-arrange a signal to assure them
of his safety up to the mouth of the drain.
The suspense was great, and grew. It became
intense and all but intolerable as the crowd
about the pit increased enormously, and was
leavened and infected by the agony of the
wives and mothers of the imprisoned miners.
It was nearly nine o'clock when Lawley was
lowered down the shaft. An hour later two
men volunteered to go down and search for
him, as far, at least, as the mouth of the drain.
They had first, however, satisfied themselves as
to the purity of the air by lowering a naked
lamp and leaving it for some minutes at the
bottom. It came up still alight. Then the
two volunteers were lowered, remained some
minutes at the bottom, and were drawn up
again. They reported that the bottom of the

shaft was pure enough, but that the air of the
drain was very foul. They had no doubt at all
that Lawley lay dead in it, and that it would
have been death to them to have searched for
his body. The sensation this news created was
indescribable. It was as though the vast crowd
had heard of the accident then for the first
time. Something between a sob and groan
broke simultaneously from the men, while the
women uttered shriek upon shriek.

Silence ! ' cried a stentorian voice.

In a moment there was the silence that
might be felt. The speaker — the gigantic
miner, Mathew — lay on the ground, stooping
over the pit. Suddenly lie sprang up like a
madman and shouted, 4 Hurrah ! I hear them !
Stop ! Listen ! ' Everyone held his breath,
and everyone heard the faint shout from below.
Answer it, boys ! ' shouted Mathew, standing
on the bottom of the upturned bucket, and
acting as fugleman. ' Hip, hip, hurrah, hurrah,
hurrah ! ' The shout might have been heard
at Weston. Meanwhile the curve was been£
lowered, quick as the windlass could be unwound.
It reached the bottom. The rope
was chucked. It was hauled up. There were

eight in it, looking as though they had come
back from the grave — as, indeed, they had.
White and exhausted, they could tell their story
only by gasps. They had given up all hope of
life as the air was fouling fast, and had all
gathered together in the black-bed, or upper
pit, where the air was purest, and had just
knelt down to pray at the suggestion of a mere
lad, one of Lawley's teachers, when the boy
shrieked, and fell back almost fainting. All
looked round and cried out in terror, for if ever
a man looked like a spectre Lawley did, in the
dim light of their failing lamps, as he came
towards them, all white, in his shirt and
drawers, his face like marble where it was not
blood-stained. He soon reassured them, and
hurrying them to the mouth of the drain, sent
them all before him — the boys first and then
the men. The drain was not so narrow as had
been supposed, but was very long and very
foul — fouler than the foulest part of the pit
they had left — and seemed to strangle their
strength so that they made slow way through
it. They had got through, however, thank
God, and here they were. By the time the
first batch (who were all boys) had told their

story piecemeal and incoherently, the last
batch were being expected with breath 1<
eagerness, for Lawley would be with them.
The very women, with their sons and husbands
just restored to them, and standing by them,
had their eyes turned still towards the pit
mouth.

Tli ere was some delay, or there seemed
some in the deep silence and suspense. At
last the signal came, and the crowd drew a
long breath of relief at sight of the first wind
of the windlass. There were only four to
come — three miners and Lawlev, and the windlass
went round quickly with its light load. It
was lighter even than they looked for, as there
were but three in it when it came to bank —
the three miners only. Lawley had not followed
them out of the drain. They had
shouted, but he had not answered, and could
answer to no shout henceforth but the voice of
the Archangel at the Resurrection. He lay
dead midway in the watercourse. He had
been very weak from want of food and sleep to
begin with, and had been still further weakened
by loss of blood, and so fell an easy prey to the
breath of death in the foulest part of the drain.

There was a rush of volunteers to the curve,
which, filled in a moment with seven miners
and a doctor, was lowered away swiftly. Then,
for half-an-hour, there was a kind of religious
hush, in which those who spoke spoke under
their breath. It was now as though, not a few
women only, but the whole crowd had each a
life dear to him at stake. All Lawley's kindnesses
— and his life had been all kindnesses —
came back to them vividly as the day they
were done, and all looked and felt as though
they stood in a sick-room where the life and
death of one near to them trembled in the
balance. When little more than half-an-hour
had passed, the windlass was again seen to turn,
very slowly this time, as doubtful what its
burden would be. When it reached the top
there was a wild shout of joy from those who
saw Lawley, as it seemed, standing upright (for
he had to be held upright to be drawn up), butin
another moment the body was seen to be
borne as they bear the dead. Mathew, mounting
his modest pulpit, amid a hush in which
every breath was held, tried to speak, but his
voice broke into a sob which told his story
better than words. There was an overpowering

revulsion of feeling. Strong men broke
down and cried like children. For hours there
had been a terrible strain on the nerves of
.suspense, excitement, and the alternations of
joy, agony, hope, and despair, and this in a
vast crowd where every beat of the heart is, so
to say, reverberated and magnified a hundredfold
through sympathy. The effect, therefore,
of this crushing blow on nerves already strained
to their utmost tension was almost hysterical.
The men in the inner ring, looking down on
the peaceful face, which seemed asleep with its
eyes open, wept without disguise or sense of
shame, or self-consciousness, or consciousness of
anything or anyone but the dead. They were
quite unnerved and helpless, and could do
nothing and think of nothing ; and it was a
woman, strangely enough, who, with a coolness
that seemed cruel, ordered the arrangements
for the removal of the body. She had it laid
on a door brought from a cottage near, she
shrouded it with her shawl, and ordered the
least exhausted of the rescued miners to bear it
home, and marshalled the rest with their wives
and mothers as chief mourners. The vast
crowd followed silent and bareheaded. As

they were passing through the little village
which was the home of most of the rescued
miners, the bearers stood still — broke down,
indeed. The same thought at the same moment
was in all their minds — that he had taken their
place ; that, but for the dead, there would not
have been a house here without its dead. So
the eight bearers, weak to begin with, broke
down altogether and had to be replaced, and
then the procession moved on, increasing as
it went, till it reached his home — that home
where, too, his only mourners were strangers
he had been kind to — the little children of his
hospital.

No one should judge West Biding poor on
the surface, or at sight, or by a conventional
standard. The woman who showed this hard
presence of mind preserved the shawl like a
relic, and twenty-four years later, on her deathbed,
desired that it should be her shroud.

VOL. in.

CHAPTER Xlvi

Fenton GRAVEYARD.

Lawley's will was not characteristic of a misogynist.
Having no near relations he divided
the bulk of his property between the two
women who had wrecked his life — his brother's
widow and Mabel. Mabel's portion, indeed,
was left to her delicately under cover to
George, but it was love, not friendship, which
inspired the bequest. Still more eccentric was
his choice of an executor, which fell upon
Eobert Sagar, Esq. Lawley himself was the
worst business man in the world, which will
account for his idea (got from Mr. Sagar) that
Bob was the best. Besides, Bob, as a kind oi'
guardian of Mabel's, naturally occurred to a
mind filled with Mabel.

It was a fortunate choice for Bob, and
brought him, as we shall see. the happiness of
his life.

Bob was not at the ' Queen's ' when Mr.
Murgatroyd — who took the liberty to read the
will an hour after Lawley's death — sought him
up there. However, Bob was easy to trace in
Weston, where he had attained the celebrity of
Lucian's Ovtos* E/ceifos ! Men stopped to look
at the stupendous figure as it rolled through
the streets, women (Irishwoman) curtsied to
him, and the street boys cock-a-doodle-dooed
after him — for this had been the war-whoop of
the Crowe faction during the election. Bob
took it all in good and gracious part, smiling
like Malvolio, unless when some miscreant
made a derisive allusion to his corpulence, now
thanks to 'No more Stomachs' — truly portentous.
Then, indeed, Bob had to console
himself with the reflection that the greatness
he had achieved had its penalties no less than
its privileges. But, these brutalities notwithstanding,
Bob felt justified in thinking himself
the most popular man in. Weston, so he walked
its streets as a captain walks his quarterdeck,
with an authoritative roll. Therefore Mr.
Murgatroyd had no difficulty in tracking the
village Hampden from the ' Queen's ' to Mabel's,
where, indeed, Bob was busy adjusting a new

u 2

kind of window-blind, which was to have gone
up and down with a spring, but which could
never be got henceforth to go either up or
down at all.

Fortunately, Mabel was not in when Mr.
Murgatroyd told his news. Bob was so horrified
at it, and at Mabel's share in it, that he
had no room in his heart for even an under
thought of pleasure at the compliment paid to
his business capacity — the highest possible compliment
that could be paid him. He could think
for the moment only of Mabel and of the best way
to break the shock of the news to her. It was a
kind of business for which poor Bob had the
least fitness or fancy of anyone in the world ;
and therefore, after some perturbed thought,
he rushed off, first of all, to telegraph to Lady
Saddlethwaite. Then he hurried back to keep
Mabel on her return from hearing the news
iron any less considerate friend. But when
Mabel, on her return, met Bob at the door
with his kind-hearted face overcast, and as
indicative of news of death as an envelope an
inch deep in black, she faltered out at once.
Who is it, Mr. Sagar ? ' Of course she thought
it was George.

6 It isn't anyone cried Bob, confused by
the failure of his frank face to keep a secret fora
moment. fc It's Lady Saddlethwaite. I mean
she's coming to see you. There ; come in and
sit down. It's not from Australia — it isn't,
indeed,' taking Mabel's hand and leading her
into the room and to a chair.

4 It's Mr. Lawley ? ' looking up into Bob's
troubled face with the hopeless yet appealing
look of one who pleads against a sentence he
knows to be inevitable. It was a relief to be
assured of George's safety, but even that relief
gave place in a moment to this other and only
less poignant anxiety.

1 1 believe he's badly hurt,' said Bob helplessly
; ' there's been a pit accident, and he
went down and saved all the men, and got cut
about the head a bit, and caught by the choke-damp.'


I must go to him,' cried Mabel, rising with
the sudden strength of excitement and of a fixed
resolution. In her mind at the moment was a
letter she had written him the day after she had
heard of George's being alive, a letter which
soothed even Lawley 's wounded spirit. It
seemed to come, as it had come, hot from her

heart. It was full of all he had been to her,
and of all he would be ever to her, and of her
own unhappiness in having so little to give in
return for it all. There could not have been
a more simple, touching, and complete expression
of a love which was everything but what
Lawley asked, and of a regret, which was all
but a remorse, that it stopped short only of this.
This letter was in her mind as she sprang op ;
its coldness, its thanklessness, its heartlessness
now he was dying, perhaps ! might die
before she could see him and bare her whole
heart to him, its love, and its longing to give
her life for his.

There was a good deal of selfishness in these*
thoughts, alloying what was unselfish in them ?
It is true, but this is only to say that Mabel
was human.

You will come with me, Mr. Sagar? '

He's too ill to see anyone, Mabel. He's
unconscious, and the doctors are very doubtful.
Now, do sit down, dear; it's no use ; and
Lady Saddlethwaite will be here soon,' floundered
Bob, more and more helplessly.

6 He's dead ! ' cried Mabel with a wild look,
as though she saw him as he lay that moment.

white, still, and cold. She sat down again with
this fixed, wild look still in her eyes, certain
and silent — poor Bob silent also.

If I had only seen him — only once,' she
moaned piteously after a while, 6 but he'll never
know now.' And, indeed, this, which was her
first thought, was her last thought. To the
end of her life the thought of what she would
consider the coldness of her last letter (and she
often thought of it) ached in her heart like an
old wound. Now the shock of this terrible
news broke her down completely, and she lay
prostrate for weeks ill of what the doctor called
a low fever.

Bob, leaving Mabel in Lady Saddlethwaite's
charge, thought it incumbent upon him as
executor to set out in the evening for Fenton.
He was really as sorry for Mabel's sorrow, and
for his friend Lawley too, as any kind-hearted
man could be ; and yet for his life he couldn't
help feeling a sense of pride and importance
in his executorship stir within him when he had
got over the first shock of the news ; for there
was nothing of which Bob had become so proud
as of his business ability. He was not the first
great man who thought nature meant him to

walk on his head, so to speak — 'Optat ethiopia
box, piger optat aware cab alius.'

Bob then, we say, hurried off to Fenton
Vicarage to look after his duties and make ;ill
the necessary arrangements for the funeral.
As, however, he passed through the village
and saw all the blinds down, and groups of
women about the doors, and men at street
corners talking together with sad face and
subdued voice, he again forgot his busino-
character and thought only of Mabel's loss and
his own.

At the vicarage the MacGucken met him at
the door. She was a kind-hearted woman and
truly attached to Lawley, but much of her grief
was swallowed up by the immense consolation
of the remembrance of all she had been to him
and done for him, and by her indignation at
the state of dirt in which the crowd had left the
house.

1 Coining and going as if it was a pothouse,
and making no more of one than if aw war the
muck under their feet. And muck enough
they made, Mr. Sagar, sir, if you will me
believe, and him lying dead above that couldn't
bide to see a speck or spot on tile or table ;

and little had he seen for up aw alius war late
and early, a-rubbing, and a- scrubbing, and a-
rubbing, and a-sweeping, and a-polishing till
my knees war that sore aw couldn't bide to say
my prayers on 'em ; aw couldn't. But prayers
is for them as has nowt else to think on but
theirs, not for such as has children to follow,
and a hanse to tidy, and a master to do for as
aw lev done for him. Never a man in this
world was better done for, that aw can say,
and nobody could say nowt else, and aw only
hope he'll be as weel done for where he's groan '
a hope expressed despondently and with
doubtful tears. Bob's kind heart was too much
moved by the darkened house, and what its
darkness symbolised and helped him to realise,
for him to smile at the MacGucken's doubt of
Heaven being Heaven to Lawley without her.

When he had at last got rid of her, he sat
sad in the still study, thinking of the last time
not so long since — he had sat there listening
and learning many things from Lawley s
brilliant talk. At last he rose, moved by a
sudden impulse, to go and see the dead. He
stole upstairs noiselessly, partly in reverence
and partly to elude the MacGucken's vigilance,

and went on tiptoe along the corridor to
Lawley's room. The door was wide open and
he paused at it for a moment, fearing the
MacGucken was within, but all seeming still,
he entered.

It was night, the room dim, the gas down,
and Bob, unused to death, stood in nervous
hesitation inside the door. He could hear his
heart beat, and he could hear — he was sure he
could hear — in the frozen silence, from the bed
where the body lay shrouded within curtains,
the sound of a sleeper's regular breathing. It
took him a little time to summon up courage
to advance to the gas and turn it up, and then,
after another hesitation, to steal to the foot of
the bed. Here he was startled in a way very
different from that he half expected. Lawley
lay sleeping the breathless sleep ; but, beside
him, sharing his pillow, her face flushed in
sleep, all but touching his, and making it by
contrast more ghastly, lay a little girl, between
three and four years of age, fast asleep, her
long eyelashes wet with tears, and her bosom
heaving still in sleep with the swell of a storm of
sobs. One word, in passing, to this little chief
mourner, who was to be all the world to Bob.

She had been brought to the hospital nearly
a year ago, ill mainly of starvation and neglect,
from which she soon recovered. As, however,
her mother was dead and her father was an
irreclaimable drunkard, Lawley had not the
heart to send back the bright, pretty, engaging
child to misery and degradation. Even the
MacGucken was moved by her winning face and
ways to tolerate her. She had fast grown to be
such a pet with Lawley in his loneliness, that
when she could elude the MacGucken she would
steal, sure of a welcome, into his bedroom
before he was up in the morning, and in the
evening, before her bed time, into his study.
The child had much of her dead mother in hera
refined and affectionate woman — and
Lawley had resolved to bring the little one upto
be, what nature had meant her to be, a lady.
As for Amy, Lawley was father, mother, sister,
brother, all to her. When Sarah Jane, eager
to find anyone who had not heard the news,
rushed up to tell the sick children that Mr.
Lawley was dead, Amy took her to mean that
he was very ill. She was but a year old when
her mother died, and knew not yet of death,
imagining it to be simply the superlative of

00 LOVE TIIF-: DEBT.

illness — an impression eon firmed by Sarah
Jane's tears.

Illness Amy knew too well, and that he
should be very ill was terrible to her. In the
confusion no one heeded her or her timid
questions, and she was kept strictly confined to
the hospital end of the house all that day. At
night, however, when she could not sleep
through thinking of this trouble, she stole out
of bed and along the corridor to Lawley's room.
She pushed open the door, which was ajar,
crept to the bed, climbed up upon it by means
of a chair, and saw by Lawley's ghastly face
and closed eyes that he was very ill and asleep,
and not to be disturbed. She would wait till
he waked, as she had done many a morning,
and while waiting and sobbing piteously over
the terrible change in the face that was as the
only face in the world to her, she fell asleep at
last from exhaustion.

So it came about that Bob found the little
flushed face, whose troubles were beginning,
nestling in the shadow of the still, set, marble
face, whose troubles were over. A harder-hearted
man than Bob would have been
touched by the picture, and by its suggestions

of love and sorrow, and of all that is best in our
nature and worst in our lot, and Bob was
touched by it.

While he stood looking on it, hesitating to
disturb the child, hesitating to leave her there,
she woke from her troubled sleep, roused either
by the glare of the gas or by Bob's concentrated
gaze.

After a hurried look at the stranger, whom
she took for a doctor, she turned at once to see
if Lawley was yet awake.

1 1 didn't wake him,' she said in a guilty
voice to Bob.

1 No, dear,' said Bob, not steadily. ' Let me
carry you back to bed.'

Amy looked back wistfully at the still face
with half a hope that their talking might have
waked him, and that she might get a reprieve,
or at least a word, a touch, a look from him
before she was taken away. While looking for
some sign of waking she forgot Bob altogether,
for the gash in the forehead, seen now in the
full glare of the gaslight, had a horrible fascination
for her. She sat up transfixed, a piteous
picture of horror, till Bob broke the spell.

4 Come, dear,' taking her up in his arms.

1 1 may come when he wakes. I may
come in the morning. He lets me come in the
morning when lie wakes,' beseechingly.

1 Ay, dear ; you may come when he
wakes.'

All Bob's kind heart was in his lace and in
his voice, so that Amy, though a shy and shrinking
child, put both her arms round his neck as he
carried her first to the gaslight to lower it, and
then from the room — her head being turned
over his shoulder towards the bed and its burden
to the last.

She guided him to her room, and Bob,
having put her back to bed, sat by her fall she
should fall asleep. But she did not soon fall
asleep. She lay long wide awake, though still ;
the pale face with that terrible gash in the
forehead looking down upon her distinctly
out of the darkness. Bob, hearing that she
was crying quietly b}^ an occasional sob, soothed
her now and then as he could bv caresses
and caressing words, till at length 4 Nature's
soft nurse, balm of hurt minds,' came to relieve
him.

We have dwelt upon Bob's finding of Amy
because it was a fortunate accident for him.

The impression she made upon him that night
was more than confirmed in the next few days
of her utter desolation when he had at last to
make clear to her the meaning of death. Of
all the bitter tears dropped on Lawley's grave,
the most bitter were those shed by this little
chief mourner as she looked down upon it from
Bob's arms. There is no sorrow like a child's
sorrow, for in its intensity it is eternal, without
hope of end, break, or morrow to it. And
Amy's wretchedness so wrung Bob's heart that
lie begged her from George (to whose care
Lawley had bequeathed her) and adopted her.
No kind act was ever better rewarded. Amy,
as a child, girl, and woman was henceforth the
happiness of Bob's life, more to him even than
his world-wide political fame as member for
Bally-manager and leader in the House of
Commons of one of the seven sections into
which the union of Irish patriots of all ranks
and creeds against the tyranny of the Saxon
resolved itself in a single session.

Nor, in taking a kindly leave of our kind
old friend, should we omit to mention a third
source of his happiness, his discovery of the
genuine ' No more Stomachs ' receipt — a sleepless

attendance on the Speaker's eye in that
august House : —

Where prosy speakers painful vigils keep,
Sleepless themselves to give their hearers sleep.

If Bob's vigils did not quite reduce him to
an eagle's talon in the waist,' at least they
relieved him of the scurrilous notice of the
street boys.

A graveyard is an appropriate place for
partings. There, late or soon, we part from
all, or all from us. Here, then, at Lawley's
grave, we take leave of others besides Bob, of
Dr. Clancy, who, for his knowledge of Greek,
was made a missionary bishop of the South
Sea Islands ; of Mr. Gant, who obtained at last
the pinnacle of his ambition, persecution in its
most fiery form — a prosecution for ritualistic
practices ; of Josiah Pickles — we beg his pardon
Sir Josiah Pickles, for his large contribute ons
to the Carlton electioneering funds was rewarded
with knighthood ; and of Clarence, who married
a poor but highly accomplished girl, who
with one set of toes on the boards and the
other set on a level with her head could spin
round like a top for two minutes together.

To come lower down, for we are getting

dizzy at this height, here too we take leave of
Barney McGrath, who had his own good reason
for the tears he w is not ashamed to shed at
the grave. We should have said something of
the prominent part Barney took against his old
enemy, Josiah Pickles, during the election, but
that poor Barney was not presentable for the
greater part of that time. He threw his whole
soul into the work, and did Bob yeoman's service
for the first few days of the canvass, but
before the close of the week he was tempted
into breaking the pledge. His pledge once
broken he drank furiously to drown remembrance
of the breach, and fell into the hands of
the police — this time most justly. It would
have gone hard with Barney if Lawley had not
overtaken him in his carriage while he was
being hauled off to the station. Lawley, recognising
Mabel's protege, stopped, and by a
generous tip induced the police to commit
Barney to his charge. Barney was shoved into
the carriage, driven to Fenton Vicarage, and
next morning, while overwhelmed with shame,
remorse, and gratitude, was reconverted to temperance.
Henceforth Barney worshipped him
with Celtic fervour, and now lamented him

VOL. III. x

with Celtic demonstrativeness. Xor did he
again relapse. He prospered exceedingly asa
nurseryman, and for the seventeen years of
life that remained to him kept Lawley's grave
beautiful with the choicest flowers the smoke of
Fenton would allow to live.

At the grave-side also we take leave of the
MacGucken, her eyes not so blinded by tears as
to prevent her noticing that the sexton blurred
with three handfuls of earth the coffin plate she
had burnished like a mirror. She married a
scavenger, a widower, with seven children,
and a temper, whom it took her ten years to
bury.

At the grave-side too we take leave of the
Fen ton folk, as w r arm-hearted a people as ever
lived. For that day the factory was still, the
mine empty, the school closed, and only the
bedridden left in the houses. All men, women,
and little children were in the church, the
churchyard and its approaches, all in black,
and nearly all in tears. A hymn was to have
been sung at the grave-side, but the singers
broke down before they had got through the
first verse, and all the crowd round the grave
seemed as at a given signal to break down with

them. It was such a scene as no one present
ever remembered or ever forgot.

Lastly, at Lawley's grave, we take leave of
Lady Saddlethwaite, Mabel and George. Two
days after George's return from Australia the
three drove together on a pilgrimage to the
grave, marked now by a cross of white marble,
erected to his memory by the miners he had
saved.

It was a silent drive, for even George was
thinking of something else besides Mabel. As
they approached the grave, three colliers (one
with his hat off), who had been painfully
spelling out the inscription, gave place to
them.

It was a long inscription, loosely worded,
but with this striking line at its close, ' Erected
to his memory by those for whom he lived and
died.'

There's no finer epitaph in Westminster
Abbey,' said Lady Saddlethwaite as she read
out the line, and then, after a pause, she
added, ' An heroic death is, after all, an easy
thing compared with an heroic life, and there's
no life more heroic than to choose to be

x 2

unheroic and obscure for the sake of obscure
and unheroic people.'

It's the life of many a clergyman,' said
George.

1 It's the loveliest of all lives,' said Lady
Saddlethwaite emphatically.

Mabel said nothing, but looked through
tears a hope which lay still deep in her heart —
the hope, or rather the faith, for it has a
higher source and sustenance than hope, that
he will,

Perplext in faith, but pure in deeds,
Beat at last his music out,

and find there is an honest place for him in a
Church which is wide enough to comprehend a
Clancy, a Gant, and a Lawley.

THE END.

LONDON : PRINTED BY

SPOTTISWOOI'K AND CO., New-street Squab

AND PARLIAMENT STREET

OF THE

COMPLETE WORKS OP

W. M. THACKERAY,

In 24 Volumes, crown 8vo. price 3^. 6d. each.

Sets in cloth, £4. 4s. ; or handsomely bound in half-morocco, £&.

Containing nearly all the small Woodcut Illustrations of the former Editions

And many New Illustrations by Eminent Artists.

THIS EDITION CONTAINS ALTOGETHER 1,626 ILLUSTRATIONS

BY

The Author.
Luke Files, A.R.A.
Mrs. Butler (Miss Elizabeth
Thompson).
George du Married.
Richard Doyle.
Fred. Walker. A.R.A.
George Cruikshank.

John Leech.
Frank Dickson.

LlNLEY Tambourine.

F. Barnard.

E. J. Wheeler.

F. A. Fraser.
Charles Keene.
R. B. Wallace.

&c. &c. &c.

J. P. Atkinson.
W. J. Webb.
T. R. Macquoid.
M. Fitzgerald.
W. Ralston.
John Collier.
H. Furnish.
G. G. Kilburne.

VANITY FAIR. Illustrated by the Author. 2 vols.
PENDENNIS. Illustrated by the Author. 2 vols.
THE NEWCOMES. Illustrated by Richard Doyle. 2 vols.
ESMOND. Illustrated by George du Married.
THE VIRGINIANS. Illustrated by the Author. 2 vols.
THE ADVENTURES OF PHILIP. Illustrated by the Author,
Frederick Walker, and R. B. Wallace. 2 vols.

THE GREAT HOGGARTY DIAMOND ; A LITTLE DINNER

AT Simmons's ; Cornwall TO CAIRO. Illustrated by the Author, J. P.

Atkinson, and W. J. Webb.
CHRISTMAS BOOKS. Illustrated by the Author and Richard Doyle.
THE BOOK OF SNOBS; TRAVELS AND SKETCHES.

Illustrated by the Author.

BURLESQUES. Illustrated by the Author and George Cruikshank.
PARIS SKETCH BOOK, LITTLE TRAVELS, and ROADSIDE

SKETCHES. Illustrated by the Author, T. R. Macquoid, and J. P. Atkinson.

THE YELLOWPLUSH PAPERS; THE FITZBOODLE

PAPERS; COX'S DIARY; CHARACTER SKETCHES. Illustrated by the
Author and George Cruikshank.

THE IRISH SKETCH BOOK; CRITICAL REVIEWS. Illustrated
by the Author, George Cruikshank, John Leech, and M. Fitzgerald.

THE MEMOIRS OF BARRY LYNDON; THE FATAL BOOTS.

Illustrated by J. E. Millais, R.A., George Cruikshank, and W. Ralston.
CATHERINE: a Story; MEN : S WIVES; THE BEDFORD ROW

CONSPIRACY. Illustrated by the Author, Luke Files, A.R.A., and R. B.

Wallace
BALLADS : THE ROSE AND THE RING. Illustrated by the Author,

.Mrs. Butler (Miss Elizabeth Thompson), George du Married, John Collier,

H. Furnish, G. G. Kilburne, M. Fitzgerald, and J. P. Atkinson.
ROUNDABOUT PAPERS. To which is added THE SECOND

FUNERAL of NAPOLEON. Illustrated by the Author, Charles Keene, and
M. Fitzgerald.

THE FOUR GEORGES, and THE ENGLISH HUMOURISTS
OF THE EIGHTEENTH CENTURY. Illustrated by the Author, Frank
Dickson, Linley Tambourine, Frederick Walker, and F. Barnard.

LOVEL THE WIDOWER ; THE WOLVES AND THE LAMB;

DENIS DUVAL. To which is added an Essay on the Writings of W. M . Thackeray
by Leslie Stephen. Illustrated by the Author and Frederick Walker.

London : SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 Waterloo Place.

THE POPULAR EDITION.
Complete in Twelve Volumes, Crown 8vo. with Frontispiece to each

Volume, price 5*. each.

i.— VANITY FAIR.

2.— THE HISTORY OF PENDENNIS.

3.— THE NEWCOMES.

4.— ESMOND AND BARRY LYNDON.

5— THE VIRGINIANS.

6.— THE ADVENTURES OF PHILIP, to which is prefixed A SHABBY

GENTEEL STORY.
7.— PARIS, IRISH, AND EASTERN SKETCHES:—

PARIS Sketch-book. IRISH Sketch-book.

Cornwall TO CAIRO.

8.— HOGGARTY DIAMOND, YELLOWPLUSH PAPERS, & BURLESQUES .—

THE GREAT HOGGARTY DIAMOND.

YELLOWPLUSH PAPERS.

NOVELS BY EMINENT HANDS.

James's DIARY.

ADVENTURES OF MAJOR GAHAGAN.

A LEGEND OF THE RHINE.

REBECCA And ROWENA.

THE HISTORY OF THE NEXT FRENCH

REVOLUTION.
COX'S DIARY.

THE FATAL BOOTS.

9.— THE BOOK OF SNOBS, AND SKETCHES OF LIFE & CHARACTER :-

THE BOOK OF SNOBS.

SKETCHES AND TRAVELS IN LONDON.

CHARACTER SKETCHES.

MEN S WIVES.

THE FITZBOODLE PAPERS.

THE BEDFORD ROW CONSPIRACY.

THE LITTLE DINNER AT Simmons S.

10-roundabout PAPERS AND LECTURES:—

ROUNDABOUT Papers. THE ENGLISH HUMOURISTS OF THE

THE FOUR GEORGES. EIGHTEENTH CENTURY.

THE SECOND FUNERAL OF NAPOLEON.

11.— CATHERINE, &c:—

CATHERINE.

LOVEL THE WIDOWER.

DENIS DUVAL.

BALLADS.

THE WOLVES AND THE LAMB.

CRITICAL REVIEWS.

LITTLE TRAVELS.

12.— CHRISTMAS BOOKS :—

mrs. Perkins's ball. I our street.

DR. BIRCH. THE KICKLEBURYS ON THR RHINE

THE ROSE AND THE RING.

Its Volume may also be had in Extra Cloth Gilt, Gilt Edges, price 6s.

# * This Edition may be had in Sets of Twelve Volumes, handsomely bound in cloth,
gilt top. price £3; or in half-morocco, gilt, price ,£5. 5*.

London: SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 Waterloo Place.

THE LIBRARY EDITION.

In Twenty-two Volumes, Large Crown 8vo. with Illustrations by the

Author, Richard Doyle, and Frederick Walker.

Price £8. 5.5-. Cloth ; £12. 12s. Half-Russia.

VANITY FAIR. A Novel Without a Hero. Two Volumes. With Forty Steel
Engravings and 150 Woodcuts.

THE HISTORY OF PENDENNIS : His Fortunes and Misfortunes: his
Friends and his Greatest Enemy. Two Volumes With Forty Steel
Engravings and numerous Woodcuts.

THE NEWCOMES: Memoirs of a Most Respectable Family. Two Volumes.
With Forty-eight Steel Engravings by Richard Doyle, and numerous Woodcuts.

THE HISTORY OF HENRY ESMOND, Esq. : A Colonel in the Service
of Her Majesty Queen Anne. With Eight Illustrations by George du
Married, and numerous Woodcuts.

THE VIRGINIANS. A Tale of the Last Century. Two Volumes. With
Forty-eight Steel Engravings and numerous Woodcuts.

THE ADVENTURES OF PHILIP ON HIS WAY THROUGH THE WORLD.
Showing who Robbed Him, who Helped Him, and who Passed Him uv. To
which is prefixed A SHABBY GENTEEL STORY. Two Volumes. With
Twenty Illustrations.

THE PARIS Sketch-book OF MR. M. A. TITMARSH ; AND THE
MEMOIRS OF MR. C. J. YELLOWPLUSH. With Illustrations by the Author.

THE MEMOIRS OF BARRY LYNDON, Esq., Written by Himself: with
THE HISTORY OF SAMUEL TITMARSH, and THE GREAT HCGGARTY
DIAMOND. With Illustrations by the Author.

THE IRISH Sketch-book: and NOTES OF A JOURNEY FROM CORN-hill
TO GRAND CAIRO. With Illustrations by the Author.

THE BOOK OF SNOBS; SKETCHES AND TRAVELS IN LONDON: cano
CHARACTER SKETCHES. With Illustrations by the Author.

BURLESQUES :—

novels by eminent hands,
adventures of major gahagan.
james's diary,
a legend of the rhine.

REBECCA AND ROWENA.

THE HISTORY OF THE NEXT FRENCH

REVOLUTION.
Cons DIARY.

THE KICKLEBURYS ON THE RHINE
THE ROSE AND THE RING.

With Illustrations.

CHRISTMAS BOOKS OF MR. M. A. TITMARSH:—
mrs. Perkins's ball.

DR. BIRCH.
OUR STREET.

With Seventy-four Illustrations.
BALLADS AND TALES. Illustrated by the Author.

THE FOUR GEORGES. THE ENGLISH HUMOURISTS) OF THE
EIGHTEENTH CENTURY. With Portraits and other Illustrations

ROUNDABOUT PAPERS. To which is added the SECOND FUNERAL OF
NAPOLEON. With Illustrations by the Author.

DENIS DUVAL; LOVEL THE WIDOWER; AND OTHER STORIES-with

Illustrations.

CATHERINE, A STORY ; LITTLE TRAVELS ; and the FITZMOODLK
PAPERS. Illustrations by the Author, and a Portrait.

>*

The Volumes may be had separately, price js. 6d. each in cloth, or 6s. 6d. each in board.'

London : SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 Waterloo Place.

Each Work complete in One Volume, price Six Shillings.

WITHIN THE PRECINCTS. By Mrs. Oliphant,

Author of 'Chronicles of Carlingford ' &c. With Eight Illustrations.
Crown 8vo. 6s.

Carta. By Mrs. Oliphant, Author of ' Chronicles of
Carlingford ' &c. 8 Illustrations. Crown 8vo. 6s.

FOR PERCIVAL. By Margaret Veley. With

8 Illustrations. Crown 8vo. 6s.

OLD KENSINGTON. By Miss Thackeray. Crown
8vo. 6s.

THE VILLAGE ON THE CLIFF. By Miss

Thackeray. Crown 8vo. 6s.

FIVE OLD FRIENDS AND A YOUNG

PRINCE. By Miss Thackeray. Crown 8vo. 6s.

TO ESTHER, and other Sketches. By Miss

Thackeray. Crown 8vo. 6s.

BLUE BEARD'S KEYS, and other Stories.

By Miss Thackeray. Crown 8vo. 6s.

THE STORY OF ELIZABETH; TWO HOURS ;

FROM AN ISLAND. By Miss Thackeray. Crown Svo. 6s.

TOILERS AND SPINSTERS, and other Essays.

By Miss Thackeray. Crown 8vo. 6s.

MISS ANGEL; FULHAM LAWN. By Miss

Thackeray. Crown 8vo. 6s.
Blandly REEFS. By Lady Verney, Author of

Stone Edge ' &c. Crown Svo. 6j.

Lattice LISLE. By Lady Verney. With 3 Illustrations.
Crown Svo. 6s.

STONE EDGE. By Lady Verney. With 4 Illustrations.

Crown 8vo. 6s.

London : SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 Waterloo Place.

Will

3 0112 047663965

*m

<<-j

•■:■»-•'

■

■

hI

■

1 1 --,m ■ * t i 5fc-re I -

■

■

■
I ■ .*?>*- .

IV

I ■

■ .V v I

II ■ ■



■

■

El E3

Aims* Si ^

I v» ' (Vi

Sra

■
