^^^^^m

-Hi

mm

r JU

MBBRT

OF Thou

N Diversity

Of Ill Noise


L\73p
V.I

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/powerofgoldnovel01lamb

VOL. I.

AT ALL THE LIBRARIES

LIKE LUCIFER. By Denzil Vane. 3 vols.

A DAUGHTER OF THE GODS. By Jane Stanley.

2 vols.

LUCIA. By Mrs. Augustus Craven, author of 'A Sister's

Story,' &c. Translated by Lady Herbert of Lea. 2 vols.

A DIAMOND IN" THE ROUGH. By Alice O'Hanlon,

author of 'The Unforeseen.' 3 vols.

LOVE, THE PILGRIM. By May Crommelin, author

of ' Queene,' ' Orange Lily,' &c. 3 vols.

HURST & BLACKETT, 13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET

A NOVEL

BY

GEORGE LAMBERT

For 'tis a question left us yet to prove
Whether Love lead Fortune, or else Fortune Love.

Hamlet.

LN TWO VOLUMES

VOL. I.

LONDON :
HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1886.

All rights reserved.

THE POWER OF GOLD.

CHAPTER I.

FATHER, SON, AND DAUGHTER.

It is by no means an easy matter to find
out what a man is by his ' outer presentment
;' of course there are certain plainly-defined
differences, and, though the sumptuary
laws have long ago gone to limbo,
and the Sunday suit of the artisan is not
so very far removed from the Sabbath
attire of what the catechism calls his
'betters;' though the ' servant-gal ' emerges
on her ' Sunday-out ' from the chrysalis
form of every-day attire, and takes the
arm of her ' young man ' at the top of the
VOL. i. B

area-steps in raiment which is a fair copy
of 'missus's;' yet, at the same time, it
would be difficult to mistake a navvy fora
city clerk, or a factory-lass for a ' young
lady ' in a shop. Things have, however,
become considerably mixed in the matter
of clothes, and the unoccupied wayfarer,
as he pursues his aimless course, can, if hebe
of a speculative turn of mind, find
plenty of scope for his imagination in wondering
what may be the occupations and
social. status of the various passers-by.

More often than not he will be mistaken.
That elegantly-attired individual, strolling
gently down Piccadilly with a cigar in his
mouth, well-gloved and booted, and with
the neatest of umbrellas, looks like what
the cabman call ' a swell ;' but put some
question to him, as to your best way to
such-and-such a street, for instance — and
the words of his mouth, decided in their
London twang, and wanting in the fatal
aspirate, will disclose him as a cockney of

There are, on the other hand, noblemen
of very high degree indeed, who might
easily be taken for pork-butchers, and who,
were they endued with the white apron of
that fraternity, would look quite in their
place behind a counter, with a chopper in
their hands, a large dish of sausages in
front of them, and chines, and legs, and
shoulders of pig hanging around in graceful
festoons.

Now Squire Armer, of Cambridge
Manor, near Exeter, was the very ' moral '
of a country squire. Look at him as he sits

b 2

at breakfast this summer morning with
Nellie, his daughter, and Jack, his son and
heir. If ever a man looked his part, surely
Squire Armer looks his. Of middle height,
sixty years old, stoutly built, ruddy-checked,
blue-eyed, clean-shaven, save for
about an inch of greyish whiskers, the
bald patch on the top of his head framed
round with short-clipped, curly grey hair,
clad in a many-pocketed shooting-coat,
with his shapely lower limbs encased in
breeches and gaiters, Mr. Armer looks
exactly like Punch's pictures of John Bull,
and savours strongly of the home-farm,
the covert side, tramps through stubble
and turnips after 'birds,' the magisterial
bench, and all the other occupations of
the county magnate. And yet Squire
Armer had passed the greater part of his
existence in the city of London : he knew
intimately all the ins-and-outs of that
noisy habitation of Mammon, and was, not
so very long ago, particularly well acquainted

with the staid frock-coat, the conventional
pepper-and-salt continuations, and
the abominable stove-pipe head-gear of
the orthodox city man. His portly figure
had been well-known on the Stock Exchange,
and his signature was still ' good '
for very respectable sums of money in the
many lanes and alleys of the money-grubbing
Babylon.

John Armer had been, in fact, a stockbroker,
and his name still appeared in the
well-known firm of Armer and Ridley.
Indeed, the bulk of his property was still
in the firm, and the squire now and again
sought the dingy precincts of the office,
though he left Mr. Gidley, his partner, todo
almost what he liked with his capital.
Now Mr. Gidley was a born worshipper at
the shrine of Mammon, and Armer's love
of the country, which prompted many long
absences from the city, and at length ended
in the purchase of Coombridge Manor,
and his virtual retirement from the cares

of business, seemed a species of madness to
his partner, who thought the air of London
the finest in the world, who could find
virtues even in black and yellow fogs, and
who desired no better lot than to pass his
life between his office in the city, and his
home in Bedford Square.

There is not much of the 'city man,'
however, in Squire Armer now, as he
stows away a plentiful breakfast, chatting
pleasantly with his daughter the while. A
pretty picture is that breakfast-room with
its well-spread table, and the bright
summer sun glinting on the silver urn,
making the china seem almost transparent,
and bringing out all the beauties of the
flowers with which the white-covered table
is plentifully adorned.

Jack,' said the squire to his son, as he
finished his ' second cup.' ' Just hand me
over the Times, my boy.'

In one minute, father,' said Jack, ' I'm
just looking to see whether Well !'

he exclaimed, at that instant catching sight
of something in the voluminous columns.
'Well! I'm . . . blest!' (with a suspicious
pause before the ' blest,' as if he
gulped down some rather stronger expletive).
'I'm blest if I haven't passed, after
all ! Behold in me a bloated Bachelor of
Arts !'

'No, Jack!' said his sister Nellie, running
over to him and looking over his
shoulder ; ' do let me see it, where is it ?
So it is. I awisoglad/ she added, as Jack
pointed to the column where under the
heading of ' University Intelligence ' was
printed, at the tail end of the third class
in history, the words, ' Armer J. Trin :'

Jack, my son,' said the squire, rising
and shaking hands with Jack after the
manner of Britons in such cases of sudden
emotion, ' this is the best piece of news
I've heard for a long time, and I frankly
confess it is all the more welcome because
unexpected.'

Well said the ingenuous Jack, ' I
freely own it is a trifle unexpected by me,
too, though old Blower ' (so he designated
that well-known ' coach the Reverend H.
Blower) I did say he thought I might get
through by the skin of my teeth

How funny it looks to see you in print,
Jack,' said his sister, gazing at the all-important
syllables in the paper. * There
will be no bearing with you now, Mr.
Bachelor, though I am sure you are conceited
enough already ; it would have done
you good to have been "plucked," or
ploughed," — which is it ? — again, though
you must be used to the process by this
time.'

Helen Armer,' returned Jack, with
much solemnity, ' I would have you
remember to whom you are speaking in
that flippant manner ; but a Bachelor of
Arts can afford to despise the unsophisticated
utterances of a young girl. It all
comes of the higher education of women ;

oh ! for those blessed days when one's
sisters devoted their time and energies to
the still-room . . . .'

'Father,' exclaimed Nellie, laughing,
and interrupting Master Jack's elegant
periods, 'just listen to Jack; what magnificent
language ! you know, Jack, it is all
nonsense, and, if it had not been for me,
you never would have passed at all.'

1 You lore good, I must own, Nellie,'
said Jack, ' and you certainly had a
stiffish job to make your lazy brother
work ; so you shall come up to Cambridge,
and see the gorgeous fruits of your
labours ; you shall see me " take my degree
;" an awesome process, I can tell you.
Eh ! father, you will bring Nellie up, won't
you?'

Young man,' said his father, ' this degree
of yours has cost me something very
like two thousand pounds, you extravagant
young dog, and I shall most certainly see
what I have got for my money, and Nellie

shall come too. Now continued the squire ?
rising from his chair, and throwing down
the Times, * I am going down to the farm ;
come you too, Jack.'

Jack followed his father into the hall,
whence the squire called out to his daughter,
' Nellie, what are you going to do today?'


'Oh! I've heaps of letters to write, and
I am going to "do" the flowers, and see the
cook, and all sorts of things, and . . . .
Jack !' she called out to her brother, ' mind
you don't let father be late for lunch, for
you and I are going to the Dentonss this
afternoon you know.'

All right f said Jack, as he closed the
hall door and hastened after his father.

Lazy, indeed, Master Jack was, and lucky
was it for that young man that he was
born with a silver spoon in his mouth,'
for he certainly was not of the stuff successful
men are made of. Good-natured
somewhat selfish withal, and with quite a

sufficiency of conceit, with good looks and
ordinary abilities, young Jack Armer belonged
to that large contingent who are
said sometimes to be ; nobody's enemy but
their own,' but who not unfrequently cause
a considerable amount of pain, not to say
anguish, to their very nearest and dearest.
To work, we are told, is natural to man ;
indeed, it is a remark occasionally heard
from the pulpit ; and though a proper sentiment
of decency, not to speak of the prospect
of being taken up for ' brawling,' with a
penalty of not more than five pounds to
follow, prevents the hearer from interrupting
the preacher, yet his thoughts are
his own, and he wonders whether that
learned gentleman has ever met with a
labouring man who has just dropped into a
legacy. Does the horny-handed one work
in such a case ? Alas ! for the naturalness of
work, not one heave of pick or delve of
spade, too probably, does he condescend to
until all the money has been melted into

liquid, and poured down his own and ibis
friends' gullets, if, indeed, Death does not
overtake him in his cups, and seize upon him
as another victim to repeated ' overdose of
alcohol Or did the first discoverer of the
Pacific Islands find the nature's children,
who inhabited those balmy regions, working
? I trow not ! So long as their kind
mother Earth supplied them with all the
necessities, and even the comforts, of life
gratis, they were quite willing to abide by
this one-sided bargain, and only varied the
monotony of their diet by occasionally
devouring ' the stranger within their gates,'
or some vanquished enemy. Not until the
blessings of civilisation made them acquainted
with rum as a decided improvement
upon 'kava,' (their nasty national drink)
and aprons, and petticoats, and poke
bonnets, and top hats as fashionable articles
of attire, did they dig and delve, and plant
and sow, to get obfuscated with the rum,
and to hind the wherewithal to purchase

the often hideous clothes of the "Western
world, in the place of their own pretty
coverings of flowers and fringes.

Now young Jack Armer was another
instance of the ?icw-naturalness of work.
His father was undoubtedly a wealthy man,
and nobody was in the least surprised that
his son, with such excellent prospects, and
not a particle of ambition, should be
inclined to only one kind of work, namely,
the arduous occupation of amusing himself.
It is true he was perfectly willing to exert
himself even strenuously, in this direction,
and to devote large slices of time and a vast
expenditure of muscular power in the pursuit
of pleasure : whether through his
father's preserves with a friend or two,
dogs, a gun and a keeper, or in following
the various packs of hounds within get-table
distance from Coombridge, or in
dancing far on into the small hours of the
night ; but of work, properly so called,
the young man knew nothing, unless the

hasty cramming into his brain (by means
of ' cribs ' and ' memoria technical,'
invented by an ingenious 'coach') of a
sufficiency of facts to satisfy the not too-exacting
examiners, can be called by such
a name.

Jack had made his sister Nellie the
confidante of such of his escapades as
could be narrated to her willing ears, and
Nellie, a shrewd and sensible little woman,
knew enough of her volatile and easygoing
brother to make her feel anxious
about his future. Many times, as she was
well aware, had the squire put his hands
into his pockets to pay son Jack's bills,
though son Jack already had a more than
sufficient allowance ; and she also knew
(a fact hidden, as yet, from the squire)
that her incorrigible brother was again in
his normal condition of insolvency, and
that more requisitions on l the governor '
were impending.

Squire Armer could, on occasion, exhibit

a very violent temper ; be possessed
also a large fund of obstinacy ; unhappy
' scenes ' between father and son
had been not unfrequent of late, and
Nellie dreaded the revelations which must
perforce be made now that Jack was to
take his degree and ' go down ' for good.
Still he had passed, and the squire, in his
delight at this opportune success, might
be inclined to be merciful, and once more
to ' pay up,' and forget and forgive, and to
afford the sinner another of those ' fresh
starts with a clean slate,' which had
hitherto only ended in new embarrassments
and larger scores than ever on the
said slate.

Nellie, then, had enough to think of — to
say nothing of certain personal hopes and
fears which were beginning to exercise her
mind just then — as she stood for a few
moments leaning against the window-frame,
looking after her father and her
brother as they walked on together, until

they reached the corner of the drive and
passed out of sight.

A tiny little maid was Helen Armer,
fair-haired, blue-eyed, of a perfect little
figure, with a delicate complexion, regular
features, and the prettiest smile in the
world. Small as she was, and fragile as
she looked, she was a strong and healthy
girl, and just as able to do a day's work
in the saddle, or on the tramp, as many of
her bigger and more robust-looking compeers.
Good-natured, unselfish, and loving,
there was yet a dash of sharpness in her
character, and a certain spice of originally,
which, together with her quaint little
china-shepherdess style of beauty, made
her remarkable even among the beautiful
women of favoured Devonian. Her mother
had died when Nellie was still a child, and
since she was twelve years old the
squire, who never would let his little
daughter be out of his sight for long,
had made a companion and friend of her.

Thus she was more formed in her character
at her present age of eighteen than most
girls are at that age, in spite of the high-pressure
system of education to which
the nineteenth century young woman is
subjected.

Confidence in the almighty self this system
may produce, it may also result in a
certain contempt for the experience and
opinions of elders, not to speak of a
slightly vulgar (shall we say?) propensity
to * shine ' and astonish ; which propensity
is wont to develop, in some cases, into
fastness, and a devotion to the ' chic and,
in others, into the wearisome twaddle of
the ' advanced ' blue-stocking.

Neither ' blue ' nor ' fast ' was Nellie, bub
just an honest, healthy-toned English girl,
exceedingly pretty, and clever, and witty
withal ; no wonder, then, that Squire
Armer was proud and fond of his daughter,
and that the undecided character of
brother Jack found in his little sister's

vol. i. c

sturdy common-sense and ready wit a welcome
help in his many scrapes and follies.
Coombridge Manor-house nestled cosily
in a sort of dent in the side of a high hill ;
behind, the house the hill rose, clad to its
very summit with a plantation of firs, the
dark Scotch contrasting with the lighter
green of the feathery larch. A fair vision
met Nellie's gaze as she paused for a few
moments, looking out over the valley,
before she turned to her various domestic
avocations. The house was so placed that
from the front a green valley opened out
into a vast and varied view, whose furthest
limit was the glint of the distant sea.
Hill and dale, here a white village clustering
round its ancient church tower, there a
golden patch of yellow gorse, fields of the
green springing corn, steep pitches clothed
with plantations, the bright sunlight overall,
and the soft clouds casting now and
again their flitting shadows ; it was enough
to move even the most prosaic of men,

and to incline him to ' drop into poetry ' a
la Silas "Wegg.

A clump of huge trees before the house
gave a pleasant sound of rustling leaves,
and the faint murmur of a little brook in
the valley below, as it fretted on its course
over the rocks and stones which formed
its uneasy bed, came softly and soothingly
to the ear. When Mr. Armer bought the
place, the Manor-house was in a most ruinous
state ; built of the granite of the
country, it stretched a wide frontage to
the valley ; its mullions windows yawned,
empty of glass, and the ivy covered the
house even to the roof. Very picturesque
was the old mansion in its decay, and
charming to the eye ; but painful was the
havoc old Time had played with the
interior, and the would-be purchaser felt
some qualms as to the serious question of
cost, as he went from room to room, and
floor to floor.

The place had been in the market for

c2

some time, for the family to whom the
property belonged were too poor to live
there, mortgaged as it was, and the then
owner, the moment he came into the place,
determined to sell it as soon as he could,
and have done with what was, for a poor
man, a hopeless job. As soon as the legal
preliminaries were over which placed Mr.
Armer in the proud position of owner of
Coombridge, lord of the manor thereof,
and possessor of a comfortable number of
acres in that exceedingly hilly parish, the
new squire had set to work with a will,
and in a few months, in spite of the maddening
slowness of the Devonshire labourer
and artisan, the house was finished, fitted,
and furnished, and ready for its occupants.
Mr. Armer had carefully insisted that all
that could be preserved of the old Manor-house
should be kept exactly as it was,
and that all new work should be done on
the lines of the old ; so the fine ancient
front looked down the valley as of old,

while the interior of the mansion was a
monument to Mr. Armer's good taste, and
very comfortable withal.

CHAPTER IT.

THE Denton' ' AL Frisky.'

Lunch was over at Coombridge, and Mr.
Armer, Nellie, and Jack were chatting in
the porch, waiting for the dog-cart to come
round. The grinding of the wheels was
soon heard, and Tucker, the neatest and
deftest of young grooms, drew up exactly
at the right spot, jumped down, and stood
at the horse's head.

You will have a splendid drive, Nellie,'
said Mr. Armer, as he helped his daughter
to the high seat beside her brother.

I wish you were coming, father,' replied
Nellie ; ' though,' she bent down and whispered,
* you do abominate the unfortunate
Dentonss.'

The squire shook his head, making a
grimace savouring slightly of disgust.

1 Take care of Nellie, Jack said he ;
and, after watching them till they were
out of sight, he turned into the house.

When Mr. Armer bought Coombridge,
there was no approach to the place from
the main road but up a steep and rutty
lane, and one of the first things the squire
did was to make a long drive down the
valley which the house fronted. It was
down this drive that Jack was coaching
his sister, on the way to Wreford, the
Dentonss' place. Through an avenue of
beech-trees the road passed, till the brook
was reached, when the drive struck off to
the left, and followed the course of the
little stream for nearly a mile, till the
lodge was reached, and the gate which
gave access to the road. And a lovely
approach it was, tree-shaded, with the
brook and its fern-covered banks on the
right, and on the left the steep side of a

wood-covered hill, at this season carpeted
with flowers. The horse was fresh, and
Jack's time was fully taken up in attending
to his coaching for the first quarter
of a mile, when Trumpeter settled down
into something like steadiness, and made
conversation on Jack's part possible.

Comfortable, Nellie ?' he asked.

Yes, Jack,' she answered. ' This is a
splendid dog-cart ; it does not shake one's
bones at all. I think this kind of carriage
is quite the best for Devonshire ; you can
see over the high hedges sometimes.'

Jack and Nellie chatted away on general
topics until the groom jumped down to
open the gate, and walk up the long hill
up which their road led.

What a nuisance it is to have to take
Tucker !' said Nellie. 1 1 have to think of
everything I say; and, Jack, I wish you
would be more careful, for every word
you utter is repeated in the kitchen, and
becomes the common property of Coom-bridge

parish ; sometimes I positively
shudder at the free remarks you indulge
in about our neighbours.'

All right, Nellie,' said Jack. ' I'm sure
I've been a perfect angel to-day, anyhow,
for you have not told me yet about these
Dentonss ; I forgot to ask you before, and,
though positively burning for information,
I nobly restrained myself. Why does father
hate them so ?'

4 Well,' replied Nellie, ' it is their gorgeousness,
I believe ; you know father hates
all display, and the Dentonss' magnificence
is something appalling. When we called
a week or two ago, a solemn gentleman
in black opened the door, a troop of be-powdered
and silk-stockinged individuals
stood about the hall, and, in fact, the
whole scene struck me as being something
stage ; the furniture is all gold and glitter,
and the Dentonss are gold and glitter
personified.'

What sort of a man is old Denton ?!
asked Jack.

Mr. Denton pere answered Nellie, * is
quite the best of them all ; he is about
sixty, I should think, bluff and what you
call "jolly" in his manners; short, stout,
and round-faced. He looks quite odd and
out of place in all the splendour of Record,
and, I fancy, the gentleman in black
and the canary-coloured footmen rather
patronise him.'

I say, Nellie,' said Jack, 'you ought to
write a novel ; your descriptions are lovely

1 Oh, everybody writes novels nowadays,'
said Nellie. ' It is quite distingue
not to have written one

'Of all the conceit!' exclaimed Jack.
4 Now let us have the girls.'

4 There are two girls,' said Nellie, * and
there is nothing real about either of them.
The eldest, who rejoices in the name of
Theresa, is very handsome indeed. She
is large, and she gushes. "So very kind
of you to call! Isn't it a lovely day?
Don't you adore Devonshire? We hear

Coombridge is quite too perfect'" mimicked
the wicked Nellie. ' The other one,' she
went on, ' affects the languid, invalid
style of manner ; she drawls in a way that
irritates me even to torture. " Don't you
find the air of this county very trying,
Miss Armer?" she droned out to me.
"One always feels so tired, don't you
know." I have no patience with her ; she
looks, and I am sure is, quite as strong as
you or I, and I really felt as if I should
have liked to have given her a good
shaking.'

And Mrs. Denton ?' queried Jack, much
amused.

She was out when we called, and was
out when they returned the call, and you
know they were engaged when we asked
them to lunch, so I have never seen her.
But oh ! Jack, my dear Jack . . . the
young man ! he is too awful. Long, thin,
stooping, with a sickly pale face and fish-like
eyes, his hands dangling and his knees

knocking together, he is a perfect caricature
of the worst type of the exploded
aesthete. How on earth he came to bethe
son of his round and tubbv little father
is one of those things that " no fellow can
understand." He lithpth, Jack ! it's too
lovely. He said to me, ,c Ithn't there
something solemn in the hound of the
rutting of the health among the teeth."
That was the first thing he said to me,
and I had to bite my lips, or I should have
laughed, which would have been dreadful.
They say he has a room upstairs all blue
china, and old oak, and that kind of thing,
and that he is writing a poem. Imagine
the poem, please ! But / believe he is a
lazy, weakly kind of man, and sits in his
aesthetic den like the country-folk here in
church on Sundays, " thinking' o' nothing."
He will be quite a nice friend for you,
Jack,' concluded Nellie, with a malicious
little smile. 'You say there is no one
here for you to " chum " with ; behold

your opportunity in 'Enery Denton, as his
father calls him

1 After your graphic description, I don't
think he is the kind of man I care about
said Jack. ' There used to be some men
like that up at Trinity; wore their hair
about their ears, dressed in velvet with
turn-down collars, loafed about in one
another's rooms all day, and called boats
and cricket and football "coarse." They
looked as if they did not do much in the
tub line. Everybody laughed at them,
and I believe it is dying out now; but they
didn't care, bless you, they thought themselves
martyrs, and called us Goths, or
Vandals, or Philistines, or something or
other. A set of asses !' added Mr. Armer,
junior, with supreme contempt.

Here they reached the top of the long
hill, and the groom jumped up behind,
putting an end to all conversation save
that of the most ordinary nature.

It was not long before they reached the

resplendent blue and gold painted gates
which formed the magnificent entrance to
the Wreford domain, and gave good promise
of the splendours to come. Two or
three carriages were seen winding up the
slight but long ascent which led to the
house.

6 A big meet,' said Jack ; c that explains
the unwonted gorgeousness of your attire,
eh, Nellie ?'

e What do you mean by " gorgeousness,"
Jack ?' asked Nellie. ' I purposely dressed
as quietly as I could, for I think little
people should not be too accentuated.'

Oh, heavens !' exclaimed Jack. ' Accentuated
! what a word ! do you think I
am accentuated enough for this kind of
thing ? By all that's beautiful f he added,
'there's a fellow with a top hat on just
getting out of that wagonette, shiny shoes,
and a frock coat ! by George !' and Jack
regarded his suit of ' dittos ' and his not
too elegant shoes with extreme disfavour.

Just then he had to concentrate his attention
upon driving up to the hall door of
Wreford with that elegance and finish
which had stamped him as one of the best
whips at his university.

Soon they were in a large hall with a
broad staircase in the centre and doors on
either side. The place was en fete, and
the exuberant splendour of the ' spare no
expense ' and ' leave it to the upholsterer '
style of furnishing was somewhat toned
down by the multitude of lovely ferns,
plants, and flowers with which the place
was adorned. An animated throng, which
filled the drawing-rooms and overflowed
into the hall, and the babble of many
tongues, proclaimed a large gathering and
spoke well for the hospitality of Wreford,
and the appreciation thereof on the part
of the country-side.

The Armers knew many of the guests,
and ' How d'ye do, Armer ?' ' So glad
you've come, Miss Armer was heard on

every side, as Jack and his sister made
their way towards their hostess.

4 1 say, Nellie whispered Jack, c how
shall we find the missus ? we don't know
her?'

'Hush!' answered Nellie, * here's one of
the daughters; it's the handsome, gushing
one. I must introduce you.'

So very good of you to come,' gushed
the eldest Miss Denton, a large and exceedingly
handsome damsel. 'Your brother?
yes? delighted, I'm sure. Are not we too
fortunate. Such a heavenly day ! Flowers ?
yes, dearest papa dotes on flowers. But I
forgot, you do not know mamma yet ; she
is dying to know you ;' and she led the way
into the drawing-room.

Piloted by the lovely Theresa, Nellie
and her brother were soon exchanging the
customary civilities with the mistress of
Wreford, and solving at the same time the
mystery of young Mr. Denton's extraction,
for that young gentleman i favoured ' his

mother, who was tall and thin, and of
what the dressmakers call * a genteel
figure.'

Mrs. Denton was a very ambitious and
a very determined woman ; it was through
her efforts (and not, too, without painful
pinching and screwing) that her children
had obtained an amount of education
which rendered them able to hold their
own in the society to which the sudden
change in the fortunes of the family gave
them access. It was the aim and end of
Mrs. Denton's life to climb up to the very
topmost rungs of the social ladder, and
with great wealth, an acute intelligence,
and a large fund of persistence she did not
despair of attaining this end. Mrs. Denton's
father had been a chemist and druggist
; he was well enough off to keep a ,
and this gave his daughter an
amount of time she would have found
heavy upon her hands had it not been for
the circulating library. Her mother had

vol. I. D

doted upon her daughter, and, an ignorant
woman herself, regarded with something
of awe Louisa's devotion to books.

Louisa spent all her time devouring
novels, and many were the visions of
aristocratic lovers, gorgeous establishments,
liveried menials, and splendid
equipages in which she indulged; but alas !
for her dreams ; time wore on, her mother
was dead, her father was getting very old,
and Louisa's ' genteel figure' was lapsing into
the skinny stage, and still the aristocracy
held aloof, and Louisa was fain to accept
the respectful admiration of their neighbour
and her father's friend, Henry Denton. It
is a question, however, whether she could
have brought herself to consent to such a
total wrecking of all her castles in the air
if it had not been for one fact. Mr. Denton
had an only brother, some years older
than himself. This brother, Benjamin Denton,
had gone to Australia about the time
when Henry was setting up (after due

service and apprenticeship) as a grocer in
the neighbourhood of Bloomsbury.

Benjamin Denton was a pushing, persevering,
hard-working man, and after
many years of self-denying labour he had
amassed a considerable fortune. He married
in the colony when he was already advanced
in years, and brought his wife on a
bridal trip to the mother country. Finding his
brother comfortably settled in a flourishing
business, he saw there was no need for the
help he was perfectly willing to have
given ; and. making no parade of his wealth,
he returned to Australia, after gladdening
the hearts of his nephews and his nieces
with handsome presents. Now, Henry
Denton had heard from others of his
brother's wealth, and Mrs. Denton in
accepting Henry had her eagle eye on
this money, of which the guileless Henry
had often made boast in her father's parlour.
Benjamin was not married nor likely
to marry when the fair Louisa became

d2

Mrs. Henry, and his marriage was a terrible
blow to that covetous lady; but as
the years went on, and no little Benjamins
appeared, she learnt to endure the burden.
Five years after Benjamin's wedding-trip
his wife died, and having no one, now, upon
whom he could bestow his affections he
bestowed them upon his money, and for
the latter years of his life he became almost a
miser.

When Henry Denton's children became
a great expense to their parents,
he wished to apply to his wealthy brother
to help in their education and setting out
in life, but his wife would by no means
allow him to do so. A wonderfully shrewd
woman was Mrs. Denton. Still keeping up
a friendly correspondence with her brother-in-law,
she never once mentioned the word
money, but she strained her resources to
the utmost, and deprived herself almost of
necessities, in order to fit her children for
what must be their good fortune unless

Uncle Benjamin left his money to some
charitable institution or other, a possibility
which sometimes caused her secret panics
of fear.

The result of this training on her children's
part was that they utterly despised
the shop, turned np their educated
noses at their father's vulgarity, and made
things altogether so unpleasant as to
almost drive the good-natured little man to
despair. But still the venerable Benjamin
4 hung on,' and refused to retire from this
world, and it became a serious question as
to what was to be the outcome of this state
of affairs. Many family discussions, not to
say, quarrels, ended in the son, Henry,
being articled to a solicitor (a ' genteel' profession)
and the two girls getting situations
as governesses, much to their discontent.

So things had gone on for some two years,
when the news of Benjamin Denton's death
came from Australia, and with the news
Mrs. Henry's reward for her self-denial and

forethought, for Mr. Benjamin Denton left
a most enormous fortune to his brother,
with injunctions to him to buy an estate in
England, and 'found a family It was
not long before the grocery business was
disposed of, Wreford bought, the house
built and fitted up ' regardless of expense,'
and the Dentonss emerged from their
chrysalis state into the condition of very
fine butterflies indeed.

Of course the country-side was all agog
to see what manner of folk these new
people were, who were building such a
palatial edifice for their habitation, laying
out such enormous sums of money, and
generally dispensing what young Armer
called 'the sickles,' with a lavishness
which made the mouths of the parsons and
squireens of those parts, together with the
mouths of their wives and children, to
water, and brought about a breaking of
the tenth commandment, which was, to
say the least of it, shocking. All sorts of

rumours preceded the arrival and final
settling in of the Denton family. Some said
old Denton was a magnificent moneylender
; others hinted at the three golden
balls as the sign of his wealth ; and some,
with a side-glance at the Coombridge folk,
spoke of the Stock Exchange ; but one and
all agreed that a mighty man of money
was coming to live in their midst, and that
it behoved them to receive him, and all his
belongings, with open arms, with a view
to the ' cakes and ale ' which would probably
be dispensed with no niggard hand.

The neighbouring clergy revolved dark
schemes in their minds as to the restoration
of their churches, and large subscriptions
therefor, and their wives had sweet
expectations as to annual donations to
clothes, blanket, and coal clubs, while
their daughters, together with all the
other daughters of Eve 'in Society,' had
pleasant visions of tennis-parties, dances,
picnics, and other enlivenments of a dull

locality. It was known that there was an
only son, unmarried, and some ladies,
mothers and daughters too, nourished still
deeper designs in their chaste bosoms.

But although the clergy and the lesser
gentry had flocked to the gleaming portals
of Wreford in phaetons, vignettes,
Stanhope, shan dry dans, and every imaginable
vehicle, some bright and new,
but most of them second-hand, woebegone,
and shabby ; though the neighbouring little
town of Bardon had sent, too, a noble
contingent in the shape of the two doctors
and the lawyer, and their respective wives ;
though these devoted worshippers at the
shrine of Mammon had driven eight solid
miles up and down precipitous hills, andover
roads of a most astonishing badness ;
though the heap of cards reached an
abnormal height, yet, still, to Mrs. Denton's
and her son's, and her two fair daughters'
deep disappointment and disgust, the
people of that division of the county had

failed to pay their devotions to the man of
money, and were, indeed, conspicuous only
by their absence.

In his secret heart, though he dared not
to say so, the monied man himself was rather
relieved than otherwise at this neglect on the
part of what he called 'the nobs,' for he had
serious misgivings as to how he should
conduct himself in the presence of members
of our noble British aristocracy, and,
indeed, was what the country-folk around
him would have called i mazed ' with all
this new magnificence. Secretly he often
sighed for his snug parlour behind the old
shop in Bloomsbury, with its balmy odours
of cheese, bacon, coffee, &c, &c. He
missed, too, the club of congenial spirits
which assembled nightly in the public-house
where he was wont of yore to spend
his evenings, smoking the pipe of peace
and partaking of the enlivening glass of
gin-and-water (shot with; two lumps of
sugar, and a slice of lemon, if you please,

miss, as usual ') ; where also he was much
looked up to, on account of the great
reputed riches of his brother (a subject on
which he frequently descanted), and his
chance of one day succeeding thereto.

It was an affecting scene when he took
a fond and last farewell of what his wife
called l his boon companions and stood
'glasses round' for the last time; and
often, as he wandered aimlessly about his
large domain, he sighed at the emptiness
of riches, and in his heart almost envied
the very servants who waited on him ; they
had not got to mind their ' hs ' to say
nothing of their ' ps ' and ' qs ' generally.
And it was not until he suddenly developed
a strange and violent mania for orchids
and hot-house plants that he found a
modicum of peace, and began to enjoy his
brother Ben's fortune.

CHAPTER III.

A SUDDEN ATTACHMENT.

This grand garden-party at Wreford was
the first social shot of any calibre that the
Dentonss had fired off ; such small mutilating
as ' afternoon teas ' they had ventured upon
already, but this was the first big gun,
and great had been the preparations and
the anticipations thereanent. The social
experience of the whole family was brought
to bear upon this solemn function. Mr.
Denton's experience was of the ' cress and
shrimp or a ' bit of something 'ot,' order,
so his advice was not of much use ; but Mrs.
Denton was learned in the noble works of
fiction of the fashionable sort, and the
Misses Denton had been in good situations,

and had viewed the doings of the great
from the vantage ground of the bannisters,
to say nothing of being occasionally asked
to ' come down after dinner.' No wonder,
then, that Mrs. Denton's first 'at home,'
though rather an omnium gathered, was
a great success.

No expense was spared, a string band
from Plymouth discoursed sweet music,
and a company of glee singers from the
same place asked each other, in musical
tones, questions as to the whereabouts of
Sylvia, Chloe, and Lubin, exhorted one
another to ' trip it like fairies,' and gave the
amusing history of the gentleman who
4 brewed good stingo,' and possessed a dog
whose name was (most conveniently for the
rhyme) Bingo. There was tennis for the
young and agile, and croquet for those who
preferred to amuse themselves less vigorously;
the refreshments were, as the
Bardon lawyer — an obese gentleman,
reported to have seen ' life ' in his youth,

and of bibulous propensities — described
them, ' First-class, champagne up to the
masthead ; give your orders, gents, the
waiter's in the room.'

And if some of the guests, with reminiscences
of the aristocratic meets of
the county, turned up their noses at the
exuberant joviality of the before-quoted
lawyer and his friends, and wondered ' why
Mrs. Denton had asked those horrible
So-andros, and those too vulgar ,'
Mrs. Denton was very apt to
take the hint which their contemptuous
glances gave her, and began in her mind
that very afternoon the process of weeding,
which was, in course of time, to make
it a privilege to be invited to "Wreford, and
a joy of the highest social flavour to be
seen there.

'Well! I'm glad it's over,' said Mrs.
Denton, with a sigh of relief, as she
turned from the window whence she, with
her interesting family, had been watching

the last vehicle as it disappeared down
the drive. ' I'm glad it's over, and I
don't think it was bad for a first attempt.'

For my part,' said Mr. Denton, ' I
don't hold with these 'arf-an'-'arf affairs,
as I call 'em ; give me a good dinner-party,
or a regular 'op. Seems so queer for the
company to go just as they're a-getting' comfortable
together, and the smell of the
dinner a-coming up the stairs. That ain't
my idea of 'hospitality.'

We must, however, conform to the
usages of society,' said his son, who
dropped his lisp in the bosom of his family,
but who was apt to be Johnsonian in his
periods, and was, truth to tell, something
of a bore.

'Hang society !' said his father, ' I'm
sick to death of the word. Society !
society ! all day long ; why can't you be
content with what you've got, and not go
hankering after things you can't get ?'

My dear,' said his wife, ' I intend to

leave no stone unturned till we occupy the
position in the county to which our wealth
entitles us.'

All I can say then, Louisa,' rejoined
her spouse, ' is, that you'll 'ave to turnover
a good many of 'em ;' and, with
this parting shot, he went off to superintend
the removal of some of his favourite
plants from the hall to their homes in the
hot-houses.

Isn't it too dreadful, mamma, the way
father drops his " h's " ? I declare, he gets
worse every day,' said Theresa.

l I believe he does it on purpose,' said
Emily.

'Well, my dears,' said their mother, 'I'm
sure I do all I can. I make him practise
every morning, when he is dressing. I
make him say sentences with quantities
of "h's" in them after me; but it isn't a
bit of good — he only laughs, and does it
worse than ever. He says, " He's too old
a dog to learn new tricks." '

'If he would only cease to persist in
the pernicious habit of eating with his
knife, it would afford me infinite relief remarked
the long and magniloquent Henry.
1 Yesterday, at dinner, I could see the
men grinning, when he was trying to get
peas into his mouth, and they kept running
off the knife. It is a grievous trial.'

Here the conclave broke up, for the
two sisters retired to indulge in their
favourite pastime of bedizening their fair
persons, leaving Henry and his mother
together.

Henry,' said Mrs. Denton, after a
pause, during which she seemed to be
deeply pondering over some weighty problem,
'did you notice those Armers ? What
do you think of them ?'

Henry turned round from the window,
whence he had been looking out, in the
meanwhile, in an absent manner.

Eh, mother ? I beg your pardon. What
was it you said ?' he asked.

1 1 asked you what you thought of the
Armers ?'

1 1 think Miss Armer is quite the nicest
girl I ever saw said Master Henry, naturally
enough for once in his life, and naively
ignoring the other members of the family
in question.

Mrs. Denton gave a quick glance at
him, and seemed considerably surprised at
the unusual warmth with which her languid
son spoke.

Well, I must say I don't understand it
at all she said. 'Mr. Armer's only a
stockbroker, after all. They are not half
as rich as your papa. I never heard they
were much of it in the way of birth, and
yet they seem to know everybody — Lord
Limborne, the Holywells, the Portons : all
the best people know them. I wonder
why it is ?'

c She is a most charming girl. The
sweetest smile, the loveliest little hands
and feet, and the most beautiful eyes I

VOL. I. E

ever gazed upon — her figure is grace
personified remarked Henry.

Well ! upon my word, Harry ! If you
ain't bewitched !' cried his mother, lapsing,
in her astonishment, into the vernacular
of her youth. ' What's come to the boy ?
Why, you've only seen her twice ! What
a way you do go on, Henry I'

Mother,' said her son, in solemn tones,
my mind is made up. I have met my
Fate. Long, long have I foreboded it ; and
the future will be one long blank to me, if
it be not shared with that divine girl. I
know it seems strange to you, mother; but
it is not strange to me ! for I have long
known that some such a fate was in store
for me. I have long felt that I was marked
out for gloom and sorrow;* and he sighed
dismally.

1 What nonsense you talk, Henry !' said
Mrs. Denton. c Why, any girl would jump
for joy to get such a chance. I do hope
this is only a passing fancy, for it is the

dream of my life for you to marry a title —
the Honourable Mrs. Denton, the Lady
Mary Denton repeated Mrs. Denton ; and
she almost smacked her lips at the delicious
sound.

f Nay, mother,' said Henry, who seemed
determined that ' Melancholy should mark
him for her own,' and who had, to tell
the truth, been 'going in for ' an unwholesome
course of Byronic literature. ' Nay,
mother, I shall wed with no one else ;
indeed, I shall never know the joys of
domestic life ; no children shall ever prattle
round these knees ; no wife shall soothe
this aching brow, for she loves me not.
I can plainly perceive that she loves me
not.'

She would be a most impudent young
hussy if she did' said his mother, ' seeing
that to-day is only the second time she
ever set eyes on you. Come, Henry, don't
be a fool !' (for the weak-minded young
man was actually sobbing with self-pity)

E 2

UNIVERSITY OF
ILLINOIS LIBRARY

1 your old mother will help you, if you are
set upon the girl, though I must say it is a
bitter disappointment to me, for I should
have liked a titled daughter-in-law,' she
added, with a sigh ; ' but,' she went on,
brightening up, c after all, it is very sudden,
and, perhaps, you will see some one you
like better.'

Never, mother, never !' said the doleful
Henry. ' I feel in myself that I am
destined to grief and sorrow.' And he
groaned in a dreadful and hollow way
which could only have come to him by assiduous
practice; groans, indeed, which
would have ' brought down the house ' in
any transpontine theatre.

1 For goodness sake, Henry, don't make
such dreadful noises,' said his mother,
with a start at the dismal sound. ' I declare
you make my flesh creep, going on
in that way. And there's the gong ; yes,
it's half-past seven, and time to dress for
dinner. Don't you fret, Harry, it will all

come right enough, never you fear ;' and
kissing her son, whom she loved with a
doting affection which could see no faults
in him, Mrs. Denton hastened away to
attend to her toilette for dinner.

Henry was standing, leaning against the
mantel-piece, a picture of woe, when ibis
father came bustling into the room.

Been looking after the plants,' he said.
1 Lazy lot of beggars them gardeners are,
to be sure. If you want a thing done, doit
yourself. Look 'ere ! Look at my 'ands !
black as yer 'at !' he was rambling on, when
he caught a glimpse of his son's woe-begone
visage. ' Illo, 'Army — I mean Harry !
Why, what's the matter with you, my
boy? You ain't taken nothing at the " Al
Frisky," as I call it, that's disagreed with
you, 'ave you ? . . . Bless the boy ! what
a temper he's in, to be sure ; he must have
eat something,' he went on, as his son
rushed by him, and strode haughtily across
the hall on the way to his own room.

4 Ah, well !' sighed Mr. Denton, his
round and ruddy face looking quite
dismal, ' Bent money has turned 'em all
topsy-turvy, and I almost wish I'd never
seen the colour of it. Money ain't everything,
after all. Now I must go and put
on smaller-tails, I suppose. Well, perhaps
I shall get used to it all some day ; but
just now I regular hate all this humbug
and show.' And, with another portentous
sigh, the master of Wreford went to prepare
for the greatest event of the day — to
him, at least — his dinner.

Very soon after the Dentonss' 'Al
Frisky,' as the head of that family called
their ' at home,' the Wreford barouche was
seen winding its tortuous way up the
Coombridge drive ; a truly magnificent
4 turn-out ' it was, and more suited to the
congenial locality of Hyde Park than to
the steep and hilly roads of Devonshire.
In the stony and rutty by-ivays with which
that county abounds, and which are a trial to

horse-flesh, and even to the stoutest of shoe-leather,
this resplendent equipage was a
rank impossibility ; but its appearance in
the main roads was a constant joy to the
rustic mind, which regarded with something
of awe its light yellow body, its
brightly emblazoned and new (in more
senses than one) coats-farms, the shining
silver harness, and the gorgeous attire of
the coachman and footman. Indeed, Mr.
Lamacraft, who kept the village shop at
Coombridge, and had been to London, and
was much looked up to in those parts asa
man who had seen the world — Mr. Lama-craft
said,

'Tis like the Lord Mayor's Show; not
even him rode in a more beautiful coach,
for certain.'

The love-stricken Henry Denton would
allow his mother no peace until she had
made this pilgrimage (for he could not as
yet summon up enough courage to go by
himself), and he fronted his mother and

his eldest sister Theresa in the carriage.
But Mrs. Denton had other reasons besides
her desire to please her son, which induced
her to make this call. The pleasant and
refined manners of the Coombridge folk,
their well-known wealth, and the fact,
perhaps, that they did not particularly
care for the honour, and took no manner
of means to force it upon themselves, had
gained for them a footing in the county
society, and Mrs. Denton saw in their
friendship a considerable help towards the
attainment of her ambitious designs.
More particularly she wished through the
Armers to get an introduction to Lord
Limborne, whose place, Limborne Castle,
was not very far from Wreford, and whose
mother (for Lord Limborne was a bachelor)
had not yet called upon her wealthy
neighbours.

Fortune favoured Mrs. Denton ; her
visit was most opportune, for when the
Wreford carriage, in all its glistening

beauty, drove up to the Coombriclge front
door, Jack Armer was playing a single-handed
' sett' at tennis on the lawn before
the house against his sister and Lord Lime
himself. As they descended from
their carriage, Nellie advanced to meet
her callers racket in hand, and looking a
perfect picture in her flannel tennis costume
and Tam-o'-Shanter cap.

i Do not let us disturb your game, Miss
Armer,' said Mrs. Denton, as they shook
hands. 4 1 shall so much like to watch
you ; Theresa and I will sit under the
trees here, and Henry can help Mr.
Armer.'

Now his mother could not have done
Henry a worse turn, for he did not shine
as an athlete ; he abhorred all manner of
exercises, and never felt more truly at
home than when he was seated in his
luxurious arm-chair in his 'study' at
"Wreford, surrounded with all the pet
fancies of the ' interest ' asceticism, and

studying ' the last new novel or the latest
development of the fleshly school of
poetry.

Jack will be delighted, I am sure said
Nellie, turning to Henry Denton, and
wondering how his weedy figure, correct
frock-coat, and stove-pipe hat would lookin
the throes of ' vantage to us.'

Really, Miss Armer said Henry, torn
between a desire to be near the object of
his affection, and* a knowledge of his want
of skill and hatred of the game — * really I
am but a poor tennis-player, and I fear
your brother will not be too sheathed with
with partner ; but if you wish it . '

Just then Jack and Lord Limborne came
up, and when Nellie had introduced the
Dentonss to Lord Limborne, and while they
were trying to make a good impression
upon 'his lordship,'

Jack,' she said to her brother, l do, for
goodness' sake, make the tithing sesthete
play ; it will be too delightful ! Think of

his coat-tails, his hat, and his long legs !'
1 All right,' said Jack, ' we'll make him
spin round, and give him a little " gentle
exercise " for once in his life. I say,
Denton,' he called out, ' come and take a
racket. These two are too much for me ;
come and help me, there's a good fellow.'

4 Yes, do, Mr. Denton,' Lord Limborne
chimed in, catching a meaning glance from
the mischievous Nellie, ' we are too many
for Arrner.'

Mr. Denton, junior, who ' loved a lord,'
did not like to refuse Lord Limborne, and
he desired above all things to ' get into
the good books' of the fair Nellie; so, with
many qualms as to what kind of an exhibition
he was going to make of himself, he
buttoned his frock-coat to his fragile form,
fixed his tall hat firmly on his manly brow,
and, grasping his racket with an air of
stern determination, he prepared for the
worst. Nor was this ' worst ' long in coming
upon him, for the three other players

combined to give him no rest ; his partner,
making a huge pretence at action himself,
urged the unfortunate young man to continued
exertions, while Nellie and Lord
Limborne so arranged matters for him
that his time was spent in frantic and
often fruitless runs after the ball from one
side of the court to the other. Unaccustomed
as young Denton was to any exercise
beyond a short walk, or a (not unlearn
amble upon a safe and easy cob,
the violence of his springs, jumps, and
short runs reduced him, in a very little
time, to a condition almost pitiable ; the
perspiration simply rolled down his face,
which was heated to a fine purple colour ;
the top button of his shirt had given way,
and allowed his collar to dangle gracefully
over his breast ; he had lost his hat at an
early stage of the proceedings, and his
hair, usually sleek and lank, was in admired
disorder. Altogether, when the game
was over, and his adversaries were proclaimed

the victors, he presented an odd
appearance as he stood gasping for
breath and mopping his face-with an elegant
silk handkerchief.

1 Have another sett, Denton said Jack.
We'll beat them next time ; you'll get
into your " form," you know, after a sett
or two.'

4 Yes, do, Mr. Denton,' said Nellie, who,
with her brother and Lord Limborne,
looked as cool as the proverbial cucumber,
and presented a refreshing contrast to the
perspiring aesthete. ' Do have another
game.'

I think we'll change courts this time
Lord Limborne joined in, following suit,
and taking it as a matter of course that
they should go on playing.

'I — ah — I don't think I will play anymore,
thank you,' said Henry Denton, inwardly
resolving that not lords, nor even
dukes or marquises, or love himself should
persuade him to perform such another

dance of death. ' I — ah — I have not
played for some time, and the exercise with
a little there at first, don't you know.
But perhaps my thither will take my
racket,' he added, with a vicious desire to
make her a sharer in his sufferings. No
persuasions could induce him to change his
mind, or persuade the fair, elaborately-attired
Theresa to risk the deranging of
her elegant costume, so Nellie proposed
that they should refresh themselves with
afternoon tea. Mrs. Denton seized upon
the opportunity to ingratiate herself with
Lord Limborne, and she and her daughter
kept up a running fire of the smallest
of small talk with him, while Henry was
unmercifully handled by Jack and his
sister, though his conceit was of so thick
and solid a nature that their sharp longings
failed to pass through it, and he did
not even know that they were laughing at
his manifold affectations, but rather thought
he was making a good impression.

'Oh,' sighed Nellie, as, at last, the
Dentonss drove away, * what a relief ! I
thought they never would go.'

A regular visitation,' said Jack.

4 Don't you adore Theresa, Lord Lime
?' asked Nellie.

1 1 can scarcely go so far as that as yet,
this is the first time I have met the fair
lady,' answered Lord Limborne ; * but I
think you have made a conquest, Miss
Armer ; our long, aesthetic friend bestowed
looks full of devotion upon you, and went
into the most correct of Grosvenor Gallery
attitudes, expressing attachment, humility
in the presence of the object of devotion,
and so forth ; were all these contortions of
body and visage wasted upon you ?'

I thought he was suffering from cramp,
or something, after his violent exertions.
That game was too lovely, wasn't it. Jack?'
said Nellie.

1 Well, it serves him right,' said Jack.
I hate a fellow who moons about all day,

and does nothing but attire himself in
gorgeous raiment and reads novels. If
he would go in for a daily course of tennis
for a month, he would at least look
wholesome, which he certainly does not at
present

I wonder what Lady Limborne wilt
think of her neighbours ? I suppose she
will call,' said Nellie, looking at Lord
Limborne.

She has not said anything to me about
it replied Lord Limborne, 'but I don't
think my mother is likely to care much
about their gilded magnificences of Record.
I hear the father has difficulties
with his " h's " and that kind of thing.'

1 He is quite the nicest of them all,
though he does call Wreford an " 'wealthy
'ouse," and asks you to "come and 'ave a
look at his 'pot-houses." There is no pretence
about Mr. Denton, and I like him,
and mean to be great friends with him
said Nellie. 'Won't you stay and dine

with us ?' she went on, as Lord Limborne
came forward to make his adieux ; ' father
will be so disappointed if he does not see
you : he has gone to look after some new
buildings on one of the farms, but he is
sure to be in soon.'

1 Of course you must stay, Limborne/
said Jack ; ' come up to my room and
shift.'

It is very kind of you — I should like
to stay of all things ; there is no one at
the Castle, and I feel like u Mariana in the
Moaned Grange" there. You must excuse
morning costume," Miss Armer,' said
Lord Limborne.

1 Oh, never mind that,' said Jack ; ' weare
not proud, and I shall be glad of the
excuse to get out of the claw-hammer coat
business, and keep you company

And the two friends went oh to Jack's
domains.

VOL. I.

CHAPTER IV.

PLACE FOB HER LADYSHIP.

Lord Ltmborne was glad of any excuse
which gave him the chance of a few more
hours in the company of Squire Armer's
daughter ; he had a decided liking for that
fascinating young lady, and was beginning
to hope that one day she would take up her
abode at Limborne Castle as the lovely
mistress thereof. There were, however,
serious difficulties in the way, for his
mother was the very incarnation of pride,
and would have looked upon such a marriage
as a decided mesalliance, in spite
of Mr. Armer's reputed wealth, and the
large share of it which was sure to fall to

the lot of his only daughter. Lady Lime
had determined that her son should
marry a lady possessing not only the attractions
of wealth, but of rank also, and
she was even now searching among her
exalted connections and acquaintances fora
suitable mate for the noble house of
Limborne.

It was, indeed, necessary that the future
Lady Limborne should have well-filled
money-bags, for Lord Limborne was a
poor peer, and Limborne Castle was a
most expensive place to keep up. The
late lord had been a quiet man, contented
to live at home, and occupied in the arduous
business of trying to make both ends
meet ; but, in spite of the strictest economy,
these ends refused to respond to his
strenuous efforts, and the later years of
his life were darkened by the shadow of
debts he could not help incurring, and
which he saw no means of satisfying.

He had married early in life the taught



ter of a Scotch peer, as economical, but
also, unfortunately, as poor as himself, but
whose pedigree stretched back into quite
mythic ages. An only child, the present
Lord Limborne, had lost his father some
six years ago. At the time of our story
he was twenty-eight ; his mother perfectly
idolised him, and that not without reason,
for her son, besides being naturally of a
kindly disposition, was a remarkably clever
man, and one not unlikely to make his
mark in the world.

Unlike Mr. Chamberlain's friends of
what James de la Pluche called the
upper suckles,' who ' Toil not, neither
do they spin,' Lord Limborne had already
toiled to some purpose, and spun with
singular success. He had left Oxford with
the highest of honours, and was already
known as a rising man, and as the author
of some pamphlets and articles on the
burning questions ' of the day, which had
made no small stir.

In person he was tall and of good figure,
and, though his face could scarcely be
called a handsome one, yet there was an
expression of power in his broad forehead
and dark eyes which struck one at once,
and called the attention from the ruggedness
of his too pronounced features. He
was dark in complexion, and his hair,
which was thin and fine, was black.

Cold and distant as Lady Limborne was
to all the world besides, she was affectionate
to her son, and her acquaintances —
for she was not the kind of woman to
make friends — would have been astonished
could they have known the depth of her
feelings towards her only child.

Lord Limborne recognised, and valued
at its proper high price, the affection of
his mother, and he repaid her with a rare
devotion. It was, therefore, with mingled
feelings that he read a letter from Lady
Limborne which he received on the morning
after he had dined at Coombridge, and

which announced her arrival for that afternoon.
On the one hand he was glad at
the thought of seeing his mother again
after what was for her a long absence,
and, on the other hand, his mother had
dropped many hints as to her object in
going amongst her connections in London
once more ; he knew well enough that
she had set her heart upon his making
what she would look upon as a splendid
marriage, and he was dismally certain of
the disappointment she would feel, and no
doubt express, when she learnt that her
son had chosen for himself, and had fixed
his affections in a rank of life peculiarly
obnoxious to the proud Lady Limborne.

The contrast between the narrow means
at the Castle and the wealth and ease at
Coombridge had often formed a topic of
conversation with her, and she seemed to
find a kind of relief in inveighing against
the very modest display of (as she chose
to term them) ' those roturiers ' and those

nouveaux riches ' at Coombridge Manor.
From bis very childhood Lord Limborne
had been duly, and even to tedium, instructed
as to the advantages of ' blood
and the pitiful and contemptible condition
of those unfortunate persons in whose
veins ran a vital fluid wanting in the
1 blueness ' which distinguished the blood
of the Limbornes and the Hautfords, to
which latter noble house Lady Limborne
had the priceless privilege of belonging.

From time to time the society papers recorded
marriages which were ' arranged '
between some titled, long-descended, and,
possibly, poverty-stricken individual of one
sex, and some individual of the other who
was without much descent, save the common
one from father Adam, but who rejoiced
in much money in many satisfactory
investments, and which (horrible dicte!)
had been gained in trade.

Lady Limborne never missed the opportunity
to ' point her moral, and adorn her

tale,' which such announcements afforded
her. If, as not unfrequently happened,
such alliances ended in an absence of
domestic bliss, and sometimes in disgraceful
exposes not unconnected with the Divorce
Court, she was able to deliver a strong
and eloquent lecture upon her favourite
subject, with the additional advantage of
■ living examples.' From long years of
brooding upon this subject, it had gradually
assumed the proportions of a sort of monomania
with her, while, perhaps not unnaturally,
the constant in sis tan ce on his
mother's part had ended by utterly wearying
Lord Limborne, and giving him the
suspicion of a bias towards the other side
of the question.

A strong Conservative as he was, and
seeing, indeed, nothing but ruin for his
class in particular, and revolution and
anarchy for his country at large, in the
rabid dreams of a communistic radicalism,
he was, at the same time, too wise not to

mark, and advance with the signs of the
times: and he did not fail of seeing how
the middle-class of Great Britain, with its
enormous wealth and consequent power,
must, as the barriers of aristocratic pride
were weakened by the needs of families of
rank, gain an entrance into the higher
circles of ' society.'

Indeed, so accustomed was he among
his own intimate friends to seeing such
alliances as those his mother so fervently
hated, that he gradually came to regard
the matter in an entirely different light,
and so it came to pass that he had no such
prejudices as agitated his mother to fight
against, when the mignonne beauty of Nellie
Armer, and the many charms of her character,
began to attract him ; and as their
friendship ripened into a certain degree of
intimacy, and he found her able to understand
and sympathise with his views and
ambitions upon subjects in which even his
mother herself could find no interest ;

when be saw how proud and delighted
Nellie was at his various successes as a
politician and a man of letters, he very
soon came to the determination that here
was a woman who would (could he gain
her affections) make him a tender and a
loving wife, and at the same time be a true
companion to him, and a help to him as he
worked his way to the goal of his high
ambitions.

Young as he was, Lord Limborne was
already a man of mark, and there was nothing
absurd in these ambitious dreaming
of his ; the lack of means was, of course, a
great bar to his advancement, and, though
he did not look to his possible alliance
with the house of Armer as to a solution
of this difficulty, at any rate it was evident
enough that Nellie's father would be able
to make her future secure, and to relieve
her husband of fears in this direction.

Revolving these important matters in
his mind, Lord Limborne was standing

on the platform of the little wayside
station some four miles from Limborne
Castle. The train glided up, with the
accustomed shrieking and scraping, and
Lady Limborne was soon exchanging
greetings with her son. Lord Limborne
could see by her manner that his mother
had important news to tell him ; and he
had an uneasy feeling as to what this
news might be. Once seated together
in the somewhat antediluvian Limborne
carriage, which even the most careful of
tendance could not redeem from a certain
shabbiness, Lady Limborne opened her
budget at once.

You must be tired, mother,' said Lord
Limborne. ' The carriage must have been
like an oven

1 Of course it was hot ; but you know
I do not feel the heat, James,' she replied ;
and, indeed, Lady Limborne looked, if one
might apply such a homely comparison
to so exalted a person, c as fresh as a

daisy.' Tall and slight, with white hair
and blue eyes of the ' steely ' order, with
high and somewhat pronounced features
of the clean-cut sort, supposed to belong
exclusively to 'persons of rank,' and called
'aristocratic,' Lady Limborne was the ideal
'haughty dame.' Her face was always
pale, and in moments (very rare) of excitement
assumed a dead-white hue. She
was immensely proud of her hands, which
were, indeed, models of shapeliness, and
were, according to her views, the plain
evidences of her high descent and ' blue
blood.'

I do not feel the heat, James, as you
know,' she said. ' There was, however,
a person in the carriage who looked so
offensively hot that I was obliged to call
Cerise, and have my things taken into
another carriage. Such people ought to
travel second-class.'

My dear mother,' said her son, ' I
verily believe you would like to have the

sumptuary laws re-informed : have different
costumes for every class, and generally go
back into the old days of feudalism, villeinage,
and so forth;' and he smiled at
what he called prejudice in his mother,
but what would have looked to him remarkably
like snobbism in any other
person.

4 1 do think it would be an excellent
thing if people could be made by law
to keep in their proper positions rejoined
Lady Limborne. ' But I have too much
to tell you to talk about such matters
now ;' and here she began a long account
of her month's experiences, the people she
had seen, the news of her coterie, and
the various items of intelligence which she
thought would interest her son.

During the delivery of this long monologue,
Lord Limborne heard, with something
of amusement and a certain amount
of perturbation, frequent mention of a
Lady Beldon (a high and mighty friend

of the family) and her daughter Emily ;
and, as his mother went on with her
narration, he began to plainly perceive
that this Lady Emily Beldon was the
happy individual Lady Limborne had
selected for the high position of mistress
of Limborne Castle. He was, therefore,
relieved when the carriage drew up under
the portico of the castle, and when, after
a few words, his mother left him, to relieve
herself of her travelling attire and of the
dust which had had the unconscionable
insolence to cleave to, and annoy, her
magnificence of Limborne.

Limborne Castle was a splendid home
for a gentleman of large means, but an
intolerable incubus to a poor man, such
as was the present owner. It was a 'real,
bona-fide castle and no stucco imitation,
and the ancient towers still lorded it over
the huge edifice, part of which was, alas !
only too evidently going fast to decay.
As yet, however, the neglect, which Lord

Limborne's small means and his father's
before him had rendered a sad necessity,
had not gone far enough to be irremediable,
and the enchanter's wand of wealth would
soon make Limborne Castle what it was in
olden days, one of the finest and most important
seats in the beautiful county of
Devon. However pressed he had been,
the late lord had religiously avoided felling
any of the timber, and the lordly groups of
trees in Limborne Park were still a sight
which people came from far and near to
look upon. Within, many of the rooms
were left to the dust and the spiders, for
the establishment was necessarily a small
one, and quite unable to cope with so large
a number of rooms ; while the apartments
occupied by Lord Limborne and his
mother were furnished with chairs, settees,
and sofas dingy as to their coverings, and
some of them not too firm upon their
venerable and worm-eaten legs ; the 
and carpets also bore plain

marks of the hand of time, and the whole
effect was dismal and depressing to the
last degree. This fact seemed to be
strongly borne in upon Lady Limborne ashe
sat in the drawing-room on the evening
of her return home. Lord Limborne was
leaning against the mantelpiece, thinking,
to tell the truth, about Nellie Armer, and
wondering (should she accept him) how his
mother would ' take it.'

Coming home fresh from some of the
prettiest rooms in London, the general
shabbiness of things here is most depressing,
James,' she said. l This old furniture
is so much nicer than the gaudy modern
stuff one sees, and is, indeed, quite priceless
now this rage for Chippendale,
Sheraton, and that sort of thing has risen ;
a very little money would make these
rooms perfect. Is there no possibility of
spending a little here?'

'I am sadly afraid not, mother,' answered
Lord Limborne ; e you know that two of the

farms will be vacant soon, and I fear we
shall have to do a great deal to them before
we can get tenants.'

f But, James,' persisted Lady Limborne,
1 thought you were getting money for
those articles you have been publishing ;
a hundred pounds even would make a great
difference.'

Ah ! but, my dear mother,' said Lord
Limborne, with a weariful sigh, ' a great
many more hundreds than I am afraid I
can earn by my pen are, as you know,
absolutely needed here on the estate, and
things are not so well with farmers as
they were of old. I fear the rents must go
down.'

Then you must borrow again, James
dear, I suppose,' she said, with an anxious
look at her son. ' Can't anything be done
to avoid new debts r'

'No, mother, I am afraid we must
borrow, though heaven knows ! there is
enough on the land already. "We cannot let

VOL. i. G

the farms without spending money on
them, they are in shocking repair ; one of
the out-going tenants is a widow, and I
can't be hard on her, and the other is that
good-for-nothing fellow at Beer, and he is
absolutely penniless. I have neither the
capital nor the inclination to farm the land
myself, and, of course, we can't do without
the rents, and let the farms lie fallow.
But,' he added, after a pause of anxious
thought on the subject, ' I did not mean
to worry you, mother, particularly on
this the very first night of your coming
home.'

1 James,' said his mother, solemnly, ' I
am glad the subject has been broached, for
it makes it more easy for me to say to
you what I am going to say. There is
only one way out of all these miserable
difficulties, which, sad as they are, are not
so unbearable to me as the thought of my
son with his talents wasted and his future
ruined. There is only one way; I have

felt this all along. James, you must do
what I have so frequently urged upon you,
you must seek an alliance where you can
have the two so necessary advantages of
rank and money. I have no doubt you
could easily enough get the latter, for
there must be numbers of rich people of
low birth who would be glad to gain for
their daughters such a position as your
wife would hold ; but I am sure my lessons
have given you a just horror of such
mes alliances. One of my objects in leaving
home was that I might seek among our
own people one who should combine the
advantages 1 spoke of ; and, James, I feel
sure you will be glad to hear I have found
a girl who is in every way suited to the
position, and who has the means to relieve
you from these sordid embarrassments, and
help you in your career.'

1 But, my dear mother,' said Lord Lime
laughing, ' in what a cold-blooded
way do you dispose of me ! One cannot

g2

marry to order, — we are not living in
France ; and, moreover, the young lady in
question, whoever she may be, might not
see the advantages of this position of mine
in quite the same light as it presents itself
to you. And, besides, I am not so fatuous
as to believe that a girl has only to regard
my attractive person and physiognomy to,
at once, fall violently in love with me, and
to offer to pour her millions into my
meagre account with the Exeter bank.
Neither am sin the state of mind in which
Punch's housemaid found herself, "of that
'happy disposition as she could marry any
man." It is possible the girl you speak of
may not appear to me in the golden light
in which you seem to regard her.'

• My dear James,' said his mother, with
a reproachful look, 'I am sorry to hear
you talk in this light manner of a matter
of such importance. People in our
position and rank of life do not choose
their husbands and wives in the 

fashion of the lower orders.'
'Nay, mother,' interrupted Lord Lime
still refusing to discuss the match
seriously, ' I am given to understand that
these same folk of whom you speak douse
an amount of circumspection in this
matter which custom denies us. The
beneficent institution of " keeping company"
gives them an opportunity of knowing
each other's little peculiarities before
such a serious undertaking as a regular
engagement, and the housemaid in question
will probably have gone through a
long and exciting course of " young men "
before she settles her affections for good
and all. I am seriously thinking of commending
to the Lords a proposal for leasehold
engagements of one, two, or three
months, renewable at the expiration of the
first and second months at will. It would
go far to do away with breach of promise
cases.' *

If you will insist on talking in this

ridiculous manner, I think I had better
leave you,' said Lady Limborne, offended
at her son's light tone.

1 did not mean to offend you, mother
he said, ' but, seriously, I am not thinking
of making a dowager of you just at present,
and ■'

But, James,' she interrupted, ' what
time could be better than the present ? I
heard, and was proud to hear, frequently
of you in high quarters, your name is
very much spoken of, and, if you only
had means, you would be certain of advancement.
Lord Beldon spoke most
highly of your services to the party, and
Lady Beldon is very well disposed towards
you. It is no use disguising the
matter. I have hinted very plainly to Lady
Beldon my hopes as regards you and her
daughter, and I think I may assure you
that you will be received there as you
ought to be received. There is, I took
the pains to discover, no one in your way,

and I believe a very little trouble on your
part would secure Emily.'

Lord Limborne had been restlessly striding
across and across the room whilst his
mother made this very plain exposition of
her views matrimonial as concerning her
son and the fair Lady Emily, and, as she
paused in her narration, he stopped, and
said, slowly,

I am, indeed, sorry you have taken so
much trouble, and I regret extremely that
you should have ever hinted at such a
thing to any of the Belton. I am sorry
to have to disappoint you, mother; you
should, at least, have consulted with me
first. I have not the slightest suspicion
that Emily Beldon has ever given the
faintest thought to me, and I declare to
you, solemnly, that if she loved me to distraction,
— a highly improbable state of
affairs, — I should most certainly never
think of marrying her.'

1 James, I trust you will think better of

this,' said Lady Limborne, in the coldest tones
she had ever used to her son ; ' otherwise,
you will place your mother in a most painful
position, and that, too, with some of her
oldest and best friends. You surely forget
when you say, "I should have spoken
to you before." I did speak of this to you,
and you certainly did not answer me then
as you answered me just now

Well, mother, I remember now you did
say something about it before you went
away, but I had no idea you seriously
meant it; I treated the matter as a jest, if
you remember.'

1 do not think I will talk on this subject
any more, at least at present. I
think I will say good-night, I am tired, and
this is a great trouble to me ;' and Lady
Limborne rose.

Nay ; but, my dear mother, do not be
angry with me, I will do anything you
wish in any matter but this ; it is surely
reasonable that I should choose my own

wife ?' and with this Lord Limborne went
up to his mother, and kissed her. Lady
Limborne received the salute with unmistakeable
coldness, and retired with
much stateliness, thus leaving her son, who
had opened the door for her, and who gazed
after her with a puzzled and withal a
sorrowful look.

As he smoked a solitary cigar in his
own rooms before ' turning in,' he reviewed
his position, and recognised with pain
the struggle he should have to sustain
with his proud and determined mother
before she would give up her plans for
him, and the still more bitter contest he
should have to pass through before she
would accept his plans for the future ; he
saw, too, that even if Nellie were willing
to take him ■ for better, for worse,' she
was not the kind of girl to enter a family
against the will and wish of the chief
members of that family, and that she would
most certainly refuse to listen to him, at

whatever cost to her own and to his feelings,
if he asked her to marry him against
Lady Limborne's wish. How to keep the
knowledge of Lady Limborne's opposition
from Nellie, how to overcome these rooted
prejudices of his mothers, how to reconcile
her to her disappointment anent the
Belton — these were questions which kept
him up far into the balmy summer night,
and gave him but little rest even when at
last he * denuded himself of his outer
integuments,' or, to put it more plainly r
undressed himself, and got into bed.

CHAPTER Y.

TAKING HIS DEGREE.

Miss Helen Amer had a very shrewd
suspicion that she was not un pleasing to
his lordship of Limborne, and, even if she
had had no such suspicions, her brother
Jack's gibes at her would very soon have
aroused them. "When they were alone
together, he would call her ' my Lady,'
and ' your Ladyship,' and would treat her
with an absurd and burlesque affection of
respect.

Lord Limborne was fond of Jack
Armer, he liked his easy-going good
nature, and his constant flow of good
spirits was a refreshment to Lord

Limborne, who had many troubles to make
him grave enough, and who was, indeed,
naturally of a somewhat grave disposition.
He had never confided his feelings for
Nellie to her brother, for his self-contained
character did not tempt him with the
desire for confidantes usually so common
under such circumstances.

It is, indeed, refreshing, though occasionally
wearisome, to listen to the fond
declamations of the enamoured, and the
man who has 'passed through the fire,'
and has been fortunate enough to have
escaped with but little of hurt, must be
amused considerably at the redundancy of
superlative, the piled-up ' derangement of
epitaphs,' with which fond youth is wont
to extol ' the only woman he ever loved.'
Such glowing descriptions, clad in such
fanciful language did the evil-minded Jack
pour into his devoted sister's ears as the
utterances of the lovelorn Limborne, for
Master Jack was charmed with this chance

of turning the tables upon Nellie, and he
took a huge delight in the novel exercise,
and repeated his doses 'ad nauseam.' The
attentions, too, of the ridiculous Henry
Denton did not escape the astute young
man, as he failed not, too frequently, to
impress upon his sister.

Not a week passed without the appearance
of one or other or both these two so
opposite admirers, and it needed all the
young lady's powers of repartee, which
were considerable, to enable her to parry
Jack's constant attacks, and she must have
possessed a most angelic patience, or she
would long ago have been really angry
with her brother. Nellie was, however, too
fond of Jack ever to be angry with him,
and she hurled the lovely Theresa Denton
at his head with immense effect, little
knowing the fell designs which were stirring
in the brains of that beauteous young
lady and her ambitious mother.

Nellie was pleased, therefore, when the

important event in Jack's academical career
took the small family to Cambridge, in
order that the squire should see ' what he
had got for his money for this created
a diversion from a taquinage which was
rapidly becoming monotonous. The modest
position which young Armer's name
filled at the tail-end of a third class among
the ordinary degrees had been exalted by
him to an undue eminence, and his father
was expecting something of awe and
majesty to surround this important end of
nearly four years' study (?) His astonishment
was therefore great at the disgusting
exhibition of rowdyism which certain of
the undergraduates seem to consider to
be che rigueur on these occasions, and he
very speedily conducted his daughter from
the senate-house, and, at the same time,
from the too conspicuous gallantry, or — to
call it by its right name — the painful
vulgarity of admiring swains in the gallery,

who had ' spotted' her primrose-coloured
costume, and had made complimentary,
but decidedly embarrassing, remarks upon
its beauty, and the still greater beauty of
its fair wearer.

4 Abominable set of young cubs !' exclaimed
the squire, in a white heat of rage,
as Jack in his cap and gown, and with the
additional advantages of a ' white choker,'
and the distinguishing Bea. 'strings
followed them out, rejoicing in the dignity
of his new academical status. ' Abominable
set of young cubs ! They ought to be
flogged ! Never heard such impertinence !
H Him with the red face !" " Father of
she !" (for the squire had not himself
escaped without a few compliments).
4 Upon my word, Jack, if I had known
what an intolerable set of young cads you
were living amongst, you should never
have gone there. Never heard such a row
in my life ; it's disgraceful !'

c My dear father said Jack, indignantly,
standing up for his order, ' you are a little
too hot upon them . . . .'

Not at all ! not at all !' interrupted the
squire, still bubbling over with rage.

1 They don't mean anything offensive, I
assure you Jack went on; ' they mean it asa
compliment, don't you know.'

Pretty compliment !' exclaimed his
father. * Red face, indeed P

Oh ! father, I verily, believe you are
getting vain in your old age ; your face is
red laughed Nellie, ' you know it is; it is the
dearest old face in the world, and, if we
were not in the street with such a crowd,
I should like to kiss it. Come, now, father,
they are but boys after all . . . .'

Oh ! thank you, Miss Jerusalem !' said
Jack, scornfully.

You, Jack said Nellie, with much solemnity,
' are a Bachelor of Arts, and, I am
sure, you are far removed from the follies
of impetuous youth.'

4 And you, my lady,' whispered Jack, ' are
of far too exalted a rank for a poor commoner
to argue with, and I humbly beg
your ladyship's pardon ;' and Jack took off
his cap with a mighty sweep, and performed
a stagy reverence, greatly to his father's
astonishment, who thought he must be
saluting some high university potentate,
and who removed his own ' bell-topers
with a sincere though less exaggerated
politeness, hugely to Jack's delight.

1 Oh ! this is, alas ! too much !' exclaimed
that ingenuous youth, as they strolled
along the King's Parade after the ceremony)
; This is quite too much !'

1 What do you mean, Jack ?' asked the
astonished Nellie, while her father looked
questioning at Jack.

1 Why, (Ms, 1 answered Jack, in a whisper,
as Henry Denton presented himself before
them, and came forward to greet them.

1 Mr. Denton ?' said the squire, with a
note of interrogation in his voice. ' Why,

VOL. I. H

I didn't know you were a Cambridge
man," as Jack calls it, though " boy "
is a more just description after this morning's
din.'

You are quite right, Mr. Armer, I am
not a Cambridge man,' said Mr. Denton, ashe
shook hands, placing a sort of accent
son ' Cambridge,' as if he might be an Oxford,
or a Heidelberg, or a Dublin man.
4 1 . . . ah . . . thought I would just
run down for a day or two, and . ah
. . see the architecture, and . ah
. . . that short of thing, don't you
know. So glad I have happened to meet
you.'

Mr. Denton's sudden appearance was so
evidently intended, that Nellie, knowing
only too well the reason thereof, felt
somewhat embarrassed, while Jack, who
was also in the secret, was amused, and
not a little indignant at the same time,
for he decidedly did not approve of Henry's
1 addresses.'

Mr. Armer, who frankly detested the
Denton faction, and most particularly
abominated the limp aesthete, frowned portentously
at first at the happy (?) rencontre;
if he had known as much as his son and
his daughter knew, he would, not improbably,
have ' said something,' something
pretty strong, too, for the squire
would have regarded young Denton's persistent
persecution of his daughter as an
unwarrantable impertinence, and, being a
gentleman of a choleric habit, he would
most likely have expressed this opinion in
quite the plainest English. As it was, he
looked upon the enamoured Henry simply
as upon a neighbour ; a most unpleasant
one, certainly, but one whom it behoved
him to be civil to as a neighbour.

Come to do the lions, eh ?' said the
squire. ' Well, we are putting up at the
Bull," and are just going in to lunch ;
you had better come in with us, and have
something to eat.'

h 2

1 Alack ! and well-a-day !' sighed Jack, ina
whisper to Nellie.

c I shall be charmed,' said the infatuated
youth, with a most sheepish glance at
Nellie, which glance Jack did not fail to
mark and mimic.

For two whole days did Mr. Henry
Denton bestow his valuable and entertaining
company upon the unwilling Armers,
to their huge disgust.

'I cant stand this any longer,' said Mr.
Armer, on the afternoon of the second day.
1 If I am compelled to be with that young
man much longer, I shall be reduced to a
wafer ; I feel as if I had lost pounds since
we met him. Why can't he speak like
other people ; that lisp of his drives me to
distraction. And what on earth do I care
about all this twaddle of art, china, poetry,
and rot? Jack and [Nellie, I shan't stand
it any longer ; I shall go to town on my
way home to-night.'

I shall be only too glad to come with

';

TAKING HIS DEGREE. 101

you, father,' said Nellie, with a sigh of
infinite relief. ' Of course, you can't,
Jack, because you have " wines," and
things to go to. I hope you are not
11 taking to drink"'

You are talking about what you don't
understand, young woman,' said Jack,
• and I shall treat your ignorant remarks
with the silence they deserve.'

Nellie made a mouth at him, and ran
upstairs gleefully, to get ready to depart.
She had good reason to be relieved at the
thought of leaving Cambridge, for her
stay there had been rendered almost disgusting
to her by the meddlesome and
sickly attentions of the devoted Henry.

Delighted at the chance of ' having the
field to himself,' that infatuated young
man would take no hint, no snubbing
seemed to be of any use, though Nellie was
well able to give, and did give him some
very pronounced specimens of her ability
in that way. He still tottered on the verge

of proposing without actually committing
himself, and giving Nellie an opportunity
to refuse him, and be rid of him definitely.

It with to thee you, With Armer, and
not the lionel that I came,' he had observed
the day before, when he had caught
her alone for a minute or two.

This was a little too much for Nellie,
who lost her temper, and was most unequivocally
rude to her adorer.

1 Then, Mr. Denton she had answered,
with much asperity, ' I consider it most
impertinent of you to follow me about in
this ridiculous way, and I must beg of you
to let this be the last time you behave in
so absurd a manner.'

This plain language rather startled the
heir of Wreford, but not for long, for he
quickly regained his accustomed fatuity,
and made some original remarks about
poles ' and ' hearthstone,' and other electrical
arrangements ; to which remarks, it
is needless to say, Nellie made him no

manner of reply. It seemed impossible to
convince this young man that the whole
available feminine world was not pining
for the chance of one day sharing the
magnificence and the wealth of Wreford,
and at last, in despair, Nellie asked her
brother to help her.

1 Jack,' she said the afternoon before,
when she had just given her would-be
lover the before-mentioned ' taste of her
quality and as, leaving Henry Denton to
the tender mercies of her father, she was
strolling about in one of the college gardens,
listening to the band and looking at
the folk who ' assisted at ' a promenade
concert — ' Jack, Mr. Denton, junior, is the
most jelly-fishy young man 1 have ever
had the misfortune to meet.'

1 What is the matter with the aesthete
now? and why jelly-fishy?' asked Jack.

1 He's so . . . so . . . it's not a very
nice word, but it just expresses him, he is
so flabby, Jack. If you prong him, he

closes up again, and there is no sign where
the prong went in.'

1 An apt simile, madam, and an elegant
one for a young lady,' said Jack.

But seriously, Jack, I wish you would
help me. You know you often chaff (no,
that is slang, and will not please your
eminence), laugh about . . . well, about
. . pah ! it's horrid even to say it . . .
about me and Mr. Denton — there ! Well,
Jack, he is too dreadful, and I carrot bear
it any longer ; he sickens me. He had the
impertinence to say just now that he
came down here to see me. Impudence !'
said Nellie, stamping her little foot ; ' and
it's not a bit of use, he won't take even
the plainest hint.'

'Well, but why don't you tell him to
go ? Say you won't have the article at
any price.'

How can I, Jack, when he hasn't asked
me?' and Nellie sighed as deep a sigh as
was ever breathed by love-sick damsel.

'Why, Nellie,' said Jack, with some
amusement, though he was angry enough
with the faithful Henry, 'you sigh as if
you longed for him to propose.'

Of course I do ; that is the very thing
I do long for, then 1 could refuse him
point-blank. But,' she added, after a
pause, ' on second thoughts I don't believe
he would give it up even then ; he
is so densely conceited.'

I'd gladly help you if I could,' said
Jack ; ' but what on earth can I do ?'

Can't you just tell him how I hate him ?
Now donee, Jack dear,' she said, in a
wheedling tone.

'You bloodthirsty young woman, you
most un-Christian female, how can you,
brought up in the strictest principles of
religion, hate your neighbour in this ferocious
way ?' said Jack. ' However, the
fellow is a fearful bore ; he doesn't deserve
any pity, and I'll do what I can for you.
Here's father with old Blower,' he went

on, as the squire hove in sight with the
Reverend Blower in tow. 'I know that
dear coach of mine not wisely, but too
well, so I'm off and Jack suited his actions
to his words, and incontinently disappeared.


Jack Armer had no chance of giving
the amorous Denton what would doubtless
have been a very broad hint at Cambridge ;
for as soon as Denton heard, at their
hotel, of the departure of Mr. and Miss
Armer, he incontinently ceased his studies
of architecture, and returned home. Now,
though Jack had laughed at his sister's
perturbation, he had remarked the pronounced
and slightly snobbish nature of
the aesthetic young man's attentions, and
he was quite prepared to pour out the
vials of his wrath upon the offender's
head, and was proportionately disappointed
to find, on inquiry at the 'Hoop,' (where
Denton was putting-up,) that he was gone.

i Never mind, young man,' said Jack to

himself, apostrophizing the absent Denton.
'Never mind! A time will come!
I suppose young Blue China has followed
them to Devonshire. Upon my word, it
is too sickening ; and, if it were not for
my Degree Dinner tomorrow night, I
would go home now, and indulge myself
in the luxury of giving him a bit of my
mind. However, he can't do much harm
in a couple of days, and I'll make up
for lost time, when I do see him ;' and
Master Jack departed on his pleasant business
of looking up his old friends, and
rejoicing with them over his extraordinary
luck in ' rooking the examiners.'

Old Mr. Denton was standing at the
hall-door at Wreford as his son got off
the dog-cart, for which he had telegraphed,
and which had accordingly met him at
the nearest station to Wreford.

'Well, Henry,' said his father, 'you
ain't had a very long outing. I didn't
expect to see you home again so soon.

Your mother said you was going to 'ave
a regular turn at the antiquities of Cambridge,
and 'ere you are, 'one again before
you can wink your eye, as the saying' is.
"Well, I'm glad to see you back again,
anyhow;' and he shook hands with his
son and heir. 'I never could see he
went on, 'the joke of stain' at mouldy

old buildings myself Why ! what's

the matter now ? You're always a-rushin'
about, and uninterrupted' of your father.
'Henry, it ain't respectful, and I won't 'ave
it ;' and his round, good-natured face
looked quite wrathful.

I beg your pardon, I'm sure, father,
said Henry. ' I was hurrying in to see
mother.'

'All right, my boy,' said his father,
rapidly regaining his normal good-nature,
and smiling. 'You'll find 'em in your
mother's boudoir, though why she should
call her parlour by such a outlandish
name is beyond me ; it's the fashion, I

suppose. Yes, they're in the boudoir —
leastways, your mar and Tresa — Laving* a
out and-out-palaver. Something' secret, you
know ; for they wouldn't let me come in
just now. I wonder what they're up to
now. Not another al frisky, I hope.
When you've done with your mother, I
want you to come over the 'houses. I've
got some real beauties out now ;' and the
old gentleman trotted off to his favourite
plants and flowers.

Mrs. Denton and her daughter were
indeed holding a most important conversation,
and one which embraced a no less
serious question than the settlement in
life of the young lady.

I sent your father away, Theresa,' Mrs.
Denton began, as soon as the door closed
upon her obedient spouse, c because he,
unfortunately, is lacking in the delicacy
which the subject I asked you to come
here and speak about demands.'

'Good gracious, ma !' exclaimed Theresa,

betrayed into vulgarity by her astonishment.
'Whatever do you mean?'

'My dear Theresa, you should not say
good gracious !" I am astonished at you,
after all the expense of your education,
when we had to pinch for it too.'

Oh ! never mind. You startled me.
What is it, mamma?'

4 Now, I want you to listen to me seriously,
my dear. You know my only wish
now is to see my children suitably settled
in life. I mean, of course, married to
people in the rank of life and the position
which our wealth leads us to look for.'

My dear mamma,' said Theresa, c you
need not say anything about that. I don't
think that either I or Emily are at all
likely to make a mesalliance''

i Can't you guess, Theresa, at what I
am thinking of ?' said Mrs. Denton, with a
searching look at her daughter.

No, I don't in the least know. Do,

for goodness sake, stop this mystery, and
tell me what you mean.'

Goodness sake ! Theresa,' murmured
her mother, reproachfully.

Oh ! bother, mother. I'm sure you're
enough to provoke a saint this evening.
Whatever is the matter?'

1 Nothing is the matter, my dear, but a
great deal may be,' was the oracular reply.

Well, I wish you would make haste,
and not go on in this Guy Fawkes kind
of way,' said the daughter, impatiently,
and with a touch of her father's fertile
imagery.

Theresa,' said Mrs. Denton, solemnly,
did you notice anything at Coombridge
the other day?'

Coombridge ? — no, nothing particular,
except the masculine costume of that Miss
Armer ; I must say I think the way girls
dress like men, and play at all their games
now-a-days, is horrid.'

Miss Denton was of a large order of
architecture, and not likely to shine in a
short tennis costume.

1 Never mind about her just now,' Mrs.
Denton went on. e Did you notice anything
about Lord Limborne ? there !'

1 Anything about Lord Limborne ? Why,
we've regularly talked him over since we
met him, and I've said all I have to say
on that subject already.'

'Well, I have not, Theresa,' said Mrs.
Denton. ' I watched him, and I feel sure
you have made a good impression in that
quarter, my dear. The more I think of
it, the more convinced I am that you have
every chance of one day being Lady Lime


Now, truth to tell, Theresa had been
thinking the very same thing herself, and,
though she had failed to remark the
1 attentions ' her mother's eagle eye had
discovered, she had come to the same conclusion
as that lady, and did not see why

she should not be Lady Limborne ; nevertheless,
she kept these cogitations to herself,
and affected a great surprise.

Me . . . Lady Limborne !' she cried.
My dear mamma, whatever could have
made you think of such a thing as that ?
I'm sure I never . . . . '

I Well ; but, Theresa interrupted her
mother, ' I do not see anything at all astonishing
or unlikely in the matter.
Though I say it as shouldn't, anyone can
see you are handsome enough, and everyday
people of title marry into money; and
I confess I don't see why, with your looks
and your Uncle Benjamin's fortune, you,
and Emily too, should not marry a person
of rank. I've set my heart on it, Theresa,'
she went on, earnestly, ' and I can't tell
you how disappointed I am at Henry's
ridiculous fancy for that little Miss Armer.'

I I can't make out what he sees to like
in her said Theresa; and, as a matter
of fact, sisters very seldom can make out

VOL. I. I

what their brothers can see in that Miss
So-and-so ; moreover, Theresa had a dawning
feeling of dislike born of jealousy towards
Nellie Armer — a dislike, indeed,
which after events nursed into downright
hatred.

I can't see much in her myself,' rejoined
Mrs. Denton ; ' but you know what
Henry is — he will have his way, with all
his soft manners, and I suppose we must
make the best of it. But, as I was saying,
if Henry disappoints me — I say me,
because your poor father would not care
if you all married carpenters and cook-maids
; nothing ever will bring that man
to a proper sense of his position. I declare
it is sometimes more than I can bear the
way he goes on ; the familiar way in which
he talks with the servants is really too
shocking. But, what was I saying ? for
when I get on the subject of your father
I quite lose myself — oh, about Henry. If
Henry does disappoint me, there is no

reason why one of you, or even both of
you, should not be Lady Something or
other.'

But I don't see, mamma, how we are
to, unless we are asked, and there aren't
many lords about here.'

Oh, you'll be asked quick enough, my
dear; and when we are launched into society,
and occupy our proper sphere, there
will be plenty of lords glad enough of the
chance to get one of the rich Mr. Denton's
daughters, never fear. I don't mean to
stay mewed up at Wreford all my life.
But . . . who's there ?' she called, as the
handle of the door turned. f Why, it's
Henry!' she said, as she heard his voice,
and hastened to unlock the door. ' We did
not expect you home so soon, Henry,' she
said, as she received his filial greeting ;
we were astonished to get your telegram.'

You don't look like a conquering hero,
Henry,' said Theresa, who knew her
brother's reason for going to Cambridge,

i2

and spoke with a slight sneer. l "Weren't
the Armers there, after all?'

'TheArmersiw?r£at Cambridge, Theresa
answered Henry. ' I do not know what I
may resemble, but I think I have gained
considerably by my journey. They all
seemed glad to see me continued this
obtuse individual. ' I may say their reception
of me was most cordial, and I do
not mind telling you, mother, that I was
able to speak rather plainly to Nellie,
and, though she seemed surprised at first, I
have no doubt I shall succeed with perseverance.'


I should think so,' said his fond
parent. ' Why shouldn't you ? It is not
every girl who has such a chance offered
her.'

'But, Henry said Theresa, 'you don't
mean to say you have proposed V

1 No answered the infatuated one, ' T
have not exactly proposed ; but I have
plainly let her see what I mean, and I

have every hope of one day winning
that charming and beautiful girl.'

Here Miss Denton positively sniffed, and,
laughing contemptuously, she flounced out
of the room.

'What is the matter with Theresa,
mother ?' asked Henry, astonished ; * her
conduct is absolutely vulgar.'

4 She has been put out with something
or other,' said Mrs. Denton, who was not
without a certain sympathy with her
daughter in her sentiments as to the question
of Nellie Armer. ' And now, Henry, you
have only just time to dress, the first gong
sounded a long while ago, and I must
be quick too ;' and, with a smile at her son,
Mrs. Denton effected her escape, for she did
not particularly care for the flood of lovesick
rhapsody which her tete-a-tetes with
Henry usually brought down upon her
devoted head.

CHAPTER VI.

A VERY PRETTY QUARREL.

Nelly,' said Mr. Armer, senior, one
morning about a week after their hasty
retreat from Cambridge, 'just listen here
a moment ; here's a letter from Gidley, he
says, "As I wish to consult you about
those " . hem . . . hem . . . hem . . .
(business, my dear), " and more particularly
wish to see my god-daughter Nellie,
I shall, if you can put me up, run down
to Devonshire for two nights the day after
tomorrow." Why, that will be tomorrow,
Nellie !' cried the squire, with just a suspicion
of disgust in his voice.

1 Yes, father, tomorrow. You don't

seem overheated at the prospect ; I'm
afraid you don't appreciate poor, dear Mr,
Gidley.'

1 Poor, dear Mr. Gidley !' mimicked Mr.
Armer. ' Why "poor dear"? you talk of
him as if he were defunct.'

Well, you know, father said Nellie,
I always pity him, it must be so dreadfully
lonely all by himself in that dismal
great house in Bedford Square. I wonder
he never married.'

I don't think there is much material
for the tender passion in Gidley's compositions
said Mr. Armer, J he is much too
devoted to certain representations of Her
Majesty's head stamped on gold and
silver, and the pleasing crispness of banknotes,
to say nothing of deeds, mortgages,
and other forms of property, which, as
Mr. Bolland says on Sundays, " Time
would fail me were I to endeavour to
enumerate them." '

1 Oh, father,' cried Nellie, 'how can you

be so bard on him ? I shall always stand
up for my god-father, and, indeed, father,
it is not like you to be so bitter against
anyone.'

Well, my little mentor, I am afraid it
is wrong of me; but, you know, Messrs.
Armer and Gidley never did agree too well
together. I think we both go better now
we are in single harness. However, he is
coming down, and I suppose I must make
the best of it.'

I do hope you won't quarrel as you did
the last time he came to Coombridge.
What a blessing it is that Jack has
gone off again, for he hates Mr. Gidley
too; he says, " Gidley is always sneering
at him." I wonder why everybody hates
the poor man so ; I am sure I don't.'

'No, my dear,' said her father, ' I don't
believe my little Nellie has it in her to hate
anybody.'

I am not so sure of that,' said Nellie,
thinking of her aesthetic and irrepressible

admirer ; ' but why does everyone dislike
him so? Of course I know his manners
are a little — well — sarcastic . . .'

1 A little !' exclaimed the squire, interrupting
; ' he is the most obstinate, pigheaded
. . . but, there ! if I begin to
discuss my valued partner's virtues, I shall
lose my temper. The fact is, my dear,
Mr. Gidley is one of those individuals who
are never happy unless they are u in opposition,"
and he, consequently, is not the
pleasantness of companions, and is not
generally so popular as — as he might be
concluded the squire, lamely.

'Perhaps I had better ask the rector
and Mrs. Bolland to come in to dinner tomorrow
?' suggested Nellie.

1 don't know,' said Mr. Armer. ■ Gidley
detests parsons, wants to disestablish
and disendow them ; it is one of his
favourite topics, but he would scarcely be
so rude as to "let out," as Jack says, to a
clergyman's face. There is no one else

you could ask on so short a notice, is
there?'

1 No, not a soul,' said Nellie, ' and I
think, too, that if my god-father should
pour out the vials of his wrath against the
church, Mr. Bolland is quite able to hold
his own, and stand up for his cloth. Shall
I send a note, then ?'

'No, you needn't trouble. I shall pass
the rectory this morning, and I will look in.
It will certainly be a satisfaction to me to
avoid an evening's tete-astute with Gidley,
and I know Bolland will come if he can.'
And here the squire took up his newspaper,
and the conversation dropped.

True to his word, Mr. Gidley drove upto
Coombridge late in the afternoon of the
next day ; he came in the Coombridge
dog-cart which the squire had sent to meet
him. Mr. Armer was waiting in for him y
and, as Mr. Gidley refused any refreshment,
the two partners were soon closeted
together in the library, and deep in their

business. They paid no attention to the
dressing-bell, and, even when that most
important call, the dinner-bell, was heard,
they did not seem disposed to listen to its
seductive voice.

The butler waited till he could stand it
no longer, he had too strong an affection
for his own dinner for him to see ' the
victuals a-spilin' ' with equanimity, and
opening the drawing-room door, where
the rest of the company were assembled,

'Master give orders as he should not
be disturbed, Miss Nellie he said, ' but
hadn't I better tell him as dinner is
served?'

4 No, thank you, Hudson said Nellie.
1 1 think, perhaps, I had better go myself,
they cannot have heard the bell / and, with
an apology to her guests, Nellie crossed
the hall to the library. As she hesitated,
with her hand on the door handle, she
heard the sound of voices raised considerably
above their normal pitch, an unmistakable

sound, indeed, of a 'very pretty
quarrel.'

You may say what you like, Gidley,
but I won't be . . .' the squire was saying
as his daughter opened the door ; but ivhat
he would not be Nellie did not hear, for,
hearing the door opening, he stopped short.

The squire was looking very red and
ferocious ; he was standing with his back
against the empty fire-grate, glaring down
upon Mr. Gidley, who was seated at the
table, looking perfectly cool and collected,
and only showing any agitation by incessantly
drumming upon the leather cover
with his fingers.

'what is it, Nellie?' said the squire,
impatiently.

Why, father, dinner has been waiting
for ever so longs didn't you hear the bell?
. . How do you do, Mr. Gidley ?' she said
to that gentleman, who had arrived whilst
she was out. Mr. Gidley rose and heartily
greeted his god-daughter.

1 Bless my soul said the squire, looking
at his watch, ■ it is a quarter to eight !
Well, it is too late for ceremony now, and
the Bollands must excuse my morning
coat. It is Mr. Gidley's fault, my dear ;
he is so entertaining,' added Mr. Armer,
with a furious look at his partner, and
speaking in a sort of snarl, which sounded
very strangely to Nellie, coming, as it
came, from her usually kind and good-humoured
father.

1 You are looking as fresh as a rose,
Nellie,' said Mr. Gidley, quite ignoring his
partner's ire.

I You have no time to pass compliments,
Gidley,' said the squire, who did not seem
able to regain his lost temper.

I I will just wash my hands, if you will
allow me,' answered Mr. Gidley, ' and remove
the dust from my clothes.'

1 All right, only be as quick as you can.
Here, James, snow Mr. Gidley his room.'
And the two separated, to meet in a

few minutes in the drawing-room, whence
they proceeded to dinner, greatly to the
Reverend Walter Bolland's content, for
that gentleman despised the frailties of
lunch and afternoon tea, and was almost
starving.

The squire was so snappish at dinner
that even the satisfaction of appeasing the
cravings of appetite could not prevent the
rector from remarking upon such an abnormal
state of affairs at Coombridge.

4 The squire seems out of sorts, Nellie,'
he whispered, for he had taken in the lady
of the house, and sat next to her at table.
What's the matter with him ? I hope he
is not ill.'

Oh ! Mr. Bolland,' whispered Nellie in
return, ' I am positively trembling with
fright ; it is dreadful to see father so
irritable. You know, he and Mr. Gidley
always do quarrel ; but I never saw father
so angry with him as he is to-day. Do,
please, try to keep the peace between

them when Mrs. Bolland and I go into the
drawing-room.'

4 Now, don't you worry yourself, Nellie ;
111 pour oil upon the troubled waters,'
said the rector.

Mr. Bolland was a gentleman of an
irascible temperament himself, and as
Nellie looked in his face, where his notoriously
bad temper was very plainly shown
in an habitual frown and a dangerous
glitter which occasionally appeared in his
eyes, and was evident enough just then,
she slightly shuddered at the very fragile
reed which was all she had to lean upon.
She delayed making a move as long as
she could, but at last Mrs. Bolland's questioning
looks (for she was longing for a
chat with her favourite Nellie) and an
impatient sign from her father compelled
her to rise and follow the rector's wife out
of the dining-room.

My dear Nellie', said that lady, who
was fat and lymphatic, and a striking

contrast to her lean and angry spouse y
i my dear Nellie, what a time you were \
I thought you would never leave the table.
Didn't you see me nodding and looking at
you ?' and she ensconced herself in a comfortable
arm-chair and gave a large sigh
of content. ' What is the matter with
them all?' she went on. 'I couldn't get
a word out of that Mr. Gidley ; your father
and he seemed to be contradicting each
other all dinner-time. It was quite awkward,
my dear

Now Mrs. Bolland, as she frequently
remarked with much self-pity, had ' neither
chick nor chile,' and she had taken the
motherless Nellie to her capacious bosom
from the very first days of the Armers r
arrival at Coombridge; Nellie responded
warmly to her affection, and there were
few thoughts or deeds of hers which were
not known to the sympathetic wife of the
rector of Coombridge.

c Father and Mr. Gidley have been shut

up together in the library for hours before
dinner, and I am afraid that they have
been quarrelling dreadfully. I do wish
Mr. Gidley would not come down here,
though I am always so glad to see him,
for father and he are sure to fight every
time he comes. I am so sorry I kept you
there for so-long, dear Mrs. Bolland, but
1 wanted them to be alone together for
as short a time as possible.'

1 Oh ! I don't mind, dear ; but I do hope
that dreadful Mr. Gidley won't say anything
about Radicals, or doing away with
the Church, or things like that, don't you
know, for I can see "Walter is getting
warm already at Mr. Gidley's contrariness,
and, if he begins about those things, he
will lose his temper with him, which would
be dreadful. I'm sure I don't know sometimes
what he gets so angry about,' said
the rector's wife, with a portentous sigh.

Mrs. Bolland, after the manner of nota
few stout, comfortable dames, had an

VOL. I. k

extraordinary facility in muddling her
pronouns, and produced ungrammatical
puzzles which were intricate and confusing
to the last degree, and which, sometimes,
drove her impatient spouse almost
frantic.

1 1 suppose you know, Nellie,' Mrs. Bol-land
went on, rambling on to another
topic, 4 that Lady Limborne is at the
Castle ?'

1 Oh ! yes,' answered Nellie. f Lord Lime
was here the day before yesterday,
and told us about her coming. I don't
think, though, he expected his mother
quite so soon.'

Mrs. Bolland took a very deep interest in
the pretty little love-drama which was being
played by his lordship and her favourite
Nellie ; for, though Nellie was too modest
to make the sayings and doings and c intentions
' of possible admirers the staple
of her conversation, after the custom of
too many fair damsels, yet she had not

succeeded in biding from the generally
obtuse Mrs. Bolland something of the
1 state of affairs,' and that lady, whose
husband was wont to declare that * Grace
can't see an inch beyond her nose,' and
who, indeed, was constantly proclaiming
as wonderful discoveries, and triumphant
instances of acute penetration on her part,
events which had been long known to
everyone but herself, was rendered keener-eyed
than usual by her interest in Nellie,
and had not failed to notice several little
signs on Nellie's part in regard to Lord
Limborne — little rosy flushes at the approach
of that favoured individual, a certain
distraction in her converse when he was
in sight, a turning of the face, and a slight
movement of the figure towards him at the
sound of his voice — such signs as these
she had marked.

She had seen, moreover, that, on his
part, Lord Limborne was far from averse
to the society of the fair Nellie ; nay, more

T- °

than once this discreet Mrs. Bolland had
earned Lord Limborne's lasting gratitude
by playing into his hands in the calmest
manner; effacing herself and most complacently
leaving him to a tete-astute with
his adored one, engaging other folk in
conversation to the same intent, and in a
thousand ways furthering what she considered
to be a most excellent match.

For,' as she remarked to herself, in her
involved way, l not only is he a lord, which
though Nellie may not care for it, yet he '
(she meant Mr. Armer) ' might, and he
hasn't too much money, with that enormous
house, while he has heaps, and will
most certainly give a great deal to her.'

'I wonder,' she said, artfully trying to
find out 'how far things had gone,' and
settling herself comfortably in her easy-chair
— ' I wonder who Lord Limborne will
marry. Do you know, my dear, I sometimes
fancy he is thinking of some one of
whom I am very fond?'

As she looked Nellie straight in the
face, and gave her the same smile with
which she was wont to herald her wonderful
' discoveries it was very evident to
that young lady that Mrs. Bolland had
found out her secret, and the colour rose
to her face and neck as the thought flashed
through her mind that, if the notoriously
obtuse lady at the rectory had penetrated
her disguises, they must be but flimsy
ones, and — horrible thought ! — everyone
must be talking about her and Lord Lime
Now, though some vulgar souls
may delight in the silly chaff and the
1 being talked about' which not unfrequently
attends the first approaches of
fond lovers, yet, to a delicate mind, the
very suspicion of such a thing quite destroys
the sweet sense of secrecy and
isolation which forms the greatest charm,
to them, of these delicate tendrils and
feelers in the earlier stages of this curious
and composite love of ours. But Nellie

did not know how affection can sharpen
the very bluntest perceptions.

I . . . I . . . am sure, I cannot tell
what should make you think any such
thing, dear Mrs. Bolland,' said Nellie, very
red, and hesitating as she spoke.

Well,' exclaimed her friend, cleverly
changing her tack, ' I did think that Nellie
Armer would not keep anything from her
old friend; I did think that you would tell me,
my dear, for I have always looked upon you
almost as a daughter, and I am sure there
is not a thing about me, or Walter either,
for that matter, I've kept from you. I feel
it very deeply, I assure you, my dear.'
And the good lady was so l worked up ' by
her own eloquence that she actually took
out her handkerchief, and wiped two very
large tears from off her ample cheeks.

Now this — of which, by the way, Mrs.
Bolland may have had some suspicion — this
was the very easiest avenue to the affectionate
Nellie's heart, and she was soon

down upon her knees beside her friend,
assuring her of her great confidence in her,
and as a proof thereof, and unable also to
resist such a temptation to unburden her
mind, pouring all her hopes and fears into
Mrs. Bolland's ready ears, and with her
face hidden in that lady's lap confessing
that ' she thought Lord Limborne did . .
like her, she was sure, she did not know
why,' (' Nonsense ! my love,' here interpolated
her staunch admirer), ' and she . . .
she thought he was the most this, that, and
the other,' and so on, in the usual slightly
incoherent style, and greatly to Mrs.
Bolland's content ; for the rector's wife,
though prosaic in person, was of a most
romantic disposition, and she positively revelled
in this real, live love-story, so much
more interesting than the adventures, contretemps,
and final bliss (in the third
volume) of the fictitious heroes and heroines
of the circulating library. Although
Nellie, in her new-found delight — a confidante

— had forgotten her fears about the unruly
folk in the dining-room, yet, if she had
foreseen the consequences of the angry discussion
which was going on at a very high
pressure indeed in that apartment, she
would doubtless have stopped in the full
stream of her eloquence, and hastened to
pour that oil upon the troubled waters
which, in spite of his promise, the irate
rector of Coombridge certainly was not
pouring ; on the contrary, the vials of his
wrath were unsealed, and the contents
thereof most freely discharged at the
devoted head of Mr. Gidley.

That gentleman certainly had a most
provoking manner, candid friends called it
devilish and there was something satanic
in the calm, cold, and incisive way in which
he not only contradicted his opponent, but,
taking advantage of his hasty temper, led
him on to take up positions he could not
defend, and, with the utmost politeness,
accompanied by a pitying sneer, proved

him to be in the wrong. All was grist that
came to Mr. Gidley's mill : he contradicted
everything; he was angry with Mr. Armer;
they had had a more than usually warm business
encounter that afternoon, and Armer s
obstinacy had been too firm for his partner
for once. Mr. Gidley saw he must return
to town without having gained the
object of his visit. Always more or less
i contrary,' (as nurses say of some children),
he was wrought up to a white heat of rage,
and was, consequently, more insultingly
urbane than ever. The roads, gastronomy,
wines, the last new book, each and everything
furnished him with an opportunity of
relieving his rage at the expense of the
devoted rector (for the squire maintained
a sulky silence), who, as the aggressive one
usually himself, could hardly contain himself
in the position in which, it must be
owned, he had very often placed other
people. At last Mr. Gidley remarked that
'" he could not imagine how people employed

their time in such retired villages as Coom-bridge,
how they avoided the almost inevitable
stagnation which must attend upon
an idle, desultory life

What do you mean by idle ; for I suppose
you refer to me?' said the rector,
with some warmth ; for Mr. Gidley's remarks
were addressed to him.

'Why, my dear sir,' returned Mr. Gidley,
' pardon me, I did not mean anything
personal. I was merely speaking generally.
But, since you invite the question,
I should like to know how you employ
your time. I have often wondered what
on earth the country clergy do with themselves
; for, of course, it is absurd to suppose
that the limited population of their
parishes can employ them constantly in
visiting the sick and performing the
offices of the church. I suppose, now,
you do a good deal in your garden ?' he
went on, with a sort of patronising tone,
eminently irritating. ' Grow — ah — cabbages,

or go in for rose-growing, and
that sort of thing, eh? Gossip with the
farmers ; and — upon my word, I should
like to know what you do with your time.'

Sir,' said Mr. Bolland, who had been
listening to this exordium with great impatience
and wrath. l Sir,' he said, rising
from his seat, 'your insulting remarks casta
slur upon a class of men who have
higher thoughts and aspirations than I
could explain to a man of your, unfortunately,
low tone of mind, and who have '

1 My dear sir,' interrupted his antagonist,
4 1 assure you I had not the least intention
of insulting you, or "casting a slur" upon
any class of men ; and you must allow me
to remark, in my turn, that it ill beseems
a man of your sacred calling to insult an
inoffensive individual by supposing the
tone of his mind to be "low." "My dear
sir — low, I beg of you — low f

It was not so much the words — which
were, indeed, in themselves nothing so

very provoking — it was the nasty, sneering
tone of the man's voice, and his evident
amusement at the rector's expense, which
roused that individual to a pitch of ire
he found to be insupportable : an almost
irrepressible desire to hurl the nearest decanter
at the placid Gidley's head possessed
his soul, and, to avoid such an unseemly
display on his part, he begged his host's
permission to retire, and, with a withering
look at his adversary, he withdrew from
the contest, and joined his wife and Nellie
in the drawing-room.

Now, the squire had refused to be drawn
into the wordy fight, which had raged
with more or less of rancour between his
partner and Mr. Bolland ever since the
ladies had withdrawn their restraining
presence. He seemed depressed, or, to
put it plainly, Mr. Armer was sulking,
and, whilst indulging in this unromantic
attitude of mind, he (a most abstemious
man as a rule) filled up his glass almost

unconsciously ; and, in short, drank a great
deal more wine than was his wont, or was
good for him.

As soon, then, as the door banged upon
the exit of the irate rector, and he realised
that his friend and guest had been galled
beyond endurance by his partner's abominable,
sneering rudeness, he suddenly roused
himself from his morose fit, and, losing all
control over himself, he poured out such
a volume of vituperation upon Mr. Gidley
as effectually silenced that gentleman.
This is a kind of eloquence which grows
with its exercise, particularly, as in the
squire's case, when stimulated by copious
draughts of wine ; and as the accumulated
anger of years at length had its vent, and
old grievances were dragged to light, and
the injuries of the present were urged in
language which, if not choice, was certainly
forcible enough, as the squire gathered
from every source, and overwhelmed
his partner with a very deluge of wrath r

Mr. Gidley for once lost Ms composure,
and, turning absolutely white and trembling
with rage, he cried out,

Enough ! enough, sir ! you — you poor
fool ! I have borne with your besotted
obstinacy long enough, I can do without
your money now, and you shall go to the
devil your own way, for I will never speak
to you again !' And, with that, his trembling
hands opened the door, and he
passed out, and, going straight to his
bed-room, he packed again the hand-bag
which contained all that he had brought
with him, and, leaving the house without
any farewells whatever, he marched to the
village inn (greatly to the astonishment
of the bibulous cronies there assembled),
and, rising early after a most uncomfortable
night spent in that homely hostelry,
he drove in to catch the first train to town
from Exeter, determined never to set foot
in Coombridge again.

His burst of anger come thus to a sudden

end by the retreat of its object, and
the squire thus left alone, the consequences
— those exceedingly unpleasant
intruders — began slowly to dawn upon
his faculties with a most sobering effect.
One of the advantages of his partnership
with Gidley was his absolute and entire
confidence in his partners honesty, clear-headdress,
and caution ; Gidley's had
always been the guiding hand from the
very first, and it was this guiding at which
the senior partner (in name, if in nothing
else) of the firm displayed opposition, although
he knew well enough the value of
Gidley's restraining influence, and had
seen in many instances what disasters
would have followed had he been suffered
to have his own way.

Mr. Armer had by far the larger amount
of capital, and it galled him beyond measure
to see how, notwithstanding this fact,
he had to c play second fiddle, 7 and how
very well it was for him that he did so

often have to perform upon that obnoxious
instrument. It was this confidence in his
partner which, together with the irksomeness
of so often having to give way, led
him to give up at last, and almost entirely,
any active share in the business, to confide
his capital to Mr. Gidley's care with
but little overlooking, and to follow out a
long-cherished idea, and settle down as a
country magnate.

Now, if Mr. Gidley meant what he had
just said — and the squire owned to himself
that Mr. Gidley usually did mean
what he said, and had, moreover, a very
thorough way of carrying out that meaning
— if Gidley stuck to his threat, and refused
to have anything more to do with
his partner, this would mean very many
unpleasant consequences to that partner.
It would mean that he must manipulate
his own capital, and either reduce his expenses
considerably (for the cautious and
knowing Gidley secured by his transactions

a high interest for the firm's money), or
he must go back himself to his old haunts,
and seek by clever financial operations —
and speculation had always been a temptation
to him — to realise such a sum of
money as should establish him firmly in
his present way of living, and at the same
time give him the laugh over the slow and
careful Gidley.

" Go to the devil your own way"?
Ah,' said the squire to himself, ' I have
not so long left the City as to have lost
touch ; I think I know something of
financing still, and I will show Master
Gidley that I can get along well enough —
ay, and a great deal better, too — without
his help than with it.'

Now, although Mr. Armer had virtually
given up the reins into Mr. Gidley's hands,
yet he was, of course, kept informed as
to the larger transactions of the firm of
Armer and Gidley, and he had at all times
gained a great deal of pleasure from watch-vol.

I. L

ing the fluctuations of the money-market,
dotting down different enterprises, or rather
speculations, he would have indulged in
himself, had it not been for the restraining
hand of his partner ; and, as he sat there
alone, the squire almost forgot his rage,
and his apprehensions as to the consequences
thereof, in the happy thought that
now he could, without any gainsaying,
display that acuteness and prophetic foresight
of his which, he felt, were lights
too long hidden. Visions of successful
coups,' which might have been made if
his advice had been taken, rose to his
memory ; for, of course, he quite lost
sight of the dozens of times when Mr.
Gidley's veto had put a stopper on ventures
which must have brought about
disastrous frescoes. No, he forgot all the
failures, and remembered only the wonderful
successes which would certainly have
.rewarded some of these ventures of his.
'With my experience,' he thought to

himself, ' and with my foresight I ought to
made a perfectly colossal fortune ; with
my capital to operate with, I ought to
have thousands where I now have hundreds


He had long ceased to care about
accumulating money, for years he had
been contented with his already ample
fortune : but the desire to show to the
provokingly cautious Gidley that he was
not such a fool as he took him for, the
itch for the old excitement, and the opportunity
Gidley's threat opened up of
getting his capital to himself, and of indulging
himself in his long-suppressed
desire for the perilous game of speculation,
woke up slumbering acquisitiveness,
and Mr. Armer then and there made up
his mind to take his partner at his word,
and to begin to pile up a huge fortune
upon the substantial foundation which he
already possessed. Smiling at these golden
visions, the squire rose from his chair, and

l2

went to the drawing-room, where he found
the worthy rector alone, still looking very
angry, and waiting for his wife's appearance
; for she was going through the long
and tedious (to her husband, at least)
operation of ' putting on her things, 7 and
was assisted in that ceremony by the
affectionate Nellie.

'How you can put up with that man
Gidley is more than I can understand,
Armer,' said Mr. Bolland. 'I never met
with such impertinence in my life — it's —
it's abominable, sir !' and the angry little
man actually spluttered with rage.

4 1 am sorry, Bolland, he should have
annoyed you in that way, but I don't think
he will do so again. I've spoken plainly
to him ' (he had indeed), t and I don't
think we shall . . . hush-sh-sh/ said the
squire, as the voices of Mrs. Bolland and
Nellie made them to be heard, 'hush! don't
say anything to my daughter ; you haven t
said anything, eh ?'

1 No, no whispered the rector, 'they were
not here when I came out of the diningroom.

"Well, my dear he said to his

wife, when she appeared, ' I hope you are
satisfied with the beauty of your toilette,
you have been long enough about it, anyhow
; I have been waiting here for more
than half-an-hour.'

1 Oh, it was my fault said Nellie, ' I
kept Mrs. Bolland talking

Well, I know she loves a " tell," as
Devonshire folks say, with you; and
so do I, for that matter. Now, Mrs. Bol-land
! Good-night, squire; good night,
Nellie.'

And, tucking his stout spouse's arm
under his own, the active little rector
trotted off with his large, and, in a very
short time, breathless better half.

CHAPTER VII.

THE Tunbridge c LADIES' DAY.'

James, Lord Limborne, of Limborne Castle,
in the county of Devon, was not having a
particularly good time of it in his baronial
halls, for, although his mother imagined
she was far too well-bred to descend to
wrangling and bickering, she had a very
good idea of the various other ways of
making herself disagreeable notwithstanding,
and she took every opportunity of
showing her son how deeply disappointed
she felt at what she called his want of
common sense, and his foolishness in not
taking immediate advantage of the result
of her matrimonial manoeuvres.

She had, indeed, taken infinite pains to
gain her end in regard to the Lady Emily,
and her position in the delicate negotiation
had greatly jarred against her haughty and
reticent nature : to hint and sound, to
make cautious advances with the chance
of a more or less decided rebuff, to go
through all the pretty little diplomatic of
a kind of suitor — all this was gall and
wormwood to Lady Limborne ; but her
success repaid her for all ; and as, her
embassy over, she was travelling down to
Devonshire, she acknowledged that the
result infinitely overbalanced the discomfort
of the struggle, and, exulting at
the pleasant picture of which all this most
repugnant work was the end, she passed
some very pleasant hours in the railway
carriage in imagining all these happy
consequences.

Her dear James married to one of the
greatest prizes in the matrimonial market
(although this was far from her way of

expressing it), James married to Emily
Beldon, lie with the great political House
of Beldon, a rich peer, young, clever, energetic,
and ambitious — there was no limit to
the horizon which stretched out before the
happy couple. James in the Cabinet, his wife
a leader of * ton and the Dowager Lady
Limborne basking in the refulgent light of
all this magnificence! The old Castle
once more restored to its ancient lordly
splendour, the dilapidated furniture, the
dismal unkemptness of the grounds, the
venerable and racket carriage, the poor
and inefficient service — all these sharp
stings to her pride and consequence things
of the past, and the Limborne family once
again lifting up its head boldly among the
best of all the land.

Such thoughts as these had occupied her
pleasantly, effaced the tedium of the hot
and dusty journey, and given an added
delight to her pleasure in seeing her son —
the centre figure of her mind-picture —

again. The fall from such a height was
far from pleasant; the shabbiness of her
surroundings never before seemed so
hateful and hopeless, and, although she
did not by any means intend to ' throw
up the cards,' yet, for the moment, the
shock had been almost more than Lady
Limborne could bear, and she was, therefore,
cold and distant, and, if one might
use such an expression of so exalted a
personage, downright disagreeable to her
son.

Of course, Lord Limborne knew well
enough the depth of his mother's disappointment.
He was profoundly sorry for
her, for he loved her dearly ; this so evident
change in her manner was a constant source
of pain to him, and he trembled to think of
her bitter anger when he should have to
tell her — as tell her he must, if he should
be successful with Nellie — of his attachment
to that young lady. Gladly then did he
hail any distraction which should take his

mother and himself ' out of themselves '
even for a single day, and he looked forward
to the approaching ' Ladies' Day ' at the
Teignbridge Club with quite a school-boy
eagerness, for not only would it bring a
relief from the i strained relations ' of his
every-day life, but also the certain delight
of again seeing the girl who was occupying
more and more of his thoughts, throwing
his money troubles even into the background,
and playing havoc with his literary
work.

Now, not to know all about Teignbridge
shows men and women to be altogether
outside the pale of society in South Devon ;
and many heads a great deal fairer, if, perhaps,
not so well furnished as Lord Lime
were occupied with thoughts of
the momentous Thursday. Dear to the
feminine heart is the prospect of displaying
to an envious and cavilling, or possibly
an admiring, world, a gorgeous, startling,
or piquante costume ; and dear, too, it must

be confessed, to the male heart is a mild
indulgence in personal vanity (in this
matter, indeed, there is but little to choose
between the sexes, and the tailor has as
much to answer for as the milliner). Now
the ' Ladies' Day ' at Teignbridge affords
an excellent opportunity for indulgence
in these amiable vices of personal pride
and vanity ; here morning costume is de
rigueur, and fancy is allowed to run the
utmost riot in the shape and colour of
gowns, hats, or bonnets, and all the other
etceteras of the beloved and cherished
toilette.

A long, low, thatched house, a green-lowered
verandah, smooth and well-kept
lawns, a soft and balmy summer evening,
groups of well-clad gentlefolks, the
babbling of much talk, now and again a
silvery laugh, much gossiping of dowagers
under the verandah, more flirting between
fair demoiselles and preux-chevaliers in
quiet nooks — all this, and much more without

; and within, a large expanse of smooth
floor, * giving ' slightly (as all floors meant
to be danced upon should ' give '), sufficient
light, an excellent band, and alas ! too many
gyrating couples — such is Teignbridge on
the c Ladies' Days.'

As Lady Limborne and her son arrived,
after a long and somewhat awkward
tete-astute drive through the lovely and
execrably-kept roads and lanes of this
part of Devonshire, the early dinner, which
precedes the dance on these occasions, was
some time over ; the room was cleared of
its impedimenta ; the balmy odours of the
4 cold collection ' had vanished, and the
dancing was already in full swing; the
band were scraping and blowing to
melodious purpose at one of Waldteufel's
entrancing waltzes, and the various degrees
of dancers were enjoying the bliss of the
past-masters in the art, or enduring the
agonies of the tyro. It was, as a hunting
parson remarked (for this genus is not

yet extinct in fair Devonian), ' a full meet
and Lord Limborne and his mother
were soon exchanging greetings with many
friends.

Leaving Lady Limborne seated comfortably,
and descanting to a congenial
companion on the glories of past ' Reigns
and the pale reflection of those
glories which the present festivity afforded,
our lover, Lord Limborne, was soon gently
strolling around, eagerly searching for the
idol of his heart — the fair and piquante
Nellie.

4 There seems to be a strange set of
people here,' said Lady Limborne to her
companion, lifting the while a pair of
pince-nez to her eyes and surveying the
moving throng. ' What a number of
vulgar-looking men and women ; that
small and stout man with the tall wife
I suppose — and loudly-dressed daughters
: how can such people as they are
possibly gain an entrance here V

Don t you know them ?' said her friend,
an old, long-retired admiral of high descent,
redolent of club-land rather than of
the briny ocean. ' They are neighbours of
yours. That stout little man is the new
millionaire, the man who has bought
Wreford — don't you know? They are
immensely rich, and, T hear, frightfully
vulgar — the man drops his "h's," and that
kind of thing; the girls are not bad-looking,
if some one would only teach
them how to dress. One of them is
positively handsome.'

1 Of course I have heard that some City
people had bought "Wreford, and were
spending large sums of money there. So
those are the people !' said Lady Limborne,
looking at our friends the Dentonss rather
intently. c I suppose they are impossible?
One could not know them ?'

In these days, my dear Lady Lime
said the old gentleman, shrugging
his shoulders, 'nothing is impossible. A

fellow got into our club the other day,
proposed by a peer of the realm, and
seconded by a baronet — a fellow who made
his money in skins ! Fact, I assure you
skins !' and he ruminated sadly on the
unsavoury origin of his club-fellow's fortune.
'After that he went on, 'you can
expect almost anything. Shouldn't wonder
if we had soap or tallow next. I
don't know where these Dentonss got their
money ; butchers make enormous fortunes
now-a-days, and lie looks like a butcher,
don't you think ? There is a kind of
shining look about him that I have noticed
in butchers . . . positively !' he exclaimed,
in a tone of great alarm, ' the r are coming
here ! I . . . I . . . think . . .'

But ivhat he thought must be lost to
posterity, as it was to Lady Limborne, for
Mr. and Mrs. Denton, convoyed by a voluminous
and jovial-looking dame, were
rapidly bearing down upon that particular
point of vantage where Lady Limborne
and her friend were seated.

How d'ye do, Lady Limborne ?' said
the voluminous one, in a loud and genial
tone. ' Let me introduce you to your
neighbours — for Wreford is the next place
to Limborne, you know — Mr. and Mrs.
Denton.'

Nobody (as Lady Limborne afterwards
remarked), nobody but Charlotte Ingle
would have had the effrontery and bad
taste to introduce people so widely separated,
so utterly unlikely to \ mix,' as the
proud chatelaine of Limborne and the inhabitants
of Wreford. But, indeed, that
rotund and jovial spinster was capable of
even worse social sins than this one. Entirely
devoid of that useful quality — tact,
thoroughly satisfied with herself, and perfectly
persuaded that everyone was captivated
by her gay insouciance and
debonair joviality, she absolutely forced
herself into intimacies which her really
good birth and multitudinous connections
in the county made it extremely difficult,

though eminently desirable, to avoid ; unable
to see that she was in any way
objected to, she hould be confidential,
bantering, loudly applauding, or as loudly
condemning. Folks watched her approach
with something of the trembling of the
bird at the coming of the cat (though
there was nothing of the silence and the
slyness of feline attack in Miss Ingle's
onslaughts), it was impossible to escape ;
she had a voice, a loud and piercing voice,
and could use it, on occasion, in a manner
which would, in the most painful way, call
the attention of all bystanders to the
individual thus arrested in a futile attempt
to slip away accosted.

All sorts and conditions of men and
women were alike the objects of her attention
and regard ; she was perfectly untrammeled
by any social niceties, and mere
curiosity (of which vice she possessed no
inconsiderable stock) was quite enough to
make her seek, and very soon, and against

VOL. i. M

all obstacles, find some excuse for acquaintanceship.
Some rumours of the magnificence
of Wreford, and of the fabulous
wealth of the owner thereof, had reached
her, and it was not long before she had
found a friend who moved in the Wreford
orbit, had obtained an introduction, and
had formed one of her sudden, violent
intimacies with the family : Mr. Denton's
vulgarity amused her, she liked Mrs. Denton
and the girls, and found a consummate
joy in treading upon the corns of the
aesthetic Henry. So friendly was she that
an invitation to stay at "Wreford quickly
followed upon her introduction to the
family, and the customary interchange of
visits.

Miss Ingle, who loved the good things
of this life, was charmed with the comfortable
magnificence which the great upholsterer
to whom the internal furnishing of
the mansion was committed had displayed,
and she rejoiced in the daily-recurring

allurements of the French chef who presided
over the culinary department ; in
fact, she ' took up ' (as she called it) the
Dentonss, and determined, still in her
choice language, to ' run them in society.'
Hence her appearing with them at Tunbridge,
for which somewhat exclusive entertainment
she had procured them, by
importunate begging, the necessary tickets,
and hence her introduction of the round
and rubicund Mr. Denton, and his tall and
not inelegant spouse, to Lady Limborne,
and to many other willing and unwilling
acquaintances.

Schooled by his wife, the amiable master
of "Wreford restricted his conversation, on
this his first introduction to what he called
the tip-topers,' to the ordinary amenities
of such early stages of acquaintanceship,
somewhat accentuated, on his part,
by determined and hearty hand-shaking ;
though his wife had that very morning
begged him to abstain from such undue

m2

familiarities with the ladies to whom he
should be presented.

1 1 can't help it he had said, when his
better-half rebuked him on their return ;
1 my 'and seems to come out like one of
them automaton as I used to see at the
old Colosseum, and, for the life of me,
when it's out I don't know what to do
with it but shake 'ands ;' and shake hands
he did, and with extraordinary vigour.

This, and certain other small wanderings
from the ordinary customs of 'the
world,' together with a malaise which not
one of the family could quite shake off on
this their first appearance, disposed people
to look with a cold eye upon these new
claimants to social intercourse in South
Devon. But great is Gold now-a-days,
and mightily does it prevail. The old admiral
was wise in his generation, and,
though Lady Limborne was as cold asher
fear of the fair Charlotte Ingle would
permit her to be to these debutants, yet

a whisper of the immense wealth which
Australia had poured into Uncle Ben's
lap, and thence into the Hereford coffers,
quickly altered the complexion of affairs,
turned Mr. Denton's vulgarity into ' sq.
eccentric, don't you know !' Miss Denton's
gush ' into ' such an unaffected girl ; no
nonsense about her f and changed the
young man's absurd, hang-dog ways into
quite a Byronic melancholy ; so that the
day ended most auspiciously for Mrs. Denton's
proud hopes of ' society's though
Mr. Denton wondered why that Lady Lime
of whom they were always talking
was ' so 'high and 'aught,' and ' what she
gave herself such airs for,' his wife, his
son, and his two fair daughters rejoiced
in their triumph, and dreamed all the way
home of coronets, weddings in high life,
columns in the fashionable newspapers,
and all the other ' agreement ' in which the
vulgar rich live and move and have their
loftiest being.

The cup, however, of the devoted Henry's
joy was not without an exceeding bitter
flavour, for, search as he would, or could
rather (for his father clung to him with
a desperate persistence in this embarrassing
f first appearance '), gaze about as he
did, he failed to discover the lovely Nellie,
and deep was his disgust at having to
leave without seeing his beloved. Some
conversation with the 'beloved object's'
brother he did have, however, but this
by no means consoled him ; for Master
Jack Armer seized upon this opportunity
with greediness, and getting Henry Denton
into a quiet corner, whilst Denton opere
was solacing himself at the refreshment
bar, he satisfied a long-felt craving, and
gave Henry ' a bit of his mind ' about
Henry's conduct at Cambridge and elsewhere,
which annoyed that obtuse individual
very much, but did not in the least
deter him from going on in his hopeless
quest ; for .Nellie's estimate of the general

flabbiness of his character was a right one
and, punch him as hardly as you would,
he quickly returned to his old condition,
and the punishment left no mark.

CHAPTER VIII.

LORD LIMBORNE PROPOSES.

Where was Nellie, then, that, carefully ashe
sought her, Henry Denton failed to
find her ? There is — or it may be was,
for things small as well as great change
in this fickle world of ours — a certain little
tent which, during the cricket-match that
preceded the Teignbridge dinner and dance
held the person who scored the various
runs, byes, and wide which but feebly
kept the attention of the few early arrivals
of the gentler sex, who, in sooth, were
longing for the evening, and gave pleasant
excitement, and at the same time appetite
for the cold collation and the sherry to
the habitues of the male persuasion.

Now, this tent served a double purpose :
the scorer's tent by day, by night it not
infrequently exchanged the varying fortunes
of the cricket match for the monotonous
but ever entrancing (to the persons
concerned) story of the loves of the mortals.
Many kinds of lovers have sought its
friendly shelter, from those who were, with
hesitating speech, making the first timid
advances, on through the various degrees,
the first slight hand-pressure, the rosy
blush at a very well-intentioned but most
probably somewhat broad compliment (for
this art of delicate compliment is rare indeed)
the offer and acceptance, or the
hesitating request, for that universal coin
of love, a flower, and so on to the fully
assured bliss of those whose mutual affections
are approved by parents and an applauding
world, and who (the male birds, we
should premise) already find that sweets
have a habit of cloying, and who do most
sincerely incline to a cigar which ' a fellow

i

can smoke in peace and quiet, don't yon
know and not in the spasmodic manner
rendered necessary by the exigencies of
pre-connubial bliss.

Now, if there was one place in the world
which Lord Limborne would have avoided as
the scene of the avowal of his passion, that
place was Teignbridge ; and of all the corners,
verandahs, tents, lawns, rooms, and so
forth which together make up this gathering
place of the South Devon clans, the particular
tent in question was the one spot which
his soul would have loathed to look upon
as the witness of his fervid outpourings
of love. But, alas for the irony of Fate f
here was his good-humouredly cynical,
superior, and learned lordship in this very
identical tent, seated in extremely close
proximity to his goddess, in a most lackadaisical,
not to say loving attitude, to wit
with his arm (forgive me, ye prudish ones !}
his arm, I say, around the fair Nellie's
waist, and himself talking as arrant nonsense

as ever enamoured swain poured
into the ready ears of ' Amaryllis in the
shade ;' and I would not give the proverbial
' tuppence ' for any man ' as calls himself
a man ' (as the Seven Dials' ladies remark)
who has not been in precisely the
same attitude, and with the very same
feelings, with his Dulcinea, whether she be
yet young, and sweet as a dewy rose, or
now fat, fair, and forty, and the mother of
many, or the venerable partner of his
declining years as he and she toddle on
together adown the vale of life.

Verily, it was with Lord Limborne as with
most other love-sick swains, the climax of
his love-story was sudden and unexpected ;
and very different in its scene, and its relation,
was this crowning chapter of the
volume, in which the two fond souls for
the first time confessed their mutual flame
and solaced themselves after the universal
manner of all lovers, whether they be the
Chloe and Lubin of the rustic lanes, the

toilworn lads and lasses of the factory
towns, or of those high-born and wealthy
ones whose love-affairs are trumpeted
forth in noble style in the columns of the
society papers.

Something of romance, it is felt by us all,
should mark this first outburst of 
feelings, something of poesy there
should be in the surroundings ; the silence
of a sun-flecked, shady avenue in some
summer wood, the stillness of night, and
the mystery of moonlight on some such
balcony as heard the loves of Romeo and
Juliet; some murmuring of the sea, perhaps,
as we wander together, with many a halt,
by the soft-sounding marge : ay ! and as
the fragrant smoke of our sacrifice to
St. Nicotiana (for, heaven forbid that I, a
poor male unit, should dare to peer into
the hidden penetralia of feminine love-reverie
!) as the smoke of our cigar vanishes
and comes again in graceful wreaths, the
very ivords of our avowal come readily to

the mind, and we silently apostrophise the
'divine She,' in a fervid flow of rhapsody,
such as must, we fondly imagine.* bear her
away in its resistless tide, and give us a victory
over any signs of hesitancy we may
have marked in our more despondent
moods.

But the reality ! how widely different
from these fond dreams ! "Where is that
eloquence which seemed natural to us, and
the occasion in our solitary musings ?
Where is the ' fervid flow ' afore-mentioned
in the presence of the beloved one ?
"What? This stuttering, halting individual,
this person of the purple face, the ungraceful
action, the silly speech — this the hero
of the fateful hour ? the persuasive softener
of difficulties ? the eloquent inspirer of
love ? the utterer of impassioned, burning
periods ? Ah ! many a poor fellow has
cut a ridiculous figure enough at such a
supreme moment, and good, honest heart
has spoken, if haltingly, yet most sincerely,

if without much eloquence, yet with
earnestness enough, God wot! And
heaven's blessings on that inborn wit of
woman, which allows her to see, in that
often pitiful figure at her feet, a romance
enough for her, and the very lover she
desires above all the other flutterers around
the shining light.

Not the least idea of putting his fortune
to the touch, and declaring his passion to
Nellie, had Lord Limborne on that sunny
Thursday as he looked here and there for
her sweet face in the throng of dark and
fair, young and old, plain and lovely (for,
in sooth, the Devonshire maidens have a
pleasing habit of loveliness). No conjuncture
of events could have been more inauspicious
for such an avowal; a very
gradual process must be the letting down
of Lady Limborne from the heights of the
Beldon alliance to the lower (albeit
pleasant) valley of this Coombridge project,
and all bold plunges, all sudden surprises

must be avoided in the present state
of * strained relations.'

Thinking, however, of the more immediate
future, and letting the remoter
possibilities take care of themselves, wondering
how Nellie would look when he
should happen upon her, whether he should
be able, with love's cunning, (how often a
mistaken cunning, a too sharp seeing where
naught was to be seen, let those who have
made the mistake, and met with the consequent
rebuff, tell!) whether he should be
able to catch some fleeting sign of expectation,
interest, or dawning love, a slight
wild-rose flush perhaps, some little tremulous
motion of the hand. Thinking such
thoughts as these, Lord Limbo very
soon perceived the fairy-like form of Helen
Armer, attended by Jack, her vivacious
brother. Lord Limborne was soon by
Nellie's side, and by ■ a fortuitous combination
of circumstances,' (as the young
curate expressed it, after he was rebuked

by his rector for using the words c a lucky
chance' in the pulpit), by Fortune's favour,
and not, to say the truth, without the
connivance of the obstructing party — who
had, indeed, his own amusement to provide
for — rid of the gallant Jack, Lord
Limborne found himself in the position he
most desired, to wit, alone with the lovely
Nellie.

It is true report said there were several
hundreds of one sex or the other at Tunbridge
that day, but they were of no
account with the enamoured ones, who
quickly, by mutual consent, and almost unconsciously,
sought the more perfect solitude
which the far end of the smooth-shaven lawn
afforded. Here, in pleasant converse, to
and fro they wandered ; until some imp of
night, fluttering hither and thither on busy
mischief intent, whispered to Lord Lime
that Nellie must be tired, conducted
them, unconscious of harm, to that seductive
tent, left them in the close contiguity

which the narrowness of that temple of
Cupid rendered necessary, and flew off todo
some other Puckish trick upon some
other unsuspecting persons.

Now the seat (which replaced the scorer's
chair) was not very much too large for one
fairly bulky person, and was certainly
scarcely large enough for two, even though
one of the two should be the slim and
light-built Nellie ; hence, when the adoring
James seated himself beside the fair object
of his adoration — which he very presently
did — personal contact became unavoidable
without an expenditure of
'schooling,' which the occasion and the
persons present scarcely demanded; hence,
too, a certain nervousness which the fair
Helen felt at this unaccustomed proximity
communicated itself, as nervousness is
wont, to the other individual, and a silence
followed which was felt on both sides to
be particularly awkward. It was, perhaps,
to break this awkwardness that Lord Lime

I. N

borne gently possessed himself of Nellie's
hand, and it was because she was so nervous,
probably, that she failed to withdraw
it, as she most certainly ought to have
done.

But why our ' potent, grave if not
1 reverent ' signor should have suddenly
blurted out a stammering confession of
love, I cannot tell, unless it was the
touch of that soft, warm, white hand ;
the love that was in him, that unconscionable
little imp again, or, perhaps,
Cupid himself, the deity of the bower.
So it was, however, and so it was, too,
that this beauteous Helen confessed, with
downcast eyes and the sweetest blush in
the world, that she did — well, I will spare
the reader both the lover's rhapsodies and
the maid's shy responses thereto, persuaded
of the gratitude of the mass of
my readers, though, here and there, some
sentimental miss may wish it had been
otherwise.

There is, as painful experience teaches
us all sooner or later, a seamy side to
most of the various garments which goto
make up this life-attire of ours, and it
is a truism to say that love's young dream
has too often a harsh enough awakening.
Poor, happy souls ! let them rejoice together
for a few brief moments over this
glorious secret they have just brought to
light, forgetting that there are such things
in the world as stern parents (of either
sex), the grinding poverty of the ' shabby-genteel,'
a somewhat absurd family pride,
and other little barriers which must be
surmounted before Hymen's altar shall
be crowned with flowers, the sacred rite
performed, and the happy couple departed
to the 'residence of Lord Some-one or
other,' in a shower of rice, and slippers,
and blessings.

A simple and very natural remark, on
Nellie's part, quickly put to rout her
lover's ecstatic thoughts, and introduced

n2

elements of disturbance even in this very
early stage of their joint love-affair.

How pleased father will be she murmured.
' He always liked you so much,
and he often speaks of you. Do you
know, I sometimes think he must have
some suspicion of all this, though why I
cannot imagine.'

Mr. Armer must, indeed, have been a very
blind individual not to have seen, and
possessed of a great deal more dulness
than he would have cared to own, not to have
speculated upon the evident attentions bestowed
by his noble neighbour upon his
only daughter ; and this probability made
the whole affair still more involved and
hopeless.

If there was one vice Lord Limborne
detested more than the others, that vice
was insincerity. Steadfast as a rock in
his opinions, and sufficiently courageous
in proclaiming them, he despised anything
that savoured of deceit or double-dealing ;

and yefc here, in the most important crisis
of his life, he found himself doing (as how-many
of us find selves doing) the very
thing he had often loudly condemned in
others, and initiating his fiancee into ways
of concealment and consequent deceit.

'Nellie dear,' he said, after w T ordering
how he should put so delicate a matter
to her, f you know r my mother is the dearest
mother in the world ' (here Nellie, who
was a shrewd little lassie, began to look
for the inevitable ' but ' which follows
upon such superlatives), 'and she loves me
very dearly. I verily believe she would cutoff
her right hand for me ; you see, I am
her only child, and she has no one else in
the world to think of; so you must not
mind her exalted ideas of me.'

All this time Nellie was waiting and wondering
what could be the upshot of this
lengthy exordium.

Well,' Lord Limborne went on, floundering
about in a wordy bog, and not seeing

his way out of it, ' well, you know,
she thinks me a kind of Admirable Crichton,
a — a genius, and that I only want
time and opportunity to develop into
something quite of the most remarkable
. . I don't know why I am talking in
this idiotic way, and no wonder you look
so surprised, darling ; but don't be angry
with me, I could not bear that.'

I am not likely to be angry with you,'
said Nellie, not liking to call her lover
1 James ' as yet, and deeming Lord Lime
too formal, and therefore leaving
out names altogether; 'but what is it?
Why should you talk of Lady Limborne
as if you were making excuses ?'

Well, the truth is said Lord Limborne,
determined to rid himself of the unpleasant
facts at one fell swoop, ' the truth is,
my mother has been trying to " arrange "
(I believe that is the correct term) to
arrange a marriage between your humble
servant and a very exalted damsel indeed.

Now wait a minute, Nellie !' he hurriedly
exclaimed, as some premonitory wriggling
warned him of a disposition on Nellie's
part to ' sever the connection ;' ' let me tell
you all, and then I will abide by all you
say ; only remember that my mother knows
nothing of this ' (she would have been extremely
shocked if she had come suddenly
upon what Lord Limborne was pleased to
call * this ') ; ' she knows, of course, that I
am often at Coombridge, but she thinks it
is more to see your father and Jack ; and,
in fact, it is no use beating about, I
must tell you — she is very obstinate, and
deeply set in any plans of hers. She has,
in a kind of way, and without consulting
me, committed herself to these Belton,
and I intended to wait, and not to have
spoken to you, until all these matters had
settled themselves : but you know, Nellie,

you looked so lovely and I felt so '

and here followed another rhapsody, and
accompaniments thereto.

Well, but what does it all mean ? What
do you want me to do ?' were Nellie's not
unnatural questions, on emerging from
the afore-mentioned accompaniment. ' Do
you want me to release you from the engagement
?' she added, with a wicked little
smile.

'No; but, Nellie, I am afraid we had
better not speak to anyone about it for a
little while,' said Lord Limborne, too anxious
to be jesting. ' I hate asking you todo
such a thing for me — indeed, I hate all
mysteries and concealments — but if you
care for me, as I know now you do care,
you will bear this. My mother and I are
on very uncomfortable terms at this very
time, most unfortunately, and about this
abominable marriage plan of hers too. I
never remember a single cloud between us
before. 7

Now Nellie knew very well indeed that,
if Lady Limborne was proud, Squire Armer
was proud too, and that if Lady Limborne

shewed any sign of dislike to her (Nellie's)
engagement to James, the very fact of the
Limbornes' rank would be a spur (if, indeed,
any spur save opposition on any
score were wanted) to goad her father to
the most determined resistance, and she
knew his obstinacy well enough to be
able to predict that not even his beloved
Nellie's grief would suffice to gain his
consent to his daughter's entering a family
where her marriage was likely to be looked
upon as a mesalliance.

Nor was Nellie sure herself whether her
affection for Lord Limborne would be
strong enough to conquer her pride. Still,
she had learnt to love Lady Limborne's
son, and she had just heard that Lord
Limborne loved her, Nellie Armer, and if
a little time could smooth over these unexpected
difficulties, which, after all, did
not appear to her to be so very insurmountable
(she did not know her ladyship)
and she was very much in love, and the

adoring James was looking at her very
beseechingly, and altogether it was too
much for the fair Helen, so that before
they glided into the throng, with such
nonchalant air as they were able to assume,
matters were arranged between them, and
no one was to be told the great news — at
any rate, for that indefinite period, ' a
little while

CHAPTER IX.

A MOVE TO HAMPSTEAD.

'Master were terrible put about, sure
enough,' said Charles, the youthful footman,
who, with the portly Hudson, represented
the male element in the Coom-bridge
indoors menage. Now Charles was
of Devonshire ' extraction ' Terrible put
about he were,' he went on ; ' I never see
un so took aback, her went off this morning
like thunder.'

1 Such a pleasant-spoken gentleman as
squire is, too,' said Mary Housemaid, ■ so
affable.'

Well,' said Charles, ' I seem there's
somnus wrong, for he wouldn't hardly
say notion to Miss Nellie, and as for

young Mas'r Jack, why, her never so much
as gave un the "good-bye"'

Put about ' our good squire was, truly,
for he had had two very unpleasant epistles
by that mornings post, one from
partner Gidley, in which the said Gidley
desired the squire to take his capital to
himself, and at the same time gently hinted
at the need of caution in manipulating that
capital, in his own peculiar sneering way,
and greatly to Mr. Armer's rage and indignation.
Mr. Gidley also declined to
see his partner, and desired that any
communications he might deem it necessary
to make should be made through his
solicitors. Now this was of itself quite
enough to inflame Mr. Armer's ire, and
he was already at ' blood heat ' when he
opened the second letter. This informed
him of liabilities the extravagant Jack had
formed at Cambridge, and sent him at once
to l boiling point,' and produced an explosion
at the breakfast-table which quickly drove

Nellie from the room, and left the defenceless
Jack exposed to the full force of the
volcanic eruption.

Well might the squire rage and fume,
for the considerable sum of money Jack
had named as the total of his debts on
1 going down ' was very far short indeed
of that unconscionable total itself, and his
father freely accused his son of a deceit
which, as he observed, 'he had not expected
from him.'

It is hard to put it all down in the
schedule, and Jack had hoped to gradually
pay off his less pressing debts without
going through the unpleasant process of
4 telling father ; 1 he had in plain English
been guilty of absolute falsehood, for,
trusting to the forbearance of his tradesmen,
he had positively denied that he
owed a farthing more than the sum he had
confessed to. But the tradesmen were
a faithless and confiding generation ;
they had sent in the bills to his college

tutor, and that gentleman had forwarded
them to Squire Armer 'without note or
comment.' Hence was the squire very
wroth indeed, and still more grieved to find
in his son a deceit which he despised, and
a lie which he hated.

It is very bad for gentlemen of a
plethoric habit to give the reins to their
tempers, and, as Mr. Armer journeyed
swiftly to London, he felt the effects of the
stormy scene with his son, in a certain
dizziness and singing in the ears, which
signs were not without their warnings,
insomuch that the squire then and there
made up his mind to control himself more
strictly for the future. It is, however,
one thing to make up one's mind, and
quite another thing to abide by such
makings-up,' and many trials of mind and
temper were in store for our poor squire.

To withdraw a large amount of capital
from a ' concern ' is not, as the showman
observed of his show, ' one of those performances

at which you go in at one end,
and out at the other, it is a long and
tedious performance ;' and so, indeed, did
Mr. Armer find it, for though his soul
loathed the baking and dusty streets of
London, and wended its way in spirit to the
breezy, tree-shaded lawns of his high-placed
Devonshire home, yet here was he compelled
to endure daily sweltering over hot
pavements and in pent-up offices with the
thermometer ' anywhere,' to be followed
by sleepless nights in the stuffy chamber
of his hotel. Moreover, this process of
eliminating his capital resulted in an unpleasant
kind of ' sweating,' and it began
to dawn upon him that the large income
he had been in the habit of receiving from
the partnership, without too much enquiry
as to the 'how' or the 'whence,' did not
after all represent so very bulky a sum
of money, the astute Gidley having netted
and handed over a rate of interest
which in less cunning and careful hands

would have seemed risky in the extreme.
Admiration at his partner's talent for
money-spending mingled with his regret at
this sudden severance of their relations, a
severance, too, for which he felt he only
had his own obstinate folly to blame. It
was not unnatural, truly, that he should
kick against the ' sleeping ' character
which his share of the partnership had
been gradually assuming ; but as the truth
was now very plainly put before him, and
he saw how careful, and, at the same time,
how bold when occasion warranted, Gidley
had been, he could not but own to himself
that it had been better for him had he been
a little more patient and more submissive
under the irksome control. Gidley, he had
to confess to himself, had borne a great
deal from him, and he now wished with all
his heart he had let matters alone, and
that the well-known firm of Armer and
Gidley were still to the fore on the Stock
Exchange.

Nevertheless, when all the partitions and
Tending were at an end, there was a
goodly sum at Mr. Armer's disposal, and
he buckled to his work once more, not
without a certain satisfaction, after all, ashe
felt the old fire of speculation burning 1
up again, and a new life rising in him at
the old war-cries of 'rise' and 'fall,' and
all the other mysterious rousing-calls of
the grand game of finance.

The name of Armer was one tolerably
well-known, and where a man has the
wherewithal, and the will, and, moreover,
a certain amount of skill and experience,
there will not want opportunities for the
turning-over of his capital, nor folks extremely
willing to assist in the operation,
with a view to catching such coins as they
may the while the money is a-turning; so
found the squire, and a very short time
after he was rid of Gidley, or rather Gidley
was rid of him, Mr. Armer was up to
his neck in various enterprises, and the

vol. I. o

old life at Coombridge was rapidly becoming
a pleasant dream of the past.

After the balmy air of Devon, the
smoke-laden atmosphere of London was
abominable to the quondam country gentleman.
Some relief from the stifling
streets Mr. Armer felt he must have, and
hence it came to pass that he cast about
to find what he wanted, and eventually
found it in a comfortable house in the
breezy suburb of Hampstead ; and hither
did his daughter Nellie hasten very shortly,
to go through the unpleasant process of
settling-in,' leaving the doleful Jack to
his own sweet devices at Coombridge.

An empty house, and a long purse from
which to draw the supplies to furnish it
withal, are, however, tempting baits to a
young and energetic woman, and the busy
occupation, the running to and fro, the interviews
with servants, and with upholsterers,
iron-mongers, and the whole tribe of the
furnishers was a welcome relief from the

anxious thought her concealed engagement
brought upon Nellie Armer. Brother
Jack was away, and in too dismal a frame
of mind to indulge in joking, and she was
spared his customary gibes and flouts,
which would have been unendurable under
the circumstances ; but it was pain and
grief to her to be so much with her unsuspecting
parent, and to feel this embarrassment
of concealment between them.
All things come to an end, however ; even
the dilatoriness of the British tradesman
has its limits, and it was, at length, with a
sigh of relief that Nellie saw the last van
pass out of sight down the leafy lane leading
from the heath, in which Hatfield,
as the Armers' house was called, was placed.
1 Well, Nellie,' said Mr. Armer, as they
moved into the drawing-room together
after the first dinner at Heathfield with
any elements of comfort about it, ' who
would have believed three months ago that
we should be back again in smoky London ?'

o2

1 Of course it is not Coombridge, father
said Nellie, ' but it is quiet, and even
pretty, and not so smoky after all, though
the flowers are a little grimy, and the
grass not calculated to improve a white
gown if one reclines upon it unsuspicious
of evil : I found that out this morning
under our tree — imagine having only one
tree to boast of !'

1 Never mind, Nellie, I don't intend to
live here for ever, and when I have made
a little more for you and Jack (though he
doesn't deserve it, the young rascal !) we
will go back to Coombridge and " live
happily ever after." '

Why r should you ever have left Coom-bridge,
father ?' asked Nellie ; ' it will be a
frightful expense the keeping up both
places.'

Because, my dear, your father is not
so rich as he was ; in fact, I fear I shall
have to let Coombridge ; but, any rate, I
shall keep it on till the summer is over.

There is plenty of bunting of a sort
there, the shooting is good, and the Reign
is close by, so I shall easily let the place,
I hope.' But the sigh, with which the
squire's sentence ended, gave a portentous
denial to his ' hope,' and Nellie knew that
her father was even now turning a fond
and longing backward glance to his old
haunts and occupations.

A long pause in the conversation ensued,
during which both Nellie and her
father were busily employed with the
thoughts of their old home : he, with the
coverts, and the " birds ' that dwell therein,
with side thoughts as to the wily coney,
and much exercising as to what Master
Bailey, the keeper, was after, and as to
when he could snatch a few days to run
down and ' have a slap at 'em ;' and she,
with a certain nobleman residing at a
'reasonable distance' from her home, and
of whose approaching advent in London —
and at Heathfield also, rest well assured —

she was advised during their last meeting
just before she left for London.

Twice had they met since the fateful
day at Coombridge : once under the Argus
eyes of Lady Limborne, who was making
one of her rare calls upon 'those roturiers'
at Coombridge, and once again when Lord
Limborne rode over to dine with Jack, and
condole with that erring person upon what
he was pleased to call his ' cussed luck
In a party of three (for the squire was in
London) it is difficult sometimes to get
rid of the one who is ' not company but a
few minutes the lovers managed to snatch
whilst Master Jack was superintending
the lighting up of the billiard-table, and in
that brief space Lord Limborne hurriedly
informed Nellie that he had had, as yet, no
favourable opportunity to broach the subject
— of their engagement, to wit — with his
mother, while Nellie informed him of her
whereabouts in Hampstead, whereupon he
remarked that business of a most urgent

nature, namely, the desire to see bis beloved,
would call him up to the great
metropolis at no distant date . . . here
Jack's voice was heard calling to them,
and the meeting was reluctantly dissolved.
f Nellie said Mr. Armer, waking up at
last from the reverie which has given us
the opportunity of this unpardonably long
digression, and showing by his first remark
that his thoughts, towards the end of the
aforesaid reverie, had taken a less pleasant
turn — ' Nellie, I have been thinking about
your brother Jack ; his deceit has been a
very painful blow to me.'

I Oh, father,' cried Nellie, standing up
for her dearly-loved brother, ; don't call it
by such a hard name as that ! Lord Lime
says that almost all young men run
into debt at college, and are afraid to tell,
or perhaps don't even know, all the truth
about it.'

I I don't know,' said the squire, c what
Lord Limborne has to do with it, and I

am sorry the nasty business has gone out
of the family. I suppose the young idiot
was confiding his troubles and whining
about them to his friend ?'

Nellie did not inform her parent that she
also was a delinquent, and had discussed
the ' nasty business ' in solemn conference
with the two friends.

One thing,' Mr. Armer went on, ' I am
resolved upon, and that is he shall not goto
the Bar as I intended : I should only
have the same disgraceful worries over
again. No, I shall keep him under my own
eye, and he shall come into ray office. I
don't suppose Jack will ever be a business
man, but this will keep him occupied and
out of mischief, at any rate. I wish now I
had never sent him to that abominable
Varsity," as he calls it; he is just the last
person to be trusted to the tender mercies
of confiding tradesmen. What do you
think about it, Nellie ?'

Now Nellie knew that the very thought

of offices, high stools, musty ledgers, and
the rest of it was abhorrent to her
brother, who had always looked forward
to spending his days as a country squire,
and who, next to his sister and his father,
loved his horse, his dogs, and guns more
than all other things upon this earth ; and,
knowing this, her father's question put
her into a quandary from which she escaped
by mildly remarking that ' she did not
think Jack would like London; she thought
he was more suited to a country life.'

■ Perhaps,' said Mr. Armer, 'some day he
may come to that ; for, of course, he will
have the place when I am gone ; but, in
the meantime, he must do something, for I
don't intend him to idle away his time,
and get into debt again.' Here Mr. Armer
rose, and kissing his daughter bade her
good-night, and wended his way to his own
den to smoke the pipe of peace and ]took
over the evening papers before retiring to
rest.

CHAPTER X.

IN SOLEMN CONCLAVE.

It is a great mistake to suppose that the
1 putting on of side ' (to use a somewhat
slangy expression) is confined to the higher
walks of society. To the student of human
nature, it quickly becomes revealed that
while all ranks of life delight in this vulgar
exercise, while Her Grace the Duchess
bestows two fingers in greeting her humble
parasite and admirer, and while at the
other end of the rope the costermooger's
lady whose husband is the proud possessor
of his own * moke ' looks down with something
like contempt upon the lady whose
lord and master is forced by unkind
Fortune to trundle his barrow himself —

while these two extremes meet upon this
common platform of Pride, it is to the
middle classes of our community that we
must look to find this evil weed flourishing
in its proudest luxuriance. Here the very
remotest ' connection with the aristocracy '
becomes a valuable and marketable social
commodity, and the he or she who
can claim cousinship with a dilapidated
baronet, or still better with an out-elbows
or even disreputable peer, is not
slow in proclaiming this important fact,
and in exacting the full social value therefor
: while, if a cruel Fate should attach
even the faintest aroma of 'trade ' to the
social aspirant, heavens ! with what pains
is the shocking taint concealed ; not even
the ' touch of the tar-brush ' is more carefully
painted over and hidden out of sight
in democratic America. Absolute truthfulness
is not very possible in the 'face of
hints, and more or less delicate enquiries
on this subject, and denials must be given,

even where such denials are, in plain English,
lies ; for a man may keep a store in
Australia, or New Zealand, or Timbuctoo ;
he may sell (strictly at the other end of
the world) even disgusting articles of commerce;
he may positively revel in trade, and
purvey all manner of things from the mild
and useful pill of Cockle to an up-and-down
suit of go-tormenting clothes ; he may keep
a butcher's shop ; he may deal in raw skins
and return to his native Britain refulgent
with the golden profits, and be ' received'
into society with open arms, particularly
if he be of a sociable disposition, and
show a desire to disburse his gains in laudable
efforts to amuse and entertain his
fellow-creatures. But let a butcher of even
gigantic wealth — as butchers there be in
these halcyon (strictly for butchers) days
of unheard-of, not to say painful, prices —
let a purveyor of meat, as he loved to be
called, whose name was proudly displayed
in letters of gold over his emporium (how

vulgar is the word ' shop !') in say the
Buckingham Palace Road — let such an one
retire with his 'plum,' his hundred thousand
pounds, and take a ' place in the country,'
and not a soul (of the ■ quality ') will enter
his gates, be they opened never so widely ;
and not till two or three generations have
sufficed to wash out the smell of the shop
will his descendants be admitted to the
second-rate society of the ' county and
that not without flouts and secret gibing.
Is the beef of Brisbane, or is the mutton of
Manitoba, less vulgarising than the flesh of
the beeves and sheep of Old England?
These things are a mystery !

Problems of society singeing upon such
matters as 'Who to know?' and 'Who to
drop ?' were mightily exercising the mind
of that determined stormed of social heights
Mrs. Denton. It was getting on towards
the period in summer when that sluggish
stream, society in Devon, is wont to be
quickened by certain freshness and flushes

in the shape of balls, dinner-parties, and
melancholy entertainments yclept ' at
homes and Mrs. Denton was alive to the
opportunities this festive time might afford
her.

Now, the results of that bold free-lance,
Miss Charlotte Ingle's, determined attacks
at Teignbridge were pleasantly evident at
Wreford in a quite respectable array of
trophies in the shape of visiting cards ;
cards inscribed, too, with the names of
persons of some distinction in the county,
and these were the avant-couriers of invitations
to sundry social gatherings, of which
the Dentonss were not slow to avail themselves.


Verily the blissful visions of the wife,
son, and daughters of the homely master
of Wreford seemed in a fair way to become
realities ; the outworks were already taken,
and, although the sacred precincts of the
set had not as yet been invaded, crafty
approaches thereto were being constructed,

and diplomatic relations were being opened.

It was in the mind of the bold Mrs.
Denton to give a ball, a grand and sumptuous
entertainment, the like whereof had
never yet been seen in the county of Devon,
and at which should be assembled all (as
the county papers called them) the elite of
the county; and to procure the presence and
countenance of those who still held aloof
from Wreford and the inhabitants thereof,
and at the same time to weed out the now
useless friends (?) from an already too large
visiting-list — these were tasks which called
for larger powers than Mrs. Denton or her
children possessed.

Gratitude for past favours, and a lively
sense of favours to come, coupled with a
knowledge, from experience, of her boldness
in attack, and her high intelligence in
the science of * Who is who V pointed at
once to the energetic Miss Ingle as the
confidante and agent ; and it was for these
so high and lofty purposes that a solemn

conclave was being held in Mrs. Denton's
boudoir one morning late in July, at which
the whole family ' assisted,' with the fair
Charlotte as ' guide, philosopher, and friend

Seems like a court of law, with Tresa
there with her paper and pens, and mother
with her visiting-book, and us all sitting
round so solemn-like,' said Mr. Denton,
who had refused to be shut out, though
told ' he need not trouble,' and was much
impressed with the occasion. ' Anyone 'd
think it was a trial for murder, instead of
a ball.'

I wish you would not say such dreadful
things, father ; you quite shock Miss Ingle,'
said Theresa, who, as her father remarked,
was always a-badgeriog and a-bullying
him.'

It would take a great deal more than
that to shock me, 1 said Miss Ingle, with
perfect truthfulness, ' and we certainly do
look like a solemn assembly.'

1 Oh ! it is quite too exciting ! only to

think of the piles of people we know ; and
what fun to leave out all the odious ones.
Let us begin at once. Now then, ELenry,
for heaven's sake look a little more lively
Thus the beautiful Theresa roused to enthusiasm,
and exasperated at her brother,
who was reclining in an elegant attitude
in a cushioned embrasure of a window,
and sniffing in a most aggravating touchant
air at a pale-yellow rose.

It is a matter of but small moment tome,'
replied the flaccid Henry. ■ I care
but little for these trivialities — nay, I dislike
them; they disturb the even flow of
thought, so necessary for the creation of
poesy.'

For goodness sake, then, go back to
that aesthetic den of yours, and " live up "
to something, or do another verse or two
of those wonderful poems of yours of
which we hear so much, and see so little ;
this kind of thing, as you say, is quite too
gross for poets and blighted ones retorted

VOL. I. p

Theresa, who had but scant sympathy with
her brother s ' fiddle-saddles,' as she elegantly
called his aesthetic pursuits, and
the adjuncts thereto.

Now was wrath seen upon the usually
impassive face of the heir of Wreford,
and one of the not infrequent wrangles
between brother and sister would certainly
have raged had not Mrs. Denton called her
quarrelsome offspring to order.

1 1 do think, Theresa,' she said, ' you
might cease teasing Henry, and interrupting
everything in this way ; you ought
really to control yourself, and be less
tempers.'

1 Tempers !' exclaimed Theresa, not to
be put down. c Henry is enough to provoke
a saint, with his airs, and graces, and
pack of rubbish ; I've no patience with him !'

It is my fate to be misunderstood, dear
mother,' said Henry, with a faint sigh. 'I
will not wrangle; it is exhausting and
vulgar;' and, with this passing shot at his

sister, he sank into the comfortable embrace
of a well-cushioned settee, unheeding
the snort of contempt with which his sister
greeted his remark as she tossed her head
and glared at her submissive adversary.

1 'Oighty-toighty ! 'ere's a fine way of
setting about the ball,' cried Mr. Denton ;
1 whatever are you two always fighting
and snarling about ? Haven't you got
everything to make you 'happy ? Tresa
with her dresses and a fine maid to wait
upon her, and me a-giving of her any
mortal thing as she likes to ask for, and
'Enery with his cheney, and his books,
and all them expensive things as he's
always buying ? You ought to be
ashamed of yourselves, I tell you. All
right, mother ! I'm done ; but I must
say, all the same, it's disgusting', ain't it,
now, Miss Ingle?'

1 You certainly are a most indulgent
father to your children, Mr. Denton,' said
Miss Ingle, ' and I am sure they are grated



ful ; but we really must begin, if we are todo
anything, or we never shall get through
this affair. Do you know, Mrs. Denton, 1
turning to her hostess, ' I have been thinking
it would be a great thing for you in the
county if you could get Lady Limborne to
come on the 27th. So many of the best
people think so much of her, don't you
know, and some of those we are not quite
sure of would be certain to come if it were
given out that she is to be here.'

I am sure I wish we could get her,'
said Mrs. Denton, ' but she is so stand-fish
; we have met her once or twice since
you introduced us at Teignbridge, and she
will hardly take any notice of us at all. I
don't see what we can do ; perhaps you can
think of something ?'

Stand-offish !' exclaimed Mr. Denton,
1 1 should think so ; why, she regular turned
her back on us at that tennis turning,
as you call it, at Bedford. I was
just saying, " How d'ye do, my lady?" when

she turned right round, and began to talk
to some party or other, as if she never
saw me ; course she saw me, — a dead cut,
that's what it was. If you ask me, I say,
leave the proud old cat alone ; I 'ate such
airs

f Mr. Denton,' said his wife, solemnly,
1 it is dreadful to hear you talk in such a
way of a lady of title. I am astonished
at you.'

Well, well ! do as you like, my dear,
do as you like ; if you prefer to be snubbed
and trodden on, shan't interfere : anyway,
you can't make her civil, which civil she
certainly ain't.'

1 1 think,' said Miss Ingle, who had been
impatiently drumming on the table with
her pencil, whilst this little interlude went
on, ' I think that something might be
done, only it's a little delicate, and would
require careful handling.'

1 If anyone can do it, it is you, Charlotte,'
said her admirer Theresa; and Mr.

Denton, his spouse, and Emily leant forward
to listen, while even the abstracted
Henry looked up from the book he was
pretending to read, to hear the plan by
which the haughty Lady Limborne was to
be subdued, and brought a captive to the
Wreford ball.

1 Well, I will tell you my plan said Miss
Ingle, ' I have been thinking a great deal
about it, for it is very important for you
to get Lady Limborne here on the 27th,
and this is the plan I have hit upon.
Have you ever seen Limborne Church ?'

4 Limborne Church ?' cried Emily, and all
the rest of the audience looked astonished ;
why, whatever can that have to do with
us and Lady Limborne ?'

Listen,' said the oracle, quite in her
element, * and you shall soon hear. Lime
Church is one of the most ancient
churches in the diocese, and has quite the
most lovely carved screen in the county.
The living belongs to the Limborne family,

and the chancel is quite full of their
monuments and things ; but the church is
in a most dreadful state of dilapidation — it
looks as if it were tumbling to pieces, and
is quite a disgrace. Of course Lord Lime
and Lady Limborne are most anxious
to have the church put in order, and Lord
Limborne has stirred up the old rector to
set a subscription-list going ; well 1 they
have got the money all but about two hundred
and fifty pounds, and only the other
day Lady Limborne was speaking to me
about it, and I thought of you at once.
She asked me however people got so many
churches restored, and said how much she
wished to see Limborne Church in decent
order.'

Oh ! I think I could tell her ladyship
something about that,' interpolated Mr.
Denton, ' talk about beggars ! I never saw
anything like these parsons; why, there's
'hardly a day passes but one or other of 'em
writes to me, a-buttering me up first, and

begging after. Whenever I see something
or other rectory or vicarage a-top of a
letter, know what's coming — " well-known
benevolence' "justly earned title for
generosity," " duties of wealth," and "kindly
assist with a cheque." Lor' anyone 'd
think I was made of money, like that
Croesus, or whatever you call it.'

I am sure, Mr. Denton,' said Miss Ingle,
*it is because everybody knows how
generous you are.'

4 Well, I'm blest if you ain't going on
the same way, Miss Ingle. I didn't think it
of you. Let 'em restore their church themselves,
and not go bothering other folks. I
suppose her ladyship has put you up to get
some money out of me ; a likely story, after
the way she's treated us ;' and Mr. Denton
shook his head in a most determined manner.

Hush !' said his more astute spouse,
'you need not speak so fiercely to Miss
Ingle. I think I begin to see something of
what she means.'

1 Well, I can't say I do,' said Mr. Denton,
1 unless those Limbornes want me to do
their restoring-job for them; and whatever
that's got to do with getting the old lady
here is more than 1 can tell. I'm sure 1
don't want her, anyhow.'

i It has all to do with it,' said Charlotte
Ingle ; ' and, if you are willing to give them
a handsome cheque towards this work, I
think I can promise that Lady Limborne
shall be here on the 27th.'

Well ! of all the cool you don't
mean to tell me, Miss Ingle, that I am
to pay my lady for coming here ? I tell
you I don't want her, I'll see her . . . .'

'Wait a minute, father,' hastily interrupted
Theresa, who knew that her mother
had other views, besides the social weight
Lady Limborne's presence carried with it,
in wishing to get upon terms with that
lady, and who was not unmindful of the importance
to her own ambitious schemes that
this plan of Miss Ingle's might betoken.

Do wait a minute like a dear, good, old
father.'

Ah ! Miss, you're after something or
other, or you wouldn't be so softy. I ain't
a-going to be caught with chaff like that,
don't you fear,' rejoined Theresa's parent.

Now, Henry, how can you talk like
that, my dear?' said Mrs. Denton, in quite
dulcet tones. * I am sure Theresa is quite
right if she does want you to help Lady
Limborne : it is very important to us to
be friendly with her, and whatever does a
cheque matter to you. You put matters
so so . . plainly, my dear ; what
can be the harm of helping Lady Limborne
to restore her church? You are always
giving away money when it isn't the least
use to us. I don't often ask you to do anything
of the sort, and I think you might
give way this once ; after all, it is for a good
object.'

1 Good object ! yes, they're all " good
objects"" growled Mr. Denton, with a

sardonic grin ; ' but I don't want to be
nasty about it, and, if you're all so particular
about it, I won't stand at a hunted or
two, so there ! I'll just write a cheque
to-day, and send it with my compliments.'

1 If you do, said Charlotte Ingle, ' you
will spoil everything, and the cheque will
probably be sent back by return of post.'

Whatever do you want me to do, then ?
was Mr. Denton's question. ' I can't make
you out, all of you ; first, you say my lady
wants a cheque for two hundred and fifty
pounds, and then you say she'll send it
back if I send one, it's ridiculous !'

'Allow me, Mr. Denton, to explain,'
said Miss Ingle. ' I am sorry I did not
make myself clear ; of course the cheque,
if you are good enough to give one, must
be sent to the Rector of Limborne for the
Restoration Fund ; of course, too, he will
at once run up to the Castle with the news,
for he knows how anxious Lady Limborne
is on the subject, and she, I am sure, cannot

feel anything but grateful to you for
your generosity.'

1 Very well, then, settle it your own way,
though I think it is one of the most barefaced
well, I don't know what to
call it, and that's a fact ! Live and learn I
Live and learn ! that's my matter since I
came into brother Ben's money ; go on, goon,
what's the next article?' said Mr.
Denton, who was to have other lessons as
to the market value of social prestige.

My dear Henry, what a way you have
of speaking,' exclaimed Mrs. Denton, with
a shuddering remembrance of the l shop '
which her husband's last words called up.
And now, girls,' she went on, addressing
her daughters, who had been silent but attentive
assistants at the ' pumping ' of their
father, i the next matter for us to arrange
is — who are we to ask ? and — who are we
to leave out ? I have a list here ; Theresa,
my dear, just hand me that list. You see,
Charlotte, when we first came here we did

not know anything about the people, and
of course we have made some rather
unfortunate acquaintances.'

1 We was glad enough to know anyone,
and that's the truth, as you know, my
dear ; and there were some rum 'uns at our
first Al Frisky. I never shall forget how
some of those Bardon folks did walk into
the victuals, and drink ; anyone 'd a-thought
they'd been starving themselves a purpose ;'
and Mr. Denton laughed loudly at the
remembrance.

c Oh ! of course you cannot know the
Bardon people, it is a dreadful place,' said
Miss Ingle, ' there is not a single person
there that anyone knows ; it is a kind of
city of refuge for all sorts of queer
people — people who have been in Queer
Street, don't you know, and that kind of
thing. I am told the drinking that goes
on there is quite too dreadful, and I can
easily believe what Mr. Denton says about
them.'

'I am so glad you told us,' said Mrs.
Denton, ' we will strike them all out ;' aud
struck out they were.

Here Mr. Denton, junior, who was tired
of the conversation, rose, and sauntered
out of the room, quickly followed by his
father, and the ladies were left to the congenial
occupation of sifting the visiting-list,
and discussing the social positions
and the shortcomings of their friends.

CHAPTER XI.

NEWS FOR LADY LIMBORNE.

Lord Limborne was finding out the truth
of the ancient proverb that tells us
Honesty is the best policy.' Limborne
Castle was in a most unwonted state of
turmoil. The old butler confided to the
venerable abigail who was at the head of
the feminine departments the fact that c he
was most worried to death ; he never
minded such goings-on since the time when
he was footboy, and the old lord brought
home her ladyship, and a fine figure of a
woman she were.'

Truly the long sleep of many years was
broken at last ; such furnishing-up of
time-worn furniture, such scrubbing, airing,

and setting in order of long unoccupied
rooms — the whole place seemed alive once
more, and the noise and bustling were all
the more strange from the quiet that had
reigned there so long. ' Such goings-ons
indeed ! A cook from London, ' on the
job,' caused a perfect revolution in the
kitchen, and reduced the old Devonshire
crone who usually presided there to a state
of semi-idiocy ; 4 her ladyship was witched,
sure enough,' she said, 'a-puttin'
out her money in such ways ; well, it
wasn't for the likes of her to spake ill of
her betters, but she know'd her was mazed,
for certain.' Her ladyship was anything
but ' mazed,' however ; she was in very
complete possession of her noble wits, and
was only acting upon the homely proverb
which speaks of the wisdom of ' risking a
sprat to catch a whale.'

All this unwonted disbursing of exceedingly
scanty cash was, it may well be
imagined, not without some object, and

that object was only too well revealed to
her son. The Belton were expected fora
short stay at the Castle. In vain had
Lord Limborne exhausted himself in arguments,
trying to show to his mother the
absurdity of asking people to stay at Lime
Castle whose ordinary life was so
very differently mounted from the quiet
and even tenor of the Limborne way ; in
vain did he descant upon the folly of
spending money, so much wanted in so
many ways, in the useless display involved
in this attempt to entertain such very
exalted personages. Lady Limborne was
determined, and there was an end of the
matter.

Now Lord Limborne had had neither the
time, inclination, nor money to mingle
much in the society to which his rank
would have given him the easy entree, and
he had therefore scarcely seen Emily
Beldon since the time when, as a gawky
maiden of sixteen, she had paid his mother

VOL. J. Q

a visit at the Castle. During the interval
she had developed into a very fine young 1
lady indeed : tall and shapely, stately in
her carriage, with a beautiful face, somewhat
marred by its expression of extreme
haughtiness, the proud Lady Emily was
not unlike Lord Limborne's mother in
person, while in character, aims, and views
the two aristocratic dames were completely
at one. It was not strange, therefore,
that Lady Limborne should see in such a
congenial character the person best fitted
to mate with her son ; and when the high
political influence of the lady's father, and
the great wealth that must accrue to his
only child were taken into consideration,
the proposed alliance seemed in every way
so desirable that it is no wonder the prospect
dazzled Lady Limborne, and the
furtherance of the arrangement became a
sort of monomania with her.

Although no direct intimation of the true
object of this visit to Devonshire had been

given to the person most concerned, yet
certain hints had fallen from her mother.
Lord Limborne's praise had been judiciously
sounded, and the brilliant future to
which his undoubted talents, and his
powerful connections clearly pointed, had
not failed of due discussion ; while, on her
part, the mother of the supposed pretending
had paid the daughter-in-law of her
choice little attentions and courtesies
which, together with much talk about the
many excellencies of her own son, served
plainly enough to point out her wishes in
the matter.

Various causes conspired to incline the
high and mighty damsel to listen to the
voice of the charmer : her people seemed
disposed towards the alliance; she admired
Lord Limborne's reputation, she
liked him also personally, she could 'get
on ' excellently with his mother, and she
felt that her position as the daughter of a
powerful and very rich nobleman could not

q2

be better used than in furthering the ambitions
of a clever and talented man, and
in bringing new life into an ancient and
impoverished line.

Besides these weighty reasons, there
was another spur, if one were wanted, to
urge her to a favourable entertaining of
Lord Limborne's pretensions. An uneasy
sense of failure would sometimes make
itself to be felt in her ' inner consciousness.'
Already two seasons had she been
1 out,' and she had not received that attention
to which, as she very strongly felt,
her person and position entitled her ; in
truth, there was something repellent in
her proud manners, something hard, too,
in her cold, haughty face, beautiful as it
undoubtedly was, and one would almost
as soon have thought of making love to a
magnificent example of the sculptor's art
as to the proud daughter of the Earl of
Beldon.

These extremely proud folk are human

enough, after all, and it was sufficiently
mortifying to the Lady Emily to see maidens
fair of very much less degree, beauty,
and riches the centres of attraction, while
the possessor of so many and evident advantages
was left, comparatively speaking,
out in the cold. Neither did Lady Emily
care for ' the modern young man ;' she
despised the c chic,' the slangy tone, and
general fastness of tone and manner which
alone seemed able to please the ' Johnnies
and Happiest and she was ready to find
in the somewhat grave demeanour of Lord
Limborne a relief from the frivolous chatter
of the society young man ; and, after a
proper interval, she felt not indisposed to
accept him as a companion in those cold
and lofty regions of life in which she intended
to dwell.

It is, however, a, question whether — our
little heroine, Nellie, to the contrary, notwithstanding
— Lord Limborne would ever
have brought himself to this arrangement

with all its manifold advantages. There
are many exceptions to that venerable rule
that ' Like mates most easily with like
so many, in fact, that these exceptions
may almost be said to have become the
rule. While the man small of stature
seeks the tall and stately damsel as his
mate, and walks contentedly beside her
with the crown of his abnormally tall hat
on a level with the strings of her bonnet,
and while, on the other hand, the giant
among men proceeds upon his way with a
little elf of a woman just tall enough to
be able to hook her tiny hand into his
elbow-joint ; while dark mates with light,
the blonde seeking the brunette, and
brown eyes looking for love into blue
eyes, — so it falls out also with character
and disposition ; the irritable genius seeks,
naturally enough, for repose and rest of
mind in the comely house-wife, proud of
her husband, but not in the least understanding
his flights of fancy, or, more

melancholy still, his brilliant wit and
humour. The lymphatic disposition seeks
what is wanting in his or her character in
the nervous. And so it comes to pass that
we see so many strangely-assorted couples,
and are so constantly asking one another,
1 What on earth So-and-so could see to like
in Mrs. So-and-so V and ' However that
clever fellow What's-his-name could have
thrown himself away upon that most uninteresting
of women Mrs. What-her-name?'

Whatever may be the rights of these
rules and exceptions above descanted upon,
certain it is that Lord Limborne found
himself involved in a very painful predicament
indeed, and regretted very earnestly
his folly in not insisting more strongly
against his mother's matrimonial designs
for him at the first hints of those designs.
He had not come under the glamour of the
fair Helen Armer then, and had treated
Lady Limborne's plans in anything but a
serious humour. However, the tables were

turned upon him now with a vengeance,
and the joke was becoming very unpleasantly
in earnest.

This ' forced march ' of Lady Limborne's,
this bringing down the noble army of
Beldon to the attack, compelled him to
make suddenly an announcement he had
hoped to soften by a gradual disclosure.
If he could have persuaded his mother
of the hopelessness of any attempt thus
arbitrarily to arrange his future for him ;
if, when she had well digested this impossibility,
he could make her understand
that, in the matter of Nellie, his happiness
was really at stake ; he had felt it would
have been possible for him to overcome
Lady Limborne's opposition to such a
match — at any rate, in such a way as to
gain for his inamoriia if not au effusive,
yet a sufficiently graceful, reception. Now,
however, with the unpleasantness of the
last few weeks between them, with the
Beldon element thus plainly displayed, the

awkwardness of the affair accentuated by
the presence of the 'parties affected,' he
felt dismally certain that Lady Limborne
would flatly refuse to receive his Nellie asa
prospective daughter-in-law ; that, even
if he could prevail over Nellie, her father
would most assuredly resent any slight to
his dearly-loved daughter — and, in short,
the whole business was a painful and intricate
one ; and he wished with all his
heart he had ' bided a wee and not ' disclosed
his pains ' until these Beldon complications
should be cleared away, and his
mother more ready to resign herself to the
inevitable. Still he could not let the Bel-dons
come to the Castle without letting
Lady Limborne know that his affections
were otherwise engaged ; and not until the
evening before the arrival of these important
persons did he screw up his courage
for what he knew must be a painful interview
with his mother.

After a tete-astute dinner, accompanied

with conversation of a spasmodic and constrained
sort, instead of going off: to his
den to smoke the post-prandial cigarette,
according to his wont, he followed his
mother into her drawing-room.

Lady Limborne looked up from her work
with a questioning air, slightly astonished
to see her son before the tea was announced
to him in his study.

'I . . . . I wanted to speak to you,
mother,' said he, hesitatingly, and wondering
how he could best make the announcement
he had to make. ' I want to speak
to you about these Belton.'

I do not see what more you can have to
say to me, James, about this most unfortunate
affair, unless you are willing to do as
I wish, and as is certainly best for you. I
cannot help resenting the predicament I
am placed in,' said Lady Limborne, going
off at full speed into the region of her
grievances; 'it is most awkward. If you
had given me the least hint of your unaccountable

dislike to Emily, you would
have spared me much humiliation.'

4 1 do not in the least dislike Emily Bel-don,
mother. How should I ? Why, I
have scarcely seen anything of her since
she was little more than a child ; I know
hardly anything of her.'

1 Then why do you so obstinately set
yourself against her ? Why, when I have
taken so much trouble, and when there
are so many advantages, do you determine
to oppose my strong wishes ?'

But, mother, how can you know what
Emily Beldon's feelings — to say nothing of
mine for the moment — may be in the
matter? Why should you suppose that
she is ready to rush into my arms in this
impetuous manner? I feel sure you are
mistaken altogether. Why on earth should
she want to marry ??ze, of all people in the
world, who never yet paid her the slightest
attention ? The very idea is ridiculous.'

1 It is not at all ridiculous, James ; I

have told you before, and I tell you again,
that I do not believe you would have any
difficulty in the matter ; she has no other
entanglement — I took care to ascertain
this ; she is quite aware that her people
and that I would be pleased with such an
arrangement; she has spoken of you in
such a way that I am sure she admires
your reputation, and so forth ; and where
can you find a wife more suited to you in
every way ? Unless you have some other
attachment, — which I cannot believe, for
you would surely have spoken to me about
it, — unless there is some one else, I cannot
conceive why you hesitate. You allowed
me to take some steps in the matter, you
cannot say I acted without your knowledge,
and I must say again I feel acutely
the position your unaccountable change has
placed me in; it is so unlike you, too,
James.'

But, mother, you must surely acknowledge
that a man, even if Lady Emily were
oh ! it is too absurd ! A man cannot

force his feelings and affections, and compel
himself to marry to order !'

That is a very vulgar way of speaking,
James; of' course people in our position
cannot marry like shop-people and clerks ;
noblesse oblige, and I think it is your duty
to, at any rate, try to like Emily Beldon. I
do not wish to speak again upon the subject,
it is an extremely distasteful one tome
; you have only yourself to blame ; and
when I consider the painfulness of the explanation
I must have with Lady Beldon,
unless you prove to be the sensible man
and the kind son you have always been
until now; it is more than I can bear;
if you are obstinate, and force me to
go through this ordeal, I think, at least,
you might spare me your reproaches
A truly feminine speech on her ladyship's
part, for the much-worried James had
never reproached his mother at all ; and it
is a familiar manoeuvre of ' the sex moreover,
this of assuming injuries never
intended or even dreamed of.

Lord Limborne was leaning against the
mantelpiece, looking down upon his mother,
nervously gnawing his moustaches
the while ; for the time had come, and the
fell announcement must be made at once.

■ Mother he said, after a short pause,
in which he was trying to marshal his
ideas, and to soften the blow, ' mother,
you said just now something about another
attachment.'

Lady Limborne looked up at her son
with a face of keen inquiry.

'Yes,' she said, 'I did. I cannot believe
. it cannot be that you . . . .'

1 Mother,' he said, going over to her and
standing by her chair, uncertain how to
act — ' mother, I was wrong not to tell you
of this before. I thought all this foolishness
about the Belton was anything but
the serious affair you have made it, and I
did not begin to think so much about
Nellie until after you had gone ; I did not
mean to say anything to her until I had

spoken to you ' and he was going on

thus, in a confused search after excuses,
when Lady Limborne interrupted him.

Nellie !' she cried — ' you cannot mean
Helen Armer? It cannot be the daughter
of those people at Coombridge ?'

1 1 ought to have told you before,' said
her son, quietly and coldly, for he was
stung by the accent of contempt with
which his mother mentioned € those people '
' I ought to have told you before that
I have asked Nellie Armer to marry me,
and that she has accepted me.'

So I should have imagined,' returned
Lady Limborne, with a sneer ; ' it was
tolerably certain that Mr. Armer's daughter
would be persuaded to accept Lord
Limborne. I am obliged to my son for
the honour he proposes to do me in bringing
the Armers into the pedigree of the
Hautfords and the Limbornes. And may
I ask how long this interesting romance
has been going on ?'

Intense pride of birth, and position has
in it something of vulgarity, and we are
not unfrequently surprised to discover a
vein of the vulgar even in the polished
marble of the very loftiest ; nay, these
lofty personages themselves, far removed,
as they are taught to conceive themselves
to be, from the faults of that common
herd who are ' not in society and infinitely
above what they regard as ' the
lower orders or ' the masses,' do occasionally
display a power of invective, for
instance, which would have done credit to
Billingsgate in the very palmiest days of
that malodorous market. If not in the
words of the brawny fish-fags, yet in the
same spirit does the ' give and take' proceed
; the weapons are polished to quite a
dazzling brightness, and the manoeuvring
of the combat are conducted with more of
finesse, but the weapons, rusty or bright,
are the same old weapons, and the battle,
whether it be fought in my lady's drawing-room

or in my lady's kitchen, is very
much the same sort of battle too. This
is again one of those touches of nature
which make the whole world kin, and
show us how very much alike we all
are when once the trappings are taken
off.

Now Lady Limborne could see nothing
vulgar in her attempts to get some grip
upon the Beldon money and influence, but
she was extremely well alive to the vulgarity
of a common quarrel ; the raised
tone of voice, the coarse sneer, the retort
uncourteous — all these things were foreign
and offensive to her ; but this downfall of
her most cherished hopes, this sudden end
to all her ambitions, was too much for her
haughtiness ; her cold reserve was a shield
not solid enough to keep off such hurtling
darts as these, and even in the heat of her
disappointment and consequent anger, she
was astonished at the odd sound of her
own voice raised above its natural pitch,

vol. i. R

and employed in harsh and unaccustomed
sneering.

Lord Limborne was, on his part, so
startled at the change in his cold, proud
mother, such a shock did her unwontedly
loud tones give him, that he failed to answer
her, and it was not until her question
was repeated that he replied :

*I spoke to Miss Armer at the last
Teignbridge,' he said, ' but I have thought
of Nellie for some time . . .'

Something in the tone with which he
said ' Nellie,' some slight, unconscious
lingering over the syllables as if he liked
to form them, stung Lady Limborne beyond
endurance.

It is more than I can bear she cried,
passionately, rising hastily and interrupting
him. ' I will not bear it !' and her ladyship
positively stamped with her foot. * I
refuse absolutely to acknowledge this —
this person as my daughter ! I will never
receive her I It is monstrous ! The very
idea is repulsive to me!'

1 Stop, mother !' exclaimed Lord Lime
' Do not say in this heat things
that neither of us can forget ; you must
remember that I love her, and that one
day she will be my wife.'

Never my daughter ! Never my daughter!'
cried his mother. 'It is the most
palpable vulgar scheme, a plot to get your
title, James; how can you be so blind?
All these visits to that detestable place, all
the friendship of the odious father and brother,
all parts of one wretched plot against
you, my poor boy; can you not see it?'

Mother,' cried Lord Limborne, losing
all control over himself at these open
charges of scheming against Nellie and
her people, ' mother, you dared not to say
such things if you knew the Corners as I
know them ; they are utterly incapable of
such vulgar schemes ;' and, as his mother
smiled as if in pity for his blind folly, he
went on, ' and I must say that you are
the last person to speak of scheming ;

B 2

have I not suffered enough already from
your scheming ; yes ! I will say it, the
Armers are incapable of such schemes as
we have had here. Is it not scheming this
persuading the Belton into the match
you so kindly propose for me ? Even if
the Armers had planned ; and manoeuvred
to secure me for their daughter and sister,
it could not have been worse than . .
but I will spare you. I tell you Mr.
Armer is so proud that if he had the least
hint of this absurd suspicion of yours, if
he knew you looked down upon his daughter
in this way, he would rather see her in
her grave than married to me. But I am
wrong to speak to you in this way, mother;
forgive me, I lost command over myself,
and you are angry and disappointed at
first. I feared it would be so ; but as time
goes on and you see how much in earnest
I am, you will be kind to Nellie, for my
sake ?' and he went over and tried to take
his mother's hand.

1 1 am indeed shocked and grieved at the
way in which you have permitted yourself
to speak to me,' said Lady Limborne, availing
herself of that common stratagem in
feminine warfare, which consists in provoking
a man beyond endurance, and
then coming down heavily upon him
for the unguarded words he utters in his
wrath. ' I tell you frankly,' she went on,
I shall oppose this most unfortunate
infatuation of yours with all my power, for
I regard such an alliance as meaning little
less than social ruin for you. I should
consider it an unpardonable fault in myself
were I to do otherwise than oppose ycu.'
And with these words Lady Limborne
retired from the field of battle with all the
honours of war, and before her son had
time to reply, leaving that son in no enviable
frame of mind.

When Lady Limborne found herself in
her own room, she quickly dismissed the
aged abigail who waited upon her, and,

too much moved to sit still, she paced up
and down the room, trying to calm herself
and to face this new turn in her affairs
quietly. A strong feeling of disappointment
embittered her against the unfortunate
Nellie, more sorely than the wounds
to her pride and affection of which the said
Nellie was the innocent cause; for Lady
Limborne had had, in spite of all her son
could say, a feeling of certainty that he
would give way at last ; that at last, too,
he would not fail to see Emily Beldon as she
saw her, that the manifest advantages of
such an alliance would prevail with him in
the end, and that the marriage would be
arranged if not at this imminent visit, yet
at no very distant period. Even now she
would not despair.

Surely James,' she thought, ' would not
give out this entanglement of his at once ?
if she could only gain time !' And as she
went on thinking deeply over this knotty
point, her son's angry words about the

pride of Mr. Armer came into her mind
with a sudden illumination. ' Certainly
she would not receive the daughter ;' and
though she could not conceive of a pride
in ' such people ' stubborn enough to hold
out against the high honours of an alliance
with the noble house of Limborne, yet time
was the main object now, and time she
could gain by a determined course of
obstruction. Some show of resistance, no
doubt, these common people would think
it needful to make before they snatched at
their prize, and in the meanwhile
well ! in the meanwhile many things
4 might happen;' and so it came to pass
that Lady Limborne retired to rest in a
more amiable frame of mind, if not towards
the offending Nellie, yet towards that other
offending person, her son, and the world in
general.

CHAPTER XII.

MB. ARMER FINDS OUT SOMETHING.

Mil. Armer had no difficulty in letting
Coombridge. A retired Indian official of
high degree in the Civil Service saw and
was charmed with the place, and quickly
agreed to the squire's terms. Rumours of
the squire's intention to let Coombridge
had filtered from the dining-room, through
the kitchen, to the village, and thence far
and wide over the surrounding district
and great was the sorrow expressed at the
prospect of losing such i charming ' neighbours.
The village folk, however, were able
to see some seeds of consolation, in the
thoughts of the Indian potentate who was
to take the Armers' place, and who would

be certain, as they imagined, to disburse
his cash in orthodox Oriental profusion.

Mr. Lamacraft was able to give some
information to his customers at the shop,
and there was in consequence quite a

revival of trade.' Most of the farmers'
and labourers' wives discovered they were
in immediate pressing want of a yard or
two of calico, some trifle in the way of
needles or cotton, tea or sugar; for Mr.
Lamacraft's trade was of an all-embracing
nature, and though his high prices, and the
inferiority of his goods, drove most of the
farming folk to Exeter — not to speak of
the temptations of a jaunt into that ancient
city under the specious pretence of

shopping ' — yet the noble system of ' tick '
procured him a large, and alas ! lasting
clientele among the labourers, for they
owed ' at the shop,' and they had to go on
owing to keep Mr. Lamacraft in good
temper. On this occasion, however, he
'pardonably chuckled' at the rapid way

in which his goods disappeared as he
narrated to each person his experience of
the nabob.

1 Not a bit like squire,' said he, ' a callers
kind of a man, a proper, tall
gentleman, so thin's a needle; very 'high
manners heave a-got to un ; spoke up so
sharp, her did, anyone could see as he
were a farrier in a manner of speaking,
he come in 'ere, into this very 'denticle
shop, stood just where yew be standing,
Mrs. Tacker, if I may make so bold, he
come in all of a hurry-like, and, says he, ina
kind of commanding sort of voice, " Hi !"
says he (for I was in the parlour, as you
must know), " hi !" says he, " anyone here?
I want a box of matches." And, as he
was a-lighting of his cigar, I made so bold
as to ask him if he was the new squire.
Re stared at me sort o' mazed-like.
Squire ?" says he. "Oh! I suppose I
am squire as well ; I've taken the manor-house,
if that's what you mean." And

with that he puffs out the smoke, and
away he goes. I watches him as he jumps
into his trap (a hired one from Exeter, I
reckon), and a very active gentleman he is,
though his hair and moustaches is as
white as a smock. I do hear as he's
a mazing rich gentleman with a young
missus and a lot of little 'uns. Well,
us'll be loathe to part wi' squire, and Mas'
Jack, and pretty Miss Nellie — the poor
folks'll miss her, for certain — but one down,
t'other come on, that's my philosophy.'

Thus did the flourish of the trumpets
and the herald's proclamation, * Le roi est
mort, vive le roi !' find its echo in Coom-bridge,
though, as old Lamacraft said, some
hearts were sad at the loss of the kindly,
if sometimes ' peppery ' squire and his son
and daughter.

The new folk were to come into possession
at Michaelmas, and the squire
snatched a few days from his work to take
Nellie for her farewell visits, and to take-himself

to have a last ' go in' at c the
birds.' Poor Nellie was quite miserable
at the thought of saying good-bye to the
beloved home and her friends and proteges ;
but her father held out hopes that the
exile would not be a very long one, for ina
year or two he hoped to have gathered
in enough harvest to allow him to give up
his work ' for good,' and to go back again
to the life he loved so well ; and in a year
or two what might not happen ? Why,
before that time Miss Nellie might be
changed into my Lady Limborne, and all
sorts of joys and blesses might be in store !
Two or three successful ' coups' had
tinged Mr. Armer's prospects of a speedy
fortune with the rosiest of colours, and
had brought him to look upon this return
to a somewhat distasteful life in London
as upon a mere episode, unpleasant enough
while it lasted, but soon to be over. Still
both he and Nellie felt very melancholy at
this leave-taking, and, as for Master Jack,

he was plunged into the very depths of
woe ; not only was be to lose all the delights
of Coombridge — delights his soul
loved, the horses, the fishing, the shooting,
hunting, and the thousand and one pleasant
fillings-upon time which these pursuits
brought in their train — but the fiat had
gone forth, and he was to give up the Bar,
which honourable profession he had looked
upon as an easy and, sooth to say, idle
introduction to the life of a country squire
and magistrate ; he was, moreover, not
only to give up this cherished plan of his,
but was to ' do something to earn his
bread,' which ' something ' resolved itself
into nothing less than the taking up of a
daily position perched upon an office-stool
in the dingy precincts of the City ; than
which the sport-loving Jack could imagine
no more hopeless purgatory.

So the squire had willed, and his son's
foolish extravagance and consequent prevarication
left him powerless to do anything

more than to mumble out a few-feeble
remonstrances, to which his father
paid no manner of attention. Nellie, however,
came in for a full share of his woes,
and greatly did he bemoan himself in her
sympathising ears.

It w r as to a not particularly cheerful
party, then, that Lord Limborne wended
his way one sunny September afternoon
about a fortnight after the unpleasant interview
with his mother. Time had not
softened that lady's heart towards her
son's ' unhappy attachment,' as she called
it ; neither had the extreme difficulty with
which she had avoided an open explanation
with Lady Beldon tended to increase
her affection (?) for her son's lady-love.
Some skirmishing there had been, some
rather plain hints thrown out, some delicate
fencing between the two mothers, but
no direct questions were asked, and therefore
no direct answers were given.

Several near allies of both families had

been asked, before Lady Limborne bad
been aware of the spoke in this matrimonial
wheel, to assist at what she had
fondly hoped would have been a family
event ; and, in the crowd, a tete-astute of any
length was easily to be avoided. Moreover,
the Lady Emily was not one of those
damsels who are to be approached with
any very warm love-making, and she was
'fairly satisfied with that amount of attention
her hostess' son deemed it necessary
to bestow upon his mother's guest ; and
so it happened that the Beldon incursion
passed off without any open manifestation
of any sort. The Belton, not particularly
anxious for the match, were satisfied with
the fact that the young people had seen
each other, and had had opportunities
for the beginnings of intimacy. Lady
Limborne was thankful for small mercies,
and rejoiced to think that the visit had
passed off without any horrible contretemps,
while time was gained, and the game matrimonial

was still alive ; and as for bis Lordship
of Limborne, be breathed freely once
more as be lifted bis bat to bis departing
guests at the railway-station, and saw them
go away without any ' excursions and
alarums.'

Perhaps a man never feels so small as
at the time just before he declares his passion
to the fair object of his adoration.
It is a great advantage, which the sex has*
over us poor male humans. How very
plainly do we then see our various defects !
Covered over ordinarily with a more or
less strained forgets fulness, they force themselves
into notice before this fatal plunge,
nay, they magnify themselves in a manner
most unpleasant. That which we are wont
to regard as a slight obliquity of vision,
rather piquant, in fact, becomes now very
real to us, under this strong light, as a
decided, and possibly offensive squint. A
large nose, we have been wont to observe
to ourselves, is a mark of a decided character.

Napoleon had a largish nose, and
there was no mistake about the size of the
Duke of Wellington's proboscis. Many
other famous persons were endowed with
this feature to a large, not to say obtrusive,
extent ; but now, alas ! as we regard
our visage in the tell-tale glass, how obnoxious
does this abominable nose of ours
appear ! Is there not, indeed, something
of the-ridiculous in its abnormal (for soit
seems now) development? Heavens!
Could any woman love a fellow with such
a squint? with a nose like that? with such
tusks, for example ? so short ! 01 ^o absurdly
lanky ! so purity fat ! or so feverishly
thin ! Few men, short of the Adonis,
who airily throws the handkerchief where
he will (sometimes, thank a merciful Providence
! to have it l returned with thanks),
few of us, ordinarily plain, average-looking
men but have gone through some such
humiliating self-questionings. Character,
too, comes under the microscope at such a
vol. i. s

time : the hasty temper, the selfishness, the
slight, occasional perversions of the truth,
the * oriental tinting,' so to speak, which
adorn the conversation at truth's expense,
a slight tendency to greediness common
enough, a too great fondness for the ' cup
which cheers and does inebriate a certain
stupidity and want of humour of which we
dimly suspect ourselves ; all these, and
many other unamiable traits loom up before
us large and threatening. Can the
all-important * she ' have remarked this,
that, or the other? Is it possible for us
to have concealed the flaw ? Or has she
seen it ? And will refusal and the attendant
bathos be our portion ?

Such questionings as these make a man
not a little nervous as he carefully shaves
himself, parts and re-parts his hair, and
endues himself in what he considers to be
his most becoming garments before he
sallies out to the pic-nic, ball, garden-party,
or what not, where he is to meet

Araminta, and put an end to the tortures
of suspense, which are turning his being
topsy-turvy, and making a tantalus-woe of
his life. Yet there are alleviations and
encouragements, or he never could ' come
up to the scratch.'

Why did Araminta permit him to hold
her fair hand one moment longer than
courtesy demanded, as he said, ' good-bye,'
the night before last ? Why did she thank
hin so sweetly for that song he ventured
to send her? for the bouquet which arrived
anonymously at the paternal mansion ?
"Why did she look at him in that peculiar
way in the conservatory at the De Robinsons'
dance ? And so he goes on through
an interminable quantity of ' why's ' until
enough courage is infused into him to bring
him to the last rush, or forlorn hope.

But there are no counterbalancing 'why's'
to comfort the poor soul as he ' unwilling
wends his way ' to the dreaded interview
with ' papa, 5 which must needs follow the

s2

rapturous hour in which he found he was
beloved. How infinitesimally small do his
4 means ' appear, perhaps, to the rash aspirant
! He knows very well into what a
tiny drop of water the whole lump will melt
under the scrutiny of the l father of she,
and he would, though not a sporting manor
a glory-hunting soldier, rather face an
enraged specimen of ' big game,' or mount
the fiery breach, than hold that half-hour's
committee of ways and means with the
quiet and common-place-looking individual
who happens to be the author of Araminta's
being.

True it is that Lord Limborne had a
position to offer which few girls, or girls'
fathers, could afford to despise ; and it is
also true that, though poor for that position,
his widow would not go unprovided
for: there are, however, other things besides
money which occasionally interfere with
the course of true love; there is family
pride, for example ; and with this on his

mother's side, and with the obstinacy and
ready pride of another sort on the squire's
part, had Lord Limborne to reckon as he
rode up the Coombridge drive to his interview
with his Nellie's father.

Nellie greatly disliked, nay, positively
hated, all this concealment, and she had
many times regretted that she had allowed
herself to be persuaded into it on that memorable
Teignbridge day ; it should be made
as harmless as possible, there should be no
stolen interviews, no clandestine correspondence,
and hence it was that she was
ignorant of much that had happened lately
at Limborne Castle ; she did not even know
that Lady Limborne had been told of the
engagement, nor did she know of the rage
of that noble dame thereat. She had heard,
however, from the gossip of the countryside,
and almost as soon as she arrived at
Coombridge, that the great family of Bel-don
had been staying at the Castle, and
she was not a little curious and excited as

to how that visitation had speeded. Every
other feeling but those of keen joy and
pride in her lover left her as she looked up
from her book, and saw from the windows
the gallant figure of Lord Limborne as he
rode up to the house ; nor did he fail to
perceive his pretty fiancee, and to mark the
ready blush and the more than pleased look
which greeted him. Hudson showed him
into the drawing-room and departed, as
quickly as his dignity would permit him,
to send after the squire, who was ' somewhere
about the place,' and Nellie and Lord
Limborne were alone together, after what
had seemed to both of them an interminable
space of time.

Such a meeting as this was may well
deserve a chapter to itself.

CHAPTER XIII.

AN INTERVIEW WITH THE ' FATHER OF SHE.'

It is easy to imagine that a few minutes
were, shall we say ' wasted '? in the slightly
inarticulate, and certainly short, sentences
which accompanied an amount of c konoo-
clement ' surely justifiable under the circumstances.


James,' cried the sensible Nellie, coming
to herself at the thought of all she had
to hear, and probably to decide — ' James,
father will be here almost directly, I know
he is not very far off, so do be sensible and
tell me what has happened. Does Lady
Limborne know ? I want to know about
the Belton. "What does your mother say
to it all ?'

Each one of these hurried questions came
down like a douche of ice-cold water on the
fervour of Lord Limborne, and it required
all his art to conceal the difficulty he found
in answering in such a. manner as not to
wound Nellie's sensibility, or arouse her
fears for the future.

I will answer your questions in their
order, Nellie,' returned Lord Limborne :
1 first, as to my mother ; she does know. I
almost wish now I had told her at first,
but, as you know, I thought it better
to break it gradually to her, since she
seemed so determined about this abominable
Beldon imbroglio. Faugh !' ejaculated
Lord Limborne, with an expression of
intense disgust upon his face. 'It is too
bad of my mother to put me, to say
nothing of Emily Beldon, in such an
absurd position ; it is more than absurd, it
is painful, almost indecent. At any rate
they are gone, and that, I am thankful to
say, without any ridiculous fiasco ; I shall

take good care to prevent such humiliating
possibilities for the future. As to my
mother, as I told you, Nellie, she had set
her heart upon the absurd Beldon farce,
and of course she is disappointed. Now,
Nellie darling, you must bear with her ;
she is the dearest mother in the world, she
has starved and stinted for me, and it
is to this affection of hers for me that we
must trust to bring all things to a happy
end.'

'But, James,' said Nellie, turning very
red, and looking away from her lover, ' if
Lady Limborne is proud, I am proud, too,
and I will not, I cannot, however much I
love you — and I think you know now that I
do love you, James — I could not marry
you against your mother's wish. Oh ! I do
hope and pray she will not be so hard !
And, James, father must be told now, and
he will be so pleased, I know, he always
speaks so kindly of you ; and he will write
to Lady Limborne, and there will be

troubles upon troubles. I have thought of

nothing else since you . . . you spoke tome,

James ; oh ! why did you love me, and

make me to love you ?' And the tears

welled up in the pretty eyes as all the dark

pictures of misery in the future, which had

been her sad companions almost from the

very hour of her betrothal, surged up before

her, and overwhelmed her. Lord Lime

soothed her as best he might ; he

kissed the tears from her cheeks, and in a


moment or two the brief storm had passed

over, and Nellie was herself again.

1 There is a bright side, Nellie dear,' said
the lover ; f why need you paint the picture
in such dark colours ? I feel myself to be a
selfish brute when I think of you so worried
and so unhappy, my poor darling. All
will be quite different from what your
fears would point to. Of course I shall
speak to your father at once ; indeed, I
came here to-day intending to speak to
him ; and when it is put formally to my

mother, and she sees I am in earnest, and
that my happiness is at stake, I know she
will give in ; and when once she knows
you, Nellie, how can she help loving you ?
"We shall be the happier for these clouds,
when once they have all passed away. I
know it is hard for you, it makes my
heart bleed to think that I should cause
you any sorrow ; but, Nellie, I will make up
for it in the future ; when once you are
mine, no trouble or care shall ever come
near you.' Thus did the young man, after
the manner of.his kind in such predicaments,
take upon himself the office of Providence,
and propose to shield his beloved from all
the rough attacks of outrageous fortune.

You must not think me weakened foolish,
James, because I have given way like
this,' said Nellie as she dried her eyes. 'I have
been so unhappy ; it seems so wrong going
on just as if nothing had happened. I have
hated it so, and it has made me so miserable
; but it will be all over now, won't ib r

James ? And almost anything is better
than all this suspense. Do not look so
unhappy, dear, you could not help it, you
know, and I would bear a great deal more
than this for you.'

Such a remark as this last one of Nellie's
could only be answered in one way, and
whilst that c one way ' was proceeding, the
door opened, and admitted the burly
form of Squire Armer, who was not a little
astonished to come suddenly upon a very
pretty picture indeed ; in which picture the
sedate Lord Limborne and his daughter
Nellie were the chief, or, in truth, the only
figures.

1 Why, Nellie 1' he exclaimed, ' what on
earth — Lord Limborne ! I am surprised — '
but a smile on the squire's honest face
showed that, if he was surprised, he was
pleased too, as the guilty couple retired
from close quarters with some precipitation,
and Lord Limborne — for once in his
life with a very red countenance, and considerably

embarrassed — seized hold of Mr.
Armer's band, and made some incoherent
remarks about ' dear Nellie,' and 'he hoped

the squire would pardon -'

'Pardon what, my dear fellow ?' hastily
interrupted Mr. Armer, pitying his friend's
confusion, and feeling not a little confused
himself. ' Here, Nellie, don't run away,
my dear !' and, as that young lady was
quickly beating a retreat, the squire caught
his daughter in his arms, and kissed her
fondly. ' So, so,' he cried, ' that is the
way the wind blows, is it ? You've stolen
a march upon me, you little monkey, have
you ?' But Nellie would not stay to hear
any more, and as her father held her at
arm's length, and looked at her quizzically,
she struggled away from him, and
fairly bolted out of the room, if a young
and lovely female can be said to do anything
so unromantic as to 'bolt.' 'Well,
my lord,' said the squire, ' a pretty plot
has been going on under my very nose,

but I was not so blind as perhaps you
imagined, and to tell you the truth, Lime
there is no one to whom I would
give my little Nell with a better heart.
It is the fashion now-a-days for young
folk to arrange these little affairs between
themselves, so I suppose I must not " jaw "
you, as Jack elegantly expresses it.'

1 Indeed, Mr. Armer,' said Lord Lime
c I came here this afternoon to tell
you about it all, and to ask your permission
. . .'

Permission !' interrupted the squire.
'Unless my eyes deceived me, you seem to
have taken that for granted, young man ;'
and Mr. Armer chuckled in a way which
very plainly showed that there would not
be much opposition on his part. 'But I
can't talk to you here he went on ; ' come
into my study, we shan't be interrupted
there, and we can talk matters over comfortably.'
And the squire led the way out
of the drawing-room, across the hall, into

the small apartment sacred to the gods of
fishing, shooting, and the stable, and dignified
by the name of study, though there
was nothing savouring of the studious in
the aspect of the room, adorned as it was
with rods, guns, whip-racks, a favourite
pair or two of ; tops,' and many other
evidences of its owner's devotion to river,
road, and field.

Seating himself comfortably in an easy-chair,
and motioning to Lord Limborne to
ensconce himself in another, he began :

1 1 confess, Limborne, I am not altogether
astonished ; I had some idea that
there were other attractions for you at
Coombridge besides Jack and myself.'

It is good of you to take it so kindly,'
said Lord Limborne ; ' perhaps I ought to
have said something to you before, but I
did nob intend to speak so soon . . .'

My dear fellow,' interrupted the squire,
1 do not make any excuses; I was joking
when I spoke just now. I am more than

pleased ; I respect and like you, Limborne,.
and nothing has ' delighted me so much
for years. Nellie is my only daughter,
she is doubly dear to me, she is the very
image of her dear mother, but I cannot
hope to keep her with me always, and, if
she makes half as kind and true a wife asher
poor mother was, you will indeed be a
happy man, Limborne. ,

There are in most of us sacred memories,
our own peculiar possessions — not
often do they show themselves to others ;
and the squire got up, and walked to the
window for a moment or two, as this
crisis in his daughter's life brought back
painful, yet happy memories of the wife he
had loved and lost long ago ; happy, for if
his wife had been a loving and forbearing
companion to him, he, on his part, had
been a tender husband, and he had no evil
conscience-pricks to make the memory of
the past hideous to him.

'Well, well,' he said, coming back to his

chair with a suspicious look of moisture iu
bis eyes, 'I am sure my poor Marion
would have been proud and happy to think
that her little daughter had won the
affection of so true a gentleman as I know
you to be, Lord Limborne. I must not
let sad memories darken such a day as

this ' After a pause, he went on, ' I

don't know what the etiquette in these
matters may be, but I suppose I must
announce the auspicious event to Lady
Limborne? Of course she knows?'

1 Oh ! yes, I have spoken to my mother
about it, replied Lord Limborne ; and he
felt anything but cheerful as he recalled
the unpleasant interview.

Now Mr. Armer was certainly proud to
think of the position his daughter would
take as Lady Limborne, but he was far
from regarding that position in the high
and exalted light in which it was regarded
by the dowager-to-be. The Armers came
of a good old Yorkshire family, and had

VOL. I. T

once owned large properties in that county,
though the only relic of their once large
possessions there was the advowson of the
living of the parish where they had flourished,
and gradually decayed. This living
had been held by the squire's father, and
when, greatly to the old rector's grief, his
only child utterly refused to ' take orders,'
for which career he felt himself to be
entirely unsuited, he had, though much
against the grain, allowed his son to take
his own sensible course, and, instead of
ekeing out small means in miserable
attempts to follow some ' genteel ' but
choked profession, to take what money his
father could scrape together, by the sale
of the advowson among other things, and
to go and woo fickle fortune as best he
might, and with such success as we know
of, in famous London town. Mr. Armer
knew, too, as, indeed, all the world knew,
that money was a not too plentiful commodity
at Limborne Castle, and he did not

see any very great disparity between
Nellie Armer with good birth, particularly
good looks, and the prospect of a fair
fortune, and Lord Limborne with an
ancient title, and very little to keep it up
withal. Lady Limborne's remarks about
the Coombridge roturiers would have nota
little astonished the squire, who was
prepared for an effusive reception from
her ladyship, rather than for the haughty
rejection which her son more than half
feared on her part.

Of course I know I must tell Lady
Limborne myself,' said the squire, ' the
question is — had I better call, or write ?
It would be more courteous to call, I
think, but, though I have met her occasionally,
oddly enough I hardly know your
mother to speak to ; and, therefore, I
think, perhaps, I had better write. However,
I will do exactly what you think best
in the matter. What do you think about
it?

t2

Lord Limborne knew it was not so 'odcP
as the squire imagined, this ' meeting
occasionally and hardly knowing to speak
to;' for his mother, he was well aware, would
have studiously avoided any appearance of
intimacy on the part of the Coombridge
folk, even had they been disposed to make
advances; and on the whole, and fearing
Lady Limborne's already hot anger might
boil over in scalding words should Mr.
Armer seek an interview, he thought, of
the two evils, an announcement by post
would prove the lesser, for he could prepare
his mother for the bombshell, and the explosion
might thus be rendered less disastrous
in its consequences.

Perhaps,' he said, ' it would be better to
write at first, and then you could see my
mother afterwards.'

1 Oh, very well !' said the squire, with a
slight sigh of relief, for he did not relish an
interview with Lady Limborne, whose cold
manners and reputation for hauteur did

not promise him a particularly pleasant
quarter-of-an-hour.

And then followed a long discussion
about ways and means, not very interesting
to anyone but the parties concerned.
The squire was disposed to be liberal,
Lord Limborne was the very reverse of
exacting, and he would have been perfectly
contented and more than satisfied with
things in general, and his prospects of
his dear Nellie in particular, if it had not
been for the grim spectre of his irate
maternal relative, and the dire consequences
which would certainly ensue,
unless he should be able to curb her
resentment, and make her receive Nellie
with a decent acceptance of the inevitable.

The squire had not failed to make him
acquainted with his family circumstances,
his descent, and so forth ; and Lord Lime
was pleased to find that his future
spouse was a 'lass with a long pedigree
not only because it was grateful to him to

think and know this of her, but also
because he hoped this would have some
weight with his mother, and considerably
alter her views of the ' roturiers.'

Altogether things had turned out to be
much better than he had dared to hope ;
and as he mounted his horse, and turned
homeward, after a most delightful interview
with the adored one, his feelings were
much more buoyant than they were when
he approached the hospitable mansion of
Squire Armer on that eventful afternoon.

CHAPTER XIV.

DOMESTIC DETECTIVES.

People are often heard to wonder how
such-and-such a piece of strictly private
news becomes, in a way totally inexplicable
to them, the property of a gossip-devouring
public, and are astonished beyond measure,
and sincerely grieved to boot, to find
matters, which should be confined strictly
to the bosoms of those intimately concerned,
bruited about in a way which
sometimes brings to pass disastrous consequences.


The 'little affair' which has been discussed
with closed doors in ' my lady's chamber,' orin
a solemn family conclave in the library,
and which is, perhaps, of such a delicate

nature as to make it an impossibility for the
people interested to divulge it, is met without
of doors in a most astounding and confusing
way ; the skeleton, which one painfully
expects to start out occasionally from
the closet at home, breaks out of bounds,
and stalks abroad with an appalling
effrontery. ' How on earth could Emily's
unfortunate entanglement with that odious
and impertinent young Perkins — how
could that unpleasant story of Charles'
misfortune — have " got about " ? Whence
did that " family secret," so uncomfortably
hugged closely, escape, and fly about promiscuously
on the wings of rumour ?'

The reason is not far to seek. What is
the use of closed doors ? What is the
use of the most careful of precautions ;
when there sits in judgment over every
family, a solemn court, a Vehmgericht,
presided over by the butler or the cook,
with coachman and groom, housemaid,
nurse, and scullion for its members ; which

holds nightly sittings in the kitchen or the
servants' hall, where the affairs of 'the
family ' are discussed freely and openly ;
where each one contributes the results of
his or her careful observations ; where
keyhole, door-chinks, the letter lying on
the mantelpiece, or even in the closed
drawer, are pressed into the detective
service, and the whole ' arcana ' and
hysteria ' of the household are subjected
to a minute analysis, and commented upon
with a dreadful freedom ?

Very extensive are the ramifications of
this ' secret society,' and, ' the awful way
in which master goes on at missis,' the very
langwidge ' he used, the extravagance or
flightiness which caused the ' langwidge '
in question, the ' things which would have
made master turn blue if he only knew,'
all the ins-and-outs of domestic history are
carried about from kitchen to kitchen,
from servants' hall to servants' hall, by
1 faithful ' servitors whose only mental

food is this gossip, and often slander, in
which they take such a huge delight.
From these lower regions the vulgar tittletattle
floats upward ; and not unfrequently
in that peaceful moment when Parker is
arraying her mistress for the evening, oris
brushing her ambrosial locks before
she retires to rest, some spicy story is listened
to, which story is repeated with equal
unction, if in choicer syllables, in the
drawing-room, during that otherwise uninteresting
period whilst the ladies are
waiting for the men.' Mrs. de Ponsonby
Brown would do well to remember, when
she is detailing and amplifying with such
gusto (strictly without disclosing the
source of her information) some evil story
of a friend (!) or neighbour, that that
maid who supplies her with these interesting
and exciting histories repays her informant
with all the sweet fruits of her
own peeping and prying. Good dames,
who wile away many a weary hour in

hearing and retailing such unholy stories,
we would have you to remember the facts
above spoken of, and to consider whether
the game is really worth that unpleasant
candle which you most assuredly have to
pay for it.

Poor Nellie was the last woman in the
world to tattle with her maid, and it was
far from Lord Limborne's habits to gossip
with his men ; hard it was, therefore, that
these two innocent persons should have to
pay the penalty of others' folly, and find,
as find they did, that ' Lord Limborne's
engagement with that Miss Armer ' was very
rapidly becoming the talk of the countryside.


The events which rapidly followed Lord
Limborne's interview with Mr. Armer
soon placed our unoffending heroine in a
very humiliating position, and added a
bitter drop indeed to the cup of woe,
which it was soon to be her lover's lot to
drain.

1 It's my belief as there's something hup,'
remarked Hudson, the butler at Coom-bridge,
who was of cockney origin, and
had accompanied the Armers in their first
great move from London to Devon.
1 There's a something in the hair he remarked
oracularly, as he sat down to
recruit himself with an ample supper after
the labours of the day.

Lor! Mr. 'Udson,' said the cook, also
of metropolitan importation. * However
can it be ? Master Jack ain't a-been and
gone any more suckers, lev he ? Though
I'm sure it's no wonder, such a free-and-easy
young gent as he is.'

There, boys will be boys said the
coachman, who had just 'looked in' from
his abode in the stables to refresh himself
with a bit of gossip and a cheerful glass ;
4 boys will be boys. Give him his head, I
say ; let him go free a bit, and he'll be all
the better of it, after ; he's a affable-speaking
young chap, and he knows the prints

of a 'horse as well as I do, pretty near.
Lor' bless yer heart, squire's got plenty,
for certain, he's too 'ard on the young 'un,
never see 'im so down before.'

1 Goon, Jim; go on, 'Lisa,' said Hudson,
with an oracular wag of his head, ' you
was always a one for talking, Jim, and you
think you can see into a milestone as far
as anyone ; but you're out of it this time, I
tell yer. It wasn't to Master Jack as I was
alluding' when I said, as I say again, as it's
my opinion as there's something hup.'

'Ow you do tease anyone, 'Udson,' said
the cook ; ' anyone think you was a spine,
or however you call it. Don't keep us in
such a suspense, for 'Even's sake.'

'know what Mr. 'Udson is a-thinking
of,' said a young housemaid, who, together
with all the rest of the company round the
supper-table, had been listening with all
her ears to the utterances of her seniors.
1 1 know what it is ; it's my belief there's
something going on . . . .'

• Now, just you hold your tongue, Mary
interrupted Mrs. Eliza, ' there's no keeping
you young gals in your places : if Mr.
'Udson's got anything to say, he'll say it
right enough without your help.'

You always was a sensible woman, fora
woman, Eliza,' said Mr. Hudson, who had
his own opinion about ' the sect,' as he
called it, ' and you're right this time, as
usual ; we'll 'ear wot Mary's got on her
mind when I've done, as is right and
proper. It's my opinion,' he went on,
with much solemnity, ' it's my opinion as
there's other changes, besides the move,
a-going' on 'ere in this 'ouse, and I'll tell
you wot it is, that there Lord Limborne
has been and done it !'

'Didn't I say so all along?' asked the
cook, ' didn't I say however did he come
'ere to lunch and dinner, and dinner and
lunch, if it wasn't for Miss Nellie, bless her
'part. Well, it's the best bit o' news I've heard
since my Aunt'Ammond left me a 'under

pound. 'However did you find it out, Mr.
'Udson?'

'Why, by the way I finds most things
out,' replied that astute individual ; ' by
putting this and that together.'

Oh ! then you ain't sure,' said Eliza,
with much disappointment.

1 Sure ! I'm as sure as I've got this glass
o' beer in my 'ands, and am just a-going to
drink it,' said the butler, suiting the action
to the word, and pouring the ale down his
capacious gullet. ' Look 'ere, 'is lordship
rides up, looking kinder thoughtful-like;
I shows him inter the drawing-room ; there's
Miss Nellie as large as life (which ain't
very large he acids, in a parenthesis) ; ' and
as I shuts the door, M James !" says she ;
she wouldn't 'a called him James, if there
'ain't been something hup, eh? Proof No. 1.
Next, master and his lordship 'as a long
interval in the study, for I see them go in
and I see them come h'out. Proof No. 2.
Thirdly and to conclude, as the Reverend

Bolland says, squire, and Miss Nellie,
and Master Jack is all on the "ky reeve," as
the Frenchman says, at dinner; and lor'
bless yer, I know, whenever I come into
the dining-room they stops talking, and then
goes on again sudden-like, like a 'ouse-afire.
Putting all these yere arguments together,
I ask you, Eliza, if I ain't right when I say
there's something hup, and our Miss Nellie
and his lordship's at the bottom of it, I ask
you?'

Mr. Hudson's ' arguments ' were found
to be conclusive, and all the ins-and-outs
of the approaching alliance were exhaustively
discussed in the council of the
kitchen.

Now young Tucker, Mr. Armer's groom,
who lived in the house, and had assisted
with open ears at the conference reported
above, had a chere amie in the "Wreford
menage, and was, indeed, c keeping company'
with one of the lady's-maids in that
house. The 4 Mary ' in question was of a

curious, not to say inquisitive, nature, and
Mr. Tucker felt that such a delicious bib
of gossip as this could not wait until
chance should give him the opportunity of
communicating it in person ; so, that very
evening, he took pen and paper, and with
squaring of elbows, and after duly licking
the pen to make the ink run, he indited
an epistle to his beloved, in which, after
beginning in the orthodox manner by
stating that ' this comes hoping to find
you well, my dear, as it leaves me at
present, thank God for it he imparted, in
somewhat involved phraseology, and with
some curious examples of phonetic spelling,
the fact that ' our Miss Nellie is
a-keepin' company along of his lordship,
Lord Limborne;' and, feeling exhausted
after his unwonted exertions, he ended
rather abruptly with ' Yours affectionate,
George,' with a double line of stars
underneath the signature, meant to
represent the kisses which he would
vol. i. u

very willingly have delivered in person.
Theresa Denton happened to be one of
those ladies who occasionally seek some
escape from the dulness of things in
general in listening to her maid's recital of
the gossip of the lower regions ; such a
piece of news as this conveyed in Tucker's
letter to his love could not but be received
with eagerness, and, perhaps, rewarded
with some articles of toilette of which the
fair wearer at first hand might be tired.
An excuse for an interview with her
mistress was easily found in the serious
questions involved in some costume alterations,
and Theresa was soon made acquainted
with the important news connected
with the inhabitants of Coombridge.
Some slight suspicions, roused in her
maiden bosom at Teignbridge, had, in a
measure, prepared her for this downfall of
her own hopes, but none the less was she
bitterly disappointed. Since the conversation
with her mother, faithfully reported

in a former chapter, she had thought a
great deal about the subject of that conversation,
and had come to the conclusion
that, as Mrs. Denton had said, there was
no reason why she, Theresa Denton, should
not manoeuvre herself into a position
which should give her the right to sign
herself Theresa Limborne. That book,
which has been called the British Bible,
was well studied at Wreford, and, indeed,
so well studied in one particular by the
fair Theresa, that the volume, casually
taken up, would open of itself at that page
in Debrett which was devoted to the ancient
glories of the barony of Limborne ;
and though the story of this family was a
long one, and entered largely into the
history of the land, yet Theresa was not
to be abashed by any back thoughts as to
her lack of ' lang pedigree,' for she was not
by any means a c penniless lass,' and if
she did not possess the ' acres of charms '
and ' weel-socket farms ' of Eobbie Burns 7

u2

song, she at any rate answered to his
description in one particular, and was 'a
lass with a tocher ;' and this tocher she
conceived might well cover a multitude of
sins of omission in regard to birth, and
entirely overpower the odour of the
grocer's shop, in a small chamber over
which the fair damsel first saw light.
The poverty of the Limborne family was
very well known, and the wealth of Record
was sufficiently well displayed in the
gorgeous appointments of house, equipage,
and retinue. A coronet, if only of a
humble baron, was a bright and shining
prize in Theresa's eyes, and she would
gladly have gone to the hymeneal altar
with a decrepit viscount, or a semi-idiotic
earl, or one deformed even, if by so doing
she could get the vulgar joy she had set
her heart upon ; but Lord Limborne was
neither decrepit, idiotic, nor deformed, and
was, indeed, an exceedingly clever man, well
before the world, and if not absolutely handsome,

yet certainly distinguished-looking.
Moreover, the consummation she so
devoutly wished had not now seemed to be
so utterly hopeless as it would have seemed
even a month ago ; for Miss Ingle's diplomacy
had been crowned with signal success,
and the Dentonss already occupied that
position in society ' to which as Mrs. Denton
so frequently remarked, ' their wealth
entitled them.' All the ' best people ' had
called after the Teignbriclge debut, the
great Denton ball had been trumpeted
forth to so large an extent that the dream
of Mrs. Denton's life had been realized,
and carriage after carriage had driven upto
the gleaming portals, and there deposited
persons of the very highest distinction,
whilst an added lustre had been bestowed
by the presence of the Limborne Castle
party, including the great and potent
family of Beldon ; for, apart from the
delicate manoeuvres as to church restoration,
this ball was a perfect god-send to

Lady Limborne, who found some difficulty
in providing for the entertainment of the
important personages then under her roof,
and had seized upon Miss Ingle's hints at
the gratification her presence at Wreford
would afford, and graciously accepted an
invitation which, at any rate, provided
for one evening out of the dreadful six of
the Beldon visitation.

Two unmarried daughters, with fortunes
of their own,' as Miss Ingle remarked
in many places, ' and one unmarried son
with such absolutely gigantic prospects of
wealth,' were baits which had power enough
to draw all the county folk, who were in
the blessed position of that man ' whose
quiver is full of them,' to the gates of
Wreford ; and, because these * some ' went,
others followed suit, and at last everybody,
who was anybody, called, and, after
the due formalities, received Mrs. Denton's
card of invitation to the ball, and ' had
much pleasure in accepting the same ;' and

so the seal was set upon the Dentonss'
patent of gentility, and Uncle Ben's fortune
began to bud, and blossom, and to bear
very choice fruit indeed.

Many invitations in return did the postman
bring to Wreford, and often in the
dances, dinner-parties, afternoons, and
lunches (which latter dismal festivities do
greatly prevail in these parts, to the waste
of a day and the ruin of many digestions),
to which these invitations formed, as it
were, the keys, did Theresa meet with the
innocent object, if not of her affections,
at least, of her intentions; and there on these
happy hunting-grounds, with all the art
of which she was capable, assisted by a
considerable stock of self-confidence, did
she pursue the noble game in the chase
matrimonial, and not without some measure
of success ; for she had so arranged
matters, by a persistent placing of herself
in his way, as to make it appear that
Lord Limborne was not indifferent to her

company, and hints, and nods, and backs
were already beginning to convey an impression
that the Limborne coffers would,
at no very distant date, be replenished by
some of the overflow from the Wreford
Pactolus. Now Lord Limborne was entirely
ignorant of the above-mentioned
rumours. Miss Denton was very fair to
look upon, though too voluminous in her
charms to suit his fastidious taste ; she
was an excellent dancer, she could talk
pleasantly enough, and with a certain
flavour of sarcasm, not refined, perhaps,
but enough to single her out from the
monotonous crowd of society damsels ; and,
if he sometimes vaguely wondered why he
so often found himself beside Miss Denton,
she amused him, and he thought no more
about the matter.

Theresa, however, thought a great deal
about the matter, and was bitterly disappointed
at the sudden downfall of her
house of cards, which the news conveyed

to her by her maid had brought about.
Nellie had been away for so long that the
slight suspicion she had felt in that direction
had almost died away, and, in the
eagerness of the chase, she had forgotten
this pitfall in which now, alas for her ! all
her hopes were to be engulfed. Some
very unpleasant quarters-of-an-hour, then,
did our fair Theresa pass, until the lunch
gong sounded, and she descended to the
dining-room, there to meet her family and
to tell the dreadful news.

CHAPTER XV.

UNCOMFORTABLE FOE NELLIE.

A grief which is shared is felt to be much
lighter ; even as school-boys we liked to
find others ' in the same row and as we
have a melancholy feeling that our troubles
are looked upon if not with satisfaction, as
the French cynic said, yet with an unpleasing
indifference by our friends, so it is as
pleasing unction to the wounded soul to
find others ' in the same box Some
slight relief was afforded to the sore-stricken
Theresa by the sight of her long
and attenuated brother ; and the desire
which, at this sight, arose instantly in her
mind, the desire to * make some one else
feel it was irresistible.

As soon then as the servants were gone
from the room, she began to open her
batteries upon this defenceless citadel.

1 Good gracious, Henry she began, for
in the absence of the servants at this meal
of lunch she, together with the rest of the
family, relapsed slightly into the former
way of speaking, and felt a blissful relief
in so doing. ' Good gracious, Henry,
what makes you look so depressingly
dismal ?'

As is the habit of this class of aesthetic
individuals, so fortunately now dying out
under the killing influence of a well-deserved
ridicule, the pensive Henry had
cultivated a sorrowing and gloomy look,
which was, as Theresa said, depressing,
and, as she felt, irritating to the last
degree.

Well,' said Mr. Denton, before Henry
had time to reply, 'as Tresa says, whatever
is the matter with you, Henry ? you
look as if you'd lost sixpence and found

fourpence, as the saying is, and for the life
of me I can't make it out. You ain't
bilious, are you ?'

'Father said the doleful young man, 'if
the troubles of my soul display themselves
upon my face, am I to blame ?'

Lor,' said his father, f you talk like a
play-actor. I remember a chap at the
Surrey " who went on in that way, and
cut his throat to slow music and limelight
in the last act, though I never could make
out why.'

c Why can't you let your brother alone,
Theresa,' said his mother, who always
stood up for her son, ' you are for everlastingly
teasing and worrying him. I am sure
he does you no harm.'

Oh, but, mother,' said Emily, ' it is really
too bad the way Henry goes on. I declare,
I quite agree with Theresa, I am sick of it ;
always sighing and groaning, and going
about like a great wet-blanket.'

Theresa and Emily,' said the irrepressible

one, ' Heaven forbid that my grief
should cast a shadow upon the brightness
of your lives ! I will leave you, therefore
aud go where I shall cease to trouble.'

1 Yes, into that hermit's cell of yours, I
suppose,' said Theresa, ' fitted up a trifle
luxuriously for a pining anchorite — where
you will mourn over your fate in a comfortable
arm-chair, with Miss Brandon's
last for consolation • but wait a minute,
Henry, my dear, something is going to
happen to the heroine ; attune your afflicted
soul to agonies of despair ; prepare to
tear your hair, and beat your breast, and
all the rest of it ; for Araminta is another's,
or, to put it in plain English, Nellie Armer
is engaged to Lord Limborne.'

All the time occupied by Theresa in this
declamation, the unfortunate Henry was
standing with the door-handle in his hand,
ready to go off to what his sister called his
'cell while the rest of the family were
listening with all their ears, and with open-eyed

astonishment at Theresa's unwonted
eloquence.

It can't be true, Theresa ! you do not
really mean it?' asked Henry, anxiously,
for once startled out oi his affectation.

- It is true, and I "do mean it,' replied
his sister, with a spiteful delight in her
brother's discomfiture.

1 Well, I never !' exclaimed Mrs. Denton.
Who'd a-thought it ? only fancy ! Miss
Armer and Lord Limborne ; well, I am
surprised !'

Of all the artful . . .' said Emily, and
words failed her to express her feelings.

Why, I thought as 'Enery was going on
with her; whatever have you been a-teasing
him about her for, then ?' said Mr. Denton,
and as to the young woman, why ever
shouldn't his lordship marry her, if he
wants to? — as nice a looking little gell as
ever I set eyes on, and as good as she
looks, I'll be bound.'

'Mr. Denton,' said his spouse, ' I'm astonished

at you ;' and darting a look of
disgust at her husband, who was totally
ignorant of the other plans this engagement
had upset, and was quite at a loss to
understand all this fuss and indignation,
Mrs. Denton hastened out of the room to
bestow what consolation she could, upon
her afflicted son, who had disappeared in
the general consternation at Theresa's
news.

It was unfortunate that Nellie and her
brother should have chosen that very afternoon
to call at Wreford and pay a farewell
visit to the Dentonss, in view of the approaching
migration of the Coombridge
family to London.

1 1 hear a carriage said the languid
Emily, who was lounging in a comfortable
chair and beguiling the afternoon hours
with a novel. ' Do look out, Theresa, and
see who it is. I expect it is Charlotte
Ingle ; she said she might come over this
afternoon.'

Theresa was sitting by the window,
manufacturing some elegant trifle in rebels,
feeling exceedingly dull, and quite
ready for anything which should vary the
monotony of the proceedings.

4 Well, I declare !' she exclaimed, peering
out so as to see and not be seen by
the approaching visitors, 'if it isn't the
Armers. Now we shall hear all about this
engagement ; it is abominable the way that
girl has fished for him.'

i And caught him, too, my dear Theresa
said Emily, spitefully, not unaware of her
sisters designs in that quarter. ' What a
rage Henry was in at lunch ; it was too
bad of you to chaff him like that,
Theresa.'

'Oh, I've no patience with his nonsense,
making such an open idiot of himself
about that little chit of a thing; moping
and going about with such sentimental
airs and graces. What on earth the men
can see in her to make such fools of themselves

I cannot see. A little mincing creature
like that !'

Theresa was of a large order of architecture,
and had a natural abhorrence, not
unattended with envy, for the 'petite' in
feminine loveliness.

Just then Mrs. Denton sailed into the
room in all the magnificence of her afternoon
attire.

I heard a carriage coming, girls,' she
said, with a questioning look.

1 Yes, it's those horrid Armers,' said
Theresa, instantly changing her tone, however,
and assuming her society gush as
the door opened and Nellie and Jack were
announced. ' So glad to see you, Nellie
she exclaimed, running up to her and kissing
her with effusion ; i we are all quite
woe-begone to think that you are going
away for good ; it is too horrid of your
father ; and what will a certain person
say ?' she went on, archly, with a very keen
look at Nellie to see how the shot sped.

vol. i. x

1 You must allow me to congratulate you,
Miss Armer,' said Mrs. Denton, advancing
to the charge, with mingled feelings ; for,
if she was delighted that all chance of her
son's alliance with the Armers was put an
end to by this engagement, she was, on
the other hand, grievously disappointed in
her hopes with regard to Theresa. 'I
am sure we shall all be charmed she went
on, ' to keep you amongst us after all.'

He is so very delightful,' slowly ejaculated
the languid one.

So clever,' put in Theresa, with effusion.

1 So distinguished !' added Mrs. Denton.

And three pairs of inquisitive eyes
peered curiously at the unfortunate Nellie,
who was confounded beyond measure to
hind her most sacred affairs the common
property of the Dentonss, and consequently
of the world at large. Only one day had
passed since her lover's interview with Mr.
Armer, and it was only yesterday that Mr.
Armer had despatched the important

missive announcing the event to Lady
Limborne.

1 How could it have got about like this ?'
Nellie asked herself, unconscious of the
detective powers of Hudson and Company.
Perfectly unprepared for such salvoes of
congratulation, confused beyond expression
at the suddenness and the unexpected
nature of these attacks, she blushed a deep
red, and turned helplessly to Jack for
assistance.

1 Oh, ah,' stammered that young man,
himself considerably unbounded. 'Ah,
so kind of you, don't you know. I, ah, it
is — er — very good of you. I am sure my
sister is much obliged ;' and be gazed fixedly
into his hat, and stopped his wandering
utterances abruptly.

The few seconds her brother's stumbling
ejaculations afforded were enough to bring
Nellie some small measure of composure,
and to give her time to come rapidly to the
conclusion that it was best to accept the

x2

inevitable, and take the congratulations as
matters of course, since the whole affair
must be disclosed shortly, and it was
evident these people were well-informed,
though how or where they gained their information
she knew not.

It is very kind of you, as Jack says,' she
said, taking the seat which the gushing
Theresa pushed vehemently towards her.
'But how could you have heard, for even
my father did not know until the day
before yesterday ?'

Now this was felt to be an awkward
question, for it was impossible to speak of
the origin of the information, and a
general accession of tell-tale colour to the
cheeks of the Dentonss astonished Nellie,
and would probably have provoked her to a
polite insistance in her question, had not
the door opened at that moment to admit
the rotund figure of the master of the
house. Now Nellie was a great favourite
with old Mr. Denton; she liked him a

great deal better than the other members
of his family, and had shown this liking in
the interest she took in his favourite hobby
the patience with which she listened to
his disquisitions on his orchids, and on the
obstinacy of the Scotch gardener who presided
over what Mr. Denton called his
'eating-rouses.

1 1 saw your trap, outside,' he said, going
up to Nellie, and shaking hands with her
So you've been and stole a march on us
all, 'ave you ? Well, well ! boys will be boys,
and tells will be tells, and I wish you joy
with all my heart, though I did 'ope as it
might a-been other ways ;' and he gave a
sly look at Nellie, but seeing she looked
flushed and uncomfortable, and knowing
from experience that she had probably
suffered something from the tongues of
Theresa and Emily, he earned her everlasting
gratitude by adding, ' Now, do
you come along of me, I've got some real
beauties out in the 'houses, and it's a real

pleasure to me to get some one who
appreciates 'em ;' and with that he bustled
out of the room, opening the door for
Nellie, and leaving her brother to the
tender mercies of his interesting family.
Poor Jack was no match for the Court of
Inquisition which now sat upon him, and the
severe cross-examination to which he was
subjected drew from him all that he knew*
of the * when ' where,' and ' how,' of his
sister's love-affairs, and reduced him to a
state of mental chaos from which he did
not emerge until he and his sister were
well on their way home.

It was felt by the Dentonss that it would
be the very height of pure selfishness to
keep such a spicy piece of news to themselves,
and, as soon as they had exhausted
their vocabulary of astonishment and spite,
they ordered round the barouche and
departed on a tour of visits ; and were, indeed,
able to make some social capital out
of Theresa's disappointment, for the importance

of their news broke down the
barriers of reserve in one or two ' county
families' who were intending 'only just to
how them, don't you know.'

Delighted, also, was the fair Theresa to
pose as a 'blighted being,' and her airs
and graces, half-sighs, and general conscious
appearance, gave colour to the slight reports
which had already got abroad, and
caused the observant to remark that f there
had been something after all between Lord
Limborne and that Denton girl.' To be
talked of ' in connection with a peer was
pure joy to Theresa's vulgar soul, and she
was, besides, quite shrewd enough to see
that, if anything should occur to break off
the alliance in question, the more her name
was mixed up with his lordship's the better
for her plans.

Largely did Nellie exercise her brains in
puzzling over the problem as to how the
Dentonss could possibly have heard of
events which she had fondly imagined were

known only to the parties intimately concerned,
and severe was the ' wigging '
which descended upon the ingenuous Jack
when his sister compelled him to confess
the extent of his revelations.

Why on earth did you leave me, then ?'
said he. ' What could a fellow do ? They
were all down on me at once, and took the
words out of my mouth. There was the
fat one gushing, and the lean one wiring
at me, and the mother egging them both
on ; it was awful ! It was mean of you
to bolt, and leave me in the lurch.'

Thus did the young man turn the tables
on his sister, who, indeed, soon ceased to
talk, and occupied herself during the rest
of the drive in anxious thought as to how
this premature leaking out of her engagement
would affect the two persons most concerned.
If it could only have been kept
secret until some formal communication
had been made to Lady Limborne, and an
answer returned, even if that answer

should be, as Nellie feared it might be, an
unfavourable one, nobody but her own
people and Lord Limborne need know
anything about it, and she and her lover
could wait for better days ; but to appear
before the world as one whom Lord Lime
would marry, but whom Lady Lime
refused to receive as her son's wife !
The very thought made Nellie crimson.
How could she ever hold up her head
again in such a case? How could these
people have found it all out? What a
wretched position she would be placed in
if Lady Limborne were obdurate ! And
how dire would her father's rage be if his
daughter were slighted in this way ! Altogether
poor Nellie had a very unpleasant
experience of the old proverb anent the
course of true love, and the occasional
want of smoothness in that course, as she
painfully considered all these matters.

CHAPTER XVI.

Lady LIMBORNE WILL NOT HEAR REASON.

The polite letter-writer, all-embracing
though its scope may be, contains no form
suited to Mr. Armer's requirements ashe
sits down in his study to indite the important
epistle to Lady Limborne anent
her son's intentions towards his Nellie ; and
the squire found considerable difficulty in
producing such a letter as entirely satisfied
him; for, first of all, he knew but
little of the person he was addressing,
and was thus, at the very outset, labouring
under a plain disadvantage.
'Tis true he had been introduced to her,
and had even met her some two or three
times, and this warranted him beginning

with a 'Dear Lady Liniborne ' instead of
the more formal l My lady ;' but, having
travelled thus far, with date and address
above, he was forced to pause and consider
how to place things in a light which
should be agreeable to the party written
to ; and, as he sat back in his chair and
pondered over the matter, it dawned upon
him that her ladyship had not shown any
particular cordiality to him or his. True,
she had called, and the call, with its ceremonious
return, had been repeated at
lengthened intervals, but there had been no
approach to anything like cordiality on her
part, and, in truth, her attitude had been
rather repellent than otherwise. As, then,
the squire began to inquire of his mind
and memory, he lost, in a measure, the
easy-going confidence in Lady Limborne's
delighted acquiescence in these matrimonial
arrangements.

His ready pride rose up and impelled
him to write a somewhat curt statement of

facts, and he produced under these feelings
a letter which, on reading, appeared more
like the statements on the charge-sheets at
petty sessions than the announcement of
anything so soft and pleasing as the first
approaches to connubial bliss.

1 Pshaw !' said he to himself, ' this won't
do at all, this "stand and deliver" style will
break off negotiations at once; and yet,
I can't Kootoo to my lady; they are as poor
as Job, and she ought to be delighted. I
must steer clear between the two extremes ;'
and he viciously tore up his performance.

It was, however, by no means an easy
matter to get past the Scylla of his pride,
without falling into the Charybdis of her
pride, and quite a number of torn-up
epistles bore witness to the severity of his
exercising before he succeeded in producing
' the very thing.' He spoke of his
astonishment at the whole affair; he artfully
enlarged upon his esteem, and he might
say his affection, for Lord Limborne; he

praised him in no measured terms; be even
alluded slightly and delicately to his
appreciation of the honour to be derived
by him and his daughter from such a connection,
and mentioned the great pleasure
it would one him to see his dear daughter
united to one combining so many good
qualities, &c, &c. ; he remarked that he was
glad to be in a position which enabled him
to provide something towards the material
comfort of the young couple; and he ended
by trusting that Lady Limborne would be
as pleased as he was, and by proposing to
wait upon her, as soon as he received her
reply, with a view to discussing those business
matters which alas ! enter even into
the sacred rites of Cupid and Hymen.

Now Lady Limborne had obstinately
refused to believe that her son would
persevere against her expressed wish and
will; she thought that, at any rate, it would
be some time before Lord Limborne took
any decided step in a matter about which

she had declared her views so very strongly;
she expected he would return to the
subject again and again, and, in spite of her
expressed desire that the affair should not
be alluded to between them, she had
prepared very cogent arguments, and had
conceived of many excellent plans and
'ways of putting things,' and had at length
persuaded herself that James would after
all see things in a proper light and give
way to her now, as, indeed, he always had
given way, hitherto. She did not reckon,
however, with the power of the little god
with the bow and arrows, with the many
fascinating qualities of the fair Helen, or
with that very considerable proportion of
obstinacy and pride which her sen had
received as a birth-gift from herself.

Having persuaded herself that James
was giving way, chiefly because he had
obeyed her and had not spoken to her on
the tabooed subject, and secondly from
some hints which had dropped from the

voluminous Miss Ingle as to the supposed
attentions of Lord Limborne to the vulgar
but golden Denton girl — attentions which
she determined to nip in the bud as soon
as this Armer entanglement (as she called
it) should be definitely finished with — having
come to these conclusions, she had
altered her tone, and had almost gone
back to the old affectionate intercourse
with her son, greatly to Lord Limborne's
delight, who, on Its part, saw in these renewed
amenities, and this pleasant return
to pleasant relations, a giving way on his
mother's side, and a sign that, after a show
of resistance, to avoid the appearance of
inconsistency, she would bow to the inevitable,
and receive his beautiful Nellie
as her daughter-in-law to be ; once received,
even on the coldest of footings, his partial
thoughts could conceive of no one able to
resist such a battery of charms as was at
the disposal of his inamorita, and he was
indulging himself in pleasing visions of

domestic bliss with a lovely and amiable
wife, and a complacent mother, when he
found it necessary to prepare his mother
for the advent of that letter which caused
the squire such mental exercising in the
writing.

It is always difficult to open again a
subject which has been tacitly tabooed,
and this difficulty is the greater when the
subject has been the cause of wars and
tumults j and though there are some people
who delight in the ' give and take ' of
wordy warfare, and live most easily and
comfortably (to themselves strictly) in an
atmosphere of domestic 'row most of
us, including, in this case, Lord Lime
have a nervous horror of breaking
the peace, and will, indeed, go through a
certain amount of discomfort and restraint
rather than assist at the opening of old
wounds. It was, then, with considerable
hesitation that he approached Lady Lime
on the evening of his ' explanation •

with Mr. Armer, with the necessity of
informing her of what he had been doing
and what was yet to be done.

I have been over to Coombridge this
afternoon, mother,' he said, after dinner,
when the servants had left them to their
dessert; making a bold plunge into the
midst of things at once.

This announcement was sufficiently annoying
and even alarming to Lady Lini-
borne, and roused her somewhat from her
fancied security in her son's obedience to
her wishes.

1 1 thought,' she said, ' those people were
in London ; some one — who was it ? — told
me he had gone back to his business,
whatever that is. Of course you can go
where you please ; but I thought we had
agreed not to speak of that affair again ;'
and Lady Limborne looked at her son in
mingled anger and alarm.

1 1 only knew they had come back yesterday,
and I went over at once.'

vol. i. *

1 James interrupted his mother, ' do not,
I beg of you, force on me this distasteful
subject ; it can lead to no good ; these discussions
weary me ;' and she rose to leave
the room.

Stay, mother exclaimed Lord Lime
' you must hear me. I have spoken
to Mr. Armer, I have his permission to our
engagement, and he will write to you about
it ; you will get his letter tomorrow, and I
do earnestly entreat you to be the kind and
loving mother to me that you always have
been ; do not answer hastily, think what it
must mean to me.'

Lady Limborne was perfectly dumb-founded
at this announcement, the house
of cards she had been building these last
few weeks was blown down in a moment ;
and while her son was appealing to her
she had time to see how she was driven
into a corner, and must decide now, once
for all, whether she would incur her son's
anger and possible desertion, by refusing

to acknowledge his engagement, or swallow
her pride and agree to take what was to her
the most distasteful action she had ever
been called upon to take. As all these
possibilities crowded into her mind, she
saw she was entrapped, checkmated, and
rage filled her as she saw (most erroneously)
the craft and wiliness which had thus
forced her hand.

4 Nothing she exclaimed, in the heat of
the moment, ' nothing shall induce me
to go back from what I have said ; you
have behaved most deceitfully; it cannot
be you, it must be those designing people j
they have entrapped you, and they want to
force me to agree to this most painful
mesalliance. It is a vile plot — how can
you be so blind ?'

1 It is perfectly absurd for you to harp
upon that, mother,' he returned ; ' such a
word as " plot " is ridiculous in regard to
Nellie. I told you I had her consent, and
what more natural than that I should seek

ther

father's? I am quite determined in
the matter, I have not swerved for one
moment, and I must beg you to consider
what it will mean if you still persist in
your opposition. What is it you object to ?
They are of good birth, if that is your
objection. I cannot see why you detest
them so.'

1 1 do not believe in their birth, anyone
can buy a pedigree and arms and so forth,
now-a-days. Of course they pretend to
birth ; it is absurd ; they are roturiers, City
people, trades-folk, all that is most abominable
to me. Had you spoken to me before
you went to the father, I should have told
you what answer I shall give, and you
would have spared me a most distasteful
task. Of course, you are of age, you can
marry whom you will, a barmaid, or a
dancer, if you choose ; but I am certainly
not bound to receive your wife, and I will
have nothing to do with this most painful
entanglement.' All the time this uncomfortable

discussion was going on, Lady
Limborne was standing by the door,
where she was when her son's first words
arrested her, and as she ceased speaking
she turned the handle and went quickly to
her own room.

Lord Limborne's sleep that night was
not of the calmest or sweetest ; in a matter
of such importance as the settlement in
life of his daughter, Mr. Armer would not
be likely to delay, and courtesy to Lady
Limborne would probably urge him to inform
her of the facts at once ; the very
next day Mr. Armer' s letter might be expected,
and the effects thereof upon his
mother, and her answer, filled him with
the most gloomy of forebodings. Of Nellie's
stedfast affection he was well assured,
he had no manner of doubt about that ; but
whether she would endure his mother's
refusal to receive her, or whether, even if
she did still abide by her engagement, Mr.
Armer would not insist upon an end to the

whole affair, were matters which afforded
him some very distasteful mental food. Of
Lady Limborne's firmness of character, as
she would have called it, or obstinacy, as
this trait of hers was called by others, he
had had ample experience ; that she would
abide by her word was alas ! only too
certain, and the equally certain results of
her action were almost too painful to bethought
about.

Of course, England is a free country,
and a man can marry whom he likes, provided
the young lady is willing, and both
parties to the bargain are of ' full age ' ;
but, on the other hand, great is Mrs. Grundy,
and she will (too often) prevail, and
come in, in a very obnoxious manner indeed,
between young couples and the satisfaction
of their loving hopes. The time for posting
off to Gretna Green and its accommodating
blacksmith, or for the scandalous
marriages of the Fleet, is past ; and even if
he could persuade Nellie to set the angry

parents at defiance, and marry him despite
all this absurd opposition, the unpleasantness
of such a marriage were too
evident, and the disagreeable consequences
would still have to be faced.

The whole affair was simply maddening ;
here were two people attached to one
another, position, means, everything satisfactory,
the girl's parent most willing and
even eager for the match, and foolish family
pride, in the person of Lady Limborne, was
to step in and very effectually to * forbid
the banns.' There did not appear to be
any way out of the tangle, and Lord Lime
could only hope that the chapter of
accidents might have some unexpected turn
of the wheel in store for him and for Nellie.
He was, however, not very hopeful, and
events amply justified his despondency.

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

LONDON : PRINTED BY DUNCAN Macdonald, BLENHEIM HOUSE.

UNIVERSITY OF Illinois-URBANA

3 0112 047658601

mm

Hi

Hi

mm

Hi

w ;

^H^W^^'v**-'^' > ' ^

,1^* ^

,v

'i^ (rOLu

Lambert

OF THE

UN IVLR5ITY

or ILLINOIS

L\73p

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/powerofgoldnovel02lamb

VOL. n.

A NOVEL

BY

GEORGE LAMBERT

For 'tis u question left ns yet to prove
Whether Love lead Fortune, or else Fortune Love.

Hampton

TWO Policies.
VOL. n.

LONDON :
HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1886.
All rights reserved.

THE POWER OF GOLD

Chapter I.

STORMY WEATHER AT Cambridge.

In the budget of letters which Lady Lime
maid carried to the bedside with
her ladyship's matutinal tea, there was, indeed,
as her son had expected, the Coom-bridge
bomb-shell ; if Mr. Armer's delicate
and polite effusion can be called by such a
name ; and very surprised would that gentleman
have been if he could have seen
into the secret chambers of Lady Lime
heart, and examined the feelings
with which its periods were perused.

Against envy, hatred, malice, and all

VOL. II. B

uncharitableness her ladyship was wont to
put up her petition every Sunday morning
(weather permitting) together with the
other ' miserable sinners,' but of every one
of these noxious feelings was she the prey
(excepting always the first) as she read,
in sentence after sentence, of her son's
^ folly' (?) of the attachment of the young
people (a topic upon which Mr. Armer
had enlarged with what was, to Lady Lime
an excruciating prolixity), of the
pleasure of the writer at the prospect of
the alliance (at which point Lady Limborne
indulged in a grim smile), and of his (Mr.
Armer's) hope that she (Lady Limborne)
would be as pleased as he was, and suffer
him to pay an early visit for the necessary
discussion of the business side of the * auspicious
affair.' The blood of the Hautfords
< — on which sanguinary subject, by the way,
she was particularly prone to descant-boiled
in their descendants' veins as she
read this harmless, necessary letter, and

she did not vouchsafe multi consideration
as to the terms of her answer thereto.

If it took the squire the consumption of
much time, paper, and ink, and some relief
to his feelings in the shape of what in
the kitchen was called 'master's langwidge,'
to set forth his ideas on the subject in
hand, a very few moments sufficed for
Lady Limborne to give, in terse if not
choice terms, he?' view of the matter.

Her son, Lord Limborne,' she wrote,
was of age, as Mr. Armer doubtless knew,
and was, therefore, at liberty to marry whom
he chose; she. Lady Limborne, was not,
however, bound to accept his choice ; she
could see nothing but misery in such an
unsuitable alliance, and she desired most
emphatically to state that she would on
no consideration give her consent (if, indeed,
it were required) to such a marriage

Hints as to Mr. Armer's pride, Lady
Limborne had heard from the lips of her
son, and, as she stamped and addressed the

b2

letter, sbe was not without hopes that it
would put an abrupt end to the whole
entanglement. Resentment, and perhaps
desertion, she would have to endure on
her son's part, and though it would make
her heart ache, as, in spite of her pride,
her heart had ached ever since this affair
had come between them, yet she was his
mother, there were only they two, and, intime,
he would forget his mad engagement
and all would be well between them again.
Lady Limborne hated the Armers the
more, as sbe thought on the sufferings she
had already endured, and was still to
endure, for their sakes, from the estrangement
of her son. As to her present action
she determined to say nothing of it ; she
hated the whole subject, and there would
be time enough to speak when the storm
should burst.

And a storm, indeed, there was atCoom-
bridge when the squire received his answer.
The worst of it was that he did not

in the least expect such a terrible knockdown
blow to his hopes. He had, as we
have seen, been looking on with a pleased
interest, and with natural paternal pride,
at the beginnings and gradual progress of
the courtship of Lord Limborne. He had
become accustomed to the idea of such a
marriage, and Lord Limborne's explanation
had put the father-in-law-to-be in a
comfortable attitude of certainty about it
all. Judge, then, of the shock to a man
of the squire's temper, and judge, too, of
the consequent explosion. As sentence
after sentence of Lady Limborne's letter
presented itself to the squire's understanding,
he became more and more inflamed
with rage ; the cold and insolent tone hurt
him sorely, and the virtual refusal of
Nellie, his Nellie, of whom he was so
proud, stung him to madness, and he flung
the letter upon the breakfast-table with a
look of the most intense anger, and an expression
certainly not fit for ears polite.

Bead that ! Nellie !' he exclaimed, ' the
abominable, impertinent woman. What I
She is not bound to accept " — *' On no
consideration give her consent." Great
heavens ! *' Such a marriage." What
does the woman mean ? Does she think I
want to force my daughter down her
throat ? my daughter ! Good heavens ! the
woman's mad to write me such a letter !
Being the bell, Jack. Tell Tucker to put
a saddle on one of the horses at once !
and come you here with me, Nellie, my
dear, and I'll write her ladyship such a
letter as shall open her eyes for once in
her life. Good heavens ! that I should
have lived to be insulted like this !' and
the poor squire fell back in his chair,
panting and struggling for his breath in
such a manner that Nellie and Jack ran
quickly round to their father, who, indeed,
was purple in the face, and looked very
much as if a fit of some kind or another
would result from the violence of his emotions.

However, he soon came round, and,
waving aside his anxious children, he said
to Nellie,

My dear, don't be frightened ; it is
enough to drive a man mad ! That letter
is from Lady Limborne, the abominable
. .' and the squire, with a very visible
effort, checked the stream of his vituperation,
and went on more calmly. * Read
the letter, Nellie, read the letter, and you
will see what a charming mother-in-law
you have escaped from ; for, by heavens !
that man shall never darken my doors
again ; and if you have any respect or
love for your father, Nellie, you will break
off this engagement at once — at once /' and
the squire sat nervously drumming with
his fingers on the breakfast-table, as
Nellie, pale and frightened, read the curt
and cold epistle which had provoked such
a tremendous storm. As she was reading
her brother. Jack, was looking over her
shoulder, and, when together they reached

the last insolent sentence, Jack was almost
as angry as his father, and poor Nellie
was unbounded at what was a far worse
fiasco than any of her most gloomy presentiments
had foreshadowed.

'Well, Nellie! well! What do you
think of that for a polite and civil letter,
eh ! eh ! my dear !' said her father, impatiently,
and beginning to boil over again,
a nice, pleasant, amiable family you were
going to marry into. For impertinence,
conceit, and the most infernal pride commend
me to her ladyship ; and how dare
Lord Limborne expose me to such insolence,
the puppy, the young puppy, how dare he
do it ? Didn't I receive him with kindness,
didn't I say I was delighted
oh, heavens ! it makes me mad to think
what a blind fool I have been !'

Oh ! father dear,' said Nellie, speaking
for the first time, and interrupting her
father in his unpleasant reminiscences*
It was not James' fault, indeed, indeed it

was not ; he always told me that Lady Lime
that she that she would not
be pleased at first. She wanted him to
marry Lady Emily Beldon, I mean
but I thought . . . .'

Yes ?* said her father, looking at her
sternly. ' Yes ? you thought ? my daughter
thought ? Are you a child of mine — of
John Armer's? and would you truckle and
crawl to this — this woman ?' and Mr. Armer,
who was quite as proud as Lady's Lime
herself, was dumb at the idea of his
daughter seeking to enter anyone's family
as a favour.

Father dear !' said Nellie, as he paused.
father dear, I did love him so, and I
hoped she would not go against us, and I
did not did not think
it would be . . like this . . . ! Oh !
Jack ! Jack !' she cried, turning to her
brother for comfort in her trouble, and
thus reversing the usual order of things,
for it was generally she who was the helper,

and the extravagant and easy-going Jack
who was the helped.

Jack lost no time in going round to his
sister's side.

^ Poor old lady,' he said, as he put his
arm round her neck, and let her head rest
on his shoulder. ' Poor old lady, don't
you cry, my dear; never mind, Nellie, it
will come all right. Confound the old
harridan ! what business has she to kick up

such an infernal shindy ' and so on, and

so on, mingling soothing words of comfort
with short bursts of invective, in a manner
which would have been amusing if Nellie's
grief had not been so painfully real.

Now the squire was a very tender-hearted
man, and the sight of Nellie's grief was
more than he could bear ; in a very few
minutes he, too, was beside his daughter
doing his best to soothe her, and to stop
the painful bursts of sobbing. Nellie was
not a very emotional young woman, not
one of those irritating members of her sex

"who seem to possess inexhaustible reservoirs
of tears, and can turn on the tap,
with a surprising and unpleasant ease, on
the most trivial of occasions ; neither was
she given to the still more exasperating
habit of ' hysterics,' that ready and most
effective weapon, whereby the most recalcitrant
of husbands is, after a very short
struggle, reduced to the condition of a
brute !' and to consequent abject submission,
unless, in a fortunate moment, he
discovers the extraordinary efficacy of cold
water, exhibited externally, in these painful
and deplorable attacks. One becomes used
to too frequent douches of tears, and, after
many repetitions, even the most powerful
attack of hysterics ceases to have any
effect but that of irritation ; but the sudden
' breaking down ' of the ordinary self-possessed
is sad indeed. So the squire
and his son felt it, until Nellie's sobs came
at longer intervals, and were less heartbreaking,
and at last ceased altogether,

and were only remembered in the quick
sighs which now and again escaped from
her. Every sob, and every tear, and every
sigh was another reason for increasing Mr.
Armer's rage and resentment against Lady
Limborne and all belonging to her, and his
daughter s grief hurt him more even than
the soreness of his wounded pride.

Dear Jack and dear father,' said Nellie
at last, raising her head from Jack's
shoulder, and rising from the chair she
had been sitting on. ' How good and
kind you are to me ; how silly of me to
give way like this.'

It is all that abominable woman's fault,'
said her father, * and Lord Limborne
shall . . . .'

Oh, father, I cannot bear you to speak
of him like that,' said Nellie, interrupting
her father, who, by the look on his face,
was evidently going to make sono not too
complimentary remarks about her lover.
Do not,' she went on, ' let us say anything

more about it just at present. It is all so
dreadful and so sudden, I must think about
it all;

And poor Nellie, with still quivering lips,
and eyes full of tears, went off to face
her misery by herself in the solitude of her
room.

^ Well,' said the squire, turning to his
son as the door closed upon Nellie, ' a
very pretty kettle of fish your friend Lime
has got us into, very pretty indeed !'

Yes,' said the unfortunate Jack, who
had a most unhappy knack of ' letting the
cat out of the bag.' * Yes, and the worst
of it is, it is all over the place by now.'

What !' exclaimed his father. ' Allover
the place ? all over the place ? Why !
what on earth do you mean, Jack ? it was
only the day before yesterday that that
young puppy came here with his 
story. All over the place ! What
do you mean, sir?'

*Why, do you know answered Jack,

we went yesterday to say good-bye to the
Dentonss '

Confound the Dentonss !' exploded his
father ,* * what on earth have the Dentonss
to do with me and my concerns?'

^N-n-nothing,' stuttered Jack, feeling
that he had ' put his foot in it again,' and
seeing no way out of it but ' a clean
breast;' 'nothing; only they seemed to
know all about it ; and they . . ; well, you
know, they congratulated Nellie upon her
engagement ;' and poor Jack trembled ashe
saw the effect his news had upon his
father.

'Her engagement! Nellie's engagement!'
exclaimed the squire. ' Oh, this is too
much, this is shameful I it's . . . it's . . .'
and the squire lapsed into silence, and
stopped in his hurried pacing up and down
the room, glaring at his son without seeing
him, as the full meaning of Jack's announcement
broke in upon him. ' I wish,'
be said at last, * I had never come into this

accursed country, we are disgraced forever
; don't you see, my poor boy, the
meaning of it all ? Those gabbling idiots
at Wreford will go all over the county
with their wretched news, your poor sister
will pose as the girl who has *' caught " —
/ know the way they talk — '' caught " Lord
Limborne. Pah ! it's diso^ustino^ ! the oriel
Lady Limborne won't receive as her
daughter! And I . . . they will say I
"encouraged him," "angled for him " . . .'
and the poor squire groaned in the spirit
at the shameful figure he and his would be
made to cut. ' Jack, my son,' he said at
last, 'you know when I say a thing I mean
it, eh ?'

Yes, father,' said Jack, who, indeed,
was only too well acquainted with the
paternal obstinacy, a quality he was singularly
deficient in himself.

Well,' his father went on, ' listen tome.
You have been friends with Lord
Limborne ; I don't know what you feel

about this atrocious affair lie has led us
into, but one thing I must insist upon, and
that is, that from this day you never speak
to that man again. There's the letter,
read it over again, and if, after such an
insult to your sister, to me, her father, and
to you, her brother, you can hold any
intercourse with that man, you are no son
of mine. I shall say the same thing to
Nellie, and from to-day I will never have
the name of Limborne spoken in my presence
And with that the squire pushed
over the obnoxious letter to his son.

Jack obediently read the letter through,
and without a word handed it back to his
father, and the squire retired to his study
to chew the cud of bitter reflection, and
to make up his mind as to what he should
do under this new aspect of affairs.

If Mr. Armer was passing through a
period of tribulation as he revolved in his
mind the dire insult he had received, and
sought to salve his wounds with the composition

of a biting though short and pithy
rejoinder, much more anguish of mind
was his daughter undero^oinor in her
bower,' and that, too, without the small
alleviation above alluded to in her father's
case, for no rejoinder was possible for her,
and added to the bitterness of her position
was the anguish she endured in the
loss of her lover ; for she freely confessed
to herself the fact that all that must be at
an end between her and Lord Limborne.
The scene of yesterday at Wreford came
before her with a most unpleasant distinctness,
and the gushing congratulations of
the Dentonss rang in her ears with a painful
persistence. The burst of grief into which
she had been betrayed had relieved her,
and given her the calmness necessary for
looking the matter in the face, and deciding
upon her future conduct. This, however,
was no easy task, and never did Nellie
miss the kind offices and loving sympathy
of a mother so much as now. If she had

VOL. II. c

had a sister to confide in, or even a dear
friend, she could the more easily have borne
it, but she could think of no one but Mrs.
Bolland, and the circumstances were of
too delicate a nature for Nellie to confide
in her,

A feeling of loneliness and desolation
added to her misery, and very unhappy
was our poor heroine as she struggled with
her grief, and tried, in vain, to find some
gleams of light in the dark future. Until
now, when she was to lose it, she had
scarcely realised how large a part Lord
Limborne's love had in her life ; to give him
up seemed now almost an end of everything
and yet give him up she must, and that
at once. To force herself upon Lady Lime
as a daughter-in-law was impossible ;
even if her own pride would allow her to
take such a step, she knew that it would
mean a breaking with her kind and indulgent
father; and how could she go through
all the shame and scandal of a surreptitious

marriage ? And then again the absurdity
and the shame of her present position came
upon her with an overwhelming force.
How could those horrible Dentonss have
found it all out so quickly? To pose before
the world one day as the bride-elect of
the much-sought-after master of Limborne
Castle, and the very next day to meet with
this terrible rebuff at his mother's hands !

The whole affair she knew only too well
would form a most piquant dish of scandal
for the neighbourhood ; to endure the
nods and looks, the whispered remarks, and
perhaps even the condolences of her acquaintance
was more than Nellie could
bear, and she determined to ask her father
to leave Coombridge on the very next day.
It was, fortunately, only a few days before
their final move to Hampstead — all the
arrangements were made, the P. P.O. cards
left on friends, and everything in train for
their departure.

And next came the far more important

c2

subject of meditation : what was she to
say to James ? That he would ride over
in the course of the day was certain, perhaps
even now he was on his way. Had
Lady Limborne told him of her answer to
the squire ? Would he insist upon seeing
her or her father ? — and Nellie shuddered
as she thought of the too-probable consequences
of an interview between her father,
smarting under Lady Limborne's insolent
letter, and Lady Limborne's son, the cause
of all the trouble ; this must be prevented
at all costs. And she could she see James ?
Ardently as she longed to pour all her
troubles into her lover's ears, she dared not
see him ; she was not sure of herself yet,
she could not tell into what promises she
might be beguiled, or into what outbreaks
of emotion she might be betrayed. That
he would give her up without a struggle
was, she knew, impossible ; that he would
try again and again to see her, that he
would write her appealing letters was

certain, and what to do she knew not. At
last, after much painful agitation, she determined
to write to her lover such a letter
as should force him to see the hopelessness
of the matter, and spare her the agony of
refusing again and again the love she so
earnestly longed after. In the meantime
Lord Limborne's visit must be faced and
provided for, and Nellie washed away the
traces of her grief, and went down to her
father's room.

Come in,' said Mr. Armer as she knocked
at his door, which knocking was a law
of the Modes and Persians that could not
be broken. ' Oh ! it is you, Nellie. I
think I have managed to show Lady Lime
that she need fear no trouble from
us. Pah ! it's sickening ! I cannot help it,
my dear, but I must and shall blame Lord
Limborne for placing you and me in such
a degrading position. I hope, Nellie, you
are of my mind. I hope you see there
must be an end of all this at once, and forever

? You cannot go on with this
this engagement against his mother's wish,
and against my wish ?'

No, father,' returned Nellie, ' I see that
you are right ; it must be so. But you
must help me, father dear. I want to go
away from it all now ; I cannot bear it
here;' and Nellie nearly broke down again.

*Now, my dear little Nellie, my own
brave, little girl, do not give way again,
darling ; your old father feels for his
daughter. I will do all I can to help you ;
we can get away from here at once, and
some day you will forget it all, and all will
be right again.'

Can we go tomorrow ?' asked Nellie,
anxiously.

'Yes, I have made up my mind about it.
I shall drive your brother over to Bardon
to see the agent, and you had better go
over to the Bollands ; for, I suppose, that
. . I mean Lord Limborne will come
over to-day, and 1 won't see him, neither

do I suppose you will. And now, Nellie, I
say to you what I have just said to your
brother: I will never mention the name of
those people from this day, and I beg you
never to speak of them again.' And without
waiting for a reply the squire hastily
kissed his daughter and went out to seek
Jack and start off for Bardon.

And so it happened that, when the happy
lover rode up to Coombridge to pay his
lover-like devoirs to his mistress, he was
informed by Mr. Hudson that ' the squire,
and the young master, and Miss Nellie
was lout, and he didn't know when they
would be hin, and master 'ad left this note
in case his lordship called.'

Lord Limborne waited till he was well
out of sight of the house before he suffered
his horse to walk slowly down the drive,
while he, with fear and trembling, opened
Mr. Armor's letter and read that, ' since
Mr. Armer had last seen Lord Limborne,
Mr. Armer had received a letter from Lady

Limborne (to wliicli letter a reply was
enclosed) ; and, in view of the contents of
Lady Limborne's letter, Mr. Armer must
request that all communications between
the two families may cease. Miss Armer
would shortly write to Lord Limborne to
the same effect

Lord Limborne had all along had a lingering
hope that his mother would give
way when things were brought to a point,
and his feelings can be more readily imagined
than described at this abrupt ending
to his bright hopes. One feeling, however,
made itself distinct and clear enough, and
that was one of intense disgust at his
mother's insensate pride, and of bitter
anger at the thought of the ruin this pride
of hers had wrought to his * castles in
Spain.' Neither could he see any way out
of the tangle; though he thought anxiously
over the matter, and reviewed it carefully
in all its aspects, as he slowly rode
along the well-known lanes, he could

discover no means by which the jagged
breach his mother s letter had caused could
be healed. At any rate he would move
heaven and earth to keep Nellie to her
engagement, and in the meanwhile he
would leave Limborne Castle to the lady
thereof, for he felt it would be long beforetime
healed the wound his mother's hand
had given him.

CHAPTER 11.

TWO GOSSIPS,

Now that immaculate virgin Miss Charlotte
Ingle dwelt in a charming cottage,
thatched, and covered with creeping plants,
in the romantic village of Wolverton ; nor
did she dwell alone, for she had one sister,
a little older than herself, and a confirmed
invalid ; and not a few people were there
who would have braved the fair Charlotte's
wrath, which was wont to be remarkably
outspoken, by the way, and would have
ceased to know that interesting, though
obtrusive person, if it had not been for
the redeeming point in her character, her
devotion to this crabbed and (it must be

added iu extenuation) suffering sister.
Unable to move out of the house, or, indeed,
from her bed, or her invalid couch,
Miss Mary took the keenest interest in the
affairs of her neighbours, and nothing
delighted her so much as to form an audience
of one while Charlotte Ingle (returned
from a day's visit, or a round of
calls) undid her budget of news, and displayed
her goods with significant nods, and
points both of interjection and interrogation,
to her eagerly attentive sister.

Great then was Mary Ingle's joy when
the sound of wheels, the loud greeting of
the black retriever who protected these
two ' low, lorn ' females, and the scarcely
less loud voice of her sister announced the
return of the wanderer and the commencement
of a refection of gossip sure to be
more or less piquant and satisfying.

It was Charlotte's usual habit on these
occasions to rush into her sister's room,
briefly to give the headings of her chapters,

standing and untying her head-gear the
while, and then to retire to her chamber to
^ make herself comfortable,' and afterwards
over a revivifying cap of tea to fill in the
padding, with her sister as both audience
and chorus. But this time the news was of
too exciting a nature to keep, and Charlotte,
scarcely stopping to kiss her sister,
and entirely neglecting her usual sympathetic
inquiries, plumped down into her
own particular arm-chair, and opened fire
at once.

Oh ! my dear Mary,' she said, ^sucJi news !
Never was so astonished in my life !
Thought it was Theresa Denton ?'

Whatever are you talking about, Charlotte?'
was Mary Ingle's not unnatural
inquiry.

Talking about,' rejoined her sister ; ' a
fine talking about there will be, for certain,*
(for the Angles were ' of Devonshire extraction,'
and Charlotte occasionally lapsed into
the vernacular when, as now, under the

stress of excitement) ; ^ if you believe me,
if Lord Limborne has not proposed to that
little girl of Squire Armer's, as they call
him !' and she paused to mark the effect
oE her tidings.

Well,' said her sister slowly, lingering
over the succulent morsel with keen relish.
Well ! you do astonish me, Charlotte ; of
all the girls that have been mentioned, I
never heard her name ; the last, you know,
was Theresa Denton, your new friend, and
a most suitable match, for if he has birth
and title, she has money and plenty of it.
However did you find it out, my dear?'

You'll never guess, Mary,' answered her
sister, ' for I heard it from the Dentonss
themselves.'

From the Dentonss ?' said Mary ; ' why,
you have been staying with the Portons,
haven't you ?'

Yes ! yes ! of course, I have, and they
. .' eagerly went on her sister, anxious
tell her story.

Oh ! but didn't you say that nothing
would induce Lady Porton to know the
Denton s?' interrupted Mary.

'Yes, I know, and that is the best joke
of all,' Charlotte went on. ' Lady Porton
did say so ; you know, I introduced Mrs.
Denton to her, and she was quite offended —
too absurd, isn't it ? when every one knows
them. Well, I persuaded Lady Porton to
call on them, on the understanding that
they were to be on calling terms, and not
to expect anything but the '' big crushes,"
and that sort of thing.'

My dear Charlotte,' said her sister, ' you
have told me all that before ; do go on with
the story.'

I am going on, my dear said Charlotte.
Well,' she resumed, 'you may guess my
astonishment when the gorgeous Wreford
barouche came sweeping round the drive at
Porton House ; you should have seen Lady
Porton's face ! " This is too much, Charlotte,"
she said, in her solemn way. "I thought

joumade these people understand the terms
they were to be upon . . ." but, before
I had time to answer, the door opened and
in marched Mrs. Denton, and Theresa, and
Emily as bold as brass. Lady Porton was
as stiff as a poker, but she soon lost her
stiffness when Mrs. Denton told her the
news. I always did think she had her eye
on Lord Limborne for that long daughter
of hers. It appears that the Dentonss had
just seen Helen Armer, and, as they had
heard the news, they congratulated her, and
Theresa told me they got it all out of her
brother ; how it had been going on for ever
so long, and how Lord Limborne had
spoken to Mr. Armer. Lady Porton became
quite friendly for her ; she rang for
tea, and the Dentonss stayed quite half-an-hour.
They have got a footing in that house,
at any rate.'

Well, I must say,' remarked Mary,
that that Mrs. Denton is a clever woman.'

Clever !' ejaculated Charlotte, ' I should

think so ; most women would have been
quite dumb foundered, for I know how keen
she was about Lord Limborne and Theresa ;
but not she ! she makes capital out of it,
and to tell you the truth, Mary, I should
not be at all astonished if she gets him fora
son-in-law after all.'

Why, how can she ?' asked Mary Ingle,
*how can she, if he is engaged to Miss
Armer?'

" There's many a slip," my dear,' said
her sister, with wise wagging of the head.
I have not done yet, the best of the story
is to come. What do you think I did,
directly the Dentonss were gone ?'

I am sure I don't know, Charlotte; what
did you do ?' asked Mary.

Why, you know it was Lady Porton's
*day," so she could not go out, and I got
Jack and the trap, and drove right over to
Limborne Castle.'

Well, I never !' said her sister, surprised
into a somewhat vulgar remark.

*Yes,' Charlotte went on, *I drove over •
to the Castle. " Lady Limborne at home ?'*
said I, to that old fossil of a butler. " Yes,
ma'am," said he ; and I followed him into
the drawing-room, where Lady Limborne
was sitting all alone, doing some work, and
looking as proud as Punch.'

I never did like that woman,' interpolated
Mary.

'Well, she'll have trouble enough now,
or I'm very much mistaken,' said Charlotte.
She got up,' she went on, ' when she saw
me, and, to tell you the truth, she did not
seem as pleased as she might have been to
see me. " Oh, Lady Limborne !" said I, as
soon as the fossil had shut the door behind
him, '' I have called to congratulate you
on your son's engagement." You should
have seen her face, Mary ; / never saw anything
like it, I might have offered her a
cup of poison, or done anything dreadful.
'' Engagement?" she said, " may I ask to
what engagement you allude ? I am aware

VOL. II. D

that my son's name has been bandied about
by gossips;" and she spoke so nastily,
and looked at me as if were a gossip.'

The impertinent woman !' said her sister.
^ And what did you answer ?'

Oh ! I answered her quickly enough,'
said Charlotte, ' of that you may be quite
sure. I am good-natured, I know, but I
cannot stand impudence, even from Lady
Limborne. *' I should have thought," said
I, " that Lord Limborne's mother would
have heard of his engagement to Miss
Armer." She turned a dead white, Mary,
and I thought she would have fainted ; but
not she ! she is much too proud for anything
of that sort. Well, she looked at
me for a full moment in a funny sort of
way. "And where did you hear that report,
may I ask?" said she. ''I have just this
minute heard it at Lady Porton's," I
answered. " I am sorry," she said, " to
find that this foolish entanglement of my
son's has leaked out, though low it can

have become known is a mystery to me."
'' Oh !" I said, " the Dentonss heard of it,
and were congratulating Miss Armer only
yesterday." Why on earth it was so, I
cannot tell you, Mary, but this seemed to
make her positively mad ; really, 1 was
quite frightened at her looks. " Congratulating?"
she said, "how dare she
receive congratulations ! my son may marry
her, he is of age, I cannot help that, but
my daughter she shall not be ; I will never
receive her;" and you won't believe me,
Mary, but it's really true, she quite
screamed, and absolutely stamped her
foot;

'What did you do, Charlotte ?' asked her
sister.

Oh, I got away as soon as I could, you
may be sure of that,' returned Charlotte.
I said I regretted that I had . . . well !
I don't quite know what I did say, but she
never answered me, just shook hands when
I said good-bye, and glad enough was I to

d2

get into the trap and drive off, as you may
well imagine

Whatever will happen ?' asked Mary,
when her sister had finished her narration.

I am sure 1 can t tell,' said Charlotte ;
of course he is a *' lord," and these sort
of people think a lot of that. They do
say that Mr. Armer is very rich, though,
of course, not so rich as the Dentonss, and
Lady Limborne may come round, or they
may marry without her high mightiness's
permission ; and I am sure 1 hope they
will, for a more conceited, puffed-up, arrogant
. . .'

My dear Charlotte ' interrupted Mary,
how you do go on.'

^ And no wonder, my dear,' rejoined her
sister, ' for what I have put up with from
that woman no tongue can tell.' And,
indeed, the fair Charlotte, who, though
thick-skinned, was not impervious, had
received some snubbing of a very severe
order from her haughty neighbour ; and

the memory of these snubbing was unpleasant
food for the mind. ' There is one
blessing, at any rate,' she went on. ' If
Lady Limborne does not have some unpleasant
quarters-of-an-hour to-night, I am
very much mistaken ; for, as I was driving
down the avenue, who should I meet but
Lord Limborne, and he looked as black at
me as if I was his bitterest enemy. I am
sure he didn't know who I was in the
least. But I must go and '* clean myself,"
as the folks say ; and ring your bell, Mary
dear, for I'm as hungry as a hunter, and
shall be really glad of my tea.' And with
that Miss Charlotte Ingle retired, if her
emphatic and noisy mode of departure can
be described under so quiet a word.

Miss Ingle was, however, mistaken in
her soothing visions of battles-royal between
Lord Limborne and his mother.
Bitterly angry and painfully disappointed
as he was at Lady Imbrue's last move,
his grief was too fresh upon him for him

to think of anything else. Cruel as he felt
the fates to be to himself, he had the
greater sorrow in thinking of Nellie's feelings
in the wretched position she was
placed in. His Nellie! His dear little
Nellie ! of whom he was so proud! Proud !
yes, and Nellie was proud, too ; and, as he
remembered certain words of hers, he felt
all the force of this ' check-mate ' of his
mother's, all the consequences come in
upon his mind in an overwhelming flood,
and as he rode slowly up the avenue to his
home, moodily thinking over his miseries
the while, he cursed the pride that thus
raised up a bar between him and his life's
happiness. No ! he would not see or speak
to his mother ; he would wait to see what
Nellie, poor Nellie ! had to say ; he would
try, oh ! how hardly would he try, to bring
her back to him — and if — if he failed (as
his heart told him he hould fail), he would
leave this place, and go — he cared not
whither. No wonder then that he scarcely

recognised even the voluminous figure and
the too well-known pons-trap and tiny
groom which appertained to Miss Ingle.

Lord Limborne had not long to wait for
Nellie's longed-for and yet feared epistle.
The rector and his spouse were away from
home, attending at one of those mournful
and dreary entertainments yclept garden-parties,
at which the economical country
gentleman can return the civilities of his
neighbours in a commodious and all-embracing
manner, and at the trifling cost of a
very light refection ; in which refection the
mildness and wariness of the tea is only
equalled by the flatness and nastiness of
what is euphemistically called * Cup.' To
one of these examples of how sadly we
British can take our * pleasure,' was Parson
Bolland dragged, unwillingly, and with
muttered execrations, by his good-natured
wife ; and so it fell out that Nellie, who
was quite intimate enough with her pastor
and Mrs. Bolland to take any liberties she

close, elected to tide over the time of her
lover's visit in the pleasant rectory drawing-room.
A long afternoon, with a pleasant
companion in the shape of some dear friend,
or perhaps better still, some interesting
book, is a blessing too seldom enjoyed in
these times of bustle and hurry ; but a long
afternoon with no friend to confide ia, with
an ache at the heart that would make the
most enthralling novel ever written dryer
and more uninteresting than the baldest
sermons that ever clerical vanity placed before
an indignant public ; a long afternoon
with miserable and hopeless thoughts for
the only companions ! alas ! poor Nellie ! no
wonder that the letter which was the outcome
of such circumstances as these was a
piteous and heart-breaking performance.

If it is always painful to say farewell
(though occasions will doubtless occur to
readers when 'saying farewell' — to some
black sheep or another, or to ' the old love '
loved no longer, for example — is not unaccompanied

with a sigh of unmistakeable
relief) ; if it is painful to have to say farewell,
it is doubly painful when that farewell
involves not only the giving a ' God be with
you ' to a loved friend, nay, to a lover, but
also the parting with the most cherished of
hopes, with the brightest dreams of present
and future happiness.

It was the first letter that Nellie had
ever written to her lover, and although no
doubt it ought to have been a somewhat
formal epistle, beginning with ' Dear Lord
Limborne,' and ending with ' Yours truly,
Helen Armer,' yet Nellie could not, and did
not, deny herself the melancholy satisfaction
of pouring out the whole flood of her
grief to ' Dearest James ;' she was too
honest to pretend that the miserable blow
Fate had dealt her was anything less than
grievous and almost past bearing, and as
she wrote, and the happy picture of ' what
might have been ' came before her in all
its glowing colours, as the mere fact of

writing down her love and her disappointment
brought the bitterness of her disappointment
before her, the tears welled
up in her eyes, and, falling, barred the
words she wrote.

She could tell her lover of the depth of
her affection, and she could tell him, too,
how confident she was of a full and ample
return upon his part ; all this was perhaps
natural, and, as Nellie read over what she
had said, she would not alter one word, for
every word was true. But it was in the
end of her first love-letter that the bitter
sting was to come, for she must make it
plain to Lord Limborne that all was indeed
at an end, and this was a hard task ; hard
to give up this the greatest joy and delight
her life had ever given her, hard even to
realise the fact that she would never speak
to him again, never hear his voice, his
pleasant whispers of love, never share with
him the delight of meeting, and the ' sweet
sorrow ' of parting to meet again. But it

"was harder still to make him understand
that the cruellest thing he could do would
be to speak or write to her, who loved him
so.

It would lead to no good,' she wrote ;
if he had seen and heard her father, he
would know that it was, indeed, hopeless ;
neither would she, Nellie, dearly as James
knew she loved him, come to him, unless
she came with a full assurance of a welcome,
which Lady Limborne's letter had made
an utter impossibility.' And then she told
him, how that ' they were leaving Coom-bridge
perhaps for ever on the morrow, and
that from this time would begin a new life,'
for her, at least, a blank and miserable one
enough.'

By the time Nellie had finished this
lugubrious epistle, the advent of the
Bollands from their mild entertainment (?)
might be looked for ; and, as an interview
with the shrewd parson and his amiable
spouse was the very last thing Nellie

desired, she walked into the village, and,
having posted her letter, returned home to
find her father and Jack in some anxiety
about the homely, but necessary, fact of
dinner. For, as has been frequently
observed, whatever happens, one must
dine. A miserable meal was this, the
Armor' last dinner at their Devonshire
house. Some remarks had been made to
the squire, some congratulations on his
daughter's engagement a friend had offered
at Bardon, and Mr. Armer (who had
curtly denied the engagement, to his
friend's considerable astonishment) was
sore and angry at the position in which he
found himself, and would scarcely speak a
word, while JSTellie had her own wretched
thoughts, and Jack (who, though he felt
for his sister, was yet sceptical about the
power of love to cause any lasting misery)
had uncomfortable thoughts of his own
about such things as the too imminent
office-stool, and the farewell he was giving

♦

to all the congenial delights of a country life.
Jack, indeed, was the only one of the
party who heaved a sigh of regret as the
squire, his son, and Nellie drove away from
their home next morning ; a sentiment of
relief at leaving a place where they knew
they would form a delightful subject of
gossip for many days to come, possessed
the other two. The nine-days' wonder of
the town becomes lengthened out in an
extraordinary way in the country, where
the absence of more important topics, and
an empty vacuum, which must be filled, in
the brain, causes such a piece of gossip as
this affair of Nellie's and Lord Limborne's
to be seized upon with avidity, and retained
and mumbled over with persistence, and
until the very \?L^i flavour of sustenance has
been extracted from the bone.

CHAPTER III.

THE NEW UNDER-SECRET Any.

There is oftentimes a savour of bitterness
even in the most unqualified of successes ;
success almost invariably involves the discomfiture
or failure of ' some one else,'
though, alas for human nature ! it is but seldom
that this ' some one else' has anything
to do with the bitterness referred to, but
rather, on the contrary, gives an added
flavour of a sweet nature to the success.
Some bitterness, however, there is almost
certain to be, some disappointment at the
prize so hardly struggled for, and which
does not, after all, come exactly up to what
fancy painted it, or shall we say ' him,' or

*• her ? a sentiment, too, of weariness when
it is found that ambition or greed will not
let us rest, for that the height we have
attained to only opens up to the view
other heights which seem also desirable.
What then with the smallness of the result,
the absence of the satisfaction looked for,
the expansion of the view on attainment,
may we not repeat that there is a savour
of disappointment which accompanies success,
almost as invariably as the cries of the
wounded and the tears of the widow and
orphan accompany each great victory?
All these elegant paragraphs are to introduce
the fact that Lady Limborne did not
derive the satisfaction she looked for in the
discomfiture of what she was pleased to call
the Armer entanglement. To be a widow,
and to have an only child,' and for that
child to be so bitterly incensed as that he
cannot bear to speak, or even to look upon
his mother, this is verily not exactly a
happy state of things. But this was, in

very deed, the case with Lady Limborne,
It was no wonder that Miss Charlotte Ingle
received but scant courtesy from Lord
Limborne as she was driving away from, and
as he was riding to, Limborne Castle, for
the lord of the venerable and sooth to say
somewhat mouldering pile was exercised
in his mind as to how he should conduct
himself towards the fount and origin of all
his present trouble, his mother, to wit.
It is sometimes extremely difficult to keep
that fourth commandment anent the ' honouring
of father and mother,' and the
word ' honour ' must often go through
goings and amplifications, the ' spirit '
must take the place of the ^ letter' in a very
signal way sometimes, before the behest
can be obeyed.

Few things are more painful than the
finding out ' some one we have been accustomed
to love and to look up to ; we
can still continue to love, though that is
sometimes difficult enough, but how can a

man took up to,' or honours the ^ awful
dads ' some men and women possess, or
the mean, or dishonest, or disreputable
parent ? How can we love (as we are
doubtless bound to love) a parent who
factiously opposes our very heart's desire?
'Tis true, the opposition comes not seldom
from the conviction that it is ' for our
good,' but, alas ! we lose sight of the motive
in the deed, and we fail to see the love
in the background. So it was with Lord
Limborne : he only saw his mother's hand
ruthlessly snatching from his very lips the
cup of happiness he longed to drain ; he
forgot all her long years of self-denying
care, aU her long service of love, her pride
and delight in her only child ; he forgot
the debts he owed to the past in the
injury of the present. After all his pleadings,
to act in direct opposition to his
prayers ! He felt in its full force the
insult to Nellie contained in this letter of
Lady Limborne, and, disappointed in his

VOL. II. E

dearest hopes, miserable and angry at the
silly pride, the cause of it all, he dared not
see his mother lest he should forget himself,
and say words he should remember
afterwards with pain and grief. That
night he must, perforce, remain at Lime
Castle, for on the morrow he should
receive Nellie's letter ; and, even then, how
could he leave her without seeing her
again, or speaking to her ?

In order to avoid the awkwardness of
a tete-astute dinner with Lady Limborne,
and feeling, moreover, that keen desire
to be 'doing something' which assails
some folk when under the stress of strong
emotions. Lord Limborne drove into Exeter
and dined at the club, leaving a message
for his mother, saying he would not
be home until Fate that night.

This very plainly informed her ladyship
that her letter to Squire Armer had had its
desired effect, for never before had her
son left her in this way, and without seeing

her himself, and making his adieux ;
and, although she felt a certain relief that
she had (as she termed it) discomfited
the machinations of the Armers, yet she
felt anything but safe in the matter ; a
little ' standing off,' a slight exhibition of
pride, no doubt the Armers would think
it necessary to exhibit, but she had no
doubt that ^ such people ' would not stand
aloof for long, but would shortly pocket
their pride and secure the matrimonial
prize she fondly imagined her son to be.
Moreover, the attitude Lord Limborne was
taking, and the way he was resenting her
interference, caused her the keenest of
anguish. He was the only tie that bound
her to life ; without his affection and
esteem she felt existence would be almost
unendurable, and she looked forward
with a great longing to the time when
all these clouds should have rolled away
and all should be bright ao-ain. One cause
for apprehension, however, was removed

e2

UNIVERSITY OF

11 I Ionic I lDnAnt#

the next morning, when she received Mr.
Armer's letter; and its curt sentences,
coupled with the hints as to the writer's
pride which her son had let fall, left no
room for any doubt upon the matter. The
affair was at an end, she need trouble
herself no more about Those roturiers.'
The only anxiety she now felt was as to
how she should approach her son, and
make him see that it was only out of sincere
affection for him, and ' for his good,' that
she had taken this course, and bring him
back again to his old attitude of love and
of respect for his proud and yet fond
mother. But this was not so easy a task
as imagination painted it, for when she
appeared in the breakfast-room there was
no plate laid for Lord Limborne.

She was too proud to let her servants
see her ignorance as to the meaning of
this ; she did not even know whether her
son had returned last night, and she
waited impatiently for some hint from the

servants or for some message from Lord
Limborne which should explain his absence.
And, whilst she was forcing herself to make
some appearance of breaking her fast, a
message came, a few lines in pencil brought
in by the groom, and written by her son ashe
was driven to Exeter station on his way
to London ; nothing more than the bare
statement that he was on his way to London,
and could not say when he should
return. A mournful day did Lady Lime
spend, the first, indeed, of many
mournful days, for it was a long and a
weary time before Limborne Castle saw its
master again. If she had known that he
would have taken it so seriously to heart,
she was forced to own to herself, in the
course of those dreary months of solitude,
she would have acted in a widely different
manner, and gradually she was brought
almost to wish that she had let matters
take their course, for, to her frequent loving
letters her son, returned nothing but the

short replies lie felt that duty required
from him.

The same post that brought Mr. Armer's
answer to Lady Limborne, brought Nellie's
letter to her son. As he read the miserable
and tear-blotted lines, and felt to the
full the value of the great love his mother
had stolen from him, as he pictured to himself
his darling Nellie, her tears blurring
the words, as she wrote her heart-broken
farewell, he was goaded almost to madness
at his mother's insensate pride. He could
not stay under the same roof with her, he
would at once follow Nellie to London ; in
spite of her entreaties, he would write to
her, see her ; something could and must be
done to break through this hedge of pride,
and at any rate he would be near her.

And so it came about that, long before
the Limborne breakfast hour, Lord Lime
was on his way to catch an early
train to London.

Other thoughts, besides the painful

thoughts of the loss of his Nellie, occupied
Lord Limborne's mind in the four hours
journey to the metropolis ; there were difficulties
of a practical nature to be faced
in the course he was taking ; live with his
mother he could not, and would not, but
how to maintain even the most modest of
bachelor establishments was a question
fought with insurmountable difficulties as
to ways and means ; he could have a room
hard by, and live at his club, as was his
wont when alone in London, but the room
must be paid for, and likewise the repasts
the club provided, and how to pay for this
room and these repasts was a problem not
easily to be solved. The all-devouring
agricultural depression, the cause of so
much want, misery, and ruin, had found
out Lord Limborne's county at last, and
had attacked his already insufficient patrimony
; his few tenants could not, he knew
only too well, pay their rents without
substantial reductions, and these reductions,

already demanded and conceded,
cut out a 'monstrous can tie' from his small
income. Indeed, without the dribbling in
of occasional guineas, the fruit of his
literary labours, he must long ago have
gone to the wall, and how could he write,
how could he follow up events with the keen
interest and close observance of the political
reviewer when his mind was full of the
anguish of the bitterest of disappointments
?

All his difficulties he had divulged to
Squire Armer in his memorable interview
with that gentleman, on the occasion of his
demanding the hand of his daughter, and
the squire had very easily put aside all
these troubles by promising to the young
couple such a sum as should relieve them
from money worries. The thought of
money had not entered into his mind in
regard to Nellie ; that the squire was well
off he knew, and some small provision
doubtless he would make for his daughter s

future but that he was ready and willing
to give her such a handsome marriage gift
was an astonishment and delight to Lord
Limborne, for in it he saw an end to his
financial difficulties, and an early realisation
of all his hopes, instead of the period
of ' waiting for fortune ' he had looked for.
As he was ruminating over these unpalatable
topics, and at the same time finding
out how great the relief this offer of the
squire's had been, in the return of the
anxieties which this loss of that offer
brought — as he was eno^ao-ed in this miserable
train of thought, he suddenly remembered
that a cheque was due to him from
the editor of a well-known review, and,
hoping to find the editor's letter among
them, he drew out from his pocket the
budget of letters he had that morning
received, and which in his agitation at
Nellie's sad epistle, and his consequent
hasty departure, he had thrust away
almost unconsciously. Here a surprise

was in store for him, for amongst the
letters was one from no less a person
than the Premier, speaking in the handsomest
terms of his services to the party,
both with his tongue in the House of Lords
and with his pen in the press and the
various reviews, and offering him as some
small remuneration a place in the Government
of some little importance, which had
lately fallen vacant, and to which a comfortable
salary was attached. Of course
this was only the ' avant courier ' of better
things to come ; it was a plain recognition
of the place he had gained in his party,
and opened up an almost boundless view
to an ambitious man.

At first, and as he read the Minister's
obliging sentences, and recognised the full
meaning of this recognition of his services,
the old keen longing to excel seized
hold of him, and he indulged in proud
visions as to what the future had in store.
But he soon relapsed into his old despondency,

and, perhaps, had it not been for the
iron hand of necessity, he would have refused
the offer with all its contingent
advantages. It has been said that love is
only an incident, and that not a very important
one, in the life of an ambitious
man ; but, be that as it may, while the
fever-fit is at its height, it, at any rate,
assumes an importance which, for the moment,
dwarfs all other considerations.
How proud Nellie would have been at this
success of his ! This was Lord Limborne's
first thought as he awoke from his dreams
of advancement; if only that fatal letter
of his mother's had never been written,
what man in this world more blessed than
James, Lord Limborne ! An assured position,
an easy road to the goal of his ambition,
the woman he loved to share his
triumphs, and brighten his home, no sordid
money troubles to hamper him ; truly his
would have been an enable lot. But
now, just at the very moment when both

the prizes of life, love and success, were
within his grasp, a mocking fortune had
snatched the one from his eager hands,
and made the other distasteful and almost
valueless. The only advantage he now
saw in accepting his chiefs offer was to be
found in the fact that this would give him
at once an excuse for continued absence
from his home, and the means to keep up
the two establishments which this absence
necessitated.

Having once made up his mind, he lost
no time, but as soon as he had secured a
room at his hotel, and deposited his ' goods
and chattels,' he hastened to make his acknowledgments
to his great patron. He
was fortunate enough to find the great
man ' at home,' and after a short interchange
of thanks on the one hand, and
warm congratulations on the other, Lord
Limborne left the official residence' as
the new Under-Secretary for Home Affairs.

He had at once to enter upon his new

duties, and the next few days were full of
work of a very hard sort ; his post was no
sinecure, and of this he was glad, for in
the stress of his public life he was able,
for a while, to forget his private miseries.
He soon found that the appointment was
a most popular one, and had it not been
for the loss of Nellie, which took all the
savour out of everything, he would have
been more than satisfied with the congratulations
which poured in upon him, both
in the words of his friends and acquaintances,
and in the columns of the press ;
but the bitterness of his disappointment
was yet fresh upon him, and the thought
of his Nellie was with him always. He
knew she was at Hampstead, and see her
he must. To call at her home was impossible
after her father's letter to him, but
the roads and the streets were free to him
as to everyone, and, when he could get an
hour or two to himself. Lord Limborne
spent a considerable portion of that time

of leisure in proceeding to and from the
town of Hampstead, and pervading the
roads and lanes of that healthy and umbrageous
suburb, with consequences of
which more anon.

CHAPTER IV.

THERESA Denton's hopes revive.

As money is said to ' burn a hole ' in the
pocket of the extravagant, so a piece of
news might be said to burn a hole in the
fair bosom of Miss Charlotte Ingle. Tell
it out to her particular cronies, and to the
world at large, she must, and to be the first
in the field, and the spectator of the hearer's
astonishment, and to listen to the ejaculations
of surprise, the queries, and speculations
there-anent, was to Miss Ingle the
very sauce and savour of life; while to
find her market forestalled, and her news
stale, was the bitterest disappointment an
unkind fortune could send her.

Such a piece of news as she had gleaned
in her visit to Lady Limborne must out, or
consequences of the most serious nature
would ensue. There was no hesitation in her
mind as to who should be the first grateful
recipients of her ' latest edition,' everything
of course pointed to the Dentonss; the
doleful Henry's infatuation for Nellie, and
Theresa Denton's somewhat pronounced
pursuit of Lord Limborne, both these facts
made it evident at once that no time must
be lost before the parties concerned should
know of this new turn events had taken.
Miss Ingle burned with eagerness to tell
her news, and to receive the accustomed
payment in the astonishment of her hearers
; and the unfortunate pony was again
brought round from his comfortable stable,
and urged unwillingly along the stony and
rutty lanes, the nearest way to Wreford.

Miss Ingle calculated that she would got
to Wreford a short half-hour before lunch,
and she felt that the importance of her

news would quite earn for her the invitation
to that refection — with which her
morning visits to the Dentonss usually ended
and as the Denton menage was carried on
in that way which is expressed by the
words ' no expense spared,' and as Miss
Ingle's figure did not give the lie to her
appreciation of the good things of this life,
she enjoyed her drive, absorbed in the
pleasures of anticipation, in spite of sundry
ferocious jolting, and the general moistness
of things which an autumnal mist brou o^ht
about. It was to this muggy cloak which
Nature puts on so often in lovely but
humid Devon, that Charlotte Ingle owed
the largeness of her audience when she
^ opened her pack.' Everybody was at
home, and the first greetings showed her
that she was first in the field with her toothsome
morsel of gossip, so she was able to
dally with the bonne louche and prolong
her pleasure.

*I am so glad to see you, Charlotte,'

VOL. II. F

said Theresa, lier especial friend in the
family, as she shook hands and pecked at
her after the manner of feminine greetings.
Emily and I were going to drive over this
morning and beg lunch from you, only it
turned out so horribly wet, and Emily
wouldn't go, and I did not care to go alone.'

'I detest rain, and mud, and that sort
of thing,' drawled the languid Emily ; ' one
feels it, even in a close carriage,' added
that delicate young lady, who was not so
very long ago only too delighted to take
shelter in the homely 'bus,' when a hansom-cab
was a dream of luxury strictly confined
to the realms of the imaginary and
never realised.

Nonsense, Emily,' said her more robust
sister, ' it is nothing but sheer laziness ;
you spend half your time lolling about in
arm-chairs and reading novels, and no
wonder you are always complaining.'

'Perhaps, Theresa dear,' rejoined her
sister, in somewhat acid tones, ' if you were

as thin as me, and not so stout as you are,
you would not think it necessary to rush
about in the way you do ; it is very
annoying to persons of a lymphatic disposition.'


'• Lymphatic ? I suppose you picked that
word up from that new doctor, young
Selby, with whom you are going on in
such a way. I am sure, I wonder mother
does not interfere. Lymphatic !' added
Theresa, with much scorn, for she was
touched upon a sore spot, in her sister's
allusion to her rather pronounced embonpoint.
^ Lymphatic ! if lymphatic means
sour, and cross, and generally disagreeable,
then I thank a merciful heaven that I am
not lymphatic'

My dear Theresa, my dear Emily !' cried
Mrs. Denton, interposing, as she too frequently
had to interpose, as a peace-maker.
Why unll you go on in such a way ?
How often am I to tell you how excessively
vulgar these squabbles are, and how

f2

very much opposed to our position. You
must excuse them, my dear Charlotte
she went on, turning to Miss Ingle ; ^ you
see, we treat you quite as one of the family,
and Emily is not quite herself to-day, she
is, indeed, under medical advice.'

Young Selby to wit !' sneered Theresa,
who had not yet got over her smart.

^ Oh ! I know Mr. Selby very well indeed,'
interpolated the fair Charlotte, anxious to
get a word in edgeways,' and put a stop
to what seemed likely to end in a ' family
row.' ^ I know him quite well ; he is a
perfect gentleman, cousin of Sir Richard
Selby, don't you know? They are not at
all rich, the Selby, but quite the nicest
people. But, my dear Theresa, and Emily,
and Mrs. Denton,' she went on, having got
the ear of her company, and unable to keep
her news to herself any longer. ^ Have
you heard the news about Lord Limborne
and Helen Armer ?'

Why, of course we have, Charlotte,'

said Theresa, looking at her friend with
some astonishment. ' You were there, at
Lady Porton's, yesterday, when we told
you; whatever do you mean?'

Oh ! but, my dear, a great deal has
happened since then,' returned Miss
Ingle. Just then the portentous booming
of a huge gong in the hall, upon which
one of the canary-coloured flunkeys was
wont to perform with the keenest satisfaction,
announced that lunch was served,
and effectually drowned all other sounds,
including even the loud tones of the fair
Charlotte. This din having died away in
smothered rumblings, the other members
of the interesting family put in their
appearance and the company trooped into
the dining-room. As has been before
stated, the Dentonss dispensed with the
services of their domestics at the midday
meal ; and as soon as the company were
seated, and the covers removed, the attendants
disappeared, leaving their social

superiors to discourse at their own sweet
will, untrammelled by that necessity topick
and choose ' one's remarks which the
presence of the servants entails. Small
time Alas there given to Miss Ingle to
satisfy the cravings of the abnormal
appetite the long drive had engendered,
and which the succulent dishes provoked
to an alarming extent ; for, before she had
masticated her first mouthful, the servants
had vanished, and Theresa was ' down upon
her.'

^ Thank goodness those horrid servants
are gone,' she said. ^ Now, Charlotte, do tellus
what you mean.'

^ Why, Avhat's up, Tresa ?' asked her
lather ; ' anyone think as the world was
coming to an end, to see you so excited.'
And even the abstracted Henry looked up
at the eager tones of his sister.

I wish you would not interrupt, father,'
answered his daughter. ^ Charlotte Ingle
was just going to tell us something about

Lord Limborne, when the lunch-gong
sounded. Do go on, Charlotte !'

Lord Limborne, Lord Limborne !' persisted
Mr. Denton, ' it's nothing but Lord
Limborne now ; he might be the Lord
Mayor himself, for all the fuss there is
about him.'

Oh ! do be quiet, father,' choruses his
two daughters. ' Xow, Charlotte !'

Well, you know,' said Charlotte, nothing
loth, and having earnestly employed this
brief interest in staying the first cravings of
her hunger. ^ After you left Lady Porton's,
I just drove over to the Castle '

'What castle, my dear?' asked the incorrigible
interrupter, who was listening
with all attention.

Why, Limborne Castle, of course,' said
Mrs. Denton ; ' dole cjuiet, Henry.'

Well,' went on Miss Ingle, ' I drove up
and found Lady Limborne in, and, of
course, I congratulated her, you know,
about what you told us at Lady Porton's.'

If it ain't like one of them stories in
penny numbers !' again interrupted Mr.
Denton, who was bursting with curiosity,
and could not retain himself. ' Whatever
did they tell you ?'

^ Oh, mother, I loisJi you would make
father keep quiet ; it is too provoking,' said
Emily roused from her usual torpidity,
which torpidity was, indeed, largely
assumed, under the idea that it was
fetching.'

'■ Hoity, toity !' exclaimed her father,
getting angry. ' Ain't I to speak in my own
house, please ? Who's master here, I should
like to know ?'

^ My dear Henry,' said his wife, who
could very easily have answered that question,
'no one, I am sure, desires to interfere
with your rights, but it is not considered
the best of breeding to interrupt a
lady when she is speaking.'

Oh, I suppose you mean to insinuate
the " extra tuppence for manners" was not

paid when went to school,' rejoined her
spouse. * Well, go on, go on ; '' live and
learn," is my motto, and I never heard that
a man wasn't allowed to speak at his own
table before. Any way, I didn't mean any
offence to yoic, my dear,' he added, turning
to Miss Ingle, ^ and I won't interrupt you
any more.'

Not at all ! not at all !' Miss Ingle hastened
to say, in answer to this ample apology.
It was the news of Lord Limborne's engagement,
which Mrs. Denton told us of, to
which I was alluding.'

Oh ! quite so,' said Mr. Denton, politely
; ' then why didn't they tell me so ? Pray
go on.'

'Well, I congratulated her, don't you
know,' continued the fair narrator ; ' and
you will hardly believe me when I tell you,
for it took me completely by surprise . .'
and she paused in the most artistic way,
getting the curiosity of her hearers to
fever-heat.

'Well? well?' was the almost breathless
question from the Denton family.

To my utter astonishment,' said Miss
Ingle, slowly, and prolonging the keen
enjoyment she felt in her story, 'she
refused to hear anything about it ; she
said she would never receive Helen Armer;
in fact, she quite lost all control over
herself, and went on in the most extraordinary
way.'

Well, I never,' said Mrs. Denton. ' Who
would have thought it ? Such a proud
woman as Lady Limborne.'

I can't make it out myself,' said Miss
Ingle, ' I never saw anyone so moved ; so
unlike Lady Limborne, as you say, Mrs.
Denton ; there must be something in the
background.'

I fancy I know something about it,'
said Theresa, who had indeed studied the
subject of Lord Limborne somewhat closely.
' Do you remember those Belton,
mother ?' she asked her mother, who was

not 1^ likely to forget receiving such
exalted personages, ' at our ball, don't you
know ?'

eyes, of course I remember them, my
dear,' said her mother, impatiently.

Well,' resumed Theresa, ' I fancied
there was something up between Lord Lime
and that Lady Emily.'

"Something up!" ' repeated her mother,
who, even in the stress of excitement,
did not forget her position of corrector-general
to the family. ' "Something up !"
it is a perfect marvel to me where you
pick up such extraordinary expressions;
I must beg; '

Oh, don't bother about expressions
now, mother,' interrupted her daughter,
rudely.

'But indeed I must and shall speak:
don't bother " is vulgar, and I must beg
of you not to speak to me so flippantly ;'
and Mrs. Denton looked severely at her
eldest daughter.

'Yes, Tresa,' said her father, delighted
to find some one else under the lash ; ' you
didn't ought to speak to your mother like
that. I'm astonished at you.'

Oh ! very well ; I'm sure I'm very sorry,*
carelessly rejoined his daughter, who was
not so easily put down. ' But you know,
Charlotte,' she went on, turning to her
friend, who was busily engaged with her
lunch, making up for lost time, and
scarcely listening to the accustomed .family
wrangling ; ' anybody could see that
there was something meant in it all ; the
more I think of it, the surer I am that those
Belton were not asked to Limborne Castle
for nothing.'

I do believe you are right, Theresa,' said
Miss Ingle \ ' and now I think of it I did
hear somewhere or other some such a report.
Anyhow, one thing is certain, and that is,
that Lady Limborne will not receive Helen
Armer as her daughter-in-law, and there's
an end of that match.'

Oh, those kind of people will not stay
for such a thing as that,' said Mrs. Denton,
somewhat vaguely, and sith a pleasing
assumption of superiority. * Of course,
Mr. Armer ^Yill be only too delighted to
have a lord for his son-in-law, and Lady
Limborne must come round in time.'

Well, I don't know much about the
Armers,' rejoined Charlotte, ^ but I have
always heard that he is as proud as Lucifer,
and anyone looking at him can see what a
temper he has. If Lady Limborne speaks
to him as she spoke to me, you may depend
upon it that that will put an end to
the whole affair ; and that she icill do so I
am as certain as that I sit here. I never
saw anybody so determined.'

'Well, 'Enery,' said Mr. Denton, turning
to his son, who had been a silent but
attentive listener to the conversation reported
above ; ' well, 'Enery, there's a
chance for you, my boy. I always did
like that little Miss Armer you go in

and win, my boy, catch her on the ,
as the saying is, / shan't stand in
your way. You ain't a lord, it's true, but
if you play your cards all right, with all
this money, nobody knows where you
might get to.'

I think it is time we retired. Miss
Ingle,' said Mrs. Denton, severely, and
rising, for she did not approve of the
turn her husband had given to the conversation.


Miss Ingle took the hint, and the fair
bevy soon quitted the dining-room followed
by Henry Denton, who did not relish a
tete-a-teie with his father, after that individual's
last remark.

The conversation above reported furnished
the subject-matter for much exercising
of the mind to the large and lovely
Theresa, her mother, and her brother
Henry ; for if matters turned out as Charlotte
Ingle imagined they would turn out,
and if the engagement between Nellie

and Lord Limborne came to an untimely
end, then the field would be open to other
competitors, and why should not Mrs.
Denton and her daughter have their
heart's desire fulfilled in the • elevation of
Theresa Denton to the peerage ' under the
style and title of Theresa, Lady Limborne ?
This dazzling prospect formed the ' agenda
' at several solemn conclaves of two,
and the ways and the means towards the
attainment of this end were discussed
without any reserve by mother and daughter
in the ' boudoir ' (as Mr. Denton called
it) and strictly with closed doors.

Theresa was of a sanguine disposition ;
she was perfectly well aware of her personal
attractions, and also of the pecuniary
advantages which decidedly enhanced these
attractions. She knew of the ■ poverty of
the land ' at Limborne Castle, and she had
great hopes that by hook or by crook she
would be able to supplant Xellie and reign
as the fair chatelaine of Limborne. It is

true that the lady-mother was a difficult
obstacle to tackle, but, if she could only
bring his lordship up to the proposing
point, she felt that no proud scruples,
either on her own or her parent's part
could stand in her way. She could afford
to ignore any opposition on Lady Lime
part ; and, indeed, she felt perfectly
able to do battle with that lady if
occasion demanded; neither had she any
fears as to the result of such a conflict.
Possession,' in Theresa's creed, ' was nine
points of the law,' and, once possessed of
Lord Limborne's hand and name, she felt
herself to be perfectly able to keep the
dowager in her place.' How to set to
work, however, was the problem ; with the
late autumn, and winter close at hand,
would come a deadly dull time, with opportunities
for meeting few and far between.
The hunting-field was out of the
question ; for, besides the fact that Lord
Limborne did not very often put in an

appearance there, Theresa was but a new
hand at that sort of thing, very timid, and
conscious of not showing to the best advantage
outside the Arab steed.

Mrs. Denton suo^o^ested a house full of
visitors and a big Christmas gathering, but
against this plan was the fact that as yet
the Dentonss were not upon such a footing
of intimacy T^dth the county folk as to
warrant them in proposing a long visit,
with any chance of the proposal being
accepted. Nor did they know the Lime
well enough to ask them to stay in
the house, and, if they had been upon such
footing with that family, their invitation
stood an excellent chance of being refused.
Altogether Theresa was compelled to own
that she must wait upon time and opportunity,
and Mrs. Denton had reluctantly
come to the same conclusion, when the
announcement of Lord Limborne's appointment
in the Times, which announcement
Mr. Denton read out to the family party

VOL. II. G

provided a solution to the difficulty which
mother and daughter were quick to observe
and improve. His new duties would
necessarily compel his presence in London,
and, though the Dentonss' advent in London
society was to have been delayed till the
next season, both Theresa and Mrs. Denton
felt that no time was to be lost, and they
determined to put off the trip to the South
of France which was to have whiled away
the winter, and to go up to London as
soon as possible. As to their plans for
^ establishing a footing ' in society, and
thus finding opportunities for meeting
Lord Limborne, more anon.

The Limborne-Armer fiasco afforded
muLch mental pabulum to another member
of this interesting family, and the fond
and faithful Henry saw, in the possible
breaking off of the engagement, a chance
for him to ' disclose his pains,' and, as his
father somewhat vulgarly put it, ego in,
and win.' He determined, with that end

in view, to go up to London, thinking with
his usual infatuation that he could easily
get upon terms of intimacy with the Armer
family, and that, in her soreness at the
treatment she had received at Lady Lime
hands, Nellie would eagerly embrace
the chance he would give her of
showing her indifference, and ' rounding '
upon her enemies, by accepting his noble
offer, and becoming the bride of a future
millionaire. As a first step in this direction,
he had already ventured his attenuated
form upon the portly barrel of a cob,
warranted quiet in saddle and in harness,'
and, with his thin legs looking still more
spidery in breeches and gaiters, he had
proceeded with fear and trepidation to
Coombridge to pay a farewell visit to the
Armers before they should leave for
London, and to find out their London
address with a view to future operations.
He found, however, that his toilsome and

dangerous venture was in vain in one

g2

particular, for the birds were flown ; but
he gained his wish in the other particular,
and painfully returned to Wreford with
the name and the place of the Armers' new
abode, which he obtained from the caretaker.


Great was his disgust at finding, on his
return, the subject of the whole Denton
family's migration to London an established
fact, for he dreaded lest his sharp-witted
sisters should find out his intended 'goings-on,'
and get him under the dreaded lash of
their sarcastic tongues. He felt no time
was to be lost, and, saying he wanted a
change and would go up and look after a
house for the family party, the next day
he departed for the great metropolis. And
so Nellie had two lovers in London, both
of them earnestly bent upon an interview
and an opportunity to ^ urge their claims.'

CHAPTER V.

Nellie's godfather.

To those who are not cheered by the prospects
of the joys of the hunting-field, and
the various ha23py employments of the all-round
sportsman, there is something peculiarly
dismal in the country-side in that
period of the year when the last feeble
fluttering of summer are over, and the
cold and raw, or moist and muggy time of
expiring autumn is come.

This had always been Nellie's least-liked
season at Coombridge ; the spring, the
summer, and the early autumn she loved,
and winter, too, was pleasant enough, but

the betwixt and between' time she abominated,
and had usually contrived to have
important business in London connected
with the exigencies of the winter toilet,
which involved a stay of some two or three
weeks in that capital. Until the quarrel between
her father and Mr. Gidley she had
been wont to make her god-father's house
her head-quarters during these periods, and
greatly had Mr. Gidley delighted in gallantry
his lovely god-daughter to such diversions
in the way of concerts and theatres
as that exacting young lady had chosen.
In fact that gentleman, and the motherly
old parson's widow who presided over
his household ' for a consideration,' had
been used to look forward to Nellie's
annual advent as to a very pleasant break
in a somewhat monotonous life, and ' when
Nellie is here,' or ' since Nellie went,' had
become dates in the domestic calendar.

As the time for Nellie's visit to the dull
house in Bedford Square drew near, Mr.

Gidley began to find himself very often
thinking of that young lady, and when the
ancient dame afore-mentioned asked him
one morning ' whether Miss Nellie was
coming up this year?' Mr. Gidley realised
how much he missed the occasional
glimpses of our heroine, which his journeys
to Devonshire had given him, and
how he had looked forward to her autumnal
visit as to his one yearly holiday from the
quiet dulness of his every-day life. As he
walked towards his accustomed haunts in
the city, on the morning of his housekeeper's
inquiry, he bitterly regretted his
ovm. sarcastic tongue, and the squire's
ready temper, the causes of their estrangement,
and the barriers between him and
the only mortal he regarded with anything
more than ordinary complaisance.

He knew the obstinacy of his late partner,
and he knew also that this obstinacy
was very strongly *set' against him; for, in
the last interview which the disentanglement

of their affairs had demanded, Mr.
Armer had told his partner plainly enough
that he did not desire Mr. Gidley's acquaintance,
and should be the better
pleased if for the future they behaved to
one another as strangers. To this rude
enough speech Mr. Gidley had vouchsafed
no reply, and when they met, as now and
again they did meet, they had passed each
other without any sign of recognition. It
would be very difficult, therefore, for any
reconciliation to take place ; it would entail
a certain ' eating of humble pie ' on
Mr. Gidley's part (for he knew well enough
that no motion towards ' making it up '
would come from the other side), and
humble pie ' was a dish not at all to Mr.
Gidley's taste ; yet for Nellie's sake, because
he longed to see her again, and to
be once more on the old familiar footing
with his pretty god-daughter, the old gentleman
determined to swallow the nasty
morsel, and to try to be ' acquaintances '

if not friends again with his old partner,
Xellie's father. To this end, and after
much cogitation, he determined to call at
Heathfield, and see Xellie, and consult
with her as to how her father could best be
brought round.'

He had kept his eye on the movements
of the Armer family, as well as he could,
since the rupture of the partnership, and
he knew well enough that a general move
to Hampstead on their part was in prospect,
when the sight of the squire, whom
he met in one of the tortuous alleys of the
City, informed him that the move had
been made, and that he would probably find
his god-daughter in her Hampstead home.
Mr. Gidley rightly supposed that the morning
would be the most likely time to find
her at home ; and so, one morning, some
few days after the Armers' arrival at
Heathfield, Mr. Gidley stood at the door
of that 'desirable villa residence,' and
gazed curiously at Xellie's new surroundings

as he waited for a response to his
vigorous pull at the door-bell.

Now Nellie received the name of Gidley,
which the faithful Hudson brought
up, with mingled feelings of pleasure and
alarm : pleasure at the prospect of seeing
and talking with her godfather who, whatever
he might be to others, was always
kindness itself to her ; and alarm as to
how her father would take this visit on the
part of his enemy. For as an enemy Mr.
Armer had got to look upon his old partner,
and Nellie shuddered as she remembered
the frequent objurgation with which
the squire saluted the name of Gidley,
and how only that very morning (moved
by an abnormal ^ rise ' in some securities
in which he knew the aforesaid Gidley to
be largely engaged) he had indulged himself
in language certainly not scriptural as
to the habits and character of his late
partner, and the way that late partner had
treated him, Mr. Armer. At any rate,

here Mr. Galley was, waiting in the ,
and probably wondering why
she was so long in coming ; so Xellie ran
lightly down the stairs from her own peculiar
sanctum, and found her godfather
eagerly expecting her.

My dear Nellie,' he cried, as he took the
privilege of his age and position, and
saluted the cheek of that fair damsel, ' you
are surprised to see me, I know, but I will
explain it all presently. Let me look at
you, my dear,' he went on, leading her to
the endow; 'why, Nellie, how's this?
Where is your bonny rosy colour, Nellie?
Has the air of London already stolen the
roses from you ? But that's all fudge
for the air of London is the finest in the
world, and much healthier than the tainted
air of undrained country villages. You
are not looking yourself, my dear ; is there
anything wrong? Master Jack been
worrying you about his scrapes, eh ?'

Now Nellie found it anything but easy to

answer the questions the old gentleman
poured out upon her so profusely, for the
questions brought all the old troubles to
her mind again, and she could hardly
:speak as she thought of the true cause of
her pale cheeks and thin outlines. Not
much peace of mind had Nellie had since
that day when Lady Limborne's letter had
put an end to all her happy dreams.

Oh ! I am quite well, Mr. Gidley,' she
said, ' and delighted to see my godfather
again.'

'Well, Nellie,' said Mr. Gidley, 'old
Mrs. Rose and I could not stand it any
longer, you know. This is the time you
always come to us, and we want you to
come and brighten up the old house
again.'

Oh, Mr. Gidley,' said Nellie, sadly, 'you
don't know how angry father is ; you know
how he has turned against you, and he is
so strong in his likes and dislikes. Why
did you quarrel with him ? I fear he will

never let me come and see you '

It was just about this very thing that
I called interrupted Mr. Gidley ; 'the fact is,
my dear, that I miss you very much, and
. . in short, I wanted to consult with
you as to how this . . . ah . . . this unfortunate
affair with your father could Idc
made up ; now, what do you think about it,
Xellie ? Can't you and I lay our heads
together, and make up some plan or other,
eh, my dear?'

I don't know icliat to say,' said Xellie ;
'why, it was only this morning . . . .'
and she stopped herself, for she could not
repeat her father's remarks to Mr. Gidley.
'Well, never mind, my dear,' said Mv.
Gidley, with a somewhat wry face, ' I can
easily fill up the blank ; it is plain that
your father has not forgotten old scores.
Now, what do you say to a letter ? I have
made up my mind to a dish of humble pie,
and you know better than I do the sort of
seasoning your father would like to have

it dressed with ; so, here's pen and ink,
there's no time like the present, and if you
and I cannot compose an epistle calculated
to soften the heart of a stone, well, I'm
very much mistaken ;' and Mr. Gidley's
unwonted flow of eloquence ran dry, as he
placed a seat for Nellie at the writing-table,
and arranged the materials for their joint
effort at composition.

Now this letter, touching as it did upon
delicate points, and requiring a large
amount of consideration, took a very longtime
in the making, and so engrossed were
the two conspirators that they did not
mark the alarming way in which the hands
of the clock were passing the quarters and
the half-hours, so that they were altogether
taken aback when Hudson, entering to
announce lunch, found them surrounded
with the torn relics of their mental
struggles, and Nellie dictating, while her
godfather was writing out a fair copy of
the result of their labours.

Xellie could not very well send her godfather
empty away, and Mr. Gidley could
not resist the chains of a tete-astute meal
with his fair friend. They lingered over
the meal, chatting pleasantly, and it was
close upon three o'clock before Mr. Gidley
bade farewell to Nellie, and started in
search of a hansom to take him home to
Bedford Square.

Now it chanced that Mr. Armer found
but little stirring in the City that day,
and not feeling over well (for, in truth,
the change in his habits and the altogether
altered conditions of life were telling
in a marked way upon his health), the
squire determined that he would make an
early move towards home, and, perhaps,
catch his daughter before she drove out,
and accompany her in her drive ; so, hastily
swallowing; a sandwich and a o^lass of
sherry at his City club, he jumped into a
hansom and drove Hampstead wards. Heath-field
House stood in a lane which ran at

right angles from the main roach, and
speechless With rage was the squire, on
rounding the abrupt corner, to see his
particular enemy and old partner calmly
proceeding down his own doorsteps !

Mr. Gidley recognised the squire, and
making up his mind in a moment, he waited
till the cab drew up to the kerbstonCy
and came forward to speak to the squire.

Not a word, sir ! Not a word, sir !' cried
the squire, in a voice positively hoarse
with rage.

Now, let me explain, Armer . . .' Mr.
Gidley called out.

I won't hear you, sir,' cried the squire
hastily rummaging in his waistcoat-pocket
and paying his fare with such an unusual
and splendid liberality in his agitation
that the cabman, resisting the keen desire
to ' see the row ' common to his fraternity,
gathered up his reins and drove off rapidly,
lest his fare should find out his
mistake.

The squire ran up the steps with unwonted
agility, followed more slowly by
the expostulating Gidley ; and, hastily fixing
his latch-key in the door, he entered
his house in a perfect tornado of wrath,
slamming the door in Mr. Gidley 's face,
and dismissing him in a shower of ' blessings
' not fit for ears polite.

By this time Mr. Gidley 's ire was roused
to fever heat, and, muttering objurgations
at the senseless rage of his late partner,
he turned on his heels and quickly walked
away.

Nellie had been a spectator of this anything
but amusing scene (to hei at least),
and, not waiting to hear more than the
opening fire ' of the great guns her father
brought to bear upon the enemy's position,
she rushed upstairs and shut herself in, in
her own room, to avoid the hurricane
which seemed imminent. If the squire's
rage was hot while it lasted, it was quickly
over, though it left an unpleasant * ground-vol.

II. H

swell ' of abiding hostility which was long,
indeed, in subsiding. So, after a tremulous
interval of a quarter-of-an-hour,
which began in the banging of doors and
much loud-voiced direction to Hudson, and
ended in perfect silence, the more still
from the noise that preceded it, Nellie ventured
downstairs, to find her father in his
library, in the state of complete exhaustion
which now followed on his fits of exasperation.
The squire was looking ill
and pale, and his daughter felt an icy chill
at her heart as she marked the too evident
effects of the explosion. She went up to
her father and kissed him ; and the squire,
who was in truth somewhat ashamed of
his outbreak, began to make explanations.
You need not look so frightened,
Nellie,' he said ; ' it's enough to make a
man mad, to see that — that fellow coming
down my doorsteps. What on earth did he
come here for! the impertinence, the
insolence . . .' and the remembrance of

Mr. Gidley's audacity was making the
squire warm again when Nellie interrupted
him.

He wanted to see me, father,' she said.
hesitating, and fearing; as to how her
father would take it.

See you !' said the squire. ' What does
he want to see you for ? How dare he
come to my house ? We shall have that
fellow Limborne here next, "wanting to
see you," and the whole crew of them.
It's intolerable that a man can't keep even
his own house to himself. However, I
shan't be troubled with that man again, for
I have given orders to Hudson never to
admit him — Gidley, I mean.'

Nellie saw it was no use to speak to her
father whilst he was still simmering with
scarcely suppressed rage, so she stood by
him a little while, until he had talked himself
into a more rational frame of mind,
and after seeing him comfortably employed
with a soothing cigar, and his favourite

h2

newspaper, lie went out to see if a blow
upon the breezy heath would drive away
the headache which all this noise and agitation
had given her.

Now there is at Hampstead a certain
road between that suburb and Highgate,
called by the inhabitants of Hampstead
'the Broad Walk,' and much resorted to by
those inhabitants, inasmuch as from its
broad and gravelled sidewalks a most extended
view can be obtained: on the
north side over a wide stretch of beautiful
country, and on the south side over the
acres upon acres, and miles upon miles
covered by far-famed London town. Moreover,
there is always a pleasant breeze to
be met with there. To this, her accustomed
place of exercise, did Nellie 'wend
her way,' pondering many things in her
mind, and all unsuspicious of evil. The
close of the November day was already
shutting out the landscape on the one
side, and on the other the ' Lights of London

' were beginning to twinkle out, as
Nellie, having reached the end of her walk,
turned her face towards home. There
were but few people abroad ; the children
who usually abound in that place had
already gone home with their nurses, and
the chilly evening air was making the stray
pedestrians hasten their steps towards the
warm fireside of dulce domus. But
Nellie was thinking many thoughts, and
she did not feel the cold. She was walking
slowly along, looking upon the ground,
and wondering what her quondam lover
was doing, wondering whether he would
soon forget her, whether she should ever
see him again, when the quick approach of
a passer-by caused her to look up, and she
found herself face to face with that lover
himself

Her first impulse was to turn round, and
hasten away in the opposite direction, but
Lord Limborne was quickly by her side.

Nellie ! Nellie !' he cried, ' I implore

you not to leave me ; I must speak to you
I have been looking for you almost everyday
; you must hear me !'

It is of no use, Lord Limborne,' said
Nellie, turning at last, and trying to obtain
composure in the gathering darkness, and
to speak calmly. ' It is of no use, and it
is cruel to torture me like this. How can
I have any chance of peace, if I know that
I may meet you at any time?'

'Only hear me for one instant,' implored
Lord Limborne ; ' you could not expect
that I should let all end between us without
seeing you, or speaking to you ? I love you
still, Nellie, I shall always love you . . .'

'I cannot, I must not listen to you,
James,' she cried. ' Oh ! how can you be
so cruel to me, when it is all so hard, so
hard to bear. I beg you to leave me, and
never to speak to me again. It is all so
miserably hopeless, and I ought not to
speak to you now.'

Why is it so hopeless, Nellie ?' he asked,

eagerly. * Will you let the silly pride of
my mother interfere between us and the
happiness of both of us ?'

It is not only that, James,' replied
Nellie ; ' you forget that we are proud also.
I have promised my father that I will not
listen to you ; neither would I submit to
the insults of Lady Limborne.'

^ Are you so heartless, Nellie ? Will you
let all these miserable feelings come between
us now ? Why cannot we break
through it all?'

You ask me to do more than I can,'
said Nellie. ' How could I leave my home,
and my father, and Jack? I can look
Lady Limborne in the face now, but she
would rightly despise me if I were to do as
you want. And do you suppose / am not
wretched ? Ah ! for pity's sake, spare me
this added misery and leave me. It can
never be ! it can never be !' and Nellie's
voice broke as she held out her hand to her
lover, and bade him farewell.

They had been walking rapidly, for
Nellie had hurried on in her agitation, and
had come to the place where the broad
walk was merged into the road to the
town of Hampstead, and where was the
turning that led to Heathfield, as she
uttered these last words. Lord Limborne
saw that it would be worse than cruel for
him to urge his suit any further, and sorrowfully
looking a last long look into
Nellie's face, and bending down and kissing
her hand, he said, earnestly,

^ Remember, Nellie, I will never give
you up !' and with a muttered and fervent
God bless you always, Nellie darling !' he
slowly took his way down the hill.

CHAPTER YI.

^ GREAT IS MONEY, AND IT SHALL Prevail.'

Mb. Henry Denton, junior, lost no time,
but sought the very earliest opportunity to
lay before the object of his devotion the
brilliant prospects which fortune had in
store for her ; and to this end, early in the
afternoon of the day after his arrival in
London, he chartered a hansom, and, arrayed
in the most unimpeachable of calling
gets-up ' he drove to Hampstead — to be informed
by Hudson that the Armer family
were ^ not-at-home.' Having received this
knock-down blow, he returned to his
hotel in a desponding frame of mind, leaving

cards upon his friends (?), and making
up his mind to call again after a decent
interval. Not having any other friends
in London, he would have found time a
heavy burden on his hands during this
interval, if it had not been for the house-hunting
to which he was pledged, and concerning
which quest he received daily epistles
from his fond mother, setting forth the requirements
as to situation and size, and exhorting
him to haste. As there was no limit
as to expense, the difficulty in finding what
was wanted was not great, and in a couple
of days he was in treaty with the house-agent
for a very well-known and palatial
mansion in Piccadilly, which had just
come into the market through the death of
the previous noble lessee.

• His letter describing the magnificence
of this abode, and the glory and splendour
of the furniture and fittings (which were
shortly to be brought to the hammer)
excited feelings of curiosity, and a strong

desire for the possession of such a point of
advantage from ^vhich to storm and carry
the serried ranks of society, in the bosoms
of Mrs. Denton and her daughters ; as to
the head of the family, he cared not a jot
about the matter, and gave his ^vife carte-blanche,
only stipulating that he should
be left alone, and free to return to his beloved
' 'eating-rouses,' his orchids, and other
store-plants,' as soon and as often as he
chose. To this proviso Mrs. Denton made
no demur, for she saw in her husband's
dislike to the trammels of London life an
easy way of escape from a difficulty which
had greatly oppressed her mind. Xo
amount of training, no lessons, corrections,
nor exhortations could subdue the vulgarity
of her good-natured spouse, and she was
compelled, with many sighs of regret, to
own that all the luxury of his surroundings
could not change the character and
habits of Mr. Denton ; for nearly sixty
years he had lived and moved in the

social atmosphere of the small and fairly
prosperous tradesman, and to the day of
his death he would continue to act and
speak up to that character. As he often
said himself, when she tried to cure him of
some obnoxious habit or other, or to induce
him to mend his speech, or to struggle
valiantly with the fatal aspirate : ' He was
too old a dog to learn new tricks.'

And though, as she well knew, society
will stand a great deal from a monstrously
wealthy man, yet 'Enery Denton, as he
called himself, was too much, and possessed
a fund of vulgarity heavy enough to sink a
whole cargo of millionaires.

I can't think ' he said, as they were
discussing his son's communication anent
the house at breakfast, ' I can't think what
on earth you want a house in London for ;
if you, and Tresa, and Emily want to go
up to town to buy fall-laws, and see the
theatres, why can't you go to a 'hotel ?
What do you want to bother about a

house for ? Look at the expense of

it;

/ appreciate my duty to my children if
you do not, Henry,' said Mrs. Denton.
'My one desire is to see them suitably
settled in the position to which their
prospects entitle them, and to that end I
will spare no trouble.'

You know yourself, mother,' said the
plain-spoken Theresa, ' that you are longs
to make a flare in London, and o-et into
society.'

Well, my dear,' said her mother, ' and
why shouldn't I, pray ? the two things
go together, and you cannot secure advantageous
married-es, unless we are known.
And as to expense, Henry,' she went on,
addressing her husband, ' I wonder at
your mentioning such a thing ; in what
better way could we spend our money
than in taking up our proper position in
the world, and connecting ourselves with
the aristocracy?'

'Well, well!' said the easy-going hus-land,
' do as you like, do as you like, but
don't expect me to go bowing and scraping
about like a monkey on a barrel
origin; what I like is to be comfortable,
and that's what I mean to be, too, it's the
only good I've got out of brother Ben's
money.'

'You needn't trouble, father, I'm sure,'
said Emily, seeing (together with her
mother and sister) the advantages this
determination of her father's held out.
'Henry will be with us, and look after
everything.'

'venery indeed! a fine lot of looking
after he'll do; why, he's as silly as a sheep,
and those London chaps '11 do him at every
turn. If it was only him up there, I
should go up myself. But there's your
mother, my dears, and it '11 take a sharp
'un to do Afar, / know ;' and Mr. Denton
strolled out of the room, chuckling to himself

at the idea of cmy one getting over his
shrewd wife.

That estimable woman and her daughters
were not long in making up their minds
as to the plan of the campaign, and the
next day saw the excellent trio installed
in a comfortable suite of apartments in a
fashionable hotel in London, and before
many more days were over the legal
preliminaries were duly surmounted,
various documents were forwarded to Mr.
Denton at Wreford, and returned signed,
sealed, and delivered, and the Den tons
were the proud possessors of Xo. 751,
Piccadilly, late the residence of the Most
Noble the Marquis of .

It is one thing to possess a magnificent
mansion, and it is another thing to fill that
mansion with the sort of guests that Mrs.
Denton's soul loved. It is not to be
supposed, however, that that astute lady,
and the little less acute coadjutors, her

daughters, had entered into this campaign
without counting the cost, surveying their
ground, reviewing their forces, and taking
unto themselves powerful allies.

As Miss Charlotte Ingle had announced
her intention to 'run the Dentonss in
society,' so, so far, she had faithfully fulfilled
her promises. To this fact the great
Denton ball at Wreford, and the numerous
entries in the visitors' book of that establishment,
bore ample witness. It had been
difficult at first to bring about this desirable
state of affairs in South Devon, but to put
her protegees on the same footing in
society in London, Miss Ingle frankly confessed
was beyond the utmost stretch of
her power, backed up as that power was
by an amount of push and ' cheek ' practically
inexhaustible.

But the difficulties only served to rouse
Miss Ingle's amiable qualities to their
highest pitch, and, when called upon by
Mrs. Denton to assist in the Denton avatar,

she responded with enthusiasm, and cheered
by the benedictions of her sister, who
toc^k abnost as much interest in the matter
as herself, and exacted a promise of daily
bulletins, she bade that sister a fond farewell,
and appeared at the Dentonss' new
and magnificent abode the very afternoon
after she heard from Mrs. Denton of their
entry into that palatial residence.

I'm sure, Charlotte,' said Theresa, after
that fair spinster had ^ taken off her things,'
and removed the signs of her journey, and
as the four conspirators were solacing
themselves with a cup of tea, before going
through the arduous operation of dressing
for dinner — ' I'm sure, Charlotte, we are
all infinitely obliged to you for coming up
so quickly.'

Not a bit, my dear,' answered Charlotte.
I'm delighted to come ; you can't think
how dull it is down in Devonshire, nothing
going on at all ; besides I want some
new gowns, and I've all sorts of commis-vol.

II. I

sons for Mary, too. My dear Mrs. Denton,'
she went on, turning to that lady,
^ you look quite worn out ; it was tim I
came to look after you.'

"Well, Charlotte, I confess I am almost
worn out, for Henry, poor boy, is absolutely
useless in anything that has to do
with business, and the girls and I have had
to do everything.'

What have you done about servants ?
I see some of the Wreford men are here,'
said Charlotte.

We have been fortunate enough to take
on some of the old servants of the house ;
they had excellent characters from the
marchioness,' said Mrs. Denton.

Oh ! the marchioness,' exclaimed Miss
Ingle ; ' then you have seen her, spoken to
her?'

Oh ! yes,' said Mrs. Denton j ' you know
we have bought all the furniture, everything,
in fact, and there were some few
things that Lady wanted, so she was

kind enough to call on us at the hotel
about them.'

capital, capital!' cried out Charlotte,
*ife can only get her to recognise us,
that will be a great step gained.'

Of course, Charlotte,' said Theresa,
eager to put in a word, ' it is about this weare
so anxious ; it would be too awful if,
after going to all this frightful expense, it
came to nothing, and people turned a cold
shoulder upon us.'

Well, my dears,' said Charlotte, looking
round at her audience, ' I have
thought it all out, and I think I have hit
upon a plan which 7nust succeed, — not that
it's a new plan, for it has often been done
before. Now, you must pledge me your
word that you will never breathe a syllable
to anyone about what I am going to
propose.'

Of course ! Not a word !' chorused
the mother and daughters.

Not that I suppose you would, for it
» i2

would be telling a tale against yourselves
if you did,' said Miss Ingle, enigmatically.
Of course,' she went on, 'you already know
a fair circle of nice people, but of some of
them, and those the most important, I am
not at all sure. You do not mind me
speaking plainly?' she asked, pausing and
looking at Mrs. Denton.

Not in the least ; say exactly what you
think, Charlotte,' said Mrs. Denton, listening
with great earnestness.

^ Some of them I am not sure of,' Miss
Ingle repeated ; ' they may be willing
enough to know you down there, but they
may scarcely recognise you here; it is often
done, and some people are quite content to
be only known in their own county; but
this, of course, is out of the question with
you. I cannot do any more for you myself
than I have done.' (Here murmurs of
thanks from her audience interrupted the
fair speaker.) ' I cannot do more myself,
but I think mind I am not sure, but I think

I can get some one else to do what you
want. You know Lady Leveret?' she
asked, somewhat abruptly.

Oh ! yes,' all answered eagerly ; for, indeed,
who does not know that great leader
of the haute monde ?

Of course you do, and you know, too,
for I have often mentioned it ' (which was,
indeed, an incontrovertible fact), ' that Lady
Leveret is my cousin. Well, you know, I
know her very well indeed, in fact, I think
I know more about her than anyone else ;
she has sent for me more than once, and I
have been able to help her in one or two
well, there is no need for me to go
into particulars. Xow I am going to tell
you something which I must tell you to
explain myself, and which must be kept
perfectly secret, or you will upset everything,
and, worse than that, make an enemy
of my cousin. It was only two or three
days ago, when I was thinking over what
was to be done here, that I had a letter

from Lady Leveret ;' and here Miss Ingle
paused evidently hesitating before she
divulged the contents of that letter.

eyes! yes! Well? well?' breathlessly
exclaimed her excited auditory, leaning
forward to hear what the secret was and
how it could affect them.

Everybody knows resumed Miss Ingle,
how frightfully rich Lord Leveret is — coal-mines,
and all that sort of thing, you
know, — but everybody does not know how
dreadfully mean he is. Of course a person
in my cousin's position, with so many
establishments to keep up, and such a reputation
for entertaining, has the most
enormous expenses, and well, the
truth is, that Lady Leveret has had great
difficulty in getting the necessary supplies
from her husband before this, and, I will
not disguise it from you, it has been the
cause of some little unpleasantness between
them. Well, I heard from her the other
day that it is absolutely necessary she

should have a certain sum by a certain
date, and unless this sum is forthcoming
she must apply to Lord Leveret, and very
painful consequences will ensue. Now, Lady
Leveret has written to me to advise her in
the matter, and . . well ! do you see now
what I mean ?'

I think I do,' said Mrs. Denton ; ' you
mean that ive should . . . .'

Precisely so,' interrupted Miss Ingle ;
of course, it is a most delicate affair, and
must be arranged in such a manner as not
to wound my cousin's feelings. I have
not even hinted at such a thing yet, and I
cannot possibly tell how she will take it ; I
know, however, that she is very hard pressed,
and it is just possible that I may bring
her to some arrangement.'

What am I to do, then?' asked Mrs.
Denton ; ' I have never even seen Lady
Leveret. I suppose it would not do for me
to call, or should I lorite to her?'

'• Gracious Heavens !' exclaimed the

cousin of the ' party concerned,' ^ that
would never do ! it would put an end to
the affair at once. My cousin is as proud
as Lucifer. You must not appear at all, it
would be too shocking ; neither, supposing
I find her willing to help you, must any
mention ever be made of the . . . the
arrangement.'

'But how . . .?' asked Mrs. Denton,
somewhat mystified as to the ways and
the means.

'I know that my cousin is in town,'
answered Miss Ingle, ' and I know I shall
find her at home in the morning, for she
seldom appears before lunch ; and tomorrow
I will go and sound her, for the
sooner we begin the better. If I can only
get her to agree, the thing is done, for
where she goes everyone will follow.'

It is so good of you to take all this
trouble, my dear Charlotte,' said Mrs.
Denton, with effusion ; and her daughters
chimed in, and agreed with that sentiment,

while the impetuous Theresa went over
and embraced her friend, and called her ' a
clear thins.'

Pray don't mention it,' said the ' dear
thing.' ' I am only too glad to be of
service to you.' And no doubt she was ;
for even if Miss Inofle did not succeed in
extracting a neat little commission ins.
d., as some people in like circumstances
would have done, from the ' arrangement,'
— of which, to do her justice, she did
not even think — she would, at any rate, add
another to the obligations the powerful
Lady Leveret was already under to her
useful cousin, and she was quite determined
to exact the payment of these obligations
to the very last farthing, if not in pelf, at
least in the glory of seeing the name of
Miss Ingle tagged on to the list of noble
and famous guests entertained by Lord and
Lady Leveret at such and such a castle or
house.

Dire indeed was the strait in which the

great leader of eton,' and Miss Ingle's
cousin, found herself. Some two or three
years before she had been fortunate enough
to make ' the match of the season ;' her
parents were well-born, but not particularly
wealthy, and her extreme beauty and
charming manners had won for her the
exalted position to which she had attained
as the wife of one of the richest peers in
England, and the leader of quite one of the
most exclusive sets in ' fashionable society.'
But, — the inevitable ' but ' appeared at
length, and Lord Leveret had, in quite the
early stages of matrimonial bliss, shown
signs of restiveness under the painful
revelations which his cheque-book divulged
as to the inordinate extravagance of his
beautiful wife, and ' scenes ' of a most unpleasant
sort had been uncomfortably
frequent. Under these circumstances Lady
Leveret had been reduced to very painful
expedients to satisfy her cormorant tradespeople,
without applying too frequently to

her husband. And now things were
desperate indeed, for Madame Coralline was
not to be pacified ^\^thout a substantial
sop,' and every expedient towards ' raising
the wind' had been long ago exhausted,
even to the interviews in the back room
of one of the West End establishments of
those mighty genii of the Three Golden

Balls, Messrs. , and Lady Leveret was

come upon evil days, and in the very deepest
depths of despair. Miss Ingle, therefore,
found a ready and eager listener
when, on the morning after her consultation
-with Mrs. Denton, she unfolded her
tale in Lady Leveret's boudoir, and that
mighty leader of society' hailed with the
keenest satisfaction the way of escape this
tale afforded. The question soon resolved
itself into the small compass of 'how much?'
and, that question having been answered.
Miss Ingle departed from the presence
with a glow of virtuous satisfaction at her
heart. As Mrs. Denton had ' carte blanche '

from that man of millions, her husband,
and as she had an acute perception of the
value (in her eyes) of the ' quid pro,' she
made no difficulty as to the sum demanded,
though the number of O's after the
initial figure did make her open her eyes ;
and so the ^ arrangement ' was completed
without even the principals to it seeing
one another.

Shortly after the affair was thus satisfactorily
settled (greatly to the astonishment
of Madame Coralline, who was behind the
scenes, and looking for a visit of a not
very pleasant character from Lord Leveret,
or his ' man of business ') the exceedingly
well-appointed brougham of Lady Leveret
^ might have been seen ' standing outside
the door of No. 751, Piccadilly, and bitterly
did that fashionable lady its owner's
men curse their fate, as they waited in the
bleak and raw November air, while a long
consultation was going on between their
mistress, her cousin, and her new friend (?)

Soon after this consultation the fame of
the Dentonss' millions (with prodigious
exaggerations) became whispered about ' in
the world and great curiosity was expressed
as to the new occupants of the well-known
mansion Xo. 751. The fact, too,
that Lady Leveret had taken them wpr
very quickly became known, and she was
besieged with questions as to 'who they
were?' and 'where they came from?' and
how she picked them up ?' ' Friends of
my cousin, Charlotte Ingle, don't you
know ? you 7nusf have met her at Leveret
House ; disgustingly rich, ever so many
millions, and quite nice people,' was her
ladyship's answer, with the result that
many high and mighty folk desired the
honour of an introduction to Mrs. Denton
at the next big ' crush ' at Leveret House,
which ' crush ' was more crowded than
ever, inasmuch as it was well known beforehand
that the new millionaires were to be
present. And so, behold Mrs. Denton at

the very summit of her ambition, admitted
to the ' best houses,' her own receptions
crowded with persons (and even personages)
of the very highest distinction ; and,
as you behold, bow down to the great God
Mammon ; for great is money, and it shall
prevail !

CHAPTER Iii.

THE FATE OF HENRY DENTON.

Now the love-lorn Henry Denton had not
been idle during these weeks, occupied by
his family in ascending social Alpine
heights ; into the vortex he was perforce
dragged, and a not unimportant item was
he in the social success of his family, for
if Theresa was found to be lovely, as she
certainly was, and that in a very ' large
way,' and if her somewhat pronounced
way of * saying what she meant ' was looked
upon as ^ chic,' and piquante, and was,
in fact, not in the least more outre than
the manners and customs of some of the

very highest of society dames ; and if the
fair Emily was regarded as an interesting
addition to the more languid pursuers of
culture ' (for asceticism was then gaining
many adherents, and Emily was not
slow to seize her chance, and pathetically
denounce the general Philistinism) ; and
if Mrs. Denton was deemed ' quite nice
don't you know, and so enormously rich,'
the son and heir of all this fabulous
wealth was the object of universal regard,
and received attentions from the hands of
the ^ mothers in (fashionable) Israel,' and
from the daughters of those mothers, too,
which filled the heart of his own ambitious
parent with a keen delight she was not
slow in communicating to that 
representative of pelf.

The faithful swain in question was not
slow in seeing how his enhanced importance
would ^^t against his mother's
acceptance of his beloved Nellie as a daughter,
and he made up his mind to put an

end to his suspense at once. This, however,
was not easy of accomplishment ; for,
though he had called several times at
Heathfield, he had never yet had a chance
of speaking to the fair mistress of that
establishment alone.

Nellie had a very clear knowledge of his
reasons in so frequently boring her with
his vacuous company and vapid remarks,
and had shown considerable ingenuity in
staving off ' the evil day '; but at last the
bore became intolerable, and even her
father (who was usually now so absorbed
in his business as to take but little notice
of what else was going on around him)
remarked to Xellie that ' he supposed that
young Denton puppy was fooling about
after her, and he wished she would send
him away with his tail between his legs ;'
while Jack, on the few occasions when he
honoured Heathfield with his presence at
dinner, made the rest of the evening
hideous to his sister with his chaff as to

VOL. II. K

Svhen it was to be,' and 'what lie was
going to do for her poor brother when she
became a millionaires.' And so Nellie resolved,
as the best way of putting a stop to
the nuisance, to let the young man have
his say, and to give him such a lesson as
should effectually rid her of his distasteful
addresses.

The next time he called she was alone,
and when Mr. Henry Denton's name was
brought up by Hudson (who was under
considerable pecuniary obligations to that
gentleman) she desired that the visitor
should be shown into the drawing-room,
and, with a sigh of infinite disgust, ' prepared
to receive cavalry.'

Joy beamed from the pallid countenance
of the attenuated one, as he beheld his
mistress appear before him alone, and saw
the butler close the door behind her.
Now ! now ! was the longed-for chance,
and having rehearsed the scene (with carefully
locked . doors) in his ' study ' at No.

751, he was prepared to go through his
performance at a moment's notice ; and,
scarcely pausing to go through the customary
greetings, he began,

^ You must have seen, Miss Armer, the
devotion — the — the — ah — love '

But ' Miss Armer ' was not going to let
him exhaust the reservoirs of his eloquence,
and very cruelly turned it off at the main,
almost before even it began to flow.

'Now, Mr. Denton,' she said, 'I know
what you are going to say, and you had
really better not say it. If I had given
you any, the very least encouragement,
I could have pardoned you, nay, been
grateful to you for thinking so highly of
me, as you, no doubt, imagine you do
think. But I have not. I have constantly
and consistently avoided you. I have
let you see in every possible way a girl
could that I do not like, that I detest your
your attentions, your persecutions. I
would have been kind to you, and have

k2

spared you this, if you only had let me ;
but I knew it was no use. Nothing but
the very plainest words will convince
you that your persecution is abominable
to me. I beg of you to take this as a
final answer, and for the future to cease
this — this absurd infatuation.'

And, with these words, Miss Nellie walked
up to the bell, rang it, and, bowing to the
dumb-stricken Henry, she passed from the
room, with head erect and quivering with
anger.

Poor Henry had no time to recover his
lost gift of speech, for Hudson promptly
appeared at the call of the bell ; and there
was nothing to be done but to follow that
observant individual to the front-door, and
to make his exit with what measure of
insouciance he could call to his assistance.

Never, surely, was man more dumb-founded
than was Henry Denton. That
Nellie would refuse him, he had regarded asa
possibility of the very remotest; just

possible enough, in fact, to give him the
very slightest thrill at the idea; and so
to lend a faint savour of uncertainty to
his courtship, and to take away the flat
staleness of an altogether foregone conclusion
; but that she should refuse him
in such unequivocal terms of contempt,
with a rejection so serenely contemptuous,
was a consummation utterly outside
his very wildest dreaming. He felt it
the more, too, on account of the open
adulation and the almost outspoken courting
which his reputation for wealth had
gained him, and that, too, in quarters
very far removed from that of the daughter
of John Armer, stockbroker.

At first he was consumed with anger
at the reproaches the fair Helen had
hurled at his devoted head ; but, as he
walked on and on through the dirty and
squalid streets (with which his former
life as a solicitor's clerk in Bedford Row
had given him an intimate acquaintance),

and almost unconsciously towards the
West End, he relapsed into more than
his former melancholy, as he thought of
his disappointment. The sedentary life
he led, begun in indolence, and with an
affectation of being aloof from the ' common
herd,' had ended in a positive dislike
to society; and the pretended melancholy
— which was to cast a halo of romance
around a very ordinary, everyday
young man — had resulted in a dullness
of mind, and a disinclination to all
exertion, from which his sudden passion
for Nellie had roused him.

He soon sank back into his old indifference
and laziness, and, being reduced to a
very flabby condition by his disappointment,
he was as wax in the hands of that
clever and determined moulder, his mother.
That lady carried him about from
place to place in her various sacrifices at
the altar of her god, society, and before
the winter season was out her plans for

dear Henry were crowned with the success
her strenuous exertions deserved ; for,
egged on by his mother, who was most
vehemently backed up by his sisters, the
poor young man, who scarcely had the
strength of mind to care what became of
him, had proposed in proper form, though
in an evidently half-hearted way (for
which he afterwards paid severely) to the
daughter of a ' poor but honest earl,' a
strong-minded young lady, of great experience
in the world, and soTaev^hat j^assee.
This new ' arrangement ' Mrs. Denton had
completed-without the intervention of the
assiduous Charlotte, and a proud woman
was his mother when she read, among the
'fashionable marriages,' the account of the
marriage of Henry Denton, Esq., and the
daughter of the aforesaid poor but honest
one.

Lady Edith Denton ! There was a savour
almost of intoxication in the sound, and
in repeating the magic syllables she almost

forgot the mortification of the wedding
breakfast ; for, alas ! that longed-for and
festal occasion was marred and rendered
bitter to his wife by the presence of her
irrepressible husband, and his conduct
thereat.

Once or twice during the season he had
sought the bosom of his family in Piccadilly;
but as he found himself very
much in the way, and as he was making
experiments in agriculture, and thoroughly
happy in the amusing, though scarcely
profitable, occupation of ' farming his own
land,' he had quickly returned to his furrows.
But to the wedding of his only
son, of course, he must come ; and come he
did, and vastly did he astonish his new
and aristocratic relations at the breakfast
which followed upon the heels of the ceremony.
His attire his wife had carefully
seen to, and there was nothing outre in
that, but his speech she could not regulate,
and in vain did she beseech him not

to open his lips — in vain ; for, moved ^vith
the champagne consumed at an unwonted
hour, and overcome as to his feelings by
the occasion, he perpetrated a speech
which struck the company dumb, not so
much by its fluency, which was extraordinary,
but by the curious similes ^vith which
it was garnished, and the ingenuity in
which the letter ' h ' was eliminated wherever
it ought to have appeared, and placed
in unaccustomed places where it certainly
ought noi to have been by any known
rules of spelling or pronunciation.

If she had only known of the dreadful
father,' the Lady Edith remarked to her
fond mother, as they held a brief interview
before the lovely bride departed with
the expectant, and, alas ! still despondent
Henry, she would never have gone
through with it.'

^ Never mind, Edith,' her mother had
said ; ' the man is so fearfully rich, and
has behaved most handsomely, and you

need scarcely ever see him. Besides, one
expects these millionaires to be vulgar.'

Thus consoled, her daughter went down
to endure the customary showers of rice
and slippers, and to begin that course of
snubbing and ignoring which was soon to
make the husband a more ^ blighted being
than ever.'

The dreary winter months, which dragged
their slow length along, brought but
little of joy or cheerfulness to our heroine.
Nellie had manj^ lonely days in
which to ruminate over past sorrows and
present anxieties. She missed her old pleasant
occupations at her much-regretted
home far-off Devon : the rides and drives,
and the long tramps with Jack; the 'runs
over' to the rectory, and pleasant chats
with Mrs. Bolland ; her frequent visits to
her old pensioners in the parish, and the
gossiping with the homely wives of the
careering folk. There .' Miss Nellie ' was

a person of great importance, the centre
round Which circulated an atmosphere
of kindliness and affection, the squire's
daughter; but here in Hampstead she
was 'nobody the daughter of those 'new
people ' at Heathfield, stockbrokers or
something in the City.'

Two sets at least go to make up the
sum-total of society at Hampstead ; first
and foremost the high and mighty clique
devoted, as to their business interests, to
operations in money, beer, and wine, and
taking their diversion somewhat sadly in
the form of solemn dinner-parties, and the
still more ' painful pleasure ' of the 
missionary meeting — a most
alarming product of modern evangelicalism
— where the last missionary lion relates
his harrowing experiences to an
audience mostly consisting of ladies in
sober, but rich and elaborate evening-dress,
and where the finale is not reached

without the accompaniment of the ' chinking
' of gold and silver coins upon a
salver.

Very exclusive are these monied potentates,
and difficult indeed is it for the
outsider to break through the hedge of
their reserve. With pained looks and
pity, largely mixed with grave disapproval,
do these first look upon the doings
of the next great division, the artistic,
the literary, and the dramatic set ;
for these are tinged with a certain colouring
of Bohemianism, and hold views as to the
keeping of the Sabbath which cannot but
shock their social superiors (?). Attached
to both these divisions are flying columns
of toadies and hangers-on of the first, and
admirers and imitators of the second.

Banks, Beer, and Wine entirely ignored
the existence of the Armer family, and
but few of the Hampstead folk of. any
sort or condition called upon our friends
at Heathfield : while during their long

residence at Coombridge almost all their
old London friends had gone away or
died out ; so that, saving an occasional
visit from some Devonshire friend whom
business or pleasure called ' uj) to London,'
and whose visits Xellie regarded with anything
but delight, because of the gossip
about her and Lord Limborne, Nellie lived
almost entirely alone for the greater part
of every day. She had, then, plenty of
time to think over her affairs, and many
painful hours did she pass regretting the
happiness that might have been hers with
the faithful James. Her father, too, was
a new and serious cause of anxiety. He
had ' never been the same man ' since their
final migration from Coombridge ; he
seemed dull and moody, his temper was
more fitful and violent than ever; the
least trifle awry was enough to send him
into painful exhibitions of anger, and, as
time wore on, he only became worse and
worse. He looked ill, too, and was thin

and worn; but, though Nellie ventured
once or twice to ask her father what it
Alas that was changing him, he became so
angry, even with lier at her questions,
that she soon gave it up, and only hoped
that better times would come. Neither
was Jack any comfort to her, for that
young gentleman was very quick to perceive
and resent the general gloominess of
things at Heathfield, and sought a relief
from the monotony of his detested
office life in the society of certain ' gilded
youth,' old friends of his at college : some
going through the arduous process of 'eating
their dinners,' and cramming for the
Bar ; and others, upon whom Fortune had
smiled, and who were not under the unpleasant
necessity of 'doing anything,'
doing nothing in the more or less pernicious
amusements of the Modern Babylon. The
society of these somewhat ' fast' individuals
required an expenditure of capital
which the ample allowance his father made

him did not suffice to meet ; and Master
Jack was up to his neck in money difficulties
ao^ain. Of this fact Nellie was
made unpleasantly aware at Christmas
time, for her brother's tradesmen took that
festive opportunity to ' send in bills,' and
great was the horror of that young man,
as he added up the lengthy column and
came to the total, and saw how he had
been 'going it.' Some of the 'little
accounts ' were new ones, and could and
must wait, but others were old almost to
mustiness, relics of that ' clean slate' whose
score is seldom fulli/ disclosed to the irate
parent. Jack was in despair, and, as was
his custom when in that uncomfortable
condition, he poured out his griefs and his
fears to his sister.

Nellie,' he said, early in the new year,
I wish you would come into the smoking-room
after dinner; I want to speak to
you.'

Very well. Jack,' said his sister, with

a painful prevision as to what was
coming.

She was not left long in suspense, for
her extravagant brother opened his budget
at once.

^ I am frightfully hard up, Nellie,' he said,
as soon as they were alone, ' and the governor
is so cross and queer I don't like ta
speak to him. I wish you would help
me.'

Is it very much. Jack ?' she asked, in
fear and trembling.

Well,' he said, ' it is a good deal ; but a
man can't live in London for nothing, it
ain't like Coombridge, you know.'

It's no use speaking to you. Jack,' said
Nellie, wearily ; ' only I think you might try
and spare me and father these continual
worries. I hardly dare to speak to him on
such a subject, he has been so strange lately,
and I feel sure he will be fearfully angry.
I cannot make out what it is that has
changed him like this.'

Things have not been altogether brio;Iit
at the office,' said Jack. • I know he has
dropped a great deal lately, but it is only
a slice of bad luck, and he'll pull round all
rio^ht ao;ain. But it is a nuisance bothering
just now ; and I think, on the whole, I
had better speak to him myself, for he is
sure to " let out"' and it's mean to drag you
into the row, Xellie.'

For heaven's sake, don't do anything
of the sort, Jack,' said his sister, who knew
more of her father's present state than the
careless and unobservant Jack. ' I'll wait
until I find him in a good humour, and
then speak ; you must get me a list, and
tell me how much you want.'

'You're a regular angel, Xellie,' said her
graceless brother, ' and I feel horrid mean
to have to put you in such a hole. It
must be done soon, too, for some of those
fellows won't wait any longer;' and Master
Jack went to get his list and his sum
total, very well content to have got out of

VOL. II. L

it SO far, so easily, for his easy good-nature
was rapidly leading him on from self-indulgence
to a very unpleasant form of selfishness.


Great was the ire of Mr. Armer at this
new disclosure of his son's inveterate
extravagance, and great, too, were Nellie's
difficulties in keeping the peace between
her father and brother. Mr. Armer
forked out,' as his son expressed it, but
he refused to have anything to say to that
son on the matter, merely desiring Nellie
to inform Jack, that this was indeed the
very last of ' last times,' and that, if Jack
got into debt again, he must get out of it
the best way he could, for not a stiver
would his father pay for him again. His
intercourse with the ' offending party ' was
of the briefest and most monosyllabic description,
and things at Hatfield became
drearier and drearier after this last fiasco.
And so the weeks of the New Year wore
on, and brought very little of brightness

or happiness to Xellie ; until she gradually
got into a hopeless frame of mind, seeing
nothing in the future but the monotonous
passage of day after day passed in
the same dull round, and to the tune of the
old regrets and the new anxieties. News
of the social success of the Dentonss she
learnt from the paragraphs of the society
papers, where the great doings of Xo. 751,
and the presence of the millionaire's ife
and children at the various ' high jinks '
of the haute rondel were daily chronicled,
and where the exalted alliance the Denton
family made in the marriage of her quondam
persecutor was duly read by the old
object of his fatuous adoration. The name
of Lord Limborne, too, not infrequently
occurred, and Xellie looked with the greatest
interest at the bald and brief record of
his doings, reading, too, his various utterances
in the Lords, and the articles signed
by his name, which from time to time
appeared in the reviews. On the day of

h 2

Henry Denton's immolation at the shrine
of the family's glory and honour. Jack
came home full of the news, and with two
other items to enlarge upon, which were
not such pleasant hearing for his sister.

Did you read the gorgeous Denton
wedding, Nellie?' he asked, as he came
into the drawing-room where Nellie was
sitting before dinner. ' I've brought home
the " fashionable rag" with a full, true, and
particular account for your refection.'

I saw something about it in the
fashionable marriages " this morning,' said
Nellie. ' Mrs. Denton must be a happy
woman ; it only needs for Theresa and
Emily to join the ranks of the aristocracy
to fill up the cup of her joy.'

Well,' said Jack, ' she won't have long
to wait in the case of the lovely Theresa, for
they were all talking at the club last night
of the luck of the favoured young man. Who
do you think he is, Nellie ?'

*Not moving in those exalted regions,
I cannot say,' said Xellie, carelessly.

Prepare to receive a dreadful blow,'
said her unfeeling brother ; ' for Miss
Theresa Denton is about to be led to
the hymeneal altar by no less a person
than the Right Honourable the Lord
Limborne.'

'Nonsense, Jack,' said Xellie, composedly,
thinking he was 'chaffing' her, as
usual.

Well, all our fellows were talking about
it. They are always about together, they
say; and, if Limborne only had money,
there's no knowing; where he mio^ht o^et
to. But I have another piece of news
for you. Poor old Gidley is very ill.
Something in his lungs. He is ordered
to the South. Some weeks ago he had
to give up his business, and now he has
shut up his house, and gone off to Nice
or Pau, or one of those places.'

Oh ! why did you not tell me this
before, Jack ?' said Nellie. ' Poor, lonely
old man ! how miserable he must be, with
no one to look after him. If I had only
known, I would have gone to see him;,
he was always so good to me.'

^ I forgot all about it,' said Jack ; ' and,
besides, father would have been frightfully
angry if you had gone. He hates Gidley
like poison ;' and Jack, whistling softly
to himself, went up to dress for dinner,
leaving his sister with two new subjects
for melancholy reflection.

CHAPTER Vii

ANOTHER MATRIMONIAL ' ARRANGEMENT.'

Nellie might have spared herself the
pangs her lover's easy forgetfulness (as
shown in Jack's ' news ') gave her ; for
that lover had not the slightest desire,
or even thought, of purchasing some of
the Denton millions with the blue blood
and the ancient title of Limborne, and
would have been excessively astonished, not
to say disgusted, if he could have heard
the way in which his name was banded
about together with the name of Theresa
Denton. Lord Limborne, who was remarkably
steadfast both in his likes and

Ills dislikes, had not forgotten his little
sweetheart, and was not in the least degree
likely to forget her, indeed.

It seemed a very hopeless affair at present,
and it would take a considerable space
of time for his mother's obstinate opposition
to die out, and for the memory of
her insulting letter to be 'consigned to
oblivion.' Lady Limborne was a most obstinate
woman, but she adored her son ;
and that crafty individual foresaw that intime
she must give way. Until that time
was come he would not go near his Devonshire
home. He forgot, however, the fact
that the railway companies afforded a like
facility of travelling to his mother as to
himself; and he was much disturbed at
hearing from her that having received a
pressing invitation from one of her exalted
relatives (Lady Leveret, to wit), and feeling
somewhat dull in her loneliness, she had
determined to accept the invitation, and
would be glad if her son would meet herat

the London terminus on such a day
and at such a time.

Their communications had been of the
briefest — chiefly, in fact, relating to matters
of business — and Lady Limborne had
given no sign, as yet, of descending from
the heights of resentment, where she seemed
disposed to dwell ; but her son, who
knew very well how she detested leaving
her home in the winter, saw, in this new
move of hers, a certain shadow of relenting
which he hailed with delight.

He had sought to get rid of all unhappy
thoughts in the press of earnest application
to his official and parliamentary duties, and
to think only of the future which he would
compel to his will and wish ; but the sad
and tearful face of Nellie, as he saw her
when last he parted from her, haunted him,
and he was more and more eao^er to change
her tears to smiles, as time went on.

No such thoughts of relenting, however,
actuated his mother in her determination

to seek the 'field of action.' The letter
which contained the invitation to London,
contained also a long statement as to the
desirability of this move on Lady Lime
part. The letter came from no less
a personage than Lady Leveret herself, and
was written at the prompting of that lady's
husband, who was a near connection of the
Limborne family, and who also wrote a few
pregnant lines to the same effect. At first
Lord Leveret's surprise at his exclusive
wife's penchant for the Dentonss was not unmingled
with disgust, but when he found
that, once committed to the Denton avatar
his wife became eager to make that event
a full and finished success, he hailed with
delight an employment which engrossed
his not too-steady wife, and, as he said,
kept her out of mischief.'

Pondering over these matters one evening
over a post-prandial cigar, after a solitary
dinner at his club, a bright inspiration

dawned upon him. The poverty of the
Limbornes had often been a subject of
conversation in the bosom of the various
families to which that lofty but necessitous
house was allied, and the fact that the
representative of the ancient barony of
Limborne must ' marry money ' was acknowledged
on all hands. Where could he
find a better opportunity to ensure this
consummation devoutly to be wished '
than in this ' new freak ' (as he thought it)
which had brought his lovely and proud
wife into near relations With these people
who were reported to be ' absolutely made
of money ?' Dozens of greedy or necessitous
persons were doubtless stretching out
eager hands to gain the prize, but it would
be Limborne's own fault if he did not take
the extra chances his cousin's intimacy
with the * parties concerned ' gave him, and
carry it ofi* in triumph before them all.
Besides, now he came to think of it. Lord

Leveret had heard some rumours or other
about one of those Denton girls and his
cousin Limborne.

Nothing could be better ! and, determined
to strike while the iron was hot, he
(contrary to his use and wont) proceeded
home incontinent to seek an interview
with that fashionable goddess, his wife.
Now Lady Leveret, as he well knew, was
suffering from a ^migraine,' caused by a
too violent pursuit of amusement (?), and
the refulgent beams which were wont to
illuminate only the most exclusive of
salons were confined at that present
moment to her boudoir, where she was recovering
from past exertions in the chase
of phantom fashion, and gathering strength
for fresh efforts in the near future.

This is, indeed, an unexpected pleasure,'
she said, with some trepidation, as, heralded
by her discreet abigail. Lord Leveret
entered the room ; for she was cudgelling
her brains as to which of her latest misdemeanours

was to form the subject-matter
of the conjugal lecture she looked for.

If you were oftener at home, Constance,
you would not be able to say that,' said
her husband, who would, in fact, have been
better pleased if there had been more of
home,' and less of 'society,' in his wife's
mind. ' But 1 am not going to speak
about that,' he added. 'I have been thinking
about Limborne and these Dentonss.'

About Lord Limborne ?' interrupted
his wife, greatly relieved, and at the same
time somewhat surprised. 'Why, what
has Lord ?'

Wait one moment, and I will explain,'
answered Lord Leveret. ' What has Lord
Limborne to do with these new friends of
yours ? that was what your question was
to have been, I think. Well ! cannot you
see the answer?'

Oh ! you mean all this talk about your
cousin and the eldest daughter ; I assure
you there is nothing in it at all. I have

watched them, and though she is more
than willing, I feel quite sure that Lord
Limborne never gave the girl a single
thought.'

But I intend him to give her a great
many thoughts,' said Lord Leveret, with a
smile. ' Don't you see what a good thing it
would be for Limborne, and through him
for us all ; if he only had money, there is
no knowing what he might not do, and
where could he get money easier ?'

The girl is ready enough, certainly, and
the mother would give one of her eyes to
see her daughter Lady Limborne ; but you
will have difficulty with your cousin ; there
is some story of some one else, and I am
sure he is quiet and preoccupied enough
for any amount of "blighted hopes." And,
even if you could persuade James, you
never would get Lady Limborne to consent
to such a match ; you know how she hates
those sort of marriages, and she can and

will make it very uncomfortable if she
chooses.'

• Lady Limborne thinks a great deal of
what I say,' said Lord Leveret, ' and I think
I can put it in such a way as to smooth
matters over. I want you to ask her here,
and, if you will write a note to her now, I
will put in a word which I think will
persuade her to come ; if we set her to
look at this affair in the same way as we
do, I expect we shall not have much
difficulty in arranging it.'

Without actually mentioning any names,
Lord Leveret said enough to make Lady
Limborne imagine that * some one else,'
and that a very desirable some one else,
had taken the place of the fair Helen in
her son's .heart ; and though she was not a
little astonished at a fickleness on his part
for which she did not give him credit, yet
the wish jumped With the fact, and she
was only too glad to hail a report which, if

true, would relieve her of all the anxieties-about
Nellie which her son's obstinacy'
had caused her. Hence when he met herat
the station, and conducting her to Lord
Leveret's carriage, which was in attendance,
sat beside her as they drove to that
nobleman's dwelling, she was kindness
itself, and strove, by the display of an
affection which she really felt, to efface in
Lord Limborne's mind all the unpleasantness
of the past. Not a word was said
about the Armer embroglio, and Lord
Limborne on his part hailed with joy the
kind words of his mother, looking upon
her dulcet mood as upon a sign that she
was relenting, and that one of the obstacles
to the happy end of his love-story was
rapidly melting away. During the whole
of the evening, which was devoted to a
family dinner-party, the farce was kept up,
and it was not until the guests, including
her son, were departed that Lord Leveret's
plans were unfolded to the mother of the

^ chief party concerned Great was her
astonishment at hearing that it was to one
of ' those horrible Wreford people ' that
her son was to be united. Some rumours
of their social success she had heard, but
it took a great deal of persuasion upon
the part of Lord Leveret to make her even
hear of such a thing.

I always hoped he would marry Emily
Beldon,' she said.

It is no usa thinking of tliai^ Lady
Limborne,' said Lady Leveret ; ' for Emily
Beldon is already engaged. She is going
to marry that red-haired little son

of the Duke of ' (naming a mighty

Scottish potentate.) ^ She looks like
his mother \ he is so absurdly boyish-looking.'


I cannot think how James could let
such a prize escape him said his mother,
in bitter disappointment. ^ I am quite
certain the Belton would have made no
opposition ; indeed, Lady Beldon seemed

VOL. II. M

quite to wish it. It is a grievous disappointment
to me.'

It was then that Lord Leveret played
his trump card.

*My dear cousin,' he said, 'you know
the old consolatory proverb anent the
good fish that are still left in the sea.
Constance here has a very good fish indeed,
only waiting to rise to the fly. A
lovely girl — shrewd — a great success in
the world, and rich " beyond the dreams
of avarice." '

'Who, pray, is this paragon?' said Lady
Limborne, pretending to treat the matter
as a joke, but really very much in earnest.

Why ! cannot you guess ?' put in Lady
Leveret. ' It is the daughter of one of
your neighbourly friend Theresa Denton.'

Theresa Denton !' gasped Lady Lime
' Your friend ! You must be
jesting!'

Not in the least, I assure you,' said
Lady Leveret. ' It is, indeed, Theresa

Denton Lord Leveret is thinking of, and
she is my friend.'

Why, they are roturiers — vulgar ; the
father is quite impossible — people hardly
know them about us,' exclaimed Lady
Limborne.

Everybody knows them here' said Lady
Leveret. 'They are the smartest of the
smart, and most enormously rich.'

Yes,' joined in her husband. ' One
pardons everything to money now-a-days.
Do not be angry with us, Lady Limborne,
but you live in an old world. It is all
different now. It is absolutely necessary
for James to marry a fortune ; and here
is a most excellent opportunity, and it
would be worse than foolish to reject it.
I do hope you will not oppose this,' he
added, tentatively.

I must think about it all,' said Lady
Limborne. ' I am too much astonished
to say anything now, and too tired also,
dear,' she added, turning to Lady Leveret,

M 2

and kissing her ; ' so you must let me
go to my rooms now, and we will talk
about it tomorrow;' and, saying goodnight
to her host and hostess, she retired.

The matter did not require much thought
on Lady Limborne's part, and nothing but
the respect she had for Lord Leveret's
opinion, and the courtesy she owed to her
host, prevented her from speaking her
mind very plainly on the subject. A conversation
which she had with her son on
the morrow, however, materially altered
her views.

She was trying next morning to frame
some sentence in which to refuse the
monstrous ' proposition without giving
undue annoyance to Lord and Lady
Leveret, when her son was announced.
His mother was quite unaware of the way in
which Lord Limborne's name had been
coupled with that of Theresa Denton, and
she was the very last person in the world
to put such an idea into his head ; she,

therefore, preserved a judicious silence as
to the topic of her last night's conversation.
Quite another person from the lovely-theresa
occupied the thoughts of Lord
Limborne, and so eager was he to have his
hopes as to his mother's ' giving way ' made
certainties that he began on the subject
almost before the customary morning's
greetings were over.

You cannot think, mother,' he said,
sitting down by her side and holding her
hand in his, ' what a relief it is to see you
again. I do hope now that all this . . .
this estrangement is over ; it is all so unnatural
between you and me.'

My dear James,' replied his mother, ' I
am sure you cannot have suffered from it as
/ have suffered, for you have had many-things
to distract your thoughts, many-hopes,
and many ambitions, and I have
nothing and nobody to think about and
care for but you. I did not wish to allude
to the subject, but I must tell you how

happy it makes me to feel that you have,
at last, seen how right I was about that unhappy
attachment of yours. I can only
regret that you did not come to your
senses before, for I have just heard that
Emily Beldon is lost to you, and it will be
difficult, indeed, to find anyone so fitted
in every way to be your wife.'

Lord Limborne was speechless with
astonishment while his mother complacent-^
ly proceeded towards the end of her sentences.
He was deeply disappointed to
find how mistaken he had been, and how
foolishly he had been misled by his
mother's kind manner of yesterday. Nothing
would induce him to go again through
the unseemly scenes which usually followed
the introduction of Nellie's name ; but
it was absolutely necessary to disabuse his
mother of the mistake she was labouring
under, and how to do this without giving
her mortal offence was a problem very
difficult of solution.

Well, James, have you nothing to say
to me ?' said Lady Limborne, becoming a
little uneasy at his silence, and thinking
that something had been said to him about
Theresa Denton, and that he was hesitating
as to how he should open a subject he knew
would be distasteful to her.

'I think it is better to speak plainly
after all,' said Lord Limborne, answering
his thoughts and speaking more to himself
than to his mother. ' Mother,' he went on,
rising and walking a step or two from her,
you must own that / have not begun this
subject. I did not wish to speak on the
matter, but you have forced it on me, and
I must tell you now, once and for ever,
that I shall never change in my feelings
and intentions towards Helen Armer. 1
hoped from your manner yesterday that
you were tired of opposing my wishes and
my happiness, and I am bitterly disappointed
to find how mistaken I am.'

Now, if, as he said, Lord Limborne Alas

bitterly disappointed, so also was Ms
mother, who, as we know, had seen in his
natural pleasure in seeing her, and his cordial
affection at her supposed relenting in
her opposition to his dearest wish, a giving
way on his part, which was as foreign to
him, as to her. She felt, however, that she
could not go back to the old terms of
estrangement; and, whilst her son was
speaking, she made up her mind to resist
the impulse to upbraid him, and to try to
keep on something like terms of affection
with her only child.

I cannot deny, James,' she said at
length, ^ that I, too, am grievously disappointed,
but I frankly tell you I cannot
do without your love ; and as, I fear, we
shall never agree upon this subject, let
us make up our minds never to speak
of it. I am sure you will agree with me
that this is the best thing that can be
done. And now, James, you must leave
me, for Lady Leveret is going to drive me

out ; and, as we are going shopping, I
don't suppose you will care to join us.'

I could not, if I would,' answered her
son ; ' for I have stolen from the time
which the country pays for to be with you
now. I am coming in to lunch to-morrow,
and then we can make up our ]plans. I
have much to tell you, and ask you about!'
and, kissing her, he bade farewell, and
hastened away to his work, glad to find
that the breach was so far healed, and
hoping even yet to win over his mother
to agree in, if not to favour, his wishes.

Whilst Lady Limborne was, With the
assistance of her maid, going through the
arduous process of putting on her things,'
she determined to alter her tactics as regards
her opposition to Lord and Lady
Leveret's proposed Denton-Limborne alliance.
The constant brooding over one
subject for the last two or three months
had left a residuum of very pronounced
hatred towards the inoffensive Xellie, upon

whose fair shoulders she laid the whole
weighty burden of her estrangement from
her son. And, as anything would be better
than that she should be presented with
that young lady as a daughter-in law, she
determined to go heart and soul with the
Leverets, and to try, with their powerful
help, to bring about the marriage they
proposed.

Even now she would not own to herself
that her power over her son was
gone. Until this ' unfortunate entanglement,'
he had been as wax in her hands,
and she still hoped to get him ' out of the
toils.'

That very afternoon. Lady Leveret was
to lunch at No. 751 ; and, finding Lady
Limborne in so amiable a frame of mind,
she ' took the liberty ' of bringing her
guest with her, greatly to Mrs. and the
Misses Dentonss' astonishment and delight.

When one has once made up one's mind,
it is of no use to look at the black side

of the cloud ; and, before the visit was
over, Lady Limborne had formed quite a
different opinion of her Wreford neighbours.
The Dentonss were very quick at
catching the tone of their new surroundings
; and it would have required a less
partial critic than they met with in Lady
Limborne, under her new ' change of position,'
to discover much difference between
them and the two or three very fashionable
ladies indeed who ^ assisted ' at the
entertainment. And, as for Theresa, that
extremely sharp young lady was far too
astute to display for the benefit of the
proud and reserved Lady Limborne those
conspicuous arts which had already gained
her quite a front place in the ranks of the
*chic.'

The art with which she sought to be
entered upon the ' good books ' of the
lady she desired to call by the sometimes
opprobrious epithet of mother-in-law,
astonished even her mother and her sister.

And, sooth to say, Lady Limborne
herself found something extremely pleasant
in the deference with which this very
wealthy young person treated her ; with
the attention the crafty Theresa paid to
her remarks, and the ' very correct ' ideas
which fell from Theresa's lips as to ' men
and things.' It was also a revelation to
Lady Limborne to find the Dentonss so
firmly established in such exalted regions,
and altogether she was not long in coming
to the conclusion that her son ^ might doa
great deal worse,' and, at length, she was
quite ready to fall in with the Leverets'
plans in this matter.

CHAPTER IX.

MISFORTUNES ' IN BATTALIONS.'

Now the remarks which had fallen from
her brother Jack's lips in regard to an
alliance between the families of Limborne
and Denton, Nellie had, at first, received
with a scornful, though silent, disbelief;
but as time went on, and the unpleasant
subject forced itself upon her thoughts,
she began to doubt whether there might
not be some truth in the story after all,
for though she did remember as he had
told her on their last parting, and in such
sad and solemn accents, to * remember
that he would never give her up,' she

knew very well that under the stress of such
excitement promises were not seldom made
which were, alas ! as likely to be broken
as the proverbial pie-crust. It was a longtime
(in Nellie's eyes) since that painful
interview, and she had seen nothing of
her lover since that day — although once
or twice she had thought to have caught a
glimpse of him in her walks abroad. (For,
in truth, Lord Limborne was not always
able to resist the impulse which often drew
him Hampsteadwards, and had several
times seen the fair form of his beloved,
and once or twice had narrowly escaped
detection.) It was an utterly hopeless
affair, so she had argued with herself, she
had made that very plain to her quondam
lover at the interview before-named ; he
was resigned to the inevitable, and what
could be better for him than that he
should strive to forget her in the affection
of * another,' and Nellie felt she hated that
another,' — to wit, the handsome daughter

of the wealthy owner of Wreford — nth a
very righteous hatred. This feeling, extremely
wrong as doubtless it was. did
not lose in its intensity, when one day
some fortnight after Lady Limborne's
advent in London, Xellie, whilst she was
leaving a shop in Regent Street, and looking
for her brougham, perceived the
beauteous Theresa (wrapped up in the
most becoming of fur cloaks, and positively
beaming with happiness) in a barouche,
and actually seated beside no less a person
than Lady Limborne !

Here then was a confirmation with a
vengeance to all her fears, and, if anymore
confirmation were wanted, she had
it some two months later, when, under
very different circumstances than the
present, she read in -a society journal,
which Jack had picked up in the train,
and brought home for her diversion, that
^ a marriage was arranged between Lord
Limborne and a daughter of the well-known

millionaire, Mr. Denton, of Record,
in the county of Devon, and 751,
Piccadilly.' And thus it was that Nellie
Armer's love dream came to naught, and
the last lingering hope fled away, and left
her miserable and forlorn indeed.

But even darker clouds than these were
hovering over our heroine, and it was not
long before they gathered together in
serried masses and the storm broke.

Mr. Armer Alas becoming more and
more moody and preoccupied ; he would
scarcely respond to the affection with
which Nellie tried to soothe his too evident
irritability ; he scarcely seemed to notice
her, and was so absent and absorbed in
thought that many times he never answered
her efforts to talk with him, and did
not appear even to know that anyone was
addressing him. Even the careless Jack
seemed touched with the same preoccupation,
and there was, in fact, an air of expectancy
and waiting for some horrible

evil, that Xellie could bear no longer.
Jack seemed determined to avoid lier, and
for some days she could not find an
opportunity to speak to him alone ; but at
last she caught him one evening dolefully
smoking a cigar in the smoking-room, and
gazing abstractedly into the fire.

Jack she said ; and as her brother
started up she shut the door and turning
the key took it from the lock, and came
up to him ; ' Jack, I must and will know
what all this means ; it is not fair that I
should be kept in ignorance like this.'

What do you mean, Nellie?' said Jack,
moving a chair for her by the fireside.
Why these airs of tragedy, this King
Cambyses' vein, the locked door, mysteries
of Adolph, and all that sort of thing;' and
Jack tried to laugh off the question, not,
however, very successfully, for he could
not deceive his sister, and she saw he was
pretending an insouciance he was far from
feeling.

VOL. IE. N

^ What is the use of keeping things
from me, Jack?' she went on, taking no
notice of his forced badinage. ^ If anything
is wrong, surely I ought to know it, and
that there is something wrong, I am
certain, else why is father so dull and so
gloomy, and why are even you so anxious
looking ?'

Well said Jack, ' if you zoill have it,
you must, and, after all, it won't be long
before you must know. I should have told
you before, only I promised father to keep
it from you as long as possible ;' and Jack
paused as if seeking how to break the
news.

I think I know something of it, Jack,'
said Nellie ; ' you said, when I spoke to
father about your money troubles, that
things were not looking quite so bright in
father's business . . . .'

Yes,' interrupted Jack, not sorry to
have some one to whom he could pour out

his woes and anxieties, ' that is where it
is. I remember I said I hoped the trouble
would soon be tided over, but things have
only been going from bad to worse since
then, and I begin to fear it will end in a
burst up.'

Oh ! Jack,' said Xellie, ' it cannot be so
bad as that ! surely you exaggerate ; but it
must be terrible for poor father, no wonder
he is so strange.'

I don't exaggerate in the least, Nellie,'
said her brother ; ' things must have come
to a bad pass for father to confide in me,
and two or three days ago, as we were
driving down to the City together, he told
me he could not bear it much longer, and
that, as his son, I ought to be told what a
position he was in. He made me promise
not to tell you, and you must not let him
see you know anything ; after all, you mist
have found it out sooner or later. Poor
old dad ! he was in a terrible way.'

n2

I cannot understand it at all, Jack
said Nellie ; ' why, it seems only the other
day that lie was speaking of giving up all
this business again, and going back to
Coombridge.'

Ah !' said Jack, ^ he will never go there
again. Coombridge went months ago;
everything he has touched has seemed to
fail. I don't know how it is, but he has
been throwing good money after bad, and
now, unless something little short of a
miracle happens, we shall have to give up ;
he can't hold on much longer. What on
earth is to become of us all, is more than /
can tell.'

It cant be so bad as that, Jack,' said
Nellie. ' Why don't we give up the
carriage and change into a smaller house,
if we are so poor?'

'You don't understand, Nellie,' said
Jack ; ' that would not make any difference.
From what father said to me, it is too late
for anything of that sort ] he couldn't call

in his money now, he has been speculating,
and it is '* touch and go " as to whether he
pulls through or not.'

Oh ! poor father, poor father,' said
Xellie. ' ^"hy did he quarrel with Mr.
Gidley ? we were so happy at dear old
Coomb ridge.'

'Well, old lady,' said Jack, 'it is no use
crying over spilt milk, and, after all, there
is just a chance that things may right
themselves ;' and wishing his visitor goodnight
Jack went off to bed in anything
but a cheerful frame of mind, for, though
he pretended to see a chance in order to
soothe Xellie, he felt too certain that his
father's ruin was only a matter of time.

The poor old squire was indeed fallen
upon evil times ; in red hot anger with the
sarcastic Gidley, and anxious to show that,
once out of his leading; strings, his acuteness
and knowledge of matters financial
would soon yield him the fruit of an
enormous fortune, he plunged into speculations

from which his careful partner
would have warned him. At first he was
successful even beyond his dreams, and,
about the time of his farewell visit to his
Devonshire home, he was adding to his
wealth in a marvellous way, and consequently
j jubilant at his release from Gidley's
restraints, and much puffed up as to
his superior sharpness.

Want of ' dash,' a quality Mr. Gidley
was remarkably deficient in, was, the
squire argued to himself, the only thing
which had prevented the firm of Armer
and Gidley from taking their place among
the princes of finance ; as for him, he would
not be content with the very respectable
position that firm had held, but he would
soon show Gidley what a fool he was to
go on laboriously slaving away in the same
old ruts, when he might climb to heights
quite undreamed of by that steady-going
man of business. But the luck, which
proverbially attends the first risks of the

gambler, soon deserted Mr. Armer, and
week after week saw him more and more
deeply engaged in risky affairs, and less and
less able to extricate himself; bis frantic
struggles to escape, only brought him into
still deeper waters, until it became a mere
toss up ' as to whether he should be
utterly overwhelmed, or escape as by a
miracle, a sadder and a wiser man. In a
few short days he would have to meet
engagements of a very serious nature ;
already whispers as to ' Armer's shakiness '
were abroad ; and unless a mining company
in which he was largely interested, and
which was in the meantime to be ^ floated,'
proved a success, and caused the pockets
of a confiding public to open very widely,
Mr. Armer would be totally unable to
meet those engagements,' and must ' goto
the wall.'

He was, naturally, strung up to a high
pitch of nervous excitement ; he could
neither eat nor sleep, and the severe strain

was gradually sapping the foundations of
his health. No wonder then that Nellie
found him strange, moody, and preoccupied.


At last the end came, and the poor old
squire returned home one fatal evening a
broken and a ruined man.

He seemed to be in a dazed state, and
scarcely spoke during dinner ; it was a
dismal enough meal, for Jack knew the
end was come, and Nellie only too easily
guessed the truth from her father's and
brother's manner. After dinner Mr. Armer
went immediately into his study, and Jack
had an opportunity to tell his sister the
dreaded news. As he was rapidly informing
Nellie of the catastrophe, Mr.- Armer s
bell rang sharply, and Hudson soon after
came into the dining-room, where Jack
and Nellie had been sitting with the untouched
dessert before them, with a message
from their father that ' Master wished
to see them in the study.'

They found Mr. Armer seated at his
escritoire ; the writing-table was covered
with a litter of papers ; he tried to rise as
they came in, but he had not the strength,
and sank back again in his chair. Xellie
ran up to him, and, putting her arms
round his neck, kissed him, and Jack came
and stood by his side.

Nellie dear,' said her father, and his
voice sounded thick and strange, ' I meant
it all for the best . I did not think . . .'

Oh ! father,' cried Xellie, with her face
close to his, ' do not speak like that, I cannot
bear it . . . Jack, tell father it does
not matter so long as we are together, you
and I and he . . .'

As she was speaking, Mr. Armer rose
up, and held out his hand as if to grasp
his son's hand ; but, before Jack could respond,
the squire's hand dropped to his
side, and Mr. Armer fell back in his chair
insensible.

The grim enemy that had been watching

for his opportunity day after day lead
seized upon him at last, and the squire was
struck down ^vith apoplexy. For three
nights and two days Jack and Nellie
watched by their father's bedside ; but the
squire never spoke again, and in the dark
and chill early morning of the third day
all was over, and Jack and Nellie were
left alone in the world, and almost penniless.
It is said that Providence is good to
poor folk in this matter of sorrow, inasmuch
as the dire necessities of common
every-day want forces them to work, be
their grief never so deep, and so takes away
from them that dwelling upon the painful
loss which the customary seclusion of the
richer people almost forces upon them.
Small time for this indulgence in the
luxury of woe ' was allowed to Nellie
Armer ; almost stunned as she was by the
suddenness of the blow, she was perforce
aroused from the first torpor of her grief
by the painful necessity of looking the

future in the face. Most women in her
position have all possible trouble taken
off their hands at such a sorrowful time;
but Nellie had no one to consult save
Jack, who seemed absolutely dazed at his
father s death, and this sudden overturning
of all things. Jack had always depended
upon his sister, and, without
thinking of the matter, he turned naturally
to her for advice and guidance in their
terrible trial.

The reading of Mr. Armer's will was a
cruel mockery ; all his large property he
had divided between his son and his
daughter — Jack was to have Coombridge,
and Nellie an equivalent in money ; but,
alas ! of the money there was not a sou
left, and Coombridge had months ago
passed out of its old squire's hands ; while
day after day the bills poured in, for they
had been left until poor Mr. Armer's ' grand
coup ' should come off, and there was little
or nothing to meet them with now.

The affair was indeed urgent; already
there was an execution in the house, and,
before their father had been laid in his
grave a fortnight, his children had to prepare
for leaving their home. Fortunately
the rent had still some two or three
months to run on, but the furniture was
already advertised, and, before many days
were over, would be sold by auction.
What to do and where to go were the
questions which Jack put to Nellie, and
which effectually roused her from the
first dumb helplessness of her grief.

Their only relations were far-off cousins,
for the squire had been an only son, and
his wife's only sister was dead long ago.
Nellie was too proud to be dependent
upon acquaintances, even if any such had
come forward.' Her only intimate friends
were the Bollands, and though she knew
they would gladly receive her, as indeed
they offered and even urged their kindness
on her, as soon as they heard the

sad news, yet Xellie knew that they already
had a hard struggle to make the
two ends meet. She could not and would
not be a burden on them ; besides, if she
were to go away from him, who would
look after Jack, the only relation left to
her? Jack, so easily led away, and so
likely to go altogether to the bad in his
desperation. Xo, there was no one she
could turn to but her old godfather, Mr.
Gidley, and he was far away, his house in
Bedford Square sold, and his very existence
almost forgotten already. Besides,
by his father's death, Jack was thrown
out of employment, and he seemed capable
of doing nothing but mooning about
in a dismally unsettled way, looking the
very picture of helplessness and woe.

It soon became a choice between accepting
the Bollands' pressing offer until
they had time to look around them, or
the workhouse, and Nellie was slowly
making up her mind to go back to her

old parish, much as her soul rebelled
against the painful gossip her return in
so sadly changed circumstances would no
doubt provoke, when one morning the
old cook (who had insisted on staying with
her beloved little mistress to ' the very
last remarking that 'money wasn't no
object to her, thank 'Evin,') brought in
the melancholy morning budget of blue
epistles, with ' bill ' stamped upon each
one of them only too plainly. They were
nearly all addressed to Jack, and Nellie
did not care to open them until he made
his appearance at the breakfast-table.

Jack turned them over listlessly enough,
for he could easily guess at the contents,
and as he opened one after another, some
concerning him and some his dead father,
his lengthening face told its old tale of
bills, and nothing but bills. As, however,
he opened one of the very last, a long
strip of paper fell out, and Nellie, as she
picked it up, scarcely needed to look at it

to see (for Jack's brightening face told her)
that it was something for them, and something
good, too.

It was a cheque, and for a very considerable
amount, made out to John
Armer, and, as the present only bearer
of that name read the accompanying note
out loud to his sister, she learnt that
^ some friends of the late Mr. John Armer
on the Stock Exchange, hearing of the
sad circumstances of his death, had ventured
to send his children a slight token
of their respect and liking for their father.'
The note also contained a postscript which
informed Jack that, if he would call at the
writer's office at such-and-such-an-hour of
that or the next day, the writer would see
what could be done in the way of finding
Mr. John Armer some employment. Thus,
then, by that sympathetic kindness which,
despite the pessimist, seldom fails the unfortunate,
was the wolf driven for awhile
from Nellie and Jack's door. Jack lost no

time in keeping his appointment, and he
returned to his sister that night with the
joyful tidings that he was engaged as a
clerk at the not-too-magnificent salary of
eighty pounds a year, which, small as it
was, was a great deal more than Master
Jack's services were worth, and was, indeed,
bestowed more in the name of charity than
of business.

Nellie quickly decided upon her course
of action under these new circumstances.
The sum of money the kindness of her
father's friends had given them was largely
eaten into by the demands of her father's
and of Jack's tradesmen ; the remnant
would not last them very long, and Jack's
salary would barely suffice for that young
man's keep, lodging, and journeys to and
from his office ; so Nellie decided to take
lodgings in some quiet but thickly-populated
neighbourhood, and there keep house
and home for Jack, and, at the same time,
seek to eke out their narrow income by

taking such pupils as she could get.
Before long they were settled in decent
rooms in a quiet street in Camden Town,
rooms which Xellie's clever hands soon
made home-like, and to which Jack returned
evening after evening with a pleasing
regularity, while Nellie was making every
effort in her power to bring some little
grist to the mill on her own account.

VOL. II.

CHAPTER X.

A FRUITLESS SEARCH.

The news of Mr. Armer's ruin and death
failed to reach one person largely interested
in those two sad events. Neither Nellie
nor Jack had thought of ' putting ' their
father's death 'in the papers,' and Lord
Limborne, having no interest in funds, or
loans, or companies, passed over the (to
him) bald items of the money-market, and
therefore did not see that 'failure on the
Stock Exchange' which affected him so
nearly. The stony or bricks outside of a
house gives but little sign of the events
going on inside that house : 'tis true the

tan-covered roadway tells its sad tale of
sickness, and the blank and dismal aspect
of a house ' with all its blinds down ' announces
the death of an inmate, while the
gaily-striped awning and the crimson carpet
from doorway to kerb speak of festivities
toward; there is, too, the depressing
aspect of the shuttered, unoccupied house;
but domestic tragedies the most horrible
may be going on, and ruin may stare the
inmates in the face, and the house presents
the same accustomed look, and tells no tale
of the joys or woes of the inhabited thereof.
There is, however, one other event in
the history of a house which is very plainly
shown in its outward presentment, and
the wisps of straw, the torn bills, the
trampled grass, and the general dirt and
discomfort incident to a sale of furniture,
or to ' families removing,' gave Heathfield
the accustomed forlorn and deserted look,
and caused that faithful lover, Lord Lime
an uncomfortable pang of disavow



ointment, as, one day, shortly after Jack
and Nellie's departure ' for good and all
he rounded the corner of the road in which
Heathfield was situated, and came upon
the unexpected sight of that house, ordinarily
the picture of cleanliness and neatness,
in a state of deshabille with the
evidences of a sale in all their dirty confusion,
and with placards in conspicuous
positions, announcing, in the ornate language
of the house-agent, the fact that
that desirable family residence, comprising
such and such rooms, etc., and replete
with every comfort,' was to be sold or
let.

All sorts of conjectures passed through
his mind as he drcAv near, and gazed at
the dismal spectacle ; but all of them, it
may well be imagined, very Avide of the
truth. 'They had gone back to Coom-bridge,
perhaps, or they had moved into
one of the squares, or they had gone
further out into the country.' At any

rate, it was evident enough that they had
left that house, and that it behoved him,
Lord Limborne, to find out as best he
might whither they had flown. The information
which he soon received, in answer
to his inquiries, from the obliging
proprietor of a bookseller's shop, filled him
with the direst consternation.

'The family who lived at Heathfield?
Yes. Had not the gentleman heard? A
very sad story, indeed, but common enough
now-a-days. They were ruined. Speculations
on the Stock Exchange, he had heard
say. The father was dead — died of a
broken heart, poor gentleman. There had
just been a sale ; and the children — a son
and a daughter — had left Hampstead. The
gentleman could rely upon the truth of
what he was telling him, for he had supplied
them with newspapers and magazines,
and everything had been settled up most
honourably. He did not believe they had
left a penny of debt in the town. Xo,

he was sorry to say, he could not give
the gentleman that information ; neither
did he know of anyone who was likely
to know where the poor souls had gone
to.'

Nor could Lord Limborne find any tidings
of Nellie's whereabouts, though he
spent some hours in making inquiries :
neither from the house-agent, nor from
the various tradesmen to whom he applied,
could he find any trace of the Armers.
They had come and gone as hundreds
of customers had come and gone before,
and, as they had paid all their bills, nobody
cared one stiver as to where they
had gone to, or what had become of them.

As Lord Limborne walked dejectedly
down the hill towards the cab-stand, his
mind was full of most sorrowful thoughts.
That the bookseller's information was true,
he could not but believe; for it was echoed
at every place where he had inquired, and
where anything at all was known of the

late inhabitants of Heathfielcl. Xellie was,
without doubt, fatherless, and almost penniless
; and how to find her out in the
mazes of the huge modern Babylon was
a problem he must set himself to solve.
How to begin his quest was the difficulty.
It was evident enough that no one could
help him at Hampstead. He had absolutely
no clue to o;uide him. For auo-ht
he knew, the brother and sister might
have been ' taken up ' by some relation
or friend, and be living hundreds of miles
away from London, or they might be
living (as, indeed, was the case) near at
hand. Find Xellie he must ; his heart
yearned towards her, and never did he
love her more dearly or long for her more
intensely than now, when he knew she
must be in such sorrow and distress. He
knew how closely Nellie had been attached
to her father, and he knew the terrible
wrench his loss must have been to her ;
nor could her lover bear to think of his

beautiful Nellie in the griping hand of
poverty, and, perhaps, of absolute want.
If he could only see her, and take her
away from all this wretchedness !

Proud as she was, even if he were to
find her, he feared she would mate of her
changed circumstances only another barrier
between them. Still, inaction was
impossible, he must be doing something
towards discovering her, and as he was
driven rapidly towards his rooms, and
during the evening, and far into the night,
he pondered over the difficult subject.
He dared not advertise, for Nellie's pride
would be up in arms, and she would bitterly
resent any attempt on his part to
find her out in her altered surroundings.
Nothing, of course, could be done until he
knew where she had flown to ; if he could
only find this out, he could keep some
sort of watch over her, and wait until
time should give him an opportunity to
viae her change her fixed resolutions. If

he waited on, and still continued faithful
to her, she must give way at last, for he
knew he had a strong; advocate in her own
heart, and she could not refuse in time to
make herself and her lover happy.

The next morning he set to work in
earnest. He knew of the friendly feelings
of Mrs. Bolland towards the old squire's
little daughter, and he wrote to her
asking for news ; he remembered the
name of Mr. Armer's old partner and
Nellie's godfather, and, easily finding his
address in the directory, he wrote, too, to
him at Bedford Square. From the same
useful source of information he found Mr.
Armer's City address, and drove there.
But it was all of no use : Mr. Armer's old
offices were to let, and the busy clerks in
the neighbouring offices knew nothing of
the whereabouts of Jack ; Mrs. Bolland
was as ignorant in the matter, and nearly
as anxious for news as himself; and his
letter to Mr. Gidley was returned in due

course, for that gentleman was 'not
known ' to the present owners of his late
abode.

At last Lord Limborne determined to
call in the aid of the private inquiry
offices, and during the next few weeks he
disbursed considerable sums of money
to one of those expensive institutions ; but
to no purpose whatever. No trace of the
Armor could the astute individual set
apart for that ' case ' find, and his opinion
was that ' the parties had changed their
name,' or they might have ' gone abroad.'
In fine, after weeks and weeks of anxious
search and continual disappointment,
Lord Limborne became hopeless, while the
anxiety he was going through on Nellie's
account began to prey upon his health,
and to show such signs in his worried
look and hollow cheeks as Lady Limborne
did not fail to notice. To all her questions
he gave only evasive replies : ' he
was rather hard Worked just now,' or

there was really nothing the matter, he
was a little out of sorts.' On no account
would he afford Lady Limborne the keen
satisfaction he felt the cause of his anxiety
would yield liei\ for he knew how she
would rejoice to find an end to all her
anxieties about Nellie in this disappearance,
the cause of so much weary trouble
to him, so many restless days, so many
sleepless nights.

In the meantime the lovely Theresa
Denton, and her allies Lady Leveret and
(mirabik clictii) the mother of the quarry,
the proud Lady Limborne, had not been
idle. Theresa was quite clever enough to
see that the affectation of ' smartness '
which delighted the new world to which
her father's money, assisted by Charlotte
Ingle and the all-powerful Lady Leveret,
had given her the entree — was not at all
likely to charm the austere and old-fashioned
mother-in-law-elect.

The freedom of speech and boldness of

repartee which entranced the blase gilded
youth of the period, Theresa felt would be
shocking and offensive to the refined and
proud mind of Lady Limborne ; she, therefore,
placed a great restraint upon herself
when in the presence of that lady, who
would, indeed, have been not a little
astonished at some of the sayings and doings
of a young lady whom she regarded
as a clever girl, and, as she remarked to
Lady Leveret, 'just a little too pronounced ;
but all that will wear oiF as she becomes
accustomed to the proper tone of society.'
Lady Leveret wisely held her tongue, and
nodded her acquiescence in the speaker's
sentiments, for she knew a great deal
more about the tone of modern society
than Lady Limborne, and was quite aware
of the fact that Theresa Denton's somewhat
risky words and deeds would be no
bar to the social success of that handsome
young lady. Theresa's address had brought
about a state of things she had not dared

even to hope for a month or two ago, and
Lady Limborne was actually almost as
anxious to ally her son to the Denton millions
as she had been to place him under
the sigh of the Beldon set.

It was pleasant to have some one who
agreed in all her lofty ideas about the importance
of the ancient houses of Limborne
and Hartford, who was willing to pay the
most careful attention to somewhat longwinded
accounts of the heroes and heroines
of those exalted lines, and the various
ramifications of the ancient stocks ; studies
of surprising intricacy and of a portentous
dulness to anyone but the speaker.

However, Theresa could afford to be
patient. She saw her reward for all these
lengthened discourses on musty subjects
very plainly before her, and, when once
she had gained this reward, she would
have her revenge, and the dowager would
have to retire very much into the background
; she had had hei' day, and Theresa

was now going to have hers. Lady Leveret
was delighted at the success of her scheme,
and at the easiness with which Lady Lime
was made to ^ accept the position ;'
she acknowledged frankly the cleverness of
Theresa, and prophesied to herself that
that young lady would ' go far,' when once
the Denton money had furbished up the
faded glories of the Limborne coronet.

Every assistance she could give, she
gave with a willing mind, and Theresa
Denton almost lived at Leveret House ;
day after dey she was with Lady Leveret
and Lady Limborne, and frequent were
the meetings between the lovely Theresa
and the latter lady's son. But, if Theresa
had had an easy task in gaining the goodwill
of her mother-in-law-elect, she found
it a hard task to make any way nth Lord
Limborne, and sometimes she was almost
inclined to give up the chase, and endow
some more appreciative individual with
her charms both of purse and person ; but

Theresa inherited a fund of persistence
from her mother; she was, moreover,
piqued at an indifference on Lord Lime
part, which was a direct contrast
to the eager pursuit she would be subjected
to, if it became known that the match
was 'off;

The affair was no secret, it was openly
talked of, and the only person who knew
nothing at all about it was the party most
concerned, viz., Lord Limborne himself.
That gentleman was too much pre-occupied
with dismal forebodings about his beloved
Nellie to pay much attention to other sublunary
matters. But if • all the world '
was talking of the approaching event,'
and wondering why it was not openly
announced, Theresa Denton was not at all
deceived; she had tried every expedient
her ingenuity could suggest, she had read
all Lord Limborne's articles, pamphlets,
and speeches, she had gone deeply into the
social questions in which she knew him to

be interested, and had displayed these
freshly acquired wares to the very best
advantage, and with some success, for
Lord Limborne was pleased to have so
sympathetic and clever a pupil ; but still
she was forced to own to herself that she
was yet a long way from the goal of her
ambition.

Lord Limborne's preoccupation and harassed
look Theresa did not fail to mark,
and she racked her brains to discover the
cause of these signs. She had forgotten
all about Nellie, and the most careful
watching on her part had failed to discover
any symptoms of attentions on Lord
Limborne's part which could arouse her
fears as to any other rival. What could
be the meaning, then, of this marked
change in him ? His position was assured,
his future advancement was certain, he
was well spoken of by the leaders of his
party, and on every side she heard the
most confident predictions as to his future.

The only weak point in his position was
want of money, and of this commodity an
alliance vdih her would give him enough
and to spare.

Theresa therefore determined to waste
no more time, but by hook or by crook
to bring about the consummation she so
devoutly wished. How to set about the
matter was a problem to which she devoted
a considerable amount of careful
thought. Obviously she could do no more
than she had already done ; she imagined
that she had made it plain enough to Lord
Limborne that he only had to ask to have ;
there was the river, and the horse was
constantly being brought up to it, but
the foolish animal obstinately refused to
drink.

Theresa could not propose to Lord Lime
and, as he seemed as far off as ever
from taking that decided step as regards
herself, things were come to a deadlock, an
unpleasant state of affairs which Theresa

VOL. II, p

felt to be unendurable. She determined,
therefore, to make a confidant of Lady
Leveret, and through her means to see if
something could not be done towards
bringing the lagging lover-elect sup to
the scratch.'

The ways of Leveret House were by
this time perfectly well-known to Theresa
Denton, and she very soon had an opportunity
for a confidential confabulation
with the lady of that house in her
sanctum.

'What is the matter with Lord Lime
she asked Lady Leveret one afternoon,
shortly after she had come to this
determination, and as she and Lady Leveret
were cosily chatting over the fire in that
lady's boudoir. 'He looks ill and worn,
and one can scarcely get a word out of
him.'

Now Lady Leveret had herself only been
waiting an opportunity to hasten on a

climax in the Denton-Limborne affair, of
which, to tell the truth, she was beginning
to get heartily tired, and Theresa's question
was a chance not to be neglected.

He does look worried, and is restless
and distraught,' said Lady Leveret. ' Do
you know, Theresa,' she added, vail. a
meaning smile, ^ I believe my solemn
cousin is in love,' (which was, indeed, the
case).

Ah !' said Theresa, ' and who may bethe
'happy she," I wonder?'

How can you ask such a question ?'
said Lady Leveret. ' I am sure his attentions
to a certain young lady of my
acquaintance have been marked enough ;
both Lord Leveret and Lady Limborne
have noticed the fact, and you must have
seen it, too. Who is it he always talks
to, and what do you talk about in those
long confabulations of yours ? Why don't
3''0u put him out of his misery, Theresa ?'

p2

" Nobody asked me, sir, she said," ' replied
that innocent damsel.

then, to speak plainly,' replied Lady
Leveret, 4t is your own fault. And, jesting
apart, I have been wanting for sometime
to speak to you about this. I think
you must know how anxious we all are
to see James settled down ; few men have
a more brilliant future before them — there
is no knowing to what position he may
not aspire. My husband tells me his party
regard James as quite one of the most
rising young men ; the only thing he
wants is money, and that, of course, he
would have if you were less obdurate.
There ! I hope my plain speaking does
not offend you ?' concluded her ladyship,
perfectly aware that it would take a great
deal of such plain speaking to offend the
fair Theresa.

Not in the least,' answered Theresa ;
only . . . ' and she paused musingly.

Only our dear cousin does not '" come
forward," ' said Lady Leveret, finishing
the sentence for Theresa, and with a
touch of acidity in her voice, for she was
a little disgusted at Theresa's ' confidences,'
though quite determined not to lose sight
of the Denton hoards if she could help it.
^ Well,' she went on, ' these sort of affairs
among us are not done in the Chloe and
Lubin fashion, you know — it would, perhaps,
be better if they ceres' she added,
with a sigh ; * and since I know now,
thanks to our little conversation, that
there will be no difficulty on your part, I
will do my best to sound James, and, if
Lady Limborne and I cannot bring matters
to a satisfactory conclusion, I shall be
very much mistaken. And now I must
ring for my maid, dear, for it is time to
go through the arduous operation of dressing
;' and, suiting the action to the words.
Lady Leveret rang for her own ' lady,'

and dismissed Theresa with a kiss, of a
Judas sort, it must be owned, for Theresa's
somewhat vulgar ' forwardness ' was slightly
displeasing to her dainty ladyship.

Theresa could not fail to see that her
tactics had' been a little too open, but, as
she had gained what she wanted, she did
not very much care for the slightly scornful
way in which her confidences had been
received ; moreover, she determined to
pay Lady Leveret out ' for her thinly-disguised
contempt when she should be
able to call that lady ' cousin,' and she
made up her mind also to make Lord Lime
suffer for the humiliations she was
going through on his account, when once
the fatal knot should be tied which should
bind him to her, and, as she was firmly
resolved, place him ' under her thumb.'
For Theresa held the purse-strings, and
she had a very plain perception of the
advantages this fact would give her.

On the whole, she was satisfied with
her own diplomacy, and gave herself upto
pleasant dreams of future magnificence
as she was driven home in the luxurious
Denton brougham.

CHAPTER XL

A PARAGRAPH AND ITS CONSEQUENCES.

Theresa's castles in the air, however, were
destined to vanish in a very sudden manner,
and the elaborate plans which were
to end in the enrichment of Lord Lime
at the expense of ' Uncle Ben's fortune,'
were fated to form another illustration
of Robbie Burns' dictum that ' the
best-laid schemes of mice and men gang aft
agree.'

A day or two after the ' conference '
between Miss Denton and Lady Leveret,
and before the latter lady had had an
opportunity of * sounding ' her cousin

James upon the very delicate subject of
his ^ intentions,' that gentleman, having
dined at his club, sauntered into the 
of that luxurious establishment,
and, taking up an evening paper, began
to digest its contents ; but the one subject
of his thoughts was too urgent, and Nellie's
face came between his eyes and the
print, the old worrying fears and anxieties
took their accustomed hold upon him,
and, throwing down the paper, he leant
back in his chair and gave himself up to
the weary thoughts which no occupation
could ward off for very long.

It was yet early, and the dining-room
of the club was fuller while the reading-room
was nearly empty. There was, in
fact, only one other individual (an acquaintance
of Lord Limborne's) present ;
and this gentleman, who was engrossed ina
society paper, only exchanged nods with
Lord Limborne as he entered, and went
on with his reading. Lord Limborne was

roused out of his reverie by his friend's
voice addressing him.

Hullo !' he cried, ' here's an item of
news that concerns you, Limborne. I
congratulate you, old fellow !' and he
walked towards Lord Limborne, with his
finger on a passage in the paper he had
been reading. It was the announcement
of Lord Limborne's approaching marriage
with Theresa Denton ; the passage, indeed,
which had given the death-blow to poor
Nellie's already almost expiring hopes.

Lord Limborne's friend was considerably
astonished at the effect of his congratulations.


Never saw a fellow in such a tare in
my life,' he remarked, shortly afterwards,
to an attentive audience in the smoking-room.
' 'Pon my word, I thought he
would have hit me : positively glared at
me, as if I had insulted him. I only wish
some one would read out such a blessed
piece of luck to me''

Lord Limborne had, indeed, glared at
his innocent friend as if that unoffending
person had just put a mortal insult upon
him. In truth, he was struck dumb with
astonishment at the paragraph at which
his startled friend's finger was still pointing.

Theresa Denton !' he was thinking. ^ I

never even thought How on earth

could such a fool's story have got about ?
and who was the impertinent busybody
who had dared to use his name so freely?'

'It is a monstrous lie !' he exclaimed at
last, coming to himself, and the absurdity
of the position — the two men glaring at
each other, like mortal enemies before engaging
in a death-struggle. ' I — I beg
your pardon ; but I am utterly amazed.
I can't imagine how such a report can
possibly have got about, or who could
have been so insolent as to publish such
a ridiculous paragraph. I beg you will
give it my most strong denial whenever
you hear the subject mentioned. As forme,

I shall write to the editor, and
desire him to deny the report at once
and furnish me with the name of his
correspondent.' And, with that, Lord Lime
hastily scribbled a few indignant
words to the editor of the offending paper.

It was unfortunate that Nellie, who, as
we know, saw the announcement which
caused Lord Limborne so much annoyance,
failed 'to see the denial which Lord
Limborne's note elicited from the next
number of the publication ; for the sayings
and doings of the high and mighty in the
land had not much concern for the Armers
in their ' reduced circumstances,' and sixpences
were not so plentiful as that they
could be expended in so profitless a manner
as in the purchase of a society paper.

Lord Limborne could not discover the
author of the offending paragraph, which
the editor informed him, in a polite note
profuse with apologies, *was obtained in
the ordinary way of business ' — a vague

phrase, which was found to cover a multitude
of journalistic sins, and meant that
the information was received from someone
or other of those hangers-on at the
skirts of society, who eke out a narrow
income by kindly providing the editors of
these twaddling, and sometimes snobbish,
^ weeklies ' with the odd bits of more or
less spicy gossip and slander they manage
to pick up in the course o^ their peregrinations.


Into fairer bosoms besides that of Lord
Limborne did this aforesaid paragraph
carry confusion and dismay, and Theresa
Denton and her mother, and the beauteous
Lady Leveret and her Souse, together
with Lady Limborne, were consumed with
wonder and curiosity as to ^ how he' (that
is to say, his lordship of Limborne) ' would
take it,' and ' who had put it in.' Miss Charlotte
Ingle, indeed, who was staying as
usual at Xo. 751, was led to look upon the
affair as a somewhat rash ' move ' on the

part of the fair and bold Theresa herself,
and was not a little astonished at the
indignant snubbing she got from that
young lady's tongue, when she, with her
accustomed delicacy, hinted (something
broadly) at her thoughts on the subject.

Lady Limborne was not left long in suspense
as to the effect of this ' premature
announcement ' upon her son. As soon as
Lord Libertie had finished his note, and
dropped it in the club post-box, he hailed a
hansom and drove to Leveret House, in a
very disturbed and uncomfortable frame of
mind. It was true, he remembered now,
that he had seen a great deal of Miss
Denton, but as to paying her any attentions,
or singling her out in such a way as
to give a colour of truth to such a report,
the thing was absurd ! Theresa Denton !
good heavens 1 if she were the last woman
left, he should never think of such a thing.
To think of Nellie, with the impress of
gentle nurture in every word and graceful

movement, and then of Theresa Denton,
whose bold disregard for the conventional
he had not only remarked himself, but
had heard discussed in places where young
men do congregate ! The very idea that
his name should be coupled with Miss
Denton's was most abhorrent to him. And,
then the thought suddenly presented itself
to him, if Nellie were to see this abominable
paragraph ! Great heavens, he said to
himself, what would she think of his protestations
in that last sad interview of
theirs? what a poor mean opinion would
she have of her quondam lover ! for they
had often laughed together at the fair
Theresa's eccentricities, and Xellie would
think he was going to marry the girl for
her money.

Such thoughts as these (which, by the way,
would have been anything but honey to
Miss Denton) were far from pleasant companions,
and Lord Limborne was glad when
his cab drew up at the gates of Leveret

House. Lady Leveret was of course out
as she always was unless she was receiving
herself, and Lady Limborne was alone ; she
was too old to care for the regular and,
sooth to say, somewhat monotonous round
of dissipation, which was incumbent upon
Lady Leveret, and which, indeed, was the
very breath of life of that exalted leader of
the world ;' and, accustomed to solitude
by her quiet and often lonely life at
Limborne Castle, Lady Limborne felt it
no hardship, but on the contrary rather a
relief, to be 'left to herself.' She was,
however, delighted to see her son, and.
eager to know what he thought of the
piece of ' news ' just published. Her curiosity
was soon satisfied, for, without giving
her time to utter a word, he burst out,
indignantly,

Have you seen this infamous untruth ?
yes, I see, you have. It is abominable that
such liberties can be taken with folk's
names ; the mischief that may be done in

this way is incalculable. Can nothing be
clone to put a stop to such a state of
things?'

My dear James !' said his mother,
astonished to see him so moved, ' of course
it is most annoying and excessively impertinent
on the part of those newspaper
people ; but I do not see why you should
be so very much moved, there is nothing
to be ashamed of in the report.'

Good heavens ! mother,' exclaimed Lord
Limborne, in utter astonishment at hearing:
such an unaccustomed sentiment from
the lips of his mother. ^ I should have
thought you would have been the very
first person to call out against such an
idea.'

*Well, James,' said his mother, with
some confusion, 'I . . . .of course it is
not the sort of alliance I should wish for,
but in short such marriages
are more common than they were in my
young days, and, as your cousin Leveret

VOL. II. Q

says, one must march with the times.
Emily Beldon . . . .'

Oh ! is that the new " arrangement " ?'
said Lord Limborne, interrupting, and
with an unpleasant smile. ^ Lady Emily
Beldon is Lady Emily Some-one-else — I forget
his name — and I am to be honoured
with the hand and the money (no small
particular in the bargain) of the millionaires,
as they call her?'

^ I have seen a great deal of Theresa
Denton lately, and I consider her an excellent
young person. ; her opinions are
most creditable to her, and I am sure she
would soon lose that that ah
slight gaucherie, which is her only
fault, after she has moved for a little while
in our sphere. And, I must say, James,'
continued Lady Limborne, * we all
thought, that is your cousins, the Leverets,
and I, that you were not indifferent to
Miss Denton.'

How could such an idea have possessed

you ?' asked her son, ' when I never even
thought of Miss Denton, when my whole
mind but it is of no use to speak to
you on that subject.'

'But, James dear,' said his mother,
going up to him and seating herself beside
him, and taking his hand in hers, and
gently stroking it as she spoke, ' I must
speak to my son, my only child. Do you
suppose your mother has not noticed how
ill and worn her son is looking. Do not
be angry with me, James. I am an old
woman, I have only you, and I cannot
bear it any longer. This this unnatural
estrangement has made me very
wretched, James, and to see you so
troubled, and not to know the cause, or to
be able to help you, or comfort you is
more than I can bear. You used to come
to me in all your troubles.'

And poor Lady Limborne's pride gave
way at last, and she cried bitterly as she
clasped her son to her in close embrace,

q2

and clung to him as if she were afraid to
lose him, for she was strangely touched at
his worn and weary look. Lord Limborne
was himself much moved at such a displays
of affection on the part of his cold and
proud mother, and he did his best to soothe
her with caresses and kind and loving
words. It was not long before Lady Lime
regained something of her ordinary
composure ; and the keen delight she felt
in having, in homely phrase, ' made it up '
with her son, made her wonder how she
could have borne the estrangement for so
long, and at the same time determine that
nothing should induce her to go back to the
old miserable state of things.

'■ But, James dear,' she said, as soon ashe
was composed enough to speak. ' You
do look wretchedly ill ; what is the matter
with you, my poor boy r'

Now Lord Limborne found it rather
difficult to answer this question. He, too,
was more than rejoiced at returning to the

old affectionate terms with his mother, and
most anxious to avoid anything which
coukl call back to her mind the old
wretched misunderstandings. The name
of Armer was wont to act upon his mother
in some such a way as a red rag acts upon
a bull, and he hesitated to display this
red rag ; but Lady Limborne would take
no denial.

I shall think you are still angry with
me, James,' said she, ' if you do not tell
me what it is that makes you look so worn
and worried. I beg you will keep nothing
from your mother.'

^ I fear the truth will only anger you,'
said her son, still hesitating ; ' you must
remember I wished to spare you the
annoyance you have so strongly shown
whenever I have spoken to you on the
subject.'

'It cannot be about Miss Armer that
you are so troubled?' asked Lady Lime


Lord Limborne did not fail to notice the
changed tone in which his mother spoke ;
but she had asked for his confidence, and
he must speak to some one.

It is, indeed, Nellie's fate that makes
my life one long anxiety,' he said at last.

Miss Armor's fate ?' asked his mother,
in utter astonishment ; ' Why what . . .'
*Then you have not heard?' said Lord
Limborne. ' Did you not know that Mr.
Armer was ruined, that he is dead?'

How should I know, James ?' said Lady
Limborne, becoming interested. ^ I have
heard nothing of them since I received
that — that letter from Mr. Armer.'

They are ruined ; they have gone from
their old house at Hampstead, and I can
find no trace of them. Poor Nellie ! so
unused to hardship ; it makes me almost
mad to think of her, and to feel I cannot
help her.'

^ But, surely, James,' said Lady Lime
' her relations will help them ;

there must be some one who would do
something for them.'

That is it which makes me so anxious
said her son ; ' they have no one upon
whom they could have any claim, and
hew can Jack who never did any work in
his life, support himself and his sister?
If I could only find her ! but I have
thought of every possible clue, and I have
tried everything, but in vain.'

*My poor boy,' said Lady Limborne.
I never knew you felt so strongly about
it. I did not know you cared so much.'

Cared so much,' echoed her son. ' I
care for nothing else ; my life is one long
misery till I find her, and how to do this
I know not. Good heavens ! how can you
speak like that ? have I not told you time
after time of my — my love for Xellie ;
when I think of what might have been —
for she loved me — I almost lose my reason ;'
and Lord Limborne, quite unmanned,
turned his face from his mother, and, as he

leant with his arms upon the mantel-piece,
Lady Limborne could see the strong
frame shaken with the depth of his sorrow
and anxiety.

Bitterly did Lady Limborne reproach
herself for her obstinate pride as she
watched her son, and knew that, had it
not been for her, he would have been
spared a sorrow he scarcely, strong man
as he was, knew how to bear. And as her
memory swiftly placed before her the
events of the last few months, she cursed
her pride, which had not suffered her to
see how deeply her son's happiness was
engaged. Some pangs of jealousy, too,
she felt at the power this girl had won so
easily, but all her feelings ended in a
great longing to comfort him and help
him, and very timidly the proud Lady
Limborne drew near, and lightly touched
her son.

James,' she said, softly, ' do not give
way like this. Oh ! James, I cannot bear

to see you. I have been very wrong,
James; can you forgive me ?'

"Without turning round, for he was
ashamed of his weakness, he held out his
hand. How eagerly did his mother seize
upon it, and, with words of endearment
which seemed to fall strangely from those
proud lips, kiss and caress it !

If I had only known, James,' she said,
oh ! how could I have been so hard ! I
thought it was all for the best, indeed, indeed
I thought so. And I have suffered,
too, oh ! how bitterly no one can ever
know. It was so hard to live without my
boy's love, and I hated her for coming between
us, and that made me hard and cruel.
How gladly would I recall the past !"

Ah ! mother,' said Lord Limborne,
turning round at last. ' It is too late,
now.'

Surely not, James,' said Lady Lime
'people are not lost like that, nowadays,
we must find them, and my kindness

and love for your wife shall blot out
the miserable past. Come, tell me what
you have already done, and I will see if
woman's wit cannot help you

Lord Limborne could scarcely believe he
was awake, and not dreaming, as his
mother listened to the tale of disappointments
he told her, and earnestly discussed
the ways and means of discovering the
once hated and despised Helen Armer.

Even if we were successful, and were
to find them,' said Lord Limborne, as they
ended their long talk and came to the sad
conclusion that all had been done that
could be done, 'I fear Nellie would resent
my search for her, and refuse to see
or speak to me. You do not know how
proud she is.'

But if I were to go myself to her,' said
Lady Limborne, ' and ask her to forgive
my pride ; if she loves you, James, as you
say she does, if I were to beg her to come
to me as my daughter and your wife, she

must consent, and consent she shall, for I
mil not leave her until she does.'

'Alas ! my mother,' said Lord Limborne,
-with a sad smile, ' you forget that we have
not found her yet.' And taking an affectionate
farewell of his mother, for it was
now late, he returned to his chambers,
wondering at the strange change that had
come over his mother, and sadly thinking
of how differently it all would have ended
had that change only taken place but a few
months ago.

The appearance of the paragraph which
caused Lord Limborne so much disturbance
was also the cause of not a little
embarrassment to the 'other party concerned,'
namely Miss Theresa Denton, and, had
it not been for a very keen desire to find
out how Lord Limborne would take it,
she would have fled from Xo. 751, and
sought in the solitude of Wreford an
escape from the very awkward position
the paragraph placed her in. If it is

annoying for a man to have the blushing
honours of matrimony thrust upon him
unbeknownst,' how much more embarrassing
is it for a young lady to figure in
print as the bride-elect of a gentleman who
has not as yet done her the honour to
consult her wishes on the tender subject,
and who perhaps has not the faintest
intention of making any such delicate
overtures, or against whom she may have
a very decided prejudice, amounting it
may be to dislike or even disgust.

To be congratulated upon one's approaching
nuptials is not one of the happiest
privileges of the engaged young man, who,
sometimes, finds it necessary to rub up
his powers of repartee, and turn off the
awkwardness of the situation by the use of
a certain modicum of ' chaff.' What there
is of the funny in the exceedingly important
step which is the subject of congratulation,
it is difficult to imagine ; and yet some
people seem to deem it necessary to regard

the whole matter as a joke ; perhaps it is
on the Spartan principle of hiclino- the wolf
that is gnawing at their own vitals, or it
may be a certain cynical delight at finding
others ' in the same boat.' At any rate,
the merriment which appears to be che
rigueur on these occasions is not seldom of
a somewhat forced nature, which fact appears
to hint at something, not so funny
after all, in the background. On the
lady's side, however, there is not so much
jocularity imported into the congratulations
: it is the natural end and consummation
of a woman's life space the ' shrieking
sisters !') and her feminine friends and
relations import a reality into their felicitations,
whether inspired by envy or by
affectionate interest, which is decidedly
wanting in the more or less humorous
remarks on the subject of which the young
man is the victim.

The Dentonss' new friends and acquaintances
did not fail to see the announcement

of the elder ' Denton girl's ' engagement.
Nobody was in the least degree surprised.
Theresa had made herself quite conspicuous
by her attentions to Lord Lime
and to that desirable j^ar^r^ mother,
and Mrs. Denton's ambiguous remarks and
meaning smiles, the answers she gave to
fishing' questions on the subject, had
quite prepared the way for the item of
news in question. The result of all this
manoeuvring would have been pleasant if
Theresa and her mother had been certain
of their game ; but they knew well enough
that the game was not by any means safely
bagged yet, and they feared lest this
premature step on the part of some officious
gossip-provider or other would have the
effect of disturbing the sport and making
the bird ' shy.' The shoals of cards, which
in the course of the afternoon amounted to
a formidable heap, and which, as evidences
of their social success, were gratifying,
were not so pleasing when looked upon as

the forerunners of congratulations which
possibly might have to be received with a
feigned innocence and an indignant denial.
Under the circumstances, Theresa decided
that the retirement which her mother's
boudoir afforded must be her retreat until
his lordship 'showed his colours,' and here,
solaced by the company of her faithful
Charlotte Ingle, and occasionally ruffled
by remarks of sarcastic tendency from her
sister (the which remarks Theresa put
down, perfectly correctly, to the score of
envy and malice) the Jiancee- elect passed
some anxious hours. Xor was she over-pleased
when the evening train from the
west brought her dear father to add his
congratulations upon the advancement of
the family, as shown in the approaching
nuptials. Although the society in which
his family moved inspired the millionaire
with enough of awe to make him prefer
the company of his bailiff and gardeners,
yet he took an interest in the doings of

those exalted personages whom lie concluded
under the name of ^ the nobs,' and
he had seen in the paper with astonishment
and delight that Theresa's and Mrs.
Denton's longings were to be crowned
with success, and his daughter was to be
my lady.'

The dismal Henry, who was limper and
more dejected than ever under the yoke
matrimonial, had been spending a few
days in the paternal halls of Wreford, experiencing
as much satisfaction as his
melancholy disposition could afford him
in the temporary escape from the anything
but beloved presence of his aristocratic
and, sooth to say, contemptuous bride,
and her interminable host of brothers and
sisters and cousins ; for they one and all
agreed with their relative in treating her
husband with a neglect which he felt to
be galling;. Mr. Denton would hear of no
denial, and his son accompanied him in
his triumphant progress to 751, Piccadilly.

I see it in the paper this morning,
Tress lie exclaimed, bouncing into the
boudoir, followed by the doleful one.
Only to think, Tresa a ladyship ! Well,
I never thought it would come to that ; a
baronet you might have had, but a real
lord ! Ain't it delicious. Miss Ingle ?
Come to your father, my dear, and let
him kiss your ladyship ;' and Mr. Denton
opened his arms and displayed his manly
bosom, ready to receive his lovely daughter
in a fond paternal embrace.

But that young lady was not so eager
to respond to these affectionate advances,
and she very calmly continued in her comfortable
arm-chair, and refused to move.

^ Nonsense, father,' she said. ' How can
you talk in such a way ! you know nothing
about it. Tell him, mother • I suppose
he had better know ;' and Mrs. Denton,
who had followed her husband and
son, informed the former of the true state
of affairs.

VOL. II. R

'Well, I never !' said Mr. Denton. ' Of
all the cheek ! Them fellows ought to be
worshipped, a-draggin' me all the way
from Devonshire, and all for nothing. But
wait a minute ; if his lordship hadn't meant
anything, he'd have come round, or sent
you a note to tell you so. Haven't you
heard nothing from him ?'

The affair is of much too delicate a
sort for such a communication,' said Mrs.
Denton. ' Charlotte quite agrees with mein
thinking that we must wait and see.
If Lord Limborne's attentions, which I
must say have been marked enough, mean
anything, he will not deny the report, and
if he does deny the announcement, I shall
consider he has treated Theresa shamefully.'

Oh ! delicacy be hanged, begging your
pardon. Miss Ingle,' exclaimed Mr. Denton.
* If he don't show his hand, I shall
look him up and ask him his intentions ;
I ain't a-going to have my daughters
hawked about like that for nothing, I can

tell you.' And Mr. Denton left the room
in not quite so jubilant a state of mind as
that in which he entered it, and, muttering
something about ' something to eat,' he
adjourned to the dining-room to satisfy
the cravings of his ' inner man,' leaving
his family to continue their consultation
unassisted by the bright effulgence of his
genius.

Mr. Denton had no need to ask Lord
Limborne's ' intentions ' of that nobleman,
for a very curt and decided denial of ' the
report which appeared in our weekly contemporary
' stared the disappointed family
in the face from the pages of the Times
the next morning, and the other ' dailies '
contained also a paragraph stating that
^ they had the best of authority for denying
the reported engagement between Lord
Lin borne and the daughter of a wealthy
commoner, which appeared in yesterday's
*' Sayings and Doings." '

To face the curious gaze of ' the world

and the sympathetic (?) condolences of
friends was more than Theresa, or indeed
any of the members of her interesting
family, could endure, and, before the
shades of evening closed around,' the
Dentonss were on their way to Wreford,
leaving the servants to follow with the
heavy baggage.

Charlotte Ingle strenuously advised her
friends to face it out, but both Theresa
and Mrs. Denton where bitterly disappointed,
and they had no heart or courage
to undergo the necessary ordeal. With
difficulty did they restrain the irate head
of the family from proceeding to Lord
Limborne's rooms and denouncing him asa
scoundrel and a traitor ; but prudential
counsels prevailed, and he was included in
the general exodus from No. 751.

CHAPTER XII.

LuccoMBE Terrace, Carling Road, Camden
Town, can scarcely be called an exhilarating
locality. It possesses, however,
in the eyes of the inhabitants thereof, the
great merit of being ' genteel.' No shops
vary the depressing monotony of its dreary
front, save only the public house which
begins the terrace on the rio;ht-hand side
^as you go down,' where it debouches from
the busy thoroughfare of Carling Road ;
while even this blot upon the gentility of
Luccombe Terrace is of a faint colour,
consisting, as it does, of that part of the

Seven Stars ' which is devoted to the
jug and bottle ' department ; and is, moreover,
easily overlooked, on account of its
manifest convenience in the matter of the
supper beer.'

The dulness which not unfrequently
attaches itself to the 'genteel,' or, to tell
the truth of the terrace (as its inhabitants
familiarly called the row of houses), the
shabby ' genteel, is very strongly pronounced
here ; for Luccombe Terrace is
a no-thoroughfare, ending somewhat blankly
in a high and dingy wall, which divides
the street from a large timber-yard. The
dwellers in the terrace do their own marketing,
and no tradesmen's carts disturb its
quiet. It is, however, a favourite hunting-ground
of the coster tribe, whose discordant
rawlings advise the inhabitants of
great bargains to be had, strictly for ready
money, in dubious fish and second-hand
fruit and vegetables. The great order of
the street musicians is also well represented

in the terrace, from the top of the profession,
in the shape of the itinerant and
excruciating German band, through the
piano-oi-gan with its dirty, hirsute Italian
and his Whitechapel Sue togged out in a
many-coloured costume of her companion's
country, down to the ' hurdy-gurdy,' and
the ingenious performer upon two penny
whistles at once. Prolific, also, is Luc-combe
Terrace, and Saturday is made hideous
with the squabbling and playing of
its innumerable progeny, confined on other
week-days, thanks to a paternal government,
Within the precincts of the neighbouring
board-school.

The terrace is not so long a one as that
the inhabitants cannot take a direct, personal
interest in their neighbours ; and
much talk was there on the part of the
clerks' and shorten's wives — who, for the
most part, made up the sum total of the
feminine population — on the subject of
Mrs. Crudgers' new lodgers, whose name

was plainly displayed on a neat brass plate
on that lady's front door; which plate announced
the fact that ' Miss Armer, teacher
of music,' lived there, and at the same
time intimated to the Luccombites that an
opportunity of satisfying maternal vanity
as to the musical powers of daughters was
to be obtained at probably a reasonable
rate.

Several friendly invitations to ' come in
and have a cup of tea' did the little brass
plate obtain for that lone widow of a petty
Customs House officer, Mrs. Crudgers, and
very willing was that respectable lady to
partake of the refreshing cup, not unattended
with a ' bit of cress,' and perhaps
even a muffin and crumpet, or a ' Sally
Linn ' ; for Mrs. Crudgers was of a sociable
disposition, and much averse to hiding
the light of her conversational powers
under a bushel.

Poor souls,' she remarked, ' anyone can
see with 'ars a here as they've seen better

days, which is the same 'as happened to myself
as is well known, and so I 'ave a feller-feeling'
for 'em, as one might say. And as
delicate and pretty a little piece as anyone
could wish to see, and reminds me of poor
dear Crudgers's own niece, Amelia Potter,
which died of a galloping' consumption, and
lies in Kendal Green with a tombstone and
^ Of such is the Kingdom ' on it all proper ;
for Potter, which was that broken down as
there was no coin' nothing with 'im, says,
Spare no expense," says he, as could well
afford it, being in the undertaking line
himself, and able to do things cheaper than
you and me.'

'Wherever do they come from, Eliza?'
asked her hostess.

That I can't tell you, my dear,' replied
the mournful Crudgers. ' for, nice as she is
and giving no more trouble than she can
'help, poor thing, yet she's as close as wax,
and I can't get nothing out of her, and nota
letter have she 'ad, as I can testify ;

which is not to be wondered at, for when
you're in trouble where's your friends?'

If I was you, Mrs. Crudgers,' said a
young matron, 'I should feel nervous
about 'em ; it ain't respectable not to have
no one coming to see you, let alone writing.'

^ I should 'ope, by this time,' replied the
Crudgers, with some asperity, ' as I know
myself too well to 'ave to do with anything
as isn't respectable. Better 'ave no one at
all than the bell a-going' all day and crowds
running in and out with their dirty boots,
as won't even look at such a thing as a door-scraper
or a mat. No, my dear, a month
in advance is my terms, and a month in
advance I've had. And as to playing on
the pinner — well, all I can say is, ours was
always a musical family, and me a-singin'
in the choir when I was a gall, and I hope
I know a good tune when I 'ear it, and
play she can, and no mistake about it. The
young gentleman ain't no trouble at all
neither; comes 'one as regular as clockwork.

and 'as 'is tea A^^itl^ a bit of something to it,
and as nice-looking and affable a young
man as anyone could wish to see.'

Mrs. Crudgers' good report disposed the
inhabitants of the terrace to look upon
their new neighbours with that pitying sort
of favour with which gentlefolks who have
come down in the world ' are often regarded
by the class a rung or two below
them on the social ladder ; and when it
came to be known that Mrs. Watkins, whose
position was assured as the wife of a retired
butcher who was well-to-do in the world
and occupied the double house at the end
of the terrace, with a cheerful view over
the timber-yard — when it was known that
this exalted leader of Luccombite society
had sent her daughter Arabella to learn
the piano from Miss Armer, there was quite
an access of musical zeal in the community,
and Xellie had her hands full.

It was a dreary life at the best of it,
and rendered the more dreary by its contrast

with the widely different past. The
sorrow and shock of her father's sudden
death, the changed conditions of her life,
and the constant, though hidden, grief at
the loss of her lover, had not failed to
leave their marks upon Nellie Armer ; nor
was the hard and most distasteful daily
labour of grinding the elements of music
into the — for the most part — unreceptive
heads of the daughters of Luccombe likely
to assist our heroine in renewing her
strength.

Jack, too, was a great anxiety to his
sister ; if Nellie found poverty and its sordid
surroundings heavy burdens to bear,
at least she could do her best to carry the
load without groaning and grumbling at
fate ; but this was just what Jack could
not do, and his constant complaining and
bitter discontent were not the lightest of
the loads the fragile Nellie had to carry.
Jack had always had such a pleasant, easygoing
life ; even the hated ^ daily grind '

at his father's office had been softened
down to him by easy hours, and all the
agreeable incidence of a large allowance ;
but now he was no longer the son of a
wealthy stockbroker, ' learning the business
' in his father's office, but a clerk, and
a very junior clerk to boot, and he must
be punctual to the minute in arriving at
his employer's office, and must wait till
the last stroke of the blissful hour of release
before ' leaving off.' His salary, or
screw,' as he soon learnt to call it, was
not a very elastic one, and dwindled down
in the most melancholy way when compared
with the sum his father had allowed
him, and which sum, by the way, he had
regarded as quite unequal to the requirements
of a gentleman of Mr. John Armer
junior's position.

But now the days of extravagant lunches
and dinners, of trips ' up the river,' of
stalls at the theatres, of hansom cabs, elegant
' gets up,' choice cigars, champagne,

and the rest of it, seemed like a far-off
dream of delight, and rendered the present
tightness of the money market,' with all
its attendant discomforts and self-denials,
almost intolerable. To come down to the
'bus, to a 'plate of cold at eighteen,' to
half of stout and bitter,' to daily drudgery,
with little or nothing in the way of enjoyment,
and, worse than all, with no hope
or prospect of improvement in the future,
was more than Jack Armer could endure,
or, at any rate, endure without an amount
of ' letting off of steam ' in the way of
complaints against fortune, which bore
hardly upon his equally unfortunate sister.
There are some men, of course, upon
whom adversity acts as a spur acts upon
a lazy hack, and who are blessed with an
amount of ' go ' and obstinacy which forces
the fates to smile upon them at last ; but
it is to be feared that such men are in a
pitiful minority, and the great bulk of the
unlucky accept their bad luck with groaning

and railings at fortune, and have no
heart to put their shoulders to the wheel
and heave the cart out of the rut. Upon
this latter class a sudden reversal of fortune
has a most unhappy effect ; from
hopelessness they pass to carelessness, from
carelessness to slovenliness, and an eager
snatching at anything which can give
them a moment's forge fulness ; next come
too often drink and dishonesty, and so
they go on from bad to worse, till they
reach the bottom of the pit, in the workhouse
or the prison.

Jack was already showing signs of beginning
this ' easy descent ' ; he resented
the dulness of the cramped lodgings at
No. 7, Luccombe Terrace ; he saw through
poor Nellie's forced attempts at gaiety ; he
even resented her feigned cheerfulness.
Already he not infrequently, after hastily
swallowing the meal which poor Xellie
provided (often denying herself in order
that ' Jack should have something appetising,

poor fellow '), strolled out for a bit
4t was so stuffy' — which 'strolling out'
usually ended in an evening spent in the
billiard-room of the convenient and handy
Seven Stars,' and in company at which, a
few months ago, Master Jack would have
turned up his nose with supreme contempt.

No wonder then, with all these troubles
upon her mind, that Nellie began to remind
Mrs. Crudgers of the sad end of
Amelia Potter.

Look at No. 7 now : the last heavy-handed,
clumsy-fingered pupil has gone,
and the torturing sound of the everlasting
' scales ' is over for to-day, at
last, and Nellie, who is not yet acclimatised
to the anything but balmy air of Luc-combe
Terrace, and is, moreover, utterly
done up with the tiresome, though, in a
monetary point of view, pleasing procession
of pupils, has tidied the solitary
sitting-room, brushed up the hearth, and
is sitting by the fire doing Jack's 'mending,'

and waiting for the arrival of that
individual. The depressing elect of the
common order of ' lodgings ' furniture is
not so pronounced in the lamplight ; the
curtains are drawn, the fire burns brightly,
and Xellie thinks she could be, if not
happy, at least contented, if only Jack
would bear his burdens better, and cease
from causing her these direful apprehensions
for his future.

She has as many pupils as she can well
attend to. They come to her (for indeed
there are not many pianos in Luccorabe
Terrace, though according and concertinas
abound), and she has not to undergo
— with alas ! too many of the great
ill-paid — the fatigue and misery of trudging
through muddy streets, or journeying
in damp and draughty omnibuses (fortunate
to get a seat after waiting at a
street corner for a quarter-of-an-hour in
drizzle and fog), or in the stifling atmosphere
of the ' Underground.' The small

VOL. II. s

fees her little pupils bring her mount upto
quite a satisfactory sum at the end of
the week, and Nellie is already thinking
of putting by a little fund — 'for Jack,' of
course ; poor Jack, who must find it so
hard after Coombridge and Heathfield ! and
Nellie begins to think of the old Coom-bridge
days, of her dear father, of her lost
lover, doubly lost to her now, for she
ought not even to think of Theresa
Denton's husband. Nellie is tired and
worn-out, and not so strong as she used
to be, and the big tears begin to well up
in her eyes, and to trickle down one by
one upon the sock she is mending for
Jack, till she cannot see her work, and
must stop and brush away these foolish
tears, for it will not do for Jack to find
her crying, and — here he is, for that must
be his latch-key rattling in the lock ; and
Nellie hastily dries her eyes, and turns
round with a pleasant smile and a welcoming

greeting as her brother comes into
the room.

Jack is too much occupied with his own
grievances to notice the traces of tears
which Xelhe is so anxious to hide from
him. Dismal and discontented he usually
is now, but to-night he looks more than
ordinarily woebegone, so much so that
Nellie wonders what new misfortune can
have befallen her unhappy brother.

'Why, what is the matter, Jack?' she
asks, anxiously, as he throws himself into
a chair by the fireside without vouchsafing
a word.

Matter enough,' answers Jack, staring
gloomily into the fire. ' I can't stand this
sort of thing much longer ; it is more thana
fellow can bear.'

Xellie wonders what can have happened
; but she thinks it best to say nothing,
and after a pause Jack goes on again.

I always hated this beastly office work,'
he says, without turning round ; 'it is

s2

rank slavery. I had rather break stones
on the road. It is hard enough to put up
with it when everything goes smoothly ;
but that old beast Gregson won't let me
alone, he is always nagging at me, everlastingly
finding fault ; not a day passes
but he lets out at me, before all those
snobs too. I believe he hates me because
I'm a gentleman, and he is a cad. " Can't
put up with my carelessness much longer ;
must see a change in me." He'll see a
change sooner than he thinks, for I'm not
going to be bullied like this; and, if I
have much more of it, I'll cut the whole
concern.'

The fact is, that Master Jack is eminently
unfitted for the position he occupies ;
his three years and more of training (?) at
the university have taught him how to pull
an oar, play a tolerable game of billiards,
take a hand at loo, and spend money profusely,
but beyond these accomplishments,
hind a very small smattering of classic lore,

and a still smaller modicum of mathematical
proficiency, Alma Mater has done
but little for her pupil, and has left him at
the end of his curriculum little prepared to
force a living from the hands of an unkind
fortune. It is true he might have availed
himself of the opportunities freely enough
offered ; but Jack's father was a very rich
man, and Jack had no thought but that he
should one day step into his father s shoes,
and enjoy life as a country magnate, so
the chances were never even looked at,
and Jack is reaping the harvest of his lazy,
easy-going wild oat soT\dng.

Nellie went up to her brother, and put
her head caressingly on his shoulder.

Poor old Jack,' she said, ' I know it is
hard for you' — she did not hint of any
hardness in her lot — ' and very difficult to
be patient ; but you mil soon get to know
the work, and it will be easier to you then,
and — who knows ? — why, you may go on
.and on, and be a great man yet. Think

of how many successful men have begun
life as you are beginning !'

I don't think there is much chance of
that in my case,' said Jack, with a grim
smile. ' I'm afraid I'm not going to bethe
hero of a City romance, beginning
with the traditional half-a-crown, and ending
with millions of money, baronetcies,
peerage, yachts, moors in Scotland, and
the rest of it. No, Nellie, I hate the whole
lot, and I have half a mind to cut the concern,
and go in for a private tutorship, or
something of that sort. It's slavery, I
know, but it can't be a worse slavery than
this. Father paid enough for my degree,
and I don't see why I should not make
something out of it.' ,

This new idea of Jack's filled Nellie's
mind with the direst of forebodings ; it
seemed to her so very much like a dropping
of the substance, and a grasping at
shadows. The eighty pounds a year which
Jack's clerkship brought into the common

purse was substantial enough, and if Jack
could be got to stick to his business this
salary would be increased. Mr. Manner had
not been without friends in the City, and
Nellie hoped great things for Jack from
this fact, forgetting, or not realizing, hove'
quickly names and persons are forgotten in
the rush and haste of money-making and
money-losing.

Moreover, if Jack persisted in this new
departure, it must mean separation, and
how could he leave his sister to fight her
battle ^^At\l the world alone ? And what
would become of Jack without Nellie to
look after him? easy-going Jack, who
could not say ' no ' to any pleasure or
indulgence ! Besides, Nellie knew something
of her brother's attainments, and
she had a shrewd suspicion that he would
not find it so easy to gain a sphere for the
exercise of his educational talents. Altogether
the outlook was not a cheerful
one, and Nellie was almost in despair at

the new turn Jack's discontent seemed not
unlikely to take.

But, Jack,' she said at last, after thinking
over the matter. Jack moodily staring
into the hire the while, * I have heard it
is very difficult to get a tutorship, and it
would be dreadful if you had to go ever
so far away, and leave me here all alone,
and after all your place is a certainty.
Oh, Jack, I do beg you not to give it up.'

You needn't be afraid of my leaving
you, Nellie,' said Jack, looking round at
his sister. ' I could get a mastership in
some school in London here, there must
be hundreds, so that I could come home at
night, or even if I got a private tutorship,
which I should like much better, you
could come and live somewhere near the
place, don't you see ? I hate your having
to teach all these horrid little cubs.'

Nellie smiled sadly as she wondered in
her mind how they would manage to pay
the Crudgers, and the butcher and the

baker, and the rest, without the ' horrid
little cubs.' But she sav it was no use to
talk any more upon the subject at present,
and just then the landlady appeared with
a ' bit of something 'ot,' as she called it,
to furnish out the homely meal which Jack
was wont to compare, ^yith many growling
and gambling, nth the sumptuous repasts
of the Coombridge and Heathfield
menage.

CHAPTER XIII.

OUT OF THE DEPTHS.

Mr. Gregson, chief clerk in the well-known
firm of Messrs. T. and B. Nicholls,
stockbrokers, was in a very uncomfortable
frame of mind. The life of that methodical
individual was, as he pathetically remarked,
rapidly becoming a burden to him, and
the cause of this unhappy state of affairs
was to be found in the conduct of the
most junior of the junior clerks, Mr. John
Armer. The carelessness and the continual
mistakes of that misguided young
man brought an amount of unnecessary
work into the office, which weighed upon

the soul of Mr. Gregson, and together
with his unblushing want of punctuality,
and the bad effect his conduct in business
generally had upon the ' outer office,'
formed the subjects of jeremiads of which
the governors ' were getting intensely
weary. Mr. Gregson's god was ' business,'
and the dislike, not to say contempt, in
which that god was regarded by the latest
worshipper at the shrine in Messrs. T. and
B. Schools' office, provoked Mr. Gregson
beyond endurance.

Already Jack Armer had been ^ had up
before the governors,' and solemnly exhorted
and warned ; and had these constant
complaints, he was told, been preferred
against any other one of the clerks,
he would long ago have ' got the sack ;'
but out of kindness to his father's memory,
and his own reversal of fortune, his employers
generously forgave him, and
offered him another chance, greatly to Mr.
Gregson's disgust, and entirely against that

trustworthy and valuable servant's advice.
Mr. Gregson, on the occasion of the ' wigging'
in question, eased his mind by the
delivery of some dark and dismal prophecies
anent the offending person, and
these prophecies met with a painfully
speedy fulfilment.

Jack was bitten severely nth his new
tutorial idea. He pictured to himself such
a life as his soul loved and longed for,
and saw himself the bear-leader of some
titled or wealthy ' cub ;' occupying his own
set of apartments in some castle or mansion
in the country, and varying the monotony
of the daily grind at classics and
mathematics, by instructions to his pupil
in all those branches of a country gentleman's
life in which, sooth to say, Master
Jack loss a proficient. The hours of study,
and their accompanying tedium, were to
be made up for by other hours devoted
to riding, driving, shooting, and sport
generally.

^^ Lost in these pleasant probabilities,
which at length, by a common mental
process, became absolute certainties. Jack
became more careless than ever. He was
simply wasting his time, he thought to himself,
and wearing; out his soul and body
in a galling slavery, and for a salary which
appeared to him contemptible in comparison
with the comfortable honorary my
lord, or the squire, was to award him for the
care and tuition of the son and heir. The
end came somewhat suddenly at last ; for
Mr. Gregson appeared in his employers'
sanctum one fell and fatal afternoon, as
those gentlemen were drawing on their
gloves and assuming great-coats and hats,
preparatory to starting for their homes in
the suburbs, and wrathfully remarked that
either he or young Armer must go, for
warnings and chances were utterly thrown
away upon that most unbusiness-like young
man, and that very day he had perpetrated
an error in making up his books, which

was the last straw, and had broken the
back of that not too patient camel, Mr.
Gregson's temper.

Messrs. T. and B. Nicholls were naturally
impatient at being delayed in their
departure to the bosoms of their families,
and, hastily coming to the conclusion that
they could stand it no longer,' they sent
the grimly-pleased Gregson with a message
to ' Mr. Armer.' Jack had a very shrewd
suspicion as to ' what was coming,' and,
rendered callous by his dreams of future
bliss as a private tutor, he received his
dismissal with an equanimity which offended
his employers, and put a stop to the
kind words of regret which his misfortunes,
in spite of his misconduct, would have
provoked. His presence in the office only
harried the soul of their confidential clerk ;
and Jack was told ' he need not come
there again,' while the abruptness of the
dismissal was softened by a handsome
gratuity far in excess of his deserts.

And now began the most painful chapter
in the story of Nellie's misfortunes. The
not very large sum of money which was
left to her, after paying all debts, from the
kind help of her father's friends, was almost
exhausted. This little nest-egg, and
the larger part of Messrs. Nicholls' parting
gift to Jack, which he gave up to
his sister sith an exalted sense of his own
generosity, was all that stood between
Nellie and Jack, and something very like
the most abject poverty; for the small fees
Nellie received from her little pupils, without
the help of Jack's salary, barely
sufficed to satisfy Mrs. Crudgers' not too
exorbitant demands. ^Yeek after week
rolled on, and the small capital was, in
spite of the most careful of management on
Nellie's part, gradually but surely dwindling
do"svn. At first Jack was full of fire
and hope. He applied to all the educational
agencies, he got testimonials from
his college, he spent a sum of money in

postage stamps, Avliich caused his sister
many qualms, in answering the appointments,
whose particulars the scholastic
agencies sent him lithographed in red ink,
on half sheets of paper; he applied for
all kinds of tutorship and mastership, he
even spent two or three pounds (also to
Nellie's anguish of mind, at the waste of
the sorely needed money) in advertisements
setting forth his willingness to act as
tutor or private secretary, and inviting
a reply to Bea., 7, Luccombe Terrace
Camden Town ; but, alas ! for the emptiness
of human hopes, it was, as his sister had
feared, all of no avail.

His letters to the various patrons the
agencies introduced him to (fortunately
no fees were to be paid unless an engagement
were elected') met with a chilling
silence, or, at best, polite refusals, while his
own advertisement drew answers only from
similar agencies to the ones he was ' working.'
As time went on, poor Jack lost

heart ; from the lofty visions of desirable
private tutorship, he came down step by
step, until at last he would have accepted
^vith joy the drudgery of an ushership ina
third or fourth-rate school. Morning
morning he carefully conned the advertisement
sheets of the Times which he
borrowed for an hour from the ' Seven Stars,'
for the sum of one penny per diem, and
day after day he trudged to such addresses
as seemed to afford him a chance of employment
; but he could get nothing to do ;
in many cases his ' gentlemanly appearance
' (as the police-court phrase goes) was
against him ; hundreds of other young men,
better qualified by far than was Jack
Armer, were applying, and night after
night Jack returned to Luccombe Terrace
to meet Xellie's anxious look of inquiry
with a hopeless shake of the head.

In sheer desperation, after two months
of weary disappointment, Jack wrote to his
former employers ; but Messrs T. and B.

VOL. II. T

Nicholls had had enough of Mr. Armer,
and no reply was vouchsafed to his letter
of penitence and appeal.

At length the wolf made his fell appearance
at the door of No. 7 in grim earnest ;
the little stock of capital was quite exhausted,
the last sovereign had been
changed, and had melted away, and poor
Jack nth a shame-faced air had more than
once appeared in the narrow boxes in the
pawn-broker's shop to answer the question,
'How much?' Even this last resource of
the destitute was gradually exhausted, and
Jack's rings and studs and watch-chain,
and Nellie's trinkets, the sad memorials of
better days, had gone, and Jack's gold
watch was exchanged for a silver one
before he had time to learn to march
boldly to the shrine of the ' three golden
balls,' and to chaffer and haggle "with
the ' young man,' in order to persuade
that hard-hearted Hebrew to ' make it five
bob.'

Nellie's health was at last giving way
under the dreadful strain of fear as to the
future ; she almost starved herself, too, in
the anxious endeavour to 'cut down ex-senses
' already pared down to starvation
point ; and as she felt daily less and less
able to bear the strain of her work, and began
to fear lest she should be overcome by
the faint feeling which now and again visited
her, and was, in fact, the result of the
mental strain and under-feeding, the most
horrible dread seized upon her, and, were
it not for Jack, she could almost have
prayed to be taken from a life which was
rapidly becoming insupportable.

If she were to " give up," what would
become of them ? The few shillings she so
hardly earned were all that stood between
them and that last home of poverty, the
Workhouse.'

And at this dreadful thought Xellie
braced herself up again, and toiled on in
spite of dire sickness of body and of soul.

T 2

And still Jack made his daily pilgrimages,
and still lie returned with the same monotonous
tale of failure.

But the old proverb which affirms that
the longest of lanes has its turning ' was
to have another confirmation in the case of
our sorely-tried heroine and her brother.

They had come to the very dregs of the
bitter cup of poverty, and were to lose the
shelter and comfort of hearth and home.
Mrs. Crudgers, in pity for her unfortunate
lodgers, had broken through her hard
and fast rule, and had allowed them to become
three weeks in arrears nth their rent;
but, as she observed to Nellie, ' she was a
poor woman, and, though it wrung her 'part
to 'veto say it, go they must before the week
was out ; she wouldn't say nothing about
what was owed, trusting they would pay her
when better days should come, for she snowed
what it was to want herself, and if she
didn't give herself the airs of some folks
which should be nameless, nth their 

of their eyes and their textes, she
had been brought up pious, and snowed
her catechism and her booty to her neighbours,
which, if they snowed it, they didn't
show it anyhow.'

This intimation, which Xellie had been
painfully dreading for some time, was
given on the Monday, and, during Jack's
absence on his dreary, hopeless quest for
work, Xellie had, after dismissing her last
pupil, been searching for a couple of rooms
which should be near enough to Luccombe
Terrace for her pupils, and Within the extremely
narrow compass of her weekly earnings.
The rooms, or one of them at least,
must be respectable enough not to shock the
tender susceptibilities of the mothers of
Luccombe, her employers, and it seemed a
hopeless task to bring these two adverse
elements, gentility and cheapness, together.
Nellie returned to Xo. 7 in a despairing
frame of mind after a long and fruitless
search. As she drew near to the door, to

her intense astonishment, she saw Jack,
apparently bereft of his senses, making violent
gestures expressive of delight (a rare
visitors No. 7) and frantically waving a
newspaper above his head. As soon as he
caught her eye, he disappeared, and, before
Nellie could turn the handle of the door, it
was thrown widely open, and she found
herself in Jack's arms, with the paper
fluttering over her.

Jack was positively hysterical with joy ;
he laughed and cried in one breath, and
could scarcely utter a coherent sound. It
was plain enough to see that it was something
in the paper which occasioned this
unaccustomed burst of hilarity, and Nellie
at first supposed that he must have seen
'just the very thing ' in the way of employment,
and, nth a sudden return of his old
sanguine characteristics, have jumped to
the end of the matter without going
through the necessary preliminaries of
application, testimonial showing, and the

too familiar final rejection. But site was
mistaken ; it would have required a great
deal more than the most promising advertisement
that ever put heart of grace into
the unemployed to have stirred the now
despondent Jack in such an extraordinary
manner. In vain Nellie searched the paper
while Jack grinned in the most provoking
way at her efforts to discover the cause of
his overflowing glee.

• Give it up, Nellie ?' he said, as Nellie
asked him, for about the twentieth time,
'what it all meant?' 'Well! then, look
here !' he said, pointing to a paragraph in
the agony column of the Daily Telegraphic
Look here !' and Jack read out, with infinite
gusto:

Armee. — If Miss Armer, formerly of
Coombridge, in the county of Devon, will
apply to Messrs. Avery and Simpson at
213, Bedford Row, London, W.C, she will
hear of something greatly to her
advantage.'

There 1 Miss Mariner, formerly of Coom-bridge,
in the county of Devon, what do
you think of that said Jack, triumphantly.

Oh ! Jack,' said Nellie, ' what can it be?
Can it be possible that there is going to bean
end of all this misery ? Oh ! it is too
good to be true.'

Just let me tell you all about it, old
lady,' said Jack. ' I went to those agents in
Sackville Street to see if anything by any
possibility might have turned up, and the
clerk fellow was anything but civil, said
the principal was engaged. I said I would
wait, and as I was waiting I took up the
Telegraphy and the very first thing I saw
was our name staring me in the face in
this blessed advertisement. You can guess I
did not wait much longer, but rushed off
as hard as I could pelt to 213, Bedford
Row. I sent in my name, and in a minute
or two I saw Mr Avery. He was very
civil, but shy of saying anything. I told
him I was your brother, and asked him

what it was all about. Poor old Gidley is
dead, died abroad, and he has left you some
of his money, that was all I could get out
of the cautious Avery, and you are to go
there tomorrow morning to hear all the
particulars. I have been waiting in forever
so long for you. The lawyer wanted
to wait upon you but I thought of Luc-combe
Terrace, and I thought you would
rather go to them.'

• Poor Mr. Gidley I' said Nellie, who, as
may well be imagined, had been listening
With eager attention to Jack's story.
• Poor old mean, to die all alone among
strangers ! and how kind and good of him
to think of me, after all those dreadful
quarrels with father. If he could only
know the intense relief his kindness is tome,
and how grateful I am.'

I wonder what he has left you?' said
the unfeeling Jack. ' Anyhow, if it is only
a few hundred pounds it will take us out
of this hole, and give us a chance somewhere

or other; he must have made a
frightful lot of money, look how quietly he
lived, never spent anything hardly, and no
children or family, or anything. I wonder
if he had any nephews or nieces ?'

Of course he had. Jack,' said Nellie y
very rich people who used to look down
upon him when he was poor. Don't you
remember how he used to tell the story of
how his brother and his brother's children
tried to make friends with him Ashen he
first went to live in Bedford Square ?'

No, I don't remember anything about
it,' said Jack. ' All I know is that Miss
Armer is going to hear something greatly
to her advantage, and that this horrible
life is going to be ended.'

Do not be too sanguine. Jack,' said
Nellie, warningly ; ' you will be so fearfully
disappointed if it turns out to be
nothing very much after all.'

Never fear,' said Jack, exultingly, * they
would not have put " greatly," do you

see T he asked, pointing to the paragraph.
" Greatly " to her advantage, my dear,
they should not have put that if it had been
a trifle.'

Far on into the night the brother and
sister sat up discussing this wonderful
piece of news, and it was not until the
small hours that they separated : Jack to
dream golden dreams, and Xellie to think
of the kind old godfather sinking to his
last long; rest in a fortiori country, and
with strange faces around his bed.

The next morning Jack was up betimes ;
he was too restless to sleep long, and he
gave Xellie no peace, but kept calling out
to know ' how long she would be,' so eager
was he to renew the last night's discussion,
and to get through the time until
the hour of the meeting T\ith the lawyers
in Bedford Row.

Mrs. Crudgers was astonished, too, at
this departure from the young gentleman's
ordinary habit of late rising, and ventured

to ask him, as she lit the fire in her
lodgers sitting-room, 'What was up?'

Up, Mrs. Crudgers ? Why, Tm up,
ain't I ?' said Jack, ' and youre up, and
money's up '

Which I wish it was P exclaimed Mrs.
Crudgers, ' for it's low down enough with
me, I can tell yer, and very glad I shall
be for the trifle as is owing.'

Mrs. Crudgers,' said Jack, * you shall
have it ; this very day the obligation shall
be discharged, and a suitable honorarium
added by way of interest or usury.'

I'm sure it's very kind of you,' said the
landlady, ' and I always did say that for
variableness and genteel conduct Mr.
Harmer hasn't got no equal.'

Just then Nellie came down, and received
Mrs. Crudgers' congratulations on
the ' slice of luck as she was given to
understand had come to them.'

Breakfast and a long confabulation —
chiefly a monologue on Jack's part—

broiiglit them to ten o'clock, and Jack
and Nellie started to walk in the bright
and still wintry sun to the office of Messrs.
Avery and Simpson. Here a fresh surprise
awaited them. They were received
with the greatest politeness, and in a few
minutes were in possession of the whole
story. Mr. Gidley had died a month ago
at Nice ; his old housekeeper was with him
to the last, and, with the exception of a
handsome provision for that faithful servant
and friend, the whole of his large
fortune was left to ' his beloved goddaughter,
Helen Armer.' Mr. Gidley had
made large sums of money, and had lived
sparingly, and Nellie was now a very rich
young lady indeed.

CHAPTER XIV.

LADY LIMBORNE AND NELLIE.

If Nellie had been only a few minutes
later in leaving the lawyer's office in Bedford
Row, lie would have had the felicity
of seeing a very old friend of hers, no less
a person, in fact, than her old lover
Lord Limborne. After the reconciliation
with her son. Lady Limborne returned to
Limborne Castle ; but she found it impossible
to settle down into her old solitary
life, her heart was in London with her son,
she could no longer take any interest in
the quiet and monotonous occupations
which once satisfied her, and as Lord Lime

ample salary, together ^\itli the
money his pen brought hmi, did away
With the impossibility of a modest establishment
in London, Lady Limborne begged
him to take a small house, and allow
her to come up and live sith him. Xow
that there was no bar or misunderstanding
between them, Lord Limborne's affection
for his mother returned nth its old force,
and he was himself thinking of making-some
such proposition when his mother's
letter reached him. He at once agreed to
her request, and in a short time the ncAv
menage was established in Dover Street,
greatly to the content of both mother
and son. Constantly and anxiously thinking
of Xellie, and hoping against hope
that one day he should come upon some
trace of her, Lord Limborne was glad
of the opportunity his mother's presence
gave him of occasionally unburdening his
heart, sure now of her affectionate sympathy,
and Xellie Manner had become a

frequent topic of conversation with them.
The advertisement had already appeared
in the daily papers in several issues, but
neither did Lord Limborne nor did his
mother take much interest in the agony
column of the Times. On the morning,
however, of Nellie's visit to Messrs. Avery
and Simpson, as Lady Limborne and her
son were at breakfast, and leisurely looking
through the paper the while, each reading
out from his or her share of the Times
such items of news as seemed to be of
interest. Lady Limborne gave such a start
of surprise as to make her son look up
and ask what it was that she had seen.

I think, James, this will interest you,'
said Lady Limborne, handing him the first
sheet of the Times with her finger upon the
fac-simile of the advertisement which Jack
had seen in the Daily Telegraph.

Good heavens !' exclaimed Lord Lime
' of course, it is Nellie, and I shall
see her at last after all these weary months

of waiting. I will go at once to these
la^v}'ers, find out her address, and go to
her ;' and he rose hastily from the table.

Wait one moment, James,' said his
mother, * do nothing in such a hurry, the
lawyers mil not run away,' she said, smiling
at her grave and quiet son's lover-like
eagerness ; ' let us think it over before we
act.'

I shall not rest until I have seen her,'
said Lord Limborne, chafing at the delay.

Now, James, be sensible for one moment,'
said Lady Limborne; 'you know
nothing of what has or what may have
happened to Helen ' (for so had Lady Lime
come to speak of ' that Miss Armer')
and, if you will abide by my advice, you
may save yourself from being placed in a
painful, perhaps even a ridiculous, position.'

'What can you mean, mother?' asked
Lord Limborne, somewhat impatiently.

Why, this, my dear boy,' answered his
mother, vail. a slight touch of her old

VOL. II. U

acerbity. ' You do not wish to pour out
the full tide of your lover-like eloquence
to another man's Avise.'

I never thought of that,' said her son,
in some dismay at the idea ; ' but,' he
added, brightening up, ' it is impossible.
I am quite certain of her affection.'

The insolence and conceit of these men,'
said Lady Limborne, with a laugh. ' But,
seriously, James, you do not know what
has happened, or to what straits they may
have been driven ; and, if you take my
advice, you will certainly go to these lawyers,
and find out their address ; and I
think you had better let me go and see
Helen.'

Why, mother, you have '

Yes, I know what you are going to say,
James,' interrupted Lady Limborne ; ' and
still I think my plan a good one. I wish
to make the best amends in my power ;
and, before I sink into the dowager,' she
added, with a smile, ' I want to make

friends ^\it]i the powers that are to be.
I have often thought it all over, James,
and I beg you to give way to me in this ;
it A\ill be for the best. If all is as you
say, and I, too, wish it, and if Helen still
loves you and is free, I want to see her
first of all, and to ask her to come to meas
my daughter and my son's ife. She
knows how bitterly I have been against
her ; and, the awkwardness mil be less, if
it is boldly faced in this way. She may,
perhaps, refuse to see you (you have often
told me how proud she is) , if she thinks I
am still opposed to her.'

It is good and kind of you, mother,'
said Lord Limborne ; ' and, I think, it is
the best way, after all.'

I am sure it is,' said Lady Limborne.
And now, order the carriage, and we can
drive together to these lawyer people ;
and, Ashen we have found the address, I
can go on alone, and you must come here
and wait for my return.'

u2

In a very short time, Lord Limborne
and his mother were driving towards Bedford
Row, which abode of the Law they
reached a few minutes after Jack and
Nellie had left. Lord Limborne's card
procured him an instant audience With the
firm, and on his explaining his friendship
with the Armers, and his long anxiety as
to what had become of them, he was informed
at once that Miss Armer and her
brother had only just left the office; and,
as Messrs. Avery and Simpson saw no
reason why anyone should be anything
but pleased at a visit from a ' lord,' Lord
Limborne was bowed out of the office, with
the address, No. 7, Luccombe Terrace,
Carling Road, Camden Town, written upon
a slip of paper.

Carling Road is a well-known thoroughfare
in the not too aristocratic quarter in
question, and the coachman drove off
quickly nth his mistress, leaving Lord
Limborne to make his way back to Dover

Street as best he might ; for, tliougli he
begged Lady Limborne to let him accompany
her, this would have interfered vdih
her plans, and she sternly refused.

Jack's head was quite turned nth his
sisters good fortune, in which he very
rightly expected he would have no inconsiderable
share. He wanted Xellie to
leave No. 7 that very day, and go to
some hotel in the West End, until they
should make up their minds what to do
next ; in fact, his soul longed to emerge
from the chrysalis state of the last long
dreary months into the butterfly existence
that was his before misfortune's iron fingers
had so cruelly pinched his sister and himself.
But Nellie was bewildered vrith the
suddenness of the change. She wanted
some days of quiet to realise her new
position, and she finely refused to leave
her old lodgings at any rate until the end
of the week; although the comfortable
bundle of bank-notes which Messrs. Avery

and Simpson had bestowed upon her, as
an earnest of good things to come, would
have enabled her to do as Jack so earnestly
-wished, and so eagerly urged. He had
to content himself with a munificent toll
taken from the bundle before-mentioned
and, after walking some little distance nth
Nellie on their way home to No. 7, he
began to feel the money burn in his pocket.
A contempt for his somewhat seedy ' outer
man ' took sudden hold upon him, and
telling Nellie he should look up his tailor
and order some respectable clothes, so as
not to disgrace their good fortune, he put
her into a cab, and departed in great glee
to follow once more his favourite occupation
of ' spending money !'

As Nellie was driven along the somewhat
sordid streets towards her lodgings,
some order evolved itself from the chaos of
her mind, and the old aching sense of loss
at the thought of her lover came back
to her, and with an added force, since now

she was rich enough to satisfy even the
ambitious views of Lady Limborne, and to
gild over the want of birth which that lady
had obstinately and erroneously imputed
to her. But it was of no use thinking of
it all, for Lord Limborne, A\dth an easy forgetfulness
for which she had not given him
the credit, had married (as she thought)
Theresa Denton, and all that sweet and
bitter chapter of her history must be closed
for ever. She little thought of what was
awaiting her in the dingy ' parlour ' of
No. 7.

The news of the Armers' ' bit of luck '
had formed an appetising topic of conversation
to such of the gossips of Luccombe
Terrace as Mrs. Crudgers had had an opportunity
of confiding in ; such an excellent
piece of news certainly would not
improve with keeping, and, before Xellie
left the office of Messrs. Avery and Simpson,
the story of Mrs. Crudgers' lodgers
was talked over from end to end of the

short row of houses. Naturally, the story
did not lose in the telling, and Jack's admission
of that morning to his landlady
was amplified and extended until quite
fabulous sums were named as their new
inheritance, with all that gusto which is
felt in the rolling large sums of money
over the tongue. It was, therefore, felt to
be quite in the natural order of things that
a ' private carriage ' should drive up to the
door of the fortunate ones, and that a
beautifully-dressed ' lady should alight,
and enter those narrow portals. As the
carriage waited there for some time, opportunity
was given for the satiating of curiosity
in the examination of its quiet but
well-appointed details ; and, when a ' coronet '
was perceived upon the panels, the excitement
rose to fever-heat, and the return of
Nellie was awaited with an universal tiptoe
of expectation.

Nellie dismissed her cab at the corner,
for she knew quite enough ^f the curiosity

of her neighbours, and she did not ^dsh to
excite their powers of prying by the unusual
spectacle of a cab 4n the terrace.'
The sight of a brougham there did not
astonish her until she found it was standing
opposite her own number, for she thought,
at first, that ' some one was ill,' and that
it was that expensive luxury, the doctor's
carriage. Wondering what it could possibly
mean, she hastily entered her room,
and found herself face to face Arith Lady
Limborne !

Lady Limborne had had ample time to
digest the forlornness and poverty of Xellie's
surroundings ; she was, of course, thoroughly
well aware of the comfort and luxury of
Nellie's past, and the contrast between the
surroundings of that past and the dreary
dinginess and poverty-struck look of Mrs.
Crudgers' rooms touched and moved her
strangely. When she saw Nellie, Avhom
she remembered as a bright, merry, and
exceedingly pretty girl, when she saw

Nellie, as she turned into the gate, a thin,
careworn phantom of her former self, her
heart yearned towards her, and she longed
to take her in her arms and comfort her ;
and, indeed, as Nellie entered her room.
Lady Limborne clichy to Nellie's utter
astonishment and confusion, go up to her,
take her hand, and kiss her kindly, and
with tears in her eyes.

Lady Limborne here !' said Nellie, intones
of amazement ; ' to what . . . .'

My dear,' said Lady Limborne, still
holding Nellie's hand, and looking earnestly
at her, ^ I have come to ask your
pardon for the past. I have come as my
son's ambassador to speak to you for him.'

For James ? For Lord Limborne ?'
said Nellie, more and more astonished.

Yes ! my dear Helen — for so you must
let me call my new daughter — for James,'
said Lady Limborne. ' I have learnt now
how truly his happiness is bound up in
you, and I have come to beg you to put

aside all foolish pride, and come to me as
my daughter and my son's Avise.'

^ But but . ; faltered XelHe,
sinking doAvn into a seat, ' I thought . . .'

You thought he had forgotten you,'
said Lady Limhorne, saith a kind smile,
craig up a chair close to Xellie, and
leaning forward and taking her hand. ' I
can assure you, mv dear, that you are
very much mistaken ; he has not ceased
to think of you and to search for you
ever since he lost all trace of you after your
fathers death.'

But,' said Xellie, ' I saw in the papers
that he was married — married to Theresa
Denton.'

And you did not see the contradiction
of the report which immediately followed ?'
said Lady Limborne. ' Does that account
for these poor thin cheeks ? But you
have not answered my first question. Is
James to be rewarded for his long suit and
service, or, perhaps, y{?w have forgotten him V

Nellie was utterly confounded at this
new turn in her life's history ; she scarcely
knew whether she was in her right senses,
whether it was not all a dream, and that
she should in the next moment wake up
and find herself in the old, anxious, fearful
frame of mind. But Lady Limborne was a
substantial evidence enough, and she held
Nellie's hand and was looking in her eyes.
Nellie answered her question in a scarcely
conscious way, still oddly under the idea
that it was all a dream, and that the next
instant she would awake.

I have loved James ever since he first
spoke to me,' she said, looking straight
before her, and speaking as to herself,
ay, and before that I loved him ; and I
thought he had forgotten me ; oh ! it was
cruel, it Alas hard to bear it, for I loved
him so, and I have always, always thought
of him ; even when I thought I ought to
forget him, I could not. All through this
dreadful misery I wondered what he

would think if he could only know ; and
now it is all over, and you tell me, you
who hated me so, you tell me it is not
true, James did not forget me, and he
loves me still.' And poor Xellie fell back
fainting in her chair ; it was all too much
for her, the strain of the last few days
had been more than her strength, enfeebled
by ill-health and want of food, could endure,
and for some moments she lay unconscious
in. Lady Limborne's arms, while
that lady strove to restore her to consciousness.
Lady Limborne was not alarmed,
for she knew that joyful tidings seldom do
long harm, and in a very few minutes
Xellie opened her eyes to meet the affectionate
gaze of her once bitter enemy.

As soon as Nellie was recovered from
the shock and become herself again, Lady
Limborne insisted upon her accompanying
her home there and then. To this Nellie
at first demurred ; but Lady Limborne
painted such a dismal picture of her son's.

disappointment, should lie return without
Nellie, and affirmed, too, that she was
quite unable to prevent him from rushing
off incontinent to No. 7, and as Nellie
had her own objections to being seen in
such a sorry frame, and had a very distinct
longing to see the faithful James, she at
length consented, and the Luccombites
had the proud privilege of seeing one of
the dwellers in their tents driving off in
company with a 'grand lady', in a private
carriage, ' ivitJi a coronet on its panels.'

Nellie left a note for Jack, which that
young gentleman received on his return in
the course of the afternoon, with the
goods and chattels which had been left in
the charge of his accommodating ' uncle '
at the sign of the ' three balls.' As he
was returning from visits to his old tradesmen,
it struck him he might as well get
the unpleasant job over at once, for some
of the articles pledged were old family
trinkets from which nothing but the direst

necessity avouch have forced the Anthers to
part ; he therefore chartered a cab, and
appeared With his spoils, intending to give
his sister a pleasant surprise. Not a little
astonished was he to find the bird flown,
and a note for him, which Mrs. Crudgers
delivered, with her volubility much subdued
under the weighty knowledge of what
angels she had been entertaining unawares,
angels who had friends vdth.
coronets on their carriages ! Jack's astonishment
considerably increased when he
found from Xellie's hasty lines where she
had gone, and was told that he was to
follow her, and take things for the night,
for that they were to stay in Dover Street.
Whew-w-w !' he whistled, softly, ' that
is the way the wind blows. " Lady Lime
has been so kind." — " AVould insist
on my coming." — " Desires me to say how
pleased she ^Yill be to see you." How on
earth did the old cat ' (so he irreverent'
termed her ladyship) ' find out about Nell's

money ? Most extraordinary ! Can't
make it out ! Anyhow, I shan't stay in
this hole all alone, and I shall be glad to
see old Limborne again ; and if Nell and
he make it up / shan't object, for I feel
sure she had a sneaking kindness . . . but
by George ! he's married ! Well, I give it
up, and here goes ;' and Jack shovelled
his evening dress and night-gear into a
venerable portmanteau, and, sending the
obsequious Crudgers out for a hansom, he
was soon bowling along in the direction of
Dover Street.

It must be confessed that, in her inability
to understand Lady Limborne's
sudden change of manner, Nellie, as they
drove along towards her lover's home,
imagined that, by some means hidden
from her, Lady Limborne had come to
the knowledge of her change of fortune ;
and the fact that she would not come to
her husband empty-handed had a great
deal of weight with her, in making her

give way to Lady Limborne's persuasions
that she would return to Dover Street
with her.

As they drove along, she was disabused
of this mistake ; for Lady Limborne asked
Nellie, ' what was the great advantage the
lawyer had for her,' and she was so utterly
and unfeignedly astonished at Nellie's answer
— at the same time, not scrupling to
declare her satisfaction — that Nellie had
the additional joy of knowing she would
have been received gladly, poor and penniless
as she was, by the son, and, what was
more extraordinary still, by the mother
too.

The one man — who, with two maids
and the coachman, formed the modest
Limborne menage — was gazing abstractedly
out of the dining-room window, after the
manner of his kind, as Lady Limborne
and Nellie returned, and, perceiving his
mistress's carriage coming, he opened the
front-door ; so that Lady Limborne and

VOL. II. X

Nellie entered without the preliminary
heralding of the door-bell, for which Lord
Limborne was impatiently listening in his
study at the back of the house — a room
in which the noise of the street in the
front was softened to a continuous hum.
Hence his mother and his sweetheart
reached the door without his knowing
that they were in the house.

This gave Lady Limborne a chance she
was quick to avail herself of; and opening
the door softly, and gently pushing Nellie
forward, she said, 'James, I have brought
you your wife;' and, without another word,
she turned round, and quickly left the
study, closing the door behind her.

We, too, will observe the same discretion,
being perfectly certain that the two
lovers so long separated, and so cruelly
treated by adverse fortune, must have a
great deal to say to each other, which does
not in the least concern, and probably

would be extremely uninteresting to, any
other person but themselves.

It was a pleasant party that sat down
to dinner in Dover Street that night ; for,
if Lord Limborne and Xellie were somewhat
quiet, Jack was overflowing with
spirits, and Lady Unborn was a complaisant
listener to all his somewhat bosh
talk. Lord Limborne's keen and full delight
at regaining his long-lost treasure
was somewhat marred by anxiety as to
her health, for Nellie certainly looked
very frail ; but she told him that happiness
is the best medicine of all, and that all she
wanted was a little rest and quiet.

Much discussion as to future plans took
place during the next few days, for Xellie
did not go back to Luccombe Terrace, but
sent Jack, ^\'ith a handsome donation, to
Mrs. Crudgers, and the present of the
piano, long the text upon which Mrs.
Crudgers descanted at large upon 'them

x2

lucky lodgers of hers.' At length, after
many plans proposed, it was decided that
Nellie should accept Mrs. Bolland's invitation
(that lady had been informed of the
Armers' change of fortune) , and that Lord
Limborne and Jack should stay at Lime
Castle, and superintend the doings
of the workmen who were at Nellie's express
desire, and nth some of Mr. Gidley's
fortune, to restore that venerable pile to
something like its former magnificence,
while Lady Limborne would remain in London
until just before the day fixed upon for
the wedding. Very happy days were those,
when Nellie was day by day gaining fresh
roses in the sweet Coombridge air, and in
her lover's constant company, fit preludes
to the happy day itself, when Coombridge
Church, decorated prettily with the sweet
flowers of early summer, by kindly hands
(for ' Miss Nellie ' was not forgotten by
humble village friends), was filled to overflowing,

on the occasion when Lord Lini-
borne took Nellie ^ to have and to hold,'
etc. It was a very quiet wedding, for the
Bands were quiet folk, and Xellie was
married from their house ; all the public
rejoicing were put off until some six
weeks later, when Lord Limborne brought
the new chatelaine to Limborne Castle.

Lady Limborne accepted the position of
the dowager ' with a complacency not a
little enhanced by the very considerable
improvement in the Limborne affairs which
her successor's unlooked-for fortune brought
about. She very Wisely refused to make
the ' number three ' who is proverbially not
company, and made the house in Dover
Street her head-quarters, pang occasional
visits to the Castle, and seeing a great deal
of her son and daughter-in-law, for Lord
Limborne's official duties, which at no very
distant date were to become of a more important
nature, involved long visits to

London, and lie and Nellie spent many
months in the year in Dover Street. The
ceaseless whirl of London society, to which
their position and means and their connection
with the great Lady Leveret would
have given them an easy entree, had no
charms for our heroine, who found in the
society of her husband, and his literary and
political friends andtheii^families, pleasant
enough acquaintance, while the care and
nurture of an Honourable Master Limborne
and his brothers and sisters, as time Event
on, gave her plenty of happy occupation.

Jack Armer returned with glee to the
old life of ' recreations in the country side,'
finding ample scope for his tastes at Lime
Castle ; and some months after his
sister's marriage, and when he had as he
said ' taken the taste of Luccombe Terrace
out of his mouth,' he announced his determination
to proceed to New Zealand, and
there ' make his fortune.' Nellie hated the

thought of losing her brother and only relative,
but it was evident enough that Jack
was not suited to any learned profession,
he was too old for the Army, and the life
he proposed for himself was after all the
best suited to him. So a comfortable shun
to start T\dth was lodged in his name in
one of the banks in the colony, and after
a year spent in learning the ways of the
place, and looking about him, on a large
farm, Jack started, as he phrased it, ' on his
o^vn hook,' and succeeded so well, backed
up as he was by certain remittances from
home, that he bids fair to end as a colonial
magnate of the first water.

The fair Theresa Denton received the
news of Xellie's marriage with much
equanimity; she had long before that event
recovered from the shock to her sensibilities
(never too highly strung) which Lord Lime
conduct in the matter of the society
paragraph gave her, and she and her sister

and Mrs. Denton were among the first to
sall and congratulate the ' happy couple *
at Limborne Castle. Moreover, Theresa
was quite aware of the fact that there areas
good wish in the sea as ever came out
of it, and perhaps even better, and, still
under the wing of the mighty society
dame. Lady Leveret, she pursued the aims
of her ambition, and succeeded before the
season was over in landing a very big fish
indeed. The languid Emily is torn between
the claims of affection in the person
of the well-born but poverty-stricken
young doctor (upon whose advice she
relies in her various migrates), and her
ambition ; but as she is not so fair to look
upon as her large and lovely sister, and as
suitable ' partis ' do not press forward with
the eagerness that might be expected, it is
not at all unlikely that affection will gain
the day, and render Emily the happiest of
the Denton trio after alL

The forlorn Henry has found a vent for
his sorrows through the medium of verse (?),
and, occupied in publishing from time to
time (strictly at his own expense) small
volumes of sickly (and ungrammatical)
sentimentalities, he is not oppressed, but,
on the contrary, relieved at the open
neglect of his aristocratic spouse. Miss
Charlotte Ingle spends the most of her
time between her sister and Mrs. Denton
to whom Charlotte has become a feminine
fidus Achates, and her advice and assistance
go far to make the grand entertainments
(in which Mrs. Denton's soul
delights) for which Wreford and No. 751,
Piccadilly are celebrated, the successes they
undoubtedly are.

The master of Wreford, our friend Mr.
Denton, finds great delight (and spends
vast sums of money) in his agricultural
pursuits, and is well knoA\Ti in every
agricultural and horticultural show-ground

in the West, where his various
exhibits testify to the skill of his best
friends, his bailiff and his head-gardener.

And so, having disposed of all our
puppets, we make our bow, and wish our
readers, farewell.

THE END.

LONDON : Printed BY DUNCAN MACDONALD, BLENHEIM HOUSE.

HURST & BLACKETT'S

LIST OF NEW WORKS

LONDON:
13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET, W

Messrs. Hues MD Blackest

LIST OF NEW WORKS.

REMINISCENCES OF THE COURT AND

TIMES OF KING ERNEST OF HANOVER. By the Rev C.

A. Wilkinson, Mea., His Majesty's Resident Domestic Chaplain.

2 vols. With portrait of the King. 21s.
An interesting book, entitled ' Reminiscences of the Court and Times of King
Ernest of Hanover." has just been published by Messrs. Hurst and Blackett. The
two volumes in which these reminiscences of a septuagenarian are comprised
abound in characteristic stories of the old king, in anecdotes of many celebrities
English and foreign, of the early part of this century, and, indeed, of all kinds and
conditions of men and women with whom the author was brought in contact by
his courtly or pastoral office'' — St James's Gazette.

"One of the most interesting and amusing books of this season ; it abounds in
good and new stories of King Ernest, and also of a perfect host of celebrities, both
English and GeTm&n.''—Trut?i.

THE EGYPTIAN CAMPAIGNS, 1882 to 1885,

AND THE Events which led to them. By Charles Rotlk,
Barrister at-Law, of Alexandria. 2 vols, demy 8vo. Illustrated
by Maps and Plans. sos.

"Mr. Boyle has done well in the interests of historical completeness to describe
not only the entire military drama but also the political events connected with
it, and whoever reads the book with care has gone a considerable way towards
mastering the difficult Egyptian question." — Athenaeum.

"The Egyptian fiasco has found in Mr. Boyle a most painstaking, accurate, and
judicious historian. From a literary point of view his volumes may be thought to
contain too many unimportant incidents, yet their presence was necessary perhaps,
in a complete record, and the most fastidious reader will unhesitatingly acquit
Mr. Boyle of tilling his pages with anything that can be called padding"— 5f.
James's Gazette.

THE PALACE AND THE HOSPITAL; or,

Chronicles of Greenwich. By the Ret. A. G. Estrange,
Author of ' The Village of Palaces,' ' The Friendships of Mary
Russell :Mitford,' &c. 2 vols, crown 8vo. With Illustrations. ils.
"Under the title of 'The Palace and the Hospital,' Mr. Estrange has provided
for those who have a taste for topography, or rather for the historical and biographical
annals of a locality famous in history, two volumes which are rich in
romantic interest, and his pages abound in curious and interesting glimpses of
old manners. ' — Daibj Deus.

"Mr. Estrange's volumes will well repay perusal, and readers who may not
be well versed in English history will gather from them information, agreeably
told, as to many matters besides Greenwich Palace Hospital." — Queen.

FOOTSTEPS OF JEANNE D'ARC. A Pilgrimage.

By mrs. Florence Caddy. 1 vol. demy 8vo. With
Map of Route, los.

The reader, whatever his preconceived notions of the maid may have been,
will soon find himself in sympathy with a writer who, by the charm of her descriptive
style, at once arrests his attention and sustains the interest of her
Subject"— J/c/'/jjny Post.

THE REAL SHELLEY: New Views of the Poet's

Life. By John Cokdt Jefferson, Author of " The Real Lord

Byron," " A Book about Doctors," " A Book about Lawyers," &c.

2 vols, demy 8vo. sos.

"Those who have read Mr. Jefferson's account of Byron will be prepared to

And that impartiality is the distinguishing feature of his endeavour to clear away

the fancies and misconceptions which have been given to the world in some of

the biographies of Shelley, and they will not be disappointed. The author has

striven to ascertain, fairly and fully, the truth concerning a poet whose influence,

while it has been greatly exaggerated by his most enthusiastic admirers, is still a

living factor in the life of many." — Morning Post.

Mr. Jeaffrepon's book has corrected in not a few cases errors committed by
previous biographers of Shelley, and he has produced fresh and interesting documentary
evidence bearing upon the poet's career"— (?rap/«c.

WITHOUT GOD: Negative Science and Natural

Ethics. By Percy Greg, Author of " The Devil's Advocate,"

"Across the Zodiac," &c. 1 vol. demy 8vo. 12s.

"Mr. Greg has condensed much profound thought into his book, and has fully

succeeded in maintaining the interest of the discussion throughout"— J/orwin^ Post.

This work is ably written ; there are in it many passages of no ordinary power

and brilliancy. It is eminently suggestive and stimulating"— Scotsman.

'• This is the work of a man full of thought upon a number of highly important
subjects, and of strong convictions strongly enunciated, which no one can read
without benefit." — Morning Advertiser.

SIBERIAN PICTURES. By Ludwig Niemojowski.

Edited, from the Polish, by Major Szulczewski. 2 vols. 21s.
This book contains a good deal of interesting matter.' M. Niemojowski's description
of Siberian game and the hunting of it is clearly valuable, and shows
that he really has lived among the people. His work is not without interest to
biographers, for it deals with almost every race that inhabits Siberia — tongues
and Tartars, Samoyedes and Sticks, the Jurists of Lake Baikal, and the
Gilliacks of the Pacific coasts." — Saturday Review.

REMINISCENCES OF MILITARY SERVICE

with the 93rd SUTHERLAND HIGHLANDERS. By

Surgeon-general Munro, M.D., Cab., Formerly Surgeon of the

Regiment. 1 vol. demy 8vo. 15s.
"This book is not only bright and lively, but thoroughly good-natured. What
makes these reminiscences exceptionally readable is the amount of illustrative
anecdote with which they are interspersed. The author has a keen appreciation
of humour, with the knack of recalling appropriate stories." — Saturday Review.

THE FRIENDSHIPS OF MARY RUSSELL

Milford : As Recorded in Letters from her Literary
Correspondents. Edited by the Rev. A. G. Estrange,
Editor of " The Life of Mary Russell Mitford," &c. 2 vols. 21s.
"These letters are all written as to one whom the writers love and revere. Miss
Barrett is one of Miss Mitford's correspondents, all of whom seem to be inspired
with a sense of excellence in the mind they are invoking. Their letters are extremely
interesting, and they strike out recollections, opinions, criticisms, which
will hold the reader's delighted and serious attention." — Daily Telegraph.

THE Bronze FAMILY, With Special Reference

to Patrick Branv^^bll Bronze. By Francis A. Lei land. 2

vols. 21s.

"This book is so full of interesting information that as a contribution to literary
biography it may be considered a real success." — Academy.

Mr. Leland's book is earnest and accurate, and he nas spared no pains to
master his subject and present it with clearness; the book is valuable, and should
be read by all who are familiar with the previous works on the family." — Graphic.

NEW WOUKS—Conti7med.

THE PICTORIAL PRESS : Its Origin and Progress.

By Mason Jackson. 1 vol. demy 8vo. "With 150

Illustrations. 16s.
'• Mr. Mason Jacksons learned and exhaustive work on the 'Pictorial Press,'
with its rare and curious illustrations, should be acquired and appreciatively consulted,
not only by those amateurs of the art, in the exercise, criticism and bibliography
of which Mr. Jackson is so skilled a proficient, but by students of the
history of journalism." — G. A. S. in Illustrated London Xeics.

THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF PEG

WOFFINGTOX : Wnn Pictures of the Period in which She

Lived. By J. Fitzgerald Molly, Author of " Court Life

Below Stairs," &c. Second Edition. 2 vols, crown Svo. ^Yith

Portrait. 21s.

"Peg Washington makes a most interesting central Qgure, round which Mr.

Molly has made to revolve a varied and picturesque panorama of London life in

the middle of the eighteenth century. He sees things in the past so clearly, grasps

them so tenaciously, and reproduces them so vividly, that they come to us without

any of the dust and rust of time." — G. A. S. in Illustrated London News.

WOMEN OF EUROPE IN THE FIFTEENTH

AND SIXTEENTH CENTURIES. By Mrs. Napier Higgins.

Vols. 1 and 2 demy Svo. SOs.
These volumes contain biographies of women more or less directly connected
with the history of Scandinavia, Germany, Hungary, Russia, Lithuania, and
Poland, during the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries. The work is likely to be of
permanent value to the students of history'" — Moi-king Post.

ON THE TRACK OF THE CRESCENT: Erratic

Notes from the Piraeus to Perth. By Major E. C. Johnson,
M.A.I., F. R. Hist. S., etc. With Map and Upwards of 50 Illustrations
by the Author. 1 vol. demy Svo. 15s.
"The author of this bright, pleasant volume possesses keen power of observation
and vivid appreciation of animate and inanimate beauty. It will brighten
hours for many readers who will only follow the track of the Crescent through it£
pages and its numerous illustrations." — Morning Post.

MEMOIRS OF A CAMBRIDGE CHORISTER.

By William Glover. 2 vols, crown Svo. 21s.

In these amusing volumes Mr. Glover provides us with the means of spending
a pleasant hour or two in his company." — Times.

"These volumes contain a miscellaneous set of reminiscences, comments, and
anecdotes, written in a light and jocular style. Mr. Glover is always cheer-ful
and never didactic." — Athenaeum.

MEMOIRS OF MARSHAL Bureau, From

His Private Correspondence and Original Documents, 1784 —
1819. By the Count H. mandeville, Edited, from the French,
by Charlotte M. Yonge. 2 vols, demy Svo. sos.
This is a work of great value to the student of French history. A perusal of
the book will convince any reader of Bureau's energy, his patriotism, his unselfishness,
and his philanthropy and humanity He was, indeed, a general who
may serve as a pattern to all countries, and his name deserves to live long in the
memory of his countrymen." — Athenaeum.

WITH THE CONNAUGHT RANGERS in Quarters,

Camp, and on Leave. By General E. H. Maxwell, Cab.,
Author of " Griffin, Ahoy 1" 1 vol. Svo. With Illustrations. 15s.
When General Maxwell made his debut in that capital book, 'Griffin, Ahoy 1"
we expressed a hope that we should soon meet him again. This expectation is
now fulfilled, and again we have to congratulate the author on a distinct success.
Scarcely a page in his volume but has its little anecdote and these stories have a
real touch of humour in them." — Globe.



NEW Works— Continued,

GLIMPSES OF GREEK LIFE AND SCENERY.

By Agnes Smith, Author of " Eastern Pilgrims," &c. Demy 8vo.
"With Illustrations and Map of the Author's Route. 15s.

A truthful picture of the country through which the author travelled. It is
naturally and simply told, in an agreeable and animated style. Miss Smith displays
an ample acquaintance and sympathy with all the scenes of historic interest,
and is able to tell her readers a good deal of the present condition and prospects
of the people who inhabit the country"— ,Sf<. James's Gazette.

Every lover of Greece must hail with pleasure each new book of travels in
that country which tends to increase the interest of English people in Greece, and
spreads the knowledge that it is not only delightful, but quite safe, to travel there.
Miss Smith's 'Glimpses ' are lively and pleasant." — Academy.

These ' Glimpses ' are presented to us in a very bright and sensible fashion
It is a very agreeable and instructive book. The chapter on the language and
character of the modern Greeks is well worth reading for the sound judgment
and knowledge of the subject which it displays"— Pa?^ Mall Gazette.

LIFE OF MOSCHELES ; with Selections from

HIS DIARIES AND CORRESPONDENCE. By His Wife.

2 vols, large post 8vo. With Portrait. 24s.
This life of Moscheles will be a valuable book of reference for the musical historian,
for the contents extend over a period of threescore years, commencing with
1794, and ending at 1870. Moscheles writes fairly of what is called tho 'Music of the
Future,' and his judgments on Herr Wagner, Dr. Liszt, Bernstein, Dr. von Billow,
Litolff, &c., whether as composers or executants, are in a liberal spirit. He recognizes
cheerfully the talents of our native artists: Sir S. Bennett, Mr. Mac-barren,
Madame Goddard, Mr. J. Barnett, Mr. Hullah, Mr. A. Sullivan, &c. The
volumes are full of amusing anecdotes." — Athenaeum.

MONSIEUR GUIZOT in Private Life (1787-

1874). By His Daughter, Madame de Witt. Translated by Mrs.
Simpson. 1 vol. demy 8vo. 15s.

"Madame de Witt has done justice to her father's memory in an admirable record
of his life. Mrs. Simpson's translation of this singularly interesting book is
in accuracy and grace worthy of the original and of the &\xh']QQ\,."— Saturday Review.

WORDS OF HOPE AND COMFORT TO

THOSE IN SORROW. Dedicated by Permission to The Queen.
Fourth Edition. 1 vol. small 4to. 5s.

"The writer of the tenderly-conceived letters in this volume was Mrs. Julius
Hare, a sister of Mr. Maurice. They are instinct with the devout submissiveness
and fine sympathy which we associate with the name of Maurice ; but in her there
is added a winningness of tact, and sometimes, too, a directness of language, which
we hardly find even in the brother. The letters were privately printed and circulated,
and were found to be the source of much comfort, which they cannot fail
to afford now to a wide circle. A sweetly-conceived memorial poem, bearing
the well-known initials, 'E. H. P.', gives a very faithful outline of the life." — British
Quarterly Review.

PLAIN SPEAKING. By Author of " John Halifax,

Gentleman." 1 vol. crown Svo. 10s. 6d.
"We recommend 'Plain Speaking' to all who like amusing, wholesome, and
instructive reading. The contents of Mrs. Crank's volume are of the most multifarious
kind, but all the papers are good and readable, and one at least of them
of real importance"— /S^./ames's Gazette.

Published annually, in One Vol., royal 8vo, ivith the Arms beautifully
engraved, handsomely bound, with gilt edges, price 31s. 6d.

LODGE'S PEERAGE

AND BARONETAGE,

Connected BY THE NOBILITY.

FIFTY-if TH Edition N FOR 1886.

Lodge's Peerage and Baronage is acknowledged to be the most
complete, as-well as the most elegant, work of the kind. As an established
and authentic authority on all questions respecting the family
histories, honours, and connections of the titled aristocracy, no work has
ever stood so high. It is published under the especial patronage of Her
Majesty, and is annually corrected throughout, from the personal communications
of the Nobility. It is the only work of its class in which, the
type being kept constantly standing, every correction is made in its proper
place to the date of publication, an advantage which gives it supremacy
over all its competitors. Independently of its full and authentic information
respecting the existing Peers and Baronets of the realm, the most
sedulous attention is given in its pages to the collateral branches of the
various noble families, and the names of many thousand individuals are
introduced, which do not appear in other records of the titled classes. For
its authority, correctness, and facility of arrangement, and the beauty of
its typography and binding, the work is justly entitled to the place it
occupies on the tables of Her Majesty and the Nobility.

LIST OF THE PRINCIPAL CONTENTS.

Historical View of the Peerage.

Parliamentary Roll of the House of Lords.

English, Scotch, and Irish Peers, in their
orders of Precedence.

Alphabetical List of Peers of Great Britain
and the United Kingdom, holding superior
rank in the Scotch or Irish Peerage.

Alphabetical list of Scotch and Irish Peers,
holding superior titles in the Peerage of
Great Britain and the United Kingdom.

A Collective list of Peers, in their order of
Precedence.

Table of Precedency among Men.

Table of Precedency among Women.

The Queen and the Royal Family.

Peers of the Blood RoyaL

The Peerage, alphabetically arranged.

Families of such Extinct Peers as have left
Widows or Issue.

Alphabetical List of the Surnames of all the
Peers.

The Archbishops and Bishops of England
and Ireland.

The Baronetage alphabetically arranged.

Alphabetical List of Surnames assumed by
members of Noble Families.

Alphabetical List of the Second Titles of
Peers, usually borne by their Eldest
Sons.

Alphabetical Index to the Daughters of
Dukes, Marquises, and Earls, who, having
married Commoners, retain the title
of Lady before their own Christian and
their Husband's Surnames.

Alphabetical Index to the Daughters of
Viscounts and Barons, who, having
married Commoners, are styled Honourable
Mrs. ; and, in case of the husband
being a Baronet or Knight. Hon. Lady.

A List of the Orders of Knighthood.

Mottoes alphabetically arranged and translated.


"This work is the most perfect and elaborate record of the living and recently deceased
members of the Peerage of the Three Kingdoms as it stands at this day. It is
a most useful publication. We are happy to bear testimony to the fact that scrupulous
accuracy is a distinguishing feature of this book." — Times.

"Lodge's Peerage must supersede all other works of the kind, for two reasons: first, it
is on a better plan ; and secondly, it is better executed We can safely pronounce it to bethe
readiest, the most useful, and exactness of modem works on the suhiecV— Spectator:

A work of great value. It is the most faithful record we possess of the aristocracy
of the day." — Post.

EACH IN ONE VOLUME CROWN 8vo, 68.

DONOVAN:

A Modern ENGLISHMAN.

"This is a very admirable work. The reader is from the first carried away by the
gallant unconventionality of its author. ' Donovan ' is a very excellent novel ; but it is
something more and better. It should do as much good as the best sermon ever written
or delivered extempore. The story is told with a grand simplicity, an unconscious poetry
of eloquence which stirs the very depths of the heart. One of the main excellencies of
this novel is the delicacy of touch with which the author shows her most delightful characters
to be after all human beings, and not angels before their time." — Standard.

'Donovan' is told with the power of truth, experience, and moral insight. The tone
of the novel is excellent and very high.:''— Daily News.

-s^r:E, t^vv^o.

This book is well written and full of interest. The story abounds with a good many
light touches, and is certainly far from lacking in incident." — Times.

' We Two ' contains many very exciting passages and a great deal of information.
Miss Lyell is a capable writer and a clear-headed thinke." — Athenaeum.

A work of deep thought and much power. Serious as it is, it is now and then brightened
by rays of genuine humour. Altogether this story is more and better than a novel."
Morning Post.

There is artistic realism both in the conception and the delineation of the personages;
the action and interest are unflagging sustained from first to last, and the boo]i is pervaded
by an atmosphere of elevated, earnest thought." — Scotsman.

IN THE Golden DAYS.

Miss Lyell has given us a vigorous study of such life and character as are really worth
reading about. The central figure of her story is Algerian Sydney; and this figure she
invests with a singular dignity and power. He always appears with effect, but no liberties
are taken with the facts of his life. The plot is adapted with great felicity to them.
His part in it, absolutely consistent as it is with historical truth, gives it reality as well as
dignity. Some of the scenes are remarkably vivid. The escape is an admirable narrative,
which almost makes one hold one's breath as one reads"— Spectator.

' In the Golden Days ' is an excellent novel of a kind we are always particularly glad
to recommend. It has a good foundation of plot and incident, a thoroughly noble and
wholesome motive, a hero who really acts and suffers heroically, and two very nice
heroines. The historical background is very carefully indicated, but is never allowed to
become more than heLckgronnd."— Guardian.

"Vi^ON BY "WAITING.

"The Dean's daughters are perfectly real characters — the learned Cornelia especially ;
the little impulsive French heroine, who endures their cold hospitality and at last wins
their affection, is thoroughly charming; while throughout the book there runs a golden
thread of pure brotherly and sisterly love, which pleasantly reminds us that the making
and marring of marriage is not, after all, the sum total of real life." — Academy.

' Won by Waiting ' is a very pleasing and well-written tale ; full of graphic descriptions
of French and English life, with incidents and characters well sustained. A book
with such pleasant reading, and with such a healthy tone and influence, is a great boon
to the young people in our families"— i^/'eeman.

PUBLISHED BY HURST & BLACKETT.

A FAIR MAID. By F. W. Robinson, Author of

Grandmother's Money," &c. 3 vols.

"Mr. Robinson has devoted much of his remarkable powers of description to
the task of bringing before the readers of English fiction the sorrows of England's
homeless waif. Not that ' A Fair Maid ' is so powerful as ' No Church,' or so
humorous as 'Grandmother's Money;' but it is sweeter in temper, more idyllic
in suggestion, and written in much purer Btjle."—Athen(eum.

MARION'S MARRIED LIFE. By the Author of

"Anne Dysart," " Sir John," &c. 3 vols.
"This story is interesting, and told in an unaffected manner. It shows knowledge
of character, considerable descriptive power, and testifies to sound, wholesome
views of liie."—St. Fama's Gazette.

THE KING CAN DO NO WRONG. By Pamela

SxEYD, Author of " Jack Urquhart's Daughter." 2 vols.

This novel gives evidence of imagination, insight into character, and power of
delineation.' — Athenaeum.

Shows command of exceptional narrative and descriptive power— the story is
told with cleverness and loTce.''—Scotsman.

THRO' LOVE AND WAR. By Violet Fane,

Author of " Sophy : or the Adventures of a Savage," &c. 3 vols.

'Thro' Love and "War' has a succinct and intelligible plot, and is written
with a quaint combination of acute perception, vexed sarcasm, and broad fun,
which is certain to ensure for it a wide popularity'— y/i^ World.

We find, as we might expect from 3Ii5s Fanes past work, these three volumes
brimful of cynical and racy humour, yet not lacking in serious foundation." — Times.

SIR ROBERT SHIRLEY, BART. By John Berwick

Haywood, Author of " Lady Flavian," " The Tenth Earl,"

&c. 3 vols
' Sir Robert Shirley, Bart,' is a thoroughly good story. The book i." wholesome
in tone, and will please all those whose taste is not perverted by a too
highly-spiced style of fiction.' — Morning Post.

A FAIRE Dalzell. By Esse Stuart. 3 vols.

"For she was faire, as faire mote ever bee'' — Spenser's Faire Queene.
In ' A Faire Dalzell,' the interest is steadily maintained, and the progress of
the plot gives rise to some strong situations in the third \o\woae."—Athen':ium.

THE VERGE OF NIGHT. By Percy Greg,

Author of "Ivy: Cousin and Bride," &c. 3 vols.

This novel, which abounds in incidents more or less startling, is one of remarkable
power, pathos, and well-managed passion'" — Figaro.

"Mr. Percy Greg has so intermingled the political and the domestic action in
his clever novel that they make a unity which enables the reader to follow the
development of character and events with untiring interest'— scots-man.

MADAME DE Pressed. By E. Frances

PoTXTEB, Author of " My Little Lady," &c. Second Edition. 2 vols.

"A charming story, full of originality. The dialogue is full of life, and the
characters are strongly and concisely drawn." — Saturday Ricieic.

"A novel of considerable quiet charm, containing much natural dialogue.
There is refined portraiture and graceful description in the book"— J.i/ien«a7n.



PUBLISHED BY HURST & BLACKETT.

THE POWER OF GOLD. By George Lambert.

2 vols.

THE BETRAYAL OF REUBEN HOLT. By

Barbara. Lake. 1 vol. crown 8vo. 6s.

Lute LUCIFER. By Denzil Vane. 3 vols.

A DAUGHTER OF THE GODS. By Jane

Stanley. 2 vols.
'A Daughter of the Gods' is very pretty. That is a description which specially
suits the easy-flowing, love-making story." — Athencewn.

LUCIA. By Mrs. AUGUSTUS Craven, Author of

a Sister's Story." Translated by Lady Herbert of Lea. 2 vols.

This is a very pretty, touching, and consoling story. The tale is as much above
the ordinary romance as the fresh air of the seaside is better than the stifling atmosphere
of the fashionable quarter of the gayest city." — St. James's Gazette,

' Lucia ' is as good a novel as has been published for a long time"' — Academy.

A DIAMOND IN THE ROUGH. By Alice

O'Hanlon, Author of " The Unforseen," &c. 3 vols.

An admirable novel, which is throughout well constructed and well written,
which is good alike in character and incident, and which will be read with pleasure
by the critical few and the non-critical many." — Academy.

LOVE, THE PILGRIM. By May Cromjielin,

Author of " Queene," "A Jewel of a Girl," <fec. 3 vols.
' Love, the Pilgrim ' is a pretty story, which, beginning quietly, develops into
one of very sensational incident indeed'— Graphic.
A tale of thrilling interest." — Scotsman.

THE FAVOURITE OF FORTUNE. By Ella

Curtis (Shirley Smith), Author of " All for Herself," " His Last
Stake." 3 vols.
'The Favourite of Fortune ' is an entertaining story, with distinct merit and
attractions." — Athenaeum.

"This novel is by far the best Miss Curtis has yet written, and it deserves success
; there is plenty of action and go, an abundance of incident, and a very well-constructed
plot." — Vanity Fair.

VENGEANCE IS MINE. By Eliza Pollard,

Author of " Hope Deferred," " Lady Superior," <fec. 3 vols.
A singularly interesting book, with plenty of action, plenty of love-making,
plenty of sorrow, and plenty of complications." — London Figaro.

UNTIL THE DAY BREAKS. By Emily Spender,

Author of " Restored," " Son and Heir," &c, 3 vols.

"Miss Spender always did creditable work, and in most respects she seems to
have increased in strength from novel to novel. ' Until the Day Break." ' contains
some of her most successful writing ; it is really a delightful Btorj."—AtIiena'ttm.

'Until the Day Breaks ' is a clever and rather entertaining story'— Saturday
Review.

^

HURST & Blackens

Standard LIBRARY

L X D N :

IS GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET, W

i^

ff

OF CHEAP EDITIONS OF

POPULAR MODERN WORKS.

ILLUSTRATED BY

Sir J. E. Millais, Sir J. Gilbert, Holman Hunt, Birket Foster,

John Leech, John Tenniel, J. Laslett Pott, etc.

Each in a Single Volume-with Frontispiece, price 5s.

I.— SAM SLICK'S NATURE AND HUMAN NATURE.

"The first volume of messrs. Hast and Blankets Standard Library of Cheap Editions
forms a very good beginning to what will doubtless be a very successful undertaking.
'Nature and Human Nature ' is one of the best of Sam Slick's witty and humorous productions,
and well entitled to the large circulation which it cannot fail to obtain in its
present convenient and cheap shape. The volume combines with the great recommendations
of a clear, bold type and good paper, the lesser, but attractive merits of being well
illustrated and elegantly bound." — Morning Post.

IL— JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN.

"The new and cheaper edition of this interesting work will doubtless meet with great
success. John Halifax, the hero of this most beautiful story, is no ordinary hero, and
this his history is no ordinary book. It ia a full-length portrait of a true gentleman, one
of nature's own nobility. It is also the history of a home, and a thoroughly English one.
The work abounds in incident, and many of the scenes are full of graphic power and true
pathos. It is a book that few will read without becoming wiser and better." — Scotsman.

"This story is very interesting. The attachment between John Halifax and his wife is
beautifully painted, as are the pictures of their domestic life, and the growing up of their
children; and the conclusion of the book is beautiful and touching"— 4i/j€ft£eu/n.

in.— THE CRESCENT AND THE CROSS.

BY ELIOT Warburton.

"Independent of its value as an original narrative, and its useful and interesting?
information, this work is remarkable for the colouring power and play of fancy witty
which its descriptions are enlivened. Among its greatest and most lasting charms ia its
reverent and serious spirit." — Quarterly Review.

"Mr. Warburton has fulfilled the promise of his title-page. The 'Realities of Eastern
Travel' are described with a vividness which invests them with deep and abiding interest;
while the 'Romantic' adventures which the enterprising tourist met with in hia
course are narrated with a spirit which shows how much he enjoyed these reliefs from
the ennui of every-day Use.' — ff/ofie.

IV.— Nathaniel

JULLl KAVANAGH.

"'Nathalie' is Miss Kavanagh's best imaginative effort. Its manner is gracious and
attractive. Its matter is good. A sentiment, a tenderness, are commanded by her which
are as individual as they are elegant "We should not soon come to an end were we to
specify all the delicate touches and attractive pictures which place ' Nathalie ' high among
books of its class." — At/ienceutn.

v.— A WOMAN'S THOUGHTS ABOUT WOMEN.

BY THE AUTHOR OF "JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

"These thoughts are good and humane. They are thoughts we would wish women to
think: they are much more to the purpose than the treatises upon the women and daughters
of England, which were fashionable some years ago, and these thoughts mark the
progress of opinion, and indicate a higher tone of character, and a juster estimate of
woman's position." — Athenaeum.

"This excellent book is characterised by good sense, good taste, and feeling, and is
written in an earnest, philanthropic, as well as practical spirit' — Morning Pest.

VI.— ADAM GRAEME OF MOSSGRAY.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.

•"Adam Gramme' ia a story awakening genuine emotions of interest and delight by its
admirable pictures of Scottish life and scenery. The plot is cleverly complicated, and
there is great vitality in the dialogue, and remarkable brilliancy in the descriptive passages,
as who that has read 'Margaret Maitland ' would not be prepared to expect?
But the story has a 'mightier magnet still,' in the healthy tone which pervades it, in its
feminine delicacy of thought and diction, and in the truly womanly tenderness of its
sentiments. The eloquent author sets before us the essential attributes of Christian?
virtue, their deep and silent workings in the heart, and their beautiful manifestations dirt
the life, wii.h a delicacy, a power, and a truth which can hardly be surpassed"— J/ormn^
Post.

VII.— SAM SLICK'S WISE SAWS AND
MODERN INSTANCES.

"We have not the slightest intention to criticise this book. Its reputation is made, and
will stand as long as that of Scott's or Buller's novels. The remarkable originality of
its purpose, and the happy description it affords of American life and manners, still continue
the subject of universal admiration. To say thus much is to say enough, though we
must just mention that the new edition forms a part of the Publishers' Cheap Standard
Library, which has included some of the very best specimens of light literature that ever
have been written." — Messenger.

Vii— CARDINAL WISEMAN'S RECOLLECTIONS
OF THE LAST FOUR POPES.

A picturesque book on Some and its ecclesiastical sovereigns, by an eloquent Roman
Catholic. Cardinal Wiseman has here treated a special subject with so much generality
and geniality that his recollections will excite no ill-feeling in those who are most conscientiously
opposed to every idea of human infallibility represented ic Papal domination."
—Athenaeum.

IX.— A LIFE FOR A LIFE.

BY THE AUTHOR OF

"We are always glad to welcome Mrs. Cr.iik. She writes from her own convictions,
and she has the power not only to conceive clearly what it is that she wishes to
say, but to express it in language effective and vigorous. In ' A Life for a Life ' she is
fortunate in a good subject, and she has produced a work of strong effect. The
reader, having read the book through for the story, will be apt (if he be of our persuasion)
to return and read again many pages and passages with greater pleasure
than on a first perusal. The whole book is replete with a graceful, tender delicacy;
and, in addition to its other merits, it is written in good careful English." —
Athenaeum.

' A Life for a Life ' is a book of a high class. The characters are depicted with a
masterly hand ; the events are dramatically set forth ; the descriptions of scenery and
sketches of society are admirably penned; moreover, the work has an object — a clearly
defined moral — most poetically, most beautifully drawn, and through all there is that
strong, reflective mind visible which lays bare the human heart and human mind to the
very core." — Morning Post.

X.— THE OLD COURT SUBURB.

BY LEIGH HUNT.

A book which has afforded ua no slight gratification"— 4 ^Aen^ewm.

"From the mixture of description, anecdote, biography, and criticism, this book is very
pleasant reading." — Spectator.

•' A more agreeable and entertaining book has not been published since Boswell produced
his reminiscence of Johnson"— ^/i^errer

XI.— Margaret AND HER BRIDESMAIDS.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " THE Valley OF A HUNDRED FIRES,"

"We recommend all who are in search of a fascinating novel to read this work for
themselves. They will find it well worth their while. There are a freshness and originality
about it quite charming, and there is a certain nobleness in the treatment both of
sentiment and incident which is not often found." — Athenaeum.

Xn.— THE OLD JITDGE ; OR, LIFE IN A COLONY.
BY SAM SLICK.

A peculiar interest attaches to sketches of colonial life, and readers could not have a
safer guide than the talented author of this work, who, by a residence of half a century,
has practically grasped the habits, manners, and social conditions of the colonists he describes.
All who wish to form a fair idea of the difficulties and pleasures of life in a new
country, unlike England in some respects, yet like it in many, should read this book."
John Bull.

Xii— DARIEN; OR, THE MERCHANT Prince.

BY ELIOT Warburton.

This last production of the author of ' The Crescent and the Cross ' has the same
elements of a very wide popularity. It will please its thousands"— (?/o6€.

"Eliot Warburton's active and productive genius is amply exemplified in the present
book. We have seldom met with any work in which the realities of history and the
poetry of fiction were more happily iaterwox en"— Illustrated Never.

XIV.— FAMILY ROMANCE ; OR, DOMESTIC ANNALS

OF THE ARISTOCRACY.

BY SIR BERNARD BURKE, ULSTER KING OF ARMS.

"It were impossible to praise too highly this m-ost interesting book, whether we should
have regard to its excellent plan or its not less excellent execution. It ought to be found
on every drawing-room table. Here you have nearly fifty captivating romances with the
pith of all their interest preserved in undiminished poignancy, and any one may be read
in half an hour. It is not the least of their merits that the romances are founded on factor
what, at least has been handed down for truth by long tradition — and the romance
of reality far exceeds the romance of Actions'— Standard.

XV.— THE LAIRD OF NORLAW.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.

"ewe have had frequent opportunities of commending Messrs. Hurst and Blackett's
Standard Library. For neatness, elegance, and distinctness the volumes in this series
surpass anything with which we are familiar. 'The Laird of Xorlaw' will fully sustain
the author's high reputation. The reader is carried on from first to last with an energy
of sympathy that never flags." — Sunday Times.

"the Laird of Xorlaw' is worthy of the author's reputation. It is one of the most
exquisite of modem no els"— Observer.

XVI.— THE ENGLISHWOMAN IN ITALY.

BY MRS. G. Bretton.

"Mrs. Bretton had opportunities which rarely fall to the lot of strangers of becoming
acquainted with the inner life and habits of a part of the Italian peninsula which is the
very centre of the national crisis. We can praise her performance as interesting, uneiag
aerated, and full of opportune instruction"— r/ie Times.

••Mrs. Bretton's book is timely, life-like, and for every reason to be recommended. It
is impossible to close the book without liking the writer as well as the subject. The work
is engaging, because redit— Athenaeum.

XVII.— NOTHING NEW.

BY THE AUTHOR OP " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

"nothing New' displays all those superior merits which have made 'John Halifax'
one of the most popular works of the day. There is a force and truthfulness about these
tales which mark them as the production of no ordinary mind, and we cordially recommend
them to the perusal of all lovers of Actions'— Morning Post.

Xvii— LIFE OF JEANNE D'ALBRET, QUEEN OF
Navarre.

BY MISS FREER.

"We have read this book with great pleasure, and have no hesitation in recommending
it to general perusal. It reflects the highest credit on the industry and ability of Misa
Freer. Nothing can be more interesting than her story of the life of Jeanne D'Albret,
and the narrative is as trustworthy as it is attractive"— i/orni«sr Post.

XIX.— THE VALLEY OF A HUNDRED FIRES.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " MARGARET AND HER BRIDESMAIDS."

If asked to classify this work, we should give it a place between ' John Halifax ' and
'The Cantons.' " — Standard.
"The spirit in which the whole book is written is refined and good." — Athenaeum.
This is in every sense a charming novel" — Messenger.

XX.— THE ROMANCE OF THE FORUM; OR, NARRATIVES,
SCENES, AND ANECDOTES FROM COURTS OF JUSTICE.

BY PETER BURKE, SERJEANT AT LAW.

"This attractive book will be perused with much interest. It contains a great variety
of singular and highly romantic stories." — John Bull.

A work of singular interest, which can never fail to charm and absorb the reader's
attention. The present cheap and elegant edition includes the true story of the Colleen
Bi.Yjn "— Illustrated News.

XXL— ADELE.

BY JULIA KAYANAGH.

• Adfele ' is the best work we have read by Miss Kavanagh ; it is a charming story,
full of delicate character-painting. The interest kindled in the first chapter burns brightly
to the close." — Athenaeum.

' Adfele ' will fully sustain the reputation of Miss Kavanagh, high as it already ranks."
John Bull.

' Adfele ' is a love-story of very considerable pathos and power. It ia a very clever
noveL" — Daily News.

Xxii— STUDIES FROM LIFE.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, Gentleman."

"These 'Studies ' are truthful and vivid pictures of life, often earnest, always full of right
feeling, and occasionally lightened by touches of quiet, genial humour. The volume is remarkable
for thought, sound sense, shrewd observation, and kind and sympathetic feeling
for all things good and beautiful." — Morning Post.

"These 'Studies from Life ' are remarkable for graphic power and observation. Th
Book will not diminish the reputation of the accomplished author"— Saturday Review.

Xxii.— GRANDMOTHER'S MONEY.

BY F. W. ROBINSON.

"We commend 'Grandmother's Money' to readers in search of a good noveL Tbe
characters are true to human nature, and the story is interesting." — Athenaeum.

XXIV.— A BOOK ABOUT DOCTORS.

BY JOHN Corny Jefferson.

A book to be read and re-read ; fit for the study as well as the drawing-room table and
the circulating library. " — Lancet.

This is a pleasant book for the fireside season, and for the seaside season. Mr. Jeffrey
has, out of hundreds of volumes, collected thousands of good things, adding thereto
much that appears in print for the first time, and which, of course, gives increased value
to this very readable \io6k."" —Athenaeum,

XXV.— NO CHURCH.

BY F. W. ROBINSON.

"ewe advise all who have the opportunity to read this book. It is well worth the
study." — Athenaeum.
"A work of great originality, merit, and ^o-^qt.'"'— Standard.

Xxvi— MISTRESS AND MAID.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

A good wholesome book, gracefully written, and as pleasant to read as it is instructive."
— Athenaeum.

"A charming tale, charmingly told." — Standard.

"All lovers of a good novel will hail with delight another of Mrs. Crank's charming
stories"— loan Bull.

XXVII.— LOST AND SAVED.

BY THE HON. MRS. NORTON.

' Lost and Saved ' will be read with eager interest by those who love a touching story.
It is a vigorous novel." — Times.

•'This story is animated, full of exciting situations and stirring incidents. The characters
are delineated with great power. Above and beyond these elements of a good novel,
there is that indefinable charm with which true genius invests all it touches." — Daily News.

Xxviii— LES Miserable.

BY VICTOR HUGO.
Authorised Copyright English Translation,

"The merits of 'Les Miserable ' do not merely consist in the conception of it as a
whole ; it abounds with details of unequalled beauty. M. Victor Hugo has stamped upon
every page the hall-mark of genius"— Qi/ar^erZi/ Review.

XXIX.— BARBARA'S HISTORY.

BY AMELIA B. EDWARDS.

"It is not often that we light upon a novel of bo much merit and interest as
'Barbara's History.' It is a work conspicuous for taste and literary culture. It is a very
graceful and charming book, with a well-managed story, clearly-cut characters, and
sentiments expressed with an exquisite elocution. The dialogues especially sparkle with
repartee. It is a book which the world will like. This is high praise of a work of art
and 80 we intend it"— ree Times.

XXX.— LIFE OF THE REV. EDWARD IRVING.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.

"A good book on a most interesting theme"— Time*.

"A truly interesting and most affecting memoir. 'Irving's Life* ought to have a niche
in every gallery of religious biography. There are few lives that will be fuller of instruction,
interest, and consolation"— »Sa(Mrdaj/ Review.

Xxxi— ST. Slave's.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JANITA's CROSS."

"This novel is the work of one who possesses a great talent for writing, as well as
experience and knowledge of the world. The whole book is worth reading"— ^^Aencewm.

' St Slave's ' belongs to a lofty order of fiction. It is a good novel, but it is something
more. It is written with unflagging ability, and it is as even as it is clever. The author
has determined to do nothing short of the best, and has succeeded'— Morning Post.

XXXII.— SAM SLICK'S TRAITS OF AMERICAN HUMOUR.

Dip where you will into this lottery of fun, you are sure to draw out a prize. These
Traits ' exhibit most successfully the broad national features of American humour"— soit.

XXXIII.— CHRISTIAN'S MISTAKE.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

A more charming story has rarely been written. It is a choice gift to be able thus to
render human nature so truly, to penetrate its depths with such a searching sagacity, and
to illuminate them with a radiance so eminently the writer's own." — Times.

XXXIV.— ALEC FORBES OF Howled.

BY GEORGE MAG DONALD, LL.D.

"No account of this story would give any idea of the profound interest that pervades
the work from the first page to the la.sV—Athenceum.

"A novel of uncommon merit. Sir Walter Scott said he would advise no man to try
to read ' Clarissa Harlowe ' out loud in company if he wished to keep his character for
manly superiority to tears. We fancy a good many hardened old novel-readers will feel
a rising in the throat as they follow the fortunes of Alec and Annie"— Fall Mall Gazette.

XXXV.— AGNES

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.

'Agnes ' is a novel superior to any of Mrs. Oliphant's former works"— Athenaeum.

Mrs. Oliphant is one of the most admirable of our novelists. In her works there
are always to be found high principle, good taste, sense, and refinement. 'Agnes ' is
A story whose pathetic beauty will appeal irresistibly to all readers."- informing Post.

Xxxvi— A NOBLE LIFE.
BY THE AUTHOR OF '« JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

"Few men and no women will read 'A Noble Life' without feeling themselves the
better for the efioTf"— Spectator.

•' A beautifully written and touching tale. It is a noble hook"— Morning Post.
• 'A Noble Life' is remarkable for the high types of character it presents, and the
skill with which they are made to work out a story of powerful and pathetic interest"
—Daily News.

XXXVII.— NEW AMERICA.

BY W. HEPWORTH DIXON.

A very interesting book. Mr. Dixon has written thoughtfully and yell"— Times.
"We recommend everyone who feels any interest in human nature to read Mr.
Dixon's very interesting hook"— Saturday Review.

Xxxvii— ROBERT FALCONER.
BY GEORGE MAC Donald, LL.D.

' Robert Falconer ' is a work brimful of life and humour and of the deepest human
interest. It is a book to be returned to again and again for the deep and searching
knowledge it evinces of human thoughts and feelings"— Athenaeum.

XXXIX.— THE WOMAN'S Kingdom.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, Gentleman."

* The Woman's Kingdom ' sustains the author's reputation as a writer of the purest
and noblest kind of domestic stories." — Athenaeum.

' The Woman's Kingdom ' is remarkable for its romantic interest The characters are
masterpieces. Edn;i is worthy of the hand that drew John Halifax"— i/omin^ Post.

XL.— ANNALS OF AN EVENTFUL LIFE.

BY GEORGE Webb DASENT, D.G.L.

A racy, well-written, and original novel The interest never flags. The whole work
sparkles with wit and hmxxoxa."— Quarterly Review.

XLL— DAVID ELGINBROD.

LL.D.

"A novel which is the work of a man of genius. It will attract the highest class of
readers"— TYme*.

Xlii— A BRAVE LADY.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

"We earnestly recommend this novel It is a special and worthy specimen of the
author's remarkable powers. The reader's attention never for a moment flags'' — Post

"'A Brave Lady' thoroughly rivets the unmingled sympathy of the reader, and her
history deserves to stand foremost among the author's works"— iJa% Telegraph.

XLIII.— HANNAH.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

"A very pleasant, healthy story, well and artistically told. The book is sure of a wide
circle of readers. The character of Hannah is one of rare beauty." — Standard.

•'A powerful novel of social and domestic life. One of the most successful effort of a
successful novelist"— ZJatVy News.

XLIV.— SAM SLICK'S AMERICANS AT HOME.

"This is one of the most amusing books that wo ever read." — Standard.
'The Americans at Home" will not be less popular than any of Judge Halliburton's
previous works." — Morning Post.

XLV.— THE Unkind WORD.

BY THE AUTHOR OF "JOHN HALIFAX, Gentleman."

These stories are gems of narrative. Indeed, some of them, in their touching grace
and Simplicity, seem to us to possess a charm even beyond the authoress's most popular
novels. Of none of them can this be said more emphatically than of that which opens the
series, ' The Unkind Word.' It is wonderful to see the imaginative power displayed in
the few delicate touches by which this successful love-story ia sketched out"— rAe Echo.

Xlvi— A ROSE IN JUNE.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.
"•A Rose in June' is as pretty as its title. The story is one of the best and most
touching which we owe to the industry and talent of Mrs. Oliphant, and nay hold its own
with even ' The Chronicles of Carlingford.' "times.

Xlvi— MY LITTLE LADY.

BY E. FRANCES Pointer.
"This story presents a number of vivid and very charming pictures, Indeed, the whole
book is charming. It is interesting in both character and story, and thoroughly good of
its 'kindi.'"— Saturday Review.

Xlvii— Phoebe, Junior.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.
"This last 'Chronicle of Carlingford' not merely takes rank fairly beside the first
which introduced us to 'Salem Chapel,' but surpasses all the intermediate records.
Phoebe, Junior, herself is admirably drawn." — Academy.

XLIX.— LIFE OF MARIE ANTOINETTE.

BY PROFESSOR CHARLES DUKE YONGE.

A work of remarkable merit and interest, which will, we doubt not, become the most
popular English history of Marie Antoinette." — Spectator.

L.— SIR GIBBIE.

BY GEORGE MAO DONALD, LL.D.

' Sir Gibbie ' is a book of genius." — Pall Mall Gazette.
This book has power, pathos, and humour"— ^^Aewcewm.

LI.— YOUNG MRS. JARDINE.

BY THE AUTHOR OF '' JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

'Young Mrs. Jardine ' is a pretty story, written in pure English." — Tip. Times.

There is much good feeling in this book. It is pleasant and wholesome." — Athenaeum.

Il— LORD Brandenburg.

BY AMELIA B. EDWARDS.

"A very readable story. The author has well conceived the purpose of high-class
novel-writing, and succeeded in no small measure in attaining it. There is plenty of
variety, cheerful dialogue, and general ' verve ' in the hool! "— Athenaeum.

Liii-IT WAS A LOVER AND HIS LASS.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.

In ' It was a Lover and his Lass,' we admire Mrs. Oliphant exceedingly. It would be
worth reading a second time, were it only for the sake of one ancient Scottish spinster,
who is nearly the counterpart of the admirable Mrs. Margaret Maitland"— Times.

Lii.— THE REAL LORD BYRON— THE STORY OF
THE POET'S LIFE.

BY JOHN Corny Jefferson.

Mr. Jefferson comes forward with a narrative which must take a very important
place in Byronic literature ; and it may reasonably be anticipated that this book will be
regarded with deep interest by all who are concerned in the works and the fame of this
great English poet"— r/ie Times.

'SAM SUCK, THE CLOCOAKEE.'

Each in One Volume, Frontispiece, and Uniformly Bound, Price ds,

NATURE AND HUMAN NATURE.

"We enjoy our old friend's company with unabated relish. This work is a rattling
miscellany of sharp sayings, stories, and hard hits. It is full of fun and ta^ncyy— Athenaeum.

Since Sam's first work he has written nothing so fresh, racy, and genuinely humorous as
this. Every like of it tells in tome way or other— instructively, satirically, joooselj-, or
wittily. Admiration of Sam's mature talents, and laughter at his droll yams, constantly
alternate as with inhaling avidity we peruse the work. The Clockmaker proves himself
the fastest time-killer a-goin''— Oftener.

WISE SAWS AND MODERN INSTANCES.

This delightful book will be the most popular, as beyond doubt it is the best, of all the
author's admirable vrox^s:"— Standard.

The book before us will be read and laughed over. Its quaint and racy dialect will
please some readers— its abundance of yams will amuse others. There is something to
suit readers of every humour." — Athenaeum.

"The humour of Sam Slick is inexhaustible. He is ever and everywhere a welcome
visitor; smiles greet his approach, and wit and wisdom hang upon his tongue. We promise
our readers a great treat from the perusal of these ' Wise Saws,' which contain a
world of practical wisdom, and a treasury of the richest fun." — Morning Post.

THE OLD JUDGE ; OR, LIFE IN A COLONY.

By common consent this work is regarded as one of the raciest, truest to life, most
humorous, and most interesting works which have proceeded from the prolific pen of its
author. We all know what shrewdness of observation, what power of graphic description,
what natural resources of drollery, and what a happy method of hitting off the
broader characteristics of the life he reviews, belong to Judge Haliburton. We have all
those qualities here ; but they are balanced by a serious literary purpose, and are employed
in the communication of information respecting certain phases of colonial experience
which impart to the work an element of sober utility"— ^unc/ay Times.

TRAITS OF AMERICAN HUMOUR.

•' No man has done more than the facetious Judge Haliburton, through the mouth of the
inimitable ' Sam,' to make the old parent country recognise and appreciate her queer
transatlantic progeny. His present collection of comic stories and laughable traits is a
budget of fun, full of rich specimens of American humour." — Globe.

"Yankees, portrayed in its raciest aspect, constitutes the contents of these superlatively
entertaining sketches. The work embraces the most varied topics — political parties,
religious eccentricities, the flights of literature, and the absurdities of pretenders to learning,
all come in for their share of satire ; while we have specimens of genuine American
exaggerations and graphic pictures of social and domestic life as it ia The work will
have a wide circulation"— loan Bull.

THE AMERICANS AT HOME.

"In thiR highly entertaining work we are treated to another cargo of capital stories
from the inexhaustible store of our Yankee friend. In the volume before us he dishes up,
with his accustomed humour and terseness of style, a vast number of tales, none more
entertaining than another, and all of them graphically illustrative of the ways and manners
of brother Jonathan. The anomalies of American law, the extraordinary adventures
incident to life in the backwoods, and, above all, the peculiarities of American society, are
variously, powerfully, and, for the most part, amusingly exemplified." — John Bull.

"In the picturesque delineation of character, and the felicitous portraiture of national
features, no writer equals Judge Haliburton, and the subjects embraced in the present
delightful book call forth, in new and vigorous exercise, his peculiar powers. 'The
Americans at Home ' will not be less popular than any of his previous works." — Post.

LONDON : Hurst AND Blackett PUBLISHERS,

JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN.

Each in One Volume, Frontispiece, and Uniformly Bound, price 5s.

JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN.

This is a very good and a very interesting work. It is designed to trace the career
from boyhood to age of a perfect man— a Christian gentleman, and it abounds in incident
both well and highly wrought. Throughout it is conceived in a high spirit, and written
with great ability. This cheap and handsome new edition is worthy to pass freely from
hand to hand as a gift-book in many households." — Examiner.

The story is very interesting The attachment between John Halifax and his wife is
beautifully painted, as are the pictures of their domestic life, and the growing up of their
children, and the conclusion of the book is beautiful and touching." — Athenaeum.

"The new and cheaper edition of this interesting work will doubtless meet with great
success. John Halifax, the hero of this most beautiful story, is no ordinary hero, and this
his history is no ordinary book. It is a full-length portrait of a true gentleman, one of
nature's own nobility. It is also the history of a home, and a thoroughly English one.
The work abounds in incident, and is full of graphic power and true pathos. It is a book
that few will read without becoming wiser and better." — Scotsman.

A WOMAN'S THOUGHTS ABOUT WOMEN.

"A book of sound counsel. It is one of the most sensible works of its kind, well written,
true-hearted, and altogether practical. Whoever wishes to give advice to a young lady
may thank the author for means of doing so"— Examiner.

These thoughts are worthy of the earnest and enlightened mind, the all-embracing
charity, and the well-earned reputation of the author of 'John Halifax.' " — Standard.

This excellent book is characterised by good sense, good taste, and feeling, and is
written in an earnest, philanthropic, as well as practical spirit"— Post.

A LIFE FOR A LIFE.

"We are always glad to welcome this author. She writes from her own convictions,
and she has the power not only to conceive clearly what it is that she wishes to say, but
to express it in language effective and vigorous. In ' A Life for a Life ' she is fortunate
in a good subject, and she has produced a work of strong effect. The reader, having read
the book through for the story, will be apt (if he be of our persuasion) to return and read
again many pages and passages with greater pleasure than on a first perusal. The whole
book is replete with a graceful, tender delicacy ; and, in addition to its other merits, it is
written in good careful English'— Athenaeum.

NOTHING NEW.

"' Nothing New ' displays all those superior merits which have made ' John Halifax '
one of the most popular works of the day." — Post.

The reader will find these narratives calculated to remind him of that truth and
energy of human portraiture, that spell over human affections and emotions, which have
stamped this author as one of the first novelists of our day." — John Bull.

THE WOMAN'S KINGDOM.

"' The Woman's Kingdom ' sustains the author's reputation as a writer of the purest
and noblest kind of domestic stories. The novelist's lesson is given with admirable force
and sweetness." — Athenaeum.

' The Woman's Kingdom ' is remarkable for its romantic interest. The characters
are masterpieces. Edna is worthy of the hand that drew John Halifax"— Po5^.

STUDIES FROM LIFE.

"These studies are truthful and vivid pictures of life, often earnest, always full of right
feeling, and occasionally lightened by touches of quiet genial humour. The volume is remarkable
for thought, sound sense, shrewd observation, and kind and sympathetic feeling
for all things good and beautiful"— Posh.

Tom HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN.

(continued.)

CHRISTIAN'S MISTAKE.

"A more charming story, to our taste, has rarely been written. Within the compass
of a single volume the writer has hit off a circle of varied characters, all true to nature —
some true to the highest nature— and she has entangled them in a story which keeps as
in suspense till the knot is happily and gracefully resolved ; while, at the same time, a.
pathetic interest is sustained by an art of which it would be difficult to analyse the secret.
It is a choice gift to be able thus to render human nature so truly, to penetrate its depths
with such a searching sagacity, and to illuminate them with a radiance so eminently the
writer's own. Even if tried by the standard of the Archbishop of York, we should expect
that even he would pronounce 'Christian's Mistake' a novel without a fault." — The Times.

This is a story good to have from the circulating library, but better to have from one's
bookseller, for it deserves a place in that little collection of clever and wholesome stories
which forms one of the comforts of a well-appointed home"— £examiner.

MISTRESS AND MAID.

"A good, wholesome book, as pleasant to read as it is instructive"— J^Aen^rwrn.
"This book is written with the same true-hearted earnestness as ' John Halifax.' Th
spirit of the whole work is excellent" — Examiner.
"A charming tale charmingly x.o\±"— Standard.

A NOBLE LIFE.

"This is one of those pleasant tales in which the author of 'John Halifax ' speaks oat
of a generous heart the purest truths of Ime"— Examiner.

•' Few men, and no women, will read 'A Noble Life' without finding themselves th
"better"— Spectator.

"A story of powerful and pathetic interest"— 2)a?7y Nevoi.

A BRAVE LADY.

A very good novel, showing a tender sympathy with human nature, and permeated
by a pure and noble spirit" — Examiner.

"A most charming story." — Standard.

"We earnestly recommend this novel. It is a special and worthy specimen of th
author's remarkable powers. The readers attention never for a moment flags.' — Post.

HANNAH.

A powers al novel of social and domestic life. One of the most successful efforts of a
successful novelist" — Daily Xeics.

"A very pleasant, healthy story, well and artistically told. The book is sure of a wide
circle of reader The character of Hannah is one of rare beauty'' — Standard.

THE UNKIND WORD.

The author of 'John Halifax ' has written many fascinating stories, bat we can call to
mind nothing from her pen that has a more enduring charm than the graceful sketches in
this work. Such a character as Jessie stands out from a crowd of heroines as the type of
all that ifl truly noble, pure, and womanly'' —United Service Magazine,

YOUNG MRS. JARDINE.

' Young Mrs. Jardine ' is a pretty story, written in pure English"— Tie Times.

There is much good feeling in this book. It is pleasant and wholesome 'athenaeum.

A book that all should read. Whilst it is quite the equal of any of its predecessors
in elevation of thought and style, it is perhaps their superior in interest of plot and
dramatic intensity. The characters are admirably delineated, and the dialogue is natural
and clear." — Morning Post.

LONDON : HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS.

MRS. Oliphant.

Each in One Volume, Frontispiece, and Uniformly Bound, Price hs.

ADAM GRAEME OF MOSSGRAY.

' Adam Gramme ' is a story awakening genuine emotions of interest and delight by its
admirable picts-es of Scottish life and scenery. The plot is cleverly complicated, and
there is great vitality in the dialogue, and remarkable brilliancy in the descriptive passages,
as v7ho that has read ' Margaret Mainland ' would not be prepared to expect?
Bit the story has a 'mightier magnet still,' in the healthy tone which pervades it, in its
feminine delicacy of thought and diction, and in the truly womanly tenderness of its
sentiments. The eloquent author sets before us the essential attributes of Christian
virtue, their deep and silent workings in the heart, and their beautiful manifestations in
the life, with a delicacy, a power, and a truth which can hardly be surpassed"— •il/or»irts'
Point.

THE LAIRD OF NORLAW.

"We have had frequent opportunities of commending Messrs. Hurst and Blackett
Standard Library. For neatness, elegance, and distinctness the volumes in this series
surpass anything with which we are familiar. ' The Laird of Norlaw ' will fully sustain
the author's high reputation. The reader is carried on from first to last with an energy
of sympathy that never ^d.gs.'"— Sunday Times.

' The Laird of Norlaw ' is worthy of the author's reputation. It is one of the most
exquisite of modern novels"— Observer.

IT WAS A LOVER AND HIS LASS.

"In 'It was a Lover and his Lass,' we admire Mrs. Oliphant exceedingly. Her story is
a very pretty one. It would be worth reading a second time, were it only for the sake of
one ancient Scottish spinster, who is nearly the counterpart of the admirable Mrs. Margaret
Maitland"— rme«.

AGNES.

• Agnes ' is a novel superior to any of Mrs. Oliphant's former works." — Athenaeum.

"Mrs. Oliphant is one of the most admirable of our novelists. In her works there are
always to be found high principle, good taste, sense, and refinement. 'Agnes' is a story
whose pathetic beauty will appeal irresistibly to all readers." — Morning Post.

A ROSE IN JUNE.

"'A Rose rn June' is as pretty as its title. The story is one of the best and most
touching which we owe to the industry and talent of Mrs. Oliphant, and may hold its own
with even ' The Chronicles of Carlingford.' "times.

Phoebe, JUNIOR.

"This last 'Chronicle of Carlingford' not merely takes rank fairly beside the first
which introduced us to ' Salem Chapel,' but surpasses all the intermediate records.
Phoebe, Junior, herself is admirably drawn'— Academy.

LIFE OF THE REV. EDWARD IRVING.

"A good book on a most interesting theme." — Times.

A truly interesting and most affecting memoir. ' Irving's. Life ' ought to have a niche
in every gallery of religious biography. There are few lives that will be fuller of instruction,
interest, and consolation"— ^Saiwrrfay Review.

LONDON : HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS.

GEORGE MAC DONALD, LL.D.

Each ill One Volmne, Frontispiece, and Uniformly Bound, Price 55.

ALEC FORBES OF Howled.

"No account of this story would give any idea of the profound interest that pervades
the work from the first page to the \^^'C"—Athm»um.

A novel of uncommon merit Sir "Walter Scott said he would advise no man to try
to read ' Clarissa Harlowe ' out loud in company if he wished to keep his character for
manly superiority to tears. "We fancy a good many hardened old novel-readers will feel
a rising in the throat as they follow the fortunes of Alec and Annie'— Pati Mall Gazette.

"The whole story is one of surpassing excellence and beauty"— Z)a;7t/ Neics.

This book is full of good thought and good writing. Dr. Mac Donald looks in his stories
more to the souls of men and women than to their social outside. He reads life and
Nature like a true poet"— iTxa/niner.

ROBERT FALCONER.

' Robert Falconer ' is a work brimful of life and humour and of the deepest human
interest It is a work to be returned to again and again for the deep and searching
knowledge it evinces of human thoughts and iee\i\igs.''—Athen(xum.

"This story abounds in exquisite specimens of the word-painting in which Dr. 31 ic
Donald excels, charming transcripts of Nature, full of light, air, and cqIqmvJ"— Saturday
Review.

This noble story displays to the best advantage all the powers of Dr: Mac Donald's
genius." — Illustrated London New.

• Robert Falconer ' is the noblest work of fiction that Dr. Mac Donald has yet produced."
— British Quarterly Review.

The dialogues in ' Robert Falconer ' are so finely blended with humour and pathos as
to make them in themselves an intellectual treat to which the reader returns again and
a.ga.ixL"— Spectator.

DAVID ELGINBROD.

"A novel which is the work of a man of genius. It will attract the highest class of
readers." — Times.

There are many beautiful passages and descriptions in this book. The characters are
extremely well drawn." — Athenaeum.

"A clever novel. The incidents are exciting, and the interest is maintained to the
close. It may be doubted if Sir "Walter Scott himself ever painted a Scotch fireside with
more truth than Dr. Mac Donald." — Morning Post.

David Elginbrod is the finest character we have met in fiction for many a day. The
descriptions of natural scenery are vivid, truthful, and artistic; the general reflections are
those of a refined, thoughtful and poetical philosopher, and the whole moral atmosphere
of the book is lofty, pure, and invigorating"— (?/o6e.

SIR Gibber

Sir Gibbie ' is a book of geniuses PaZZ Mall Gazette.

"This book has power, pathos, and humour. There is not a character which is not
lifelike. There are many powerful scenes, and the portraits will stay long in our
memory." — Athenaeum.

"sir Gibbie' is unquestionably a book of genius. It abounds in humour, pathos,
insight into character, and happy touches of description." — Graphic.

'sir Gibbie' contains some of the most charming writing the author has yet produced
" — Scotsman.

"' Sir Gibbie ' is one of the most touching and beautiful stories that has been written
for many years. It is not a novel to be idly read and laid aside ; it Is a grand work, to be
kept near at hand, and studied and thought over." — Morning Post.

LONDON : Hues AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS.

JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN.

A woman's thoughts

ABOUT WOMEN.
A LIFE FOR A LIFE.
NOTHING NEW.
MISTRESS AND MAID.
THE woman's KINGDOM.

CHRISTIAN S MISTAKE.

A NOBLE LIFE.

HANNAH.

THE UNKIND WORD.

A BRAVE LADY.

STUDIES FROM LIFE.

YOUNG MRS. JARDINE.

WORKS hy GEORGE MAC DONALD, LL.D.

Each in a Single Volume, with Frontispiece, price 5s.

DAVID ELGINBROD.
ROBERT FALCONER.

ALEC FORBES.
SIR GIBBIE.

WORKS hy MRS. Oliphant.
Each in a Single Volume, with Frontispiece, price 5s.

IT WAS A LOVER AND HIS

LASS
THE LAIRD OF Norland
ROSE IN JUNE.

ADAM GRAEME OF MOSS-gray.


Phoebe, JUNIOR.

AGNES.

THE LIFE OF THE REV. EDWARD IRVING.

WORKS hy the A Author of ' SAM SLICK:
Each in a Single Volume, with Frontispiece, price 5s.

NATURE AND HUMAN

NATURE.
WISE SAWS AND MODERN

INSTANCES.

THE OLD JUDGE ; Or LIFE

IN A COLONY.
TRAITS OF AMERICAN

HUMOUR.

THE AMERICANS AT HOME.

LONDON: HURST AND BLACKETT,

F3

^>*« Vi

\V V

.? ^ ^

vv^^r?
